Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



U. II 



r 




TREATISE ON DIET. 



M 



TREATISE ON DIET, 



COMPRISING THE 



NATURAL BISTORT, PROPERTIES, COMPOSITION, 

ADULTERATIONS AND USES 



OF THE 



VEGETABLES, ANIMALS, FISHES, to., 

USED AS FOOD. 



BY WILLIAM DAVIDSON, M.D., M.R.C.S.E., 

MBMOBB OF THB FACULTY OF FHYSICIAHa AHD HUBOBON8 OF OJ.AMOW; AND 

I.ATKLY SBNIOK PHYSICIAN TO THB OI.AMOW HOY AT. IHFIKMAKY, 

AND LECTURBR OH MATBB1A MBDICA AK0 DIBTBTXCS. 



#\ 



LONDON, JOHN CHURCHILL; 

GLASGOW, DAVID ROBERTSON ; EDINBURGH, A. AND C. BLACK ; 
AND WILLIAM CURRY, JUN., AND CO., DUBLIN. 

MDCCCXLIII. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I.— DIETETICS. 

Chap. Page 
Preface ix 

I. Digestion ; I 

II. Indigestion 4 

III. Alimentary Principles of the Various Kinds of 

Food 12 

IV. Diet of Man during the Various Periods of Life.. 16 

V. Times of Eating, &c 21 

VI. Diurnal Quantity of Food required by an Adult..25 

VII. Diet during Various Diseases 33 

VIII. Drinks or Diluents— Various Kinds of Water— 

Toast-Water— Gruel — Barley Water — Lemonade — 
Soda Water— Imperial— Tea— Coffee 46-59 

IX. Condiments— Ginger — Pimento — Cloves — Nutmegs 

and Mace — Cinnamon — Mustard — Cayenne Pepper 
— Black Pepper— The Caper — Mushrooms — Vinegar 
—Common Salt— Salted Meat 64-89 

X. Cookery — Roasting— Broiling — Frying— Ste^wing^- 

Boillng— Soups— Loss of Weight in Roasting and 

Boiling 91 " 97 

a2 



VI CONTENTS. 



PART II.— ALIMENTS. 

Page 
VEGETABLES.— The Farinaceous Grains, &c— Wheat 
— Bread — Barley — Malt Liquors — Oat — Rye — Diseased 
Rye — Rice — Maize — Millet — Buckwheat — Sugar-Can e — 
Various Kinds of Sugar — Honey — The Pea— The Bean — • 
French Bean 98-134 

Amylaceous or Starchy Substances. — Arrow-Root — Tous 
les Mois — Sago — Cassava and Tapioca* — Salep 135-143 

Farinaceous Roots. — Potato — Potato-Flour — Batatas — 
Yams 144-153 

Saccharine Roots. — Red Beet — Carrot — Parsnip — Viper's 
Grass — Jerusalem Artichoke — Turnip 1 53-1 58 

Vegetables containing Mucilaginous, Bitter or Acrid 
Principles. — Radish — Cabbage — Cauliflower — Sea Kale — 
Cress — Artichoke — Chicory — Lettuce — Celery — Parsley 
— Spinach — Sorrel — Asparagus — Garlic — Onion — 
Leek, &c 159-171 

Farinaceous and Oily Nuts.— Chestnut-— Hazel-Nut— Wal- 
nut— Cashew-Nut— Caeao— Chocolate— Cocoa Nut. ... 1 72-1 79 

Farinaceous, Saccharine or Acid Fruits.— Date— Plan- 
tain — Banana — Bread-fruit — Fig — Mulberry — Vine — 
Grapes — Raisins — Various Kinds of Wines — Brandy — 
Olive— Olive Oil— Almond— Peach and Nectarine— Apri- 
cot — Sloe — Plum — Prunes — Cherry — Pear — Apple 

Quince — Medlar — Pine-Apple — Mango— Citron — Lime 

Lemon — Orange — Pomegranate — Melon — Cucumber 

Gooseberry — Red Currant — Black Currant— Strawberry 

Raspberry — Bilberry— Whortle-Berry— Cranberry.... 181-239 

Sea-Weeds and Lichens— Irish Moss— Esculent Sea-weeds 
— Iceland Moss 240-242 



CONTENTS. VI 1 



Page 
MAMMIFEROUS ANIMALS .—The Ox-Milk— Cream- 
Batter— Whey— Curd— Cheese— Various Kinds of Milk- 
Sheep — Goat — Various species of Deer— -Hare— Rabbit- 
Hog — Various Organs of Mammif erous Animals 244-274 

BIRDS.— The Poultry and Grouse Families. — Common 
Fowl — Eggs — Pheasant — Turkey — Peacock — Guinea Hen 
— Partridge — Quail — Red Grouse — Ptarmigan — Black- 
Cock— Capercaillie , 277-280 

The Pigeon and Chow Families. — Ring Pigeon — Rock Dove 
or Common Pigeon— Rook 289-291 

The Plover, Curlew and Rail Families. — Golden Plover 
— Grey Plover — Lapwing — Curlew — Snipe — Wood-cock — 
Ruff— Landrail — Spotted Crake — Water Rail — Moor-Hen 
—Coot 292-300 

The Duck and Pelican Families, &c.,— Wild Duck— Teal 
— Wigeon — Pintail Duck — Pochard — Grey-Legged Goose 
— Bean Goose, — Brent Goose — Laughing Goose — Soland 
Goose— Razor-Bill— Puffin 300-307 

REPTILES.— Green Turtle— Land Tortoise— Frog 308-311 

FISHES.— The Perch, Gurnard, Mackarel and Mullet 
Families. — Perch— Striped Red Mullet— Plain Red Mullet 
— Red Gurnard — Mackarel — Tunny — Doree — Grey Mullet 
— Sandsmelt 312-320 

The Carp and Pike Families. — Common Carp — Gold Carp 
— Gudgeon — .Tench — Bream — Roach — Dace — Chub — 
Loach— Minnow— Pike 320-326 

The Salmon and Herrino Families. — Salmon — Salmon 
Trout— Bull Trout-rCommon Trout— Smelt— Pilchard- 
Herring— Sprain- Whitebait— Shad— Anchovy 327-338 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

Pagk 

The Cod and Flounder Families. — Cod — Haddock — 
Whiting— Coalfiflh— Pollack— Hake— Ling— Torek— Plaice 
—Flounder-Dab— Holibut-Turbot -BriU— Sole 339-354 

The Eel, Sturgeon, Skate and Lamprey Families. — Com- 
mon Eel — Conger— Sand Eel — Sturgeon — Isinglass — Cayiar 
— Skate— Lamprey— Lampern 855-365 

TESTACEOUS ANIMALS. — Cockle — Oyster— Scallop — 
Mussel— Snail 365-368 

CRUSTACEOUS ANIMALS. -Crab— Lohster—Craw-fish 
— Shrimp— White Shrimp-^Frawn 369-374 

POISONOUS FISHES 374 

SPOILED OB DECAYED ANIMAL FOOD 375 

Index 377 



PREFACE. 



Several works on diet have lately been published in 
this country,and some of these have deservedly attuned 
considerable celebrity for the accurate and enlightened 
account which they give of dietetics. There exists, 
however, no modern English work, in which alimen- 
tary substances are described individually as to their 
natural history, general properties, chemical constitu- 
tion, adulterations and uses, accompanied with an ex- 
position of the principles of diet. Mr. Donovan's very 
useful work on Domestic Economy is to a certain ex- 
tent an exception, although it does not completely 



X PREFACE. 

fulfil this object, more particularly as regards its 
utility to the student and medical practitioner. The 
present treatise has therefore been attempted, and, 
though concise, the Author hopes that it will be found 
useful to those who feel a scientific interest in the 
aliment of man. The article Digestion has been 
somewhat limited hi physiological details, and those 
facts have chiefly been brought forward which have 
a practical bearing on dietetics. 

In the arrangement of Drinks it was thought more 
tfsefal an& convenient to the reader, although not 
strictly agreeable to the general plan of the work, to 
describe a T few of the more ordinary kinds along with 
waiter, as the basis of all diluents'; those of an alimen- 
tary or alcoholic description being noticed as the pro- 
ducts of the vegetables or animals from which they 
aire procured. 

The aoeonemf of animals, birds and fishes, in regard 
to' their chemical and dietetioal properties, is not so 
fall as could have been wished, from the deficiency of 



if- 



PREFACE. Xl 

facts and experiments recorded on these important 
subjects. 

In the .arrangement of the various alimentary sub- 
stances, a system of classification was thought supe- 
rior to one of an alphabetical kin_jj. Lindley's Natu- 
ral Sys£eip of Botany has mps$ frequently been fol- 
lowed in the vegetable kingdonj^ and the various 
plants of the same tribe have been arranged together, 
with some exceptions, where their dietetic affinities 
seemed to be remote. In the classification of quad- 
rupeds, birds and fishes, that of Cuyier jtw been 
adopted, with the modifications of Bell and Yarrell. 

The Author may add that he has seldom quoted 
the writers from whom he has derived his information, 
as this would have greatlyincumbered his descriptions. 
He has, however, to acknowledge his obligations to 
the following works; namely, Prout on Digestion, 
&c, Beaumont on Digestion, Combe on Digestion? 
&c, Johnson and Martin on Tropical Climates, &c, 
Liebig's Animal Chemistry, Loudon's Arboretum et 
Fruticetum Britannicum, Burnet's Medical Botany, 



Don's Dictionary of Gardening and Botany, Donovan's 
Domestic Economy, Matiere Medicale par Merat 
et De Lens, Traite de Cbimie par J. J. Berzelius, 
Thomson's Organic Chemistry, Graham's Chemistry, 
Pereira's Materia Medica, Christison's Dispensatory 
and Treatise on Poisons, Henderson on Wines, 
Bedding's History of Wines, Fleming's History of 
British Animals, Cuvier's Animal Kingdom, Bell on 
Quadrupeds, Yarrell's History of British Birds and 
Fishes, Naturalist's Library, Bushnan on Fishes, &c. 

February, 1843. 



A TREATISE ON DIET. 



^WMMMWONWWMi 



PART I.— DIETETICS. 

DIGESTION— INDIGESTION— ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF THE VARI- 
OUS KINDS OF FOOD— DIET OF MAN DURING THE VARIOUS PERIODS 
OF LIFE— TIMES OF RATING — DIURNAL QUANTITY OP POOD REQUIRED 
BY AN ADULT— DIET DURING DISEASES— DRINKS— CONDIMENTS- 
COOKERY. 

CHAPTER I. 

DIGESTION. 

According to the most recent experiments, digestion is 
accomplished by the agency of a fluid secreted by the 
stomach, and named gastric juice. Besides saline sub- 
stances, mucus, &c, it always contains muriatic acid, and 
a greyish viscid extractive principle, named pepsin, which 
is believed to be the digestive agent ; as out of the stomach, 
with the aid of a little muriatic acid and heat, it dissolves 
coagulated albumen, boiled meat, &c. Lactic acid is also 
a very general constituent; but both Dr. Prout and Pro- 
fessor Iiebig consider it a product of unhealthy action in 
the stomach. The change which the food undergoes in 
the stomach is called ohymification ;*and this process is 
accomplished very slowly, being dependent upon the 
powers of this organ, the degree of mastication or previous 
reduction of the aliments, and their quantity. 

According to the experiments of Dr. Beaumont, there 
are three indispensable requisites for the proper comple- 
tion of chymification. First, an adequate supply of gas- 
tric juice, and its thorough admixture with every par- 



DIGESTION. 



tide of food; second, a temperature of 98° or 100° 
Fahr. ; third, a gentle and continued agitation of the 
alimentary mass, in the stomach. Liebig has shown that 
digestion is in proportion to the quantity of oxygen con- 
sumed during respiration. Exercise quickens the breath- 
ing, and hence its utility in promoting chymification ; 
and as more oxygen is consumed during winter thai* 
summer, from the greater density of the atmosphere in 
the former period, there is generally a better appetite and 
a greater quantity of food thoroughly digested. In ordi- 
nary cases, the gastric juice is diffused through the whole 
semifluid contents of the stomach, and applied to the 
surface of each individual fragment of food. Liquid ali- 
ment is digested somewhat differently. The watery por- 
tion of it is very soon absorbed, thus leaving the semifluid 
parts to be converted into chyme. Milk and soups are 
exemplifications in which this process takes place ; but 

trio jufcT Th 1W l y8 m0re 0r lesa ^^t" 1 *>y *• &*~ 
into the small Sw^ ****** A ™ l y*°™ the stomach 
mixed with thTb-1 named the duodenmn » *** * there 
tliis mixture, pr ^ £? d P****^ fluid. By means of 
tiiis part of the intest* aasisted ^y the secretions from 
into chyle, a milk "^ can al> the chyme is converted 
in its properties. Th COl ° ured fluid > considerably altered 
wliere it is supposed i! ?* yl ? ** aD *>rbed by the lacteals, 
fclxoracic duct into th . ^talised, and conveyed by the 
X>&x-t of the blood circ 6 7**?** l fonnin & ^en a constituent 

Tlie comparative ^ tm « through the system. 
-Miaifcfc a subject of S ^^y of different aliments, 
Very acc uratel v V 8 ?* im P<>rtance, has not hitherto 



:Jt£T 0nt > h ^evl etermi ^. The experiments of 
> Piously perfor me < e *- fi — 

[ °Peninxr 
irabl* « J5l 

°^tuni tv „* . 

•* °* introducing aliments into 



fcwwSS^* *» *u rL 08 * 6 of st - Martin ' wh0 had 

aD «» °PPortuft^ naach » furnished him with 




DIGESTION. 8 

this organ and afterwards withdrawing them ; and mak- 
ing several other experiments connected with the process 
of chymification. At the same time, it may be remarked that 
the stomach of St. Martin could not be considered at the 
time in an absolutely healthy state, from the injury it had 
sustained; and although he exhibited no particular symp- 
tom of dyspepsia, the conclusions drawn by Dr. Beau- 
mont must be viewed only in the light of approximative 
truths. Fifty-one conclusions are drawn from his experi- 
ments, the most important of which are the following: 

1. Arrow-root and other purely farinaceous substances 
are readily converted into chyme ; while soup and green 
vegetables, such as cabbage, turnip, carrot, &c. are very 
slow in their assimilation. 

2. Minuteness of division and tenderness of fibre are 
essential for the ready digestion of flesh, fowl, and fish. 

3. The quantity of food generally taken is more than 
the wants of the system require*. 

4. Bulk as well as nutriment is necessary to the articles 
of diet. 

5. Oily food is difficult of digestion, though it contains 
a large proportion of the nutrient principle. 

6. The time required for the digestion of food is vari- 
ous, depending upon its quantity and quality, &c. ; but 
the period ordinarily required for the disposal of a 
moderate meal of the fibrous parts of meat with bread, 
&c, is from three to three and a half hours. 

7. The gastric juice is capable of combining with a 
certain and fixed quantity of food; and when more ali- 
ment is presented for its action than it will dissolve, 
disturbance of the stomach or indigestion will ensue. 

8. The motions of the stomach produce a constant 
churning of its contents, and admixture of food and gas- 
tric juice ; from which is deduced the advantage of gentle 
exercise in promoting digestion. 



DfDIOSSTIOK. 



CHAPTER II. 



INDIGESTION. 



As has been' already noticed under Digestion, there is 
always muriatic acid present in the stomach during the 
process of ohymification. In cases of indigestion, lactic 
acid, or the acid peculiar to milk, is also often formed in 
large quantities and sometimes with great rapidity. In con- 
firmed cases of dyspepsia, the whole contents of the stomach 
sometimes become intensely acid in a short time, even in 
an hour after taking an ordinary quantity of food. Dr. 
Prout is of opinion that the acid is most frequently 
secreted from the blood ; but may also be derived from 
the food. That the aliment in the stomach contributes 
materially towards the production of lactic acid, is ren- 
dered very probable, by the fact of its more abundant 
formation from some kinds of food than from others; 
even apparently under the same circumstances. Thus 
green vegetables are more liable to generate acid than 
farinaceous or animal substances. The digestive pro* 
cess seems to be accompanied with one very similar 
to the lactic fermentation; for much gaseous fluid is 
often evolved, and in general it will be found, that 
those alimentary substances which are most easily con- 
verted into lactic acid out of the body, by spontaneous 
decomposition or otherwise, are also the most ascescent 
in the stomach. In corroboration of this view, it may 
be stated as a result agreeable to the experience of those 
who have attended to this point, that when there is 
acid in a stomach, nearly empty, the next meal very 
speedily runs into the ascescent state. Liebig considers 
healthy digestion very much allied to fermentation or 



INDIGESTION. 6 

putrefaction. If this be a correct theory, the analogy 
between indigestion and those two processes must be 
still more intimate. The advantages of emetics and bit- 
ters in the cure of some forms of dyspepsia may be thus 
partly accounted for. The first evacuate the acid fer- 
ment from the stomach, the second check, to a certain 
extent, the process of fermentation. Although lactic acid 
be thus generated abundantly from the food in cases of 
indigestion, there can be little doubt that it is also 
formed by the stomach ; for when indigestible animal 
substances, such as bones, gristle, tendons, tough mem- 
brane, &c, are introduced into this organ, much acid is 
formed, even although little of the alimentary matters isdis- 
solved. Besides these two sources of indigestion, it is highly 
probable that a third, although more rare variety is accom- 
panied with a modification of the putrefactive process. 
Oily and several animal substances are apt, in some indi- 
viduals, to produce unhealthy digestion, accompanied 
with eructations resembling the odour of putrid or spoiled 
meat ; and both ancient and modern medical writers have 
attributed this to a putrefactive change in the alimentary 
substances. Dr. James Johnson remarks that " in these 
states of weak or impeded digestion, vegetable* matter, 
wine, and even spirits, soon degenerate into a strong acid; 
while all oily substances become rancid, and animal mat- 
ters putrid, producing sour and fetid eructations." The 
same author states that some instances have come under 
his notice, where tho matters discharged from tha 
stomach were extremely acrid and alkaline. 

Dietetic Treatment of Indigestion. In regulating 
tlje diet during the treatment of indigestion, the follow- 
ing principles may be deduced from the facts and experi- 
ments already noticed. 

1. Every alimentary substance, before it is swallowed', 
ought to be minutely divided, or carefully masticated, 

A2 



6 INDIGESTION. 

2. It ought to be tender in texture, or rendered so by 
the processes of cookery. 

3. It should be little liable to run into ascesoency, or 
the lactic fermentation. 

4. It ought to contain little oil or fat. Dr. Beaumont 
is of opinion that the saliva has no solvent effect upon 
the food, and that it is merely intended to facilitate mas- 
tication. He has rendered this opinion very probable; 
but whether it be true or not, the minute division and 
softening of the food by mastication is the most efficient 
method of effecting that end. Tenderness of texture is 
also a necessary quality of alimentary substances ; for 
when tough or hard, they cannot be softened or thoroughly 
divided by mastication. And even when their minute 
division has previously been accomplished, the evil is 
only lessened not removed, for the central portions of the 
divided fragments are still hard and remain long unchy- 
mified. 

Among animals, the muscular fibre or flesh of the 
young is the most tender, such as veal and lamb, and 
according to this law ought to be more quickly digested 
than beef or mutton. The contrary, however, is asserted 
by many respectable writers, but such has not been the 
result of my observation, when the cookery was simple 
and the quantity eaten moderate. It will often be found, 
upon careful inquiry, that when these articles of diet 
have been mentioned as the causes of indigestion, either 
too large a quantity has been taken, or too much gravy, 
fat, membrane, or gelatinous accompaniment lias been 
swallowed along with it. And though animal substances 
are much less liable to generate lactic acid, in the stomach 
of a dyspeptic individual, than those of a vegetable kind, 
the gelatin of young animals frequently under such cir- 
cumstances causes ascescency; and hence the muscular 
or fleshy parts should alone be used* 



INDIGESTION. 7 

Fish is also condemned by some authors as liable to 
disagree with the dyspeptic. That this is the case with 
some of the oily fishes, such as the salmon, the family of 
herrings, the mackarel, and some others, there can be no 
doubt ; but it is nearly as certain that many of the white 
fishes, namely, the whiting, haddock, cod, the common 
trout, &c. being tender but not gelatinous in the fibre, 
and containing little or no oily matter, are very readily 
digested. It is true that when taken with butter or 
other rich sauces, they often produce unpleasant feelings 
of indigestion ; but it is by no means a legitimate con- 
clusion to attribute this to the fish, when a well known 
indigestible article of diet is associated with it. When 
fish is taken by the dyspeptic, spices and salt, or a little 
ketchup, with or without mustard, are more suitable than 
oily condiments. In the vegetable kingdom the same 
rule with respect to texture will be found to hold, and it is 
well illustrated in the case of the potato. The raw or 
even the boiled waxy potato is digested with more diffi- 
culty than the mealy or farinaceous variety ; chiefly because 
the latter is more easily broken down or disintegrated. 

Cabbage, cauliflower, and other green vegetables are 
hard in texture when raw or half-boiled, but by pro- 
tracted exposure to heat, they become pulpy and easily 
diffused among watery fluids ; independent of all changes 
which may be produced in the fermentable principles 
they contain. This is a great objection to the employ- 
ment of green vegetables by dyspeptics, particularly as 
cooked in this country; but their tendency to run into 
ascescency is a greater one; and the two united are so 
formidable, as to render these articles totally inadmissible 
88 diet for such persons. 

Milk,althoughananimalfluid, often disagrees with those 
who have weak digestive organs, from itsliability to run into 
the lactic fermentation, particularly during hot weather, 



8 INDIGESTION. 

-when it is often slightly acid before it is used as food. 
For a similar reason, soups made with fermentable 
vegetables, fermented liquors- in which the process of 
fermentation is not finished, or where there exists 
some of the saccharine fermentable principle, are in- 
jurious; but a small quantity of sound and dry wine, 
that is, wine free from acid and thoroughly fermented, 
may be taken with impunity, particularly if diluted 
with water. 

Potatoes, although an agreeable and almost indispensable 
vegetable, are also liable to excite acidity and flatulency. 
Those of a farinaceous quality should alone be employed 
by the dyspeptic ; and if the indigestion be extreme, are 
to be avoided altogether. Fruits of all kinds, acid, sub- 
acid, saccharine, and oily, are calculated to generate lactic 
acid and thereby derange the digestion ; either directly 
by fermentation, or indirectly by becoming insoluble 
in the gastric juice, and thereby exciting its formation 
by the stomach. Of all the vegetable aliments the purely 
farinaceous and amylaceous, or starchy kinds, are the best 
adapted for the digestive organs of the dyspeptic ; being 
rapidly chymified, having little tendency to produce 
acidity, and from their loose state of cohesion, being 
readily mixed with the gastric juice. 

Bread, rice, the pea, sago, arrow-root, tapioca, and Irish 
moss, are familiar examples of this kind of alimentary 
matter. 

In extreme cases of dyspepsia, even these, light and 
digestible as they are in general, sometimes occasion dis- 
agreeable feelings, which are often owing to the methods 
of cookery employed, particularly to the large addition 
of milk, sugar, or eggs. In such cases the article should 
be boiled with water, containing a little common salt or 
sugar. It is much lighter when thus prepared, and may 
be used with sound milk or diluted sherry. In a few 



INDIGESTION. 9 

instances I have recommended, with advantage, weak 
brandy toddy. The finest quality of pease meal is well 
adapted for dyspeptics, and as it is agreeable and more 
nutritive than the purely starchy aliments, may in many 
cases constitute a part of their diet. It ought to be 
prepared with a large quantity of boiling water, so that 
it may be thoroughly cooked, and have a thin con- 
sistency. Some of the farinaceous grains, from the large 
quantity of saccharine matter they contain, are liable to 
produce acidity. This is particularly the case with the 
oat, which is frequently employed in the preparation of 
a very agreeable gruel. Were it not for this objection, 
this grain is well adapted for the dyspeptic, as it is less 
constipating in its effects than several of the other spe- 
cies. Oatmeal may, to a considerable extent, be deprived 
of this injurious quality by maceration for a few hours 
in cold water, accompanied with occasional stirring. 
The preparation named sovxns in Scotland, and flum- 
mery in some other parts of this country, is very similar 
to the article which would result from a prolonged ma- 
ceration of oatmeal in water; and when well freed from 
the lactic acid which is generated, greatly resembles, in 
its properties, arrow-root, sago, and other amylaceous pro- 
ducts. Sound and well fermented wheaten bread, if stale 
and slightly toasted, in general agrees well with those who 
have weak digestive organs ; and is commonly their staple 
article of diet. But new bread is apt to excite acidity, and 
sometimes a feeling of weight in the region of the stomach. 
This arises in a great measure from the peculiar cohe- 
sion in the structure of new bread ; but, in some cases 
also, may be produced by a revival of fermentation in the 
stomach, particularly when this process has not been 
completely extinguished by the heat of the oven. Stale 
bread possesses a certain degree of elasticity, and is easily 
broken down into fragments and disintegrated amongst 



I 



10 nroioxsnon. 

water ; whereas new bread does not acquire these pro- 
perties thoroughly for twenty -four hoars, and when mas- 
ticated assumes to a certain extent the consistency of 
dough. 

Under the primary deductions, fat or oily substances 
were enumerated as very indigestible. It has been the 
opinion of some authors, and is still believed by a small 
portion of the public, that the fat of quadrupeds is light 
and easily digested. This is contrary to the experiments of 
Dr. Beaumont, who found that pork, fat and lean, and suet 
with beef, required between five and six hours for chymi- 
fication ; and few decided dyspeptics who have once 
dined heartily on fat pork or beef, will have any par- 
ticular desire to repeat the experiment. 

Dr. A. Combe, however, states that he has known very 
fat fried bacon digested with ease at breakfast; where 
even a small potato would have disordered the stomach. 
Besides this, there are other facts connected with the his- 
tory of bacon, which illustrate its easy digestibility, in 
particular cases. A certain species of highly spiced bacon 
ham is said to have cured many persons of dyspepsia, 
when cat into very thin slices, fried, and taken to break- 
fast. Although it may readily be admitted that there 
are some individuals, with weak digestive organs, who 
can assimilate fat pork or bacon without much incon- 
venience; yet a more satisfactory explanation of the 
majority of the cases alluded to, may be given, upon the 
facts, that a small portion only of the article is swal- 
lowed ; that it is highly spiced ; that a stimulating em- 
pyreumatic oil is generated during the cookery, and that 
the latter, in conjunction with the spiceries, occasions the 
flow of a greater quantity of gastric juice. 

1 have thus entered pretty fully into details, respecting 
the dietetic treatment of dyspepsia; but perhaps it may 
be useful to nun these up, by an example of the diurnal 



INDIGESTIOH. 11 

quantity of food that should be used, and the mode of 
its distribution into meals; for the test of satiety after 
alow eating, inculcated by many authors, is not to be 
relied on. It is by no means my intention to assert that 
the following is the best of all scales of diet for the 
decided dyspeptic ; for many extreme cases occur, where 
nothing stronger than farinaceous or amylaceous substan- 
ces can be digested, and there are others where the quan- 
tities here enumerated would be too small; but it is 
merely intended as a general or medium rule for those who 
have no precise guide for their appetites. - 

Breakfast may consist of eight or ten ounces of moder- 
ately strong tea or coffee, sweetened with a little refined 
sugar, and four or five ounces of bread slightly toasted. 
Dinner, in four or fire hours afterwards, according to the 
exercise taken, may be composed of six or eight ounces 
of boiled fish, with three or four ounces of bread ; or four 
ounces of broiled mutton or beef, tender, and thoroughly 
cooked, may be substituted for the fish; or what will 
often be found more digestible, a slice of cold roast-beef. 
A glass of sherry diluted with six or eight ounces of 
water, or a dessert-spoonful of brandy, similarly diluted, 
may be used as drink ; but more frequently pure water 
will be found the best of all diluents. Tea or coffee may 
be taken between three and four hours after dinner, for 
which there will be some appetite, if exercise has been 
employed in the interval ; and it may consist of six or 
eight ounces of liquid, and three or four of bread. In 
this case no supper should be taken, but if it be pre- 
ferred to tea; arrow-root, sago, or potato flour may be 
used, or toasted bread with a little weak negus or brandy 
toddy. 

A summary of the whole treatment of indigestion may be 
included in the following points; namely, attention to the 
quantity and quality of the diet and drink ; regularity of 



12 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF FOOD. 

bowels, the regular employment of cold or tepid sponging, 
or bathing, accompanied with a residence in a healthy 
situation, where the air is uneontaminated, and where 
exercise proportioned to the vigour of the body may be 
employed. The medicinal portion of the treatment, 
although often highly useful in promoting the cure, and 
in relieving many immediate or remote painful sensations, 
may be characterised as only adjuvant or accessory; being 
quite inefficient without strict attention to regimen and 
dietetic rules, 



CHAPTER III. 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF THE VARIOUS KINDS 

OF FOOD. 

Aliments are derived either from the animal or vegetable 
kingdom. According to Professor Iiebig, they consist, 
first, of nitrogenated substances, which contain nitrogen ; 
and secondly, of non-mtrogenated substances, which do not 
contain this elementary body. The former, or those 
which contain nitrogen, are convertible into blood, and 
go to the formation of muscle and other organised tissues; 
the latter, or those which contain no nitrogen, to support 
the process of respiration. The nitrogenated aliments are 
vegetable fibrin, v. albumen, and v. casein, animal flesh, 
and animal blood. The non-nitrogenated aliments are fetor 
oil, starch, gum, sugar, pectin (vegetable jelly), gum, bas- 
sorine,wine,beer,and spirits. Thisauthorhasfound,thatthe 
nitrogenated constituents of vegetable food have a composi- 
tion identical with that of the constituents of the blood. 
Hence he concludes that no nitrogenated compound, the 
composition of which differs from that of fibrin, albumen, 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF FOOD. 13 

and casein, is capable of supporting the vital processes in 
animals. Gelatin, a nitrogenated animal body, differs in 
composition from fibrin, albumen, and casein, the three 
primary nutritive principles of animal and vegetable sub- 
stances; and on this account it is considered very unim- 
portant as a nutritive agent. This theory is very ingeni- 
ous and probably correct; and enables us to explain 
satisfactorily the well known fact, that animal flesh, fish, 
bread, &c, support the strength and vital processes much 
better, in similar proportions, than rice, arrow-root, sugar, 
&c. It must be allowed, however, that though there 
appears to be an intimate connection between the com- 
position of the food and that of the organised tissues, 
which are nourished by it, yet, that this alone will not, 
in every case, account for the superiority of one kind of 
aliment to another. Thus the flesh of animals has a 
similar composition to that of .fishes; yet the first is 
generally admitted to be greatly superior in nutritive 
power to the second. No precise experiments, so far as 
I am aware, have been made to determine this point; but 
from the general experience of mankind, it may be de- 
duced, that a diet of fish and vegetables is not capable of 
raising the system to the same strength and energy as a 
similar proportion of animal flesh and vegetable substances ; 
while a purely vegetable diet, even of nitrogenated ali- 
ments, is inferior to both. Although this view appears 
to be correct, there is some difficulty in explaining it, but 
it may perhaps depend upon the arrangement of the 
particles in the flesh of quadrupeds being more like that 
in human structures, than in fishes and nitrogenated vege- 
tables. According to Liebig, the non-nitrogenated sub- 
stances, although not directly nutritive to the muscles 
and other similar organs, yet serve a very important 
purpose in supporting the functions of the animal eco- 
nomy. The process of respiration, in some respects, re- 

B 



14 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF FOOD. 

sembles combustion in a furnace ; for thirteen or fourteen 
ounces of carbon are frequently consumed in the lungs, 
by an adult, every twenty-four hours ; and animal heat 
is thus supposed to be generated. This carbon is supplied 
from our food, and it does not appear necessary that the 
latter should be nitrogenated, in as far as the process of 
respiration is concerned. This fact, amply corroborated 
by dietetic experience, shows that the larger proportion 
of our food may consist, with perfect safety, and most 
likely with advantage, of substances that contain no ni- 
trogen. When the carbonaceous food is taken to a 
greater amount than is required to support respiration, 
&c., its constituents are deposited in the cellular texture 
in the form of fat ; being in many cases a storehouse of 
combustible materials for any extraordinary demands of 
the animal system. Thus during fevers, and other acute 
diseases, accompanied with increased respiration, and 
where very little food is taken, the fat of the body dis- 
appears very rapidly, and, as it contains a large propor- 
tion of carbon, it is well fitted to support the process of 
respiration. Again, it is known from experience, that 
oily and farinaceous substances, beer, wines, &c, which 
are rich in carbonaceous principles, tend to produce obe- 
sity in man, and to fatten the lower animals; while the 
milk of the mammiferous class, when fed with this ali- 
ment, furnishes a large proportion of butter. If active 
exercise be combined with this diet, the superfluous por- 
tion is consumed by the lungs, skin, &c. ; for the carbonic 
acid given out by these two organs is then greatly in- 
creased. Hence, the fattening of the lower animals is 
most successfully conducted in confinement ; as is usually 
practised with oxen. When the goose is fattened as a 
delicacy for the epicure, it is placed in a coop with its legs 
tied; and then its liver becomes double or treble the 
natural size, from the deposition of fat in its cells; M. 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF FOOD. 16 

Boussingault, and several other French philosophers, seem 
to consider substances destitute of nitrogen as of little 
•value in supporting the animal economy. This opinion 
is not agreeable to theory, and is opposed by experience ; 
for though it may be granted that the food of man must 
contain a certain proportion of nitrogen, yet the amount 
of carbon and nitrogen together ought to be considered 
the measure of the alimentary properties of different sub- 
stances ; as both of these elements are absolutely necessary 
for the support of important vital functions. It has been 
already mentioned that Liebig considers gelatin as a 
very unimportant agent in the process of nutrition, and 
he does not stand alone in holding this opinion. Its nutri- 
tive properties have of late years occasioned much discus- 
sion among French chemists, particularly regarding the 
gelatin extracted from bones. Ten years ago a commission 
was appointed by the Institute of France, to inquire into 
this subject; but hitherto their conclusions have only 
tended to prove that gelatin exhibited alone is incapable 
of nourishing animals for any length of time. They have 
not, however, determined its alimentary power, when 
mixed with other kinds of food. The observations of M. 
D' Arcet, have answered this to a certain extent. He shows 
that in various hospitals in France, Holland, and Russia, 
the health of the inmates has been improved by using 
soup made from the gelatin and fat of bones, along with 
other alimentary substances. Indeed, the old experiments 
of Dr. Stark, the modern researches of M. Majendie, and 
the results above mentioned, all tend to prove, that ali- 
mentary principles exhibited alone, such as gelatin, 
albumen, sugar, and oil, with the exception of the gluten 
of wheat-flour, are not capable of nourishing animals for 
any length of time. Dr. Prout very justly considers milk, 
which is a natural product, as the prototype or model of 
an alimentary compound; as every kind of milk contains 



16 DIET DURING THE VARIOUS PERIODS OF LIFE. 

sugar, oil, and albumen. The food generally employed in 
Great Britain, and in several other countries, has more or 
less resemblance to this in its composition, as it consists of 
farinaceous substances, sugar, butter, vegetables, imiTn^l 
flesh, fish, &c. It may therefore be inferred with proba- 
bility, that this kind of aliment is most conducive to health 
and vigour of body; but it is also well known that consider- 
able deviations from it may be practised with impunity. 



CHAPTER IV. 

DIET OF MAN DURING THE VARIOUS PERIODS OF LITE. 

It may be assumed as a truth, rarely disputed at the 
present day, that man is an omnivorous animal. He, no 
doubt, can live on either animals or vegetables, exclusively; 
but his vigour, activity, and freedom from disease, are 
best promoted by their combination in certain propor- 
tions. When animal food is exclusively employed, it 
fh?-^^? ** 8y8tem > ""* Ureases for a certain time 
exe^r^rr Urandmuscular P<>^- Butiflittleprno 
ste^T t^?' a P leth <> ri <> *»d sometimes a putrescent 

general, more ^S^Z^LfT 5^,"? * 

well as less nutritive in tSl? * le8S Btimulailt > M 

a diet of this UnTri^TT^ t0 *** *** ; henC6 

much corporeal B ten^h £?** *° *** ** By8tem * 

almost entirely 0^^ i^ The nationS who Uve 

same muscularity or^iT ^ enis > ™**J exhibit the 

ploy a proper proportion/ • ^ ** those who m ' 

have ^**L£^"^ food I *** those who 

have generally been to ft ? e8 by their feats ** ^ar, 

verous race. A pro Po ^ ^ "J - " eXtCnt > a Gmd ' 

F^portionate combination of these twe 



mim*m 



DIET DURING INFANCY. 17 

kinds of aliment is therefore necessary, on the one hand, 
to raise the physical, and, perhaps, to a certain extent, 
the intellectual energy of man to its proper status ; on 
the other, to prevent a dangerous fulness of the system, 
and an improper exercise of the passions or feelings. The 
inhabitants of warm climates, as a general rule, require 
less animal food than those who inhabit northern 
countries. This may be accounted for on the principle, 
that animal food generates, during its assimilation, 
a greater quantity of heat than that of a vegetable kind. 
In the first case, it would prove too stimulating to the 
inhabitants, when accompanied with the excessive heat of 
the climate, and would predispose them to diseases of an 
acute character ; while, in the second, were they to live 
chiefly on vegetables, the intensity of the cold would 
weaken or overpower them. But the Creator has wisely 
provided for these contingencies ; for, in tropical countries, 
vegetables of every variety are abundant; while, in 
northern regions, animals or fishes are the principal species 
of aliments that can be procured. 

Diet during Infancy. The young of mammiferous 
animals are provided, by nature, with food, which the 
Almighty clearly intended should supersede all other 
kinds for a certain time ; and nothing is better established, 
both by theory and multiplied experience, than the 
superiority of the mother's milk over every kind of 
artificial diet, however carefully and skilfully it may 
be managed. It is well known, however, that nurses by 
no means unfrequently deviate from this palpable law, 
and some do not hesitate to exhibit panado or arrow-root 
before the infant is a day old. It is true, that mothers 
and nurses can bring forward instances of infants, who 
have been reared solely by spoon diet, and yet have main- 
tained health and vigour of body; but they totally for- 
get, in their calculations, the immense disproportion which 

b2 



18 DrtT DURING INFANCY. 

these bear to those whose constitutions have been -weakened, 
or who have died from the effects of such treatment. 
The injurious effects of artificial aliment to infants, at 
least for the first three or four months, are much more 
perceptible in large and crowded cities, than in the 
country ; for, in the former, their digestive organs are 
weak, and frequently incapable of assimilating solid food 
without indigestion; whereas, in the latter, deviations 
from natural laws may be more frequently practised with 
impunity. Those derangements of the stomach and 
bowels, induced by improper aliments, may not, in all 
cases, prove directly fatal to the little patients ; but, by 
weakening and breaking down the system, they fearfully 
increase the mortality among them, by our various epi- 
demic and contagious diseases. Dr. A. Combe makes the 
following strong, but we fear, accurate remarks upon this 
subject : " Those whose opportunities of observation have 
been extensive, will agree with me in opinion, that nearly 
one-half ot the deaths occurring during the first two years 
of existence, are ascribable to mismanagement, and to 
errors in diet." No other food, therefore, but the milk 
of the mother, should be given to the infant for the first 
four or five months, and this period must sometimes be 
prolonged, when it is delicate in constitution. Small 
quantities of panado, arrow-root, &c, may then be given, 
and gradually increased until the infant is capable of being 
weaned when ten or twelve months old. This period 
may often be protracted a month or two lomrer with 

attended ^hyt^ T^ *"* tMs fa *° UtUe 
established fZt^T^^Z^ »*■*■" 
influenced by diet^l- ^ ^^^^ of th * milk is much 

exhibition of medic^ ' *? °* ft dige8ti ™ «*»* 
meaicmes, passions of the mind, &c; all 



■■» 



DIET DUBIKO CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 19 

of which should he calculated, as they tend to influence the 
health of the child. Nurses who are troubled with indi- 
gestion, accompanied with acidity, flatulence, &c, are 
very apt to furnish milk which produces similar effects 
on the child. This is frequently induced by an indul- 
gence in the use of fermented liquors, rich gruels, &c, 
which are taken for the purpose of increasing its quan- 
tity, the quality being, in the estimation of many nurses, 
a secondary consideration, or one which is not tangible 
to their apprehension. A healthy female who uses an 
ordinary quantity of food and drink, according to the 
dictates of nature, is always able to furnish a sufficient 
supply of milk for one infant; and I have sometimes re- 
marked that a superabundant quantity was apt to produce 
indigestion, apparently from no other cause than an over- 
charging of the stomach. For further particulars respect- 
ing this subject, the reader is referred_to the article Milk. 
Diet during Childhood and Youth. After weaning, 
the milk and farinaceous diet may still be continued for 
several months; the proportion of the latter being 
increased according to the age of the child. A small 
quantity of beef-tea and bread may then be given for 
dinner, to which may be added, in a few months more, a 
portion of egg, soft boiled. When the child is between 
two and three years of age, a little tender animal food 
may be allowed, which is to be gradually increased 
according to the exercise which is taken, from one to 
four or five ounces, until the age of ten or twelve. 
Fish, such as haddock, whiting, or other members of 
the cod family, is an excellent kind of aliment for chil- 
dren ; and it would conduce to their health, and the wel- 
fare of their digestive organs, if this were occasionally 
substituted for meat. During the period of active adoles- 
cence, when the growth is rapid, and the exercise con- 
siderable, the quantity of food may safely be increased ; 



20 DIET DURING MANHOOD. 

as the digestion is generally very rapid. The proportion 
of animal to vegetable food may also be greater, in order 
that a proper quantity of blood may be formed for the 
nourishment of the various organs. An active healthy 
boy of fourteen or fifteen years of age, will thus require 
as much food as a man; for supply is necessary, not only 
for the tear and wear of the system, but also for the 
increase of his muscles, and other important organs of his 
body. This activity of the digestive organs continues 
generally during the whole period of youth, and must 
therefore be rationally supplied. But the capabilities of 
the stomach are too often put to the test ; and though 
this organ may be able to digest almost every kind of 
aliment, and though feats of voracity are often accom- 
plished with impunity, the youth should be guarded 
against inordinate repletion. Chronic indigestion is rarely 
the result of thus overloading the stomach ; but diarrhoea, 
vomiting, and febrile attacks are frequent consequences of 
the practice. Besides these directly injurious consequen- 
ces, a habit of over-eating is created, which in after life 
may permanently derange the functions of the stomach. 
Diet during Manhood. After the full growth has 
been attained, there is no necessity for an extra supply of 
food ; as the production of new blood is only required to 
supply the regular expenditure of the body, and not to 
increase its size. On this account digestion, generally, 
becomes less vigorous, and functional derangement of the 
stomach is liable to occur, if the previous habits of indul- 
gence be continued. During the vigour of manhood, the 
functions of assimilation are subject to little change, and 
require little or no modification of the ordinary diet, 
when the balance of the system continues natural. But 
about the age of fifty, retrograde symptoms often make 
their appearance, in the functions of many important 
organs, accompanied with a tendency to organic diseases, 



TIMES OF SATING. 2l 

and the stomach is no exception to the law. Caution is 
therefore necessary at this period of life, in taxing the 
capabilities of the stomach too much ; and the majority 
of observing men curtail their enjoyments at the table, 
while the bon-vivant is often seen lingering at his post 
after the die has been irretrievably cast. Corpulency and 
fulness of the blood-vessels are then apt to occur from 
high living, and the two, when united in the same per- 
sons, often place them in a perilous situation. 

It is difficult, however, to convince those who have 
long been accustomed to a luxurious life, that there is 
now a necessity for some change in their mode of living; 
and that their animal food, wine, spirits, &c, must all be 
curtailed, if they wish to protract their existence to that 
natural period when mortality is inevitable. 



CHAPTER V. 



TIMES OF BATING. 



Regularity in taking food is generally, and very justly, 
considered an important rule for preserving the vigour of 
the digestive organs. The labour of digestion is thus 
properly divided, or rendered more equal ; and the stomach 
is not required to perform an extra quantity of work, as 
sometimes happens after long fasting. There are, no 
doubt, many individuals who can ply their stomachs with 
food at any hour, without apparent injurious conse- 
quences ; but this habit is very hurtful to those who have 
weak digestive organs, and generally to persons of seden- 
tary occupations. Both reason and experience show, 
that the chymincation of the food in the stomach ought 
to be finished, or nearly so, before a new quantity is taken 



22 TIMES OF SATING. 

to supply its place. But if this rule be neglected, and 
another portion equally large be swallowed before this 
process is completed, the stomach becomes overloaded, 
and is unable to furnish a sufficient quantity of gastric 
juice for its conversion into chyme. Hence the generation 
of lactic acid in excess and flatulency, accompanied with 
the other symptoms of indigestion. On this ground, the 
habitual use of luncheons is objectionable, except in 
cases where the previous repast has been merely nominal. 
Many persons, for example, eat very little at breakfast, 
and what is taken then is consequently very soon digested ; 
they may, therefore, take with perfect safety a luncheon 
at noon, provided their dinner be late. The same prin-. 
ciple may be carried out with respect to other meals, due 
regard being always given to what precedes and what is 
to follow. Almost all civilised nations have adopted 
general rules for their times of eating, which are various 
in different countries ; and even in the same country, the 
inhabitants of certain districts have acquired peculiar 
habits of this kind. In general, however, three meals 
have been considered necessary to support the tear and 
wear of the system during ordinary labour or exercise. 
Breakfast, or the morning repast, is the first, and as the 
stomach is presumed to be empty at this period, and to 
have recovered its tone, it ought to be substantial ; so 
in general it is found, that both appetite and good diges- 
tion are its accompaniments, when regularity of life 
and due exercise are attended to. Much or fiitiguing 
exercise before breakfiist is, however, frequently injurious 
particularly to delicate individuals, in whom it is liable 
to produce exhaustion, and subsequently a alow or im- 
perfect digestion. In ordinary cases, the exercise of bath- 
ing or sponging the body with cold or tepid water and 
dressing, followed by a short walk in the open air are 
quite sufficient to prepare the stomach for the digestive 



TIMES OF BATING. 23 

process. If breakfast has been substantial, five or six 
hours, in general, should elapse as an interval before din- 
ner is taken ; and if ordinary exercise has been employed 
during that period, the stomach will be sufficiently pre- 
pared for its reception. Late dinners are common among 
some classes of society, and eight or nine hours may be 
considered the ordinary interval between breakfast and 
dinner in most of these cases. This interval is too great; 
for the stomach is thus unemployed for some time, and 
consequently is apt to be overloaded at a period when the 
system has been exhausted by exertions during the day. 
This practice is attended with another evil, namely, a 
disinclination to exercise after dinner, and an inducement 
to relieve the languor of the body by excess of stimulants. 

When a person is so situated that he requires to adopt 
the fashion of late dining, he ought to take a luncheon, 
about five hours after breakfast ; and this, under ordi- 
nary circumstances, should be considered as a proportion 
of his dinner. Tea or coffee is generally taken in the 
evening, in this as well as in many other countries ; and 
some individuals use these merely as diluents, while 
others convert them into one of their ordinary repasts. 
The quantity of food which ought to be taken as an 
accompaniment to tea or coffee, must obviously depend 
upon the previous dinner, the interval which has elapsed, 
and the exercise taken. If the dinner has been late, or 
about six o'clock, tea should only be used as a diluent; but 
if an individual dines about three o'clock according to the 
natural law, and uses moderate exercise in the interval, he 
is quite competent to digest a moderate quantity of ali- 
ment in four hours afterwards. 

The following excellent observations of Dr. A. Combe 
give a comprehensive outline of the principles laid down 
in this section, for the guidance of those who live in 
artificial society : 



" At whatever hour the meal was taken, the teal wants 
of the system were supplied when they manifested them- 
selves in the form of appetite, and the requisite intervale 
were observed. If a substantial breakfast was taken at 
eight o'clock, then a corresponding interval elapsed, 
before another meal followed at one or two. If, again, 
the morning allowance was trifling, then the real break- 
fast followed at an interval correspondingly short, namely, 
at eleven o'clock. So also with dinner. And if dinner 
was at one o'clock, tea followed at the distance of six or 
aeven hours ; whereas if it came at six or seven o'clock, 
a refreshment preceded and nothing followed it, and 
the result was comfort and sound digestion." 

Kxbrcisb bbvokb and AFTER Eattno. Muck exercise 
either of body or mind immediately before eating is con- 
sidered, by several of the best writers on dietetics, aa 
injurious to the process of digestion ; and undoubtedly 
When fatigue has been induced, both the powers of the 
stomach and the comfort of the individual will be pro- 
moted by a short rest, particularly in the recumbent 
posture. In the ordWy Mcllpadons rf meDj however , 

e^h^" r ^ e " n ™"*<*y, when the digestive organs 
and .ST '' T I «W"»pUae4 in the peasants, labourers, 
SStl ofthtao °™t» T . Such example* also war- 

materially if iS Z%L 1*" "^ doea «* mterferB 
-hen modi! ^T^JSLV™"* ° f di ^ Btion : Md 
chumiugmot; * */£* P*°bably promotes that peculiar 
*ow^b e „« e i the r Stomachw WchDr.Beaumonthas 
t-»d, violent Tx^Z ** <******«*<*. On the other 
&C occasion too mn ~j? * . " 1 uick walking, running, 

hence are , IaM e to p ££* J^UUion of the blood, and 
Ience ia nJ,K ra ^^fermenUUonofthefood.natu- 
^Wt.onoftheheart. Similar results 



DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 26 

occur with many of our domesticated animals ; and are 
well known to grooms and trainers of horses and dogs. 
Many authors recommend complete rest of body and mind, 
to those who have weak digestive organs, for an hour or 
two after eating; and most persons labouring under this 
affection, feel much disposed thus to indulge the languor 
and depression which are generally its accompaniments. 
I have generally found that complete inaction in such 
cases tended rather to aggravate than relieve the disa- 
greeable symptoms; such as reclining on a sofa, but 
particularly sleeping, either in the recumbent or any 
other position, which in addition is liable to excite head- 
ache. 

A short and slow walk or saunter in a garden or lawn, 
about half an hour or an hour after eating, will often be 
found useful in promoting digestion and in relieving 
languor. If the weather does not permit of this, a simi- 
lar exercise may be had recourse to in the house ; to 
which may be added light and cheerful conversation. 



CHAPTER VI. 

DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD REQUIRED BY AN 

ADULT. 

Writers on dietetics, and those who legislate on diet, 
differ widely in their estimates of the daily amount of 
food necessary for the due nourishment and support of 
the body. No conclusion can therefore be drawn from 
the theoretical doctrines of any particular writer or other 
authority, on this important and difficult subject. An 
accurate series of facts and experiments is still required 
to elucidate this matter thoroughly ; and though an 

c 



26 DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 

attempt is here made to deduce a general rule from 
the diet tables of large establishments, the question 
must still be viewed as, to a certain extent, problemati- 
cal. This is frequently mistaken by the public, who con- 
found the amount of food that will simply keep human 
beings in existence, with the amount that will promote 
their greatest health, vigour, and longevity. Cornaro is 
frequently quoted as an example of a person attaining a 
great age, namely, a hundred years, upon an extremely 
small quantity of food. His diet consisted of twelve 
ounces of solids and thirteen ounces of drink daily ; but 
his friends advised him, when eighty years old, to make 
a little addition to his food, which was raised to fourteen 
ounces, and his drink to sixteen ounces. This increase, 
according to his own account, caused pain, uneasiness, 
dejection of mind, and a fever which lasted for thirty-five 
days, from which he, however, recovered, and then resum- 
ed his old diet. The following was his state of body in 
his eighty-third year. " I can mount my horse without 
assistance, I climb steep hills, and I have lately written 
a play abounding in innocent wit and humour," &c. 
This is certainly a strong case in proof of the attainment 
of longevity by the use of a very abstemious diet, united 
with comparative ease and affluence ; but it must be 
taken as an extreme one, or perhaps rather as an excep- 
tion. In luxiiri oug countries, it is probable that more 
P^ple die from the ultimate effects of repletion, than 
™*i the opposite extreme ; yet in some of the public 
^titutions of Great Britain, a diet greatly exceeding 
^ , Cornaro has been found too small. His case ought 
tive C ° nside,,e <* as one of morbid sensibility in the diges- 
*ort m^ 118 * wn * cn prevented him from taking with com- 
tity wV 6 ^^^ tw elve ounces of solid food daily ; a quan- 
more t / c k might be employed by other individuals to 
** ai1 twice the amount, without any disagreeable 



DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 27 

effects, and without any undue increase of their physical 
weight. In estimating the quantity of food necessary 
for a full-grown man, having healthy digestive organs, 
there are two points involved in this consideration which 
require to he adverted to, namely, the physical weight 
of the individual and the amount of his exeroise. It 
appears to he an almost self-evident truth, that a man of 
small physical weight, cannot, under similar circumstan- 
ces, require so much food to support the tear and wear 
of the system, as one nearly double his weight and capa- 
city. Yet we often find persons, who are little better 
than the shadows of other men, matches for them in the 
department of eating ; and discrepancies of this kind 
are so frequently met, as almost to warrant the ordi- 
nary belief, that the size or weight of the body seldom 
regulates the capacity of the stomach for food. Yet to a 
certain extent this ought to exist among healthy indi- 
viduals, placed in similar circumstances. It has been 
explained in a former chapter, that aliments are destined 
to support the system, first by supplying carbon to the 
lungs, skin, &c, and second, by the formation of blood; 
now if one man have larger lungs, greater extent of skin, 
and more muscle than another man, he of the greater 
capacity must consume more carbon and nitrogen in the 
support of these functions ; and hence, will require more 
food containing these elements. Greatly, however, as some 
men differ from others, in natural size, this is as fre- 
quently owing to the accumulation of fat ; and a man 
may thus nearly double his weight, without increasing 
the capacity of his lungs, the size of his muscles, or the 
number of his cutaneous pores. Men who have thus 
increased their weight by corpulency do not, for this 
reason, require the same amount of food, as those of simi- 
lar size who are favoured with no such covering ; and it 
is probable that the fiat, when once formed, is allowed to 



28 DIURNAL QUANTITY OP FOOD. 

remain partially dormant ; and hence its actual weight 
is supported by less food than was required for its forma- 
tion. The foregoing view, although apparently correct 
in theory, cannot be frequently applied in practice to 
man, living, as he does, in artificial society, and often 
inheriting morbid peculiarities from his progenitors. 
Defective assimilation is perhaps the most frequent of 
these, and though many spare individuals make no com- 
plaint respecting their digestive organs, this very state of 
body, in the absence of other probable causes, is suffi- 
cient proof of imperfect digestion. In such instances, it 
is highly probable that from imperfect assimilation more 
than the usual quantity of food is required to furnish the 
necessary supplies to the system ; or to raise it to a 
medium standard of weight. 

The next point of consideration is exercise, an influ- 
ence which is very powerful, and one that has more effect 
in promoting digestion than any other external cause. 
It is; well known, that men who have great physical 
exertion, require more food than those who are engaged in 
sedentary occupations, and this practical rule admits of 
easy explanation. Laborious exertion quickens the res- 
piration, the circulation of the* blood, the perspiration, 
or action of the skin, and promotes the other secreting 
and excreting processes of the system ; in consequence of 
which, a greater quantity of carbon and nitrogen are con- 
sumed, than would occur under different circumstances; 
and hence a larger supply of food is required to counter- 
balance this evacuation. It has also been generally 
found, that those engaged in hard labour in the country, 
use more food than those laboriously employed in a city ; 
and the former, no doubt, require a larger supply; for 
the air being more pure, as well as more condensed, more 
oxygen will be inhaled, and consequently will cause a 
greater consumption of carbon during respiration. 



DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 29 

It thus appears, that the quantity of food necessary for 
the proper nutriment of the system, depends to a consid- 
erable extent upon the amount of exercise, the state of 
the digestive organs, and the physical weight of the indi- 
viduals; but that a practical rule for particular classes of 
men, can only include the first in the calculations ; while 
in individual cases, the plan must be varied according 
to the results of experience and observation. 

The diet of every person on board her Majesty's ships 
consists of the following daily allowance : Bread, 1 pound; 
cocoa, 1 ounce ; sugar, l£ ounces ; fresh meat, 1 pound ; 
vegetables, £ pound ; tea, \ ounce. • When fresh meat and 
vegetables are not issued, each man receives instead of 
them f pound of salt beef, and f pound of flour, alter* 
nately with the same quantities of salt pork and split 
peas. Sailors are also allowed weekly a certain quantity 
of oatmeal and vinegar, besides wine or spirits daily.* 
In estimating the weight of this allowance, the salt meat 
will be taken in place of the fresh meat and vegetables; 
as the latter vary in the proportions of water which they 
contain. The whole, therefore, amount to 42£ ounces, 
besides the weekly allowance of oatmeal and the nutri- 
ment contained in the wine or spirits. This amount may 
be considered the maximum, both in point of quantity 
and in the proportion of animal to vegetable substances ; 
for the labour of the sailor is often very arduous, and the 
strength, courage, and determination of British seamen 
are well known to be of the highest kind. The Irish 
peasantry are also a hardy and vigorous race of men, and 
are capable of very laborious exertion. They live, not- 
withstanding, chiefly on potatoes, with the addition of 
very little animal food, and sometimes, though perhaps 
rarely, without any product, either from animals or fishes. 



* Medical Gazette, August, 14th, 1840. 

c2 



30 DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 

The Poor-Law Commissioners found, that the greater 
number of the Irish peasantry consume nine pounds of 
potatoes at their two daily meals. The nutritive pro- 
perties of potatoes have been estimated variously by dif- 
ferent authors. Parmentier calculates 6 pounds of pota- 
toes equal to 1 pound of wheaten bread; Vauquelin 
and Percy consider 2£ pounds of potatoes equal to 1 
pound of bread; Boussingault, upon his estimate of the 
amount of nitrogen in different vegetables, states that 191 
of wheat are equal to 1096 of potatoes.* In the first of 
these opinions, the nutritive power of the potato is un- 
derrated ; in the second it is somewhat exaggerated; and 
the third, although not so far from the truth as the others, 
if we allow for the water which wheat-flour absorbs dur- 
ing its conversion into bread, is not to be depended on, as 
the grounds upon which it is founded are still problema- 
tical. Potatoes contain 75 per cent of water, the remain- 
ing 25 parts consist almost entirely of nutritive matter; 
4 pounds of potatoes may then be estimated as nearly 
equivalent to 1 pound of flour, or to rather more than l£ 
pounds of bread ; therefore, 9 pounds of potatoes are equal 
to about 45 ounces of bread. But allowing for some dif- 
ference of opinion as to the amount of nutritive matter 
in this root, it may safely be asserted, that the Irish pea- 
sant who consumes 9 pounds of potatoes daily, receives 
aliment at least equal to 40 ounces of bread. 

When men have little exercise, or are sedentary in 
their occupations, a smaller amount of food is sufficient 
to support the system. British troops are victualled dur- 
ing their voyage to the East Indies on the following diet : 
23£ ounces dry vegetable matter; 8 ounces animal food ; 
which amount to 3l£ ounces. t The following diet was 

* Brit, and For.' Medical Review, April, 1812. 
t Carpenter's Human Physiology. 



DIURNAL QUANTITY OF POOD. 31 

used by Dr. Dalton, when comparatively young, during 
some experiments which were undertaken for the pur- 
pose of ascertaining the quantity of the different secre- 
tions, as compared with the quantity of food. ' It is 
highly probable, that the allowance of this eminent che- 
mist did not exceed the calls of nature, and it may be 
adduced as an exemplification of the amount of food 
required by a person having ordinary exercise. 

His consumption of solids was, bread 12 ounces, oat- 
cake and oatmeal 7 ounces, butcher's meat 4 ounces, 
potatoes 9 ounces, pastry 4 ounces, cheese 2 ounces; but 
if the nutritive powers of the potatoes be calculated into 
that of bread, they will amount to nearly 3 ; the whole 
will therefore be 32 ounces. In addition to the solid 
food, he used 53 ounces of alimentary liquids, namely, 
milk, beer, and tea.* The Millbank Penitentiary furnishes 
an example of the sufficiency of one scale of diet, and the 
deficiency of another, for those engaged in ordinary 
labour and under confinement. " The allowance to the 
prisoners had formerly been from 31 to 33 ounces of dry 
nutriment, daily, and the prison was considered healthy ; 
but in 1822, it was reduced to 21 ounces. The health of 
the prisoners continued unbroken for nearly six months; 
but scurvy then showed itself unequivocally." The dis- 
ease chiefly attacked those who had been imprisoned for 
a considerable time ; while those employed in the kitchen, 
and who had 8 ounces of additional bread, were nearly 
all exempted from the disease.t Another scale of diet is 
applicable to those who are constantly under confinement, 
either voluntarily or otherwise, with little or no exercise; 
and to persons of sedentary occupations, where little or no 
muscular exertion is required. In these, the functions 

• Lancet, March 31st, 1838, and Glasgow Medical Journal, 
t Carpenter's Human Physiology. 



32 DIURNAL QUANTITY OF FOOD. 

of respiration, the skin, stomach, and many others, move 
languidly on; less carbon and nitrogen being necessary 
to promote these processes, there is therefore a smaller 
supply of food required. It has been found difficult, in 
many public institutions, to ascertain the most appro- 
priate quantity of food, so as, on the one hand, to eco- 
nomise the expenditure, and, on the other, to avoid the 
greater evil of a deficient allowance. The Poor- Law Com- 
missioners state, that confined criminals and paupers are 
healthiest when the daily solids are not much either above 
or below 24 ounces. A convict ship conveyed to New 
Holland, in 1802, 433 prisoners, who were all kept in good 
health on 16 ounces of vegetable and 7£ animal food per 
day.* The full diet of the Glasgow Infirmary, for 1840, 
consisted of oatmeal or peasemeal 8 ounces, meat 8 ounces, 
bread 8 ounces, or potatoes 16 ounces, equal to 24 ounces 
of solids; sweet milk 16 ounces, broth 16 ounces. These 
scales of diet do not differ materially in quantities, and 
may be reckoned a fair allowance for a person confined 
and without exercise; its sufficiency may nevertheless 
be doubted, if entirely composed of vegetable substances, 
and continued for a lengthened period. 

The following inferences may be drawn from the fore- 
going facts and statements; but which, it must be 
admitted, are capable of great modification, according to 
circumstances. 

1. Persons engaged in laborious occupations, can be 
supported on 40 ounces of solid food daily; two or 
three ounces additional may in a number of cases be 
advantageous, and this quantity will support the stamina 
of life more effectually, if it contain a fourth or fifth 
part of animal flesh or other animal preparation. 

2. Those employed in ordinary labour, or who have 

* Carpenter's Human Physiology. 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 33 

ordinary exercise, require about 32 ounces of solid food, 
of which a fourth or fifth part may consist of animal sub- 
stances. 

3. Those who are constantly confined to the house, 
without exercise, can be supported on 24 ounces of solid 
food, containing a fourth or fifth of animal flesh or the 
same proportion of other animal product. 



CHAPTER VII. 

DIET DURING DISEASES. 

It would be quite impossible, within the limits of an 
ordinary chapter, to describe the specialities of diet as 
applicable to each particular disease; but this does not 
appear essential, as many of them may be treated under 
classes, and as indigestion, which is a complication of 
many chronic diseases, and in most of these forms the 
primary indication in the selection of diet, has elsewhere 
been very fully noticed. 

1 . Febrile and Inflammatory Diseases. In these pre- 
vailing affections, the functions of the digestive organs are 
greatly enfeebled, and the ordinary solid alimentary mat- 
ters, such as meat, potatoes, butter, &c, are very imper- 
fectly digested, find frequently remain for a long period 
in the stomach, little changed. It is therefore essential 
that such substances be avoided ; for their presence in the 
system will increase the heat of the body, and quicken 
the breathing. Farinaceous and amylaceous or starchy 
aliments, which are readily digested and produce little 
increase of heat during their assimilation, have been 
found the best adapted for these affections ; to which, in 
certain cases complicated with debility, or in weak indi- 
vidual* beef-tea, deprived of fatty matter, may be added. 



34 DIET DURING DISEASES. 

Acid alimentary drinks, made from various fruits are 
frequently exhibited, as they are very agreeable and 
refreshing ; but it is a safe practice to allow them in a 
very diluted state, as they are apt to run into fermenta- 
tion, causing irritation in the bowels, and sometimes 
diarrhoea. Tea or coffee is adapted for the whole of this 
class ; only, however, at the regular hours of diet. Pure 
water, soda water, water very slightly acidulated with 
any of the mineral acids, or with pure tartaric or citric 
acid, constitute the best drinks for patients labouring 
under these affections. During the cold and sweating 
stages of fevers, &c, the drinks should be warm. 

Apoplexy and Affections of the Head. There is an 
intimate sympathetic connection between the digestive 
organs and the brain ; hence whatever excites or deranges 
the functions of the first, will react upon the second. In 
every affection of the brain, therefore, the food ought to 
be light and easy of digestion, and not liable to stimulate 
either the circulation of the blood or the nervous system. 
When the disease is of an acute character, the food should 
consist of small quantities of the various amylaceous or 
farinaceous substances, with tea or coffee ; if it be of a 
chronic nature, or if there be simply a determination of 
blood to the head, the limitation in point of quantity 
need not be so great ; but animal food, wines, spirits, &c, 
ought to be avoided. 

• Diseases of the Heart and Rheumatism. Acute rheu- 
matism is often complicated with disease of the heart; giv- 
ing origin to an intractable and generally fatal affection of 
this organ. The treatment of rheumatism ought therefore 
to be conducted on the most antiphlogistic principles. 
Animal food of all kinds should be avoided, as tending to 
increase the quantity of blood in the body and to promote 
the growth of muscular organs, such as the heart. Arrow- 
root, sago, or other amylaceous substances, with tea or 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 35 

coffee constitute the most appropriate diet during the 
acute stage of the diseases. Chronic affections of the heart 
are frequently complicated with indigestion to a greater 
or less extent, which often aggravates the distressing 
symptoms, and may increase the organic alterations going 
on in its structure. In general, the rules laid down for 
the treatment of deranged digestion will apply ; but if 
an enlargement of the heart he the disease, animal food, 
and wines or spirits, ought to be used in small proportions; 
and in some cases altogether avoided. 

Pulmonary Consumption. The dietetic treatment of 
this disease must be varied according to its stage or pro- 
gress of advancement. In the primary stages, if there be 
no derangement of the digestive organs, light farinaceous 
substances, with a proper proportion of animal meat, may 
be allowed. Fish, milk, eggs, &c. may be occasionally sub- 
stituted for the meat. Ass's milk, as containing a small 
proportion of butter and curd and much sugar, is, with 
justice, esteemed a favourite aliment for consumptive per- 
sons; being light and easily digested. When any ten- 
dency to pleurisy is evinced by a sharp'pain in the chest, 
and other signs, solid animal food ought to be omitted, 
until this is removed. In the latter stages the diet may 
be nourishing, and may contain an average allowance of 
animal food; but great care should be taken not to over- 
load the stomach, so as to excite indigestion or quicken 
the breathing. Diarrhoea is very apt to occur at the 
later periods of the disease ; on this account fruits and 
green vegetables should be sparingly used; for if once 
excited, it is always difficult to cure, and frequently can 
only be alleviated. 

Diarrhosa, Dysentery, Cholera. In these affections 
the stomach and bowels are in a state of high irritation, 
and their functions of assimilation are more or less im- 
paired. Articles of diet, which, during health, are digested 



36 4IET DURING DISEASES. 

with ease, produce in such diseases great distress and 
aggravation of the symptoms. It is fortunate that nature 
has provided a check to any improper indulgence ; for, in 
extreme cases, nausea or vomiting is a common accompani- 
ment, and, in almost all, there is a disrelish for food. 
Tea or coffee, with bread thoroughly toasted, arrow-root, 
isinglass-jelly, containing only aromatics and a small por- 
tion of sugar or milk diluted with water, may be used as 
diet in these affections. The drinks may be included in 
the following list, namely, toast water, soda water, pure 
water, and occasionally infusion of mace (mace tea), where 
there is nausea or vomiting. 

Constipation. It is a common and correct opinion that, 
when the bowels are slow in their action, it is better to 
effect the desirable change by means of diet than medicine. 
Attention to diet alone sometimes foils in effecting this, but 
among healthy individuals, when accompanied with suffi- 
cient exercise, pure air, and regularity of life, there are few 
instances of its inefficacy . When the digestive organs are 
healthy, the use of fruits, green vegetables, potatoes, barley, 
or oatmeal porridge, soups, along with the other ordinary 
alimentary substances, will generally, when accompanied 
with the other circumstances mentioned, produce a regu- 
lar action of the bowels. But if the functions of the 
stomach be deranged, and green vegetables, soups, &c, 
be excluded from the alimentary list, then it is productive 
of less discomfort, and is less injurious to the system, to 
employ gentle laxatives. 

Urinary Diseases. These constitute a class of dis- 
eases in which diet plays a conspicuous part in their cure 
or aggravation, and which sometimes require considerable 
nicety in their discrimination. 

Diabetes. In this disease the functions of the stomach 
are so changed that the larger proportion of vegetable 
substances, in place of being digested, are more or less 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 37 

converted into sugar. This is only the case, to a limited 
extent, with many animal substances ; hence the latter 
have been found most advantageous in the treatment of 
this affection. The larger portion of the diet may consist 
of beef 9 mutton, bacon, or indeed of the flesh of any 
other alimentary quadruped or bird, eggs, and milk ; but 
as vegetable substances are also necessary, bread, rice, 
sago, arrow-root, &c, ought to be preferred. Pure water, 
in small quantities, is the best of all diluents, and when 
tepid the temperature is a check upon its indulgence to 
excess. The urine is very characteristic of the disease, 
being sweet, of a greenish-yellow colour and peculiar 
odour, of great density, and readily fermenting with 
yeast. 

Oxalic Acid in this Urine. — It is often difficult to 
discover this affection, which is generally considered not 
common ; although Dr. Bird, in a recent paper on the 
subject, has formed a different opinion. According to 
Dr. Prout, the urine is generally transparent, very free 
from sediment, of a pale citron-yellow or greenish colour, 
and generally of moderate specific gravity, except when 
increased in quantity, when its density is less. Accord- 
ing to Dr. Bird's recent researches, the urine is always 
acid, has often an amber hue, and octohedral crystals are 
detected in it by the aid of the microscope. There are 
also generally present some of the prominent symptoms 
of dyspepsia ; such as flatulence, irregular action of the 
heart, intermission of the pulse, craving for food, which is 
not disposed of so rapidly as in diabetes, although more 
quickly than in some other forms of dyspepsia. When there 
is stone in the kidneys or bladder, discharge of blood 
sometimes take place ; and in such cases the nature of the 
affection is more easily ascertained. Sugar, and substances 
containing saccharine matter, are generally considered 
improper articles of diet in this disease, as liable to gen- 



3d DIET DURING DISEASES. 

erate oxalic acid ; and for a similar reason those vegetable 
substances which contain it, such as sorrel, stems of the 
alimentary rhubarb, &c. Tender animal food, fish, along 
with bread, rice, sago, arrow-root, &c, should be chiefly 
employed. Pure water is the best drink, and it ought to 
contain no lime in its composition ; for this might tend 
to produce the oxalate of lime calculus. Dr. Prout recom- 
mends, in some of these affections, as well as in some 
cases of diabetes, good porter, or sound and dry wine. 
When the urine contains urea in excess, a diet similar to 
the above may be employed. 

Insipid Diabetes, or Hydruria. — This disease is gen- 
erally characterised by a copious secretion of watery 
urine, and instances of its irregular occurrence may some- 
times be observed in hysteria. It is often a very obsti- 
nate affection, and like saccharine diabetes, resists many 
varieties of treatment. The specific gravity of the urine 
is frequently very low, and Dr. Prout ranges it from 1001 
to 1010. There is generally a deficiency of urea in the 
urine of such patients, and it often differs little in appear- 
ance from common water. The diet best adapted for 
such cases should consist of a considerable proportion of 
tender animal substances, with a moderate allowance of 
bread or other farinaceous aliments. As a general rule, 
the dietetic treatment ought to be similar to that recom- 
mended in saccharine diabetes; but the proportion of 
animal food need not be so great. 

Disease of Kidneys with Dropsy. — Although much 
has been done of late years, to elucidate the nature and 
treatment of these affections, they are still not thoroughly 
investigated as to their chemical pathology ; but as a gen- 
eral rule, the urine is albuminous, and this, along with 
some of its other qualities, constitute the most valuable 
signs we possess of granular disease of the kidneys. In 
the advanced stages of these affections, there are generally 



I 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 30 

some obstinate' dyspeptic symptoms present ; the rules, 
therefore, which have been given under the article Indi- 
gestion will apply to such cases. 

In the incipient stages, if no acute inflammation be 
present, a moderate proportion of animal food, along with 
the various farinaceous substances, may be allowed, to 
which may be added some of the more tender green 
vegetables, if they do not produce indigestion. But in 
the latter stages, when dropsical swellings are obstinate, 
and complicated with diarrhoea, or other serious derange- 
ment of the digestive organs, the greatest attention to diet 
should be given. Tender animal substances, fish, bread, 
rice, and the various amylaceous products, may be 
employed, along with a moderate allowance of sound 
sherry, diluted with water. In some cases, a table-spoon- 
ful of brandy, or gin, largely diluted with water, will be 
found to agree better with the digestive organs than 
wine. 

Lithic Acid Sediments, Gravel in the Urine. — The 
lithic acid deposits in the urine are found in the form of 
amorphous sediments or concretions, and assume three 
different modifications of colour, namely, yellow, red, and 
pink; and in such cases the urine is generally acid. The 
yellow amorphous sediment is often deposited after irregu- 
larities in diet, and the urine does not in general differ 
much from that in health. The red or lateritious 
generally indicates a febrile state of the system ; while 
the pink is very frequently associated with some organic 
disease. 

The amorphous sediments are in general symptomatic 
of some other disease, which consequently requires its own 
appropriate dietetic treatment; while the crystallised 
or massive concretions indicate great derangement of the 
urinary organs themselves. When the amorphous sedi- 
ments are only occasional and small in quantity, no deep- 



1 



40 DIET DURING DISEASES. 

seated or permanent disease is indicated by them ; but 
if deposited in large quantities and pretty constantly^ 
more especially if white or pinkish in colour, some or- 
ganic or serious disease may be apprehended. Dr. Prout 
remarks that the pink sediment is rather rare, and gener- 
ally indicates the presence of chronic visceral affections. 
I have remarked it in affections of the liver, and in 
several instances of dropsy from enlargement or other 
disease of the heart. The rules which have been given 
respecting the treatment of deranged digestion, should 
here be strictly observed, not only in regard to quality 
but also quantity ; for an excess of food, even of the most 
digestible kind, may cause the deposition of lithic acid 
from the urine. In general, a moderate proportion of 
animal and farinaceous substances may be employed, 
along with the usual alimentary liquids, tea or coffee. 
Wine or ardent spirits are in general injurious except in 
very moderate quantities; and when taken to excess 
often cause great aggravation of the complaint. Fatty 
substances, malt liquors, milk, fruits, green vegetables, 
acescent and sweet wines, and hard water, ought to be 
avoided. 

Phosphatic Deposits in the Urine. — In this affec- 
tion, the deposition consists very frequently of the mixed 
phosphates, or of the phosphate of magnesia and am- 
monia and the phosphate of lime. The disease is some- 
times of a general character, but more frequently it is 
associated with disease of the bladder or prostate gland. 
The urine and deposits vary in appearance, according to 
the predominance of the one or the other salt. When 
the triple phosphate is most abundant the deposit is more 
or less crystallised; but when the phosphate of lime pre- 
dominates, it is found in the form of a whitish or yellow- 
ish-white powder ; or sometimes containing crystalline 
granules, when the coats of the bladder have become 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 41 

diseased. The urine is generally of a pale colour, fre- 
quently alkaline when newly passed, and more abundant 
•than natural. When the secretion is very great, little or 
no deposit takes place without the application of heat ; 
but when moderate, its formation often takes place in the 
bladder, and the urine is muddy when passed. Dr. Prout 
remarks that some authors, from chemical hypothesis, 
have recommended a vegetable diet in this disease, or one 
as free from nitrogen as possible, in order to correct the 
alkalinity of the urine. Experience, however, has shown 
that vegetable aliments alone are not calculated to sup- 
port the system sufficiently under this formidable affec- 
tion. A mixture of animal and farinaceous diet is best 
calculated to support the vital powers, and in general it 
agrees better with the digestive organs than one com- 
posed of the ordinary dietetic vegetables. A portion of 
wine is often beneficial, and Dr. Prout recommends Moselle 
or Bucellas, as well as sound cyder and perry ; and he 
considers that liquids containing malic acid are some- 
times very beneficial in arresting the deposition of the 
phosphates. According to the experiments of M. D'Arcet, 
the mineral waters of Vichy, and soda-water surcharged 
with carbonic acid gas, are very useful in such affec- 
tions. 

Corpulency. — When all the functions of the body are 
properly balanced, very little fatty matter is deposited 
in the system ; although a certain amount of this is by 
no means incompatible with what is denominated ordinary 
health. In persona of common size and vigour, the pro- 
portion of fat has been computed to average from one- 
tenth to one-fifteenth of the weight of the body ; but in 
extreme cases of obesity, this has amounted to about 
four-fifths, as in the case of Mi*. Lambert of Leicester. 
When the accumulation of this principle becomes exces- 
sive, derangement of the secondary assimilation is going 

d2 



42 DIET DURING DISEASES. 

on, which is often the premonitor of some serious disease. 
The same holds true with extreme leanness, which gen- 
erally indicates some defect in the primary or secondary 
processes of digestion. A large majority of these instances 
of extreme obesity are owing to over-feeding, combined 
with indolence, or indulgence in the use of fermented 
liquors ; but it is also true that a certain proportion of per- 
sons become fat, where excess of no kind is practised. 
In general, however, it will be found, that in such cases 
a due proportion of exercise has not been taken. The 
rules, therefore, to be observed for the removal of obesity 
may be deduced from these principles. The aliment 
should consist of the various vegetable substances usually 
employed, and fish, with only a small amount of animal 
food or animal preparation, and little fatty or oily matter 
should be used. Fermented liquors and ardent spirits 
ought to be avoided ; for experience proves that the large 
proportion of carbon they contain is readily converted 
into fatty matter; and this view is supported by the 

latest and most enlightened theory of secondary assimi- 
lation. 

Quantity is also an important element in the diet of 
such persons, and this, in an individual of ordinary weight, 
should not exceed twenty-eight or thirty ounces daily. 
Exercise of an active kind is also necessary, and it ought 
to be continued for at least two or three hours every day, 
and of all the varieties in common use, walking is the 
Dest. Indeed, so important is smart or laborious exer- 
cise, if continued a sufficient length of time, that it is 

or «t^^ M-\°T d-Bt Pera ° n ° f SUCh habltS 
the same princml* . P *" k™ 1 ™ ° he * Li7 ' ° n 
sumed bv th 1 ** ln< ^°^ ence 5 *° r ^ ess ^^ * a C(m ' m 

the con.pa»tivr n - 88 ' **** &c " daring ** ****' *""" 

with these o«raL ^ Vity ° f ^ *""*"■ wtmecUi 
6 ™* Ahe amount of sleep should there- 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 43 

fore be restricted considerably within the ordinary 
limits. 

Dr. Prout is of opinion that the production of gallstones 
is owing to a derangement of the oleaginous or fatty 
assimilation, and recommends a similar diet and regimen 
for the prevention of future attack* of this painful and 
sometimes formidable affection; but as this disease is 
often accompanied with weakness of the digestive organs, 
the vegetable part of the diet ought to consist chiefly of 
the farinaceous kinds. 

Worms. — Indigestion, in some form, almost uniformly 
accompanies the existence of worms m the intestines ; 
and from this fact may be deduced the inference, that 
their generation and growth are promoted by the pre- 
sence of acid and imperfectly digested matters. The diet 
ought therefore to be conducted on the same principles 
as in the treatment of indigestion. Green vegetables, 
fruits, oatmeal, and all acescent substances, should be 
avoided. The diet may consist of bread, rice, the finest 
quality of pease-meal, sago, with a proper allowance of 
animal food, including milk and eggs. 

Cutaneous Diseases. — There are many chronic dis- 
eases of the skin that seem to be little under the influence 
of diet ; but those of an acute or inflammatory kind are 
often increased, if not sometimes produced, by an indul- 
gence in animal food, fermented liquors, ardent spirits, 
green vegetables, salt fish, and meat of any description 
that has been long preserved. As a general rule, all sub- 
stances difficult of digestion should be avoided ; and if 
indigestion co-exist with the disease, this must be care- 
fully attended to as an important step in the cure. There 
is one affection closely allied to skin diseases, which may 
be specially noticed, as often accompanied with derange- 
ment of the assimilating functions, namely, fwruncuH, or 
boils. In young persons, the habit is sometimes rather 



44 DIET DURING DISEASES. 

full during the presence of this affection ; hut although 
this shows that the blood is sufficiently supplied with 
nutriment, it will,' in many cases, be found that some 
irritating principle is generated in the digestive organs. 
This, however, is more apparent when the disease occurs 
in old individuals,-or in persons of a cachectic or broken- 
down constitution ; the functions of their digestive organs 
ought therefore to be carefully regulated. A moderate 
allowance of animal food, with bread and other easily- 
digested farinaceous substances, will be found beneficial ; 
to which may often be added, with great advantage, one 
or two glasses of sound wine daily. 

Suppurating Wounds and Ulcers. — In some wounds 
and ulcers, the discharge of matter is very copious, and 
the system consequently becomes much exhausted. It 
has therefore been found that a generous diet, containing 
a considerable proportion of animal matter, is most bene- 
ficial. This plan is however sometimes pushed far beyond 
the powers of the digestive organs, particularly in point 
of quantity ; in consequence of which, indigestion and 
an unhealthy state of the diseased parts are produced. 
The limits of healthy assimilation should therefore never 
be exceeded ; and when a large amount of stimulating 
nutriment is required, wine, should form a portion of 
the aliment. In cases of ordinary wounds and ulcers, 
provided the general health be good, no particular devia- 
tion from the common diet is in general required ; but if 
accompanied with derangement of the digestive organs, 

modifications of it, adapted to this state, ought to be 
employed. 

Accidents, Fractures, &c— In healthy individuals of 
Regular habits, the dietetic treatment should be con- 
ducted on the same principles as in inflammatory diseases; 
east for some time after receiving a serious injury, 
annaceous substances, arrow-root, sago, &c, tea or 



DIET DURING DISEASES. 45 

coffee, may be allowed ; and in many cases beef-tea is 
productive of no injurious excitement. The treatment, 
however, requires to be much more stimulating in per- 
sons of intemperate habits ; and inattention to the impor- 
tant difference of constitution between regular and irre- 
gular individuals, sometimes induces delirium tremens. 
In such cases a certain proportion of wine or spirits must 
be allowed, according to the previous habits of the 
patient, accompanied with a moderate quantity of tender, 
easily-digested animal food, and farinaceous substances. 

Diet after Child-birth. — Nurses and old women very 
frequently entertain false notions upon this subject, and 
those who are under their management sometimes suffer 
severely by reason of a misplaced confidence in the doc- 
trines of these sage individuals. After child-birth, in a 
considerable number of cases, there is a feverish or excit- 
able state of the system for some days; which, by indis- 
cretion in diet, or exposure to cold, might readily assume 
an inflammatory character; a state well known to be 
highly dangerous to the patient. It is therefore obvious 
that a generous diet and stimulating drinks ought not to 
be hazarded ; for though the lady may be considered 
weak, and though nourishment may be thought neces- 
sary for other reasons, these trifling advantages are com- 
pletely overbalanced by the risks which attend their 
employment. For the first four or five days, the diet 
should consist of tea or coffee, milk, bread, panado, 
arrow-root, sago, rice, or tapioca. After that period 
beef-tea or chicken-soup may be added; but no solid 
animal food should be taken, until a week of the con- 
finement has elapsed. Chicken, beef-steak, or mutton- 
chop, and eggs, may then be allowed to a moderate 
amount ; with a glass of sherry or a little good porter, 
if there be any peculiar weakness. 
Indigestion. — See page 4. 



46 DRINKS. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



DRINKS OR DILUENTS. 



Water is a necessary constituent of animated beings ; 
for without it the circulation of the blood could not be 
carried on. The watery portion of the blood is con- 
stantly escaping from the body by various channels; 
such as by the lungs in the form of vapour, from the skin 
by the sensible and insensible perspiration, and from the 
kidneys. It is therefore necessary that this waste be 
supplied. Dr. Dalton, from experiments made upon 
himself, calculated that five pounds of water are required 
as a vehicle to introduce one pound of carbon and azote 
together into the circulation. This statement, of course, 
implies absolute carbon and azote; for even the most 
dry alimentary substances contain water as a constitu- 
ent. The requirement of water, as a necessary supply 
for the system, depends as a general rule upon the appe- 
tite of thirst. In febrile diseases, the thirst is greatly 
increased, and this is readily explained by the fact, that 
a larger proportion of water is carried off by the lungs, 
from the quickened respiration, and also from the skin 
by insensible perspiration. Violent and continued exer- 
cise causes thirst on a similar principle ; for it produces 
accelerated breathing and increased perspiration, either 
in the sensible or insensible form. Thirst is therefore as 
necessary a signal for the supply of water, as hunger 
is for a supply of food ; both of these principles being 
required for the continuance of life. The importance 
of water in preserving life is well known ; and repeated 
experiments and observations have shown that the 
higher classes of animals can survive much longer with- 



DRINKS. 47 

out food, if liquids be supplied, than when deprived of 
both. Although water cannot strictly be called an ali- 
mentary body, it is indirectly as requisite to support 
the fulness and efficiency of the animal fabric, as food 
which contains carbon or azote. Besides the rise of 
water in supporting the physical weight and muscularity 
of animals, by its mere position in the vessels, a certain 
portion of it is necessary in the process of digestion ; for 
solid food requires a certain amount of fluid to reduce it 
to a proper consistency. 

Much drink taken during or after a meal, is injurious 
to the process of .digestion ; for though the excess of 
water is removed very rapidly by the veins and absorbents 
of the stomach, yet in all cases chymification is retarded, 
and in dyspepsia is much protracted beyond the usual 
period. From twelve to sixteen ounces of liquids may 
be considered an average amount for a healthy individual, 
but if the digestive organs be weak, three-fourths of this 
quantity will be sufficient. The temperature of the drink 
is another circumstance requiring attention. Cold liquids 
are, in general, most grateful to persons who are thirsty, 
and a smaller quantity of cold than of warm water will 
assuage thirst, although the first, from its agreeable 
quality, is more frequently taken to excess. In cases of 
indigestion, much cold water ought not to be taken at a 
draught ; for this lowers the temperature of the stomach 
too suddenly, and is liable to occasion defective chymi- 
fication. The same holds true with water at a high tem- 
perature ; for though it is sometimes productive of com- 
fort, the powers of the stomach may afterwards be en- 
feebled. The periods of drinking, as a general rule, 
ought to be regulated by the appetite of thirst ; but in 
dyspeptics, drinking much or at irregular times, is apt 
to occasion uneasiness in the stomach or bowels. Such 
persons ought therefore to swallow only a small portion 



48 DRINKS. 

of liquid at a time, or the mouth and throat may be 
frequently gargled with cold water ; this practice being 
often successful in assuaging thirst. 

Cold water when drank to excess during profuse per- 
spiration, more particularly if this be accompanied with 
exhaustion after protracted and laborious exercise, is apt 
to produce dangerous effects. This danger is in many 
cases lessened, if not altogether prevented, by keeping 
up the exercise for some time after the draught has 
been taken ; a fact well known to postilions. Another 
method is adopted by many persons under these circum- 
stances, namely, the addition of a portion of ardent 
spirits to the water ; which, in general, prevents any 
injurious effects, unless the quantity of the latter be very 
great. It is a practice, however, not to be recommended 
except in particular cases ; and it is much safer to take a 
single mouthful at a time, and repeat this at intervals, 
until thirst is allayed. 

Water is the basis of all the different kinds of drinks, 
and the less of foreign ingredients they contain, with the 
exception of pure acids, they extinguish the sensation of 
thirst the more effectually. Indeed, there can be very 
little doubt that water containing much saccharine matter 
in solution, though it may for a few minutes abate the 
sensation, afterwards frequently increases it. 

Drinks are divided by some writers on the subject 
into, 

1. Diluents, those which consist chiefly of water, or 
which hold in solution only a small portion of acid, 
saccharine, or other foreign matter ; as toast- water, or 
soda water. 

2. Those which hold in solution a considerable quantity 
of nutritious matter; as milk, tea, or coffee. 

3. Fermented liquors, and various beverages. The first, 
and some of the second classes, shall here only be taken 



WATER. 49 

notice of; as the others will be found described under 
other sections. 

WATER. 

Water is the simplest diluent that is known, and is 
unquestionably the most natural, as well as the best bev- 
erage for man, during health as well as during disease. 
In order to free water of every impregnation, it is neces- 
sary to distil it ; but after being submitted to this process, 
it is not agreeable to the taste, from the loss of atmos- 
pheric air and carbonic acid gas. Distilled water was, 
at one period, strongly recommended by some physicians; 
but its superiority is now considered a fanciful opinion, 
from the almost universal employment of pure spring or 
river water. 

Rain and Snow- Water — resemble distilled water in as 
far as they contain no saline impregnation; but differ from 
it in being liable in some situations to vegetable, animal, 
or mineral impregnation floating in the atmosphere, 
&c, and by holding in solution atmospheric air. Snow- 
water was at one period supposed to produce goitre, but 
this opinion appears to be groundless. Dr. Paris states, 
that " this strumous affection occurs at Sumatra, where 
there is no snow'; while, on the contrary, the disease is 
quite unknown in Chili and Thibet, although the rivers 
of these countries are supplied by the melting of the snow 
with which the mountains are covered." Rain and snow- 
water may be strongly recommended as perfectly pure 
and salubrious, and fit for every domestic use, if collected 
in the country, and not from new leaden roofs. 

Spring Water — generally contains muriates, sulphates, 
and carbonates of lime, soda, and magnesia, and is dis- 
tinguished into hard and soft. Waters which contain a 
4000th part of mineral impregnation, are termed hard, 
and are unfit for ordinary domestic purposes. Soft 

E 



50 WATER. 



spring water is most pure when it rises out of siliceous 
earth, beds of gravel, sandstone, or trap rocks ; and m 
this country it seldom contains more than an 8000th part 
of mineral impregnation. It contains also a small portion 
of atmospheric air and carbonic acid, which render it 
agreeable to the taste. The importance of springs of sott 
water has been felt and acknowledged by all nations, 
particularly by those who inhabit tropical countries, and 
many of the ancient settlements were located in their 
vicinity. Hard waters are apt to induce derangement 
of the health, particularly indigestion and diarrhoea, and 
should be scrupulously avoided by those who have cal- 
culous diseases. 
Well Water— is very similar to spring water, but when 

the well has been recently constructed it is liable to 
aluminous impregnation from the bricks which are used 
to line its sides ; old wells are, therefore, generally more 
free from impurity. 

River and Lake Water— is generally derived from 
the various springs which flow into rivers and lakes; and 
on this account their waters are similar to those of springs. 
From the long agitation of the water, however, it contains 
less atmospheric air, carbonic acid gas, and carbonate of 
lime. River water, when near a large city, is liable to be 
contaminated by the impurities which flow into it. It 
thus may contain much animal and vegetable impregna- 
tion, and though apparently very pure after filtration, 
yet when kept for a day or two may become muddy, 
and exhale a disagreeable odour. It is also liable to 
become impregnated with organic matter and salts, when 
it passes over an alluvial soil for any great distance. In 
general, however, river and lake water is perfectly salubri- 
ous, although more vapid than spring water. 

Stagnant Water— exists in small lakes, pools, ditches, 
and marshes. It is, in general, soft, but is impregnated 



TOAST WATER. 61 

with animal and vegetable substances in a state of decom- 
position ; it is therefore, under ordinary circumstances, 
unfit for dietetics! uses. 

Purification op Water. — Water may be purified by 
various means. The usual method is by filtration 
through sand or gravel, or by alternate layers of char- 
coal and sand. Boiling is recommended when animal 
or vegetable matter is present ; or allowing the water to 
stand in a charred vessel until decomposition takes place, 
the impurities being then separated. Water sometimes, 
although by no means frequently, becomes contami- 
nated by passing through leaden pipes ; and this gener- 
ally happens when it is very free from mineral impreg- 
nation, as in rain or spring water. When this is found 
to occur, cast metal may be substituted for the leaden 
pipes, or leaden pipes coated with tin, an extremely 
thin coating of which has been found sufficient. 

Toast Water — is made by infusing toasted bread or 
biscuit in boiling water. The bread ought to be cut into 
thin slices before it is toasted, and should be slowly 
but very thoroughly browned. When this is not 
attended to, the water dissolves too much of the starchy 
principle, and the drink is heavy and unpleasant. Its 
chief value seems to reside in the aromatic principle 
developed during the toasting of the bread, being the 
source of its flavour and other qualities. Sir A. Carlisle 
recommends biscuit in preference to bread for its pre- 
paration, and many persons think it superior; but bread 
is equally good, and more easily managed. Next to 
pure water, this forms one of the most salubrious and 
agreeable drinks in ordinary use, and may be employed 
under all circumstances and situations, as it contains 
nothing calculated to produce indigestion, or to excite the 
system. It is superior to water in diseases accompanied 
with nausea, retching, or vomiting, more particularly if 



52 GRUEL. 



the bread be very slightly charred. Charred bread is 
useful in correcting the taste of water spoiled by long 
keeping, and is sometimes employed for this purpose by 
sailors. 

Gruel — is prepared by boiling oatmeal or groats with 
water, and it is usually seasoned with acids, jelly, sugar, 
&c. By this process the starchy principle and sugar of 
the oat are dissolved by the water, and either form a 
thickish liquid or a jelly, according to the proportion of 
ingredients employed. It ought always to be made thin 
and watery, and, in general, the addition of butter, 
sugar, and substances containing these, should be 
avoided, unless the preparation be intended as an ali- 
mentary compound, and not as a diluent. A small 
table-spoonful of oatmeal or groats will be a sufficient 
quantity for four pints of water, and these may be 
boiled for five minutes and strained. Gruel, when 
watery, may be used as a very safe and agreeable drink 
in the large majority of diseases ; but when there is any 
weakness of the digestive organs, particularly if this be 
accompanied with acidity, it should be avoided. A very 
pleasant drink maybe formed from oatmeal, in the follow- 
ing manner :— Mix a tea-spoonful of oatmeal with a pint 
of butter milk, then add an equal portion of boiling water 
to the liquid and stir. By this process the curd of the 
milk is coagulated, and the diluted whey, containing the 
soluble parts of the oatmeal, may be decanted. 

Barley Water— is made by boiling one ounce of pearl 
barley in two pints of water, down to one half. Lemon 
juice, raisins, figs, currant jelly, &c. are sometimes 
added to this decoction ; but although they render it 
more agreeable, it becomes less light as a diluent. If 

Z f ^ W ? akness ** the digestive organs, these 

extent. Barley water is supposed to be better adapted 



SODA WATER. 63 

for diseases of the urinary organs than other drinks, on 
account of its demulcent or softening qualities. This 
opinion, although common, is not established ; but the 
diluent is equal to any other usually employed in such 
affections. 

Lemonade. — This beverage consists of a dilute solu- 
tion of lemon juice in water. Sugar is also generally 
added, but if at all considerable in quantity, it uniformly 
increases the tendency to drink. Pure citric acid, how- 
ever, is superior to lemon juice in the formation of this 
drink, as it is less liable to produce fermentation, flatu- 
lency, or other symptoms of indigestion. In both cases, 
the water should be only very slightly acidulated, and if 
a little flavour be agreeable, a small piece of lemon peel 
may be added to it. When thus prepared, it will be 
found a very cooling and pleasant drink in febrile dis- 
eases ; and ought in such cases to be preferred to the 
undiluted juice of lemons, oranges, or other similar 
fruits, which generally deranges the digestive organs. 

A drink is also made from tamarinds and currant 
jelly, by dissolving them in warm water ; but they 
generally contain too much sugar, and are thus not well 
adapted for the purpose. 

Effervescing Lemonade — is made by adding tartaric 
acid and oil of lemons to water highly charged with 
carbonic acid gas. It is too saccharine in its qualities 
for a patient's drink ; but a small quantity may, in some 
cases, be allowed on account of its agreeable properties. 

Soda Water. — This is a dilute solution of bicarbonate 

of soda in water, which is highly charged with carbonic 

acid* gas. A pint of water seldom contains more than 

forty grains, but frequently much less, of the soda, and 

the quantity of carbonic acid also varies according to the 

efficiency of the apparatus employed in its manufacture. 

When well prepared, the cork, when freed from the 

E 2 



54 IMPERIAL. 

wire and slightly loosened, should be propelled from the 
bottle by the force of the contained gas. Some manu- 
facturers of soda water add a little carbonate of ammonia 
to give it pungency. It is occasionally imitated by 
druggists, who, for this purpose, add bicarbonate o£ 
soda and tartaric acid to the requisite quantity of water 
contained in a bottle, and immediately cork it, while 
the wire is applied in the usual way. I have noticed 
this occasional fraud, chiefly because the preparation is 
not so well adapted for the treatment of cholera, diar- 
rhoea, and other affections of the stomach and bowels, as 
real soda water, exciting more irritation in these organs. 
Soda water, when of good quality, is agreeable, light, 
and, next to pure water, one of the best drinks that can 
be employed under almost all circumstances. In cases 
of dyspepsia, it is useful in correcting acidity, and the 
carbonic acid gas communicates a gentle stimulus to the 
digestive organs. In all diseases accompanied with 
retching, vomiting, or irritability of the digestive organs, 
such as cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, &c. it is a valuable 
and grateful drink. In such cases, however, the quan- 
tity taken at once ought to be small, such as a wine- 
glassful ; but this rule applies to every other diluent. 
Soda water has also been strongly recommended in the 
deposition of the phosphates from the urine ; the excess 
of carbonic acid keeping the earthy salts in solution, 
while the deposition of lithic acid is prevented. 

Imperial. — This term is applied to a solution of cream 
of tartar in water, containing a little refined sugar. 
This is necessarily a very dilute solution ; for one part 
of this salt requires about 234 parts of temperate water, 
(60° F.) to dissolve it. It forms an excellent drink in 
febrile and inflammatory affections, and is useful in 
dropsy. In irritability of the stomach and bowels, it is 
liable to disagree with the patient. 



fc «■- »— 



- i 



«■- -~ . — ~ 



TEA. 65 

TEA. 

Thea Vtridis. — Tcrnstromiacece. — Thb Tea Tubs. — 
The native country of the tea shrub has not been 
exactly ascertained : but its cultivation is almost exclu- 
sively confined to China, Japan, and some of the neigh- 
bouring islands. It is also reared in Java to a small 
extent, and has lately been discovered in Upper Assam, 
in the East India Company's territories, the climate 
of which is similar to that of China; and experiments 
are in progress for its successful cultivation in that 
district. 

It is generally believed by botanists, that all the differ- 
ent kinds of tea imported from China into this country, 
are the produce of the thea viridis; the differences 
depending on soil, climate, the different ages at which 
the leaves are gathered, the mode of drying, &c. This 
shrub is most luxuriant in valleys, on the banks of rivers 
and the bases of mountains ; but it can endure a consider- 
able variation in temperature, and its quality is said to be 
best when grown on the slopes of a bill. In China it is 
cultivated in fields ; but in Japan it is only planted round 
thin borders. The plants are raised from seeds, and little 
care is bestowed on their cultivation except freeing them 
from weeds. The leaves are not collected until the shrub 
is about three years old. According to Dr. Sigmond, in 
the common tea plant the gathering of the leaves takes 
place early in the spring, and three crops are obtained 
during the summer. The first is collected before the leaf 
has fully expanded ; this is named Pekoe, is exquisitely 
flavoured, and the more flowers it contains the more fra- 
grant is the aroma. Trees furnish this variety of tea 
until their sixth year. The next gathering is in May, 
and is named Souchong. About six weeks afterwards, 
Congou is collected, and from this is selected a variety 



56 TEA. 

named Campoy. Bohea is a preparation of the later 
grown leaves, and is often inferior in strength and flavour ; 
although occasionally of excellent quality. Green teas 
undergo a similar harvest. Hyson is prepared from the 
tender leaflets. Gunpowder is a Etyson gathered and 
rolled with extra care. Twankay consists of the older 
leaves, and is rolled with less care. After the leaves are 
collected, they are put into bamboo baskets and exposed 
to the sun for two or three hours. They are then rolled 
between the Angers and afterwards dried in flat iron pans; 
which latter process is repeated two or three times. The 
tea is then sorted into different qualities ; but before it is 
exported to Europe, it frequently undergoes another heat- 
ing previous to its being packed, that it may be thoroughly 
freed from moisture. A sea voyage is said to deteriorate 
its aroma, and what is consumed in Britain is considered 
inferior to tea sent to other countries, such as Russia, 
by land carriage. It is asserted that some tea merchants 
in this country revive the flavour of their tea, by placing 
the boxes which contain it in a room heated to a pretty 
high temperature. It has been supposed that the colour 
of green tea was owing to an impregnation with copper 
derived from the copper plates on which it was dried ; 
but this opinion appears to be destitute of foundation, 
as it is well known that iron pans are generally em- 
ployed. Dr. Lettsom, however, is of opinion that some 
green vegetable dye is employed to colour green teas ; 
and there appears to be little doubt that the fumes of 
indigo are often used for this purpose. The Chinese also 
flavour tea with aromatic substances, such as flowers, 
gums, &c. 

The tea shrub is an evergreen, resembling the myrtle, 
and attaining the height of from six to eight feet. It 
has large yellow fragrant flowers, and elliptical oblong 
crenated leaves, which have a light green colour. 



TEA. 57 

Tea, at one period, was frequently adulterated with the 
leaves of the whitethorn, blackthorn, sloe, ash, elder, &c. 
Mr. Accum states that the tea leaf is slender, narrow, 
deeply serrated, and its extremity acutely pointed, while 
its surface is smooth and glossy. The leaves of the 
whitethorn and sloe are more rounded and obtusely 
pointed; their surfaces are more uneven, and their 
colour is a dark olive-green. I have met specimens of tea 
that were adulterated with peat ; and also one which con- 
tained iron filings. Green tea, according to Frank, con- 
tains in 100 parts 34.6 tannin, 6.9 gum, 6.7 vegetable 
albumen, 61.3 vegetable fibre, besides salts and a volatile 
oil, which is the source of its flavour. Black tea contains 
more tannin or astringent matter, namely, 40 per cent. 
A watery infusion of green tea has a greenish tint ; while 
that of black tea is of an orange brown colour, and both 
have an astringent taste and agreeable flavour ; but the 
green is most esteemed. Water which contains any salt 
of iron gives a black or inky colour to an infusion of 
tea, from the astringent matter in its composition com- 
bining with the iron ; such water ought therefore to be 
avoided when it is infused. Hard water is also unfit 
for this purpose, for it does not extract the soluble matter 
of the leaf so thoroughly as soft water. Mr. Donovan 
has made some excellent remarks upon the making of this 
infusion, which it may be useful to quote. He says that 
"two conditions only ere required; that the water shall 
be boiling and that the teapot shall be of a material capa- 
ble of retaining the heat. I conceive (he says) that the 
British nation lost several millions of money by the in- 
troduction, many years since, of a teapot made of unglazed 
earthen ware, the colour of which was black. Its effect was 
to disperse the heat by radiation with great rapidity ; the 
water cooled almost below the extracting point, and the 
chief value was thrown away in the residual leaves." 



68 TEA ' 



TUe^e aurtior commends •*%£*%£££. 
to it one of German silver; but it is* 
quence what the metal is, unless it he Kep j> 

tri 8 nt * .. •„„«,„! ,,«> mav he considered 

Uses. Tea, from its ^^"JJ^ many other 

one of the necessaries of ^ f l^ about ^e year 

countries, »« "^^^tTwai- 
1666, and a duty of eightpence per gaHon was ^ 

the liquor, made or sold in ^^^ ^orial, 
used by the Chinese and ^^Tr^ormous 
and at present is employed m Europe^ & ^ 

extent. Its effects on man have excitea Itha8bee n 
of opinion and controversy among * uth °™\ d some 

said to possess narcotic or poisonous P^^ tete at 

modern writers seem to favour this op™ £ ™ ^ heat 
the same time that this property is dmpated^ 

to which it is exposed during the P™Xatin7quaW 
certainly possesses stimulant and "^J"*^ m 
combined with some astringency ; ana i r ^^_ 
some individuals, especially when taken late in ^ 

ing, an inability to sleep, or ™ te Jf^.. * effect8 • 
lead a sedentary life are most subject to the* en :, 
while they are rarely noticed in those engaged in law. 
ous occupations. Tea, when used moderately, w °y 
means injurious to the health, and rather tends, rro 

stimulating qualities, to promote the ^^JV^ 
digestive ofgL,. In my experience, the injunousefecte 

of tea are most frequently owing to the large quann y 
■w-eak saccharine fluid which is taken, and rareiy 
strength of the infusion. In individuals of *•*"»* 
tive organs, a superabundance of liquids in the ^stomacn 
is very injurious to the process of digestion, P^ 1C T^ 
if they be saccharine ; for, in such cases, the mass speedUy 
passes into acescency, which is generally productive 01 
pain or uneasiness. Indeed, in some cases of weaxOiges- 



<J 



COFFEE. 69 

tion, a small quantity of a pretty strong infusion of tea, 
with little sugar, will be found advantageous as a stimu- 
lant, and in relieving the languor which often accompanies 
this state. 

COFFEE. 

Coffea Arabica. — Cinchonacea. — The Cinchona Tribe. 
— The coffee shrub is generally considered a native of 
Ethiopia and Arabia Felix ; and Mr. Bruce, the traveller, 
states, that it grows spontaneously in Caffee, a pro- 
vince of Narea in Africa. There are no records in ancient 
history which lead us to believe that the Greeks or Romans 
were acquainted with this tree, or its berry ; but the latter 
was known in Europe for a long period before the plant 
which produces it was described. Coffee was in vogue in 
Constantinople about the year 1554 ; and in the follow- 
ing age it was introduced into Europe. The first coffee- 
houses were opened in London in 1652, but it is said 
that they existed in Italy a year or two before this 
period. The seeds for cultivation were first procured 
from Mocha, by the governor of Batavia, and were sown 
in the island of Java. These produced several plants, 
some of whieh were sent to the botanic garden at Amster- 
dam, about the year 1610, and from it the West India 
islands were supplied. The coffee tree is frequently cul- 
tivated in this country, in hot-houses, for the sake of 
ornament ; and it both blossoms and ripens its fruit. It 
is propagated by the berries, which must be sown soon 
after they are gathered, or they will not vegetate. 

Mr. Don states, that richness of soil lessens the flavour 
of the seeds, and that coffee produced in the dry arid 
climate of Arabia is always superior to that of the West 
India islands. The coffee tree is more extensively cul- 
tivated in Barbadoes, St. Domingo, and some of the other 
West India islands, than in Jamaica; and in these 



60 COFFEE. 

places the berries are gathered when just about to drop 
from the trees, and sown immediately. In three years 
the trees produce fruit, and continue to do so for a con- 
siderable time. The coffee tree is an evergreen from five 
to fifteen feet in height, has sweet-scented white flowers, 
and red cherry-formed berries, which contain two seeds 
or kernels, covered with a thin pellucid pellicle. In 
Arabia, the fruit is dried by the heat of the sun, and the 
outer coat is removed by a large stone cylinder. In the 
West Indies, the berries are pulled by the negroes with 
their hands, at three different periods ; as the fruit does 
not all ripen at the same time. The kernels are sometimes 
freed from the pulp, by allowing the latter to ferment in 
the sun ; while by another method, the pulp is at once 
separated from the kernels by a mill. The seeds are 
afterwards dried and freed from the pellicle which covers 
them. According to Schrader, coffee unroasted contains 
a small quantity of volatile oil, gummy extract, tannin, 
resin, a fixed oil, a crystalline body named caffeine, 
caffeic acid, vegetable fibre,. and salts. Bobiquet and 
Boutron state, that green Martinique coffee contains 
about one-eighth of its weight of fixed oil, and that, after 
roasting, this oil is charged with the aromatic principle 
and taste of the coffee. They have also shown that acetic 
acid is generated during the process of roasting, and that 
the acid in green coffee is the gallic. By the roasting of 
coffee, it is partially altered or decomposed, and a peculiar 
aromatic volatile principle or oil is formed, which is 
dissipated or volatilised when the ground seeds are much 
boiled with water. The roasting of coffee is generally 
conducted by persons who attend to it as an occupation, 
and consequently it may be presumed that they are well 
acquainted with the process. At the same time, it is 
quite obvious that they, or those who employ them, have 
a direct interest in under-roasting, by the saving of loss 



COFFEE. 61 

in weight. A proper comprehension of its importance is 
therefore necessary. Mr. Donovan states, that if sixteen 
ounces of raw coffee he roasted until reduced to fourteen, 
the powder obtained from it will he brownish, with a 
tinge of orange, and an infusion of it poor and raw ; hut 
that if fifteen ounces of raw coffee he reduced to twelve, 
hy a gentle heat, this combines the greatest number of 
advantages. Anything more than this makes it too hitter, 
anything less does not develop its aromatic and stimu- 
lating properties sufficiently. Thus one-fifth of the weight 
is lost by the process. The coffee, when whole or ground, 
has a light chocolate colour, and the liquid prepared from 
it will be bright brown, with a tinge of orange. The 
same author recommends the following plan in the 
roasting of coffee. The raw coffee should first be deprived 
of its water by putting it into flat iron pans, placed over 
a gentle fire ; then each kernel ought to be broken into 
three or four fragments, and the whole afterwards trans- 
ferred into the Toasting apparatus. By this method, the 
coffee will be more regularly and thoroughly roasted than 
by the ordinary plan ; for by the latter, the outside of the 
kernel is often too much burned, while the interior is 
raw. As roasted coffee contains a volatile aromatic prin- 
ciple, it should be carefully excluded from the air, and 
ought not to be kept in the state of powder for more than 
a few days, and even for that length of time only in a 
jar or bottle closely corked. 

There are various methods of preparing a solution of 
coffee. Some authors recommend an infusion, others a 
decoction, as the best ; but almost all concur in recom- 
mending the following essential requisites : namely, that 
the coffee should be good, properly roasted, and finely 
ground. From the experiments of Mr. Donovan, it 
appears that water extracts, by infusion, the same 
quantity of matter from coffee, in very fine powder, as 

F 



62 COFFEE. 

by decoction. Bat as a fine state of powder is not to be 
expected in the ordinary management of culinary affaire, 
a decoction of coffee, ground in the usual way, will be 
stronger than an infusion ; and more or less boiling is 
generally practised by economical housekeepers. Mr. 
Donovan recommends the following method as efficacious 
in preserving both the aroma and bitter quality of the 
coffee. The whole water to be used is to be divided into 
two parts. One part cold is to be poured upon the coffee, 
and merely brought to a boiling point, when the liquid, 
being allowed to settle a little, is to be poured off. The 
remaining half of the water, at a boiling temperature, is 
then to be poured upon the grounds, and kept boiling for 
about three minutes, and after a few moments' subsidence 
the clear part is to be poured off, and mixed with the 
former liquor. The object in this method is, first, to ex- 
tract, by a kind of infusion, the aroma of the coffee, by 
bringing the liquid to the boiling point, and second, lo 
extract the latter properly by decoction. This plan. is 
apparently founded on correct principle; but as most 
housewives would consider it troublesome to conduct 
the double process, the ordinary method, if carefully 
managed, may, in general, answer the purpose. The 
coffee-pot should be deep, so that any portion of' the 
aromatic principle, which is volatilised by the heat, may 
be condensed in the cooler part of the vessel at the top, 
and flow back. The boiling should be made over a slow 
fire, destitute of smoke, for three or four minutes ; or 
rather it should be a simmering for that period, and two 
or three grains of very finely cut isinglass, of the most 
soluble quality, should be added to each ounce of coffee ; 
which will generally be found quite sufficient to clarify 
the liquid, without nitration or any similar process. 

Various proportions of coffee and water are used by 
different persons, and in Eastern and Continental countries 



COFFEE. 63 

it is made much stronger than in England. The propor- 
tions which Mr. Donovan recommends are at least two 
ounces and a half of coffee to an imperial quart of 
water. 

Adulterations. Ground coffee is extensively adul- 
terated with chicory, and more rarely with roasted corn. 
Chicory is detected by shaking the suspected article with 
cold water, in a glass vessel ; if the coffee be pure it will 
swim and give little or no colour to the liquid, but if 
chicory be present it sinks to the bottom, and communi- 
cates a pretty deep red tint to the water. Roasted corn 
may be detected by adding tincture of iodine to . a cold 
decoction of the suspected coffee, which will produce a 
blue colour in the liquid. 

Uses. The use of coffee was violently opposed by 
many persons, on its first introduction into Britain; and 
even at one period, in some Eastern countries, coffee- 
houses were suppressed. In the reign of Charles II., 
coffee-houses were shut up by a proclamation, issued in 
1675 ; but it appears that this arose more from an appre- 
hension of such places " nourishing" sedition, than be- 
cause the beverage itself was injurious to the health. 
Coffee, however, when used to excess, is stated by some 
respectable authors to produce a feverish heat, anxiety, 
palpitations, trembling, weakness of sight, and a predis- 
position to apoplexy. In this country it is more rarely 
used to excess than by some Eastern nations; and the 
latter do not qualify it with sugar or cream, but perfume 
it with cloves, cinnamon, or essence of amber. It is 
highly probable that an excessive use of coffee is injurious 
to the health ; as well from its strength and quantity, as 
simply from excess of liquid, more particularly if it be 
very saccharine ; but certainly a moderate indulgence in 
this beverage is productive of no bad consequences. It 
causes a slight acceleration of the pulse, exhilaration, and 



64 CONDIMENTS. 

watchfulness, and on account of this latter property it is 
frequently used by opium-eaters. It is named la boisson 
inteUectuelle, and it is said that many men of genius have 
been partly inspired by its influence, while hypochon- 
driacs find it a solace for their imaginary troubles. 
Coffee, withput sugar and cream, contains very little nutri- 
tious matter ; for though one of its constituents is a fixed 
oil, extremely little of this can be dissolved by the 
water. Coffee has been employed for the cure of ague, 
diarrhoea, &c, and a strong infusion, without sugar or 
cream, has been recommended as a palliative in a fit of 
asthma. Various substitutes have been used for coffee, 
such as roasted rye, peas, beans, and acorns, the last 
mentioned substance being generally considered the best. 
Chicory root roasted is also sometimes substituted for 
coffee ; but it is too bitter to be used alone, although, when 
mixed with coffee, in the proportion of a sixth or eighth 
part, it is considered by some to be an improvement. 
Essence of coffee seems to be a fluid extract, and is infe- 
rior in flavour ; but useful in cases of emergency, or where 
there is no proper culinary vessel. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CONDIMENTS. 

The use of condiments is very ancient, and common 
salt, the simplest and the best, has been employed as such 
from time immemorial. Some authors include in the 
list of condiments some alimentary bodies, such as oil, 
butter, sugar, &c. ; but there is no reason to believe that 
the presence of these in the stomach facilitates the diges- 
tion of other alimentary substances. Condiments seem 



GINGER. 65 

to act upon two principles in promoting digestion. It 
was formerly explained that, when a sufficient quantity 
of gastric juice was not formed, the alimentary mat- 
ters in the stomach remained more or less undigested, 
and hence uneasy feelings were liable to occur. Stimu- 
lating substances, such as common salt, pepper, mustard, 
&c, excite the inner surface of the stomach, and increase 
the secretions which are naturally formed by it, and thus 
an additional supply of gastric juice will be thrown into 
this organ, so as to counterbalance its deficiency in natural 
vigour. 

It is also probable that some condiments, such as com- 
mon salt, acetic acid, the aromatics, as pimento, cloves, 
hops, &c, may prevent the fermentation of alimentary 
substances in the stomach, on the principle by which they 
act in preserving food from decomposition out of the 
body. . For there can be little doubt, that when the 
gastric juice is deficient in quantity or deranged in qua- 
lity, many fermentable substances undergo a similar pro- 
cess in the stomach, to what occurs under the same favour- 
able circumstances of temperature, &c., in other situations. 
Condiments are thus useful in derangements of the diges- 
tive organs, where the gastric juice is either deficient in 
quantity or quality, as well as in healthy individuals, 
when an extra quantity of food has been taken. Like 
all other stimulants, however, they are liable to be 
abused, and when this abuse is regularly practised, in 
weakness of the digestive organs, great and permanent 
injury is the result. On the other hand, when used mo- 
derately they are not only agreeable, but perfectly consis- 
tent with the preservation of good health. 

GINGER. 

Zingiber Officinale. — Scitaminece. — The Ginger Tribe. 
— The ginger plant is generally believed to be a native 

f2 



66 GINGER; . 

of the East Indies and of several Eastern countries. 
It was known in London about the year 1566, and 
is a stove plant in this country; but] is extensively 
cultivated in many of the West India islands, and in 
America. The whole herb is smooth, the stems annual, 
herbaceous, upright, wand-like, and about three feet in 
height. The root is perennial, tuberculous, sending off 
long fibres, generally white, but sometimes blackish and 
fibrous internally. The roots are dug up when the stalks 
are wholly withered, which generally occurs in January 
or February. After they are picked and cleaned, they 
are scalded with boiling water and dried with the heat of 
the sun. This process is only applied to the black or 
dark-coloured variety of root; for the white ginger is 
simply washed, scraped, and dried in the sun. Dark- 
coloured ginger is bleached with a solution of the chlo- 
ride of lime, and also by the fumes of burning sulphur; but 
the central portions of the root are not whitened by 
either of these processes. Jamaica ginger is generally 
superior to the other varieties imported into Great Bri- 
tain, and the root is long, smooth, plump, very fibrous 
when broken, of a white colour with a slight tint of 
yellow, and possessing much pungency and a pleasant 
aroma. East India ginger is generally dark-coloured and 
very inferior in quality. Ginger-root contains, according 
to Morin, a pale yellow-coloured volatile oil, having the 
odour of ginger, an acrid and aromatic resin, extract, 
gum, a considerable quantity of starch, woody fibre, saline 
Matter, water, &c. The active ingredients seem to be the 
resin and volatile oil, and are the source of the hot, pun- 
gent, and aromatic taste of this root. 

<-* ses. Ginger, when moderately used, is an excellent 

condiment. It is efficacious in dispelling flatulency, and 

p **us purpose it may be either taken in powder or in- 

^ * n water. It is added to a great number of culinary 



PIMENTO. 67 

and confectionary preparations, by which they are ren- 
dered less apt to produce indigestion. It is mixed with 
drastic medicines to prevent theif griping effects on the 
bowels, or the nausea which they are apt to excite. The 
root is also extensively employed in the manufacture of 
ginger beer, ginger cordial, and confectionary articles. 
The young shoots are frequently used as a preserve, being 
put into jars along with syrup. They are less pungent 
than the full grown root, and form a very pleasant and 
delicate condiment. 

PIMENTO OR JAMAICA PEPPER. 

Eugenia Pimenta. — Myrtacea. — The Myrtle Tribe. 
— The pimento tree is a native of the West Indies and 
South America, and grows in the hilly parts of 
Jamaica, flowering in July. It may also be culti- 
vated in this country, but requires a stove-heat. 
This tree is an evergreen, and attains the height of 
about thirty feet. The flowers are small, of a green-i 
ish-white colour, and diffuse a most delightful fra- 
grance in the walks where the trees are planted. The 
fruit is a smooth, shining, succulent berry, of a dark, pur- 
ple colour when ripe, and contains two kidney-shaped 
seeds. The tree begins to bear fruit in three years, is 
mature at seven, and the berries are picked from the 
branches before they are ripe, or in the green state, 
as they at this period of their growth contain the 
most aroma. They are then spread thinly on sheets of 
cloth and exposed to the sun for many days ; being fre- 
quently turned during this period. In commerce, pimento 
is found in the form of round, roughish,brownish-coloured 
berries, which have an aromatic agreeable odour, resem- 
bling a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmegs (hence 
its name, all-spice), with the pungent slightly bitterish 
taste of the first of these substances. The small fragrant 



berries are considered the best. Pimento contains, accord- 
ing to Bonastre, a green volatile oil, a green soft resin, a 
concrete oil, tannin arid extract, gum, malic and gallic 
acids, woody fibre and salts. The aromatic pungency of 
this berry resides chiefly in the rind or cortical part, and 
seems to be derived chiefly from the volatile oil. 

Uses. This is a very useful, safe, and agreeable con- 
diment ; being less acrid than white, black, or cayenne 
pepper, it is better adapted- for those cases of indigestion 
where there is any tenderness about the stomach. It is 
sometimes mixed advantageously with bitten, in the 
treatment of digestive derangement; and a watery infu- 
sion of it, with the addition of a little sugar and milk, is 
readily taken by children. It is extensively employ- 
ed in the process of salting, and seems to possess the 
property of retarding the fermentation or decompo- 
sition of vegetable and animal substances. It is also 
used in the preparation of preserves and confectionary 
articles. 

CLOVES. 
Caryopkyllttt Aromatieus^—Myrtaeat. — Th* MtbteS 
Tjubk. — The clove-tree is a native of the Moluccas, 
from which it was brought into Europe, by the Por- 
tuguese, in 1511. It is now cultivated in almost every 
part of Asia where the soil and climate are suitable; 
and also in several of the West India islands, as at St. 
Vincent, Trinidad, Martinique, &c. It resembles the 
pear tree, attains the height of from twenty to forty feet, 
begins to blossom about six, and arives at perfection 
when twelve years old. The cloves of commerce are the 
ufiL'xpanded flowers, for when fully developed they do 
" r 'f contain so much volatile oil, which is the active con- 
stituent. The flowers are gathered by the hand, or are 
'eaten with reeds bo as to fall upon a piece of cloth placed 



CLOVES. 69 

under the tree to receive them, and are afterwards dried 
by the heat of a fire or by that of the sun. Cloves have 
the form of a nail, and when good should be large, dense, 
and brittle, have a reddish-brown colour, an aromatic 
fragrant odour, a hot, acrid, aromatic, and slightly bitter 
taste, and when punctured with a pin and pressed, an oily 
fluid ought to exude. According to Trommsdorff, cloves 
contain tannin, an insipid resin, gum, extractive, vege- 
table fibre, water, and about 18 per cent, of volatile oil* 
The resinous matter has been found capable of crystalli- 
sation in needles, and has been named catyophylline. 
The essential oil is obtained by distillation with water, 
but the process is attended with much difficulty. It is 
heavier than water, of a very pale reddish-brown colour 
when new, but becomes darker by age ; and its taste is 
aromatic, hot, and acrid. It is sometimes adulterated 
with cheaper essential oils, such as oil of turpentine or 
sassafras, and occasionally with a fixed oil. Its high 
specific gravity and peculiar taste and odour are the best 
tests of its purity ; but others more difficult of applica- 
tion have been recommended. 

Uses. The clove is one of the most esteemed spices, 
and is a very useful and agreeable condiment. It is used 
extensively in the preservation of vegetable and animal 
substances along with salt, acetic acid, sugar, &c, and con- 
tributes materially in retarding the process of decompo- 
sition. It is also used in the composition of sauces, 
liquors, perfumery, &c, to communicate an aromatic 
flavour. The fully formed berries are preserved in sugar 
and used after dinner to promote digestion. Cloves are 
useful in dyspepsia by stimulating the digestive organs, 
and by retarding fermentation in the contents of the 
stomach. They also have a powerful effect in checking 
nausea and vomiting, particularly the essential oil. In 
ordinary cases the oil may be exhibited alone, in the form 



70 NUTMEG. 

of pill made -with flour ; but in obstinate cases of vomit- 
ing, when the bowels are relaxed, its combination with 
opium is very efficacious, in the proportions of one drop 
of the oil to half a grain of opium, every two or three 
hours. In the bowel complaints of children, accompanied 
with irritability of the stomach, it may often be advan- 
tageously combined with chalk mixture, laudanum, 
sweet spirits of nitre, and a proper proportion of syrup 
to render it agreeable to the taste. The oil of cloves is 
also well known as a palliative of toothache, although it 
sometimes proves inefficacious. 

NUTMEG AND MACE. 
Afyristica Mosckata. — Sfyritticem. — Tub Nuthm 
Tmbe. — The nutmeg tree is a native of the Moluccas, 
but is now cultivated in the West India islands. 
It attains the height of twenty or twenty-five feet, 
has some resemblance to the pear tree, bears fruit 
when ten years old, and continues prolific for about 
a hundred years. Its fruit is pyriform in shape, about 
the size of a peach, the pericarp or external covering 
is fleshy and soft, and as it becomes ripe and dry it 
opens into two longitudinal halves, exposing the nut 
surrounded by the mace. The nut is oval, its shell is 
hard, glossy, and of a dark brown colour. The nutmegs 
of commerce are generally deprived of their shell, have a 
pale brown colour, furrowed on the outside, and inter- 
nally are firm, unctuous, greyish, but traversed with red- 
brown veins, so as to appear beautifully marbled. Mr. 
Burnet states, that nutmegs should be chosen large, of 
the shape of an olive, heavy and Ann, of a light grey 
colour on the outside, beautifully striated and reddish 
within, of a strong fragrant odour, warm aromatic taste, 
mid iving an unctuous feel. Nutmegs, according to Bon- 
astre, contain 31.6 of a fixed and butyraceous oil, 6. of a 



MACE. 71 

volatile oil, of a light yellowish colour, having the odour 
and taste of the nutmeg, small quantities of starchy 
gum, and a free acid, with about 54 per cent, of vegetable 
fibre. In order to obtain the essential oil of nutmegs, 
which is the active constituent, they are sometimes 
punctured and boiled with water, and the orifices thus 
made are afterwards filled with powdered sassafras. This 
fraud is detected by the lightness of the nutmegs, and 
by discovering the punctures. In commerce a solid oil is 
sold under the name of oil of mace or Banda soap, which 
is prepared by beating nutmegs to a paste, inclosing 
them in a bag, exposing them to the vapour of water, 
and then expressing the oil between heated plates. This 
oil is a mixture of the fixed and volatile oils of the nut, 
and has a yellow colour and an agreeable odour, resem- 
bling that of nutmegs. 

Mace, — when in the recent state, is fleshy, branching, 
and has a scarlet colour; but when dried, it is yellowish, 
brittle, and horny in texture. Its taste and composition 
are similar to those of the nutmeg. 

Uses. The nutmeg forms ah excellent and very agree- 
able condiment. It is mixed with numerous culinary 
preparations, and is frequently employed by invalids 
whose digestive organs have become weakened. In India, 
nutmegs are used to a large extent ; and in the Moluccas, 
the natives mix them with all their food, drink, and 
medicines, and preserve them in salt or sugar. 

It is stated by some respectable authors, that nutmegs 
in large doses, such as two drachms, produce narcotic or 
poisonous effects; but without attempting to question 
this statement, it may with confidence be asserted, that 
they are a perfectly safe stimulant to the digestive organs, 
when used moderately, or as uniformly practised in this 
country. 

Mace possesses nearly the same properties as the nut- 



72 

meg, although lees frequently employed; and is very 
useful in relieving vomiting arising from irritability of 
the stomach. Twenty grains may be infused in a cupful 
of boiling water, for twenty minutes, and sweetened with 
a little sugar; of this, a dessert or tnhle-spoonful/according 
to the age, may be taken every half hour. 

CINNAMON. 
Cinnamomitm Zt&fankum, — Lauraeac. — Ths Cinna- 
mon Tribe. — Cinnamon was known to the ancients, 
and is mentioned in Exodus as entering into the 
composition of the sacred oil. The cinnamon tree is a 
native of Ceylon, but is cultivated in many other parts 
of the East Indies. It is also reared in the Brazils, 
Bourbon, the Mauritius, Jamaica, Guiana, Cayenne, &c; 
but requires a stove heat in this country. The tree 
attains the height of from twenty to thirty feet, has a 
slender trunk, and the wood is light, porous, and used as 
fuel. The ripe fruit is-an oval, bluish-brown berry, 
studded with spots, about the size of a sloe, having a 
greenish, slightly acrid pulp, and a taste somewhat resem- 
bling that of the juniper-berry. The pulp incloses a 
nut, and the berries being eaten by crows and pigeons, 
the seeds are disseminated over a large extent of coun- 
try ; so that this tree is found in the most impenetrable 
jungles. The tree is cultivated in plantations, and is 
not expected to yield much bark before it is eight or 
nine years old. The peeling of the bark commences in 
May, and continues till the eud of October. Mr. Mar- 
shall states, that when a peeler perceives a bush with 
shoots of a proper age for cutting, he tries whether the 
bark will separate easily from the wood, and when firmly 
adherent, it is not deemed fit for cutting ; and the shoots 
of branches, the diameter of which is much less than 
one half inch, or more than two or three inches, are not 



CINNAMON. 73 

cut. The sections of bark which have been removed are 
carefully put into one another, collected into bundles, 
and firmly bound together. They are allowed to remain 
twenty-four hours in this state ; a fermentation is thus 
excited, which facilitates the detachment of the epidermis 
or outer covering. The cinnamon is then dried by the 
heat of the sun, collected into bundles of about thirty 
pounds each, and deposited in the Government magazines. 
When newly prepared, it has a most delightful odour, 
and a light orange colour ; but the former becomes gra- 
dually fainter, and the tint darker, by exposure to the 
air. Shortly after the cinnamon has been deposited in 
the store-house, the inspection of it commences, and 
each bundle is placed on a large bench, while each 
quill is separately examined. If is divided into three 
qualities, and the first two are alone considered of suf- 
ficient value for the Company's investment. 

In Ceylon the best cinnamon has a light yellow colour, 
is smooth, shining, thin, and capable of being bent to a 
considerable extent without breaking, having a splintery 
fracture, and an agreeable warm aromatic taste, with some 
degree of sweetness. The first two qualities of cinnamon 
already noticed are packed into bales of about ninety pounds 
weight, and thus exported ; but a considerable quantity 
of the inferior kinds is also brought into this country. It 
is dark coloured, dense, woody, having a harsh pungent 
taste; and is often used for the extraction of the essential 
oil, or sold by druggists in the form of powder. 

It is stated by Mr. Marshall, that cinnamon and cassia 
are produced by the same tree; but the most recent 
modern writers consider that they are derived from dis- 
tinct species. The latter opinion seems to be the correct 
one ; but there is also little doubt, that coarse cinnamon 
is frequently sold for cassia. The bark of the cinnamon 
tree, according to Vauquelin, contains volatile oil, which is 

G 



74 MUSTARD. 

the active ingredient, resin, tannin, gum, an acid, and 
about eighty per cent of woody fibre. The oil is obtained 
by macerating the bark, coarsely ground, in sea- water, 
and distilling the whole in a proper apparatus. Eighty 
pounds of newly prepared cinnamon yield about two and 
a half ounces of oil, which floats on the surface of the 
water, and five and a half ounces of a heavy oil, which 
sinks to the bottom. The oil of commerce is heavier 
than water, of a reddish yellow colour, having the odour 
of cinnamon, and a hot, pungent, but sweetish and agree- 
able taste. When long kept the oil deposits crystals, 
which have been lately named cinnamic acid. 

Uses. Cinnamon is an excellent. and agreeable condi- 
ment for promoting digestion, and is used very extensively 
in dietetical and confectionary preparations. When 
employed medicinally it is considered tonic, slightly as- 
tringent, useful in dispelling flatulency and in checking 
retching or vomiting, and is often mixed with other 
medicines to cover their disagreeable taste, or to prevent 
their griping effects on the bowels. The oil is some- 
times applied to a carious tooth to relieve a paroxysm of 
toothache. 

Cassia and Cassia Buds — the latter being the dried un- 
ripe flower buds, possess properties very similar to those 
of cinnamon ; but are less agreeable and aromatic. 

MUSTARD. 

Sinapis Nigra et Alba. — Oruciferce. — The Cabbage 
Tribe. — The black and white mustard plants are an- 
nuals, with yellow flowers, lanceolate and lyrate leaves. 
They are natives of Europe, and are found in waste 
fields, banks, and cultivated grounds. They are culti- 
vated in several counties in England, but chiefly in 
those of Durham and York. The seeds of black mustard 



MUSTARD. 75 

are small, roundish* externally of a reddish or blackish 
colour, and internally yellow. 

The powder has a greenish tint, no odour when dry, 
but when moistened with water exhales a penetrating and 
diffusive vapour which is irritating to the eyes. Their 
taste is acrid, bitter and oleaginous. White mustard seeds 
are much larger in size, of a yellow colour externally and 
internally, and possess similar sensible properties, but are 
not so acrid. According to the modern analysis of black 
mustard seeds, the constituents are about 28 per cent of 
a fixed oil, myroxic acid, myrosyne, a fatty matter, gum, 
sugar, colouring matter, and salts. The volatile oil of 
mustard, or active ingredient, which is developed when 
water is mixed with its farina, is supposed to be formed, 
at the moment by the action of this liquid upon the 
myroxic acid and the myrosyne; and not to exist in it before 
watery fluids, in some form or another, are added. White 
mustard seeds contain a crystalline body named sinapisine, 
analogous to myroxic acid, and a principle similar to 
emulsin. These, when mixed with water, form a fixed 
acrid compound, which is similar in its action on the body 
to the volatile oil of the black mustard seeds. Manu- 
facturers vary in their processes for making mustard. 
Some extract the fixed oil before it is ground ; others 
allow it to remain; and when the first plan is adopted, the 
farina is more acrid. In France it is more rarely expressed 
before grinding, which renders the mustard manufac- 
tured there very bland. In this country both the white 
and black seeds are employed, and frequently flour, cayenne 
pepper, and ginger are added, with the addition of turmeric 
as a colouring matter. 

Adulterations. The inferior varieties of mustard are 
often composed, almost entirely, of flour, turmeric, ginger, 
and cayenne pepper. Turmeric is detected by a solution of 
potash, soda, or ammonia, which strikes a deep brown 



76 MUSTARD. 

colour when the mustard is diffused in water. Flour is 
discovered by iodine, which when added to a decoction 
of mustard, gives it a deep blue colour. When the 
quantity of flour is large, it forms a tough, elastic 
mass or paste with water. Dr. Christison states, 
that mustard for exportation is also adulterated with 
gypsum. 

Uses. Mustard is extensively employed as a condi- 
ment, and is very useful as an accompaniment to animal 
substances difficult of digestion. It causes no injury to 
the digestive organs, when used moderately ; but when 
there is any tenderness about the stomach, as is often indi- 
cated by a red tongue, it should be avoided. Some 
authors recommend mustard for the table to be made 
with milk ; but it is not well calculated for this purpose, 
as it becomes rancid in about two days. Water contain- 
ing common salt in solution will give it the proper con- 
sistency, and at the same time ensure its preservation. 
Mustard is sometimes employed as an emetic, in cases of 
emergency, in the dose of a small table-spoonful mixed 
with eight or ten ounces of water. Externally, it is often 
used, \n the form of poultice, to relieve spasms and local 
pains of various kinds ; and if not deep-seated, is 
generally very efficacious. When long applied to a ten- 
der portion of the skin, it may cause blistering ; but as 
the period is generally limited to half an hour, a deep 
red stain is only produced ; which, however, often con- 
tinues for a number of days. 

White Mustard Seeds have been much recommended 
in weakness of the digestive organs, swallowed in the 
unground state, in doses of a tea-spoonful. Their action 
is similar to the mustard in ordinary use, and there is 
no reason to believe that the moderate combination of the 
latter with our food would not answer the same purpose. 



CAPSICUM. 77 

CAPSICUM.— CAYENNE PEPPER. 

Capsicum Annuum. — - Solanece. — The Nightshade 
Tribe. — The three following species or varieties of cap- 
sicum are chiefly cultivated; but several others are 
described by authors. 

1. Guinea pepper, capsicum annuum, is an annual, and 
endures our summer climate. The fruit is a pod, which 
is sometimes long and sometimes short, or heart-shaped, 
having a red and yellow colour. 

2. Cherry pepper, capsicum cerasiforme, is also an 
annual, and cultivated in the open air during summer. 
Its fruit resembles the cherry in shape, but is sometimes 
heart-shaped, and the colour is red or yellow. 

3. Bell pepper, capsicum grossum, is a biennial, which 
may be cultivated in the open air during fammer, but 
requires a stove heat in winter and spring. The berries 
of the capsicum contain a spongy pulp with several 
seeds ; their taste is extremely hot, pungent, and acrid, 
with scarcely any aroma. According to the analysis of 
Bucholz, capsicum contains wax, a soft and acrid resin, 
a bitter extract feebly aromatic, gummy extract, gum, 
vegetable albumen and vegetable fibre. Braconnot has 
extracted from the pericarp or external covering of the 
fruit, an oily or resinous body of a brownish colour, 
which he has named capsicine; the taste of which is at 
first feebly balsamic, but afterwards insupportably hot 
and burning, affecting, for a considerable time, the whole 
cavity of the mouth. When half a grain of this sub- 
stance is heated in a large room, so that its fumes are 
diffused through it, sneezing and coughing are excited. 
Capsicine appears therefore to be the active principle of 
this fruit, and the pericarp contains nearly two per cent, 
of it. Bird pepper, and some varieties of the cherry 

capsicum, are the hottest. The Cayenne pepper of com- 

G 2 



78 BLACK PEPPER. 

merce, imported generally from the West Indies, con- 
sists of the ground pods of various species of capsicum, 
hut chiefly of the bird pepper, mixed with common salt. 

Uses. Capsicum is an extremely hot and rather irri- 
tating condiment ; but when taken moderately, is useful 
in promoting digestion, and in relieving flatulency. In 
tropical climates, where the digestive organs are weak- 
ened by the excessive heat, it is employed to a much 
greater extent than in this country, generally, however, 
fresh from the plant. The green pods grown in this 
country are also much used, and when preserved with 
vinegar are named chillies. 

Cayenne pepper is also used as a medicine in several 
diseases. It has been employed in typhus fever and 
narcotic poisoning, to rouse the sinking powers of life ; 
as a gargle fti inflammation and ulceration of the throat ; 
and externally, in the form of poultice with loaf bread, 
to relieve spasms and local pains. 

BLACK PEPPER. 

Piper Nigrum. — Piperacea. — The Pepper Tribe. — 
Pepper was known to Hippocrates, and Pliny men- 
tions it as a condiment. The pepper vine is a native 
of the East Indies, and is cultivated in various parts 
of that country, as well as in the West Indies and in 
Sumatra. This is a climbing plant, and attains the 
height of from eight to ten feet. Its fruit is a globular, 
one-seeded berry, which, when ripe, has a red colour, 
but is green when young. It is propagated by cuttings 
or suckers, and requires prop-trees for its proper culti- 
vation. The plant begins to bear about the third year, 
is considered at perfection at seven, but in three or four 
years more, it begins to decline. The vines yield two 
crops annually, namely, in December and July ; and as 



WHITE PEPPER. 79 

soon as any of the berries become reddish, the bunch is 
reckoned fit for gathering, although the remainder are 
green. After being collected, they are spread upon mats, 
and dried with the heat of the sun ; in consequence of 
which they become shrivelled and of a black colour. 

White Pepper — is the ripe fruit of the same plant, 
deprived of its external covering, by soaking in water, 
drying in the sun, friction, and winnowing. 

Black pepper, as found in commerce, is corrugated, 
has a round shape, a brownish-black colour externally, 
is hard, whitish internally, and has a hot, pungent taste. 
White pepper is less acrid and pungent than black 
pepper. According to Pelletier, black pepper contains 
an acrid soft resin, a volatile oil having the odour and 
taste of pepper, extractive, gum, bassorine, starch, acid, 
salts, woody fibre, and a crystalline body named piperin*, 
which is insipid and destitute of odour. The active 
ingredients of pepper seem to be the acrid resin and 
volatile oil, with perhaps the piperine, as stated by Dr. 
Chnstison. 

Uses. Pepper is an excellent stimulant for promot- 
ing the digestive process, and is so universally employed 
as to be nearly as indispensable as common salt. It is 
particularly useful when taken along with vegetables 
that are liable to produce flatulency ; but ought to be 
employed sparingly by persons who have any tenderness 
in the region of the stomach. In flatulent cholic, pepper 
mixed with hot milk is a popular remedy, and is often 
serviceable. It forms a good external application in 
cases of local pains, and in spasms of the stomach and 
bowels. The most convenient and efficacious method of 
employing pepper for this purpose, is to mix the powder 
with ardent spirits, dip linen or cotton cloths in the 
mixture, and apply them to the parts affected ; and they 
should be frequently renewed until relief is obtained. 



80 THE CAPKR. 

The crystalline body, piperim, already noticed, has lately 
been recommended for the cure of ague; and some 
writers consider it superior to quinine, but the statement 
has not been confirmed by other physicians. 

THE CAPER. 

Capparis Spinosa. — Capparid&e, — The Caper Tribe. 
— The caper shrub is a native of the south of Italy, 
the Grecian islands, and various parts of Asia Minor. 
It is mentioned by Theophrastus ; and has been cul- 
tivated in France from time immemorial. It is reared 
extensively in France and Italy in the open fields, 
but this country is chiefly supplied from Sicily. The 
caper bush is about three feet in height, trailing and 
rambling like the bramble. The flower buds are the 
parts of the plant chiefly used ; but in the south of Italy, 
the fruit, which is an oval capsule, is also prepared as a 
pickle ; and both have a slightly bitter, acrid, and aro- 
matic taste. Capers are gathered when very young, for 
they decrease in value as they enlarge in size ; and their 
collection forms a daily occupation for about six months. 
As they are gathered, they are thrown into a cask, con- 
taining salt and vinegar sufficient to cover them. The 
most green and smallest in size are reckoned the best, 
and are named nonpareils, and the second quality 
capucines. Filings of copper are said to be added to the 
first pickle, to communicate a green colour to the capers. 

Uses. Capers are much esteemed throughout Europe 
as a pickle, and may be considered a gently stimulating 
and safe condiment. They are often employed in the 
preparation of a sauce, which is used with some kinds of 
animal food and fish. It is considered antiscorbutic, and 
the bark of the root was formerly in high esteem for 
removing obstructions. The green fruits of the nas- 
turtium or cress are used as a substitute for capers. 



MUSHROOMS. 81 

MUSHROOMS. 
Fungi. — Mushrooms were known to the ancients, 
are mentioned by Theophrastus and Galen, and Pliny 
recommends them to be cooked with the stalks of 
pears, in order to prevent their injurious effects. The 
same author states that the empress Agrippina poi- 
soned her husband Claudius with this vegetable, and 
that puff-mushrooms were employed for poisoning the 
captain of Nero's guard, along with several others. 
Mushrooms are divided into two classes, namely, the 
alimentary and the poisonous ; and frequent accidents 
have occurred by the substitution of the one kind for the 
other. Considerable discrepancy of opinion exists among 
authors as to the species that are poisonous, for aliment- 
ary mushrooms when old, or when they grow on wet 
ground, sometimes produce deleterious effects. On the 
other hand, it is known that some nations, such as the 
Russians, eat all sorts, even those that are considered 
poisonous in this country ; the latter being used, how- 
ever, to cause intoxication. It also appears that they 
are subjected to a kind of fermentation, which, very 
probably, changes or modifies the poisonous principle. 
Although it is sometimes difficult to distinguish poison- 
ous from alimentary mushrooms, the following charac- 
ters are generally attached to the first, namely, an 
offensive or pungent odour, a bitter or astringent 
taste, a yellow, bright red, or greenish colour, the 
assumption of a bluish tint soon after being cut, a soft, 
watery, shining, or leathery consistency, and a warty 
cap. Esculent mushrooms are generally white, com- 
pact, and brittle in texture. Those that are chiefly 
used as food in this country are the common mushroom 
or agaricus campestris; * Scotch bonnets or agaricus 

* The agaricus campestris contains, according to Vnuquelin, adipocire, 
h thick or oily matter, albumen, sugar, an animal matter like the osma- 
xome of muscle, fangin, salts, &c 



82 MUSHROOMS. 

oreades; agaricus deliciosus, which was in high estima- 
tion by the Romans; truffle or tuber cibarium; morel 
or morchella esculenta; hut Dr. Greville enumerates 
twenty-six species, all abundant in Britain, which may 
be eaten with safety. The poisonous species of mush- 
rooms have not been correctly ascertained ; but those 
which have most generally caused deleterious or fatal 
results in this country are the following : — 

1. Fly amanita or amanita muscaria, which has gen- 
erally a bright red colour, but sometimes yellowish, green- 
ish, or liver-coloured, having angular warts, and abound- 
ing in the woods of the Scottish Highlands. 

2. Hemispherical glutinous agaric or agaricus semi- 
gtebatus. This fungus is abundant in Britain, in elevated 
pastures, moist meadows, and woods, from May to Sep- 
tember. Its stem is pale yellow, hollow, crooked, and 
glutinous ; the usual colour of the cap is pale reddish- 
orange, or straw coloured, and from half an inch 
to one and a half inches broad, very smooth and glu- 
tinous. 

3. Bulbous-stemmed agaric or agaricus bulbo&us, is abun- 
dant in woods, during autumn ; its odour is pungent, re- 
sembling horse-radish, the cap is two or three inches 
broad, brown or chesnut-coloured, conical; the stem is 
about four inches in height, solid, and of a dull red colour. 
Some of the poisonous mushrooms, according to M. Le- 
tellier, contain only one poisonous principle, and others 
are possessed of two. One of these principles is an acrid 
and volatile matter, that is dissipated by drying or boiling 
the plant; but the other resists these processes, has 
neither smell nor taste, and appears to operate like 
opium. 

The symptoms occasioned by poisonous mushrooms 
vary according to the kinds which have been eaten. 
Sometimes they produce narcotic symptoms, resembling 



MUSHROOMS. 83 

those caused by opium ; at other times irritation of the 
stomach and bowels, accompanied with narcotic effects ; 
but there are most frequently nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
quick pulse, delirium, stupor, convulsions, &c. When 
poisonous mushrooms have been swallowed, or even those 
of an esculent kind which have produced deleterious 
effects from their indigestibility, emetics ought immedi- 
ately to be employed, so as to evacuate them from the 
stomach. The inflammation of the bowels, and injury 
to the nervous system, must be treated upon general 
principles. 

Uses. — Mushrooms have always been esteemed a very 
savoury species of aliment, and though, when compared 
with many other vegetable productions, they do not con- 
tain a large proportion of nutriment, yet there is found 
in their composition a peculiar matter, similar to the 
osmazome of animal bodies, which, in the opinion of some, 
gives them advantages as food. Their qualities, as articles 
of diet, are liable to much variation; for some esculent 
mushrooms occasionally become deleterious, while several 
of the poisonous kinds have been eaten with impunity. 
The causes of these variations have not been correctly 
ascertained. Some authors state, that drying or cooking 
destroys the poisonous principles; while others assert 
that they are safer when raw, or that vinegar and spices 
correct their unwholesome qualities. Climate, soil, age, 
&c, modify their properties ; thus some species are used 
in Russia with impunity, which are poisonous in France. 
The common morel has proved injurious after long con- 
tinued rain*, and the common mushroom is generally be- 
lieved to be unsafe when old, at which period its white 
colour becomes dingy. In certain individuals, owing to 
some peculiarity of constitution, the most wholesome 
mushrooms cause vomiting, diarrhoea, and colic; and there 
seems reason to believe that if this vegetable be employed 



84 KETCHUP. 

as a principal part of food for a length of time, it will 
induce a peculiar depraved state of the body, with a 
tendency to suppurations and gangrene. It is extremely 
probable that the discrepancies which exist among 
authors respecting the esculent mushrooms may be often 
-accounted for, from their indigestibility or extremely slow 
digestion ; thereby causing derangement of the stomach, 
and violent sympathetic consequences. Dr. Christison 
states, that portions of them have been discharged by 
vomiting, so late as fifty-two hours after they were 
swallowed, from their great indigestibility. Mushrooms 
in substance should therefore be avoided altogether by 
those who have digestive derangements. This vegetable 
is more frequently employed in the cooked than in the 
raw state ; and certainly in the first form is more safe 
and easily digested. There are various methods of cook- 
ing mushrooms, adopted in different countries ; such as 
stewing with oil, butter, animal food, fowls, &c, boiling, 
roasting, frying, &c. 

Mushrooms are also used in the composition of sauces 
and ragouts, as one of the most savoury ingredients. 
They may be preserved for future use by drying and 
grinding, also by pickling with vinegar. In several of 
the Russian provinces, mushrooms are employed as the 
principal aliment of the inhabitants, along with coarse 
bread, during a considerable part of the year ; and are 
eaten with olive oil by the better classes, but with hemp 
oil by the poor. They are also chopped and cooked with 
potatoes, turnips, carrots, &c. 

In Germany, Italy, and other parts of the continent of 
Europe, their consumption is much greater than in 
Britain ; and in the central provinces of France they are 
extensively used, particularly in the dried state, and form 
a considerable article of commerce. 
Ketchup or Catsup — is the preserved juice of mushrooms, 



J 



VINEGAR. 85 

and is a preferable preparation to the pickled vegetable. 
IHs made by adding common salt to esculent mushrooms, 
which causes an exudation of their juices. The salt ap- 
pears to have a similar effect on them as on animal food; 
namely, a shrinking of the fibre, and an exudation of a 
dark-coloured liquor. This liquor is afterwards reduced 
in bulk by boiling, and seasoned with peppers, mace, 
ginger, nutmegs, &c. ; so that it may be preserved from 
decomposition. 

Ketchup is an excellent and very agreeable condiment, 
and is employed in the composition of sauces, soups, &c, 
on aecount of these valuable qualities. It may be used 
in moderate quantities by those who have delicate diges- 
tive organs, and for such individuals, is greatly superior 
to rich or butyraceous sauces. 

VINEGAR. 

Acetic Acid. — Vinegar has been known from a very 
remote period, and is mentioned by Moses. Indeed, 
it is highly probable that it was known as early as 
wine; for the latter, as well as other fermented liquors, 
is apt to turn acid, or, in other words, to be more 
or less converted into vinegar. Fermented vinegar is 
generally made in this country from the malt of bar- 
ley, by first making an infusion, and then fermenting 
the latter at a temperature of about 84°. A considerable 
part of commercial vinegar is now made from wood, 
by distilling the branches of trees, such as oak, beech, 
ash, &c. in cast-iron cylinders. The fluid which comes 
over consists of acetic acid, pyroligneous spirit, and 
empyreumatic oil or tarry matter. The liquid portion 
is separated from the solid, and purified by combination 
withlime, &c. and subsequent distillation. Vinegar or 
acetic acid, thus prepared, is colourless, free from muci- 
laginous or saccharine matter, and keeps much better 

H 



86 VINEGAR. 

than that prepared by fermentation; but it does not 
possess the same agreeable flavour. As it comes from 
the still, it is generally more concentrated than what is 
required for culinary use; water is therefore added to 
reduce it to the requisite strength. Wood vinegar 
should be colourless, transparent, entirely volatile, and 
free from any empyreumatic or disagreeable odour. 
Acetic acid, in its greatest degree of concentration, 
crystallises in plates at the temperature of about 45°. 
It contains only a small proportion of water when of 
this strength, has a very pungent odour, is colour- 
less, very volatile, [and has an extremely acid cor- 
rosive taste. When applied to the skin, it causes blis- 
tering, and is sometimes used for this purpose when 
a rapid effect is desirable. It dissolves camphor, vola- 
tile oils, &c; and when impregnated with oils of laven- 
der, rosemary, or other odoriferous substances, it is 
named aromatic vinegar, which is much esteemed as a 
refreshing perfume in cases of fainting, headache, &c. 
The concentrated acid is also sometimes employed to 
eradicate warts, corns, &c. It is, however, in the diluted 
state that it is most generally used for culinary pur- 
poses. Wood vinegar, which contains about one-twen- 
tieth of real acid, approximates in strength to wine or 
malt vinegar of specific gravity 1014. French vinegar 
is superior, in aroma, to all other kinds, and what is 
imported into this country is called Champagne vinegar, 
and its density varies from 1014 to 1022. It is dis- 
tinguished from British vinegars by the purplish pre- 
cipitate which is thrown down from it, when ammonia 
is added in slight excess. 

Adulteration. Sulphuric acid is employed in the 
re-distillation of wood vinegar, and when the heat has 
been too great, a portion of it passes into the receiver. 
Vinegar may thus be unintentionally contaminated with 



PICKLING. 87 

sulphuric acid. If it be very minute, it cannot be 
injurious, and, I believe, is tolerated by the excise laws. 
When it exists to any extent in vinegar, a solution of 
nitrate of baxytes throws down a copious white pre- 
cipitate. If copper or lead be present, sulphuretted 
hydrogen throws down from it a black precipitate. 

Uses. Vinegar is employed as a condiment to assist 
the digestion of fish, or rich animal substances, which 
are liable to run into putrescence. In general, it 
agrees with those who have healthy digestive organs ; 
for, when pure, it has no tendency to excite an acid fer- 
mentation in the stomach. It differs in this respect 
from sour beer, porter, and other fermented liquors ; for 
they* contain an acid ferment or yeast, which is apt to 
bring the whole contents of the stomach into a similar 
state. Vinegar, however, is not a condiment suited to 
those who are troubled with derangement of the stomach, 
unless used in very moderate proportions ; for almost all 
acids are apt to excite disagreeable feelings in such indi- 
viduals. Ordinary vinegar, when diluted with four or 
five times its bulk of water, is useful as a local applica- 
tion in headaches, sprains, inflammatory swellings, &c. 

Pickling. — Purified vinegar, of the ordinary strength, 
is generally used for pickling or preserving vegetable 
substances; but it has been found that pyroligneous 
or wood vinegar, which contains a portion of tarry 
matter or empyreumatic oil, is best adapted for the pre- 
servation of animal substances and fishes. This fact is 
confirmed by the long-established practice of preserving 
animal substances and fishes by turf or peat smoke; for, 
during its combustion, pyroligneous acid is formed. Mr. 
Ramsay of Glasgow has ascertained that if herrings be 
simply dipped in pyroligneous acid, of density 1012, 
and dried in the shade, it is sufficient for their preserva- 
tion, while their flavour is very agreeable when broiled. 



88 COMMON SALT. 

He also showed, by experiment, that beef may be pre- 
served without taint for six or seven months, by an 
immersion of one minute in pyroligneous acid. In the 
salting of provisions, the practice of adding a portion of 
this acid to the pickle, in place of the tedious process of 
smoking, is now frequently adopted, and is attended 
with this great advantage, that much less salt is required. 

COMMON SALT. 

Chloride of Sodium. — This substance exists more 
abundantly in nature than any other soluble salt. It is 
found in immense masses, in the bowels of the earth, 
and is contained in large proportion in sea water. The 
celebrated salt mines of Poland have been in operation 
for about five hundred years ; but those in Cheshire are 
more productive than the Cracow mines. 

Sea water contains 2.7 per cent of this salt, besides 
salts of magnesia, potass, and lime (Graham). In Scot- 
land, common salt is manufactured to a considerable 
extent from sea water, by evaporation in flat-bottomed 
pans ; but in England, a portion of rock or mine salt is 
mixed with the brine. In warm climates,* sea water is 
evaporated in shallow ponds by the heat of the sun, and 
the salt thus formed is named bay-salt. In several parts 
of Germany and France, it is manufactured from salt 
springs. Common salt is white, generally crystallises in 
cubes, has a well known taste, commonly called salt, is 
very soluble in water, but is as soluble in cold as in hot 
water ; when pure, 100 of water dissolve 37 parts of it, at 
all temperatures. When bitter in taste, or liable to at- 
tract much moisture from the atmosphere, it contains 
bittern or muriate of magnesia, a constituent of sea water, 
from which it may be freed^ sufficiently for culinary pur- 
poses by calcination, 

Uses. — Common salt is the most innocent, as well as 



SALTED MEAT. 89 

most useftil condiment we possess, and appears to be 
almost essential for the preservation of health. In corro. 
boration of its utility in promoting the digestive process in 
man, it has been found to produce a beneficial effect on 
some of the lower animals, by increasing their weight or 
the quantity of alimentary products which they furnish* 
According to Liebig, however, the fattening of an animal 
is rendered impossible, by an excess of salt added to its 
food, although short of the quantity required to produce 
a purgative effect. Mr. Park, the traveller, mentions 
the great value placed upon it in the interior of Africa, 
and the intense longing experienced by the inhabitants 
when none can be procured. When taken in large 
doses it acts as a purgative; but when employed for 
this purpose, the form of enema is preferred. It is also 
used externally, in solution, for the cure of sprains and 
rheumatic pains; and the hot salt- water bath is often 
very beneficial in chronic rheumatism. It is employed 
in the manufacture of muriatic acid or spirit of salt, as a 
glaze for pottery, as a mordant in dying, and in several 
other processes of the arts. The best qualities for domestic 
use are bay salt and basket salt ; because they are the 
least liable to absorb moisture from the atmosphere. 

Salted Meat. — Salt is extensively employed for the 
preservation of animal food, and in general ensures all 
the necessary conditions better than any other sub- 
stance. 

The theory of its operation has been differently explain- 
ed. Some authors have supposed that the salt expels the 
watery juices of the meat, which have a natural tendency 
to promote putrefaction, while it excludes, at the same 
time, the access of atmospheric air. These, no doubt, are 
operative circumstances, but there is also reason to believe 
that common salt, as well as many other substances, 

operate directly as antiseptics ; or that they retard or pre- 

h2 



90 SALTED MEAT. 

vent, by their presence, the natural process \>f decom- 
position. Muscular fibre, or the flesh of animals, is cor- 
rugated and condensed by the application of common salt, 
and a portion of its watery juices and blood is expelled. 
It is generally believed that, after the process of salting, 
particularly when the meat has been kept in the salted 
state for a long period, a chemical union takes place be- 
tween the animal fibre and the salt. In proof of which it 
is alleged, that maceration in water will not deprive over- 
salted meat of its salt. Mr. Donovan has shown, that over- 
salted meat, if divided into thin and small pieces, can be 
thoroughly deprived of its salt, by maceration in water; 
while if it be macerated in bulk, the interior of the meat 
undergoes no change. He is of opinion, that over-salting 
has no remedy ; for, when the meat is cut into small 
pieces, its quality is injured. Salting is also generally 
considered injurious to the digestibility and nutritive 
qualities of meat. There can be little doubt regard- 
ing the accuracy of the first opinion ; for salted meat is 
harder in texture, and more condensed, than the same 
substance in the fresh state, and will consequently not be 
so readily dissolved in the stomach. Mr. Donovan, how- 
ever, has proved by experiment, that the juices which are 
usually expelled from meat, during the process of salting, 
are mere water tinged with blood ; there are, therefore, 
none of its nutritive qualities lost, but on the contrary, 
it is freed from what would tend to promote putrefaction. 
All kinds of animal food do not absorb the same quan- 
tities of salt, and the fatty portions take up less than the 
fibrinous parts of meat. From this cause pork is less salt 
than beef or mutton. According to Mr. Donovan, this 
is one of the reasons why pork is preferred for sea voyages. 
The same author is of opinion, that inferior kinds of pork 
are much improved by a month's salting, being rendered 
more digestible, wholesome, and palatable; and I have 



COOKERY. 91 

no doubt that this practice may be applied to other kinds 
of inferior animal food. 

Dietetic Qualities of Salted Meat and Fish. — It 
lias already been stated that the animal fibre is hardened 
and condensed by the process of salting ; and that it is 
impossible by the ordinary methods of maceration, and 
subsequent boiling, to remove the salt. These facts will 
readily account for the more difficult digestibility of 
salted meat. The fibres will thus be less easily masti- 
cated and dissolved in the stomach ; and the extra quan- 
tity of salt being liable to excite thirst, a tendency to 
overcharge the stomach with liquids will frequently be 
induced. Salted meat and fish ought, therefore, to be 
taken, in small quantities, by those who have delicate 
digestive organs. Meat or fish, however, which has been 
slightly salted, only for a few days, is frequently rendered 
more tender and digestible by this short process. When 
kept, however, for many months in salt, it often becomes 
tainted, is liable to prove unwholesome, or to produce 
scurvy if used without a sufficient quantity of vegetable 
substances. 



CHAPTER X. 

COOKERY. 



Two principal advantages are obtained by the processes 
of cookery, namely, the softening of the texture, and some 
alteration in the chemical properties of alimentary sub- 
stances. These changes are effected chiefly by the appli- 
cation of heat, which, when properly applied, renders 
substances that are naturally hard, soft and pulpy, and 
where little change in the texture is produced, more 



92 COOKERY. 

wholesome, digestible, and less liable to ran into fermen- 
tation in the stomach. Dr. Prout remarks, " that Animal^ 
feeding exclusively on vegetable food, are well known to 
be furnished with an extensive apparatus of stomachs and 
other organs, admirably adapted for the purpose of mace- 
rating, and reducing their refractory food to the purposes 
of their economy. But man, who is evidently intended 
to live on vegetable products, in part at least, has not 
been furnished with this apparatus, and hence we may 
conclude, that this deficiency was intended to be supplied 
by his ingenuity, and the artificial processes of cookery. 
Now the different processes of baking, roasting, boiling, 
&c, are all of a reducing character, and by their united 
effects the most refractory substances, even the woody 
fibre itself, may be reduced to the state of a wholesome 
and nutritious bread." The same author considers the 
French cookery superior, in some respects, to that of this 
country. In France many substances are exposed, through 
the medium of oil or butter, to a temperature of at least 
600° by the operation of frying or some analogous pro- 
cess. They are then introduced into a macerating vessel, 
with a little water, and kept for several hours at a tem- 
perature far below the boiling point, not perhaps higher 
than 180° ; and by these united processes properly con- 
ducted, the most refractory articles, whether of animal or 
vegetable origin, are reduced more or less to the state of 
pulp, and well adapted for solution in the gastric juice. 
The cookery of this and many other countries is a very 
complicated art, and numerous, varied, and absurd are 
the processes which have been invented. Many of these 
are devised with no regard to chemical rule; and are 
rather calculated to render food more difficult of digestion, 
than to facilitate this function. All the ordinary methods 
of cookery may be included in the following list ; namely, 
roasting, broiling, frying, baking, stewing, and boiling. 



ROASTING. 03 

Roasting — appears to be, upon the whole, the simplest 
and best method of cooking the flesh of animals. In this 
process, much of its water is evaporated, and a consider- 
able portion of the fat is liquefied, and runs off. The 
meat thus acquires new sensible properties, but, accord- 
ing to Liebig, is not altered in chemical composition. 
The free escape of the water in the form of vapour is 
necessary for the complete success of the process ; hence 
a sudden charring of the outside, by the application of a 
too powerful heat, will close the pores, and thus prevent 
its evaporation. From not attending to this rule of gra- 
dually applying the heat, cooks frequently produce an 
article which has all the external characters of a good 
roast, and yet in the centre it is raw and unpalatable. 
A too sudden or a too great evaporation of the water is 
also injurious; for the meat will thus run great hazard 
of being burned from the elevation of temperature. This 
is prevented by the ordinary method of occasionally 
lifting the liquid fat and pouring it over the meat. When 
properly roasted, meat ought to be soft, tender, and should 
possess a sapid flavour. When over-roasted it is liable 
to become glutinous ; and this state indicates the loss of 
its rich and nutritive juices, and its conversion into a 
substance resembling gelatine. Roasted are generally con- 
sidered more nutritious than boiled meats; for in the 
first, the principal loss sustained by the cooking is fat 
and some odorous matter, with a portion of water; 
while in the latter, more or less of the soluble matter is 
contained in the infusion. In regard to digestibility, 
the preference is also generally given to roasted meat; but 
this opinion is perhaps a little exaggerated, for when pro- 
perly cooked, boiled meat will be found nearly equal to 
the other in this respect. The external surface of roasted 
meat is generally hard and often somewhat charred, exhal- 
ing a peculiar odour and possessing a slightly bitterish 



94 BROILING. 

taste ; which qualities indicate the formation of an em- 
pyreumatic oil. It is therefore justly considered more 
indigestible than the other parts, and is more rarely eaten; 
although there are some persons who like its flavour and 
use it with impunity. Those troubled with indigestion 
should, however, avoid it, as well as the rich sauce gen- 
erally associated with roasts ; and a cold roast will be 
found to agree better with the dyspeptic than when warm 
or newly done. 

Broiling. — This is a process analogous to roasting, but 
there are some points of difference between them. In 
roasting, the heat applied is more moderate, and is slow 
in penetrating ; but in broiling it is brisk and rapid, so 
that the outer surface of the meat is suddenly browned, 
and the evaporation of the water in the central parts to 
a great extent prevented. Meat thus prepared has more 
sapidity, and a flavour different from roasted meat, but 
is reckoned equally nutritive and digestible. Beef steak, 
which is a favourite dish with many, is generally cooked 
in this manner, and if properly done, is exceedingly ten- 
der and agreeable ; but when eaten in the half-raw state, 
very difficult of digestion. Dr. Prout remarks that "when 
the reducing powers of the stomach are weak, a hard and 
crude English diet, such as half-raw beef steaks, &c, so 
frequently recommended, are sure to disagree, and produce 
much discomfort, by promoting acidity, and all its con- 
sequences." 

Frying — is the cookery of meat in contact with a fatty 
body, such as butter or oil ; in consequence of which it 
acquires a slightly empyreumatic odour, from the partial 
decomposition of the fat. A portion of water is often 
added, but when present in any considerable quantity, 
it hinders the operation. It is not so frequently prac- 
tised as the two preceding operations, and is by no means 
well adapted for the dyspeptic ; for meat dressed in this 



BOILING. 05 

manner is often rendered hard, and its oily and empy- 
reumatic impregnation alone renders it very indigestible. 

Baking ahd Stewing. — In these processes, meat is 
cooked in a manner somewhat intermediate between 
boiling and roasting; being partly foiled in the water 
which is associated with it, and partly roasted by the 
hot air of the oven. The flavour of baked and stewed 
meats is peculiar, rich, and agreeable, but they are not so 
digestible as roasts, being generally more impregnated 
with fat. 

Boiling. — flesh or muscle consists chiefly of fibrin, 
gelatine, albumen, osmazome, the coagulable principles 
of the blood, associated generally with more or less fiat. 
When meat is boiled in water, the gelatine and osma- 
zome are dissolved, but the albumen is coagulated, and 
remains in union with the fibrin ; while the fat is, to a 
greater or less extent, melted by the heat, and is found 
on the surface of the watery fluid. According to Liebig, 
boiling does not alter the composition of animal food. 
Mr. Donovan states, that " in order to boil meat to per- 
fection, care must be taken that the heat shall not per- 
meate it too rapidly; for heat, too quickly supplied, 
would render the muscular fibre at the outside parts 
tough, while this portion, being now a much worse 
conductor of heat, would suffer still more, and would 
not transmit heat so readily to the interior ; hence the 
central parts might perhaps be too raw, while the 
exterior would be overdone, sodden, and its flavour 
extracted to waste by the water. Hence slow boiling 
affords the most wholesome, as well as the most palat- 
able meat. It is best, if boiled in much water, replaced 
by other hot water as fast as it evaporates." The same 
author mentions, as a general rule, that each pound of 
meat will require boiling for twenty minutes ; a longer 
period is, however, often required, and it ought to be 



96 soups. 

observed that over-boiling, in place of softening, renders 
the fibre of meat hard. When common salt is added to 
the water in which meat is boiled, the fibre is a little 
hardened, but a small portion improves its sapidity. 
Boiled has less flavour than roasted meat, because in the 
first the osmazome or flavouring principle is dissolved 
in the water along with the gelatine ; but when juicy, 
tender, and not too fat, it is savoury and very digestible. 
In the cooking of vegetables, they ought, as a general 
rule, to be boiled until they become soft, pulpy, or 
farinaceous, according to the kind or variety. Half raw 
or hard vegetables are exceedingly indigestible, and very 
liable to produce acidity. 

Soups.— The nutritive principles of meat which are 
dissolved during the process of soup-making, are the 
gelatine and osmazome, or flavouring ingredient ; but if 
the boiling be continued for a long period, a portion of 
the fibrin, tendons, ligaments, cartilage, &c. is also taken 
up by the water; while the albumen, along with the 
fat, collects on the surface in the form of a scum. Water 
extracts from hashed meat about seventeen per cent, of 
its weight. Mr, Donovan disapproves of long-continued 
boiling, as tending to deteriorate the flavour of the 
liquor, and is of opinion that half an hour is a sufficient 
time, provided the meat be divided into pieces about the 
size of hazel-nuts. Soups, when properly made, are 
very agreeable and nutritive, as well as digestible with 
most individuals. When rich or fot, and much con- 
centrated, more especially if green vegetables be a con- 
stituent, they become the most indigestible of all ali- 

d^L^T" 110 ^ Those wh0 OTe fc "*" with 

soup but 6 th the St0xnacli > flhould avoid ever y kind of 

8ou P ;&c. coiSL* 11 ^! «* « *•**£» ***** 

&c , accompanied ^v Ce> "^ arrow - root > the "P 8 P ea > 

with, some of the various condiments. 



ROASTING AND BOILING. 97 

Loss of Weight m Roasting and Boiling. — Mr. Dono- 
van has made some important experiments on this sub- 
ject, and his results are the following : — 

IN BOASTING. 

MM m CKKT. 

Sirloin of beef, 19} 

Leg and shoulder of mutton, .... 24| 

Fore-quarter of lamb, .... 22\ 

Geese, 19| 

Turkeys, 2<4 

Ducks, 2li 

Chickens, 14f 



IN BOILING. 

Legs of mutton, 10 

Hams, 12* 

Salt beef, .15 

Salt pork, ISi 

Bacon, 6£ 

Knuckles of real, 8£ 

Turkeys, 16 

Chickens, . . . * . . . . 18£ 



PART II.— ALIMENTS. 



NATURAL HISTORY — COMPOSITION — PROPERTIES — ADULTERATIONS 
AND USES OF ALIMENTARY VEGETABLES — ANIMALS — BIRDS — 
REPTILES — FISHES, ETC, WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THEIR YARIOUS 
PRODUCTS. 



VEGETABLES. 



WHEAT. 



Triiicum Vvlgare. — Graminea. — The Grass Tribe. — 
The native country of this grain is unknown, but it is 
supposed to be indigenous in the hilly parts of Asia, and 
to have been rendered hardy by time and cultivation in 
the more temperate regions of the world. Mr. Burnett 
states, that wheat will seldom form an ear, under the 
equator, below the elevation of 4,500 feet, or ripen above 
that of 10,800 ; and that it will not vegetate beyond the 
62 p of northern latitude. There are two varieties of this 
plant, the triticwn hybernum, and triticum aostivum; so 
named because they are respectively sown in autumn 
and spring. Many counties of England are distinguished 
for the quantity as well as the quality of this grain, such 
as Kent, Essex, Suffolk, &c, and in Scotland it attains 
equal perfection in some of the Lothian districts. In 
the northern parts of this island, it is inferior in quality, 
dark-coloured, and yields comparatively little flower. 
In the best wheat countries, and in good years, the weight 
of a bushel of wheat is said to be about sixty-two pounds. 
According to VauqueKn, French wheat contains water 
10.0, gluten 10.96, starch 71.49, sugar 4.72, gum 3.32. 



BREAD. 99 

Wheat, therefore, contains nearly ninety per cent, of 
nutritive matter, the gluten being the most nutritive of 
all the constituents, having some analogy to animal sub- 
stances. It is most abundant in wheat of southern 
growth. Dr. Christison found 12 or 13 percent of gluten 
in the fine qualities of Edinburgh flour. Odessa wheat 
contains a larger proportion of sugar than wheat of French 
growth. Bakers judge of the quality of the flour by 
the manner in which the paste may be elongated ; as this 
depends more or less on the contained quantity of gluten. 
Bran — is the exterior envelop of the grain, exists in 
the proportion of from 1.2 to 2.3 per cent, and is used 
chiefly as food for horses ; although occasionally employed 
as a constituent of bread. A decoction of it, used for a 
length of time, produces a laxative state of the bowels. 

Adulterations. Wheat flour is sometimes adulterated 
with sulphate of lime or stucco, carbonate of lime or chalky 
potato-starch, and moisture. The salts of lime may be 
detected by incinerating the flour; and according to Dr. 
Christison, if it loses more than 12 per cent of its weight, 
when heated over the vapour-bath, it contains too much 
water. 

Potato-starch is detected, according to the same author, 
by kneading the flour with a thin stream of water, over 
a cloth filter, allowing the starch to subside in the filtered 
water, triturating the lower stratum with water in a 
mortar, and testing this with iodine, which strikes a 
blue colour if potato-starch be present, and merely a 
yellow or red colour if the flour be pure. The grains of 
potato-starch may be detected by a magnifier, glistening 
like minute globules of mercury. 

Bread. — The manufacture of good bread is a very nice 
process, and no doubt has attained its present perfection 
by very gradual and successive improvements. The 
grain is first dried in a kiln, then ground and sifted 



100 • BREAD. 

by a cylindrical sieve into three different qualities. The 
qualities and nutritive properties of bread depend not 
only upon the nature of the wheat itself, but also upon 
the variety of flour used in its manufacture. The best 
bread is made from the first quality of flour, and coarse 
or brown bread, from the second or third kind. 

Bran bread is made from the whole meal, as it is 
sometimes named, or the product of the first grinding, 
without the separation of the bran, or the coarse from 
the fine flour. 

The most important discovery in the manufacture of 
bread was its impregnation with a fermenting principle, 
by which it is rendered light and porous. This method 
has been known for a long period ; for the use of leavened 
bread is recorded in the sacred writings. The fermenta- 
tion of bread was, for a long period, believed to be of a 
peculiar nature, and was designated by the term panary 
fermentation. It has, however, been completely estab- 
lished by the researches of modern chemists, particularly 
by Dr. Colquhoun of Glasgow, that it is the very same 
process that takes place in a bottle of fermenting beer; for 
alcohol or spirit can be procured from dough, if the fer- 
mentation be allowed to proceed to a sufficient extent. 
The ancient and some modern nations used leaven, or a 
portion of a previous batch, for the purpose of inducing 
the panary fermentation ; while the bakers in this and 
other civilised countries generally use yeast. The prin- 
ciple of this practice consists in mixing with the consti- 
tution of the bread a gaseous body, or carbonic acid gas, 
which penetrates into the texture of the dough, and in 
this manner separates the particles from one another. 

By this means the bread is rendered light, porous, 
elastic, agreeable to the palate, and very digestible. Well 
manufactured bread ought to be so elastic, that, though 
forcibly squeezed into nearly half its bulk, it should re- 



ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD. 101 

same in a minute or two its former size and appearance. 
It is also a characteristic of good bread, that when soaked 
in hot water, it immediately softens, swells, and is capa- 
ble of easy diffusion through the liquid. On the other 
hand, if a piece of ill fermented or " unpiled bread" he 
squeezed between the fingers, it retains the form given to 
it, and when put into hot water, never softens farther 
than to become a permanently tough mass of dough. 
Mr. Donovan states, that the quantity of water which 
flour absorbs in Us conversion into bread, varies according 
to the quality and age of the flour. The better and 
older the flour, the more water it absorbs to make the 
dough, and the more it retains after baking. In general, 
however, good bread retains about one-third of its weight 
of water, after removal from the oven. This portion of 
water is somewhat lessened when the bread is exposed 
to the air for some days, but the greater part is perma- 
nently united with it. When bad or spoiled flour is em- 
ployed in the manufacture of bread, a portion of lactic 
acid is generated during the fermentation ; and the same 
state is apt to be produced by sour yeast, or by allowing 
the process to continue too long, before the sponge, or im- 
perfect dough, is mixed with the requisite portion of flour, 
and transferred to the oven. Good practical bakers are 
very careful in attending to these essential points. When 
the dough has become sour, the bicarbonate of soda is 
sometimes added to correct the acidity. This salt, how- 
ever, when added in considerable quantity to flour, gives 
the bread a yellowish tint; and this may frequently 
be observed in the home-made soda-cakes. 

Adulterations of Bread. Potatoes are sometimes 
employed by bakers to mix with the flour, in order to 
increase their profit. In such cases 14 pounds of potatoes 
to a sack, or 280 pounds of flour, are said to be the propor- 
tions employed; but even this small quantity should 

i 2 



102 ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD. 

not be tolerated, without an admission of its presence 
in the bread. This fraud may not, in general, be 
attended with any bad consequences; yet as potatoes 
contain much less nutriment than flour in proportion to 
their weight, and as they are apt to disagree with per- 
sons of weak digestion, the practice ought to be considered 
in no other light than an imposition on the public. 
When the quantity of potatoes is small in proportion to 
the flour, or about one of the first to eight or ten of the 
second, the bread is said to be scarcely distinguishable 
from that which is genuine. If, however, the propor- 
tion of potatoes be large, the bread cracks or crumbles, 
and when cut, adheres to the knife, and appears clammy* 
Some bakers add a small quantity of potatoes, with the 
view of forwarding the fermentation. 

Alum is frequently used for the adulteration of bread* 
which practice is reported to be very common in London, 
where the excellence of bread is estimated, by many, 
from its whiteness. The addition of alum to bread 
improyes its appearance, rendering it white and firm, so 
that it is less apt to crumble when cut with a knife. 
The smallest quantity of alum that can be employed to 
produce this effect is from three to four ounces, to a sack 
of flour weighing 280 pounds. This small quantity of 
alum in the bread cannot, to any material extent, be 
hurtful to the constitution, for a quartern loaf, weighing 
four pounds, will only contain about eighteen or twenty 
grains of this salt. When, however, eight or ten times 
this quantity is employed, for the purpose of whitening 
bread made from damaged or inferior flour, it must 
prove very injurious, and increase the naturally astrin- 
gent effects of loaf bread. 

The adulteration of bread with alum may be detected in 
the following way. Take two or three ounces of the sus- 
pected bread, and rub it carefully in a mortar with six or 



ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD. 103 

eight ounces of cold distilled water, then filter through paper. 
Add to the resulting liquid a solution of muriate of 
bary tes ; if a copious precipitate ensue, which is insolu- 
able in nitric acid, the presence of alum may be consid- 
ered as nearly certain. But this may be further confirmed 
by adding to another portion of the liquid a solution of 
subcarbonate of potass, which throws down from alum a 
flocculent precipitate.* 

Volatile Salt, or subcarbonate of ammonia, is some- 
times employed by bakers for raising their bread ; most 
frequently when the flour employed is sour or spoiled. 
This salt, by the heat of the oven, escapes in the form of 
gas, and causes the stiff dough to swell up into bubbles. 
The bread is thus rendered light, and contains numerous 
and very minute pores ; while regularly fermented bread 
has more of a spongy or vesicular character. A minute 
portion of the salt adheres tenaciously to the bread ; for 
though it possesses no odour when cold, yet if again ex- 
posed to heat, traces of ammonia may be perceived. It is 
regularly employed in the formation of a peculiar kind 
of small biscuit, and sometimes in the proportion of half 
an ounce to one pound of flour. 

As this salt is almost wholly dissipated in the oven, 
and as a minute portion of it would produce no injurious 
effects, it may be considered a sophistication of minor 
importance. 

Salt of Tartar, or the subcarbonate of potass, is also 

* It is not well understood how alum operates in whitening bread} and 
gome have conjectured that it might be owing to the excess of add which 
exists in this salt. From some experiments which were made by a baker 
at my request, free acids do not seem to have any effect of this kind. 
Kight grains of diluted sulphuric acid were thoroughly incorporated with 
one pound of fermenting dough, and afterwards treated in the same man- 
ner as the other loaves. On examining the bread next day, it proved firm, 
and a section of it was smooth and not friable; but it was scarcely so white 
as the other loaves of the same batch, and much less so than one into 
which alum had been put for the sake of comparison. Its taste and smell, 
however, were similar to the bread manufactured at the same time. Vine- 

Sir and chloride of lime were also tried under similar circumstances; but 
ey did not seem to produce any influence on the appearance of the bread. 



104 ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD. 

employed to correct the acidity of spoiled flour ; and 
when the fermentation has been allowed to proceed too 
far, it is sometimes mixed with the fermenting dough, 
with the same intention. A small proportion of this salt 
cannot be productive of any injury to the digestive organs, 
and certainly it is safer to use the bread with its acid 
neutralised in this manner, than in its free state ; yet 
with the exception of a general deficiency in the quality 
of wheat, there should exist no necessity for its adoption. 

Blue Vitriol, or sulphate of copper, has been used at 
Brussels and other places on the continent for the adul- 
teration of bread. It is said to forward the fermentation, 
render the bread white, more compact, and more re- 
tentive of water. It is highly probable that its 
effects on bread are similar to those of alum, and that it 
may whiten yellow flour, on the same principle that it 
bleaches yellow tallow, or dingy cotton and linen cloths; 
but as it is a very poisonous substance, no conceivable 
advantage to the baker can justify its adoption. It has 
not, however, been employed in this country, as far as I 
am aware. 

Carbonate of Magnesia has been recommended by 
Mr. E. Davy as an excellent substance for neutralising 
the acidity produced during the fermentation of bad 
flour, in the proportion of from twenty to forty grains 
of it to one pound of flour. A small quantity of mag- 
nesia cannot be considered an injurious addition to bread; 
still, in ordinary cases, it ought to be regarded as not 
essential when there is no failure in the quality of the crops. 
The odour and taste of bread which contains magnesia 
are quite agreeable, but when much of this substance 
is added, its colour is not so white as that of genuine bread. 
In some cases of indigestion, the combination of bread with 
magnesia might be productive of advantage ; for the mag- 
nesia would absorb the acid at the moment of its for- 



ADULTERATIONS OF BREAD. 106 

mation, and thus prevent it from injuring the coats of 
the stomach, while, at the same time, it might counter-' 
act the astringent effects of the flour. 

Bicarbonate of Soda and Muriatic Acid are employed 
by a respectable baker in London for vesiculating bread, 
which is said to be well raised and otherwise good. In 
this process, the carbonic acid gas is generated in the 
dough by the action of the muriatic acid upon the soda ; 
common salt being the result of the combination. An 
analogous process is employed in some parts of Scot- 
land in making what are termed soda cakes or scones, 
namely, by adding butter-milk and the bicarbonate of soda 
to flour. Dr. R. D. Thomson notices with approbation this 
mode of making loaf-bread, and justly considers it more 
economical, inasmuch as the saccharine matter of the 
flour is all preserved, whereas, by the process of fermen- 
tation, it is to a greater or less extent lost in the form of 
carbonic acid. It appears to be perfectly adapted for 
those who hare healthy digestive organs; but further 
experience is required to determine, whether the pre- 
sence of the saccharine matter may not render it more 
liable to produce acidity, than common bread, in cases of 
deranged digestion. 

Potato-Starch and other Farinaceous Substances. — 
Potato-starch, Indian corn, bean meal, pease meal, rye, 
&c. have all been employed in the adulteration of bread. 
They are very difficult of detection, and the sensible 
qualities of the bread are the only indications we possess. 
When bread contains bean or pease meal, it has a pecu* 
liar odour when toasted before a Are, is heavier and less 
porous, soon dries and cracks. When mixed with much 
potato-starch, the bread is less sweet, and altogether 
more insipid, but is white and well vesiculated. Al- 
though potatoe starch is not so nutritive as wheat flour, 
it might, in seasons when the grain crop failed, form a 



106 DIETETIC QUALITIES OF BREAD. 

constituent of good bread, as it is easily manufactured,, 
and, unlike the potato, capable of long preservation. 
Bread, which contains about one-fourth of potato-starch, 
is white, wholesome, and agreeable. 

Chalk 9 Stucco, Bone-asheSy are mentioned by authors 
as occasional adulterations, but these have only been 
perpetrated in a few extreme cases, and do not here 
require farther notice. 

Dietetic Qualities of Bread. — It has been a point 
frequently agitated, whether fermented or unfermented 
bread was the most wholesome and digestible. This 
question may appear to be solved by the almost universal 
preference given to fermented bread by European nations; 
at the same time it must be allowed, that the difference 
between them is not so great as many authors would have 
us believe. Although fermented bread is generally more 
agreeable to the palate, better fired, and more capable of 
thorough mastication, it is possible, with care, to attach 
almost the whole of these properties to unfermented bread. 
Besides it is well known, that unfermented bread is gener- 
ally used by the inhabitants of Asia ; and till a recent 
period the peasantry of Scotland, who are remarkable for 
their strength and vigour of constitution, employed this 
exclusively. At the same time, it must be allowed, that 
fermented bread is better adapted for a refined and lux- 
urious people, in whom the digestive organs have been 
weakened both by mental and physical excesses. Fer- 
mented loaf-bread, when thoroughly manufactured, is 
very digestible, and generally will agree better with those 
who have derangements of the stomach than any other 
form of bread, although slightly astringent, particularly 
when made from fine flour. It ought not to be used when 
newly baked, and not until it has been kept for at least 
twenty-four hours, when it becomes firm and solid in the 
texture. When used soon after it has been baked, it is liable 



BRAN BREAD. 107 

to produce acidity, particularly in dyspeptic individuals. 
It would appear from this fact, that fermentation had 
not been so completely checked by the heat of the oven 
as to be incapable of reproduction, after the bread was 
introduced into the stomach, and exposed to the heat of 
that organ. Its porosity in a recent state is also not so 
completely fixed as that of stale bread ; and consequently 
it is more apt to be reconverted into a doughy mass dur- 
ing mastication. 

Pan Bread — although a little more insipid than com- 
mon bread, is the most easily digested. It is very 
thoroughly fired, and deprived of moisture, and on this 
account is more easily disintegrated by water, and main- 
tains its divided state more perfectly after mastication. 
When this kind of bread cannot be procured by those 
who have weak digestive organs, ordinary bread, in thin 
slices, may be toasted, which process should be gradually 
done. 

Brown or Coarse Bread — is made from second or 
third flour, and is rarely so dry or well fired as fine bread, 
particularly towards the centre of the loaf. It is some- 
times manufactured of very agreeable quality, and is con- 
sidered less astringent than common bread ; but it is less 
nutritive, and if not carefully toasted less suitable for the 
dyspeptic. 

Bran Bread— is or ought to be made from the " whole 
meal," or the flour which is the result of grinding 
the entire grain, and without separating the different 
qualities or removing the bran. When well manufac- 
tured in the form of pan-loaf, it is sweet, agreeable, suf- 
ficiently dry, and elastic. From containing bran, it is 
not quite so nutritive as fine bread, in proportion to its 
weight ; but being less astringent, it is well adapted for 
those who are troubled with indigestion. The flour or 
meal from which this bread is manufactured, when boiled 



106 SEMOLINA. 

with water, or milk and water, to. a proper consistency, 
is well adapted for children affected with derangements 
of the bowels ; for, in such affections, they frequently can- 
not be persuaded to take arrow-root, sago, or fine flour, 
cooked in a similar manner. 

Biscuit. — This is a species of unfermented bread which 
contains much less water in its composition than loaf- 
bread, and hence it is more nutritive in proportion to its 
weight than the latter. The varieties of this article are 
very numerous, both in form and composition. The 
simplest kinds contain only flour, salt, and water ; but a 
large proportion are compounded of sugar, butter, or eggs 
combined with aromatics. It is impossible to apply any 
general rule to such nondescript articles of diet; for 
they may be good, bad, or indifferent, according to the 
fancy of the baker. A plain water biscuit, well fired, is 
the most unexceptionable of all the varieties ; but a small 
portion of sugar and butter improves the taste and fri- 
ability, and is not hurtful to persons possessed of sound 
digestive organs. Biscuits ought to be thoroughly fired, 
not hard or tough, but friable, and easily reduced to small 
fragments, during mastication. They do not agree so 
well with the dyspeptic as fermented loaf-bread, being 
liable, in some cases, to produce a feeling of weight in the 
region of the stomach ; but there are exceptions to this 
rule. Plain biscuit, highly fired, or browned by the 
application of heat, reduced to powder, and boiled with 
water, is a very suitable diet for children affected with 
derangement of the bowels. Biscuits are sometimes fer- 
mented like bread ; and this would in many cases improve 
their digestibility. 

Semolina or Mannacroup. — Dr. Willich states, that 
" in 1680 a patent was granted to Mr. Jacob Levy, for a 
method of making semolina, which previously had been 
imported from Poland, where it is called Cracow-groats. 



PEARL BARLEY. 109 

It consists in grinding wheat in an appropriate mill, 
after which the flour is separated from the middlings; 
the latter are then dressed four different times, in a bolt- 
ing-mill, and sifted through parchment sieves, till they 
are perfectly cleared from bran.' 9 

Semolina is generally imported from the Baltic, and 
in Russia it is said to be manufactured from buck-wheat. 
It has a granular form like some kinds of oat meal, a 
dingy white colour, a farinaceous somewhat insipid taste, 
and is well adapted for the diet of children when affected 
with derangement of the bowels. 

BARLEY. 

Hordeum Vulgare. — Gramine*. — Thb Grass Tribb^— 
This grain was known to the ancients, and is mentioned 
in Exodus. It is an annual plant, has been found wild 
in Sicily and Russia, is generally cultivated in northern 
countries, and will grow in a climate where wheat would 
arrive at little perfection. It is generally considered a very 
valuable grain, and only inferior to wheat. According 
to Einhof, the ripe grain contains water 11.20, envelop 
or bran 18.75, farina 70.05. 100 parts of the farina con- 
tain starch with a little gluten 67.18, gluten 3.62, sugar 
6.21, gum 4.62, water 9.87, with, albumen, vegetable fibre, 
and a little volatile oil, Proust mentions another consti- 
tuent, namely, a yellow pulverulent substance, which he 
calls kordeine; but which Raspail denominates bran. 

Pearl Barlet— -is made from the species named hor- 
deum distichon, or two-rowed barley . The grain is first 
dried in a kiln, then deprived of its covering or bran by 
a mill, and finally receives its round shape by trituration. 

Uses. Barley, though very nutritious, does not form 
such agreeable bread as wheat, and it is generally dark- 
coloured. It does not undergo regular vesiculation, from 
the small quantity of gluten it contains, and is often 

K 



110 BEER. 

doughy in texture. It is liable to produce acidity of 
stomach when the digestive organs are weak, but is not 
so astringent as wheat, although less nutritive, and on 
the whole inferior to this grain as an article of diet. A 
few years ago it was much used by the peasantry of 
Scotland, being mixed with pease-meal, which consider- 
ably improved the qualities and taste of the bread. Mr. 
Donovan states, that " bere bread" is common among the 
Irish peasantry, and its colour is almost black. Barley 
bread was so little esteemed by the Romans, that their 
generals used to punish the soldiers who behaved with 
cowardice, by giving them barley instead of wheat. It 
must, however, have been considered very nutritive, for 
the gladiators were named hordearii, because barley con- 
stituted a large portion of their food. This grain, in 
the form of pearl barley, is used very frequently in the 
formation of soups, and it generally constitutes, in Scot- 
land, the vegetable basis of what is denominated broth. 
It is employed very extensively, after its conversion into 
malt, in the manufacture of ardent spirits and beer. In 
the time of Hippocrates barley was used medicinally; 
and the term ptisan, is derived from a Greek word which 
signifies a decoction of barley. A decoction of barley, or 
barley water, is still employed in the cure of diseases; but 
the account of it will be found under the article Drinks. 

BEER. 

Beer — is a very ancient beverage, and believed by some 
authors to have been discovered in Egypt soon after the 
flood. Tacitus states, that the ancient Germans prepared 
a liquor from barley or wheat, and that they were accus- 
tomed to drink it at all hours of the day. Yeast and 
malt were also known in these days; it is therefore 
probable that their process of making beer qr zythum 



BEER. Ill 

was similar to the one at present practised. After agri- 
culture was introduced into Britain by the Romans, 
beer became the common drink of the country as it long 
had been on the Continent ; but in the reign of Edgar 
the Saxons of Britain were so addicted to its use, that he 
ordered marks to be made on their cups, at a certain 
height, beyond which they were forbidden to fill, under 
a severe penalty. Hops, however, were not employed 
in the brewing of ale, in England, until about the reign 
of Henry VIII. ; after which its quality was greatly im- 
proved. It is probable that other bitter substances had 
been used for the preservation of ale before hops were 
introduced. Mr. Beckman states,- that "the Danes 
brought into this country a mode of brewing beer 
from the flowering tops of some species of heath ; and so 
late as the 15th century, myrica gale, or sweet gale, was 
used for that purpose." The term beer includes both 
ale and porter, which are generally named malt liquors, 
because malt is always used in their preparation. In the 
process of malting, the barley is first macerated in water, 
for two or three days, until it swells ; after which it is 
spread upon a floor to about the depth of two feet. It 
spontaneously heats and begins to germinate ; after which 
it is spread thinner on the floor, and for two days is turned 
over in order to stop this process. It is finally col- 
lected into a heap, allowed to become sensibly hot, and 
afterwards dried in a kiln. Barley loses by malting 
about twenty per cent, of its weight ; but much sacchar- 
ine matter is generated during the germination, which 
renders the grain better adapted for fermentation, and 
also for furnishing a more agreeable liquor. In the 
manufacture of malt liquors, the ground malt is infused 
in hot water, the process being named mashing, and the 
resulting infusion sweet-wort. The infusion of malt is 
boiled with hops, and afterwards transferred to shallow 



il ■■ T» 



112 PORTER. 

vessels, where it is allowed to ferment with the addition 



Alb — is brewed from pale malt, or malt which has not 
been charred during the process of drying, is syrupy, 
mucilaginous, and contains more spirit and less hops than 
porter. 

Porter — is generally made from a mixture of pale and 
brown malt. Brown malt, being partially charred, is used 
chiefly on account of its colouring matter, and it does not 
therefore afford such a strong infusion as pale malt. 
When a very dark liquor is required, some artificial 
colouring matter is generally added. 

Small Beer — is generally made from the wort which 
is drawn off after the ale or porter infusion has been 
extracted, and it contains no hops. 

These different fermented liquors are frequently much 
sophisticated. They ought, by law, to contain malt and 
hops only ; but many drugs, some of which are deleterious, 
are added by the brewer. Quassia, on account of its bitter 
qualities, is added instead of hops ; and in order to disguise 
this wood, it is kept in the roasted state. The frothy head 
of porter, which is much esteemed by many, is artificially 
produced by molasses and green vitriol or sulphate of iron. 
Capsicum and grains of paradise are employed to give pun- 
gency to weak or insipid beer. Ginger root, coriander 
seeds, and orange peel, are used to give flavour to ale. 
Honey, extract of liquorice, hartshorn shavings, &c, com- 
municate colour and consistency. Sulphuric acid is added 
to beer to make it hard, or to bring it forward ; and this 
is intended as a substitute for age, for a portion of acid is 
always generated in old porter or ale. The intoxicating 
qualities of beer are sometimes increased by the addition 
of powerful and dangerous narcotics, such as cocculusin- 
dicus, mux vomica, opium, tobacco, &c. At one period, 
when age was reckoned essential to porter, the tavern- 



DIETETIC QUALITIES OF MALT LIQUORS. 113 

keepers could manufacture this liquor so as to resemble 
that of any required age, by combining a fresh with a 
sour liquid. JThe public taste is now somewhat altered, 
and hard beer is generally avoided. Mr. Donovan states 
that good porter should be transparent, have a light brown 
colour, be moderately bitter, with a mixture of sweetness, 
a certain sharpness, but without acidity, and have a close 
creamy head, which instantly closes when blown aside. 
According to Mr. Brande, the different kinds of beer con- 
tain the following proportions of alcohol; or spirit of wine, 
in 100 parts : 

Burton Ale, ...... 8.88 

Edinburgh ale, . . .6.2 

London porter (average;, . 4.2 

London small beer (average), . . . 1.28 

According to Dr. Christison, Edinburgh ale two years in bottle contains 

13.40 ; and London porter four months in bottle 11.91 per cent, by volume 

of proof-spirit. 

Mr Accum states that the solid matter in 36 gallons of 
London porter amounts to 23 pounds. 

Dietetic Qualities of Malt Liquors. Ale and porter 
contain more alimentary matter than wine, and less 
alcohol; and on this account are generally considered 
more nutritive. There can be little doubt, that when a 
large quantity of beer is taken along with the usual ali- 
mentary matters, they will afford a greater amount of 
direct nutriment to the system than wine; yet it is 
highly probable that they also operate like it, or diluted 
spirits, in producing corpulency, from the quantity of 
alcohol in their composition. 

Ale contains more alcohol, sugar, and mucilage than 

porter ; on this account, when indulged in too freely, it 

frequently causes decided intoxication, accompanied with 

great nausea and depression. Ale should therefore be 

taken only to a moderate extent, and ought to be avoided 

by those who are troubled with indigestion, as it is very 

liable to produce acidity and flatulency. Porter, as it con- 
ic 2 



114 COMMON OAT. 

tains less alcohol and extract than ale, is lighter and more 
digestible, when sound and not sophisticated. From its 
containing more hops, it is more tonic and better adapted 
for those who hare weak digestive organs ; but even porter 
is often found to disagree with such persons. It may be 
allowed to convalescents from fever and other acute 
diseases, if there be no particular derangement of the 
digestive organs. Small beer is only useful in proportion 
to its effervescence, or to the proportion of carbonic acid 
it contains. It is a very agreeable refreshing drink, but, 
as it does not contain hops, is very liable to occasion acidity 
and flatulency. In acute diseases, it should only be 
allowed to a very limited extent ; and then only when 
its quality is superior, namely, brisk, watery, agreeable, 
and not acid. 

COMMON OAT. 

Avena Sativa. — Graminea. — The Grass Tribe* — The 
oat, though not indigenous in Scotland, has been so long 
cultivated there, that it has been characterised as a grain 
peculiar to that country. It was found by Anson grow- 
ing wild upon the island of Juan Fernandez ; but the 
place from which it was first brought to Europe has not 
been ascertained. Several varieties of this grain are cul- 
tivated in this country, but its taste is generally agreeable 
and sweetish, with a very slight degree of bitterness. 
Vogel has found oats to contain in 100 parts, farina 66, 
and bran 84, the proportion of husk being large. The 
farina contains a yellowish-green fixed oil, bitter extract, 
sugar, gum, coagulated albumen, and starch. Dr. Chris- 
tison has examined oatmeal, and found 72.8 per cent, of 
starch, 5.8 of a saccharine extract, 3.2 of albumen, a little 
resinous matter, 11.3 of bran, and 6.6 of moisture. Oats 
when freed from their envelops or coverings, are named 
grits or groats, are frequently used in making broths and 



PREPARED GROANS. 115 

gruels, and are calculated to furnish a more transparent 
liquid than oatmeal. 

Prepared Groats — are the ordinary groats reduced to 
a fine powder. Oatmeal is generally manufactured in 
the form of a coarse powder, as the cakes and other prepar- 
ations which are made from it are thus prevented from 
assuming a starchy consistence. Oatmeal cakes are 
much improved by the addition of bicarbonate of soda, 
which sometimes gives them a yellowish tint, and renders 
them more friable and digestible. 

Uses. — This grain is a nutritive and important article 
of diet, and is generally liked by those who have been 
early accustomed to its use. It has no tendency, like 
wheat, to produce an astringent effect on the bowels ; and 
on that account is well adapted for children and persons 
of sedentary occupations. It is apt, however, when used 
in considerable quantity, to produce acidity of stomach, 
particularly in persons of weak digestive organs. Such 
individuals may often, however, use a small quantity of 
oatmeal porridge in the morning; for in the evening it is 
more apt to disagree, being liable to occasion disturbed 
sleep. Oats are considered by many authors as heating 
to the system, and liable to produce cutaneous eruptions. 
This is undoubtedly an erroneous statement, and may 
have arisen from the association of oatmeal and the itch 
as common accompaniments of the Scotch peasantry at 
one period. 

Oatmeal may be deprived in a great measure of its 
tendency to produce acidity by maceration in water, and 
this is an important desideratum for children, who often 
prefer it to other kinds of farinaceous diet. The quantity 
of oatmeal intended for use should be well mixed with 
cold water, and macerated for twenty-four hours ; the 
latter being decanted and renewed two or three times 
during that period. By this means the water dissolves 



116 SO WENS. 

the saccharine matter, which appears to be the chief 
source of the acidity. Some authors have stated, that 
oatmeal causes concretions in the bowels, from the aggre- 
gation of the fibrous matter of this grain ; giving rise to 
dangerous obstructions in these organs. Although there 
can be no doubt that such occurrences have been met, 
it must nevertheless be allowed that they are extreme- 
ly rare. 

At one time a kind of beer, named mitm, was made 
principally from oats, and grain whisky is generally manu- 
factured from a mixture of this grain with barley. A 
French writer, Nodier, states that "in Scotland, an eau de 
vie is made from oats, which is much used in that country, 
called wisky, that it is mixedwith water to make grog, and 
that it renders. drinkable the most unwholesome waters." 

Sowens. — This preparation is peculiar to Scotland, and 
is made from the husks of the oat, improperly named 
" seeds." These are mixed with tepid water, which is 
frequently stirred for a few days, until it becomes slightly 
acid ; after which the liquid containing the husks and 
farinaceous powder is strained through a sieve. In this 
process that portion of the farina or flour of the grain, 
which adheres to the husk, is separated by the water, 
and falls to the bottom ; and the liquid becomes acid 
from the fermentation of the sugar which has been dis- 
solved. The effect of the acid thus generated is to whiten 
or bleach the farina ; and when acidification is slow in 
being developed, those who are knowing in this manu- 
facture add a little butter-milk to quicken the process. 
The husks sometimes contain too little farina, and in 
such cases a little oatmeal is added. 

Before use, the acid, which appears to be the lactic, 
should be completely washed away by repeated affusions 
of cold water ; but as much of this liquid ought to be left 
as will give the farina the proper consistence when boiled. 



CULTIVATED RYE. 117 

So wens being almost solely composed of the amylaceous 
or starchy principle of the oat, is an exceedingly light 
and digestible species of food, although slightly insipid. 
It agrees much better with those who hare weak diges- 
tive organs than any other form of oatmeal, and is well 
adapted for persons affected with fevers or inflammatory 
diseases. 

CULTIVATED RYE. 

Secale Cereale. — Orami nea.— -Thb Grass Tribe.— The 
native country of this grain is unknown, but it has been 
found growing wild in north America. Mr. Philips sup- 
poses it indigenous in Egypt, and quotes in proof a pass- 
age from Exodus : "The wheat and rye were not smitten, 
for they were not grown up." Mr. Pereira assigns its ha- 
bitat to the Caucasian Caspian desert. It appears to have 
been cultivated in Britain at a very early period, and 
then more extensively than at the present day. Accord- 
ing to Einhof, this grain is composed of envelop or bran 
24.2, farina 65.6, water 10.2. The farina contains, in 100 
parts, starch 61.07, gluten 9.48, vegetable albumen 3.28, 
sugar 3.28, gum 11.00, vegetable fibre 6.38. Rye is ca- 
pable of being formed into fermented bread, as it contains 
a sufficient amount of sugar and gluten. 

Uses. — Rye bread is dense, of a dark brown colour, 
has an agreeable sweetish taste, and is very nutritive, from 
the large proportion of gluten it contains. It is less 
astringent than wheaten bread ; but is liable to produce 
acidity of stomach, and sometimes diarrhoetic effects. 
The fermented rye-bread made by some bakers seems to 
be composed of rye and wheat, with the addition of sugar 
or molasses. When thus prepared, it is by no means well 
adapted for those individuals who have been advised to 
use genuine rye-bread. Rye is used in the manufacture 
of gin, along with barley-malt and juniper berries. 



118 ERGOT OF RYE. 

Diseased Rye or Ergot of Bye. — This grain is af- 
fected, during some peculiar seasons, with a disease which 
has been named ergot, from its resemblance to the. spur of 
a cock. The grains have a black or violet colour, a fari- 
naceous, slightly bitterish, and acrid taste. When reduced 
to powder they assume a greyish colour ; and infused in 
boiling water, the liquid has a rosaceous tint, accompanied 
with a peculiar but characteristic odour. Various opinions 
have been formed respecting the nature of this substance. 
The most probable theory is that minute fungi excite a 
diseased growth in the embryo, and that this latter pro- 
duct constitutes the ergot. The circumstances most fa- 
vourable for its production, are a damp soil and a warm 
atmosphere. The district of Sologne in France has most 
frequently been visited with this disease- When the un- 
sound rye amounts to a considerable proportion of the 
whole produce, and when the inhabitants live principally 
upon this grain, a peculiar and very fatal disease is induced, 
called dry gangrene. It generally affects the feet, which 
become black, hard, and dry, like charcoal, complete 
mortification taking place in the parts. The affection is 
not produced when the rye contains only a small propor- 
tion of vitiated grain, but if there be a fourth part of it 
present, and if used for several months in succession, 
gangrene is very liable to occur. These injurious effects of 
spurred rye have been confirmed by feeding some of the 
lower animals with it, for a certain time. It is occasion- 
ally produced in Britain, but no instances are recorded of 
its causing any such effects. Ergot of rye has within 
these few years been much employed to facilitate partu- 
rition; and when exhibited with proper precautions, 
and with attention to certain rules, is a very valuable 
medicine. 



RICE. 119 

RICE. 

Oryza Sativa. — Graminede. — The Grass Tribe. — Rice 
is indigenous in India, where it has been cultivated from 
the most remote ages. It was cultivated by the Egyp- 
tians, Persians, Babylonians, and all the Eastern nations. 
Theophrastus informs us that the Greeks had obtained 
this nourishing seed prior to his day, which was three 
hundred years before Christ; and that it was carried to 
Italy, forming one of the earliest aliments of the Roman 
people. It thrives well in low and inundated grounds, 
and when transplanted from the Continent into America, 
was found to grow luxuriantly in that country. The 
state of Carolina has long been known for the superior 
quality of its rice. In the island of Ceylon, and in most 
parts of Asia, the cultivators of rice make reservoirs of 
water for the purpose of irrigating the plant ; and the 
soil is rendered so wet, that their feet are often immersed 
in the liquid during their labours. The Chinese water 
their rice-fields by means of moveable mills placed as 
may be required upon any part of the banks of a river. 
The water is raised in buckets to the proper height, and 
afterwards conveyed in channels to the destined places. 
As the grain ripens, and harvest approaches, the ground 
is allowed to dry. 

The cultivation of rice is a very unhealthy employ- 
ment, on account of the marshy effluvia that issue from 
the soil; and the labourers are often observed to be 
feeble, sometimes bloated or scorbutic. For this reason, 
in some civilised countries, rice-fields must be removed 
to a certain distance from towns, that the inhabitants 
may not suffer from the deleterious emanations arising 
from them. In the vicinity of the rice-fields in the 
north of Italy, a disease named pellagra is frequent. The 
rice plant is annual, and somewhat resembles our corn, 



120 RICE. 

but is thicker and more firm than wheat or barley. It 
generally attains the height of four or five feet, and 
grows from four to six months, according to the country 
and the temperature of the climate. When ripe, it is cut 
in a manner similar to wheat. In some Oriental coun- 
tries it is put into bundles, and the grain is trodden out 
by oxen. ' To free the grain from its envelop or husk, 
which adheres very tenaciously, it is bruised in a wooden 
mortar, or passed through a mill. At Japan the rice 
labourers tread upon it forcibly with their feet, in order 
to accomplish the same end. 

The grain is white, oblong, semi-transparent, hard, 
has a farinaceous somewhat insipid taste, and is capable 
of being preserved for a long period. According to 
Braconnot, Carolina rice contains in 100 parts, fixed oil 
0.13, sugar 0.29, gum 0.71, starch 85.07, gluten 3.60, 
vegetable fibre 4.8, water 5.0, with a small proportion of 
salts and acids. 

Uses. This is perhaps the most important grain cul- 
tivated by man, and is used as aliment by a great num- 
ber of nations. Merat and De Lens state that three- 
fourths of the inhabitants of the earth are nourished by 
it, and that, in this point of view, wheat cannot be put 
in comparison with it. From the small quantity of its 
contained gluten and sugar, it cannot be formed into 
fermented bread ; and the inhabitants of Oriental coun- 
tries generally boil it, and add aromatics or condiments 
to cover its insipidity. Rice contains a large amount, or 
about ninety per cent, of nutritive matter, or about the 
same quantity as wheat ; but as its proportion of gluten 
is considerably less than that of the latter grain, it is not 
so powerful as an alimentary substance. It is, however, 
sufficiently nutritive in all ordinary cases, very easily 
digested, and is better adapted for those who have weak 
digestive organs, with a tendency to acidity, than any 



MAIZE. 121 

other grain. It is slightly astringent, but this property, 
in some cases, renders it useful to those whose bowels are 
liable to become too relaxed. It is also a very suitable 
diet for persons convalescing from fevers and inflamma- 
tory diseases. In this country, rice is rarely used as a 
principal aliment, but generally as an accessory dish.. 
It might, however, in many cases, be substituted for 
potatoes and green vegetables, when these are found to 
disagree. Its insipidity may be completely removed by 
the addition of salt and some agreeable aromatic, or it 
may be added to soups in place of other vegetables. Bice 
is sold under various forms, namely, in the entire state, 
ground, and reduced to a fine powder, or what is named 
" flour of rice." All these preparations are very diges- 
tible when properly cooked, but the entire grain requires 
a longer application of the heat than the other two before 
it is sufficiently pulpy. An amylaceous product is at pre- 
sent manufactured near Paisley from rice, as a substitute 
for arrow-root. It is beautifully white, and is nearly equal 
in appearance to the arrow-root from the Bermudas, al- 
though scarcely so agreeable to the taste. It is stated by 
M. de Theis that vermicelli and macaroni are manufac- 
tured chiefly from the farina of rice ; wheat, however, is 
the grain from which these preparations are generally 
understood to be made. Rice is also employed in the 
arts. Ladies' bonnets, &c. are made from the straw, and 
a kind of wine or beer is prepared from the grain, named 
sakki at Japan and Samsee in China. ^This liquor, when 
distilled, furnishes the ardent spirit called arrack, A 
decoction of rice is very viscous, and is employed in the 
preparation of pastes, which are used in various small 
manufactures. 

MAIZE. 
Zea MaU. — Graminea, — The Grass Tribe, — This 



122 MAIZE. 

grain is of great antiquity, and is generally believed to 
have originated in America ; although it is frequently 
known by the names Indian, Turkey, or Guinea corn. 
Its culture is more extended than that of wheat, and it 
forms one of the principal aliments of the human race. 
It is used in the half of Europe, in America, and to a 
great extent in Asia and Africa. This plant is, however, 
not capable of cultivation in every quarter of the globe, 
for it requires a certain continuity of heat, which is not 
so essential in the rearing of wheat. It is one of the 
most productive grains, and in this respect greatly sur- 
passes wheat, whilst its envelop or bran is much less. 
Its varieties are the black, golden, yellow, and white 
grains ; the yellow being the most common, and the 
white the most delicate in quality, but more difficult of 
culture. The size and form of the grains also vary con- 
siderably, but they have generally a quadrilateral, some- 
what compressed shape. The plant sometimes grows to 
a very gigantic height, and at Guinea and Peru it attains 
to that of 18 feet. The grains of maize are dried in the 
sun or in an oven, and afterwards ground in a mill. The 
farina has a pale yellow colour, is coarser and more 
spongy than flour, has a peculiar odour, and a slightly 
bitter taste. According to Gorham, maize contains in 
100 parts, starch 77.0, zeine 8.00 (a principle analogous 
to gluten), albumen 2.5, sugar 1.45, extractive 0.80, gum 
1.75, vegetable fibre 3.00, water and salts of lime 9.0. 

Uses. From the small quantity and peculiar nature 
t>f the gluten or zeine, and the small proportion of sugar 
which maize contains, it cannot be made into fermented 
bread without the addition of some other grain. It is 
therefore seldom used in the form of bread, which 
is dark-coloured and glutinous. Maize is generally 
made into a kind of pottage or bouillie, called po- 
lenta, or boiled with milk or water, and seasoned with 



MAIZE. 123 

salt, sugar, butter, or aromatics. It is also made into 
thin cakes, various kinds of pastry, and into a species of 
vermicelli. According to many writers, men who use 
maize as food are better nourished, stronger, and bear 
more fatigue than those alimented with rye, barley, or 
buckwheat. It is used by the poor in the whole of nor- 
thern Italy, as well as over the whole continent of 
America; and negroes prefer it to rice, because it renders 
them more fit for labour. 

When the discussion occurred, in the French Academy 
of Medicine, respecting the dietetic properties of maize, 
it was reported by the medical officers of the army, that 
those conscripts are finer men in countries where this 
grain forms the common aliment of the inhabitants, than 
in those where it is not used. It is also said to render 
the men more active, to promote the natural action of 
the bowels, and cause placid sleep. Many of the lower 
animals are also well nourished with maize. Chickens, 
under its use, acquire a fine firm flesh, and an abundant 
white fat. Pigeons, hogs, horses, mules, &c, are fed 
upon this grain, and thrive well. It was at one period 
very celebrated in the cure of epilepsy, and although 
this opinion is too absurd to require serious refuta- 
tion at the present day, it may be useful as an aliment- 
ary agent, derangement of the digestive organs being 
frequent in this disease. The unripe straw of maize 
contains a considerable quantity of saccharine matter ; 
and Humboldt states that the Mexicans extract sugar 
from it, which is used for culinary purposes. The 
grains, when boiled in water, furnish a liquor which by 
fermentation is converted into a kind of beer, from 
which spirit of wine may be obtained by distillation. 
Parmentier states that, when roasted, they may be used 
as a substitute for coffee. In some countiies, such as 
Africa, the unripe grains are eaten, a» they contain, at 



124 BUCKWHEAT. 

this period of their growth, a milky juice of a very sac- 
charine nature. 

MILLET, 

.Pankum Italicum. — Graminem. — The Grass Tribe. — 
Millet is an annual plant, and is a native of India, from 
which Britain is chiefly supplied with this grain. It has, 
however, been cultivated in all the countries of Europe, 
Asia, and Africa. Its seeds are small, numerous, shining, 
yellow, and ovoid in shape, and some of the ears will fur- 
nish nearly two ounces. In wheat countries, it is rarely 
used as the aliment of man ; but is sometimes made into 
bread by the Italians, which is of a yellowish colour, 
sweetish, but not very pleasant. It is more frequently 
made into pottage and puddings, which are used by the 
poor in Italy and Spain ; but its chief consumption is in 
the feeding of poultry. Millet is said to be somewhat 
astringent and diuretic, and at one period was believed 
to be of great service in diseases of the lungs. The inhabi- 
tants of some countries in Tartary extract an alcoholic 
liquor from it by fermentation, and also form it into a 
kir\d of bread. In former ages, the savage Sarmatians, 
who overcame the Roman empire, mixed this grain with 
the blood of horses, as an article of food. 

BUCKWHEAT.— SARRAZIN. 

Polygonum Fagopyrum. — Polygonea. — The Bistort or 
Buckwheat Tribe. — This annual plant was introduced 
from Asia into Europe towards the end of the fifteenth 
century. It is cultivated in almost all the provinces of 
France, as well as in Russia and Germany, and will 
grow in soils where wheat and rye would arrive at 
little perfection. It is therefore a valuable grain for 
sterile districts. The seeds are about the size of the vetch, 
have a triangular Shape, and the farina, procured by grind- 



SUGAR-CANE. 125 

ing them, is whitish in colour and has a farinaceous 
taste, not unlike, in some respects, that of barley-meal. 
According to Zenneck, this grain contains resin, gluten, 
albumen, extract, gum, starch, and vegetable fibre. The 
bread formed from it is heavy, and though it contains 
about 10 per cent of gluten, does not possess the qualities 
of a well-fermented article. Although not so nutritive 
as wheat, barley, &c, it still contains a large amount of 
alimentary substances ; namely, about 52 per cent, of 
starch, besides gluten, gum, sugar, and albumen. It is 
usually made into thin cakes, pottage, tarts, &c. Semo- 
lina or mannacroup is sometimes made from buckwheat. 
The seeds are occasionally used in this country to feed 
poultry and horses. 

SUGAR-CANE. 

Saccharum Officinarum. — Graminea. — The Grass Tribe. 
— This valuable vegetable is generally believed to be a 
native of the East Indies, and was known in Bengal about 
the year 1250. Though now cultivated to a great extent 
in the West Indies, it is, according to Dr. Macfadyen, 
found nowhere in the new world in a state of nature. 
There are several varieties of this plant, such as the red, 
the white, and the elephantine sugar cane, and a fertile 
soil is required for its successful cultivation. The root 
is jointed, solid, fibrous, and it sends up several erect, 
round, smooth, leafy and jointed stems, to the height often 
or twelve feet. The leaves are about three inches broad 
and three or four feet long ; but the plant seldom blos- 
soms, being cultivated in a rich soil which causes it to 
increase much in the root. Mr. Burnett states that the 
sugar-cane is propagated by cuttings of the stalk, which 
are planted in rows. The rows are generally four or five 
feet distant from one another, and more plants are allowed 

for a poor than a rich soil. Cane plantations are made twice 

L 2 



126 SUGAR-CANE. 

a year, in May and June, or December and January, these 
being the rainy seasons. The first cutting of the canes does 
not take place until a year after they are planted ; but 
an established plantation is cut every six months. In a 
rich soil, the plants will survive for twenty years, but 
not more than half that time, if it be inferior. In the 
West India islands, the canes are generally cut immedi- 
ately after the autumnal rains. They are then deprived 
of their leaves, and crushed between iron cylinders, for 
the expression of the juice, which is conveyed into a large 
copper vessel. The juice contains sugar, vegetable albu- 
men, an acid, &c. ; and if the temperature be high, the albu- 
minous constituent reacts upon the saccharine matter and 
speedily causes fermentation. It is therefore necessary, as 
speedily as possible, to free the juice from this substance 
by lime, which, uniting with it, causes it to collect on the 
surface in the form of a coherent scum. 1 part of lime, 
to 800 of cane-juice, are the proportions generally em- 
ployed ; but these are varied according as it is more or 
less watery. The heat which is applied to the mixture 
during this process is about 140° F. It is afterwards 
subjected to three or four different boilings, the scum 
being frequently and carefully removed, and during 
the last, lime water, if required, is added. When boiled 
until it is sufficiently concentrated, it is transferred to a 
wooden vessel, named the cooler, to crystallise or grain. 
It is then put into hogsheads, placed over a cistern and 
having their bottoms pierced with holes that are stopped 
with cane or the stalk of a plantain leaf. The syrup 
which has not crystallised filters through these openings 
into the vessel placed below, for about three weeks, and 
leaves in the casks what is named raw or muscovado 
sugar. A gallon of cane-juice is supposed to yield about 
a pound of raw sugar, which still contains a large portion 
of molasses ; and this is separated from the crystallisable 



j 



EXTRACT OF LIQUORICE. 127 

portion by the process called refining. When raw sugar 
is kept for a length of time, it becomes weaker in saccha- 
rine properties, soft, and gummy. Various processes are 
adopted in the manufacture of refined sugar. The old 
process consists of boiling raw sugar with blood and lime, 
and then purifying the sugar loaves by the application 
of a stratum of clay, moistened with water, to the broad 
end of the loaf. The water drains through the pores of 
the sugar, and carries the molasses along with it, through 
the opening at the conical termination of the mould. 
Various improved methods are now adopted ; such as 
boiling with steam, and in vacuo by means of an air pump, 
the use of animal charcoal to destroy colour, and sulphate 
of zinc, or hydrate of alumina, to precipitate impurities, 
and the employment of a peculiar kind of filters made of 
canvass. 

Sugar is also manufactured from several other vege- 
tables, such as beet-root, the maple tree, &c. ; and may be 
procured, by chemical means, from substances which do 
not naturally contain it. 

Maple Sugar. — The sap of the sugar maple (acer sac- 
eharinum) is converted into a useful sugar, in some parts 
of North America. It has a dirty white or brownish col- 
our, is aggregated into lumps like refined cane sugar, 
regularly crystallised, and has a very saccharine though 
slightly peculiar taste. The beet-root yields sugar which 
is little if at all inferior to cane sugar, and its manufac- 
ture is carried on in France, &c, to a considerable extent. 
A particular species of sugar is manufactured from the 
juice of the grape, and by the chemical action of sul- 
phuric acid on starch and wood, but the latter is very 
inferior in saccharine properties. 

Extract of Liquorice — is manufactured from liquorice 
root (glycyrrhiza glabra), and contains a large quantity of 
unfermentable sugar, but which has little sweetening power 



128 USES OF SUGAR. 

when compared with cane sugar. It is, however, ef- 
ficacious in disguising the taste of certain nauseous medi- 
cines, such as senna ; and as it is not fermentable it is less 
liable to disagree with the stomach than cane sugar, when 
used in the form of syrup for pectoral affections. Sugar 
is also contained in milk, being the principal source of its 
agreeable taste. 

Uses. Sugar is rarely adulterated, although it some- 
times contains a little carbonate of lime, derived from the 
lime employed in its purification, but this is generally so 
minute as to produce no injurious effects. It is impor- 
tant, however, that the different qualities of sugar be 
attended to ; for the less molasses it contains, its digesti- 
bility is so much the easier. As a general rule, therefore, 
the dry and light-coloured kinds are preferable to those 
which are damp and dark in the tint ; but refined sugar, 
regularly crystallised sugar (sugar-candy), or the Deme- 
rara crystal sugar, ought to be preferred to any other. 
Sugar is generally considered very nutritive and easy of 
digestion ; the greater part of it, in a healthy individual, 
being converted into chyle, and thus a small portion only 
is left as excrementitious. Animals, however, cannot be 
supported by it alone for any length of time, or without 
the admixture of some other species of aliment ; and in 
this respect it is analogous to oil and some other sub- 
stances, as shown by the experiments of M. Majendie. 
As a proof of its fattening properties, the negroes of the 
West Indies are generally quoted, who, during the sugar 
season, are represented to be in a state of embonpoint. 

Sugar, however, cannot form a large proportion of the 
food of persons in ordinary life, without some derange- 
ment of the digestive process. In cases of dyspepsia, 
sugar, saccharine fluids and articles of confectionary, 
&c, containing them, more particularly if molasses be a 
constituent, are very apt to occasion acidity, flatulency, 



HONEY. 129 

and sometimes diarrhoea. Sugar of the finest quality 
should therefore be alone used by such persons. Sugar 
is employed in the formation of various syrups, in con- 
cealing the taste of unpalatable drugs, and as an antidote 
to poisoning with the salts of copper, mercury, silver, 
lead, &c. In the West Indies, molasses is employed ex- 
tensively in the manufacture of rum ; and the peculiar 
flavour of this ardent spirit is supposed to be owing to an 
essential oil contained in cane juice. It is a popular 
opinion that the use of sugar spoils the teeth ; but this 
belief appears to be totally without foundation. 

HONEY.* 

The Bee — (apis meUifica) — a hymenopterous insect, 
has been well known from the earliest ages, and is referred 
to in the Old Testament. In the natural state the bee 
dwells in hollow trees; but at the present day it is 
domesticated in every country. A swarm or community 
consists of females, males or drones destitute of stings, 
and neuters or working bees. The neuters are the most 
numerous, averaging from fifteen to thirty thousand, and 
the drones from eight hundred to one thousand. The 
drones are destroyed by the working-bees about autumn, 
after their services can be dispensed with. 

Honey is collected from the nectaries of flowers by the 
working-bees, who pass it into their crops or honey-bags, 
where, probably, it is mixed with some of their secre- 
tions, and slightly altered in its properties. It is after- 
wards deposited or disgorged into the cells of the honey- 
comb. The species of plant on which the bee feeds 
influences the quality of the honey very materially. 
Thyme, lavender, rosemary, and other odoriferous plants, 

* Although honey is to a certain extent an animal product, it resembles 
sugar very Intimately in chemical and dietetic )1 properties, and has there- 
fore been described as a variety of this substance. 



130 ADULTERATIONS OF HONEY. 

influence both its odour and taste; and the colour is 
always brown when the settlement of the bees is in a 
heathy locality. Honey sometimes becomes poisonous, 
when collected from poisonous plants. This almost never 
occurs in this country; but such accidents have taken 
place in some parts of Asia, and North and South America. 

Several varieties of honey are met in commerce. 1. 
Virgin honey, which flows spontaneously from the 
comb, and is the most transparent and free of colour. 2. 
Expressed honey. 3. Honey expressed with the aid of 
heat. When recently dripped, honey is liquid, trans- 
parent, viscid, of a straw colour more or less deep, and 
has an agreeable aromatic odour and sweet taste. When 
kept for some weeks, it begins to solidify or crystallise. 
The crystals should be large and granular, and the sub- 
stance of the honey when cut ought to be whitish, soft, 
and contain a rich juice in the interstices of the grains. 
Honey contains two kinds of sugar, a crystallisable and 
an uncrystallisable, and inferior varieties contain the 
largest proportion of the last mentioned kind. It also 
contains gummy and waxy matters in small proportions. 
Honey is soluble in water, and partially so in alcohol, is 
capable of the vinous fermentation, and the beverage named 
mead is made from it. It is also capable of the acetous 
fermentation ; and inferior kinds of honey frequently 
become acid and give out a disagreeable odour. Inferior 
honey may be purified by boiling with a third part of 
its weight of water, and a ^ of ivory black, nitration 
through flannel, clarifying with white of egg 9 and then 
concentrating it to the due consistency over the vapour- 
bath. (Christison.) 

Adulterations. It is sometimes adulterated with 
sugar when high in price, and also with flour or starch. 
These are dissolved in water and added to the honey, in 
the liquid state. The flour or starch may be detected by 



THE PEA. 131 

the tincture of iodine which strikes a blue colour if these 
be present, but it is more difficult to discover sugar. 
When much sugar is added to honey, the latter soon 
becomes dry, hard, wants its rich peculiar taste and odour, 
and the crystals are more regular in form, and not gran- 
ular like those of genuine quality. 

Uses. Honey resembles sugar in alimentary proper- 
ties, but is more difficult of digestion, and is rather laxa- 
tive. When taken to a considerable amount, it is apt, 
particularly in. persons of delicate digestive organs, to 
induce flatulency, spasmodic pains in the bowels, and 
diarrhoea. It therefore ought to be considered, as is 
generally the case, more as an agreeable adjuvant to the 
other alimentary matters, than as a principal constituent 
of any repast. 

Honey has been used in medicine for a long period. 
It enters into the composition of gargles and diet-drinks, 
and is employed, in some cases, in place of sugar or syrup. 

THE PEA. - 

Pisum Sativum. — Leguminosa. — The Pea Tribe. — 
This annual plant has been cultivated in this country 
from time immemorial. It was not very common, 
however, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth; and Ful- 
ler states that peas " were fit dainties for ladies, they 
came so far and cost so dear." It was formerly as much 
cultivated in Scotland as corn ; but since the introduc- 
tion of the potato, its use has diminished. Numerous 
varieties of this pulse are cultivated in gardens, which are 
distinguished by their colour, size, and taste, the latter 
being sweet, farinaceous, and agreeable. There are only 
two principal varieties grown in the fields ; namely, the 
grey and the white. According to Braconnot, the pea 
contains starch 42.68, gluten or legumin 18.4, a gummy 
substance 8.00, sugar 2.00, pectic acid mixed with starch 



132 THE PEA. 

4.00, chlorophyl 1.2, amylaceous fibrin 1.06, envelop 
8.26, with some salts of lime and potass. The envelop 
or shell contains tannin, and hence if peas be boiled in a 
rusty iron pot, they will be blackened. 

When peas are manufactured into meal, the envelop 
is removed, for if allowed to remain its qualities would be 
less agreeable. In the manufacture of the finest quality, 
or "brose meal, " the foreign white and the field grey 
pea are mixed, in various proportions ; the finer qualities 
being made chiefly from the first, and the inferior from 
the second. The quality also depends upon the greater 
or less portion of the envelop which is removed ; or on 
the quantity detached by the process of shealling; for 
the central portions of the pea are the most agreeable. 

Uses. Various opinions are entertained respecting the 
nutritive properties of the pea, when compared with the 
cereal grains, such as wheat, barley, oats, &c. Dr. Cul- 
len was of opinion that the leguminous seeds or pulse 
are more nutritive than corn ; and a similar impression 
prevailed at one time very extensively among the pea- 
santry of Scotland. This belief has of late gained addi- 
tional support from chemical investigations ; for the pea 
contains considerably more nitrogen than the various 
kinds of corn. According to M. Boussingault's analysis, 
120 parts of yellow peas are equivalent, in nutritive 
power, to 191 of wheat, or 1096 of potatoes.* As these cal- 
culations are still chiefly founded on theoretical results, 
they ought not to be implicitly relied on ; at the same 
time, both theory and experience warrant us in saying 
that the pea is not inferior to wheat or other kinds, of 
grain in nutritive properties. The pea is also easily 
digested, and is less liable to produce acidity than oats, 
barley, &c. It is well adapted as a farinaceous aliment, 

* British and Foreign Medical Review, April 1842. 



THE BEAN. 133 

ju for those who have weak digestive organs, particularly if 

u the fine meal be employed. A considerable quantity of 

„ boiling water should be mixed with the farina in making 

the preparation, so as to give it a thin consistency ; for 
by this means it is better cooked and more digestible. 
Boiling injures its sweet and agreeable qualities. It is an 
excellent species of food for children, particularly those 
who have derangements of the stomach and bowels, and 
when proper attention is paid to the quality of the meal 
and the cookery, it is generally highly agreeable to them. 
In the green state, peas are very tender, easily digested, 
and better adapted for those who are troubled with indi- 
gestion, than any other green vegetable ; provided they 
are simply boiled in water, and used with the addition of 
little or no butter. This pulse is generally considered 
liable to produce flatulency, and this opinion may apply 
to the ordinary kinds of meal ; but certainly the finer 
qualities of this article produce no such effects. The pea 
is also used for feeding horses, and it is stated by some 
authors that hogs are readily fattened by it. The green 
straw is reckoned as nourishing as hay, and is excellent 
food for sheep. 

THE BEAN. 

Vicia Faba. — Leguminosas.— Thb Pea Tribe. — This 
plant was much esteemed among the ancients. The Athe- 
nians used sodden-beans in their feasts to Apollo, and the 
Romans held a festival called Fabaria. The farina of 
the bean was considered a strong species of food, having 
a tendency to dull the senses ; and hence Pythagoras ex- 
pressly forbade beans to be eaten by his disciples. The 
Romans, at one period, believed that the souls of the dead 
resided in beans ; and hence they were eaten at funerals. 
Bean meal, called [omentum by the Romans, was a cele- 
brated cosmetic among the ladies for removing wrinkles. 

M 



134 KIDNEY ON FRENCH BEAN. 

The bean is extensively cultivated in this country, chiefly 
as a very nutritive and strengthening food for horses. 
According to Einhof, the bean contains starch, gluten, 
albumen, saccharine extract, gum, amylaceous fibrin, and 
some salts of lime and magnesia. The envelop or exter- 
nal covering contains tannin ; hence beans will be black- 
ened if boiled in a rusty iron pot. 

Uses. The bean agrees in dietetic properties with the 
pea, but is less agreeable and rather more difficult of 
digestion ; it is therefore seldom used by man in its ripe 
state. In the green state, the garden bean is used as a 
constituent of broths and other culinary preparations ; 
and when deprived of its envelop, forms an agreeable 
and digestible addition ; but like other green vegetables 
it sometimes produces acidity or flatulency. 

KIDNEY OR FRENCH BEAN. " 

Phaseolus Vulgaris* — Leguminosas. — The Pea Tribe. 
—This vegetable is supposed to have been brought from 
Asia into this country; but it has been cultivated in 
Europe almost from time immemorial, in gardens and 
in the open fields. There are many varieties of this plant, 
and it flowers from July to September. The flowers are 
white, red, or purple ; the pods are slightly swollen over 
the seeds, which are generally kidney-shaped, sometimes 
ovoid, smooth, shining, and when ripe varying in colour, 
being either white, black, blue, or spotted. Speechly 
suggests that it might become an object of field culture 
in this country, more especially as in good land it will 
grow luxuriantly even in a dry season ; in which respect 
it differs from most culinary vegetables. It is cultivated 
in the fields in a great number of warm countries, espe- 
cially in France and America. According to Braconnot 
the dry kidney-bean contains starch 42.34, gluten or 
legumin 18.2, gum 5.36, small quantities of sugar, pectic 



ARROW-ROOT. 185 

acid, a yellow grease, amylaceous fibrin, salts of potass 
and lime, envelop 7.0, water 28.0. 

Uses. The unripe pods are generally used in Britain, 
and are in great estimation throughout the year, being 
produced by forcing when they cannot be grown in the 
open air. They are preserved in salt and vinegar, and 
used as a pickle. On the continent, the ripe seeds are 
much used in cookery, forming haricot* of various kinds, 
and are also frequently employed in the formation of 
soups, pottage, &c. 

At the end of the season the crop is dried, the beans 
being thrashed out and preserved for use during the 
winter. 

This legume is in general very easily digested, but 
when seasoned with much butter ought to be avoided by 
the dyspeptic. It is stated by some authors, that it is 
less liable to produce flatulency in the green state than 
when ripe. This may be true with respect to healthy 
individuals; but when the digestive organs are weak, the 
young is more liable than the full-grown vegetable to 
produce acidity. 

ARROW ROOT. 

Maranta Arundinacea. — Marantaceae. — The Arrow 
Root Tribe. — This plant is cultivated to a considerable 
extent in the East and West Indies, America, &c, for the 
manufacture of arrow-root. In Jamaica it is reared in gar- 
dens and other similar grounds. It has received its name 
arrow-root because the root of the plant is applied, by 
the Indians, to wounds inflicted by arrows; but the 
arrow-root or starchy principle is also prepared from the 
roots of the maranta indica and other plants. The 
maranta arundinacea is about two or three feet in height, 
has small white flowers, and a white articulated tuberous 
root, having long jointed stoles. The fresh root contains, 



136 ARROW-ROOT. 

according to Benzon, a little volatile oil, albumen, 
gummy extract, fibrin, salts, and 26 per cent, of starch. 
It appears, however, that the whole of the starch is not 
extracted from the root, in the usual mode of manufacture ; 
for according to Merat and De Lens, one pound of the 
root furnishes only two ounces of arrow-root. It is pre- 
pared in the following way. The roots, when about a 
year old, are washed and bruised to a pulp in a wooden 
mortar. The pulp is then well agitated with a large 
quantity of cold water, which is rendered white by the 
starchy powder floating in it; and the latter is freed from 
the fibrous matter by straining through a sieve, which 
allows the starch and water only to pass through. The 
powder is afterwards dried by the heat of the sun. Arrow- 
root is a white granular powder, having a farinaceous 
insipid taste, a slightly glistening appearance, and it 
crackles when rubbed between the fingers. It makes a 
firm jelly with boiling water, and in this respect it is 
superior to wheat-starch. (Christison). It is imported 
from most of the West India islands in boxes and tin 
cases ; and the arrow-root of the Bermudas is generally 
considered the finest by druggists. 

Adulteration. Arrow-root is sometimes adulterated, 
and this is done most frequently with potato-flour. 
Various methods have been recommended for the detec- 
tion of such adulterations ; but none of them can be con- 
sidered accurate tests. The most simple method is an 
examination of the suspected article by the microscope. 
The globules of arrow-root are thus found to be small, 
elliptical, pearly, or translucent. By an ordinary mag- 
nifier, the difference between potato-starch,~arrow-root, 
and wheat-starch, may be tolerably well ascertained. 
Potato-starch, when viewed through this medium, has 
the appearance as if densely studded with minute glo- 
bules of mercury. Arrow-root has a pretty near resem- 



ARROW-BOOT. 137 

blance to refined sugar reduced to powder; and wheat-starch 
exhibits a glistening appearance. The sophistication of 
arrow-root with potato-flour, wheat-starch, or any other 
pure amylaceous product, is not injurious, in as far as the 
health of the community is concerned ; for though genu- 
ine arrow-root is perhaps slightly superior to one or more 
of these, yet the difference between them, in point of 
digestibility and nutritive power, is very little. At the 
same time as arrow-root is generally much higher in price 
than any of the substances mentioned, this practice ought 
to be considered as a fraudulent imposition. 

Uses. Arrow- root is an exceedingly digestible and 
moderately nutritive species of aliment. It is well 
adapted for those who have delicate digestive organs ; for 
like other starchy products it is easily acted on by the 
gastric juices, and is little liable to produce acidity. It 
is also a suitable diet for infants and young children ; 
for when combined with milk it is sufficiently nutritive. 
It may be prepared either with water or milk, or with a 
mixture of these liquids. A table-spoonful of arrow-root 
will form, with a pint of liquid, a tolerably firm jelly. 
Some persons simply pour the boiling water upon the 
arrow-root, and unite them by stirring ; but boiling for 
a few minutes is a better method, in point of cookery. 
A little salt or sugar is an agreeable addition, if moderate 
in quantity; but the first ought to be preferred by the 
dyspeptic. Arrow-root is generally taken with milk, 
wine, or some aromatic liquid, and sometimes with jelly. 
The former is generally the most agreeable ; but when it 
disagrees with the stomach, diluted wine or ginger cor- 
dial may be used. Arrow-root may be formed into a 
nutrient drink for children who refuse to swallow it in the 
solid state. Half a pint of milk, the same quantity of water, 
and from one to two tea-spoonfuls of arrow-root, when 
boiled together will form a mixture of suitable consistency. 

M 2 



138 sago. 

East India Arrow-boot. Mr. Pereira describes two 
varieties of East India arrow-root. 

1. The white, which does not crepitate between the 
fingers to the same extent as that from the West Indies. 

2. The buff-coloured, which is often intermixed with 
husks and other impurities. These varieties are extracted 
from the curcuma angustifolia, which belongs to the gin- 
ger tribe of plants, and perhaps from other species of cur- 
cuma. They are seldom used for dietetical purposes, but 
are bought by starch-manufacturers in this country. 

Brazilian Arrow-root. According to Mr. Pereira, 
Brazilian arrow-root is made from the root of the same 
plant which furnishes the tapioca of commerce ; namely, 
thejatrcpha manihot. It is white and pulverulent, and 
its granules are smaller than those of arrow-root and quite 
spherical. Its properties are similar to those of tapioca. 

Tous lbs Mois. This starchy matter resembles potato- 
flour in its glistening appearance and size of globules, 
which are even a little larger than those of the latter. 
It is procured from the root of the carina coccinea. Dr. 
Christison considers it at least equal to arrow-root, and it 
furnishes fully a stiffer jelly. It is generally imported 
from St. Kitts. 

SAGO. 

Sagus Lams. — Palmaceas. — The Palm 'TRiBE.-^Sago 
is a species of starch procured from several palm trees, 
but chiefly from the sagus rumphii, sagus lawis, and 
saguerus rumphii, which grow in Borneo, Sumatra, Ma- 
lacca, and the islands of the Indian ocean. The pith of 
the tree is the part from which sago is prepared, and the 
method for its extraction varies somewhat according to 
the country in which it grows. The tree is supposed to 
have arrived at .maturity when about the age of fifteen 
or twenty years, or when the superior leaves are covered 



SAGO. 139 

with a farina or white powder; but those that are young 
contain the most pith or medulla. The trunk of the 
tree is divided into portions and split longitudinally, 
and the interior part or pith, which is tender and spongy, 
is taken out. It is sometimes eaten by the natives in 
this state, after being boiled for a short time ; but more 
frequently the pith is subjected to the following process. 
After being bruised, it is put into sacks made of the 
fibrous matter of the palm, and washed with a stream 
of water. The water carries along with it the starchy 
matter, and leaves the fibrous portion of the pith in the 
sack ; but the deposit requires repeated washing for its 
thorough purification. It is afterwards made into bread, 
soups, pastes, and is cooked with milk, sugar, and aro- 
matics. It is one of the most ordinary kinds of food 
used in the Moluccas; and some trees will furnish five 
or six hundred pounds of this product. The wood is 
made into boxes, and used for other economical pur- 
poses. 

Commercial sago is found in three forms : — 

1. Sago mealy which is rarely sent to this country, is 
found in the form of a powder resembling arrow-root, of 
a whitish colour, with a tint of red, and a peculiar 
odour. Its starchy globules are unbroken, and it is 
insoluble in cold water. 

2. Common or brown sago resembles in appearance and 
size pearl-barley, being brownish or whitish in colour; 
its globules are entire, and it is not soluble in cold water. 
This variety was at one period employed in this country 
much more generally than pearl sago. 

3. Pearl sago has the form of small round grains, of a 
pearly lustre, semi-translucent, of a whitish, greyish, 
dingy, or yellowish-white colour, which are partially 
soluble in cold water. From this latter property, it is 
highly probable that some degree of heat has been em- 



140 CASSAVA AND TAPIOCA. 

ployed in giving it this form ; but the manipulations 
employed are not exactly known. Its taste is agreeable, 
farinaceous, but slightly insipid. It is chiefly imported 
from Singapore. 

Uses. Sago, being a pure amylaceous product, is 
moderately nutritive, very digestible, and well adapted 
as aliment for children and those who have delicate 
digestive organs; while its granular shape renders it 
more agreeable to some persons. It may be prepared 
either with water or milk, or a mixture of these liquids. 
Some seasoning is necessary, such as salt, sugar, or an 
aromatic. The addition of eggs, much sugar or milk, is 
injurious to those who are troubled with indigestion. 
The following mode of preparing sago for children or 
invalids may be adopted : — Take half a pint of milk, the 
same quantity of water, a table-spoonful of sago, and a 
little salt or sugar ; macerate the sago in the mixture of 
milk and water for about an hour, then boil until the 
Whole is converted into a soft pulp. Sago has, within 
these few years, been successfully employed in feeding 
some domestic animals, particularly the horse. 

CASSAVA AND TAPIOCA. 
Jatropha Manihot. — EupJwrbiacece. — The Euphoe- 
bium Tribe. — The bitter cassada is a shrubby plant, 
indigenous in South America, from whence it has been 
carried to the West Indies, &c. by the negroes. It has 
palmated leaves, green flowers, fleshy agglomerated roots, 
which sometimes attain the thickness of the thigh, and 
have a grey, green, or red colour externally, according to 
the variety cultivated, but the interior is always white. 
The roots contain a large quantity of milky juice, which 
is very poisonous, causing death when swallowed by 
birds, quadrupeds, and man. This poisonous principle 
is volatile. It is stated by some authors, that if the juice 



CASSAVA AND TAPIOCA. 141 

be exposed to the air for thirty hours, it entirely evapor- 
ates, and that boiling has the same effect on it. By dis- 
tillation it may be collected in the form of a liquid, which 
operates with extreme violence, half a tea-spoonful being 
sufficient to kill a dog in five minutes. According to Dr. 
Christison, the poisonous principle is hydrocyanic acid. 
The native Indians use the juice of this root for poison- 
ing their arrows, so virulent are its properties. 

Notwithstanding the very deleterious nature of this 
juice, the root, when deprived of it, is very nutritive 
and wholesome. There are several methods of rendering 
the root fit for aliment. The first is to expose it to 
heat; but the following plan is frequently adopted. The 
roots, from the age of six months to two years, are dug 
up, immediately washed, scraped and grated into a pulp, 
which is put into a sack, and submitted to pressure until 
all the milky juice procurable is forced out. A white 
powder is deposited from the juice, which is preserved 
for alimentary uses ; the matter which remains in the 
sack is dried by the heat of a stove, and afterwards 
reduced to powder, and sifted to free it from the fibrous 
matter. This powder is made into round thin cakes, and 
baked upon plates of iron or clay. The bread is named 
cassava, and may be preserved for a long time if kept 
dry. 

Tapioca — is obtained from the same plant by drying 
the fecula or starchy powder on heated metallic plates. 
It generally has the form of hard, dry, irregular, or warty 
grains, of a white or dingy- white colour, with sometimes 
a starchy efflorescence on its surface, and a farinaceous 
agreeable taste. It is partially soluble in cold water, 
which is, to a certain extent, evidence of the employment 
of heat in its manufacture. When the starchy powder 
is dried without heat, it is imported under the name of 
Brazilian arrow-rooty tapioca-meal, &c. The pulp of 



142 BRITISH TAPIOCA. 

the root is sometimes dried by smoke, and being pul- 
verised is named cassava-powder. 

Uses. Tapioca is more frequently used in this coun- 
try than cassava ; but both are nutritive, pleasant, and 
very digestible kinds of food. Tapioca may be classed 
as one of the strong amylaceous products, and is well 
adapted as aliment for children, invalids, and those 
who have delicate digestive organs. It may be prepared 
either with water or milk, or with a mixture of these 
liquids. As it is very hard, it is generally necessary to 
macerate it in the liquid in which it is to be boiled, for 
an hour or two, before this process is commenced. A 
table-spoonful of tapioca is generally sufficient for a pint 
of milk or water, provided the boiling be continued for 
a sufficient length of time, or until the whole is con- 
verted into a soft pulp. It is often made into puddings, 
with the addition of a considerable amount of eggs, sugar, 
wine, aromatics, &c. ; but a compound of this kind is 
more difficult of digestion than a simple combination of 
it with milk or water, with the addition of salt, aro- 
matics, or a little refined sugar. Tapioca is occasionally 
employed in the starching of linen, and by straw-bonnet 
makers, as it is believed to have more effect in stiffening 
the straw than some of the other starchy products. 

British Tapioca. — Within these few years, an excel- 
lent species of tapioca has been made from potato-flour ; 
and its resemblance to the real is so near that they can 
with difficulty be distinguished by the naked eye. It is 
white, hard, granular, agreeable, and farinaceous in taste. 
The globules of real tapioca are spherical, very small, 
equal in volume, and resemble those in wheat-starch; 
whereas those in British tapioca are large and elliptical 
in form. By the aid of an ordinary magnifier, the glo- 
bules which exist in potato-flour may be discovered upon 
the surface of the granules of British tapioca, and resenx- 



SALEP. 143 

ble minute globules of mercury ; while, in the foreign 
variety, no globules are discoverable through this medium, 
but here and there some glistening points. For ordinary 
dietetieal purposes, British may be considered very nearly 
equal to foreign tapioca. 

SALEP. 

Orchis Mascula. — Orehidem. — The Obchis Tribe. — 
Salep is procured from a great variety of the orchis tribe 
of plants; but most frequently from the orehis mcucula, 
which grows in almost all the countries of Europe, in 
Persia, Turkey, along the coast of the Mediterranean, 
&c. The salep of commerce, however, is not prepared 
in this country, but is generally imported from Asia 
Minor and Persia. It is prepared in the following way. 
The bulbs or roots of the orchis are dug up, washed, put 
into boiling water to facilitate the detachment of their 
exterior covering. They are then dried by the heat of 
the sun, or baked in an oven for ten or twelve minutes, 
and are capable of being preserved for a long time in this 
state. The dried bulbs vary in size from that of an olive 
to a cherry-stone, have an irregular oval shape, a yellow- 
ish-white colour, are semi-transparent, horny, and very 
hard in texture, generally destitute of odour, and have a 
taste similar to that of gum tragacanth. They are 
reduced to powder with some difficulty, and, in order to 
facilitate this process, they are previously moistened with 
water. The pulverised bulbs are sold under the name 
salep, which is sometimes termed saloop or saloup in 
popular works, and in appearance, taste, &c, resembles 
dark-coloured gum arabic in the state of powder. It has 
a dingy yellowish-white colour, its taste is very similar 
to that of gum tragacanth, and it adheres to the teeth 
when chewed. Dr. T. Thomson considers salep a variety 
of starch. Pfaff and Caventou endeavour to show that 



144 THE POTATO. 

it consists chiefly of vegetable mucilage, or of a principle 
analogous to gum tragacanth. It also contains a small 
portion of starch, a volatile substance of a disagreeable 
odour, and a bitter and acrid extract. It requires for its 
solution a large quantity of water; about sixty parts of 
boiling water being necessary to dissolve one of salep, 
and the resulting mucilage is very thick. 

Uses. Salep has a high character in Eastern countries 
as a restorative, &c. It is believed to contain the great- 
est quantity of nutriment in the least possible bulk, and 
one ounce is reckoned sufficient to nourish a man for 
twenty-four hours. These opinions are extravagant, but 
its nutritious properties are nevertheless considerable, and 
perhaps greater than those of the ordinary starchy ali- 
ments. It is made into jellies, pottage, pastes, &c, with 
the addition of sugar and aromatics. It is used as a diet 
in pulmonary consumption, hectic fever, dysentery, &c; 
and being nutritive and easily digested, is well adapted 
for these complaints. It is sometimes employed, in place 
of gum arabic, for glazing cloth. 

THE POTATO. . 
Solatium Tuberosum. — Solanea. — The Nightshade 
Trtbb.— This herbaceous, plant is one of the most impor- 
tant vegetables cultivated by man. It is capable of 
growing in almost every climate, but it thrives well only 
in the mountainous districts of tropical countries. It 
may be reared in every variety of soil, provfded it have 
sufficient depth. The native country of the potato is 
not exactly known. Pavon states that it grows wild in 
the environs of Lima; and it has been found growing 
spontaneously at Mexico, but its roots or tubercles are 
only about the size of a hazel-nut. The date of its 
introduction into Europe is not exactly fixed. Sir 
Walter Raleigh brought it from North America to 



THE POTATO. 145 

Britain in the year 1584, from which it was carried to 
Ireland and many other countries of Europe. It appears 
to have been introduced also from Peru into Belgium, 
and other countries in the possession of the Spaniards, 
about the same epoch, or perhaps at an earlier period. 
A considerable number of years elapsed, after its intro- 
duction into this country, before it was generally culti- 
vated. The nobility and gentry of England planted the 
potato in their gardens about the year 1620, as a curious 
exotic ; and in 1684 it was cultivated in the open fields, 
to a small extent, in Lancashire. It was first reared in 
the open fields in Scotland, by Thomas Prentice, a 
labourer in Kilsyth, about the year 1728. When first 
introduced, many persons were prejudiced against it on 
account of its supposed narcotic properties ; and this was 
believed solely because it belongs to a poisonous family 
of plants. In Burgundy, the culture and use of potatoes 
were interdicted, as the root was believed to be poison- 
ous and mischievous ; a notable example of the absurd- 
ity of preconceived notions, when opposed to experiment 
and observation. A great many varieties of potatoes 
have been generated by their cultivation in different 
localities, soil, &c, and by sowing the seeds. Sir John 
Sinclair has enumerated a number of these ; but as they 
are constantly varying, it is unnecessary to particularise 
them. The qualities considered most essential in their 
cultivation are earliness in ripening, quantity, agreeable 
taste, and capabilities of preservation. The reddish- 
coloured potato is much esteemed, and those that are 
rough in the skin and heavy are considered the most 
farinaceous. 

In storing potatoes for winter use, the principal points 
in their preservation consist in keeping them dry, and 
securing them from frost. This may be done by four 
methods. First, in houses, such as is often practised in 

N 



146 THE POTATO. 

this and other countries. In Sweden, the farmers build 
houses ten or twelve feet high, of clay and straw, having 
a wall about six feet thick, over a pit four or five feet 
deep, for their reception. Second, they are deposited in 
vaults and cellars ; hut such places are in general found 
too warm, and the potatoes are apt to vegetate. Third, 
in some countries caves are dug on the sides of a hill, 
about six yards wide and ten feet deep, and when filled 
with potatoes, a stack of stubble or straw is built over the 
opening. Fourth, a very common plan in this country 
is to collect the potatoes into a heap on the surface of the 
ground, and cover them with straw and earth to a depth 
sufficient for the exclusion of rain and frost. 

According to Einhof, the red potato contains starch 
15.0, fibrous starchy matter 7.0, albumen 1.4, mucilage 
4.1, acids and salts 5.1, water 75.0. Potatoes also con- 
tain a small portion of crystallisable asparagin, and a 
minute quantity of a yellow fixed oil, but the oily prin- 
ciple is not discovered after cooking. 

It thus appears that this root contains nearly 75 per 
cent, of its weight of water and 15 of starch ; thus a 
large quantity of water is swallowed along with it when 
taken as food. From the quantity of its contained starch, 
it might naturally be expected that this substance would 
be dissolved by the water during the process of boiling, and 
form with it a gelatinous liquid. The non-occurrence 
of this is explained by an examination of the structure 
of the potato. The roots or tubers are cellular in struc- 
ture, and each cell contains from ten to twelve grains of 
starch. In these cells, and in the spaces between them, 
there is an albuminous liquid. By boiling, the starch 
absorbs the liquid and swells up, while the albumen, 
being coagulated, forms irregular fibres. During the 
germination of the potato, no sugar is formed, as in that 
of the various kinds of corn; and their increase of 



THE POTATO. 147 

weight is owing to the absorption of water. It is a com- 
mon opinion that the buds of the potato are not whole- 
some ; and this belief has been confirmed by the experi- 
ments of Otto, who has found them to contain the nar- 
cotic principle named solanine. 

When potatoes have been frosted, the part affected 
acquires a bluish colour, becomes softer in texture, and 
soon runs into decomposition. When boiled they have 
a sweetish taste, from the generation of sugar, and are 
not so free or farinaceous in texture. Some very impor- 
tant results have lately been obtained by M. Gerardin 
respecting this subject. He was requested by the Society 
of Agriculture of la Seine Inferieure to examine the 
chemical constitution of frosted potatoes, as immense 
losses had been sustained by the small farmers in con- 
sequence of their rejection as useless and unfit for aliment. 
He found them to contain exactly the same proportions 
of starch, fibrous matter, albumen, &c, and the starch 
possessed all the qualities of that extracted from sound 
potatoes. Even after they had become very soft or semi- 
fluid, and were exhaling a disagreeable odour, the starchy 
principle was found entire. When the frozen potatoes 
are as hard as wood, they should, according to M. Ger- 
ardin, be put into cold water for some hours, in order to 
soften them ; they are then to be crushed in a mortar to 
the consistence of a fine homogeneous bouillie or pulp, 
and washed on a sieve with a stream of cold water, so as 
to separate the starch. When the farina of potatoes is 
only wanted, nothing more is necessary than to put them 
into sacks, and submit them to pressure, so as to squeeze 
out as much water as possible, then to dry them in a 
stove and grind them into meal.* Sir John Sinclair 
relates a curious instance of the starchy principle being 

* Journal de Pharmacie, Juin, 1838. 



148 THE POTATO. 

recovered from a parcel of frozen potatoes. " In 1794, a 
field of potatoes at Camstradden, in the count y of Dum- 
barton, was laid under water by the sudden rise of Loch 
Lomond. A quantity of them were dug up, and being 
wet, they were laid on the floors of out-houses to 
dry ; but in a few days it was found that they were 
spoiled so much as to be unfit for feeding cattle. When 
a heap of these potatoes, which had been left on the 
ground, was turned over next year, a quantity of 
starch was found." A sample of this starch was sent 
to Sir John Sinclair in 1826, and, after being kept for 
thirty years, seemed to be as good as the produce of that 
season. 

Uses. Notwithstanding all that has been written 
against the wholesome and nutritive properties of the 
potato, there is no species of aliment consumed to such 
an extent in this country. In Ireland the working popu- 
lation subsist almost entirely upon it, and in respect of 
hardy and vigorous constitutions they are at least equal 
to those of any other country. There is no kind of fari- 
naceous aliment, with the exception of bread, which is 
so indispensable to a family as this root, and it is very 
nutritive and easily digested by persons of healthy di- 
gestive organ. Even those who have weak assimilating 
organs may use a moderate quantity of potatoes with 
impunity, provided they are of good quality. The amount 
of potatoes necessary for the support of a family, con- 
sisting of a man, his wife and four children, is calculated 
by Sir John Sinclair to be about 14,000 pounds for a 
year, or nearly 7 pounds to each individual, daily. Con- 
tradictory estimates of the nutritive powers of the potato 
when compared with corn or other aliments, have been 
made by authors ; but as one-fourth of this root con- 
sists almost entirely of alimentary matters, it may be 
assumed that 4 pounds of potatoes are nearly equivalent 



j** 



THE POTATO. 149 

to 1 pound of flour, or to rather more than 1\ pounds 
of bread. 

The nutritive power of the potato varies, however, 
according as it has been kept for a longer or shorter 
period ; for according to M. Boussingault, this root con- 
tains more azote when new than when old, and is con- 
sequently less nutritive in spring and summer. Potatoes 
are generally cooked by boiling with water ; but they 
may also be roasted. In whatever way prepared, they 
ought, if good, to possess a farinaceous or mealy character; 
so that they may be easily broken down into powder. 
If hard, watery or waxy, they ought not to be used, par- 
ticularly by those who are liable to acidity, flatulency or 
any other form of dyspepsia, as they are very indigestible 
in this state. As the boiling of potatoes, in relation to 
their digestibility, is very important, Sir John Sinclair's 
excellent observations on this subject may be here quoted. 
" The potatoes should be sorted to have the larger and 
smaller boiled separately. After being thoroughly washed 
they must be put into a vessel, with less water than what 
is sufficient to cover them, as the potatoes themselves 
will produce a considerable addition of fluid, before they 
begin to boil. Sea water is sometimes used, but it ren- 
ders them tough ; but a little common salt is of great use 
when thrown into the water, as it renders the potatoes 
freer. If the potatoes be tolerably large, it will be neces- 
sary, as soon as they begin to boil, to pour in some cold 
water, and occasionally to repeat this addition till by 
trial they are found boiled to the centre. If this be not 
attended to, they will crack on the outside, while the 
inside will be nearly in a crude state. The water should 
be immediately poured off after they are thoroughly 
boiled, and the vessel should be replaced on the fire, till 
the water adhering to them is completely evaporated." 

Proust states that potatoes lose during cooking from 12 to 

N 2 



150 POTATO-STARCH OR POTATO-FLOUR. 

15 per cent, of their weight ; but nothing if they do not 
break. According to Dr. T. Thomson the loss is from 1 
to l£ per cent, of the weight. 

Potatoes are employed in the manufacture of an ardent 
spirit, and in France it is conducted on two principles. 
1. By simply fermenting the boiled potatoes along with 
malt and yeast. 2. By converting the starch of the 
potato into sugar, by means of sulphuric acid, and sub- 
sequently fermenting the saccharine fluid which is thus 
formed. The advantages of using potatoes for this pur- 
pose are said to be the following ; namely, that they are 
cheap, afford a good spirit and an excellent residuum for 
cattle, while the grain is economised and less yeast re- 
quired. The leaves and stems of the potato are some- 
times used in feeding cattle, although doubts have been 
started by some authors regarding their wholesome qua- 
lities. The root is however used in almost every country 
where the potato is cultivated for this purpose ; and is 
well adapted for the nourishment of almost every domes- 
tic quadruped and bird. In many cases it is boiled before 
use; a rule the advantage of which is admitted by many 
agriculturists. 

Potato-starch or Potato-flour. — This article is now 
manufactured to a considerable extent in several districts 
of Scotland ; and its employment in the arts and as an 
alimentary substance is on the increase. In its manufacture, 
the potatoes are first washed in a cylindrical cage, which 
revolves in a trough filled with cold water. They are 
then reduced to a pulp by a rasping machine or other 
mechanical contrivance ; and this is afterwards washed, 
upon a sieve, with cold water, applied in the form of a 
divided stream. The starch falls to the bottom of the 
vessel containing the water which has drained through the 
sieves, is again washed or bleached and subsequently 
dried. The process is by no means expensive, and may 



POTATO-STARCH OE POTATO-FLOUR. 151 

be conducted very rapidly. Potato starch is very white, 
friable, tasteless, without odour, and closely resembles 
arrow-root in appearance. When examined with ah 
ordinary magnifier, its globules are found to be much 
larger than those of arrow-root, and resembling small 
globules of quicksilver viewed with the naked eye. 
The globules of the starchy principle named tons lea 
mots are also very large, and in this respect might be 
confounded with potato-starch. Potato-flour is a weaker 
variety of starch than arrow-root, and forms a less con- 
sistent jelly, which is sometimes a little tenacious or co- 
hesive. It possesses the advantage, however, of being 
thoroughly cooked, simply with the addition of boiling 
water. 

Uses. Potato-flour is moderately nutritive and very 
easily digested ; and though perhaps slightly inferior to 
arrow-root and some other amylaceous products in the 
first property, the difference is very immaterial. Some 
individuals have a prejudice against it, believing it to 
possess the flatulent qualities of the potato itself. This 
is entirely a misconception on the part of the public ; for 
the whole of the matters which, in the case of the potato, 
produce this and other disagreeable effects in some indi- 
viduals, are completely separated in its manufacture. 

It is also comparatively much cheaper than arrow-root, 
is at least equally agreeable, and possesses the advantage 
of being a product of this country. Indeed, in seasons 
where the corn crops have more or less failed, it might 
form a very excellent and wholesome constituent of bread; 
for, as has been already stated, it may be manufactured 
very easily either from sound or frosted potatoes. I have 
ascertained, from some experiments made by a baker, that 
loaf-bread may contain one-third of its weight of potato- 
flour without being much deteriorated in nutritive or agree- 
able qualities. For ordinary dietetical use, a large table- 



152 BATATAS. 

spoonful of potato-flour, a little salt and a pint of water, 
will form a mixture of sufficient consistency. It may 
be managed in the following way. Mix the flour well, 
with. two or three table-spoonfuls of cold water; then 
add the requisite quantity of boiling water, so as to make 
up a pint ; constant stirring being employed whilst this 
is being done. It may be taken with milk, or wine diluted 
with water and sweetened with sugar. Ginger cordial 
is also an agreeable accompaniment. 

British Tapioca — is manufactured from potato-starch; 
but an account of this is given under the article Tapioca. 
A kind of sago is also made near Paris from potato- 
starch. 

Potato-flour is used for starching clothes, and for this 
purpose it is often manufactured on a small scale by 
housewives in the country. It is employed in the starch- 
ing of yarns, in the glazing of linen and cotton cloths, and 
for other purposes in the arts. It does not form such a strong 
starching agent as wheat-starch ; and what is manufac- 
tured on the small scale is sometimes dingy in colour, from 
defective washing or bleaching. 

BATATAS. 

Convofoulw Batatas. — Convohulacece. — The Bindweed 
Tribe. — This plant is a native of South America, but is 
also cultivated there and in the West Indies. The rear- 
ing of it has been attempted in this country and on the 
Continent, but without success. The roots are tuberose, 
fleshy, fusiform, of a red, white, or yellow colour, have 
a saccharine farinaceous taste, and are sometimes found 
half a pound or more in weight. According to M. O. 
Henry, the roots contain starch, albumen, uncrystal- 
lisable sugar very fermentable, a volatile matter, a fatty 
matter, parenchyma, malic acid, salts and about 73 per 
cent, of water. 



RED BEST. 163 

Uses. It is cooked by boiling with water, but is some- 
times roasted. The boiled leaves are also used, being 
eaten like spinage. A species of cake is made at Barba- 
does from the root, which is said to be nutritive and 
digestible. The root resembles the potato in some of its 
properties; and contains about 13 per eent. of starch and 
about 73 of water ; but it is certainly inferior to the 
potato in taste, productiveness, facility of culture and 
digestibility; being more liable to produce acidity of 
stomach and flatulency than the latter root. In Brazil, 
a fermented liquor is prepared from it; and at Java a 
species of ardent spirit. 

YAMS. 

Dioscorea Alata, BuJbifera et Sativa. — Dioscorea,-— 
These are herbaceous plants, which grow in tropical 
countries ; and their bulbous roots are much used as food 
in the Indies, part of America and the South Sea islands. 
It is stated that they grow wild in Ceylon and on the 
coast of Malabar. They were first cultivated in England 
in 1733 ; but the assistance of artificial heat is required 
to bring them to perfection in this country. The species 
named dioscorea alata is most frequently cultivated, and 
its roots are about the size of the beet-root, have a black- 
ish-violet colour externally, and a dirty white or flesh- 
tint internally. In the raw state they are viscous and 
insipid, but when boiled or roasted they are pleasant, con- 
tain a considerable quantity of nutriment, and are much 
esteeemd by negroes. The roots of this species sometimes 
attain the weight of from 10 to 20 pounds ; but those of 
the d. bulH/era are said to be about the size of potatoes, 

RED BEET. 

Beta Vulgaris. — Chenopodece. — The Goose-foot Tribe. 
— This plant is cultivated in gardens and in the fields. 



154 RED BEET. 

It presents two varieties ; namely, la carde, distinguished 
by its large leaves, which are eaten as salad, and its hard 
branchy and smaller roots ; the other, named betterave, 
the root of which is large, fleshy, and the colour deep red, 
white, or golden yellow. The common size of the red 
variety is about twelve inches long and three or four in 
diameter, but it sometimes attains the weight of from 
twenty to thirty pounds. It contains, according to 
Payen, sugar, the greater part of which is crystallisable, 
albumen, fibrin, a nitrogenated matter, extractive, a red 
and a yellow colouring matter, fixed oil, salts, acids, and 
water. The proportion of sugar which it contains is from 
6 to 9 per cent, of the weight of the juice. 

Uses. Beet-root when thoroughly boiled or baked in 
an oven, is sweet, agreeable, tolerably digestible, and con- 
tains a considerable quantity of nutritive matter, which 
is estimated, by Sir Humphrey Davy, to be about 15 
per cent. It is liable to produce flatulency when eaten 
in quantity, more particularly if it be not sufficiently 
boiled ; for it requires a longer exposure to heat than 
many other vegetables before it is sufficiently softened. 
It is also frequently used as a pickle and in the feeding 
of cattle. The most important use to which beet-root is 
applied is in the manufacture of sugar. Margraff was the 
first who called the attention of chemists to the impor- 
tance of this root ; but Achard of Berlin and Chaptal in 
France made us acquainted with the methods of manu- 
facturing sugar from it, on the large scale. This occurred 
during the reign of Napoleon, when colonial sugar 
attained a very high price. The yellow coloured root is 
generally preferred for the extraction of sugar, most 
probably because it contains less colouring matter ; but 
the red beet is also used to a great extent. This manu- 
facture is carried on in France, Belgium and Germany \ 
but owing to the duty, it cannot profitably be carried on 



CARROT. 155 

in Britain. The process employed is very similar to that 
practised for the extraction of sugar from the sugar-cane; 
and beet-sugar is said to be very excellent. The cake 
that remains after the juice is pressed out, being dried 
and roasted, is used in place of malt in the manufacture 
of beer. It is also employed in the feeding of cattle. 
An ardent spirit may be obtained from the juice fer- 
mented ; and in Poland the pulp of the root is allowed 
to go into an acid fermentation, in order to convert it 
into an antiscorbutic aliment. 

CARROT. 

Daucus Carota. — Umbellifera, — The Umbelliferous 
Tribe. — The carrot is a native of Britain and other coun- 
tries of Europe, and is common in pastures and the bor- 
ders of fields where the soil is gravelly. In the wild 
state, the root is small, branched, hard, has a white 
colour, strong flavour, and a bitterish taste. The root 
of the cultivated variety, daucus sativa, is large, fusiform, 
sweet, succulent, of a red, yellow, or pale straw colour. 
According to Vauquelin and Wackenroder, the roots con- 
tain fibrin, a yellow or reddish juice, in which is found 
both crystallisable and uncrystallisable sugar, a little 
starch, extractive, gluten, albumen, a colouring matter, 
which is crystallisable, named carotine, volatile oil, acids 
and salts. The carrot_contains about fourteen per cent, 
of nutritive matter. 

Uses. When thoroughly boiled, this root becomes 
soft and pulpy, is very nutritive, and less liable to pro- 
duce flatulency than the turnip and many other green 
vegetables, although a little difficult of digestion. The 
carrot is sometimes roasted for the purpose of giving 
colour and flavour to soups, or is used in place of coffee. 
It is occasionally dried and reduced to powder, for the 
preparation of bread, soups, &c, during long voyages. 



166 PARSNIP. 

Carrots are employed extensively in feeding oxen, hogs, 
horses, &c; and the latter are said to be so fond of them, 
as to prefer them to oats. They are also used in distilla- 
tion, and owing to the large quantity of their contained 
sugar, they yield more spirit than the potato, the usual 
quantity procurable from a ton being about twelve gal- 
lons. The juice of the carrot is frequently used by far- 
mers to give pale-coloured butter a yellowish tint ; and 
it is probable that the yellow-coloured crystals of the 
root, or carotine, are dissolved by the butter, as this prin- 
ciple is soluble in oils and fatty bodies. M. Antoine 
states that the pulp of the carrot, boiled with double its 
weight of rancid butter and as much water, possesses 
the property of removing the rancidity. When boiled 
to a very soft pulp, carrots are used as a poultice to can- 
cerous ulcers. They are soothing and emollient, but in 
many cases are not superior to poultices made of linseed- 
meal or loaf-bread. An infusion of carrot-seeds is a 
popular remedy for flatulency and gravel. 

PARSNIP. 
Pastinaca Saliva. — Umbelliferce* — The Umbellifer- 
ous Tribe. — The parsnip is a native plant of Great 
Britain, and is found on dry banks, hillocks, and the 
borders of fields. Its root is spindle-shaped, white, 
sweet, and mucilaginous, accompanied with a certain 
degree of acrimony, which it loses, to a great extent, by 
cultivation. The roots of the cultivated parsnip are also 
more thick and fleshy ; but it does not differ so much 
from the native plant as the cultivated differs from the 
wild carrot. It has been reared for a long period in the 
gardens of this country, was formerly much used, and 
during Lent was eaten with salted fish. k Mr. Neill states, 
that " in the north of Scotland parsnips are often beat 
up with potatoes and butter, of which the peasantry are 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE. 157 

very fond. In the north of Ireland, a pleasant table- 
beer is prepared from the roots, with the addition of 
hops. A species of wine is also made from them ; and 
they afford an ardent spirit, after a preparatory process 
similar to that bestowed on potatoes destined for that 
purpose." The cultivated root contains a considerable 
quantity of saccharine matter; and Mr. Philips states, 
that in Thuringia the country people evaporate the juice 
to the consistency of a syrup, which they eat with 
bread instead of honey, and use it in many oases in place 
of sugar. The root contains a considerable quantity of 
nutriment, is sufficiently digestible, but liable to occa- 
sion flatulency when eaten in the raw state. 

VIPER'S GRASS. 
ScorzoneraHispanica. — Cynarocephahs. — This plant is 
a native of Spain, its roots are simple, elongated, black 
externally, white and fleshy within, sweet and saccharine 
in taste, especially when cooked. The shoots of this 
plant are eaten occasionally as salad, and when cooked ; 
but the root is more frequently employed. It contains 
a saccharine and mucilaginous juice, and forms an agree- 
able aliment when boiled. In Italy the leaves are used 
in the rearing of the silk-worm. At one period this 
plant was believed to possess extraordinary powers as an 
antidote to the bite of the viper, and in curing the plague 
and intermittent fevers. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE.— FRENCH 

BATATAS. 

Hdumtkus Tuberwus. — Corymbifera. — This plant is a 
native of Brazil, but is now cultivated in all the coun- 
tries of Europe. It resembles the sunflower in appear- 
ance, and attains the height of eight or ten feet. Its 

roots are composed of large, fleshy, oblong tubercles, red 

o 



158 TURNIP. 

externally, but white within, and very similar to pota- 
toes. According to Braconnot, the fresh root contains 
uncrystallisable sugar 14.8 per cent., inulin 3.0, and small 
quantities of gum, albumen, fixed oil, salts, and about 
77 per cent, of water. From the large quantity of its 
contained sugar, it is capable of fermenting readily, on 
the addition of yeast. According to Payen, 9 per cent, 
of its weight of alcohol can be procured from it. 

Uses. These roots, when cooked, have a sweet and 
agreeable taste, which is similar to that of the common 
artichoke, and are, in general, very digestible ; but hare 
a tendency, in some individuals, to produce acidity and 
indigestion, more especially if saturated with butter. 
They are inferior to the potato in productiveness and 
nutritive qualities. They are sometimes employed in 
feeding cattle. 

TURNIP. 

Brassica JRapa, — Crucifera. — The Cabbage Tribe. — 
The turnip is a biennial plant, which grows wild in some 
parts of England, but is better known as cultivated in the 
gardens and fields of every country in Europe. Its roots 
have a round or globular shape, a white or yellow colour, 
a fleshy texture, and a sweet taste; but the skin, in 
addition to this quality, possesses a slight degree of pun- 
gency. Berzelius states that the juice of this root has 
much analogy to that of the beet, and contains vegetable 
albumen, and crystallised sugar, which, according to 
Drappier, amounts to 9 per cent. 

Uses. The turnip, when thoroughly boiled, becomes 
soft and pulpy in texture, and is then easy of digestion, 
although somewhat liable to produce flatulency. It 
forms a constituent of broths, and is often used as an 
agreeable accompaniment to animal food. The top 
shoots,* such as have existed during winter, are sometimes 



CULTIVATED RADISH. 159 

gathered whilst tender, and dressed as spring greens or 
spinach, under the name of " turnip tops." The boiled 
turnip is sometimes used as a poultice to ulcers and sup- 
purating tumours ; but from its not containing a suffi- 
cient body of solid matter, it is not so well adapted for 
the purpose as linseed-meal or loaf-bread. Several 
varieties of turnip are extensively cultivated for feeding 
sheep, oxen, &c; and the milk of cows which are fed 
entirely, or nearly so, upon this root, frequently acquires 
a disagreeable taste, but is not otherwise injured in its 
qualities. A thorough boiling of the roots, before they 
are given to the cattle, prevents, in a great measure, this 
disagreeable consequence. The seeds of the plant fur- 
nish, by expression, a fixed oil named rape or stoeet oil; 
but this is manufactured to a greater extent from rape or 
cole-seed, brassica napus. 

CULTIVATED RADISH. 

Raphanus Sativus. — Crucifer<B. — The Cabbage Tribe. 
— There are numerous kinds of this plant cultivated in 
gardens, according to the form, colour, &c. of the roots; 
but the two principal varieties of shape are the long- 
rooted, which are generally used in spring, while the 
turnip-radishes are most common during summer and 
winter. The colour of the root varies from white to a 
rose-red, both externally and internally ; its taste is 
generally hot, but sometimes mild; and the texture is 
tender when young, but fibrous or spongy when old. 
When boiled, they lose a considerable portion of their 
pungency ; but they are generally eaten as a salad with 
salt, vinegar, &c. The young seedling-leaves are some- 
times used with cress and mustard as small salad. Radish 
seed-pods, when plump, young, and green, are sometimes 
employed as a substitute for capers. This root does not 
contain much nutriment, and is therefore seldom used on 



160 WILD CABBAGE. 

account of this property, but generally as a salad. It 
was formerly employed as an antiscorbutic, and for the 
cure of graveL 

WILD CABBAGE.— SEA COLEWORT. 

Brassica Oleracea. — Cruciferce. — The Cabbagb Thibb. 
— Mr. Don states that there is scarcely an instance in the 
vegetable kingdom, of a plant that produces varieties so 
different in appearance and qualities as this plant ; and 
if the original plant, as it is found on our shores, with 
very sea-green leaves, no appearance of a head, and flower- 
ing like wild mustard, be compared with the red cabbage 
or cauliflower, the difference is astonishing. It is a native 
of the English coast about the cliffs of Dover, and is 
found in Wales, Cornwall, and Yorkshire, is a biennial 
plant, the stem-leaves are much waved and variously 
indented and their colour is sea-green, with an occasional 
tinge of purple. Wild cabbage is said to be excellent in 
the spring ; but it must be boiled in two waters to remove 
the salt with which it is impregnated. 

The varieties of cultivated colewort or cabbage are very 
numerous, but the principal are the following ; namely, 
greens, kale or borecoles, brassica acephala; savoy cab- 
bage, brassica bullata; red and white cabbage, brassica 
capitata. Cabbage was much prized by the ancient 
Romans, and the Greeks held it in such high estimation, 
that they deduced its origin from the father of the gods. 
Some varieties of this plant were known to the Saxons, 
for they named the month of February Sprout-hale. 
The inhabitants of the north of Scotland were first made 
acquainted with cabbage by the soldiers of Cromwell, at 
Inverness. 

This plant occasionally attains an enormous size ; and it 
is stated that German^ cabbage sometimes grows in Holland 
to such a magnitude that a single head weighs forty 



SOURCROU1E. 161 

pounds. The juice of cabbage, according to Schrader, 
contains starch, vegetable albumen, resin, gum, extract, 
and some salts. Sir H. Davy estimates the quantity of 
nutritive matter in this plant at 73 in one thousand 
parts. According to Boussingault's calculations, 1446 
parts of white cabbage are equivalent in nutritive power 
to 191 of wheat. In the raw state cabbage is hard, 
slightly bitter, and has a peculiar odour. After boiling, 
its odour becomes more agreeable; and the taste is sweet- 
ish and pleasant. The water in which cabbage has been 
boiled, or soups that contain it, runs rapidly into fermen- 
tation, particularly during summer, and emit a fetid acid 
odour. M. Chevreul has ascertained that sulphuretted 
hydrogen is disengaged during the boiling of cabbage, 
turnips, onions, &c, which in all probability is the source 
of the disagreeable odour. The same author recommends 
water charged with common salt for boiling such herbs, 
as it renders them agreeable and saccharine in taste. Long 
boiling, even for one or two hours, is required to give 
cabbage a sufficiently soft and pulpy texture ; for if imper- 
fectly cooked, as frequently occurs in this country, it is 
very indigestible, and liable to produce flatulency and 
acidity. Cabbage is much used by the peasantry of Scot- 
land as a green vegetable, is moderately nutritive, and 
considered aperient. It forms a constituent of broths, 
and is also eaten with butter or animal food. The variety 
named red cabbage is frequently preserved in vinegar 
as a pickle. 

Sourcroute is prepared from cabbage, a species of ali- 
ment which in Germany is reckoned powerfully antiscor- 
butic. It is made by putting alternately a layer of cab- 
bage, cut into thin slices, and one of salt, with a few 
carraway seeds or juniper berries. A kind of acid fer- 
mentation is generated, and fetid water flows from the 

vessel, but the brine is renewed till the twelfth day, when 

o 2 



162 SEA KALE.— -SKA. CABBAGE. 

the liquid becomes clear. This article must be kept in 
vessels well closed, and covered with brine. It is eaten 
with animal food, particularly pork. It was celebrated 
at one period for preserving sailors from scurvy during 
long voyages ; but it is now ascertained that a proper 
mixture of other green vegetables with animal food, 
answers the same purpose. 

CAULIFLOWER AND BROCOLI. 

BramcaBotrytis. — Cruciform* — The Cabbage Tribe.— 
This is one of the most delicate plants of the cabbage 
tribe, and was originally imported from the isle of Cyprus 
about the middle of the sixteenth century. It was not, 
however, much cultivated till about the end of the seven- 
teenth century. The flower buds of the plant form a 
close firm cluster or head, and the perfection of this part 
is chiefly attended to in its cultivation. 

Broooli can scarcely be distinguished from cauliflower ; 
the stem is generally taller and the leaves more elongated, 
but numerous varieties of both exist, and new kinds are 
continually coming into notice. 

Uses. Cauliflower and brocoli are softer in texture 
and more digestible than cabbage, and are generally fa- 
vourites in this country. They are usually boiled in 
water, and eaten with animal food, butter, &c. ; but in 
France they are cooked with various sauces. 

Dr. Johnson must have had a superlative opinion of this 
herb, for he thus expressed himself: " Of all the flowers 
in the garden I like the cauliflower. 9 



j> 



SEA KALE.— SEA CABBAGE. 

Crambe MaHtima. — Cruciform. — The Cabbage Tribe. 
— Sea kale is a native of Britain, France, Sweden, the 
coast of the Mediterranean, and grows in the sand on the 
sea shore. The whole plant is smooth, covered with a 



ARTICHOKE. 163 

very fine farina, and has a sea-green colour .llts radical leaves 
are large and sinuated, its flowers white, and they smell 
strongly of honey. It was first introduced into gardens 
about the middle of last century, and blanched by a cover 
of sand, litter, earthen pots, &c. It is now pretty gener- 
ally cultivated and forced in gardens like asparagus. In 
the wild state the young spring shoots, and the stalks of 
the unfolded leaves, blanched by rising through the 
ground, are frequently used. The ribs of the large leaves 
are sometimes dressed as asparagus. In its properties it 
is similar, and is by many considered not inferior to as- 
paragus. It is eaten with butter, and forms an excellent 
addition to soups, but requires long-continued boiling 
before it is sufficiently softened in texture. By forcing, 
it may be had in perfection from November till May. 

GARDEN CRESS. 

Lepidium /Sativum. — Orucifera. — The Cabbage Tribe. 
— This plant is a native of Persia and the island of Cyprus, 
and is found in corn fields. It is cultivated in gardens, 
and grows very rapidly. Its taste is warm and pungent, 
and when young is the most agreeable and digestible 
of small salads. It seems to act as a condiment in assist- 
ing digestion, is less liable to produce flatulency than 
many other green vegetables, and in this respect is well 
suited for those who have weak digestive organs. Other 
species of cress, such as the sisymbrium nasturtium or 
water cress, &c, possess similar properties. 

ARTICHOKE. 
Cynara Scolymus. — CynarocephalcB. — The artichoke has 
been cultivated in England since the reign of Henry VIII., 
and is a common plant in the gardens of this country. 
The flower head, in an immature state, contains the part 
generally used as aliment, which is the bottom freed from 



164 CHICORY. — ENDIVE. 

bristles and down, and the lower leaves of the calyx. 
The taste of this part of the plant is somewhat sweet and 
mucilaginous, but the leaves are bitter. It is considered 
moderately nutritive and digestible, but requires boiling 
for two or three hours to soften its texture, Artichokes 
are generally eaten with butter, but are also added to 
soups, pies, &c. They may be dried and preserved for 
winter use, and when young are sometimes used as salad, 
with vinegar, salt, oil, &c. 

CHICORY OR SUCCORY— ENDIVE. 

Cichoreum Intybm et C, Endivia. — Cickoraeea. — Chicory 
was known to the Romans as a pot-herb and salad ; and 
Horace notices this plant under the name of cicorea. It 
grows abundantly by road sides, and is cultivated in 
Belgium, Holland, and Germany. Its leaves have a bitter 
taste, which is much diminished by cultivation, and when 
blanched are sometimes used as salad. It is eaten by sheep 
and "goats, but refused by horses and cows. It is employed 
in affections of the stomach on the Continent, but not 
often in this country. Gerarde the English herbalist 
informs us that " the leaves of chicory are boiled in pot- 
age or broths for sicke and feeble persons, that have hot, 
weak, and feeble stomachs, to strengthen the same." 

The root of this plant is spindle-shaped, and contains 
extractive, colouring matter, albumen, sugar, woody fibre, 
and salts. It is frequently employed as a substitute for 
coffee or for its adulteration, and has been used in Holland, 
Flanders, &c, for a good many years ; more particularly 
since the Continental wars, during which period coffee 
attained a high price. In preparing it for this purpose, 
it is first dried, then roasted and ground ; but its infusion 
wants the agreeable aroma of coffee and is more bitter. 

Endive — is another species of chicory, and a native of 
the East Indies. It was introduced into this country in 



GARDEN LETTUCE. 165 

1548, is a hardy annual, requires a rich soil to secure its 
rapid maturity, and is blanched by tying up the leaves 
when it has attained its full growth. It generally pos- 
sesses some degree of bitterness, but some varieties have 
very little of this quality. It is used as a salad, ragout, 
or as a constituent of soups, &c. ; and is considered very 
digestible and well adapted as a green vegetable for those 
who have delicate digestive organs. 

GARDEN LETTUCE. 

Laetuca Sativa* — Cichoracee. — The cultivated lettuce 
was introduced into Britain in 1662, but from what 
country is not known. The ancients, however, were 
acquainted with this vegetable, and in the days of He- 
rodotus it was employed as a pot herb. The emperor 
Augustus was believed to be cured with it of some dan- 
gerous illness, from which circumstance it acquired great 
celebrity; and Galen in his old age ate every night of 
lettuce, in order to obtain a tranquil sleep. There are 
numerous varieties of this plant, and its taste when 
young is bland, mucilaginous and insipid; but after 
the flower stalks shoot up, it becomes bitter, and con- 
tains a milky narcotic juice. Attention to this change 
of qualities during its progress to maturity, will recon- 
cile the seemingly contradictory statement, that lettuce 
may be eaten in large quantities with impunity, and yet 
that a medicine of great efficacy and poisonous properties 
may be extracted from it. When used as aliment, it 
should be young ; but when employed for medical pur- 
poses the plant ought to be in full flower. 

Uses. Lettuce does not contain much nutriment, but 
is by many considered the best vegetable of the salad 
kind, and it is easily digested, and perhaps slightly 
aperient. On account of its insipidity it is eaten with 
salt, sugar, vinegar, oil, &c. The medicine named lactu- 



166 PARSLEY. 

M 

carium is procured from the flower stem of the lettuce by 
making incisions in it, and collecting the milky juice 
which flows out. It resembles opium in appearance and 
effects, although much less poisonous and certain in its 
operation. It is useful as a palliative in pulmonary con- • 
sumption and chronic catarrh. 

CELERY. 

Apium Oraveolens. — Umbelliferat. — The Umbelli- 
ferous Tribe. — This biennial plant is a native of Europe 
and South America, and is a common weed in some parts 
of this country, in marshy ground near the sea. In its 
wild state it is called smallage, and is very acrid, having 
a coarse taste and odour. The effects of cultivation upon 
it are very remarkable, for the leaves of celery are mild 
and sweetish in taste. The blanched leaf-stalks are used 
as salad, but are also stewed and put into soups, to which 
they communicate the peculiar flavour of the herb. In 
Italy, both the blanched and unblanched leaves as well 
as the seeds, enter into the composition of soups. The 
root of a variety, named ceteriac, is also used as a consti- 
tuent of soups, and in Germany this part of the plant 
boiled is used as a salad, with oil and vinegar. Celery 
contains, according to Vogel, fixed oil, a volatile oil the 
source of the plant's odour, sulphur, mannite, bassorine, 
gum, extractive and salts. 

It does not contain much nutriment, but when 
blanched is very digestible and forms an excellent salad. 
It is considered a good antiscorbutic. 

PARSLEY. 
Apium Petro&elinum. — Umbellifera. — The Umbelli- 
ferous Tribe. — This biennial plant is a native of Sar- 
dinia, Greece, Turkey, &c, has been cultivated in Britain 
since 1548, and is found in every kitchen garden. It is 



SORREL. ' 167 

now so common as to be naturalised in several places, both 
in England and Scotland. It contains an essential oil, 
which is the source of its peculiar odour, and when dis- 
tilled it furnishes an aromatic water, which was formerly 
used in medicine. The curled-leaved variety is most fre- 
quently cultivated; but the carrot-rooted kind is also 
reared on account of its roots, which are used like pars- 
nips during winter. Parsley is used as a pot-herb, but 
is also employed for ornamenting dishes. It is apt to 
produce flatulency, but when thoroughly boiled is mo- 
derately digestible. It is considered diuretic and is a 
popular remedy for gravel. 

SPINACH OR SPINAGE. 
Spinacea Oleracea. — Chenopodece. — The Goose-Foot 
Tribe. — This is an annual plant which has been culti- 
vated in our gardens since 1568. Its native country is 
not known, but some authors state that it came from 
Asia. It is a very useful and hardy vegetable, and grows 
both during winter and summer, in any light sandy soil. 
It contains a great quantity of colouring matter, and 
tinges green the excrementitious matters. It is very 
tender in texture, and is on that account more easily di- 
gested than many other green vegetables, and is generally 
considered laxative and diuretic. It is cooked generally 
by boiling, and afterwards mixed with butter, with the 
addition of spices, sugar, &c, to qualify its insipidity. 
The addition of much butter, such as a third of its weight, 
as recommended by some authors, must render it very 
indigestible. It is used as a salad in some countries, and 
by cooks to communicate a green colour to soups and 
articles of confectionary. 

SORREL. 

Rumex Acetosa. — Polygonea. — The Buck-Wheat 
Tribe. — Sorrel is a perennial plant, a native of Britain, 



168 ASPARAGUS. 

and is frequently cultivated in gardens. Its taste is acid, 
and it contains a large quantity of the superoxalate of 
potass or salt of sorrel, which was, at one period, extracted 
from this vegetable. Besides this salt, it contains tar- 
taric acid, starch and mucilage. When boiled in water 
it loses much of its acidity, and becomes cooling to the 
taste, tender and agreeable. It is considered laxative 
and is sometimes added to soups. It is employed to a 
great extent in France ; and Majendie as well as other 
authors state that they have known cases of gravel and 
stone produced by the excessive use of this vegetable, 
the calculi or stones being composed of oxalate of lime. 
A decoction of it is sometimes used as a drink during 
fevers and inflammatory diseases. The natives of Lap- 
land boil large quantities of the leaves in water, and then 
mix the decoction with rein-deer's milk, and use this as 
an agreeable aliment. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus Officinalis, — Asphodelete^—TwR Asphodel 
Tribe. — The ancients applied the term asparagus to all 
the young shoots of alimentary plants ; but it is now 
restricted to this plant, which is a native of Britain, 
France, &c, and is generally cultivated in gardens. It 
is reared by forcing in bed?, and two crops in the year 
may be obtained. According to Vauquelin and Robiquet, 
the juice of asparagus contains albumen, a saccharine 
principle, malic acid, salts, and a peculiar crystalline 
body called asparamide, which is colourless, having no 
odour and little taste. 

Uses. The quantity of nutritive matter in this plant 
has not been determined ; but it is generally considered 
wholesome, and, as a green vegetable, nutritive and 
digestible. It has been accused of causing gout, hemor- 
rhage, &c; but there are no sufficient grounds for be- 



COMMON GAELIC. 169 

lieving such opinions. It has, however, a peculiar effect 
on the urinary secretion, which is rendered fetid by its 
use as aliment. It is sometimes employed as a constitu- 
ent of soups ; hut is more frequently sent to table with 
toasted bread, and eaten with butter. It is considered 
diuretic and aperient, and is used in France for the cure 
of diseases, particularly the root. A vinous liquor may 
be prepared from the fruit or red berry by fermenta- 
tion. 

COMMON GARLIC. 

Allium Sativum. — Asphodelete. — The Asphodel Tribb. 
•—Garlic is a native of Sicily and the south of France, 
and has been cultivated in this country since the year 
1548. It is a perennial plant, and the bulb of this 
species is composed of several oblong subordinate bulbs, 
which have been named cloves, of a pale colour inter- 
nally, but sometimes tinged with purple on the outside. 
These small bulbs are enclosed in a membranous bag, from 
which proceed long fibrous roots, and each clove, when 
planted, attains in one season the size of the parent bulb. 
The bulbs are dug up in autumn, cleaned, tied together, 
and generally hung from the roof of an airy apartment. 
If this or some similar mode of management be not 
observed, they soon spoil and lose their strength. Ac- 
cording to Dr. T. Thomson, garlic, when dried, loses 
about two-thirds of its weight. All the parts of this 
plant, particularly the bulbs, have a strong pungent 
odour, and an acrimonious biting taste. The bulbs fur- 
nish, by expression, a considerable quantity of clear 
juice, which, when distilled with water, produces an 
essential oil, of a yellow colour, an acrid taste, a pene- 
trating odour, and, when applied to the skin, causes blis- 
tering. Garlic contains, besides the essential oil, which is 

the active ingredient, mucilage, albumen, fibrous matter, 

p 



170 THB ONION. 

sugar, sulphur, salts, and water. When garlic is boiled 
in water, it loses almost all its pungency, from the eva- 
poration of the oil, and may be eaten in this state with 
impunity ; but it is rarely used as aliment. It is gener- 
ally disliked in this country on account of its disagree- 
able odour, &c; but is sometimes used as a condiment 
or stimulant along with animal food, or as a component 
part of some sauces. It was much used by the ancient 
physicians, in the form of poultice applied to the soles 
of the feet, or calves of the legs, in typhus fever, small- 
pox, &c. This cataplasm, which is sometimes useful, 
may be made by beating the bulbs to a pulp in a mortar. 
The juice of garlic is also a popular remedy for deafness, 
a few drops being occasionally put into the affected ear. 
It has also been used internally for the cure of asthma, 
and for the expulsion of worms. 

Allium Ascalonicum or Shallot, and Allium Scorodo- 
prasum or Rocambole, possess properties similar to 
garlic. 

THE ONION. 

Allium Cepa. — Asphodelem. — The Asphodel Tribe. — 
The native country of the onion, and its introduction 
into Britain, are not known : but it, as well as the leek, 
was cultivated by the Israelites ; for the latter regretted 
their departure from Egypt, on account of their loss of 
these as well as other luxuries. This plant is still in high 
estimation in that country, for the modern inhabitants 
believe that it will be met in the garden of para- 
dise, and will be the food of houris and true believers. 
This plant is biennial, and resembles garlic; but its root 
or bulb is tunicated or formed of concentric circles. 
There are several varieties cultivated besides the common 
onion, namely, the Spanish, Portuguese, Egyptian, seal* 
lion, tree-onion, &c. ; all of ^ which possess very similar 



i 



i 



THE LEEK. 171 

properties. All the parts of this plant, but especially the 
bulbs, have a strong penetrating odour, which affects the 
eyes powerfully, accompanied with an acrid but slightly 
saccharine taste. This acridity is almost totally dissi- 
pated by boiling, and then the onion is chiefly character- 
ised by its saccharine and mucilaginous qualities. Ac- 
cording to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, the bulbs contain a 
volatile oil of an acrid nature, holding sulphur in solu- 
tion, a matter analogous to gluten, a considerable quan- 
tity of uncrystallisable sugar, mucilage,' acids, and salts. 
Uses. Onions, when full-grown, and used in the raw 
state, are acrid and very liable to produce flatulency and 
disagreeable eructations ; but are somewhat more diges- 
tible when young. When boiled, their essential oil or 
active principle is dissipated by the heat, and they are 
then rendered tender, pulpy, slightly stimulating, nutri- 
tive, and digestible, if taken to a moderate amount. A 
roasted onion is a popular application to a suppurating 
swelling, and is sometimes applied to the ear for the cure 
of ear-ache, or when matter is supposed to be forming in 
that organ. 

THE LEEK. 

Allium Porrum. — Asphodel&e. — The Asphodel Tribe. 
— The leek is a native of Switzerland, and is supposed 
to have been in cultivation about the year 1562. It is a 
biennial plant, and its bulbs are white, globose, and con- 
sist of concentric circles, seated on a radical plate, from 
which spring fibrous roots. The leek possesses proper- 
ties similar to garlic and onions, but is less acrimonious. 
Its active properties reside in an essential oil, which is 
dissipated by boiling. It is used as an ingredient of 
soups, and, when sufficiently boiled, is soft, tender, 
agreeable to many people, moderately digestible, and 
nutritive. 



172 HAZEL-NUT AND FILBERT. 

THE CHESTNUT. 

Castanea Vulgaris* — Cupuliferm. — The Oak Tribe.-— 
This large and beautiful tree is a native of Asia Minor; 
but is cultivated in the temperate regions of Europe. It 
is one of the ornaments of our forests, sometimes attains 
a great age, and grows to an immense thickness. The 
fruit or nuts are large, ovate, generally two in number 
and attached to the greatly enlarged outer calyx, which is 
covered with sharp prickles. The calyx or husk separ- 
ates from the nuts about the end of September, and the 
latter are afterwards dried in the sun for several days. 
The taste of the kernel is sweet, farinaceous, and plea- 
sant. It contains a large proportion of starch and sugar, 
and little or no oil; but it has not been thoroughly 
analysed. 

Uses. Chestnuts are very indigestible in the raw 
state, causing pain, flatulency, and other symptoms of 
deranged digestion ; but, when roasted, boiled, or cooked 
with steam, they are nutritive and more easily assimi- 
lated, although even in this state they can be eaten in 
quantity only by robust individuals. They are used ex- 
tensively as food in some of the mountainous districts of 
Italy and France ; and the inhabitants make the chest- 
nut-meal into pottage with milk or water, and also form 
it into cakes. They are generally used in this country 
as a dessert ; but they also enter into the composition of 
soups, are eaten with turkey or other fowls, and are 
manufactured into various alimentary shapes by persons 
skilled in the art of cookery. The wood of the chest- 
nut-tree is used for many purposes in the arts, is hard 
and durable, but greatly inferior to that of the oak. 

HAZEL-NUT AND FILBERT. 

Corylus Avellana. — Cupulifera. — The Oak Tribe. — 
The hazel is a native of all the temperate countries in 



HAZEL-NUT AND FILBERT. 173 

Europe and Asia. It is mentioned in the Bible as 
having been used by Jacob, and Virgil also alludes to it 
as being injurious to the vines on account of its spread- 
ing roots. This is a large shrub with numerous stems, 
and it has many varieties. The cultivated hazels are of 
two kinds, namely, nuts and filberts ; the former being 
distinguished by the shortness of their calyces or husks, 
and the latter by their length. The nut consists of a 
hard shell, which contains a roundish-ovate kernel, 
covered with a brown shining pellicle. The taste of the 
kernel is sweet, farinaceous, agreeable, and affords, by 
expression, about half its weight of a fixed oil, called nut- 
oil. This is sweet, destitute of odour, has little colour, 
and is frequently employed, on account of the two latter 
properties, in the preparation of perfumed oils. 

Uses. Hazel-nuts, on account of the large quantity 
of oil and starch they contain, are very nutritive, but 
difficult of digestion, and are liable to produce flatulency, 
rancidity, or pain in the stomach. Filberts contain less 
oil in their composition than hazel-nuts, and on this 
account ought to be preferred by those who have delicate 
digestive organs. The hazel-nut is extensively produced 
in England, but the kinds imported from Spain are 
generally preferred. Filberts intended for long preser- 
vation should " remain on the tree till thoroughly ripe ; 
they should then be laid on a dry floor for a few days, 
and afterwards stored in jars of dry sand." Hazel-wands 
were believed, during the dark ages, to possess extraordi- 
nary powers in divination, and in discovering hidden 
treasures, &c. The wood is employed in cabinet-making, 
veneering, &c; and the root-shoots are used in the manu- 
facture of fishing-rods, crates, hoops, &c. Faggots of 
hazel are used for heating ovens. The charcoal of the 
wood is light, and employed in drawing, the manufac- 
ture of gunpowder, &c. 

p2 



174 THE WALNUT. 

THE WALNUT. 

Juglans Regia, — Juglandea. — The Walnut Tribe. — 
The walnut-tree is a native of Persia and the north of 
China. It was known to the Greeks, who named it 
Perskon and Basilicon, Persian or royal nut. It is a 
large and lofty tree, having strong spreading branches, 
and attaining a great age. The bark is thick, and fur- 
rowed on the trunk ; the leaves, when bruised, exhale a 
strong aromatic odour, and during the extreme heat of 
summer, their exhalations are said to cause unpleasant 
feelings in persons who sleep under the tree. The fruit 
is roundish-oval, of a green colour, about one and a half 
inches long, and contains a nut. Towards autumn the 
husk softens and decays, while the nut, being freed from 
its attachments, falls out. The shell of the nut is chan- 
nelled, and, in most of the cultivated varieties, so thin 
that it may be crushed with the fingers. The kernel is 
covered with a fine pellicle, and separated by a thin par- 
tition which may be readily removed, has a whitish 
colour, and is irregularly lobed. Its taste is sweetish, 
rich, agreeable, and it contains a large quantity of oil. 
This is a drying ail, being convertible into a varnish by 
exposure to the air, and amounts to about one-half of 
the weight of the kernel. 

Uses. Walnuts are very nutritious, but difficult of 
digestion, on account of the large quantity of their con- 
tained oil. Those who are troubled with derangement 
of the stomach should use them with extreme modera- 
tion, or perhaps avoid them altogether ; particularly if 
they have begun to decay, as in this state they are more 
apt to excite a rancid digestion. They are used to a 
much greater extent in Italy, France and Switzerland, 
than in this country ; and the roads in some of these 
regions are lined, for many miles together, with walnut- 



THE CASHEW NUT. 175 

trees. Walnuts are also used as a pickle, and are pre- 
served, for this purpose, about the end of June. In 
France, they are eaten during August, before the shells 
become hard, with vinegar, salt, pepper, and shallots. 
A species of ketchup is also made from the green fruit. 
The most general employment of the walnut, in the 
south of Europe, is for the expression of the oil which 
it contains. This oil is used by artists in mixing white 
or delicate colours, as a substitute for olive-oil at table, or 
oil of almonds in medicine, and for burning in lamps. 
It is consumed to a considerable extent in France, and the 
marc or husks which remain after the expression, are 
used to feed swine, sheep, and poultry. The sap of the 
tree is very sweet, and contains sugar. Incisions are 
frequently made into the trunk during spring, and a clear 
sap flows out, yielding, on evaporation, a kind of extract 
which is used as sugar, and sometimes a kind of wine or 
spirit is made by fermenting it. The roots, the bark of 
the root, the husks, &c. of the walnut-tree yield to 
water a dark-brown dye, which becomes fixed in wood, 
hair, and wool, without alum or any other mordant. 
This dye is used by gypsies and theatrical performers 
for staining the skin, and by cabinet-makers for produc- 
ing a similar effect on white and yellow wood. The 
wood of the walnut-tree is considered very beautiful, and 
is not liable to crack or twist. It is used by cabinet- 
makers and coach-makers, and in the manufacture of 
arms and musical instruments. The bark and external 
covering of the fruit were at one period employed as sto- 
machics, for the expulsion of worms, &c. 

THE CASHEW NUT, 
Anaeardium Occidental. — Anacardiacea. — The Ca- 
shew Tribe. — This tree is a native of the East and West 
India islands, and South America, and is believed to have 



176 CACAO. — CHOCOLATE. 

been known to the Greeks and Arabians. It. commonly 
attains the height of from twelve to sixteen feet, and the 
fruit consists of a kidney-shaped nut, seated on a fleshy, 
pear-shaped peduncle, or what Mr. Don calls a nut seated 
on a fruit. The fruit or peduncle, which has a yellow or 
red colour and an acid taste along with some astringency, 
is sometimes made into a preserve with sugar. Its juice is 
converted into a species of wine, and an ardent spirit is 
distilled from the latter product. The nut has two shells. 
The external shell is smooth, ash-coloured, and between 
it and the internal one, which covers the kernel, there is 
a thick, oily, dark-coloured fluid, which is inflammable 
and very caustic when applied to the skin. The kernel 
is white, sweet, agreeable,'contains oil, and abounds with 
a milky juice. 

Uses. The cashew nut is very nutritious, but like 
other oily nuts, difficult of digestion. It is generally 
roasted, so as to deprive it of its hard and unwholesome 
covering. It forms an ingredient in the composition of 
puddings, and is sometimes used to improve the flavour of 
old Madeira wines. The oily liquid which is contained 
between the two shells is used as an application to can- 
cerous and syphilitic ulcers, in the countries where the 
tree is indigenous. This juice when mixed with lime is 
also used to form an indelible ink. The tree yields a gum 
which resembles gum arabic. 

CACAO.— CHOCOLATE. 

Theobroma Cacao, — Byttneriacece. — The Cacao Tribe. 
— The cacao-tree is a native of South America, from 
twelve to sixteen feet in height, and many countries are 
celebrated for its cultivation, particularly Trinidad, the 
Carraccas, &c. The fruit is large, about three inches in 
diameter, has somewhat the shape of a small cucumber, 
of a red or yellow colour, and contains a pulp in which 



CHOCOLATE. 177 

are imbedded the seeds or nuts. The pulp is slightly acid 
to the taste, and is sometimes sacked or eaten by the 
natives of the countries where the tree is cultivated. The 
seeds are ovoid in shape, a little larger than hazel nuts, and 
of a reddish-brown colour ; there are about twenty-five in 
each capsule, and they speedily lose their power of vegeta- 
tion when removed from it. 

The fruit, as it ripens, is gathered by the hand or by 
means of a forked stick. On the continent the pods are 
buried in the earth for thirty or forty days, in order that 
the mucilaginous matter surrounding the seeds may be 
decomposed by fermentation ; and also for the purpose of 
destroying their power of vegetation. In the West India 
islands, the pods are collected into a heap, and allowed 
to ferment for three or four days, with a similar object ; 
but it is stated that this method is liable to give the cacao 
a bad colour and an acrid taste. The cacao nut contains 
about four-tenths of its weight of a fixed oil, which is 
solid at ordinary temperatures, and named in France 
beurre de cacao. It has the consistence of tallow, a 
yellowish- white colour, the odour of the roasted nut, and 
is little liable to become rancid. It is manufactured by 
first roasting the nuts, bruising them into a fine paste, and 
finally submitting them to strong pressure between 
heated iron plates. It is used in France for affections of 
the chest, combined with syrup, gum, &c. It is also 
employed as an ointment for chops, hemorrhoids, and in 
the formation of suppositories, for the relief of constipa- 
tion dependent on spasmodic stricture of the rectum. 

Chocolate is prepared by first slightly roasting the 
nuts, removing the shells, and then grinding the kernel to 
powder in a mill or mortar. The powder is afterwards 
reduced to a smooth paste between rollers driven by 
machinery, then heated and put into tin pans. Aro- 
matics of various kinds, and other substances, such as 



178 coco. 

vanilla, cinnamon, anise, long pepper, sugar, musk, an- 
notto, are mixed with the paste daring the levigation 
according to the fancy of the manufacturer. Mr. Dono- 
van states that "he who wishes to have pure chocolate 
without being drugged, has no more to do than purchase 
the scorched nuts, and to grind them in a coffee-mill, 
without having removed the shells. The fine smell of 
this, when newly ground, gives evidence of its superiority, 
and its taste when brought to table will complete the 
proof." The cacao used in the West Indies, and on 
board of ships, is generally prepared by this simple and 
certainly superior method. * 

Chocolate is sometimes adulterated with starch or flour, 
and it is stated by some authors, that this sophistication 
cannot be detected, for the cacao nut contains about ten 
per cent, of starch. Delcher and Chevallier have shown 
that this nut contains no starch, and that the test of iodine 
may be depended on ; for when added to genuine choco- 
late, it does not strike a blue colour in the liquid, but 
only a yellowish brown tint.* 

Uses. Chocolate or roasted cacao is frequently used as a 
nutritive and agreeable diluent, particularly at breakfast, 
being made into an emulsion with sugar and milk. It is 
difficult of digestion, and frequently disagrees with those 
who have delicate digestive organs, although instances oc- 
casionally occur where it is more suitable than either 
tea or coffee. The roasted shell is also employed in the 
manufacture of a similar beverage, which has a pleasant 
flavour, but is slightly astringent. 

Cocoa or Coco is a name applied to a preparation 
rather extensively used ; and is said to be manufactured 
from the seed-coats of the cacao-nut, mixed with the 
kernel, or by grinding the roasted nuts without the 

* Journ. de Chimie Medicate, Oct. 1838. 



THE COCOA-NUT. 179 

moral of the shell. It is more astringent than chocolate, 
but in other respects is similar in properties. 

THE COCOA-NUT. 

Coco* Nucifera. — Palmacece. — The Palm Tribe. — 
According to Mr. Henry Marshall, the cocoa-nut tree is 
one of the most interesting of the family of palms in the 
variety and utility of its products. It is found in inter- 
tropical Asia, Australia, America, and Africa ; but it does 
not arrive at perfection unless the mean temperature be 
about 72° Fahr. It grows to the height of from 60 to 110 
feet, and generally attains the thickness of from 1 to 2 
feet. From the structure of the tree, there are no 
branches, but the stem is encircled with parallel rings, 
being the marks of the leaves which annually fall away. 
The stem is erect, and crowned with a tuft of leaves, 
which are twelve or fourteen feet long. The tree con- 
tinues to yield fruit for sixty or seventy years, and in 
good seasons, when the soil is moist, it blossoms every 
four or five weeks. There are thus generally both 
flowers and fruit to be found at the same period, and a 
good tree will yield from eighty to one hundred nuts 
annually. The fruit is round or ovate, slightly triangular, 
sometimes as large as a man's head. It is composed of 
an external covering, which is thin and dry, under which 
is found a fibrous matter, then a nut of great hardness. 
Under the shell there is a white kernel, hard and sweet to 
the taste, and somewhat resembling the hazel nut in these 
properties. In the centre of the kernel there is a cavity 
containing a milky coloured fluid, of a sweetish-saline 
taste, and which contains sugar, gum, albumen, &c. The 
pulpy matter or kernel, according to Brandes, contains a 
crystalline fatty matter (cocoa-nut oil) albumen, gluten, 
sugar, salts, and a large proportion of water. 



180 THE COCOA-NUT. 

Uses. The kernel of the cocoa-nut is very nutritive, 
and is used as ordinary food by the natives of many 
regions of the earth. It is, however, somewhat difficult 
of digestion, from the large proportion of its contained 
oil, and also from its hard texture; civilised nations 
therefore rarely use it but as a dessert. It is eaten alone 
or seasoned with pepper and vinegar, but is sometimes 
added to cakes. The flower yields a rich saccharine juice, 
which is converted into a species of sugar, or arrack is made 
from it. This liquid, which is called " toddy," is also 
drawn from other species of palm-trees; and it is stated 
that about one-eighth part of proof-spirit can be procured 
from it. The oily fluid used in the preparation of curry, 
is procured from the cocoa-nut by expression ; and large 
quantities of the oil are manufactured for exportation. 
It is used universally in Ceylon for burning in lamps, in 
Britain for the manufacture of soap ; and when the fluid 
is separated from the solid part, the latter is made into 
candles. These candles are hard, less greasy, and burn 
longer than those made from tallow, and have some re- 
semblance to wax candles. The other products of this 
valuable tree are used for a variety of economical pur- 
poses. The slender roots are made into baskets, the woody 
shell of the stem and the leaves are employed in the con. 
struction and thatching of huts. The leaves form a con- 
siderable portion of the food of domesticated elephants, 
&nd these animals display' much sagacity in separating 
the thin part of the leaf from the woody fibre. The 
fibrous part of the fruit is used in the manufacture of 
yams, cordage {coir), mattresses, saddles, cushions, mats, 
&c. The cordage is smooth, pliable, strong, elastic, and 
13 mu ch used on the Indian ocean. Sago is sometimes 
prepared from the cellular substance of the stem. 



THE DATE. 181 

THE DATE. 

Phoenix Dactylifera. — Palmacea. — The Palm Tribe. 
— This beautiful palm is a native of India, Arabia, and 
Northern Africa, and has been known from time imme- 
morial; but it is now cultivated in South America, Portugal, 
Spain, Italy, &c. This tree attains the height of about 
fifty feet; the trunk is generally from one to one and a 
half feet in diameter, and it is invested by an enormous 
bouquet or crown of very long leaves, which gives it a 
very picturesque appearance. There are many varieties 
of dates, and some are as large as a pomegranate; but 
they are generally about the size of a pigeon's egg y ovoid, 
elongated, and are covered with a thin pellicle, of a red- 
dish-yellow colour, which contains a rich, saccharine, and 
granulated pulp. The pulp encloses a hard nut, which 
may be softened by the heat of boiling water, and is then 
given as food to horses, goats, &c. Wild dates have a 
harsh unpleasant taste ; but the cultivated varieties are 
saccharine, mucilaginous, and agreeable. Dates are col- 
lected before they are completely ripe, and are dried by the 
heat of the sun or by that of an oven. This country is 
chiefly supplied with them from Egypt and Barbary. 

Uses. This fruit contains 'a large quantity of sugar 
and gum, but little acid ; it is therefore very nutritive, 
and the natives of some Asiatic and African countries use 
it as a chief part of their food. Dates are only used as a 
dessert fruit in this country, and though rich, are not 
particularly difficult of digestion when of good quality. 

They are used in the form of decoctions, along with figs 
and raisins, for affections of the chest and urinary organs. 
By fermentation with water, they furnish a spirituous 
liquor; and a species of vinegar is also made from them, 
which is much used in Upper Egypt. The trunk of the 

tree is considered excellent wood for carpentry- work, and 

Q 



182 THE PLANTAIN. 

the leaf stalks are used in the formation of mats, cords, 
sacks, &c. This palm was held by the ancients as the 
symbol of victory, being the reward of the victor; and it 
figured in all the processions of the Jews. 

THE PLANTAIN. 

Musa Paradisiaca. — Musacea. — The Banana Tribe. 
— The plantain grows very abundantly bet ween the tropics, 
in Asia, America and Africa. It is cultivated in the 
green-houses of Europe, chiefly for the beauty of its 
foliage. Its fruit is a kind of fleshy succulent berry, 
without grains, the pulp is saccharine in taste, and is 
said to resemble that of certain kinds of pears. There are 
numerous varieties which differ from one another in size, 
colour, form, odour, &c. ; but the most common are from 
six to twelve inches long, and one inch or more in dia- 
meter, a little curved, and have some resemblance to small 
cucumbers. The skin covering them is rather thick, 
smooth and green, but becomes yellow and sometimes 
black when ripe. Before maturity, they are covered 
with an envelope, and sometimes this contains fifty or 
more berries. One tree is considered capable of nourish- 
ing a family for one month, and as their production is 
constantly going on, they are found ripe throughout the 
whole year. The fruit contains sugar, gum, albumen, 
woody fibre and several acids. 

Uses. This fruit is considered a wholesome, agreeable, 
but rather flatulent aliment, and is generally eaten when 
ripe, but when not arrived at maturity it is cooked as 
turnips, with flesh, fish, &c. It is also roasted and 
seasoned with sugar, orange-juice, &c. It is dried in the 
sun or by the heat of a stove, in order to preserve it for 
future use, and the negroes make pastes, &c. of it, to serve 
as food during long journeys. According to Humboldt, 
the plantain is an exceedingly valuable tree where it is 



THE BREAD-FRUIT. 183 

cultivated, and more productive than the potato. Dr. 
Wright states that it is of more importance for the sus- 
tenance of the negro in Jamaica than even bread or flour. 

THE BANANA. 

Musa Sapientum. — Musaceae. — The Banana Tribe. — 
This tree is also known by the name of Indian fig, and is 
by some authors considered a variety of the plantain. It 
grows in the same places as the plantain, but its fruit is 
smaller, more numerous, saccharine, delicate and in higher 
estimation. The pulp has some resemblance to that of 
the fig, and crystallisable sugar can be procured from it; 
but it does not contain so much nutriment as the fruit 
of the plantain. It is capable of fermentation, and an 
alcoholic spirit is prepared from it. This fruit is con- 
sidered useful in affections of the chest, urinary organs, 
and in the cure of agues. It is occasionally cultivated in 
green-houses, chiefly for the beauty of its foliage. 

THE BREAD-FRUIT. 

Artocarpus Incisa. — Artocarpea. — The Bread-fruit 
Tribe. — This tree is about the size of a common oak, 
and grows abundantly in the South Sea islands. Its 
fruit is about nine inches long, globular or heart-shaped, 
and of a greenish colour. The pulp is white and fibrous, 
and becomes succulent and yellowish as it approaches to 
maturity. It contains a large quantity of starch, from 
which bread may be made. As it can only be preserved 
for a short time when thoroughly ripe, it is more gener- 
ally used a little before this period; and after being 
divided into three or four parts, it is cooked by roasting. 
Its taste, when roasted, is said to resemble a mixture of 
wheaten bread and Jerusalem artichoke. The natives of 
the South Sea islands prepare a kind of acid conserve 
from the ripe fruit, which they use as aliment wheq the 



THE FIG. 



tree is not in season. Its season continues for about 
eight months, and three trees are believed to be sufficier^ 
for the nourishment of one man. The bark of the t«~ 
bein* beaten and otherwise prepared, » manufactured 
into a kind of tissue for clothing the natives. 

THE FIG. 
FicnCarica.-Artocarpe*.-?** Bwummit Tbibb. 
-The fig-tree is a native of the west of Asia and the 
8 hores of the Mediterranean. It has been cultivated from 
time immemorial, and is believed by some authors to 
have been the first fruit eaten by man. It is ^«^T 
mentioned in the Bible, was highly esteemed by the 
Jews, and the want of blossoms on the fig-tree was con- 
sidered by them as a grievous calamity. The Spartan* 
in the time of Lycurgus, used figs as a part of their 
ordinary food ; and the Athenians were so much attached 
to this fruit that its exportation was prohibited. The 
fig-tree is cultivated to a considerable extent m the 
Levant, France, Spain, Italy, &c, and even in Britain 
it often produces fine fruit, particularly if trained against 
a wall. There are numerous varieties of the cultivated 
fig ; and as the fruit of the wild kinds is very inferior 
in flavour, it is employed, when it ftlls from the tree 
before maturity, to impregnate the female blossoms of 
the cultivated fig. A similar process is effected by an 
insect named eynipt psenes, which conveys the pollen 
from the wild fig to the cultivated kinds, at the time it 
deposits its eggs. This process is called caprification, 
and the ripening of the fruit is much promoted by it. 
The fig-tree rarely exceeds fifteen feet in height, is 
branched from the bottom, and its leaves and bark con- 
tain an acrid milky juice, of which caoutchouc is a con- 
stituent. The fruit is solitary on a thick short stalk, of 
» Pywform or globular shape, having a purplish or red- 



THE MULBERRY. 185 

dish colour, and the pulp is fleshy, soft, fragrant, and 
saccharine. The finest figs are small, and of a whitish 
colour. Britain is chiefly supplied with dried figs from 
Turkey. 

Uses. This fruit contains a large quantity of sacchar- 
ine matter, is very nutritive, and slightly aperient ; but 
is apt, when eaten in large quantities, to cause indiges- 
tion. Figs are used, however, as a principal article of 
food in Eastern countries, as well as in Italy and Spain. 
They enter into the.composition of some decoctions and 
laxative confections, and are used externally as poultices 
in the raw and roasted states to promote suppuration. 
It is stated in Isaiah that king Hezekiah used the fig as 
an application to a boil. In France the wood, of the 
fig-tree, which is light and soft, is used to make whet- 
stones, because it readily retains emery v 

THE MULBERRY. 
Moras Nigra. — Artocarpeoe* — The Bread-fruit 
Tribe. — The mulberry-tree is a native of Persia and Italy, 
and has been known from a very remote period. It is. 
mentioned in the book of Samuel, and also in the Psalms. 
Ovid has celebrated the black mulberry-tree in the story 
of Pyramus and Thisbe» It was first brought into Eng- 
land in the year 1548 ; and the royal edict of James I., 
about 1605, offering mulberry-seeds to all who would 
sow them, brought this tree into fashionable cultivation. 
It is generally a low branchy tree, having a> thick rough 
bark and broad heart-shaped leaves. It is often dwarf- 
ish in Britain, spreading into thick branches near the 
ground, and having a large head. It frequently, how- 
ever, attain* the height of twenty or thirty feet, is 
remarkable for the slowness of its growth, and lateness. 
in sending forth its leaves, although its fruit comes 
early to maturity. It attains a considerable age> some 



186 THE VINE. 

trees being three hundred years old, and its roots pos- 
sess great tenacity of life. The fruit. is a large succulent 
berry, composed of a number of smaller berries, each 
containing a single seed. It is destitute of odour, the 
taste is sweet and acidulous, and it contains a violet-red 
coloured juice, which is composed of sugar, tartaric acid, 
vegetable jelly, vegetable fibre, &c. 

Uses. The mulberry is cooling and aperient, and is 
sometimes eaten as a dessert-fruit. It forms an agree- 
able preserve, though not generally used for that pur- 
pose. The juice is occasionally added to cyder, to which 
it communicates a pleasant taste and odour. It is also 
added to some domestic wines as a flavouring ingredient. 
Some of the Greeks in the Crimea distil a weak and 
agreeable spirit from it, and a wine is made from it in 
France ; but the latter is very liable to become acid. 
Syrup of mulberries is used as a gargle in inflammation 
of the throat, and the root has been employed in cases of 
tape- worm. The leaves are used to feed the silk- worm; 
but those of the morus alba, it is said, are best adapted 
for producing a fine silk. Cattle eat the leaves, and all 
kinds of poultry are fond of the fruit. 

THE VINE. 

Vitis Vinifera. — Vinifera. — The Vine Tribe. — The 
vine must have been known from the most remote anti- 
quity, for it is recorded in the Bible that Noah, after 
coming out of the ark, planted a vineyard and drank of 
the wine. According to Humboldt, it is indigenous in 
Armenia, Georgia, and on the coasts of the Caspian sea. 
Dr. Sickler supposes that the vine came originally from 
Persia, and from thence was carried into "Egypt, Greece, 
andr Sicily ; while, from this latter country, it passed 
into Italy, Spain, France, &c. Mr. Burnet states that 
the vine which is found wild in America is very different 



THE VINE. 187 

from the vitis vinifera, and therefore it ia an error to 
suppose the grape common to both continents. The 
grape does not grow in very cold regions ; and when the 
heat is great, the fruit is seldom good. In the old world 
the vine is cultivated from the 21st to the 51st degree of 
northern latitude, or from Schiraz in Persia to Coblentz 
on the Rhine. According to some authorities, it was 
introduced into Britain by the Romans; and there is 
reason to believe that vineyards were common in Eng- 
land during the dark ages, and formed general appen- 
dages to monasteries and abbeys. 

It is impossible to determine whether the cultivation 
of the vine in this country, for the manufacture of wine, 
has been given up on account of its not affording a pro- 
fitable return, or from some unfavourable change in the 
climate; but it rarely produces fine fruit, except in 
vineries or hothouses. By forcing, however, with arti- 
ficial heat, excellent grapes can be had in some vineries 
during every month of the year; and in the London 
market they are found in the highest perfection from 
March to January. The vine attains a very great age, 
and is almost equal in longevity to the oak. Pliny gives 
an account of a vine which was 600 years old ; and Mil- 
ler states that a vineyard 100 years old is reckoned 
young. The extent of its branches also bears a propor- 
tion to its age ; and there is a record of one at North- 
allerton in England that covered a space of 187 yards. 
The height of the vine is also very great, and sometimes 
it is found overtopping the highest trees in the hedges 
of Italy. It also attains a considerable thickness of 
trunk, being sometimes four feet in circumference ; and 
the wood possesses great durability. The varieties of 
the vine are very numerous ; and in the catalogue of the 
Luxemburgh collection by Hervey, published in 1802, 
the following kinds are enumerated, namely, black oval 



188 RAISINS. 

fruits, 87 ; black round fruits, 98; white oval fruits, 44 ; 
white round fruits, 73 ; grey or violet oval fruits, 5 ; 
grey or violet round fruits, 10 ; in all, 267. The grape- 
vine has an irregular, slender, and twisted stem; and 
sends out long, trailing, flexible branches, which climb 
by means of tendrils to a great extent. The fruit is a 
succulent berry, arranged in clusters, not much larger in 
the wild state than a pea, having a black colour, and con- 
taining five hard irregular seeds. In the cultivated 
kinds, the berry is round, oval or oblong, and is of jl 
green, yellow, amber or black colour. Grapes] if good 
should be soft, juicy, saccharine, and acidulous in taste, 
but not sour. According to Berard, the juice of the 
grape contains an odorous matter, sugar, gum, vegetable 
albumen, malic and tartaric acids, supertartrate of potass, 
and salts of lime. Grapes may be kept for a considerable 
time, provided the skin is not broken or crushed. Con- 
siderable quantities are imported from Portugal into 
Britain, placed in jars among saw-dust, in a perfectly 
entire state. 

Raisins — are dried grapes, and this is accomplished 
either by cutting the stalks of the bunches half through 
their thickness, and leaving them suspended on the vine 
until the fruit is dried ; or, when ripe, collecting and 
dipping it in a solution of soda, to which a little quick- 
lime and oil is sometimes added. The first are the finest 
grapes, and are named muscatels and blooms ; and the 
second lexias, the juice being frequently candied on the 
surface of the latter. In some places, such as Grenada, 
the grapes are simply dried in the sun. 

Currants or Corinths — are the small, black, and 
round grapes, named the Black Corinth, Ascalon Cur- 
rant, or Corinthian Grape, and which are frequently 
destitute of seeds. They were formerly produced at 
Corinth, but now grow in Zante, Cephalonia, &c. This 



WINE. 189 

fruit dried is used to a great extent in Britain in the 
composition of cakes, puddings, &c. 

Uses. The grape contains a considerable proportion 
of nutriment, and is one of the most agreeable and diges- 
tible fruits we possess, if saccharine and not acid. It 
is gently aperient, and from its cooling and pleasant 
qualities, well adapted for persons labouring under febrile 
diseases, provided there is no derangement of the diges- 
tive organs. The skin and seeds ought to be rejected, as 
they are indigestible. 

Raisins being more saccharine and containing much 
less water than grapes, in proportion to their weight, are 
hence more nutritious than the latter; but when too 
freely indulged in, are apt to produce indigestion. When 
of good quality, they are large, plump, and juicy. They 
are used along with figs, dates, &c, in the composition 
of decoctions for catarrhal affections of the chest. In 
this country both grapes and raisins are used to a great 
extent as a dessert fruit ; and in warm climates they are 
sometimes eaten with bread. 

WINE. 

Wine is produced by fermenting the juice of the grape, 
and the most saccharine grapes furnish the richest wines. 
The quality, therefore, of wine depends very much upon 
the climate of the region where the vine is cultivated ; 
and even in France this circumstance is remarked, for 
the southern provinces furnish the finest wines. Fair 
weather is preferred for gathering the fruit, and this is 
done as rapidly as possible, so that the pressing may be 
terminated in one day, and attention to these points is 
found to increase the durability of the wine. In Spain 
the vintage lasts for several weeks, so as to secure matu- 
rity to all the grapes; and the spoiled or insect-eaten fruit 
is not separated from that which is sound, even for the 



190 WINK. 

manufacture of the best sherries. The whole is there- 
fore thrown into the press, maturity being the only point 
attended to. Mr. Redding recommends three gatherings 
of the fruit at different periods, so that the different 
qualities may be properly sorted ; and those intended for 
the manufacture of white wine should be shaken or 
bruised as little as possible on their way to the press. 
The colour of wines is derived solely from the husk of 
the grape ; for when the juice alone of a coloured grape 
is fermented a colourless wine is produced ; but if the 
husk or skin either of white or red grapes be added, a 
coloured wine is the result. It appears from this, that 
as soon as alcohol or spirit is generated by the fermen- 
tation, it dissolves the astringent and colouring matter of 
the husk. Mr. Donovan states that the husk communi- 
cates only a light red colour, and when the red is deep 
it is artificial. Grape-juice does not require the addition 
of yeast to excite fermentation ; for it contains this prin- 
ciple in its composition or one that produces the same effects. 
It does not, however, begin to operate upon the other 
constituents of the fruit until the latter is bruised, and 
thus exposed to the air. A certain temperature is neces- 
sary for the success of this process, which is variously 
ranged by different authorities ; but when the weather is 
cold, hot must is added. As the richness of the wine 
depends upon the quantity of saccharine matter contained 
in the must, a portion of sugar is added, if this be deficient. 
Flavour is sometimes communicated by shoots of the peach 
and almond tree, elder berries, &c. When the cream of 
tartar, which exists in the juice of all kinds of grapes, in 
varying proportions, is deficient, the fermentation does 
not proceed briskly ; it is therefore found advantageous 
to add a portion of this salt in such cases, if a dry wine 
be wanted. Sweet grapes are said to contain the smallest 
proportion of cream of tartar, and hence they require, 



WINE. 191 

for thorough fermentation, the addition of this salt. 
Some wines, however, contain a large portion of unfer- 
mented sugar; such as that -made from the Malaga grape; 
others, such as Burgundy, have the whole of the sugar 
converted into spirit. During the fermentation a portion 
of tartar is thrown down ; and the richer the wine is in 
spirit the larger is the proportion deposited. The same 
salt which is thus deposited at the bottom of the tuns, 
continues also to he precipitated from the wine after it 
has been put into casks or bottles. It is generally of a 
red or brownish colour, according to the quantity of 
colouring matter of the grape employed, is called argols 
in commerce, and is purified or converted into cream of 
tartar by boiling with clay. After the fermentation in 
the vat has been completed, the wine is put into casks or 
pipes, where it still undergoes the same process, though 
in an imperceptible degree. Wines that have been bottled 
before the fermentation is completed are named efferves- 
cing, from the carbonic acid gas which is generated being 
retained in the liquid under the pressure of the cork. 
Wine improves very much in bouquet, by keeping in. 
bottles or casks; but there is considerable loss, not only 
in quantity but also in spirit, from the combination of 
the liquor with the wood and its consequent evaporation. 
All wines do not ameliorate by age. Some, although 
closely corked in bottles, become acid, which happens 
generally with weak wines, or when the juice of the grape 
does not contain a sufficient quantity of sugar ; but many 
wines are liable to a renewal of the fermentation if some 
substance be not added which counteracts this* tendency. 
Thus what is termed sulphuring is in general practice 
among wine manufacturers; and this is accomplished by 
burning sulphur matches in the casks, or adding must 
which. has been strongly impregnated with sulphurous 
acid gas. The sulphuring process is liable to communi- 



192 WINK. 

cate an unpleasant odour to wine, and some manufacturers 
employ red oxide of mercury, sulphuric acid, or the per- 
oxide of manganese. Wines are also fined, or freed from 
the gluten or fermenting principle, by means of gelatine 
or white of egg, which causing a precipitate, carries this 
principle along with it to the bottom. Wine sometimes ac- 
quires a musty taste derived from the cask. Pomier states 
that this may be removed by agitation with olive oil. (Dr. 
T. Thomson.) The vinous flavour of wines is owing to 
the presence of a small portion of oenanthic ether; but the 
distinguishing aroma or bouquet of each particular, kind 
depends upon the presence of a volatile oil. 

The solid contents of wine are very trifling ; thus in 
Port, Sherry, Bordeaux, Hock, Moselle, &c, they vary 
from 2 to 3 per cent. The quantity of alcohol or spirit 
contained in wines varies very considerably according to 
the quality of the grape, the degree of fermentation em- 
ployed, the age, the mixture with brandy, &c ; but the 
proportions in those described will be afterwards given. 
Wines are also very frequently adulterated, and sometimes 
are altogether factitious. Counterfeit wines are sometimes 
so skilfully made, that an experienced connoisseur is 
required to detect them. Red wines are often artificially 
coloured with brazil-wood, myrtle-berries, elder berries, 
beet-root, and even it is said with a solution of indigo. 
-M-. Accum states that spoiled cyder is employed in the 
manufacture of artificial port wine; and beet-root, logwood, 
rhatany root and a portion of brandy are added to it. 
weet-briar, orris-root, laurel- water and elder flowers are 
m Ployed to form the aroma or bouquet of high flavoured 
th' e8 " ^^k wines often become acid, and to correct 
to add l • ** Was fr e< l uent ty ^ e practice, at one period, 
plan 7 Uta Mge or an oxide of lead to them ; but this 

additio m ° re rare ty adopted ^at the present day. This 
communicates to the wine a sweetish taste, by 



CHAMPAGNE WINE. 193 

the formation of acetate of lead, but renders it more or 
less poisonous. This sophistication may be detected, by 
adding to the wine a solution of hydro-sulphuret of potass, 
which produces a black precipitate if lead be present. 
Chalk or carbonate of lime is more frequently employed 
than lead, and is not injurious in small quantities. 

In the following account of r the different kinds of 
wines, those in most general use shall chiefly be noticed. 

Champagne Wines — are produced on the banks of the 
Marne and in the district of Rheims, and are divided 
into sparkling, demi-sparkling and still wines. They 
are white, grey, rose-coloured and some are red. The 
average quantity of alcohol or spirit of wine they con- 
tain is according to Brande 12.61 per cent. The finest 
champagne is that which froths slightly, and it is im- 
proved by ice. The effervescing wines in most estima- 
tion are made on the banks of the Marne. The white 
still champagne named Sillery is more spirituous than any 
other white champagne, has a diy agreeable taste, an 
amber colour and is very durable, the fermentation being 
more perfect than that of the other kinds. Champagne 
wines are generally in perfection about the third year 
after they are bottled ; but the finest kinds improve for 
ten or twenty, and are sometimes good at the age of thirty 
or forty years. Sparkling champagne is the variety 
most generally used in this country, and is bottled before 
the fermentation is completed ; hence when the cork is 
drawn it soon loses its aroma or bouquet, which is carried 
away by the escape of the carbonic acid gas. 

Burgundy Wine — has long been celebrated, and the 
Cote d'Or is the most famous district in this ancient ter- 
ritory for its production. Both red and white wines are 
manufactured in the district. Mr. Redding states that 
red Burgundy ought to be held first in estimation of all 

red wines from its delicious flavour and exquisite bouquet. 

it 



194 RIVES ALTES WINE. 

The Romance Conti is considered the most perfect and best 
red wine in Burgundy, while Mont Rachet ranks high- 
est of the white varieties. In their manufacture the fruit 
of the finest vines is selected, such as the noirun and 
pineau; but inferior kinds destitute of flavour and strength 
are also to be found in commerce. The average quantity 
of alcohol or spirit of wine in these wines is about 13.50 
per cent. 

Claret Wines. — Under this term are included all the 
wines manufactured in the districts adjoining Bordeaux; 
but they are rarely imported into this country unmixed 
with other kinds. M. Redding states that " the product 
called Claret in England is a mixture of several sorts of 
wine ; Beni Carlos and Berdeaux are thus mingled up 
for the English market ; sometimes Languedoc and Bor- 
deaux, and uniformly a portion of spirit of wine in addi- 
tion." Medoc is the district most celebrated for the wine 
of Bordeaux, and the produce of Latour, Lafitte, Chateau 
Margaux are highly esteemed. The district named the 
Graves, as is supposed from its gravelly soil, also produces 
excellent wine, and Haut Brion is reckoned nearly equal 
to the three first-growths of Medoc. 

The qualities of Claret are very various, but it has gen- 
erally a purplish tint and delicate flavour, which is said to 
resemble that of the violet. The proportions of alco- 
hol or spirit of wine which it contains are from 12 to 17 
per cent. ; but as it is a manufactured wine, its strength 
cannot be uniform. The Vin Ordinaire Bordx, accord- 
ing to Dr. Christison, contains 18.96 per cent, by mea- 
sure of proof-spirit. The white wines of Bordeaux are 
divided into the dry and luscious, and the dry are generally 
produced in the Graves. The sweet are not bottled for 
several years and will keep for a long period. 

Rivesaltes. — This wine is made in the vicinity of 
Rivesaltes, a town in the department of the Eastern 



SHERRY WINE. 195 

Pyrennees. "When matured by age, it has a bright golden 
colour, fragrant aroma, with the flavour of the quince and 
an oily rich taste. It is considered one of the best mus- 
cadine wines. According to Dr. Christison it contains 
22.35 per cent, by volume of proof-spirit, 

Masdeu. — This wine is made at a vineyard named 
Masdeu in the department of the Eastern Pyrennees, and 
has recently been introduced into this country, being 
shipped from Port Vendres. It has a deep colour with 
a violet tinge, pleasant aroma and flavour, and is thought 
to resemble old port. It is generally mixed with a little 
brandy. 

Malaga Wine — is made in the mountains which sur- 
round Malaga. The sweet variety is made from a white 
grape, has a rich taste, an amber colour, and a delicate 
flavour. A portion of wine slightly burned is mixed 
with it, in order to give it the characteristic taste. A dry 
wine is also made in the neighbourhood of Malaga, which 
is sold as inferior sherry. The climate of Malaga is 
very favourable for the growth of the grape, and large 
quantities of this fruit, raisins, and wine, are exported 
from it to other countries. The amount of alcohol or 
spirit of wine in Malaga wine is about 18 per cent. 

Sherry Wine, — which is supposed to be the sack of 
former times, is made in the vicinity of Xeres, a town 
near Cadiz. Mr. Redding states, that 'about seven 
thousand acres of land are occupied with vineyards pro- 
ducing wine for the English market. The varieties of 
this wine are obtained by the different modes of treating 
it. Pale sherry is made from the same grape as the 
brown, a portion of gypsum being generally used, and 
two bottles of brandy are added to each butt of wine. 
Brown sherry receives its peculiar character, according to 
Mr. Redding, by the addition of a cheap boiled wine ; 
and hence .the colour is no criterion of its quality. A 



196 PORT WINE. 

light cheap wine named mogueris sometimes mixed with 
genuine sherry and a portion of brandy, and sent to 
England as inferior sherry. Sherry is also very fre- 
quently adulterated in London with cape wines, &c. 
Mr. Redding states that good sherry, of a'year old, cannot 
be imported into Britain under thirty, or, when kept for 
four years, under forty-five shillings per dozen. Amon- 
tillado is the driest of all the Xeres wines, and it is said 
that the addition of brandy injures its flavour. 

The average quantity of alcohol or spirit of wine in 
sherries, is about 20.40 per cent. According to Dr. 
Christison, the amount per cent, of proof spirit, estimated 
by volume, in different kinds of sherries, are the follow- 
ing: namely, weakest sherry, 30.84; strongest sherry, 
35.12 ; sherry in East Indies/and long in cask, 32.30 ; 
amontillado, 27.60. 

Tintilla, Tinto di Rota, or Tent Wine — is also a 
Spanish wine, made near Cadiz, of a red or purple co- 
lour, and having a sweetish strong spicy flavour. It con- 
tains about 13.30 per cent, of alcohol. It is reckoned 
stomachic. 

Port Wine. — The district in which this wine is manu- 
factured, extends along the banks of the Douro for 
about fourteen leagues from the city of Oporto. It is 
generally made from a black grape, and the husks and 
stalks are fermented together. A large quantity of brandy 
is generally added to it, before exportation, and frequently 
its amount is increased by additions in this country. 
Factitious port wine is also made in Britain, from cyder, 
elder berries, beet-root, logwood, rhatany-root, &c. Few 
wines are so frequently sophisticated as port, and some 
of the inferior kinds are little better than coloured vinegar, 
containing alcohol, a little sugar, and some astringent 
matter. Mr. Redding states that the best port wine 
exported to England, is produced at and about Pezo de 



MADEIRA WINE. 



197 



Regoa, which is situated in the centre of the upper Douro, 
and it resembles some of the Rhone growths or Cote 
Rotie. Port wine being fermented with the husks and 
stalks of the grapes, generally contains a considerable 
portion of astringent matter. It has a deep red colour, 
and a rough spirituous taste, but these qualities are often 
increased by adulterations. The average quantity of 
alcohol in port wine, according to Brande, is 22.96 per 
cent. According to Dr. Christison, the weakest port con - 
tains only 80.56, and the strongest 37.27 per cent, by 
volume, of proof-spirit. 

Bucellas — is a wine made in a vineyard near Lisbon. 
It is a dry, white, and light wine, but is often adulterated 
with brandy, which injures its naturally agreeable flavour. 

Dry Lisbon — is also a light agreeable wine. These two 
wines contain about 18 per cent, of alcohol. According 
to Dr. Christison dry Lisbon contains 34.71 per cent, by 
volume of proof-spirit. 

Madeira Wine. — This Vine has been manufactured in 
the island of Madeira for several centuries, and has long 
been held in high estimation. In the manufacture of 
the first quality, the fruit is sorted, trodden by bare-leg- 
ged peasants, then pressed, fermented in the pipes, and 
gypsum is added during the fermentation, which is gen- 
erally continued for six weeks. Madeira wine, in order 
to gain excellence in quality, must attain age on the island, 
if it be not sent a voyage to a warm climate, such as the 
East Indies, and before it is shipped a portion of brandy 
is often added to make it keep. Mr. Redding is of opi- 
nion that a voyage to the East Indies is not necessary ; 
for heat and agitation at home will answer the same pur- 
pose. In corroboration of his views he states, that a 
pipe of! Madeira which had been attached to the beam of 
a steam engine, in an engine-house, for one year, could 

not at the end of that period be distinguished from the 

R 2 



198 GERMAN WINES. 

choicest East India. This is a wine which bears age 
better than many other wines ; for its flavour and aroma 
are much improved by keeping. Bitter almonds are added 
to the inferior qualities; but the finer kinds contain no 
foreign substance except a little brandy. 

Madeira has a peculiar rich aromatic flavour, of a nutty 
and pungent character. The average quantity of alcohol 
is about 20.85 per cent. According to Dr. Christison, 
Madeira long in cask and in East Indies, contains only 
90.80 per cent, by volume of proof -spirit; while the 
strongest contains 37 per cent. 

Malmsey Madeira — is made from over-ripe grapes, or 
by checking the fermentation with the addition of brandy 
to the must. It is a luscious wine, and has a delightful 
flavour. It contains, according to Brande, about 16.40 
per cent, of alcohol or spirit of wine. According to 
Christison, Malmsey contains 28.37 per cent, by volume 
of proof-spirit, 

Texkriffe, — the dry Canary or Vidonia wine. It is 
muoh improved by age, resembles Madeira, and is often 
sold for it by a certain class of wine merchants. The 
term sack was formerly applied to the wines of the 
Canary islands. 

German Wines— are different from all other kinds, 
being dry, generous, finely flavoured, and they keep for 
an indefinite number of years. The Johannisberger of 
the Rhine, the Brannenberger of the Moselle, and the 
Hockheimer of the Mayn, are the most esteemed of those 
wines, and give a kind of celebrity to the rivers on the 
banks of which the vine is cultivated. The grape gen- 
erally preferred is a small white variety, which is some- 
times harsh to the taste ; but the vintage does not take 
place until the fruit is soft from over-maturity. The 
spoiled grapes and stalks are carefully separated from 
those of good quality, and the fermentation is conducted 



TOKAY WINE. 199 

in casks. The wine is afterwards transferred to large 
vessels named /udders, and allowed to remain there for 
years, in order to perfect its qualities. One of these /ud- 
ders, called the heidelberg, is capable of containing six 
hundred hogsheads. The Johannisberger is reckoned the 
first of Rhenish wines ; Hock is also much esteemed, and 
Moselle is only secondary to those of the Rhine or Mayn. 
At one period these wines, particularly hock, were not 
drank in their native districts until nearly fifty years 
old. German wines contain a large proportion of cream 
of tartar, which renders them acidulous. Mr. Henderson 
is of opinion that free tartaric acid is often a constituent 
of German wines, and is the cause of their easy preserva- 
tion. They contain a small proportion of alcohol or Bpirit 
of wine, which varies from 8.71 in Johannisberger to 
13.96 per cent, in Moselle. Dr. Christison found the 
first quality of Rudesheimer to contain 18.44 per cent, by 
volume of proo/spirit. 

Tokay Wink — is made from the Hungarian blue grape, 
which is cultivated around Tokay, a town of Hungary. 
The grape is large, having a luscious taste, and being 
allowed to over-ripen, the juice is very rich, and what 
spontaneously flows out when the fruit is placed on a 
groved table is called "essence of Tokay." After this 
juice has flowed out, the grapes are trodden in a vat, 
and a small portion of this essence is added to the must, 
when it is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours and 
then fermented. This wine is yellowish in colour, green- 
ish when old, luscious, soft, slightly astringent, having a 
peculiar aroma, and appears oily in a glass. It must be 
kept for several years before it is fit for use, and it may 
be preserved for a very long period. At Cracau Tokay 
wine has been kept for a hundred years. Its amount of 
alcohol or spirit of wine is 9.88 per cent. Genuine Tokay 



200 HOME-MADE WINES. 

is a very expensive wine, and is considered the finest of 
the luscious varieties. 

Lacryma Christi — is a wine of a red colour, luscious, 
and has an exquisite flavour, and the best quality is made 
at Galitta in Naples. Several other growths receive the 
same name ; and a white muscadine wine, rich in per- 
fume, is made near Vesuvius. 

Marsala Wine — is produced in Sicily. When free of 
adulteration with inferior brandy, its quality is tolerably 
good, and it resembles some of the lighter kinds of Ma- 
deira or dry Lisbon wines. The average proportion of 
alcohol contained in it is very high, namely, 25.09 per 
cent. 

Cape Madeira — is a boiled and mixed wine, and is fre- 
quently adulterated with inferior brandy, to save the 
expense of improving it by age. The greater part of the 
produce of the Cape of Good Hope is known by the name 
of " Stein wine," which when kept for six or seven years 
is often of good quality ; but this is generally imported 
into this country for the purpose of adulterating other 
wines, and being new is harsh and disagreeable in taste. 
The average quantity of spirit of wine in Cape Madeira is 
20.51 per cent. 

Constantia Wine — is made in the Cape of Good Hope, 
near Cape Town. The vines cultivated are of the Spanish 
muscatel kind, and the wine is sweet, luscious, pungent, 
and is manufactured both of a red and white colour. Its 
proportion of alcohol or spirit of wine varies- from 14.50 
to 19.75 per cent. 

Home-made Wines — are generally made from fruits, 
but as several of these are noticed under the articles from 
which they are manufactured, it is not necessary to de- 
scribe them individually in this place. The acid in such 
wines is chiefly the malic, while in grapes it is the tar- 
taric ; but their great deficiency is the want of flavour. 



BRANDY. 201 

Dr. M'Culloch has proposed the addition of cream of tar- 
tar as an improvement in their manufacture. They 
always contain an excess of acid and unfermented sugar, 
and are therefore not well adapted for those who have 
delicate digestive organs. 

Brandy — is procured by distillation from wine. The 
spirit often retains the flavour of the particular wine from 
which it was distilled/and it is said that persons of experi- 
ence can not only tell from which wine district it comes, but 
from what species of grape the wine was made. This fla- 
vour depends upon the presence of an essential oil. The first 
product in the distillation of brandy is weak, and not well 
flavoured, and is thrown back into the still ; but the next 
contains the proper aromatic principle. Brandy when pure 
is quite colourless, but what is found in commerce has ge- 
nerally more or less colour, derived from the cask or from 
the addition of burnt sugar. Brandy, like other spirits, 
is improved by age, and when kept in wood loses a por- 
tion of its spirit. Wines which abound in sugar that has 
been entirely decomposed during the insensible fermenta- 
tion, afford the greatest amount of spirit. Acid wines 
furnish a tainted spirit, and a softer brandy is procured 
from white than from red wines. The grape cake or the 
marc always contains a portion of undecomposed sugar, 
besides being impregnated with the wine in the vat ; it is 
therefore fermented along with water and distilled, afford- 
ing an inferior species of brandy. An inferior quality of 
brandy is also made by distilling wine-lees diluted with 
water. This spirit is manufactured to the greatest ex- 
tent in France, but it is also made in Spain, Portugal, 
and Italy, and Spanish brandy is considered next in 
quality to that of France. The vineyards of Languedoc, 
Bordelais, Orleans, &c, furnish a large proportion of this 
spirit. Brandy is very frequently adulterated, and some 
spirit dealers manufacture a factitious compound of rec- 



202 DIETETIC USES OF WINE. 

tified whisky, orris root, burnt sugar, and sweet spirit of 
nitre. Berzelius states that a close imitation of real 
brandy may be made, by adding acetic ether to rectified 
spirit, with the addition of burnt sugar. The residuum 
of genuine brandy, after evaporation, strikes a black co- 
lour with the salts of iron ; while that of the factitious, 
being sugar, has no such effect. The quantity of alcohol 
in brandy is 53.39 per cent. 

Dietetic Uses of Wine. — Wine has been used in all 
ages, and in almost all countries, and it is now so uni- 
versally employed as to constitute a necessary element of 
civilised man's social enjoyment. When moderately 
used it seems to have no particular tendency, in a healthy 
individual engaged in active employment, to produce 
disease or shorten life. On the other hand, when taken 
to excess, as is done very frequently in the present luxu- 
rious age, it gives rise to many diseases which either 
cause much suffering, or shorten life to an extent which 
its votaries have never thought it necessary to calculate. 
Wine, however, is not such a hurtful stimulant as ardent 
spirits taken to excess, for the alcohol or spirit of the first 
is united chemically with its extractive matter, and is 
thus prevented from acting so injuriously on the coats of 
the stomach, or exciting the system so much as an intoxi- 
cating agent. It is stated by several writers on dietetics, 
that the same quantity of alcohol, taken in the form of 
wine, will produce very different effects on the body, 
from that which is used simply mixed with water. For 
a similar reason wines which contain brandy artificially 
added, are more injurious than those which have the 
same amount of spirit generated by the fermentation of 
the juice of the grape. The baneful effects of brandied 
wines may also in some cases depend upon the fact that 
more spirit is taken in the one case than in the other, for it 
is well known that port wine, which is consumed to a great 



DIETETIC USES OP WINE. 203 

extent in Britain, is very generally mixed with spirit. 
Besides, brandy is more rarely added to good wines, and 
thus the consumer has to contend not only against the 
bad quality of the brandy, but also against the naturally 
bad quality of the wines. Wine appears to be capable 
of assimilation, for persons are often rendered plethoric 
or corpulent by indulging in it to excess. This cannot 
be accounted for from the quantity of extract it contains, 
for this is very small in many wines. Such effects occur 
also with drinkers of punch or toddy; hence it seems pro- 
bable that alcohol, when combined with alimentary matters, 
or merorganised according to Dr. Prout's phraseology, is 
assimilated like many other carbonaceous substances. 

At the same time, chemical analogy warrants the con- 
clusion, that the alcohol which naturally exists in wines 
is differently combined with the other matters than that 
which is artificially added; and hence may on this account 
be assimilated to a greater extent. The moderate use of 
good wine, such as two or perhaps three glasses daily, to 
a healthy individual, stimulates digestion, excites the 
energies of the system, and increases the power both of 
the mental and corporeal functions. On the other hand, 
its abuse causes intoxication, nausea, vomiting, headache, 
feverishness ; and when indulged in for a series of years, 
dyspepsia, gout, apoplexy, dropsy, mania and other 
diseases. Notwithstanding the evil consequences which 
result from the use of wine to excess, large quantities 
have sometimes proved very beneficial in the cure of 
certain diseases; such as typhus fever or other febrile 
maladies accompanied with great sinking of the powers 
of life. In estimating the dietetic qualities of different 
wines, it is first necessary to attend to a few of their 
leading properties. Thus new wine often disagrees with 
many individuals; for the fermentation not being com- 
pleted, they contain much saccharine matter undecom- 



204 DIETETIC USES OF WIXE. 

posed, which is apt to be converted into lactic acid in the 
stomach.* A similar objection applies to sweet and 
luscious wines, for though old, they are too rich in sacchar- 
ine matter to admit of their thorough fermentation ; and 
consequently when mixed or diluted with the other fluids 
of the stomach are liable to cause acidity, &c. 

Acidulous wines such as Hock, Moselle and other Ger- 
man varieties, which if good are only acidulous from the 
quantity of tartaric acid or tartar they contain, are quite 
wholesome to a healthy individual ; because they are dry 
or thoroughly fermented, light, contain little alcohol, and 
are little liable to the acetous fermentation. But if new 
or not of good quality, they should be avoided by the 
dyspeptic as liable to occasion indigestion. These wines 
are also considered less heating, less liable to produce 
corpulency, and more diuretic than other wines. Borde- 
lais or claret wines, when of good quality, are well adapted 
for ordinary use as, they are light, well fermented and 
contain little spirit. The claret generally imported into 
this country, however, presents two obstacles to its general 
adoption, namely, its high price and its mixture with 
spirit and other wines of inferior quality. Effervescing 
wines, such as champagne, are extremely agreeable, but 
produce rapid intoxication, although they do not contain 
much spirit. This effect is supposed to be owing partly 
to the carbonic acid, and partly to the spirit carried along 
with the gas being applied to a large extent of nervous 
surface. It is not a wine adapted for general use ; and 
as it contains unfermented saccharine matter, it is liable 
to produce acidity in persons who have weak digestive 
organs. Fort, Sherry and Madeira are dry or thoroughly 

•It is possible, however, to make new pass for old wine, with ordinary 
judges. Mr. Redding states that new is made to imitate old claret by un- 
corking and pouring a glassful out of each bottle, then replacing the corks, 
putting them for a short time in an oven, cooling them gradually, and then 
refilling the bottles. Port is put into water heated to the boiling point 
and then placed in a cellar, by which process the bottles become incrusted 



DIETETIC USES OF BRANDY, ETC. 205 

fermented, and strong wines, and are well adapted for 
those ,who use wine moderately ; but great care ought to 
be taken in their selection, particularly of port, and, if 
they are in the least degree acid, they should be rejected. 
Port wine has a popular reputation for being more tonic 
than other wines, from the astringent matter it contains; 
but according to my experience, good sherry, which is 
more rarely acid, agrees much better with the dyspeptic 
and those who have weak digestive organs than the former. 
Madeira is also an excellent wine when genuine; but 
inferior kinds often contain a superabundance of acid. 

Home-made wines although they agree generally with 
healthy individuals are not adapted for the dyspeptic. 

Dietetic uses of Brandy and other Ardent Spirits. 
Ardent spirits, when taken undiluted in large quanti- 
ties, are a most violent poison ; and fetal consequences 
have frequently resulted from an over-dose. At the 
same time it must be admitted that these liquors are 
swallowed every day, to an enormous extent, by persons 
accustomed to their use, without any immediately danger- 
ous result. Nothing, however, has proved a greater curse 
to many regions of the earth than the abuse of ardent 
spirits; and undoubtedly they have tended much to 
foster the misery, destitution and crime of this and other 
countries. Ardent spirits, however, like wine and many 
other luxuries, may be used with perfect safety in small 
quantities ; and sometimes they are found to agree better 
than wine with those who have digestive derangements, if 
well diluted with water. Many wines are liable to produce 
acidity of stomach and thus occasion much derangement 
of the digestive process ; but pure spirit is incapable of 
any such change ; and thus the stimulus and the other 
beneficial effects of the alcohol, are experienced without 
any deranging process of acescency. It may therefore be 

deduced from this, that the addition of any substance to 

s 



206 THE OLIVE. 

them capable of the acetous fermentation is injurious ; and 
so it is found to be, if added in quantity sufficient to 
support this process ; but a small portion of refined sugar 
renders the mixture more agreeable. This addition also 
merorganises the spirit to a certain extent, so that it is 
prevented from acting so injuriously on the coats of the 
stomach, or diffusing its stimulus so rapidly through the 
system. The abuse of ardent spirits, however, more cer- 
tainly induces disease and shortens life than an indulgence 
in wine, and though it is astonishing how long a few 
persons will bear up against its baneful influence, yet 
sooner or later they fall victims to disease of the liver, 
kidneys, stomach, &c, or to apoplexy and palsy, while 
some are carried off suddenly by delirium tremens. Various 
properties are popularly applied to the different kinds 
of ardent spirit ; such as that brandy is cordial and sto- 
machic ; rum heating and liable to occasion headache ; gin 
and whisky diuretic ; and arrack styptic, heating and nar- 
cotic. Although there may "be a portion of truth in some 
of these opinions, they are undoubtedly much exaggerated; 
for the principal difference amongst genuine distilled spirits 
consists in the small quantity of essential oil peculiar to 
each, and which gives them their characteristic flavour. 

Liqueurs or Cordials— are in general, compositions of 
ardent spirit, sugar, fruits and various other substances 
mixed together. Several of these are noticed under other 
sections; but many of them cannot accurately be described, 
as the formulae for making them are various. Many of 
these compounds are injurious, especially those that con- 
tain much fruit or sugar, and more calculated to derange 
than to promote good digestion. 

THE OLIVE. 

Olea Europaa. — Oleacece. — The Olive Tribe. — The 
olive tree is a native of Asia, and is found abundantly in 



THE OLIVE. 207 

tbe vicinity of Aleppo and Lebanon. It is cultivated 
extensively in Italy ,-Spain, France, &c. ; and is found in 
hedges and woods. It sometimes attains a great age, and 
there are some plantations at Terne in Italy that are be- 
lieved to have existed from the time of Pliny. The olive 
tree generally attains the height of from twenty to thirty 
feet ; and its wood is hard, compact, of a reddish colour 
and takes a good polish. It thrives well on calcareous 
soils, but not in elevated situations or at a distance from 
the sea. From its useful properties, the little culture it 
requires, and the otherwise barren situations which it 
renders productive, the olive has, in all ages, been con- 
sidered the emblem of peace and plenty. The fruit or 
plum is smooth, has an oval shape, and when ripe a violet 
colour, and is fleshy in texture. The pulp is bitter and 
oily in taste, and encloses a nut or stone of an oval-oblong 
shape. Several varieties of the olive-tree are cultivated ; 
but the long-leaved kind reared in Italy and France is 
said to produce a much finer oil than the large and broad- 
leaved variety cultivated in Spain, and which yields a 
larger fruit. Olives are recommended to be gathered in 
the first stage of their maturity, for if this be delayed 
too long, the next year's crop is prevented. The fruit is 
generally gathered in November, when thoroughly ripe, 
and put immediately into a mill, for the purpose of crush- 
ing the pulp which contains the oil in its cells. The 
pulp being separated from the nuts, is put into.bags 
made of rushes, and moderately pressed. A greenish- 
coloured oil is thus obtained, which from its comparative 
purity is named virgin oil. A second quality is obtained 
by moistening the marc or fibrous part of the pulp that 
remains with water, and again submitting it to pressure. 
A third or very inferior quality is procured by soaking 
the mar: in water and subsequently fermenting it. In 
Spain the ripe and unripe olives are mixed together in a 



208 OLIVE-OIL. 

heap, which soon causes fermentation and a softening* of 
their texture, and in this state are submitted to the 
press ; but an inferior and disagreeably flavoured oil is 
the result. The best olive-oil is said to come from 
Provence ; but the produce of Lucca and Florence are 
generally used at table in this country. Olive-oil has 
a yellowish-green, but sometimes a pale yellow colour, is 
insipid to the taste, and almost destitute of odour. It 
congeals at 38° Fahr., is of light specific gravity, and when 
exposed to the air for any length of time becomes rancid 
and brownish in colour. 

Adulteration of Olive-oil. — Olive-oil is frequently 
adulterated with oil of poppies. This may be detected 
by the pernitrate of mercury. Dissolve, without heat, 
6 parts of mercury in 7£ of nitric acid (sp. gr. 1.85), and 
mix 1 part of the resulting solution with 12 of the sus- 
pected oil. If adulterated with oil of poppies or linseed- 
oil, it retains to a certain extent its fluidity and becomes 
dark-coloured ; but, if pure, it is completely solidified, 
assumes a yellowish-white colour, and becomes as hard 
as sheep's tallow. 

Uses. The finer qualities of olive-oil are used in 
Spain, Italy, &c, in place of butter; and in point of 
dietetic properties these two substances are very nearly 
allied. Oil is a very nutritive species of aliment, but it 
cannot be used alone, in sufficient quantity, to support 
the system for any length of time. First, because it 
has been found from the experiments of Majendie, that 
animals, when fed with oil without any admixture of 
other kinds of food, soon die ; and, second, they get so 
disgusted with this aliment, and it is so liable to gener- 
ate rancidity in the stomach, that it cannot be tolerated. 
In this country, oil is chiefly employed as a sauce or 
condiment in dressing fish, salads, &c; but in Italy and 
the south of Europe it is more generally used as a sub- 



THE ALMOND. 209 

stitute for butter. Oil cannot be used with impunity by 
those who have weak digestive organs, except in very 
limited quantities; and as it is found that oils and other 
fatty bodies, -when taken uncombined with other ali- 
mentary matters, are more difficult of digestion and more 
apt to occasion rancidity than when united with other 
substances, this union should either be effected by the 
processes of cookery, or through the medium of mastica- 
tion. 

Pickled Olives — are prepared from the unripe fruit 
by maceration in water, and quicklime or some of the 
alkalies are occasionally added to quicken the operation. 
They are then put into bottles along with a watery solu- 
tion of common salt, and some aromatic is frequently 
added. In this country they are generally used as a 
dessert ; but in the south of Europe they are taken before 
dinner to whet the appetite. Two kinds of pickled 
olives are imported into this country, namely, the 
Spanish, which are larger, more bitter, and inferior to 
the French from Languedoc. Olive-oil is useful in 
catarrh, when combined with water, through the medium 
of gum, sugar and potass. It is also used internally to 
mitigate the effects of acrid poisons, and as a laxative. 
It is employed to a considerable extent in the composi- 
tion of ointments, plasters, &c. It is used at Tunis 
to anoint the body, for the purpose of securing the indi- 
vidual from the contagion of the plague. The coarser 
kinds of olive-oil from Italy, Spain, &c, are extensively 
used in woollen manufactures, in dyeing turkey-red, and 
sometimes in soap-making. 

THE ALMOND. 

Amygdalus Communis. — Amygdalea, — The Almond 
Tribe. — The almond-tree is a native of Syria, but is 

now naturalised in the south of Europe, and has been 

s2 



210 THE ALMOND. 

cultivated in British gardens since the year 1538. The 
first notice of it is found in the Bible, but it is also men- 
tioned by Virgil. In Britain, the almond-tree is about 
twenty or thirty feet in height, having a spreading head, 
but thin of branches. It blossoms very early in Spring; 
at Smyrna in February, in Britain during March, before 
the leaves make their appearance ; and though frost may 
destroy the germs of the fruit, it has little effect on the 
beauty of the flowers. The fruit or drupe of the almond 
is egg-shaped, having a dry and fibrous or coriaceous 
rind, which separates irregularly, exposing a nut, the 
shell of which exhibits various appearances, being pitted 
or smooth, and hard or fragile. The kernels are covered 
with a brown pellicle, which may be very readily 
removed by an immersion, for a few minutes, in very 
hot water. They then consist of a white hard pulp, 
which is sweet and agreeable to the taste in the variety 
named the sweet almond, but bitter and aromatic in the 
bitter almond. Neither of these varieties have any odour 
in the dry state. The trees which produce these very 
different kinds of fruit are not generally considered dis- 
tinct species, but only varieties of the same plant. Ac- 
cording to Boullay, the sweet almond contains fixed oil 
54, sugar 6, gum 3, vegetable albumen 24, ligneous fibre 
4, pellicles 5, water 3.6, and a minute portion of acetic 
acid. There are two principal varieties of almonds, 
namely, the Jordan, which comes from Malaga, and 
which is superior to the second variety, the Valentia 
almond. Almonds contain more than half their weight 
of oil ; which !s obtained by first freeing them of the 
yellow adherent powder, and then employing expression 
without heat. The bitter almond is the variety gener- 
ally used for expression, because it is cheaper, and the 
cake which remains, being distilled with water, yields 
the essential oil procurable from the kernel. The fixed 



BITTER ALMONDS. 211 

oil has a yellowish tint, a sweetish taste, and is destitute 
of odour. 

Bitter Almonds— differ from the sweet in containing 
a crystalline body named amygdaline, and which is the 
source of their poisonous properties ; but the fixed oil, 
or sweet oil of almonds, is the same in both varieties. 
When the bitter almond is distilled with water, a vola- 
tile oil is procured, which contains a considerable propor- 
tion of hydrocyanic or prussic acid, and is consequently 
very poisonous. The formation of this acid is believed 
to be owing to the action of the water employed, upon 
the emulsine and amygdaline of the kernel ; and that it 
does not exist naturally in bitter almonds, which have 
no odour when entire, but when triturated with water 
have that of the fresh blossoms. Bitter almonds rare- 
ly prove poisonous, but there can be little doubt that 
if eaten in quantity, dangerous effects would be the 
result. 

Uses. Almonds are used both in the ripe and unripe 
states, and a preserve is sometimes made of the green 
fruit. They are most generally used, however, when 
ripe, as a dessert fruit, and are frequently brought to table 
deprived of the shell, and sometimes blanched or de- 
prived of the pellicle. From the large quantity of their 
contained oil and albumen, they are very nutritious, 
but heavy and difficult of digestion, especially if not 
thoroughly masticated. They are by no means well 
adapted for those who have delicate digestive organs; 
and as they are frequently employed in the composition 
of articles of cookery and confectionary, the latter ought 
to be avoided by such individuals. Sweet oil of almonds 
is used in affections of the air-passages, lungs, &c, com- 
bined with gum arable, sugar, water, &c. It is used as 
an external application to the ear in diseases of that 
organ. It is the basis of many odoriferous oils that are 



212 THE PEACH AND NECTARINE. 

applied to the hair. Almond cake or almond powder is 
employed in washing the hands, in order to keep them 
soft during cold weather. 

Bitter almonds, or their essential oil, are chiefly used 
in flavouring articles of cookery and confectionary ; hut 
great caution ought to he employed in using the latter, 
for what is sold under the name of the Essence of Bitter 
Almonds is nearly as strong as the medicinal prussic acid. 
The wood of the -almond- tree, which is hard and of a 
reddish colour, is used in veneering and in making han- 
dles for carpenters' tools. The gum which exudes from 
it, is used like gum arahic for various purposes ; hut it is 
less soluble in water. 

THE PEACH AND NECTARINE. 

Amygdalus Persica. — Amygdalea. — The Almond 
Tribe. — The peach is a native of Persia, and has been 
cultivated from time immemorial in most parts of Asia. 
It is mentioned by Columella, and was afterwards de- 
scribed by Pliny. Few varieties of peaches come to 
proper maturity in the open air, in Britain, during ordi- 
nary seasons ; but all the kinds arrive, at perfection by 
the aid of hot walls or glass. It is a standard fruit-tree 
in fields and gardens in Italy, Spain, the north of Africa, 
and in various Eastern countries. It is cultivated exten- 
sively in North America, for the distillation of peach 
brandy and fattening hogs. The peach and nectarine are 
generally considered as varieties that have sprung from 
the almond, though some authors have made them dis- 
tinct species. The peach-tree, in its natural state, is from 
ten to fifteen feet high ; the fruit is downy, roundish, 
and is marked with a longitudinal groove. The pulp is 
large, fleshy, succulent, yellowish, but sometimes reddish 
in colour, and contains an agreeable, sweet, and acidulous 
juice. The stone is hard, furrowed, and the kernel bit- 



THE APRICOT. 213 

ter. According to Miller, a good peach should possess 
the following properties. " The flesh is firm, the skin 
thin, of a deep or bright-red colour next the sun, and 
yellowish-green next the wall, the pulp of a yellowish 
colour, full of high-flavoured juice, the fleshy part thick, 
and the stone small." 

The Nectarine — is distinguished from the peach by 
its smooth, firmer, and more plump fruit;; but in other 
respects their general history and culture are the same. 
According to Berard, ripe peaches contain colouring 
matter, gum, vegetable fibre and albumen, malic acid, 
16.48 per cent, of sugar, and 74.87 of water. 

Uses. Peaches and nectarines are highly esteemed 
fruits, and contain a considerable quantity of nutriment, 
which is chiefly derived from the sugar and gum they 
contain. When eaten in moderate quantities, they are 
sufficiently digestible, aperient, and when thoroughly 
ripe, they contain little acid. Peaches are made into 
preserves with sugar, and are sometimes added to pud- 
dings. The leaves and flowers of the peach possess pro- 
perties similar to those of the almond, and prussic acid 
may be procured from them by distillation. Peach 
blossoms are used, in the form of infusion, for the cure 
of worms. The leaves, infused in whisky or gin, give, it 
the flavour of noyau. 

THE APRICOT. 
Prunus Armeniaca. — Amygdalae. — The Almond 
Tribe. — The apricot is a native of Armenia, was culti- 
vated by the Romans, and it is believed that they intro- 
duced this fruit into Britain. In China and the Caucasus 
it is more frequently found on mountains than in plains; 
but in England it seldom ripens its fruit, except when 
trained against a wall. It is rather a low and slightly 
crooked tree, having roundish or cordate leaves, and it 



214 THE SLOE. 

blossoms early in the season. The fruit is round, yellow 
both externally and internally, the pulp is rich, sacchar- 
ine and acidulous, being firmer than that of plums or most 
peaches. The stone included in the pulp is smooth and 
similar to that of the plum. Ripe apricots contain, 
according to Berard, the following constituents, namely, 
vegetable fibre, albumen, malic acid, about 5 per cent, of 
gum, 11.61 of sugar, and 80*24 of water. 

Uses. Apricots contain a considerable proportion of 
sugar, but not so much as the peach, and are conse- 
quently not so nutritive, but the proportion of their 
contained water varies in the different kinds. This fruit 
is esteemed next to the peach and nectarine; but ought, 
like them, to be moderately used, as it is liable to pro- 
duce indigestion. It is made into preserves, marmalades, 
jellies, &c. Lozenges are made by the Chinese from the 
clarified juice, which, being dissolved in water, yields a 
cool refreshing beverage. Oil may be extracted from 
the kernel, which is bitter, in some varieties, and sweet 
in others. The young shoots have been employed to dye 
wool of a golden cinnamon colour; and a gum, ramifo *' 
to gum arabic, is procured from the tree. 

THE SLOE. 

Prttnus Spinosa. — Amygdalece. — The Almond Tribe. 
— The sloe or blackthorn is a native of Europe and 
America, and is abundant in Britain in hedges and 
thickets. In hedges it seldom exceeds twenty feet in 
height, but in woods it sometimes attains to that of 
thirty feet. It is believed by some botanists to be the 
parent of the domestic plum. The fruit or drupe, when 
ripe, is black, round, covered with a bluish exudation, 
and is sour and astringent to the taste. It has not been 
particularly analysed, but it contains a considerable por- 
tion of tannin or astringent matter, and^its juice is viscid. 



THE PLUM. 215 

This fruit is scarcely eatable, until it has been exposed 
to frost, which renders it sweeter by the generation of 
saccharine matter. 

Uses. The ripe fruit forms an excellent preserve, and 
its juice is used in the manufacture of cheap port wines. 
In France, the unripe fruit is pickled in salt and vinegar 
as a substitute for olives ; and its juice, evaporated to 
dryness by a gentle heat, forms the German acacia, used 
as an astringent. The fruit, however, is not astringent 
after it has been modified by frost, and begun to decay ; 
but, like the plum, is then nutritive. and slightly aperient. 
The juice of the ripe fruit stains linen and wool of a 
dark colour, and is sometimes used as an indelible ink. 
The leaves are considered an excellent substitute for tea; 
and have been frequently employed, to a great extent, 
in its adulteration. Cattle of every kind are fond of 
them, both in the green state and when dried. The 
wood of the tree is hard, takes a fine polish, and is used 
in making handles for tools and walking-sticks. Sloes 
have been recommended as an astringent in diarrhoea and 
in haemorrhages. The bark has been used in the cure of 
fevers, and for tanning leather. 

THE PLUM. 

Primus Domestica. — Amygdalex. — The Almond 
Tribe.— According to Pliny, the plum-tree was brought 
from Syria into Greece and Italy; and it is naturalised 
in Britain, being frequently found in hedges. It gener- 
ally attains the height of about fifteen feet. The natural 
colour of the fruit is said to be black ; but it is blue, 
yellow, green, and has also a different shape, size, and 
flavour, according to the numerous varieties in cultiva- 
tion. The pulp of the finest kinds is sweet, juicy, agree- 
able, and the Heine Claude or Green Gage, when ripe, 
contains, according to Berard, albumen, vegetable fibre, 



21 G PRUNES. 

malic acid, gum, 24.81 per cent, of sugar, and 71.10 of 
water. (Berzelius.) The kernel of the plum-stone con- 
tains fixed oil, which may be procured by expression, 
and some kinds have the odour of prussic acid. 

Uses. Plums of rich quality contain fully one-fifth 
of their weight of sugar, they are consequently very 
nutritive as a fruit. When thoroughly ripe, and eaten 
in moderate quantity, they are tolerably digestible ; but 
when taken to excess, are liable to produce diarrhoea, 
especially in persons liable to derangements of the 
stomach. Plums, besides being frequently used as a 
dessert-fruit, are much employed in making conserves, 
tarts, &c. 

Prunes — consist of the fruit dried by a particular pror 
cess, and the best qualities are manufactured in France, 
near Tours, from the large yellowish plum called the Cath- 
erinea, and the purple coloured variety, the prune cFAgen. 
According to Mr. Loudon, the plums are gathered when 
ripe, and exposed to the sun for several days until they 
become soft, but afterwards to the heat of an oven, three 
times in succession. They are then rounded, an ope- 
ration performed by turning the stone in the plum with- 
out breaking the skin, and pressing the two ends together 
between the finger and thumb. Finally, they are again 
baked in the oven at a moderate heat, and packed loosely 
in small boxes. Prunes have a very sweet taste, and being 
freed from a considerable portion of water, may be con- 
sidered as consisting chiefly of sugar. They are used as 
a dessert fruit, are frequently stewed, and are added to 
soups as a nutrient and aperient food for invalids. 
They are also added to infusions of senna and other drugs, 
chiefly for the purpose of concealing their disagreeable 
taste. 

Two kinds of ardent spirits are prepared from plums, 
namely, Zwetschen Wasser and Raki, the latter being 



THE CHERRY. 217 

made in Hungary. Both of these liqueurs are said to re- 
semble kirsch-wasser. In the south of France, an excel- 
lent spirit is obtained from the pulp and kernels fermented 
and afterwards distilled. The wood of the plum-tree, 
which is hard and beautifully veined, is used in cabinet- 
making, turnery, and in the manufacture of musical 
instruments. A particular kind of viscid gum is pro- 
cured from it, similar to the coarser kinds of gum arabic. 
This gum, like gum arabic or other varieties of this prin- 
ciple, is nutritive, rather slow in digestion, but little 
liable to produce acidity of stomach. 

THE CHERRY. 

Cerasus vulgaris, — Amygdalea. — The Almond Tribe. — 
The cultivated cherry was introduced into Italy by 
Lucullus, a Roman general, in 73 A. C, from a town in 
Pontus in Asia, which was named Cerasus. It was 
brought into Britain about a century afterwards. The 
cherry-tree is now cultivated to a great extent, both as 
a wall and standard fruit, is middle sized, has ash-coloured, 
shining and roundish branches, ovate serrated leaves, and 
white flowers. The fruit or drupe is red, having an acid 
sweet pulp, enveloping a stone containing a kernel. The 
varieties of the fruit are exceedingly numerous, and ac- 
cording to the report of the London Horticultural Society, 
there are 219 sorts. The French divide their cherries 
into three sorts. 1. Those belonging to the present 
species. 2. Hard fruited cherries. 3. Wild cherries, to 
which the gean belongs. Ripe cherries contain, according 
to Berard, vegetable fibre, albumen, malic acid, gum, 
18.12 per cent, of sugar, and 74.85 of water. 

Uses. Cherries contain a considerable quantity of 
sugar, are nutritive, digestible, sapid, and very agreeable. 
When the pulp is hard, sour, or unripe, they are very 
apt to cause derangements of the digestive organs. The 

T 



218 THE CHERRY. 

cherry forms an excellent dessert fruit, and is also used 
in the preparation of pies, tarts, soups, preserves, lozenges, 
cherry-brandy, &c. In France, Germany and Russia, 
ripe cherries are dried on boards by exposure to the sun, 
or in an oven moderately heated. The kernels furnish 
an oil which is employed to give creams, &c, the flavour 
of bitter almonds. The celebrated spirit called Kirsch- 
wasser is prepared from this fruit, in the following way, 
according to Mr. Loudon. "Take bruised cherries in 
which the greatest part of the kernels hare been broken, 
let them remain in a mass till the vinous fermentation is 
fairly established, after which the process of distillation 
is commenced and continued as long as the liquor comes 
over clear." The best kirsch-wasser is made at Alsace in 
France, at Wirtemberg, at Berne, and Basle in Switzer- 
land, and the wild black gean'is preferred for its manu- 
facture. The liqueur called Maraschino is made from a 
small acid cherry named marasca, which is found abun- 
dant in the north of Italy and Dalmatia, and what is 
manufactured in the latter country is considered the 
finest. The process employed in making it is very similar 
to that adopted in the manufacture of kirsch-wasser, the 
difference consisting in the addition of honey to the 
bruised cherries, and this substance or sugar is added to 
the spirit after it is distilled. It is stated that genuine 
maraschino is very difficult to be procured, the greater 
part of that which is sold being kirsch-wasser mixed with 
water and honey or water and sugar. The cherry-tree 
exudes a species of gum, similar in appearance and proper- 
ties to some kinds of gum arabic. The two inner layers of 
the bark have been used as a substitute for peruvian bark* 
and are said to furnish a yellow dye. The wood of the 
cherry-tree is soft, has a reddish colour, takes a fine polish, 
and is much esteemed by cabinet makers, turners, and 
manufacturers of musical instruments. 



THE PEAR. 219 

Gban or Geen-Tree. — Cerasus Juliana, a variety of 
cerasus sylvestris, is a native of Europe, and found in 
woods and hedges, dwarfish in unfavourable soils, but 
sometimes attains the height of forty or fifty feet. The 
fruit when ripe, is ovate, small, generally of a dark red 
or black colour ; the pulp is sweet, soft, and the skin does 
not separate from it. Geans possess the same alimentary pro- 
perties as the cultivated cherry, and the pulp being in gen- 
eral soft, when thoroughly ripe, they are easily digested. 

THE PEAR. 

Pyrus Communis.— Pomaeeoe. — The Appxb Tribe. — 
The pear is mentioned by Theophrastus and Virgil, and 
was common in Syria and Greece, from which latter coun- 
try it was brought into Italy. It is a native of Britain 
and other European countries and is found in woods 
and hedges. It is also found in Asia, but not in Africa 
or America. The pear has considerable longevity, living 
for four or five hundred years. Its fruit in the wild state 
is very small and austere to the taste. The varieties of 
this fruit are exceedingly numerous ; and according to 
the catalogue of the London Horticultural Society there 
are 677 sorts. This tree attains the height of twenty to 
thirty feet, will grow in almost any soil, and is thorny 
in the wild state, but not so when cultivated. According 
to Berard, the ripe fruit contains vegetable fibre, albumen, 
malic acid, gum, 6.45 per cent, of sugar and 86.28 of water. 
It varies exceedingly in taste, consistency and flavour; but 
when of good quality, it is sweet, sapid and slightly acid. 

Uses. Pears contain more water and less nutritive 
matter than peaches, apricots, plums and cherries, but 
according to Berard' s analysis, the proportions are about 
the same as those in apples. The pear, when soft, juicy 
and sweetish may be considered a very good dessert fruit ; 
but when hard, tough or sour, it is perhaps the most 



220 PERRY. 

indigestible of all kinds of ordinary fruits, and very liable 
to produce serious derangements of the digestive organs. 
Pears are sometimes stewed, and they enter into the com- 
position of marmalades, tarts, &c. In France, Belgium 
and Russia, the "melting sugary pear" is dried in an oven; 
and if this process be carefully performed, it will keep 
for a year or two in a dry place. The dried pears sold 
by the grocers in boxes undergo a more complicated pro- 
cess. They are gathered when scarcely ripe, par-boiled 
in a little water, peeled, and the juice is allowed to flow 
out. They are then put into an oven for twelve hours, 
afterwards steeped in their own juice which has been 
sweetened with sugar and seasoned with cinnamon, mace 
and brandy. They are put into the oven a second time, 
and this alternate operation of maceration and drying is 
repeated four times. If properly treated they have a pale 
brown colour and a fine semitransparent pulp. 

Psrrt — is a vinous liquor made from pears by fer- 
mentation, in the same way as cyder is manufactured 
from apples. The pears may be either large or small, but 
the austere-tasted varieties afford the best liquor, and 
good perry may be made from the wild fruit. It is ex- 
tensively manufactured in Worcestershire and Hereford- 
shire in England, and in various parts of Germany and 
France. A full-grown tree will yield, it is said, about 
twenty gallons of perry annually. Perry is a pleasant, 
cooling and acidulous drink; but liable to occasion flatulen- 
cy and acidity. It contains according to Brande 7.26 per 
cent, of alcohol or spirit of wine, and would therefore 
cause intoxication, if genuine and taken in quantity. 
Perry was a popular remedy among the Romans for poison- 
ous mushrooms ; and is still used at the present day with 
similar intentions. The wood of the wild pear-tree is 
heavy, compact, and has a fine grain which is slightly 
tinged with red. It is easily stained of a black colour, 



THE APPLE. 221 

and then closely resembles ebony. It is sometimes used 
for coarse engravings on wood, such as large plans, &c. ; 
but is much inferior to the box. It is employed by turners, 
pattern-makers, &c. ; and an excellent charcoal may be 
made from it. The leaves furnish a yellow dye, and have 
been used to give a green colour to blue cloths. 

THE APPLE. 

Pyrw Malm. — Pomacece. — The Apple Tribe.— This 
tree is found native in every part of Europe, and also 
in Western Asia, China and Japan, but not in America 
or the torrid zone. In Britain it is found wild in hedges, 
on the margins of woods, &c. ; and its fruit is termed a 
crab. It was known to the ancients, and is mentioned in 
the Bible, and by Herodotus. It is generally believed that 
the cultivated apple was introduced into this country by 
the Romans, to whom twenty-two varieties were known 
in the days of Pliny. It is supposed by some authors 
to attain a great age, such as a thousand years ; but Mr. 
Knight considers two hundred years as the average dura- 
tion of a healthy tree grafted on a crab-stock. The apple- 
tree whether wild or cultivated is not so handsome as the 
pear-tree, neither does it attain the same height. The 
varieties of this fruit are very numerous and almost be- 
yond belief. Mr. Don has enumerated fourteen hundred, 
distinguishable by their colour, form, size or quality. 
The crab or fruit of the wild apple-tree, is globular, 
yellowish in colour with a tinge of red, very acid, astring- 
ent, and its expressed juice is named verjuice, which is 
sometimes used in England as a popular application to 
sprains and scalds. Mr. Don says that the criterion of a 
good apple for the table is a firm juicy flesh, elevated, 
poignant flavour, regular form and beautiful colouring ; 
for kitchen use, the property of forming a pulpy mass of 

equal consistency, when baked or boiled ; and for the 

t2 



222 CYDER. 

manufacture of cyder, a considerable degree of astrin- 
gency is required with or without firmness of pulp or rich- 
ness of juice. The composition of the apple is very si- 
milar to that of the pear; sugar and a little gum being 
the principal nutritive elements in both. (See pear-tree.) 

Uses. Apples do not contain much nutriment, but 
when juicy, saccharine and soft, are pretty easily digest- 
ed ; but if sour, or hard in texture, extremely liable to 
cause derangements of the digestive organs. When kept 
for several months, they become softer and sweeter, and 
a still greater change, in these respects, is effected by 
roasting or stewing, the acid quality being diminished 
and the saccharine increased. Stewed apples are there- 
fore more digestible than in the raw state, and better 
adapted for convalescents and persons of delicate consti- 
tutions. Apples are sometimes dried in an oven to effect 
their preservation ; and are employed extensively in the 
preparation of jellies, tarts, sauces, &c. A decoction or 
infusion of apples is used under the name of apple-tea or 
apple- water, as a cooling agreeable drink in febrile affec- 
tions. 

Cyder — is prepared from apples by fermenting the 
expressed juice. Herefordshire, Worcestershire and 
Devonshire are the most celebrated districts in England 
for the manufacture of this beverage. When of good 
quality, it should be sweet, sharp and acidulous ; but if 
very acid, there is reason to fear that it has either wholly 
or partially been converted into vinegar. According to 
Mr. Brande, it contains from 5 to 9 per cent, of alcohol 
or spirit of wine. Cyder is a very pleasant drink, 
and with healthy individuals may often be substituted 
for ale or porter ; but it is liable to produce acidity in 
those who have weak digestive organs. A favourite sweet- 
meat is made in France by boiling the pulp of apples 
with new wine, until the whole is thoroughly united. 



^*im*-^^~^immmimmmmwm^^^'** 



THE QUINCE. 223 

It is used like marmalade, and in Italy is eaten with 
Indian corn or macaroni. The wood of the apple-tree is 
hard, variegated in colour, and frequently used by joiners 
and turners. The bark affords a yellow colouring matter, 
and has been used in dyeing. According to Gerard the 
herbalist, pomatum was formerly made from the pulp of 
apples beat up with hogs-lard and rose-water. 

THE QUINCE. 

Cfydonia Vulgaris. — Pomacece. — The Apple Tribe. — 
The quince-tree is supposed to have been originally a 
native of Cydon, a city in Crete ; but at the present day 
it is indigenous in the south of Europe, and is found 
among rocks and in hedges. The fruit was known to 
the ancient Greeks and Romans ; and was employed to 
decorate the images of household gods. The ancients 
considered it the emblem of love, happiness and fruitful- 
ness; and the brides and bridegrooms of Greece and Rome 
ate of it as soon as the marriage ceremony was performed. 
It has been considered the fruit of the forbidden tree ; 
for the Jewish traditions describe it as having a golden 
colour. The quince is a low tree, having a crooked stem, 
rarely attaining more than fifteen or twenty feet in height, 
and there are several varieties. The fruit is large, globu- 
lar, oblong or pear-shaped, of a rich yellow or orange 
colour when ripe, and having a strong peculiar odour, 
somewhat like that of the apple. Its taste is austere and 
acidulous, and it contains numerous reddish-brown angular 
and cartilaginous seeds. The pulp is composed of sugar, 
vegetable jelly, astringent matter, malic acid, &c. The 
seeds contain a large proportion of a very peculiar and 
strong mucilage ; and 1 part of them is sufficient to give 
40 parts of water the consistency of white of egg. 

Uses. The quince is not eaten in the raw state, but is 
stewed or made into tarts with apples. It is also made 



224 THE PINE- APPLE. 

into syrups and marmalades. Its dietetic properties are 
similar to those of the apple or pear ; and ought to be 
used sparingly by those who have feeble digestive organs. 
It was formerly employed in the cure of diarrhoea, 
dysentery, and for checking vomiting, on account of its 
astringent properties. The mucilage, prepared from the 
seeds, is sometimes used in the formation of gargles, and 
for suspending oily and resinous substances in water. A 
wine is made from quinces, in the same way as other fruit 
wines are manufactured in England. 

THE MEDLAR. 

Mespilus Germanica. — Pomacece. — The Apple Tribe. 
— The medlar was known in ancient Greece, and has 
been cultivated in British gardens for an indefinite period. 
It is a native of Europe, the west of Asia, and in several 
parts of England, and is found growing wild in hedges 
and woods. It is an ornamental tree, and attains the 
height of from ten to twenty feet, has tortuous fantastic 
branches, large leaves and large white flowers. There 
are several varieties, the Dutch being the largest, but the 
Nottingham is the only kind worthy of cultivation for 
its fruit, in England. The fruit or pome is of a turbin- 
ated shape, five-celled, and when plucked from the tree 
at the end of autumn is green, hard in texture, and has an 
austere taste. It is placed in straw, and is not used be* 
fore it becomes partially decayed, when it is less acid and 
astringent and more saccharine. The flavour of the med- 
lar is peculiar, but it is a fruit much esteemed by some 
individuals. It has been supposed useful in diarrhoea, and 
the seeds have been prescribed in calculous diseases. 

THE PINE-APPLE. 
Bromelia Ananas, — Bromeliacece. — The Pine- Apple 
Tribe. — The pine-apple is a native of the warm regions 



TUB MANGO. 225 

of America, Africa and Asia, and is cultivated in Europe, 
in green-houses. This fruit has an oblong or conical 
shape, a yellow colour when ripe, a fleshy consistency, a 
rich and very agreeable taste, accompanied with a pecu- 
liar aromatic odour. Before maturity, the taste of the 
pine-apple is almost caustic, and its use at this period is 
said to be dangerous ; even when ripe, it contains a large 
portion of citric and malic acids, and its juice corrodes 
instruments of steel very rapidly. It is reckoned the 
finest of all dessert fruits, and is eaten with sugar, wine 
and ardent spirits, after being peeled and cut into thin 
slices. It is apt to produce flatulency and derangement 
of the bowels, like many other acid fruits. It may be 
made into a preserve with sugar, and in this state will 
keep for a long period. A very agreeable species of wine 
is made by fermenting the juice of this fruit. It has 
been used in calculous affections and diseases of the 
bladder* 

THE MANGO. 

Mangifera Indica. — Anacardiac&e. — The Cashew 
Tribe. — This tree is a native of the East Indies, but is 
now cultivated in the West India islands, attains the 
height of thirty to forty feet, has a large spreading rounded 
shape, and forms a beautiful ornament to a lawn or park. 
The fruit is a berried drupe, of an oblong shape, smooth 
and of a yellow colour. There are several varieties, 
which differ in colour and other qualities, but the best 
kinds are juicy, have a sweet or luscious and slightly 
terebinthine taste, and are esteemed by many as little inferior 
to the pine apple. The pulp of the fruit contains citric 
acid, gum and a large proportion of sugar. The seeds 
contain a very large quantity of gallic acid. 

Uses. This fruit is reckoned very wholesome, and is 
eaten in the raw state, or boiled with wine, and with 



226 THE CITRON. 

sugar and nutmeg. Various preserves are also made 
from it, and by fermentation an agreeable ardent spirit 
may be procured from the juice. In the unripe state it 
is pickled and made into tarts. Inferior varieties of the 
mango are used to fatten hogs, oxen and horses. The 
wood is light, friable, and is used in India along with 
sandal wood, for burning the bodies of persons in high 
rank. A species of gum may be procured by wounding 
the bark of the stem. 

THE CITRON. 

Citrus Medica. — Aurantiacea. — The Orange Tribe. — 
The citron is a native of Media, and from thence passed 
into Persia and Greece. Dr. M'Fadyen states that it is 
the fruit Hadar, "the fruit of the tree that is beautiful," 
mentioned in Leviticus, which the people were directed 
on the feast of tabernacles, to bring with the young 
undeveloped leaves of the date-palm before the Lord. 
This injunction is observed by the Jews at the present 
day, and great care is taken to distinguish the fruit by its 
mammillated appearance. This is a shrubby tree, from 
eight to ten feet high, the fruit is large, sometimes half 
a foot in length, ovate, with a protuberance at the top, 
usually nine-celled, each containing two or three seeds. 
The pulp is white, acid, the rind yellow, thick, hard, 
irregular, odoriferous, and contains a fragrant essential 
oil. 

Uses. This fruit is seldom eaten in the raw state, but 
is generally made into confections. The juice is used to 
flavour negus, punch, &c. The rind is esculent both in 
the raw state and when made into a preserve. Two very 
fragrant essential oils, namely, the essence of citron and 
essence ofcedra, are employed in perfumery. 



THE LEMON. 227 

THE LIME. 

Citrus Limetta. — Aurantiaceas. — The Orange Tribe. 
— The lime-tree is a native of eastern countries, but has 
long been cultivated in the West Indies, on account of its 
fruit and as a fence. There are several varieties of this 
tree, which generally attains the height of from eight to 
fifteen feet. Some kinds of the fruit contain a sweet, 
some a bitter, and others an acid juice. The variety 
which contains the acid juice is generally used in this 
country; its fruit is small and roundish, the rind is thin 
and has a very agreeable odour. The pulp contains a 
large quantity of citric acid, which is more pure than 
that contained in the lemon, and is prepared chiefly from 
this fruit. It is used in medicine for the same purposes 
as the lemon, and for the prevention of scurvy. It is 
generally employed in the preparation of punch on 
account of its agreeable flavour, and is considered superior 
to the. lemon in this respect. The essential oil named 
essence of bergamotte, is prepared from the rind of the fruit 
of one of the varieties of this tree, and is a well known 
perfume. 

THE LEMON. 

Citrus Limonum, — Aurantiacea, — The Orange Tribe. — 
The lemon-tree is a native of Asia, and is supposed to have 
been introduced into Europe about the time of the Crusades. 
It is now cultivated in the south of Europe, and in most 
parts of the world within the tropics. This tree is a beauti- 
ful evergreen, attaining the height of from twelve to twenty 
feet in warm climates, but in hot-houses seldom exceeding 
the size of a large shrub, where, however, under pro- 
per management, a large and ripe fruit may be obtained. 
There are fifteen varieties of lemon, but the two promi- 
nent kinds are the egg-shaped with blunt nipples, and 



228 THE LEMON. 

the oblong with large nipples. This fruit is generally 
smaller than the citron, and is of a straw-yellow colour. 
The rind consists of two coats, the external being thin, 
and abounding in an essential oil; the internal thick, 
whitish and coriaceous. The pulp is acid, divided into 
cells, from nine to eleven in number, which contain seeds. 
The finest lemons are smooth and thin in the skin. The 
juice of the fruit contains a large proportion of water, 
gum, citric and malic acids. Citric acid, in the state of 
crystals, is extracted from the fruit by means of lime ; 
and by this process is perfectly freed from the mucilage, 
&c, which prevents the preservation of the juice, 
although it is deprived of the agreeable flavour of the 
latter. The essential oil of the rind, named essence or 
oil of lemon, is generally extracted by expression, but it 
may also be procured by distillation. It is a fragrant 
and agreeable perfume, but is generally considered inferior 
to bergamotte. 

Uses. There is very little nutriment in this fruit, and 
on account of its extreme acidity it is rarely eaten in the 
raw state, but when the juice is mixed with water it 
forms a very agreeable acid and cooling drink in febrile 
affections, &c. Like other acid fruits, it is however ob- 
jectionable when diarrhoea or any particular derangement 
of the stomach or bowels is present. A portion of the 
juice added to water with a little sugar, forms the drink 
called lemonade, which is now manufactured in the aerated 
state, or impregnated .with carbonic acid gas, by means 
of the soda-water apparatus. The juice or the crystallised 
citric acid, when added to a solution of bicarbonate of 
soda, forms a very agreeable effervescing drink, which is 
useful in checking vomiting or relieving nausea. Half 
an ounce of the juice, or about 17 grains of citric acid, to 
20 grains of the bicarbonate of soda, are proportions which 
may be employed, with the addition of five or six ounces 



THE ORANGE. 220 

of water. Lemon juice has been found very useful in the 
prevention of scurvy, and on that account is generally 
used on board of ships destined for long voyages. As it 
does not keep well in its natural state, it is concentrated 
by evaporation. Dr. M'Fadyen proposes to preserve it 
by saturation with lime, and packing it in barrels. The 
favourite beverage named punch, derives its characteristic 
properties chiefly from Hhe juice of lemons and limes. 
When properly made it is not a very intoxicating drink, 
but is liable to disagree with many persons from its 
acidity. The rind of lemons is frequently employed in 
cookery, on account of its agreeable flavour. Lemons are 
imported into Britain chiefly from Spain and Portugal ; 
those from the former country being generally pre- 
ferred. 

THE ORANGE. 
. Citrus Auranti urn. — Aurantiacea. — The Orange Tribe. 
— This tree is a native of Asia, but is cultivated in the 
south of Europe and in all the warmer regions of the 
world. It attains the height of from twenty to twenty- 
five feet, and the branches form a spherical figure. Its 
leaves are beautiful, and of a green colour, the blossoms 
white, and give out a delightful perfume. There are two 
principal varieties of this tree, namely, the sweet and 
bitter orange, which some modern botanists have con- 
sidered distinct species. The fruit of the sweet orange is 
of a golden colour, globose in shape, the pulp is white, 
acid, and sweet, but the Malta or blood orange contains 
a red pulp. The rind contains an essential oil, similar 
to that of the lemon, and is divisible into two coats. The 
juice contains sugar, citric acid, &c. 

Uses. This fruit contains more sugar than the lemon, 
and although not very nutritive, is superior to the latter 
in this respect. It forms a very agreeable dessert fruit 

v 



230 BITTER OR SEVILLE ORANGE. 

when not too acid, but is liable, when eaten to excess, to 
produce diarrhoea or derangement of the digestive organs. 
It is useful in fevers and inflammatory diseases for allay- 
ing thirst. The juice only should be swallowed, as the 
pulpy matter is very indigestible ; but it is generally 
more advantageous, when considerably diluted with 
water. The fruit is also used in the ripe and green state 
in forming liqueurs and conserves, and in cookery it is 
employed on account of its flavour. The kinds of fruit 
most esteemed are imported from the island of St. 
Michael, Portugal and Spain. The finest oranges are 
smooth and have a thin dark-coloured rind. 

Citrus Vulgaris. — Bitter or Seville Orange — is of a 
dark orange colour; the rind is round, uneven, exhales 
an agreeable odour, and has a bitter taste. The pulp 
contains a bitter and acid juice, which is composed of a 
bitter principle, sugar, citric acid, water, &c. On account 
of its bitter taste, the Seville orange is not used as a des- 
sert-fruit, but is made into preserves of various kinds, 
which are in general more digestible than jellies. The 
rind contains an essential oil, similar to that of the China 
or sweet orange, and this communicates to its preserves 
their agreeable flavour. The rind, from its aromatic and 
bitter properties, is an excellent tonic in weakness of the 
digestive organs, and gives an agreeable flavour to bitter 
infusions. The small unripe fruit of this tree is used, 
under the name of Curagoa oranges, for the same purposes 
in medicine as the rind; but more frequently in the for- 
mation of issue peas. The Dutch liqueur named Curacoa, 
is made by infusing these oranges in brandy, &c; but 
also from orange peel, rectified spirits, syrup, &c. The 
flowers of both the sweet and bitter orange, particularly 
those of the latter, distilled with water, furnish the per- 
fume called orange-flower- water. The essential oil ob- 
tained by a similar process from the flowers of the bitter 



' TUB POMEGRANATE. 231 

orange, is named Neroli oil, and enters into the composi- 
tion of Eau de Cologne. 

THE POMEGRANATE. 

Punica Ghranatum. — Myriacem. — The Myrtle Tribe. 
—The pomegranate is a native of Barbary, Persia, Japan, 
various parts of Asia, and it has, for a long period, been 
introduced into the West Indies and South America. 
The Jews held this tree in great estimation, it is men- 
tioned in the Bible as one of the fruits of the land of 
Canaan, and a species of wine seems to have been made 
from it by this people. It was called by the Romans the 
Punic apple, because the tree was of Carthaginian origin. 
This shrub is considered the emblem of democracy. It 
grows to the height of eighteen or twenty feet in France, 
Spain and Italy ; and in Britain it is cultivated as an 
ornamental wall-tree ; during fine seasons, in the neigh- 
bourhood of London, its fruit being of the full size. It has 
many branches, but seldom a clean stem without prun- 
ing, and its flowers are large, beautiful, and have a rich 
scarlet colour. The fruit is about the size of an orange, 
globular, and contains numerous angular seeds, enveloped 
in a rose-coloured very juicy pulp. The juice has a 
vinous odour, an agreeable, sweetish, acidulous, styptic 
and cooling taste. It contains acid, mucilage and a little 
tannin. The rind or outer covering of the fruit is very 
astringent to the taste, contains much tannin, a little 
volatile oil, and has been used in the tanning of Morocco 
leather. 

Uses. The pulp of the_fruit does not contain much 
nutriment, but is employed occasionally as a dessert- 
fruit, and is useful for allaying thirst in febrile diseases. 
A syrup is made from the juice and dried flowers, which 
is employed in inflammation of the throat. A decoction 
of the bark of the fruit is used as an astringent in diar- 



232 THE CUCUMBER. 

rhoea, relaxation of the gums, throat, &c. The bark of 
the root is considered, by the Mahometan physicians, as 
a specific against the tape- worm ; and many European 
authors have confirmed this opinion. 

THE MELON. 

Cucumis Melo. — Cucurbitacea. — The Gourd Tribe. — 
The melon is a native of Asia, was introduced into this 
country from Jamaica, and has been cultivated in Eng- 
land since the year 1570. It requires, however, artificial 
heat for the ripening of its fruit in this country ; and the 
requisites are a dry atmosphere, a humid soil, and a high 
temperature. In Persia, melons grow in the open fields, 
which are intersected by small streams, so that the gar- 
dener has only to supply the root with moisture, the 
other essentials belonging to the climate. This is an 
annual plant, and there are many varieties. The finest 
sorts of fruit have a roundish shape, a rough warty skin 
or netted outer rind, but are not very large. Those 
which are oval-shaped are considered next in point 
of excellence. The pulp is juicy, its taste rich and sac- 
charine, accompanied with a peculiar agreeable flavour. 

Uses. The melon is not Very nutritive, but is con- 
sidered a very delicious dessert-fruit, and is generally 
eaten with a little sugar sprinkled upon it. It is apt, in 
some individuals, to occasion sickness and other symptoms 
of indigestion; and to prevent this, a little brandy is 
sometimes added to the pulp. It is not a fruit well 
adapted for those who have delicate digestive organs. 

THE CUCUMBER. 

Cucumis Sativus. — Cucurbitacece. — The Gourd Tribe* 
— The cucumber is a native of the East Indies, and was 
introduced into Britain about the year 1573. It was 
known to the ancients, and Moses mentions it as abound- 



• *» +* ' «4» " 



THE GOOSEBERRY. 233 

ingin Egypt, when the Israelites sojourned in that coun- 
try. It is an annual, climbing, and trailing plant, has 
large rough leaves furnished with tendrils. It is culti- 
vated in forcing frames, as well as extensively about the 
neighbourhood of large cities in the open fields ; but the 
fruit raised in the latter situations is chiefly used for 
pickling. There are several varieties of this fruit ; but 
it generally has an elongated shape, somewhat cylindri- 
cal, a little crooked, shining, and either smooth or 
prickly. The pulp has a watery insipid taste, and a dis- 
agreeable odour, which disappears on boiling. The pulp 
of the green cucumber, according to John, contains 97.14 
per cent, of water, with a small quantity of sugar, ex- 
tractive, albumen, salts, &c. 

Uses. The cucumber contains very little nutriment, 
and is not very digestible, being liable, in those who 
have delicate digestive organs, to produce flatulency and 
acidity. It is made into stews, sauces, &c, and eaten 
along with animal food. The green fruit is used as 
salad, and is salted when half-grown. When young and 
small, it is preserved in vinegar, and forms a pickle of 
very common use. In Germany and Poland, half and 
also full-grown cucumbers are packed in barrels, which 
are immersed in deep wells ; and thus, by the uniform 
temperature and exclusion of the air, they may be pre- 
served for a year. The pulp of the cucumber has been 
used as a cooling application to inflamed parts and cuta- 
neous eruptions ; and it enters into the composition of 
a pomade for softening the skin. 

THE GOOSEBERRY. 

Ribes Grrosmlaria. — Grossulacea. — The Currant 
Tribe. — The gooseberry is found wild in England in old 
walls, woods and hedges, and in Scotland occasionally in 
the neighbourhood of villages ; but it is not certain that 

u 2 



234 THE GOOSEBERRY. 

it is a native of Britain. It is, however, indigenous in 
France, Germany, Switzerland, the Himalayas, and 
North America. The ancients were not acquainted with 
this fruit, and it is first mentioned by British authors about 
the year 1573. It has only been brought into its present 
improved state since the end of the last century, and chiefly, 
it is said, by the attention of the Lancashire weavers to its 
cultivation. It is also cultivated, with great success, in 
some parts of Scotland, particularly in the Lothians. In 
Spain, Italy and France, this fruit is little known. The 
gooseberry is a low, branching, prickly shrub, bearing 
pendulous, hairy or smooth berries, of a green, yellow, 
• white, whitish-green, or red colour. There are about 
300 sorts or varieties. The fruit has a sweet, acidulous, 
rich and agreeable taste. According to Berard, the ripe 
green gooseberry contains 6.24 per cent, of sugar, and 
81.10 of water, besides malic acid, vegetable fibre, small 
quantities of gum, albumen, citric acid and lime* The 
chief difference between ripe and unripe gooseberries 
consists in the amount of sugar in the latter, which is 
only i per cent., whereas, in the former, it is fully 6 per cent. 
Uses. Gooseberries do not contain much nutriment, 
but when eaten moderately, are wholesome, digestible, 
and aperient. When taken to excess, particularly by 
dyspeptics, they are liable to occasion diarrhoea or some 
derangement of the digestive organs. The soft and sac* 
charine kinds are the most digestible. It forms an excel- 
lent dessert-fruit, and is preserved in sugar for that pur- 
pose. In small quantities it is well adapted as a fruit 
for convalescents from acute diseases. When ripe, it is 
made into preserves, wine, &c; the unripe is used for 
tarts, puddings, sauces, creams,. &c. Green gooseberries 
are employed in the manufacture of British champagne; 
but this beverage wants the delightful flavour of the real 
champagne. 



THE BLACK CURRANT. 235 

THE RED CURRANT. 

Ribes Rubrum. — Growdacea. — The Currant .Tribe. 
•—The currant is found wild in many parts of Britain 
and Ireland. It is a native of many countries of Europe, 
north and west of Asia, and North America. It. does 
not appear that the ancients were acquainted with this 
«hrub. It was known in France before the gooseberry 
was cultivated ; but the varieties have been chiefly im- 
proved in Holland. In the wild state, and as found on 
mountains and rocks, the currant is scarcely a foot high, 
but in gardens it is a large spreading bush, having large 
leaves. There are about ten good varieties of this fruit, 
including the white currant. Currants contain the same 
principles as the gooseberry, namely, sugar, malic and 
citric acids, gum, &c. 

Uses. Currants are similar in dietetic properties to 
the gooseberry ; and are employed in making jams, jel- 
lies, wines, &c. The jelly of this fruit, dissolved in 
water, forms a pleasant drink. 

THE BLACK CURRANT. 

Ribes Nigrum. — Grossulacm. — The Currant Tribe. 

'The black currant is a native of the north of Europe, 
and in Britain is common in woods, wet hedges, and on 
the banks of rivers. It is found in Siberia, on the Cau- 
casus, and is abundant in Sweden. It does not appear 
that the ancients were acquainted with it, and it is not 
known when it was first cultivated in gardens. The 
black currant, on its first introduction, was most 
esteemed as a medicinal fruit, and reckoned tonic, 
cordial, and diuretic. It is still not much cultivated 
in England, but is more common in Scotland. In 
the wild state, it is a smaller bush than the red 
currant; the wood is smooth and soft, the leaves are 



236 THE STRAWBERRY. 

large and soft, and they, as well as the buds, branches, 
&c. emit, when rubbed, a strong and peculiar odour. 
The fruit is black when ripe, has a characteristic, slightly 
astringent taste, and appears to be more mucilaginous 
than the red currant. 

Uses. This fruit possesses similar dietetic properties 
to the red currant; but is rarely used as a dessert- fruit, 
being generally made into jams, jellies, &c. The dried 
leaves are employed to adulterate tea, and are said to 
communicate the flavour of green tea. In Siberia, the 
leaves form a chief ingredient in the drink called quass ; 
and the berries are fermented with honey, from which 
an ardent spirit is distilled. An infusion of the young 
roots is given to cattle, in Russia, as a febrifuge. In the 
north of Russia, the berries of both the green and black 
varieties are gathered in the woods, dried in the sun or 
in an oven, laid up for winter use, and used for making 
tarts, or in the cure of sore throats. In Scotland, black 
currant jelly is reckoned a sovereign remedy for a sore 
throat. When dissolved in water, like other acidulous 
jellies and preserves, it forms a pleasant drink. 

THE STRAWBERRY. 

Fragaria Vesca, — Fragariacea. — The Strawberry 
Tribe. — This plant is a native of Europe, north-west 
coast of America, and is abundant in Britain in woods 
and on hills. The varieties of this fruit are very numer- 
ous, and it differs in size and colour, the latter being red, 
white, and black. Strawberries have not been particu- 
larly analysed, but they have been found to contain 
malic and citric acids, a volatile matter soluble in water, 
and which may be distilled along with it. This has 
been called strawberry water, and it has the agreeable 
odour of the fruit. 

Uses. The strawberry has a delicious, saccharine, and 



THE RASPBERRY. 237 

acidulous taste, and is one of the most esteemed dessert- 
fruits. It is not very nutritive, but very digestible and 
wholesome, and less liable to produce derangement of 
the digestive organs than many other fruits, if soft and 
saccharine in quality, and not indulged in too freely, or 
united with too much sugar and cream. It is believed 
to be somewhat diuretic, and was formerly prescribed 
for gout and calculous diseases. The root is astringent, 
and contains a portion of tannin. A decoction of it 
was formerly used for the cure of diarrhoea. 

THE RASPBERRY. 

Rubus Idaus. — Fragariacem. — The Strawberry 
Tribe. — This shrub is a native of Europe, Asia, Africa, 
and America, is very abundant in Britain and Ireland in 
woods and moist wastes. It attains the height of three or 
four feet ; the fruit, in the wild state, is of a crimson colour, 
and consists of numerous juicy grains united together 
into a round berry. There are about twenty good 
varieties cultivated, and the fruit has a white, yellow, or 
red colour. The raspberry has recently been analysed 
by M. Bley, and has been found to contain essential oil, 
citric and malic acids, red colouring matter, crystallisable 
sugar, insoluble mucilage, vegetable fibre, salts of potass 
and lime, and water. 

Uses. The raspberry has a fragrant odour, an acid- 
ulous, saccharine, agreeable taste, and it is very whole- 
some and digestible. In France, this fruit is frequently 
eaten at table along with strawberries; and a cooling 
drink is made by bruising them in water, with the addi- 
tion of a little sugar. They are employed in the com- 
position of jams, jellies, ices, syrups, &c; to which they 
communicate a delightful flavour. A wine is also made 
by fermenting them alone or mixed with cherries and 
currants, from which an ardent spirit may be procured 



238 THE BILBERRY. 

by distillation. In Russia, an agreeable hydromel is 
made from honey, raspberries, and water fermented 
together. Raspberry vinegar and raspberry brandy are 
made by infusing the fruit in these liquors. Raspberry 
vinegar, mixed with water, is often used as a drink in 
febrile affections, and during summer to allay thirst ; but, 
from its great acidity, &c, it frequently causes derange- 
ment of the digestive organs. Raspberries may be pre- 
served for winter use, in bottles or jars, with or without 
sugar. 

THE BILBERRY.— BLAEBERRY, Scotland. 

Vaccinium Myrtillus.— Vacdnieai. — The Bilberry 
Tribe. — This shrub is a native of the northern parts of 
Europe, Asia, Africa, and Nova Scotia, and is abundant 
in Britain on heaths, stony moors, and mountain woods. 
It attains the height of from six inches to two feet ; the 
berries are about the size of the red currant, have a 
bluish-black colour, are covered with a mealy bloom, 
contain a purplish-coloured juice, and have an agree- 
able, sweet, and acidulous taste. The juice contains 
malic and citric acids, sugar, albumen, gum ; and it has 
less tendency to ferment than the juices of many other 
berries. 

Uses. This is a very wholesome and digestible fruit, 
and is eaten alone, with cream, or made into tarts, jel- 
lies, &c. The juice stains the mouth, lips, &c, of a 
purple colour, and the colouring matter is not destroyed 
by digestion, so that the urinary and excrementitious 
discharges acquire a blue or black colour. The juice 
has been used to stain paper or linens of a purple eolour; 
and the leaves have been employed in tanning. During 
autumn, the wood-game live chiefly on the products of 
this shrub. 



THE CRANBERRY. 239 

RED WHORTLE BERRY.— COWBERRY. 

Vaccinium Vitis Idaa. — Vacciniea. — The Bilberry 
Tribe. — This shrub is a native of the north of Europe, 
is abundant in Scotland in dry, barren, stony woods 
and heaths. It is about six inches in height, the ber- 
ries have a blood-red colour, an acid, austere, and a 
slightly bitter taste. This fruit is not eaten in the raw 
state, but is made into pies, &c. In Sweden, a jelly is 
made from it, which is eaten with roast-meat, and is 
reckoned superior to red currant jelly as a sauce for 
venison. The jelly is also used in Sweden for sore throats, 
colds, &c. In Siberia, the berries are fermented with 
barley, rye, or honey, and a wine or spirit is the pro- 
duct. Sweetmeats are made from them, with sugar 
or honey, which are used in Moscow at balls and assem- 
blies. In Sweden, the plant is used in gardens for 
edgings, as box is employed in this country. The red 
whortle berry is the badge of the clan Macleod. (Hooker.) 

THE CRANBERRY. 

« 

Oxycoccos Palustris. — Vacciniem. — The Bilberry 
Tribe. — This creeping shrub is a native of the moun- 
tainous parts of Europe, and is abundant in Scotland, 
England, Ireland, Switzerland, and Russia, in turfy 
mossy bogs. In consequence of the extensive drainage 
of bogs, this plant is now cultivated ; but England is 
chiefly supplied with cranberries from Russia and 
Sweden. They are also imported from America; but 
those belong to another species, the oxycoccos macro- 
carpus, are larger and have a brighter red colour. The 
berries are pear-shaped, globular, of a crimson colour, 
often spotted, have a grateful, peculiar, and very aoid 
taste. This fruit has not been analysed, but Scheele has 



240 CARRAGEEN MOSS. 

found the acid contained in it to be chiefly the citric, 
with very little malic acid. 

Uses. Cranberries have been used in Britain and the 
north of Europe for making tarts, and an acid drink 
during summer, from time immemorial; but are not 
very digestible, from the large quantity of acid they con- 
tain. They may be kept for several years, if gathered 
when dry, and put into bottles closely corked ; or they 
may be preserved in casks of water, which is the method 
practised in the north of Europe and America for expor- 
tation. In Russia, the bankers whiten their silver coin 
by boiling it in cranberry- juice, and in Sweden the latter 
is also employed to whiten silver-plate. Russian are 
considered superior to American cranberries. The total 
quantity imported from both countries is from 80,000 to 
85,000 gallons annually. (M'Culloch.) This fruit is 
the badge of the clan Grant. (Hooker.) 

CARRAGEEN, or IRISH MOSS. 

Chondrus Crispus, — Algacea. — The Sea-weed Tribe. 
— This fucus is found abundantly in Ireland, and on 
many parts of the British coast. When recently 
gathered, it has a glossy reddish-purple colour, but when 
dried it is horny in appearance, generally curled, having 
a whitish-yellow or brownish tint, a slight odour of sea- 
weed, and a mucilaginous slightly saline taste. When 
put into water, it absorbs this liquid very rapidly, be- 
comes white and gelatinous. According to Herberger, 
it contains 79 per cent, of vegetable jelly, which is sup- 
posed by some authors to resemble animal jelly, mucus, 
two resins, fatty matter, free acids and salts; but no 
traces of iodine or bromine. When boiled with water, 
it furnishes a very consistent jelly, which preserves its 
shape for a long time ; but after the lapse of four or 



ESCULENT SEA -WEEDS. 241 

five days, there is developed in it a very slight fishy 
odour. 

Uses. Irish moss is 'a very digestible and agreeable 
species of food ; and within the last ten or twelve years 
has attracted some attention as a substitute for arrow- 
root, sago, &c, which it appears to equal in nutritive 
and other qualities. It has long been highly esteemed 
by the peasantry on the western coast of Ireland as a 
dietetic remedy for consumption, diarrhoea, scrophula, 
and diseases of the kidneys; and as an alimentary 
agent, is well adapted for the treatment of these dis- 
eases. When taken as ordinary diet, it is generally 
eaten in the solid form, or converted into a shape ; but 
for medicinal purposes, particularly with children, the 
liquid form is more convenient. In the latter case, the 
following formula of M. Beral may be 'adopted. He 
names the preparation analeptic or restorative milk. 
Take milk 24 ounces, Irish moss 4 scruples, sugar £ 
ounce, canella or cinnamon 20 grains. Macerate the moss 
in cold water for a few minutes, then shake the water 
out of it, and boil with the milk, sugar, and cinnamon, 
until the liquid attains the consistence of warm jelly. 
In order to give the jelly a consistency sufficient to make 
it retain its shape, the proportion of moss must be in- 
creased. £ ounce Irish moss, and l£ pints of new milk, 
boiled together for a short time, are the proportions fre- 
quently employed. Various seasonings are added, accord- 
ing to the taste of individuals, such as wine, cloves, 
mace, cinnamon, lemon or orange juice, sugar, &c; but 
when the digestive organs are weak, acids and much 
sugar should be avoided. Irish moss is also used to fur- 
nish size for water colours, by the inhabitants on the 
coast of Ireland. 

Esculent Sea-weeds. — The algm or sea-weeds are 

aquatic vegetables, which contain a considerable quan- 

x 



242 ICELAND MOSS. 

tity of nutriment, namely, vegetable jelly, albumen, &c; 
and several of them are used as food by the poorer 
classes in Ireland, Scotland, Iceland, Denmark, &c. 
Khodomenia palmate, the dulse of the Scotch, and the 
dillesk of the Irish ; porphyra laciniata et vulgaris, or 
laver; and alaria esculenta, bladder-locks or honey- ware, 
are frequently used as aliment, being boiled or stewed, 
and eaten with milk, farinaceous substances, or seasoned 
with aromatics. 

ICELAND MOSS. 

Cetraria Islandica. — Lichenacea. — The Lichen Tribe. 
— This lichen is found in the mountains and woods of 
the alpine districts of Great Britain. It also grows in 
the north of Europe, and thrives well upon the lava on 
the western coast of Iceland. Iceland moss is erect 
and bushy, seldom exceeding three inches in height. 
The fronds are somewhat cartilaginous, variously sinu- 
ated, notched and fringed at the margins with hairs. 
The surface is of a brownish or greyish white colour ; 
when wet it assumes a green tinge. The taste is muci- 
laginous and very bitter, and it is tough and without odour ; 
According to Berzelius, it contains chlorophyl 1.6, bitter 
principle 3.0, uncrystallisable sugar 3.6, gum 3.7, extrac- 
tive 7.0, starch 44.6, bilichenate of potash and lime 1.9, 
amylaceous fibrin 36.2. The bitter principle has been 
procured in a state of purity by Herberger. It is a white 
powder like magnesia, and has an intensely bitter taste. 

Uses. This vegetable is of great importance in north- 
ern countries during periods of scarcity, for it is very 
nutritive, a ton of Iceland moss being estimated as 
equal to half a ton of wheat. The Saxon government 
published a report upon this subject a few years ago, 
from which it appears that the use of lichen meal and 
flour produces a much greater quantity of bread, than 



ICELAND MOSS. 243 

what would result from the employment of an equal 
weight of the latter. A fallacious conclusion may be 
drawn from this statement; for this, like sago bread, 
absorbs much more water than that manufactured from 
flour, and hence must be less nutritive in proportion to its 
weight. The extremely bitter taste of this moss has, 
howeyer, been always found a very great objection to its 
use as an article of diet ; and unless some attention be 
given to the removal of this disagreeable quality, an un- 
conquerable dislike to it is the result. The bitter prin- 
ciple may, however, be removed almost completely by 
subcarbonate of potass (salt of tartar) ; and more 
thoroughly by the same salt deprived of its carbonic acid 
by means of quicklime. I have found by experiment, that 
5 parts of subcarbonate of potass, deprived of its carbonic 
acid by an equal weight of quicklime, and dissolved in 
water, are sufficient to extract the bitter principle from 
100 of Iceland moss, after maceration for ten or fourteen 
days. When the maceration is completed, the lichen 
should be washed with pure water, and simply allowed 
to drain ; for straining by pressure tends to press out a 
portion of the gelatinous or starchy principle. Quick- 
lime is also very efficacious in extracting the bitter prin- 
ciple from Iceland moss, and is more economical than 
potass ; 1 part of lime to 8 parts of the moss, with the 
requisite quantity of water, are the necessary proportions. 
The maceration ought to be continued for about eight 
days, frequent agitation being employed during that 
time. It should be afterwards well washed with cold 
water, and then with water acidulated with sulphuric 
acid. This process deprives Iceland moss of its peculiar 
odour more effectually than potass. This vegetable has 
been employed for more than two centuries in affections 
of the chest, particularly in pulmonary consumption, and 
has been recommended by various authors in catarrh, 



244 THE COMMON OX. 

inflammation of the lungs, diarrhoea, hooping cough, &c. 
It is rarely prescribed in modern times, except as a pallia- 
tive for consumption. The bitter principle is calculated 
to improve the tone of the digestive organs, and may thus 
be advantageous in many diseases ; but, when thoroughly 
extracted, this moss simply acts as an alimentary agent, 
and forms a moderately nutritious and agreeable diet, 
if seasoned with sugar, milk, or aromatics. When medi- 
cinally employed it is sometimes given in the form of 
powder, or added to soups or chocolate. It is used in 
brewing, and in the composition of ship-biscuit, and it 
prevents the latter from being attacked by worms, &c. 
The bitter principle or cetrarin has been lately recom- 
mended as a tonic and febrifuge in ague, in the dose of 
one or two grains. 



MAMMIFEROUS ANIMALS. 

THE COMMON OX. 
Bos Taurus.— Bovidx. — The Ox Family. — This animal 
is found, in some of its varieties, in almost every part of 
the world, and is of the first importance on account of 
its uses and services in field labour. It is capable of 
being acclimated all over the world, and it thrives well on 
almost any soil, the quantity being more essential to it 
than the quality of the food. The richness of the pas- 
ture, however, has a great effect in increasing its size, and 
those which feed on mountainous districts are generally 
small, which characters are well observed in the Devon- 
shire and Shetland breeds. Numerous varieties are reared 
in this country, and many of these are believed to be 
descended from an admixture with the wild oxen which 



THE COMMON OX. 245 

occupied Britain at no very remote period. Very great 
attention has, for a considerable time, been paid to the 
improvement of the breed of this animal, and the variety 
as well as the value of its products will sufficiently account 
for this. The cow furnishes milk, butter and cheese, 
and the flesh of the ox is esteemed all over the world. 
The number of oxen consumed in this country must be 
very great. Mr. Donovan states that about a thousand 
oxen and calves are used in London alone every day. 

Almost every part of the ox is used as food by man, 
but the muscle or flesh is most esteemed. The flesh of 
the bull is exceedingly dense and tough, and is not much 
used as aliment, but when eaten is chiefly employed in 
the formation of sausages. The flesh of the cow is much 
more tender, but is greatly inferior in this quality, as 
well as in richness and sapidity to that of the ox, which 
is generally believed to be in perfection at the age of four 
years. The flesh of the calf is much softer in texture, 
and contains a larger proportion of gelatinous matter 
than that of the full-grown animal. Water, there- 
fore, extracts more soluble matter from veal than from 
beef ; hence the soup formed from the former will con- 
tain a larger proportion of solid ingredients. 

According to Berzelius, beef consists of fleshy fibre, 
vessels, nerves, cellular tissue, albumen, colouring matter, 
extract, salts, and water. Meat devoid of fat contains 
26 per cent, of dry residue, and nearly 13.6 of carbon. 
Fat and cellular tissue form one-seventh of the weight of 
ordinary meat, and fat contains 80 per cent, of carbon. 
(Liebig.) 

Water extracts from hashed meat about 17 per cent. 

of its weight. (Graham.) The weight abstracted consists 

of water as well as solid matter, for water extracts a 

much smaller proportion from thoroughly dried meat. 

Uses. Beef, when tender, not too fat, and properly 

x 2 



246 THE COMMON OX. 

cooked, is very digestible, agreeable, and preferred by 
many persons to other kinds of animal food. It is stated 
by some authors that beef is more easily digested than 
veal. This statement may be true with respect to those 
persons who have weak digestive organs ; for if the veal 
be very young or gelatinous, it is apt to produce fermen- 
tation in the stomach and the formation of lactic acid. 

In healthy individuals, however, the flesh or muscular 
parts of the young, being tender in texture, will be more 
easily digested than that of the full grown animal. The 
digestibility of beef depends not only upon its own in- 
trinsic qualities, but also upon the time it has been kept. 
Thus, during hot weather, a day or two will effect the 
necessary tenderness of texture; while, during winter, 
eight days are often required. Various other parts of 
the ox are used as aliment, such as the kidney, heart, 
and tongue, which are generally tender and very digesti- 
ble. The stomachs also, when thoroughly boiled and 
made into the dish named tripe in Scotland, are favour- 
ites with many persons, and are very light and easily di- 
gested. Animal food, particularly the flesh or muscular 
parts of animals, is universally admitted to be more 
nutritive than vegetables, even than those of the highest 
alimentary power, such as wheat, &c. This cannot be 
owing to the quantity of solid matter in beef when com- 
pared with that in wheat ; for meat devoid of fat con- 
tains only '26 per cent, of dry residue, whereas in wheat 
there is only about 10 or 12 per cent, of water, the rest 
being nutritive matter. The high nutritive power of 
animal food must therefore depend upon the presence of 
some principle, in greater amount than is found in vege- 
table substances. This principle is nitrogen or azote, 
and when presented to the stomach in the form of fibrin 
or muscular fibre, is highly calculated to nourish the 
body, particularly the fleshy organs, as believed by some 



MILK. 247 

modern philosophers. Carbon is also a constituent of the 
fleshy parts of animals, and meat deprived of fat contains 
nearly 13.6 per cent, of carbon ; but as many vegetable 
substances contain a much larger proportion of this ele- 
ment than meat, the superiority of the latter cannot be 
owing to its presence. For example, potatoes contain 
nearly as much carbon as meat, namely, 12.2 per cent.; 
bread contains about 30.15 per cent. When the amount 
of carbon is very great, however, the nutritive power 
of the animal or vegetable substance, if alimentary, is 
generally also very considerable, although by no means 
to the same extent as when it contains nitrogen in addi- 
tion to this element. Thus fat, which is considered very 
nutritive, in as much as it tends to produce obesity in 
healthy individuals, contains 80 per cent, of carbon. 
Tallow or the fat of the ox is used extensively in the 
manufacture of soap and candles. The skin or hide is 
converted into leather by the process of tanning. 

Beef-tea — is prepared by boiling, in a pint of water, 
from four to eight ounces of lean beef, cut into thin slices, 
for a quarter of an hour. When it is necessary to remove 
the whole of the fatty matter, the beef-tea must be cooled, 
and strained through a linen or cotton cloth ; for when 
warm it cannot be completely removed by skimming. 
This preparation may frequently be seasoned with salt, 
spices, &c. 

MILK. 

Milk is a fluid secreted by mammiferous animals, 
and is evidently intended for the nourishment of the 
young, as it is formed immediately after their birth. The 
milk of the cow is a white opaque liquid, of a sweetish, 
bland and agreeable taste. It is heavier than water, and 
its specific gravity is generally about 1.030, but it varies 
considerably in different animals and at different periods 



248 MILK. 

of lactation. When deprived of its cream, its specific 
weight is two or three degrees higher. Milk, when 
recently drawn, is alkaline, and when examined by the 
microscope, very minute globules are seen floating in it. 
According to Raspail, the largest of these measure about 
l-2500th part of an inch in diameter, consist of butter, 
and disappear on the addition of a caustic alkali. When 
milk is allowed to remain at rest for a few hours, the 
cream or oily portion rises to the surface, in combination 
with a small portion of the curd or caseum. After this is 
removed, the milk that remains is named skimmed milk, 
and it has a slightly bluish colour. When the cream is 
made to undergo the process of churning, the particles of 
fatty matter unite together, forming butter, and the curd 
remains suspended in the serum or whey, constituting 
what is named butter-milk. According to Henry and 
Chevallier, the milk of the cow contains caseum or curd 
4.48, butter 3.13,!sugar of milk 4.77, salts 0.60, water 87.02. 
Its solid or nutritive contents are about 13 in 100 parts. 
Milk drawn at the end of the same milking is more 
rich in nutritive matter than that procured at the begin- 
ning. Milk unites with water nearly in all proportions. 
Spirit of wine, acids, and several other substances coagu- 
late it, while potash, soda and ammonia have no such 
effect ; but on the contrary dissolve the curd when it has 
formed. When milk is kept for a certain time, varying 
according to the temperature, it becomes acid, and is 
coagulated, from the formation of lactic acid or the acid 
peculiar to milk. The peculiar kind of food given to 
cows and other mammiferous animals, influences both the 
quantity and quality of the milk. Thus turnips, carrots 
and beet-root, furnish a very abundant and rich kind of 
milk. Chevallier and 0. Henry are of opinion, that beet- 
root is productive of a sweeter and better flavoured milk 
than many other vegetables. When an animal is much 



MILK. 249 

fatigued with exercise or labour, the milk is always 
deficient in solid parts and is consequently less nutritive. 
After parturition, the milk first formed possesses peculiar 
properties. It is named colostrum, first milk, and heist in 
Scotland. It has a yellow colour, is acid, viscous, its 
flavour being unsavoury and sometimes bitterish in taste. 
It is coagulated by heat, becoming somewhat gelatinous, 
and contains more butter and curd,and its density is greater 
than ordinary milk, being often 10.50 or 10.60 in specific 
gravity. It is to a certain extent laxative in its effects, 
but this quality is lost at the end of some days, when it 
assumes the usual properties. 

Milk sometimes acquires peculiar properties from the 
kind of food the animal uses. Dry substances and astrin- 
gent vegetables, have a tendency to give the milk an as- 
tringent property ; while green vegetables, such as tur- 
nips, carrots, beet-root, &c, render it relaxant. Cows 
fed on turnips are well known to furnish milk of a dis- 
agreeable taste. Some authors state that this can be pre- 
vented by the careful removal of the green tops of this root. 
Boiling turnips thoroughly is practised in some dairies, and 
is said to be quite efficacious. This plan is very rational, 
for water at a boiling heat dissipates the acrid principle of 
cruciferous plants. The addition of a little saltpetre 
to milk infected with the turnip-flavour, renders its taste 
less disagreeable. The colour of milk is modified by the 
exhibition of madder, saffron, &c; the odour and taste by 
plants of the alliaceous or garlic tribe, and wormwood 
communicates its bitter qualities to this secretion. Che- 
vallier and 0. Henry have ascertained by experiment, 
that the following substances pass into the milk of the 
ass, namely, common salt, bicarbonate of soda, glauber 
salts, hydriodate of potass, and the oxides of iron, zinc and 
bismuth. Mercury has not been detected by the most 
careful analysis, but there is a strong probability of its 



250 ADULTKRATIOir OF MILK. 

existence, from the purgative effects of nones' inilk 
while under the influence of this metal. M. Virey mentions 
that in the state of Te ncs s cc, North America, a poisonous 
plant is eaten with impunit y by the cows, hut the milk 
procured from them causes vomiting, vertigo, &c M. T. 
A. Quevenne has remarked that the milk of Paris is inferior 
in flavour to that produced in the country, when the cow 
feeds on the ordinary grasses. This fret is generally 
known in this country, particularly by the inhabitants of 
large towns. It has also been stated that normal or 
healthy milk is alkaline, when the cow feeds on natural 
grasses in the open air; whilst in seclusion and fed on 
turnips, beet-root, &c., it is often acid. The milk there- 
fore from the former ought to be preferred, particularly 
by persons who have weak digestive organs. Milk or 
cream may be preserved by evaporating the half of its 
watery contents in a water bath, putting it into bottles, 
exposing these to the boiling water-bath, and carefully 
corking and sealing them. 

Adulteration of Milk. — The most common adul- 
teration of milk is with water; but flour, sugar, gum 
and eggs are occasionally, though, I believe, rarely in 
Britain used for this purpose. For the detection of 
water a hydrometer or lactometer may be employed, 
which will show the density. Thus, if the specific 
gravity, according to Quevenne, be below 1029 or above 
1033 for uncreamed milk, or below 1033 and above 1037 
for skimmed milk, there will be reason to suspect the 
addition of water; which opinion maybe further cor- 
roborated by the peculiar watery taste and bluish tint of 
the milk. The quantity of cream which any sample of 
milk contains may be ascertained by an instrument 
divided into degrees; and various have been recom- 
mended by scientific authors. An instrument of this 
kind is rarely used; for the majority of dairymaids 



mmmimmmmmm 



ADULTERATION OF MILK. 251 

believe themselves capable of appreciating pretty exactly 
the quantity of cream thrown up by milk. The albu- 
men of eggs is detected by boiling the milk, which forms 
ooagula if this be present, but flocculi only if its quan- 
tity be small. Sugar, if considerable in quantity) may 
be detected by the taste ; but certainly by adding a little 
yeast, which causes a brisk fermentation in a few hours ; 
whereas the fermentation of pure milk, when excited by 
this agent, is difficult and slow. Flour, rice, and other 
grains are boiled in water, and sometimes added to milk, 
but perhaps more frequently to cream, to increase its 
consistency. The smallest quantity of these farinaceous 
substances is detected by the blue colour produced on 
the addition of the tincture of iodine, particularly if the 
milk be coagulated, and the whey tested. Gum is, in 
general, too high in price to be used for the adulteration 
of milk. The emulsion of almonds or hemp-seed gener- 
ally communicates a peculiar taste to the milk, and is 
often partially coagulated by boiling. The curd pro- 
cured from such mixtures is small in quantity and oily 
in its nature, and it imparts to white paper a greasy 
stain. Almonds are most decidedly detected, according 
to Quevenne, by the addition of a small portion of 
cbtnt/gdaline, which developes the odour of the oil of bit- 
ter almonds. In almost all these adulterations, the 
specific gravity is too low ; so that the hydrometer may 
Also be applied in their detection. According to Soubeiran 
and O. Henry, milk is adulterated in Paris with the brain 
of the calf and sheep. In this case, by the aid of the 
microscope, fragments of vessels are detected in the 
liquid. Carbonate of soda is also occasionally added to 
milk to prevent its coagulation by heat, and to neutralise 
any acid that may be formed. When- used in small 
quantities, its wholesome qualities are not injured ; but 
when added in considerable amount to very acid milk, 



262 DISEASED MILK. 

the latter acquires purgative properties. This adultera- 
tion increases the specific gravity of the milk, and the 
latter has a peculiar, more or less saline taste. 

Diseased Milk. — It has already been noticed that the 
first milk differs from ordinary milk in several important 
particulars; and though perfectly suited for the nutri- 
ment and state of the young animal, it is not well 
adapted for general use as food. It cannot strictly, how- 
ever, he characterised as diseased milk. Milk sometimes 
contains mucus, pus, blood, &c, when the cow has 
become affected with particular diseases. These foreign 
matters may be detected, by the aid of the microscope, 
from their shape, colour, &c; and blood is sometimes 
found at the bottom of the vessel in which milk is con- 
tained. There is reason to believe that this fluid is rarely 
impregnated with such principles, or even so altered by- 
disease as to be injurious to the health. The following 
characters may be given to genuine milk. It should not 
be viscid; when uncreamed it ought to contain only 
spherical globules, and the specific gravity should be 
between 1029 and 1033; it should not become thick 
when mixed with ammonia, nor be coagulated by heat. 
A disease, named cowte, prevailed two or three years ago 
among the cows reared in the vicinity of Paris ; and 
gave rise to a series of important examinations into the 
quality of the milk furnished by these animals. In a 
report upon this subject to the Academy of Sciences, 
the following characters are given as the most certain 
for distinguishing it from healthy milk, namely, deficient 
homogeneity, mobility and liquidity ; a thickening by 
ammonia ; and the presence of globules which are not 
present in normal milk. 

Uses of Milk. Good milk is a very important article 
of diet, as it furnishes to a healthy individual a very 
digestible and nutritive aliment, and has been valued as 



CREAM AND BUTTER. 253 

such by all nations. It is generally more or less coagu- 
lated by the gastric juice before digestion takes place ; 
and is thus subjected to the same law, in the stomach, as 
solid aliment. In some dyspeptic persons, who are liable 
to acidity, it is apt to assume the acid fermentation, 
particularly during summer, when the milk is more or 
less sour before it is used. In such cases, it may advan- 
tageously be diluted with water, to which a small portion 
of bicarbonate of soda has been added ; or used in very 
moderate quantities, along with other less fermentable 
aliments. Milk is often used along with farinaceous 
food, such as bread, arrow-root, sago, &c. ; and this com- 
bination, in general, agrees with most individuals. When 
acidity, however, is liable to occur, the farinaceous or 
amylaceous substance should be boiled with water, to 
which a little salt has been added, and eaten with milk. 
As a general rule, skimmed milk, when quite free of 
acidity, is lighter and more easily digested than that which 
contains its cream. Milk is sometimes boiled before use; 
and, in this state, is considered, by some authors, more 
beneficial in diarrhoea and other affections of the bowels. 
It is doubtful whether this opinion be correct ; boiling, 
however, can do no injury to the dietetic properties of 
milk, and is a good test of its genuine quality ; for good 
milk is not coagulated when exposed to a boiling tem- 
perature. Milk is often used as aliment in cases of con- 
sumption ; and when it agrees with the digestive organs, is 
well adapted for its treatment, on account of its nutritive 
and little exciting properties. It is also valuable as an anti- 
dote or demulcent, in poisoning with corrosive sublimate, 
sulphate of copper, muriate of tin, the mineral acids, &c. 

CREAM AND BUTTER. 

Cream is lighter or of less specific gravity than milk, 
being generally about 1024 ; and its upper portion b 

Y 



254 CREAM AND BUTTER. 

richest in butter, while the lower contains the larger pro- 
portion of curd. During hot weather, milk throws up 
its cream in about twenty-four hours ; whereas during 
winter, thirty-six or forty-eight hours may elapse before 
this process is accomplished. The first portion of cream 
rising to the surface is richer than that obtained in the 
second equal space of time. Milk agitated and cooled 
before it is put into the milk-pans, throws up less cream 
than when it is early put into proper vessels. When 
milk is boiled, the cream appears more slowly, occupies 
less volume, but is richer in butter. The average quan- 
tity of cream separated from milk is only about 4 per cent, 
according to some experimenters. In the conversion of 
cream into butter the former is generally kept until it 
has become somewhat acidulous ; and it is stated that 
the process of churning is by this means considerably 
facilitated. When the acid is deficient in quantity, some 
writers have recommended the addition of vinegar to the 
cream. During churning the heat rises, it is said, a few 
degrees ; and the temperature best adapted for quicken- 
ing the process, as well as for producing a fine quality, is 
between 50° and 57° Fahr. Summer cream yields rather 
less butter than that procured during the autumn months ; 
and what is made during the latter period is best adapted 
for storing. After the butter is churned it is washed with 
water, and the milk is forced out with a wooden ladle. 

Butter is sometimes artificially coloured during winter, 
by means of carrot-juice or annotto, which addition, 
although quite unnecessary and even sometimes injurious 
to its appearance, is not detrimental to the health, if free 
from adulteration. Butter is generally preserved by a 
mixture of common salt, saltpetre and sugar ; and when 
these are properly incorporated with butter of good qua- 
lity, and completely freed from milk, it may be preserved 
for years in a sound state. 



BUTTER-MILK. 255 

Adulteration of Butter. — This practice is by no 
means unfrequent ; and daring the years 1839 and 1841 a 
very large quantity of adulterated butter was imported 
into Glasgow from Ireland. It is named "repacks? and 
is made by boiling common salt and flour with water and 
mixing the liquid thus formed with the butter. This 
sophisticated butter is dingy in colour and is not semitrans- 
parent like that of genuine quality. This adultera- 
tion is detected by liquifying the butter with heat, and 
allowing it to remain in the fluid state for some time. 
The butter is found at the top, and the flour and water 
below. The tincture of iodine when added to the liquid 
containing the flour, produces a deep blue colour. 

Uses oj Cream and Butter. Butter possesses the 
general properties of other oily aliments, being very nu- 
tritive, but difficult of digestion. As it contains, however, 
a small portion of milk and curd, it is more easily assimi- 
lated than pure oil or fat; and it possesses the advantage 
of being exceedingly agreeable. Dyspeptics ought to use 
it only in small quantities, and mixed up with some other 
alimentary substances of easier digestion. When rancid 
or rendered empyreumatic by heat, it ought to be avoid- 
ed. Butter enters as a constituent into many culinary 
and confectionary preparations, which are thereby ren- 
dered more or less difficult of digestion. Cream possesses 
dietetic properties similar to butter ; but the fatty matter 
being less concentrated, it is lighter and not so apt to 
produce indigestion as the latter. 

BUTTER-MILK. 

Butter-milk is generally prepared by churning sour 
cream ; but is also procured from milk that has become 
acid. When procured from the first, it is more rich, 
nutritious and agreeable than when made from the second. 
The acid which it contains is the lactic or acid of milk. 



256 WHEY. 

Butter-milk is a very good alimentary liquid for a healthy 
person, although not so nutritious as sweet milk ; and is 
much used by the peasantry of Scotland and Ireland. 
On account of its acid properties it is not well adapted 
for those who have delicate digestive organs; as it i» 
liable to occasion flatulency, acescency and sometimes 
diarrhoea. As a drink or diluent, for which purpose it 
is often employed, the most robust should only use 
it ; and even for them, if not previously done by the 
maker, it may advantageously be diluted with water. It 
has been recommended in fevers and other febrile diseases, 
on account of its cooling properties, but it is not well 
adapted for their treatment ; as it often deranges, to a 
greater or less extent, the functions of the stomach and 
bowels. It may, however, be used as a safe and pleasant 
drink, under ordinary circumstances, if modified by a 
mixture with an equal portion of boiling water. The 
boiling water coagulates the caseum or curd, which falls 
to the bottom, while the diluted whey swims above and 
may be decanted. A little oatmeal, beat up with the 
milk before the addition of the water, improves the fla- 
vour of this diluent. 

WHEY. 

Whey is the liquid or watery part of milk which 
remains after the curd has been separated. It contains 
sugar of milk, lactic acid, some salts, and frequently a 
little butter and curd. The sugar is the ingredient 
which gives whey its agreeable taste ; and in Switzerland, 
the former is extensively manufactured by evaporating 
the latter to the consistency of syrup. Sugar of milk is 
sweetish in taste, gritty, and much less soluble in water 
than common sugar. It is capable of a slow fermenta- 
tion; and the Tartars prepare a vinous liquor from the 
milk of the mare. Its crystals are granular; but in 



CHEESE. 257 

commerce it is generally found in cylindrical masses. It 
is used in place of common sugar, but is greatly inferior 
in sweetness. 

Uses. Whey contains little nutriment, but forms a 
very agreeable drink, and is gently aperient ; although 
this effect is not frequently observed. When too rich, 
it may be diluted with water ; more particularly if used 
in febrile affections, or when there is any tendency to 
indigestion. 

CURD. 

When rennet, acetic or any of the mineral acids is 
added to milk, it is coagulated, and the curd formed is 
named caseum. This curd is an albuminous substance, 
resembling, white of egg in many of its properties; al- 
though it is not, like it, coagulated by heat. It is trans- 
parent, yellowish, has little odour or taste, and is sparingly 
soluble in water. It is occasionally used in diet, under 
the name of curds, which are generally eaten with cream. 
When taken alone or with little cream, by a healthy 
individual, they are nutritive and digestible ; but when 
combined with much of the latter substance, or taken 
to excess, are productive of indigestion, flatulency, and 
not unfrequently diarrhoea. 

CHEESE. 

. Cheese is made from the curd or caseous part of milk. 
The milk is first coagulated by rennet (an infusion of 
the fourth stomach of a calf), the curd is then separated 
from the whey, chiefly by draining, and afterwards sub- 
jected, in a mould, to strong pressure. There are various 
kinds and qualities of cheese, which, in a great measure, 
depend upon the nature of the milk or the mode of manu- 
facture. When the cream has been completely separ- 
ated from the milk before its coagulation, the cheese 

Y2 



258 CHEESE. 

formed from it is almost pure curd, being very tough, and 
difficult of solution in the stomach. On the other hand, 
when the cheese is made from uncreamed milk, it is 
more rich, less tough, and though it contains butter, is 
more digestible, being more easily disintegrated and dis- 
solved in the stomach. For the sake of economy, the 
cream is sometimes abstracted, and a portion of other 
fatty matter, such as lard, is added to supply its place. 
This plan is most probably injurious, both to its agree- 
able qualities and digestibility. Cheese is also some- 
times made from cream alone ; and must consequently 
prove very heavy and difficult of digestion. Cheese, 
when moist and partially spoiled, is liable to become 
the depository of maggots; these are most readily 
destroyed by pouring a little ardent spirit upon them. 
Mites are also generated in great abundance in old 
cheeses; but are not in general disliked, although they 
often commit very extensive depredations. The most 
effectual means of eradicating this evil, is the complete 
removal of the mity from the sound parts* When cheese 
is kept for several years, it acquires new properties, be- 
coming brittle, pungent to the taste, exhaling a strong 
and sometimes an ammoniacal odour, and assuming an 
irregular, greenish, yellowish or brownish tint. It is 
then much more digestible when eaten in small quanti- 
ties ; and is generally considered somewhat condimentary 
in its properties. When cheese is very old, and in 
a state of putrefaction, it contains acetate of ammo- 
nia, acetic acid, various salts, a peculiar extractive mat- 
ter, and a bitterish crystalline principle named apose- 
pedine. This, and the ordinary changes of cheese, occu* 
more speedily after it has been cut or broken, from the 
more free action of the air upon it. Cheese has some- 
times been found adulterated with deleterious substances, 
such as lead, and has thus proved poisonous. This, 



DIETETIC QUALITIES OF CHEESE. 259 

however, has generally been owing to the adulteration of 
the annotto, used in colouring the cheese, with red lead. 
Britain, Holland, Switzerland and Italy, are the coun- 
tries most celebrated for the manufacture of cheese. 

Stilton Cheese — is made in the county of Hunting- 
don. It contains a large proportion of cream, and when 
old becomes greenish. Its flavour is much admired, and 
though rich and somewhat difficult of digestion, yet it 
is soft and easily disintegrated. 

Cheshire Cheese — also contains cream, and though 
its flavoux is not so much esteemed as that of Stilton, it 
possesses similar properties. 

Parmesan Cheese, — according to Dr. Willich, is 
made from creamed milk, and the curd is coloured with 
saffron. 

Grctere Cheese — is made in Switzerland, contains 
very little cream, but is remarkable for its fine flavour, 
the sweet whey contained in small spheroidal cavities, 
and the large size of the cheeses. Captain Brown states 
that it contains a portion of sow's milk. 

Gloucester Cheese. — In the manufacture of this 
cheese, rennet is added to the milk as soon as it is pro- 
cured from the cow. There are several qualities ; but 
it is generally rich, agreeable, and reddish in colour. 

Ayrshire or Dunlop Cheese — is made from un- 
creamed milk, and rennet is added before it is quite cold. 
When two or three years old, its taste is pungent and 
agreeable, it is moderately friable, and pretty easy of di- 
gestion. It is equal to several varieties of esteemed Eng- 
lish cheeses. 

Ewe Cheese — is now rarely made in Scotland. It is 
very rich when genuine, dark-coloured, when old ex- 
tremely pungent, and in small quantities easily digested 
and rather condimentary. 

Dietetic Qualities op Cheese. — Cheese is very nutri- 



260 MILK OF THE HUMAN SUBJECT. 

tire, but somewhat difficult of digestion, particularly 
when tough, hardy or rendered tenacious by heat. It is 
therefore only suited to the robust and healthy, and is by- 
no means adapted for those who have delicate digestive 
organs, except in small quantities, and old cheese should 
be preferred. It is rendered more easy of digestion when 
grated, for in this state it is more readily mixed up with 
other alimentary matters, and is thus more quickly dis- 
solved by the gastric juice. Cheese is liable to produce 
constipation, particularly when new, and made from 
creamed milk. When hard, cheese should either be grated 
or softened by maceration in milk or other alimentary 
liquid. 

VARIOUS KINDS OF MILK. 

Milk of the Human Subject. — This differs from that 
of the cow, in containing more sugar and cream, and less 
curd. The curd is generally not capable of precipitation 
by acids ; although readily by rennet. Its specific gravity 
varies between 1030 and 1035 ; and the density increases 
as the age of the milk advances, but only up to a certain 
period, after which it remains the same. When procured 
from a healthy person it is slightly alkaline or neutral, 
and the proportion of solid matter is from 11 to 12.5 per 
cent. Sir Astley Cooper has estimated the quantity of 
cream as varying from one-fifth to one-third by measure. 
The colostrum or first milk is very apt to become acid and 
viscid on exposure to the air. According to Chevallier 
and Henry, the ordinary milk contains caseum or curd 
1.52, butter 3.55, sugar of milk 6.50, salts 0.45, water 
87.98. 

This fluid, as has been already fully explained in 
treating of the diet of infancy, was intended for the 
nourishment of infants, and no other aliment requires to be 
given for several months, if abundant and of good quality. 



MILK OF THE ASS. 261 

This, however, is frequently not the case, for the artificial 
mode of living so prevalent in civilised countries is not 
well calculated to promote healthy secretions. A nurse 
ought to he a person in perfect health, with sound diges- 
tive organs ; for if she he liable to acidity or flatulency, 
her milk will be apt to produce a similar state in the 
infant. Her diet should be simple, moderately full, and 
may contain an average proportion of animal substances. 
As a larger proportion of liquid is required than under 
ordinary circumstances, milk, soups, &c, are proper ; but 
in general malt liquors may be dispensed with, as being 
unnecessary, and frequently liable to generate an acescent 
milk. There are some exceptions to this rule, where 
sound porter is found beneficial. Wine or ardent spirits 
ought to be used in very moderate proportions ; for there 
is no doubt that the milk becomes more or less impreg- 
nated with these agents. For a similar reason, powerful 
medicines should be avoided, and when laxatives are 
required, those of the simplest kinds ought to be preferred. 
As a summary of the whole, it may generally be stated, 
that if the health of the nurse become deranged from 
any cause, her milk will also become more or less dete- 
riorated, and consequently its nutritious and salutary 
effects upon the infant proportionally diminished. 

Milk of the Ass. — This milk contains more sugar than 
that of the cow, and less curd. The cream is in less pro- 
portion than that of woman's milk, although the latter 
resembles it in several particulars. According to Che- 
vallier and Henry, it contains caseum or curd 1.82, butter 
0.11, sugar of milk 6.08, salts 0.84, water 91.65 or about 
8 per cent of solid parts. It is the lightest of all the ali- 
mentary kinds of milk used in this country, is easy of 
digestion, and little stimulating. On this account it has 
been recommended in consumption and diseases accom- 
panied with hectic fever. At one period it was much 



264 THE GOAT. 

in condition best adapted for food when about five years 
old, and the flesh is then full-flavoured, sapid and firm, 
and the fat hard ; but the animal is often sent to market 
a year or two earlier. Mutton is generally kept for a 
considerable time, and longer during winter than in sum- 
mer, or as long as no taint in the meat is perceived, in 
order to soften the fibre, or render it tender. Wedder 
mutton is universally preferred for sapidity and tender- 
ness, but that of the ewe is sometimes nearly as fine in 
quality. The flesh of some of the smaller varieties of 
sheep that inhabit the mountainous parts of Scotland 
and Wales, is more finely flavoured than that of the ordi- 
nary kinds. Almost every other part of the body of this 
animal is either employed as food or applied to some 
useful purpose. The wool is used in the manufacture of 
cloth, the skin in making leather, and even its blood, 
bones, horns, &c, are employed in several of the arts. The 
fat of the sheep is harder than that of the ox, and on that 
account is better adapted for the manufacture of candles. 
The milk of the sheep is sometimes made into cheese, 
which, when old, possesses a very strong and agreeable 
pungency. See articles Milk and Cheese. 

THE GOAT. 

Capra Hircus. — Capridce. — Thb Goat Family. — The 
goat, though not so valuable as the sheep, is still in an 
economical point of view much valued. It is reared in 
almost every country, for its skin, fur, flesh and milk. 
It is a hardy animal, and well fitted for those sterile pas- 
tures which could not support other domesticated ani- 
mals. In the wild state, the goat inhabits the most ele- 
vated mountains, and even the domesticated varieties 
invariably ascend, if they inhabit mountainous countries. 
It is fearless, capricious, always in motion, but not dis- 
inclined to be gregarious, or to associate with other ani- 



THE GOAT. 265 

mala. It springs with accuracy over the most difficult 
ground, and can ascend to the most inaccessible pinnacles. Its 
senses of smell and sight are very acute ; but in the selec- 
tion of food it is not very particular, often feeding on 
bitter plants, such as hemlock, euphorbia, &c. It is very 
destructive to young plantations, frequently depriving 
the trees of their bark and buds. There are several 
varieties, but none of them are large in stature, though 
their structure is robust. Their habits are vigilant, and 
the hunting of them is very laborious and frequently 
dangerous. The steinbock of the Alps, or capra ibex, is 
considered the parent of our domestic goat by some 
authors ; while others believe it to be the paseng of Persia, 
or capra eegagrus. In some parts of Ireland and the 
Highlands of Scotland, goats are considered the chief 
possession of the inhabitants. Their milk is used as food 
along with oaten-bread, part of it is converted into butter 
and cheese, the skins are manufactured into beds ; but 
the flesh is rarely eaten, as this is considered by the in- 
habitants too expensive aliment. 

Uses. The flesh of the goat, even when fattened in 
the same way as the sheep, is rarely so good and sweet 
as mutton ; although in tropical countries it is said to be 
superior. Byron states that the flesh of the goat in the 
island of Fernandez is equal to the best English venison. In 
this country it is very dense, partly from the exercise of 
the animal and partly from its nature. Although very 
nutritious, it is not frequently eaten, being less easily 
digested than mutton. The flesh of the kid or young 
goat is more tender and delicate, but has little sapidity. 
The milk of the goat is nutritious, digestible, and resem- 
bles that of the cow. Cheese of a peculiar and rich fla- 
vour is made from it. The long, thick, fine and glossy 
hair of the Natolian goat is manufactured into the cloth 

named camlet, and is the basis of Cashmere shawls. The 

z 



266 THE STAG. 

skin is manufactured into Turkey or Morocco leather, 
and that of the kid into gloves. 

THE STAG, RED DEER OR HART. 

Cervus Elaphus. — Cervidce. — The Deer Family. — The 
hunting of deer has been a favourite amusement with 
the aristocracy of Britain from the most remote anti- 
quity, and during the uncivilised ages was a constant 
accompaniment of war. The improved state of agricul- 
ture has in a great measure banished these animals to the 
more remote districts ; and venison, though now equally 
esteemed as in former ages, is only found at the tables of 
the wealthy. The red deer inhabits the temperate regions 
of Europe, Asia and America, is an innocent and peace- 
able animal, yet when roused it is furious, and there is 
often great danger attendant upon a deer-hunt. It is 
distinguished by great elegance of form, the lightness 
of its motions, and the size and beauty of its horns, 
which are branched, round and recurved. It is about 3£ 
feet high, of a reddish-brown colour in summer, but in 
winter brownish-grey, has a majestic mien and is remark- 
ably fleet, though it sometimes attains the weight of six- 
teen or eighteen stones. The female or hind does not 
possess horns, and generally produces only one calf at a 
birth. 

Uses. The venison of the red-deer is considered infe- 
rior to that of the fallow-deer. It has arrived at perfec- 
tion when the stag is four or five years old, and is 
reckoned finest in quality during August, but very inferior 
for the two succeeding months. The flesh of the hind is 
preferable to that of the stag ; while that of the fawn or 
calf is tender and succulent. Venison possesses nearly 
the same nutritive properties as mutton, resembling it in 
several points, but is greatly superior in flavour and sa- 
pidity. The fibre is coarse, hard and dense, and venison 



THE FALLOW DEER. 267 

requires to be kept for a considerable time, varying with 
the season, before it is used. It is rather, more difficult 
of digestion than beef or mutton, and sometimes disagrees 
with those who have delicate digestive organs. The antlers 
of the stag or hartshorn contain about 27 per cent, of 
gelatin, which is sometimes extracted on account of its 
alimentary properties, but more frequently for fining 
beer and other liquors. 

THE FALLOW-DEER. 

Cervus Dama. — Cermda. — The Deer Family. — The 
fallow-deer is found in almost every country in Europe, 
except cold northern regions. It is generally believed to 
be a native of Scotland, though this is doubted by some 
authors. It is rarely found wild in the forests, but is 
generally bred in parks. The fallow-deer of this country 
is a smaller animal than the stag, but those of Spain are 
as large. The Virginian are about the same size or a 
little larger, but their flesh is inferior in flavour. It is 
somewhat singular, that though the stag and fallow-deer 
resemble one another in form, dispositions, swiftness, 
&c, no two animals keep more distinct, or avoid one 
another with more animosity. The principal distinction 
between them is in the horns, those of the fallow-deer 
being flat, and branched like the palm of the hand, 
whereas those of the stag are round, and branched like a 
tree. The fallow-deer is not so strong, courageous and 
cunning as the stag, but is more gentle in disposition. 
Its colour is reddish-brown, spotted with white, and the 
buck or male is about three feet in height. The female 
or doe generally produces one or two fawns, and some- 
times three at a birth. 

Uses. The flesh of this animal is the most esteemed 
veniBon, being fatter and more tender than that of other 
species. It is in finest condition when the deer is 



268 THE REIN-DEER. 

-three or four years old, and in the month of August. 
The skin is made into leather, and the horns, like those 
of the stag, into handles for knives, &c. 

THE ROE OR ROEBUCK. 

Cermu Capreolus. — Cervida. — The Deer Family. — 
The roe is the smallest species of deer known in this 
country, being about 2\ feet in height. It is now- 
found only in the Highlands of Scotland; but it is 
very common in America, and some of the varieties are 
much larger than those found in Europe. The form of 
the roe is very elegant, it is very swift, cunning, and even 
more difficult to hunt successfully than the stag. Its 
horns are round, and in this respect it differs from the 
fallow-deer, while it is distinguished from the stag by its 
smaller size and the paucity of its antlers. The roe is 
seldom so fat as the fallow-deer, and is generally less 
esteemed, but its flesh is sufficiently tender and digestible. 

THE REIN-DEER. 

Cermu Tarandus. — Ceroids. — The Deer Family. — 
The rein-deer is a native of the icy northern regions, and 
is a most useful and almost indispensable animal to the 
inhabitants of these countries. It is found in Lapland, 
Spitzbergen, Kamtschatka, Siberia and North America. 
It cannot live in temperate and warm countries, and all 
attempts to rear it in such climates have hitherto failed. 
The rein-deer is less in height, but stronger built than the 
stag, and its legs are thicker and shorter. Its horns are 
larger in proportion, branching over the forehead, and its 
pace is a trot rather than a bound like the stag's ; but it 
can run with a sledge for fifty or sixty miles, witji the 
fleetness of the horse, over the snow and frozen lakes. 
Its food is a moss called lichen rangiferus, which is ex- 
tremely abundant in these northern countries, but it also 



TUB HARE. 269 

feeds on frogs, snakes and the mountain rat. There are 
two kinds ; the wild and the tame, and the first being 
the larger are preferred as a breed. They are not, in 
general, broken in for the sledge till about four years of 
age, and they continue in good condition for four or five 
years longer. The age of the rein-deer is about fifteen or 
sixteen years, but it is generally killed when beginning 
to grow old, for the sake of its skin and flesh. 

Uses. During summer few of these animals are 
slaughtered, as the inhabitants use the excellent milk 
furnished by them, along with fish and fowls. Cheese of 
good quality is made from the milk of the rein-deer; but 
rarely butter, as it contains little of this ingredient. The 
skin is used in the manufacture of shoes, clothes, beds, 
&c, the horns are made into glue, the tendons are dried 
and divided, so as to make a strong species of sewing 
thread. When the rein-deer is fiat and in good condition, 
as it is generally during the month of August, its flesh is 
said to be equal to the best English venison. The tongue 
is considered a great delicacy, and is sometimes exported 
into more southern countries. 

THE HARE— MAUKIN, Scotland. 

Leptu Timidus. — Leporida — The Hark Family. — 
There is scarcely a country, from the torrid zone to the 
poles, where the hare is not found in some of its varieties. 
In the neighbourhood of the North Pole it becomes 
white during winter, and congregates into troops of several 
hundreds. The hares are caught in traps, and the skins 
are collected on account of the fur, which is used in the 
manufacture of hats. Those of Italy, Spain and Barbary 
are smaller than those in Britain, and the variety peculiar 
to the Milanese country is esteemed the best in Europe. 
The hare was considered by the ancient Britons an un- 
clean animal, and this notion is still held by the modern 

z 2 



warn 



270 THE RABBIT. 

Jews and Mahometans; but by every other people, 
whether barbarians or refined, the flesh of this animal is 
* esteemed; It is a remarkably timid creature, and nature 
seems to hare given it no other means of defence against 
its numerous foes but swiftness. All its senses seem 
calculated to promote its flight. The eyes are large, and 
placed backwards on the head ; the ears are also large 
and moveable, so that it can collect sound from every 
quarter; the muscles are strong without fat, and the 
hinder are longer than the fore legs. The hare lives 
chiefly upon grass, roots, leaves, fruit, corn, and upon the 
bark of trees during winter, thus frequently doing great 
injury to young plantations and gardens. When tamed, 
it is fed on garden herbs ; but the flesh of those that are 
thus reared is inferior in flavour. The hare is generally 
about eight or nine pounds in weight. 

Uses. The flesh of this animal is generally dark-co- 
loured, but in Peru, the Cape of Good Hope, and at the 
North Pole, it is whitish. It is dense, dry, and devoid 
of succulency ; but when moderately tender is not very 
difficult of digestion, as it contains very little fatty 
matter. It is often used along with the blood in the 
formation of soup, which has a very agreeable and sa- 
voury flavour. When the flesh of the hare is intended to 
be eaten, a young animal ought to be preferred, and it 
should be kept for several days or until the fibre becomes 
tender. 

THE RABBIT. 
Lepu* Cuniculus. — Leporidce. — The Hare Family. — 
The rabbit resembles the hare in form and disposition, 
but they refuse to mix together, which. shows them to 
be distinct species. It is equally inoffensive as the hare 
and has as many enemies, but it secretes itself in holes 
which cannot be entered by the fox, hound, kite, &c, 



THE RABBIT. 271 

and it is remarkably prolific, so that its extirpation is 
scarcely possible. Rabbits are common in almost every 
country, but are supposed to be natives of a warm 
climate. They lire longer than the hare, and are gener- 
ally fatter, from their having less exercise and a smaller 
amount of molestation. The rabbit is capable of being 
easily domesticated, and in this state it becomes larger 
and fatter; but its flesh has less flavour than that of the 
wild variety. It is, like the hare, very swift, and as it 
generally has not far to run to its warren, few dogs can 
overtake it. Its food consists of the young shoots of 
corn, tops of furze, bark of young trees, &c, and in the 
tame state cabbage or other green vegetables. The fur 
of the wild rabbit has generally a greyish-brown colour, 
the neck reddish, throat and belly whitish; but the 
domestic varieties are white, brown, black and mouse- 
coloured. 

Uses. The tame rabbit is considered of finest quality 
for the table when three months old ; but if well fed, 
will be found good a year after this period. The wild 
rabbit can only be had in good condition at particular 
seasons. The flesh is white, tender, succulent, very 
unlike that of the hare, but has some resemblance to 
that of a young fowl. It appears to contain less fibrin 
and more gelatine than that of the hare ; and is extreme- 
ly light and easily digested. It is well adapted for inva- 
lids, convalescents, and those who have delicate digestive 
organs. The soup procured from it is agreeable, but is 
greatly inferior in flavour to that made from the hare. 
The rabbit is valued also for its skin, which is used for 
lining clothes, as a cheap substitute for ermine. The 
fur of the skin is chiefly employed in the manufacture 
of hats, being mixed with that of the beaver. 



272 THE HOG. 

THE HOG, 

Sua Scrofa.—Suidm. — Thb Hog Family. — The hog, 
during former ages, was very abundant in Britain; and 
the hunting of the wild boar was a favourite though 
dangerous amusement among the aristocracy. In ita 
wild state this animal seldom varies in colour, being 
generally of a dark grey, and smaller than most of the 
domestic breeds. It is remarkably fierce and dangerous 
when attacked; but it does not attack other animals, 
nor seem to avoid them. The flesh of the wild boar is a 
favourite dish with all nations, whether barbarous or 
civilised. The Romans held it in high estimation, and 
frequently a whole animal was served up at a time, along 
with honey and boiled wine as a sauce. The tame hog 
is found in every country, except the polar regions ; and 
there are numerous varieties of this animal, which are 
chiefly distinguished by thickness of fur or length of 
leg. The food of the wild hog consists chiefly of roots 
and vegetables, and it rarely attacks any other animal ; 
but if it finds one dying or dead, however putrid the 
latter may be, it immediately devours it. In the domes- 
tic state the hog is much more filthy in its habits and 
mode of eating than the wild animal, and in point of 
appetite is almost insatiable. When supplied with a 
sufficient quantity of food, it may be fattened very 
rapidly, and sometimes attains such an enormous size, 
that its legs cannot support it for any length of time. 
It is remarkable for fecundity, and on this account, as 
well as the cheap nature of its food and the qualities of 
its flesh, it is one of the most useful animals employed 
for the sustenance of man. In hot climates, such as 
Egypt, Syria, &c, the flesh of the domestic hog is gener- 
ally considered unwholesome, on account of its softness 
and superabundance of fat ; although it is very white 



THE HOG. 273 

and delicate. The use of it is therefore generally pro- 
scribed in these countries, particularly among the Jews, 
Mahometans and Copts. The flesh of the China and 
Siam hog is, however,, considered excellent, and superior 
to English pork. The introduction of the small Chinese 
hog into this country has much improved the breed of 
this animal, and the delicacy of the flesh. The baby- 
roussa, or Indian hog, is in high estimation throughout 
Hindostan for the excellence of its flesh. The qualities 
of hog's flesh are much influenced by the nature of the 
food it receives, particularly for some time before it is 
sent to market. When fed on soft foul vegetables, the 
fat is always soft and disagreeable ; but if a portion of 
farinaceous matter, such as beans, peas, meal, milk, &c, 
be employed, the fatty matter is hardened, and the qua- 
lity and flavour of the flesh improved. It is a common 
practice in some parts of England, to drive the hogs into 
the forests at the proper season, that they may feed on 
acorns and other farinaceous nuts that fall from the 
trees ; and it is stated that Westphalia hams owe much 
of their excellence to a similar practice. 

Uses. Pork was considered by the ancients as the 
most nutritive of all aliments, and on that account was 
employed in the diet of the athletes. It abounds more 
in fatty matter than any other kind of animal food, and 
is therefore very nutritious when thoroughly digested ; 
but strong assimilating powers are required to effect this. 
It is by no means well adapted for those who have deli- 
cate digestive organs, being liable to produce nausea, 
putrid eructations, &c. It is rendered more digestible 
when slightly salted, the salt seeming to correct its ten- 
dency to putrescency. Of all kinds of animal food, it is 
the best adapted for this process, for little salt is re- 
quired. It rarely acquires an over-degree of saltness, 
and generally remains succulent, sapid, and more tender 



274 BONES. 

than beef or mutton. The flesh of the young pig is con- 
sidered more digestible and less stimulant than that of 
the full-grown animal. Like that of other young ani- 
mals, it abounds in gelatinous matter, and its fat is less 
strong and oily. 

VARIOUS ORGANS OF MAMMIFEROUS 

ANIMALS. 

Ligament, Cartilage, Tendon, &c. — are composed 
chiefly of albumen and gelatin ; and, from the hardness 
of their texture, are very difficult of digestion, if not 
thoroughly softened by long boiling. Animal flesh gen- 
erally contains a small proportion of these parts ; and 
though they assist materially in the formation of soups, 
are little esteemed either as nutritive or digestible sub- 
stances. 

The Skin. — This organ is rarely used, with the ex- 
ception of that portion covering the heads of sheep, 
lambs, &c. which is eaten along with the muscular 
parts attached to the bones. The skin consists princi- 
pally of gelatin ; and although not very nutritive, is 
very light and digestible when procured from young ani- 
mals, and very thoroughly boiled. The broth made 
from the head of a sheep is a popular prescription for 
diarrhoea, being soothing and gelatinous in its qualities. 
This soup is a favourite with many persons in Scotland, 
and is quite wholesome ; although it possesses a peculiar 
flavour derived from the singeing of the wool. 

" Cow-heels"— contain a large quantity of gelatin, 
form a very insipid, and not very nutritive, kind of ali- 
ment ; but are very light and digestible when sufficiently 
•tender. 

Bones— -contain a large proportion of gelatin. Accord- 
ing to M. D'Arcet, 100 parts of bones contain SO of 
gelatin, 10 of fat, and 60 of earthy matter. Flat and 



THE STOMACH. 275 

cylindrical bones do not contain much fat, and are gen- 
erally used by button-makers, with the exception of 
their heads, which sometimes contain a much larger pro- 
portion than is here mentioned. In some of the hospi- 
tals on the Continent of Europe, soup is made from 
bones on the large scale, by extracting the gelatin. This 
is done, either by the aid of steam or by dissolving the 
phosphate of lime or earthy matter in muriatic acid ; 
which latter method is the best, inasmuch as the soup 
formed has a superior flavour. The bones are previously 
reduced to small fragments ; but M. D* Arcet recommends 
them to be crushed without redoubled strokes, so as to 
prevent the generation of any empyreumatic or disagree- 
able flavour. They ought to be converted into soup 
soon after this is effected, or preserved in water saturated 
with common salt. Although gelatin is of itself not 
very nutritive, yet when combined with a portion of 
beef or mutton, along with peas, barley or rice, a very 
excellent soup may be made from it. In an economical 
point of view, the employment of bones, according to 
this or a similar method, is worthy the attention of the 
directors of hospitals and other institutions for the poor. 

Fat. — Fat and cellular tissue form about one-seventh 
of the weight of ordinary meat. It is very nutritive, 
and tends greatly, in healthy individuals, to produce cor- 
pulency ; but is very difficult of digestion. It is rarely 
eaten alone, but frequently in combination with other 
alimentary matters. 

Marrow — is almost a pure fatty matter; but has a 
more agreeable flavour, and is rather more easily digested 
than the ordinary fat of meat. 

The Stomach, &c— of the ox is used in many parts of 
Scotland, under the name of " tripe" as a favourite dish. 
The stomachs of ruminant animals contain gelatin, albu- 
men, muscular fibre, and are allied, in their nutritive and 



276 THE BLOOD. 

digestible properties, to ordinary meat. When tender, 
and boiled with milk, this dish is very agreeable, light, 
and digestible. Soap made of this article is a popular 
remedy for diarrhoea and dysentery. 

The Kidney — is composed of a congeries of vessels 
and parenchymatous or cellular tissue ; but it contains 
no muscular fibres. Its texture is sometimes a little 
hard; but it is nutritive and moderately digestible. 
Kidneys form an excellent soup; but they are also 
cooked by broiling, &c. Those of the lamb, calf, &c, 
are very tender, agreeable and digestible. 

The Pancreas or Sweetbread* — This is a glandular 
organ of tender texture. It is a very agreeable, light, 
moderately nutritive, and digestible substance. 

The Liver — is composed of vessels and parenchyma- 
tous or cellular texture, and is somewhat friable. Its 
flavour is tolerably agreeable; and it is moderately nutri- 
tive and digestible. In some fishes, and fowls that have 
been over-fed, it contains or becomes impregnated with 
a large quantity of oil or fat, and is thus very difficult of 
digestion. When used as aliment, those of young ani- 
mals ought to be preferred. 

The Heart — is a muscular organ, and is therefore 
allied to ordinary meat in nutritive and digestible pro- 
perties. That of the adult animal, particularly when 
old, is hard in texture and not easily dissolved in the 
stomach ; but the heart of the calf or young ox is moder- 
ately tender and digestible. 

The Tongue — is a soft fleshy organ, tender, digestible, 
nutritive, and of agreeable flavour. The root is gener- 
ally more tough and less savoury than the anterior por- 
tions. A moderate degree of salting improves its flavour. 

The Blood— contains fibrin, albumen, and fatty mat- 
ter as alimentary principles. Its taste is saline but not 
agreeable, and alkaline from the soda it contains. Ac- 



THE COMMON FOWL. 277 

cording to Liebig, it contains 20 per cent, of dry residue 
after its water has been evaporated. It must therefore 
be considered very nutritive, although by no means a 
favourite dish in this country. It is moderately diges- 
tible ; and is made into puddings with oatmeal by the 
peasantry of Scotland. The blood of the hare is said to 
communicate to the soup formed from the animal a por- 
tion of its peculiar flavour. Blood is employed for clari- 
fying some liquids, and in several of the arts. 



BIRDS. 

THE COMMON FOWL. 

Gallu&Domesticus. — Gallinada. — The Poultry Family. 
— The common fowl has long been domesticated in 
Europe, but it has not been ascertained at what period 
this occurred. It is stated by Dr. Fleming that it was 
probably introduced into this kingdom by the Phoeni- 
cians, while trading with the ancient inhabitants in tin. 
The cock was probably the earliest companion of man, and 
the ancients, like the moderns in almost every country, 
were addicted to the degrading practice of cock-fighting. 
It is said to be found wild in some of the islands of the 
Indian ocean; the plumage being black and yellow, and the 
bones of a blackish colour. There are numerous varieties 
of this bird, characterised by size, a different kind of plu- 
mage, &c. The game-cock and the dunghill-cock are two 
very distinguished varieties ; the first being remarkable 
for its courage in fighting with its own species, and for 
its sterility, and the latter for cowardice and fecundity. 
The age of the cock is supposed to be about ten years ; 

but this point has not been accurately ascertained. 

2a 



278 EGGS. 

The food of this fowl consists of farinaceous seeds 
and other substances of a similar kind, and if allowed 
abundance of this kind of aliment, it generally becomes 
sufficiently fat, without being subjected to the unnatural 
process of cramming during confinement in small coops. 
The common fowl is extensively reared in all countries, 
and is the only instance where artificial means have been 
successfully attempted for this purpose. In Egypt forty 
or fifty thousand chickens are hatched at once in build- 
ings heated by flues. This method has not succeeded so 
well in Europe. 

Uses. The flesh of the domestic fowl is white, tender 
when young, not in general overloaded with flit, very di- 
gestible, not quite so nutritive, but less stimulating than 
beef or mutton. The flesh of chickens is gelatinous, 
like that of other young animals, and is in general very 
easily digested. It is well adapted for delicate individuals 
and convalescents, and forms light, nutritive and agreeable 
soups. The flesh of the cock and old fowls is very tough 
and indigestible. 

EGGS. 

The egg of the domestic fowl has the following com- 
position. 1. A hard external envelope or shell, consisting 
chiefly of carbonate of lime. 2. A thin membrane which 
lines the interior wall of the calcareous shell. 3. A 
white glairy transparent liquid enclosed in membranous 
cells, and composed of albumen about 15 per cent., water 
80, mucus 4.5, and saline matter. 4. The yolk or yelk, a 
thick yellow fluid, which consists of about 54 per cent, of 
water, 17 of albumen containing phosphorus, 29 of oil 
containing a crystallisable fatty principle, and a colour- 
ing matter. By keeping, eggs become lighter, in conse- 
quence of the evaporation of their contained water. The 
relative weights of the different constituents of an egg, 



EGGS. 279 

in 1000 parts, are the following : shell and membrane 
106.9, albumen or glaire 604.2, yolk 288.9. By boiling, 
an egg loses from two to three per cent, of its weight. 
Eggs are liable to putrefaction, when long kept during 
hot weather, and various methods are practised for pre- 
venting this occurrence. These act chiefly on the princi- 
ple of excluding the air, for the shell is very porous in 
texture. The application of butter or any fatty substance 
to the shell is a well known and generally an effectual 
method. Eggs are also preserved in a thin mixture of 
lime and water, and by dipping them in boiling water, 
which appears to act by coagulating a small portion of 
the albumen next the shell, and thus excluding the air. 
They are also packed in salt as a means of preservation. 

They should not be placed near any odoriferous sub- 
stance, as they are liable to be tainted by the effluvia 
issuing from it. It is said that musty straw will give 
them a disagreeable flavour. 

Uses. Eggs form a light and nutritive aliment when 
properly cooked; but if long boiled, or otherwise exposed 
to much heat, they become very indigestible. This is 
chiefly owing to the consolidation or hardness of texture 
they acquire ; for they are thus rendered difficult of re- 
duction in the stomach. Eggs should therefore be ex- 
posed to heat no longer than is necessary to give them 
the consistence of honey. In this state they may be 
taken by children, convalescents, and even by dyspeptics, 
although there are some individuals, of weak digestive 
organs, who cannot eat eggs in any form with impunity. 
The egg of the common fowl is generally preferred to 
that of the goose or duck, which has a stronger, but not 
such an agreeable flavour. The egg of the turkey is rich 
and agreeable, and that of the guinea-hen, although 
small, has a very delicate flavour. The eggs of the 
wood-cock, lapwing, plover, are much esteemed by many 



280 THE PHEASANT. 

persons. Those of sea-fowls have generally a strong fishy 
flavour. The white of egg beat up with water is an im- 
portant remedy for poisoning with corrosive sublimate 
and sulphate of copper. It is employed to clarify wines, 
spirituous liqueurs, coffee, &c, and is used by book- 
binders as a varnish. It enters into the composition of 
an immense number of culinary and confectionary pre- 
parations ; but those articles which contain a large 
quantity of eggs are in general more or less difficult of 
digestion. 

THE PHEASANT. 

Phasianus Colchicus. — GaUinadce. — The Poultry 
Family. — The pheasant was first brought into Greece 
from the banks of the Phasis, a river of Colchis (Min- 
grelia) in Asia Minor. It is now abundant all over 
Europe. The period is not exactly known when this 
bird was introduced into Britain ; but it is mentioned in 
Echard's history of England as worth only four pence, 
in the year 1299. The breed is preserved in this country 
by the rearing of great numbers in confinement, and then 
turning them into the woods of the nobility and gentry. 
It is, next to the peacock, the most beautiful domesticated 
bird of this country ; and its splendid plumage and form 
are pretty .well known. There are two well marked 
varieties, namely, the common pheasant, which is the 
most ancient, and the ringed pheasant more lately intro- 
duced into Britain. The favourite food of this bird is 
the tender shoots of the potato, and insects with their 
larvae, wild fruits, berries, the various grains, roots, tur- 
nips, &c. The pheasant thrives better in a wild state 
than when domesticated, and is more prolific. It is more 
attached to its native freedom in the woods than the 
common fowl, and frequents moist ground covered with 
rushes, brambles or bushes. It hatches its eggs about 



THE TURKEY. 281 

the beginning of June, which are from 10 to 14 
in number, nearly 2 inches long and of an olive-brown 
colour. 

The beak of the pheasant is of a whitish horn colour ; 
eyes hazel, * surrounded with red naked skin ; head and 
neck blue, with brown, green and purple reflections ; back 
orange ; wing-coverts reddish ; tail-feathers very long, 
yellowish-brown, with transverse black bars ; breast and 
belly golden red; legs, spurs, toes and claws of a brownish 
lead colour ; length about 3 feet ; female measures 
about 2 feet ; weight about 2\ pounds ; but occasion- 
ally pheasants have been found to weigh 4£ pounds. 

Uses. The pheasant has always been considered greatly 
superior in flavour to the domestic fowl, to which, in 
many respects, it is much allied in dietetic qualities. 
The flesh of the pheasant in a wild state is however still 
more highly flavoured than that of the domesticated 
bird. It is white and tender, but it requires to be kept 
for six or seven days, else its fine flavour is not sufficiently 
developed. The young bird, like the chicken, is very 
tender, gelatinous and easily digested. 

THE TURKEY. 

Meleagris Galopavo.—Gallinadw. — The Poultry Fa- 
mily. — The turkey is a native of North America; but the 
exact period of its introduction into Europe and Britain 
is unknown. It is considered probable, by some authors, 
that it was brought from Mexico by the Spaniards about 
the year 1530. This bird is now domesticated in almost 
every 'civilised country, and is very abundant ; although 
it is rapidly decreasing in its native wilds. The wild 
turkey is rather a handsome bird, with lively plumage, 
and grows to a much larger size than the domesticated 
variety, averaging from 15 to 18 pounds in weight; but they 

* The colour of the iris. 
2 A2 



282 THE PEACOCK. 

hare been found more than double the usual size. They 
associate in flocks of several hundreds, and feed upon 
maize, berries, fruits, grasses, beetles, tadpoles, frogs, 
liia iT ria ^ &c. The/ fatten most rapidly on acorns, and it 
is stated that they grow to such a size in March that 
they cannot fly beyond a few hundred yards, and are soon 
run down by a horseman. The domestic turkey is a 
stupid, cowardly, pompous and quarrelsome bird ; and 
his ire is greatly excited by anything of a red colour. It 
is considered the largest of our poultry ; but the young 
birds are very difficult to rear, and require very great 
attention. When grown up, they become hardy and are 
fed at a comparatively small expense. Multitudes of 
them are reared in Norfolk and Suffolk, for the London 
market. The head and upper part of the turkey's neck 
are covered with a papillated skin ; there are appendages 
under the throat and on the forehead ; the coverts of the 
tail are capable of erection; and the males are furnished 
with spurs on the tarsi, and a tuft of hairs on the neck. 

Uses. The flesh of the wild is considered greatly su- 
perior to that of the domesticated turkey in flavour; but 
the latter is also much esteemed, being white, tender, 
delicate, nutritious and easily digested. The young bird 
is the most tender, and best adapted for invalids and those 
who have delicate digestive organs. Its nutritive and 
digestible qualities are very similar to those of the com- 
mon fowl, being rather more rich and superior in fla- 
vour. The egg of the turkey is large and spotted, having 
a rich and agreeable flavour. 

THE PEACOCK. 

Pavo Oristatus. — Gvllina&e. — The Poultry Family. 
— The peacock is a native of Asia, and is found wild in 
India, in which country the shooting of this bird is a 
favourite amusement. It is found in great abundance 



THE PEACOCK. 283 

in the jungles; and Colonel Williamson states that 
whole woods are sometimes covered with their plumage, 
and that a rising sun gives this spectacle a most splendid 
brilliancy. It was known to the ancients and is men-* 
tioned by Solomon. It was probably first introduced 
into Europe on account of its beauty ; and this quality 
would naturally lead mankind to try its dietetic proper- 
ties. The Romans considered it one of the greatest orna- 
ments of a feast ; and during the early periods of English 
history, few noble feasts were considered complete with- 
out the presence of this bird. It was stuffed with spices 
and sweet herbs, roasted and afterwards covered with its 
skin and feathers. The food of the peacock is the fari- 
naceous grains ; but barley is said to be its favourite ali- 
ment. It is, however, very capricious in this respect, for 
when it has plenty of other kinds of food, it will devour 
insects, tender plants, &c. ; so that it is a great annoyance 
to the gardener. 

Its age is said to be about twenty years ; but it is not 
furnished with the beautiful and variegated plumage of 
the tail until its third year. The young birds and the 
eggs are often presented at the tables of the opulent, but 
peacocks are principally reared as ornaments to a park or 
lawn. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird resembles that of the 
pheasant in flavour ; but is reckoned inferior to other 
domestic poultry. It is supposed to be in prime condi- 
tion when about the age of three years ; but when old 
is dry and insipid. The young hen is generally pre- 
ferred. In the native country of the peacock, superb 
dresses are made from its skin and feathers, adorned with 
precious stones. 



284 THE COMMON PARTRIDGE* 

THE GUINEA-HEN. 

Numidia MeUagris. — GtUlinada. — The Poultry 
{amilt. — This fowl is a native of Africa, and is found 
abundant on the Guinea coast. It lives in flocks, which 
sometimes amount to hundreds. It flies with a power- 
ful flight, and its cry is frequent, grating and disagree- 
able. It is reared in this country in the poultry-yard ; 
but as it is very quarrelsome and strong, it is not often 
found in the domesticated state. Its general habits are 
those of the poultry family. The male and female re- 
semble one another very much in external appearance ; 
and it has a dark grey colour, which is beautifully varie- 
gated with white spots. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird, when young, is white, 
tender, of a very agreeable flavour, and similar in many 
respects to that of the common fowl. Its eggs, which 
are speckled, have a delicate flavour. 

THE COMMON PARTRIDGE. 

Perdix Cinerea. — Tetraonidx. — The Grouse Family. 
— The partridge is found in all Europe, is abundant in 
Britain, and most common in cultivated districts. This 
bird is migratory, and frequents Barbary and Egypt. It 
is remarkable for attachment to its eggs and young; 
and not only uses stratagems to decoy the enemy, but 
will even, though naturally timid, sometimes vigorously 
defend them against the attacks of carnivorous birds. 
The young partridges leave their nests in about twelve 
hours after being hatched, and are conducted by their 
parents to ant-hills, the eggs in which constitute their 
early food. When full-grown they feed on all kinds of 
grain and young plants. A dry summer is favourable 
to the breeding of partridges. The eggs are generally 
deposited among long grass, fields of corn or clover, and 



THE RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGE. 285 

have an olive-brown colour, are nearly l£ inches in 
length, and from 12 to 20 are produced by one female. 
The beak of the male partridge is bluish-white; eyes 
hazel; behind the eye there is a small patch of red warty, 
skin; a bay-coloured mark like a horse-shoe is found on 
the breast; tail brown; legs and toes bluish-white; claws 
brown; face and throat reddish-brown; wing rounded in 
form, and its three first feathers are shorter than the 
fourth; length about 12 or 13 inches; weight 15 ounces. 
The general plumage is a mixed cinereous brown and 
black ; but there are many varieties of colour in the par- 
tridge. 

Uses. Old partridges are tough and very inferior to 
young birds, which generally have yellowish-coloured 
legs and dark bills. The flesh of the partridge, when 
kept a sufficient length of time, is very sapid, agreeable, 
moderately tender and digestible. Mr. Dolby states that 
there are fifty different methods of dressing this bird for 
the table. Though the best of the grouse family, it is 
not quite so well adapted for invalids and convalescents 
as the common fowl, being more stimulating. The 
largest birds are found in arable districts where grain 
abounds. Those met in the neighbourhood of moors 
are much smaller; their flesh being darker in colour, 
superior in flavour, and resembling that of the grouse. 

The Red-legged or Guernsey Partridge. — Perdix 
Rufa — is found in the south of England; but is met 
more frequently in Jersey, Guernsey, France, Spain, 
Italy, &c. Its bill and legs are red, throat and cheeks 
white, margined with black. It is much more difficult 
to procure a shot at this bird than the common partridge, 
being very wild. The flesh of this species is white, 
more dry, and less esteemed than that of the common 
partridge. 



286 THE COMMON QUAIL. 

THE COMMON QUAIL. 

Cotitrnix VvXgwrU. — Tetraonid*. — - The Grouse 
Family. — This bird resembles the partridge in shape and 
some other qualities, but is much smaller. It is now 
only an occasional visitor of Great Britain, arriving from 
Africa, Asia Minor, &c* about the beginning of May, and 
departing in October. It is very abundant in the south 
of Europe, and many thousands are imported alive from 
France, to be fattened on hemp-seed by the London 
poulterers. Quails are taken by nets, into which they 
are decoyed by imitating their call. On the coast of 
Italy and Sicily they arrive, at certain seasons, in immense 
numbers, forming perfect clouds. In the island of Capri, 
in the gulf of Naples, they formed the principal revenue 
of the bishop of that place ; and it is stated that from 
twelve to sixty thousand were annually taken. They 
are very pugnacious, and quail-fighting was common 
among the Athenians; but their flesh was considered 
unwholesome, because they were supposed to feed on 
hellebore. This bird is generally believed to be the same 
species that was sent to the famishing Israelites in the 
wilderness. Quails feed on leaves, grain, insects, &c; 
and they are occasionally found in wheat stubbles by 
partridge-shooters. The eggs are 8 or 10 in number, of 
a yellowish- white colour, speckled with brown. The 
beak of the quail is brownish-grey ; eyes hazel ; plumage 
black, brown, and ash-coloured; tail of 12 feathers* 
dusky, tipt with white ; chin and throat white, bounded 
by two half-circular dark-brown bands. 

Uses. When fat, the flesh of this bird is, by many 
persons, considered a great delicacy, and nearly equal to 
that of the landrail. Its flavour is inferior to that of the 
partridge, although these two birds are much allied in 
dietetic properties. Mr. Yarrell states that their con- 



THE RED GROUSE. 287 

sumption in London is large from May to August, and 
he considers them heating food. 

THE RED GROUSE. 

Lagopus Scoticus. — Tetraonida. — The Grouse Family. 
— This bird is a native of Britain, is peculiar to that 
kingdom, and is found in wild extensive moors and 
heaths. It is not so common in the more southern dis- 
tricts as formerly, from an over-persecution, according to 
some writers. When little disturbed, it is not very wild; 
but if much followed, it becomes very wary, and can 
only be approached by stratagem. It feeds on berries, 
heath-tops, and corn ; and is easily domesticated. Grouse 
pair early in spring ; and the nest is formed of ling and 
grass, on the ground, under the shelter of a heather bush. 
The eggs are from 8 to 15 in number, of a reddish-white 
colour, with numerous brown blotches ; length about If 
inches. The beak is black; eyes hazel; a crescentte 
spot of red skin over the eye ; head and neck reddish- 
brown; back, wings and tail-coverts chestnut-brown, 
barred and speckled with black ; plumage of breast almost 
black, and tipt with white ; legs and toes covered with 
short greyish-white feathers; length about 16 inches; 
weight from 20 to 24 ounces ; female smaller than male. 

Uses. " The flesh of the red grouse, when Tecently 
killed, is tough and not readily digested. It is therefore 
generally kept for a considerable time, even until signs 
of decomposition begin to appear. It is then sufficiently 
tender, very sapid and agreeable in flavour. It is gener- 
ally more esteemed than any other species of grouse; 
but none of this family are so well adapted for those 
who have delicate digestive organs as birds of the poultry 
kind. 



288 THE BLACK COCK. 

THE PTARMIGAN. 

Lagopus Vulgaris. — Tetraonidx, — The Grouse 
Family. — This bird is a native of Europe and America, 
but is confined to the most alpine districts. It is now 
very scarce, and the range of the Grampians is considered 
its most southern British station. It inhabits the most 
barren and rocky spots, which are very difficult of 
access. It is nearly of the same size as the red grouse, 
and is reckoned a stupid bird. Its weight is about 19 
ounces. During summer, its plumage is cinereous, 
tinged with brown, with black and dusky spots and bars. 
In winter it is nearly white. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird possesses dietetic proper- 
ties similar to those of the red grouse. Immense quanti- 
ties of ptarmigan are caught in Norway and Lapland by 
snares made of horse-hair. They are kept in a frozen 
state, and shipped for the various ports of England. 

THE BLACK-COCK.— BLACK GROUSE. 
Tetrao Tetrix. — Tetraonidm. — The Grouse Family. — » 
This bird is pretty generally spread over Europe, and is 
very common in the wild and wooded districts of Britain, 
particularly in Scotland. During summer, it feeds on 
the seeds of the various grasses and the berries of the 
different alpine plants. In winter, the tender shoots of 
the fir, catkins of birch and hazel, and the gleanings 
of the stubble field furnish it with nourishment. Its 
eggs are from 6 to 8 in number, yellowish-white, with 
orange-brown spots, and about 2 inches in length. The 
beak is black ; eyes dark brown ; a semilunar patch of 
red skin over the eye ; head, neck, back, wing-coverts, 
rump and tail black ; chin, neck, breast, belly and flanks 
black ; under wing-coverts, and under tail-coverts white ; 
toes and claws blackish-brown. Length 22 inches; 



THE RING PIGEON. 289 

weight about 48 ounces. The female or grey hen is 
smaller, of a brown colour, mottled with black, and the 
tail feathers are not curved outwards like those of the 
male. 

Uses, The black-cock has the same sapid and high- 
flavoured properties as the red grouse, and requires to be 
kept the same length of time before it is sufficiently 
tender for dietetic use. Large quantities are imported 
into London from Norway and Sweden. 

THE CAPERCAILLIE. 

Tetrao UrogaUus. — Tetfaonidx. — The Grouse Fa- 
milt. — This bird, which has been called the "giant 
grouse/' is common in the forests of Norway, though 
now extinct in Britain. It is about 2 feet 7 or 8 inches 
in length, and weighs 12 or 13 pounds. Recent attempts 
have been made to recruit our forests from Norway with 
this beautiful bird; and successfully in one or more 
districts. 

THE RING PIGEON.—WOOD PIGEON, Cushat. 

ColumbaPalumbus. — Columbida. — The Pigeon Family. 
—This bird is found throughout the greater part of Europe, 
is abundant, and a permanent resident in Britain. It has 
not been found in America, nor within the tropics of the 
old world. It congregates together in immense flocks, 
towards the end of October, which remain thus united 
till the beginning of February, when they separate into 
pairs. They feed, during winter, upon the produce of 
the stubble field, acorns, turnips, greens, &c, and in 
spring and summer on clover, wheat, &c. This pigeon 
has not been domesticated, although this has repeat- 
edly been attempted. It is remarkable for its gentleness, 
fidelity, and attachment, and has in all ages been a bird sacred 

to peace. The amatory notes of wood pigeons are heard 

2 B 



290 THE COMMON PIGEON. 

in the woods during March and April, and consist of a 
musical coo or murmur. The nest of this dove is gener- 
ally built in a fir-tree, and consists of a few sticks placed 
transversely. Its eggs are two, white, oval and nearly 
1 J inches long. The beak is reddish orange ; eyes pale 
yellow; head and upper part of neck bluish-grey, the 
feathers on the sides of the neck tipped with white, 
forming parts of several oblique rings ; neck and breast 
purplish-red; general plumage bluish gray; legs and toes 
red ; claws brown ; length 17 inches ; weight about 20 
ounces ; being the largest wild pigeon in this country. 
The female resembles the male, but is rather smaller. 

Uses. The flesh of the ring pigeon is of good flavour 
and quality, and that of the old bird is said to resemble 
moorfowl. When it feeds on the turnip, the flesh 
becomes imbued with the flavour of this root, so as to 
render it disagreeable. 

THE ROCK DOVE.— COMMON PIGEON. 

Columba Lima. — Columbidae. — The Pigeon Family. — 
This bird is the original stock of our common pigeon. 
It inhabits rocky and precipitous cliffs and caverns on 
the sea-coast. It is found in the rocky islands'of Africa, 
Asia and the Mediterranean, and on the rocky coasts of 
Britain, &c. It is, however, much better known in its 
domesticated state in the dovecot. The domesticated 
varieties are exceedingly numerous, not only in colours, 
but also in the shape of the feathers and form of the 
beak. These, it is said, may all be traced to the rock- 
dove. This bird feeds chiefly on the various kinds of 
grain. It possesses great powers of vision, flies with 
great rapidity, and lives for a considerable time, even to 
the extent of twenty years. The carrier pigeon is a 
very interesting variety. It is trained, when fully 
fledged, by being kept in the dark and without food for 



THE ROOK. 291 

eight hours ; and then carried in a bag or basket to the 
distance of about half a mile from home and let loose. 
Its flight is at first spiral, until it attains a sufficient ele- 
vation for correct observation. It then flies in a direct 
course, at the rate of thirty or forty miles an hour. One 
hundred miles an hour have been recorded as the transit 
of particular carriers. 

Uses. The flesh of the young bird is tender, light and 
easily digested ; but that of the old pigeon is tough, dry 
and insipid. The domesticated pigeon is reckoned supe- 
rior to the wild bird, the flesh of the latter being dark- 
coloured. It is in high season from June to November. 
The young domestic pigeon does not differ materially, 
in dietetic properties, from the chicken, but is generally 
considered more stimulating. 

THE ROOK. 

Corvus Frugilegus. — Corvida. — The Crow Family. — 
Rooks differ from other crows by living in flocks ; and 
they are fond of establishing their rookeries near human 
habitations. They feed upon grubs, worms, grain, &c. 
In the beginning of March, rooks begin to repair their 
nests ; but new nests are built by the young birds of the 
previous year. Mr. Yarrell states that when a pair of 
rooks attempt to build a nest in a tree that was previously 
unoccupied by one, and at a distance from the main 
body, it is invariably destroyed by the others. When a 
body of rooks are feeding, one or two sentinels are always 
placed to give the alarm of danger. The eggs of the rook 
are 4 or 5 in number, pale-green, with greenish-brown 
blotches. During the period of. incubation, the male 
feeds the female, and occasionally supplies her place. 
The bill of the rook is nearly straight, and the skin at 
the base is naked and scurfy. 

Uses. The flesh of the old rook is tough, indigestible, 



2 1 J2 the ooldsn plover. 

and rarely used as aliment. That of the young rook, 
when properly cooked, is pretty agreeable and digestible. 
It is said to resemble the young pigeon in some of its 
qualities. A rook pie is a favourite dish in some parts 
of Scotland. The skin and back-bone of the bird ought 
to be removed before it is cooked, otherwise the taste 
will be bitter or disagreeable. 

THE GOLDEN PLOVERS-YELLOW OR GREEN 

PLOVER. 

Charadrius Pluvialis. — Charadriida. — The Plover 
Family. — This species is generally found on the swampy 
grounds and heaths of Scotland, north of England, &c, 
during summer, and about the sea-shore in winter. The 
breeding season occurs during summer; and the nest, 
which is made with rushes, generally contains 4 eggs, 
large in proportion to the size of the bird. They have 
an olivaceous-yellow colour, with brownish-black spots, 
and their length is about 2 inches. Plovers feed on worms, 
slugs, insects, &c. Their call is a shrill whistle; and 
they may be decoyed within shot by a good imitation of 
it. They congregate together, forming flocks, during 
autumn, migrate to the southern counties, and hare 
great powers of flight. The length of this bird is about 
11 inches, weight 9 ounces. Bill dusky; eyes hazel; 
legs dusky ; plumage black above, with yellowish-green 
spots; under surface of body jet black, with a white 
band on the sides below the wing. During winter the 
plumage changes, and the black on the breast disappears. 

Uses.' This is considered an excellent bird for the 
table. The flavour of its flesh is peculiar, agreeable to 
many individuals, and, when fat, most esteemed. When 
kept until it becomes tender, it is pretty digestible. 
Plover eggs are considered a delicacy by some persons. 



THE LAPWING. 293 

THE GREY PLOVER.— THE GREY SAND- 
PIPER. 

Squatarola Cinerea. — Gharadriida, — The Plover 
Family. — This bird resembles the golden plover in many 
particulars, namely, in habits, appearance, and in the 
periodical change of the plumage. It retires, however, 
to northern countries during summer or breeding sea- 
son ; and it possesses a hind toe, which the golden plover 
wants. The eggs are greenish, with brown spots. Fore- 
head and top of the head white ; tail-feathers white, 
with numerous greyish-black, transverse bars ; bill, legs 
and eyes, black; length 12 inches; weight about 7 
ounces. 

Uses. This species possesses properties, as aliment, 
similar to those of the golden plover; and is, by some 
persons, considered a superior game bird. 

THE LAPWING.— PEEWIT OR PEESWEEP. 

Vanellw Cristatus. — Charadriida. — The Plover Fa- 
mily.— This is a very common bird in Britain, Ireland, 
and on the Continent of Europe. It is found in the 
vicinity of marches, lakes, rivers, wild heaths, &c. It 
feeds on worms, slugs, insects, &c. It is sometimes 
tamed, and turned into gardens to destroy worms. It is 
reckoned an unlucky bird in Scotland, and this probably 
has arisen from its peculiar flight and violent screaming. 
When any person approaches the nests of these birds, the 
males fly round the intruder and utter very clamorous 
notes. The name lapwing is derived from the flapping 
of its wings; and peewit from the note of this bird. 
They collect in flocks during autumn, and frequent the 
sea shore, marshes, &c. The nest consists of a few rushes, 
placed in a slight depression in the ground, and generally 

contains 4 eggs, of an olive colour, with blackish- 

2 b2 



294 THE COMMON CURLEW. 

brown spots. Beak black ; eyes hazel ; head black, with 
a tuft behind of white slender feathers; breast black, 
irridescent ; back green, irridescent ; sides of the neck and 
belly white; tail white, the end black; legs and toes 
orange-brown; claws black; length 12 or 13 inches; 
weight 8 ounces. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird is much esteemed for its 
agreeable, digestible and nutritious qualities. It is in 
best season from autumn to the end of winter. Its eggs, 
like those of the plover family, have a very agreeable 
flavour, and sell at a high price. Immense quantities of 
them are collected in some of the marshes of England, 
for the London market. The egg of a lapwing weighs 
nearly an ounce. 

THE COMMON CURLEW.— THE WHAUP, Scat. 

Numenius ArqwUa. — Scolopacida. — The Curlew and 
Sandpiper Family. — The curlew is a very common bird 
on the British coast during autumn and winter. It re- 
tires in spring to northern latitudes, for the purpose 
of breeding. The young are capable of being tamed. It is 
believed to be an unlucky bird in Scotland, and is alluded 
to as such by Sir Walter Scott. Its long beak has proba- 
bly fostered this belief, as well as its appearance in wild 
sequestered situations. Curlews frequent the sea shore 
in flocks, flying in a direct line, and frequently in the 
form of a wedge. They feed on marine insects, worms, 
&c. They are very cautious birds, and very difficult to 
approach ; but may be deceived by imitating their cry, 
which sounds like corlieu, and hence the name. The 
nest consists of a few leaves placed together among rushes 
or long grass. The eggs are 5 in number, about 2£ inches 
in length, pear-shaped, of an olive-green colour, with dark 
green and brown spots. The beak is dark brown, six or 
seven inches long, curved; eyes dark brown; head and neck 



THE COMMON SNIPB. 295 

pale brown ; breast, belly and rump white, with oblong 
dusky spots and bars ; tail of twelve feathers grey, with 
brown bands ; legs, which are long, and toes, pale blue ; 
length about 24 inches; weight 37 ounces. The plu- 
mage of the male and female is similar; but the latter is 
the largest in size. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird is generally not much 
esteemed in this country, being often somewhat dark co- 
loured and fishy in flavour. In Labrador, where curlews 
are said to be numerous, their flesh is considered excel- 
lent. 

The Whimbrel Curlew — is smaller in size, not so 
numerous, but similar in most particulars to the com- 
mon curlew. 

THE COMMON SNIPE. 

Scolopax Gallinago. — Scolopacidce. — The Curlew and 
Sandpiper Family. — This bird is very common in Bri- 
tain, and breeds in many of the counties of England, 
Scotland and Ireland. It is generally believed to be mi- 
gratory in its habits, the greatest flights coming from 
Norway and other northern parts of Europe at the be- 
ginning of winter. Snipes seldom remain long in one 
place. During the breeding season, the note of this bird 
is peculiar, resembling the bleating of a goat, and is pro- 
duced during its descent from a great height, and may 
be heard when it is out .of sight. It feeds in water 
meadows and in low lands among wet turnips, upon 
worms, insects, and occasionally minute seeds. The beak 
is employed in searching for food, being pushed into the 
earth. It is endowed with great sensibility, and becomes 
a delicate organ of touch, by which the bird is enabled 
to discover its prey. The nest is generally placed in the 
vicinity of marshy grounds, amongst heath or long grass, 
and consists of a few dead leaves or dried grass. Eggs 4 



296 THE WOODCOCK. 

in number, of a pale yellowish or greenish- white tint, 
with brown spots ; length. 1^ inches. Beak about 3 
inches long, dark brown at the end, pale brown at the 
base ; eyes dark brown ; head dark brown, with a streak 
of pale brown in centre ; neck spotted with brown ; back 
dark brown; belly and breast whitish; legs and toes green- 
ish-brown; length 10 or 12 inches; weight 4 or 5 ounces. 
The plumage of the male and female is alike ; but the 
latter is the larger in size. The young snipes grow very 
fast, and are often larger than their parents before they 
can fly. 

Uses. This bird possesses a most delicate flavour, and 
when young, fat and in season, as from October to Feb- 
ruary, is light and digestible. It is cooked along with 
the viscera, 

THE WOODCOCK.— WOODSNIPE. 

Scolopax Rusticola. — Scolopacida. — The Curlew and 
Sandpiper Family. — This bird, though it frequently 
breeds in this country, is generally considered a winter 
visitor. A north-east wind favours the descent of wood- 
cocks upon our coast, from Norway, Sweden, &c. At 
this period they are generally in high condition ; and fly 
in flocks at a great height in the atmosphere, the females 
generally preceding the males. This bird generally feeds 
during the night, and reposes during day in the dry grassy 
bottoms of brakes and woods. Earth-worms form its 
principal food, and it obtains them by digging its beak 
into the ground. The nest is made in woods and formed 
of dead leaves, in a dry and warm situation. Its eggs are 
white with a yellowish tint, mottled with greyish-brown 
spots ; about If inches long, and 4 in number. Beak 
about 3 inches long, brown, darker at the tip ; eyes 
hazel, large and convex ; the plumage is a mixture 
of various shades of brown ; nape of neck having two 



THE RUFF. 297 

transverse wood-brown bars ; beneath, yellowish white, 
with brown bars ; tail of 12 feathers, black, tipped with 
grey above and white below ; legs and toes livid-brown ; 
claws black, length 14 inches, weight about 12 ounces ; 
female the larger. Mr Yarrell states that woodcocks 
about double the weight mentioned have been met with. 

Uses. The woodcock is a bird in high estimation for 
the table, the flavour of its flesh being considered supe- 
rior and very agreeable. It is generally roasted, and the 
viscera are sometimes retained. When in good condition, 
as during winter, and kept until it becomes sufficiently 
tender, the flesh is moderately digestible. The legs and 
intestines are considered delicate morsels. The skin is 
very tender. 

The Great Snipe — Scolopax Major — is sometimes con- 
founded with the common snipe, on account of their simi- 
larity to one another. It is considerably larger, and may 
be recognised, while on the wing, by its tail being spread 
like a fan. Mr. Yarrell states that these birds are easily 
shot, from their steadiness of flight. During autumn 
they are very fat and are considered "most delicious 
eating." 

THE RUFF. 

Machetes Pugnax. — Scolopacidas, — The Curlew and 
Sandpiper Family. — The ruff is a summer visitor of this 
country ; but it is much more scarce, since the draining 
of the fens in England. The young birds make their 
appearance in small flocks. At one period a considerable 
trade was carried on in the catching of rufts. This is 
done by nets, chiefly in the fens of Lincolnshire, during 
the month of September. The young birds are after- 
wards fattened on bread and milk, boiled wheat or hemp- 
seed. This bird is exceedingly pugnacious, and fights 
for love as well as for food. The nest is fonned of coarse 



208 THE LANDRAIL. 

grass, in a swampy piece of ground ; eggs 4 in number, 
of an olive colour, with brown spots and about 1^ inches 
in length. In the wild state, the ruff feeds on insects 
and worms. The male is much larger than the female 
or reeve ; and is characterised, during summer, with a 
ruff about the neck, and it varies in colour. The colour 
of the female is pretty uniform. Length of the ruff 12 
inches ; weight from 6 to 10 ounces. 

Uses. The ruff when fattened, which process is gene- 
rally accomplished in two or three weeks, is considered 
the most delicious of all birds, being sold at a high price. 
It is frequently dressed for the table along with its vis- 
cera. When the bird is young, the flesh is tender, nutri- 
tive and digestible. 

THE LANDRAIL.— CORN CRAKE. 

Rallus Crex. — Rallidce. — The Rail Family. — The 
landrail generally visits this country during summer. It 
is found in corn-fields, meadows, long grass, beds of reeds, 
and is well known by its peculiar note or creak, which is 
heard at a great distance. The male bird is the caller, and 
he continues his note until he discovers a mate. Its 
food consists of worms, snails, slugs, insects and seeds. 
It flies slowly, and when flushed generally takes refuge 
in the nearest covert. It trusts more to its feet than its 
wings. It leaves this country during October and flies 
to a warmer climate. It is abundant on the Continent of 
Europe, and has been found in Africa. During partridge 
shooting, landrails are frequently killed by sportsmen 
among seed-clover. The nest consists of dry plants and 
is placed on the ground among grass, clover or green 
corn. Eggs from 7 to 10, of a pale reddish- white colour, 
spotted with grey and brown ; length 1^ inches. Beak 
pale brown; eyes hazel; margin of eyelids greenish- 
black ; cheeks ash-grey; plumage blackish-brown above, 



THE MOOR-HEN. 299 

each feather having a broad yellowish -brown margin ; 
wing-covers reddish chesnut; legs, toes and claws yellow- 
ish-brown; length about 11 inches; weight 6 ounces. 
Females rather smaller than males. 

Uses. The flesh of this bird is white, tender, and 
when fat and in good condition, very digestible. Mr. 
Yarrell states that "landrails are considered most delicate 
as articles of food, and in such high estimation that two 
landrails are said to be a present for a queen." 

According to Drayton, " the Rayle seldom comes but 
upon rich men's spits." 

The Spotted Crake — RaUus Porzona — is much less 
abundant, more aquatic in its habits, and a smaller bird 
than the landrail. It is more numerous in France, where 
it is much esteemed for the delicate flavour of its flesh. 

The Water Rail — Rallus Aquaticus— is found in the 
marshy districts of Britain ; and takes the wing with 
difficulty. Its flesh is excellent, and by some considered 
little inferior to that of the landrail. Weight about 4 
ounces. 

THE MOOR-HEN.— THE WATER-HEN. 

GalUnula Ohloropus. — Rallida. — The Rail Family. — 
This bird is common near lakes, marshes, old water- 
courses, and among the rushes and willows of slow rivers. 
It swims and dives readily. Its movements in the water 
are accompanied with a nodding motion of the head, pick- 
ing up by this means vegetable substances, first on one 
side, then on the other. Its food consists generally of 
aquatic plants, small fishes, worms, slugs and insects. 
After rain, it walks along the meadows searching for 
some of these animals, and may be recognised by the 
jerking up of its tail and showing the white under tail- 
coverts. The water-hen is capable of an extended flight; 
but seldom avails itself of this among the rushes. It 



300 THE WILD DUCK AND MALLARD. 

lias been tamed, so as to pick crumbs of bread thrown down 
at the foot. During hard frost, moor-hens resort to plan- 
tations that are in the neighbourhood of running streams, 
and roost on fir-trees, &c. The nest is generally built on 
stumps of trees, among long grass, near water. Eggs 7 
or 8 in number, of a reddish white colour, with orange- 
brown spots ; length nearly 1 J inches. Beak yellowish- 
green, its base and the naked patch on the forehead red ; 
eyes reddish-hazel ; the back, wings, rump and tail dark 
olive-brown ; beneath bluish-grey ; legs and toes green, 
with a red garter above the knee. Length 13 inches ; 
weight about 15 ounces. 

Uses. The flesh of the water-hen is agreeable and well 
flavoured when it is in good condition. It is however 
somewhat allied to the anserine or goose family in fla- 
vour ; and is not so easily digested as the common rail. 

The Common Coot — Fulica Atra — belonging to the 
Lobiptdidae or Lobe-footed Family, is larger and much 
coarser in flavour than the water-hen. Its flesh is oily 
and has a fishy taste, but is eaten in many places. The 
disagreeable flavour can be diminished, it is said, by 
taking off the black down with resin and boiling water, 
and afterwards soaking the bird in spring water for 
twelve or twenty four hours. 

THE WILD DUCK AND MALLARD.— THE 

DOMESTIC DUCK. 

Anas Boschas. — Anatidce. — The Duck Family. — The 
wild duck is now less abundant in this country than it 
was formerly, which is chiefly, owing to the greater ex- 
tension of draining. It feeds on seeds, worms, insects 
and small fishes. It is a native of this country, the 
greater part of the northern hemisphere, and North 
America. The wild duck is generally considered the 
origin of our ordinary domestic variety; although in 



THE WILD DUCK AND MALLARD. 301 

some of their habits they differ materially. The nest is 
built on the ground, sometimes on the margin of a river 
or lake, and is composed of grass lined with down. The 
wild duck is monogamous, while the domestic variety is 
polygamous. It breeds early in the season. Eggs from 
10 to 18 in number, of a greenish-white colour, and more 
than 2 inches in length. The young duck is unable to 
fly before it is eight or ten weeks old. Bill of the wild 
variety has a yellowish tint ; eyes hazel ; head and neck 
green, ending in a white collar ; breast and upper back 
brownish ; wing-covers with a white band edged with 
black ; the fore middle tail-feathers velvet black and 
curled upwards ; legs and toes orange-yellow ; length 
about 24 inches ; weight 40 ounces. Female of a brown 
colour ; throat white ; the middle tail feathers not curled 
upwards; about 22 inches in length. The male or 
drake changes his splendid plumage once a-year ; and is 
scarcely distinguishable from the female for some weeks 
during July and August. Wild ducks are frequently 
taken with decoys; a contrivance by which they are allur- 
ed, by trained ducks, into a tunnel terminating in a net. 
Immense quantities of this and other species are thus 
caught in the fens of Lincolnshire. The domestic duck 
is generally larger and more fat, its legs are stronger and 
their yellow colour less brilliant. It feeds upon grain 
and slops of all kinds, whether animal or vegetable. 

Uses. The flesh of the full-grown domestic duck is 
strong in flavour, oily, frequently more tough, hard and 
less agreeable than that of the common fowl. It is diffi- 
cult of digestion ; but is a favourite with many persons. 
Young ducks are more easily digested, their flavour is 
agreeable and they are in season during summer. Although 
the young duck is rather more difficult of digestion than 
the chicken, the qualities of these two birds do not differ 

materially. The egg of the duck is nutritive and digesti- 

2c 



302 THE TEAL. 

ble but not bo agreeable in flavour as that of the domestic 
poultry. The flesh of the wild duck is tough and requires 
to be kept for a considerable time before use. The fla- 
vour is strong and rather fishy ; but it is highly estimated 
by many persons. 

The Muscovy Duck — Anas Moschata— -indigenous in 
South America, is also domesticated and common in our 
poultry yards. 

THE TEAL. 

Anas Creeca. — Anatidce. — The Duck Family. — This 
bird is one of the smallest of the duck family. It regu- 
larly migrates from the north of Europe to this country 
about the end of September, and during the winter; 
returning in spring, although many remain and breed 
here during summer. It feeds on grasses, seeds, insects, 
&c. The flight of teal is very rapid. They are taken 
with decoys and other means, in considerable numbers, 
during the winter months. The nest is generally placed 
among rushes ; eggs 10 or 12 in number, of a whitish- 
yellow tint, about If inches long. Beak blackish; eyes 
hazel ; head chesnut ; a green band, extending from the 
eyes down each side of neck, edged with two white 
lines ; lower part of neck, in front, partly covered with 
circular black spots, on a white ground; feet grey; 
length about 14£ inches ; weight 14 ounces. Plumage 
of female brownish. 

Uses. The flesh of the teal resembles that of other 
wild ducks, but is by many considered superior ; and 
Mr. Yarrell characterises it as " one of the best as an 
article of food." The same author states that the yellow 
tinge on the white feathers of the breast, in the teal, 
wigeon, pintail, wild duck and other wild water-fowl, 
indicate that they are young birds of the year; and that 
they are superior in their qualities as food. 



THE POCHARD. 303 

THE WIGEON. 

Anas Penelope. — Anatida. — The Duck Family.— This 
bird is abundant on all the British coasts, as well as in 
the interior, on the margins of rivers, lakes, fens, &c. 
Its habits are similar to those of the wild duck ; but it 
is a more familiar bird. It feeds chiefly on a short 
species of grass ; and migrates northward in March and 
April during the pairing season. The note of the wigeon 
is a shrill whistle, and hence it has been named the 
whistler. The eggs have a rich cream- white colour, and 
are about 2 inches in length. Bill and feet brownish- 
black; eyes dark brown; forehead white; cheeks and 
hind part of neck rich reddish chesnut ; wings white, 
green and black; breast and belly white; length 18 
inches; weight 24 ounces. Head and neck of female 
brown, and speckled with dark brown spots. The young 
male birds of the year resemble, for a time, the females 
in plumage. 

Uses. From the great numbers of this bird which are 
taken in some parts of the country, it is plentiful, and 
much esteemed for the table. The flesh, though rather 
dry, has a superior flavour, and is more tender and diges- 
tible than the duck or goose. 

The Pintail Duck or Cracker— Anas Acuta — is 
remarkable for the elongation of its two middle tail- 
feathers. It is caught with the decoy during winter, and 
weighs about 24 ounces. It is considered an excellent 
bird for the table. 

The Pochard or Dun Bird — Anas Ferina~\B dis- 
tinguished from the other species of ducks by the red 
colour of its eyes and head. It is not so elegant in form 
as the wild duck, walks ill, but swims and dives very 
expertly. It is taken by a species of decoy-net. Weight 
about 28 ounces ; length 19 inches. The flesh of the 



C04 THE BEAN GOOSE. 

pochard is considered excellent, particularly when it feeds 
on vegetables in the neighbourhood of rivers and fresh 
water. 

THE GREY-LEGGED GOOSE. 

Anas Anser. — Anatida. — The Duck Family. — This 
species, although now very scarce, is believed by orni- 
thologists to be the chief origin of our domestic goose. 
It is found a permanent resident in Lincolnshire. Beak 
of a pale flesh colour; eyes brown; head, neck and back 
ash-brown ; belly and under surface of body white ; legs 
and toes of a dull flesh colour; claws black ; length 35 
inches; weight about 10 pounds. Female smaller than 
male; eggs 8, of a yellowish-white colour. In the 
domestic state it is greyish in colour ; but the ganders 
are often white. There are, however, numerous varieties 
in point of colour. 

THE BEAN GOOSE.— WILD GOOSE. 

Anas Segetum. — Anatida. — The Duck Family. — This 
species appears during winter in greater numbers than 
any other, with the exception of the Brent goose. It 
frequents the northern counties of England and Wales; 
and sometimes breeds amongst the heath that covers the 
small islands in various lochs. It feeds on the young 
shoots of plants, roots, pulse, grain, &c. The eggs are 
fully 3 inches long, and of a dull white colour. Bill 2^ 
inches long, pointed, the nail (supposed to resemble a 
horse-bean), edges and base black, middle portion orange; 
eyes dark brown; back greyish brown; neck, breast and 
belly white; legs and toes orange; claws black; wings 
reaching, beyond the end of the tail ; length 34 inches ; 
weight about 6^ pounds. Wild geese assume an angular 
form when on the wing ; and those who are aware of 
this fact can detect the flock at a great distance. The 



THE LAUGHING GOOSE. 305 

letter < according to Mr. Yarrell, placed horizontally, 
the angle in advance, will represent their arrangement. 

THE BRENT GOOSE. 

Anas Bcrnicla. — Anatidas. — The Duck Family. — This 
is the smallest species of goose that visits Britain during 
winter. It passes the greater part of its time on the 
coast, and is rarely found in the interior. It feeds chiefly 
on marine vegetables. When the flock is numerous, the 
cry of these birds is said to resemble that of a pack of 
hounds. Eggs greyish- white, about 2f inches in length. 
Bill 1& inches in length, black; eyes almost black; head 
small and black ; neck and breast black ; a white patch 
on each side of the neck; back, wing-covers, &c, brown- 
ish black; legs, toes, and claws black; length 21 inches; 
weight 2| pounds. Female a little smaller than male ; 
plumage brownish. 

THE LAUGHING GOOSE. 

White-Fronted Goose — Anas Albi/rons—ia charac- 
terised by its call, being like the laugh of a man, and also 
by the breast and belly being white. Weight about 5 
pounds. 

There are several other species of the wild goose 

visitors of this country, but which are of less value, on 

account of their rarity or their inferiority as aliment. 

Some foreign species, introduced into this country in a 

state of domestication, have again assumed the wild state 

in Britain. Dr. Fleming mentions three domesticated 

foreign species. 1. The Egyptian Ganseb. or Gambo 

Goose, Anas Gambensis, a beautiful bird introduced from 

Africa. Bill red ; throat, cheeks and upper part of head 

white; back, rump and tail glossy black. 2. Canada 

Goose, Anas Canadensis. Bill, head, neck, and tail black ; 

a white crescent on the throat ; back greyish brown ; beDy 

2c2 



306 DIETETIC QUALITIES OF THE GOOSE. 

and tail covers white. 3. Chinese, Spanish, Guinea or 
Swan Goose, Anas Hispanicus. " Bill orange at the base, 
with a large knob; a wattle under the throat; a dark 
brown stripe from the nape to the back; deportment 
stately." 

Dietetic Qualities of the Goose. — The various species 
of wild goose which have been noticed, are esteemed by 
many as a high flavoured, nutritious, stimulant and agree- 
able aliment. The Brent goose, although the smallest, is 
the most numerous, and considered excellent in quality. 
The white-fronted goose is also a good bird for the table. 
The flesh of a wild goose is generally somewhat tough, 
strong and sometimes fishy in flavour, nutritious but diffi- 
cult of digestion. It is not adapted for those who have 
delicate digestive organs, unless the bird be young. 

The tame or domestic goose is in general more tender, 
but is often loaded with fatty matter, which renders it 
very difficult of digestion. The mode in which some of 
these birds are fed is very objectionable. They are 
cooped up in a crib, and fed upon malt, barley meal, oats 
and milk, with a small allowance of drink. When an en- 
larged liver is required, they are confined in a narrow crib, 
crammed .with fat meat, and exposed to a high temper- 
ature. The Strasburg pie contains a portion of the die- 
eased liver of a goose ; it is notwithstanding considered a' 
great delicacy. The flesh of the tame goose is of the 
finest quality during the last three or four months of the 
year, but the young birds are excellent in summer. The 
egg of the goose is rather strong and oily in flavour, but 
very nutritious, and not disagreeable to many persons. 
The feathers and quills are of considerable value, and 
these birds are subjected to the disagreeable process of 
plucking, two or three times a-year. A large trade of 
this kind is carried on in Lincolnshire. In Languedoc 
and other parts of France, the fot goose is often preserv- 



THE RAZOR-BILL. 307 

ed for "the winter food of genteel provincial fa- 
milies." 

THE SOLAND GOOSE.— THE GANNET. 

Pelecanus Bassanus, — Peleeanida. — The Pelican Fa- 
hilt. — The gannet is well known on many parts of our 
coast, particularly in the isle of Ailsa, Bass Rock, Frith 
of Forth, St. Kilda, &c. It is considered a stupid bird, 
hence the name booby which is sometimes given to it. 
It is easily captured, particularly when young. It is 
rather long-lived, and feeds exclusively on fishes, parti- 
cularly herrings, pilchards, sprats, &c. In securing its 
prey, it rises to a certain height in the atmosphere and 
darts perpendicularly upon the fish, which it rarely fails 
to secure. The nest is formed of sea weeds and grass. 
One egg is deposited in it, which is white with a blue 
tint, and fully 3 inches long. Naked skin of the face 
blue ; eyes yellowish ; bill horny, greyish-white, about 
6 inches long ; plumage white ; legs and toes black ; 
length nearly 3 feet ; weight about 7 pounds; and rather 
less in size than the domestic goose. 

Uses. The flesh of the old gannet is rank and fishy in 
flavour ; but tbat of the young bird is more agreeable, 
and is used in many places on account of its low price. 
It is nutritive, but, as it abounds with oil, difficult of 
digestion. The egg is esteemed by many, and is in regu- 
lar consumption. The feathers are soft, white, and are 
employed in the manufacture of feather-beds. 

The Razor-bill. — Alca Torda; &n& the Puffin. — Alca 
Arctica — belonging to the Alcadce or Auk family, are also 
natatory birds of the edible kind. Their flesh is oily 
aud has a fishy disagreeable taste, but when pickled with 
spices it is more agreeable and digestible. The puffin 
was formerly allowed to be eaten during Lent. The green- 
coloured eggs sold in London under the name of puffin 



306 THE GREEN TURTLE. 

eggs are said to be tolerably good, and have very little of 
a fishy taste. It is probable that those of several species 
of this family are sold under this name. Eggs of this 
description, or those of rock-birds, are collected in large 
quantities on the cliffs at different parts of the coast, by 
fishermen, who are secured from falling by ropes attached 
to the ground above. 



REPTILES. 



THE GREEN TURTLE. 

Chelonia My das. — Chelonida. — The Turtle Family. 
— The green turtle, so called from the greenish colour of its 
shell, is the largest of this family of reptiles, being ^some- 
times from 6 to 7 feet long, and weighing seven or eight 
hundred pounds. It is also possessed of great strength, and 
.it has been stated that one of large size can walk while 
supporting five men on its back. Its ordinary weight, how- 
ever, is from 150 to 200 pounds. It inhabits the sea ; 
but being amphibious, requires to come to the surface of 
the water for respiration, and it can live without food for 
a long period. It is abundant in the West India islands, 
South America, &c, and frequents the water of the coasts 
and mouths of rivers. It swims with its head above water, 
and feeds on marine plants. This reptile frequently travels 
a long distance to the various coasts for the purpose of 
depositing its eggs on the sandy shores. This is done at 
night very secretly, and to the amount of 80 or 90 at 
one sitting. When the process is finished, the hole in 
which they have been deposited is carefully covered up, 
and she returns to the sea ; but the sitting is repeated 
two or three times, at the distance of fifteen days. The 



THE GREEN TURTLE. 300 

young turtles are hatched in three or four weeks, and run 
directly to the sea; but many of them are devoured by 
birds or other enemies. The eggs of the turtle are round, 
covered with a tough white skin, about the size of a hen's 
egg, and are eaten as food. The shell of the turtle does not 
enclose the head and feet, the latter being long and resem- 
bling fins. The green turtle is distinguished by its thir- 
teen greenish hexagonal plates, but they are of no value. 

Turtles are generally captured when they first go on 
shore to deposit their eggs; for k they become lean and 
unsavoury after this process is completed. They are 
gentle in disposition, and are usually caught while on 
the beach digging their holes, by turning them on their 
backs, a position from which they can only with great 
difficulty recover themselves. After a sufficient number 
have been thus fixed, they are carried away at the con- 
venience of the captors. They are also caught by divers, 
while floating asleep on the surface of the water, and 
by the harpoon. 

Uses. The flesh of the turtle is whitish, somewhat 
like veal, rich, gelatinous, and combined with a large 
quantity of green fat. It is generally considered nutri- 
tive and very delicious, although slightly musky in fla- 
vour. It is rather difficult of digestion, which is owing 
chiefly to its impregnation with fat ; and is therefore not 
well adapted for those who are liable to indigestion. 
Soup made from it has been recommended for the nutri- 
ment of persons affected with consumption, hectic and 
cutaneous diseases; this opinion is however problem- 
atical. The flesh is frequently salted, and may be pre- 
served for a long period ; and in this state it is used in 
the West Indies and America. It is prepared for the 
table in various ways, namely, by the formation of 
a soup, broiling, &c. According to Mr. Donovan, a 
simple steak broiled or fried is one of the best forms of 



310 THE LAND TORTOISE. 

cookery. In Jamaica, the turtle is preserved alive 
in parks, and is said to be sold at a less price than beef 
or mutton. London is supplied with live turtle from 
this island, as wells as from others in the West Indies. 
The eggs are also considered a delicacy, and differ, accord- 
ing to Mr. Donovan, from those of a bird " in one strik- 
ing particular, that the albumen, if such it may be 
called, does not coagulate by boiling." The flesh of 
other kinds of sea-turtle is inferior in flavour, and some- 
times, it is said, not wholesome ; although the logger- 
head has been considered by some writers equal to the 
green turtle. 

THE LAND TORTOISE. 

Testudo Greca. — Testudinida. — The Tortoise Fa- 
hilt. — The tortoise is common on the coasts of the 
Mediterranean ; but in this country it is generally reared 
in gardens, and lives upon milky plants, fruits, insects and 
worms. It is quite harmless, but if attacked it becomes 
a formidable antagonist, from the great strength of its 
jaws, and it can bear an immense weight upon its back. 
It is remarkable for longevity, and tortoises have been 
known to attain the age of 200 years. It "is also very 
tenacious of life, and can survive for some time without 
the head. It lives in a dormant state during the winter 
months, in a hole which it has dug in the earth, and 
emerges from it at the approach of spring. It eats little 
at first, but during summer is very voracious. The tor- 
toise is oviparous, and the eggs are 4 or 5 in number, 
being few when compared with those of the sea-turtle. 
They are deposited in a small hole by the female ; and 
after covering them with leaves, she allows them to be 
hatched by the heat of the sun. They are rather 
smaller and longer in shape than those of the hen, being 
somewhat like pigeons' eggs, are invested with a soft white 



THE EDIBLE FROG. 311 

covering, and composed, like those of birds, of the albu- 
minous white and the yolk. This, like other tortoises, 
is enveloped in a doable shell, with openings at both 
ends, through which project the head and neck, the 
tail and four feet. These shells are composed of pieces 
analogous to the bones of the chest in vertebrated ani- 
mals. The shell is wide and equally arched; plates 
raised, striated on the edges, and studded with yellow 
and black spots. The tortoise measures about a foot in 
length, but is sometimes larger. 

Uses. The flesh of the land tortoise is gelatinous, 
rich and agreeable, similar to that of the sea-turtle, 
although it is generally considered inferior in flavour. 
It is frequently used in Italy, the Levant, &c, for 
making soups; and the eggs are considered nutritive, 
and nearly as good as those of the domestic hen. The 
Greeks use both the flesh and the eggs during Lent, and 
drink the blood in its raw state. 

THE EDIBLE FROG. 

Rana Esculenta. — Ranida. — The Frog Family. — The 
edible or green frog is abundant in the different countries 
of Europe, though less so in Britain than the common 
frog. It is greenish above, with three longitudinal yellow 
lines ; below, whitish with black spots ; back arched or 
protuberated ; fore-feet with four divided toes ; hind-feet 
with Ave webbed toes. It spawns about the month of 
June, and the young attain their full growth in about 
four years, and live to the age of sixteen or seventeen. 
It is very tenacious of life, and survives for a consider- 
able time in a mutilated state. It is also very voracious, 
and feeds on worms, snails, and even birds, mice, &c, 
which are swallowed in the entire state. 

Uses. The flesh of the frog is light, digestible, mo- 
derately nutritious, and its flavour is said to resemble 



312 THE PERCH. 

that of the chicken. The " hind quarters " are most 
esteemed, and the form of dressing generally recom- 
mended is the fricassee. The other parts of the frog are 
employed in the formation of a soup, which is highly 
recommended by some authors for consumptive persons. 
Frogs are consumed in immense quantities at Vienna and 
some of the other large cities of Europe. They are 
brought from the country and placed in conservatories, 
or large holes in the ground, four or five feet deep. 



FISHES. 

THE PERCH. 

Perca Fluviatilis. — Percidce. — The Perch Family. — 
This fish was known to the Greeks and Romans, and is 
common in the rivers and lakes of the temperate regions 
of Europe. It 'feeds upon insects, worms, &c, and is 
remarkably voracious, being easily caught by the angler. 
It is capable of living for some hours out of water. Mr. 
Yarrell states that, in Catholic countries, it is carried' to 
market, and if not sold taken back to the ponds from 
which it was removed. Perches roam in shoals, descending 
and rising, and when exposed to a hot sun shading them- 
selves among reeds or foliage. Shape oblong; fins spiny; 
back arched, of a greenish-brown colour ; below, yellow- 
ish-white, with five transparent black bands on the sides ; 
eyes golden- yellow; tail lunate. Its colours are brilliant 
and beautiful, and more attractive than its shape. Length 
12 inches, weight about l£ pounds; but it frequently 
exceeds this limit, having in a few instances been found 
to weigh eight or nine pounds. 



THE STRIPED RED MULLET. 313 

Uses. The flesh of the perch is firm, white, agreeable 
and easy of digestion, being, like the trout, one of our 
best fresh-water fishes. Small perches, according to 
Cuvier, are generally fried ; the larger being broiled or 
cooked by a short boiling. The natives of Holland form 
a soup with perches, along with parsley. The skins are 
made into a kind of jelly by the inhabitants of Lapland, 
and also into a species of glue. The scales of this fish 
have lately been employed in the manufacture of small 
ornaments. 

THE STRIPED RED MULLET. 

Mullus Sarmuletus, — Percidce. — The Perch Family. 
— The mullet was held in high estimation by the 
ancients, and was sometimes sold at a very extravagant 
price. Cuvier mentions three that cost 5844 francs 
during the reign of Tiberius. The Romans preserved 
this fish in their vivaria; but its size was not much 
increased in these situations. Galen states that the 
liver, beat up with wine, was considered the most deli- 
cious part of a mullet, the head being next in estima- 
tion. It is reckoned migratory in its habits, but it is 
frequently caught along the southern coast of England, 
and is found at almost all seasons in London. It is gen- 
erally taken with the trawl-net along with other fishes. 
Its food consists chiefly of the softer crustaceous and 
molluscous animals. It is upwards of a foot in length ; 
body tinged with red ; belly white ; eyes pale yellow ; 
sides striped with three or four longitudinal yellow 
lines. It seldom exceeds three pounds in weight, and is 
generally of smaller size. 

Uses. The red mullet, although much less prized at 
the present day than it was in ancient times, is still con- 
sidered a great delicacy, and obtains a high price. The 

flesh is firm, white, friable, agreeable to the palate, a 

2 D 



314 THE RED GURNARD. 

little piquant* ; and not being oily, easily digested. It 
is in best condition daring the months of May and June ; 
and the colours of the fish are then most brilliant. The 
liver is still an organ in great request. The mullets of 
Provence and Toulon are considered very superior in 
flavour. 

THE PLAIN RED MULLET. 

r Mullus Barbatus. — Percide. — The Perch Family. — 
This fish is smaller, and is distinguished from the striped 
red mullet by its almost vertical profile, its deeper red 
colour on the back and sides, which has a slightly car- 
mine tint ; while the belly is silvery- white, without yel- 
low lines. It is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean, and 
is rarely found on the British coasts. Its habits and 
dietetic qualities are similar to those of the striped red 
mullet. 

THE RED GURNARD. 

Trigla Cuculus. — Triglid*. — The Gurnard Family. 
— This fish is very common on the English and Irish 
coasts, and is caught by the trawl-net, in deep water. It 
seldom exceeds 12 or 14 inches in length; head nearly 
square ; cheeks covered with long plates ; colour when 
fresh, bright red ; sides and belly silvery white ; fins 
reddish-white, with a black spot on first dorsal. It is 
very tenacious of life, but is by no means a prepossessing 
fish in appearance. It feeds on crustaceous animals. 

Uses. Mr. Donovan observes that the gurnard is con- 
sidered by many persons a fourth-rate fish, although 
it is now a greater favourite. According to Baron Cuvier 
the flesh is firm, of an agreeable taste, and in France is 
preserved in olive oil. The gurnard, according to my 
experience, is greatly inferior to many other fishes in 
ordinary use, possessing rather a strong and oily flavour, 



THE MACKAREL. 815 

although it is by no means disagreeable or very difficult 
of digestion. It is in best condition for the table during 
October and the winter months. 

THE MACKAREL. 

Scomber Scomber. — Scomheridce. — The Mackarel Fa- 
milt. — Cuvier states that the mackarel family of fishes is 
one of the most useful to man, on account of their agree- 
able taste and size, but especially from their inexhaustible 
reproduction, which makes them easy of acquisition by 
fishermen. The family of herrings can alone be com- 
pared to them in these respects. Some authors consider 
this fish migratory in its habits, making long voyages 
from north to south at one period, and the reverse at 
another. Mr. Yarrell, on the other hand, is of opinion 
that it inhabits almost the whole of the European seas, 
and by a law of nature is impelled to visit the shallower 
parts at a particular season. The mackarel abounds in 
the British and Irish seas, but is not common in Scotland. 

It is caught from March to June, by the drift-net, but 
also by the hook and line. By the first method, an aston- 
ishing amount of fishes is sometimes taken. Mr. Yarrell 
states that the value of the catch of sixteen boats from 
Lowestoffe, on the 80th June, 1821, amounted to £5262. 
It spawns in June, and five hundred and forty thousand 
ova have been contained in one fish. It is very voracious, 
and is supposed to feed chiefly on young herrings or 
sprats, and even to be fond of human flesh. 

The mackarel is a handsome and beautiful fish, about 
15 inches long; of a tapering form, particularly the males; 
bluish-green above, with dark transverse bands ; beneath 
silvery white, with golden tints ; teeth very small and 
numerous ; under jaw longest. 

Uses. Mackarel dies instantly on leaving the water, 
and very soon runs into a state of putrefaction. On this 



316 TUB TUNNY. 

account, according to Mr. Yarrell, mackarel have for 
nearly two centuries been allowed to be cried through 
the streets of London on Sundays. The fish must either 
be used within a short period of its being taken, or sub- 
jected to the process of salting. The average weight is 
nearly two pounds, but those of large size are not con- 
sidered the finest in quality. They are in best condition 
during May and June, and their flavour is then superior 
to those taken in autumn or earlier in spring. The flesh 
of mackarel is white, firm, moderately tender, of an 
agreeable flavour, and it contains a fine oil, which is 
sometimes collected for the use of curriers. Although 
very nutritive, it is somewhat difficult of digestion, par- 
ticularly by dyspeptics, delicate individuals and convales- 
cents. Broiling is the mode of cookery generally adopted, 
as its flavour is thus better preserved. It forms an ex- 
cellent dry salt-fish, and when pickled is much esteemed. 

THE TUNNY. 

Thynnua Vulgaris. — Scomberute. — The Mackarel 
Family. — This fish was known to the ancients, and much 
esteemed by the Romans. It chiefly frequents the 
Mediterranean with its gulfs. It is more rare on the 
British coasts, and when found in our seas it is generally 
believed to have been in pursuit of herrings. The food 
of this fish consists of herrings, pilchards, &c. Tunnies 
are caught with nets, in large quantities, when frequent- 
ing the shore to deposit their spawn, during the months 
of May and June. These nets are of a peculiar con- 
struction, of great strength, and of such size, according 
to Dr. Bushnan, that twenty vessels might be filled 
by a single cast. The same author remarks, that the 
numbers of this fish which pass through the Bosphorus, 
in performing their periodical migrations, are almost 
incredible ; an immense amount, principally of young 



THE DOKEE. 317 

tunnies, being then taken with very little trouble. The 
fisheries are carried on chiefly by the Sicilians, who ex- 
port a considerable quantity of the dried fish ; but also 
by the inhabitants along the coast of the Mediterranean. 
This fish is said to constitute the principal aliment of the 
people of Bithynia. The tunny is cured by cutting the 
flesh into slices, washing it with brine, and then packing 
it in barrels with alternate layers of salt. It sometimes 
attains a very large size, and Mr. Yarrell mentions one 
that measured nearly 8 feet in length. It seldom, however, 
exceeds 4 feet in length ; its general form is similar to that 
of the mackarel, being much larger, and more rounded. 
Upper part of body, dark blue; belly, greyish- white, 
with silvery- white spots ; sides of head white. 

Uses. The flesh of the tunny has the colour of beef, 
but when boiled becomes paler. It is very firm, and its 
taste resembles that of the salmon, being considered very 
delicious in flavour. It is dressed in various ways, by 
frying, broiling, &c. Soups and pies are also made from 
it, the latter being very celebrated in France. It is pre- 
served in salt and oil, and eaten cold like pickled salmon. 
Cuvier remarks that though the fresh or seasonably salted 
tunny is salubrious and agreeable, yet, when it becomes 
putrescent, its bones reddish-coloured, and the flesh acrid 
in taste, it causes diarrhoea, pains in the stomach, and 
even death if much has been swallowed. He recommends 
that this fish, even the most fresh, ought to be sold within 
twenty-four hours. The flesh of the tunny is highly 
nutritive, and in this respect resembles that of the sal- 
mon ; but like the mackarel, it is best adapted for those 
Who have sound digestive organs. 

THE DOREE. 

Zeus Faber. — Scomber ida. — The Mackarel Family. 

—This fish is supposed to have derived its name doree 

2 d 2 



318 THE DOREE. 

from its yellow tint, and was called Zens or Jupiter by 
the ancients. At one period it was considered a sacred 
fish, as it bore on its sides the marks of St. Peter's or St. 
Christopher's fingers, and hence its name has also been 
deriTed from the French word adoree. This fish, or the 
John Dory as it » also named, is found on the coasts of 
France and Spain, in Devonshire, and the southern parts 
of England and in Ireland, about Londonderry and An- 
trim. It feeds on the fry of other fishes, shell fish, &c. 
It is a wandering fish, often found following shoals of 
pilchards, and is common until the end of winter. It is 
caught with the hook and prefers a living bait ; but is 
also taken with the net, sometimes in considerable num- 
bers. It is very peculiar and rather ugly in appearance. 
The head is very large, occupying about one-third of the 
whole body, thus leaving only a small part that is edible. 
Length about 17 inches; body oval, compressed, olive- 
brown, reflecting in different lights blue, yellow and 
white ; a round black spot on the side ; eyes yellow. 
The average weight is about 4 or 5 pounds; but speci- 
mens weighing 10 or 12 pounds are occasionally brought 
to the London market. 

Uses. Quin the comedian is stated by several writers 
to have brought the dory into celebrity in England, and 
it is mentioned as part of his history, that he once tra- 
velled from Bath to Plymouth for the purpose of eating 
it in the greatest perfection, and boiled in salt water. 
The flesh is firm and solid, and its flavour is considered 
by many persons remarkably delicate. It is nutritious and 
moderately digestible. Mr. Donovan states that it comes 
into season about the end of spring, and it is recommended 
to be kept one or two days before use, to diminish the 
toughness of the flesh. 



THE COMMON OB GREY MULLET. 819 

THE COMMON OR GREY MULLET. 

Mugil Cephalus. — Mugilidae. — The Mullet Family. 
-This fish is abundant along the southern coast of Eng- 
land, is frequently taken at Yarmouth, and has been 
traced to the Baltic and western coast of Norway. It is 
also met on the southern and northern coasts of Ireland. 
It ventures up rivers to some distance, delighting in 
shallow water during warm weather ; but it always 
returns to the sea with the tide. The grey mullet is' 
reckoned very intelligent, and frequently evinces great 
skill in avoiding danger, and in effecting its escape from 
a net or other place of confinement, by leaping or other 
means. The food of this fish occasionally consists of the 
sand-worm ; but soft and fat decomposing matters are 
frequently preferred. It is often an object of sport to 
the angler, but he requires, it is said, to possess some dex- 
terity, as the fish plunges violently. Length about 18 
inches ; weight from 1 to 5 pounds ; but it is sometimes 
found much larger. Top of head and back of a greyish- 
blue colour; sides and belly of a silvery hue, marked 
with longitudinal parallel lines ; lower jaw divided in 
the middle, by an ascending angular point; each jaw 
furnished with minute teeth ; tail forked ; eyes reddish- 
brown, pupil surrounded by a silvery line ; a dark spot 
at the base of the three or four upper rays of the pectoral 
fin. 

Uses. This fish is generally considered very inferior 
in flavour to the red mullet; although excellent in 
quality. Those taken in the river Arun, in Sussex, are 
said to be superior in flavour to those found in other 
streams. The roe pressed, dried and sometimes smoked, 
is employed in the manufacture of botargo, a favourite 
food or dainty in France, Italy, &c. The flesh of the grey 
mullet is sufficiently agreeable and digestible, and is in 



320 THB COMMON CARP. 

best condition for the table during spring and the begin- 
ning of summer. 

Thb Athrrink or Sakdsmblt — Atherina Presbyter — 
belonging to the mullet family, is often mistaken for the 
smelt on the southern coast of England, at Brighton, 
Southampton, &c, where it is plentiful. It is little 
known on the eastern coast, where the smelt is common. 
It resembles the smelt in appearance and size, but is dis- 
tinguished from it by the second dorsal fin being 1 sup- 
ported by rays, while in the smelt, this fin is adipose 
and without rays. The flavour of this fish is agreeable, 
but is not considered equal to that of the smelt, and is 
more dry. When dressed along with the viscera it is 
reckoned by some authors a delicious fish. 

THE COMMON CARP. 

Cyprinus \Carpio. — Cfyprinidx. — The Carp Family.— 
This fish was known to the ancients, but was not then 
held in the same estimation as in the present day. It is 
found in most of the rivers and lakes of the southern and 
temperate regions of Europe, but its growth is parti- 
cularly cultivated in Austria and Prussia. The carp 
is supposed to arrive at a great age, even to 100 and 200 
years, and when old the scales become grey or white. 
In Britain it inhabits rivers, lakes and ponds, but it 
thrives best when the current of a stream is not very 
rapid, and when the bottom is soft and muddy. It is 
extremely prolific, particularly in natural waters. The 
larva of worms, insects and some soft aquatic plants are 
believed to constitute the food of this fish. Carp may 
be partially tamed, so as to receive bread, boiled potatoes, 
&c, from persons who feed them. They are very 
tenacious of life when removed from the water, and it is 
stated that in Holland they may be kept alive for two or 
three weeks, if enclosed in a net containing wet moss* 



THE GOLD CARP. 321 

This treatment is accompanied with a supply of bread 
steeped in milk, and an occasional affusion of cold 
water. 

The carp is rather slow in growth, but it has been 
found ten pounds in weight before its tenth year, and is 
frequently caught of large size. It is very difficult to 
take this fish either by angling or the net, and this sport 
is so uncertain that the carp has been called, in some 
parts of the country, the river-fox. The body is of a 
golden olive-brown colour, and covered with large 
scales ; belly yellowish- white ; eyes of a golden hue ; a 
barbule at each corner of the mouth ; tail forked ; fins 
dark brown. 

Uses. Carp are by many persons much esteemed for 
their delicacy and flavour, but Mr. Yarrell considers them 
much indebted to the cook for these properties. The 
flesh is moderately nutritious and digestible, except when 
combined with too much fatty matter. A soup made 
with this fish was, at one period, prescribed in France 
and Italy for consumptive diseases. It is in best condi- 
tion for the table from October to April. 

THE GOLD CARP. 

Cyprinus Aur<xtus.—Cyprmidce. — The Carp Family. 
— This species is called the gold or silver fish, and was 
introduced into Europe nearly two centuries ago. In 
China, the Cape of Good Hope, ar.d the Mauritius, the 
gold carp are naturalised in ponds, rivers, &c. They are 
very prolific, if placed in ponds where the mean tempera- 
ture is high, such as an engine-pond, &c. The young 
are dark-coloured at first, about five inches in length 
when a year old, but the fish is rarely found more than 
double this amount at any period of its growth. 

Uses. The dietetic qualities of this species are similar 
to those of the common carp. It is not, how used 



322 THE TKXCH. 

as food in this country, bat is served up at table in the 
Mauritius. 

THE GUDGEON. 

GMa Fltmatilis. — Cyprimidm. — Thb Carp Family. — 
The gudgeon is generally found in rivers that have a 
gravelly soil, with shallows where the current of the 
water is increased. These fishes swim in shoals, and 
their food consists of worms, aquatic insects, &c. They 
rarely exceed 8 inches in length, and are easily caught 
by the angler with red worms, &c. They are also caught 
with nets, in large numbers, by the Thames fishermen, 
who keep them alive in well-boats until they can dispose 
of them. Body round ; a barbule at each angle of the 
mouth ; head, back and sides, olive- brown, spotted with 
black ; belly white ; eyes orange-red ; tail deeply forked ; 
length about six inches. 

Uses. The flesh of the gudgeon is highly esteemed, 
and is considered easy of digestion. Is is stated by Dr. 
Willich, that when full of spawn the flavour of the fish 
is superior, and that March, April and May is the best 
season for taking them. 

THE TENCH. 

Tinea Vulgaris. — Cyprinute. — Thb Carp Family. — 
This fish inhabits chiefly lakes, ponds, &c; but is not 
frequently found in our rivers. It is also found in clay 
pits, and in shallow waters, with muddy bottoms. It is 
more abundant in the lakes of the Continent than in 
those of Britain. The tench is exceedingly tenacious of 
life, and has been known to exist for years in a hole filled 
with mud. It is very prolific, easily preserved and 
transferred from one place to another. Mr. Yarrel con- 
siders tench a very useful stock for ornamental waters. 
It spawns about the middle of June, and its food consist* 



THE BREAM. 



323 



of the soft-bodied animals that inhabit fresh water. Body 
of a greenish-olive gold colour, thick in proportion to its 
length ; fins dark brown ; a small barbule at each angle 
of the mouth ; body covered with small slimy scales ; 
weight 4 or 5 pounds. 

Uses. The flesh of the tench is rather insipid in taste, 
and inferior to that of the carp, although nutritious and 
moderately digestible. Mr. Yarrell states that when this 
fish is removed to stews, and fed on a mixture of greaves 
and meal, its flesh is nutritious and of good flavour. 
When it inhabits lakes or pools where the mud is fetid, 
the flesh sometimes acquires a disagreeable flavour. This, 
if suspected, is easily removed by keeping the fish alive 
in fresh water for a few days. 

THE, BREAM, 

f Abramis Brama. — Cyprinidce. — The Carp Family. — 
The bream is found in many of the lakes and rivers of 
Britain and Ireland, as well as in those of the Continent. 
These fishes swim in shoals, and feed on worms, some 
vegetables, &c. They are very prolific and spawn in 
May. The breeding of this fish is chiefly cultivated for 
feeding pike and furnishing sport to the angler. Head 
and tail small ; body deep and flat ; scales of body small ; 
general colour yellowish-white ; eyes golden-yellow ; 
cheeks and gill-covers sil very- white ; weight 4 or 5 
pounds. 

Uses. The flesh of the bream is insipid, hard, not 
very digestible, and seldom brought to table. In some of 
the lakes in Ireland, bream are taken of large size, occa- 
sionally weighing twelve or fourteen pounds each. The 
poor people dry them, and eat them with potatoes. They 
are in best condition during spring and autumn. 



324 THE DACE. 

THE ROACH. 

Leuciscus Rutilus. — Cyprinidx. — The Carp Familt. 
— This fish is abundant in the rivers and lakes of the 
temperate regions of Europe ; and vast shoals sometimes 
emigrate from Loch Lomond into the rivers. It is a gre- 
garious fish, and feeds on worms, vegetables, &c It 
spawns about the end of May. Upper part of head and 
back dusky greenish-blue, lighter on the sides ; belly 
silvery-white ; eyes yellow ; cheeks and gill-covers sil- 
very-white ; scales broad and striated ; length about 12 
inches ; the weight seldom exceeds 3 pounds. 

Uses. The flesh of the roach is not much esteemed * 
but it is tolerably digestible and is considered light. It 
is in best condition during October, which month the 
Thames angler generally selects for catching this fish. 

THE DACE. 

Leueiscus Vulgaris* — Cyprinidw. — The Carp Family. 
— This fish is somewhat similar in appearance and habits 
to the roach ; but is not so generally found in our rivers. 
It feeds upon worms, &c, is gregarious and spawns in 
June. It rarely exceeds 9 or 10 inches in length ; or 
weighs more than l£ pounds. The body of the dace is 
oblong; head and back of a dusky blue colour; sides 
and belly whitish or silvery-white ; eyes straw-yellow • 
scales smaller than those of a roach of similar size. 

Uses. The flesh of the dace is rather insipid ; but is 
moderately digestible, and preferred by many persons to 
the roach. It is used as bait for catching pike. On the 
inner surface of the scales of this fish, as well as of those 
of the roach, whitebait, bleak, &c, there is found a sil- 
very pigment, which gives them a certain lustre. This 
pigment, particularly that procured from the bleak and 
whitebait, is employed in the manufacture of artificial 



THE LOACH. 825 

pearls, for beads, necklaces, &c. This trade has however 
rather declined of late years. 

THE CHUB. 

Lettcisms Cephalm.—Q/prinidw. — The Carp Family. 
The chub is an inhabitant of the rivers of England and 
Scotland. It is a timid fish, larking in the holes or deep 
quiet parts of running streams, near bushes. It feeds 
on worms, and may be caught with a large fly, &c, by 
the angler, who requires to conceal himself from view. 
It spawns about the end of April, or beginning of May. 
Body and head thick ; upper part of back of a bluish-black 
colour ; sides and belly bluish and silvery- white ; eyes, 
golden -yellow; cheeks and gill-covers golden-yellow; 
scales large angular ; length about 15 inches ; the weight 
does not exceed 5 pounds. 

Uses. The chub is said to resemble the carp, in die- 
tetic qualities, but it is much coarser, and possesses little 
flavour. The roe is more esteemed than the flesh. It is 
considered in the best condition during the months of 
December and January. Broiling without removing the 
scales is recommended as the best mode of preparing it 
for table. 

THE LOACH. 
Cobitis Barbtitula. — Cyprimd&.—-Ttt Carp Family. — 
This little fish is common in our rivers and small streams; 
but is often not observed, as it conceals itself below stones, 
&c. It is very restless, swims rapidly, and is difficult to 
catch. Like the leech, it is said to indicate changes of 
the weather, from its peculiar agitation at these periods. 
The length of the loach is about 3 inches ; body round ; 
head, body, and sides studded with brownish spots, on a 
white ground; belly white; mouth small, furnished with 
6 bar bules, and hence its name bear die; eyes blue. It feeds 
on worms, insects, &c. ; and spawns' in March and April. 
Uses. This fish is little used as food in Britain ; but 

2 E 



326 THE PIKE. 

in some parts of Europe, according to Mr. Yarrell, it is in 
such estimation for its exquisite delicacy and flavour, 
that it is transported from its natural rivers to waters 
contiguous to the estates of the wealthy. Its flesh is very 
digestible* 

Thk Mnreow or Pink — Leuciscus Phoxinu* — possesses 
dietetic qualities similar to those of the loach ; and though 
a very small fish, makes an excellent fry, according to 
Mr. Yarrell, when a sufficient quantity is obtained. 

THE PIKE> GEDD OR LUCE. 

Etox Lucius. — Esocidas. — The Pike Family. — The 
pike is common in Britain and Ireland ; and is found in 
almost all our lakes and ponds and in many of our rivers. 
It is a very voracious fish, swimming very quickly and 
capturing its prey with astonishing rapidity. From 
this, it has been called the fresh- water shark. It devours 
all the smaller fishes, feeds upon serpents, frogs, rats, 
ducks, &c. ; and even combats with the otter in the cap- 
ture of its food. It is also said to have fastened upon 
large animals, such as the mule, and upon man. The 
pike sometimes attains a very large size, and one taken 
in Suabia is recorded to have weighed 350 pounds, its 
skeleton being 19 feet in length. In the British and 
Irish lakes it has been found to weigh from 50 to 70 
pounds. It is also remarkable for longevity ; the fish 
already referred to as of such extraordinary size, was 
267 years old. It spawns in March or early in April ; 
and at this period retires to a oreek or ditch, connected 
with the waters it inhabits. The pike caught at Horsea 
Mere and Heigham Sounds, in the neighbourhood of 
Yarmouth, have long been celebrated for their quality 
and weight. They are taken by angling, or by the 
ligger, which is a long cylindrical float made of cork or 
rushes with a string wound round it. Body of the pike 
elongated, of an olive brown colour above, mottled with 






THE SALMON. 327 

green and yellow spots on the sides ; belly silvery white 
with black spots ; surface covered with small scales ; 
lower jaw the longest, with numerous small teeth round 
the front, and in sides five or six, long and sharp ; eyes 
yellow ; dorsal fin placed very far back. 

Uses. The flesh of this fish is firm, of tolerably good 
flavour, and rather nutritious. It is not difficult of di- 
gestion ; but when large it is hard and dry. Dr. Willich 
states that when properly cooked it resembles boiled 
veal. According to Mr. Yarrell, the pikes of the Med way, 
when feeding oa the smelt, acquire excellent condition, 
with peculiarly fine flavour. In Lapland and some other 
northern countries of Europe, large quantities of this 
fish are caught during the spawning season, being then 
more easily taken, and dried for future use. The roe, 
which sometimes contains an immense number of ova, is 
made into a caviar in some countries. Pike caught in 
rivers are generally preferred to those taken in ponds ; 
and they are in best condition from autumn to the end 
of winter. Those that weigh five or six pounds, with 
bright showy colours, are considered the finest in quality. 
The pike is the Lucie of heraldry. 

THE SALMON. 

Saltno Solar. — Salmonida. — The Salmon Family.-— 
This fish is very important, in as far as regards its exten- 
sive diffusion in the seas and rivers of Britain and Ireland 
and its value as an article of food. Salmon leave the sea 
and ascend the rivers during the summer months, fre- 
quently leaping up cataracts ; the time varying according 
to the size of the lake and other circumstances not well 
ascertained. They then pair and form a furrow in the 
gravel for the deposition of the spawn. Dr. Fleming 
states that the number of ova sometimes amounts to 20,000. 
They return during spring to the sea ; their favourite 
food there being the sand-eel ; but they also feed on 



328 THS 8AUC0V. 

small fishes, molluscous and other small 
The salmon-fry or smolts leare the spawning farrow 
about March, being then about 3 inches long, and retire 
to pools. They afterwards proceed along the edge of 
the water to the estuary, retiring to the deepest part of 
the channel. During the following summer they re-ap- 
pear in the estuary in the form of grilses, being about 3 
pounds in weight and upwards. They ascend tfee riven 
rather earlier than the adult fish. Their increase in 
is very rapid ; and this chiefly occurs during their 
dence in the sea, from their plentiful supply of food in 
that situation. Salmon-fishing is a highly important 
branch of industry in Scotland and Ireland ; and it is 
to be regretted that its value has much diminished of 
late years, which is chiefly attributable to poaching 
during dose-time. Salmon are caught by stake-nets 
in friths, estuaries and the mouths of rivers; sometimes 
in bag-nets or by means of yairs, which resemble stake- 
nets, but which are ocasionally constructed of wicker- 
work. 

Weirs or small dykes, containing openings leading to 
enclosures, are also employed in the higher parts of rivers. 
Dr. Bushnan states that perhaps more salmon are taken 
by the coble and net fishery than by any other method. 
Several other contrivances are employed in salmon fish- 
ing, such as coracles or small boats, as in the Welsh 
rivers. Many are killed in Scotland by an instrument 
like a spear, called a leister or waster, by torch light, and 
during night ; and frequently when they are unhealthy 
in condition. A considerable number of salmon are now 
caught by angling ; and this is allowed in certain rivers 
ufter the time for net-fishing has closed. 

A large proportion of the salmon caught in the Scotch 
rivers is packed in ice and sent to London ; but many 
are pickled or otherwise preserved. This fish is now 
rare in the United States, although plentiful in some 



THE SALMON TROUT. 329 

parts of North America, such as Newfoundland. It is 
very abundant in Norway and the Arctic regions. The 
back of the salmon is of a bluish-black colour; sides 
lighter, more or less spotted above the lateral line ; belly 
silvery- white. It rarely exceeds 3 feet in length ; and 
its weight varies from 10 to more than 70 pounds. 

Uses. The flesh of the salmon is reddish, rich, some- 
what oily, and of very agreeable flavour. It is perhaps 
the most nutritive of all fishes in ordinary use ; and 
more nearly resembles animal flesh in this quality than 
any other, and this is probably in proportion to the red- 
ness of the fibre. It is more difficult of digestion than 
the white fishes in common use ; and on this account is 
not so well suited for those who have delicate digestive 
organs. It is in season during April, May, June, July 
and August ; and a fish of moderate size, such as one 
weighing 10 or 12 pounds, is generally the finest in 
flavour. Grilse are more gelatinous than the full-grown 
salmon, and are considered rather inferior in flavour. 
They are, however, more quickly digested. According 
to Mr. Yarrell, the salmon, like other fishes that swim 
near the surface of the water, cannot be eaten too fresh, 
as the flavour and value diminish rapidly after capture. 
Kippered or salted salmon is very difficult of digestion, 
its texture being hard and consolidated. 

THE SALMON TROUT. 

Salmo Trutta. — Salmonidce. — The Salmon Family.- . 
This fish was at one period supposed to be the salmon in 
its progress to maturity ; but is now considered a dis- 
tinct species. It is distinguished by a difference in the 
gill-cover, the tail, and by the greater number and more 
slender form of its teeth. The colour above is dark 
bluish-black ; beneath, silvery white ; sides studded with 
irregular purplish-black spots, cruciform in shape. Mr. 

Yarrell states that when it is placed by the side of a sal- 

2 e2 



330 THE BULL TQOUT. 

mon, it is in comparison barker in colour in the body, 
but lighter in the fins. Its length is about 18 inches; 
weight about 3, but sometimes 5 or 6 pounds. It 
is plentiful in many of the rivers in Scotland, is the 
white trout of Devonshire, Wales and Ireland. Its 
habits are similar to those of the salmon; and it also 
ascends the rivers for the purpose of spawning. The 
food of salmon trout consists of small fishes, flies, beetles, 
&c. It is frequently caught by the angler with ordinary 
flies in the estuaries ; but large quantities are taken by 
the sweep-net in some of the rivers in the north of Scot- 
land, being more plentiful there than in the Tweed, &c. 
Uses. The flesh of this fish is reddish, especially in 
those where the palate is dark-coloured ; but it is some- 
times white, the latter being generally considered infe- 
rior in flavour, although perhaps more light and diges- 
tible. In general digestibility and nutritive properties 
it resembles the salmon, but is rather less oily, and 
therefore better suited for those who have delicate diges- 
tive organs. Its flavour is considered decidedly inferior 
to that of the salmon. 

THE BULL TROUT.— GREY TROUT. 

Salmo Erioxi, — Salmonidce. — The Salmon Family. — 
This fish is abundant in the Tweed, and is sometimes 
named in that neighbourhood and northern districts Nor- 
way salmon. It ascends the rivers earlier than the salmon, 
and affords excellent sport to the angler, as it takes any 
bait or fly very readily. Its length varies from 18 to 24 
inches ; and it weighs from 3 to 6 pounds, although it 
sometimes attains the weight of 20 pounds. During the 
spawning season, the head of the male is olive-brown ; 
body orange-brown, that of the females blackish-grey. 
The general colour, at other times, is similar to that of 
the salmon-trout; tail rounded or slightly convex. 

Uses. The flesh of the bull-trout has a pale orange 



THE COMMON TROUT. 331 

or yellowish- white colour; and is decidedly inferior in 
flavour to that of salmon or salmon-trout. It is, how- 
ever, much allied to these two fishes in digestibility and 
nutritive properties. 

THE COMMON TROUT. 

Salmo Fario. — Salmonidce. — The Salmon Family. — 
This fish is almost universally found in the rivers and 
lakes of Britain. It spawns in October, and at this 
period passes up the stream. It feeds on the ova of the 
salmon, small fishes, shell-fish, flies, &c. It lives to a 
considerable age ; and one has been known to live in a 
well in Dumbarton for twenty-eight years. It varies 
considerably in colour ; this being supposed to depend 
on the qualities of the waters, the locality, and other cir- 
cumstances. Its length is about 12 inches; weight from 
£ to 2 or 3 pounds. Trouts weighing 14 or 15 pounds 
have been caught by angling, a performance, however, of 
some difficulty. Body of a yellowish-brown colour 
above, with purple and red spots ; lower part of sides 
golden-yellow; belly silvery white; eyes silvery, with 
a pinkish tinge. 

Uses. The flesh of the trout is generally white, some- 
times reddish, has a delicate flavour, is tender and very 
digestible. It is not so nutritious as that of the salmon, 
but as it contains little oil, it is lighter and more adapted 
for those who have delicate digestive organs. Mr. Yar- 
rell considers the trout finest in appearance and flavour 
from the end of May till towards the end of September, 
from the superior quality of its food during this period. 

Lochleven Trout — Salmo Levenensis — is caught 
in Lochleven, the island of which is famous for being 
the prison-house of the .unfortunate Queen Mary. It is 
generally described as a variety of the common trout ; but 
Dr. Parnell and some Other authors consider it a distinct 
species. The form of the fins and colour of the spots is 



332 THE SMELT. 

different, and the flesh has a red colour. It is a beauti- 
ful fish and much valued ; but its fine flavour has of late 
fallen off. The injury to the feeding grounds, by the 
partial drainage of the loch, is supposed to be the cause 
of this inferiority. 

THE SMELT.— THE SPIRLING. 

Osmerus Epcrlanus. — Salmonida.-^TnR Salmon Fa- 
milt. — This fish is abundant in the estuaries of the east- 
ern and western coasts of Britain. It spawns in March, 
near the junction of the fresh and salt water ; and its food 
consists of small crustaceous animals, &c. The smelt is 
taken in great abundance at the mouths of rivers, or in 
estuaries, by means of small nets. The back is of a 
greenish- white colour ; sides varied with blue ; cheeks, 
gill-covers and belly ail very- white ; head translucent; 
lower much larger than upper jaw; eyes silvery- white ; 
length 7 or 8 inches ; weight 2 or 3 ounces. It is dis- 
tinguished from the atherine or sandsmelt, which in 
some respects it resembles, by the adipose fin, which is 
peculiar to the salmon family. In the smelt the adipose 
fin is without rays ; while in the atherine the second 
dorsal fin is supported by numerous rays. 

Uses. The smell of this fish is peculiar, particularly 
when newly caught, being compared to that of violets or 
cucumbers. It is much esteemed for its delicate flavour, 
the perfection of its odour indicating the freshness of 
the fish. Boiling is said to destroy its flavour ; it is 
therefore generally sent to table fried. It is in good con- 
dition at all times, except during summer. This fish is 
sufficiently digestible and nutritious, although rather 
inferior in the latter quality to the salmon, salmon- 
trout, &c. 

THE PILCHARD.— GIPSEY HERRING. 
Clupea Pilchardus. — Clupeidce. — The Herring Fa- 
milt. — The pilchard has sometimes been confounded 



THE PILCHARD. 333 

with the herring, as there is a great resemblance between 
these two fishes. It is found in several of the European 
seas; but is very abundant on the coasts of Devonshire 
and Cornwall. These fishes congregate about the month 
of July ; but August and September are considered the 
most favourable months for the fisheries. They spawn 
about October, at no great distance from the shore. 
Like the herring, they are very capricious in their move- 
ments; and when near the coast assume the arrange- 
ments of a large army, but they rarely go against the 
tide. Pilchards feed on crustaceous animals, shrimps, 
&c. The fishery of pilchards is very extensive, par- 
ticularly in Cornwall and Devonshire.; and many thou- 
sands of individuals are engaged in it. These fisheries 
are carried on with scans and drift-nets ; each of the lat- 
ter being about 360 feet long and 36 deep, and calculated 
to enclose a shoal. Mr. Yarrell states, that an instance 
has occurred where ten thousand hogsheads have been 
taken on shore in one port in a single day, amounting to 
about twenty -five millions of living creatures. The 
fishes intended for exportation are pickled, and packed 
in barrels by pressure, which reduces their bulk to 
about one-third. A coarse oil, in the proportion of 
three or four gallons to a hogshead, is thus obtained. It 
may also be procured by boiling the fish in water. This 
oil is not adapted for many purposes, and is seldom used 
except as manure. The fish itself is also employed in 
this capacity, being considered very fertilizing in its 
action on the soil. The preserved fish are chiefly ex- 
ported to the West Indies, and the ports of the northern 
Mediterranean coast. The length of the pilchard is 
from 9 to 11 inches ; it is smaller and thicker than the 
herring, without teeth, and the scales are larger. Upper 
part of body bluish-green ; sides and belly silvery- white ; 
eyes yellowish- white ; cheeks and gill-covers tinged with 
golden yellow, and striated. 



334 THE HERRING. 

Uses. The pilchard resembles the herring in taste 
and dietetic properties ; but it is more oily, and conse- 
quently more difficult of digestion. It is, however, very 
nutritious, and, when the digestive organs are sound, a 
very wholesome and agreeable aliment, being milder in 
point of taste than the herring. Pickled pilchards, as 
being deprived of a portion of their constituent oil by 
pressure, must be considered lighter, in as far as this is 
effected ; but the salting process, in general, renders the 
flesh of fishes more difficult of digestion. 

THE HERRING. 

Clupea Harengus. — Clupeufa. — The Herring Family. 
— This valuable and well-known fish has given rise to 
considerable discussion respecting its extraordinary mi- 
grations ; but it is now generally believed that herrings 
do not rendezvous, during the winter months, within 
the Arctic circle, as was formerly believed by some 
authors. During this period, they inhabit the deep 
water around our coasts, and approach the shore for the 
purpose of spawning, under the influence of heat and 
atmospheric air. Herrings are, however, very capricious 
in their movements ; and many of our fishing stations 
experience great variations in their visits, both as to the 
time and amount of fishes. They spawn about the 
end of October or beginning of November. The young 
are abundant in the shallow water of our coasts during 
summer, and many remain during the winter, being 
sometimes caught with a trout-fly. While inhabiting 
the deep waters, the food of the herring is supposed to 
consist of minute marine animals ; but when near the 
shore, they swallow limpets, flies, and even young her- 
rings. The herring fishery of Scotland is a very impor- 
tant branch of commerce, as well as source of aliment to 
our common population. At one period, a bounty was 
given by Government in order to encourage this traffic, 



■ m l ■ « t 



1 



THE HERRING. 335 

and to bring British herrings to a level with those of the 
Dutch, who haye long enjoyed a high reputation for the 
curing of these fishes. In the north of Scotland, her- 
ring-fishing is carried on to a very large extent, and the 
small town of Wick furnishes a large quantity. Her- 
rings, when cured, are chiefly exported to Ireland, the 
West Indies, the Continent of Europe, India, &c. Al- 
though these fishes are consumed in immense quantities 
by man, and devoured in great numbers by other fishes 
and sea-fowls, they sometimes assemble in shoals of pro- 
digious magnitude, and are caught or thrown by the 
tide on the beach in such abundance that there is not 
salt in the district sufficient to cure them. They are 
generally taken in drift-nets during a dark night ; and 
considerable skill is required in arranging these, as the 
herring swims at various distances below the surface. 
The upper part of the herring has a fine blue colour, 
greenish when viewed in a different light; belly and 
lower part of the side silvery- white ; lower jaw the 
longer, with 5 or 6 small teeth; length from 9 to 12 inches. 
Uses* The herring dies immediately on leaving the 
water, and soon begins to putrefy, but this is easily 
ascertained by the disappearance of its bright colours. 
It is in perfection during summer, when full of roe; but 
after spawning, the flavour is insipid. The flesh of the 
herring, like that of the pilchard, contains a considerable 
quantity of oil; it is therefore very nutritious, but 
rather difficult of digestion, unless the stomach be per- 
fectly healthy. At the same time, a moderate quantity 
of the fresh fish may be taken by most individuals 
with impunity, particularly if boiled in water. When 
salted, it is more difficult of digestion, if the tex- 
ture be rendered hard ; but if not spoiled, and if macer- 
ated in water for one or two days, so as to extract a por- 
tion of the salt and soften its texture, it is also in this 
state a very agreeable, wholesome, nutritive and valu- 



395 THB SPRAT. 

able aliment. Of the varietur methods of cookery adopted 
in preparing it for the table, boiling is the best adapted 
for both the fresh and pickled herring, as there is enough 
of the fatty principle in the fish itself without any ex- 
traneous addition ; and by this process it is more tho- 
roughly softened and deprived of its salt- than by frying 
or broiling. Pepper, or some other aromatic condiment, 
is a useful addition to herrings, particularly when fresh, 
as it tends to promote their digestion. 

White Herrings— are cured, according to Mr. Dono- 
van, by immediately removing the viscera where they 
are caught, steeping them in brine for a day, draining 
and stratifying them with salt in barrels. 

Red Hbbbxngs — are first cleansed and salted, then 
hung up in sheds and dried' for a month in the smoke of 
burning wood. 

THE SPRAT.— GARVIE. 

Clupea 8pra$tus.~Cktpeidrt.-- r I!m Herring Family. 
— This fish has been confounded with the young of the 
herring and pilchard ; but, according to Mr. Yarrell, it 
Is easily distinguished from these by the strongly ser- 
iated edge of the, belly. A sprat of full size is about 6. 
inches in length, and fully 1 inch in depth ; tail deeply 
forked; scales large, round and deciduous; head and 
back of a dark blue colour, passing into a silvery-white 
on the sides and belly. Sprats are abundant in many of 
the estuaries of Britain and Ireland, and are often caught 
in immense numbers in the Thames and Forth. The 
fishing season commences in November, and continues 
during the winter months. They are sometimes caught 
with the same kinds of nets used in the herring and pil- 
chard fisheries ; but most frequently by what are called 
stow-boat nets. 

Uses. The sprat resembles the herring in dietetic 
properties, being oily, nutritious, and moderately diges- 



THE WHITEBAIT. 337 

tible when not eaten in large quantities. It is a valuable 
fish for the support of the lower classes, as it is very 
cheap and plentiful during the winter months* Sprats 
are also salted, dried and smoked, being sometimes ad- 
mitted to the breakfast-table of those who do not dislike 
their odour. They are also sometimes pickled as ancho- 
vies, and sold as such, although greatly inferior in fla- 
vour. When large shoals are caught, which cannot be 
otherwise disposed of, they are used as manure, forty 
bushels being required for the acre, according to Dr. 
Buahnan. 

THE WHITEBAIT. 

Clupta Alba. — Clvpeida. — Tele Herring Family.— 
This small fish has been considered by some authors as 
the young of the shad; but Mr. Yarrell has proved it to be 
a distinct species. The whitebait fishery in the Thames 
is carried on to a considerable extent, from the high 
estimation in which this fish is held by the inhabitants 
of London, who often visit Blackwall and Greenwich 
to enjoy a fish-dinner. It is caught chiefly during the 
months of June, July and August, and sometimes in 
September. Mr. Yarrell is of opinion that if the par- 
ticular mode of taking this small fish was known to the 
fishermen, it would be found in some of the other rivers 
of the eouth and east coasts. It has been discovered in 
the Humble, and also in the neighbourhood of Queens- 
ferry, Scotland, and in the Solway Frith. It is taken 
in long bag-nets from vessels moored in the tide-way. 
The upper part of the back of the whitebait is of a pale 
greenish-ash colour; the cheeks, aides and belly are 
silvery-white. It feeds on orustaceous animals. 

Uses. This fish is considered a delicacy of the high- 
est kind, particularly when cooked according to a certain 
method. Pennant states that it is reckoned very deli- 
cious when fried with fine flour. 

2 F 



338 THE ANCHOVY. 

THE SHAD. 

Alosa Finta.—Clupeufa. — The Herring Family. — 
This fish enters our rivers from the sea about the month 
of May, in order to deposit its spawn, and returns by the 
end of July. It is frequently caught in the Thames, is 
found on the coast of Norfolk, and in the Tyne. Its food 
consists of small fishes and crustaceous animals. The adult 
fish measures from 12 to 16 inches ; top of the head and 
back of a dusky blue colour, with brown and green reflec- 
tions ; the eyes, sides of head and body silvery white, with 
a copper tint. It is distinguished from the allice shad, 
alosa communis, which is abundant in the Severn, by 
possessing teeth, lateral spots, and a small anal fin. Mr. 
Yarrell has named it the twaite shad, and it is sometimes 
called the mother of herrings, from its being larger in size 
than the latter fish. 

Uses. The twaite shad seldom weighs more than two 
pounds, and its flesh is dry, full of bones, coarse and 
difficult of digestion. The allice shad of the Severn is 
much superior in flavour ; and its quality improves in 
proportion as the fish has ascended the river. The shad 
resembles the herring in dietetic qualities, being rich, 
oily and not well adapted for those who have delicate 
digestive organs. 

THE ANCHOVY, 

Engraulis Vulgaris, — Clvpeidce. — The Herring Fa- 
hilt. — The anchovy is abundant in the Mediterranean, 
has been' found on the south western coast of England, 
and in the Baltic. It was well known to the Greeks and 
Romans, who prepared a sauce from it named garum; 
but this was also made from other fishes. It is about 4 
or 6 inches long, but it sometimes attains the length 
of 7i inches. The back is bluish-green, semi-pellucid ; 
eyes, gill-covers, sides and belly, silvery-white; fins, 
greenish white, delicate in structure. It is easily recog- 
nised, according to Mr. Yarrell, among the species of the 



THE COMMON COD. 339 

herring family, by its sharp pointed head, with the upper 
jaw considerably the longest. 

Uses. The anchovy possesses properties similar to 
those of other species of the herring family ; but it is 
chiefly UBed for making the sauce known by its name. 
The bones of this fish are very soft, and its head contains 
a bitter matter, which as well as the viscera are removed 
when the fish is pickled. The pickled fish is imported 
from -the Mediterranean ports, packed in barrels along 
with salt, and it is thought that a reddish coloured salt 
gives it a superior flavour. 

Anchovt Sauce — is variously prepared, but generally 
contains butter, vinegar, wine, aromatics, &c. Its 
qualities may, therefore, be good or indifferent, according 
to the nature of its composition. It is imitated by the 
employment of sprats, with the addition of some red co- 
louring matter, such as Venetian red, bole Armenian, 
cochineal, &c, but this factitious sauce is very inferior 
in flavour. Mr. Donovan states that the anchovy is in 
greatest perfection during May, June and July. 

THE COMMON COD. 

Morrhua Vulgaris. — Gadida. — The Cod Family.— 
This valuable fish abounds in almost all the northern seas, 
as far south as Gibraltar; but it is not found in the 
Mediterranean. It is taken all around the coast of Bri- 
tain and Ireland, and it is plentiful on the eastern side of 
the American Continent, and among its numerous islands. 
In Labrador and Newfoundland most extensive fisheries 
have long been established, are very productive, and sup- 
ply a wholesome aliment to a large amount of people in 
various quarters of the world. The cod is very easily 
taken with almost any bait, and as it inhabits deep water, 
lines with hooks are generally employed. Mr. Yarrell 
states that from four hundred to five hundred and fifty 
fishes have been caught, on the banks of Newfoundland, 



340 THE COMMON GOD. 

by one man, in ten or twelve hours. The cod taken at 
sea are sometimes preserved alive in well boats, and thus 
sent to the London market. This fish has been kept 
alive in salt water ponds, in different pacta of Scotland, 
without injury to its healthy condition. There is one 
at Logan, in Galloway, the seat of Colonel M'DowaU, cut 
out of the solid rock and communicating with the sea 
by a fissure. Some of the various species of fishes confined 
there have learned to take food from the hands of -their 
keeper, and one large cod-fish has lived in confinement, 
it is said, for more than twelve years. The food of the cod 
consists of small fishes, worms, crustaceous animals, &c. 
It spawns about February, and Dr. Bashnan states that 
nine millions of eggs have been found in the roe of a single 
individual of this species. It is therefore not to be 
wondered at that immense shoals of cod are found on 
the banks of Labrador and Newfoundland. It has been 
calculated that 10,000 British seamen are engaged in the 
Newfoundland fisheries, with about an equal number an 
shore, independent altogether of the Americana and 
French, the former being very extensive in their opera- 
tions. This fish is preserved by pickling and is called 
green cod, or is dried ; the latter being chiefly exported 
by British merchants to Spain, Italy, the West Indies, 
Britain, &c Young cod abound in the mouths of the 
Thames and Medway, during the summer months and 
about autumn. They are from 12 to 16 inches in length ; 
are caught by lines near the sand-banks; and when of 
the size of whitings are named codlings, and when larger 
Tamlin cod. 

The adult fish is about 3 feet in length ; head large ; 
belly tumid ; upper part of head, cheeks, back, and sides 
mottled with greenish ash-coloured spots; belly white ; 
lateral line white ; tail nearly square ; iride* silvery ; the 
pupil blue. According to Mr. Yarrell, there are two 
varieties of the common cod; one with a sharp nose, 



mita0*miPim»im^m*^*mirmi9mx*i9w»*'»'**+eam0*^*Hr " " ^ tC- 1 \" J **r- *> — » - ' - » 



THE COMMON COD. 341 

elongated before the eye, and the body of a very dark 
brown colour, being usually named the Dogger Bank 
cod. The other has a round blunt nose, short and wide 
before the eyes, and the body is of light yellowish ash- 
green colour, being frequently called the Scotch cod. 
Both kinds have the lateral line white, and they are con- 
sidered about equal in quality. This fish sometimes 
attains a very large size, and Mr. Pennant records one 
that was 78 pounds in weight. . 

Uses. The flesh of this fish is white, flaky, free from 
oily matter and of good flavour ; but in the latter quality, 
and in delicacy, it is slightly inferior to the haddock and 
whiting. It is also light and easily digested, which 
qualities belong to the whole of the gadida or cod family. 
A moderate sized fish is generally preferred, namely, one 
weighing from 10 to 15 pounds; and those are often 
selected which have the head small, body thick, flesh firm, 
and the skin blackish. It is in the highest state of per- 
fection from the end of October to Christmas ; but, dur- 
ing the remaining cold months, it is also of good quality. 
The flavour of the cod is said to be improved by being 
slightly salted for twenty-four hours before use ; but cer- 
tainly long salting destroys almost entirely this quality. 
Pickled or dried cod are much more difficult of digestion 
than the fresh fish. Several other parts of this fish are 
used as food, or for other purposes, besides the flesh. 
The swimming bladder or sound is salted, dried and 
packed in barrels. It is less fishy in taste than the flesh, 
gelatinous, and though not quite so nutritive is much 
relished by many persons. It is also converted into a 
kind of isinglass, which is stated by some authors to be 
of tolerably good quality. The tongue is salted and dried, 
being considered very delicate, with the exception of the 
root. The head contains the largest proportion of gela- 
tinous matter, is highly esteemed by many individuals ; 

but is regularly thrown overboard during the salting 

2f2 



342 *HB HADDOCK. 

process at sea, as it cannot be preserved. The roe k used 
to make caviar; and even the intestines are aometiniHi 
employed in the preparation of a particular dish. The 
liver, besides being eaten as food, famishes a large 
quantity of valuable oil, which is used in various pro- 
cesses in the arts, namely, in currying leather, the manu- 
facture of soap, cVo. It is also used for burning in lamps, 
although it does not answer this purpose so well as sper- 
maceti and whale oils, &c. It is prepared either by allow- 
ing the liver to run into a state of putrefaction, by which 
change the oil oozes out from its texture, or by heat and 
pressure, which latter process is superior, as the product 
is free from any putrid odour. When this oil exhales ft 
fetid odour, this may be removed by adding to it a solu- 
tion of chloride of lime, the lime being afterwards re- 
moved by diluted sulphuric acid, accompanied with 
gentle ebullition. This oil has also been employed for the 
cure of rheumatism, gout, scrophula, consumption* &e. 
for many generations, in several northern countries; and 
has lately been pretty strongly recommended by several 
German and British authors. It contains a minute por- 
tion of iodine, and its efficacy is supposed to depend, on 
the presence of this substance.. It has not, as yet, ob- 
tained the confidence of the profession. The dose recom- 
mended is from 2 to 3 ounces daily, to be continued for 
months* The inhabitants of Iceland and Norway con- 
sume a large quantity of cod-fish, and feed their cattle 
with the heads and bones. 

THE HADDOCK. 

Morrhua JSgleflnus. — Gaduke. — The Cod Family. — 
This fish is nearly as valuable as the cod, and is found on 
all the coasts of Britain and Ireland. It has not been 
discovered in the Mediterranean, although it ranges 
north and south of this country to a considerable extent. 
It swims in immense shoals, and these are abundant on the 






THE WHITING. 343 

eastern coast from Yarmouth to the Tyne; but are some- 
what uncertain in their appearance at the place they for- 
merly visited. Haddocks are caught with lines, in the 
same way as the cod-fish ; but sometimes with the trawl- 
net. They spawn in February and March, and the young 
are about six inches long in five or six months afterwards. 
Their food consists of small fishes, worms, &c, and when 
confined in ponds, have been known to take limpets from 
the hand. The length of the haddock is about 18 inches ; 
weight from 2 to 4 pounds; but some have been found 
to weigh 14 and 16 pounds. Head, cheeks, back and 
upper part of sides, of a greyish-white colour ; lower 
part of sides and belly, nearly white; the lateral. line 
black ; upper Jaw much the longer ; and under the first 
dorsal fin, but below the lateral line, there is a black spot, 
which was formerly supposed to be the impression of St* 
Peter's thumb and finger, when he took the tribute- 
money from the mouth of a fish* 

Uses. The flesh of the haddock is white, tolerably 
firm, agreeable, light and very digestible. Those which 
are 2 or 3 pounds in weight, and full in the upper part of 
the sides, are in general the finest flavoured. They are 
in best condition for the table during October, November 
and December ; but small haddocks are agreeable during 
almost the whole year. This fish is salted and dried like 
cod, and by this process its flavour and digestibility are 
much impaired. There is one method, however, of pre- 
paring haddocks by which these qualities, are less injured 
than by the ordinary plans ; namely, by slight salting, 
and subsequent exposure to smoke. Those prepared in 
this manner are named Finnan haddocks. 

THE WHITING. 

Mtrlangua Vulgaris. — Gackda. — The Cod Family. — 
The whiting is plentiful along the coasts of Britain and 
Ireland, and according to Mr. Yarrell, may be traced from 



544 THE COAXFISH. 

the Orkneys to Cape Clear. ' It is caught during almost 
the whole year, but is most abundant in January and 
February, at which period it approaches the shore to 
deposit its spawn. It feeds on young fishes, worms, 
crustaceous and molluscous animals, and is very vora- 
cious. Its usual size is from 12 to 16 inches in length, 
and about l£ pounds in weight; but is occasionally 
found to weigh 3 or 4 pounds. Upper part of head and 
back, above the lateral line, is of a pale reddish ash- 
brown colour ; sides and belly silvery white ; no barbule 
at the chin, as in the cod, haddock, &c. 

Uses. The flesh of the whiting is of a pearly white 
colour, tolerably firm, very agreeable in flavour, light, 
easily digested, and moderately nutritious, like that of 
the other members of the cod family. When dressed by 
boiling in water, it is exceedingly well adapted for con- 
valescents and those who have weak digestive organs. 
Mr. Donovan states that whitings are finest in quality 
during summer, and are then brought to Gravesend in 
well boats. According to this author, a good whiting is 
firm, with brilliant silvery sides and strong fins. When 
large quantities of this fish are taken, as during winter, 
they are salted or dried ; but their fine qualities are thus 
greatly deteriorated, and they become more difficult of 
digestion. Their flavour and digestibility may, however, 
be pretty well preserved for a week or two, during win- 
ter, by partial salting and moderate drying afterwards, in 
an airy apartment. 

THE COALFISH. 

MerUmgus Carbonarius. — Gadidce. — The Cod Family. 
— This fish is very abundant in the northern seas, the 
Baltic, and in the Orkneys, Hebrides, &c. It is a very 
voracious fish ; and is taken very readily and rapidly 
with lines and bait. It spawns in spring, and after this 
period it is lean and inferior in quality for a considerable 
time. It is in best condition from October to December; 



4 



THE POLLACK. 345 

and is frequently caught along the British and Irish coasts* 
It has various provincial names ; such as aUock y podley, 
tethe, blockin, &o. Its form is rather elegant ; lateral 
line silvery white ; upper part of head and back above 
the lateral line almost black, lighter below it ; sides and 
belly greyish- white, with golden reflections ; upper jaw 
rather the shortest ; Hps tinged with purple red ; mouth 
black. 

Uses. This fish, when of small size, resembles the 
whiting in qualities, and is coopered ve«y delicate; but 
when large its flesh is coarse, and is generally salted or 
dried. It forms, however, a valuable article of food for 
the poor, either in the fresh or dried state. 

THE POLLACK— WHITING POLLACK.— 
LYTHE, Scotland. 

Merkmgns PoUachius, — Gadidm. — The Cod Family. 
— This fish is abundant on the rocky coasts of Britain 
and Ireland. It is also found in North America and the 
Indies. It is very frolicsome and is easily caught 
with a white fly. It spawns during winter, near the 
land ; but is not gregarious, except in the pursuit of prey, 
such as the sandlaunce. The body of the pollack is elon- 
gated ; lower lateral line iucurvated and black ; lower 
much longer than upper jaw ; upper part of head and 
back olive-brown ; sides and belly silvery- white, mottled 
with yellow and in young fishes reddish spots ; length 
18 inches ; size about that of a haddock. 

Uses. The pollack has frequently been mistaken for 
the whiting, and when young, its flesh has some resem- 
blance to that of the latter, in whiteness and delicacy. 
They may be readily distinguished by the lower jaw 
being longest in the pollack and shortest in the whiting; 
while the lateral lines are also different in these two species, 
being curved and black in the first, and white and nearly 
straight in the second. When large or of full size, it is 



346 THE LING. 

considered coarse and insipid ; but Dr. Richardson states, 
that good bread may be made from the roe. It is reck- 
oned rather finer in flavour than the coal fish. 

THE HAKE. 

Merlucius Vulgaris. — Gadufo. — The Cod Family. — 
The hake abounds in the northern seas and in the Medi- 
terranean. It is most frequently found on the southern 
coasts of England ; and Dr. Bushnan states that it is so 
abundant off the coast of Waterford, that one thousand 
fishes have been taken with the line, by six men, in the 
course of a single night. It is also very plentiful in the 
bay of Gal way .; but is rather rare in Scotland. It is not 
regular in its movements, but roves about in search of 
food, which often consists of pilchards. Mr. Yarrell 
states that he has seen seventeen pilchards taken from the 
stomach of a hake of ordinary size. Its season for spawn- 
ing is from January to April ; and it loses its voracity 
at this period. The length of the hake is about 2 feet ; 
body elongated ; dusky brown above ; whitish beneath ; 
inside of mouth and gill- covers black; eyes yellow; first 
dorsal fin triangular. 

Uses. The flesh of the hake is coarse, insipid, and is 

eaten, in the fresh state, by the poorer classes. Large 

quantities are salted and dried on the northern shore of 

the Mediterranean. In this state it is exported to Spain, 

&c. 

THE LING. 

LotoMolva. — Ondida. — The Cod Family. — This large 
fish abounds in the Orkneys and Western Islands, and 
also on the British and Irish coasts. It is very tenacious 
of life, prolific and voracious ; feeding on young fishes 
of almost every kind. It spawns during spring ; and in 
Zetland the fishing season extends from May to August, 
while in Cornwall it is caught in January and February. 
The fishes are taken by hand-lines and long-lines ; and 



THE TORSK. 347 

their favourite haunts are about the margins of the rocky 
valleys of the ocean. The ling is from 3 to 4 feet in 
length ; but has been known to measure 7 feet, and 
weigh about 70 pounds. Body slender, elongated, round- 
ish ; gape large ; upper jaw longer than the lower, the 
latter having a single barbule ; back and sides greyish- 
olive ; belly silvery- white ; tail rounded, with a trans- 
verse black bar, the extreme tip white. 

Uses. The flesh of the ling is rather coarse when 
eaten in the fresh state, but is excellent when salted ; 
and is by many preferred to the cod in point of flavour. 
The fishes are split from head to tail, cleaned, salted in 
brine, washed and dried. They are afterwards exported 
to Spain and other Catholic countries, to be eaten during 
Lent. The air-bladders or sounds and roes are also pick- 
led and used as food or for other purposes. The liver of 
this fish, like that of the cod, furnishes a quantity of 
fixed oil, which is employed for burning in lamps. It 
has also been used for the cure of rheumatism, &c, in 
doses of one or two ounces, and it is said to increase the 
perspiration, which becomes disagreeable in odour. Dr. 
Fleming states that the liver of this fish, when in season 
as food, is of a white colour. 

THE TORSK OR TUSK. 

Brosmius Vulgaris, — Gadidce, — The Cod Family. — 
The torsk is chiefly found in northern seas ; abounding 
among the^ Shetland and Orkney Islands. It approaches 
the land early in the year in shoals, lives in deep water 
and spawns in April or May. It is taken with smaller 
lines than the cod. It is not so large a fish as the ling, 
measuring generally from 18 inches to 2 feet in length, 
more rarely three feet. Body elongated ; a single dorsal 
fin, extending the whole length of the back ; ventral fins 
small and fleshy ; one barbule at the chin ; head of a 
dusky-brown colour; back and sides, yellow; belly, white. 

Uses. The flesh of this fish is very firm, tough and 



348 THB PLAICE. 

cather coarse ; but in Iceland it is much used in the fresh 
state. When salted, however, it is considered excellent 
and superior to cod or ling, as it swells much during 
boiling and separates into thick flakes. It forms a con- 
siderable article of commerce in Shetland and other north- 
ern islands ; and is exported to Spain and several Catholic 
countries. 

THE PLAICE. 

PUtoua Vutytris.~-PUur<mectid<e. — The Flounder 
Family* — The plaice belongs to the family of flat fishes, 
which are remarkable for their peculiarity of form, light- 
ness and easy digestibility as food. It is common on 
the coasts of Britain, Ireland and Norway, &c. It spawns 
in February or March ; and feeds on young fishes, soft 
marine animals, &c. It inhabits sandy banks and 
muddy shores, swims close to the ground like other flat 
fishes, and generally slowly in this situation. When 
pursued, however, it sometimes makes a rapid vertical 
movement, in order to escape danger. It is very tena- 
cious of life ; is taken with lines or trawl-nets, and some- 
times in large quantities, but occasionally by a doubly- 
barbed short spear, heavily loaded, with a line attached 
to it. The plaice has been transferred to fresh water 
ponds, and has been found to thrive, as in Friesland. 
According to Mr. Yarrell, small plaice are named fleuks 
in the Edinburgh market. Its weight is generally 3 or 
4 pounds, and is considered large when it weighs 7 or 8, 
but it sometimes attains that of 15 pounds ; length about 
a foot. The body on both aides is smooth; several tuber- 
cles on the head, with a prominent bony ridge between 
the eyes ; upper side of a rich brown colour, with a row 
of bright orange-red spots along the dorsal and anal fins 
and dispersed over the surface ; under side white ; tail 
rounded. 

Uses. The flesh of the plaice is white, tender, digesti- 
ble, and moderately nutritive. Its flavour is not so much 



THE FLOUNDER. 349 

admired as that of the turbot or sole, being more insipid; 
l>ut it is a favourite with many persons. It is considered 
in the finest condition about the end of May. The best 
qualities are said to be taken on the coast of Sussex in 
England, in Ireland and in Holland. 

THE FLOUNDER. 

Platessa Flesus. — Pleuronectida. — The Flounder 
Family. — This is a very common fish all around our 
British and Irish coasts ; and is generally found in situa- 
tions haying a muddy or sandy bottom. It inhabits 
both salt and fresh water ; and is often caught, in great 
numbers, in the brackish water at the mouths of our 
rivers, by a particular species of net called a tuck net. 
Flounders often ascend the rivers during floods ; as in 
the Thames, &c. They are very tenacious of life, and 
are capable of living a long time out of water ; so that 
their carriage from one place to another is very easily 
accomplished. They feed on small fishes, worms and 
aquatic insects; and spawn in February and March. 
The young flounder is discoverable by the end of April. 
There are frequent varieties of this fish ; such as albinos, 
without colour on either side ; and some are coloured on 
both sides. Its length is about a foot ; weight from 1 to 
2 pounds, but it is often smaller as well as larger in size, 
having been found to attain the weight of 4 pounds. Its 
colour is olivaceous or greyish, sometimes yellowish, 
whitish or variegated with brownish spots ; the deep- 
ness of colour being supposed to depend, in some measure, 
upon the dark quality of the mud or clay that predomi- 
nates in the situation it has inhabited ; tail square. It 
is distinguished from the plaice by the rough or spinous 
lateral line. 

Uses. The flesh of the flounder is white, moderately 
firm, nutritious and very digestible. Its flavour is agree- 
able, and by some persons preferred to that of the plaice. 

2g 



3fi0 THE HOLIBUT. 

This quality is, however, much injured by keeping'; 
and in small fishes the great number of bones is an 
objection to their use. The flounder is in good condi 
tion from May to Christmas, and the "sober coated grey- 
back" is generally preferred by cooks, to those variegated 
with scarlet star-like spots. This fish is generally very 
plentiful and cheap ; and is consumed to a great extent 
by the middle and lower classes. 

THE COMMON DAB. 

Pkrtessa IAmanda. — Pleuromctid*. — The Flounder 
Family. — This fish is abundant in the sandy bottoms of 
our British and Irish coasts, and is called in Edinburgh, 
saltie or salt-water fleub. It feeds on small fishes, crus- 
taceous and marine animals. It spawns in May and 
June, inhabits deeper water than the flounder, and is 
caught by sea-lines and hand-lines, but sometimes by 
nets. It is less common than the flounder, and some- 
what smaller in size, but resembles it in shape. It is 
distinguished by its rough scales, its lighter brown 
colour, and its more incurvated lateral line. It rarely 
measures a foot in length, and the more common size is 
8 or 9 inches. 

Uses. The flesh of the dab is white, agreeable, diges- 
tible, and similar to that of the plaice and flounder. It 
is generally considered superior in flavour to both of these 
fishes, and bears carriage better than the latter. It is in 
best condition for the table during February, March and 
April. 

THE HOLIBUT. 

Hippoghssus Vulgaris. — Pleuronsctida. — The Floun- 
der Family.— The holibut is much less common in 
Britain than several other species of the flatfishes; but 
is very plentiful on the great banks of Newfoundland, in 
Norway, Iceland and Greenland. In some of these coun- 
tries, it has been taken of the weight of 500 pounds. 



THE HOLIBUT. 351 

Mr. Yarrell mentions one that was caught off the Isle of 
Man which weighed 320 pounds. It is generally taken 
with the line ; but, according to Dr. Bushnan, it is some- 
times harpooned off the coast of Norfolk. It feeds close 
to the ground on small flat fishesand crustaceous animals ; 
and spawns in spring, the roe being reddish in colour, 
and the ova very numerous. Its usual length is more 
than 2 feet ; form of body elongated, tapering towards 
the tail, and in this respect it differs considerably from 
the shape of the turbot ; surface smooth ; lateral line 
arched oyer the pectoral fin; colour above light and 
dusky brown; under side smooth and white; head 
small, mouth large ; two rows of teeth in each jaw; eyes 
yellow. 

Uses. The flesh of the holibut is white, firm and dry, 
the fibre coarse, and the flavour indifferent, being greatly 
inferior to that of the turbot; although Dr. Fleming 
remarks that it is generally sold for turbot in the Edin- 
burgh market. The head and fins are said to be superior 
in flavour, and are often preferred. In Newfoundland, 
according to Mr. Audubon, the fins, with the parts ad- 
herent to them, are alone used ; but as they are some- 
what oily they must be difficult of digestion. The 
fleshy parts of the holibut, although nutritive and moder- 
ately digestible, are by no means so well adapted for 
those who have delicate digestive organs as several other 
white fishes. According to Mr. Yarrell, a large quan- 
tity of oil is obtained from the holibut caught in the 
Orkney islands. The inhabitants of Greenland eat this 
fish both in the fresh and dried states ; the latter effect 
is produced by cutting the fish into long slices and 
exposing it to the air. The flesh of the holibut is gen- 
erally prepared for the table in this country by cutting 
it into slices, and cooking it by boiling or frying; the 
latter process is recommended by Mr. Donovan. 



362 THE TURBOT. 

THE TURBOT.— RAWN AND BANNOCK 

FLEUK. 

Rkomim Mc&imtu* — PlcuronectidoB. — The Floundeb 
Fault. — The turbot was known and highly esteemed 
by the ancients; and the rhombus of the Romans is 
believed to have been this fish. It is not so abundant 
on the Scottish as in more southern coasts; and there 
are considerable fisheries on those of Durham and York- 
shire. According to Mr. Yarrell, a large proportion of 
the turbot produced in the English market is taken on 
or near the sandbanks between the line of our eastern 
shore and the coast of Holland. It generally swims near 
the bottom, and is very voracious, using both agility and 
stratagem in securing its prey. It lires upon small 
fishes, crustaceous and molluscous animals, and is tena- 
cious of life like the other members of the flounder 
family. It spawns about August, but is not out of good 
condition for any length of time. It is caught both with 
the drag-net and with lines, according to the season and 
situation of the fish ; the line being used when the fish 
retires to deep water. It is very particular about the 
bait, such as the smelt; for if it be in the least degree 
tainted, it will not touch it. The Dutch are believed to 
furnish one-fourth of the whole supply sent to the Lon- 
don market, amounting, according to Mr. Yarrell, to 
£80,000 a year. The Dutch fishery commences about 
the end of March, and continues to the middle of August 
The length of the turbot is upwards of 2 feet ; its weight 
from 6 to 10 pounds, but occasionally it is found in our 
markets of 20 pounds weight. Mr. Yarrell mentions 
one that weighed 190 pounds, and measured 6 feet across 
the body. The upper or coloured surface of the body is 
studded with hard roundish tubercles; shape nearly 
round, exclusive of the tail ; scales small ; colour above 
brownish, of different shades; under surface smooth 



THE BRILL. 253 

and white; lateral line arched over the pectoral fin; 
eyes yellow. 

Uses. The flesh of the turbot is white, moderately 
firm, readily digested, of a rich agreeable flavour; and it 
possesses this latter quality to a greater degree than any 
of the flat fishes. Mr. Donovan states that it has a little 
of the lobster-claw flavour, and the larger it is, within 
certain limits, the more it possesses these qualities ; but 
a gigantic one is always tough and thready. The same 
Author has ascertained that the, skeleton or bones of a 
turbot which weighed 9 pounds, amounts to 20 ounces 
avoirdupois in weight. Ude recommends a turbot to be 
kept for three days before use ; this is, however, too 
long a period during summer. Many persons, however, 
consider its flavour improved by keeping for twenty-four 
or forty-eight hours. It is in good condition from April 
to September ; and a fish of good quality ought to be 
" spongy under the slightest pressure of the fingers, and 
have a thick and cream-coloured belly." 

THE BRILL. 

Rhombus Vulgaris. — Pleuronectida. — The Flounder 
Family. — The brill is abundant on the southern and 
eastern coasts of England. It is frequently sold for the 
turbot ; and resembles this fish in the kind of food it 
lives upon, and in its season for spawning. It seldom 
exceeds 8 pounds in weight ; form of* body rhomboids! ; 
surface perfectly smooth, and, according to Dr. Fleming, 
"the soft smooth skin is the peculiar character of the 
species ;" lower jaw the longest ; eyes yellow ; cheek 
and operculum smooth and without tubercles ; colours 
of the body are various shades of brown, interspersed 
with pearl-like spots ; under surface smooth and white. 
It is known by the various names of pearly kite, bonnet- 
fleuk, &c. The fishing of the brill is conducted in the 
same manner, and in the same situations, as for the turbot. 

262 



354 THE SOUL 

Uses. The flesh of the brill is very similar in quali- 
ties to that of the turbot, but inferior in flavour. Ac- 
cording to Mr. Yarrell, it is considered by some inferior 
' to the sole, but very superior to the plaice. 

THE SOJJE. 

SoUa Vulgaris. — Pleuroncctida. — The Flounder 
Family. — This fish is an inhabitant of our British and 
Irish coasts ; and is also found in the Orkneys, the Bal- 
tic and Mediterranean. The soles of the north and east 
are inferior in sice and flavour to those of the south and 
west. They are caught generally by the trawl-net ; and 
immense numbers are transmitted from Brixham and 
Torbay in Devonshire to the London market. They are 
gregarious, spawn about the end of February, and are 
for a few weeks soft and insipid, but they soon recover 
their healthy condition. They feed on testaceous ani- 
mals, the spawn and fry of other fishes, &c; and are 
capable of living, thriving and breeding* in fresh water. 
The length of the sole is from 1 to 2 feet ; weight from 
1 to 2 pounds ; but it sometimes attains that of 7, and 
Mr. Yarrell mentions one that weighed 9 pounds. The 
upper jaw is the longest; both jaws furnished with 
minute teeth only on the under or white side; body of 
an oval shape, pointed towards the tail ; upper side of a 
dark brown colour ; scales small, rough and ciliated at 
the edges ; tip of pectoral fin black ; under side white. 

Uses. The flesh of the sole is firm, white, nutritive, 
digestible, and possesses a very superior flavour, which 
many prefer to that of the turbot. It is in season during 
almost the whole year, except a few weeks after spawn- 
ing ; and, according to Mr. Yarrell, the soles procured 
in deep water are the finest in quality. Mr. Donovan ' 
states that a " good sole is known by its under parts 
being cream-coloured, and its body thick and firm.' 



»> 



) 



THE COMMON BEL. 365 

THE COMMON EEL.— THE SHARP-NOSED 

EEL. 

Murcma AnguWa.-—Mur<mid<B. — The Eel Family. 
— The common eel is abundant in our rivers, ponds and 
lakes ; and is found in almost every part of the world. 
Eels are very tenacious of life, easily preserved, and it is 
stated that they may be kept alive in cisterns without 
food and in good condition for months. They occasion- 
ally leave the water, and travel over wet meadows in 
search of frogs and other kinds of food, or for the pur- 
pose of getting into an adjoining river or pond. r lhey 
migrate to the sea during autumn for the purpose, as is 
generally believed, of depositing their spawn, and this is 
confined to adult eels. The young eels, about three 
inches long, proceed in myriads from the sea to the 
mouths of rivers in the spring months. Eels are ex- 
tremely sensible of cold ; and none are found in the 
Arctic regions, the rivers of Siberia or the Wolga and 
Danube. During the cold months of the year, they 
remain imbedded in mud ; and great quantities are fre- 
quently taken by eel-spears, in the soft mud of harbours 
and banks of rivers, during the recession of the tide. 
They are capable, however, of being actually frozen 
without losing their vitality, provided they are gradually 
thawed, first by snow and then by cold water. 

They seem to be also very sensitive of electricity, for 
they are restless during thunder storms, and are at these 
times often taken in great quantities, by gratings, boxes 
and baskets, which confine all that enter them. It was 
believed by the ancients, and even by some of the 
moderns, that eels were viviparous; but the best autho- 
rities now consider them oviparous, like other very pro- 
lific fishes. They spawn early in spring, and this some- 
times occurs in fresh water, although generally in the 
sea. The eel is very voracious, during spring and sum- 
mer, feeding on the larvae of various insects, young fishes, 



356 THE COMMON EEL. 

and occasionally vegetables. It is a fish of alow growth 
and dots not mature its roe until the second or third 
year. The fishery of eels is carried on pretty extensively 
in the Thames and other rivers, by means of an apparatus 
composed of a series of wicker-baskets, and in their de- 
scent to the sea, during the autumnal months, the eels 
entering it are entrapped. They are also killed by a 
three-pronged spear, which is thrust into the mud, and 
by other contrivances. London is chiefly supplied with 
this fish by the fishermen of Holland, who bring them to 
this country in well boats. Its length is from 1 to 3 feet ; 
the weight varies considerably, but it sometimes attains a 
large size. Mr. Yarrell records one that weighed 27 pounds. 
Eyes small, placed immediately over the angles of the 
mouth, of a reddish-yellow colour ; lower jaw the longest; 
both jaws furnished with small teeth ; upper surface of a 
dark olive-green ; the sides lighter; belly white. When 
the fish is an inhabitant of pure rivers or streams, the sides 
and belly are silvery- white and subtranslucent, and it is 
called the silver-eel. On the other hand, if the water 
have a muddy bottom, its colours are brown and dusky. 
Uses. The flesh of the eel is gelatinous, much im- 
pregnated with oil, and its flavour is in general considered 
very agreeable. It is very nutritive, but difficult of di- 
gestion, being liable to occasion nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea 
or other derangements of the stomach and bowels, in 
those who have delicate digestive organs. Young eels, 
according to Mr. Yarrell, are taken in the Severn in great 
quantities with sieves of hair-cloth, or even with a com- 
mon basket, and after being scoured and boiled are offered 
for sale. They are either fried in cakes or stewed, and 
are accounted very delicious. Eels are in season during 
almost the whole year ; the silver eelj is reckoned the 
most delicate, and those weighing from f to l£ pounds 
are preferred, according to Mr. Donovan. The eel is some- 
times the subject of cruel tortures, in order to satiate 



TUB CONGER. 367 

* 

the appetite of the gourmand. M. Ude's formula for 
an eel-matellote is the following : "Take two or three 
live eels, throw them into the fire, and as they are twist- 
ing about on all sides, lay hold of them with a towel and 
skin them." The fat of eels was formerly used as an 
application to wounds, hemorrhoids and as a cure 
for deafness. The oil of eels has been used for small 
machinery, as it is little liable to grow thick by exposure 
to the air. 

THE CONGER. 
Conger Vulgaris.^-Murcenidce. — The Eel Family. — 
This eel is found only in the sea, and is frequently met 
on the rocky coasts of Britain and Ireland. It is very 
abundant in Cornwall, where the principal fisheries of the 
conger are established. It is very tenacious of life, and 
is frequently found alive among rocks, having been left 
by the retiring tide. The spawning season occurs during 
December or January. The conger possesses great 
strength, is extremely voracious, devouring small fishes, 
testaceous animals, and even its own species. It some- 
times acquires a very large size, and Mr. Yarrel mentions 
specimens that weighed from 80 to 130 pounds, and which 
measured 10 feet in length, and 18 inches in circumference. 
The conger is caught with lines baited with small fishes, 
the most esteemed being "the sandlaunce or pilchard, and 
the fishery is conducted during a dark night, when one 
or two tons are sometimes taken by three men. The 
length of the conger is about 5 feet ; upper jaw the longest, 
both being furnished with strong teeth; mouth deeply 
divided ; eyes large and silvery ; margin of the dorsaj 
and anal fins black ; lateral lines nearly white ; upper 
parts of body of a pale brown colour ; beneath whitish. 

Uses. The flesh of the conger is similar in qualities 
to that of the common eel, being moderately agreeable, 
very nutritious, but difficult of digestion. The young 
eels are more tender, and are therefore preferable to those 



368 THE COMMON STURGEON. 

of large size. Mr. Donovan states that a fish weighing 
12 pounds is considered small. It is little used and little 
esteemed as food in this country, except by the lower 
classes, from its low price. It is sometimes dried and 
exported to Spain, where it is reduced to powder, and 
employed to thicken soups or for making ragouts. 

The Sand EKL.—Ammodytes Totoanus; and the Sand- 
launch. — Ammodytes Lancea — belonging to the family 
Anguillid*, are small fishes, the first being about 12 
inches long, and the second measuring from 6 to 7 inches. 
They are characterised by the dorsal and anal fins being 
separated from the caudal fin, by an elongated head and 
body, and a forked tail, &c. They are generally used as 
an excellent bait for other fishes, particularly the sand- 
Lrance ; for it is the most common, and its colours are 
bright and silvery. On some parts of the coast, these 
eels are eaten, and considered " delicate food. " Dr. 
Bushnan states that they are consumed in vast numbers 
during summer by the inhabitants of the Hebrides. 

THE COMMON STURGEON. 
Acipetuer Sturio. — Sturionida. — The Sturgeon Fa- 
milt. — The sturgeon is very common in Asia, in some 
northern countries of Europe, also in North America, and 
at Albany its flesh is named Albany beef. It is com- 
paratively rare in the British isles. It is generally 
caught in estuaries, and rarely in the sea, where it is 
believed to inhabit deep water. In this country it is oc- 
casionally taken in the Almond and Esk ; and generally 
in a salmon-net .to which it often does considerable damage 
from its large size, though otherwise harmless and timid. 
The sturgeon has been found in the north, south and 
east coasts of Ireland. It is oviparous, and spawns during 
winter. It is believed that as soon as the young have 
escaped from the eggs, they descend to the sea, and only 
return for the purpose of spawning. It feeds upon insects 



THE COMMON STUBGEON. 859 

and sea plants. The sturgeon is a large fish, being about 
8 feet in length, and weighing from 100 to 200 pounds. 
Mr. Pennant has recorded one which weighed 460 pounds. 
The body has an elongated somewhat pentagonal shape, 
haying five longitudinal rows of flattened plates along the 
back, sides and belly, with pointed central spines directed 
backwards; nose pointed and long; mouth small and 
situated on the under surface of. head, without teeth ; 
eyes small ; four cirri between mouth and end of nose. 
The body has a brownish or greenish colour; plates 
nearly white ; belly silvery white. 

Uses. The flesh of the sturgeon is whitish, firm, com- 
pact, and is said to resemble veal. Mr. Yarrel states 
that " the flesh, like that of most of the cartilaginous 
fishes, is more firm and compact than is usual among 
those of the osseous families." It is very nutritive, and 
resembles animal muscle in containing a considerable 
quantity of alimentary principles, in proportion to its 
weight. Although not so light, tender and digestible ae 
some other fishes, such as the whiting, haddock, cod, 
flounder, turbot, &c, it is readily assimilated by a 
healthy person, and is very wholesome. The flesh is 
used as food in two states, namely, when fresh and 
pickled, and the latter is considered a great delicacy, and 
sent all over Europe. Mr. Donovan remarks that "slices 
of sturgeon merely dressed in the manner of a veal-cutlet, 
are only to be distinguished from the latter by the superi- 
ority of the meat, and a certain superadded flavour, which 
appears most to resemble that of the scallop shell-fish, 
and which exists barely in a recognisable degree. This 
resemblance to veal is equally observable in the appear- 
ance of the flesh both raw and fried, as well as in the 
taste. It is usual to make sturgeon pies, and these are 
scarcely distinguishable from meat-pies. Were animals 
to be classed according to their qualities as food, the 
sturgeon would certainly be separated from the fishes, 



960 IgntGXASB. 

and placed among the land animals." The same Author 
remarks that this fish is in season daring the winter 
quarter and part of springy and that when good it is firm 
and without flabbiness. Its flavour is not considered 
good when boiled, it is therefore generally roasted or 
baked. The flesh of the sturgeon is preserved by two 
methods. The first consists in cutting it into long pieces, 
salting, and then hanging them in the sun to dry. The 
second, which is usually practised in Holland and along 
the shores of the Baltic, is accomplished by cutting the 
fish across into short pieces, and putting these into small 
barrels, along with salt, &c, by which plan the flesh 
acquires a reddish hue. 

IsnfOLiss^^This substance is the prepared sound or 
swimming-bladder of this as well as other species of stur- 
geon, but chiefly, it is stated, of the acipenser huso. 
In the Russian sturgeon fisheries, on the shores of the 
Caspian, the roe and sounds of the fish are the parts gen- 
erally preserved, the rest being thrown away. The 
swimming-bladder is converted into the isinglass of com- 
merce in the following way. It is cut open when fresh, 
washed and freed from its outer membrane, exposed for 
a short period to the air, and then formed into rolls 
about the thickness of the finger. This is afterwards 
divided into threads or shreds by machinery, to render 
it more quickly soluble. It is also dried in the unfolded 
state, and forms leaf isinglass. Isinglass consists nearly 
of pure gelatin, with some saline matters. It is well 
known in many of the arts, and is used for refining malt 
. liquors, wines, &c ; and it practically answers every 
ordinary purpose for the clarification of ooflee. It is 
used in the manufacture of court plaster and as a cement. 
As an article of aliment it is light and easily digested, 
and, notwithstanding the doubts which have been thrown 
upon the nutritive qualities of pure gelatin by the French 
experimenters, experience has proved that by the usual 



CAVIAR. 361 

methods of combination with other alimentary bodies 
adopted in this country, it is capable of supplying to 
man a moderate amount of nutriment. It is well adapted 
for convalescents, and those labouring under chronic ail- 
ments, especially affections of the stomach, or in diseases 
accompanied with a weakened state of the digestive 
organs. It is frequently prepared by boiling with milk; 
but when the latter disagrees with the individual, water 
may be substituted. £ ounce of isinglass, boiled with 16 
ounces of water, will form a pretty consistent jelly, 
which may be flavoured with sugar, salt, wines or aro- 
matics. Isinglass is employed in various processes of 
cookery, in making blancmange and creams, and is occa- 
sionally converted into a substitute for calves-feet jelly, 
to which it has an intimate resemblance when similarly 
flavoured. A tolerably good isinglass is prepared from 
other fishes, such as from the sounds of the cod, white 
dolphin, &c. Isinglass ought to be white, and com- 
pletely soluble in water. 

Patent Gelatin — is prepared from bones, and is very 
similar in properties to isinglass, for which it is often 
substituted* 

Caviar. — This is another substance of considerable 
commercial value, which is obtained from the common 
sturgeon, as well as from other species. The trade is. 
chiefly carried on by the Russians in the river Wolga 
and the Caspian sea. In preparing it for use, the roe is 
removed from the body of the female fish, freed from 
the membranes that connect it together, washed with 
vinegar, spread upon a table to dry, put into a vessel 
along with salt and broken with the hand, drained in a 
canvas bag, pressed and put into kegs, and sometimes it 
is formed into small cakes. Caviar has somewhat the 
consistency of soft soap, and a brownish colour; but 
few persons in this country like its flavour, or use it in 

any \ form, although at one period it was found at the 

2h 



002 TUB SKATE. 

tables of the wealthy. It is extensively used in Russia 
during Lent and fast-days, and is exported to Turkey, 
Greece, Italy, &c. Dr. Willich states that caviar is a 
nourishing food, and more easily digested than pickled 
salmon, resembling in taste and nutritive properties the 
essence of anchovies. According to Mr. Donovan, it is 
eaten with bread, either without preparation or mixed 
with a little vinegar. 

Dr. Bushnan mentions another economical substance 
procured from the sturgeon, namely, "the ligamento- 
cartilaginoufl cord which pervades the spine/* being a 
Russian delicacy named vesiga. 

THE SKATK 

Rata Baits. — Rmda. — The Ray oh Skats Family.— 
The skate or ray is somewhat singular in appearance, 
being rhomboids! in form, depressed or flat in the body, 
and possessing a long spinous tail. It is not furnished 
with a true head and neck, and the nostrils, mouth, &c, 
are on the under surface, while the eyes are placed 
above. Its movements are generally slow, being some- 
thing between a sliding and swimming motion. It is 8 
very voracious fish, feeding on molluscous or crustaceous 
animals; and the muscles of the jaws are so powerful 
that it is able to crush the shell of a crab. The species 
here noticed as the skate, has also been named the true 
skate, blue skate, grey skate, and is very common on the 
coasts of England and Scotland, the Orkneys, &c. ; al- 
though others of the ray family are more frequently 
taken, such as the thornback and homelyn. The females 
are more numerous and larger than the males, and both 
are furnished, when full-grown, with sharp teeth. It 
sometimes attains a very large size, and Mr. Pennant 
mentions one which weighed 200 pounds. Skin rough; 
three rows of spines on the tail, the points of those in the 
lateral rows directed forwards ; snout conical ; upper sur- 



TUB SKATE. 303 

face of body and tail of a greyish-brown colour ; under 
surface " sooty- white," with dark lines and numerous 
blue specks and sharp points intermixed. The skeleton 
consists of cartilage ; its bones are therefore soft,, and are 
sometimes eaten along with the flesh. It is distinguished 
from the long-nosed skate, which it resembles in colour, 
by the nose of the latter being of great length, narrow 
and sharp. In spring, and the early part of summer, 
the skate deposits its young, which are enveloped in 
horny cases, named purses in some parts of the coun- 
try ; and when sufficiently matured, they escape for the 
purpose of providing for themselves. It is generally 
caught with the trawl-net. 

Uses. The flesh of the skate is relished by many per- 
sons, being considered delicate and well- flavoured. On 
some parts of the coast it is only used as a bait for crabs 
and lobsters. It is, however, wholesome and nutritious ; 
although a little more difficult of digestion than some 
other white fishes, such as the cod family, the flesh being 
somewhat condensed. It is in best condition for the 
table during autumn and winter; but young fishes may 
be eaten throughout the whole year. In some parts of 
the country the fish is hung up for two ot three days, 
until it is dry and exhaling an ammoniacal odour ; and 
its flavour is thus supposed to be improved. It is pre- 
pared for the table by boiling, frying, &c; and is a 
favourite with many when eaten cold with mustard, 
vinegar and peppers. The esteemed parts of the skate 
are said to be improved by the process named crimping. 
The oil procured from the liver of the skate has very 
lately been introduced as a substitute for cod-liver 
oil, being recommended by some writers as fully more 
agreeable and efficacious in the cure of scrophulous and 
other diseases. According to Mr. Yarrell, this species 
is better than the thornback or homelyn as an article of 
food. 



364 THE LAMPREY. 

THE LAMPREY. 

Petromyzon Marinus. — PetromyzicUe. — The Lamprey 
Family.— -This cartilaginous fish is considered the low- 
est in the scale of yertehrated animals, and, like the rajs 
and sharks, is not furnished with a swimming-bladder. 
It is very powerful, and by attaching itself to large 
stones, by means of its lips used as' a sucker, it can 
remove them to another situation. It spawns late in 
the spring, the roe being produced by both sexes ; and 
is found in most of the rivers of Europe, the Medi- 
terranean, the Arctic regions, North America, &c. It 
is common in the Severn, the lampreys of which are 
celebrated for their fine quality. Its food consists of 
any soft animal matter; and in the sea it fastens on large 
fishes, eating the soft parts with its small teeth. It is 
generally taken in rivers, and more rarely in the sea. it 
is, like the eel to which in some respects it bears a re- 
semblance, very tenacious of life. Its length is generally 
from 20 to 28 inches ; head rounded ; mouth circular ; 
body long and cylindrical, like that of an eel ; teeth 
small, numerous and tubercular ; skin smooth ; body of 
an olive-brown colour, mottled on the back and sides 
with green and brown spots. It swims with an undula- 
tory motion, assisted by its fins; but in rapid currents 
its progression is effected by successive plunges forwards 
to any fixed object to which it can attach itself. 

Uses. The flesh of the lamprey is white, soft, oily 
and nutritious, but difficult of digestion, and not suited 
for delicate individuals. Its flavour is considered deli- 
cious when in season, namely, in. April and May. It 
is recorded that Henry I. of England died of a surfeit 
of lampreys ; and the Romans bestowed much attention 
to the rearing and cooking of these fishes. Those of a 
large size, such as 2 or 3 pounds in weight, are said to 
possess the finest flavour. Mr. Donovan states that a 



THE OYSTER. 365 

long-continued heat . is required for cooking the lam- 
prey. Lamprey-pies were at one period famous, par- 
ticularly at Gloucester ; and, according to Mr. Yarrell, 
the potted lampreys and lamperns of Worcester are at 
present in high estimation. 

The Rivee Lampbey or Lampern— Petr&m&aon Ftn» 
viettilis—iB abundant, and a permanent resident in many 
of the rivers of Britain and Ireland. It possesses simi- 
lar dietetie properties with the marine lamprey, already 
described. 



TESTACEOUS ANIMALS. 

THE COCKLE. 

Cardium Edule. — Cardiada. — The Cockle Family. — 
The cockle is abundant on ourf coasts, and is found on 
sandy shores near low water-mark. The shell is globu- 

V 

lar or heart-shaped, about 2 inches in diameter, with 
about 26 ribs, sulcated transversely. 

Uses. The'cockle is an agreeable, digestible and mo- 
derately nutritive aliment, either in the raw state or 
when scalded; but when long boiled, it is rendered 
tough and more difficult of solution in the stomach. 
Cockles are in season during the spring months, and " the 
largest have as fine or a finer flavour than the small." 
(Donovan.) 

THE OYSTER. . 

Ostrca Edulit. — Ostreadm. — The Oyster Family.— 
The oyster is an important article of commerce in 
Britain; and, independent of the immense quantities 
consumed in this country, is exported to Hamburgh, 
Holland, France, Belgium, &c. It is bred in "oys- 
ter-beds" in many of the rivers of England; and in 

2 H 2 



306 THE OYSTER. 

Essex these are numerous, and the oysters excellent. 
It is yery prolific, spawns in May, and the ova, which 
resemble drops of tallow, adhere to stones or other hard 
bodies. About this period the fishermen are allowed 
to take the spawn thus deposited, and transport it to 
other beds previously made in ponds, and furnished with 
sluices, through which the sea-water flows at spring- 
tides. The water, being stagnant, acquires a greenish 
hue, and communicates this colour to the oysters, by 
which their commercial value is enhanced. Three years 
are required to bring them to maturity, or to render 
them of a proper size, delicate and fat. In Scotland, 
this mode of rearing oysters is not adopted ; bnt they 
are procured from their native rocks, and though con- 
sidered inferior by some persons to those artificially 
bred, are, in many cases at least, equal in quality. 

According to Pliny, artificial beds of oysters were 
first established by Sergius A rata "on the Lucrine Lake ; 
and the Romans were accustomed to ice their oysters 
before bringing them to table. Shell bivalved ; of a 
roundish-oval shape, with scaly foliations; the upper 
valve less, and flattened ; inner margin entire ; but the 
shape is various, according to the locality of the oyster. 
Oysters adhere to rocks and other foreign bodies by their 
most convex valve. They are taken from their beds by 
the process named dredging. 

Uses. Oysters are in the finest condition for the 
table from September to April ; but, according to some 
authorities, from August to May. In England, the Col- 
chester oysters are famous ; while the " whiskered Pan- 
doras" of Edinburgh are little less so. The fresher they 
are the finer is the flavour ; but when closely packed in 
a barrel, or dropped into a bottle along with their juice, 
may be kept for eight or ten days. They may also be 
preserved for some time in a solution of common salt. 
Oysters have always been considered a great alimentary 



THE MUSSEL. 367 

delicacy. They are light, moderately nutritive and 
(easily digested; although they disagree with some per- 
sons of delicate digestive organs. They are used in 
various states, namely, raw, stewed, grilled, pickled, &c; 
but they are certainly most digestible when eaten in the 
first state, along with their natural juice. A very mode- 
rate application of heat may be advantageous in some 
cases, such as will not harden too much their albumi- 
nous constituents. Some aromatic condiment, such as 
one of the various kinds of pepper, may be used as an 
accompaniment. 

The Scallop — Pecten Maxima* — is also found on 
many parts of the British coast, and is esteemed for the 
delicacy of its flavour. Mr. Donovan considers it one 
of the finest of our shell-fish, and remarkable for the 
sweetness and purity of its flavour. 

c 

THE MUSSEL. 

Mytilis Eduli*. — Mytilida. — The Mussel Family. — 
The mussel is gregarious, very abundant on the British 
coasts on hard ground above low water-mark. It is 
extremely prolific, and is destroyed in immense numbers 
by the crab, crayfish, &c. It is furnished with a strong 
beard, by which it attaches itself to rocks, &c, and is 
thus prevented from being dashed against foreign bodies, 
or thrown upon the beach to perish. Mussels, like 
oysters, may also be bred in salt-water marshes or ponds; 
and a year is required for " peopling the bed." They 
are taken from their beds from July to October. The 
shell of the mussel is longitudinal in form, sometimes 5 
inches in length and 2 in breadth, though generally 
smaller; colour bluish-black, with dusky yellowish 
radiating lines ; inside whitish ; margins of a blue colour; 
hinge many toothed. The shells being joined by a mus- 
cular ligament, can be opened by the animal to a small 
extent. 



368 THE EDIBLE SNAIL. 

Uses. The mussel is similar in alimentary qualities 
to the oyster; being, however, less tender, agreeable and 
digestible, but equally nutritive. It is considered rich 
and in season during autumn ; .but inferior and deleteri- 
ous during spring, according to some authors. Mussels 
have been on many occasions known to produce poison- 
ous effects; but this point will be noticed under the 
article Poisomous Fishes. Mussels are eaten both in tlie 
fresh and prepared states, and are also pickled. A mode- 
rate application of heat renders them more agreeable, 
and not more difficult of digestion. The mussel is 
also extensively employed as a bait for other fishes. 

THE EDIBLE SNAIL. 

Helix P<matia.--Hdicida!.—TYUL Snail Family.— This 
molluscous animal was known and esteemed as an article 
of food by the ancients. The Romans cultivated snails 
with great attention, and reared them in receptacles 
named cochlearia; which were generally constructed 
under rocks or eminences moistened by a running stream, 
or if not so situated, water was artificially supplied by a 
water-pipe. In ordinary cases they were allowed to pro- 
vide food for themselves, by crawling about the floors of 
their prison, but when it was desirable to fatten them, 
they were fed with bran and sodden wine, under which 
treatment, as recorded by Varro, they and their sheila 
would enlarge so much that each of the latter could con- 
tain ten quarts ! The snail rarely attains a large size in 
this country. It is supposed that the common land or 
garden snail was introduced into Britain about the middle 
of the sixteenth century ; but it is now very common, 
and sometimes destructive to trees and other vegetables. 
The shell is about two inches in diameter, inflated, yellow- 
ish-brown, wrinkled transversely, with 5 rounded whorls; 
but there are two varieties. The animal has a dusky- 
grey colour; deposits from 25 to 50 ova; and about 



THE CRAB. 369 

p 

the end of autumn it digs a hole in the earth with its 
foot, into which it retires, after having closed the aperture 
in the shell with mucus and a calcareous secretion. It 
remains torpid in this situation during winter, and is 
revived by the heat of spring. 

Uses. The snail is used to a very limited extent in 
this country as aliment, its appearance generally exciting 
feelings of disgust ; but on the Continent of Europe it is 
extensively employed during Lent. Snails are frequently 
taken in the woods and hedges ; but in Switzerland they 
are reared in great numbers for exportation. They are 
moderately nutritive and digestible, resembling the oyster 
in dietetic qualities ; but in whatever way prepared their 
disagreeable slimy properties adhere to them. On the Con- 
tinent they are cooked by boiling, frying, &c, sometimes 
stuffed with forced meat, and are seasoned with pepper, 
salt, oil, &c. At one period they were celebrated as an 
article of diet for consumptive persons ; and as an appli- 
cation to various swellings, abscesses, &c. 



CRUSTACEOUS ANIMALS. 

THE CRAB. 

Cancer Pagurus. — Section Brachyura. — The common 
crab inhabits all the shores of Britain and Ireland, is gre- 
garious, lurks under sea-weeds and burrows in the sand. 
It swims with difficulty, but can walk at the bottom of 
the water with considerable speed. It is very pugnacious, 
fights with great energy, and being little conscious of pain 
is sometimes killed or loses a limb, eithez by the power of its 
adversary, or by seizing its own by mistake; but this mem- 
ber is speedily regenerated to nearly its former size. It 



370 TUB LOBSTER. 

casts its shell annually, and the animal is thus for a time 
left in a defenceless condition, becoming the easy P*ey of 
many kinds of fishes. When full-grown the crab 'weighs 
about 7 pounds, but it is sometimes considerably larger. 
Crabs are caught in wicker-baskets, baited with garbage. 
The shell is of a reddish or greenish-colour, more red 
after boiling, wide, smooth above; claws encrusted, large, 
smooth; fingers studded with tubercles. The shell or 
envelop is, like that of other crnstaceous animals, chiefly 
composed of carbonate of lime. 

Uses. The flesh of the crab is agreeable in flavour, 
firm and white in the claws, reddish white and softer in 
the body, nutritive and moderately digestible. It fre- 
quently, however, disagrees with those who are subject 
to attacks of indigestion ; and the flesh of the great shell 
is considered most liable to produce such effects. Crabs 
are in the finest condition from March to October, and 
are prepared for the table by gradual and slow boiling in 
sea water or water containing common salt. They are 
also used in the formation of soups, and from the quantity 
of gelatin and albumen they contain, are considered 
nutritious ; but these are rarely employed in this country. 

THE LOBSTER. 

Astacus Marinus. — Section Maerowa. — The lobster in- 
habits almost all the seas of Europe, and is common in 
Britain, Ireland, the Orkney islands, &c, being often 
found at the bases of rocks. It is abundant and 
of excellent quality on the coasts of Scarborough and 
Northumberland. Lobsters are very prolific, and the 
ova are deposited' under the tail of the female, which 
is generally broader than, that of the male. They are 
very pugnacious, run with great rapidity in the water 
upon their legs and small claws, and if alarmed by an 
enemy can spring tail forward to the distance of thirty 
feet, and almost as swiftly as a bird can fly. Loud noises, 



THE LOBSTER. 371 

such as thunder claps or the roar of cannon, cause them 

sometimes to lose their claws, which are afterwards, 

however, partially regenerated. The lobster, like the 

crab, changes its shell or crustaceous covering once a-year, 

and is for some time defenceless and in a state of great 

weakness. It is very voracious, and feeds on sea-weeds, 

garbage, &c. It sometimes attains a very large size, and 

has been found from 18 inches to 2 feet in length. Its 

colour is bluish-black when alive ; but when boiled it 

becomes reddish-coloured. The point of the anterior 

extremity of the shell has three teeth on each side, and 

a double one at its base ; the anterior claws are large and 

unequal, the largest finger of the forceps is oval. Lobsters 

are caught in wicker-baskets formed like a mouse trap, 

and baited with garbage. In summer they approach 

near the shore, and are found in about 6 fathoms water ; 

but during the winter months they retire to the depth of 

12 or 15 fathoms. 

Uses. The flesh of the lobster is firm, white, nutri- 
tious, of a pure and agreeable flavour, moderately diges- 
tible, especially what is contained.in the claws. It ought, 
however, to be eaten sparingly by those who have deli- 
cate digestive organs, particularly if not fresh. Lobsters 
are prepared for the table in various ways, namely, by 
boiling, roasting, baking, &c, and also in forming a light 
nutritious soup. On account of their superior flavour, 
they are employed in the formation of a fish sauce. They 
are in good condition from March to October; but 
small lobsters may often be used during the whole year. 
According to Mr. Donovan, those which are heavy for 
their size, hard in the sides of the shell, with the adher- 
ence of small marine animals to it, are to be preferred ; 
and males are superior to females. In Germany lobsters 
are often boiled alive in milk. 



372 THE CRAW-FISH. 

THE CRAW-FISH. 

Astacus Fluviatilis. — Section Macroura.^-This species 
of lobster inhabits fresh water, and is found in many of 
the rivers of this country as well as in those of the Con- 
tinent of Europe. Cray-fish abound in the river Obra 
in Silesia, and in the Don in Muscovy, and are collected 
on the banks to putrefy, for the purpose of extracting the 
stones or concretions contained in their stomachs. These 
concretions consist of carbonate of lime, and are named 
crabs' eyes or crabs 9 stones, being considered useful for 
neutralising acidity in diarrhoea, &c. They are very 
voracious, feed on fishes, small mollusca, and devour flesh 
and dead carcases very greedily. They are frequently 
found in some of our rivers lodged in holes formed in 
the clayey banks, and are caught by means of sticks 
split at the end, with a bait inserted in the cleft. The 
snout of the craw-fish is projecting and slightly serrated; 
thorax and back smooth, the latter having two small 
spines on each side ; claws large, beset with small tuber- 
cles ; tail consists of five joints. When alive it is of a 
greenish-brown colour ; when boiled, red, to which rule 
there are some exceptions. In size, and in general habits, 
it resembles the lobster. 

Uses, The flesh of the craw-fish is similar to that of 
the lobster ; but is generally considered coarser, although 
equally nutritious and nearly as digestible. Soup made 
from it was at one period famous for the cure of consump- 
tion, hectic fever, cancer, &c; but it can only be considered 
useful in these diseases as a light nutritive article of diet. 
It is variously dressed for the table, namely, by boiling, 
baking, &c, but the principal parts which are eaten are 
the flesh of the claws and tail. When the craw-fish feeds 
on ill-flavoured food the flesh becomes tainted, and those 
found in stagnant waters are inferior to river cray-fish. 
It is in best condition for the table during the summer 
months. 



THE PRAWN. 373 

THE SHRIMP. 

Crangon Vulgaris. — Section Maeroura. — This small 
crustaceous animal is very common on the shores of Bri- 
tain, and over all Europe, and is frequently caught in 
large quantities at the mouths of rivers. It has a pale 
greenish colour when alive ; but, like many other crus- 
taceous animals, becomes red by boiling. Feelers long 
and slender ; claws with a moveable single hooked 
fang ; seven joints in the tail ; three pairs of legs ; middle 
caudal fin subulated ; the four others rounded and fringed. 
t Uses. The flesh of the shrimp has a very agreeable or 
rather delicious flavour, and is more delicate than that of 
the large crustaceous animals, such as the crab, lobster, 
&c. Shrimps are prepared for the table by boiling, bak- 
ing, &c., and frequently employed in the formation of a 
very agreeable and much esteemed sauce. Restorative 
soups are also made of shrimps and prawns. 

THE WHITE SHRIMP. 

Paksmon SquiUa. — Section Macroura. — This animal 
resembles in appearance and properties the common 
prawn ; and it has received its name from becoming white 
or ash-coloured after boiling. It inhabits the coast of 
Kent and is sent to the London market. When full-grown 
it is about the size of the common shrimp, and about half 
that of the common prawn. 

THE PRAWN. 

Palomon Serratus.— Section Macroura. — The prawn 

is common on some of the shores of Britain ; is found 

among loose stones, but swims well and is occasionally 

taken at sea at the depth of thirty fathoms of water. It 

is ash-coloured when fresh ; but assumes a fine red after 

boiling. Snout serrated and bent upwards, three pairs 

of filiform feelers; claws small, with two fangs; thorax 

2i 



974 POISONOUS FISHES. 

smooth ; five joints in the tail ; middle caudal fin subu- 
lated, two outmost flat and rounded. 

Uses, The flesh of the prawn is similar to that of the 
lobster or craw-fish ; but esteemed more delicate, although 
inferior in this respect to the shrimp. It is prepared for 
the table by boiling, baking, &c. 



POISONOUS FISHES. 

Few if any of the fishes which inhabit our British 
coasts axe poisonous, although oysters and mussels 
produce deleterious and sometimes fatal results, at parti- 
cular times or seasons, but the occurrence is rare. The 
circumstances upon which this depends, have not hitherto 
been discovered ; and it would serve no useful purpose 
to enumerate the unsatisfactory explanations which have 
been given to account for their occasional poisonous pro- 
perties. The mussel has most frequently given rise to 
these effects, which consist of uneasiness or pain in the 
region of the stomach and bowels, nausea, vomiting, heat 
and constriction of the throat, difficult breathing, numb- 
ness of the mouth and extremities, great debility of the 
whole body, &c. A peculiar eruption, resembling nettle- 
rash, is sometimes the result. The Great and Lesser 
Weever, ISraeMnus draco and T. vipera, which are caught 
on the British coasts, are also supposed to be poisonous. 
This opinion is doubtful ; for the effects are confined to 
the stings or wounds inflicted by the dorsal fins or oper- 
cular spines, and may either be the result of a poison 
contained there, or the inflammation, &c, which follow 
may be induced by the peculiarity of the wound. The 
flesh of these two fishes is, however, admitted to be 
wholesome ; and Mr, Yarrell characterises that of the 
larger weever as excellent. In the West Indies and other 
tropical countries, many fishes are enumerated as poison- 



SPOILED OB DECAYED ANIMAL FOOD. 376 

ous ; Bach as the Yellow-billed Sprat, Cfapeathprsa; the 
Baraoouda, Perca major; the Sword-fish, Xiphias gladi- 
ua; &c. With the exception of the first named fish, 
considerable doubt exists regarding the poisonous proper- 
ties of the others ; and farther observations or experi- 
ments are required upon this subject. 

When poisonous fish has been swallowed emetics should 
in the first instance be exhibited, so as to evacuate tho- 
roughly the contents of the stomach. The subsequent 
treatment must be regulated by the circumstances of the 
case ; but when there is much sinking of the powers of 
life, stimulants are generally required. 



SPOILED OR DECAYED ANIMAL FOOD. 

Animal substances undergoing the process of putre- 
faction, are well known to produce deleterious consequen- 
ces when taken as food. Exceptions to this rule some- 
times occur; and certain tribes of savages can from 
habit live upon putrid oil, blubber, offal, &c. Accidents 
from the use of animal food in a state of decay rarely 
occur in Britain ; but many have occurred on the Con- 
tinent, particularly from spoiled cheese, German sausages 
and bacon. An account is given in Hufeland's Journal of 
nearly 600 out of 600 people, who attended a fete, at 
Andelfingen in the Canton of Zurich, in June 1889, being 
poisoned with cold roast veal and ham ; and among this 
number four persons died.* 

Dr. Roeser gives an account of eight persons who 
were poisoned by sausages at Limmetshousen, pre- 
pared from the liver of a healthy pig, eight days 
before. The sausages had a peculiar taste, and one in- 
dividual did not partake of them on this account. 
Three out of the eight persons died.t The symptoms, 

•Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science, August, 1842. 
t Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 1843. 



376 SPOILED OB DECAYED ANIMAL FOOD. 

in almost all these cases of poisoning are very MTwilar : 
the most prominent being great irritation of the stomach 
and bowels, great weakness and coldness, feeble puis? 
giddiness, sometimes delirium, and in fetal cases convul- 
sions. The nature of the poison has not been exactlj 
determined ; but it has been rendered probable that it 
consists of a fatty acid soluble in alcohol. The poison- 
ous sausage includes both the white and the bloody va- 
rieties. They are large, and the materials are contained in 
swines' stomachs, are soft, have a nauseous taste and a 
putrid odour. Those only are poisonous which hare 
been boiled before they were salted and hung up, and at 
a particular period of decay ; for when putrefaction has 
advanced, so that sulphuretted hydrogen is produced, 
they cease to be so. The poison is most liable to exist 
in the centre of the sausage. Cheese which becomes 
poisonous is chiefly manufactured in some of the German 
States ; but Dr. Christison is of opinion that, a similar 
poison is occasionally met with in Cheshire, among the 
small farmers, when the curd is kept too long before a 
sufficient quantity is accumulated. These cheeses cannot 
be recognised by any precise characteristics. In this 
country, bacon is rarely if ever known to produce poison- 
ous effects, perhaps from the mode of curing it ; but in 
France, such have repeatedly occurred. Spoiled goose- 
grease, smoked sprats and putrid pickled salmon have 
also been known to produce deleterious effects. The 
foregoing facts show the necessity for great attention in 
the curing of all kinds of animal food, fishes, &c, which 
are intended to be kept, for it is highly probable that the 
poisonous properties of the substances mentioned, might 
be thus effectually prevented. 



INDEX. 



Accidents, Diet daring, . 
Affections of head, . 

a.16, • • • • 

Alimentary Principles, 
Almond, 

Bitter, . 

Amontillado, . 
Anchovy, ... 

Sauce, 

Animal Food Spoiled, . 

Apoplexy, diet during, 

Apple, .... 

Apricot, 

Arrowroot, 

Adulterations 



of, 



■, East India, 
Brazilian, . 



Artichoke Jerusalem, 

Common, 

Asparagus, 

Atnerine, • . • 



Page 



44 

. 34 
112 

. 12 
209 
211 
196 
338 

. 339 
375 

. 34 
221 

. 213 
135 

136 

138 

138 

. 157 

163 

. 168 

.320 



B 



Baking, 
Banana, . 
Barley, 



95 
183 
109 



Barley Water, . 

Batatas, 

Dean, . • • < 

, Kidney, 

Beef, . 

■—— ~ lea, ... 

jjecr, • • • • 

, Small, • 
Beet, Red, . 
Bilberry, or Blaeberry, 
Biscuit, . 

Black-Cock, 
Bladder-locks, 
Blockin, 

Blood, • . . 
Boiling, 

, loss of weight in, 



Bones, 
Brandy, 



Bread, 



dietetic uses of, 



Page 
52 
152 
133 
134 
245 
247 
110 
112 
153 
238 
108 
288 
242 
344 
276 
95 
97 
274 
201 
205 
99 
101 
J 02 



Adulterations of 

with Alum, *w 

Volatile Salt, 103 

Salt of Tartar, 103 

Blue Vitriol, 104 

Magnesia, 104 

Potato-starch. 105 



Dietetic qualities of 106 

Pan, Brown & Bran, 107 

Bread-fruit, . . .183 



378 



INDEX. 



Faob 
Bream, 323 

Brill, ... 353 

Broooli, . . .162 

Broiling, ... 94 

Bucellas Wine, . . 197 
Buckwheat, . . 124 

Burgundy Wine, . 193 

Butter, ... 253 

Adulteration of, 255 

Milk, . .255 



Cabbage, 

Cacao, 

Caper, 

Capsicum, 

Capercailye, 

Carrot, 

Carp, Common, 

? Gold, 

Cartilage, 

Cassava, 

Cassia and Cassia Buds, 

Cashew Nut, . • 

Caviar, 

Cauliflower, 

Cayenne Pepper, 

Celery, 

Champagne Wines, 

Cheese, 

, Stilton, 

, Cheshire, 

, Parmesan, 

, Gruyere, 

, Gloucester, 

, Ayrshire, 

, Ewe, 



160 
176 
80 
77 
289 
155 
320 
321 
274 
140 
74 
175 
361 
162 
77 
166 
193 
257 
259 
259 
259 
259 
259 
259 
259 
-, Dietetic qualities of, 259 
Cherry, . . .217 

Chestnut, . . . 172 
Childbirth, Diet after, 45 

Chillies, . . . 78 

Chicory, ... 164 

Chocolate, . . .177 
Cholera, Diet during, . 35 
Chub, ... 325 

Cinnamon, ... 72 





Pagb 


Citron, 


226 


Claret Wines, 


. 194 


Cloves, 


68 


Coalfish, 


. 344 


Coco, 


178 


Cocoa Nut, 


. 179 


Cockle, • 


365 


Cod, 


. 339 


Coffee, 


59 



-, Adulterations of, 63 

, Uses of; . . 63 

Constantia Wine, 200 

Constipation, Diet during, 36 
Condiments, . .64 

Conger, . . 357 

Consumption, Diet during, 35 
Cookery, ... 91 

Coot, Common, . . 300 

Corncrake, .- . . 298 
Corpulency, Diet during, 41 
Cow-heels, . . . 274 
Crake, spotted, . 299 

Cranberry, . . 239 

Crawfish, ... 372 
Crab, ... 369 

Cress, Garden, . .163 

Cream, 253 

Cucumber, . . . 232 
Curd, ... 257 

Curlew, Common. . . 294 

, Whimbrel, . 295 

Currants or Corinths, . 188 
Currant, Red, . 235 

, Blacky . . 235 

Cutaneous Diseases, Diet 

during, ... 43 
Cyder, ... 222 



D 



Dab, Common, 
Dace, 
Date, 
Deer, Red, 
, Fallow, 



350 
324 
181 
266 
267 



Diabetes, Diet during, 36 

, Insipid 38 

Diarrhoea, — — 35 



INDEX. 



379 



Page 
Diet of man, . . 16 

During Infancy, . 17 

Childhood and Youth, 19 

Manhood, . . 20 

Diluents, ... . 46 
Digestion, ... 1 

Diseases, Diet during, 33 

Doree, . . . .317 
Dove, Bock, . . 290 

Drinks, .... 46 
Dropsy, Diet during, 38 

Duck, Wild and Domestic, 300 

, Muscovy, . 302 

, Pintail, . . 303 

Dulse, .... 242 
Dysentery, . . 35 



E 



Eating, Times of, . . 21 

, Exercise before and 

after, ... 24 

Eel, Common, . . 355 

— , Sharp-nosed, . 355 

— , Conger, . . 357 

— , Sand, . . 358 

Eggs, . . . 278 

Endive, . . . .164 



Frog, Edible, 
Frying, . 



Page 

311 

94 



a 



Fat, . . . 275 
Febrile Diseases, Diet dur- 
ing, ... 33 
Fiff, . . . 184 
Filbert, ... 172 
Fishes, Poisonous, .• 374 
Flour, ... 99 

, Adulterations of, 99 

Flounder, . . 349 

Fleuk, Salt-water, . 350 

, JRawn, . . 352 

~, Bannock, . . 352 

>, Bonnet, . 353 

Food, Diurnal quantity of, 25 

Fowl, Common, . . 277 

Fractures, Diet during, 44 




iid, 



43 
336 
169 
219 
326 
361 
198 

65 
264 
304 
304 
305 
305 



Gall stones, Diet during, 

Garvie, 

Garlic, 

Gean, .... 

Gedd, 

Gelatin, Patent, 

German Wines, 

Ginger, . . . 

Goat, 

Goose, Grey 

, Bean or 

, Brent, 

— — , Laughing, 

, Dietetic qualities of, 306 

, Soland or Gannet, 307 

Gooseberry, 
Gravel, Diet during, 
Grapes, Uses of, 
Grilse, . 
Groats, Prepared, 
Grouse, Red, 

, Black, . 

Gruel, . 
Gudgeon, . 
Guinea Hen, 
Gurnard, Red, . 



233 
39 
189 
328 
115 
287 
288 
52 
322 
284 
314 



H 



Haddock, . . . 342 

, Finnan . . 343 

Hake. .... 346 
Hazel-Nut, . . .172 
Hare, .... 269 
Heart, Dietetic properties of, 276 
, Diseases of, Diet dur- 

„ fog* • • . .34 

Herring, ... 334 

, Gipsey, . . 332 

, White, . . 336 

, Red, . . .336 

Holibut, ... 350 



_ _ -T- 



380 



INDEX. 



Pagb 

Hog, • . . .272 

Honey 129 

, Adulterations of, .130 



Imperial, .... 54 
Indigestion, ... 4 
, Dietetio treat- 
ment of , . . . 5 
Inflammatory diseases, Diet 

during, ... 88 
Isinglass, .... 360 



Jamaioa Pepper. . . 67 
Jerusalem Artichoke, . 157 



Lithic Acid and 

Diet during, 
liver, 
Loach, 
Lobster, 
Luce, 
Lythe, 



M 



Pagb 
GraveL 

. 39 

. 276 

. 525 

. 370 

. 326 

. 345 



Ketchup, ... 84 
Kidney, .... 276 

, Diseases of, Diet 

during, • . .38 
Kirseh-wasser, . 218 



Lacryma Christi, 
Lamprey, . 
Lampern, • 
Landrail, . 
Lapwing, 
Laver, 

Lemon, . 
Lemonade, 
Lettuoe, 
Ligament, • 
Lime, . 
Ling, 

Liqueurs, . 
Liquorice, Extract of, 
Lisbon Wine, Dry, 



200 
. 864 

365 
. 298 

293 
. 242 

171 

. 227 

53 

. 165 

274 
. 227 

346 
. 206 

127 
. 197 



Mace, ... . 70 
Mackarel, . . . .3)5 
Madeira Wine, . . 197 

, Malmsey, . 198 

, Cape, . 200 

Maize, .... 121 
Malaga Wine, . . 195 
Mallard, .... 300 
Malt Liquors, Dietetic qua- 
lities of, . . .113 
Mango, .... 225 
Mannacroup, . . . 108 
Maraschino, . . .218 
Marrow, .... 275 
Marsala Wine, . . 200 

Masdeu , • . . 195 

Meat, Salted, . . 89 
, Dietetio qua- 
lities of, ... 91 
Medlar, .... 224 
Melon, .... 232 
Millet, . . . .124 
Milk, .... 247 

, Adulteration of, . 250 

, Diseased, . . 252 

, Uses of, . . . 252 

of the Human Subject, 260 

Ass, . . .261 

— — — Mare, . 
" Sheep, 

Goat, . 



Minnow, 

Moor-hen, 

Moss, Carrageen or Irish, 

, Uses of, 

, Iceland, . 

, Uses of, . 

Mulberry, . 



262 
262 
262 
326 
299 
240 
241 
242 
242 
185 



INDEX. 



381 



Pa oi 
Mullet, Striped Red, . 313 

,;Plain , . 314 

, Common or.Grey, 319 

Mushrooms, Esculent, . 81 

, Uses of, . 83 

, Poisonous, . 82 
Mustard, ... 74 

, Adulterations of, 75 

iSeeds, . . 76 

Mussel, . . ... 367 
Mutton, . . . 263 



N 



Nectarine, 
Nutmeg, 



212 
. 70 



O 



° at » • • • • Hi 

Olive, .... 206 

' Pickled, . . 209 

| Oil, Adulterations of, 208 

Onion, ...» 170 
Orange, .... 229 

1, Bitter, ... 230 

Ox, Common, ... • 244 
Oxalic Acid in Urine, Diet 

during, . -37 

Oyster, .... 365 



Pancreas, 
Parsley, 
Parsnip, 

Partridge, Common, 
— , Guernsey, 



Pea, . 

Peach, • 

Peacock, . 

Pear, 

Peewit or Peesweep, 

Pepper, Jamaica, . 

, Cayenne, 

, Black, 



276 

166 

156 

284 

285 

131 

212 

282 

219 

293 

67 

77 

78 



Pepper, w uite, . 

Perch, . 

Perry, 

Pheasant, 

Phosphatic Deposits, 

during, . 
Pickling, . 
Pigeon, Ring or Wood, 
■■ , Common, 

x 1K6, . * . 

Pilchard, 
Pimento, 
Pine Apple, 
Plaice, . 
Plantain, . 
Plover, Golden, 

— , Grey, . 

Plum, . 

Pochard or Dun Bird, 

Podley, 

Poisonous Fishes, 

Pollack, . 

Pomegranate, . 

Port Wine, 

Porter, 

Potato, • 

— — , Uses of, 

■ Starch, 

Flour, . 

— , Uses of j 



Prawn, 
Prunes, 
Ptarmigan, 
Puffin, . 



Pao« 
. 79 

312 
. 220 

280 
Diet 
40 
. 87 

289 
.290 

326 

. 332 

67 

. 224 

348 
. 182 

292 
. 293 

215 
; 903 

344 
. 374 

345 
. 231 

196 
. 112 

144 
. 148 

150 
. 150 

151 
. 373 

216 
. 288 

307 



Quail, 
Quince, 



R 



Rabbit, . 
Radish, 
Rail, Water, 
Raisins, 
Raspberry, 



286 
. 223 



. 270 
159 

. 299 
188 
237 



382 



INDJbX. 



Faob 
Razor-bill, . 307 

Rein-deer, . . . 268 
Rheumatism, Diet daring, 34 
Rice, .... 119 
Rivessltes, ... 194 
Roach, .... 324 
Roasting, 93 

, loss of weight in, 97 

RoekDoye, . . 290 

Roebuck or Roe, . . 268 
Rook, . . . .291 

Ruff, .... 297 
Rye, ... 117 

— :-, Diseased, . . 118 



S 

Sago, 

■ ■ , Meal, . • 

— — , Brown, 

— , Pearl, 

Salep, 

Salt, Common, . 

Salted Meat, 

— —- , Dietetic 

lities of, . 
Salmon, • . 

Trout, 

Sandlaunce, 
Sandsmelt, . 
Scallop, 
Sea Kale, 
Semolina, 
Sethe, 

Seville Orange, 
Shad, 
Sheep, . 
Sherry Wine, 
Shrimp, . 

, White, 

Sillook, 

Skate, 

Skin, 

Sloe, 

Smelt, . . 

Snail, 

Snipe, Common, 

-* — , Great, 



138 
139 
139 
139 
143 
88 
89 



qua- 



91 
327 
329 
358 
320 
367 
162 
108 
344 
230 
338 
262 
195 
373 
373 
344 
362 
274 
214 
332 
868 
295 
297 



Soda Water, . 

Sole, 

Sorrel, 

Soaps, 

Soarcroate, 

Sowens, 

Spinach or Spinage 

Spirting, 

Sprat • . 

Stag, . . 

Stewing, . 

Stomach, 

Strawberry, • 

Sturgeon, 

Sugar Cane, 

Sugar, 

, Maple, 

, of Milk, 

Sweetbread, 



Tapioca, 

, British, 

jLea, . ... 

, Uses of, 

Teal, 
Tench, 

Tendon. • • 

Teneriffe Wine, 
Tent or Tintilla Wine 
Toast Water, 
Tokay Wine, 
Tongue, . • 
Torek or Tusk. 
Tortoise, Land, 
Tous les Mois, 
Tripe, 
Trout, . 

, Salmon, 

, Bull, . 

, Lochleven, 

Tunny, 
Turbot, 
Turkey, 
Turnip, J. 

Turtle, Green, 



Page 

53 

354 

. 167 
96 

> 161 

116 
. 167 

332 
. 336 

266 
. 95 

275 
. 236 

358 
. 125 

126 
. 127 

256 
. 276 



. 140 
142-152 
. 55 

58 
. 302 

322 
. 274 

198 

. 196 

51 

. 199 

276 
. 347 

310 
. 133 

27$ 
. 331 

329 
. 330 

330 
. 331 

316 
. 352 

281 
. 158 

308 



INDEX. 



883 



Page 



U 



Ulcers, Diet during, . 44 
Urinary Diseases, Diet dur- 



ing, 



36 



Vine, . . . 186 

Vinegar, ... 85 

, Adulterations of, 86 

, Uses of, . .87 

Viper's Grass, . . 157 



W 

Walnut, ... 174 

Water, .... 49 

, Rain and Snow, 49 

— , Spring, . . 49 

,Well, . 50 

— , River and Lake, 50 

, Stagnant, . 50 

, Purification of, 51 
.Toast, . . 51 



Water, Barley, 

' , Soda, 
Wheat, 
Whey, 
Whitebait, 
Whiting, 

, Pollack, 

Whortleberry, Red, 

Wigeon, 

Wines, 

, German, • 

— — , Home-made, 

-, Dietetic uses of, 



Page 

52 

53 

98 

256 

337 

343 

345 

239 

303 

. 189 

198 

. 200 

202 

296 

43 



Woodcock or Woodsnipe, 
Worms, Diet in cases of, 
Wounds and Ulcers, Diet 
during, . . . -44 



Yams, 



153 



Zwetschen Wasser, 



216 



GLASGOW: 
W. G. BLACKIE & Co., 

FKIHTKHS. 



i 
J 



