Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



AS. /A/v5. 




> 



r,' 



AS. /ufs. 




) 



r,* 




POOD AND DIET: 

DIETETICAL REGIMEN 

DISORDERED STATES OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS ; 
fltcounl «f tfi( Slctnicn 

PRINCIPAL METROPOLITAN AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS 
PAUPER^ LUNATICS, CRIH1NAL3, CHILDREN, THB 91CX. ke. 

JONATHAN PEREIRA, M.D. F.R.S. & L.S. 



LONDON : 

LONGMAN. BROWN, GKEEN. AND LONGMANS, 



VIlrflVN A\n OGTt.TT, RKIM!«f:« STBKET, KXOWTITr.T, U»f»P07r. 



PREFACE. 



The idea of the present treatise occurred to the author 
during the preparation of another work, when he 
repeatedly experienced the want of a detailed and 
individual account of alimentary substances. 

His original intention was to have treated the sub- 
ject in the same full and systematic manner that he 
has elsewhere done the .articles of the Materia Medica; 
and he had, in fact, begun to collect materials for a 
work on this plan. But he soon found that the sub- 
ject was too extensive to be treated in such a way ; 
within, at least, reasonable limits. He was, therefore, 
compelled to abandon, though with considerable re- 
luctance, his original design, and to substitute for it 
the present work, in which he has excluded all 
Natural Historical details; preferring this course to 
that of giving a mere sketch or epitome of the 
subject. 

The present treatise on Diet differs from its prede- 
cessors in several particulars, some of which it may 
not be useless to point out. 

In the first place, it contains a tolerably full account 
of the chemical elements of food, — a subject which 



IV PREFACE. 

has always appeared to the author of considerable 
importance, and to which the recent researches and 
conclusions of Boussingault, Liebig, and Dumas have 
given additional interest. It is one, however, which 
preceding dietetical writers have altogether passed 
over, or only incidentally alluded to ; and in no work, 
with which he is acquainted, has it been systematically 
treated. 

Another peculiarity of the present work is the in- 
creased space devoted to the consideration of alimen- 
tary principles, the number of which the author, for 
reasons he has elsewhere assigned, has considered it 
proper to augment. 

The plan of separately considering Alimentary 
Principles and Compound Aliments, adopted from 
Tiedemann*, he considers to be greatly superior to 
the ordinary method of treating these subjects, 
and which consists in the arrangement of foods 
according to the proximate or immediate principle 
predominating in their composition. Such a classi- 
fication is open to the glaring and obvious objection, 
that most of the foods in ordinary use consist of 
several alimentary principles. Thus, butchers' meat 
consists of fibrine, albumen, gelatine, and fat; bread, 
of starch, gluten, gum, and sugar; milk, of caseine, 
butter, and sugar. Now, to arrange meat among 
fibrinous; bread among starchy, and milk among 
caseous, foods, is to overlook the other important 



* Untersuchuagen iiber das Nahrttngs Bec^ffniss den Nahrungi-Trieb 
und die NaknmgS'Mittel des Menschen* Darmstadt, 1836. 



PREFACE. V 

constituents of these substances, and to give a very 
imperfect view of their alimentary properties. 

The author did not venture, without considerable 
hesitation and doubt as to its propriety, to deviate 
from Dr. Front's beautifully simple and generally 
admitted classification of alimentary principles, into 
the aqueonSy the saccharine^ the albuminotiSy and the 
oleaginous. After mature consideration, however, he 
satisfied himself of the impossibility of reducing all 
nutritive principles to these four heads. Common 
salt, for example, whicli a recent writer^ j lastly ob- 
serves " can by no means be considered only as a 
luxury, but as a substance as essential to life as nitro- 
genous or non-nitrogenous food and water" can be 
referred to no one of these four classes. Moreover, 
l^mon juice, which constitutes one of our most 
valuable antiscorbutic foods, does not owe its effi- 
ciency to water, sugar, albumen, or oil. Furthermore, 
to call gum^ starch, and acetic acid, saccharine sub- 
stances, — gelatine an albuminous one, — or alcohol an 
oleaginous one, is to assign new meanings to common 
and familiar terms. Gelatine and albumen are not 
mutually convertible into each other by any known 
chemical process, nor can oil be transformed into 
alcohol, or, vice versdy alcohol into oil. For these 
reasons, therefore, the author has ventured to adopt a 
new and enlarged armngement of alimentary prin- 
ciples, which he now submits to the notice of his pro- 
fessional brethren. 



* On Gravel, Calculus, and Gout, by H. Bence Jones, M.A. p. 46. 
London, 1842. 



vi PREFACE. 

Considerable pains have been taken in the prepara- 
tion of Tables representing the proportion of some of 
the chemical elements, and of the alimentary prin- 
ciples, contained in different foods ; and the author 
believes they will be found as complete and accurate 
as the present state of our knowledge admits. 

Another peculiar feature of this treatise is the 
chapter on Dietaries, which has been rendered neces- 
sary by the discussions which have been going on, for 
many months past, in the public journals and else- 
where, respecting the amount of food proper to be 
supplied to paupers, prisoners, and others. The sub- 
ject has in this way forced itself on the attention of 
all grades of society; and professional men and 
others must have long felt the want of a work giving 
an account of the dietaries in use in various Public 
Establishments in this country, as well as in the Navy 
and Army. The author greatly regrets that the ne- 
cessarily limited extent of the present treatise has 
precluded him from entering into a variety of interest- 
ing details connected with this subject. 

47, F1N8BURT Squark, London. 
Jtme 13» 1943. 



CONTENTS. 



mt^-^^^*>A^^%f\^\* 



Paf« 

Preface iii— vi 

Contents vii — xvi 



PART I.-OF FOODS. 

Distinction between the Chemical Elements of Fuod» Alimentary 
Principles, and Compound Aliments I 



Chap. I.— OP THB CHEMICAL ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

Number of Simple Bodies known — suspicions as to their real 
elementary character. — Chemical Elements of organized beings 
—K^nnot be formed in the living body — Prout's idea that some 
of the so-called elements are formed by vital agents. — Chemical 
Elements of the food of man 2 — 5 

1. Carbon— its forms^quantity in foods— daily consumption of— - 
amount of oxygen required to bum the carbon — carbonic acid 
and heat produced m the process. — Consumption of food 
augmented bjr cold— error of Liebiff in ascribing; the cluttony 
of certain nations to the coldness of climate exclusively— case 
of the Hottentots and the Bushmen—- gluttony ascribed by the 
author in part to cerebral organization — case of the Germans, 
Spaniards, and French — deficiency of food attended with 
diminished evolution of heat. — Diseases of the liver induced 
by external heat — how — ^mode of artificially enlarging the 
liver of the goose— ^^^m de foiea gras — less food required in 
tropical climates and hot seasons — why 6 — 21 - 

2. Htdbooen. Relative quantity of hydrofi;en and oxygen in 

alimentary principles. — Hydrates of carbon — respiration of 
graminivorous animals.— Aliments with excess of hydrogen- 
oxidation of hydrogen during respiration — heat developed by 
the combustion of hydrogen. —• Aliments with excess of 
oxygen 21 — 25 

3. OxYOEN. Constitutes three-fourths of the terraqueous globe- 

animal life inseparably connected with the influence of oxy^n 
on the organism — vital air the cause of death. — Relative 
quantity of oxy^n in aliments. — Consumption of oxygen in 
respiration modified by the nature of the food — cKanges 
effected by the system on the vegetable alkaline salts, and 
probable consequences 25 — 29 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

4. NiTROOBN . Quantity of in foods.— Plastic elements of nutrition 
and elements of respiration — arguments in favour of nitro- 
genized foods alone being elemente of nutrition — inconclusive- 
ness of some of them — Dr. Prout's notion of the generation of 
nitrogen in the svstem, and of the conversion of fat and sugar 
into nitrogenizea compounds — proteine and its compounds — 
composition of the fooa consumed by, and of the excretions of, 
a horse during twenty-four hours — resum^ of the opinions of 
Liebig on foods —difficulties. — Uses of non-nitrogemzed foods 
—alcohol an element of respiration — is a fuel — its action on 
the brain and liver — Temperance and Tee-total Societies — 



Pag* 




Boussingault's scale of nutritive equivalents. — Nitrogei 
constituent of all vegetable poisons, according to Liebig . 29 — 57 

5. Phosphorus. A constituent of the body and of food — ^insanity 
and idiotcy ascribed to abnormal variations in its quantity — 
cscal phosphatic calculi of horses— quantity of phosphorus 

in foods 57 — 62 

6. Sulphur. Its existence in the body— organic origin of native 
sulphur— evolution of sulphur by organic substances — cause 
of the awM miasma of the Western- Uoast of Africa— effect of 
lead on the gums — quantity of sulphur in foods .... 62 — 66 

7. Iron. A constituent of the blood — Liebig's hypothesis of its 
agency in respiration, and of the action of sulphuretted hydrogen 
and prussic acid on the system— iron a constituent of foods, 66 — 70 

8. Chlorine. A constituent of the blood and of several secre- 
tions — Pepsin — Liebig's fermentation hypothesis of digestion 

— objections to it 70—71 

9. Sodium. A constituent of the animal body, of the secretions, 
and of the food 72—73 

10. Calcium. A constituent of animals and of their food— Does 
the lime of the skeleton of the chick pre-exist in the egg, or 
is it generated? — Gypsum eaten by the Chinese — morbid 
appetite for calcareous substances 73 — 75 

11. Magnesium. A constituent of the body and of the food . . 75 

12. Potassium. Potash necessary for the secretion of milk — found 

in vegetables 75—76 

13. Fluorine. Found in the bones and teeth 76 



CONTENTS. IX 



Chap. II.— OP ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Pag* 

Dr. Prout's classes of alimentary principles — reasons for admittins^ 
others 77—78 

1. The Aqueous Alimentart Principle. Quantity of water 

contained in the animal hody and in foods. — Is water a nutri- 
ment? — Uses of water in the system — its influence on the 
conversion, of uric acid into urea--diluent diet — dry diet . 78 — 85 

i. Common Water, Rain Water — its impurities— carbonate of 
ammonia a constituent of it. — Snow Water — Spring Water 
—River Water — analyses of Thames and Colne Waters — 
injurious effects of water contaminated with decomposing 
organic matters — illustrative cases— Metropolitan churchyards 
and the pumps — British army at Cuidad Rodrigo affected with 
dvsentery. — Entophyta and Entozoa. — Well Water — Artesian 
Wells— effects of hard Water— Water imprefi^ated with lead 
— its effects — remedy. — Lake Water— Marsh Water. — Tests of 
the impurities in common water — purification of water — 
Professor Clark's patent — error of the patentee . . . 85— IW 

ii. Sea Water. Solid constituents of— effects of ... • 104 — 105 

iii. Mineral Waters. Classes of— their properties . . . 105 — 106 

iv. DistiUed Water. Employment of, as a preventive of consti- 
tutional disease 107 — 108 

2. The Mucilaginous Alimentary Principle. Quantity of gum 

in food— proximate and ultimate analyses of gum— effects a^d 
uses of gum. — Gum Water— Mucilage^ Gum Lozenget — Gum 
Pastes, Pdte de Jujubes, and P4te de Guimauve . • . 108 — 111 

3. The Saccharine Alimentart Principle. Quantity of sugar 

in foods — table of saccharine matters — composition of sugars — 
dietetical effects and uses of sugar — fondness of children for 
it instinctive.— Viscous or mucilaginous fermentation— forma- 
tion of lactic acid in the stomach. — Diabetes ~ oxalate of lime 
and phosphatic diatheses. — R^ned Sugar — Brown Swar — 
Sugar Candy Sugar water and Syrup^^Boiled Suoars, Parley 
Suear, Acidulated Drops, Hardbake and Toffee, Fulled Sugar 
or Fenides— ATotos^ef and Treacle^- Burnt Sugar, Caramel, 
Browning — Hard Confectionery, Lozenges, &c. — Li^ttortce 
Sugar-^Preserves 112—121 

4. The Amylaceous Alimentary Principle. Quantity of starch 

in plants — shape of the grains (figures) — necessity of cooking 
— alimentary qualities— So^o^ — Tapioca and Cassava— Arrow- 
root— Tous Us Mois— Potato Starch^Tahiti Arrow-root — East 
Indian Arrow-root — Portland Arrow-root — Rice Starch — 
Lichenin or Peculoid—Salep 122—135 

5. The Ligneous Alimentary Principle. Quantity in plants — 
its composition — doubts as to its nutritive quality — wood-bread 
—bark-bread— indigestible parts of vegetables — h^tngin, 135—140 



X CONTKNTS. 

Page 

6. The Pectinaceous Alimentary Principle. Vegetable Jelly 
— Pecline— Pectic Acid — composition — dietetical properties. — 
Fruit Jellies — JatM—Carrageenin 140 — 14<5 

7. The Acidulous Alimentary Princiflh. Reasons for admit- 
ting it. — Acetic Acid, Pyroligneous acid — Vinegar— usefulness 
— ^ill consequences. — Citric Acid — Artificial Lemon Juice — 
Lemon and Kali. — Tartaric Acid — Concrete Acidulated Alkali 
— Soda, Gingerbeer, and Seidlitz Powders — Imperial — Acidu- 
lated Lozenges. — MaUc Acid^Oxalic Acid—Lactic Acid — 
Tannic Acid 146— 15() 

8. The Alcoholic Alimentary Principle. Quantity of alcohol 
in wines, spirits, malt liquors, &c. — Brandy— Rum — Gin — 
Wkishf — Arrack — Liqueurs and Compounds 157 — 166 

9. The Oily Alimentary Principle. — Fixtd Ot^-quantity in 
different foods — composition — digestibility — nutritive qualities. 
— Olive or Sweet Oil — Butter— Marrow — Animal Fats, — Essen- 
tial or Volatile Oils 166—185 

10. The Proteinaceous Alimentary Principle. Proteine — 
composition — Animal Proteinaceous Principles, Fibrine — Albu. 
men — Caseine — quantities of each in fooas — Milk — Cheese. — 
Vegetable Proteinaceous Prtwcfp/e#, Vegetable Fibrine, Albumen, 
Caseine, and Gluten 185—205 

11. The Gelatinous Alimentary Principle. Quantity in foods 
— Collin — Ckondrin — Gelatine from Elastic tissues — Gelatine 
altered by heat — composition — digestibility — nutritive qualities. 
— Isinglass — Cod Sounds — Dry and Hard Gelatine, Grenetine 
—Hartshorn— Calves' feet, heads, &c 205—223 

12. The Saline Alimentary Principle. Common Salt — Earthy 
Phosphates— Potash Salts — Ferruginous Compounds . . . 223-^229 



Chap. III.— COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 
I. SOLID ALIMENTS, OR ALIMENTS PROPER. 

Man an omnivorous animal — denied by some 230 

Sect. 1. Animal Foods. 

Chemical and organic nature of animal foods — composition of 
animal flesh 231 

Class I. Mammals. Bones, their composition — Bone Soup— 
Cartilages, Tendons, Aponeuroses, and Ligaments — Cellular 
Tissue — Muscles or Flesh — Viscera, brain, tongue, heart, thymus 
or sweetbread, liver, kidneys, alimentary canal (tripe) — Blood 
— Milk, comix)sition, bumir of milk— Cream, skimmed milk — 
Milk diet— Whey— MoUtencuren or Cures de Petit Lait — 
Butter milk— Devonshire cream— different kinds of Milk, 232—262 



CONTENTS. XI 

Page 

Class IT. Birds. Flesh, its varieties— Ftfcera, brains, gizzard, 
intestine, liver— Fa/— £ir^« 262—271 

Class III. Reptiles. 7Vfr/2e— Callapash and Callipee— Green 
Fat— Turtle Soup 271—274 

Class IV. Fishes. Ichthyophagi— ^At7e Bait, mode of cooking 
— Integuments of fishes — Fl^h, its composition, digestibility, 
varieties, effects, preparation — Viscera, liver, swimming blad- 
der or sound, roe or ovary, milt or testicle 274 — ^290 

Class V. Crustaceans. Lobster, Sea Crawfish, Crab, Prawns, 

Shrimps 290—293 

Class VI. Mollusks. Shell fish — bivalves and univalves — The 
Oyster — Mussel — Cockles — Scallop* — Periwinkles — Limpets — 
Whelks^SnaiU 293-300 

Diseased and Decayed Animal Substances 300 — 301 

Sect 2. Vegetable Foods. 
Mode of arrangement 302 

Class I. Aliments from Flowering Plants, 

Order I. Seeds. 
1. Mbalt or Farinaceous Seeds— their division 303 

a. Cereal Grains or Com, composition and digestibility . . 303—305 

i. Wheat — its composition. — Semolina — Soujee — Mannacroup 
—Macaroni — Vermicelli — Cagliari Paste — Hard's and Den- 
sham's Farinaceous Foods. — Fermented or leavened bread 
— compressed bread— gluten bread. — Unfermented or unlea- 
vened bread — biscuits— gingerbread— Dodson's patent bread. 
— Diseases of Wheat.— Cakes, pastry, puddings, panada . 305—323 

ii. Oats, Groats. — Oatmeal. — Composition. — Oat-bread — Gruel 
—Porridge — Flummery or Sowans 323—327 

iii. Barley, Scotch and Pearl Barley. — Composition — ^Barley- 
bread — Barley Water, simple and compound. — Afol^— Sweet- 
wort 327—329 

iv. Rye, Composition. — Rye or black bread— Rye pottage. — 
Ergotism • 329—331 

V. Rice, Composition. — Rice starch — Rice gluten — Mucilage of 
Rice — Rice milk, puddings, and cakes 331 — 334 

vi. Maize or Indian Com, Composition. — ^Polenta . . . 335 — 336 

/3. Leguminous Seeds-^Peas, Beans, Lentils — their composition — 
alimentary qualities 336—339 

y. Seeds of Cupuliferct, Chestnuts 339 



Xll CONTENTS. 

Pag* 

2. Oily Seeds. — Walnuts — Hazel nuts — Cashew nuts — Pistachio 
nuts^Stone Pine nuts — Cocoa nuts — Almonds, composition of 
bitter and sweet ones — bitter almonds — am3^gdaline — prussic 
acid — macaroons or ratafia cakes — volatile oil of almonds, its 
poisonous properties 339 — 343 



Order 11. Fleshy Fruits. 

1. Drupaceous or Stone Fruits. — The Peach — Nectarine — 

Apricot — PZttfit, Prune — Cherry — 0/irc— olives farcies Thuile, 
pickled olives and olives k la picholine — Date .... 344 — ^348 

2. PoMACEOus Fruits or Apples. — Apples— Pears — Quinces, 348 — 350 

3. Baccate or Berried Fruits. — Currants — Gooseberries — Cran- 

berries — Elderberries — Grapes, Kaisins, Cure de Raisins, 350 — 356 

4. The Orange or Aurantiaceous Fruits.— Orange* — Lemons — 

Citrons— Shaddocks 356—360 

5. The Cucurbitaceous Fruits. — Cucumbers — Melons — Water 

Melons— Vegetable Marrow— Pumpkin 360-363 

6. The Leguminous Fruits.— Tamarincfa— French Beans—Scarlet 

Beans 362 

7. Syconus.— K^» 362—363 

8. SoRoais.— Mulberries— The Pine Apple 363—364 

9. ETiBRio. — Strawberries — Raspberries— Blackberries . . . 364 — 366 



Order III. Roots, Subterraneous Steins, and Tubers. 

Relative digestibility of the different kinds. The Turnip — Carrot 
—Parsnip— Jerusalem Artichoke— Potato 366—368 



Order IV. Buds and Young Shoots. 
Onions, Leeks, Garlic, Shallots, Asparagus ....... 380 — 381 

Order V. Leaves and Leaf Stalks. 

Chlorophy lie — The Cabbage— Savoy — Greens— Caulifiower — Broc- 
coW.— Sauerkraut. — TVfmtp tops — Spinage — Mustard and Cress 
—Lettuce— Endive— Rhubarb for tarts 381-385 

Order VI . Receptacles and Bracts. 
The Garden Artichoke (Cynara Scolymus) 385 



CONTENTS. Xlll 

Order VII. Stems. 

Pag* 

Cycadaces and Palms 386 

Class 11. AUmen(9jrom Flowerlen Plant$. 

Order I. Ferns. 
Tuberous rhizomes 396 

Order II. Lichens. 
lAehenin or FecuUnd. Tripe de Rocke— Iceland Most ... 387—388 

Order III. Algs or Sea Weeds. 
Laver—Carroffeen or Irish Moss —Ceylon or Jaffna Moss . . 389—^390 

Order IV. Fungi or Mushrooms. 
Common or Field Mushroom — Common Morel-^Common TmfffU 390—400 

II. UQUID AUMENTS, OR DRINKS. 

Order I. Mudlaginous, Farinaceous, or Saccharine Drinks. 
Slops or Tisans. Toast Water, &c 392-^3 

Order II. Aromatic and Astringent Drinks. 

Tea, botany, composition, effects and uses ; Coffee, varieties, adul- 
teration, composition, effects and uses; Chicory or Succory — 
Chocolate^ Cocoa a»3— 405 

Order III. Acidulous Drinks. 

Lemonade — Raspberry-vinegar Water — Imperial — Apple Tea — Soda 
Water — Ginger Beer, Other effervescing aqueous drinks 

405—407 

Order IV. Drinks contaming Oelatine and Osmaxome. 

Broths and 5o^p#. Composition of broth and boiled meat. Berf 
Tea-^Mutton Broths-Chicken Broth—Vecd Broth . . . 408—41 1 

Order V. Emulsive or Milky Drinks. 
Animal Milk^Almond Milk— Orgeat-Cocoa-nut Milk , . .411—412 



XIV CONTEXTS. 



Order VI. Alcoholic and other Intoxicating Drinks. 



I'as^ 



Malt Liquor or Beer^ density, composition, effects — Ale — Indian 
PaU Ale —Table Ale^Porter, adulterations. Wine, varieties, 
constituents, effects and uses— SA^ry — Port-JVine — Madeira^ 
Chamjfayne — German Wines — Claret Wines — Burgundy, Other 
Intoxicating drinks 412—436 

III. CONDIMENTS, OR SEASONING AGENTS. 

Order L Saline Condiments. 2. Acidulous Condiments. 3. Oily 
Condiments. 4. Saccharine Condiments. 5. Aromatic and 
Pungent Condiments 436 — 439 



^^*^*^^^^0*^^^^^i0m^»^^0^0^0m^t^^f^m^*^^m 



PART II -OF DIET. 



Chap. I.— OP THE DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 

Primary and secondary assimilation — artificial digestion-— p^Wne 
or cAymowiw— fermentation hypothesis of digestion . . 440 — 442 

1. Digestibility of Foods aff^ected by circumstances relating to the 

foods themselves: ve^table or animal food — cohesion — tender- 
ness of fibre — incipient decomposition — age — minuteness of 
division by cooking and mastication-^insalivation —cookery 

442—445 

2. Digestibility of foods affected by circumstances relating to the indi- 

vidual or or^aitmi— state of body or mind — idiosyncracy— 
habit — intervals between meals— keenness of appetite — exer- 
cise - amount of food eaten— passions of the mind — morbid 
states of system. Difference of opinion as to repose after 
meals — author's opinion. Beaumont's table of the Digestibility 
qf Foods 446—451 

Chap. II.— OF THE NUTRITIVE QUALITIES OF FOODS. 

Amount of water in foods — indigestible constituents —relative value 
of nutritious substances— nonnitrogenized and nitrogenized 
aliments. Table shewing the amount qf dry matter, moisture, 
carbon, and nitrogen in foods. — Conclusions of the Gelatine 
Commission 451 — 456 

Cbap. III.— TIMES OP EATING. 

Time required for the digestion of the food — interval between the 
meals— experiments made at the Zooloncal Gardens on. the 
carnivorous mammalia — fixed periods fSr eating— number of 
meals per day. BreeJ^fast—Luncheom — JDtmter— Tra — Supper 



CONTENTS. XV 



CfiAP. IV— DIETARIES. 



Pa^ 



Importance of the subject — ill effects of prison dietaries — quan- 
tity of food required subject to variation — Captain Parry's 
opinion — fatigue, hard labour, and term of imprisonment, are 
modifying circumstances. Mental influence in scurvy — variety 
of food necessary — uses of nitrogenized and non-nitrogenized 
foods 462—470 

1 . Dietaries for Children, Children require food more frequently 

than adults — why — fondness for sugar -errors in the dieting 
of children— consequences on them of defective nutriment. 
Dietaries of the Foundling Hospital^ the Royal Military Asylum, 
the Naval Asylum^ the bfant Chrphan Asylum, Mr, Aubin*i Esta- 
hlishment at Norwod, the Hospice des Eitfans Trouiois and 
Hospices des Incurables in Paris, and the Merchants^ Seaman's 
Orphan Asylum 470—478 

2. Dietary for the Naval Seroiee, Scale of Diet used in the Navy^ 

error in the scale of equivalents adopted — Water used in the 
navy. Scale qf VictualUng of Droops from England to India, 
and Dietary for Emigrants 478--413 

3. Army Rations 483 

4. Dietaries for Paupers. The six dietaries of the Poor Law Com- 

missioners— comparative view of them. Soup, Gruel, and 
Suet Puddings used in poor-houses. Loss in cooking and 
serving meat 483—490 

.*>. Dietaries for Prisoners, Conclusions of the ^ Inspectors of 
Prisons — Dissent of Mr. Hill— Instructions issued by the 
Secretary of State — ^Dietaries ordered to be used in prisons in 
England and Wales — comparative view of them— objections 
raised to them — reply 491—497 

6. Dietaries for the Sick, General observations— natural instincts 

too often thwarted. 1. Full, Common, or Meat Diet. 2. Ani- 
mal Dte/— diabetes — effects of animal diet on it. 3. VeaetabU 
Diet. 4. Spare or Abstemious Diet, 5. Fever Diet, o. Low 
Diet, 7. Milk Diet. 8. Dry IXe/.— Dietaries of the Metro- 
politan Hospitals. — London Hospital-^ St, Bartholomew's Hos- 
pital — Guy's Hospital-^ St, Thomases Hospital^ St, Oeorg^s 
Hospital — Westminster Hospital — Middlesex Hospitalr-^King's 
CoUege Hospital— North London Hospital — Dreadnought Hospital 
Ship. Dr. Carpenter's observations on the dietanes of Eng- 
lish Hospitals — reply thereto. Dietaries qf the Royal Naval 
Hospitals, the Marine Infirmaries, and the Royal Ordnance 
Hospitals 497—513 

7. Dietaries for the Insane, Dr. Conolly's observations thereon— 

cases of refusal of food. Dietaries qf the Hanwell Lunatic 
Asylum, Bethlem Hospital, Bud St. Luk^s Hospital , , .513^517 

5. Dietaries for Puerperal Women, Dietaries qf the City qf London 

Ijying-in Hospital and General Lying-in Hospital, Westminster 517 



XVI CONTENTS. 

Chap. V.-ON THE DIETETICAL REGIMEN SUITED FOR DIS- 
ORDERED STATES OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 

Page 

General observations thereon. Division of the subject . . . . 518 

1. Cookery qf Foods. Boiling, Roasting, Broiling, Baking, and 

Frying. Relative influence of these processes on the diges- 
tibility of food 518—521 

2. Times of Eating, General precepts thereon .... 521 — 522 

3. Quantity qf Food taken at one Meal. To be judged of by the 

feelings — satisfaction, not satiety, to be produced . . 522 — ^524 

4. Conduct hrfore^ at^ and ofter eating. Circumstances affecting 

digestion . . . . , 524 

5. Nature and Quality of the Food eaten. Relative value of ani- 

mal and vegetable diet — bulk of food — solid and liquid 
food — acidity of stomach, what induced by — lactic acid — 
fatty acid»— fatty fermentation. — Bread, biscuits, pastry, 
puddings, pancakes. Butchers' meat. Venison and rabbits. 
Birds. Fish. Shell-fish. Potatoes, the cabbage tribe, peas, 
beans. The oily seeds. Fleshy fruits. Drinks, aqueous, 
malt liquor, wine, weak spirit, tea, coffee, chocolate, cocoa. 
Condiments. Conclusion 524—532 

Index 533—542 



CORRIGENDA bt ERRATA. 

The reader is requested to correct with the pen the following typographical 
erron: — 

Pug*. Lin*. 

8 . 13 ybr "77-75," read "7750." 

25 . 20 /or "12C + 17 Water + 50," reorf "12C + 8-5Water+ 110." 

25 . 27 qfter "interest," insert "as oxygen." 

61 . 5 for " refining," read " preparing raw." 

61 23-4 It should have been stoted, that the "bones of the sheep's feet" 
and " ox's head" had been digested in muriatic add. 

66 . 13 firom bottom, for " oralbumine," read " ovalbumen." 

138 . 24 for " peas," read " pears." 

231 . 24 /br " 31," read " 21." 

242 . 4 omit the words " alimentary qualities of the." 

368 . last line, omt7 the word " On." 



ON 

FOOD AND DIET. 



PART I.-OF FOODS. 

The substances employed by man as food consist of 
certain compound bodies termed Alimentary Prin- 
ciples, which, by their mixture or union, constitute 
our ordinary foods : these, for the sake of distinction, 
I shall denominate Compound Aliments. 

Thus meat (a compound aliment) consists princi- 
pally of fibrine, albumen, gelatme, hsematosin, fat, 
and water (alimentary principles). Wheat (a com- 
pound aliment) is composed of starch, gluten, sugar, 
and gum (alimentary principles). 

Alimentary principles are themselves compound 
substances. They consist of two, three, four, or more, 
simple or undecompounded bodies, usually denomi- 
nated elements. These are the Chemical Elements, or 
Elementary Constituents of Foods. 

Thus fibrine (an alimentary principle) is composed 
of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, 
and sulphur (chemical elements). Gum (an alimen- 
tary principle) consists of carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen (chemical elements). 

I propose, therefore, to consider successively — 

1 . The Chemical Elements of Foods* 

2. Alimentary Principles. 

3. Compound Aliments. 

B 



^ 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



Chap. I. — Of the CJiemical Elements of Foods. 

Those bodies from which chemists have hitherto 
failed to extract other substances of entirely different 
properties, are denominated Simple or Undecom- 
pounded Bodies, or Chemical Elements. 

At the present time, fifty-five* such bodies are 
known. Arranged alphabetically, they are as fol- 
lows : — 

CHEMICAL ELEMENTS. 





Equivalent 


Bquivatsnt 


vr 

ComMning Pro- 


Combining Pro- 




portion. 






portion. 




(Hydrogeiu-1) 


Symbol. 


(Hydrogen^J) 


Sgmboi. 


1. Aluminum 


10 


Al 


29. Mercury 1 
(Hydrargyrum) f 


202 


Hg 


2. Antimony > 
(Stibium) . S 


65 


An or Sb 


30. Molybdenum 

31. Nickel. . . 


48 


Mo 


3. Arsenicum 


38 


Ar or As 


29 


Ni 


4. Barium . , 


. 69 


Ba 


32. Nitrogen . . 


14 


N 


5. Bismuth . . 


72 


Bi 


33. Osmium . . 


100 


Os 


6. Boron . . < 


10 


Bo 


34. Oxygen . . 


8 





7. Bromine * 


78 


Br 


35. Palladium . 


54 


Pd 


8. Cadmium . 


56 


Cd 


36. Phosphorus . 


16 


P 


9. Calcium . 


20 


Ca 


37. Platinum . . 


99 


PI 


10. Carbon 


. • 6 


C 


38. Potassium \ 
(Kalium) f 


40 


K 


11. Cerium 


46 


Ce 


12. Chlorine . 


. 36 


CI 


39. Rhodium . . 


52 


R 


13. Chromium 


28 


Cr 


40. Selenium . . 


40 


Se 


14. Cobalt . . 


30 


Co 


41. Silicon. . . 


8 


Si 


15. Columbium ) 

(Tantalum) S 

16. Copper {Cu-f 

17. Fluorine. . 


185 


Ta 


42. Silver (Ar- > 

gentum) . S 

43. Sodium > 
(Natrium) . ( 


108 


Ag 


32 


Cu 


24 


N 


19 


F 


44. Strontium 


44 


Sr 


18. Glucinum . 


27 


G 


45. Sulphur . . 

46. Tellurium . 


16 


S 


19. Gold (Aurum] 


1 200 


Au 


64 


Te 


20. Hydrogen . 


1 


H 


47. Thorium . . 


60 


Th 


21. Iodine . . 


. 126 


I 


48. Tin (Stanwum) 


58 


Sn 


22. Iridium 


98 


Ir 


49. Titanium . . 


24 


Ti 


23. Iron (Ferrum) 


28 


Fe 


50. Tungsten > 
( Wo^ram) J 


95 


W 


24. Lanthanium 


. P 


La 


25. Lead (Plum-? 
bum) . .S 


104 


PI 


51. Uranium . . 


68 


U 


52. Vanadium 


217 


V 


26. Lithium . 


8 


Li 


53. Yttrium . . 


32 


Y 


27. Magnesium 


12 


Ma 


54. 2^nc . . . 


32 


Zu 


28. Manganese 


28 


Mn 


55. Zirconium 


33 


Zr 



* A fifty-sixth element, called Didym, has been recently announced. 
It is a metal which is found along with Cerium and Lanthanium 
(Poggendorflfs Annalen der Physik und Chemief vol. xlvi. No. 7, p. 503). 



ELEMENTS OF ORGANISED BODIES. 



3 



As far as we have at present ascertained, these are 
the substances which constitute the elements of all 
known bodies (mineral and organised). 

It has long been suspected that many of these sup- 
posed elementary bodies are themselves compounded*. 
The suspicion has arisen from the analogies which 
exist between some of the undecompounded substances 
(especially the metals) ; as well as from the difficulty 
of accounting for the presence of several of the so- 
called elements found in organised beings. But though 
it may be well founded, yet chemists have agreed to 
call those substances simple or elementary which have 
hitherto resisted every attempt to resolve them into 
other and simpler parts ; and, therefore, when the phrase 
element or simple body is used, we merely mean a 
substance which no one, as yet, has been able to de- 
compose. 

Of the fifty-five above-mentioned elementary sub- 
stances, there have been found in Organised Bodies 
about nineteen only ; these are arranged alphabetically 
in the following table : — 



CHEMICAL ELEMENTS OF ORGANISED OR LIVING 

BODIES. 



1. Carbon 

2. Hydrogen 

3. Oxygen 

4. Nitrogen 

5. Phosj^orus 



I 6. Sulphur 
7. Silicon 
S. Chlorine 
9. Iodine 
10. Bromine 



11. Fluorine 

12. Potassium 

13. Sodium 

14. Calcium 

15. Magnesium 



16. Iron 

17. Man^^anese 

18. Aluminum 

19. Copper? 



* Some interesting observations on this subject will be found in Sir 
H. Davy's Elements qf Chemical PkUofopky, p. 478, et seq. London, 
1812.-*See also Berzelius's Traiti de Chimie, t ii. p. 268. Paris, 1830. 

Very recently it has been asserted that carbon is convertible into 
silicon (Dr. Sam. H. Brown, Transactione qfthe Royal Society qfEdtm- 



4 ELEMENTS OF FOODS 

Though I have included Copper as an element of 
organised bodies, in consequence of its having been 
found in them by several chemists *, it is, probably, 
only an accidental constituent Goldf, and, more 
recently, Learf J and Arsenicum ^^ have been declared 
to be constituents of organised bodies ; but there is 
reason, I think, to suspect some error in the observa- 
tions. 

A living body has no power of forming elements^ or 
of converting one elementary substance into another || ; 



burgh, for 1841) ; but the assertion has not been corroborated by sub- 
sequent experiments. 

• Copper has been detected in plants by BischofT (De Candolle, 
Physioloffie VigUale, t. i. p. 389), Meissner {Ann. de Chim, et de Phyt, 
t iv. p. 106), and by Sarzeau {Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. t. xlix. p. 334). 
The last mentioned chemist also found it in the blood of animals. 

t Several distinguished chemists have asserted the existence of gold 
in vegetables (Chaptal, Elements of Chemistry^ vol. ii. p. 442). 

X According to Devergie {Journal de Chimie MidicaU, t. iv. 2^« S^rie, 
p. 591, 1838), lead and copper are constituents of the bodies of man 
and other animals. 

§ Orfila {Journ. de Chim. Mid. t. v. 2*« Sdr. p. 632, 1839; asserts, 
that arsenicum is a constituent of the bones of man and other animals. 
But Dr. G. O. Rees {Guy^s Hospital Reports, No. xii.), Messrs. Danger 
and Flandrin, and the Commissioners appointed by the French Academy 
of Sciences {Journal de Pharmacie, t. xxiv. p. 428, Juillet, 1841), have 
repeated his experiments without detecting it. 

II Dr. Prout {Phil. Ttans. 1822, p. 377) asserts, that the lime found 
in the skeleton of the chick when it quits the shell, did not pre-exist 
in the recent egg ; so that the only possible sources whence it could be 
derived are the shell and transmutation from other substances sup- 
posed to be elementary. But as the membrane in contact with the 
«hell is never vascular, and as both the albumen and yolk contain, at 
the end of incubation, a considerable quantity of earthy matter, which 
it is to be supposed would have been appropriated to the bone in pre- 
ference to that derived from a remote source. Dr. Prout doubts whether 
the origin or source of the lime is referable to the shell. Indeed, it is 
tolerably clear, that he believes in the capability of the vital energies 
to effect the transmutation of some of the so-called elements ; and 



ELEMENTS OF THE FOOD OF MAN. 6 

and it therefore follows that the ekments of which 
the body of an animal is composed must be the 
elements of its food. 

The essential constituents of the human body are 
thirteen ; and the same, therefore, must be the ele- 
ments of our food *. 

CHEMICAL ELEMENTS OF THE FOOD OF MAN. 



1. Carbon 

2. Hydrogen 

3. Oxygen 

4. Nitrogen 



5. Phosphorus 
6 Sulphur 
7. Iron 



8. Chlorine 

9. Sodium 
10. Calcium 



11. Potassium 

12. Magnesium 

13. Fluorine 



in a more recent work (On the Nature and Treatment qf Stomach and 
Urinary Diseases^ p. xxxvi. 3rd edit. 1840), he expresses himself more 
decidedly on this point. ** Some imagine," he observes, " that the 
mineral incidental principles of organised beings are generated during 
the vital process ; while others maintain that they are derived ab 
extemo. My belief is, that, under certain extraordinary circumstances, 
the vital agents can form what we now consider as elements ; but that, 
in ordinary, such elements are chiefly derived ab extemo, in conjunction 
with the alimentary principles;" and in another part of the same 
work (p. xxix.), he speaks of the assimilating organs being able, under 
extraordinary circumstances, " to decompose principles which are still 
considered as elementary ; nay, to form azote or carbon." 

These opinions, however well founded, in no way affect the accuracy 
of the proposition which I have above laid down in the text ; for Dr. Prout 
himself, in his Bridgewater Treatise {Chemistry, Meteorology, and the 
Function qf Digestion considered with rtference to Natural Theology ^ 
p. 431, 1834) lays down a similar one. "No organic agent," he says, 
** has the power either of creating material elements, or of changing one 
such element into another." His opinions merely affect the question 
of the elementary nature of some of the substances which chemists 
have not hitherto been able to decompose. At p. 432 of the last 
quoted work, he observes, that *' while it is thus denied that organised 
beings possess the power, either to create or change, in the strict ac- 
ceptance of these terms ; it has been admitted to be exceedingly 
probable, that the organic agent is, within certain limits, qualified to 
compose and decompose many substances which are now viewed as 
elements ; and that the organic agent does thus apparently form and 
transmute these imagined elements." 

* Traces of manganese have been detected in the blood ; but I have 
not included this metal as an essential constituent of the human system* 



6 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

These substances I now proceed to notice indivi- 
dually. 

1. Carbon. — ^In the pure and crystallized state, car- 
bon constitutes the diamond, a substance which Sir D. 
Brewster * suspects to be of vegetable origin. In its 
more familiar but impure forms, carbon constitutes 
plumbago (graphite or black-lead) and charcoal (animal 
and vegetable). The last-mentioned substance is 
always contaminated with various earthy bodies de- 
rived from the organic matter from which the charcoal 
was made. Thus animal charcoal obtained from bones, 
and known as bone black, contains only ten per cent, 
of carbon. 

COMPOSITION OF BONE BLACK. 

Carbon 10-0 

Phosphate of Lime ) 

Carbonate of Lime i 

Carburet or Silicet of Iron .... 2*0 
Sulphuret of Calcium, or Iron . . . traces 

Animal Charcoal or Bone Black f • • 100*0 

Vegetable Charcoal , obtained from wood, contains 
a much larger proportion of carbon. 

In some countries, siliceous and aluminous substances are eaten, but 
they can scarcely be denominated aliments ; and I have not, there- 
fore, inserted silicon and aluminum among the elements of the food of 
man. '' The negroes of Quinea, the Javanese, the New Caledonians, 
and many South American tribes, eat clay as a luxury " (Elliotson's 
Human Physiology, p. 63, 1840). The Otomacks, a savage race on the 
banks of the Orinoco, appease their hunger for two or three months, ac- 
cording to Humboldt, by distending their stomachs with clay. The 
fossil farina, which, according to Stanislas Julien (Comptes Rendnu, 
1841, 2 Semest. p. 358), is used in China, in times of great scarcity, 
as a food, contains 13*2 per cent, of organic matter (Pay en. Ibid, p. 480), 
and may, therefore, possess some slightly nutritive qualities. 

* Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. iii. p. 98 ; and Philosophical 
Magazine, vol. i. p. 147. 1827. 

t Dumas, Traits de Chimie appliquS aux Arts, t. i. p. 450. 



CARBON. 



COMPOSITION OF VEGETABLE CHARCOAL. 



Carbon 

Volatile matter . . . 
Calcined ashes . . . . 


Thorn. 


Poplar. 


Maple. 


Ash. 


Aapen. 


Spindle. 


880 
9-6 
2-4 


85-6 

13-4 

1-0 


85-2 

13-8 

10 


83-2 

150 

1-8 


82-0 

150 

30 


82*8 

15-6 

1-6 


Vegetable Charcoal • . . 


1000 


1000 


lOOH) 


1000 


100-0 


100-0 



Carbon is an essential constituent of every living or 
organised tissue^ both vegetable and animal. It is, 
therefore, a necessary ingredient of food ; and nature 
has accordingly supplied it in the aliment which she 
has provided for all living beings in the early stage of 
their existence. Thus it is an element of the organic 
substances composing seeds, and from which the em- 
bryo plant derives its first nutriment. The yolk of 
eggs (the food of the embryo chick), and milk, on 
which young mammals subsist during the first period 
of their existence after birth, also contain it. 

The quantity of it which is contained in diflferent 
foods is as follows: — 

QUANTITY OP CARBON IN FOODS. 
l.^Alimentary Principles, 

a. NoN-NlTROOSNlSBD : 

Per-centaffei^bTweiffht, Authority .f 

' Anhydrous Cane Sugar . . 47.05 Peligot. 

Sugar Candj 42,1 

Sugar of Milk 40.0 

Grape Sugar (from Honey) . 36.36 

( Wheat Starch 37.5 

J Ditto, dried at 350» Fahr. . 44.0 

1 Arrow Root 36.4 

^ Ditto,highlydriedat212»Fahr. 44.4 

{Gum Arabic 36.3 
Ditto, dried at 212«> Fahr. . 41.4 
Ditto, dried at 240p Fahr. . 45.1 



Saeekarine 



Amylaetout 



Prout & Liebig. 

Prout. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Mulder. 



• Berthier, TraUi des Etsaiipar la vote siche, t i. p. 286. 
t The analyses of Liebig, Scherer, Jones, Playfair, and Boeckmann, 
alluded to in this table, are taken from Liebig's Animal Chemistry, 



8 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



Acidulous 



Alcoholic . 



Oleaginous 



(Pectine (from Sweet Apples) 45.198 Mulder. 
Ditto (from Sour Apples) . 45.853 Fremy. 
Ditto (in Pectinate of Lead) 43.5 
' Acetic Acid (anhydrous) . 47.06 
Citric Acid (hypothetical or 

dry) 43.63 

Ditto (^commercial crystals) . 34.29 
V Tartanc Acid (anhytfrous) . 36.36 

Alcohol 52.18 

Butter 65.6 66rard. 

Mutton Fat 78.996 Chevreul. 

Hog's Lard 79.098 Ditto. 

i Olive Oil 77.75 {^taS^.^" 

h, NlTROOENISED : 



Proteine Com- 
pounds 



Gelatinous 



' Animal Albumen (from Eggs) 55.000 Scherer. 

Fibrine 55.002 Ditto. 

— »-»Ca8eine(fromfreshMilk)54.825 Ditto. 

YegetableAlbumen(fromWheat)55.01 Jones. 

Fibrine 54.617 Scherer. 

Caseine . . . .54.138 Ditto. 

Gluten (from Wheat) . . . 55.22 Jones. 

Tendons of Calves' Feet . . 50.960 Scherer. 

Isinglass 50.557 Ditto. 

Cartilages of Calves' ribs 

(chondrine) 50.895 Ditto. 



Bonssingault. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 



2.— C&m/70tmJ Aliments, 

a. Vegetable: 
Wheat (dried in vacuo at 230» Fahr.) . . .46.1 

Oats (ditto) 50.7 

Rye (ditto) 46.2 

Potatoes 12.2598 Ditto. 

Ditto (dried in vacuo at 230» Fahr.) .... 44.0 Ditto, 

Turnips 3.217 Ditto. 

Ditto (dried in vacuo at 230° Fahr.) .... 42.9 Ditto. 

Jerusalem Artichoke (ditto) 43.3 Ditto. 

Peas 35.743 Playfeir. 

Ditto (dried m vacuo at 230° Fahr.) .... 46.5 Bonssingault. 

LentiU 37.38 Playfair. 

Beans 38.24 Ditto. 

Fresh Bread 30.15 Liebig. 

Black Bread (dried at 210°) 45.41 Boeckmann. 

(London, 1842). Those of Bonssingault, are taken from his papers in 
the Annales de ChinUe et de Physique (t. Ixiii., Ixvii., bdx., and Izxi.) — 
The results of Mulder's analysis of pectine, T have taken from the 
Pharmaceutisches Central-Blatt fur 1838 (p. 338) ; those of Fremy's 
analysis of the same substance from the Journal de Pharmacie (t. zxvi. 
p. 373). Front's experiments were published in the Philosophical Trans- 
actions, for 1827. I have taken the results of B^rard's and Chevreul's 
analyses from L. Gmelin's Handbuch der theoretisehen Chsmis (vol. 11. 
p. 439.) 



CARBON. 9 

h. Animal: 

Ox Blood 10.392) Plavfair and 

Ditto (dried) 51.96 J Boeckmann. 

Fresh Meat (devoid of fiELt) 13.6 Liebig. 

Ditto (with |th fat and cellular tissue) . .21.75 Ditto. 

Dry muscular Flesh (Beef) 51.89 Boeckmann. 

Roasted Flesh (Roe Deer) 52.60 Ditto. 

Ditto (Beef) 52.59 Playfeir. 

Ditto (Veal) . . . • 52.52 Ditto. 

Soup of the House of Arrest at Giessen . • 0.46848Liebig. 

The quantity of carbon consumed, in the form of 
food, by different individuals and at different times, is 
subject to very considerable variation. Age, sex, 
peculiarities (individual or national), temperature and 
density of the air, occupation (laborious or inactive), 
and amount of clothing, are among the circum- 
stances which produce these diversities. 

" From the accurate determination of the quantity 
of carbon daily taken into the system in the food, as 
well as of that proportion of it which passes out of 
the body in the faeces and urine, unbumed — that is, in 
some form in which it is not combined with oxygen — 
it appears that an adult, taking moderate exercise, 
consumes 13 1% oz. [Hessian=16TV oz. avoirdupois] 
of carbon daily*." 

Liebig's statement is based on observations made on 
the average daily consumption of food by from 27 to 
30 soldiers, of the Body Guard of the Grand Duke of 
Hesse Darmstadt in barracks, for a month, or by 855 
men for one day. I have drawn up the following table 
from his statements, and converted the Hessian weights 
into avoirdupois weights. 



* Liebig, Animal CkemUtry, or Organic Chemistry tn its AppUeatioms 
to Physiology and Pathology, edited by Dr. W. Gregory, p. 14. 
Lond.1842. 



10 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



KIndf of Food. 



Ordinary meat containing | 
of fat and cellular tissue 

Fat or Lard 

Lentils 

Jl eas ■■■•••• 

Beans 

Potatoes 

Bread 



Avoirdapois weight 
of Food. ! 



lbs. ox. gn. 

306 4 186 

3 13 304i 

3 10 412 

12 12 161 

15 76 

1093 2 357 

1923 9 214i 



Total for 855 men for one 
day 

Average for one man for 
one day 



3358 5 398i 
3 14 370i 



AvoirdapoU wdffht 
of Carbon. 



1 



lbs. ot. gn, 

66 9 3974 

3 1 156^ 

11 10 131 A 

133 5 374A 

603 15 300i 



818 11 4S 
15 140 



In addition to the above, the 855 men consumed. 



Of Green Vegetables (Cabbages, Greens, Turnips, &c.) 

OfSourkrout 

Of Onions, Leeks, Celery, &c 



ibt. 
192 
110 

26 



OB. 



15 ir 

2 325 
11 203i 



Total for 855 men for one day . 
Average for one man for one day 



326 6 55 
6 63i 



It also appears, from an approximate report of the 
serjeant-major, that each soldier consumed daily, on 
an average, out of the barracks, the following quan- 
tities of other foods : — 

Sausages 3^oz. | Avoirdupois 

Butter i oz. & 33i grs. J weight 

Beer 1 pint 

Brandy i^pint 

So that we may fairly assume, that each of these 
soldiers consumed daily about one pound (avoirdupois) 
of carbon. Now if we suppose that while under ex- 
periment he neither gained nor lost in weight, what, it 
may be asked, became of the carbon thus taken in the 
form of food ? 

I shall assume, with Liebig, that the carbon of the 



CARBON. 1 1 

green vegetables^ sourkrout, and onions, was equal to 
that of the faeces and the urine, and shall exclude 
from our calculation the carbon of the small quantity 
of food (sausages, butter, beer, and brandy) taken in 
the alehouse. We have, therefore, to account for the 
disposal of 15 ozs. 140 grs. avoirdupois (==6702i grs. 
troy) of carbon j nearly the whole of which quantity 
must have been thrown out of the system by the lungs 
and the skin in the form of carbonic acid. 

Now, 6 grs. of carbon combine with 16 grs. of 
oxygen, and form 22 grs. of carbonic acid. Hence 
6702 J grs. troy of carbon require 17,840 grs. of oxy- 
gen gas to yield 24,542i grs. of carbonic acid ; and 
this quantity of oxygen must, therefore, be derived 
from the air, either by the lungs or skin, or by both. 
But oxygen is also consumed in the system in the 
oxidation of hydrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus, and 
this quantity also must be derived from the same 
source (the atmosphere) and by the same means. 

The quantity of oxygen consumed, and of car- 
bonic acid produced, in respiration, by an adult man, 
in twenty-four hours, has been variously estimated as 
follows : — 



Consumption of Oxygen and Production qf Carbonic Acid in Respiratum 

by an Adult Man in 24 hour$ 



Oxygen comnixned. 



CutonlcAdd .<%SSS!f 



produced. 



Cubic In. Qm, 



Lavoisier & Seguin 46037 or 15661 
Menzies .... 51480 or 17625 

Davy 45504 or 15751 

Allen & Pepys . . 39600 or 13464 
Coathupe . . . 1 17856 



Cubic In. Gn. 
14930 or 8584 

31680 or 17811 
39600 or 18612 



Acid. 



Gre. 
2820 (French) 

(English) 

4853 (ditto) 
5148 (ditto) 
2616 (ditto) 



It is obvious that the highest of these estimates is 



12 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

below the quantity of oxygen required to oxidate 
the carbon consumed by the Darmstadt soldierg. 
But in drawing any conclusions as to the absolute 
amount of oxygen consumed in respiration, we must 
not omit to consider the numerous circumstances 
which interfere with the results, and render it difficult, 
if not impossible, to obtain a correct estimate. The 
management of the apparatus, the nicety of the mani- 
pulation, the degree of muscular exertion employed, 
the quantity and quality of the food consumed by the 
individual experimented on, the state of the system, 
and various other circumstances, concur in affecting 
the results. 

Moreover, it is probable that the skin produces on 
the air changes analogous to those effected by the 
lungs: that is, it absorbs oxygen, and evolves car- 
bonic acid.* 

Furthermore, if the amount of carbonaceous food 
be less than that supplied to the Darmstadt soldiers, 
it is obvious that less oxygen will be required to oxi- 
dise the carbon. Now, according to Liebig, ** prisoners 
in the Bridewell at Marienschloss (a prison where 
labour is enforced) do not consume more than 10.5 oz. 
[Hessian = lli^^fe avoirdupois] of carbon daily; 
those in the House of Arrest at Giessen, who are 
deprived of all exercise, consume only 9oz.f [Hes- 
sian = 9-Ar avoirdupois] ; and in a family well 

^ See Bostock's Elementary System pf Pkysioloyy, vol. ii. p. 237i et seq^ 
I Lond. 1826. 

t At p. 36 of the English translation of Liebig's Animal Chemistry, 
it is stated that 8*5 oz. of carbon are consumed : but at p. 293, the trans- 
\ lator has given reasons for believing that the quantity should be 9 oz. 

i 
t 



CARBON. 13 

known to me, consisting of nine individuals, five 
adults, and four children of different ages, the average 
daily consumption of carbon for each is not more 
that 9.5 oz. [Hessian = lOiVV avoirdupois] of car- 
bon. We may safely assume, as an approximation, 
that the quantities of oxygen consumed in these 
different cases are in the ratio of these numbers.'* 

Ten ounces avoirdupois or 4376 grs. troy of 
carbon combine with 11666*6 grs. troy of oxygen, 
and thereby form 16041*6 grs. of carbonic acid. 

By the union of carbon with oxygen, in whatever 
part of the system this is effected, heat must be 
evolved. At least, in all other cases, the formation of 
carbonic acid is attended with the evolution of heat; 
and we have a right, therefore, to assume, that the 
same takes place within the body. We are, in fact, 
acquainted with no conceivable reason why it should 
be otherwise. Now, according to Despretz *, one 
pound of pure charcoal evolves, by its combustion in 
oxygen gas, sufficient heat to raise the temperature of 
781bs. of water from 32* Fahr. to 212** Fahr. ; and 
this must be about the amount evolved in the case of 
the Darmstadt soldiers, independently of the heat 
produced by the union of oxygen with hydrogen 
hereafter to be noticed. 

It appears to me that we have a sufficient explana- 
tion of animal temperature in the chemical changes 
just referred to. Indeed, it cannot be doubted that a 
large proportion, if not the whole, of the heat evolved 
by animals, is produced by chemical action. But it is 

* Graham, Elements qf Chemistry, p. 250. 



14 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

scarcely to be expected that experiments can be so 
nicely and delicately performed as to demonstrate in 
a precise manner the truth of this chemical theory of 
animal heat : for while, on the one hand, considerable 
difficulty is experienced in determining the actual 
quantity of combustible matter oxidated in the sys- 
tem, it is almost impossible, on the other, to estimate, 
with absolute nicety, the amount of heat actually im- 
parted by a living animal to surrounding bodies. The 
results of our experiments, therefore, can only fur- 
nish, at the most, approximations to the truth *. 

Liebig has endeavoured to show, that by the con- 
version of starch or sugar into fat, oxygen is supplied 
to the system ; and that by the union of this disen- 
gaged oxygen with carbon (from the bile, for example) 
heat is developed. Suppose 1 equivalent of carbonic 
acid COa, and 7 equivalents of oxygen, O7, to be ab- 
stracted from 1 equivalent of starch, Ci^ H^q Ojo, we have, 
in the residue, the empirical formula for fat, Cn Hjo O. 

RELATIVE COMPOSITION OF STARCH AND FAT. 

1 eq. Starch . . C12 Hw do 1 eq. Fat . . . . Cu Hw O 

1 eq. Carbonic Acid C Ot 

7 eq. Oxygen . . O7 



Cia Hio Oio 

The oxygen thus presumed to be separated from the 
starch, can only be disengaged in the form of either 
carbonic acid or water, or of both ; therefore it must 
have combined with carbon or hydrogen, or both. 

• Despretz observes, that in none of his experiments did respiration 
produce less than -^ths, nor more than ^ths of the whole heat emitted 
by the animal (Ann. de Ckimie et Physiq, t. xxvi. p. 361, 1824). See 
also Dulong's paper in the Mem, de VAcad. Royale des Sciences, t xviii. 
p. 327, 1842. 



CARBON. 15 

Now, Liebig has adduced several reasons for pre- 
suming that heat must attend the formation of carbonic 
acid under theise circumstances. "Thus," says this 
distinguished chemist, " in the formation of fat, the 
vital force possesses a means of counteracting a defi- 
ciency in the supply of oxygen, and consequently in 
that of the heat indispensable for the vital process." 

In the natural and healthy condition of the system, 
the food supplies the necessary carbon for the support 
of animal heat, but when food is withheld, the fat of 
the body is consumed; its carbon being converted 
into carbonic acid, its hydrogen into water. Expe- 
rience has satisfactorily shown that the heat of the 
blood is the same in all climates and in all conditions 
of atmospheric temperature. Now it follows that a 
larger quantity of combustible matter is required in 
cold climates and cold weather, for keeping up this 
temperature, than in hot climates and warm weather ; 
since a greater amount of heat must be given off to 
surrounding media in the former than in the latter. 
Hence the necessity for a more liberal supply of food 
in cold weather. " He who is well fed," observes Sir 
John Ross,* " resists cold better than the man who is 
stinted, while the starvation from cold follows but too 
soon a starvation in food. Tliis, doubtless, explains 
in a great measure the resisting powers of the natives 
of these frozen climates ; their consumption of food, 
it is familiar, being enormous, and often incredible."f 

* Narrative qf a Second Voyage in Search qf a North west Passage, 
page 200. London, 1835. 

t Most persons are familiar with the accounts which have heen pub- 
lished respecting the gormandizing powers of the natives of the Arctic 
Regions. Captain Sir W. E. Parry (Second Voyage for the Discovery qf 



16 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

Moreover, it is obvious that the foods which, theoreti- 
cally, appear to be best suited for the inhabitants of 
these colder climates, are those which contain the 
largest amount of carbon and hydrogen, viz., the fats 
and oils, which contain from 66 to 80 per cent, of 
carbon. The celebrated traveller just quoted, further 
remarks, " that in every expedition or voyage to a 
polar region, at least if a winter residence is contem- 
plated, the quantity of food should be increased, be 
that as inconvenient as it may. It would be very 

the North-west Passage^ p. 413, Lond. 1824) states that, as a matter of 

curiosity, he one day tried how much food an Esquimaux lad, scarcely 

full grown, would consume, if freely supplied. " The under-mentioned 

articles were weighed before being given to him ; he was twenty hours 

in getting through them, and certainly did not consider the quantity 

extraordinary." 

The fluids were in fair proportion, 

viz. : — 
Rich gravy soup 1^ i)int. 
Raw spirits . . 3 wine glasses. 
Strong grog . . 1 tumbler. 
Total . 10 4 Water .... 1 gallon 1 pint. 

Sir John Ross (Narrative, p. 448, 1835) says, that an Esquimaux 
" perhaps eats twenty pounds of flesh and oil " daily. 

But the most marvellous account of gormandizing powers is that pub- 
lished by Captain Cochrane (Narrative of a Pedestrian Joumejf through 
Russia and Siberian Tartary, vol. i. p. 255, 3d edit 1825). He says, 
that the Russian Admiral Saritcheff was told that one of the Yakuti 
consumed in twenty-four hours " the hind quarter of a large ox, twenty 
pounds of fat, and a proportionate quantity of melted butter for his 
drink." The Admiral, to test the truth of the statement, gave him " a thick 
porridge of rice boiled down with three pounds of butter, weighing 
together twenty- eight pounds, and although the glutton had already 
breakfasted, yet did he sit down to it with great eagerness, and con- 
sumed the whole without stirring from the spot : and, except that his 
stomach betrayed more than an ordinary fulness, he shewed no sign 
of inconvenience or injury" ! ! Captain Cochrane also states (p. 352), 
that a good calf, weighing about two hundred pounds, ** may serve four or 
five good Yakuti for a single meal." In another place (p. 255) the same 
traveller observes, that he has repeatedly seen a Yakut or Tongouse 
devour forty pounds of meat a day ; and, he adds, ** I have seen three 
of these gluttons consume a rein-deer at one meal." 



ibt. ox. 

Sea-horse flesh, hard frozen 4 4 

ditto boiled ..44 

Bread and bread-dust . . 1 12 



CARBON. 17 

desirable indeed, if the men could acquire the taste for 
Greenland food, since all experience has shewn that 
the large use of oil and fat meats is the true secret of 
life in these frozen countries, and that the natives 
cannot subsist without it, becoming diseased, and 
dying, with a more meagre diet." 

The effect of cold in augmenting, and of heat in 
diminishing the appetite for food, is well known. I 
will not, however, go the length of Liebig in asserting, 
that if we were to go naked, as the Indians, or if in 
hunting or fishing we were exposed to the same de- 
gree of cold as the Samoyedes, we should be able to 
consume the half of a calf, besides a dozen of candles ^. 
For though it must be admitted that the inhabitant of 
a frozen region requires more abundant food than he 
who lives in a temperate climate, yet I feel that 
it is an error to ascribe the voracity and gormandizing 
powers of some of the natives of the colder regions to 
the influence of cold only. The Hottentots and 
the Bushmen [Bosjesmansjf of Southern Africa, in- 



• Annakn der Chemie und Pharmacies vol. xli. Liebig, or his trans- 
lator, seems to have had some misgivings about the ** ha\f of a caff,** 
since, in the English translation, I find " lOlbs qf flesh** substituted. 

t Barrow (Account qf Travels into the Interior of Southern 4fr^f^9 
vol. i. p. 152. 1801) says that the Hottentots are "the greatest 
gluttons upon the fece of the earth. Ten of our Hottentots," he adds, 
" ate a middling-sized ox, all but the two hind legs, in three days ; but 
they had very little sleep during the time, and had fasted the two pre- 
ceding days. With them the word is to eat or to sleep. When they 
cannot indulge in the gratification of the one, they generally find imme- 
diate relief in flying to the other." 

The same authority, when speaking of the Bosjesmans (op, cit. p. 288) 
tayi that they are equally filthy and gluttonous with the voracious 
Tuliures. " The three who accompanied us to our waggons had a sheep 
given to them about five in the evening, which was entirely consumed 

C 



18 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

dulge, as is well known, in beastly gluttony, yet this 
cannot be the effect of the temperature of their cli- 
mate ; while " the inhabitants of the Alpine regions 
of Southern Europe demand no such extravagance of 
food, nor are even the people of Lapland and the 
northern extremity of Norway conspicuous for such 
eating ; as is not less true of the Icelanders*." Instead, 
therefore, of ascribing the gluttony of the inhabitants 
of frozen regions solely to the low temperature to which 
they are exposed, I consider it to be in part the result 
of an instinct or propensity exercised by some portion 
of the brain. Phrenologists place alimeiitivenesSy or the 
organ of the propensity to eat and drink ^ " at the base 
of the middle lobe of the brain, adjoining and imme- 
diately below the situation occupied by the organ of 
destructiveness in carnivorous animalsf ." But while I 
entertain no doubt of the existence of such a propen- 
sity, I do not wish to offer any opinion as to the 
precise seat of it within the skull. To varying degrees 
in the power and activity of this propensity I ascribe 
the greater or less fondness for good living evinced by 
different individuals. It is well known that some per- 
sons are notorious, among their friends and acquain- 
tances, for their gormandizing propensity, while 
others are commonly reputed as being little eaters. 



by them before the noon of the followmg day. They continued, how- 
ever, to eat all night, without sleep and without intennission, till they 
had finished the whole animal. After this, their lank bellies were dis- 
tended to such a degree that they looked less like human creatures than 
before." 

• Sir J. Ross, op, supra cit. p. 447. 

t A System qf Phrenology, by George Combe, p. 230, 4th ed. Edinb. 
1S36. 



GABBON. 19 

Similar differences are observed between different na- 
tions. *'The great difference which exists between 
the French and Germans, in the organs of alimentive- 
ness, accounts for the difference between the two 
nations in sobriety. After the Spaniards, no nation 
in Europe is more sober than the French ; while the 
Germans are essentially great feeders. Among a pretty 
considerable number of German, Spanish, and French 
soldiers, who were in the same hospital at Caen, I have 
observed," says Dr. Vimont, " that a remarkable dif- 
ference existed among them in regard to the faculty in 
question. A light soup, some fruit, or a little meat, 
were sufficient for the Spaniards ; the repast of the * 
French consisted of three-fourths of the portion ; while 
the Germans swallowed the whole allowance, and con- 
tinually complained that they did not receive enough 
of meat and potatoes. Every time I happened to pass 
the wards where Jlie Germans were placed, I was certain 
to be assailed by the words ^^A, fleshy sir /" * 

Much less heat is evolved when there is a deficiency 
of food. " During the whole of our march," observes 
Sir John Franklin,t *' we experienced, that no quan- 
tity of clothing could keep us warm while we fasted, 
but on those occasions on which we were enabled to go 
to bed with full stomachs, we passed the night in a 
warm and comfortable manner." In tropical climates, 
and even in cooler regions during the summer, a 



* Dr. Yimont, quoted by Mr. 6. Combe, in his System qf Phrenology, 
p. 765. 

t Narratwe qf a Journey to the Shores of the Polar Sea, in the years 
1819 to 1822, p. 424. London, 1823. 



20 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

smaller quantity of food suffices to keep up the tem- 
perature of the body, and under the same circum- 
stances substances containing a less proportion of car- 
bon are better adapted for the preservation of healtli. 

The frequency of diseases of the liver, in hot seasons 
and tropical climates, is ascribed by Liebig to the 
accumulation of carbon in the system. " In our cli- 
mate," he observes *, " hepatic diseases, or those 
arising from excess of carbon, prevail in summer ; in 
winter, pulmonic diseases, or those arising from excess 
of oxygen, are more frequent." 

When the external temperature is high, less carbon 
is requisite to support the natural heat of the body, 
and in consequence of the air being expanded, we in- 
hale, at each inspiration, less oxygen by weight than in 
colder climates and seasons. If, therefore, we continue 
to consume large quantities of food, there will be an 
excess of carbonaceous matter in the system. 

The influence of external temperature, excess of 
food, and want of exercise, on the condition of the 
liver, is well shewn in the goose. The celebrated 
pdth de foies graSy prepared at Strasburg, are 
made of the livers of geese, artificially enlarged 
" by the cruel process of shutting the birds up in 
coops, within a room heated to a very high tempera- 
ture, and stuffing them constantly with foodf." 

In tropical climates and in hot seasons the system 
requires a smaller quantity, and a less carbonaceous 



* Animal Chemistry^ p. 24. 

t Murray's Hand-Bookfor Travellers on the Continent : being a Guide 
through Holland, Belgium, Prussia, and Northern Germany, p. 448. Lond. 
1836. 



HYDROGEN. 



21 



quality, of food than in colder countries and cold sea- 
sons ; and the frequent occurrence of hepatic disease 
among Europeans, who reside in tropical countries, is 
probably in part owing to their continued employment 
of a dietetical system fitted for colder climates. 

2. Hydrogen. — ^Hydrogen, like carbon, is an essen- 
tial constituent of every organised tissue ; and is, in 
consequence, a necessary ingredient of the food of 
every living being, both vegetable and animal. The 
nutritive principles of seeds, the albumen and oil of 
eggs, and the sugar, the butter and caseine of milk, 
therefore, contain it. 

Considered with respect to the quantity of hydrogen 
which they contain, alimentary principles may be ar- 
ranged in three groups: the first containing those 
substances whose oxygen and hydrogen are in the 
same relative proportion as in water ; the second, in- 
cluding those whose oxygen is to the hydrogen in a 
less proportion than in water, or which contain an ex- 
cess of hydrogen j and the third, comprehending those 
whose oxygen is to the hydrogen in a proportion 
greater than is necessary to form water, or which pos- 
sess an excess of oxygen. 

RELATIVE QUANTITY OP HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN IN 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



Gboup 1.— Principlet wbote 
ozyjren and hydrogen are 
in Cne aame ratio at in 
water. 


Group 3. <- Principles con- 
taining an excess of hydro- 
gen. 


Group 8. — Principles con- 
taining an excess of oxy- 
gen. 


Acetic Acid 
Starch 
Sagar 
Gum 


OU 

Alcohol 

Malic Acid 

Fibrine ^ Animal 

Albumen > and 

Caseine ) Vegetable 

Gluten 

Grelatinc 


Pectine 
Citric Acid 
Tartaric Acid 



22 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



Group 1 . Alimentary principles whose oxygen and 
hydrogen are in the same ratio as in water. The sub- 
stances of this group may be regarded as hydrates of 
carbon^ since they consist of carbon and water (or its 
elements). Their composition is as follows : — 

HYDRATES OP CARBON. 

Acetic Acid 12 C + 9 Water 

Starch 12 C + 10 Water 

Cane Sugar 12 C + 10 Water +1 Water 

Gum 12 C + 10 Water +1 Water 

Sugar of MUk . . . . 12 C + 10 Water +2 Water 
Grape Sugar 12 C + 10 Water + 4 Water 

It is obvious that these foods can yield carbon only 
to be oxidated in the system, since the hydrogen is 
already in combination with oxygen. This, therefore, 
is a sufficient explanation of the fact mentioned by 
Liebig, that the graminivorous animals expire a 
volume of carbonic acid equal to that of the oxygen 
inspired ; in other words, there is no loss of oxygen, 
sinc^ one volume of carbonic acid gas contains a 
volume of oxygen. 




1 eq. 

Carbon 

«6 



1 eq. 

Carbonic 

Acid 

«22 



In a state of nature, a large proportion of the food 
of these animals consists of principles (starch, sugar, 
and gum) whose hydrogen is saturated with oxygen. 
In no other way can we account for the fact just re- 
ferred to ; for, as Liebig correctly observes, ** at the 
temperature of the body, the affinity of hydrogen for 
oxygen far surpasses that of carbon for the same ele- 
ment," and, therefore, the return of an equal volume of 



HYDROGEN. 23 

carbonic acid by expiration is an evidence that there 
was a want of hydrogen for the oxygen to combine 
with. 

Group 2. Alimentary principles, whose oxygen is to 
the hydrogen in a less proportion than in water, or which 
contain an excess of hydrogen. — ^This group mcludes 
both nitrogenised and non-nitrogenised food. If we 
suppose the oxygen of these principles to be com- 
bined with hydrogen in the ratio to form water, there 
will remain, for each, an excess of hydrogen ; the 
amount of which, however, varies in different sub- 
stances. The following table, constructed on this 
view, shows the excess of hydrogen which each 
principle contains, the amount of carbon in each 
being calculated to be the same : — 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES CONTAINING EXCESS OP 

HYDROGEN. 

Malic Acid (anhydrous) «48 C + 18 Water + 6 H 

Fat (Lard) .... «48C+ 4.5 " + 38.5 H 

Alcohol «48C+24 " + 48 H 

Proteme «48C+14 " +22 H + 6N 

Albumen «48C+14 " + 22 H + 6N + S+P* 

Pibrine -48C+14 " + 22 H + 6N + 2S+P 

Caserne -48C+14 « + 22 H + 6N + S 

^STm .^''''.'1 -^^SC+IS « +23 H + 7.5N 
Chondrine .* ! ! . -48C+20 *' + 20 H + 6N 

The ultimate changes which these constituents of 
food undergo in the system, are the conversion of the 
carbon into carbonic acid, and the hydrogen into 
water. " It signifies nothing," says Liebig, " what 



* The letters 8 and P are not intended to express the absolute num- 
ber of equivalents of sulphur and phosphorus, but only the relatiye 
proportions of these two elements to each other. 



24 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

intennediate fonns food may assume, what changes 
it may undergo in the body, the last change is uni- 
fonnly the conversion of its carbon into carbonic acid, 
and of its hydrogen into water. The unassimilated 
hydrogen of the food, along with the unburned or 
unoxidised carbon, is expelled in the urine or in the 
solid excrements." 

By the union of hydrogen with oxygen, and the 
consequent formation of water, a considerable degree 
of heat is developed. According to Despretz *, 1 lb. 
of hydrogen yields, by combustion with oxygen, 
sufficient heat to raise the temperature of 236.4 lbs. 
of water from 32^ Fahr. to 212** Fahr. ; weight for 
weight, therefore, hydrogen greatly exceeds carbon in 
its calorific power. 

Part of the heat developed in carnivorous animals 
must arise from the oxidation of hydrogen ; for, in 
the first place, hydrogen, (as of the fat) disappears 
from the system, and there is no other mode by which 
it can have done so except by union with oxygen, and 
its consequent conversion into water. In the second 
place, of the atmospheric oxygen taken into the lungs 
during inspiration, the whole is not found, in the in- 
spired air, in union with carbon, nearly every experi- 
menter having detected a loss f . 

Bostock J calculates that 45,000 cubic inches of 



* Graham, Elements qf Chemittrjf, p. 250. 

t Messrs. Allen and Pepys (Phil. TVans. 1809, p. 404) ascribed the 
slight loss observed in their researches to some accidental circumstance, 
and inferred, therefore, that the oxygen which disappears is exactly 
replaced by an equal volume of carbonic acid. 

I Elementary Syetem of Physiology ^ vol. ii. p. 110. Lond. 1826. 



HYDROGEN OXYGEN. 25 

oxygen gas are consumed in respiration by a man, 
under ordinary circumstances, in twenty-four hours ; 
but that of this quantity only about 40,000 cubic 
inches are found in the expired air in combination 
with carbon. The remaining 6000 cubic inches must, 
therefore, be employed in the oxidation of other 
combustible matters (principally hydrogen) in the 
system. 

Group 3. Alimentary principles^ whose oxygen is to 
the hydrogen in a proportion greater than is necessary 
to form water. — ^None of the substances of this group, 
which includes pectine (vegetable jelly) and some 
vegetable acids, are nitrogenised. The following table 
represents the composition of these principles, on the 
supposition that the hydrogen is combined with oxy- 
gen, in the ratio to form water, the calculation being 
made for the same amount of carbon in each. : — 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES CONTAINING AN EXCESS 

OF OXYGEN. 

Pectine »12 C + 17 Water+5 O 

Citric Acid (dry) . . -12C+5 " +60 
Tartaric Acid (dry) . =12 C+ 6 " +9 

All the hydrogen and part of the carbon of these prin- 
ciples are, therefore, in combination with oxygen. 

3. Oxygen. — Of all undecompounded or elemen- 
tary substances, none presents, to my mind, so much 
interest — a principle which constitutes not less than 
three-fourths of the known terraqueous globe * — 

* The following calculations support the above statement : — Oxygen 
is a constituent of the Aimo^here, of the Water, and of the Mineral 
Crust of the globe. It constitutes ^ by weight of the air, f of the 
aqueous vapour, and ^ of the carbonic acid of the atmosphere. Water, 
which covers | of the globe, at an average depth of about three miles, 
contains f of its weight of oxygen. Silica, carbonate of lime, and 



26 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

which is concerned in almost every change that occurs 
among natural bodies — and which is so mysteriously 
connected with life, that without its never-ceasing 
influence all vital phenomena would speedily cease ! 
As the continuance of the flame of a candle or lamp 
depends on the due supply of oxygen to the fat or 
the oil^ and as, in the voltaic apparatus, an electric 
current is excited by the oxidisement of a metal, so 
animal life seems to be inseparably connected with 
the influence of oxygen on the organism. Interrupt 
the influence of oxygen and the flame is extinguished, 
the electric current is stopped, and all vital phe- 
nomena cease. In all three processes, matter (oil, 
zinc, organic substances) is destroyed or consumed 
by the oxygen. So that though oxygen be essential 
to life — though it be vital air — yet its ultimate effect 
is destructive ; just as, in the lamp, it is the cause of 
the flame, but consumes the oil. " Man, and every 
other animal, are exposed at every period of their lives 
to the unceasing and destructive action of the atmos- 
phere; with every breath he expires a part of his 
body, every moment of his life he produces carbonic 
acid, the carbon of which his food must replace." 

Oxygen is a necessary ingredient of our food. The 
relative proportions of oxygen and hydrogen in 
different foods have been already alluded to (p. 21). 
The following table, taken from Liebig, gives the 



alumina, the three most abundant constituents of the strata of the 
earth, contain nearly half their weight of oxygen. Mi. De la Beche 
(Researches in Jlkeoretical Geology , p. 8.) calculates that silica alone 
constitutes 45 per cent, of the mineral crust of the globe, and of this 
one-half is oxygen. 



OXYGEN. 27 

relative proportions of carbon and oxygen in several 
alimentary principles : — 

RELATIVE PROPORTIONS OF CARBON AND OXYGEN IN 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Iq Fats (on an average) . 120 equivalents of Carbon 10 eq. of Oxygen 
In Fibrinei Albumen, and) .oq u og k 

Caseine . . . *. .{ 



In Starch .... 
In Cane Sugar . . 

In Gum 

In Sugar of Milk . 
In Grape Sugar . . 



120 




100 


120 




110 


120 




110 


120 




120 


120 




140 



II 
II 

41 
<l 



As the carbon and hydrogen of the food are ulti- 
mately, for the most part, throwrn out of the system in 
combination with oxygen — that is, in the form of 
carbonic acid and water — it follows that those foods 
which contain a small proportion of oxygen only 
must consume a greater amount of atmospheric oxy- 
gen than those which possess a larger quantity of this 
element. It cannot be doubted, therefore, that the 
quality of the food must affect the activity of the 
function of respiration. This is quite in accordance 
with the results of experience. . Mr. Spalding * a 
diver, found that he consumed more atmospheric oxy- 
gen in his diving-bell, when he had used a diet of 
animal food, or drank spirituous liquors; and ex- 
perience, therefore, had taught him that vegetable 
food, and water for drink, were best adapted for the 
performance of the duties of his business. Dr. Fyfe f 
also foimd that the consumption of oxygen was 
greatly reduced by the employment of vegetable diet. 



* See Dr. John Murray's System qf Materia MetUoa and Pharmacy , 
vol. i. p. 509, 5th ed. Edinb. 1S28. 

t Quoted by Dr. Bostock, in his Elementary System qf Phyeioloyy, 
vol. ii. p. 90. Lond. 1826. 



28 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

though he differed from Mr. Spalding in his account 
of the effect of alcohol on the respiratory function. 

The influence exercised by matters taken into the 
stomach on the process of respiration, is well illus- 
trated in the case of the vegetable salts of potash or 
soda. If the acetate, citrate, or tartrate of either of 
these alkalies be swallowed, the salt suffers partial 
decomposition in its passage through the system. Its 
base can be detected in the urine ; but its acid has 
disappeared, and is replaced by carbonic acid. To 
effect this change, a considerable quantity of oxygen 
must be consumed. In the case of acetate of potash, 
no less than eight equivalents of oxygen are required 
to convert the carbon of every atom of acetic acid 
into carbonic acid. 

CONVERSION OF ACETIC ACID INTO CARBONIC ACID 

AND WATER. 



1 eq. Acetic Acid C4 O3 H3 
8 eq. Oxygen — Os — 



4 eq. Carbonic Acid C4 Os 
3 eq. Water . . — O3 H3 



Total . . . C4 On Hs 



Total . . . C4 On H3 



When we take an ordinary effervescing draught 
composed of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda, 
there is developed, by their mutual reaction, tartrate 
of soda, which, in its passage through the system, 
suffers decomposition. Its tartaric acid disappears, 
and is converted into carbonic acid and water by 
means of oxygen. 

CONVERSION OF TARTARIC ACID INTO CARBONIC ACID 

AND WATER. 



1 eq. Tartaric Acid C« O* Ha 
5 eq. Oxygen . . — O* — 

Total .... CiOioHa 



4 eq. Carbonic Acid C4 Ow — 
2 eq. Water . . . —- O, H, 

Total .... C4O10H2 



OXYGEN — NITROGEN. 29 

Now the eight equivalents of oxygen in the first 
ease, and the five equivalents in the latter instance, 
must be derived either from the organism or from the 
atmosphere. But, as Liebig justly observes, there is 
no evidence presented by the organism in itself that 
any of its constituents have yielded so large a quantity 
of oxygen ; and we have a right, therefore, to infer 
that it must have been derived from the air ; and that 
these salts, in their passage through the lungs, appro- 
priate to themselves the necessary amount of oxygen. 
But do they appropriate that which, if they were 
not present, would be otherwise employed in the 
organism ? Or do they consume an extra quantity of 
oxygen ? We have no precise data on which we can 
satisfactorily answer this question. Liebig asserts, 
that they must consume a part of the oxygen, which 
would otherwise unite with the constituents of the 
blood ; and " the immediate consequence," he observes, 
" of this must be the formation of arterial blood in less 
quantity ; or, in other words, the process of respiration 
must be retarded." But it appears to me, that Liebig's 
conclusion is by no means a necessary one, and that 
on this, as on several other occasions, he has decided 
somewhat hastily, and written much too positively. 
I have already shown that the amount of oxygen, con- 
sumed by respiration, is modified by the quality of the 
food; and it is by no means improbable, therefore, 
that the passage of the above-mentioned salts through 
the lungs may occasion a temporary augmented con- 
sumption of oxygen ; but the evidence for or against 
this notion is yet to be adduced. 

4. Nitrogen or Azote. — Nitrogen is distinguished 



30 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



from the three precedmg substances, by the mdifTerence 
which it manifests to enter into chemical combination 
with other bodies. It is an essential constituent of 
every animal tissue. Fat and water are non-nitro- 
genised components of the animal body, but they are 
not organised or living substances. It is obvious, 
therefore, that for the development, growth, nutrition, 
and renovation of living animal parts, nitrogen is es- 
sential ; and accordingly we find, that nature has sup- 
plied it in the food which she has furnished for the 
nourishment of the young animal j it being a consti- 
tuent of the albumen of the yolk of the egg (the food 
of the embryo chick), and of the caseine of the milk 
(the aliment of the young mammal). 

A large number of vegetable and animal substances 
used as food contains no nitrogen. The following 
table shows the per-centage quantity of this element 
in various foods : 



QUANTITY OF NITROGEN IN CERTAIN FOODS. 



Proteine 
Compounds,' 



1. In Alimentary Principles, 

Fer-Centag« of 
Nitrogen. 

. . 15.920 
Vegetable Albumen (of wheat) 
Animal fibrine 
Ve^table fibrine 
Ammal caseine 



/Animal Albumen (of eggs) 

f wl 



Gelatinous. 



Vegetable caseine 
^Gluten . . . 
/Tendons of calves' feet 
Isinglass 



15.920 

15.817 

15.809 

15.724 

15.672 

15.98 

18.470 

18.790 



CartQage of calves' ribs (chondrine) 1 4.908 



2. Compound Aliments. 

Wheat (dried tM oactto at 230» Fahr.) ... 2.3 

Rye (ditto) 1.7 

Oats (ditto) 2.2 

Barley (dried at 2120) 2.02 

Rice (ditto) 1.39 

Indian Com or Maize (ditto) 2.0 

Peas (dried tn vacuo at 230» Fahr.) .... 4.2 



Authority. 

Scherer. 

Jones. 

Scherer. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Jones. 

Scherer. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 



Boussingault. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 




NITROGEN. 



31 



Horse beans (dried at 212^ Fahr.) ..... 5.5 

"White haricots (ditto) 4.3 

Lentils (ditto) 4.4 

Potatoes (fresh) 0.37 

Ditto (dried at 212» Fahr.) 1.80 

Ditto kept 10 months 0.28 

Ditto (dned at 212» Fahr.) 1.18 

Jen:^em artichokes (dried tn vacuo at 230^ Fah.) 1 .6 

White garden cabbage 0.28 

Ditto (dried at 212» Fahr.) 3.70 

Carrot (dried at 212» Fahr.) 2.40 

Turnips 0.17 

Ditto (dried at 212» Fahr.) 2.20 

Dried ox blood 15.08 

Dried muscular flesh (beef) 15.05 

Roasted flesh (roe deer) 15.23 

Ditto (beef) 15.214 

Ditto (veal) 14.70 



Boussingault. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Boeckmann. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Playfair. 

Ditto. 



Several circumstances have induced recent writers 
to conclude that niirogenised foods are alone capable 
of conversion into blood, and of forming organised 
tissues ; that, in fact, they only are the foods properly 
so called. Hence Liebig has denominated them the 
plastic elements of nutrition. The non-nitrogenised 
foods y it is said, are incapable of transformation into 
blood, and are, therefore, unfitted for forming organised 
or living tissues. They are, nevertheless, essential to 
health; and Liebig asserts that their function is to 
support the process of respiration (by yielding carbon 
and hydrogen, the oxidation of which is attended with 
the development of heat), and some of them, he states, 
contribute to the formation of fat. These non-nitro- 
genised foods he calls elements of respiration. 



Niirogenised Foods, 
or Plastic Elements qf Nutrition, 

Vegetable Fibrine 

' Albumen 

■ Caseine 

Animal Flesh 
' Blood 



NouFrntrogenised Foods, 
or Elements qf Respiration. 

Fat Pectine 

Starch Bassorine 

Gum Wine 

Cane Sugar Beer 

Grape Su£;ar Spirits 
Sugar of Milk 



I propose now to state briefly those circumstances 



32 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

which have been adduced in favour of the opinion, that 
nitrogenised foods alone nourish the tissues ; offering, 
as I proceed, short commentaries on them. 

1. The first argument is, that as the animal tissues 
contain nitrogen as one of their essential constituents^ 
and as this element cannot be created in the system, it 
must be derived from either the food or the atmosphere ; 
but as it is not absorbed from the atmosphere in the 
vital process y it must be obtained from the food. 

It appears to me, that if it can be demonstrated that 
" no nitrogen is absorbed from the atmosphere," the 
most important fact in favour of nitrogenised food is 
obtained. But has this been satisfactorily done ? I 
think not. Numerous researches have been undertaken 
by different persons to determine this point, but the re- 
sults have been most discordant. Some of the experi- 
menters have declared that the nitrogen of the air is 
passive in respiration ; some have asserted that nitro- 
gen is generated in the lungs ; some that it is absorbed ; 
others that it is both absorbed and exhaled — under 
certain circumstances absorption being most active, 
under others exhalation. What conclusions, then, it 
may be asked, have cautious, unbiassed, and well-in- 
formed physiologists drawn from these discrepant 
assertions ? Miiller, one of Liebig's countrymen, and 
the most distinguished physiologist of the age, observes 
that ** The conclusion to be deduced from all these ex- 
periments seems to be, that during respiration nitrogen 
is both absorbed and exhaled by the blood."* Dr. 



* Baly'8 Translation of Muller's Elements qf Physiology, vol. i. 
p. 310. Lond. 1838. 



I 



NITROGEN. 33 

Carpenter * concludes his account of the chemical phe- 
nomena of respiration with the following observa- 
tion : — " Thus, there will be a continual exosmose of 
carbonic acid and nitrogen, and a continual endosmose 
of oxygen and nitrogen j and the relative quantities of 
these gases exhaled and absorbed will be subject to 
continual variation from secondary causes." Lastly, 
Dr. Bostock f observes, that " It is probable that the 
blood, as it passes through the lungs, both absorbs 
and exhales nitrogen, the proportion which these ope- 
rations bear to each other being very variable, and 
depending upon certain states of the system, or upon 
the operation of external agents.*' 

Thus, then, it appears that some of the best systema- 
tic physiological writers admit the absori>tion of nitro- 
gen ; and it is, therefore, somewhat remarkable that 
both Liebig and Dumas J should make such positive 
and unqualified denials of it, without adducing some 
new facts in proof of the accuracy of their own views. 
Their opinions must, I presume, be founded on the 
experiments of Dulong§ and Despretz.|| The first 



* Principles of Human Physiology, p. 438. London, 1842. 

t Elementary System of Physiology, vol. ii. p. 143. 1826. 

X ** Animals constantly exhale nitrogen/' says M. Dumas (Essai de 
Siatique Chimique des Etres Organises, p. 36, 2»«. ed. 1842). ** I insist 
on this point/' he adds, ** in order to dispel one of those illusions, which, 
in my opinion, are among the most obnoxious to your studies. Some 
observers have admitted, in respiration, an absorption of nitrogen ; but 
this is never observed except under circumstances which render it 
more than doubtful. The constant phenomenon is the exhalation of 
this gas, as Despretz has very correctly stated." 

§ Mimoire sur la Chaleur Animale, read to the Academy of Sciences 
at Paris in 1822, but published in the 18th vol. of the Mimoires of the 
Academy in 1842. 

H AwmUs de Chimie et de Physique, t. xxvi. p. 337. 1824. 

D 



34 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

of these philosophers has given an account of 17 ex- 
periments made on animals. In 14 cases he found that 
nitrogen was exhaled, in one that it was absorbed, in 
one that it underwent no change, and in one the result 
is not stated. Dulong, however, seemed to think that 
further experiments were required to verify these re- 
sults; for he observes, that " the exhalation of nitrogen 
by the pulmonary surface was a phenomenon too re- 
markable to be passed over without an attempt being 
made to verify it in an indubitable manner ; and I pro- 
pose," he adds, " to make some special experiments for 
this purpose." With regard to Despretz's experiments, 
it is deserving of especial notice, that whenever his con- 
clusions militate against the opinions of Liebig and 
Dumas, they offer sigidry objections to his experi- 
ments and conclusions ; but where the results of his 
investigations coincide with their opinions, no objec- 
tions are made to his experiments.* 

That animals frequently, if not generally, exhale 
nitrogen, can scarcely be denied j but the question is, 
whether, when animals are supplied with food which 
contains a quantity of nitrogen insufficient for the 
wants of the system, nitrogen may not then be 
absorbed by the lungs ? This question, it appears to 
me, remains yet to be solved j and I am not, therefore. 



* Liebig (Animal Chemistry ^ p. 370 ^^^ Dumas (op. supra cit, p. 42, 
85, et seq,) The first of these chemists concludes his objections to 
Despretz's experiments in these words : — " We can hardly be at a loss 
what value we ought to attach to the conclusions drawn from such ex- 
periments as those above described. These experiments, and the con- 
clusions deduced from them, in short, are incapable of furnishing the 
smallest support to the opinion," &c. &c. 



% 



NITROGEN. 35 

disposed to adopt Liebig's unqualified assertion that 
" no nitrogen is absorbed from the atmosphere ;" the 
more especially as it is in opposition to the experi- 
ments of Priestley, Davy, Cuvier, Pfaff, Henderson, 
Spallanzani, Edwards, and others, and to the generally 
received opinions of physiologists. It appears to me 
to be completely begging the question. The esta- 
blishment or rejection of the theory of nitrogenised 
foods is most essentially affected by the present argu- 
ment; for should it be shown that nitrogen is absorbed 
by the lungs, we have then another source for the 
nitrogen of the tissues ; while, on the other hand, 
if nitrogen be not absorbed, the tissues can obtain 
this element from the food only.* 

But there is another source of nitrogen which has 
not been hitherto noticed, — I mean the ammonia of 
the atmosphere. Liebig has demonstrated the existence 
of this substance in the air, and has assigned strong 
reasons for believing that plants derive the nitrogen of 



* Dr. Prout {On the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary 
Diseases, p. xxvi.» 3rd ed. Lond. 1840) considers that both sugar and 
fat are convertible into nitrogenised animal substances. ** That the 
oleaginous principle," he observes, ** may be converted into most, if not 
ail, the matters necessary for the existence of animal bodies, seems to 
be proved by the weU-known fact, that the life of an animal may be 
prolonged by the appropriation of the oleaginous and other matters con- 
tained within its own body." In a foot note (p. xxvii.) he adds, " The 
azote may, in some instances, be derived from the air, or generated. 
But my belief is, that, under ordinary circumstances, the azote is prin- 
cipally furnished by a highly azotised substance (organised urea?) 
secreted from the blood, either into the stomach or duodenum, or into 
both these localities ; and that the portion of the blood thus deprived 
of its azote is separated from the general mass of blood by the liver, as 
one of the constituents of the bile, which secretion, as a whole, is re* 
markably deficient in azote." 



36 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

their nitrogenised principles from it. The ammonia 
of the inspired air may, therefore, be one of the sources 
from whence animals derive a part, small though it be, 
of the nitrogen of their system. 

2. The second argument isy that non-nitrogenised foods 
alone are incapable of supporting animal life. 

It has been found, by experiments on animals, that 
gum, sugar, starch, or butter, cannot alone preserve 
the health and life of animals. Magendie ^ found 
that dogs fed exclusively on sugar and water died in 
from thirty-one to thirty-four days j and similar 
results were obtained with butter and with gum. 
Tiedemann and Gmelin f have confirmed Magendie's 
statements. They found that geese fed on sugar and 
water, or gum and water, or starch and water, died in 
from sixteen to twenty-four days. 

Magendie also states, in confirmation of the above, 
that in 1793, five sailors, on board the wreck of a 
vessel from Hamburgh, had subsisted for nine days on 
sugar and a small quantity of rum, and that they 
were found by a French vessel in a most debilitated 
state (the youngest excepted). The three oldest died 
shortly afterwards. He further adds, that an eccentric 
individual in Paris had subsisted for nearly a month 
on potatoes! and water. At the end of this time 
he was extremely feeble, and passed an extraordinary 
quantity of urine ; but by the use of nitrogenised 



• Ann. d€ CAtm. et de Physique, t. iii. p. 66. 1816. 
t Qaoied by MUller. 

I Ten thousand parts of potatoes contain, according to Boussingault , 
only thirty-seven parts of nitrogen. 




NITROGEN. 37 

food he recovered in a few weeks. Sir Christopher 
Wren* also states, " that it was of late years founds that 
the blacks, who feed only on potatoes, were apt to die 
of the dropsy j and, therefore, the planters had found 
it necessary to allow them milk and bread, which 
prevented it." And he further observes, "that in 
Ireland, where the people feed much on potatoes, they 
help themselves, by drinking milk soured, to make the 
potatoes digest the better.'* 

This second argument has not, however, much 
weight ; since it is well known that an exclusive diet 
of nitrogenised alimentary principles (gluten ex- 
cepted) is also incapable of supporting animal life. 
Fibrine, albumen, or gelatine, taken separately, does 
not support life : even the artificial mixture of these 
principles is insufficient to preserve life — for dogs thus 
fed, ultimately die with all the signs of complete in- 
anition. While, on the other hand, a diet of muscular 
flesh, or of raw bones, or of gluten exclusively, is 
capable of complete and prolonged nutrition f. 

It has been said, however, that both gum and sugar 
are capable of maintaining human existence. The 
asserted power of gum to support life rests principally 
on a story, told by Hasselquist J, of a caravan of more 
than one thousand persons, travelling from Abyssinia 
to Cairo, and whose provision being exhausted, sup- 
ported themselves for two months on the gum they 



• Birch's History qfthe Royal Society of London, vol. iv. p. 93. 
t See the Report of the Gelatine Committee, in the Comptes Rendus de$ 
8ianee$ de FAcadimie de$ Sciences, No. Y. Ao&t, 1841. 
t Voyages and Travels in the Levant, p. 298. Lond. 1766. 



38 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

were carrying as merchandize. But there are no 
details given to satisfy us of the accuracy of the con- 
clusion which has been drawn from it. Altogether 
the case is not one to be relied on. Of the use of 
gum by the Moors, Negroes, and Hottentots, we have 
but litUe detailed and satisfactory information. 

The evidence of the nutritive property of sugar will 
be hereafter stated ; but I may here mention that it 
applies principally to the use of this substance in an 
impure state, in which it contains nitrogenous 
matter *. Moreover, it is probable that nitrogenised 
food is, in general, used in combination with sugar. 

3. The third argument is, that the food of all animals, 
herbivorous and camivorouSy contains nitrogenised mat- 
terSy identical in composition with the principal consti- 
tuenis of the blood and organised tissues of the animal 
body; and, therefore, the carbon of gum, sugar, and 
starch, and the carbon and hydrogen of the fats and oils, 
are not required for the production of blood. 

One of the most surprising facts for which we are 
indebted to the school of Giessen is, that vegetables 
contain organic principles identical in composition 
with animal fibrine, albumen, and caseine. "They 
are not merely similar," observes Liebig, " but abso- 
lutely identical, not only in having the same propor- 
tion of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, which 



* An amusing illustration of this has been furnished by Liebig with 
respect to the saccharine juice of Maple trees, which he found to emit 
80 much ammonia when mixed with UmC| that suspicion was at first 
excited that some malicious wag had introduced urine into it; and, 
accordingly, the vessels, which hung upon the trees in order to collect 
the juice, were watched with great attention. 



NITROGEN. 



39 



the animal principles contain, but also in possessing 
the same relative amount of sulphur, phosphorus, and 
phosphate of lime." 

Fibrine, albumen, and caseine, both animal and ve- 
getable, dissolve in a solution of caustic potash. If, 
to the resulting liquid, acetic acid be added, the same 
precipitate is obtained, whichever of the above three 
principles has been employed. The substance thus 
precipitated has been called, by its discoverer, Mulder, 
proteine (from w-pwrcvoh— / hold the first place). Its 
formula, according to Liebig, is C48 H^ N^j Oj^*. 
Fibrine, albumen, and caseine, are compounds of pro- 
teine and sulphur, and, in the case of the two first of 
these bodies, of phosphorus also. 





ANIMAL. 


▼BQBTABLB. 


Fibrine . 


=Pro/eiiie+S +Ph. 


Fibrine . '^ Proteine +S +Ph. 


Albumen . 


-Pror«iitf+S» + Ph. 


Albumen . « Proteine + S« + Ph« 


Caseine . 


'=>Proteine+S 


Caseine . = Pro/fine +S 



" Vegetable fibrine and animal fibrine, vegetable 
albumen and animal albumen, hardly difTer," says 
Liebig, " even in form ; if these principles be wanting 
in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested ; and 
when they are present, the graminivorous animal ob- 
tains in its food the very same principles, on the 
presence of which the nutrition of the carnivora 
entirely depends.** 



* Dumas {Essai de Statique Ckimique de$ etres organtsiSf p. 56., 2me 
ed. 1942.) gives the following as the formula for fibrine, albumen, and 
caseum : C** H" N* 0". This is equal to 48 eq. Carbon, 6 eq. Ammo- 
nium, and 15 eq. Water : he also states that the analyses made in 
Liebig's laboratory agree best with the following: C^ H* N*0", 
which is equal to 48 eq. Carbon, 3 eq. Ammonium, 3 eq. Ammonia, 
and 15 eq. Water. 



40 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

4. The fourth argument is, that the qtuintity of nitro- 
genised foody which herbivorous animals consume, is 
amply sufficient for the growth and development of their 
QrganSy and for tlie supply of waste. 

We are indebted to Boussingault * for the demon- 
stration of the truth of this statement, in the case of 
the cow and the horse. The following table is taken 
from his memoir: the numbers represent French 
grammes [1 gramme- 16.434 grs. troy.] 



* Ann, de Chim, e( de Physique, t. Ixxi. 



k 



NITROGEN. 



41 



PS 

o 

O 



CO 

O 



PE4 

O 

?; 
o 

» 

o 

X 
P 

< 
>^ 

Q 
» 

CO 

o 
o 

p 
o 



M 
P 
O 
8S 

« 
& 

O 

In 

I 

►« 
H 
X 

M 

t 



M 

a 

o 
a 



In 
O 

■9 

r. 

o 

H 

ta 

M 

u 

M 

U 



at 
P 
O 
8 

M 
& 

o 

Ik 



M 



M 

s 

O 
8 

m 

Q 

M 

a 

a 
K 
O 

o 
e 
o 



3a| 



S 



O CO 



o 



'usSXxo 



•uaSoqiM 



'oaJBofpiH 



*aoqji3 



^ o> 



^ 



00 CO 

• • 



to 00 




to 



CO 







Si 






K 
O 



M 

H 



d 

•c 

P 



a 

a 



^ 



3 
^ 



sal 



S 



00 -M 



00 

o 






CO 
CO 



CI 

to 



to 



•U9SIXO 



•Vl9Soi\\il 



'oaJojpiH 



CI 



^ ^ 




*no<vno 









^ 






5 

uib e 



i I 



S O 






8 



to 



(N 



o 

si 



CO 




i 



a 
a 



9 

.9 



I 



3 



42 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

Now it appears from this table, that after deducting 
the nitrogen of the urine and excrements from that 
contained in the food, the surplus quantity is 24 
grammes (STOrSi^grs. troy); and if we assume that 
ordinary blood contains 80 per cent of water, and that 
the dry residue (20 per cent.) contains 16.07 per cent, 
of nitrogen, it follows that STOiVro grs. troy of nitrogen 
are sufficient to form 2467tW5V grs. troy of dried 
blood, or 1228dTWo grs. troy (equal to lib. 12ozs. 
40grs. avoirdupois) of ordinary blood : in other words, 
about l}lb. avoirdupois of blood maybe formed daily 
from the above quantity of food. 

Moreover, 100 parts of dried blood contain 61.96 of 
carbon, and, therefore, 2467-1^5^ grs. troy contain 
about 1277 grs. troy of carbon. If, therefore, we 
abstract the latter quantity from 3S046-i2oW!r grs. troy 
(-2465.1 grammes), the residual carbon in Bous- 
singault's table, we have 36369tWoo grs. troy (51bs. 
3ozs. 66jgrs. avoirdupois) of carbon to be thrown out 
of the system by the lungs and skin in the form of 
carbonic acid. Now Boussingault calculates that a 
horse expires daily 28078grs. troy (about 4lbs. avoir- 
dupois) of carbon. 

I have thus endeavoured to lay before my readers 
the opinions recently advanced with respect to the 
uses of nitrogenised and non-nitrogenised foods in the 
animal economy. These opinions may be thus 
briefly stated : — 

1. Nitrogenised foods are alone capable of con- 
version into blood, and of forming organised tissues. 

2. Nitrogenised foods which contain proteine, as 
albumen, fibrine, caseine, and gluten, alone form the 
albuminous and fibrinous tissues. 



NITROGEN. 43 

3. Gelatine is incapable of conversion into blood ; 
but it may perhaps serve for the nutrition of the gela- 
tinous tissues (cellular tissue, membrane, and carti- 
lage). 

4. Non-nitrogenised foods support the process of 
respiration by yielding carbon, and, in some cases, 
hydrogen, to be burnt in the lungs, and thereby to 
keep up the animal temperature. 

6. Some of the non-nitrogenised foods contribute 
to the formation of fat, the carbon and hydrogen of 
which are ultimately burnt in the lungs, and thereby 
develope heat. 

6. With the exception of the substance of cellular 
tissue, of membranes, and of the brain and nerves, all 
the organic materials of which the animal body is 
composed are derived from vegetables, which alone 
possess the property of producing compounds of pro- 
teine. 

The evidence hitherto adduced, in favour of these 
opinions, I have already briefly noticed and criticised. 
I propose now to state a few circumstances which 
appear to me to raise some difSculties or objections to 
the unqualified admission of the opinions above re- 
ferred to. 

1. When benzoic acid, a non-nitrogenous sub- 
stance, is taken into the stomach, it appears in the 
urine in the form of hippuric acid. For this fact we 
are indebted to Dr. Alexander Ure. This hippuric 
acid is probably formed by the elements of the benzoic 
acid, with the addition of those of lactate of urea. 



1 eq. Urea . . . C* N» H* 0» 
1 eq. Lactic Acid C« — H* O* 
1 eq. Benzoic Acid C^ — H'^ 0« 

Total . . C» N» H" 0' 



2 eq. crystallised > (.» N» H" 0»« 
HippuncAcid ) 



NITROGEN. 



45 



cumstance, therefore, seems rather to shew that sugar 
undergoes some complete change in its nature previous 
to its passage into the blood. Several facts favour 
this opinion. In the first place, — of the foods (viz. 
yolk of eggs, and milk), supplied by nature for the 
early stages of animal existence, sugar is found only 
in that food (milk) which undergoes digestion before 
its application to the purposes of the economy. 
Secondly, in diabetes, the digestive powers are greatly 
impaired, and saccharine assimilation is suspended. 
Sugar is then detected in the blood. Now it cannot 
be said that its presence is owing to any defect in the 
respiratory process, since fatty matter appears to suffer 
the ordinary changes in the pulmonary organs. 

4. According to Dr. Prout,* the contents of the 
stomachs of animals fed on vegetable substances, 
even when fully digested, and about to pass the 
pylorus, exhibit no traces of an albuminous principle; 
while the chymous mass of animals fed on animal 
food contains albumen. 

COMPOSITION OF THE CHYMOUS MASS PROM THE 

DUODENUM OF THE DOG. 





VMretable 
Food. 


Animal 
Food. 


Water 

Chyme, &c. . . . 
Albuminous Matter . 
Biliary Principle 
Vegetable Gluten P . 
Satine Matters . . 
Insoluble Residuum 


86-5 
60 

Te 

50 

07 
0.2 


80-0 

15-8 

1-3 

17 

07 
0-5 


100-0 


100-0 



Annals of Philosophy ^ vol. xiii. 1819. 



46 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

It would appear, therefore, that albumen is formed 
subsequently to the passage of the chyme into the 
duodenum. Now this is in complete contradiction to 
Liebig's statement, that albumen pre-exists in the vege- 
table food of the herbivora, and is not formed in the 
animal economy.* Dr. Prout's statement harmonizes 
well with another fact well known to physiologists, 
namely, the non-existence of fibrine in the contents of 
the duodenum, though, according to Liebig, this prin- 
ciple also pre-exists in the food of animals, and is not 
formed by them. It has even been said that the chyle 
contains no fibrine until after its passage through the 
mesenteric glands.f 

5. If the nitrogenised substances requisite for the 
nutrition of the animal body exist ready formed in 
plants, the necessity of more complex organs of di- 
gestion for the herbivora than for the camivora is not 
very obvious. Liebig J thinks that it " is rather 
owing to the difficulty of rendering soluble and avail- 
able for the vital processes certain non-azotised com- 
pounds (gum ? amylaceous fibre ?) than to any thing 
in the change or transformation of vegetable fibrine, 
albumen, and caseine, into blood; since, for this latter 
purpose, the less complex digestive apparatus of the 



* I have already (p. 35) noticed Dr. Prout's suggestion of the possible 
secretion of nitrogenised matter by the duodenum, for the purpose of 
converting non -nitrogenised foods into the nitrogenised constituents of 
the body. 

t Gulliver (English Translation of Gerber's Anatomy, p. 94) says he 
has seen a distinct clot in the chyle of the afferent lacteals. In this 
case, therefore, fibrine must have been present. 

X Animal ChemUtryy p. 165. 




NITROGEN. 47 

carnivora is amply sufficient." But this suggestion is 
not a very satisfactory one. Gummy and amylaceous 
substances are eaten, and, apparently, digested, by 
some animals which are essentially carnivorous in the 
structure of their alimentary canal. Moreover, as the 
leading distinction in the food of the herbivora and 
carnivora consists in the use, by the former, of sub- 
stances containing vegetable fibrine, albumen, and 
caseine, while the latter employ animal fibrine, albu- 
men, and caseine, — it appears more natural to connect 
the peculiarity in the structure of the digestive organs 
with the nitrogenised, than with the non-nitrogenised, 
food. 

6. No plausible explanation has hitherto been 
offered, by Liebig, or others, of the necessity for the 
variation of diet, and for the use of succulent vegetables 
or fruits, which experience has shewn to be necessary 
for the preservation of human health and life. Liebig 
has shewn that food must contain both a plastic element 
of nutrition and an element of respiration ; but it is 
well known that a diet (as of salt meat and biscuit), 
which fulfils both of these conditions, is not always 
sufficient to preserve health and life. 

It cannot be a matter of doubt that non-nitrogenised 
substances are intended by nature to constitute part of 
the food of man and other animals, but especially of 
the herbivora, since we find them in the aliments sup- 
plied by nature for animals during the first period of 
their existence. Thus, in the yolk of egg (the food of 
the embryo chick) we find fixed oil, — and in milk we 
have sugar and butter, both non-nitrogenous prin- 
ciples. If to these proofs we further add the fondness 



48 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

of animals for non-nitrogenised substances^ the craving) 
nay almost insatiable desire, for them, manifested by 
individuals who are deprived of them, and the fact 
before mentioned, that nitrogenised food alone cannot 
support life, not a doubt can remain in our minds that 
these principles are essential to health and life. 

In commencing our enquiry, then, into the particu- 
lar purpose they serve in the animal economy, I would 
observe, in the first place, that with the exception of 
fat, none of them are constituents of the animal sys- 
tem J nor in a state of health are they found in the 
blood* or the excretions. It is obvious, therefore, that 
they must suffer some change or transformation in the 
organism. Now they all consist of carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen. In starch, sugar, and gum, the hydrogen 
and oxygen are exactly in the ratio to form water. 
Do they, therefore, contribute carbon, and in some 
cases,, hydrogen also, to assist in the formation of 
blood ? Liebig asserts they do not, for he observes 
that as the nitrogenised principles used as food contain 
exactly the "amount of carbon [and hydrogen] 
which is required for the production of fibrine and 
albumen," it follows that the carbon of gum, sugar, 
and starch, and the carbon and hydrogen of butter and 
other fats, cannot " be employed in the production of 
blood." If the nitrogenised principles contained less 
carbon than albumen and fibrine, then starch, sugar, 
gum, and fat, might give up some carbon to compen- 



• " Hitherto grape sugar has not been detected in the blood, though 
HvhvTf P&i^ of it, added to blood, can be readily detected" (Trommcr, 
Pharmaceutisches CerUral-Blattfiir 1841, p. 764). 



NITROGEN. 49 

sate the difference. He, therefore, concludes, that these 
bodies yield their carbon, and, when their hydrogen is 
in excess to their oxygen, part of their hydrogen also, 
to form, with atmospheric oxygen, carbonic acid and 
water, and, therefore, to develope heat. They serve to 
protect the organism from the action of the oxygen, 
which, in the absence of food, consumes the tissues, 
" If," says Liebig, " we observe a man or other 
animal in sickness, or at any time when the body is 
not supplied with nourishment to compensate for the 
continual loss, we find him to become lean ; the fat is 
the first to disappear, it vanishes through" the skin and 
lungs in the form of carbonic acid and water, as none 
of it can be found in the faeces or urine : it resists the 
action of the atmosphere on the body, and is a protec- 
tion to the organs. But the action of the atmosphere 
does not end with the loss of fat : every soluble sub- 
stance of the body enters into combination with the 
oxygen of the air. The influence of the oxygen of 
the atmosphere is the cause of death in most chronic 
diseases; from want of carbon to resist its action, 
that of the nerves and brain is used. In a normal 
state of health and nutrition, the carbon of the 
carbonic acid must have another source." Thus, 
then, it would appear that nitrogenised aliments 
alone are assimilated : the non-nitrogenous ones are 
burnt in the lungs. 

But it may be asked, why, if both sugar and fat 
serve merely for combustion in the lungs, are both of 
these principles contained in the milk, since, theoreti- 
cally, one of them would appear to be sufficient? More- 
over, if sugar be burnt in the lungs, is it not remarkable 

E 



50 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

that, as I have already stated (p. 48), it has not, in 
the healthy system, been detected while in its passage 
from the digestive organs to the lungs? Surely some 
traces of it ought to be recognizable in the blood? 
Hitherto, however, none have been found. Does not 
this fact seem to shew that it undergoes some trans- 
mutation during digestion, different to that which fatty 
substances suffer? The yolk of the egg serves 
directly for the nourishment of the embryo chick, but 
it contains one non-nitrogenised organic principle 
(oil) only. But milk, which also serves for animal 
food, contains two (butter and sugar). Now milk 
requires to be digested before it can be assimilated : 
whereas yolk of egg does not, — in fact, it serves for 
food before the digestive organs are developed. This 
fact, therefore, favours the notion that sugar is in 
some way connected with the digestive process. 

Alcohol is classed among the elements of respira- 
tion ; and it cannot be doubted that it undergoes some 
change in the animal economy. When taken into 
the stomach it is absorbed, and gets into the circulat- 
ing mass. Now, how does it get out of the system ? 
Certainly not by the bowels, urine, or skin. A por- 
tion of it escapes by the lungs, and is recognizable by 
its odour in the breath j but the quantity in this way 
thrown out of the system is comparatively small, and 
is certainly quite disproportionate to that often swal- 
lowed. Moreover, it is principally when the quantity 
taken is very large that it is most recognizable in the 
breath ; — when, in fact, the function of respiration is 
very imperfectly performed. What, then, becomes 
of it? By itself it cannot form tissues, since it is 



NITROGEN. 61 

deficient in some of their essential ingredients, namely, 
nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus ; and there is no 
reason to suppose that it contributes, even in part, to 
the renovation of tissues. Liebig's suggestion, that 
it is burnt in the lungs, and thereby converted into 
carbonic acid and water, appears to me a very plausi- 
ble one. Now, to convert it into these substances, it 
merely requires oxygen. 

CONVERSION OP ALCOHOL INTO CARBONIC ACID AND 

WATER. 



Alcohol . . . C*H«0» 
Oxygen ... O" 

Total . . . C*H«0" i 



Carbonic Acid . C* — 0« 
Water . . . . — H«0« 



Total . . . C* H« 0^* 



By its oxidation in the lungs it must evolve caloric, 
and thus, when used in moderation, it serves to sup- 
port the temperature of the body. This use of it 
in the animal system appears to have been quite over- 
looked by the Temperance and Tee-total Societies. 

Alcohol, therefore, is a fuel in the animal economy, 
by the combustion of which caloric is evolved. Com- 
mon experience favours this view. Coachmen and 
others take it in cold weather to keep them warm, and it 
is familiarly used to prevent what is commonly called 
" catching cold." In cases of extreme sufTering and 
exhaustion from excessive exertion and privation of 
food, the cautious and moderate dietetical use of spirit 
has, on many occasions, proved invaluable. In Cap- 
tain Blights account* of the sufferings of himself and 
companions, in consequence of the mutiny of the 
crew of the Bounty, he observes, " The little rum we 

* Voyage to the South Seas in 1787*9, p. 190. Lond. 1792. 



52 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

had was of great service : when our nights were par- 
ticularly distressing, I generally served a tea-spoonful 
or two to each person : and it was joyful tidings when 
they heard of my intentions." It is said, that the in- 
habitants of colder climates take more spirit than others, 
and with less injury. Liebig accounts for this by say- 
ing that they inhale a more condensed air, that is, they 
take in more oxygen at every inspiration ; combustion 
is more rapid in them, and thus the elements of the 
alcohol are more speedily got rid of*. 

I trust that in offering these remarks on the effects of 
alcohol, I may not be misunderstood. I do not wish 
to cast any reflections on the Societies before referred 
to, whose motives I highly esteem, and whose objects 
I would gladly promote. Though alcohol evolves 
heat in burning, it is an obnoxious fuel. Its 
volatility, and the facility with which it permeates 
membranes and tissues, enable it to be rapidly 
absorbed ; and when it gets into the blood it exerts a 
most injurious operation, before it is burnt in the 
lungs, on the brain and the liver f- Though by its 
combustion heat is evolved, yet, under ordinary cir- 
cumstances, there are other better, safer, and less in- 
jurious combustibles to be burned in the vital lamp. 

Some of these non-nitrogenised foods serve another 

* The Highlanders, who it is weU known are immoderate drinkers, 
pretend that spirit does not intoxicate in the HiUs as it would do in the 
Low Country. (See Letiersfrom a Gentleman in the North of Scotland to 
his Friend in London, vol. ii. p. 161, 5th £d. Lond. 1818). 

t Alcohol acts on the stomach before it is absorbed. Its operation 
on the brain and liver are probably referable to its topical action on 
these organs after it gets into the blood ; for it has been detected both 
in the brain and liver of those who have died under its influence. (Sec 
mv Element* of Materia Medica, voLi. p. 359, 2d edit) 



NITROGEN. 53 

purpose in the animal economy^ — they contribute to the 
farmation of fat. When the quantity of these foods 
taken into the stomach is greats that is^ out of propor- 
tion to the quantity of oxygen absorbed by the lungs, 
fat is, under some circumstances, formed. Sugar, 
starch, and gum, become, by the loss of part of their 
oxygen, fat ; for the relative proportion of their carbon 
and hydrogen is almost identical with that of fat. 

RELATIVE PROPORTIONS OP CARBON AND HYDROGEN 
IN SOME NON-NITROGENISED PRINCIPLES. 

Starch contains . . 79 Carbon to 10*99 Hydrogen 

Sugar 79 — " 1180 — 

Gum 79 — " 11-80 — 

Mutton fat. ... 79 — " 111 — 

Human fet .... 79 — " 11-4 — 

Hog's lard .... 29 — " 117 — 

Some facts adduced by Liebig are almost conclusive 
that starch and sugar may become converted into fat in 
the animal economy. A lean goose, weighing 41bs. 
gained, in thirty-six days, during which it was fed with 
241bs. of maize, 51bs. in weight, and yielded 3jlbs. of 
fat. Now this fat could not have been contained in 
the food ready formed, because maize does not contain 
the thousandth part of its weight of fat, or of any sub- 
stances resembling fat. A certain number of bees, the 
weight of which was exactly known, were fed with 
pure honey devoid of wax. They yielded one part of 
wax for every twenty parts of honey consumed, with- 
out any change being perceptible in their health or in 
their weight. I agree with Liebig, that with these facts 
before us, ".it is impossible any longer to entertain 
doubt as to the formation of fat from sugar in the 
animal body*.** 

* The mode of promoting obesity, practised in certain parts of the 



54 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

Now, alcohol is an element of respiration. Does 
it form fat? I think not. In the first place, its 
carbon and hydrogen are not in the ratio of those of 
fat, for it contains 79 parts of Carbon to 19*74 of 
Hydrogen. Secondly, we do not find that spirit- 
drinkers are fat; but, on the contrary, emaciated. 
Hogarth, in his Beer Alley and Crin Lane, has ludi- 
crously though faithfully represented the differences in 
the appearance of beer topers and spirit tipplers. The 
first are plump, rubicund, and bloated j the latter are 
pale, tottering, emaciated, and miserable. 

But, it may be asked, what is the use of fat in the 
animal economy ? It is a reservoir of food. During 
long fasting and hybernation it is absorbed and con- 
sumed. It is the food apparently on which the 
animal, at these times, exists. Is it then capable of 
renovating the tissues j and, if so, where does it de- 
rive the necessary quantity of nitrogen? Liebig 
asserts that it does not renovate. It merely yields, 
he says, carbon and hydrogen to be burnt in the lungs, 
by which the animal temperature is supported without 
the living organs being oxidised and destroyed. Dr. 
Prout, on the other hand, as I have already stated 
(p. 35), believes that fat may be converted into most. 



world, lends support to the above statements. If ** we can trust to the 
reports of physicians who have resided in the East," says Liebig, ** the 
Turkish women, in their diet of rice, and in the frequent use of enemata 
of strong soup, have united the conditions necessary for the formation 
both of cellular tissue and fiit." M. Caullet de Vaumoral, quoted by 
Mrs. Walker (Female Beauty, p. 171. Lond. 1837), states that in the 
Bey's Seraglio at Tripoli, women are fattened against a certain day by 
means of repose and baths, assisted by a diet of Turkish flour, mixed 
with honey. Fifteen days, he says, were sufficient for the purpose. 



NITROGEN. 



55 



if not all^ the matters necessary for the existence o£ 
animal bodies. 

Nutritive equivalents. — Several writers have endea- 
voured to form a scale of nutritive equivalents, the 
value of which, if accurate, will be universally ad- 
mitted. Boussingault has suggested one, founded on 
the quantity of nitrogen contained in foods. 

BOUSSINGAULTS SCALE OF NUTRITIVE EQUIVALENTS. 



Substances. Equivts. 

Wheat-flour 100 

Wheat 107 

Barley-meal 119 



Barley 

Oats 

Rye 

Rice 

Buck-wheat . . . 
Maize, or Indian com 
Horse-beans . . . 
Peas 



130 

117 
ill 

177 

108 

138 

44 

67 



Snbitances. Bqoivts. 

White haricots ... 56 

Lentils 57 

White garden cabbage . 810 

Ditto, dried at 212? . . 83 

Potatoes 613 

Ditto, kept 10 months . 894 

Ditto, dned at 212? . . 126 

Carrot 7^7 

Ditto, dried at 212° . . 95 

Jerusalem artichoke . . 539 

Turnips 1335 



It will be observed, that in this table 44 parts of 
horse-beans, or 67 of peas, are represented as being 
equal in nutritive power to 100 parts of wheat-flour. 
Surely, this cannot be correct ? Liebig admits, that 
though lentils, beans, and peas, surpass all other 
vegetable food in the quantity of nitrogen they con- 
tain, yet that they possess but small value as articles of 
nourishment, because they are deficient in the com- 
ponent parts of the bones (subphosphate of lime and 
magnesia) ; they satisfy the appetite without increasing 
the strength. If this explanation be correct, it sug- 
gests the use of bone-ashes with either horse-beans 
or peas, as constituting a most nutritive and economi- 
cal food. 

It may be objected that all nitrogenised vegetable 
principles are not nutritive, for the most powerful of 



56 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

the vegetable poisons, as the vegetable alkalies, are 
nitrogenised * ; aiid, therefore, the presence of such 
substances would lower the nutritive equivalent. 
Moreover, rain water contains ammonia, which being 
contained in the vegetable juices, would lead to an 
erroneous estimate of the nutritive value of many 
plants. Boussingault has met the first of these objec- 
tions by observing, that these violent poisons are not 
foimd in appreciable quantity in alimentary plants ; 
and, therefore, a vegetable substance which has been 
accepted as animal nourishment may be inferred to 
be devoid of any hurtful principle. 

But this assertion must be received with consider- 
able limitation. The solanina of potatoes, the stU- 
phosinapisin of white mustard, and the myronic acid of 
black mustard, are nitrogenised, though not nutritive, 
principles, which occur in substances used as food, and 



* Liebig asserts that all the [vegetable] poisons contain nitrogen. 
But anthiarinf the active principle of the Upas poison, is devoid of it. 
Moreover, ehterin is a non.nitrogenised principle. Furthermore, no 
ratio can be observed between the proportion of nitrogen and the 
physiological effect of the vegetable nitrogenised substances. Thus, 
Molanina contains 1*64, picrotoxine 1 *3, morphia about 5, strychnia about 
8, quina 8*64, and caffeine 28*78, per cent, of nitrogen ; yet solanina is 
a poison, caffeine not so. Lastly, the difference between the per centage 
composition of quina and strychnia is too slight to admit of safe con- 
clusions being drawn as to the cause of the difference of operation of 
those two bodies. 

Carbon 74*08 76*08 

Hydrogen .... 7-40 6*63 

Nitrogen 8*64 8*07 

Oxygen ..... 9*88 9*22 

100*00 100*00 



PHOSPHORUS. 57 

whose presence must erroneously lower the nutritive 
equivalent ; that is, raise the estimated nutritive value 
of the substances in which they are respectively con- 
tained. And if we were to apply Boussingault's prin- 
ciple to animal substances, we should in the outset 
meet a difficulty, in the case of gelatine*, which con- 
tains a larger amount of nitrogen than either flesh or 
blood, but which, according to Liebig, is capable of 
nourishing the gelatinous tissues only. 

But, notwithstanding these and other drawbacks to 
its accuracy, this mode of forming a scale of nutritive 
equivalents is of great interest and value, on account of 
the extreme difficulty of arriving at correct results by 
practical methods. 

6. Phosphorus. — This is a constituent of both ani- 
mals and vegetables. It is an essential ingredient of 
albumen and fibrine, and of all tissues composed of 
those principles. Nervous matter also contains it. 
Its existence in the brain has been long known. In 
1834, Couerbef advanced an absurd notion, that the 



* The reader is referred to the Comptes Rendus des SSances de tAcadSmie 
de$ Sciences, Aodt, 1841, for the Repetrt made by the Qehtine Committee, 
This report is the result of ten years' labour. The reporter (M. Ma- 
gendie) shows that though raw boues are capable of effecting the com- 
plete and prolonged nutrition of dogs, yet that there is no process 
known for extracting from bones an aliment which, either alone, or 
mixed with other substances, can be substituted for meat. He also 
infers that — as gelatine, albumen, or fibrine, separately or artificially 
combined, are incapable of permanently nourishing ; while flesh, which 
consists of gelatine, albumen, fibrine, fat, salts, &c. combined according 
to laws of organic nature, suffices, even in small quantity, for complete 
and prolonged nutrition— it is the " organic condition" which forms 
such an important element in this process. 

t Anm. de Ckim. et de Physique, p. 190. 1834. 



68 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

healthy or morbid conditions of the mental faculties 
were connected with variations in the amount of this 
substance in the cerebral matter. " In the brains of 
sane men," says he, " I have found from 2 to 2-5 per 
cent, of phosphorus; in those of idiots only 1 or 1*5; 
while in those of madmen there are from 3 to 4*5 per 
cent. !" It is scarcely necessary to say, that the accu- 
racy of this assertion has been disproved ; and Las- 
saigne^ fixes the amount of phosphorus in the brains 
of madmen at from 1*93 to 1*97 per cent. 

The bones also contain phosphorus, which exists in 
them in combination with oxygen and lime princi- 
pally, constituting a sub-phosphate of lime (bone 
ash) . 

Phosphorus is also a constituent of the sexual appa- 
ratus. It is found in the spermatic fluid, and in the 
ovary. 

As it is thus a necessary ingredient of the animal 
body, it must, of course, be an element of the food of 
animals. Thus it is a constituent of the yolk of eggs, 
the food of the embryo chick. " One great use of the 
yolk," says Dr. Prout,t " evidently is to furnish the 
phosphorus, entering as phosphoric acid, into the 
skeleton of the animal.'^ In milk, (the aliment of 
young mammals) it is also a constant ingredient, ex- 
isting as sub-phosphate of lime. 

It is a constituent of the blood, the flesh, and the 
bones of animals employed by man as food. In the 
bones it exists, as I have just stated, in the form of 



• Joum, de Chim. Med. t. 1", 11« Serie, p. 344. 1835. 
t PhiL Trans, for 1822» p. 388-9. 



PHOSPHORUS. 59 

subphosphate of lime, which salt is also found in the 
blood and flesh. But fibrine and albumen^ both of 
them constituents of blood and flesh, contain phos- 
phorus. In what state, it may be asked, does it exist 
in these organic principles ? When separated by an 
alkali (potash), it is found as phosphorus or phos- 
phoric acid. Now it has been supposed that the 
oxygen of this acid was derived from the potash, the 
potassium of which combined with the sulphur found 
in both fibrine and albumen. But caseine yields 
equally sulphuret of potassium when treated with caus- 
tic potash, although it contains no phosphorus to 
abstract the oxygen. Hence, then, it is not known 
precisely in what form phosphorus ekists in fibrine 
and albumen. Fishes are especially rich in phosphoric 
matter ; a fact which explains the circumstance related 
by Dumas*, of the evolution of phosphuretted hydrogen 
in the purification of spirit which had been used for 
preserving fish. I have frequently recognised a power- 
ful phosphoric odour in the breath of patients. I have 
noticed that it occurs after certain kinds of foods, as 
lobster and crab. I have also met with it after the 
use of some Indian condiments. 

Phosphorus is a constituent of most vegetable sub- 
stances, being found in the ashes of plants, principally 
in the form of an earthy phosphate (lime or magnesia). 
" The soil in which plants grow furnishes tliem with 
phosphoric acid, and they in turn yield it to animals, 
to be used in the formation of their bones, and of 
those constituents of the brain which contain phos- 

* TVat/i de Ckimie appUquSe aux Arts, Lu p. 266. 



62 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



Qotntity of 
1000 Ptfti. Photpborus. Aatbority. 

Wheat } ^»f4« ) 

Bye 1-32 to 9-196 hHennbstaedt*. 

Barley 0-22 to 1*32 

Oats 0-352tol-32 / 

Bice 0-286to0-88 

GarUc . 0.242 



6. SULPHUB. — Sulphur is a constituent of both 
animals and vegetables. Fibrine and albumen, and 
all tissues composed of these substances, contain it. 
A solution of flesh in liquor potassae contains sul- 
phuret of potassium; and if hydrochloric acid be 
added to it, sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved, and is 
detected by its staining paper moistened with a solu- 
tion of sugar of lead. The discoloration which a 
silver spoon suffers by being used in eating eggs, 
depends on the formation of sulphuret of silver. It 
is probable, therefore, that the sulphur of both fibrine 
and albumen is uncombined with oxgen. If some 
white of egg, boiled hard, be decomposed by heat, 
it evolves hydrosulphuret of ammonia, which dis- 
colours paper moistened with sugar of lead. Caseine 
also contains sulphur, as do likewise hair and bones. 
The efficacy of a mixture of finely powdered litharge 
(oxide of lead) and lime (hair dye) in staining the 
hair, depends on the formation of the black sulphuret 
of lead. The lime serves to form, in the first place, 
a sulphuret of calcium with the sulphur of the hair. 
The lead afterwards unites with the sulphur. Animal 



* Anleitung ewr chemischen Zergliederung der Vegetabilien iiberhaupt 
undder Oetreidearten ittsbesondere, Leipzig, 1831. The nature of the 
manure modifies the quantity of earthy phosphates found in com. 



SULPHUR. 63 

charcoal (bone black) evolves sulphuretted hydrogen, 
when treated with hydrochloric acid, showing that 
sulphur was a constituent of bones. 

The existence of sulphur in so many animal sub- 
stances, serves to explain the evolution of sulphuretted 
hydrogen and hydrosulphuret of ammonia, by putrify- 
ing animal substances ; excrement, for example. In- 
deed, so much sulphur is obtained in this way, that 
some geologists have considered it to be a source of, at 
least part of, the native sulphur of the mineral king- 
dom *. That sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved in 
privies is proved by its darkening the white paint, 
and by its blackening silver articles (watches, coin, 
spoons, &c.) which have accidentally fallen into the 
night soil. Game, when very high, will sometimes 
discolour the silver fork used in eating it. 

Sulphur is thrown out of the system in various 
excretions. Thus, the urine contains sulphates, in 
part formed by the action of the oxygen of the arte- 
rial blood on the sulphur of the metamorphosed 
tissues. In the saliva there is found an alkaline sul- 
phocyanide ; and in consequence of the presence of 
this salt, the saliva possesses the property of reddening 
the sesquisalts of iron. The sulphuretted hydrogen 



* Brocchi, quoted by Leonhard in his Handimch der Oryktoffnosie, 
p. 599, Heidelberg, 1826. When the gate St. Antoine at Paris was 
pulled down in 1778, there were found in the ditches of that place, 
where many years (300?) previously excrement had been deposited, 
grains and crystals of sulphur deposited on lime. (Fougeroux de Bon- 
darey, Mem, de F Academic Roy ale des Sciences, Anne^ 1780, p. 105.) 
It is stated in the Athenaum, (Dec. i, 1838, p. 860), that Maravigno 
« disputes the assertions of Prof. Gemellaro, who pretends that sulphur 
owes its origin to the decomposition of mollusca." 



64 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

found in the alimentary canal is perhaps often pro- 
duced by the action of decomposing organic matters 
on sulphates *. 

Metallic matter kept in the mouth becomes dis- 
coloured by the action of sulphur on it. Thus the 
gold plates used to support artificial teeth, and the 
amalgam of silver, sometimes employed to fill the 
hollows of decayed teeth, become incrusted with a film 
of metallic sulphuret. Moreover, the leaden blue line, 
which borders the edges of the gums attached to the 
necks of the teeth, in persons whose constitutions are 
under the influence of leadf ,is probably sulphuret of lead. 



* An eminent chemical philosopher teUs me that he is always much 
tronhled with the evolution of this gas after the use of sulphate of 
magnesia (Epsom salts,) That organic matter, in a state of decom- 
position, possesses the power of decomposing sulphates, is now fully 
established. Many years since, my friend, Mr. Pepys, (Trans, qf the 
Geological Society , vol. i. p. 399) shewed that by the mutual action of 
animal matter, and a solution of sulphate of iron, the latter is de-oxidated, 
sulphur, sulphuret of iron, and black oxide of iron, being formed. My 
friend. Professor Daniell, (Lond, Edinb. and Dub. Phil. Mag., July, 1841) 
has also shewn that alkaline sulphates are decomposed by decomposing 
organic matters. From his statements it appears that the waters upon 
the western coast of Africa, to an extent of 40,000 square miles, are 
impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen, to an amount, in some places, 
exceeding that of some of the most celebrated sulphur springs in the 
world ; and he suggests that the existence of this deleterious gas in the 
atmosphere, which must necessarily accompany its solution in the 
waters, may be connected with the awful miasma which has hitherto 
proved fatal to the explorers and settlers of the deadly shores of Africa, 
as weU as of other places. The origin of the sulphuretted hydrogen of 
sea and some other waters, has been ascribed by Dr. Marcet {Phil. 
Trans., 1819, p. 195), Mr. Malcolmson (TVans. of the Geohgioal Society, 
2nd Ser., vol. v., p. 564, Lond. 1840), Dr. A. Fontan {Ann. de Chim. et 
de Physique, July 1840), and Professor Daniell, to the decomposition of 
sulphates contained in the water, by putri lying vegetable matter. 

t See Dr. Burton's paper on this subject, in the Medico- Chirvrgical 
Transactions, 2nd Series, vol. v. p. 63. 1840. 



SULPHUR. 65 

The system derives its sulphur from animal, vege- 
table, and mineral substances, used as food. Thus 
flesh, eggs, and milk, contain it. Vegetable fibrine (as 
of corn), vegetable albumen (as of almonds, nuts, 
cauliflowers, asparagus, and turnips), and vegetable 
caseine (as of peas and beans), contain it. Lastly, 
sulphur, in the form of sulphate of lime, is a consti- 
tuent of common and spring water. 

Celery, rice, hops, ginger, and many other vegetable 
substances, contain sulphur. Though most culinary 
vegetables contain sulphur, yet in the Crucifer^e it is 
especially abundant. Asafoetida, which contains sul- 
phur, is sometimes used as a condiment ; and is 
considered by some oriental nations as ^^ food for the 
godsr * 

An infusion of white mustard strikes a blood-red 
colour with the persalts of iron, owing to the presence 
of sulphosinapisine. By this character white mustard 
is readily distinguished from black mustard. Both 
kinds of mustard-flour charred in a tube evolve a 
sulphuretted vapour, which blackens paper moistened 
with a solution of acetate of lead. In the same way 
sulphur may be detected in cabbage, potatoes, and 
many other vegetable foods. If peas or almonds be 
boiled in a solution of caustic potash, and then hydro- 
chloric acid be added, the evolved vapour blackens 
paper moistened with a solution of lead, thus showing 
that these seeds contained sulphur. 



• See my Elements of Materia Medica, vol. ii. p. 1456, et seq. 2d 
edit. Also Buraes's Travels, vol. i. p. 143 ; and vol. ii. p. 243. 

F 



66 ELEMENTS OP FOODS. 

The quantity of sulphur contained in various ali- 
mentary substances is as follows*: — 

TABLE OF THE QUANTITY OF SULPHUR IN SOME 
ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. 

1000 Parti qf Quantity of Sulphur, Authority, 

Fibrine ;••••••••? From 3*6 to 3*8 Mulder. 

Albumen of eggs (ovalbumen) . . J 

Albumen of blood {seralbumen) . . 6*8 Ditto. 

Caseine 36 Ditto. 

Vegetable fibrine ^ as animal fibrine, ^ 

albumen > ..... albumen, and > Liebig. 

caseine y caseine y 

Volatile oil of black mustard . . . 204*8 

Sulphosinapisine (in white mustard) . 96*57 

Asafcetida 20*0 Uref. 

These are some only of the substances from which 
the sulphur of our system is derived. Others have 
been already referred to. 

8. Iron. — Iron is a constituent of most^ if not all, 
organised beings ; and is found in the ashes of both 
animals and vegetables. The quantity which they 
contain is, however, small, and has not been accurately 
ascertained. Moreover, we are unacquainted with the 
precise state in which it exists in living beings. 



* According to Mulder (Pkarmaceutisches Central-Blatt fur 1838, 
p. 885), the formula for fibrine and ovalbumine is C^o neao Nioo 
0240 pa sa; while that for seralbumen is Csoo H«20 Nioo 0a*o P^S*. 
But Liebig (Animal Chemistry , p. 124) justly observes, that " Every 
attempt to give the true absolute amount of the atoms in fibrine and 
albumen in a rational formula, in which the sulphur and phosphorus 
are taken, not in fractions, but in entire equivalents, must be fruitless, 
because we are absolutely unable to determine with perfect accuracy 
the exceedingly minute quantities of sulphur and phosphorus in such 
compounds ; and because a variation in the sulphur or phosphorus, 
smaller in extent than the usual limits of errors of observation, will 
afiect the number of atoms of carbon, hydrogen, or oxygen, to the ex- 
tent of 10 atoms or more." 

t PharvMceuticalJaumalf Yo\. i. p. 461. 



IRON. 67 

This metal is an essential constituent of the blood 
corpuscles, though, according to the recent researches 
of Scherer, it is neither essential to haematosin, nor 
necessary to the colour of the blood. But the well- 
known beneficial influeqice of chalybeates in the 
disease called Anaemia, in which the blood is found 
to contain a smaller quantity of iron than in a state of 
health, favours the notion that the proper colour of 
this fluid is in some way connected with the amount 
of iron contained in it ; for one of the most charac- 
teristic symptoms of this malady is an absence of the 
natural vermilion tint of the complexion. 

According to Denis,* 1000 parts of the blood cor- 
puscles yield 2 parts of per- or sesquioxide of iron. 
But as the relative proportions of serum and blood 
corpuscles are subject to considerable variation^ it 
follows that the quantity of iron contained in a given 
weight of blood cannot be constant. Moreover, it is 
probable that the proportion of this metal in the blood 
corpuscles may not be uniform. 

The quantity of sesquioxide of iron obtained from 
1000 parts of blood, varies, according to the authority f 
just quoted, from 0.138 to 0.346 parts. In pale, 
relaxed individuals, of a lymphatic temperament, in 
those who have been badly fed, or have been subjected 
to frequent bleedings, or who are labouring under 
anaemia, the blood yields the smaller proportion of 
sesquioxide above referred to. But the blood of strong 



* E$iai sur V Application de la Ckimie a r Etude Physiologique du Sang 
de r Homme, p. 205, Paris, 1838. 
t 0)p. fifpractf. pp. 211— 244. 



68 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

and vigorous subjects, of persons of a sanguine tem- 
perament, and of those who are well fed, furnishes a 
much greater proportion of iron. Liebig* assumes 
the existence of a much larger quantity of sesquioxide 
of iron in the blood than is stated by Denis in the 
work already quoted. f " According to the researches 
of Denis, Richardson, and Nasse, (Handworterbuch 
der Physiologic, vol. i. p. 138)" says Liebig, " 10,000 
parts of blood contain 8 parts of peroxide of iron." 
Now 8 parts of peroxide are equal to 6Aths parts of 
the pure metal. 

Liebig regards the compound of iron in the blood 
as an oxidized one. In the arterial blood, it is satu- 
rated with oxygen (hydrated sesquioxide) ; but during 
its passage through the capillaries it loses part of its 
oxygen J, and becomes protoxide of iron, which com- 
bines with carbonic acid, one of the products of the 
oxidation of the metamorphosed tissues, and forms 
carbonate of the protoxide of iron, which exists in 
venous blood. This, in the lungs, absorbs the same 
amount of oxygen it had lost, and gives out its ac- 
quired carbonic acid. But the fact, that for every 
volume of oxygen absorbed by carbonate of the prot- 



• AnimalChemistryy p. 273. 

t In a work published by Denis in 1830, and entitled Recherchet 
ExperimentaUs sur le Sang Humain, the mean quantity of iron in 1000 
parts of blood is said to be 0.9, but in his more recent work, from which 
the statement in the text has been taken, he states (p. 193) he has sub- 
stituted Lecanu's method of determining the proportion of iron, as 
being infinitely more exact than his own. 

I The facility with which, under certain circumstances, the sesqui- 
oxide of iron loses part of its oxygen, has been recently applied by Sir 
J. F. Herschel in the production of photographic pictures, termed 
Ferrotypes. 



k 



IRON. 69 

oxide of iron no less than four volumes of carbonic 
acid are evolved, appears to me to present some diffi- 
culties to its admission. 

QUANTITY OF OXYGEN ABSORBED, AND CARBONIC ACID 
EVOLVED, BY CARBONATE OF THE PROTOXIDE 

OF IRON. 



4 eq. of Carbonate of Prot- > 030 
oxide of Iron . . . .§ 

1 vol. or 2 eq. of Oxygen ab- > • g 
sorbed s 



248 



4 vols, or eq. Carbonic Acid > ^ 
evolved ) 

4 eq. Sesquioxide of Iron > ./«q 
formed > 

248 



Now it has already been stated (pp. 1 1 and 24) that 
in the process of respiration, the quantity, by volume, 
of carbonic acid expired, is not equal to that of the 
oxygen which has disappeared. 

If we assume that the venous blood contains prot- 
oxide of iron, a portion only of which is in combina- 
tion with carbonic acid, this difficulty may be ob- 
viated. 

QUANTITY OF OXYGEN ABSORBED, AND CARBONIC ACID 
EVOLVED, BY PROTOXIDE AND CARBONATE OF THE 

PROTOXIDE OF IRON. 
1 eqaivalent Carbonate of 



eqaivaient uaroonate ot / ^o 
Protoxide of Iron . J 
3 equivalents of Protoxide of > 1 qq 

1 vol. or 2 equivalents of > 



Oxygen absorbed 



16 



1 equivalent or vol. of Car- > ^o 
bonic Acid evolved . . J 

4 equivalents of Sesquioxide } , ^^ 

of Iron . . . . ,1 ^^ 

182 



182 

" The frightful effects of sulphuretted hydrogen and 
of prussic acid, which, when inspired, put a stop to 
all the phenomena of motion in a few seconds, are ex- 
plained in a natural manner by the well-known action 
of these compounds on those of iron, when alkalies 
are present; and free alkali is never absent in the 
blood" (Liebig). 



70 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

Iron is a constituent of the hair. Black hair con- 
tains most of this metal ; white hair the least*. 

Iron has been found by Braconnot in the gastric 
juice of dogs f . It has likewise been detected in the 
chyle {. These facts, then, explain how this metal 
gets into the blood. 

Most articles of food contain iron. It is a constituent 
of the blood found in meat. Veal must contain less 
of it than beef, since calves are usually bled copiously 
previous to death, by which an ansemic state is in- 
duced. In the yellow fat of the yolk of egg this metal 
may be detected (Liebig). Milk likewise contains 
iron, according to Berzelius, in the state of phosphate. 
Traces of iron have been detected in most vegetable 
foods. Mustard, cabbage, potatoes, peas, and cucum- 
bers, may be mentioned as examples. 

9. Chlorine. — ^This elementary substance is a con- 
stituent of the blood, the gastric juice, and several of 
the excretions, as the urine, saliva, tears, and faeces. 
In the blood and the excretions it exists in combina- 
tion with sodium, while in the gastric juice it is foimd 
combined with hydrogen, and thereby constituting 
hydrochloric acid. 

As the chlorine of the blood is constantly being 
consumed in the formation of the gastric juice 
and secretions, it requires to be frequently re- 
newed. Hence it is an indispensable constituent of 
our food ; and is taken into the system in the form 



• Vauquelin, Ann, de Chm. Irdi, p. 41. 

t Ann. de Chim. et de Physiq. lix. p. 249. 

X Denis, Recherches Expwimmiales, p. 328. 1830. 



CHLORINE. 71 

of chloride of sodium or common salt, which contains 
60 per cent, of chlorine. To the embryo chick nature 
has supplied it in both the white and the yolk of egg, 
while the young mammal finds it in its mother's milk. 
The appetite which all animals evince for common salt 
shews that it is an agent indispensable for their health. 
Its uses will be hereafter pointed out *. 



* One of the most important uses of chloride of sodium (common 
salt) is the formation of hydrochloric acid, an essential ingredient of 
the gastric juice. By what particular agency, whether hy electricity or 
affinity, this decomposition is effected, we are unahle to determine pre- 
cisely, but that the hydrochloric acid of this juice derives its chlorine 
from the chloride of sodium, can scarcely be doubted. Its hydrogen is 
probably derived from water, the oxygen of which at the same time 
unites with the sodium to form soda. 

The gastric juice consists essentially of water, gastric mucus, and 
hydrochloric acid* As mucus is a fluid secretion of all the mucous 
membranes, while the mucus of the gastric membrane alone yields, 
with water and hydrochloric acid, a digestive liquor, it is probable that 
the mucus of the stomach contains some peculiar organic principle, not 
hitherto isolated, on which its peculiar properties depend. To this 
principle, the term pepsin (from irwrr*, / digest) has been applied. An 
artificial digestive liquor is readily prepared by macerating the lining 
membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf in water, to which a few 
drops of hydrochloric acid have been added. If small cubes of white 
of egg, boiled hard, be macerated in this liquor, their more superficial 
parts become translucent, and their edges and angles rounded. Very 
gradually they are dissolved, presenting during the process the appear- 
ance of a cube of soap, dissolving in water, and having a gelatiniform 
character. The yolk of egg yields a turbid liquor, owing to the 
presence of fat globules. A piece of cooked beef-steak becomes pulpy 
at the surface, and gradually dissolves. 

These changes are produced neither by an infusion of the stomach, 
nor by diluted hydrochloric acid employed separately ; but by the two 
conjointly they are readily effected. 

Now, Liebig asserts, ** that the substance which is present in the 
gastric juice in a state of change is a product of the transformation of 
the stomach itself ;" and he goes on to state, that ** the fresh lining 
membrane of the stomach of a calf, digested with weak muriatic acid, 
gives to this fluid no power of dissolving boiled flesh or coagulated 



72 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

10. Sodium. Sodium is a constituent of the blood, 
the animal tissues, and the secretions. Owing to its 
presence, the ashes of animal substances (feathers. 



white of egg ; but if previously allowed to dry, or if left for a time in 
water, it then yields to water, acidulated with muriatic acid, a substance 
in minute quantity, the decomposition of which is already commenced, 
and is completed in the solution." 

But several circumstances appear to me to be opposed to this view. 
The fact ascertained by Schwann, that the solvent principle of the 
digestive fluid can be precipitated from its neutral solution by acetate 
of lead, and be obtained again in an active state from the precipitate 
by metms of sulphuretted hydrogen, is apparently inconsistent with 
Liebig's idea, that this principle is matter in a state of decomposition 
or transformation. Moreover, if the essential part of the gastric juice 
— that by which digestion is effected — be a mere transformation of the 
stomach, how is it that other parts of analogous structure and compo- 
sition do not suffer the same transformation ? I have tried to obtain 
a digestive liquor from the second stomach of the calf, and from the 
bladder, but in vain. How is it this fancied transformation goes on, 
during life, only when solicited to do so by the presence of aliment or 
by mechanical irritation ? Dr. Beaumont ascertained that pure gastric 
juice will keep for many months without becoming fetid: a fact 
scarcely explicable on the hypothesis that its activity depends on a 
principle in a state of decomposition. I find that while acidulated 
infusions of the second stomach of the calf, and of the bladder, soon 
become putrid and fetid, that of the fourth stomach remains remarkably 
free from unpleasant smell for several weeks. Lastly, I find, contrary 
to Liebig's statement, that a digestive liquor can be prepared from the 
fresh undried fourth stomach of a calf. 

I cannot agree with Liebig, that digestion is a process analogous to 
fermentation ; that, in fact, it is nothing more than the transformation 
of food, effected by the contact of matter in a state of decomposition. 
If it were, a small quantity of gastric juice ought to be capable of effect;- 
ing the digestion of an unlimited quantity of food. Now, the experi- 
ments of Dr. Beaumont on the natural gastric juice, and of Schwann 
on the artificial digestive liquor, prove that this is not the case. Both 
found that only a certain amount of food could be digested with a 
given quantity of gastric juice ; and Dr. Beaumont observes, that 
" when the juice becomes saturated it refuses to dissolve more ; and 
if an excess of food have been taken, the residue remains in tlie 
stomach, or passes into the bowels in a crude state.'' Now, this fact 
is quite inconsistent with the fermentation theory. 



CALCIOM. 73 

bristles, hairs, flesh, &c.) possess the property of com- 
municating a yellow tinge to flame. 

This metal is taken into the system, principally in 
the form of chloride, which contains 40 per cent, of the 
metal. This salt is used at our table as a condiment, 
and is a constituent of most animal foods. Thus it is 
contained in both the white and the yolk of egg, in 
milk, and in flesh. It is not an ordinary constituent 
of plants, unless they grow in the neighbourhood of 
the sea or other salt water. Minute quantities of it 
are found in most of our common waters. 

Sodium is expelled from the system both in the 
form of chloride and of oxysalt. In the urine of 
flesh-eating animals it exists in the form of sulphate 
and phosphate of soda. 

11. Calcium. — ^This metal is a component part of 
all animals. In the higher classes it exists princi- 
pally in the form of subphosphate of lime. Thus, 
the bones of the vertebrata contain this salt mixed 
with a small portion of carbonate of lime. But the 
shells and crusts of invertebrated animals, as lobsters, 
oysters, &c., consist of carbonate principally, but 
mixed with a little subphosphate of lime. Muscles, 
nervous matter, the liver, the thyroid gland, and^ 
indeed, all the animal solids, as well as the blood, 
contain calcium in the form of subphosphate of lime. 

Calcium is a constituent of the white, the yolk, and 
the shell of eggs ; and it is probable that the calcium 
found in the skeleton of the chick, when it quits the 
shell, was derived from one or more of these sources.* 

• This, however, is denied by Dr. Prout {PhU. Trans, 1822, p. 399). 
'* I think I can venture to assert/' says he, *' after the most patient and 



74 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

It is likewise a coiistitueDt of milk^ and from this 
source the young mammal derives the requisite sub- 
phosphate of lime for deposition in his bones. 

We derive the calcium of our system from the 
animal, vegetable, and mineral substances which we 
consume as food. Thus bones, flesh, viscera, blood, 
and milk of animals, yield us this metal. To these 
sources must be added eggs, as above mentioned. 
Most vegetables also contain it. Thus subphos- 
phate of lime is found m cereal grains, onions and 
garlic ; the oxalate exists in the stalks of garden rhu- 
barb used for making tarts and puddings; the tartrate 
is found in grapes ; gum and unrefined sugar yield 
ashes containing calcium. Another source of calcium 
is common water (well and river water), which usually 
contains both bicarbonate and sulphate of lime. 

** The Chinese," says Mr. Medhurst *, " use great 
quantities of gypsum [sulphate of lime], which they 
mix with pulse, in order to form a jelly, of which 
they are very fond." 

In some conditions of system a morbid appetite 
for calcareous substances exists. "Physicians," says 
Liebig, " are well acquainted with the fact, that 
children who are not well supplied with a sufficient 
quantity of lime in their food, eat that which they 



attentive investigation, that it [the lime of the skeleton of the chick] 
does not pre-exist in the recent egg; certainly not, at least in any known 
state. The only possible sources, therefore, whence it can be derived, 
are from the shell, or transmutation from other principles." I have 
before (p. 4) noticed Dr. Front's opinions as to the origin of the lime 
of the chick when it leaves the shell. 

* China, its State and Prospects, p. 38. Lond. 1838. 



MAGNESIUM — POTASSIUM. 75 

collect from the walls of houses, with the same 
appetite that they have for their meals/* Such 
cases are, according to my experience, very rare ; and 
there is no evidence to prove Liebig's assertion, 
that in these cases the food was deficient in its 
ordinary proportion of lime. 

12. Magnesium. Small quantities of this metal are 
found in the blood, teeth, bones, nervous matter, 
thyroid gland, and other parts of the body. It exists 
in combination with oxygen and phosphoric acid, and 
often with ammonia also. (See Phosphorus). 

It is a constituent of both vegetable and animal 
foods. Thus it is found in cereal grains, potatoes, 
flesh of animals, milk, eggs, &c. 

13. Potassium. Minute traces of potassium exist 
in blood, the solids, and several of the secretions of 
animals. 

Liebig * states, that '^ without an abundant supply of 
potash, the production of milk becomes impossible ;" 
but I know not on what authority he makes this 
statement, for Schwartz f found only seven parts of 
chloride of potassium (equivalent to 3-68 parts of 
potassium) in 10,000 parts of human milk — a quantity 
apparently too minute to be of much importance. 

Potassium is a constituent of both animal and vege- 
table food. Most plants which grow inland contain 
it; thus, it is found in grapes and potatoes. Its 
presence may be readily detected : burn a grape stalk 
in the candle — the minute ash obtained at the point 



* Animtd Chemistry, p. 164. 

t Gmelin, Handbuchdertheoretiscken ChenUe, vol. ii. p. 1403. 



76 EI.EMENTS OF FOODS. 

of the burnt stalk will, if introduced into the outer 
or almost colourless cone of the flame, communicate 
a violet tint; thus demonstrating the presence of 
potassium or potash. 

Nitrate of potash is sometimes used in the prepara- 
tion of salted meats. This, therefore, is another 
source of potassium in the system. Moreover, com- 
mon salt contains minute traces of this metal. 

14. Fluorine. — ^Berzelius detected minute quan- 
tities of fluoride of calcium in the bones and teeth 
of animals ; but, more recently. Dr. G. O. Rees failed 
to detect it. If fluorine be a normal constituent of 
the body, it is doubtless introduced into the system in 
the small portions of the bones of animals occasionally 
swallowed with their flesh, for it cannot be derived 
from plants, since it has never been detected in these 
bodies. It is remarkable, however, that fluoride of 
calcium is abundant in fossilized bones, and in the 
human bones found at Pompeii and Herculaneum. 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 77 



Chap. IT. — Of Alimentary Principles. 

Two or more of the undecompounded bodies, de- 
scribed in the last chapter, form, by their union with 
each other, certain compound substances, termed 
Alimentary Principles, or Simple Aliments ; and, 
by the combination or mixture of the latter, our 
ordinary foods, called Compound Aliments, are 
formed. 

Some alimentary principles contain two elements 
only, as Water. Others contain three, as Sugar and 
Fat. Proteine is formed of four elements, while 
Fibrine and Albumen contain six. 

Some alimentary principles, as Water and Common 
Salt, are derived from the Mineral Kingdom : others 
are obtained from the Organised Kingdom. 

Dr. Prout * arranges alimentary principles in four 
great classes or groups, viz., the aqueoiLSyihe saccharine y 
the oleaginous^ and the albuminous. The types of 
these groups are found in milk, the only article 
of food actually furnished and intended by nature 
as food for animals. Thus this secretion contains 
water, sugar, butter, and caseum (an albuminous 
substance). 

This arrangement is a very excellent one; but 
several reasons induce me to adopt another. Milk 



* On the Nature and Treatment qf Stomach and Urinary Diseases, p. vi., 
Lond. 1840. 



78 ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 

holds in solution saline matter, which is also an 
essential article of food to the adult animal, and hence 
I shall admit another class under the name of the saline 
aliments. 

Moreover, both chemical and physiological con- 
siderations induce me to separate gelatine from albu- 
minous principles, and, therefore, it will be necessary 
to have a separate group for gelatinous principles. 
Furthermore, it appears to me to be desirable to have 
distinct classes for gum, sugar, starch, vegetable jelly, 
alcohol, and vegetable acids. Hence I admit the 
following classes of alimentary principles : — 

CLASSES OF ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



1. The Aqueous. 

2. The Mucilaf;[inou8 or Gummy. 

3. The Saccharine. 

4. The Amylaceous. 



7. The Acidulous. 
S. The Alcoholic. 
9. The Oily or Fatty. 
10. The Proteinaceous f. 



5. The Ligneous. 11. The Gelatinous. 

6. The Pectinaceous \ \ 12. The Saline. 

1. THE AQUEOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

Water is essential to the performance of all vital 
processes in the higher classes of living beings ; 
Mosses, and some of the infusorial animals, may, it is 
said, be deprived of moisture without having their 
vitality destroyed {. But with these exceptions mois- 
ture seems essential to vital manifestations. This con- 
nection between vitality and moisture led the ancients 



• Pectinaceous, from pectin, vegetable jelly. 

t Proteinaceous, from proteine, the organic constituent of fibrine, 
albumen, and caseine. 

} Needham, Baker, Spallanzani, and Fontana, quoted by Tiedemann 
in his Traiti Complet de Physiologic de V Homme, p. 1 16. 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 79 

to suppose that water was the parent of every thing 
possessed of life *. 

A very large proportion of the human body is 
aqueous. The blood contains about 80 per cent., 
the flesh about 74 per cent of water. So that we 
may safely assume that the entire human machine con- 
tains nearly 75 per cent, or three-fourths of its weight 
of water. But as by evaporation, as well as by the 
processes of secretion and exhalation, as also perhaps 
by decomposition, part of this fluid is wasted or con- 
sumed, the necessity of the use of water as a drink 
becomes obvious. In fact, it is more necessary to our 
existence than solid food; and in this point of 
view it holds an intermediate rank between air and 
solid food, being less essential than the first, but more 
so than the last. 

The water contained in the system is derived from 
the aqueous drinks which we consume, as well as from 
the moisture contained in most of the solid substances 
employed as food. " Water," says Dr. Prout f , 
" enters into the composition of most organised 
bodies, in two separate forms j that is, water may con- 
stitute an essential element of a substance — as of sugar, 
starch, albumen, &c. in their driest states j in which 
case the water cannot be separated, without destroying 
the hydrated compound. Or water may constitute an 



* This notion is said to have been derived from a statement made by 
Moses (Qenesii, eh. i. ver. 2). It is taught in the Koran (Sale's Koran, 
vol. ii. p. 155), and has been embraced by Milton {Paradise Lost, Book 
vii. Une 234). 

f On the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 
p. xix. Lond. 1840. 



80 



ELEMENTS OF FOODS. 



accidental ingredient of a substance — as of sugar, 
starch, albumen, &c. in their moist states ; in which 
case, more or less of the water may frequently be re- 
moved without destroy ing the essential properties of the 
compound." 

The following table shews the quantity of accidental 
water, or that which can be removed by drying, with- 
out injury to the compound, in various articles of 
food : — 



QUANTITY OF WATER IN 100 PARTS OF THE FOLLOWING 

FOODS. 

Water. AmikorUy. 

Gum Arabic 17.6 Guerin. 

Sugar Candy 10.53 Peligot. 

Arrow-root (by drying at 212° Fahr.) . . . 18.2 ProuL 

Wheat (by drying at 230° Fahr.) 14.5 Boussingault. 

Rye (ditto) 16.6 Ditto. 

Oats (ditto) 20.8 Ditto. 

Barley (ditto at 212« Fahr.) 13 2 Ditto. 

Maize (ditto) 18.0 DiUo. 

Peas 16 Playfeir. 

Beans 1411 Ditto. 

Lentils 15.9 Ditto. 

Potatoes (dried at 230° Fahr.) 75.9 Boussingault. 

Turnips (ditto) 92.5 Ditto, 

Carrots (ditto at 212° Fahr.) 87.6 Ditto. 

Beet-root (ditto at 230° Fahr.) 87.8 Ditto. 

Jerusalem Artichoke (ditto) 79.2 Ditto. 

Cabbage, White (ditto at 212« Fahr.) . . . 92.3 Ditto. 

Black Bread 31 .4 to 33 Boeckmann. 

Beef Tea 98.4375 Christison. 

Blood 80 Liebig. 

Fresh Meat 74.8 to 75 Boeckmann. 

Muscle of Beef 74 Brande. 

Ditto 77.5 Schlossberger. 

Ditto of Veal 75 Brande. 

Ditto 79.7 to 78.2 Schlossberger. 

Ditto Mutton 71 Brande. 

Ditto Pork JQ Ditto. 

Ditto 78 3 Schlossberger. 

Ditto Roe Deer 76.9 Ditto. 

Ditto Chicken 73 Brande. 

Ditto 77,3 Schlossberger, 

Ditto Pigeon JQ Ditto. 

Ditto Cod 79 Brande. 

Ditto Haddock 82 Ditto. 



WATER. 81 



Wmter. Authoritjf, 

Muscle of Sole 79 Brande. 

Ditto Carp 80.1 Schlossberger. 

Ditto Trout 80J5 Ditto. 

CalPs Sweetbread (Thymus) 70 Morin. 

Ox's Liver (Parencnyma of) 68.64 Braconnot. 

Egg (white of) 85 Gmelin. 

Ditto (yolk oO 5377 Prout. 

Milk, Cows' 87.02 \ 

Asses' 91.65 

Human 87.98 

Goats' 86.80 

Ewes' 85.62 ) 



O. Henry and 
Chevallier. 



Water is probably the natural drink of all adults. 
It serves several important purposes in the animal 
economy : firstly, it repairs the loss of the aqueous 
part of the blood, caused by evaporation and the 
action of the secreting and exhaling organs ; secondly, 
it is a solvent of various alimentary substances, and, 
therefore, assists the stomach in the act of digestion, 
though, if taken in very large quantities, it may have 
an opposite effect, by diluting the gastric juice; 
thirdly, it is probably a nutritive agent, — that 
is, it assists in the formation of the solid parts of the 
body. From the latter opinion, which I hold with 
Count Rumford *, many, however, will be disposed to 
dissent 

It has not, indeed, been actually demonstrated that 
water is decomposed in the animal system, or, in other 
words, that it yields up its elements to assist in the 
formation of organised tissues ; yet such an occurrence 
is by no means improbable. It appears, from Liebig's 



• Essays, vol. i. p. 194, 5th ed. 1800. 

G 



82 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

observations *, that the hydrogen of vegetable tissues 
is derived from water ; and it is not probable that the 
higher orders of the organised kingdom should be de- 
ficient in a power possessed by the lower orders. Dr. 
Prout t appears to admit the existence of this power, 
but thinks that it is rarely exercised by animals. 
'* There is reason to believe," he says, " that the de- 
composition of water either takes place when in a state 
of combination with other principles, or during the act 
of its separation or combination with such principles ; 
and that water, as water, is rarely decomposed by the 
animal economy." 

The water which constitutes an essential part of the 
blood and of the living tissues, assists in several 
ways in carrying on the vital processes. "In the 
blood," says Dr. Prout J, " the solid organised 
particles are transported from one place to another; 
are arranged in the place desired; and are again 
finally removed and expelled from the body, chiefly 

• 

by the agency of the water present." It is from 
water that the tissues derive their properties of ex- 
tensibility and flexibility. Lastly, this fluid con- 
tributes to most of the transformations which occur 
within the body. As a solvent, it serves not only to 
aid digestion, as already noticed, but also to eflfect 
other changes. Thus, it is probable that the conversion 
of uric acid into urea, by the action of oxygen, is 

• Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiology^ p. 63, 
in 2d ed. 1842. 

t Op. supra cit, p. 8. 

\ On the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 
p. 7. 



WATER. 83 

effected by the agency of water, which holds the acid 
in solution ; for in animals, which drink much water, 
no uric acid, but urea only, is found in the urine * ; 
while in birds, which seldom drink, and in snakes, uric 
acid predominates. 

CONVERSION OF URIC ACID INTO UREA. 



1 eq. Uric Acid Cio N* H4 0« 

4 eq. Water . — — H* O* 

6 eq. Oxygen . — — — 0« 

Total . . CW N4 H8 Qi^ 



2 eq. Urea . C* N* » O* 

6 eq. Cwrbonic > ^.^ q^^ 

Acid . S 

Total . . Cio N4 H8 0i« 



In some cases, water combines chemically with sub- 
stances to which, therefore, it contributes both its 
elements. Thus the conversion of either cane sugar 
(C" Aqua^^), or starch (C" Aqtw}^), into either 
sugar of milk (C" Jgwa"), or diabetic sugar (grape 
sugar C" Aqua}*), can be effected only by the ad- 
dition of water. So also the hydrochloric acid of 
the gastric juice and the soda of the blood and bile, 
are derived from common salt (chloride of sodium) 
by the aid of water. 

CONVERSION OF CHLORIDE OF SODIUM INTO HYDRO- 
CHLORIC ACID AND SODA. 

1 eq. Chloride of So-1 q, j^ 

dium J 

I eq. Water H 

Total ClNaH 



i eq, HydrochloO (.J _ h - 

nc Acid . . . ./ 
1 eq. Soda — Na — O 



Total CI Na H O 



Water, considered as a dietetical remedy, may be 
regarded under a twofold point of view ; — first, with 



Liebig's Animal Chemistry, p. 139. 



84 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

respect to its quaniily ; secondly, in reference to its 
quality. 

In some maladies, as fevers and acute inflammatory 
diseases, an almost unlimited use of aqueous fluids 
is admitted under the various names of slopSy dilueniSy 
thin diety fever diet, broth diet, &c. They quench 
thirst, lessen the stimulating quality and augment the 
fluidity of the blood, by increasing the proportion 
of its aqueous pait, and promote the action of the 
secreting organs. Moreover, it is probable that they 
may promote the conversion of uric acid into urea, as 
above referred to. Furthermore, they are sometimes 
useful by lessening the irritating contents of the 
alimentary canal. 

But in some maladies it is necessary to restrict the 
quantity of fluids taken ; in other words, to employ 
what is called a dfif diet. Thus, we employ this regi- 
men when our object is to keep down the volume of 
the circulating fluid (as in valvular diseases of the 
heart), or to prevent thinness of the blood (as in aneu- 
rism of any of the great vessels, when our only hope 
of cure depends on the coagulation and deposition of 
fibrine within the aneurismal sac), or when we are de- 
sirous of repressing excessive secretion (as of urine, in 
diabetes). 

Attention to the quality as well as to the quantity of 
the water employed, as a drink, is also important ; not 
only for the palliation and cure of some maladies, but 
also as a prophylactic means. Now, considered with 
regard to quality, the waters furnished us by nature 
are conveniently divisible into three classes ; viz. 1st. 
Common waters, or those employed as drinks, or for 



WATER. 85 

dressing food, or for other purposes of domestic 
economy. 2dly, Sea water, or the water of the ocean. 
3dly, Mineral waters, or those waters which belong to 
neither of the preceding classes, and which possess 
some peculiar properties derived from the presence 
of one or more mineral substances. 

From any of these waters, though usually from 
those of the first class, we obtain distilled . water, 
which is sometimes used for dietetical and remedial 
purposes. These different kinds of water require 
separate consideration. 

1. Common Waters. — Under this head are included 
the waters commonly known as rain, springy rivery 
well or pump, lake, and marsh waters. 

a. Rain Waie?'. — ^This is the purest of all natural 
waters. Its purity, however, is subject to some varia- 
tion. Thus, when collected in large towns or cities, it 
is less pure than when obtained in the country: 
moreover, it is usually loaded with impurities at the 
commencement of a shower, but after some hours of 
continuous rain it becomes nearly pure ; for the first 
water which falls brings down the various foreign 
matters suspended in the atmosphere. Air is a con- 
stant constituent of rain water. Carbonate of am- 
monia is another ingredient. It is derived from the 
putrefaction of nitrogenous substances. When several 
hundred pounds of rain water ** were distilled in a cop- 
per still, and the first two or three pounds evaporated 
with the addition of a little muriatic acid, a very distinct 
crystallization of sal-ammoniac was obtained : the crys- 
tals had always a brown or yellow colour *." " It is 

* Organic Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiology : 
edited by Lyon Playfair Ph. D. p. 75. Lond. 1842. 



86 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

worthy of observation," says Liebig, " that the am- 
monia contained in rain and snow water possesses an 
offensive smell of perspiration and animal excre- 
ments, — a fact which leaves no doubt respecting its 
origin." It is owing to the presence of carbonate of 
ammonia that rain water owes its softer feel than pure 
distilled water. According to Liebig, it is the atmo- 
spheric ammonia which furnishes the nitrogen of plants. 
The traces of nitric acid which have been detected in 
the air are referable to the oxidation of the consti- 
tuents of ammonia ; and not to the direct union of 
the oxygen and free nitrogen of the atmosphere. A 
carbonaceous (sooty) substance, and traces of sul- 
phates, chlorides, and calcareous matter, are the usual 
impurities of the first rain water of a shower. Car- 
bonate of lime, and, according to Bergmann, chloride 
of calcium, are constituents of rain water. Zimmer- 
mann found oxide of iron and chloride of potassium ; 
but Kastner could discover no trace of iron in it, 
though he found in dew, meteoric iron and nickel. 
Brandes detected various other inorganic substances, 
viz. chloride of sodium (in greatest quantity), chlo- 
ride of magnesium, sulphate and carbonate of mag- 
nesia, and sulphate of lime. He likewise mentions 
oxide of manganese. The putrefaction to which rain 
water is subject, shews that some organic matter 
is present. The term pyrrhin (from irw^c, red) has 
been applied by Zimmermann to an atmospheric 
organic substance which reddens solutions of silver. 
Whenever rain water is collected near large towns, it 
should be boiled and strained before use. As it con- 
tains less saline impregnation than other kinds of 
natural waters, it is more apt to become contami- 



WATER. S7 

Dated with lead from roofs, gutters, cisterns, and water 
pipes. 

Snow Water is destitute of air and other gaseous 
matters found in rain ; and hence fish cannot live in 
it. According to Liebig, it contains ammonia. It has 
long been a popular, but erroneous opinion, that it was 
injurious to the health, and had a tendency to produce 
bronchocele. But this malady " occurs at Sumatra, 
where ice and snow are never seen ; while, on the con- 
trary, the disease is quite unknown in Chili and 
Thibet, although the rivers of these countries are chiefly 
supplied by the melting of the snow with which the 
mountains are covered*." Snow does not quench 
thirst; on the contrary, it augments it; and the 
natives of the Arctic regions " prefer enduring the 
utmost extremity of this feeling, rather than attempt 
to remove it by eating of snowf." When melted, 
however, it proves as efficacious as other kinds of 
water. 

h. Spring Water. — ^This is rain water, which, having 
percolated through the earth, reappears at the surface 
of some declivity. During its passage, it almost 
always takes up some soluble matters, which of course 
vary according to the nature of the soil. Its consti- 
tuents are similar to those of well water, presently to 
be noticed. 

c. Biver Water. — ^This is a mixture of rain and 
spring water. When deprived of the matters which 



* Paris, Pharmacologiaf 6th ed. vol. i. p. 79* 

t Captain Ross's Narrative of a Second Voyage in Search of a North- 
west Passage ; and of a Residence in the Arctic Regions during the years 
1829, 1830, 1831, 1832, and 1833, p. 366. Lond. 1835. 



88 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



it frequently holds in suspension, its purity is usually 
considerable. The following are the solid constituents 
of the waters of the Thames and Colne, at different loca- 
lities, according to the analyses of Mr. R. Phillips*. 



QUANTITY OF WATER. 

1 Gallon s= lOlbs. Avoirdup., 
at er> F. 

or 70000 grs. Avoirdup. 


THAMES WATER. 


COLNE WATER. 


Brentford 

Source of 
tbeGrund 
Junction 
Waterworks 
Company. 


Barnes. 

Source of 

theWeat 

Middleaex 

Waterworks 

Company. 


CkeUea. 

Source of 

the 

Chelsea 

Waterworks 

Company. 


Otterpwil. 

Sprinc near 
BusLey. 


Main 
Spring 

in the 

▼alley that 

supplies 

the Colne. 


Colne 

ItMlil 


Carbonate of lime 

Sulphate of Lime ? 

Chloride of Sodium ;' 

Oxideof Iron ^ 

Silica 

Maniesia 


Grs. 
16000 

S-400 

Very 

minute 

portions. 


Grs. 
16-900 

1-700 
Ditto. 




Grs. 
16-500 

2*900 
Ditto. 


Grs. 
18-800 

2*500 
Ditto. 


Grs. 
19-300 

2-500 
Ditto. 


Grs. 

18*100 

3*200 
Ditto. 


Carbonaceous matter j 


Salid matter held in solution 
Mechanical Impurity 


19*400 
0-368 


18*600 
0-368 


19*400 
0-338 


21300 
0*185 


21*800 
0*262 


21*900 
0*126 


Total Solid matter. . . . 


19-768 


18-968 


19*638 


21*485 


22*062 


21*426 



No notice is taken in these analyses of the g^aseous constituents (air and carbonic acid) of 

river water. 



The carbonate of lime is held in solution by car- 
bonic acid, forming bicarbonate of lime. By boiling, 
this acid is expelled, and the carbonate of lime is pre- 
cipitated on the sidea of the vessel, constituting the 
fur of the tea-kettle and the crust of boilers* 

Decomposing organic matter, in suspension or solu- 
tion, is found in every river water in a greater or less 
proportion. Ordinarily the quantity is insufficient to 
act injuriously; but it cannot be doubted that water, 
strongly contaminated with it, must be deleterious. 



• Report from the Select Committee of the House of Lords, appointed 
to inquire into the Supply of Water to the Metropolis, p. 91, 1840.— See 
also Dr. Bostock's analysis, in the Report of the Commissioners appointed 
to inquire into the State of the Supply (if Water in the Metropolis, 1828. 



WATEK. 89 

Where, however, the quantity present is insuf- 
ficient to produce any immediately obvious effects, it 
is by no means easy to procure decisive evidence of its 
influence on the system. In those cases in which its 
operation has been unequivocally recognised, it has 
manifested itself by the production of dysentery*. 



* At the Nottingham Assizes in July, 1836, it was proved at a trial 
(Jackson versus Hall), on which I was a witness, that dysentery, in an 
aggravated form, was caused in cattle by the use of water contaminated 
with putrescent vegetable matter, produced by the refuse of a starch 
manufactory. The fish (perch, gudgeon, pike, roach, and dace) and frogs 
in the pond, through which the brook ran, were destroyed. All the ani- 
mals (cows, calves, and horses,) which drank of this water, became se- 
riously ill, and in eight years the plaintiff lost 24 cows and 9 calves, all of 
a disease (dysentery) accompanied by nearly the same symptoms. It was 
also shewn that the animals sometimes refused to drink the water; that 
the mortality was in proportion to the quantity of starch made at different 
times ; and that, subsequently, when the putrescent matter was not 
allowed to pass into the brook, but was conveyed to a river at some 
distance, the fish and frogs began to return, and the mortality ceased 
among the cattle. The symptoms of illness in the cows were as fol- 
lows : the animals at first got thin, had a rough, staring coat, and gave 
less milk (from two to three quarts less every day) ; they then became 
purged, passed blood with the fsces, and at length died emaciated and 
exhausted. On a post-mortem examination, the intestinal canal, 
throughout its whole length, was found inflamed and ulcerated. The 
water, which I examined, was loaded with putrescent matter, and con- 
tained chloride of calcium (derived from the chloride of lime employed 
in bleaching the starch). Traces of free sulphuric acid were occa- 
sionally found by one witness. 

"Dr. M. Barry affirms that the troops were frequently liable to 
dysentery, while they occupied the old barracks at Cork ; but he has 
heard that it has been of rare occurrence in the new barracks. Several 
years ago, when the disease raged violently in the old barracks (now 
the dep6t for convicts), the care of the sick was, in the absence of the 
regimental surgeon, entrusted to the late Mr. Bell, surgeon, in Cork. 
At the period in question, the troops were supplied with water from the 
river Lee, which, in passing through the city, is rendered unfit for 
drinking, by the influx of the contents of the sewers from the houses, 
and likewise is brackish from the tide, which ascends into their chan- 



90 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Its influence in a milder form is attended with slight 
relaxation of bowels. " The beneficial effects derived 
from care as to the qualities of water," says Mr. Chad- 
wick *, " is now proved in the navy, where fatal dysen- 
tery formerly prevaUed to an immense extent, in conse- 
quence of the impure and putrid state of the supplies ; 
and care is now generally exercised on the subject by 
the medical officers of the army." 

The decomposing organic matter above referred to, 
consists principally of the exuviae of animal and vege- 
table substances f. The water of some of the wells of 



nels. Mr. BeU, suspecting that the water might have caused the dy- 
sentery, upon assuming the care of the sick, had a number of water- 
carts engaged to bring water for the troops, from a spring called the 
Lady's Well, at the same time that they were no longer permitted to 
drink the water from the river. From this simple, but judicious arrange- 
ment, the dysentery very shortly disappeared among the troops." (Dr. 
Cheyne, On Dysentery ^ in the Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 11). 

* Report to her Majesty^ s Principal Secretary qf State for the Home 
Department, from the Poor-Law Commissioners, on an Inquiry into the 
Sanatory Condition qf the Labouring Population of Great Britain, p. 78. 
1842. 

t " In addition to its saline or natural impurities, the weU water of 
London is sometimes contaminated by organic matters, the source of 
which, especiaUy in the pump-water of churchyards, is sufficiently ob- 
vious; and such is usually the place selected for the parish pump. 
This disgusting source of water should be avoided ; and the disgraceful 
system of burying the dead in the streets of the metropolis should be 
authoritatively discontinued. Of this nuisance, abundant instances occur 
to every one who walks about London ; the churchyard of St. Clement's, 
in the Strand, is a fair specimen, and there are many infinitely worse. 
In these, the same graves are repeatedly opened, and the coffins thrust 
in one upon another, according to the most inexplicable system ; and it 
is beneath this superstratum that the waters of the adjacent wells flow, 
in some instances, perhaps, deep enough to avoid direct contamination, 
but never free from the suspicion of the ooadngs of the vicinity." 
(Brande's Dictionary qf Materia Medica and Practical Pharmacy, p. 81 . 
1839). InihtReport on theHeaUhof Towns (Effectqf Interment qfBodiesJj 



WATER. 91 

the metropolis are occasionally contaminated with the 
odomr and flavour of gas-tar. I have myself found 
this to be the case in a well water obtained near the 
London Hospital. 

The quantity of organic matter contained in com- 
mon water has not been accurately determined. Dr. 
Lambe * states, that from 30 gallons of Thames water, 
collected at London, he procured 28 grains of a car- 
bonaceous substance. But from Thames water taken 
out of the river at Windsor, the quantity was con- 
siderably less. From six gallons of water he did not 
procure one grain of this charcoally matter. 

Thames water, when carried to sea in casks, soon 
becomes putrid and offensive, and evolves inflanmiable 



dated 14th June, 1842 (327), it is stated that this pump has been 
obliged to be shut up, as the water was found unfit for use. In the 
same work, Dr. Copland, in his evidence before the Committee of the 
House of Commons, states, that water which percolates through soil 
abounding in animal matter becomes injurious to the health of the indi- 
viduals using it. This fact, he says, ** has been proved on many occa- 
sions, and especially in warm chmates ; and several very remarkable 
facts illustrative of it occurred in the Peninsular campaign. It was 
found, for instance, at Cuidad Rodrigo, where, as Sir James Macgregor 
states, in his account of the health of the army, there were 20,000 
dead bodies put into the ground within the space of two or three 
months, that this circumstance appeared to influence the health of the 
troops, inasmuch as for some months afterwards all those exposed to 
the emanations from the soil, as well as obhged to drink the water 
from the sunk wells, were affected by malignant and low fevers, and 
by dysenteries, or fevers frequently putting on a dysenteric character. 
The digestive operations are affected by water abounding with putrid 
animal matter ; so that burying in large towns aflects the health of 
individuals, in the first place, by emanations into the atmosphere, and, 
in the second place, by poisoning the water percolating through that 
soU." 

• An Iwcesiigation qfihe Pivperties qf the Thames Water, Lond. 1828. 



92 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

vapour*. This is owing to the presence of decom- 
posing organic matter. Jf, however, the water in this 
fetid state be racked off into larger vessels, and exposed 
to the air, a slimy deposit is formed, and the water 
becomes clear, sweet, and palatable. 

I have already had occasion to refer to the evolution 
of sulphuretted hydrogen gas from waters containing 
both sulphates and decomposing organic matter f. 

Living beings (animals and vegetables) constitute 
another class of impurities of river water. But the 
public has formed a \ery erroneous notion of the 
extent and nature of this source of impurity, in conse- 
quence of the public exhibition in London of aquatic 
animals, by means of the solar and oxyhydrogen mi- 
croscopes. The animals used on these occasions are 
collected in stagnant pools in the neighbourhood of 
the metropolis, and are not found in the water usually 
supplied for domestic use. 

Recent microscopic investigations have shown that 
animals are liable to both vegetable and animal 
parasites (entophyta and entozoa.) Thus, goldfish 
often become covered with a white efflorescence, 
and, in consequence, languish and die. When 
examined by a microscope, this efflorescence is 
found to be a cryptogamic plant, and to consist of 
articulated, cellular tubes, some of which are filled 
with granules, and one or two nuclei. A similar 
growth sometimes occurs on efts (Triton cristata). 



* A similar change is reported to have occurred to water collected at 
St. Jago (see Phil. Trans. No. 268, p. 738, vol. 22. 1701). 
t See p. 64. 



WATER. 93 

by which the tails of these animals are gradually 
destroyed. Now it is by no means improbable 
that disease may be induced in a somewhat similar 
way in the human subject, by the use of water con- 
taining the shreds or filaments of cryptogamic 
plants. This suspicion is strengthened by the case, 
related by Dr. A. Farre *, of a woman who passed, 
by the bowels, substances having the ordinary appear- 
ance of shreds of false membrane, but consisting 
entirely of confervoid filaments, probably belonging 
to the genus Oscillatoria. The patient iftank the 
ordinary water which supplies London, and it is not 
improbable, therefore, she may have in this way 
imbibed the reproductive sporules. In the same way, 
aquatic animals of various species may be occasionally 
swallowed. When the French army entered upon the 
deserts which separate Egypt from Syria, the soldiers, 
pressed by thirst, threw themselves on their faces, and 
drank greedily of the muddy water, and which, un- 
known to them, contained leeches (^Sanguisuga €cgyp- 
tiaca)y having the form of a horse-hair, and the length 
of a few lines only. Many of them felt immediately 
stings or prickling pains in the posterior fauces, fol- 
lowed by frequent coughs, glairy spots, slightly tinged 
with blood, and a disposition to vomit, with a difficulty 
of swallowing, laborious respiration, and sharp pains 
in the chest, loss of appetite and rest, attended with 
great uneasiness and agitation. On pressing down 
the tongue of the individual first attacked, a leech was 
discovered, which was with difficulty removed by the 

• Microscopic Journal, vol. ii. p. 189. 



< 



94 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

forceps. Little or no hemorrhage followed, and the 
patient recovered. Those which had attached them- 
selves to the posterior fauces, were removed by the use 
of gargles composed of vinegar and salt-water. 

d. Well Water. — ^This is water obtained by sinking 
wells*. As it is commonly raised by means of a 
pump, it is frequently called pump water . The consti- 
tuents of ordinary well water are similar to those of 
river water above mentioned; but the earthy salts 
(especially the bicarbonate and sulphate of lime) are 
found in much larger quantity. It usually decom- 
poses and curdles soap, and is then denominated hard 
water, to distinguish it from river and other waters, 
which are readily miscible with soap, and which are 
termed soft waters. The hardness of water depends on 
certain earthy salts, the most common of which is sul- 
phate of lime. By the mutual action of this salt and 
soap, double decomposition is effected : the sulphuric 



* Artesian Wells are vertical cylindrical borings in the earth, 
throagh which water rises, by hydrostatic pressure, either to the 
surface (spouting or overflowing wells), or to a height convenient for the 
operation of a pump. (For a description of the mode of boring, and 
of the tools used, see Ure's Dictionary of Arts, Manm^actures, and Mines, 
p. 67, Lond. 1839. In the Penny Cycloptedia, art Artesian Wells, is a 
popular and interesting account of these wells). They have been de- 
nominated Artesian, from a notion that they were first made in the dis- 
trict of Artois, in France. It is probable, however, that they were 
known to the ancients, for a notice of them is said to occur in Olym. 
piodorus (Passy, Description Giologiqwe du Dipartement de la Seine /»- 
fSrieure, p. 292. Rouen, 1832). Proposals have been made for supplying 
London with water by these wells *, which would derive their water 
from the stratum of sand and plastic clay, placed between the London 
clay and the chalk basin. But it does not appear that a sufficient 
supply could be obtained in this way. (See an interesting account of 
Artesian Wells, by Mr. Webster, in the Athenteum for 1839, p. 131. 
Also, Transactions of the Institution of Civil Engineers, vol. iii. part iii.) 



WATEB. 95 

acid unites with the alkali of the soap, setting free the 
fatty acids, which unite with the lime to form an 
insoluble earthy soap. Hard water is a less perfect 
solvent of organic matter than soft water ; hence, in the 
preparation of infusions and decoctions, and for many 
economical purposes, as for tea-making and brewing, 
it is inferior to soft water ; and, for the same reason, it 
is improper as a drink in dyspeptic affections. More- 
over, it proves injurious in urinary deposits. The 
unfavourable effects of hard waters on the animal 
system are especially manifested in horses. " Hard 
water, drawn fresh from the well," observes Mr. 
Youatt *, " will assuredly make the coat of a horse, 
unaccustomed to it, stare, and it will not unfrequently 
gripe and otherwise injure him. Instinct, or expe- 
rience, has made even the horse himself conscious of 
this ; for he will never drink hard water if he has 
access to soft : he will leave the most transparent and 
pure [?] water of the well for a river, although the water 
may be turbid, and even for the muddiest pool f ." 

Mr. Chad wick J observes that " water containing 
animal matter, which is the most feared, appears to 
be less frequently injurious than that which is the 
clearest — namely, spring water ; from the latter being 
oftener impregnated with mineral substances." Satis- 



• The Horse, p. 359. Lond. 1831. 

t ** Some trainers have so much fear of hard or strange water, that 
they carry with them to the different courses the water that the animal 
has hecn accustomed to drink, and that they know agrees with it." 

X Report to her Majesiy*8 Principal Secretary qf State for the Home 
Department, /rom the Poor-Law Commissioners, on an Inquiry into the 
Sanatory Condkum of the Labouring Population qf Great Britain, p. 77. 
1842. 



96 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

ferCtory and unequivocal evidence, however, of the 
nature of the injurious action of the saline ingre- 
dients of 'common waters, is not readily obtained, 
but the most obvious and frequent effect is diarrhoea*. 
Though the purest waters are the most wholesome, 
yet very pure water is possessed of one very dan- 
gerous quality ; viz. that of rapidly corroding lead, and 
thereby acquiring an impregnation of this metal. 
Distilled water has no action on lead, provided the 
air be excluded, but, when this is admitted, a thin 
white crust f of carbonate and hydrate of the oxide 
of lead is speedily formed. Now, it is very re- 
markable that the neutral salts usually found in spring 
water, impair the corrosive action of water and air, 
and thus exercise a protecting influence. To the 
presence of saline matter, therefore, is to be ascribed 



• Sulphate of lime or g3rp8um is the ordinary constituent of hard 
waters. Dioscorides (lib. v. cap. 134) describes it as possessing an 
astringent property, and, when drank, destroying life j and Pliny 
(lib. xxxvi. cap. 59) states, that C. Proculeius killed himself by taking 
it. From the few observations respecting it which have been pub- 
lished (see Wibmcr, Die Wirkung der Arzneimittel und Gifte, vol. ii. 
p. 11), it appears that it acts on the system as an astringent, causing 
constipation and disordered digestion. Parent du Chatelet (quoted by 
Mr. Chadwick) ascribes to it a purgative quality; and refers the 
chronic diarrhoea, so often observed in the hospital of Salpfitri^re and 
the prison of St.-Lazarus, to the " very great proportion of sulphate 
of lime and other purgative salts" contained in the water with which 
both these establishments are supplied. 

t Dr. Christison {Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh^ 
vol. XV. part ii. 1842), made three analyses of this crust, and found that 
it consisted of Oxide of Lead, Carbonic Acid, and Water, in proportions 
which nearly correspond to the formula 3 Pb + 2 CO* + Aq. ; that 
is, a compound of three equivalents Oxide of Lead, two of Carbonic 
Acid, and one of Water j or rather, a compound of two equivalents of 
Carbonate of Lead in union with one equivalent of Hydrated Oxide 
of Lead = 2 (Pb + C0» ) + (Pb + Aq.) 



WAT£R. 07 

the comparative infrequeney of the plumbeous impreg- 
nation of water kept in leaden cisterns or transmitted 
through leaden pipes. All salts do not possess an 
equally protective influence, the carbonates and sul- 
phates being most, the chlorides (muriates) the least, 
energetic of those saline substances commonly met 
with in spring waters*. Rain and other pure 
kinds of water which contain but minute por- 
tions of these protecting salts, readily acquire an im- 
pregnation of lead from roofs, gutters, cisterns, or 
pipes, made of this metal. " There is another way in 
which lead is occasionally acted upon by water, and to 
which attention was first directed by Dr. Paris : it is 
in consequence of galvanic action, and in cases where 
iron and lead are in metallic contact, as often happens 
in the employment of iron bars to strengthen and sup- 
port leaden cisterns, and in the introduction of iron 
pumps under similar circumstances ; in these cases, 
though the lead is rendered electro-negative, and so far 
protected from acid reaction, it becomes more suscep- 
tible of, and exposed to, the agency of electro-positive 
elements, among which are alkalis and alkaline earths, 
and these exert considerable solvent power over it. So 
that all such combinations of lead and iron, zinc, &c. 

* My friend, Professor Daniell, informs me that he has found lead 
in the weU water obtained at Norwood. The water is very hard (that 
iSy holds a large quantity of sulphate of lime in solution) and contains 
much free carbonic acid. It is the latter ingredient, apparently, which 
holds the lead in solution, for, by boiling, the whole of the lead is pre- 
cipitated. The water is raised from the well by a leaden pump, to 
which is attached a few feet of leaden pipe. Professor Daniell's atten- 
tion was directed to the subject in consequence of the occurrence of 
seyeral cases of lead colic in the neighbourhood of his residence at 
Norwood. (See also PharmacnUioal JowmaJj Not. 1, 18^.) 

H 



98 ALIMENTABT PRINCIPLES. 

should be cautiously avoided. Lastly, there is another 
source of contamination of water by lead, which is 
this; leaden cisterns have often leaden covers, and 
the water, spontaneously evaporating from the cistern, 
is condensed (now in the form of pure or distilled 
water) upon the lid, upon which it exerts its usual 
energetic action, and drops back into the body of the 
cistern, contaminated by lead: so that wood, not 
leaded, should be used in all cases for covering leaden 
reservoirs*." 

Water impregnated with lead, in the way above 
alluded to, possesses the following properties : — By ex- 
posure to the air it becomes covered with a thin white 
film, and the vessel in which it is contained becomes 
lined with a thin white incrustation of a pearly lustre. 
This crust, dissolved in acetic acid, yields a solution 
which is rendered blackish brown by sulphuretted 
hydrogen, and yellow by either iodide of potassium or 
bichromate of potash. 

The continued use of water containing lead gives 
rise to lead or painters, colic , which is accompanied by 
a narrow leaden blue line on the edges of the gums 
attached to the necks of two or more (usually incisor) 
teeth of either jaw (see p. 64). If the cause of the 
malady be not discovered, and the water not discon- 
tinued, palsy usually succeeds colic f. 

The following conclusions, drawn by Dr. Christison J, 
as to the employment of lead-pipes for conducting 



* Brande's Dictionary qf Materia Medico and Practical Pharmacy , 
p. SO. Loiid.l8d9. 

t See my Elements qf Materia Medico, p. 793, vol. i. 2d edit 

I Trans, qftke Royal Society qf Edinhwrgh, vol. xv. part ii. p. 271. 



WATER. 99 

water, are of considerable importance, and, therefore, 
deserve especial attention. 

" 1. Lead-pipes ought not to be used for the purpose, 
at least where the distance is considerable, without a 
careful examination of the water to be transmitted. 

** 2. The risk of a dangerous impregnation with lead 
18 greatest in the instance of the purest waters. 

" 3. Water, which tarnishes polished lead when left at 
rest upon it in a glass vessel for a few hours, cannot be 
safely transmitted through lead-pipes without certain 
precautions*. 

" 4. Water, which contains less than about an 8000th 
of salts in solution, cannot be safely conducted in lead- 
pipes without certain precautions. 

" 5. Even this proportion will prove insufficient to 
prevent corrosion, unless a considerable part of the 
saline matter consist of carbonates and sulphates, es- 
pecially the former, 

" 6. So large a proportion as a 4000th, probably 
even a considerably larger proportion, will be insuffi- 
cient, if the salts in solution be in a great measure 
muriates. 

" 7. It is, I conceive, right to add, that in all cases, 
even though the composition of the water seems to 
bring it within the conditions of safety now stated, an 
attentive examination should be made of the water 
after it has been running for a few days through the 
pipes. For it is not improbable that other circum- 



• " Conyenely, it is probable, though not yet proved, that if polished 
lead remain untarnished, or nearly so, for twenty-four hours in a glass 
of water, the water may be safely conducted through lead-pipes." 



100 ikLIMENTART PRINCIPLES. 

stances, besides those hitherto ascertained, may regu- 
late the preventive influence of the neutral salts. 

" 8. When the water is judged to be of a kind which 
is likely to attack lead-pipes, or when it actually flows 
through them impregnated with lead, a remedy may 
be found, either in leaving the pipes full of the water 
and at rest for three or four months, or by substituting 
for the water a weak solution of phosphate of soda, in 
the proportion of about a 25,000th part*/* 

e. Lake Water. — ^This is a collection of rain, spring, 
and river water, usually contaminated with putrefying 
organic matter. 

f. Marsh Water. — ^This is analogous to Lake water, 
except that it is altogether stagnant, and is more loaded 
with putrescent matter. The sulphates in sea and 
other waters are decomposed by putrefying vegetable 
matter, with the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen ; 
hence the intolerable stench from marshy and swampy 
grounds liable to occasional inundations from the sea. 

Tests of the usual Impurities in Common Water. — 
The following are the tests by which the presence of 
the ordinary constituents or impurities of common 
waters may be ascertained : — 

1. Ebullition. — ^By boiling, Air and Carbonic Acid gas are ex* 
peUed, while Carbonate of Lime (which has been held in solution by 
the carbonic acid) is deposited. The latter constitutes the fur or crust 
which lines tea-kettles and boilers. 

2. Protosulphate of Iron.— If a crystal of this salt be introduced 
into a phial filled with the water to be examined, and the phial be well 



* The object of this is to form, while the water is at rest, a fine film 
of mixed carbonate and phosphate of lead, which shall adhere so firmly as 
not to be swept away when the water is allowed to flow, and which wiU 
serve as a lining to preyent the contact of the running water with the 
metal. 



WATER. 101 

oorkedy a yellowish-brown precipitate (sesquioxide of iron) will be 
deposited in a few days, if Oxygen gas be contained in the water. 

3. Litmus.— Infusion of litmus or syrup of violets is reddened by a 
btt Acid. 

4. Lime Water.— This is a test for Carbonic Acid, with which it 
causes a white precipitate (carbonate of lime) if employed before the 
wat^.is boiled. 

.5. CteoBiDE OF Barium. — A solution of this salt usually yields, 
with well-water, a white precipitate insoluble in nitric acid. This 
i ndicates the presence of Sulphuric Acid (which, in common water, is 
combined with lime). 

6. Oxalate OF Ammonia.— If this salt yield a white precipitate, it 
indicates the presence of Lime (carbonate and sulphate). 

7. Nitrate of Silver. — If this occasion a precipitate insoluble in 
nitric add, the presence of Chlorine may be inferred. 

8. Phosphate of Soda.— If the lime contained in common water be 
removed by ebullition and oxalic acid, and to the strained and trans- 
parent water. Ammonia and Phosphate of Soda be added, any Mag- 
nesia present will, in the course of a few hours, be precipitated in the 
form of the white ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia. 

9. Tincture of Galls. — This is used as a test for Iron, with solu- 
tions of which it forms an inky liquor (tannate and gallate of iron). If 
the test produce this effect on the water before, but not after, boiling, 
die iron is in the state of Carbonate : if after as well as before, in that 
of Sulphate. Tea may be substituted for galls, to which its effects aud 
indications are similar. Ferrocyanide qf Potassium yields, with solu- 
tions of the sesquisalts of iron, a blue precipitate, and with the proto- 
salts a white precipitate, which becomes blue by exposure to the air. 

10. Htdrosulphuric Acid (Sulphuretted Hydrogen). — This yields a 
dark (brown or black) precipitate (a metallic sulphuret) with water con- 
taining Iron or Lead in solution. 

11. Evaporation and Ignition. — If the water be evaporated to 
dryness, and ignited in a glass tube, the presence of organic matter 
may be inferred by the odour and smoke evolved, as well as by the 
eharring. Another mode of detecting organic matter is by adding 
nitrate (or acetate) of lead to the suspected water, and collecting and 
igniting the precipitate ; when globules of metallic lead are obtained 
if organic matter be present*. The putrefiEuition of water is another 
proof of the presence of this matter. Nitrate of silver has been 
before mentioned as a test t< 

* See Dr. Lambe's IwesOgatum qf the Properties of Thames Water, 
p. 11. 1828.— Also Clement, Ann. de CAtm. et Phys. t iv p. 232. 

t See p. 86. Also Davy, in Jameson's Journal, Dec. 1828, p. 128 ; 
and my Elements qf Materia Medka, pp. 257, 258, 259, and 689. 



102 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Purification of Common Water. — By Jiltration water 
may be deprived of living beings and of all suspended 
impurities. But substances in solution are not got 
rid of by this proceeding. Ebullition destroys the 
vitality of either animals or vegetables ; expels air or 
carbonic acid ; and causes the precipitation of carbo- 
nate of lime. Subsequent filtration may be advan- 
tageously combined. DistUlatiofij when properly 
conducted, is the most effectual method of purifying 
water. But distilled water, is, in general, contami- 
nated by traces of organic matter (see Distilled 
Water). The addition of chejuical agents to water is 
another mode which has been proposed and practised 
for freeing water from some of its impurities. Alum 
is oftentimes used by common people to cleanse 
muddy water. Two or three grains are sufficient for 
a quart of water. The alum decomposes the carbo- 
nate of lime : sulphate of lime is formed in solu- 
tion, and the alumina precipitates in flocks carrying 
with it mechanical impurities. It is obvious that this 
agent adds nothing to the chemical purity of the 
water, but by converting the carbonate into sulphate 
of lime augments its hardness. Caustic alkalies added 
to lime saturate the excess of carbonic acid, and 
throw down the carbonate of lime , having an alkaline 
carbonate in solution. A patent has recently been 
taken out, by Professor Clark *, of Aberdeen, for the 

* See Rqtertory qf Patent Inventions, for October 1841. Also, A New 
Process for Purifying the Waters supplied to the Metropolis by the existing 
Water Companies : rendering each Water much sqfter, preventing a fur on 
boiling, separating vegetating and colouring matter, destroying numerous 
water'insects, and withdrawing from soluiion large quantities qf solid 



WATER. 103 

purification of waters. The patent process consists 
in the addition of lime to the water. The lime unites 
with the excess of carbonic acid in the water, and 
forms carbonate of lime (chalk), which precipitates 
along with the carbonate of lime held previously in 
solution in the water. The effect of this process is 
similar to that of ebullition*. It has no effect on 
the gjrpsum of common water, and, therefore, can have 
litUe or no influence in rendering hard water soft. 



matter not separable by mere filtration. By Thomas Clark, Professor of 
Chemistry in the University of Aberdeen, 2ded. Lond. 1841. 

* The patentee asserts that his process renders water much softer, 
and calculates that if his patent were adopted, £63,000 would annu- 
ally be saved to the metropolis by the diminished consumption of soap 
and soda. Unfortunately for this calculation, it does not appear that 
the patent process has much, if any, effect in lessening the hardness of 
water, since the lime used merely acts on the bicarbonate of lime held 
in solution in the water. Now this salt, it appears, scarcely afTects 
soap, and, therefore, does not give to water its property of hardness. 
Dupasquier {Des Eaux de Source et de» Eaux de Riviere, p. 105, Paris 
and Lyons, 1840) observes, that " It is generally supposed that all calca- 
reous salts equally decompose soap ; but though this is true for the sul- 
phate and other calcareous salts directly soluble in water, as chloride of 
calcium and nitrate of lime, it does not hold good with regard to the 
carbonate, which is held in solution by an excess of carbonic acid. 
Numerous experiments have satisfied me," he adds, " that the latter 
salt has only a slight action on soap, and cannot, in the proportions in 
which it exists in potable waters, decompose it, by giving rise to the 
formation of a clotty precipitate, as we observe with sulphate and 
nitrate of lime and chloride of calcium. If a reason for this interesting 
fact be required, I should say that the non-decompositon of the soap is 
owing to the excess of carbonic acid, which jircvents the reaction of the 
calcareous carbonate on the olcate and stcaratc of soda of the soap. 
This fact completely explains why the waters of the Roye, the 
Ronzicr, the Fontaine, and the Neuville, which, at their source, con- 
tain a considerable quantity of carbonate, but extremely little sulphate 
of lime and chloride of calcium, dissolve soap without curdling it." 
Dupasquier then proceeds to detail a series of experiments in support of 
the above statements. 



104 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Alkaline carbonates soften water, decompose all the 
earthy salts (calcareous and magnesian carbonates, 
sulphates, and chlorides), and precipitate the earthy- 
matters. They leave, however, in solution, an alkaline 
salt, but which does not communicate to water the 
property of hardness. 

2. Sea Water. — Under this head are included the 
waters of the ocean, and of those lakes, called inland 
seas, which possess a similar composition. The 
Dead Sea, however, differs exceedingly in its nature 
from sea water, and may properly be ranked amongst 
mineral waters. 

The quantity of solid matter varies considerably in 
the waters of different seas, as the following statement 
from Pfaff * proves : — 

10,000 parte of Water of Solid Constitiieiite. 

The Mediterranean Sea 410gr8. 

English Channel 380 „ 

TAt the Island of Fohr 345 ,, 

„ ., Nordemey . . . 342 „ 

In the Frith of Forth 312 „ 

At Ritzehuttel 312 „ 

'At Apenrade, in Sleswick . . . . 216 „ 

At Eliel, in Holstein 200 „ 

At Doberan, in Mecklenburg . . . 168 ,, 

At Travemiinde 167 „ 

At Zoppot, in Mecklenburg . . . 76 „ 
^At Carlshanun 66 „ 

We shall not be far from the truth if we assume that 
the average quantity of saline matter is 3i per cent. ; 
and the density about 1*0274. 

The composition of sea water varies in different lo- 
calities^ as the following analyses f show : — 

• Schwartz's AUgemeine undspecieUe HeUquelienlehre, 2^ Abt S. 186. 
Leipzig, 1839. 

t Imd. oMdEdm. PkU. Mag. Yol. xv. p. 51, July 1839. Also, Graham's 
BlemenU qf Chemttr^^ vol. L p. 266. 



German Ocean • 



Baltic Sea 



WATER. 105 

Sea Water. Of the Bnglieh Channely MedUerranean. 

(SCHWBITSBE.) (LaUBBNI.) 

Oraini. Gnini. 

Water 96474372 95926 

Chloride of Sodium . . 27*05948 27*22 

„ „ Potassium . 0*76552 001 

,, „ Magnesium. 3*66658 6*14 

Bromide of Magnesium 0<)2929 ...... -* 

Sulphate of Magnesia . 2*29578 7-02 

„ „ Lime . . 1*40662 0*15 

Carbonate of Lime . . 0*03301 and Magnesia 0*20 

100000000 CCCO 

Iodine has been found in the Mediterranean Sea by 
Balard. 

Sea water, taken internally^ excites thirst, readily 
nauseates, and, in full doses, occasions vomiting and 
purging. The repeated use of it, in moderate doses, 
has been found beneficial, on account of its alterative 
and resolvent operation in scrofulous affections, es- 
pecially glandular enlargements and mesenteric dis- 
eases. Its topical action is more stimulant than 
common water. It is used as an embrocation in 
chronic diseases of the joints. Employed as a bath, 
it more speedily and certainly causes the reaction 
and glow J and, consequently, the sea-water bath 
may be used for a longer period, without causing 
exhaustion, than the common water-bath. It is a 
popular opinion, which is perhaps well founded, that 
patients are less likely to take cold after the use of 
salt water, as a bath, than after the employment of 
common water*. 

3. Mineral Waters. — ^These are waters which be- 



* On the medicinal properties of sea water, consult Logan's Observa- 
turns on the Sifects qf Sea Water m Scurvy and Serophuhh Lond. 1770 ; 
and Dr. R. White, on T%e Use and Abuse qf Sea Water, Lond. 1775. 



108 ALIMBNTABY PRINCIPLES. 

mariners, is an old suggestion. The proposition seems 
a very feasible one, as it may be effected at a moderate 
expense, and all danger of distress from want of water 
thereby avoided. Coulier * has more recently insisted 
on the advantages to be obtained by the use of dis- 
tilled water on ship-board, as well as in other places 
where serious maladies have been ascribed to the use 
of impure water. 

2. THE MUCILAGINOUS OR GUMMY ALIMENTARY 

PRINCIPLE. 

(Mucilaginosa. Gummata.) 

The organisable principle termed gum exists almost 
imiversally in plants, and appears to hold the same 
position in the vegetable economy that albumen does 
in the animal. It is found in great abundance in some 
plants, from which it frequently exudes spontaneously, 
and concretes on the stem in the form of tears. In 
this way are obtained Gum Arabic, Gum Senegal, East 
Indian, Barhary, and Cape Gums, Gum Tragacanth, 
the Gum of Cherry and Plum-trees, and Gum Bassora. 

The following table shews the quantity of gummy 
matter contained in various vegetable substances used 
as food :*— 



QUANTITY OP GUM CONTAINED IN 100 PARTS OP THE 

FOLLOWING FOODS. 

Gum. Autk^Hif. 

Barley-meal 4*62 Einhof. 

Oatmeal 2*5 Vogel. 

Wheat-flomr 2*8 to 5*8 yauquelin. 

Wheat-bread ....... 18*0 YogeL 



« Comptei Rendut, 1841, p. 968. 



OUH. 



109 



Rye-meal 



Omn. 

Kye-meai 11*09 

Maiie 2*283 

Bice 0*1 to 0*71 

Peas 6*37 

Garden Bean (Ficia Fa6a) . • . 4*61 
Kidney Bean (Phaseohu vulgaris) 1 9*37 

Potatoes • 3*3 to 4*1 

Cabbage 2*89 

Sweet Almonds 3*0 

Grreen Gage (ripe) 4*85 

Pears (ripe ana fresh) .... 3*17 

Gkxweberries (ripe) 0*78 

Cherries (ripe) 3*23 

Apricot (ripe) 4*85 

Peach rnpe) 5*12 

Linseea 5*2 

Marshmallow-root . . • ^ . . 35*64 



jttakarUp. 

Einhof. 

Bizio. 

Braconnot. 

Einhof. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Schrader. 

Boullay. 

Berard. 

Ditto* 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Meyer. 

Buchner. 



The gummy matters of different plants differ one 
from another in several of their properties. Some 
are soluble in water (soluble gum) ; others, however, 
merely swell up, and do not completely dissolve in this 
liquid (insoluble gum). The following table shews the 
relative proportion of soluble and insoluble gummy 
matters contained in certain mucilaginous alimentary 
substances : — 

PROXIMATE COMPOSITION OP SOME MUCILAGINOUS 

ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



100 PmrU 


a^MUQum. 


IjuoUMeOwm, 


Water, 


Asket, 


Gum Arabic . . 


. . 79-40 


— 


17-60 


30 


M Senegal . «. 


. . 81.10 


— 


1610 


2-8 


„ Cherry-tree . . 


. . 87-30 


— 


11-20 


1-5 


,, Apricot-tree 
„ Plum-tree . . 


. . 89-85 


^^^m * 


6-82 


3-33 


. . 82-83 


— — 


1515 


2-02 


„ Peach-tree . , 


, 82-60 


~— 


14-21 


3-19 


,, Almond-tree 


. 83-24 


— 


13-79 


2-97 


„ Bassora . . 


. . 11-20 


61*31 


21-89 


5-60 


„ Tragacanth . 


. . 53-30 


33-10 


11-10 


2-50 


Mucilage of Linseed . 


. . 52-70 


29-89 


10-30 


7-11 



Gum consists of carbon and the elements of water. 



COMPOSITION OP GUM. 

100 Parts Carbon. Water, 

Gum Arabic. . . 36-3 63-7 

Ditto, dried at 212> 41-4 58-6 



Autkoritp, 

Prout. 
Prout. 



Ditto, dried tii vacuo 42-682 50-944 Otyg. + 6-374 Hydr. Berwslius, 
Ditto, dried at 324-5 45 10 48-8 „ +61 » Mulder. 



1 10 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

The ^atomic formula which agrees with Berzelius's 
analysis is C" + Aqua^^ : whereas Mulder's analysis 
gives C^* + AqtMi}^ as the formula. 

Some mucilaginous substances yield nitrogen ; but 
it is doubtful whether this is contained in the mucilage 
itself or in some foreign matter. From mucilage of 
linseed, Guerin procured 7*27 percent, of nitrogen. 

Gum is usually considered to possess nutritive pro- 
perties, but to be somewhat difficult of digestion, and, 
therefore, apt to disagree with dyspeptics. According 
to Liebig, it is merely an element of respiration (see 
pp. 31, 36, 37, and 38). " From the chemical proper- 
ties and analogies of this principle," says Dr. Prout *, 
** it is probable that it is neither converted (at least so 
readily) into sugar nor oxalic acid as farinaceous mat- 
ters." May it not be advantageously substituted for 
sugar and amylaceous substances, in diabetes ? 

Gum is sometimes employed, as a dietetical agent, 
by invalids. It is useful as a demulcent or sheathing 
agent in inflammatory affections of the mucous mem- 
branes. Gum Arabic is slowly dissolved in the mouth 
to allay troublesome cough and irritation of the throat. 
It is also used in irritation of the intestinal canal, and 
of the urinary organs. It may be taken dissolved in 
milk. 

The preparations of gum in use are. Gum Water, 
Mucilage, Gum Lozenges, and Gum Pastes (Pdtes). 

1. Gum Water. — ^Take df Gum Arabic from half an 
ounce to an ounce. Wash it in cold water to remove 



• On the Nature and Treatment qf Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 
p. 299. 1840. 



GUM. Ill 

any bitter matter, and then dissolve it, by maceration, 
in two pints of cold water. When made with either 
powdered gum or hot water, the flavour of the solution 
is less agreeable. Gum water is employed as a demul- 
cent drink in colds and coughs, and in inflammatory 
affections of the alimentary canal and urinary organs. 

2. Mucilage. — Take of Gum Arabic nine ounces ; 
wash it with a little cold water, tie it up in a linen bag, 
and macerate it in one pint of cold water, occasionally 
squeezing it gently. Its uses are similar to those of 
gum water. It is sometimes employed as a vehicle 
for the exhibition of medicinal powders. 

3. Gum Arabic Lozenges. — Gum Arabic is a con- 
stituent of most kinds of lozenges, but of one kind 
(gum lozenges), it is the essential ingredient ; the other 
constituents being sugar and starch. These are em- 
ployed as an agreeable pectoral, to allay the tickling 
in the throat which provokes coughing. 

4. Crum Pastes (Pates). — ^These consist essentially 
of gum and sugar, to which some medicinal substance 
is sometimes added. They are transparent or opaque. 
The Pdte de Jujubes is a transparent gum paste, coloured 
either pink or yellow. It should be flavoured with a 
decoction of jujubes (the fruits of Zizyphus vulgaris). 
It is a popular remedy to allay teasing coughs. The 
Pdte de Gomme Arabique or Crum Paste, commonly 
called Pdte de Guimauve or MarshmaUow Paste, con- 
sists of gum, sugar, and white of eggs, flavoured with 
orange-flower water. Formerly an infusion of marsh- 
mallow root was used in its preparation. It is opaque, 
and is employed as a pectoral. 



112 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



3. THE SACCHARINE ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

(Saccharina.) 

Saccharine matter exists in botli vegetables and ani- 
mals. In the former it is very generally distributed. 
The following table shows the quantity of it which is 
contained in various alimentary substances. 



QUANTITY OP SACCHARINE MATTER CONTAINED IN 
100 PARTS OF THE FOLLOWING FOODS. 



Sugar, 

Barley-meal 5*21 

Oat-meal .... (including bitter matter) 8*25 

Wheat-flour 4-2 to 8-48 

Wheat-bread 36 

Rye-meal 3*28 

Maize 1*45 

Rice 005 to 0*29 

Peas 2*0 

Sweet Almonds 6*0 

Figs 62*5 

Green Gage (ripe) 11*61 

Tamarin£ 12*5 

Pears (ripe and fresh) 6*45 

Ditto (kept for some time) 11*52 

Gooseberries (ripe) 6-24 

Cherries (ripe) 1812 

Apricot (ripe) 11*61 

Peach (ripe) 16*48 

Melon 1*5 

Expressed Carrot juice evaporated to dryness . 93*71 

Beet-root 5to9 

Ditto 5*8 to 10 

Cow's Milk 4*77 

Ass's Milk 6-06 

Woman's Milk 6*50 

Goat's Milk 5*28 

Ewe's Milk 5*00 



Authority, 

Einhof. 

Vogel. 

Vauquelin. 

Vogel. 

Einnof. 

Grorham. 

Braconnot. 

Einhof. 

Boullay. 

Bley. 

Berard. 

Vauquelin. 

Berard. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Payen. 

Wackenroder. 

Payen. 

Pelouze. 

O. Henry and 
Chevallier. 



The substances to which I apply the term saccharine 
are not uniform in their properties ; but differ more or 
less from each other in their susceptibility of under- 
going the process of vinous fermentation^ in their crys- 
tallisability, solubility, and composition. 



SUGAR. 



113 



TABLE OP SACCHARINE MATTERS. 



80eekaHn0 Matters auteeptiNt of Viiumt 

FmmemiaiUm (Sugars properlj 

■0 ctlled). 



1. Crtstallisable. Thifi division 
inclades three kinds of Sugar : 

a. Common Sugar, comprehend- 
ing Cane, Maple, and Beet- 
root Sugar, whose formula is 
C» Aqua'K 

b. Sugar qf MUh or Lactime, 
composed of C** Aqua^\ 

c. Qramilar Sugar or Olucose, 
including the Sugar of Fruits 
(as of Grapes), and Diabetic 
Sugar, wnose formula is 
C» Aqua^. 

2. Uncrtstallisablb. This divi- 
sion comprehends the liquid or 
mucous sugars, as Treacle. 



Saeekarins Matters unsuseeptihleof Vinous 
FenmentaiUm, 



1 . Crtstallisable. This divi- 
sion includes Mannite (and 
CaneUin F) whose formula, ac- 
cording to Liebig, is C* H' <>• . 

2. Uncrtstallisablb. This di- 
vision comprehends at least 
two kinds of sugar. 

a. Qlycyrrhitin or Liquorice 
Sugar. 

b. Qlycertne, Hgdrated Oxide of 
Olycerule, or Sweet Principle 
of Oils, whose formula is C* 
H'0» +Aqua. 



The following table shows the relative proportions 
of carbon and water (or its elements) contained in 
several varieties of saccharine matters^ according to 
Dr. Prout * :— 

COMPOSITION OF SACCHARINE SUBSTANCES. 



IW Parts. 



Pure Suffar Candy 
Impure ditto . • • 
East India ditto . . 
English refined . . 
East India refined 

Maple 

Beet-root . . . . 
East India moist . • 

Diabetic 

Of Narbonne Honey 
Of Starch . . . . 
Of Milk . . . . 



Carbon. 



42-85 

41-5 to 42*5 

41-9 

41*5 to 42-5 

42-2 

42-1 

42*1 

40-88 

36 to 40? 

36-36 

36-2 

40-0 



Water. 



57*15 

58*5 to 57-5 

58*1 

58*5 to 57-5 

57*8 

57*9 

57*9 

59*12 

64 to 60 P 

63*63 

63-8 

60-0 



• Pha. Trans, for 1827, p. 355. 

I 



114 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Those varieties which contain the smallest quantity 
of water, Dr. Prout terms strong or high; while such as 
contain the largest proportions, he denominates weak 
or low. Thus sugar-candy is a high or strong sugar, 
— sugar of starch a weak or low one. 

Sugar is usually regarded as a nutritious substance, 
but Liebig declares that it is merely an element of 
respiration, as I have already stated. (See pp. 31, 
35 foot-note, 36, 37, 38, 44, 48, and 63). Many 
insects (especially the Lepidopteray Hymenoptera, 
and Diptera) feed on sugar or saccharine liquids. 
During the sugar season of the West India' Islands 
" every negro on the plantations, and every animal, 
even the dogs, grow fat *." The injurious effects 
which have been ascribed to sugar are more imaginary 
than real ; for some individuals have consumed large 
quantities of it, for a long series of years, without 
suffering any ill consequences therefrom. We are 
told that Henry Duke of Beaufort, who died about 
1 702, ate nearly a pound of sugar daily for 40 years. 
He died of fever in the 70th year of his age. He 
was never troubled with cough, his teeth were firm, 
and all his viscera were found, after death, quite 
sound f . 

The fondness of children for saccharine substances 
may be regarded as a natural instinct j since nature, 
by placing it in milk, evidently intended it to form a 
part of their nourishment during the first period of 
their existence. Instead, therefore, of repressing this 



• Dr. Wright, Medicinal Plants of Jamaica. 

t See Dr. Slare»8 Vindication of Sugar, p. 59. Lond. 1715. 



SUGAR. 



115 



appetite for sugar it ought rather to be gratified in 
moderation. The popular notion of its having a ten- 
dency to injure the teeth is totally unfounded. " It 
has been alleged," says Dr. Wright, " that the eating 
of sugar spoils the colour of, and corrupts, the 
teeth : this, however, proves to be a mistake, for no 
people on the earth have finer teeth than the negroes 
in Jamaica." It is probable, therefore, that this erro- 
neous notion has been propagated by frugal house- 
wives in order to deter children from indulging in an 
expensive luxury. 

Sugar is readily digested by the healthy stomach ; 
though, in some dyspeptic individuals^ it is apt to 
give rise to flatulency and preternatural acidity of 
stomach. In these cases it probably yields lactic 
acid *. " In certain diseases," says Liebig f, " there 



* Anhydrous lactic acid (in lactate of zinc) consists of C® H' O . 
Hence one equivalent of crystallized Cane Sugar (C" H" O") contains 
the elements of two equivalents of lactic acid 2 (C* H^ O' ) plug one 
equivalent of water. But when lactic acid is formed out of sugar, there 
are also produced mannite and mucilage (hence the process is termed 
the vitcous or mucilaginous fermentation), while gas is evolved. Now, 
two equivalents of mannite 2 (C* H^ O' ) are equal to one equivalent of 
granular sugar (C" H" 0**) minus two equivalents of oxygen. Con- 
sequently one equivalent of lactic acid (C" H* O* ) and one equivalent 
of mannite (C H^ O* ) are eqnal to one equivalent of sugar of milk mtiitfi 
one equivalent of oxygen. 



1 eq. Lactic Acid . C« H* 0« 
1 eq. Mannite . . C« H' 0» 

Total . C»'H«0" 



1 eq. Sugar of Milk C»» H" 0« 
Abstract . . . — — O 

Residue . C" H" 0" 



Liebig suggests that lactic acid and mannite may, therefore, be 
formed by the deoxidation of sugar, — part of the oxygen of which is 
consumed in the oxidation of the elements of the nitrogenised sub- 
stances present in the fermenting liquids. 

t Animal Chemistry, pp. 1 1 1 — 1 12. 



116 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

are produced from the Btax ch^ sugar, &c. of the food, 
lactic acid and mucilage. These are the very same 
products which are produced out of sugar by means of 
membrane in a state of decomposition out of the 
body ; but in a normal «tate of health, no lactic acid 
is formed in the stomach." 

In diabetes, the power of assimilating saccharine 
matter is in a great measure, if not wholly, lost; and 
hence, therefore, the dietetical employment of sugar 
and sweet foods, in this malady, is highly improper. 
In the oxalate of lime diathesis, likewise, these foods are 
objectionable. ^^ I have seen repeated cases," says Dr. 
Prout, " in which the too free use, or rather abuse, of 
sugar, has given occasion to the oxalic acid form of 
dyspepsia ; and sooner or later, under favourable cir- 
cumstances, to the formation of an oxalate of lime 
calculus." In the phosphatic diathesis, the copious 
use of unrefined sugar is objectionable, on account of 
the lime contained in it. 

The varieties and preparations of sugar used for 
dietetical purposes are very numerous. The following 
are all which it is necessary to notice : — 

1. Purified or Refined Sugar. — ^This is met with in 
the shops either in conical loaves {Loaf Sugar), or 
truncated cones called lumps (Lump Sugar), of various 
sizes and degrees of purity. Small lumps are called 
Titters. The finest refined sugar is perfectly white, 
and is termed double refined; the inferior kind has a 
slightly yellowish tint, and is called single refined. 
Both varieties are compact, porous, friable, and made 
up of small crystalline grains. 



SUGAR. 117 

2. Brown Sugar * occurs in commerce in the form 
of a coarse powder, composed of shining crystalline 
grains. It is more or less damp and sticky, and has 
a peculiar smell and a very sweet taste. Its colour is 
brownish yellow, but varies considerably in intensity. 
MiAScovado or raw sugary sometimes termed Foot Sugar ^ 
has the deepest colour, and is intermixed with lumps. 
Bastard is a finer kind prepared from molasses, and 
the green syrups. 

Raw sugar contains several impurities from which 
it may be freed by the process of refining. Its colour 
is owing to the presence of uncrystaUisahle sugar 
(treacle). In an aqueous solution of raw sugar lime 
is detected by oxalic acid. By keeping, it is well 
known that a strong raw sugar becomes weak, that is, 
soft, clammy, and gummy. This change Professor 
Daniell f ascribes to the action of the lime. Subphos- 
phate of lime is another constituent of raw sugar ;];. 
Glutinous and gummy matters, and traces of tannic 
acid, are also present in raw sugar. The crystal sugar 
brought from Demerara (and St. Vincent's ?) is the 



* Brown sugar is extensively adulterated with sugar prepared from 
potato-starch, as weU as widi that made from sago-flour. Potato sugar 
is manufactured at Stratford, in Essex. It is clammy, and wants that 
sparkling crystalline appearance possessed by West Indian sugar, is 
much less sweet than the latter, and possesses a bitter somewhat 
unpleasant taste. Trommer (Pkarm, CentralBlatt/ur 1841, p. 762—4) 
and more recently Krantz (Annals qf Chymistry, Nov. 11, 1842) have 
pointed out the means of detecting sugar of starch in cane sugar. 

t Quarterly Journal qf Science, vol. vi. p. 38. 

X Avequin (Journal de PKannacie, tom. xxvii. p. 15) states that the 
crust, which deposits in the boilers during the manufacture of raw 
sugar, contains, after it has been calcined to destroy the saccharine and 
other vegetable matters, in 100 parts, mbphoephate qf Ume 92*43, lime, 
in part carbonated, 1*35, tUica 4*7> and pMospkale of copper 1*41. 



118 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

finest and purest kind of the coloured sugars which 
are imported. Its colour is pale yellow, and its 
crystals are larger and more brilliant than the preced- 
ing varieties. It is used for sweetening coffee. On 
account of the before-mentioned impurities, unrefined 
sugar is an improper article of diet for those afflicted 
with calculous disorders. 

3. Sugar Candy. — This is cry stallised cane-sugar. It 
is prepared from concentrated syrup. The crystals 
deposit themselves, as the liquid cools, on the sides 
of the vessel and on strings stretched across. The 
form of the crystals is an oblique rhombic prism. 
Three kinds of candy are sold — the whiter the branm^ 
and the pink. Powdered candy is used to sweeten 
coffee. 

4. Aqueous Solutions of Sugar. — Sugar water is 
frequently used at the table on the continent. Syrup 
is prepared by dissolving two poimds and a half of 
sugar in a wine-pint of water, by the aid of a gentle 
heat. If necessary, it may be clarified by white of egg. 
It is used for sweetening. 

5. Boiled Sugars. — If a small quantity of water be 
added to sugar, the mixture heated till the sugar dis- 
solves, and the solution boiled to drive off part of the 
water, the tendency of the sugar to crystallise is 
diminished, or, in some cases, totally destroyed. To 
promote this effect, confectioners sometimes add a 
small portion of cream of tartar to the solution 
while boiling. Sugar, thus altered by heat, and 
sometimes variously flavoured, constitutes several pre- 
parations sold by the confectioner. Barley Sugar and 
Acidulated Drops are prepared in this way from white 



SUGAR. 1 1 9 

sugar; — powdered tartaric acid being added to the sugar 
while soft, when the drops are prepared. Hardbake 
and Toffee are made by a similar process from brown 
sugar. Toffee differs from Hardbake in containing 
butter. The ornamental sugar-pieces or carameUto^% 
with which pastry-cooks decorate their tarts, &c. are 
prepared in the same way. If the boiled and yet 
soft sugar be rapidly and repeatedly extended, and 
pulled over a hook, it becomes opaque and white, 
and then constitutes Pulled Sugar or Penides. Pulled 
sugar, variously flavoured and coloured, is sold in 
several forms by the preparers of hard confectionary. 

6. Molasses and Treacle. — ^The brown, saccharine, 
viscid fluid, which drains from raw sugar when placed 
in hogsheads, is called Molasses, and is used in the 
preparation of brown sugar. It is imported from the 
West Indies in casks. Closely allied to this is 
TreMle — a viscid, dark-brown, uncrystallisable syrup, 
which drains from the moulds in which refined sugar 
concretes. These liquids result from an alteration 
effected in crystallisable sugar, and do not exist in the 
sugar cane. Both of them contain free acid. 

7. Burnt Sugar. — ^When sufficiently heated, sugar 
becomes brown, evolves a remarkable odour, loses 
its sweet taste, and acquires bitterness : in this state 
it is called Caramel or Burnt Sugar, and is sold, when 
dissolved in water, as a colouring matter, under the 
name of Essentia Bina or Browning. It is used to 
colour soups and sauces. The high coloured brandies 
and dark brown sherries are said sometimes to owe 
part of their colour to this liquor. The brewer, it is 
reported, occasionally makes use of it to colour his beer. 

8. Hard Confectionary. — Sugar constitutes the base 



120 ALIMENTABY PRINCIPLES. 

of an almost innumerable variety of hard confec- 
tionary, sold under the names of Lozenges, BrUliants, 
Pipe, Rock, Comfits, Nonpareils, &c. Besides sugar, 
these preparations contain some flavouring ingredient, 
often flour or gum, to give them cohesiveness, and fre- 
quently colouring matter *. Caraway fruits, almonds, 
and pine seeds, constitute the nuclei of some of these 
preparations. 

9. Liquorice Sugar. — An aqueous extract of the root 
of liquorice (Glycyrrhiza) is extensively imported 
under the names of Liquorice Juice, or, according to the 
countries from whence it is brought, of Spanish or 
Italian Juice. Solazzi Juice is most esteemed. The 
Spanish extract is prepared in Catalonia, from the 
common liquorice plant (Glycyrrhiza glabra), but the 
Italian extract, obtained in Calabria, is procured from 
G. echinata. Extract of liquorice is imported in 
cylindrical or flattened rolls, of five or six inches long, 
and about one inch in diameter, enveloped in bay- 
leaves. Its principal constituent is Glycyrrhizin, or 
Liquorice Sugar, mixed with some foreign matters. If 
the foreign extract be dissolved in water, and the solu- 
tion filtered and evaporated, -we obtain Refined 
Uqtwrice ; but the Pipe Refined Liquorice of the shops 
is a very adulterated article. The Pontefract Lozenges 
are made of refined liquorice, and are much esteemed. 
The Liquorice Lozenges are officinal in the Edinburgh 
Pharmacopoeia, and are directed to be prepared of 



* Cochineal and indigo, employed to colour respectively red and blue, 
are harmless. But, in order to meet the denumds of their customers, 
confectioners are necessitated to use other colouring ingredients, of a less 
innocent nature, to give several admired tints (yellow and green) to 
their goods. 



SUOAB. 121 

extract of liquorice^ gum^ and sugar. There is also 
another liquorice lozenge sold in the shops, under the 
name of Q^intessence of Liquorice. Extract of liquorice 
is used as a flavouring ingredient. Slowly dissolved 
in the mouth, it is taken to appease tickling cough, 
and to allay irritation of the fauces. 

10. Preserves, S^c. — In addition to its dietetical and 
condimentary uses, sugar is extensively employed, in 
domestic economy, as an antiseptic ; that is, to pre- 
vent the decomposition or putrefaction of organic sub- 
stances. A variety of fruits, as well as some roots, 
stems, and even leaves, are in this way preserved, some 
in the moist state (as Fruits in Syrup, and Preserved 
Ginger) otherft in tlie dry state (as Candied Angelica, 
Candied Citron, Orange, and Lemon Peels, and Crystal^ 
lised Fruits) . In these cases sugar acts by excluding air, 
or by absorbing moisture, or in both of these ways. In 
some instances, perhaps, its efficacy may be of another 
kind, as when it promotes the solidification of vegetable 
jelly. (See TTle Pectinaceous Alimentary Principle.) 
" Latterly,** says Berzelius (Traiti de Chimie, t. v., 
p. 243), " sugar has begun to be more generally em- 
ployed than formerly for the preservation of meat, in 
consequence of a much smaller quantity of it being 
required for preventing putrefaction, than of salt, while 
it renders the meat neither less savoury nor less nutri- 
tive. Fish, when gutted, may be equally well preserved 
by spreading powdered sugar inside them.*' 

4. THE AMYLACEOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 
(Farinaceous or Starchy Substances.) 

This principle is peculiar to plants, from which it is 



122 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



obtained under the various names of Amylum,* Starch, 
FectUa, or Farinaceous Matter. It is very generally 
distributed in the vegetable kingdom, existing in botli 
cryptogamic and flowering (endogenous and exoge- 
nous) plants, and being found in thallus, roots, stems, 
tubercles, fruits, and seeds. 

The following table gives an approximative idea of the 
quantity of starch contained in different parts of plants. 

QUANTITY OF STARCH IN 100 PARTS OF THE FOLLOWING 

VEGETABLE ORGANS. 



1. ThaUus. 



2. Roots. 



3. Tubercles, 



4. Rkigomes. ( 



Simrch. 
Iceland Moss 44*6 t 

/Janipha Manihot or Tapioca > iq.k 

plant (var. red) . . . .5 
Ditto (var. green) . " ' 

Ipomsea Batatas . . 
Ditto (var. red) . . 

Potatoe (var. kidney) 
Ditto (var. red) . . 
Ditto (var. Shaw) 
Ditto (var. Champion) 
Ditto (var. Chair rouge) . . 
Ditto (var. L'Orpheline • . 
.Ditto (var. Captain Hart) . . 
/Maranta arondinaceaor Arrow- 
root plant 

Ditto 26-0 

Canna coccinea 12*5 

indica 3*3 



i 



11-5 

7-5 

133 

91 t 
15-0 § 
18*8 II 
15*9 f 
12*2 •• 

24-4 tt 
15 

12*5 



Ginger 13*0 

Ditto 19*75 

Turmeric 26*0 

Dioscoreasativa, or the Yam . 12*5 

^Ditto 22*66 



Autkariip. 
Berzelius. 

De CandoUe. 

Ditto. 
Ricord. 
0. Henry. 

Einhof. 

Ditto. 

Yauquelin. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Skrimshire. 

De CandoUe. 

Benzon. 
De CandoUe. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Bucholz. 
De CandoUe. 
Ditto. 
Suersen. 



* The Greeks caUed it HfivKow (from a negative, and m^^s a miU) 
because it was not prepared by grinding in a null. (See Pliny, Hist. 
Nat, lib. xviii. cap. 17. ed. Valp.) 

t Besides 36*2 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

X In addition to 8*8 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

§ Also 7*0 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

II In addition to 5*1 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

% Besides 4*9 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

** And 10*2 parts of amylaceous fibre. 

tt Also 6*2 parts pf amylaceous fibre. 



STARCH. 123 

Starch. AatktrUf. 

f^S^"* *"''"*' *" ^""^"i 3-2 DeCandoUc* 

5. Pmcarps. _i:i_-i„UgrifoUa, or Jakl > g^ Ditto. 

uTUlt •.......> 

^Barley-meal 6718 Einhof. 

Oatmeal ....... 59.0 Vogel. 

Wheat-flour 56*5 to 72 Yauquelin. 

Wheat-bread 53-5 Vogel. 

Rve-meal 6i-07 Einhof. 

6. Seeds. ; Maize 80*92 Bizio. 

Rice {Piedmont) 82*8 Braconnot. 

Ditto (Coro/tna) 85*07 Ditto. 

Peas 32*45 Einho£ 

Garden Bean {Vicia Fabd) . 34*17 Ditto. 

^Kidney Bean iJ^haseoUu mdgaris) 35*94 Ditto. 

The amylaceous substances are organised. Ex- 
amined by a microscope they are seen to consist of 
small grains^ which are usually rounded, or elliptical, 
flask-shaped or mullar-shaped, or polyhedral. The 
polyhedral form probably arises from the mutual com- 
pression of numerous grains in the same or neighbour- 
ing cells. On some part of the surface of each grain is 
a circular spot, called the hilum : very rarely, two or 
even three of these spots are observed on the same 
grain. According to Raspail, the hilum is the spot 
where the starch-grain was adherent to the vegetable 
cell in which these grains are contained. The 
hilum usually cracks in a linear or stellate manner. 
Starch grains have a laminated texture : that is, they 
consist of a series of concentric layers or membranes, 
the outermost of which is the thickest or firmest. To 
these layers is owing the appearance of concentric 
rings or rugae which starch grains present on their sur- 
face, and which are most evident in grains of Tous les 
Mois and of Potato Starch. 



* Phjftiohgie Vigitale, vol. i. See also some experiments on the 
quantity of starch in various plants, by Dr. Clark, in the Medical Facts 
and ObservatianSf vol. vii. 1797. 



ALIHENTART PRINCIPLES. 



MICROSCOPIC APPEARANCE OF STARCH GRAINS- 
(Drawn to one scale.) 




Omwf </ Pi4ato Stank. 

^ • ^m^ 1 -mr ■ r, o ■ <■• N<iniMt ittrch paitlcle (Fritucbe). 

Qramtt^ToiuUtMouorCaiMiStanK. ? im^iu- ditto.*^ ' ' 

>, d, hitlcin ««ch iMTint two hitL 
;t,a, FuUclB brokcD bT pnunn and watt 
t&c inlcnal nattar TraMiu lolid (hrm). 



OratM (/ ITeft-JadiM ATTWo-Raot. 



9||. 



# 



Gnm* (/ So^ tf «al. 



Entire Oraiiu t/Ti^iaca. 



®o' 



5)@ 



OroM* Q^ TliMfi Arrow-Boot, 
or OlahtUe Saltp- 







Graiu of East -/aiiM Amm-Root- GroMt </ HtMi-tiorcA. Gromj qf 

m, A putlda «cen edcew>r>- Portla*d Amtrn- 



STABCH. 



125 



The organic principle of which starch-grains are 
composed is called amidon or amylon. This substance 
consists of carbon and water (or its elements). 



COMPOSITION OF STARCH. 



• 

Fine Wheat Starch 

Ditto, dried at 212» 

Ditto, highly dried at 350? • . 

Arrow-root 

Ditto, dried at 212^ 

Ditto, highly dried at 21 2» . . 


Carbon, 


Water, 


AutkorUp, 


37-5 
428 
44-0 
36-4 
428 
44*4 


62-5 
57-2 
560 
63-6 
57-2 
55-6 


VProut. 



The formula which agrees with Front's third analysis 
of Arrow-root is C" + Aqua}^. 

The starchy matter (called Lichenin or Feculoid) of 
Iceland Moss consists, according to Guerin-Varry, of 
Qio jjii Qio^ jf ^g analysis be correct, this variety 
of starch contains excess of hydrogen. 

To render amylaceous matter digestible, it requires 
to be cooked in order to break or split the grains * j 
for, of the different laminae of which each grain con- 



• "Fecola," says Raspail (Cfttm. Orgamqwi)^ " is not actually nutritive 
to man until it has been boiled [or otherwise cooked]. The heat of the 
stomach is not sufficient to burst all the grains of the feculent mass which 
is subjected to the rapid action of this organ. The stomach of gramini-' 
voroua animals and birds seems to possess, in this respect, a particular 
power ; for they use feculent substances as food in a raw state. Neverthe- 
less, recent experiments prove the advantage that results from boiling the 
potatoes and partially fermenting the farina which are given them for 
food. At all events, it is certain, that bruised grain is much more 
nutritive for them than that which is entire ; for a large proportion of 
the latter passes through the intestines perfectly unaffected as when it 
was swallowed." 

Braconnot {Jtmm. de CAtm. MSd, t. iii. 2* S€t. p. 428—430) found 
unbroken starch grains in the excrement of a slug; the temperature of 



136 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

sists, the outer ones are the most cohesive, and present 
the greatest resistance to the digestive power of the 
stomach, while the internal ones are the least so. 
Hence farinaceous substances are boiled in milk or 
water,— or they are panified with gluten, by which 
the grains are completely broken up— or they are made 
into puddings and tarts. 

When cooked, it is usually regarded as a mild, slightly 
nutritious, easily digestible article of food. Directly 
or indirectly, observes Dr. Prout *, " it forms a con- 
stituent of the food of most of the higher animals, as 
well as of man. It ditiers, therefore, from sugar, 
in being a necessary article of food, without whicli 
animals could not exist ; while sugar is not. Hence 
a much larger quantity of amylaceous matter than of 
sugar can be taken ; and what is a still more decisive 
fact, the use of this larger quantity of amylaceous 
matter may be persisted in for an unlimited period, 
which, it appears, is not the case with a large portion 
of sugar.** 

By digestion, starch becomes converted into gum 
and sugar; the latter probably becomes absorbed. 
This conversion is effected, according to Leuchs, by 
the action of the saliva f- 



this cold-blooded moUusk being insufficient to crack the grains. Un- 
broken grains, he states, are also found in the excrements of hot- 
blooded animals fed on raw potatoes. Hence, he adds, the potatoes 
employed for feeding catUe should be boiled ; since, independently of 
the accidents which may arise from the use of them in the raw state, 
a considerable quantity of alimentary matter is lost by the employ- 
ment of these tubercles in the unboiled state. 

* On the Nature and Treatment qf Stomach and Urinary Diteaees, p. x. 
Lond. 1840. 

t Miiller's Physiology^ by Baly, vol. i. p. 548. 



STARCH. 127 

The exterior laminae of the starch-grain are thicker, 
more cohesive, and less readily digested, than the inner 
ones. Leeuwenhoek* observed that the excrements 
of birds fed on the cereal grains contained a con- 
siderable quantity of these exterior laminae, but with- 
out the interior matter ; and from this he inferred that 
the latter only M^as the nutritive portion of starch. 

According to Liebig (see antCy p. 31), starch being 
a non-nitrogenised food f , is an element of respiration, 
and is incapable of transformation into blood or 
organised tissues. He, therefore, regards it as an 
element of respiration, and as contributing to the 
formation of fat (see antCy p. 53). " Children fed 
upon arrow-root, salep, or indeed any kind of amy- 
laceous food, which does not contain ingredients fitted 
for the formation of bones and muscles, become fat, 
and acquire much embonpoint ; their limbs appear full, 
but they do not acquire strength, nor are their organs 
properly developed J." 

The times required for the digestion of some amy- 
laceous matters, are, according to Dr. Beaumont §, as 
follows : — 

* Quoted by Guibourt {Hut, Abrig, des Drogues simples, t. ii. p. 447. 
3- ed.) 

t Jacquelain (Ann. de Ckim. et de Physique, t. Ixxiii. p. 167—207) 
states, that both starch and its granules contain from 0*24 to 0*31 per 
cent of nitrogen. 

I Liebig, Chemistry in its Applicaiian to Agriculture and Physiologg, 
p. 128-9, foot note, 2d ed. 1842. Very recently, Dumas {Annals <^ 
Chymistry, Nov. 11, 1842) has denied that animals have the power of 
forming hi ; and he asserts that the hi of animals is derived imme- 
diately from the fetty substances contained in the food on which the 
animals feed. 

§ Experiments and Observations on the Oastrie Juice and the Physiology 
qf Digestion. By W. Beaumont, M.D. Reprinted from the Flattsburg 
edition, with notes by Dr. Combe. Edinb. 1838. 



128 • ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF AMYLACEOUS MATTER. 

Time required/or Stomachal IHgution. 

Sago boiled 1 hour. 

Tapioca boiled 2 hours. 

It is doubtful whether tapioca is uniformly more 
difficult of digestion than sago. 

Farinaceous food is, perhaps, the least irritating of 
all kinds of aliments. It is, therefore, well adapted for 
the use of persons affected with morbidly sensible con- 
ditions of the primse viae. It will sometimes remain 
on the stomach when every other kind of nutriment 
is immediately rejected. Being totally devoid of all 
stimulating properties, it is a useful and valuable 
article of food in febrile and inflammatory diseases. 

The following are the varieties of amylaceous matter 
in common use for dietetical purposes : — 

1. Sago. — ^This is obtained from the interior tissue 
(commonly termed medulla or pith) of the stems of 
various species of palms, especially those of the genera 
Sagus and Saguerus. It is manufactured in the 
Moluccas, and is imported into this country from 
Singapore. Three kinds of it are met with — namely, 
Sago-meal, Pearl Sago, and Common Sago. Sago- 
meal (called also Sago-Jlour or Sago-powder) is a 
whitish powder, which is now, or very recently was, 
extensively used in the manufacture of a saccharine 
substance, called Sago-sugar (see p. 1 1 7). Pearl-sago 
consists of small pinkish or yellowish grains, about 
the size of a pin's head. It is the kind in general use 
for domestic purposes. Common or Brown Sago 
occurs in grains varying in size from that of grains of 
pearl-barley to that of peas. Its colour is brownish 



STARCH. 129 

white; each grain being whitish on one part of its 
surface, and brownish on another. Of thesre three 
varieties of sago, one only, namely pearl-sago, swells 
up in cold water, and yields an infusion which becomes 
blue on the addition of iodine. This arises from its 
having been subjected to heat in the process of manu- 
facturing it, whereby its grains have become ruptured. 
All the kinds of sago contain colouring matter, which 
renders them inferior to those amylaceous substances 
(ex. West Indian arrow-root and tapioca) which are 
perfectly white. By bleaching, however, pearl-sago 
may be rendered perfectly white. Bleached Pearl-sago 
resembles an imitation sago manufactured in France 
from potato-starch. The microscope readily distin- 
guishes Potato-sago from the genuine sago. 

Sago is nutritive, and easy of digestion. It is an 
important article of food in some parts of the East. 
" The Malay sago-palm," says Dr. Roxburgh, " is 
the tree the pith of which is the staff of life to the 
inhabitants of the Moluccas.** In England, Sago 
puddings (made like tapioca puddings) are occa- 
sionally brought to the table. But the principal 
use of sago is to yield a light, nutritiouH, easily 
digestible, and non-irritating article of food for 
the invalid, in febrile and inflammatory cases. Sago 
milk is prepared by soaking an ounce of sago in a 
pint of cold water for an hour, pouring ofT this water, 
and adding a pint and a half of good milk, and boil- 
ing slowly until the sago is well incorporated with the 
milk (Dr. A. T. Thomson*). Sugar, an aromatic 



* The Domettic Management qf ike Siek Room. Lond. 1S41. 

K 



130 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

(as nutmeg), and a little white wine, are occasionally 
added for flavouring, when then: use are not contraindi- 
cated. In cases where milk is apt to disagree with the 
patient. Sago gruel (Sago mucilage) may be substituted 
for sago milk. It is prepared by macerating an ounce 
(or a table-spoonful) of sago in a pint of water, on 
the hob or hot-plate, for two hours, then boiling for 
fifteen minutes, assiduously stirring during the boiling 
(Dr. A.T.Thomson). Sugar, lemon juice, an aro- 
matic (as nutmeg or ginger), and white wine, are occa- 
sionally permitted for flavouring. Sago gruel con- 
taining all these ingredients is called, by Dr. A. T. 
Thomson, Sago posseL 

Dr. Christison states that sago has come into use, in 
this country, for feeding domestic animals, and espe- 
cially the horse. 

2. Tapioca. — ^The tuberous root of the poisonous 
plant Janipha Manihot yields a large quantity of 
amylaceous matter, which is imported into this country 
from the Brazils. When it comes over in the form of 
a white powder it is called Brazilian Arrow-rooty 
Tapioca-mealy Mandioccay Moussache or Cipipa. But 
it is usually met with in the shops in the form of irre- 
gular small lumps, and in this state is called Tapioca. 
It has acquired this form in consequence of having 
been dried on hot plates. The heat used in its prepa- 
ration breaks the starch globules, and renders them 
partially soluble in cold water. Hence an infusion of 
tapioca in cold water yields, after filtration, a blue 
colour with iodine. In boiling water, tapioca becomes 
tremulous, gelatiniform, transparent, and viscous. 
In its nutritious qualities tapioca agrees with sago, 



STARCH. 131 

than which it is much purer, being free from colouring 
matter. It also yields a more consistent jelly than 
some other kinds of starch. It is principally employed 
as an agreeable light nourishment for invcdids, as well 
as for children. "No amylaceous substance," says 
Dr. Christison, " is so much relished by infants about 
the time of weaning ; and in them it is less apt to 
become sour during digestion, than any other farina- 
ceous food, even arrow-root not excepted." Tapioca 
gruel (Tapioca mucilage) and Tapioca milk are made 
in the same way as sago gruel and sago milk ; but 
tapioca, being more soluble than sago, requires only 
half the time for its maceration and boiling (Dr. A. T. 
Thomson). Tapioca pudding for invalids is pre- 
pared by beating the yolks of two eggs, and half an 
ounce of sugar, together, and stirring the mixture into 
a pint of tapioca milk. 

Cassava-bread or Cassada-bread is made thus : the 
roots of the Janipha Manihot are washed and scraped 
clean ; then grated into a tub or trough, and after* 
wards subjected to pressure in a hair bag. It is then 
dried, and constitutes Cassava powder, or Farine de 
Manioc. When made into cakes and dried or baked, 
it forms Cassava bread, used as a wholesome bread in 
Brazil, Guiana, Jamaica, &c. 

3. Arrow-root; West Indian Arrow-root. This is 
a very pure white amylaceous powder, obtained from 
the roots (tubers) of the Maranta arundinacea. It is 
brought from most of the West India islands, but that 
from Bermuda (Bermuda Arrow-root) is most es- 
teemed. It makes a tolerably strong jelly, — stronger 
than that from wheat-starch, — ^and is free from colour- 



132 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

ing matter, and also from any unpleasant flavour and 
odour. On these accounts it is greatly in request. 
Dr. Prout regards it as a low variety of starch, ana- 
logous to the low sugar of honey ; while wheat- 
starch he considers to be the most perfect form of 
starch, analogous to sugar-candy. It is employed 
as a nutritious, easily digested, agreeable, non-irri- 
tating diet for invalids and infants. Arrow-root pud- 
ding is prepared like tapioca pudding (see p. 131.) 
Arrofv-root gruel and Arrow-root milk are made like 
the corresponding preparations of sago. Arrow-root 
Blanc-mange (Arrow-root jelly), contains three times 
as much arrow-root as the arrow-root gruel. A mode- 
rate quantity of milk being added, the whole is boiled 
down to a proper consistence, poured into a shape to 
cool and set ; and afterwards turned out (Dr. A. T. 
Thomson) . 

4. TouS'les-Mois ; Canna Starch. — ^Within the last 
few years considerable quantities of an amylaceous 
matter has been imported from St. Kitt*s, under the 
name of Tou$4es-moiSy or Starch of the Canna coccinea. 
It is said to be prepared by a tedious and trouble- 
some process from the rhizome of the above men- 
tioned species of Canna; but it is very doubtful 
whether it really be obtained from the Canna coccinea 
of botanists. Its grains are larger than those of any 
other starch ; and indeed are almost visible to the 
naked eye. Their tegument, according to Guibourt, is 
very thin. It is a very excellent kind of starch, equal 
perhaps to any, and superior to several, of the amyla- 
ceous matters in ordinary use. It yields a fine jelly, 
and is devoid of colouring matter and of any disa- 



STARCH. 133 

greeable flavour or odour. It is very soluble, and 
very readily digested. It is used for invalids and 
infants ; and may be administered in the same forms 
as Arrow-root. 

5. Potato Starch. — ^This kind of amylaceous matter 
is imported from France and Guernsey, and is also 
manufactured in this country. It is frequently sold 
under the names of Potato^Jlour or English Arrow- 
root. Its grains are somewhat smaller than those of 
Tous-les-mois. An imitation sago (Potato^sago) is 
made of it, as I have already mentioned (see p. 129) ; 
and sometimes, it is stated, potato-starch is substituted 
for arrow-root. It is most extensively consumed in 
the manufacture of Potato-sugar (see p. 117). In 
its general dietetical properties, potato-starch agrees 
very much with the other amylaceous substances 
above mentioned. It does not, however, yield so 
firm a jelly j and, according to Dr. Christison, is more 
apt to cause acidity, especially in infants, than arrow- 
root. It is used by the cook in the preparation of 
souffles, and sometimes, as a substitute for wheat-flour, 
for thickening gravies, sauces, &c., on account of its 
being both cheap and tasteless. 

6. Tahiti Arrow-^oot ; Otaheite Salep ; Arrow- 
root prepared hy the Native Converts at the Missionary 
Stations in the South Sea Islands. — This is a white 
amylaceous powder obtamed at Tahiti (Otaheite) 
from the Ta^eca pinnatifida. It has been introduced 
as a substitute for the West Indian arrow-root, on the 
ground of its purity, superior quality, and lower price 
(Is. 8d. per lb.) ; but the specimens which I have 
met with had a musty odour. 



134 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

7. E€ist Indian Arrow-root. — Under this name two 
kinds of an amylaceous powder are imported from 
Calcutta; one white, the other pale bufF-coloured. 
To the microscope both kinds present the same ap- 
pearance, from which it is probable that they are 
obtained from the same or some neighbouring plant, 
but with unequal degrees of care. As the grains 
very much resemble in form those obtained from the 
rhizomes of ginger and turmeric, there can be but 
little doubt that this fecula is procured from some 
scitamineous plant. Now, it appears from the state- 
ments of Drs. Roxburgh and Ainslie, that an amyla- 
ceous matter called Tickor or J?Htir* is obtained 
in India from the tuberous roots of three species of 
Curcuma^ viz. C angustifcliay C. rubescens, and C. 
leucorrhiza. This is identical, probably, with our East 
Indian Arrow-root. In Travancore it forms a large 
part of the diet of the inhabitants. It is employed 
by Europeans as a substitute for the West Indian 
arrow-root. 

8. Portland Arrow-root ; Portland Sago. — ^This is a 
white amylaceous powder obtained in the island of 
Portland, from the underground tubers of Arum macu- 
latuniy or Wake Robin, and used as a substitute for 
West Indian arrow-root. 

9. Rice Starch. — ^Mr. O. Jones has recently taken out 
a patent for the preparation of starch from rice by means 
of a weak solution of caustic alkali. In another patent 
an alkaline salt is substituted for the caustic alkali. 



* Dr. Royle (llhatratknu qf the Botam^, 4^. tf ike Himalaym Motm- 
tains, p. 351),) says that an excellent starch, called Tikkur, is made at 
Patna and Bogliporc from the tubers of Batatas edmiis. 



STARCH — LIONINE. 1 35 

10. lAchenin or Feculoid. — ^This is the name applied 
to the starchy matter found in the thallus of the folia- 
ceous lichens. As^ however, it is not sold in the 
separate state, it will be described hereafter (see 
Iceland Mo88, or Cetraria islandica). 

I have not included the substance called Salep among 
the amylaceous substances, though it is closely allied 
to them. It is the prepared and dried tuberous or 
palmate roots of several orchideous plants, and ' is 
sometimes sold in the state of powder. Indiffenous 
Salep is procured from Orchis mascula, O. latifoUa, and 
other native plants of this order. It has been recom- 
mended by Dr. Thomas Percival as furnishing a cheap, 
wholesome^ and most nutritious article of diet; and he 
adds that it '^ is said to contain the greatest quantity 
of vegetable nourishment in the smallest bulk.** 
Oriented Salep is imported from India in the form of 
ovate tubers. When ground to powder, these consti- 
tute the salep powder sold at Butler^s, in Covent 
Garden Market. Dr. Royle states that the salep of 
Cachmere is obtained from a species of Etdophia. 

5. THE LIGNEOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

(Ligiiiiie ; Woody Fibre.) 

The substance commonly called lignine constitutes, 
the basis of all vegetable tissues (woody fibre, vessels, 
ducts, and cellular tissue). It is obtained by sub- 
mitting vegetables to the successive action of ether, 
alcohol, water, diluted acids, and diluted alkalies, to 
extract all the matters soluble in these liquids. Lig- 
nine, therefore, is insoluble in all these solvents. 



136 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

QUANTITY OF LIGNINE CONTAINED IN 100 PARTS OF 
THE FOLLOWING ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. 

Lignine. Authority, 

Rice 4*8 Braconnot. 

Barley 1875 (husk) Einhof. 

Oats 34 (bran) Voeel. 

Rye 24-2 (hosk) Einhof. 

Apricots (ripe) 1'86 Bdrard. 

Green Gages (ripe) 1*11 Ditto. 

Peaches (ripe) 1*21 Ditto. 

CkKweberries (ripe) 8*01 Ditto. 

Cherries (ripe) 1.12 Ditto. 

Pears (ripie) 2*19 Ditto. 

Sweet Almonds 9*0 (and seed coats) Boullav. 

Peas 21*88 (amylaceous fibre) Einhof. 

Garden Bean ( Ftcta Faba) . . 25*94 (ditto & membrane) Ditto. 

Kidney Bean \Pha$eolu» vulgaris) 18*57 (ditto) Ditto. 

Potatoes 4*3 to 10*5 (amylaceous fibre) Vauquelin. 

Cocoa-nut kernel 14*95 Bizio. 

The. substance called by Einhof amylaceous Jibre is 
probably woody fibre, with some intermixed amyla- 
ceous matter. 

According to Dr. Prout*s experiments, the compo- 
sition of lignine is probably similar in all plants ^. 

COMPOSITION OP LIGNINE. 

Carbon. Wmter, 

Lignine from Box 427 57*3 

Ditto ditto, dried .... 50-0 50-0 

Ditto from Willow 42-6 57*4 

Ditto ditto, dried . . . 498 50*2 

The formula for lignine which agrees with these 
analyses is C" + Aqua^ or C" W 0«. 



* According to the Rev. J. B. Reade {Land. andEdin, PhiL Mag. vol. xi. 
p. 421), a very remarkable difierence exists between the chemical com- 
position of cellular membrane and of spiral vessels in the same plant. 
But his ** results are in many respects so remarkably at variance with 
bV that we are as yet acquainted with respecting similar subjects, that 
we must at the outset doubt their correctness" (Meyen's Report on the 
Progress of Vegetable Physiology during the year 1837. Translated by 
Wm. Francis. Lond. 1839.) 



LIOMINE. . 137 

According to Payen ^, the substance called lignine 
consists of two organic principles. One of these is 
the true or primitive tissue of the wood, or, in other 
words, the membrane or fibre of which the vegetable 
tissues are built up; this he calls cellulose. It is 
isomeric with starch, and, therefore, consists of 
C" H*^ O*^. The other, called pure lignine, is a secre- 
tion, and fills the cells. Its composition is C** H** O*^. 

Though I have placed ligneous matter among the 
alimentary principles, yet I confess I am by no means 
satisfied that it is capable of yielding nutriment to 
man. Dr. Proutf* whose example I have followed 
in calling it an alimentary principle, observes that it 
forms the appropriate food of numerous insects and 
of some of the lower animals, but of few of the higher 
classes of animals. The reason of this is probably to 
be sought for in their not being furnished with organs 
proper for comminuting and reducing it; for when 
lignin is comminuted and reduced by artificial pro- 
cesses, it is said to form a substance analogous to the 
amylacepus principle, and to be highly nutritious.** 

This statement of the nutritious property of lignine 
when minutely pulverised, is made on the authority of 
Professor Autenrieth J, of Tubingen, who states, that 
when wood is deprived of every thing soluble, reduced 
to powder, repeatedly subjected to the heat of an oven, 
and then ground in the manner of corn, it yields, boiled 
with water, a flour, which forms a jelly, like that of 

• Aim. des Scien. Nat. ^* S^r. Botanique. 1838. 
\ On the Nature and Treatment qf Stomach and Urinary Diseasee, 
p. xi. 1840. 

t Phil. Tram, 1827, p. 355.— Also, The Soote Mag, vol. Ixxx. p. 3ia 



138 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

wheat-Btarch^ and, when fermented with leaven » makes 
a perfectly uniform and spongy bread; andLinnseus^ 
states that the Laplanders eat bark-bread (barkbrod), 
prepared from the bark of Pinus sylvesiris f , during a 
great part of the winter, and sometimes even during 
the whole year. 

But admitting the accuracy of these facts, it by no 
means follows that lignine is nutritive ; because in the 
autumn, after the formation of wood has ceased, starch 
is formed, and is difiused through every part of the 
plant by the autumncd sap %. " According to the 
observations of M. Heyer, the starch thus deposited 
in the body of the tree can be recognised in its known 
form by the aid of a good microscope. The barks 
of several aspens and pine-trees contain so much of 
this substance, that it can be extracted from them as 
from potatoes by trituration with water §.*' So that 
starch may, in reality, be the nutritive principle of 
the wood-bread and bark-bread above referred to. 

The ligneous matter of our ordinary vegetable 
foods is indigestible, and is evacuated with the fseces, 
of which it makes a part. The skin of potatoes, the 
husk of the grape, the peel and core of apples and 
peas, the skin and stones of drupes (as plums, 
peaches, &c.), the skin or seed-coats of the kernels 
of nuts, the membrane covering beans and peas, the 



* Fhra Ixqfpdmca. 

t See Von Bach, in Tkt 8wi9 Magazine, toL Izxx. p. 315. Edinb. 
1817. 

t Uartig, in ErdmrnMrndSekweigger-SMerM Journal 1S35. 

§ Liebig, ChemUtry in U$ AppUcaium to Agriculture and Phgeiologg, 
p. 119, 2d ed. 1842, 




LIONIKE. 139 

husk of gooseberries, the peel of cucumbers, melons, 
&c., the husk or bran of com, &c., are all indigestible, 
and incapable of being assimilated. But though in- 
soluble and unassimilable, ligneous matter is not 
quite useless. It serves as a mechanical stimulus to 
the bowels, the action of which it promotes. ''Of 
the numerous shapes assumed by lignin,'' says Dr. 
Prout *, '' the best adapted for excremental purposes 
is undoubtedly the external covering of the seeds of 
the cerealia, and particularly of wheat. Bread, there- 
fore, made with undressed flour, or even with an 
extra quantity of bran, is the best form in which 
farinaceous and excremental matters can be usually 
taken ; not only in diabetes, but in most of the other 
varieties of dyspepsia accompanied by obstinate 
constipation. This is a remedy the efficacy of 
which has been long known and admitted ; yet, 
strange to say, the genersdity of mankind choose to 
consult their taste rather than their reason; and by 
officiously separating what nature has beneficently 
combined, entail upon themselves much discomfort 
and misery. In stating above, that most individuals 
subject to constipation dbtain relief by the use of 
brown bread, I wished to imply that there are some 
exceptions ; and that not only among the various forms 
of dyspepsia, but even in diabetes. In such instances, 
the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines 
is often so irritable, that the mechanical excitement 
produced by furfuraceous matters cannot be borne ; and 
in a few of such instances, (not in all,) the second 



* Op. Mupra eii, p. 900. 



140 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

great class of excremental matters, those, namely, con- 
sisting of the green matter of the leaves of plants, is, 
in general, little acted on by the stomachs of the higher 
animals ; and hence may, in most cases, safely form 
a portion of the food of diabetic individuals/* 

Fungifij or the fleshy part of mushrooms, is closely 
allied to lignine, of which, perhaps, it is only a variety. 
It is the substance which remains after mushrooms 
have been deprived of every thing soluble in water, 
alcohol, and a weak alkaline solution. From Bra- 
connot*s * experiments it would appear to be highly 
nitrogenous, but those of Vauquelin ft who probably 
obtained fungin in a purer form and freer from foreign 
nitrogenous substances, do not confirm Braconnot's 
statement, but seem to show that fungin contains but 
little nitrogen. Miiller % considers fungin to be one 
of the simple nutritive substances. 

6. THE PECTINACEOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

(Vegetable Jelly.) 

Jelly is of two kinds — animal and vegetable. The 
first has for its base animal gelatine, and will be de- 
scribed hereafter (see The Gelatinous Alimentary Prin- 
ciple). The second has for its base starch, pectine, or 
pectic acid. Starch has been already noticed (see Tlie 
Amylaceous Alimentary Principle) j and I now proceed 
to examine the dietetical properties of pectine and pec- 
tic acid, both of which substances I include under the de- 
nomination of the Pectinaceous Alimentary Principle. 



* Ann. Ckim, Izxix. 

t Ibid. Ixxxv. 

I Elements qf Phyiiology, Baly's Trauslation, p, 478. 



PECTINE AND PECTITC ACID. 141 

Pectine (so called from iriyrric, coagulum) and Pectic 
acid are both vegeto-gelatinous matters. One or both 
of them are most extensively distributed in the vege- 
table kingdom. Most pulpy fruits contain vegetable 
jelly; as Currants (red, white, and black), Apples 
(both sweet and sour), Peai's, Quinces, Plums, 
Apricots, the Cucurbitaceous fruits (as Melon), Goose- 
berries, Blackberries, Raspberries, Strawberries, Bil- 
berries, Mulberries, Cherries, Love-apples, Oranges, 
Lemons, Guava, and Tamarinds. The Jerusalem Arti- 
choke and the Onion also yield it. It is likewise 
obtained from the Carrot, Turnip, Celery, Beet, and 
many other roots. Hitherto the quantity procurable 
from different plants has not been ascertained. 

In the dried state, pectine and pectic acid closely 
resemble each other ; but the former is distinguished 
from the latter by several characters. Pectine dissolves 
in cold water, yielding a thick solution which does 
not redden litmus paper ; whereas pectic acid reddens 
litmus, and is scarcely soluble in water. Dissolved in 
solution of ammonia, pectine yields no precipitate on 
the addition of an acid ; whereas pectic acid, treated 
in the same way, yields a gelatinous precipitate. 
Very small quantities of the fixed alkalies or alkaline 
earths convert pectine into pectic acid. 

Pectine has been analysed by Mulder* and 
Fremy f . 

COMPOSITION OF PECTINE. 

lao Part* Carbon, Hffdrogen, Oxygen. AuikarUy, 

Pectine from sweet apples . . 45-198 5*352 49*45) 

Ditto from sour apples . . 45*853 5*479 48*668> Mulder. 

Ditto in pectinate of lead . 45*608 5*370 49*022) 

Ditto in ditto 43*5 5*2 51*4 Premy. 

* PharmacetUische$ CentraUBUUt fur 1838, p. 337. 
t Joumtd de Pharmacies t. xxvi. p. 368. 1840. 



142 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Fremy gives as the formula for pectine C^ H*^ O". 
Both Fremy and Mulder agree that pectine and pectie 
acid are identical in composition : the latter chemist 
gives C" H® O*^ as the formula for pectie acid ; while 
Regnault * gives C" H^ O^®. According to Fremy 
the saturating power of pectie acid is double that of 
pectine : pectie acid combining with two atoms, pectine 
with one atom of a base. 

By boiling with an acid solution (as of malic acid) 
both pectine and pectie acid are converted into meta- 
pectic acid, which is very soluble in water. 

According to Fremy unripe fruits contain a very 
small portion only of pectine; but when the fruit 
becomes ripe, pectine is formed by the action of the 
vegetable acids of the fruit on a pulpy matter, lliese 
acids are contained in cells, from which they do not 
escape until the period of ripening, when the cells are 
transparent, distended, and permeable. By subjecting 
fruit to heat the cells burst and allow the acid to esc£^)e, 
and in this way the formation of pectine is promoted. 

The same chemist has also shown that under the in- 
fluence of vegetable albumen contained in fruits, pectine 
is convertible into pectie acid. This fact explains why 
an impure aqueous solution of pectine gelatinizes by 
keeping : the pectine is changed by vegetable albumen 
into pectie acid. It explains also why the juice of a 
fruit by prolonged ebullition often loses its power of 
gelatinizing; since the matter destined to form the 
jelly has been coagulated or destroyed. Moreover, 
under the influence of heat, the malic or other vege- 



* Journal de Pkarmacie, t. xxiv. p. 201. 1838. 




PECTINE AND PECTIC ACID. 143 

table acid of the juice may convert the pectine or 
pectic acid into metapectic acid^ which is very soluble 
in water, and does not possess the property of gela- 
tinizing. 

Sugar promotes the solidification of both pectine 
and pectic acid. If sugar be dissolved in a solution 
of pectine, an imperfect jelly is formed, which finally 
may be drawn out in threads. It also promotes the 
gelatinization of pectic acid, a property which the 
confectioner takes advantage of, in the preparation of 
the jellies of currants, apples, cherries, gooseberries, &c. 
The dietetical properties of vegetable jelly have been 
but imperfectly examined. We believe it to be 
slightly nutritive, and readily digestible. Analogy 
leads us to suppose that its alimentary properties are 
similar to those of gum ; from which, however, it differs 
somewhat in composition : — gum being composed of 
carbon and water (or its elements), while both pectine 
and pectic acid consist of carbon and water (or its 
elements), plus oxygen (see p. 25). Both of these 
vegeto-gelatinous principles being deficient in nitro- 
gen, are considered by Liebig (see ante, p. 31) to 
be mere elements of respiration. But on account of 
the excess (in relation to the hydrogen) of oxygen 
which they contain, it is possible that their copious use 
would diminish the activity of the function of re- 
spiration (see ante, p. 27). Most fruits have more or 
less tendency to promote alvine evacuations : whether 
or not this is ascribable to the vegeto-gelatinous prin- 
ciples which they contain, or to some other consti- 
tuent, has not been ascertained. Braconnot* has sug- 

* ilfliii. Chim. et Phyt. U xxviii. and xxxx. 



144 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

gested the preparation of jellies with pectic acid, to 
which various flavouring ingredients may be added. 
" I dissolved," says he, " in warm water, one part of 
peetate of potash prepared from turnips, and then 
added sugar to the solution. On the addition of an 
infinitely small quantity of acid, the whole became, in 
a few minutes, a mass of trembling jelly, weighing 300 
parts." Such a jelly, however, must contain so small 
a quantity of solid matter, that, instead of nourishing, 
its great value would be in deceiving morbid appetites. 

1. Fruit Jellies. — A variety of vegetable jellies are 
prepared by the confectioner. Those in greatest re- 
quest are Currant (red and black)y Apple, Strawberry^ 
and Raspberry Jellies. To some jellies the term Mar- 
malade is applied. Thus Quince Marmalade (for- 
merly contained in the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia), 
prepared with strained quince juice and sugar, is in 
fact a jelly. 

Fruit jellies owe part of whatever nutritive properties 
they possess, to sugar, and frequently to animal gelatine. 
The sugar used in their preparation promotes the soli- 
dification of, and likewise preserves, the vegetable jelly, 
which, though apt to become mouldy, does not become 
sour. Isinglass is frequently added to communicate 
firmness or stiffness. Fruit jellies form very agreeable 
cooling articles of food in febrile and inflammatory 
complaints. They are frequently used by invalids to 
moisten the mouth and fauces, and to allay thirst. 
They are esteemed antiscorbutic. 

When dissolved in water they form an agreeable 
drink. An extemporaneous Raspberry Vinegar is 
made by dissolving half a pint of raspberry jelly in a 




PECTINE AND PECTIC ACID. 146 

pint of vinegar. This, when diluted with water, 
(forming Raspberry-Vinegar Water) affords a pleasant 
cooling beverage for allaying thirst in fevers, colds, and 
inflammatory maladies. 

2. Jams, (5fc. — ^These being mixtures of vegetable 
pulps with sugar, are in fact Conserves. Those in 
most demand are Raspberry y Strawberry ^ Currant, (red 
and bla4:k) Apricot ^ Green Gage, Gooseberry^ and Pine 
Apple Jams. Closely allied to these are the Fruit-- 
Cheeses, as Damson Cheese, Green Gage Cheese, Bullace 
Cheese, Sfc. Some of the Marmalades are more allied 
to jams than to jellies. Thus Orange or Scotch Mar- 
malade is prepared with Seville Oranges and Sugar, to 
which Apple liquor, and sometimes a little Balsam of 
Tolu, are added for flavouring. 

These preparations are very similar in their effects 
and uses to the fruit jellies above mentioned, from 
which they principally differ in containing a quantity 
of insoluble, and, therefore, indigestible ligneous 
matters (as vegetable membrane, cellular tissue, and 
sometimes seeds), which, in the healthy state of the 
system, contribute by their mechanical stimulus to pro- 
mote the action of the bowels ; but, in irritable con- 
ditions of the alimentary canal, sometimes prove in- 
jurious. 

3. Carrageenin. — ^The mucilaginous or vegeto-gela- 
tinous substance which I have elsewhere * denomi- 
nated Carrageenin, is contained in Chondrus crispus^ 
and other allied sea weeds, which are sold in the shops 
under the name of Carrageen, Pearl, or Irish Moss. 

• See my Elementt of Materia Medica, vol. ii. p. 874, 2d ed. 1842. 

L 



146 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

It is perhaps more closely allied to pectin than to any- 
other vegetable principle. 

Its composition, according to Mulder *, is Carbon 
46-17, Hydrogen 4*88, and Oxygen 49-95. Its for- 
mula, therefore, is C" H® O*®. So that, like pectine, 
carageenin contains excess of oxygen. A solution 
and jelly of it are in use. (See Chondrus crispus.) 

7. THE ACIDULOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

I have admitted the existence of an acidulous ali- 
mentary principle for two reasons. 

The first is, that vegetable acid constitutes one of 
the ingredients of our foods. This statement holds 
good for ancient as well as for modern times, — and 
both for barbarous and civilised nations. Fruits and 
succulent herbs, in both of which vegetable acid exists, 
have always been employed as food. Moreover, acetic 
acid, obtained by the acetous fermentation of wine, 
was in very early use. Moses, f who lived 1490 years 
before Christ, speaks of vinegar of wine being used as 
a drink. " Vinegar, either by accident or design," says 
Dr. Prout, J " has been employed by mankind in all 
ages, in greater or less quantity, as an aliment \ that 
is, substances naturally containing it in small quantity 
have been employed as aliments ; or it has been formed 
artificially from certain bodies, with the view to ali- 
mentary purposes." 

The second reason is, that the employment of vege- 

* Pharmaceutischeg CentraUBlatt fur 1838, p. 500. 
t liumbtnf ch. vi. v. 3. 

X On the Nature and treatment qf Stomach and Urinary Diseases, p. ix. 
3ded. 1840. 




ACIDS. 147 

table acid, as an aliment, is necessary for the preserva- 
tion of health. At least, it seems pretty clearly esta- 
blished that the " complete and prolonged abstinence 
from succulent vegetables or fruits, or their preserved 
juices, as articles of food,"* is a cause of scurvy ; and 
various " circumstances render it probable that the anti- 
scorbutic virtue [of succulent vegetables or fruits] de- 
pends on the organic acids, or on some salt that enters 
the system only in combination with such acids. The 
latter supposition is the more probable, because the acids, 
pure, have much less efficacy in preventing scurvy than 
the vegetable juices from which they are derived. 
Lemon-juice evaporated to the consistence of syrup, as 
originally recommended by Dr. Lind, was found very 
inferior to the fresh fruit; and the crystallised acid, 
after being extensively tried, was renounced in favour 
of the juice preserved simply by the addition of a 
certain proportion of spirit f." 

But m admitting that the dietetical use of vegetable 
acid is necessary to health, it must not be assumed 
that all vegetable acids, which can be taken as food, 
are equally efficacious j for experience has proved that 
this is not the case. Thus, though we admit that 
lemon-juice is a valuable anti-scorbutic, we cannot 
make the same statement of vinegar ; the united ob- 
servations of Drs. Lind, Gilbert Blane, and Trotter, 
having shown that the liberal use of vinegar by sailors 
did not prevent the appearance, nor check the progress, 
of scurvy. 

* Dr. Budd, Lectures on the Disorders resulting from Drfectioe Nuiri- 
menty in The London Medical Gazette, July 22, 1842, p. 633. 
t Dr. Budd, lac. cU. p. 716. 



148 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Water sharpened with the vegetable acids often- 
times proves a most refreshing beverage, allaying 
thirst, and moderating excessive heat. When taken 
in the free state these acids sufTer no appreciable 
chemical change in the system, except that of com- 
bining with a base; for Drs. Wohler and Stehberger* 
detected oxalic, tartaric, and gallic acids, in combination 
with bases, in the urine of persons to whom these acids 
had been administered in the free state. Now, inas- 
much as the chyle and blood are always alkaline, it 
follows that these acids must have entered into combi- 
nation with bases before they entered the circula- 
tion. It is probable, therefore, that the bile furnishes 
the basic matter for neutralising the acids previous to 
their absorption. It is remarkable, however, that the 
tartrates, citrates, malates, and acetates of potash and 
soda, taken into the stomach, suffer decomposition in 
the system, and are converted into carbonates of their 
respective bases. This fact, first noticed by Sir Gilbert 
Blane, but confirmed by Drs. Wohler and Stehberger, 
has been already adverted to, and the changes which 
the vegetable acids suffer, explained. (See ante^ 
pp. 28 and 29.) 

I now proceed to make a few remarks on those 
organic acids which are most frequently used for 
dietetical purposes. 

1. Acetic Acid or Jlie Acid of Vinegar. — ^To this 
substance Pyroligneous Acid, Vinegar, Sour Beer, 
and Sour Wine, owe entirely or principally their 
acid properties. Anhydrous or real acetic acid, as it 
exists in some acetates, has the following composition, 

• Sec my Elements qf Materia Medica^ vol. i. p. 109, 2Tid ed. 



ACIDS. 149 

C* H' O*. Glacial or Crystallisable Acetic Acidy the 
strongest procurable, contains one equivalent of water. 
Its formula is C* H* O* + Aqua. 

Pyroligneous Acid, called also Wood Vinegfctr, or 
White Vinegar, is obtained by the distillation of wood. 
When pure it consists of acetic acid and water only. 

The Common Vinegar of the shops is procured by 
subjecting an infusion of malt, or of a mixture of 
malt and raw barley, to the acetous fermentation. 
Hence it is commonly termed Mali Vinegar. It has 
a yellowish red colour and an agreeable acid taste, 
which it owes principally to acetic acid, but in part also 
to sulphuric acid, and a peculiar refreshing, pleasant 
odour, which it derives from acetic acid and acetic 
ether. The makers of it sell four vinegars, of different 
degrees of strength, which they distinguish as Nos. 18, 
20, 22, and 24. The vinegar distinguished as No. 24, 
or Proof Vinegary is the strongest that is made. It is 
almost too strong for ordinary use at the table, but is 
employed for pickling and preserving meat, fish, and 
game ; whence it has received its name of Strongest 
Pickling Vinegar. The vinegar known as No. 22 is 
adapted for the table, and for pickling most vegetables, 
whence it is frequently called Best Pickling Vinegar. 
Malt vinegar has the following composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF MALT VINEGAR. 

Acetic Acid. 
Acetic Ether. 



M 



Peculiar Mucilairiiiotis Matter. 



ColourinfiT Matter, 
ilagi 

Alcohol (a small portion). 
Sulphuric Acid (-nhnr part) . 
Water. 



Malt Vinegar *. 



* Vinegar is very liable to undergo decomposition : it becomes 



lAi) ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Vinegar makers are allowed by law to add the above 
mentioned quantity of sulphuric acid. 

Wine Vinegary also called FrewcA Vinegar ^ is obtained 
from • wines of inferior quality. It is of two kinds^ 
white and red. White Wine Vinegar is usually pre- 
ferred, as it keeps better. That which is made at 
Orleans is considered to be the best. The constituents 
of wine vinegar are very similar to those of malt vine- 
gar. It contains a small quantity of bitartrate and 
sulphate of potash. Wine vinegar may be distin- 
guished from malt vinegar by ammonia, which occa- 
sions in the former a purplish precipitate, but not in 
the latter. 

Distilled Vinegar is usually imitated in the shops 
by diluted pyroligneous acid ; but this imitation has 
not so fragrant an odour as the genuine article. 

The following table shews the proportion of acetic 
acid in the preceding preparations : — 

TABLE SHEWING THE QUANTITY OF ACETIC ACID IN 
SEVERAL ACETOUS COMPOUNDS. 

100 Partt Ankydnmt Add. 

Srrolifirneous Acid (Acetic Acid of the London Phannacopoeia) 30*8 
alt Vinegar (No. 24, or Proof Vinegar) ....... 4*6 

Wine Vinegar ? 5-36 

Distilled Vinegar of the London Pharmacopceia 3*07 



turbid, loses its acidity, acquires an unpleasant odour, and deposits a 
slippery gelatiniform substance. The mucilaginous coat or skin 
which forms on the surface of vinegar, and is called the Mother of Vine- 
gary consists of myriads of exceedingly minute vegetables having a 
spheroidal form. The surface of vinegar is frequently covered by 
mouldiness, which, when examined by the microscope, is seen to consist 
of minute fungi, called by botanists Mucor Mueedo, The microscopic 
animals called Vinegar Eels {Angmllula Aceii), are generated and 
nourished in vinegar. They may be destroyed by submitting the 
liquid, in which they are contained, to heat. Vinegar is also infested 
by a small fly (Musea cfUaris), 



n 



ACIDS. 151 

Vinegar is used at the table as a condiment, on 
account of its agreeable flavour and refreshing odour. 
It is employed either alone or with pickles. When 
taken in small quantities it is quite wholesome, allay- 
ing thirst and checking preternatural heat. Small 
quantities do not appear to act injuriously on the sto- 
mach ', nay, a considerable quantity has been taken at 
one time with impunity. Dr. Christison knew a case 
in which eight ounces were swallowed without injury. 
But the habitual use of it is injurious, and, by dis- 
turbing the function of the stomach, may give rise to 
wasting *. " Every one knows," says Giacomini, 
'* that when habitually taken, it produces leanness, 
from a sort of languor of the digestive process." 

2. Citric Acid; Cmicrete Acid of Lemons. — This 
acid, in the free state and combined with little or no 
malic acid, is a constituent of the juice of the Lemon, 
the Orange (bitter and sweet), the Lime, the Citron, 



* It is in repute with young ladies for diminishing obesity. But the 
following case, from Portal, quoted by Giacomini, shews the ill con- 
sequences of employing it for this purpose : — '* A few years ago, a 
young lady, in easy circumstances, enjoyed good health ; she was very 
plump, had a good appetite, and a complexion blooming with roses and 
lilies. She began to look upon her plumpness with suspicion ; for her 
mother was very fat, and she was afraid of becoming like her. 
Accordingly, she consulted a woman, who advised her to drink a small 
glass of vinegar daily : the young lady followed her advice, and her 
plumpness diminished. She was delighted with the success of the 
remedy, and continued it for more than a month. She began to have 
a cough ; but it was dry at its commencement, and was considered as a 
slight cold, which would go off. Meantime, from dry it became moist ; 
a slow fever came on, and a difficulty of breathing ; her body became 
lean, and wasted away ; night-sweats, swelling of the feet and of the 
legs, succeeded, and a diarrhoea terminated her life. On examination, 
all the lobes of the lungs were found fiUed with tubercles, and some- 
what resembling a bunch of grapes.'* 



152 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

the Shaddock, and other fruits of the genus Citrus, all 
of which owe their sourness to this acid. The Cran- 
berry and the fruit of the Dog-rose likewise contain it. 
Mixed with an equal quantity of malic acid, it is found 
in the Gooseberry, the Red Currant, the Strawberry, 
the Raspberry, the Cherry, and the Bilberry. Mixed 
with both malic and tartaric acids, it exists in the pulp 
of the Tamarind. 

The composition of citric acid is as follows : — 

FORMULAE OF CITRIC ACID. 

Hypothetical or dry Citric Acid as it exists in > q^ tts qu 

some citrates > 

Citric Acid crystallised by cooling a solution sa- > fii2 ru on j. j^^^a 

turated at 212*=^ Ji^nu -^Aqua 

Commercial crystals of Citric Acid C" H* 0^^ + Aqua^ 

Citric acid is employed as a substitute for lemon 
and lime juice in the preparation of refreshing and 
cooling beverages. 

Artificial Lemon Juice is prepared by dissolving 
nine drachms and twelve grains of crystallised citric 
acid in a wine-pint of water, and flavouring vdth a 
drop of essence of lemon dissolved in a tea-spoonful 
of spirit. This preparation is less apt to undergo de- 
composition than the genuine juice, for which the ar- 
tificial compound may be substituted in the prepara- 
tion of agreeable and refrigerant drinks. 

The effervescing powder sold under the name of 
Lemoti and Kali should consist of powdered white 
sugar two parts, dried and powdered citric acid one 
part, and powdered bicarbonate of potash one part 
and a quarter. But as citric acid is slightly deli- 
quescent, this preparation does not keep well, and is 
apt to form a hard mass. Hence Concrete Acidtdated 



ACIDS. 153 

Alkali (hereafter to be described) is frequently substi- 
tuted for it. 

3. Tartaric Acid or Crystallised Acid of Tartar. — 
This acid, in the free state, exists in Tamarinds, Grapes, 
and the Pine-apple. Bitartrate of potash, also called 
Cream of Tartar, is found in Tamarinds, Grapes, and 
Mulberries. During the fermentation of wine, this 
salt, in combination with colouring and extractive 
matters, is deposited on the sides of the cask, and is 
termed Crude Tartar or ArgoL A further deposition 
also takes place after bottling, and is then called the 
Crust. 

The formula for anhydrous tartaric acid is C* H* O*, 
or double this, viz. C® H* 0^\ The crystallised acid, 
therefore, is either C*H»0«+^ytta, or C»H*0*®+ 
Aqua^. 

Tartaric acid is employed as a cheap substitute for 
citric acid or lemon juice. Besides cheapness, it has 
another advantage over citric acid, viz. its not being 
deliquescent when exposed to the air. But in flavour 
it is decidedly inferior to citric acid. 

A variety of effervescing powders, prepared with 
tartaric acid and sesquicarbonate (bicarbonate) of soda, 
are kept in the shops. The Concrete Acidulated Al- 
kali, before referred to, is prepared by intimately mix- 
ing one part of powdered tartaric acid, one part of 
bicarbonate of soda, and two parts of powdered white 
sugar. This powder is flavoured with essence of 
lemon, in the proportion of fifty drops to one 
pound of the mixture. A tea-spoonful of this is taken 
in a little water contained in a tumbler. — ^The Sodn 
Powders of the shops consist of thirty grains of bicar- 



154 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

bonate of soda, contained in a blue paper, and twenty- 
five grains of powdered tartaric acid, in a white paper. 
When taken, they should be dissolved in half a pint of 
water. — Ginger'beer Powders are made in the same 
way as soda powders, except that five grains of 
powdered ginger and a drachm of white sugar are 
mixed with the bicai'bonate of soda. All these pre- 
parations furnish us with an extemporaneous Effer^ 
vescing Saline Draughty containing tartrate of soda, 
and the flavour of which is much improved by adding 
to the water, before dissolving the acid or mixed 
powder, two or three drachms of syrup and half a 
drachm of tincture of orange peel. 

Seidlitz Powders consist of two drachms of tar- 
tarised soda and two scruples of bicarbonate of soda, 
contained in a blue paper, and half a drachm of 
powdered tartaric acid in a white paper. These are to 
be taken, dissolved in half a pint of water, while the 
liquid is in a state of effervescence. They form an 
agreeable and mild aperient. 

Cream of tartar is frequently substituted for tartaric 
acid, in the preparation of cooling drinks. The liquid 
called Imperial is of this kind. It is formed by dis- 
solving one drachm or a drachm and a half of cream 
of tartar in a pint of boiling water, and flavouring 
with lemon-peel and sugar. When cold, the solution 
may be taken ad libituniy as a refrigerant beverage in 
febrile complaints, especially where it is desirable to 
promote the secretion of urine. 

All the above effervescing compounds, as well as 
imperial, are injurious to patients troubled with white 
sand (phosphatic deposits) in the urine; in con- 



ACIDS. 155 

sequence of the alkaline tartrate being converted into 
an alkaline carbonate (see pp. 28 and 29), which passes 
out of the system in the urine, and promotes the depo- 
sition of the earthy phosphates. 

AcidtUiUed Drops or LozengeSy consist of barley- 
sugar sharpened with tartaric acid, as I have before 
stated (see pp. 118, 119). They are useful in coughs 
and sore-throats, but are commonly taken, on account 
of their agreeable flavour, as articles of confectionary. 

4. Malic Add J or Acid of Apples. — This acid is 
very extensively distributed in the vegetable kingdom. 
It exists in the free state in Apples, Pears, Quinces, 
Plums, Apricots, Peaches, Cherries, Gooseberries, Cur- 
rants, Strawberries, Raspberries, Blackberries, Pine- 
apples, Barberries, Elderberries, Grapes, Love-apples^ 
Tamarinds, and several other fruits. It is usually ac- 
companied by citric acid. Wine, Cider, and Perry, 
likewise contain it. The formula for the hydrated 
acid is C H* O* 4- Aqua^. Its dietetical properties 
are analogous to citric acid ; but it is not employed in 
the separate state. 

5. Oxalic Acid. — ^This exists in a considerable num- 
ber of plants. Those which it is necessary here to 
refer to, as being employed at the table, are the 
Garden Rhubarb, whose leafstalks are used in tarts and 
puddings ; Conunon Sorrel, which is sometimes taken 
as a potherb and salad ; and Conunon Woodsorrel, 
which is occasionally eaten as an antiscorbutic. The 
crystallised acid of the shops is obtained by the action 
of nitric acid on sugar, or molasses. Its formula is 
C^ O* + Aqua'. In large doses and in a concentrated 
form, it is an energetic poison ; but in small quantities 
and largely diluted, it may be used without injury. 



166 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

In this country it is never taken internally. In Fmnce, 
however, it is sometimes employed in the preparation 
of acidulous drinks (called lemonades) ^ in the propor- 
tion of twelve or fifteen grains of acid to a quart of 
water; but it is much safer to use tartaric acid. 
Lozenges containing this acid have been prepared 
under the name of Tahleties cTAcide Oxaliquey or 
Pastilles pour la soif; but they present no advantage 
over the ordinary acidulated drops. 

Quadroxalate of Potash^ sold in the shops as Salt 
of Sorrely has also been employed in the preparation 
of refrigerant drinks and lozenges. 

6. Lactic Acidy or Milk Acid. — ^This acid exists in 
sour milk. It is also formed when various vegetable 
substances become sour — as when oatmeal is left in a 
large quantity of water. Its composition and forma- 
tion out of sugar have been already adverted to (see 
p. 115). "This acid," says Dr. Prout, "like 
the acetic acid, is probably, under certain circum- 
stances, capable of becoming an aliment; but 
as it is often found unchanged and even deve- 
loped in the stomach, and, indeed, in almost all 
parts of the animal system, it is probably less 
digestible, and, therefore, less adapted as an aliment, 
than the acetic acid." Under the erroneous idea 
that lactic acid was one of the agents by which ali- 
ments are dissolved in the stomach, lactic acid lemonade y 
and lactic acid lozenges^ have been employed in dys- 
pepsia arising from simple debility of the digestive 
organs. 

7. Tannic Acid.. — This, though a constituent of 
some articles employed at the table, as Tea, can 
scarcely be considered alimentary. 



ALCOHOL. 



167 



8. THE ALCOHOLIC ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

The reasons for believing that under some circum- 
stances alcohol is an alimentary principle, have been 
already stated (See pp. 60, 61, 62, and 54). 

The formula for puie or anhydrous alcohol (sp. gr. 
0-7947 at 60^ F.) is C* H« O^ Spirit of Wine con- 
sists of alcohol and w^ater. Rectified spirit of w^ine 
(sp. gr. 0*836 to 840) contains about 90 per cent, 
of alcohol. 

Alcohol is a product of the vinous fermentation. 
It is, therefore, a constituent of Wines, Cyder, Perry, 
and Malt liquors (Beer, Ale, and Porter), and of 
Ardent Spirits obtained by distillation from vinous 
liquids. The following are the quantities of alcohol 
contained in various Wines, Spirits, and Malt Liquors, 
according to the best authorities. 

Table qf the proportion of Alcohol (sp. gr. 0*825, at 6° F.)» by mea- 
sure, contained in 100 parts qf Wine, Spirits, Malt Liquors, SfC, * 



1. Lissa .... 

2. Raisin .... 

3. Marsala . . . 

4. Port » . . . 

5. Madeira . . . 

6. Currant . . . 

7. Sherry . . . 

8. Teneriffe . . . 

9. Colares . . . 

10. Lachryma Clmsti 

11. Constantia, white 

12. Constantia, red . 

13. Lisbon . . . 

14. Malaea . . . 

15. Bucellas . . . 

16. Red Madeira 

17. Cape Muschat 



Brtmde» 


Other; 


A. 25-41 


15-90 P. 


A. 2512 




A, 2509 


18-40 P. 


A. 22-96 


20-64 p. 


A. 22-27 


21-20 P. 


20-55 




A. 19-17 


23-80 P. 


19-79 




19-75 




19-70 




19-751 
18-92/ 


1450 P. 


18-94 




18-94 




18-49 




A. 20-35 




18-25 






[carried over^ 



• A. means average, F. Julia-Fontenelle, P. Prout. 



158 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



18. Cape Madeira o 

19. Grape Wine 

20. Calcavella 

21. Vidonia 

22. Alba Flora 

23. Malaga 

24. White Hermitage 

25. Rousillon 

26. Claret 

27. Zante 

28. Malmsey-Madeira 

29. Lunel 

30. Sheraaz 

31. Syracuse 

32. Sauteme 

33. Burgundy 

34. Hock 

35. Nice 

36. Barsac 

37. Tent 

38. Champagne 

39. Red Hermitage 

40. Vin de Grave 

41. Frontignac (Rivesalte) . . . 

42. C6te R6tie 

43. Gooseberry 

44. Orange . . v 

45. Tokay 

46. Elder ......... 

47. Cider, highest average . . . 
Ditto, lowest ditto 

48. Perry, average of four samples 

49. Mead 

50. Ale (Burton) 

London (Edinburgh) . . . , 
Ditto f Dorchester) . . . . . 

Average 

51. Brown Stout 

52. London Porter (average) . , 

53. Ditto Small Beer .... 

54. Brandy 

55. Rum 

56. Gin 

57. Scotch Whiskey .... 

58. Irish ditto 



Bran4e. 


Othfrt. 


A. 20-51 




1811 




A. 18-65 




19-25 




17-26 




17-26 




17-43 




A. 18-13 




A. 1510 




17-05 




16-40 




15-52 


1801 F. 


15-52 




16-28 


30-00 P. 


14-22 




A, 1457 


1216 P. 


A, 12 08 




14-63 




13-86 




13 30 




A. 12-61 


12-20 F. 


12-32 




1394 




12-79 




12-32 




A. 11-84 




11-26 




9-88 




8-79 




9-87 




5-21 




7-26 




732 




8-88 




6-20 




5-56 




6-87 




6-80 




4-20 




1-28 




53-39 




53-68 




57-60 




54-32 




53-90 





According to the more recent experiments of Dr. 
Christison, the quantity of alcohol in wines has been 
somewhat overrated. The following are his results : — 



ALCOHOL. 



159 



Port 



Sherry 



S Weakest . . . 
Mean of 7 wines 
Strongest . . 
White. . . . 
/Weakest . . 

Mean of 13 wines, excluding 
those very long kept in cask 

Strongest 

Mean of 9 wines very lon^ kept 
in cask in the East Indies . 

\Madre da Xeres 

Madeira, all long in cask in i Strongest . 

East Indies . . . . ) Weakest . 

Teneriffe, long in cask at Calcutta . . . 

Cercial 

Dr^ Lisbon 

Shiraz 

Amontillado 

Claret, a first growth of 1811 . . . . 
Chateau-Latour, first growth 1825 . . 

Rosan, second growth 1825 

Ordinary Claret, a superior "vin ordinaire" 

Rivesaltes 

Malmsey 

Riidesheimer, superior quality . 

Ditto interior quality . , 

Haml^Lcher, superior quality . 
Edinburgh Ale, unbottled . . 
Same Ale, 2 years bottled . . 
London Porter, 4 months in bottle 



Mcokol (0*7939) 

percent. 6y 

weight. 



14-97 
16-20 
1710 

14-97 
13-98 

15-37 
I6I7 

14-72 

16-90 

16-90 

1409 

13-84 

15-45 

16-14 

12-95 

12*63 

772 

7.78 

7-61 

8-99 

9-31 

12-86 

8-40 

6-90 

7-35 

7-35 

5-70 

5-36 



Proof Spirit 

pier cent, bp 

volume. 



30-56 
3391 
37 27 
31-31 
30-84 

33-59 
3512 

32-30 
3706 
36-81 
30-86 
3021 
33-65 
34-71 
28-30 
27-60 
16-95 
17-06 
16-74 
18-96 
22-35 
28-37 
18-44 
15-19 
1615 
16-15 
1260 
11-91 



Dr. Christison states that by keeping wines, as 
Sherry and Madeira, in casks, for a moderate term of 
years, the quantity of alcohol increases ; but after a 
certain time it decreases ; and it is probable that at the 
period when wines begin to lose alcohol they cease to 
improve in flavour. 

The value of ardent spirits is, of course, propor- 
tionate to the quantity of alcohol contained therein ; 
and, therefore, a ready mode of estimating this is most 
desirable. The alcoholometrical method usually 
adopted consists in determining the sp. gr. of the 



160 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

liquid by an instrument called the hydrometer (from 
»^«p, water ; and fitrpiia, I measure). That employed 
in this country, in the collection of the duties on 
spirits, is called Sikes's hydrometer. Spirit having the 
sp. gr. 0'920, at 60» F., is called proof spirit j that 
which is heavier is said to be under proof while that 
which is lighter is called over proof "^^ The origin of 
these terms is as follows : — Formerly a very rude mode 
of ascertaining the strength of spirits was practised, 
called the proof : the spirit was poured upon gun- 
powder, in a dish, and inflamed. If at the end of the 
combustion the gunpowder took fire, the spirit was 
said to be above or over proof ; but if the spirit con- 
tained much water, the powder was rendered so moist 
that it did not take fire : in this case the spirit was 
declared to be helow or under proof As spirit of 
different strengths will or will not inflame gunpowder, 
according to the quantity of spirit employed, it became 
necessary to fix the legal value of proof spirits : this 
has been done, and proof spirit (Spiritus tenuior) 
is defined, by act of parliament, to be such, that 
at the temperature of 5P F., thirteen volumes of 
it weigh exactly as much as twelve volumes of water. 
According to this definition the sp. gr. at 60** F. is 
0*920, and spirit of this strength consists of 

Bjf Weight, 8p. Gr, 

Alcohol ... 49 0791 

Water .... 51 1-000 

Proof spirit . . 100 920 



• Spirit, which is of the strength of 43 per cent, ever proof at the 
least, is recognised by the legislature (6 Geo. 4. cap. 80, Sects. 101 and 



ALCOHOL. 161 

Spirit is employed by the cook and confectioner, as 
a preservative agent. Thus Brandy is used to preserve 
several kinds of fruit*. Its efficacy is imperfectly un- 
derstood. It acts, in part at least, by excluding air 
(oxygen) and vi^ater, the two powerful promoters of 
fermentation and putrefaction. 

1. Brandy ; Eau-de-vie. — ^This is an ardent spirit 
obtamed by the distillation of wine. Its constituents 
are alcohol, water, volatile oil, a minute portion of 
acetic acid, oenanthic ether, colouring matter, and 
tannin. The latter is said to be derived from the cask 
in which the spirit h&s been preserved. The most 
celebrated of the French Brandies are those of Cognac 
and Armagnac. Pale brandy has a very slight 
brownish yellow tint, derived from the cask. The high 
coloured brandy usually found in the shops of this 
country is artificially coloured. When fresh imported 
the alcoholic strength of brandy is usually above proof ; 
but by keeping it diminishes. A sample of pale brandy. 



114) as spirits qf wine. All spirit under this strength is known in 
trade as plain spirit. Distillers are not permitted (Ibid. Sect. 81) to 
send out spirits at any other strengths than 25 or 11 per cent, above, or 
10 per cent, behwproqf. Raw com spirit, therefore, is sold at 25 or 11 
per cent above proof. Compounded spirits (as Gin) are not allowed 
(Ibid. Sect. 124) to be kept or sent out stronger than 17 per cent, under 
proqf; but Gin, as sold by the rectifier, is usually 22 per cent, under 
proqf, Foreiffn or Colonial spirits (not being compoimded colonial 
spirits) must not be kept or sent out of less strength than 17 per cent, 
under proqf (Ibid. Sect 130). Rum and Brandy, as conunonly sold, 
are 10 per cent, under proqf , 

* Cherries and plums shrivel when preserved in syrup, but remain 
plump in brandy : in the first case, exosmosis preponderates, because 
the syrup is denser than the juice of the fruit ; in the second, endosmosis, 
because the juice is denser than the brandy: the separating mem- 
brane is the skin or epicarp of the fruit. 

M 



162 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

in bond, supplied me by Mr, Gassiot, of Mark Lane, 
I found to be 1*5 over proof, and a coloured brandy 
2*2 over proof. But I am informed that 10 per cent, 
under proof is the strength of brandy as usually sold, 
British brandy is extensively manufactured and sold 
as foreign brandy. 

From other ardent spirits in ordinary use, brandy is 
distinguished by its cordial and stomachic properties. 
It is, therefore, often resorted to as a domestic remedy 
to relieve spasmodic pains and flatulency, to check 
vomiting, especially sea-sickness, and to give tempo- 
rary relief in some cases of indigestion, attended with 
pain after taking food. A little warm brandy and 
water with nutmeg is often a very efficacious remedy 
for slight cases of diarrhoea unaccompanied with in- 
flammatory symptoms. 

Burnt brandy is a popular remedy for diarrhoea. 

In the London PharmacopcBia there is, under the 
name of Brandy Mixture (Mistura Spiritfiis Vini Gal- 
lici), an imitation of Egg-Flip^ and as it is a valuable 
stimulant and restorative it deserves a place here. It 
consists of brandy, cinnamon water, of each four 
fluidounces [a gill], the yolks of two eggs, white 
sugar half an ounce, and oil of cinnamon two drops. 
From one to three table-spoonfuls are given, as a dose, 
in extreme exhaustion from flooding or other hemor- 
rhages, and in the latter stages of low fevers. 

2. Rum. — ^This is ardent spirit, obtained both in 
the West and East Indies, by distillation from the 
fermented skimmings of the sugar boiler, molasses, 
the washings of the boilers, and the lees or spent wash 
of former distillations, called dunder. It is im- 



ALCOHOL. 163 

ported into this country in puncheons. In some 
parts of the West India Islands it is customary to 
put slices of pine-apples in the puncheons of rum j 
hence the designation of pine-apple rum. Jamaica 
rum is more highly esteemed than the Leeward Islands 
rum. The peculiar flavour of rum depends on vola- 
tile oil. 

The general effects and uses of rum are similar to 
those of brandy. But rum is considered more heating, 
and more disposed to cause sweating, than the other 
kinds of ardent spirit, to which it has been popularly 
thought preferable in slight colds, long-standing coughs, 
and rheumatism *. Of its great value In cases of ex- 
treme suffering and exhaustion, from excessive fatigue 
and privation of food, I have already furnished evi- 
dence (see pp. 61, 62). 

3. Gin. — Gin is an ardent spirit prepared from com 
spirit, and flavoured with Juniper, Sweet Flag, &c. It is 
not allowed to be sent out stronger than 1 7 per cent, 
under proof, but is usually sold to the trade at 22 per 
cent, under proof. The retail dealer always further 
reduces its strength, and flavours it with sugar. 

On account of the oil of juniper which it holds in 
solution, gin is more powerfully diuretic than either 
brandy or rum ; and hence it is a more popular diure- 
tic in dropsical and other affections where an augmen- 



• " They talk of a common exx>eriment here [Jamaica], that any 
animal's liver pnt into Rum grows soft, and not so in Brandy, whence 
they argue this last less wholesome than that ; but their Experiment, 
if true, proves no such thing. 1 think it may be said to have all the 
good and bad qualities of Brandy, or any fermented or vinous spirit" 
(Sir Hans Sloane^s Jamaica, vol.i. p. xxx. Lond. 1707). 



164 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

tation of the renal secretion is considered desirable. 
Moreover, it is frequently used, in preference to other 
ardent spirits, to promote menstruation. At the 
London Hospital, it is frequently administered medi- 
cinally, as a substitute for brandy, to patients who 
have been accustomed to it, and whose maladies require 
the use of some alcoholic stimulant. 

4. WJiisky. — ^This is a corn spirit, and agrees in 
most of its properties with gin j from which it differs 
in its peculiar smoky flavour and odour : these it ac- 
quires from the malt, which is dried by turf fires. 
But the smell of burned turf, called peat-reek in 
Scotland, " which was originally prized as a criterion 
of whisky made from pure malt, moderately fermented 
and distilled with peculiar care, has of late years lost 
its value, since the artifice of impregnating bad raw 
grain whisky with peat-smoke has been extensively 
practised" (Ure*). The peculiar flavour of whisky 
is owing " to a volatile oil which exists in the barley 
from which the spirits have been made" (Thomson f). 
Highland whisky is sometimes sold 1 1 per cent, over 
proof. The greater reputation of the Highland over 
Lowland whisky has been ascribed to the use of 
porter-yeast by the Lowland distillers, which is said 
to deteriorate the flavour. 

6. Arrack or Rack. — ^This is a spirit obtained from 
different sources in various parts of the East. In 
Batavia it is procured by distillation from fermented 
infusions of rice, whence it has been termed Bice 



• Dictionary qf Arts, Maniffactures, and Mines, p. 399. Lond. 1839. 
t Chemistry qf Organie Bodies— Vegetables, p. 481. 



ALCOHOL. 165 

Spirit. In Ceylon, it is obtained by distillation from 
fennented cocoa-nut toddy (by some called Palm 
Wine). Pine-apples, steeped in it, impart a most ex- 
quisite flavour to the spirit; and, by age, it becomes a 
delicious liqueur, which is unrivalled in the world for 
making nectarial punch. Arrack is said to be distin- 
guished from the other ardent spirits by its stimulating 
and narcotic properties. It is sometimes used in this 
country to impart an agreeable flavour to punch. A 
mock arrack is made by dissolving twenty grains of 
benzoic acid in two pints of rum. 

(J. Liqueurs and Compounds. — By spirit dealers, 
British compounded spirits are denominated Com- 
pounds, while Foreign compounded spirits are called 
lAqueurs. Both classes of liquors consist of spirits 
sweetened and otherwise flavoured. 

A great variety of Liqueurs is imported. In France 
they are called Ratafias *, and some of them also 
Cremes, Kirschenwa^ser or Kirschwasser (literally 
Cherry-rvater) is obtained by distillation from the fer- 
mented juice of a black cherry (Cerasus avium macro- 
carpa, De Cand.) cultivated in Switzerland and in 
some parts of France (in the Vosges and the For^t- 
Noire). Maraschino di Zara is procured in Dalmatia 
from a peculiar variety of cherry, called Marasquin 
(Cerasus Caproniana var. « Montmorencyana, De 
Cand.?) Curagoa is prepared by digesting bitter 



* Bo/q/Eo, like the verb rattfy^ is derived from the Latin words ratum 
and jSo» to make firm, or to confirm. By Ratafia, therefore, was origi- 
naUy meant a liquid drank at the ratification, confirmation, or settle- 
ment of an agreement or bargain. The practice of drinking on these 
occasions is by no means of modem origin. 



\ 



166 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



orange-peel (or orange-berries), cloves, and cinnamon, 
in old brandy, to which sugar dissolved in water is 
subsequently added *. 

The following list of Compounds or British lAqiieurs 
usually kept at the gin-shops of this metropolis has 
been furnished me by the proprietor of one of these 
establishments : — 



COMPOUNDS, OR BRITISH LIQUEURS. 



Under Proof, 



Under Proof, 



Gin 

Gin 

Mint {JPeppermint) 
Cioyes .... 
Bitters .... 
Raspberry . . . 
Noyeau .... 
Cinnamon . . . 



17 
22 
64 



9t 



it 
P9 
U 



Tent 

Aniseed 

Caraway 

Lovage 

Usquebaugh {seldom asked for) 
Orange Cordial {ditto) 
Citron Cordial (ditto) 
Rum Shrub 



64 



Those marked at 64 under proof, though usually 
permitted to the retailers at that strength, are usually 
much nearer 80 under proof. 

9. THE OILY ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 
(Oleaginous Aliments.) 

The substances usually denominated oils are of two 
kinds, fixed and volatile. The first cannot be distilled 
with water, and when dropped on paper communicate 
to it a permanently greasy stain. The second are 
volatile, and communicate to paper a stain, which can 
be removed by moderate warmth. 

1. Of THE Fixed Oils. — Under this head are in- 
cluded all fatty substances employed as food, whether 



» Formulee for the preparation of the above and other Liqueurs 
{Ratafias) are given in MM. Henry and Guibourt's Pharmacop^e 
RaisonnSe, 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 167 

obtained from animals or vegetables. To tliis, there- 
fore, belong the substances popularly known as Faty 
Suet, TallaWy Lard or Axunge, Marrow^ Grease, 
Butter, Blubber, and Fixed Oil. 

The vegetable fixed oils reside principally in the 
seed; either in the embryo itself, as in Almonds, 
Rape-seed, Mustard-seed, Filberts, Walnuts, Earth- 
nuts, and Linseed ; — or in the perisperm or albumen 
which surrounds the embryo, as in the Cocoa-nut, 
Poppy-seed, and Nutmeg. The pericarp or fruit- 
coats rarely contain fixed oil. Olives, however, con- 
stitute a remarkable exception to this statement. 

In animals, fat is lodged in the cells of what is 
called adipose tissue— a structure analogous to, if, 
indeed, it be not identical with, common cellular 
membrane. A stmtum of this tissue, of variable thick- 
ness, lies beneath the skin. A considerable accumu- 
lation of it, containing a very firm kind of fat, 
exists in the neighbourhood of the kidneys. In the 
omentum (popularly called the caul), the orbits, and 
various other parts of the animal body, depositions of 
fat take place. 

The quantity of oil or fat procurable from different 
vegetable and animal substances is as follows : — 



QUANTITY OF OIL OR FAT YIELDED BY 100 PARTS BY 

WEIGHT OF THE FOLLOWING ALIMENTARY SUB- 
STANCES :— 

a. Veoetablks. 

Filberts 60 Schubler. 

OltyeB (including pericarp, > 3^ sieuve. 
stone, and seed) .... 5 

Olive- seeds 54 Ditto. 

Walnuts 50 Schubler. 

Earth-nut {Arackis \ypogaa) 47 Payen and Henry fils , 



168 



ALIMENTABT PRINCIPLES. 



oa 
Cocoa nut (nucleus or fleshy > 

part) i 

Almonds 

White Mustard .... 

Plums 

Linseed 

Black Mustard 

Grape-stones (seeds) . . . 

Maize 

Dates (fleshy part of thel 

fruit) / 

b. Animal. 

YolkofEgffs 

Ordinary Meat .... 

Caviare (fresh unpressed) . 
Liver of the Ox (paren-> 

chyma of) \ 

Milk, Cows' 

Women's .... 

Asses' 

Goate' 

Ewes' 

Bones of Sheep's feet • . 
„ „ Ox-head . . . 



mrFaU 

47 



Buchner. 



46 


Schiibler. 


36 


Ditto. 


33 


Ditto. 


22 


Ditto. 


18 


Ditto. 


11-4 to 18-5 


Julia-Fontenelle. 


9 


Dumas and Payen 


0-2 


Reinsch. 



2875 



Prout. 



^"^'^(in^inf et^^Uehig. 



lular tiuue) 



91 
91 
99 
99 



43 

389 

313 
3-55 
Oil 
3-32 
4-20 
5-55 
11-54 



John. 
Braconnot. 



p. Henry and Che- 
vallier. 



> French Gelatine Com- 
S mission. 



The elementary constituents of the fatty substances 
are Carbon, Hydrogen, and Oxygen, to which, in 
some instances, Saussure adds Nitrogen. 

ULTIMATE COMPOSITION OF SOME FIXED OILS OR FATS. 



Carbon, 

AhnondOil ... 77*403 

^SSr'r!? 76-036 

Ditto <Vofirfpar^> g2.i7Q 

Walnut Oil . . . 79774 

Train Oil. . . . 761 

Butter .... 65*6 

Hog's Lard . . , 79*098 

Mutton Suet . . 7S-996 



Hffdfgom, Otjffem, NUrogom. JmikorUp, 

11-481 10*828 0-288 Saussure. 

11-545 12068 0*353 Ditto. 

11*232 6*302 0*296 Ditto. 

10*570 9-122 0*543 Ditto. 

12*4 11*5 B^rard. 

17*6 16-8 Ditto. 

11*146 9*756 Chevreul. 

11*700 9*304 Ditto. 



The fixed oils or fats employed as aliments are 
mixtures or compounds of two, three, or more neutral, 
fatty, saponifiable principles, viz., Stearine, Margarine, 
Oleine, Butyrine, Caprine, Caproine, Hircine, and Pho- 
cenine. Each of these fatty principles is convertible. 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 169 

by a caustic alkali^ into a fatty acid, a saccharine sub- 
stance called glycerine, or the oxide of glycertde (see 
p, 113), and water. They are probably, therefore, 
hydrated salts of glycerine. 

1. Stearine (S/rara/eo/G/jfcertne) yields Stearic acid 4- Glycerine 

2. Margarine (Afar^aro/e of G/ycerme) „ Margaric acid + Glycerine. 

3. OUm^ {Oliate (f Glycerine) „ Oleic acid •♦•Glycerine. 

4. Butyrine (Butyrate qf Glycerine) „ Butyric acid + Glycerine. 

5. C&pnne (Caprate qf Glycerine) „ Capric acid + Glycerine. 
6* Chproine (Caproate qf Glycerine) „ Caproic acid + Glycerine. 

7. Hircine {Hircaie qf Qfycerine) „ Hircic acid + Glycerine. 

8. Phocenine {Phocenaie qf Glycerine) „ Phocenic acid + Glycerine. 

Stearic, margaric, and oleic acids, are without smell, 
and as they cannot be distilled with water, are called 
fixed acids. The other acids are odorous, volatile, and 
acrid. The peculiar smell, which most fats have, is due 
to one or more of these volatile oily acids. 

The fixed oils and fats are difficult and slow of 
digestion; more so than any other alimentary prin- 
ciples. This fact has long been familiar to dyspeptics ; 
but it has of late years been confirmed in a very satis- 
factory manner, by the experiments of Dr. Beaumont *, 
made on a Canadian who had a permanent artificial 
opening in the stomach, produced by a gun-shot 
wound at about two inches below the left nipple. 
By means of this aperture. Dr. Beaumont was enabled 
to introduce into the stomach various articles of diet, 
and from time to time to withdraw them, in order to 
examine the changes they underwent. He was also 
able to extract the gastric juice, and to perform various 



* BgperimentM and OburvoHons on the CUutrie /woe, and the Pky- 
siology qf DigeBtum^ by Wm. Beaumont, M.D. Reprinted finom the 
Plattsboigh edition by Andrew Combe, M.D. Edinb. 183S. 



170 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



experiments on its digestive powers. He found that 
this secretion had a very slow and feeble action on 
fatty matters, whether contained in the stomach or 
otherwise. 

The mean time required for the chymification of 
fatty substances is, according to Dr. Beaumont's ex- 
periments, as follows : — 



Artidet of Diet. 


Mean time of the Chymification. 


Butter 

Mutton Suet . . . 
Beef Suet (fresh) . 
Olive Oil ... . 


In Stomach. 


In PhialB. 


Preparation. H. M. 


Preparation. 


II. M. 


Melted 

Boiled 

Boiled 


3 30 

4 30 

5 30 


Divided 
Entire piece 
Raw 


10 
12 
60 



The first change which the animal fat suffers when 
swallowed, consists in its conversion into liquid oil by 
the warmth of the stomach. Very gradually this oil 
is converted into a creamy-looking chyme, containing 
myriads of oily globules, visible to the eye when 
aided by a microscope ; so that the oil is, in fact, not 
in solution, but, like the butter in milk, or the oil in 
an emulsion, is held in suspension merely. Hence 
oils or fats, if swallowed in the form of an emulsion 
or milk, are more readily digested than if taken in the 
raw or undivided state. 

I have repeatedly subjected fatty substances to tlie 
action of an artificial digestive liquor *, which readily 
dissolved coagulated white of egg or beef-steak. In 



* See p. 71 y foot-note, for the mode of preparing this liquor. 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 171 

no case, however, have I been able to get the fat or oil 
in solution. When yolk of egg boiled hard was sub- 
mitted to its influence, the albuminous matter was 
readily dissolved^ but not so the yellow fat of the yolk, 
which was merely diffused through the liquor, render- 
ing it creamy or yellowish white, and opaque. 

Tlius minutely divided, and perhaps otherwise some- 
what changed, fat or fixed oil becomes absorbed by 
the chyliferous vessels ; for it is well known that the 
opacity of the chyle depends entirely or principally on 
the presence of myriads of minute oily* globules, which 
readily dissolve in ether. 

The chymification of fatty substances is assisted by 
the presence of bile in the stomach. " Bile," says 
Dr. Beaumont, ^' is seldom found in the stomach, ex- 
cept under peculiar circumstances. I have observed,'' 
he adds, ^* that when the use of fat or oily food has 
been persevered in for some time, there is generally the 
presence of bile in the gastric fluids." The popular 
notion that oily or fatty foods " cause bile" in the sto- 
mach, is not, therefore, so groundless as medical men 
have generally supposed. From Dr. Beaumont's ob- 
servations and experiments, it appears that oil is slowly, 
and with great difficulty, acted on by the gastric juice ; 
but that the admixture of bile greatly accelerates chy- 
mification. Perhaps the alkaline property of the bile 
partly contributes to this effect. 

In many dyspeptic individuals fat does not become 
properly chymified. It floats on the contents of the 
stomach in the form of an oily pellicle, becoming 
odorous, and sometimes highly rancid, and, in this 
state, excites heartburn, most disagreeable nausea, and 



172 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES- 

eructations, or at times actual vomiting. It appears to 
me that the greater tendency which some oily sub- 
stances have than others to disturb the stomach, de- 
pends on the greater facility with which they evolve 
volatile fatty acids, which are for the most part exceed- 
mgly acrid and irritating. The unpleasant and dis- 
tressing feelings excited in many dyspeptics by the 
ingestion of mutton fat, butter, and fish-oils, are in 
this way readily accounted for ; since all these sub- 
stances contain each one or more volatile acids to 
which they respiectively owe their odour. Thus mutton 
fat contains hircic acid ; butter no less than three vola- 
tile fatty acids, viz. butyric, capric, and caproic acids ; 
while train oil contains phocenic acid. 

Fats, by exposure to the ah*, become rancid, and in 
this state are exceedingly obnoxious to the digestive 
organs. Their injurious qualities depend in part on 
the presence of volatile acids, and in part also on other 
volatile but non-acid substances. The following table 
shews the differences in composition between fresh and 
rancid lard :— 

COMPOSITION OF FRESH AND RANCID LARD. 

Rancid Lardf 

Stearine [Margarine P] and Oleine. 
Volatile non-acid matter, having 

a rancid odour. 
Caproic (?) acid. 
Another volatile acid. 
Oleic, mar^aric, and perhaps 

stearic acids. 
YeUow colouring matter. 
Non-acid non-volatile matter, 
I soluble in water. 

The influence of heat on fatty substances effects 
various chemical changes in them, whereby they are 



F\re$h Lard, 

Stearine. 

Margarine. 

Oleine. 



FIX£D OILS OB FATS. 1 73 

rendered more difficult of digestion, and more ob- 
noxious to the stomach. Hence those culinary opera- 
tions in which fat or oil is subjected to high 
temperatures, are objectionable for the preparation of 
foods for persons with weak stomachs. On this 
account, dyspeptics should be prohibited from employ- 
ing foods prepared by frying ; as in this operation the 
heat is usually applied by the intermedium of boiling 
oil or fat. Fixed oils give off, while boiling, carbonic 
acid, a little inflammable vapour, and an acrid volatile 
oil called Acroleins or Acroleon *, while the fatty acids 
of the oils are, in part, set free. It has always ap- 
peared to me that cooked butter proves more obnoxious 
to the stomach than cooked olive oil. This I ascribe 
to the facility with which, under the influence of heat, 
the acrid volatile acids of butter are set free. 

The fat of salt-pork and of bacon is less injurious to 
some dyspeptics than fresh animal fats. A somewhat 
similar observation has been made by others. ^^ There 
is one form of impaired digestion," says Dr. Combe f, 
" in which the fat of bacon is digested with perfect 
ease, where many other apparently more appropriate 
articles of food oppress the stomach for hours." This 
must depend on some change effected in the fat by the 
process of curing it, for, in the cases which have 



* AcToleine is probably generated by the decomposition of the gly* 

cerine. Its vapour most powerfiiUy and painfuUy affects the eyes. I 

have known a whole class of medical students obliged to leave the 

lecture-room to avoid the irritating effects of acroleine vapour developed 

during the distillation of a couple of ounces of olive oil. 

t See the foot-note at p. 87 of his edition of Dr. Beaumont's Experi- 
ments, 



174 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

fallen under my observation, the fat of salt-pork or of 
bacon was the only kind of fat which did not disturb 
the digestive organs. Dr. Combe, however, suggests 
that it may depend on the presence of bile in the 
stomach. On this explanation, however, other fats 
should be equally digestible, which, according to my 
experiments, they are not. 

Fixed oil or fat is more difBcult of digestion, and 
more obnoxious to the stomach, than any other ali- 
mentary principle. Indeed, in some more or less 
obvious or concealed form, I believe it will be found 
the offending ingredient in nine-tenths of the dishes 
which disturb weak stomachs. Many dyspeptics 
who have most religiously avoided the use of oil 
or fat in its obvious or ordinary state (as fat meaty 
marrow, butter , and oi7), unwittingly employ it in 
some more concealed form, and, as I have frequently 
witnessed, have suffered therefrom. Such individuals 
should eschew the yolk of egg , livers (of quadrupeds, 
poultry, and fish), and brains , all of which abound in 
oily matter. Milk, and especially cream, disagree 
with many persons, or, as they term it, " lie heavy at 
the stomach," in consequence of the butter they con- 
tain. Rich cheese likewise contains butter, and on 
that account is apt to disturb the stomach. Fried 
dishes of all kinds are abominations to the dyspeptic, 
on account of the oil or fat used in their preparation. 
Melted butter y buttered toasts butter-cakes, pastry, mar- 
row-puddings, and suet-puddings y are, for the like 
reason, obnoxious to the stomach. Several kinds of 
fishy as salmoiiy hennngSy spratSy and eelSy abound in 
oil, and on this account form objectionable foods for 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 175 

the dyspeptic. Moreover, the mode of cooking 
(frying) some fishes, and the condiment (melted 
butter) used with them, often render this kind of 
animal food injurious. The oily seeds, as nuts, waU 
nuts, and cocoa-nuts, are very indigestible. Chocolate 
prepared from the oily seeds of the Theobroma Cacao 
is, therefore, not a fit article of food for a delicate 
stomach. Hashes, stews, and broths, frequently prove 
injurious, from the oil or fat contained in them. In 
preparing broths for such persons, therefore, the fat 
should be carefully removed by skimming. 

Oleaginous aliments have been until very recently 
regarded as highly nutritious ; though alone, it is well 
known that they are incapable of supporting life. 
But Liebig asserts that, like other non-nitrogenised 
foods, they are incapable of transformation into food, 
and are, therefore, unfitted for forming organised or 
living tissues, and that they merely serve for supporting 
the process of respiration. I have, however, already 
fully discussed Liebig's opinions on this subject in a 
former part of this work (see pp. 31 — 54), to which, 
therefore, I must refer the reader for further information. 
I have likewise noticed the importance of the fatty foods 
in enabling the inhabitants of frozen regions to resist 
the effects of extreme cold (see pp. 15 — 20). 

In the Report made to the French Academy of 
Sciences, in the name of the Gelatine Commission *, 
it is stated that animals fed on fatty substances (fresh 
butter, lard, and the fat which surrounds the bullock's 



• CompieM Rendus, Ao(it 1841. 



176 ALTMENTABY PRINCIPLES. 

heart), refuse, after some time, to take this food, and 
ultimately die of inanition*. During life, they ex- 
haled a strong fatty odour, and though dying of 
inanition, were in a remarkable state of embonpoint. 
On a post-mortem examination, all the tissues and 
organs were found infiltrated with fat, and the liver 
was in the state called by anatomists ^af ^3/. 

In the preceding part (p. 53) of this work I have 
mentioned the facts adduced by Liebig, to prove that 
fat may be formed in the animal body from starch 
and sugar. Very recently, however, MM. Dumas 
and Pay en f have denied the correctness of Liebig^s 
conclusion ; and have related some experiments which 
have led them to infer that animals derive their fat 
from plants. Maize, they state, contains 9 per cent, 
of a yellow oil ; so that the goose referred to by 
Liebig (see ante, p. 53), in eating 24 lbs. of maize 
received 2*16 lbs. of fatty matter. ** It is not astonish- 
ing, therefore, that the animal should yield 3i^lbs., 
when we reckon that which it contained originally." 

Hitherto I have not alluded to the ulterior changes 
which the fixed oils or fats suffer in the animal 
economy. On this point, physiology is very barren 



* To the general statement in the text two exceptions were reported 
by the CommissionerB. One dog ate daily 1 25 grammes [1 929^ troy grs.] 
of the fat which surrounds the bullock's heart, and at the end of a 
twelvemonth was in perfect health. Another dog took 190 grammes 
[2932^ troy grs.] diiily, and was in perfect health at the end of six 
months' trial. But as this kind of fat contains cellular tissue and frag- 
ments of muscular fibre, both nitrogenous substances, these results do 
not invalidate the general statement made in the text, and which is 
founded on the results obtained by feeding animals on pure &t 

t Comptts Rendus, Oct 24, 1 842. Also, Annals of ChynUstry, Nov. 1 1 , 
1842. 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 177 

in facts. I have already stated (see p. 1 70) that the 
chyle contains, floating in it, globules of oil visible 
by the aid of a microscope. In the blood, however, 
the oil or fat* does not exist in a free state, but is in- 
timately combined with some of the other constituents 
of the serum j while its properties are different from 
those of the chyle-oil. It has, therefore, undergone 
some important modifications. 

From the blood, the adipose and nervous tissues 
must derive their oily or fatty constituents. The pe- 
culiar fatty matters of the brain pre-exist in the blood. 

Obesity and leanness depend, the one on excessive, 
the other on deficient, quantity of oleaginous matters 
in the system. Dr. Prout also very properly refers 
gall-stones, which consist of a fatty matter called 
cholesterine, to the mal-assimilation of the oleaginous 
principle. 

Oleaginous foods often agree so remarkably well 
with diabetic patients, '' that some have gone so far as 
to propose them as remedies. When freely taken, 
they usually cause a flow of saliva, and thus diminish 
the urgent thirst. When they agree, also, they give a 
sensation of satisfaction and support to the stomach, 
which other alimentary substances do not. Perhaps 
butter is the most agreeable form in which they can be 
taken, and this, under proper circumstances, may be 
taken freely. When oleaginous matters disagree, as 



• ChemUts have detected in the blood the following fatty sub- 
stances : — ChoJetterine, Oleic and Margaric Acid$t SeroUti, and 
CertbroU (Cerebric Acid). 

N 



178 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

is sometimes the case, they should be carefully 
shunned *•'* 

1. Olive Oil; Sweet Oil. — This is obtained by ex- 
pression from olives. In France, the finest oil is pro- 
cured by bruising them in the mill immediately they 
are gathered, and submitting the paste to pressure. 
The first product, termed Virgin Oil (HuUe Vierge), 
is greenish, and is much sought after by connoisseurs, 
for its superior flavour. Provence Oil, the produce of 
Aix (Hiiile dCAix en Provence), is one of the most 
esteemed kinds. Florence Oil is a fine kind of olive 
oil imported from Leghorn in flasks surrounded by a 
kind of network, formed by the leaves of a monocoty- 
ledonous plant. These are the kinds of olive oil in 
most frequent use at the table for salads (hence they are 
called Salad Oils). Lucca Oil is imported in jars hold- 
ing nineteen gallons each. Genoa Oil is a fine kind. 
Gallipoli Oil is imported in casks : it constitutes the 
largest portion of the olive oil brought to England. 
Siciiy Oil is of inferior quality. Spanish Oil is the 
worst. The foot deposited by olive oil is used for 
oiling machinery, under the name of Droppings of 
Sweet Oil. 

Olive Oil consists of Oleine and Margarine. In 
cold weather, the latter constituent congeals in the 
form of white or yellowish globules. The following 
table shows the relative proportion of oleine and mar- 
garine in olive and almond oils : — 

Oleine, Margarine, 

Olive Oil 72 28 

Almond Oil 76 24 



* Dr. Prouty op, supra cit. p. 43, foot*note. 



FIXED OILS OR FATS. 179 

As olive oil contains somewhat more margarine than 
almond oil does> it is more apt to congeal in cold 
weather. 

In England, the dietetical uses of olive oil are com- 
paratively limited ; being principally confined to its 
mixture with salads. It is also employed in frying 
fish. In Spain, and some other countries, it is fre** 
quently employed as a substitute for butter. Taken 
in large quantities, it acts as a mild laxative. 

The difficult digestibility of oil has been already 
adverted to (see p. 169). Some writers on dietetics are 
of opinion that, taken as a condiment, with salad, it 
promotes the digestibility of the latter. But I do not 
coincide with them. The statement itself is, d priori, 
improbable, while the facts adduced in support of it 
are insufficient to prove it. Raw oil, as taken with 
salad, is less likely to disturb the stomach than the 
same or other oily or fatty substances when cooked j 
for while, on the one hand, the freshest and sweetest 
oil is generally selected for employment at the 
table in the raw state, so, on the other, oil which 
has been subjected to heat, as in various culinary ope- 
rations, is rendered more difficult of digestion (see 
p. 1 72). Fresh olive oil I believe to be less obnoxious 
to the stomach than some other oily or fatty sub- 
stances, and which I ascribe to its not containing any 
free volatile acid (see p. 171). 

2. Butter. — ^As usually met with, this substance 
contains about one-sixth of its weight of butter-milk *. 

• Thomson's Ch$muiry of Animal Bodies, p. 490. 1843. 



180 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

Cow's butter, according to Bromeis *, has the follow- 
ing composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF BUTTER. 

Margarate of glvcerine [Mofyarine] . . . , 68 

But^leate of glycerine [Oleme] 90 

Butyrate [Butyrine], caproate ICaproine], and caprate of > n 

glycenne ICcgmne] J 

Butter 100 

The same authority gives the following as the for- 
mulaa for the fatty acids of butter : — 

COMPOSITION OF THE FATTY ACIDS OF BUTTER. 

MargaricAcid Cw H«s Qs 

Butyroleic Acid C" H«o O* 

ButyricAcid Cs H« 0« 

Caproic Acid Cw H» 08 

Capric Acid - . . . Cw RU 0» 

The acid called by Bromeis butyroleic acid was 
obtained from the oil (oleine of Chevreul) which he 
had extracted from butter by pressure. 

Butter is employed rather as a condiment than as a 
direct alimentary matter. Its dietetical properties I 
have already noticed (pp. 171 and 174). Its odour 
depends on the volatile fatty acids : to the facility with 
which these are set free^ I have before ascribed its 
greater tendency to disorder the stomach than some 
other fats. When rendered rancid by keeping, or 
empyreumatic by heat, it is exceedingly injurious to 
the dyspeptic (pp. 172-174). 

In the Report of the Gelatine Commission of the 



• Jonmal de Pkamuxeie, 9^ S6r. t. ii. Aoiit 1S42. 




FDCED OILS OR FATS. 181 

French Academy of Sciences, it is stated that a dog, 
fed on fresh butter only, continued to eat it irregularly 
for 68 days. " He died subsequently of inanition, 
although in a remarkable state of embonpoint During 
the whole of the experiment he exhaled a strong odour 
of butyric acid, his hair felt greasy, and his skin was 
unctuous and covered with a fatty layer. At the 
autopsy all the tissues and organs were found infil- 
trated with fat. The liver was in the state called, in 
pathological nnaXomyy fatty. By analysis, a very large 
quantity of stearine [margarine?], but little or no 
oleine, was found in it. Into this organ, therefore, 
there had been a kind of infiltration of fat." 

3. Marrow. — ^This is the fatty matter contained in 
the interior of the cylindrical bones. Berzelius ana- 
lysed beef-marrow, and found its constituents to be ba 
follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF BEEF MARROW. 

MeduUarv&t 96 

Skins and bloodvessels 1 

Watery liquids contained in these bodies . 3 

Beef marrow 100 

" The constituent parts of these liquids do not differ 
from the matters which cold water extracts from beef.'* 

Marrow is deprived of the skins, vessels, &c. by 
melting it, and straining through a linen cloth. 

" The marrow of large bones," says Berzelius, " is 
absolutely of the same nature as the other fat of the 
same animal. The difference of flavour which exists 
between the marrow of boiled bones and ordinary 
melted fat depends on foreign matters derived from 
the liquids which circulate in the cellular tissue by 



182 AUMENTART PRINCIPLES. 

which the fat is surrounded » and especially by an ex- 
tractiform substance which is insoluble in alcohol." 

The proportions of solid and liquid fats contained 
in marrow are, according to Braconnot, as follows : — 

8oHd Fai. Liquid Fat. 
(Steurine.) (Oleine.) 

Beef marrow ...:.... 76 24 

Mutton marrow 26 74 

In its dietetical properties, marrow agrees with other 
oily or fatty substances. Beef marrow is the only 
variety used at the table. It is never eaten raw. It 
is frequently employed as a substitute for suet in 
the making of puddings. 

4. Animal Fats. — Under this head are included the 
oils or fats contained in the adipose tissue of animals : 
when separated from vessels and skins by melting 
and straining, they are said to be rendered donm. 
By subjecting animal fats to pressure, Braconnot 
procured the following proportions of stearine and 
oleine from them : — 

IMU Fat. Liquid Fat. 
IQOParU. (Stearine, &c) (Oleine.) 

Hog's lard . • 38 62 

Goose fkt 32 68 

Duck fat 28 72 

Turkey flELt 26 74 

Hog's lard contains, besides Stearine and Oleine, 
some Margarine (seep. 172, where also is stated the 
composition of rancid lard). Mutton Suet consists 
of Stearine, Margarine, Oleine, Hircine, and Hircic 
Acid (seep. 171). Whale oil, obtained, by boiling, 
from the blubber of whales, consists principally of 
Oleine with some Phocenine, and usually a little 
Phocenic acid, to which it owes its odour. It also 
(!ontains a solid crystallisable fat 




FIXED OILS OR ^ATS. 183 

The digestibility of animal fats has already been 
adverted to (see p. 169-170), as well as the injurious 
influence of heat on them (see p. 172). I have like- 
wise noticed the fact that some kinds of cured fats (as 
salt-pork and bacon) are less indigestible, by some 
stomachs, than other forms of fat (see p. 173). 

The incapability of pure animal fats to effect pro- 
longed nutrition has likewise been stated (see pp. 36 
and 175). M agendie* reports that many animals which 
iat first ate lard with pleasure, subsequently refused to 
touch it. After a shorter or longer use of it they all 
died. The autopsy of one of these animals shewed, as 
in the case of the animal who died when kept exclu- 
sively on a diet of butter, " a general atrophy of the 
organs, but a great abundance of fat, particularly 
under the skin, where it formed a layer of more 
than one centimetre [0*39371 of an English inch] in 
thickness." 

" We tried," continues Magendie, " whether, by 
mixing a certain portion of bread with the lard, we 
could ameliorate its effects. We made a paste com- 
posed of 

Lard 120 Grammes. 

White bread 250 Ditto. 

But the animal who was submitted to this nourisli- 
ment refused it after a few days' use of it." 

Six dogs were fed exclusively on the fat which sur- 
rounds the heart of the ox. This fat contained some 
nitrogenous matter in the form of cellular tissue, and 
some small parcels of muscular fibres. Four of the 

• C(mpte$ Rendui, Aoiit 1841. 



184 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

animals refused to eat it after using it for seven days, 
and died in from 19 to 35 days." The two other 
animals continued to take it, and were nourished by it, 
as I have already stated (see p. 176, foot-note). 

The animal fats are sometimes used by the cook, as 
preservative agents for various foods. Thus plums and 
damsons, when boiled, are covered with suet, in order 
to preserve them j potted meats with butter j &c. The 
antiseptic virtue depends, in these cases, on the exclu- 
sion of atmospheric air; the oxygen of which is a 
powerful accelerator of fermentation and putrefaction* 

2. Of the VoiiATILB OR ESSENTUL OiLS. — As 

volatile oil is a constituent of several substances em- 
ployed at the table, either as aliments or condiments, I 
have thought it advisable to notice it here; — the more 
especially as Dr. Prout includes it among oleaginous 
aliments. 

The labiate plants used in cookery, under the name 
of sweet or savory herbs , such as Mint, Marjoram, 
Savory, Sage, and Thyme, owe their peculiar odour 
and flavour to volatile oil lodged in small receptacles 
contained in the leaves. The fruits and leaves of 
several [umbelliferous plants employed for flavouring, 
as Caraway, Anise, Fennel, and Parsley, likewise con- 
tain volatile oil, to which they owe their agreeable 
flavour. In the case of the umbelliferous fruits, the 
oil is contained in tubes or vessels, called vittaf situated 
in the pericarpial coat of the fruit. The cruciferous 
or siliquose condiments, such as Mustard, Horse-radish, 
and Water Cresses, yield an acrid volatile oil, to which 
they owe their pungency. The alliaceous condimentSy 

Garlic, Onions, Eschalots, and Leeks, likewise owe 



VOLATILE OILS — PROTEIHE. 185 

their peculiar flavour to volatile oil. The spices, as 
Cinnamon, Nutmeg, Mace, Cloves, Allspice, Pepper, 
and Ginger, owe their strong but grateful odour and 
taste to volatile oil. Lastly, the hittei^^almond flavour, 
obtained, not only from Bitter-Almonds, but also from 
the leaves of the Peach and the Cherry-Laurel, resides 
in a volatile oil. 

The volatile oils of many of the preceding sub- 
stances are prepared and sold. But in flavour and 
odour they are generally inferior to the substances 
from which they are obtained; as the act of dis- 
tillation, by which they are procured, usually dimi- 
nishes more or less their agreeable qualities. Dis- 
solved in rectified spirit of wine, in the proportion 
of one part of oil to eight parts of spirit, they 
form the liquids commonly sold as Essences for 
flavouring, &c. 

The relish for flavouring or seasoning ingredients, 
manifested, in a greater or less degree, by almost 
every person, would lead us to suppose that these 
substances serve some useful purpose in the animal 
economy, beyond that of merely gratifying the palate. 
At present, however, we have no evidence to prove 
that they do. They stimulate, but do not seem to 
nourish. The volatile oil which they contain is ab- 
sorbed, but is subsequently thrown out of the system, 
still possessing its characteristic odour. A portion 
of it may, perhaps, under some circumstances, be 
burnt in the lungs, and in this way produce heat. 

10. The Pboteinaceous Alimentary Principle. 

(Albmninous Substances.) 

Several organic prmciples, both animal and vegeta- 



186 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



ble, which are employed as aliments, contain as their 
basiS; or at least yield, the substance called by Mulder 
Proteiney and which I have before noticed (see p. 39). 
They may, therefore, be regarded as modifications of 
one another, or of proteine, and I have accordingly 
included them in one group, under the name of the 
proteinaceous alimentary principle. 

This group corresponds very nearly with that called 
by Dr. Prout the Albuminous Alimentary Principle. 
It differs, however, in not comprehending gelatinous 
substances, which, for reasons hereafter to be stated, 
I have thought it advisable to form into a distinct 
group. 

Proteine has been analysed by its discoverer, Mulder, 
and also bv Scherer. 

ANALYSES OF PROTEINE. 



FromFibrine. 
Carbon . . 55*44 
Hydrogen . 6*95 
Nitrogen . 16*05 
Oxygen . 21 -56 



MULDER. 
Prom OvaUmmeH, 

55-30 

6-94 

1602 

2174 



From VegetahU Albumen, 

54-99 

6-87 
15 66 
22-48 



Proteine 



100-00 



10000 



10000 



Carbon . 
Hydrogen 
Nitrogen 
Oxygen 



From FiMne, 

54-848 

6-959 

15-847 

22-346 



SCHERER. 
From Albumen, 

55160 

7-055 

15-966 

21-819 



From CrjftiaUine Lens. 
55300 

6-940 
16-216 
21-544 



Proteine 



100-000 



100-000 



100-000 



Mulder and Liebig have deduced the following 
formulae for the representation of the composition of 
proteine : — 



PBOTEINE. 



187 



Carbon . 
Hydrogen 
Nitrogen 
Oxyg^ . 

Proteine . 



MULDER. 
Atomt, 

40 

31 

5 

12 



Bq. WU 
240 

31 
70 
96 



Per Cent, 

54-93 

7-09 

1602 

21*96 



1 



UEBIO. 

Atoms. 

Carbon 48 

Hydrogen 36 

Nitrogen 6 

Oxygen . . . • . . . 14 



437 



Bq. Wt. 

288 

36 

84 

112 



100-00 



Percent, 

55-38 

6-92 

1616 

21-54 



Proteine 



1 



520 



100-00 



These formulae differ considerably from each other, 
yet agree very closely with the experimental results. 
They are good illustrations of the difficulty of deter- 
mining the atomic constitution of complicated organic 
substances. 

Proteine does not exist, as such, in organised beings. 
Combined with small quantities of mineral or 
organised substances (sulphur, phosphorus, potash, 
soda, common salt, and phosphate of lime), it consti- 
tutes fibrine, albumen, and caseine, both animal and 
vegetable. 

The composition of Fibrine, Albumen, and Caseine, 
is, according to Mulder *, as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OP PROTEINACEOUS COMPOUNDS. 

Fibrine, Ovalbvmen, Seralbumen, Cateime, 

Proteine. . . 9931 9919 98-99 99*64 

Sulphur . . 0-33 0-43 033 036 

Phosphorus . 0-36 0-38 0-68 0-00 



100-00 
iSaltM] 



10000 

iSaltM] 



10000 

\,8alt9\ 



100-00 
[8alt9]. 



* Mulder's fonnulce for fibrine and albumen I have before stated 
(p. 66, foot-note). 



188 ALIMENTABT PRINCIPLES. 

Fibrinc, albumen^ and caseine^ contain^ besides 
Proteine, Sulphur^ and Phosphorus, a quantity of 
saline matter (not included in the above analyses), and 
hence, when burned, they leave ashes (composed prin- 
cipally of phosphate of lime and alkaline salts). The 
following are the proportions of ashes obtained by 
Scherer and Jones : — 

QUANTITY OP ASHES YIELDED BY FIBBINE, ALBUMEN, 

AND CASEINE. 

100 Partt, Atkei. AmikorUg. 

Pibrine 1-3 to 2-3 Scherer. 

Seralbumen 1*265 to 2-1 Ditto. 

Ovalbumen (white of egg) . • 2*0 Ditto. 

Albumen of the yolk ofegg . . 4*8 Jones. 

Albumen of Calrs brain ... 2*8 Ditto. 

Caseine* 1*5 to 100 Scherer. 

Zieger 2*0 Ditto. 

The dietetical properties of pure proteine have not 
yet been ascertained. The proteinaceous compounds 
constitute the plastic elements of nutrition (see p. 31). 
According to Liebig, they are produced by vegetables 
only^ and cannot be formed by animals^ '^ although 
the animal organism possesses the power of converting 
one modification of proteine into another^ fibrine into 
albumen^ or vice versd, or both into caseine^ &c. In 
this point of view, the vegetable forms of proteine^ 
vegetable albumen, fibrine, and caseine, become 
signally important, as the only sources of proteine for 
animal life, and consequently of nutrition, strictly so 
called — that is, the growth in mass of the animal 
bodyt." 



* The ashes of caseine consist chiefly of phosphate of lime and 
potash (Liebig). 
t Turner's Chemistry, 7th ed. p. 1185. 1842. 



FIBRINE. 189 

The brain and nervous matter (which is quite 
similar to brain) are distinct from all other animal 
tissues, and, according to Liebig, are formed, in the 
animal body exclusively, " from compoimds of pro- 
teine, either by the loss of some azotised compounds, 
or by the addition of highly carbonised products, 
such as fat *." 

Proteinaceous aliments are obtained from both 
animals and vegetables, and it will, therefore, be 
convenient to consider them under two distinct sub- 
groups ', notwithstanding that Liebig states, as I have 
before observed (see pp. 38-30), that animal and 
vegetable fibrine, animal and vegetable albumen, and 
animal and vegetable caseine, are respectively identi- 
cal in every particular. 

1 . Animal Proteinaceous Principles. — ^This sub- 
group comprehends Fibrine, Albumen, and Caseine 
(seep. 39). 

a. Fibrine; Animal Fibrine. — ^The fibrine is con- 
tained in solution in the circulating blood, but coagu- 
lates when this fluid is drawn from the body, forming, 
with the colouring particles, the clot or crassamentum. 
In the solid state it constitutes the basis of muscular 
fibre. It forms, therefore, the principal constituent of 
the fleshy or lean parts of animals. It is also found in 
some other animal tissues. 

QUANTITY OF FIBRINE IN ANIMAL SUBSTANCES. 

100P«rf#. FiMn§, AutkaHt]f. 

Blood Of the Hog . . 0-^1 i Andral, Gavarret, 

:: :: sheep- : O-f S ' • • ^ andPelafond. 



• Ibid. p. 1197. 



190 aljmentjuit Psn^ciPLEs. 



. . aOOnc 


di/lo 


IS Bnnd 
Dico. 


. . i2 


difto 


Dino. 


. . 19 


diffo 


Vixxo. 


. . 30 


Stfo 


Ditio. 


. . 14 


Siio 


DiuoL 


. . 13 


Sito 


DiusL 


. . 15 


Sito 


Ditto. 



Beef (nrssycle of) 
Veal fdmo) . . 

Pr/f% <dxtto» . . 
Chicken initio) 
Cod (ditto) . . 
Haddock (ditto) 
Sole (ditto) . . 
Cairi SvectUod / g 
rTbymiif) . . i 



Fibrine (as beef-steak, &c.) is readily soluble in the 
artificial digestive liquid already described (see p. 71, 
foot-note). It is also speedily dissolved in the living 
stomach ; and is generally considered, even by dyspep- 
tics, as being easy of digestion. 

It is an important element of nutrition, and yidds 
fibrine, albumen, and caseine, as well as the tissues 
composed of these substances. Alone, however, it is 
incapable of supporting life, except for a very limited 
period. Magendie * mentions, as a most singular and 
surprising circumstance, that animals who took r^u- 
larly for two months from 500 grammes [1 lb. 4 oz. 
37 grs. troy] to 1000 grammes [2 lbs. 8 oz. 74 grs. 
troy] of fibrine daily, died of inanition ; and on a post- 
mortem examination, it was found that the blood had 
almost entirely disappeared . ^* Notwithstanding,*' says 
Magendie, " the care we took to collect it [the blood], 
a few minutes after death, scarcely a gramme [I5'444 
grs. troy] of fibrine could be obtained.** 

b. Albumen ; Animal Albumen. — This substance 
constitutes the most important part of animal foods. 
The albumen, both of the egg (avalbumen) and of the 



* Comptet Rendui, Aotit 1841. 



ALBUMEN. 191 

serum of the blood (seralbumen) y is liquid. But the 
albumen of flesh, glands, and viscera of animals, is 
solid. The quantity of albumen contained in several 
aliments is as follows : — 

QUANTITY OF ALBUMEN IN ANIMAL SUBSTANCES. 

100 Part*. Alhumen. AutXmrity. 

Mean quantity of 
blood- corpuscles 
and solid contents 
of the serum, ac- 
cordin&f to MM. 
Andral, Gavarrel, 
and Delafond. 
East Indian Isinglass . . . 7*2 to 13'5 E. Solly, jun. 

Egg, white of 15*5 Bostock. 

,, yolk of 17-47 Prout 

Liver of Ox, parenchyma of . . • 20*19 Braconnot. 

Sweetbread (Thymus) of Calf . . 14*00 Morin. 

Caviare, fresh unpressed . . . . 31*00 John. 

Muscle of Beef 2*2 

„ „ Veal 3*2 to 2-6 

„ ,. Pork 2*6 

„ „ Roe Deer 2*3 

„ „ Pigeon 4-5 

„ „ Chicken 3*0 

i> >» Carp 5*2 

Trout 4*4 



Blood of the Ox 18*6 

„ „ Hog (English breed) . 18*58 

„ „ Goat 19*28 

„ „ Sheep (Merino) . . 18*35 

„ „ Ditto (Dishley breed) . 1S*74 



) 



If »> 



Soluble Albumen 
and Hffimatosine, 
according to 
Schlossb^rger. 



I have included the blood corpuscles among the albu- 
minous constituents of some of the preceding alimen- 
tary substances, since albumen is their principal 
constituent*. 

Albumen is highly nutritious, and, when either raw 
or lightly boiled, is easy of digestion; but when 



* According to Denis (Etsai sur VAppUcation de la Chimie d r Etude 
Pkytiohffique du Sang di t Homme, p. 205, 1838), the blood corpuscles 
have the following composition : — 

T^ 1 .< Colouring matters cH«maf (wtnej ... 1*8 

^^'^^^^^P^i? Peroxide of Iron 02 

Central nucleus Ca lbuminous mottersj ...... 98*0 

Blood Corpuscles 1^*0 



192 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

boiled hard, or especially when fried, its digestibility is 
considerably impaired (see Effffs). The gastric juice 
has the property of coagulating liquid albumen, and 
afterwards of dissolving the coagula which are formed. 
The influence of an artificial gastric juice on cubes of 
coagulated albumen (white of egg), I have already 
mentioned (see p. 71, foot-note). 

" Albumen," says Liebig''^, " must be considered 
as the true starting point of all the animal tissues. 
This appears from the phenomena of incubation, 
where all the tissues are derived from the albumen of 
the white and of the yolk, which contain albumen 
also, with the aid only of the air, of the oily matter of 
the yolk, and of a certain proportion of iron, also 
found in the yolk." Out of this albimien, therefore, 
must be formed flesh, blood, membrane and cellular 
tissue, blood-vessels, feathers, claws, &c. 

Notwithstanding this, however, animals cannot sub- 
sist solely on albumen (see p. 44, foot-note). After 
a few days' use of it they refuse to take it, preferring to 
sufler the most violent pangs of hunger rather than eat 
it ; and ultimately they die of inanition. It has been 
justly observed by Magendief, that white of eggs com- 
bines a number of conditions favourable to digestion. 
'^ It is alkaline, contains saline matters, and especially 
common salt in very large proportion: the animal 
matter which it contains is the same as that found in 
the chyle and in the blood : it is liquid, but is coagu- 
lated by the acids of the stomach, forming flocculi 



• Turner's Chemistfy, 7th cd. p. 1 187. 
t Ctmptei RenduB, Aodt 1841. 



CASEINE. 193 

having but little cohesioti. La43tly; white of egg con- 
tains some organised membranes, which may perform, 
in digestion, some useful and perhaps indispensable 
function. But notwithstanding all these good reasons, 
albumen is refused by animals/' 

Albumen (bs the white or glaire of eggs) is used by 
the cook and confectioner as a clarifying or clearing 
agent for syrups, jellies, &c. Its efficacy depends on its 
coagulation, by which it entangles in its meshes the 
impurities, with which it either rises to the surface or 
precipitates. When the liquid to be clarified does not 
spontaneously coagulate the albumen, it is necessary 
to apply heat. 

e. Animal Caseine ; Caseum ; Laetalbumen ; Curd. 
— ^This is the coagulable matter of milk, and is closely- 
allied to albumen, of which it may be regarded as a 
modification. Liquid caseine, unlike liquid albumen, 
does not coagulate by heat, though when milk is heated 
in an open vessel an insoluble peUicle forms on it, 
owing to the action of the atmospheric oxygen. 
" The ashes of soluble caseine," says Liebig *, " are 
very strongly alkaline; and there is reason to believe 
that the potash found in the ashes had served, by com<^ 
bining with the caseine^ to render it soluble." 

The quantity of caseiUe contained in different kinds 
of mUk is as follows : — 

QUAIWITY OF CASBraE IM MILK. 

100 P«rft. Oanbm. JmiktiHtp, 

Cow's mlDL 4*48 O. Henry and Chevallier. 

Ditto fed on hay ^ \ 

Ditto „ turnips .... 3-0 
Ditto „ clover .... 4-0 
Ditto ,, potatoes and hay . 15'1 
Ditto „ ditto 3;3 

• Turner's Ckemiihy, 7th cd. p. 1190. 

O 



Boussingault and Le Bel. 



194 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

100 Parts. Cateine. Authority. 

Ewe's milk 450 O. Henry and Chevallier. 

Goat's milk 402 Ditto. 

Asses' milk 1-82 Ditto. 

Woman's milk 1*52 Ditto. 



Mulder * has shewn that caseine, like albumen and 
fibrine, is a proteinaceous substance. It differs, how- 
ever, from the two last-mentioned principles, in con- 
taining no phosphorus (see p. 39 and 187). When 
coagulated by rennet and afterwards burnt, it yields 
6 per cent, of phosphate of lime and a half per 
cent, of caustic lime f. 

Coagulated caseine, deprived of whey by pressure, 
and usually mixed with more or less of butter, con- 
stitutes cheese ; the richness of which is in propor- 
tion to the quantity of butter present Rich cheese, 
when toasted, undergoes a kind of semifusion, and be- 
comes soft and viscid. The poorer cheeses, or those 
which contain very little butter, are better adapted 
for keeping. When toasted they shrivel like horn. 
Stilton Cheese is prepared from milk to which cream 
is added. Cheshire and the best Gloucester Cheeses 
are made from unskimmed milk. Suffolk and Par* 
mesan Cheeses are prepared from skim-milk. Annotta 
is often employed, as a colouring agent, in the pre- 
paration of cheese. Salt is used to preserve it, as 
well as to improve the flavour and add to the weight. 

When long kept, cheese undergoes a series of 
peculiar changes. According to Chevreul J, its odour 



• Pharmaceutisches CentralBlatt fur 1839, p. 244. 
t Berzelius, Draiti de Chimie^ t. vii. p. 603. 
X Ann. de Chim. et de Phps, xxiii. p. 29. 



CAS£INE. 195 

depends on the developement of the fatty acids of 
butter; and, when the fermentation is prolonged, to 
the alteration of the caprie acid. Roquefort Cheese 
owes its odour to the latter circumstance. By the 
decomposition of moist cheese, there is developed a 
solid substance, which Braconnot* called aposepedin 
(from airo*, from, and tntTrtlmy, putrefaction^ because it 
is the produce of putrefaction), but which Proust f 
had previously denominated caseic oxide. This last- 
mentioned chemist also mentions cdseic acid as a 
constituent of cheese; but Braconnot states that the 
substance to which Proust gave this name is a 
compound or mixture of no less than nine sub- 
stances, viz. free acetic acid, aposepedine, animal 
matter soluble in water and insoluble in rectified 
spirit (osmazome), animal matter soluble in water and 
alcohol, yellow acrid oil, brown slightly sapid oil, 
acetate of potash, chloride of potassium, and traces of 
acetate of ammonia. From 750 parts of cheese, 
Braconnot obtained 36 parts of fatty matter, com- 
posed of margarate of lime 14*92, margaric acid 2*57, 
oleic acid retaining margaric acid and a brown animal 
matter 18*51. The piquant flavour of old cheese 
depends on oleic acid and an acrid oily matter. 

Cheese Is subject to the attacks of both animals and 
vegetables. The Fly called Musca (Tephritis) putris 
deposits its leaping larvae or maggots (called hoppers 
or jumpers) on cheese. The Cheese-mite (Acarus do- 
mesticus) is another animal of frequent occurrence. 



* Am^ de Chim, it de Physique, xxxvi. p. 159. 
t Ibid. X. p. 39. 



196 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

The Mould of cheese is composed of minute fungi. 
Blue Mould is the Aspergillus glaucus of Berkeley^: 
while Red Cheese-mould is the Sporendonema Casei of 
the same authority. 

Liquid caseine, as it exists in milk^ is coagulated in 
the stomach by the gastric secretion f^ and the coagula 
thus formed are subsequently redissolved j;. In this 
form, caseineis easy of digestion. Cheese, however, is 
digested with difficulty, especially by dyspeptics §. 



• Smith's English Flora, VoL v. Part ii. Fimgi, by the Rev. M. J. 
Berkeley. Lond. 1836. 

t " The action of the digestive principle on caseine deserves a more 
particular consideration. Berzelius had already pointed out that the 
rennet of the calf has the property of coagulating milk, even after all 
traces of acidity have been removed by washing. It is known, too, 
that the coagulation of the caseine produced by rennet is peculiar ; in- 
asmuch as the curds are insoluble in water and in an additional quantity 
of acid. Now Schwann has shown that this property of coagulating 
the caseine is possessed by the artificial digestive fluid, even when 
neutralised. On the addition of a very small quantity of the acid fluid 
to milk, and the application of heat, the coagulated caseine soon sepa- 
rates: of the neutral fluid, more than 0*42 per cent are necessary; 
0.83 is sufficient The power of the artificial digestive fluid to coagu- 
late milk is destroyed by the boiling temperature ; it cannot, therefore, 
be the saline ingredients which produce the coagulation. This peculiar 
action of the digestive principle on milk renders the latter fluid a test 
for its presence. Schwann has in this way proved that the digestive 
principle which we are here considering, really exists in the sto- 
mach. He divided the stomach of a rabbit, which had died imme- 
diately after birth, into two portions ; boiled one, and then added to 
each some milk. On the application of a gentle heat, the milk coagu- 
lated in the portion which had not been boiled, while in the other it 
remained unchanged" (Miiller's Physiology, by Baly, vol. i. p. 547). 

} According to Schwann, caseine dissolves in the acid of the gastric 
juice ; whereas albumen requires the presence of pepsine to efiect itt 
solution. 

S " By many," says Dr. Dunglison {Elemmis of HygiSne^ p. 278, 
Philadelphia, 1835) " cheese is supposed to be an excellent condiment, 




CASEINE. 



197 



In the toasted state it is still more obnoxious to the 
stomach *. 

The time required for the chymification of cheese is, 
according to Dr. Beaumont's experiments, as fol- 
lows : — 



Artidet of Diet 


Mean time of the Chymiftcation. 


Cheese, old, strong . 

99 M >l 

„ new, mild . 


In Stomach. In Phiali. 


Preparation. ! H. M. Preparadon. 


n« U» 


Raw . . . 

• • 

• • 


3 30 

• ■ 

• • 


Masticated 
Entire pore 
Dividea . . 


7 15 
18 

8 30 



Caseine is highly nutritious, constituting a plastic 
element of nutrition (see p. 31), by which, in the 
young mammal, the developement of the tissues is 
effected. 

" The young animal,'' says Liebig f , " receives, in 
the form of caseine, which is distinguished from fibrine 
and albumen by its great solubility, and by not coa- 
gulating when heated, the chief constituent of the 
mother's blood. To convert caseine into blood no 

and, accordingly, it is often STstematically taken at the end of dinner as 
a diguik>e^ in aeoordance with the old proverb : — 

' Cheese is a surly elf. 
Digesting all things but itself/ 

• " With respect to cheese/' says Dr. Culien (Materia Medica, p. 331) 
" there is yet one particular to be mentioned, and which is to remark, 
that it is often ate after having been toasted — that is, heated over the 
fire to a considerable degree ; whereby a portion of its oil is separated, 
whilst the other parts are united more closely together. I know many 
persons who seem to digest this food pretty well ; but it is certainly not 
easily digested by weak stomachs : and for those who can be hurt by 
indigestion, or heated by a heavy supper, it is a very improper diet." 

t Animal Ckemutry, p. 52. 



198 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

foreign substance is required, and in the conversion of 
the mother's blood into caseine, no elements of the con- 
stituents of the blood have been separated. When 
chemically examined, caseine is found to contain a 
much larger proportion of the earth of bones than blood 
does, and that in a very soluble form, capable of 
reaching every part of the body. Thus, even in the 
earliest period of its life, the developement of the 
organs, in which vitality resides, is, in the carnivorous 
animal, dependent on the supply of a substance, iden- 
tical in organic composition with the chief constituents 
of its blood." 

2. Vegetable Proteinaceous Principles. — Ac- 
cording to Liebig, vegetables contain proximate prin- 
ciples, which are not only similar to, but absolutely 
identical with, the fibrine, albumen, and caseine of 
animals ; and he, therefore, denominates them respec- 
tively vegetable fibrine, vegetable albumen, and vege- 
table caseine. 

There is also a fourth proteinaceous vegetable prin- 
ciple called glutine, or pure gluten. 

The composition of these substances may be assumed 
identical, for their analyses do not differ more than two 
analyses of the same substances differ from each other. 

composition op vegetable fibrine. 

Obtained from Wktat-QMen, From Pge ModL 



r 



N 



Sekerer, Scherer. Jone§, Sekerer, 

Carbon . . 53064 54-€03 53-83 54-617 

Hydrogen . 7132 7'302 702 7491 

Nitrogen . . 15*359 15*810 1558 15-809 



Oxygen 
Sulpnui 
Phosphorus 



Sulphur ! i 24-445 22*285 23*56 22083 



100*000 100*000 100-00 lOOOOO 



getable Cateine, 


Pvre Gluten 


(Scherer.) 


iJonet.) 


54138 


55-22 


7156 


7-42 


15-672 


15-98 


23034 


2138 



VEGETABLE ALBUMEN, CASEINE, AND GLUTEN. 199 

COMPOSITION OP VEGETABLE ALBUMEN, CASEINE, 

AND GLUTEN. 



(Jonet.) 

Carbon .... 54*74 

Hydrogen . . . 7'77 

Nitrogen ... 15*85 

Oxygen, &c. . . 21*64 

100*00 100000 100*00 

No experiments have been made on the nutritive 
powers of these principles in the separate state ; but 
they are doubtless equal to those df the same prin- 
ciples procured from animals (see pp. 38-39). 

"How beautifully and admirably simple," says 
Liebig, " appears the process of nutrition in animals, 
the formation of their organs in which vitality chiefly 
resides ! Those vegetable principles which, in animals, 
are used to form blood, contain the chief constituents 
of blood, fibrine and albumen, ready formed, as far as 
regards their composition. All plants, besides, contain 
a certain quantity of iron, which reappears in the 
colouring matter of the blood. Vegetable fibrine and 
animal fibrine, vegetable albumen and animal albumen, 
hardly differ, even in form ; if these principles be want- 
ing in the food, the nutrition of the animal is arrested ; 
and when they are present, the graminivorous animal 
obtains in its food the very same principles on the 
presence of which the nutrition of the camivora 
entirely depends. Vegetables produce in their or- 
ganism the blood of all animals, for the carnivora, in 
consuming the blood and flesh of the graminivora, 
consume, strictly speaking, only the vegetable prin- 
ciples which have served for the nutrition of the latter. 
Vegetable fibrine and albumen take the same form in 



200 ALIMENTARY FBINCIPLES. 

the gtomach of the graminivorous animal as animal 
fibrine and albumen do in that of the carnivorous 
animal." 

a. Vegetable Fibrine. — ^This principle is most abun- 
dant in the seeds of the cereal grasses, as Wheat*, 
Rye, Barley, Oats; Maize, and Rice. It exists also in 
Buckwheat. The Juice of Grapes is especially rich in 
it. It is also found in the newly-expressed juices of 
most vegetables, as of Carrots, Turnips, and Beet- 
root, from which it coagulates spontemeously on stand- 
ing. It is a constituent of the raw gluten obtained 
from the dough of wheaten flour. From both vege- 
table albimien and vegetable caseine, it differs in being 
insoluble in water. Moreover, it does not dissolve in 
ammonia. 

6. Vegetable Albumen. — ^This, like vegetable fibrine, 
is a constituent of the seeds of the Cereal Grasses, as 
of Wheat* In the preparation of raw gluten from 
wheaten dough, it is washed away along with the 
starch. It is found in great abundance in the Oily 
Seeds, as Almonds, Nuts, &c. Most Vegetable Juices 
contain a considerable quantity of it. Thus the 
Juices of Carrots, Turnips, Cabbages,. Cauliflowers, 
Asparagus, and other cultivated nutritious vegetables, 
after being separated from the coagulum of fibrine, 
which spontaneously forms in them, yield by boiling 
a second coagulum of vc^table albumen. 

This principle differs from vegetable fibrine' in 
being soluble in water, and from vegetable easeine in 
coagulating when heated. 

* The vegetable fibrine of wheat is identical with the zymome of 
Tadddy and with the vegetable aWmiten of Benelius. 



GLUTEN. 201 

c. Vegetable Caseine. — This is chiefly found in 
Leguminous Seeds, as Beans, Peas, Lentils ; and has 
in consequence, been termed Legtunine. The oilj 
seeds, such as Almonds, Nuts, &c., also contain it 
along with albumen. It exists, perhaps, in solution 
in grape juice, and in other vegetable Juices which 
yield very little vegetable albumen on being heated. 
It differs from vegetable fibrine in being soluble in 
water : and from vegetable albumen in not coagulating 
when its aqueous solution is heated. 

rf. Pure Gluten. — l&y washing wheaten dough with 
a stream of water, the gum, sugar, starch, and vege- 
table albumen, are removed ; while a ductile, tena- 
cious, elastic, grey mass is left, which is usually 
denominated gluten. I shall distinguish it as raw, 
impure^ or common gluten. It is sometimes called 
Beccaria*8 gluten. It is a mixture of several organic 
principles. 

When raw gluten is boiled in alcohol, it is resolved 
into two portions, one soluble, the other insoluble in 
this liquid. The insoluble portion is Liebig's vegetable 
fibrine. It is identical with what Taddei called 
zymome (from tt^ii, ferment) y and which Berzelius 
describes as vegetable albumen. The soluble portion is 
that which Jones (quoted by Liebig) analysed as pure 
gluten, and which Taddei called gliadine (from yX/a, 
glue). It probably consists of at least two substances ; 
one which deposits as the hot alcoholic solution 
cools, and which has been termed mucine ; the other 
nemains in solution in the cold liquor, and has been 
called gtutine. 

The quantity of pure gltUen (glutine and mucine) 



202 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

contained in different alimentary substances, has not 
been accurately determined. According to Saussure *, 
raw gluten has the following composition : — 

COMPOSITION OP RAW GLUTEN. 

Glutine. : • 20 

Vegfetable albumen [vegetable fibrine of Liebig] . 72 

Mucine 4 

Oily matter 3*7 

Starch (accidental) small quantity. 

Raw Gluten . . ! ~ ~ . . . . '. . 99*7 

The quantity of raw gluten contained in various 
alimentary substances is as follows : — 

QUANTITY OP GLUTINOUS MATTER CONTAINED IN 
SEVERAL ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. 

100 Par*9, Glutinous Mutter. AutJkoritf. 

Wheat, Middlesex (average crop) . . • .19*0 Davy. 

„ Spring 240 Ditto, 

„ Mildewed of 1806 3 2 Ditto. 

„ Blighted of 1804 130 Ditto. 

„ Thick-skinned Sicilian of 1810 . . . 23*0 Ditto. 

„ Thin-skinned Sicilian of 1810 . .23-9 Ditto. 

„ from Poland 20*0 Ditto. 

„ North American 22*5 Ditto. 

,, of the neighbourhood of Paris . . 9*21 Bonssingault. 

" *^"1^^;[^ ^'^ «;>il °^^";^^^ ^^^^^ 34 24 Hermbstaedt 

Ditto ' „ ' with human fflcces 33*94 Ditto. 

with sheep's dung 32*9 Ditto, 
with goat's dung 32*88 Ditto. 

with human urine 35*1 Ditto, 

with horse-dung . 13*68 Ditto, 

with pigeon's dung 1 2*2 Ditto, 

with cow- dung. .11*96 Ditto. 



9> 






Ditto 
Ditto 

Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 



• Bibliothique UmveneUe. Sciences et Arts, t liii. p. 260. 1833. 

t Mechanical analysis gave Bonssingault only 9*2 per cent of 
raw gluten ; but the quantity of nitrogen contained in the same wheat 
indicated 14*4 per cent of raw gluten. The difference (5*2-per cent) 
he ascribes to the vegetable albumen and gluten carried away by wash- 
ing in the mechanical analysis (Ann, de Chim, et de Phys. t Ixv. 
p. 308-9). 



GLUTEN. 203 

100 PmrU. GluHnaus Matter. Auikorit^. 

^"* ^'Zus .". /i*;*^*"^ j 9-6 HermbBtaedt. 

„ Ditto, not manured 9*2 Ditto. 

Wheat 12-5 Proust. 

,, Bavarian 24*0 Vogel. 

Barley, Norfolk 6 Davy. 

,, grown in soil manured with horse-dung 5*7 Hermbstaedt. 

Oats from Scotland 8*7 Davy. 

„ jCTown in soil manured with horse-dung . 4*0 Hermbstaedt. 

Rye fiom Yorkshire 10*9 Davy. 

„ grown in soil manured with horse-dung . 7.98 Hermbstaedt. 

Rice, Carolina 3*60 Braconnot. 

„ Piedmont 3-60 Ditto. 

Maize , . . . . (zeine) 3*0 Grorham. 

„ (ditto) 5*758 Bizio. 

B^nSy common 10*3 Davy. 

Pease, dry • ... 3*5 Davy. 

Potatoes ..••....•....4to3 Davy. 

Beet, red 13 Davy. 

Turnips, common 0*1 Davy. 

Cabbage 0*8 Davy. 

From Schwann's experiments it appears that gluten 
dissolves in the acid of the gastric secretion; for 
when it was digested separately with dilute acid and 
dilute digestive fluid, no difference could be perceived 
in the change which it underwent in the two fluids. 
Tincture of iodine threw down a precipitate in the 
solution of gluten in the dilute acid, but produced no 
change of colour*. 

Gluten is easy of digestion ; at least substances (as 
the preparations of wheat) which contain it in the 
largest quantity, are readily digested even by invalids 
and dyspeptics. 

Gluten is highly nutritious, and alone is capable of 
the prolonged nutrition of animals. " Gluten," says 
Magendie t> " obtained either from wheat or maize. 



* MuUer's Physiology, Baly's Translation, voL i. p. 547. 
t Rapport fmt k V Acadimie des Sciences au nom de la Commission dite 
de la Gelatine. Comptet Remhu, Aoiit 1841. 



204 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

presented a phenomenon which we had not observed 
in our experiments with organic immediate principles, 
which, in every instance, excited greater or less aver- 
sion in the animals obliged to subsist on it solely. 

" Gluten, notwithstanding that its odour is savour- 
less, and sometimes somewhat nauseous, while its taste 
has nothing agreeable, was taken without difficulty from 
the first day, and the animals continued to use it with- 
out distaste for three months uninterruptedly. The 
dose was 120 to 160 grammes [1852 to 2315 grs. troy] 
daily, and the animals preserved all the characters of 
excellent health. This fact appeared the more remark- 
able to us, as it was in opposition to the law which 
seemed to result from very numerous facts before 
stated, namely, that an alimentary substance, espe- 
cially if it were an isolated immediate principle, is not 
fitted for supporting life beyond a very limited period. 

" Here, however, is a substance heretofore con- 
sidered as an immediate azotised principle which, 
without any preparation or seasoning, excited neither 
repugnance nor disgust, and which alone nourished 
completely and for a long period." 

Magendie subsequently observes that gluten ought 
not to be considered as an immediate principle. " That 
which we employed," he adds, " undoubtedly con- 
tained some traces of fecula. Exclusive of this, we 
know that it may be resolved into two distinct sub- 
stances ; one of an albuminous nature, the other called 
glaiadine. This latter is likewise separable into 
gluten properly so called, gum, and mucilage." 

" Our dogs, therefore," he continues, " eat much 
gluten, combined with a little albumen, gum, muci- 



GLUTEN — GELATINE. 205 

lage, fecula^ and even sugar arising from the fecula. 
This aliment, simple in appearance, was then, in 
reality, very compoimded." 

" It is the presence of gluten in wheaten flour that 
renders it pre-eminently nutritious, and its viscidity or 
tenacity confers upon that species of flour its peculiar 
excellence for the manufacture of macaroniy vermicelli, 
and similar pastes, which are made by a kind of wire- 
drawing, and for which the wheat of the south of 
Europe (more abimdant in gluten than our own) is 
particularly adapted. The superiority of wheaten 
over other bread depends upon the greater tenacity of 
its dough, which, in panary fermentation, is puffed up 
by the evolved carbonic acid, and retained in its vesicu- 
lar texture, so as to form a very light loaf ^/' 

Gluten being nutritious and unobjectionable as an 
article of food in diabetes, has been recently used in 
the preparation of what has been called gluten bread, 
for the use of diabetic patients f. 

11. THE GELATINOUS ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

Dr. Prout§ comprehends gelatine among albu- 
minous aliments. He considers it to be a modifica- 
tion of albumen, or ** as the least perfect kind of 
albuminous matter existing in animal bodies.'' 

But gelatine and albumen, and the proteinaceous 
and albuminous tissues respectively differ in their 



• Brande'8 Af oftMo/ (/ Chemistry, p. 1091, 5th ed. 1841. 
t See the article Bread, 

i On the Nature and Treaimmi of Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 
pp. xii. and xiii. 3rd ed. 1840. 



206 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



chemical properties and composition. And though 
it is probable that^ in the animal system, gelatinous 
tissues are formed out of proteine compounds, che- 
mists have hitherto totally failed to convert albu- 
men into gelatine, or, vice versd, to change gelatine 
into albumen. Moreover, as the composition of 
proteine compounds is identical w^ith that of the flesh 
and blood of animals, w^hil^ that of the gelatinous 
tissues is not, it follows that the nutritive qualities of 
the proteinaceous and gelatinous tissues cannot be 
identical. For these reasons I have thought it de- 
sirable to separate gelatinous aliments from albu- 
minous ones. 

Albuminous or proteinaceous tissues are insoluble 
in water, and by boiling become hard. Gelatinous 
tissues, on the other hand, yield, by boiling, a substance 
called^e/a/iw^, which is soluble, and forms with water 
a tremulous mass, termed jelly (animal jelly) . The 
quantity of gelatinous matter obtained from different 
alimentary substances is as follows : — 



QUANTITY OF GELATINOUS MATTER OBTAINED FROM 

ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. 



100 Partt. 



Isinglass (East Indian) 86 
„ (good quality) 



Muscle of 



I) 
tt 

ti 
II 
II 
II 
II 



leef 
Veal . 
Mutton 
Pork 
Chicken 
Cod . 
Haddock 
Sole . 



Gelatine. 

5 to 92-8 
70-0 
60 
6-0 
70 
50 
70 
7-0 
5-0 
6-0 



\ 



> 



Caviare, fresh unpressed 
Sweetbread (Thymus) of Calf 6-0 



AmtAorify. 

E. Solly., jun. 
John. 



Brande. 



. 0"U J 



Morin. 



GELATINE. 207 

100 ParU. Gelatine. Authority. 

Antlers of Stag (Hartshorn) . 27*0 (Cartilage) Merat-Guillot. 



Bones, spongy portions . . 39 (ditto) D'Arcet. 

of Sheep ( Ileum) 433 to 47.2 } 

of Ox (Ileum) . . .485 > . . . . Dr. T. Thomson. 
" " -493 



Bones of Sheep (Ileum) 433 to 47.2 
„ of Ox (ileum) . . .48 
„ of Haddock (Vertebree) 39 



Under the name of gelatine are included several 
substances which differ more or less from each other, 
but which agree in most of their principal characters. 
Two of these have been distinguished by distinct 
names, viz., Collin or Colla and Chondrin. 

a. Collifiy Thomson ; ColUiy M iiller ; Common Gela^ 
tine. — ^This is obtained from Isinglass, Skins, Tendons, 
Cartilage of bone after ossification has taken place, 
Cellular Tissue, and the Serous Membranes. It is 
distinguished from chondrin by not being precipi- 
tated from its aqueous solution by muriatic acid, acetic 
acid, acetate of lead, alum, sulphate of alumina, or 
sulphate of the sesquioxide of iron. Glue, Size,, and 
Isinglass Jelly ^ are examples of collin. 

/3. Chondrin, Miiller. — This is obtained from the 
Cornea, the Spongy Cartilages, the Permanent Car- 
tilages, Cartilage of bone before ossification, the Un- 
ossified Cartilages of the Cartilaginous fishes, and the 
Bony Crusts of the Armadillo. It is distinguished 
from collin by being precipitated from its aqueous 
solution by muriatic acid, acetic acid, acetate of lead, 
alum, sulphate of alumina, and sulphate of the sesqui- 
oxide of iron. 

y. Gelatine from Elastic Tissues. — The gelatine ob- 
tained from the Elastic Tissues, as the Inner Arterial 
Coat, the Ligaments of the Larynx, &c., is identical 
with neither collin nor chondrine, though it approxi- 



20S 



ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



mates nearer to the latter. Its aqueous solution is 
rendered turbid by acetic acid and acetate of lead, and 
is precipitated by alum and sulphate of alumina, but 
does not form a precipitate with sulphate of the ses- 
quioxide of iron. 

3. Gelatine altered by heai. — ^When gelatine is sub- 
mitted to prolonged ebullition, or to a temperature 
exceeding 220^ F., it imdergoes important changes. It 
evolves ammonia, becomes syrupy, loses its charac- 
teristic property of forming with water a jelly, and 
very speedily undergoes putrefaction. Thus altered, 
it has a disagreeable flavour. Its nutritive properties 
are greatly deteriorated, if not altogether destroyed. 
It is less digestible, and readily deranges the func- 
tions of the digestive organs. 

The ultimate composition of gelatinous substances is 
as follows : — 



COMPOSITION OP GELATINOUS SUBSTANCES. 



Carbon . . . . 
HvdTogen • • • 
Nitrogen . . • 
Oxygen .... 


7%ttu$t jfieUk»g CoiUm. 


CoUitt. 


TtmmetfUkUng 
Ckomdrtm. 


Tend&ntof 
JMnglMt. Ca{f*' ^^^* 
(Sek«rer,) (Sekergr,) 

50-557 50-960 

6-903 7188 

18790 18320 

23-750 23-532 


(MtOdmr,) 

50-048 

6-643 

18*388 

24*921 


(Bckermr,) 

50-895 

6-962 

14-908 

27-235 




100-000 100-000 


lOOHXX) 


lOOKXX) 



From the researches of Mulder and Scherer, Liebig 
has deduced the following empirical formulae of the 
composition of various organic substances. 



GELATINE. 209 

COMPOSITION OF ORGANIC TISSUES. 

Albumen C4« N« HmOh + p + &• 

Kbrine C« N« H* OH + P + 2 S 

Caseine C« N« H" Oi* + S 

Gelatinous tissues, tendons . . C^ N7'5 H4i Ois 

Chondrine 0*8 N6 H40 

Hair, horn C^s N7 HW Oi7 

Arterial membrane C«N6H»8 0W 

" The composition of these formulae shews that 
when proteine passes into chondrine (the substance of 
the cartilages of the ribs), the elements of water, with 
oxygen, have been added to it j while in the formation 
of the serous membranes, nitrogen also has entered 
into combination. 

" If we represent the formulae of proteine C*® N* 
H* O" by Pr, then nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen, 
have been added to it in the form of known com- 
pounds, and in the following proportions, in forming 
the gelatinous tissues, hair, horn, arterial mem- 
brane, &c." 



Proteine, 
Fibrine .... Pr 




AmwMnia* 


Water. 


Oxfifen, 


Albumen • • • . Pr 






+ 2 HO. 
+ 4H0 
. . • • 
+ HO 




Chondrine ... Pr 






+ 20 


Hair, horn ... Pr 
Gelatinous tissues . 2 Pr 


+ 
+ 


NH3 
3NH3 


+ 30 
+ 70 



According to Schwann, the artificial digestive liquor 
(described at p. 71, foot-note) produced no other 
change upon gelatine than what simple acidified water 
equally produced. His statements are confirmed 
by Dr. Beaumont*s experiments f. 



* ** The quantities of sulphur and phosphorus here expressed by 
S and P are not equivalents, but only ^ve the relative proportions of 
these two elements to each other, as found by analysis.' 

t Qp. m/^a ct/. pp. 237-238. 

P 



>* 



210 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

The digestibility of the different varieties and forms 
of gelatinous matter is not uniform. C alps-foot jelly , 
when fresh prepared, I believe to be readily digested 
even by invalids and dyspeptics, with whom I have 
rarely found it disagree. I am confirmed in this 
opinion by the experiments of Dr. Beaumont *. 

Isinglass jelly y when fresh prepared from isinglass 
of good quality, and also Hartshorn jelly ^ are pro- 
bably equally easy of digestion. 

But other forms of gelatinous matter are more diffi- 
cult of digestion, and some are very apt to derange 
the functions of the digestive organs. Thus very hard 
gelatinotis tissues, as tendons, require a larger quantity 
of gastric juice and a longer time for their complete 
digestion f . Gelatinotis liquids, when very weak, or 
which are obtained by means of a high temperature or 



* The experiments of Dr. Beaumont, above referred to, were made 
on the Canadian whose case I have already noticed (see p. 169). The 
following are the notes of one experiment : — 

" E?cPERiHENT 41. — At 1 o'clock, P.M., he ate eight ounces of Cfl(f*#- 
foot jelly, and nothing else. 

" In twenty minutes, examined stomach, and took out a portion of 
its contents, consisting of gastric juice, combined with the jelly, nearly 
all of it in a fluid form ; a few particles only of entire jelly, suspended 
in the fluids, with a few small yellowish-white coagula floating near the 
surface, could be perceived. 

" At 2 o'clock examined again, extracted a little fluid, but found no 
appearance of jelly. 

*' Remarks, — The operation of gastric juice on gelatine is very diffi- 
cult to be detected. Unlike albumen, it is unsusceptible of coagulation ; 
and it is probable that the gastric juice acts upon it in its soft solid 
state. This was disposed of in a short period. It was, however, but a 
small quantity, -and was much sooner digested than a full meal would 
have been. From various trials, I am disposed to think that gelatine, 
if not in too concrete a state, is a very digestible article of diet.** 

t Beaumont, op, supra eii. p. 194-5. 



GELATINE. 



211 



prolonged ebullition, or which are procured from 
tissues containing fat or other matters apt to become 
rancid, readily disturb the functions of the stomach 
and intestines. The injurious effects of gelatine 
which has been altered by heat, I have already had 
occasion to mention (see p. 208). Soups, hashes, 
and stews, all of which contain gelatine, are ob- 
noxious to the digestive organs of dyspeptics and 
invalids, partly perhaps- on account of the changes 
effected in the gelatinous matter by heat, but prin- 
cipally from the presence of fatty and other substances 
difficult of digestion (see p. 175). 

It is customary with writers on dietetics to declare all 
gelatinous substances difficult of digestion : but such 
assertions are, in my opinion, far too sweeping. They 
can apply only to certain kinds of gelatinous foods ; 
and not to some of the simplest and purest forms of 
gelatine, such as plain calf 's-foot jelly. 

The times required for the digestion of various sub- 
stances, as ascertained by Dr. Beaumont, are as fol- 
lows : — 

DIGESTION OP GELATINOUS SUBSTANCES. 



Articles of Diet 


Mean time of Chirmiflcation. 


In Stomach. 


In Phiala. 


Preparation. 


H. M. 


Preparation. 


H. m. 


Calf s-foot JeU7(J?^. 41) 
Isinglass Jelly (^E^, 64) 

Gelatine 

Aponeurosis . . . . 

Cartilage 

Cartilage 

Tendon 

Tendon of yotinff beef 
Bone, beef, solid . . . 
„ hog's, solid . • 


Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 

BoUed 


1 

1 

2 30 

3 

4 15 

5 30 


Boiled 
Boiled 

Divided 
Masticated 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 


4 45 
6 30 

12"" 

12 45 
24 
80 
80 



212 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

A gelatinous substance, though possessing some de- 
gree of nutritive power, cannot alone sustain animal 
life; but, when taken in conjunction with other 
alimentary substances, takes part in the nutrition of 
the body. Different gelatinous substances, however, 
are unequally nutritive. Thus gelatine is less nutri- 
tive than the bone which yields it. 

The French Gelatine Commission found that dogs 
fed solely on raw bones and water for three months, 
continued in perfect health, and lost none of their 
weight by the use of this kind of food. Now as by 
boiling in water the cartilaginous tissue of bone is re- 
solved into gelatine principally, it follows that a gela- 
tinous tissue (that is, a tissue which by boiling is 
resolved into gelatine) contributes to the nutrition of 
the body ; though it cannot be said to be the exclu- 
sive agent in this process, since bones contain other 
alimentary principles (such as fatty and albuminous 
matters) besides the earthy salts and the substance 
which is resolvable into gelatine. 

The same experimenters found that the nutritive 
quality of bones is deteriorated, or even destroyed, by 
boiling them, by digesting them in hydrochloric acid, 
and especially by resolving their cartilaginous tissue 
into gelatine. Thus the very same kind of bones 
which in the raw state effected nutrition, failed to sup- 
port animal life after they had been boiled ; for dogs 
which had been fed on them died at the end of two 
months, with all the signs of inanition, and with a con- 
siderable diminution of their weight. 

An exclusive diet of beef tendon and water is in- 
capable of effecting perfect nutrition. A dog ate the 



GELATINE. 213 

tendons for eighteen days^ and then manifested dislike 
to them ; but he continued to take them for five days 
longer, when he refused them. He had now lost con- 
siderably in weight, and manifested other signs of 
inanition. 

Gelatine extracted from bones was refused by dogs, 
— by some from the first, by others after once or twice 
using it. They preferred enduring the pangs of hunger 
to eating it ; though it was tried in various forms, 
namely, both in the dry and humid states, and 
OS a tremulous jelly. Seasoned gelatine prepared 
for the use of man, and which had a very agree- 
able flavour, was eaten for a few days, and then 
refused; the animals dying of starvation on the 
twentieth day. These experiments, therefore, are 
tolerably conclusive that animals cannot be nourished 
on gelatine exclusively. M. Donne tried its effects on 
himself. He took daily from 20 to 50 grammes [from 
308j grs. to 771i grs. troy] of dry gelatine (in the 
form of a sugared and aromatised jelly, with either 
lemon or some spirit), and from 86 to 100 grammes 
[from 1312 grs. troy to 1543i^ grs. troy] of bread. At 
the expiration of six days he had lost two pounds 
in weight, and during the whole time was tormented 
with hunger, and suffered with extreme faintness, 
which was only alleviated after dining in his usual 
way. 

These experiments do not, however, go the length 
of proving that gelatine, taken in conjunction with 
other alimentary substances, does not assist in nutri- 
tion. The every-day experience of the physician 
would negative such an inference. Moreover, the in- 



214 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

vestigations of MM. Edwards and Balzac favour the 
notion that gelatine taken with other kinds of food 
assists the nutrition of the body. 

Liebig has recently suggested that the nourishing 
powers of gelatine are confined to the gelatinous 
tissues : for^ as proteine cannot be obtained from 
gelatine, the latter can serve neither for the formation 
of blood nor for the reproduction and growth of albu- 
minous and fibrinous tissues. It is, therefore, proba- 
ble, he thinks, ^^that gelatine, when taken in the 
dissolved state, is again converted, in the body, into 
cellular tissue, membrane, and cartilage. And when 
the powers of nutrition in the whole body are affected 
by a change of the health, then, even should the power 
of forming blood remain the same, the organic force 
by which the constituents of the blood are transformed 
into cellular tissue and membranes must necessarily 
be enfeebled by sickness. In the sick man, the in- 
tensity of the vital force, its powers to produce meta- 
morphoses, must be diminished as well in the stomach 
as in all other parts of the body. In this condition, 
the uniform experience of practical physicians shews 
that gelatinous matters in a dissolved state exercise a 
most decided influence on the state of the health. 
Given in a form adapted for assimQation, they serve 
to husband the vital force, just as may be done, in the 
case of the stomach, by due preparation of the food 
in general." 

These opinions, however ingenious and plausible, 
require to be confirmed by facts j for at present they 
are rather to be regarded as unsupported hypotheses. 
Even should they be eventually admitted as true, they 



v 



ISINGLASS. 215 

offer no explanation of many of the curious and in- 
teresting circumstances respecting the alimentary 
properties of gelatinous substances^ which have been 
recently reported by the French Gelatine Commission. 

As gelatine is convertible into a kind of sugar 
(gelatine sugar or glycicoU C» H^ N^ 0» + 2 HO) by a 
process similar to that by which starch may be so con- 
verted, it is probably a less appropriate alimentary 
principle for diabetic patients than proteinaceous 
(albuminous) substances. 

Besides its use as an alimentary substance, gelatine 
(in the form of isinglass principally) is employed as a 
clarifying, clearing, or fining agent, for coffee, wines, 
beer, &c. Some of the constituents of these liquors 
unite with the gelatine and form insoluble compounds, 
which precipitate and carry with them the matters 
which rendered the liquor turbid. 

A few only of the gelatinous substances in use as 
food will require separate notice. 

1. Isinglass. — ^This is procured from the air-bag or 
swimming-bladdery sometimes termed the sounds of 
various fishes. The finest kinds are procured from 
different species of Acipenser (Sturgeons) y and are 
imported from Russia and Siberia. But other genera 
of fishes, as SiluruSy Morrhuay Gadus, Otoliihus, Lota, 
and PolynemuSy also yield it. Sometimes the bag is 
dried unopened, as in the case of the purse, pipe, and 
lump isinglasses of the shops. At other times it is 
laid open, and submitted to some preparation ; being 
either dried unfolded, as in the leaf and honeycomb 
isinglasses ; or folded, as in the staple (long and short) 
and book isinglasses ; or rolled out, as in the ribbon 



216 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

isinglass. When it arrives in this country it is picked 
or cut. Formerly it was picked into shreds by women 
and children^ but is now usually cut by machines 
worked by steam. The Russian and Siberian isin- 
glasses (the kinds which from their purity and ready 
solubility are best adapted for domestic use), are care- 
fully prepared by washing them with wann water to 
remove any adhering blood, cut open longitudinally, 
exposed to the air, with the inner, delicate, silvery 
membrane upwards. When dried, this fine membrane* 
is removed by beating and rubbing, and the swim- 
ming bladder is then made into various forms. 

For the following table of the varieties of isinglass 
at the present time known in the London markets, 
I am indebted to Mr. James Metcalfe, wholesale 
dealer in isinglass, of No. 20, Artillery Place, 
Finsbury Square, London. I have thought it desira- 
ble to have the prices annexed in order to show the 
relative commercial value of the different kinds. 



• It is usually stated that the innermost membrane of the swimming 
bladder is that which yields gelatine by boiling : but I have elsewhere 
shown this to be an error (see my Elements qf Materia Medica, pp. 1859 
and 1861, yoL ii. ed. 2d, 1842). The innermost membrane of cod sounds 
and of the Hudson's Bay and East Indian isinglasses, is insoluble in 
water. If the Siberian purse isinglass be carefully examined, the 
bag will be found to have been deprived of its innermost lining. 




ISIKGLASS. 



217 



VARIETIES OF ISINGLASS. 



Cotmirjf, 



r 



The Irtyichand 
Obi 

Oanl and triba- 
Uries 

Astrakhan • . . . . 

The Volra and 
tribntanea. . . . 



Rnaalan . 
Smpire ( 



I 



PlaceofPro- 
dmce. 



Place of Ex- 
port, 



The Ooral (Ural) St. Peteribiir8iI^>'o Staplb 

Ural lit & 2nd 



Trflmtaries 

Black Sea. 
Tcherkackoy 



of 



»f 



f> 



ft 



n 



Short ditto Pa- 
triarch 



The Don and tri- 
butaries 

Ditto 



Odessa .. 
Taganroi^ 



» 



If 



M 



Name amd Cka- 
ra^er. 



Ditto ditto 1st and 
3nd 

Book 

Thin Lbav 1st & 
2nd 



Bbluoa Ist&Snd 

Cnt by machine or 
hand 

Pickings (the 
brown ends). . . . 

SisanbLbap .... 
Kroski or Kros- 

KT 

Samovby Lbaf 
ltt& 2nd .... 

Ditto Book 1st Ac 
2nd , 

Ditto Short Sta 
PLB 



PrUee 
Per lb. BngUOk, 



«. d. 
14 6 

• ■ 

14 6 

14 6 
14 6 



The Irtyich and St Petersburg iSiBBRiAN Pubsb 
Obi "^ ^ 



North 
America 



( Hudson's Bay Hudson's Bay 
and rivers .... 



South 
America 



\ 



United States .. 



The Braxils 



Bast Indies 



Philippine 
I Islands 



\ 



Bay of Bengal 



Manilla 



New York 



Maranhamfr 
Pan 



Calcutta 



PURSB 



Ribbon 

/PipbBbazil. 
Lump ditto ... 

HONBYCOMB 

ditto 



,Cut Bbasil .. 



{Pubsb . 
Lbap... 
PiCKBO. 



«. 4. 
13 6 
none 

18 

to 96 
10 6 



16 14 6{18 6tO0 6 
80 
86 
60 

80 3 8 

40 86 

56 



86 



86 



No price 

•^040 

*0 40 

86 

76 661 



Manilla Thin? 
Cakb \ 



(4. 
40 



76 



60 



Rewmrkt, 



8 
88 

20 

60 



4 



40 
86 



8 6 



Very choice; 
dear. 



^These are 
the sorto 
which yield 
the cut. 



Reftiteof the 
above. 

Seldom im- 
ported. 

Seldom in- 
quired for. 

Used for fin 
ings. 

In great d»- 
numd. 

Seldom im 
ported. 



In good es- 
teem. 



A thin insolu- 
ble men 
brane lining 
the inside. 

Not in use. 

sin general 

I demand. 

Not in much 
repute. 

Usea perhaps 
for mixing. 
Objected to 
on account! 
of the flshyi 
smell and' 
imperfect 1 
sotaUlity. 
When care- 
fully pre-! 
pared may: 
equal the 
Brasilian 
kind. 



< 



Quality assi- 
milating to 
Samorey. 



Isinglass has been analysed by both John and Mr. 
E. Solly, jun. Their results are subjoined : — 



218 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 



COMPOSITION OF ISINGLASS. 



John. 

Geladne 70-0 

Osmazome [?] . - . . . 16*0 

Membrane insoluble in boil- > 0.5 

ing water S 

Free acids and salts . . . 4*0 

Water 75 



Isinglass of good quality . lOO'O 



Mr. E. SoUfffjuH, 

Grelatine. 

Albumen. 

Saline and earthy substances (small 

quantity). 
Osmazome. 
Odorous oil (a minute trace). 

East India Isinglass. 



The relative proportions of gelatine and albumen in 
three specimens of East Indian isinglass were^ accord- 
ing to Mr. E. Solly, jun. as follows : — 

Isinglass. Soluble Gelatine. Insoluble Albumen. 

100 86-5 13-5 

100 90-9 91 

100 92-8 72 

When isinglass is reduced to small shreds {picked 
or cut isinglass) it is scarcely possible to distinguish 
by the age, some of the inferior from the finer kinds. 
The best criteria are its whiteness, freedom from 
unpleasant odour, and its complete solubility in water. 

Isinglass is a very pure form of gelatine, and is 
employed in the preparation of jellies, blanc-mange, 
&c. It is frequently added to fruit jellies (see p. 144), 
to give them firmness or stiffness. Dissolved in milk, 
and flavoured with sugar, lemon, and some aromatic, 
it is frequently taken in the liquid state by conva- 
lescents with advantage, when recovering from the 
effects of extreme debility (as that brought on by 
hemorrhage) j but this form of exhibition does not 
suit all stomachs. 

Isinglass is also used in domestic economy as a 
clarifying, clearing, or fining agent for coffee, wine. 



ISINGLASS. 219 

beer, &c. For this purpose it is extensively used by 
brewers *, who employ principally the Brazilian 
variety. 



* Mr. Metcalfe, who supplied me with the table of isinglass already 
given (p. 217)i has kindly furnished me with the following information 
as to the mode of preparing and using isinglass for beer-finings. 

" I herewith beg to hand you such particulars as have come under 
my own observation as to the method generally adopted by brewers in 
their mode of preparing isinglass for beer-finings, and the way in 
which it is customarily applied. Firstly, with regard to the more insolu- 
ble sorts, such as the Lump Brazilian and common Book Glasses, as 
much should be put in a cask as it is likely will be required for three 
months' consumption ; to this should be added just sufficient of strong 
sours to cover the isinglass, and as it swells above the liquor fresh 
sours of the first strength should be added daily, covering the isinglass 
to the depth of about 3 inches in the liquor after it has done swelling. 
It is a practice with some brewers to add a small quantity of pyrolig- 
neous acid to cut or dissolve it the more quickly, though if the first 
sours are good, and care is taken that the fresh, added from time to 
time during the process of swelling, is of equal strength, the pyrolig- 
neous acid may be advantageously dispensed with : care should be 
taken not to add more sours than is just necessary. In this state they 
should be well stirred up frequently with a stiff birch-broom, or some 
similar instrument, which materially assists the cutting or dissolving. 
The liquor should be used in a cold state, or at a very moderate heat, as 
by using it hot it would form a jelly, and be perfectly useless as 
finings. It having become thoroughly dissolved or cut by the cold 
sours, it may be kept for any length of time by being frequently well 
stirred up as above described. 

In applying it for use, a proportionate quantity should be taken to 
the beer requiring fining, and pressed through a horse-hair sieve into 
as much mild beer as will reduce it to the consistency of thin treacle ; 
of this about one pint is enough to fine a barrel (36 gals.), unless the 
beer is what is termed stubborn, when it will take sometimes double 
the quantity. One pound of good Brazilian isinglass, if treated in this 
manner, will make 15 gallons of strong finings. The liquid finings 
having been thus prepared, about one pint should be whisked up with 
about a gallon of the beer from each barrel intended to fine, and then 
poured in through the bung-hole of the cask. Under some cir- 
cumstances a small quantity of strong infusion of hops, added after 
the finings, will cause a perfect precipitation of all the impurities in 
the beer, and leave it thoroughly cleansed and bright after standing a 



220 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

2. Cod Sounds. — ^These are analogous to isinglass, 
being prepared from the swimming bladder of the 
Common Cod (Morrhua tmlgaris). In the dried state 
they are brought from Scotland, and are used as a 
substitute for isinglass. They are, however, usually 
preserved soft by salting, and dressed for the table. 
The glue obtained by boiling the cod sounds does not 
gelatinize, but dries into a hard brown substance, 
which may be employed to glue pieces of wood 
together *. 

3. Dry and Hard Gelatine. — ^This is a pure kind of 
glue prepared for dietetical use. Nelson's Patent 
Opaque Gelatine (called, in the specification of the 
patent f , gelatine of the first quality) is prepared, by 
preference, from " the cuttings of the hides of beasts 
or of the skins of calves," " freed from hair, flesh, 
and fat." It is sold in the form of cuttings. I have 
been furnished with a similar kind of gelatine, pre- 
pared by another maker, under the name of Pale 
Gelatine English Machine cut. A third kind of gela- 
tine is met with in the shops, under the name of 
French Gelatine or Gf*enetineX' It occurs in sheets. 



few hours. The only advantages gained by using the more expensive 
qualities of isinglass are, that the process of cutting or dissolving is 
less tedious, the fine Long Staple, Siberian Purse, and Astrakhan Pick- 
ings, not requiring above 48 hours for preparing, and that a milder 
Alegar will answer the purpose of cutting it ; it may also possess some 
advantages in pnrity, for fine ales. Its mode of application should be 
similar to that given for the Brazilian and Book." 

* Thomson's Anhnal Chemist fy, p. 216. 

t For the specification, see The Mechanic and Chemist for 1840. 

X The word Grenetine is derived from Grenet, the name of the first 
manu&cturer who supplied a white, transparent, and ver}' pure gelatine 
for sale. Grenetine is now made by M. Grenet fils, of Rouen. 



HARTSHORN. 221 

or thin plates or cakes, marked by the nets in which it 
has been dried. White grenetine of the first quality 
is transparent, inodorous, tasteless, and almost colour- 
less. Coloured grenetine is rose-red, yellow, blue, or 
green. Grenetine is extracted from bones, either by 
the prolonged action of boiling water under pressure, 
or by first digesting the bones in dilute hydrochloric 
acid, and afterwards submitting them to the action of 
boiling water *. 

These different kinds of gelatine are employed in 
the preparation of jellies, blanc-manges, soups, 
gravies, &c. as substitutes for isinglass and calves* 
feet, to which I consider them inferior in nutritive 
power and digestibility. For it is well known that 
gelatinous substances, when subjected to the prolonged 
action of water and heat, suffer changes in their che- 
mical properties ; and the French Gelatine Commission 
has shewn that the nutritive qualities of at least one 
gelatinous tissue (bone) are diminished or even de- 
stroyed by submitting it either to decoction in water 
or to the action of hydrochloric acid, or by resolving 
it into gelatine. It is not, therefore, too much to 
assume that the different operations to which the gela- 
tinous tissues, used in the preparation of gelatine, are 
subjected, must deteriorate the dietetical qualities of 
the product. Moreover, a knowledge of the sub- 
stances from which commercial gelatine is procured, is 
not calculated to create an appetite for foods obtained 
from such sources. 

4. Hartshorn. — Shavings or raspings of the antlers 

* Lecanu, CciiKn OmplH de Fkarmaeit, t.i. p. 451. 1842. 



222 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

of the stag, commonly called hartshorn shavingSy are 
employed in the preparation of jellies and gelatinous 
solutions. Their composition is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF HARTSHORN. 

Soluble cartilage , . - 27-0 

Subphosphate of lime 57*5 

Carbonate of lime I'O 

Water and loss 14*5 

Total 1000 

By boiling, the cartilage is resolved into gelatine ; 
and the decoction, if sufficiently concentrated, gela- 
tinizes on cooling. Bones cannot be substituted for 
hartshorn, on account of the fat they contain. Decoc-- 
Hon of Hartshorn is prepared by boiling one ounce of 
the shavings in four pints of water, down to two pints. 
When sweetened, it is sometimes taken as a mild 
demulcent and emollient drink, in intestinal and pul- 
monary irritation. An elegant Hartshorn Jelly is 
prepared by boiling down half a pound of the shav- 
ings in three quarts of water to one quart, and adding 
to the strained liquor an ounce of SeviUe orange or of 
lemon juice, a quarter of a pint of mountain wine, 
and half a pound of fine sugar ; and boiling down the 
mixture to a due consistence *. It is sometimes used, 
as a grateful kind of aliment, by invalids and con- 
valescents. 

6. Several gelatinous tissues, besides those already 
noticed, are employed in the preparation of jellies and 
gelatinous liquids (as soups). Thus a jelly is ob- 
tained from Calves' Feet ; and Calves' Heads are used 
in the preparation of mock-turtle soup. These sub- 



* Lewis's Materia Mediea. 



COMMON SALT. 223 

stances yield, by boiling, an oily or fatty matter, as 
well as gelatine. Cows' HeelSy Sheeps' Trotters, and 
Petit-toes (sucking pigs' feet) abound in gelatinous 
tissues, for which they are principally employed as 
aliments. 

12. THE SALINE ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLE. 

Saline matters are essential constituents of the 
blood, of the organised tissues, and of the secretions. 
They are, therefore, necessary components of our food ; 
for without them health and vitality cannot be main- 
tained. 

The alimentary salts, which, on account of their oc- 
curring more frequently and largely in the system, 
may be regarded as of the most importance in a 
dietetical point of view, are Common Salt and the 
Earthy Phosphates. Ferruginous compounds (salts ?), 
and probably salts of Potash, are also indispensable 
ingredients of our food. 

1. Common Salt (Chloride of Sodium). — Though 
salt is a constituent of most of our foods and drinks, 
we do not, in this way, obtain a sufficient supply of 
it to satisfy the wants of the system ; and nature has 
accordingly furnished us with an appetite for it. The 
salt, therefore, which we consume at our table as a 
condiment, in reality serves other and far more impor- 
tant purposes in the animal economy, than that of 
merely gratifying the palate. It is a necessary article 
of food^ being essential for the preservation of health 
and the maintenance of life. 

It forms an essential constituent of blood, which 
fluid doubtless owes many of its important qualities to 



234 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

it. Thus it probably contributes to keep the blood 
corpuscles unchanged; for when these are put into 
water a powerful and rapid endosmose takes place^ in 
consequence of which they swell up and assume a 
globular form ; whereas in a weak solution of salt 
they remain unchanged. In malignant cholera^ and 
some other diseases in which there is a deficiency of 
the saline ingredients of the blood, this fluid has a 
very dark or even black appearance; whence it has 
been assumed by some writers that the red colour of 
the blood is dependent on the presence of its saline 
ingredients. From the salt of the blood, aided by 
water, the gastric juice derives its hydrochloric acid, 
and the blood and the bile their soda (see p. 71, foot- 
note, and p. 83). The soda, which exists in the blood 
in combination with albumen, passes out of the system 
in union with organic matter (C^ W^ N* O") repre- 
sented by choleic acid : in other words, bile contains 
the elements of chloleate of soda, though not neces- 
sarily arranged as such. Lastly, " the soda, which 
has been used in the vital processes, and any excess of 
soda, must be expelled in the form of salt, after being 
separated from the blood by the kidney" (Liebig). 

It has been calculated that the average cmnual con- 
sumption of salt by an adult amounts to 16 lbs. ; 
equal to about 5 ounces per week. 

The salt consumed in this country is obtained prin- 
cipally from fossil or rock salt, and by the evapora- 
tion of the water of brine springs. The salt districts 
areNorthwich, Middlewich,andNantwich, in Cheshire ; 
Shirley wich, in Staffordshire; and Droitwich, in 
Worcestershire. Salt is also procured in Durham. 




CHLORIDE OF SODIUM. 225 

In some parts of England^ as at Lymington in Hamp- 
shire, and some parts of Scotland, salt is procured by 
the evaporation of sea-water. 

The small-grained salt is formed by the strongest 
heat, and constitutes the buttery stoved, lutnpy and 
basket salt of commerce ; while the larger crystals, 
forming the bay and fishery salts, are formed at a lower 
temperature. For table use, for salting butter, and for 
various domestic purposes, the small-grained salt is 
preferred. It is also employed for making the pickle 
for striking the meat, which is the first part of the pro- 
cess in curing fish and preserving animal flesh. The 
coarse or large-grained salt is preferred for the packing 
and preservation of fish and other provisions. For 
these purposes it is greatly superior to the small- 
grained salt : hence it is technically termed a stronger 
salt. Its superiority depends, not on any difference 
in its chemical composition, but on its greater cohe- 
siveness and hardness of texture, whereby it dissolves 
much less readily. 

Common salt, or chloride of sodium, formerly called 
muriate of soda, has the following composition : — 

COMPOSITION OP CHLORIDE OP SODIUM. 

1 equivalent of Chlorine .... 36 or per cent. ... 60 
1 equivalent of Sodium .... 24 or per cent. ... 40 

1 equivalent of Chloride of Sodium 60 or Chloride of Sodium 100 

A little water is frequently lodged (mechanically) 
between the plates of the crystals. 

Common salt, as found in commerce, is not abso- 
lutely pure; being contaminated with some other 
salts. The following table shews the composition of 

Q 



ALIHEKTART FBIMCIPLES. 



eeveral varieties of salt, according to the analyses * 
Dr. Henry : — 



COMPOSITION OF vimious kinds of salt (benbv), 

1000 P,:rU by Welglil ce<ttiit of 


Kiwi of Silt. 


ii 


II 


!l 


If 

la 


■3 


1 


-as 

1 


P 


If 




SCO 
Km 




lit 

0.1 


1* 

0.1 


If 
1 


J' 

Si* 


1 

a 

M 
16 


,1 

Id 


f 
1 






|te?h {=??!.:::: 


!_. [CnHhedrork 









Besides its use at the table as a flavouring or sea- 
soning agent, salt is extensively employed in the 
preservation and curing of alimentary substances. 

Its antiseptic power is by no means well under- 
stood. It is usual to ascribe it to the desiccating 
influence of the salt, but the explanation is not a 
satisfactory one. A dry bladder, says LiebJg, remains 
more or less dry in a saturated solution of common 
salt. The solution runs otf its surface in the same 
manner that water runs from a plate of glass be- 
smeared with tallow. " Fresh flesh, over which salt 
has been strewed, is found, after 24 hours, swimming 
in brine, although not a drop of water has been added. 
The water has been yielded by muscular fibre itself, 
and having dissolved the salt in immediate contact with 
it, and thereby lost the power of penetrating animal 



CHLORIDE OF SODIUM — EABTHT PHOSPHATES. 227 

substances, it has on this account separated from the 
flesh. The water still retained by the flesh contains 
a proportionally small quantity of salt, having that 
degree of dilution at which a saline fluid is capable of 
penetrating animal substances. This property of 
animal tissues is taken advantage of in domestic 
economy for the purpose of removing so much water 
from meat that a sufficient quantity is not left to 
enable it to enter into putrefaction *." 

But the fact, that a dilute aqueous solution of salt 
possesses antiseptic properties, appears to me to render 
Liebig's explanation inadmissible; and we are com- 
pelled, therefore, to admit that the preservative power 
depends either on the chemical combination of the 
salt with the organic tissues f, or on occult causes 
more or less analogous to those which prevent the de- 
velopment of the volatile oils of black mustard and 
bitter almonds, when in contact with mineral acids and 
salts. 

2. Earthy Phosphates. — ^These are almost universal 
constituents of the ashes of animal tissues. From 
their constant presence, we cannot suppose them to be 

* Liebig, Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiology^ 
2d ed. p. 356— 7. 1B42. 

t The conseirative efficacy of bichloride of mercury, sulphate of 
copper, and some other metallic salts, depends on the union of these 
substances with the animal matter ; and the formation of compounds 
which are not subject to the putre&ctiYe process. Chemists, however, 
have hitherto refused to admit that common salt, nitrate of potash, and 
some alkaline salts, owe their antiseptic efficacy to the exercise of a 
chemical influence. But an argument in fistvour of this view may be 
derived from the well-known reddening effect produced by saltpetre 
(nitrate of potash) on beef, during the process of curing. Moreover, 
the augmented firmness or hardness of fibre, possessed by old salted 
meats, is, I suspect, an evidence of chemical action. 



228 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 

accidental : we have a right to infer that they are in 
some way necessary to vitality. 

Phosphoric acid and lime combine together in 
several proportions. Of these combinations two 
have been found in the human solids and fluids. The 
bane subphosphate of lime (8 Ca O + 6 PO***) is by 
far the most frequently met with calcareous phos- 
phate. It constitutes the principal part of the 
earthy matter of bones^ and is probably the calcareous 
phosphate usually found in the ashes of animal 
tissues. According to Dr. WoUaston *, it exists in 
ossifications of arteries^ veins^ valves of the hearty 
bronchiae, and tendinous portion of the diaphragm, 
as well as in the tartar of the teeth. According to the 
same authority, the neutral phosphate of lime (Ca O + 
PO^*) exists in the urine, from which it is sometimes 
deposited in a pulverulent form. The phosphate of 
lime calculus, prostatic calculi, and pineal concretions, 
also contain the neutral phosphate. 

Phosphate of magnesia^ though of very frequent 
occurrence, is found in the animal solids and 
fluids in very small quantities only. Sometimes it 
exists in combination with ammonia (ammoniacal 
phosphate of magnesia). 

The system obtains its supply of earthy phosphates 
from both vegetable and animal foods (see pp. 69-61, 
and 73-74). Corn, potatoes, milk, and the flesh and 
blood of animals, furnish us with more than the wants 
of the system require, and the excess is eliminated in 
the secretions. 

• Phil TVont. for 1797. 



POTASH AND IRON SALTS. 229 



QUANTITY OF EARTHY PHOSPHATES IN FOODS. 




Hennbstaedt. 



100 Partt, Earthy Pkotpkatei. Auikoritjf. 

Wheat from 0-36 

Rye 0-6 

Barley O-I 

Oats 0-16 

Rice 0*4 Braconnot. 

Garlic l.l Cadet. 

Caseine - . 6*0 Berzelios. 

Milk . . . • . 0*1975 Schwartz. 

Blood 0*03 Denis. 

Bones (ileum) of sheep) 50*58 ) 

„ (ileum) of ox 45*2 > Thomson. 

„ (vertebrce) of haddock . . . 56*08 3 

Muscular flesh of ox traces 

„ calf 01 

:: ?^ : : : : : : oT' ^ scwossberger. 

„ chicken .... 06 
„ trout 2*2 



The amount of earthy phosphates in several foods 
which contain these salts, has not been ascertained. 

3. Potash Salts. — Minute quantities of potash salts 
exist in the ashes of blood and several of the animal 
tissues. They are derived from both animal and vege- 
table foods (see pp. 76 and 193). 

4. Ferruginous Compounds. — ^The existence of iron 
in the animal system, and the sources of it, have been 
already noticed (see pp. 66-70). The precise state in 
which this metal exists in, and is introduced into, the 
system, has not been made out. In some cases it is 
supposed to be in the form of a phosphate. 



230 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Chap. III. — Of Compound Aliments, 

The foods which consist of two or more alimentary 
principles, may be conveniently termed Compound 
Aliments, These it is customary to divide into Solid 
Foods or Aliments Proper^ Liquid Foods or DrinkSy 
and Seasoning Agents or Condiments. This division, 
though by no means accurate, is both familiar and con- 
venient J and I shall, therefore, adopt it. 

1. SOLID ALIMENTS, OR ALIMENTS PROPER. 

Man obtains his food from both the animal and 
vegetable kingdoms. This is almost universally the 
case, and is a strong confirmation of the correctness 
of the inference drawn by the anatomist from the 
structure bf the entire human digestive apparatus, 
that man is omnivorous. ''It is quite certain," says 
Dr. Carpenter *, " that the most perfect physical de- 
velopment, and the greatest intellectual vigour, are to 
be found amongst those races in which this [a mixed] 
diet is the prevalent habit." Yet a modern writer f, 
who eloquently and ably advocates the exclusive use 
of vegetable food, declares that *' the adherence to the 
use of animal food is no more than a persistence in 
the gross customs of savage life; and evinces an 
insensibility to the progress of reason, and to the 
operation of intellectual improvement." ! ! 

* Principles qf Human Physiology, p. 349. 1842. 
t Dr. Lambe, Additional Reports on the Effects of a PecuUar Regimen, 
p. 243. 1815. 



ANIMAL FOODS. 



231 



SECT. 1.— ANIMAL FOODS. 

Exclusive of water and saline matters, we obtain, 
from animal foods, Proteinaceous, Gelatinous, and 
Fatty alimentary principles ; to which must be added, 
in the case of milk, Sugar. 

These are derived from flesh, blood, viscera, bones, 
cartilages, ligaments, cellular tissue, the milk of the 
mammals, and the eggs of some of the oviparous 
animals. 

The proximate composition of the muscular flesh 
of different animals has been examined by Mr. Brande* 
and more recently by Schlossbergerf : their results are 
as follows : — 



COMPOSITION OF MUSCLE, ACCORDING TO MB. BRANDS. 



100 Pwrts 

MU9CU of 

Beef . 
Veal . 
Mutton . 
Pork . . 
Chicken 
Cod . 
Haddock 
Sole . 





AlbuKteu 


Wmter. 


orFUnine, 


74 . 


. . 20 . 


75 , . 


. . 19 . 


71 . . 


. . 22 . 


76 . . 


. . 19 . 


73 . 


. . 20 . 


79 . 


. . 14 . 


82 . 


. • 13 . 


79 . 


. . 15 . 



. 6 . 

. 6 . 

. 7 . 

. 5 . 

. 7 . 

. 7 . 

. 6 . 

. 6 . 



T9tal of Nutri- 
me Uattor. 

. 26 

. 25 

. 29 

. 24 

. 27 

. 21 

. 18 

. 31 



COMPOSITION OF MUSCULAR FLESH, ACCOBDING TO 

SCHLOSSBERGEB. 



Ox, 


Ca{f. 


Piff. ! Roe. 


Pigeon, 


aUekemJ 


Cmp, 


TrotO. 


Flesh. --VeMels, nerves,? 
sndcellnUr tiisoe. . . . S " 


17-5 


15— 1«-2 


16-8 


18*0 


17-0 


16*8 


12*0 


11*1 


Solable albumen and hema-? 
tosine S 


a*a 


8-a — 2*6 


2*4 


2*3 


44 


3*0 


5*2 


4*4 


Alcoholic extract with salts 


1-5 


1-1 — 1*4 


0*8) 


2*4 


1*0 


1*4 


1*0 


1*6 


Watery eiitract with salts . . 


1-8 


1-0— !•« 




1*5 


1*2 


1*7 


0*2 


Phosphate of lime contain- { 
ins albnmen < i 


traces 


01-traces 


traces 


0*4 


— 


06 


— 


2*2 


Water and loss 


77-5 


7».7 —78*2 


78S 


76-9 


760 


77*3 


80*1 


80*6 




lOOH) 


lOO-O-lOO'O 


lOO'O 


100*0 


100*0 


100-0 


100*0 


100*0 



* Manual qf Ckemittry. 

t Pkarmaceuti$ehe9 Central-BkUt, 1842, p. 41. 



232 



COMPOUND ALIM£NTS. 



A very large number of animals is used, in different 
parts of the world, as food. In this work, however, 
I purpose speaking of those only which are employed 
in this country *. 

CLASS J. MAMMALIA.'-MAMMALS. 

In this country, the mammals, employed by man 
as food, are, the Ox, the Sheep, the Hog, the Deer, 
the Rabbit, and the Hare. 

These animals furnish their Bones, Cartilages, Ten- 
dons, Aponeuroses, Ligaments, Cellular Tissue, Fat, 
Muscles or Flesh, Viscera, Blood, and Milk, as ali- 
mentary substances. 

1 . Bones. — ^The bones of the ox and sheep are those 
principally which serve for alimentary purposes. 
Their composition, exclusive of the marrow (see 
p. 181) which they contain, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF BONE (THOMSON). 



Ox. 


Sheep. 


Ilium or Htumek-bone, ' lUmm. TlUm. 

A. 


Cartilage .... 48*5 . . 
Phosphate of lime . 45*2 . . 
Carbonate of lime 6*1 . . 
Magnesia .... 24 . . 

Soda 0-20 . . 

Potash 0-11 . . 


. 43-30- 47*20 . . . 51-97 
. 50*58— 46*35 . . . 40*42 
449— 4-88 .. . 7-03 
0.86— 0-64 .. . 0-22 
0-31— 2-09 .. . 0-19 
0-19— 0-25 . . . traces 



100-35 . . . 99*73—101-41 . . . 99*83 

By digesting bones in hydrochloric acid they are 
deprived of part of their earthy salts. They are then 
semi-transparent, flexible, and elastic; and have a 
fatty smell and an acid state. In this state they are 
known in France under the name of Alimentary gela- 
tine. Their composition is as follows : — 

* For an account of other animals used as food, the reader is referred 
to the article AUmmt^ in the Eneydoptfdia MeinpoUttmat and Lardner's 
Calrinii Cychprndia^ Dame$tic Bctmomff vol, ii. by Mr. Donovan. 



BONES. 233 

COMPOSITION OF BONES WHICH HAVE BEEN DIGESTED 

IN HYDROCHLORIC ACID. 

ShupUfeet bonei. Ox-kead bomet. 



Water 4722 

Pat 5-55 

Matter which may be transformed into ) 17.30 

felatine > 

y phosphates and other salts . . 12*42 

Insoluble animal matter 17*51 



22-87 
11-54 

27-99 

32 77 

4-83 



100-00 .... 100-00 



The cartilage of bone, after ossification has taken 
place, is resolved by boiling into coUin or common 
gelatine (see p. 207). Hence bones are employed in 
domestic economy for the preparation of soups. But 
the quantity of gelatine extractable from bones by the 
ordinary mode of boiling, is comparatively small. To 
increase it, Papin* proposed to expose them to the 
action of water and steam under pressure. By this 
means he declared that he could make the oldest and 
hardest cow as tender and well flavoured as the finest 
meat! ! 

At the commencement of the French revolution, 
the attention of every one in France was directed to 
the improvement of the food for the poor and for the 
army. All were agreed in employing for this purpose 
bones. The government, led away by the enthusiastic 
reports of scientific men (Proust, d'Arcet, Pelletier, 
Cadet de Vaux, &c.), issued a public instruction, de- 
claring that '^ a bone is a tablet of soup formed by 
nature : a pound of bone gives as much soup as six 
pounds of meat : bone soup, in a dietetical point of 



* A New Digester, or Engine for Sqftening Bones, 4to. Lond. 1681. 
•A Continuation qf the New Digester qf Bones, 4to. Lond. 1687. 



234 COMPOUND AUMENTS. 

view, is preferable to meat soup." It need scarcely be 
stated that these inflated expressions were gross exag- 
gerations. It is obvious, as Magendie has justly ob- 
served, that in this hyperbolic language the terms 
jelly (gelatine) and nutritive matter were considered 
synonymous. The favourable report made by the 
Faculty of Medicine, on the nutritive and easily diges- 
tible properties of gelatine, induced the French 
administratian des hospices, in 1824, to introduce its 
employment into the public hospitals of Paris ; and 
for this purpose, in many of these establishments 
d'Arcet's apparatus for obtaining a solution of gelatine 
from bones, by the aid of steam, was fitted up. In 
most, if not in all, its employment was, however, soon 
abandoned. At the H6tel-Dieu its use was abolished 
in consequence of the unfavourable report given of its 
properties by the medical officers of that institution. 
The report concludes with the following summary : — 



1. The soup made with the gelatinous solution is of bad quality. 

2. It is more liable to putrefaction than soup prepared by the old 
method. 

3. Its taste is disagreeable, and even disgusting. 

4. It is less digestible than common soup, and may even derange the 
functions of the digestive ox*gans. 

5. It contains a smaller quantity of nutritive matter than common 
soup. 

6. Its nutritive matter is inferior to that contained in common soup. 



This report, which is dated November 8th, 1831, is 
signed by MM. Petit, Recamier, Caillard, the Baron 
Dupuytren, Breschet, Gueneau de Mussy, Honore 
Husson, Sanson, Magendie, Bally, Henry, Duval, and 
Gendrin. 



FLESH. 235 

The nutritive qualities of bone, as well as of bone- 
gelatine, have been already noticed (see pp. 212-213). 
The time required for the chymifieation of bone 
contained in a phial has likewise been stated (see 
p. 211). 

2. Cartilages f Tendons, Aponeuroses, and Ligaments. 
— ^The cartilage of unossified parts, by boiling, yields 
chondrine. Tendons (popularly called sinews), the 
aponeuroses, and most of the ligaments, by long boil- 
ing, yield collin. All these, therefore, are gelatinous 
tissues, and have been before noticed (see pp. 207- 
212). The ligament nuch^e (commonly termed pack- 
wax) of ruminants differs, however, from ordinary 
ligament. Though it yields a little gelatine to water, 
it does iiot soften or dissolve by long boiling. 

3. Cellular Tisstie. — ^This, by boiling in water, be- 
comes soft, and is ultimately converted into collin. 
It, therefore, belongs to the gelatinous substances (see 
p. 207). 

4. Fat. — ^The fat of mammals is lodged in the cells 
of the adipose tissue, which probably is only a modi- 
fication of, if, indeed, it be not identical with, the 
common cellular tissue. The animal fats have already 
been described (see p. 167, et seq.) 

5. Muscles or Mesh. — The flesh of mammals con- 
sists principally and essentially of the muscles, inter- 
mixed, however, with tendons, aponeuroses, fasciae, 
nerves, vessels, cellular tissue, blood, serum, and fat. 
That part of the flesh which consists of muscle with- 
out the fatty and other matters is called the lean. 

The chemical constituents of flesh are the follow- 
ing :— 



236 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

CONSTITUENTS OF FLESH. 



Water. 
Fibrine. 
Albumen. 
Grelatinous matter. 
Hematosine. 



Osmazome. 

Fatty matter. 

Creatine. 

Peculiar nervous matter. 

Salts. 



Osmazome (from otrfir^y a smelly and i'w/ioc, broth or 
soupy) is an alcoholic extract obtained from the flesh, 
brain, and other parts of animals. It has a reddish 
brown colour, and the smell and taste of soup. It is 
generally mixed with lactic acid, the lactates, and 
common salt. To this principle, broths and soups 
owe their flavour and smell, and part of their nutritive 
qualities. 

The substance called, by its discoverer, Chevreul *, 
creatine (from icpeac, Jlesh), is a nitrogenous, crystal- 
lisable substance, insoluble in alcohol. 

Liebigf calculates that ordinary meat, as bought 
from the butcher, contains about one-seventh of its 
weight of fat and cellular tissue ; and that meat de- 
void of fat contains, on the average, 74 per cent, 
water, and 26 dry water j the latter of which contains 
13*6 parts of carbon. On these assumptions, there- 
fore, 100 parts of ordinary butcher's meat has the fol- 
lowing composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF ORDINARY BUTCHER'S MEAT. 

(Water 63-418 

Meat devoid of fat . 857 < Dry matter containing 1 1 -6552 > 22-282 

f parts of carbon . . . . ) 

Fat, cellular tissue, &c 14*900 

Ordinary Butcher's meat 100-000 

The following are analyses of the muscular flesh of 
the ox : — 

* Journal de Chimie Mid, t. viii. p. 548. 
t Animal Chemistry, p. 286. 



FLESH. 



237 



COMPOSITION OF BEEF FLESH. 



Muscular fibre, yessels, and nerves . 15*8 ^ 
Cellular tissue convertible into gela- > 

tine by boiling 1*93 

Soluble albumen and colouring matter . . . 

Phosphate of lime and albumen 

Alcoholic extract with salts (osmazome) . . 

Aqueous extract with salts 

Lactate and phosphate of potash, and com- > 

mon salt 5 

Water - . . . 



Learn of Beef. 
(Beneliu.) 


Heart 6/ am 
Ox. 

(Bnoonnot) 


17*70 

2-20 > 
008 1 
1*80 
1*05 

... 

7717 


18*196 

2*733 

1*566 

• • • • 

0*465 
77036 


10000 


100000 



The analyses of Brande and Schlossberger have 
been already given (p. 231). 

The Jibrine of the muscular flesh of different ani- 
mals is very uniform in its chemical properties, and 
appears to be identical in its composition. The flesh 
of the mammalia of the chase is of a darker colour, 
and is sometimes called black meat ; while that of the 
rabbit, after boiling, is pale, and may be termed white 
meat. The quantity of blood in the flesh of animals 
augments with their age. Schlossberger found it to 
be inversely to that of the water, but directly to that of 
the fibrine. To augment the whiteness of veal, it is 
said that butchers sometimes repeatedly bleed calves, 
by which an anaemic state is induced. Young meats 
yield, by boiling, a larger amount of gelatine than old 
meats. Every one is probably familiar with the fact 
that the gravy of lamb more readily gelatinizes when 
cold than that of mutton. The osmazome augments 
with the age of the animal. The flesh of wild animals, 
as the stag and the roe, contains a very small quantity 



238 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



of faiy compared with that of the well-fed domesticated 
animals, as the sheep and hog. 

The ultimate composition of flesh is identical with 
that of blood. " The analyses of Playfair and 
Boeckmann," says Liebig, " give for flesh (fi brine, 
albumen, cellular tissue, and nerves) and for blood, as 
the most exact expression for their numerical results, 
one and the same formula, namely, C*® N^ H** O". 
This may be called the empirical formula of blood." 
Moreover, it appears that roasting and boiling alter in 
no way the composition of animal food. 



ULTIMATE COMPOSITION OF FLESH AND BLOOD. 



Carbon . 
Hydrogen 
Nitrogen 
Ojn^gen . 
Asnes 







Roarted Fleeh* 




Ox Blood, 


Dry Beef Muede. 


r 
Be^, 


Veal. 


^ 
BjoeDeer, 


(PUyfkir.) 


(Playfair.) 


(Playfair.) 


(PlayAdr.) 


(Boeckmann.) 


51-95 


51-83 


52-590 


52-52 


52-60 


717 


7-57 


7-886 


7-87 


7-45 


1507 


1501 


15-214 


14-70 


15-23 


21-39 
4*42 


21-37 } 
4-23 1 


24-310 


24-91 


24-72 


100-00 


100-00 


100-000 


10000 


100-00 



The tenderness of flesh is influenced by a variety of 
circumstances ; as age, sex^ leanness or fatness^ mode 
of slaughtering, and incipient decomposition. Thus 
the flesh of young animals is more tender than that of 
old ones. That of the entire male adult is coarser and 
tougher than that of the female. The meat of the bull 
and of the cow are familiar illustrations of this. The 
flesh of castrated animals is not only more delicate, 
more tender, and finer grained, but has a more agree- 
able odour and flavour than that of the uncastrated 
animal ; and a similar improvement in the flesh of the 
female is effected by the operation of spaying. The 



FLESH. 239 

flesh of lean animals is generally firmer than that of 
plump ones, in which the fibres are penetrated with 
fat. The mode of preparation for slaughter affects the 
tenderness of the meat Hunting, baiting, fighting, 
and whipping animals just before death, augments the 
tenderness of their flesh. With the exception of the 
first one, these barbarous and cruel practices are now 
justly exploded in the most civilized countries of the 
world. Another circumstance which promotes the 
tenderness of meat is incipient decomposition ; hence 
the flesh of most animals is kept for some time after 
death. 

With regard to digestibility, Dr. Beaumont* found 
that digestion is facilitated by minuteness of division 
and tenderness of fibre ; and retarded by opposite qua- 
lities. " Chymification," he observes, " is most readily 
effected on solid food, or rather on a soft solid, which 
is easily divisible into shreds or small particles. Such 
is particularly the character of venison, which is ascer- 
tained to be one of the most digestible substances. 
The qualities of looseness of texture and susceptibility 
of division belong to most of those wild meats and 
game which are generally acknowledged to be easy of 
digestion. Beef and mutton, of a certain age, possess 
similar qualities.'' 

As young meats are more tender than old meats, 
and as tenderness of fibre facilitates digestion, it might 
be expected that the flesh of young animals would be 
more digestible than that of old ones; and this 
inference is favoured by the experiments of Dr. 

• Op. ante cii. pp. 30 and 142. 



240 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Beaumont^ who found that roasted sucking-pig was 
more speedily digested than broiled pork-steak» and 
boiled fresh lamb sooner than boiled fresh mutton: 
though, on the other hand, veal proved less digestible 
than beef. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF MEATS. 



Articles qf Diet 



Mean Time of Ckffmification. 



In Stomach, 



PreparaiUm.\ H, M, 



Venison steak . . 

Pig, sucking . . . 

Lamb, fresh . . 

Beef, with salt only 
„ fresh, lean, raw 
„ steak . . . 

Pork, recently salted 

»» »> $t • 

Mutton, fresh . . 



ft 



tf 



Pork, recently salted . 
Pork-steak . . . . 
Mutton, fi-esh . . . 
Beef, fresh, lean, dry . 
„ with mustard, &c. 



ft 



tt 



tf 



Veal, fresh 
Beef, old, hard, salted . 
Pork, recently salted . 
Veal, fresh .... 
Pork, fat and lean . . 



Broiled 


i 


a5 


Roasted 


2 


30 


Broiled 


2 


30 


Boiled 


2 


45 


Roasted 


3 





Broiled 


3 





Raw 


3 





Stewed 


3 





Broiled 


3 





Boiled 


3 





Broiled 


3 


15 


Broiled 


3 


15 


Roasted 


3 


15 


Roasted 


3 


30 


Boiled 


3 


30 


Fried 


4 





Broiled 


4 





Boiled 


4 


15 


Fried 


4 


15 


Fried 


4 


30 


Roasted 


5 


15 



In PhiaU. 



PrtpturtMon* 



H. 



Roasted 
Masticated 
Raw 

Masticated 



8 
8 



Roasted 



12 



9 30 



15 
30 



6 45 



45 
30 



I 



Notwithstanding the preceding facts^ experience 
seems to shew that young meats frequently prove less 
digestible than old ones. Dr. CuUen *, after stating 
that young meat is universally more soluble than old, 
adds : ** There is, however, a difficulty which occurs 



* A Treatise on the Materia Mediea, vol. i. p. 358. 



FLESH. 241 

here. Although from their texture young meats are 
more soluble than old, and appear to be so in decoc- 
tions with water, yet in some stomachs the young 
meats are more slowly digested than old ; and thus 
in some persons veal is more slowly digested than 
beef, and lamb than mutton." 

Animal flesh is a plastic element of nutrition (see 
p. 31). Being identical, in composition, with our own 
flesh and blood, it requires neither addition nor sub- 
traction to render it nourishing j but in order that it 
may rea^h the different organs, it is necessary that it 
should be reduced to a liquid form (blood). 

"Muscular flesh," says Magendie*, "in which 
gelatine, albumen, and fibrine, are combined according 
to the laws of organic nature, and where they are asso- 
ciated with other matters, such as fats, salts, &c , 
suffices, even in very small quantity, for complete and 
prolonged nutrition." Dogs fed solely for 120 days 
on raw meat from sheeps* heads preserved their health 
and weight during this period ; the daily consumption 
never exceeding 300 grammes [= 4630 J^ grs. troy], 
and often being less than this quantity. But 1000 
gmmmes [= 15434 grs. troy] of isolated fibrine, with 
the addition of some hundreds of grammes of gelatine 
and albumen, were insufficient to support life. " What, 
then," exclaims Magendie, " is the peculiar principle 
which renders meat so perfect an aliment ? Is it the 
odorous and sapid matter, which has this function, as 
seems probable ? Do the salts, the trace of iron, the 



* Rapport fait H tAeadSnUe deM Sciences au nom de la Commisswn diie 
de la Oilatine. C<mpiei Rendut, AoAt, 1841. 

R 



242 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

fiitty matters, and the lactic acid, contribute to the 
nutritive effect, notwithstanding that they constitute so 
minute a portion of meat ?*' 

The alimentary qualities of the meats of ditierent 
species of mammals are unequally digestible and 
nutritive: but the digestibility of the same kind of 
meat is by no means uniform in different individuals. 
Venison, as I have already stated, is easy of digestion ; 
but it is generally considered to be more stimulating 
than other meats (e. g, mutton) \ and, therefore, less 
fitted for convalescents. Occasionally mutton disa- 
grees with certain individuals^. I know a gentle- 
man who has repeatedly had an attack of indigestion 
after the use of roast mutton; but I have reason 
to suppose that it was caused by the mutton fat, 
and probably, therefore, depended on the hircic acid 
(see p. 172). 

4. Ywera. — ^The brain, the tongue, the heart, the 
thymus, the liver, the kidneys, and the alimentary 
canal of quadrupeds, are employed as food. 

The following are the mean times of chymification 
of some of these, according to Dr. Beaumont's experi- 
ments : — 



* Dr. Prout (On tU Nahare and T\reaimeni of Stonutek and Uruuay 
Diteases, p. xxx. 3d ed.) knew an indiTidoal on whom mutton acted as 
a poison. He " could not eat mutton in any form. The peculiarity 
was supposed to be owing to caprice, and the mutton was repeatedly 
disguised, and given unknown to the individual ; but uniformly with the 
same result of producing violent vomiting and diarrhoea. And from the 
severity of the eflfects, which were, in fieust, those of a virulent poison* 
there can be little doubt that if the use of mutton had been persisted in, 
it would soon have destroyed the life of the individual." 



VISOEIU OF QUADRUPEDS. 



243 



AHieU$ Iff DUi^ 



Mean Time of Chymifieatvm. 



^j. 



Tripe, soused . . . 
Brains, ox's . . . 
Liver, oi's,.ft«sb • 
Spinal marrow, ox's 
Heart, animal . • 



lf» SionUteJL 



/H 



PreparatUni, 



H. 



Boiled 

Boiled 

Broiled 

BoUed 

Fried 



1 
1 
2 
2 
4 




45 


40 





Pr^parmHan. 



Boiled 
Cot fine 
Boiled 
Entire piece 



B.' 


Jf. 


4 


30 


6 


ao 


5 


25 


13 


30 



a. The brain contains about 80 per cent of water. 
Its other constituents are albumen and £eitty matters. 
The principal fat is cerebric acid. It exists free or 
combined with soda and phosphate of lime. 

COMPOSITIOK OF CEREBRIC ACHX 

Carbon 667 

Hydrogen . . » 10-6 

Nitroffen 2*3 

Phospnorus 0^ 

Oxygen 19-5 

100^ 

It differs, therefore, from ordinary fats in containing 
nitrogen and phosphorus. From the proteine* com- 
pounds it differs in containing so small a proportion 
of nitrogen (see p. 189). 

The other cerebral fats are oleophosphoric acid 
(which contains about 2 per cent, of phosphorus, and 
probably consists of oleine and phosphorus), oleine, 
margarine, small quantities of oleic and margaric 
acids, and cholesterine. 

In composition, then, brain may be regarded as in- 
termediate between ordinary fat and the proteinaceous 
substances. It appears, from Dr« Beaumont's ^xperi- 



244 COMPOCJND ALIMENTS. 

ments (see p. 242), to be somewhat more digestible 
than common fat. 

b. and c. — ^The tongue and heart of mammals are 
muscular organs (see p. 237 for the composition of 
the heart of the ox), and in their dietetical properties 
agree with the flesh of these animals. 

d. The thymus of the calf is employed as food, 
under the name of sweetbread. Its composition, ac- 
cording to Morin*, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF CALF'S SWEETBREAD. 

Albumen 14-00 

Osmazome 1*65 

Gelatine 6-00 

Peculiar animal fat 0*90 

Margaric acid 0*05 

Fibnne 8*00 

Wate r 70*00 

Thymus or Sweetbread 100*00 

A fresh sweetbread, when plainly cooked (by boil- 
ing) and moderately seasoned, forms a very agreeable 
and suitable dish for the convalescent; but when 
highly dressed, is improper both for dyspeptics and 
invalids. 

e. The liver of the ox has been analysed by Bra- 
connotfj who found its composition to be as fol- 
lows : — 

COMPOSITION OF THE LIVER OF THE OX. 

Vascular and cutaneous tissues 18*94 

Parenchyma (t. e. soluble parts) .... 81*06 



Liver 100*00 



* J<mm. de Chim. Mid, t iii. p. 450. 

t Atm. de Chmie et de Pkyeique, t, x. p. 189. 




VISCERA OF QUADRUPEDS. 245 

The parenchyma consisted of the following sub- 
stances : — 

Brown oil, containixig phosphorus . . 3*89 

White fatty flocculi P 

Nitrogenous matter 6*07 

Albumen 20*19 

Blood P 

Salts 1*21 

Water 68*64 

Parenchyma of the liver 100*00 

On account of the oily matter which it contains^ the 
liver of quadrupeds is not an appropriate food for in- 
valids, or for those whose stomachs are weak. More- 
over, the ordinary mode of cooking it (frying) ren- 
ders it still more inappropriate. 

f. The kidneys. — From Berzelius's experiments it 
appears that the solid part of the kidney is neither 
fibrine nor cellular tissue, but approaches nearer to 
the substance of which the fibrous coat of the arteries 
consists (see p. 209). The liquid portion of the kid- 
ney contains albumen and lactic acid. Berzelius 
could detect no urea in it. But the urinous odour 
which a cooked kidney presents is a sufficient evidence 
that it contains some of the essential constituents of 
this secretion. Dr. T. Thomson ^ states that urea haa 
been detected in the kidney. 

g. Alimentary Canal. — ^The stomachs of ruminants 
when prepared as food constitute tripe. Its principal 
organic constituents are albumen and fibrine. '^ Few 
things," says Dr. A. T. Thomson t> " are more readily 



• Animal Chemistry, p. 330. 

t The DomeiHe MoMgemefU qf the Sick Room, ]^. 433. 



246 COfCPOUND ALIMENTS. 

digested than tripe, when it is properly cooked. After 
partially boiling, in the usual manner, and also some 
onions in two waters, both should be slowly boiled 
together, until the tripe is very soft and tender. A 
sufficient quantity of salt, and a pinch or a few grains 
of cayenne pepper, may be added.** Dr. Beaumont's 
experiment, before quoted (see p. 243), also shews the 
ready digestibility of tripe. 

6. Blood. — ^Blood forms a greater or less consti- 
tuent of the flesh and viscera of quadrupeds, notwith- 
standing that in the ordinary mode of slaughtering 
these animals they are deprived of the greater part 
of their circulating fluid *. Among civflized nations^ 
the pig is the only animal whose blood furnishes a 
distinct article of food. Mixed with fat and aro- 
matics, and inclosed in the prepared intestines, the 
blood of this animal constitutes the sausages sold in 
the shops under the name of hlach puddings. 

The following table shows the mean composition of 
the blood of several animals employed as food, ac- 
cording to the analyses of MM. Andral, Gavarret, and 
Delafond f- 



* Some animals are bled to death; othen, after beiiy knocked 
down, have the vessels of their neck divided. By the Mosaic law the 
Jews are expressly forbidden to eat the blood of any beast or bird, or 
to partake of the flesh of any beast or bird, whose thioat has not been 
cut in order to drain off its blood. They are not to eat of any creature 
that dies of itself {LeviHcus, chapters 7, 11, and 17). ** Previously to 
boiling any meat they are required to let it lie half an hour in water 
and an hour in salt, and then to rinse off the salt with clean water. 
This is designed to draw out any remaining blood." (Allen, Modem 
Judaism, p. 420-21 , 2d ed. 1830.) 

t Annates de Chimie et de Physiqut, Z' s^rie, t. v. 



MILK. 



247 



MEAN COMPOSITION OF THE BLOOD OF THE OX, THE 

SHEEP, AND THE PIG. 



OmttiiueiUa. 


Oxen. 


Sheep. 


Pi§9 
offremtU 

eUL 

»«-- - - -« 


Merino. 


DUUeg 
Breed, 


Fibrine i • • 

Corpnscles 

Solid mattere of the serom . 
Water 


3-7 

99-7 

86-3 

810-3 


3-0 

101 1 

82-4 

813-5 


2-6 
950 
92-4 

810-0 


4-6 

105-7 

80-1 

809-6 


1000-0 


1000-0 


1000-0 


1000-0 



The composition and alimentary properties of fibrine 
have already been stated (see pp. 187-189). I have 
also given the composition of the blood corpuscles 
according to Denis (see p. 191, foot-note). Their 
alimentary properties are similar to those of albumen 
and other proteinaceous substances. 

The solid matters of the serum of the blood consbt 
of albumen (see pp. 187-193), which constitutes more 
than iV of their weight, of fatty matters (see p. 177, 
foot-note), of, according to Denis, two colouring mat* 
ters (yellow biliary matter and traces of a blue 
substance), and, lastly, various salts (viz. alkaline 
chlorides, alkaline carbonate, phosphate, and sulphate, 
carbonates of lime and magnesia, and phosphates of 
lime and magnesia). 

The nutritive quality of blood ib equal to that of 
flesh, with which it is identical in composition (see 
p. 238). 

6. Milk. — On account of its liquidity milk ought, 
perhaps, to be placed amongst Drinks ; but inasmuch 
as it contains, in solution and suspension, a large 



248 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

quantity of alimentary matter ; as it constitutes the 
sole food of mammals during a certain period of their 
life, after birth ; and, lastly, as it yields some solid 
alimentary substances (butter, cheese, and sugar of 
milk), it will be, on the whole, most convenient to 
notice it here. 

Milk, or, to be more precise in our descriptioUf 
Corves Milk, is an opaque, white emulsive liquid, with a 
bland, sweetish taste, a faint peculiar odour, and a 
specific gravity of about 1'030 : the latter property, 
however, is subject to considerable variation. When 
recently drawn from the animal it is slightly alkaline 
(see p. 193). Subjected to a microscopical examina- 
tion, it is observed to consist of myriads of excessively 
minute globular particles floating in a serous liquid. 
These particles are butter. They instantly disappear, 
by solution, on the addition of a drop of caustic 
alkali ; and they may be separated by filtration, — the 
filtered liquor being transparent. Being specifically 
lighter than the liquor in which they are suspended, 
they readily separate by standing. They rise to the 
surface, carrying with them some caseine, and retain- 
ing some of the serum, thus forming cream. The 
milk from which the cream is separated is termed 
skimmed milk. 

Milk has been the subject of repeated chemical 
investigation. The following is the composition of 
several kinds of milk, according to the very elaborate 
experiments of MM. O. Henri and Chevallier * pub- 
lished in 1839. 



* Journal de Pharmacies t. xxv. p. 340. 



MILK. 240 

MUkqftU 

/ ^ 

OmHUmtnti, CW. jiu. Wvmtm. Ooat. Ewe. 

Caseine .... 448 1-82 1-52 4-02 4*50 

Butter 3-13 0-11 3-55 3-32 4-20 

Sugar of MOk . . 477 608 6-50 5-28 5-00 

Various Salts . . 0-60 0-34 0-45 0-58 0-68 

Water 8702 91-65 87*98 86-80 85-62 

Total ..... 100-00 100-00 100-00 100-00 100-00 
Solid substances . 12*98 8-35 13-00* 13-20 14-38 

But the relative proportions of the constituents of 
milk vary with the quality of the food, the age of the 
animal, and the period after parturition. The follow- 
ing table, taken from the memoir of the last men- 
tioned chemists, shows the influence of food. 



COMPOSITION OF COWS MILK. 

Kmdo/Food. 



Caseine 

Butter 

Sugar of MUk 

Salts 

Water 


CioroU, 

4-20 . . 
3-08 . . 
5-30 . . 
0-75 . . 
86-67 . . 


Beet. 

. . 3-75 
. . 2-75 
. . 5-95 
. . 0-68 
. 86-87 


Total .... 
Solid substances . 


100-00 . . 
13-33 . . 


. . IOO<X) 
. . 13-13 



MM. Boussingault and Le Bel f have also made a 
series of experiments to determine the efTect of various 
kinds of food upon the quantity and quality of the 
milk given by cows. Some of their results have 
been before noticed (see ante, p. 193). 

I have already considered the composition and ali- 
mentary qualities of butter (pp. 168-181), and of 
caseine (pp. 187,188, 193-198.) 



* According to the preceding data the quantity of solid substances 
in woman's milk is 12-02 ; but 13*00 is given in the memoir quoted, 
and 1 have no means of discovering where the error exists. 

t Ann. d0 Ckim. et de Physique, t. Ixxi. p. 65. 



250 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Sugar of Milk, in its nutritive qualities, is similar 
to saccharine substances in general, and which have 
been already stated (see pp. 112-121). In its che- 
mical properties it is allied to gum. Its alimentary 
uses are precisely similar to those of whey. Dissolved 
in skimmed cow*s milk, I have occasionally employed 
it in consumptive cases, where unskimmed milk disa- 
greed with the stomach. The homoeopatiiists use it 
as the vehicle (exdpiens vd constituens) for the exhi- 
bition, in a pilular (globular) form, of small doses of 
their remedies ; as they object to the use of common 
sugar, for this purpose, on account of the lime which 
it contains. 

The saline constituents of milk have been slightly 
alluded to (see p. 193). According to Schwartz * the 
following is the composition of the ashes of cow*s 
milk. 

COMPOSITION OF THE ASHES OF 100 PARTS OF COW'S 

MILK. 

Soda (in milk combined with lactic acid) . 0*01 15 

Chloride of potaanom 0-1350 

Phosphate of soda ^ 0*0225 

Phosphate of lime 0-1805 

Phosphate of magnesia 0*0170 

Phosphate of iron 0*0032 

0*3697 

But according to Berzdius the lactic cuud is com- 
bined with potash. 

Cream of cow's milk has a variable specific gravity : 
perhaps the average is 1*2044. According to the 



Gmclin, UandJlmch der theoretUchem Ckemie, vol. 2, p. 1404. 



MILK. 251 

analysis of Berzelius, it has the following compo- 
sition : 

COMPOSITION OF CREAM OP COW'S MILK. 

Butter 4*5 

Caseine or curd 3'5 

Whey 92-0 

100-0 

The upper stratum of cream is richer in butter, 
the lowest in caseine. By agitation, as in the process 
called chuminfff the fatty globules unite to form butter : 
the residue, called buUter-milky consists of caseine, 
serum (whey), and a little butter. 

Skimmed milky like cream, has a variable specific 
gravity : perhaps the average is 1*0348. If left to 
itself, it readily acquires acid properties ; white coagula^ 
commonly called curds, separate from it. If an acid 
or rennet (the infusion of the fourth or true stomach 
of the calf) be added to skimmed milk, this change is 
immediately produced. The curd separated by 
rennet is the caseine. But after rennet has ceased to 
produce any more coagula, acetic acid will cause a 
further quantity to be formed. The curd thus sub- 
sequently separated by the acid is known by the 
various names of zie^er, serai, ricotta, and bracotte. 
It is probably nothing else than uncoagulated caseine 
united to acetic acid. The tvhey left after the separar 
tion of the caseine and zi^er^ yields^ on evaporation, 
sugar of mUk, one or more nitrogenous substances 
(osmazome), Uwtic acid, and salts. 

The following table shews the composition of several 
domestic preparations of milk : — 



252 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

COMPOSITION OF MILK. 

CONSTITUENTS. 

(loUdfiit \. Margarime, 

' Batter . . . . < /S. Bu^rMne, 

/CreuD...- ^"^« jtott. 

^*^""** } ■emm or whey. 

VWheyorse-J 

mim I 



MlLK^ 



rennet 6. Catebte. 

7. ZUgtr or Serai. 



Skimmed 

milk .. I ^aaccbarine matter 8. Sugar of MWt. 

aaotiied matter 9. Otmazoime. 

„,^ /ioluble in alcohol .. 10. A X ka hne and earthy lac- 

"*™ taieeaadokoepkatet. 

\ialts-| ioliible in water, not 11. AOiaBn^ nuphate and 

I in alcohol phoapkatee. 

Vinaolnble in water .. IS. Earthgaadfermgiaoae 

pkoepkaiee. 

The morbid changes produced ui the quality of the 
milk by diseased conditions of the cows, have recently 
attracted considerable attention in Paris, owing to the 
prevalence of a malady, called the cocote, among the 
cows in that capital *. Those which have been recog- 
nised are want of homogeneousness, imperfect mobility 
or liquidity, capability of becoming thick or viscid on 
the addition of ammonia, and the presentation of, when 
examined by the microscope, certain globules (aggluti- 
nated, tuberculated or mulberry-like, mucous or pus 
globules) not found in healthy milk f. Labillardi^re X 
states that the milk of a cow, affected with a kind of 
tubercular phthisis (pammeliere) contained seven times 
more phosphate of lime than usual ; and Dupuy also § 



• See Journal de Pkarmacie, vol. zxv. p. 301-318. 

t Reekerche$ miero$copiqwe$ sur divers laits obtenus de vaehee pius ou 
tnohu affectiee de la Maladie qtd a rigni pendant VHwer de 1828 ^ 1839, 
et designee tnUgairement sous la dhumunation de Cocote, par M. Tarpin, 
in the Mhnobres de VAeadimie Roffale des Seienees de P Institute t. xvii. 
Parin, 1840. 

} Dkt. Mat. Mid. iv. 23. 

§ Quoted by Andral, Treat, on Path. Anatomy, Engl Transl. vol. i. 
p. 675. 



MILK. 253 

speaks of the large quantity of calcareous matter in 
the milk of cows, in whose lungs abundant deposits of 
the same substance were found. 

Good milk is quite liquid and homogeneous ; not 
viscid; and, when examined by the microscope, is 
found to contain only spherical transparent globules, 
soluble in alkalies and ether. Moreover, good milk 
yields a flocculent precipitate with acetic acid, but is 
not coagulated by heat. The relative quantity of 
cream, which it affords, is estimated by a glass tube 
divided into 100 parts. Such an instrument is called 
a lactometer. The thickness of the layer of cream 
which, in a few hours, forms at the top of the milk, 
may be easily read off. I have repeatedly submitted 
the milk supplied to me by a respectable dealer in this 
metropolis, to examination by the lactometer, but the 
results have been very unsatisfactory, as the quantity 
of cream which I procured varied from 5 to 23 per cent 
by measure. I subjoin a few results obtained in 
November 1840 : — 

QUANTITY OF CREAM IN COW'S MILK. 

100 Parts hf meamtre QftanHty of Cream 

of Muk, hjf wteature. 

1840, November 6,— Morning 11^ 

„ Afternoon .... 5 

„ 7, — Morning 10 

,, Afternoon .... 164 

8, lOj 

„ 10, 8 

„ «7 23 

.. 18, 23 

The milk yielded by an Aldemey cow, belonging to 
a gentleman in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel, 
yielded 17i percent, (by measure) of cream. 

The following table of the quantity of cream con-^ 



254 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



tained in the milk supplied by contract to the Liondon 
Hospital, has been kincQy furnished me by Mr. 
Macmeikan, the apothecary to that establishment. 
The specific gravity was, for convenience, ti^en by 
the urinometer. 



SPECIFIC GRAVITY AND PROPOKTION OP CREAM ON 
MILK SUPPLIED TO* THE LONDON HOSPITAL. 



IM». 


Spet^OraHtf, 


Cr$mm, 


Tmipera- 


1842. 








Sept 12 . . 


1-023 


9 


-M 


13 . . 


1-030 


5 


m^ 


14 . . 


1-026 


5 


_ 


15 . . 


1-025 


5 


..^ 


16 . . 


1-030 


5 


62 


17 . . 


1-026 


4^ 


62 


18 . . 


1030 


5* 


62 


19 . . 


1-027 


H 


63 


20 . . 


1-026 


si 


61 


21 . . 


1026 


5 


60 


22 . . 


1*026 


5 


62 


23 . . 


1-027 


^ 


62 


24 . . 


1-026 


5^ 


.M 


25 . . 


1-027 


4* 


.. 


26 . . 


1«025 


4« 


64 


27 . . 


1-028 


4 


64 


28 . . 


1-028 


? 


_ 


29 . . 


1-027 


5 


^_ 


Oct. 1 . . 


1-030 


5 


... 


2 . . 


1-027 


7 


^_ 


3 . . 


1-028 


6 


__ 


4 . . 


1027 




..^ 


5 . . 


1-030 




^^ 


6 . . 


1-027 




_ 


7 . . 


1-029 


7* 


^^^ 


8 . . 


1-028 


— 


26 days. 


1 


Avenge f 
quantity ^5^ 






1 


of cream 9 





Donn6* says ordinary cow's milk should furnish 



1842. 



am Min$ mm Im AtmUn i'Blmt Ub Et^amg mmomuHUs. 



MILK. 255 

1 2 to 1 5 per cent, of cream,— woman^s milk, of good 
quality, 3 per cent, — and ass's milk fr<xn 1 to 2 per 
cent. 

The influence which many medicines, taken by the 
parent, have over the offspring, is a circumstance 
known to every nurse,, though CuUen denies it. We 
can modify the colour of the milk by mixing saffron or 
madder with the food ; the odour may be affected by 
various cruciferous and alliaceous plants ; the taste 
may be altered by the use of bitters, as wormwood ; 
and lastly, the medicinal effect may be also influenced. 
Children may be salivated by sucking nurses under the 
influence of mercury, or purged by the exhibition of 
drastics, or narcotised by the administration of opiates 
to the nurse. These facts are so fiamiliar to every one, 
that further evidence of them is scarcely requisite. 
Mental emotions also affect the quality of the milk. 
Thus the action of the bowels of the child are fre« 
quently disordered in consequence of some sudden 
emotion on the part of the mother. 

The quality of the milk is also affected by the state 
of health of the female supplying it. I have already 
mentioned the effect of tubercular disease of the lungs 
in increasing the quantity of phosphate of lime in the 
milk (see p. 252). This subject is one of the greatest 
moment^ not only in reference to the frequency of dis^ 
ease in cows, and, therefore, to the possible morbific 
character of their milk, but also in reference to the 
milk of the human subject. I think, with these facts 
before us, it would be highly improper to allow a 
female, with any trace or suspicion of tuberculous dis- 
ease, to suckle. Not that a few grains, more or less. 



256 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

of phosphate of lime in the milk, can probably do any 
injury to the child ; but the fact once established, that 
the milk may be thus altered by disease, leads to the 
suspicion that some other substances, not yet recog- 
nised by their physical or chemical characters, may be 
in the milk of diseased nurses, and which may have 
an injurious influence on the child; and the suspicion 
does not confine itself to those affected with tubercu- 
lous diseases : other hereditary or constitutional affec- 
tions may also be attended with altered conditions of the 
milk. This suspicion is strengthened by the common 
observation that the milk of different nurses does not 
equally suit the same child ; nor that of the same 
nurse, different children. 

Milk being furnished by nature as the only food for 
the young mammal, during a certain period of his 
existence, contains all the elements necessary for the 
nutrition and growth of the body. 

Out of the caseine of milk are formed the albumen 
and fibrine of the blood, and the proteinaceous and 
gelatinous tissues (see p. 147). The butter serves 
for the formation of fat, and contributes, with the 
sugar, to support the animal heat by yielding carbon 
and hydrogen to be burnt in the lungs. The earthy 
salts are necessary for the developement of the 
osseous system ; the iron is required for the blood 
corpuscles and the hair ; while the alkaline chloride 
furnishes the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. 

Milk is in general readily digested by children, un- 
less it contain too large a quantity of nutritious matter*, 

• See Payen, Joum, de Chim, Mid. U iv. p. 118. Also Donn4, Con^ 
seiU aux Mires $ur la Maniire d'Elever let Enfans nouveau-nis. 1842. 



MILK. 



267 



when it is apt to induce various disorders of the diges- 
tive organs (vomiting, griping, &c.) It frequently 
disagrees with adults. With some it proves heavy and 
difficult of digestion, owing to its oily constituent 
(butter). With such, ass*s milk (which contains 
very little butter), or skimmed cow*s milk usually 
agiees. The foUowmg table of the digestibility of 
milk, &c. is taken from Dr. Beaumont's work : — 



ArticUi qf Diet. 


Mean Time qf ChynUfieatUm. 


In Stomach. 


HniaU. 


PrepantUm. 


H, M. 


PttptB^tfiiCH^ 


H. M. 


Milk 

Milk 

Butter 

Cream 


Boiled 

Raw 

Melted 


2 

2 15 

3 20 

i 


Boiled 
Raw 

Raw 


4 15 
4 45 

25 30 



Pure milk injected into the veins exerts no delete- 
rious effects except in the horse *. 

Milk is a very useful and valuable article of food 
as well for the adult as for the child,— and for healthy 
individuals as for invalids and convalescents. The 
principal drawback to its employment, in many cases, 
is the difficult digestibility of its fatty constituent 
(butter). Under the name of Milk Diet it is ex- 
tensively employed, in conjunction with farinaceous 
substances and light puddings, with great benefit in 
many maladies. (See the article MUk Diet, in a sub- 
sequent part of this work.) 

Whey is an excellent diluent and nutritive. It may 



* Donn^, Comptes ReuimSt 1841. 

S 



258 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

be used in febrile and inflammatory complaints. It is 
usually prepared by means of rennet * ; and when 
thus procured may be denominated Rennet Wlietfy in 
order to distinguish it from whey prepared by other 
methods. WJiiie Wine Whey, taken warm and com- 
bined with a sudorific regimen, acts powerfully on the 
skin, and is a valuable domestic remedy in slight 
colds and febrile disorders. Cream of Tartar Wliey 
is prepared by adding a quarter of an ounce of cream 
of tartar (bitartrate of potash) to a pint of milk. It 
may be diluted with water, and taken in febrile and 
dropsical complaints. It is refrigerant and diuretic. 
Alum Whey is made by boiling a quarter of an ounce 
of powdered alum with a pint of milk; then straining. 
It may be flavoured with sugar and nutmeg. This is 
a pleasant mode of exhibiting alum, and may be 
beneficially resorted to in disorders requiring the use 
of this astringent, as in lead colic, hemorrhages, and 
colliquative sweating. The dose is a wine-glassful. 
Tamarind Whey is prepared by boiling an ounce of 
tamarind pulp with a pint of milk, and then strain- 
ing. It is refrigerant, slightly laxative, and nutritive. 



* The term Rennet^ or Runneth is applied to the stomach of a suck- 
ing animal (as of the calf) preserved by means of salt. These terms are 
also applied to the liquid obtained by macerating this stomach in 
water. It is the gastric juice which is the effective agent in coagu- 
lating or cui-dling milk (see pp. 71 1 and 196). According to Deschamps 
(Joum, de Pharm» vol. xxvi. p. 412), liquid rennet contains hydro- 
chloric acid (in great quantity), butyric, caprdic, capric, and lactic acids, 
sal ammoniac, chloride of sodium (independently of that which has 
been added), magnesia (not as ammoniacal phosphate), soda (probably 
with the magnesia, as lactate), traces of a sulphate, phosphate qf lime, 
and a peculiar matter which he calls chymosine (from x^A^'i chyme, 
X^ftMffu, chymification). 



MILK. 259 

and may be exhibited in febrile disorders. Mustard 
Whey is prepared by boiling together half an ounce of 
bruised mustard seeds and one pint of milk, until the 
milk is curdled : then strain, to separate the whey. 
" This whey has been found to be a useful drink in 
dropsy : it stimulates the kidneys ; and, consequently, 
augments the urinary secretion. It may be taken in 
a tea-cupful at a time *." 

Milk and lime-tvater forms a very useful remedy in 
some irritable conditions of stomach arising from 
uterine and other maladies. It oftentimes proves a 
most effectual remedy for obstinate vomiting. I have 
likewise found it highly serviceable in the climacteric 
disease, or, what is technically known as '' a breaking 
up of the constitution." It nourishes, while it checks 
sickness and relaxation of bowels. One part of lime 
water may be taken with one, two, or three parts of 
milk according to circumstances. The milk com<* 
pletely covers the offensive taste of the lime water. 

Whey possesses slightly nutritive qualities: these 
it derives from the sugar of milk which it contains. 
It is devoid of all stimulating properties with reference 
either to the vascular or nervous systems. It, there- 
fore, forms a very agreeable and excellent diluent and 
slight nutrient in febrile and inflanmiatory complaints; 
and is well adapted for catarrhal and pulmonary 
affections, especially incipient phthisis, haemoptysis, 
atrophy, scrofula, and chronic disorders of the liver, 
and other digestive organs. It very gently promotes 



* Dr. A. T. Thomson, The Domestic Management qf the Sick Boon, 
p. 420. 



260 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

the action of the secreting organs, and in this way may 
prove useful in congestion of the liver and of other 
abdominal viscera. In various parts of Switzerland 
and Germany there are special establishments for the 
cure of chronic disorders by the use of pure or aro- 
matised whey (Molkencuren ; Cures de Petit Lait) . 
The whey is obtained from the milk of the cow, the 
goat, or the ass ; and is used as a drink, as a lavement, 
or as a bath. Its use is often associated with that of 
mineral waters; as at Salzbrunn, Reinerz, Kreuth, 
Gaiss, Weissbad, and many other continental water- 
ing places. 

Butter-milky when made from whole milk, differs 
from this in the absence of butter. As it contains the 
caseine, the sugar, and the salts of milk, it must pos- 
sess nutritive qualities. It is extensively used as an 
article of food by the lower classes in Ireland. It 
forms a very agreeable cooling beverage in febrile and 
inflammatory cases. As '^ it cannot be procured in 
London and other large towns, and not always in the 
country, the method of making it in small quantities, 
daily, should be understood. It is readily prepared 
by putting a quart of new milk into a bottle which 
will hold a gallon, corking the bottle, and covering it 
with a towel in such a manner, that, by drawing al- 
ternately each end of the towel, the bottle can be 
rolled upon a table. This movement should be con- 
tinued until such time as all the butter is separated, 
which is known by its appearing in clots or masses 
swimming in the milk. During the rolling, it is ne- 
cessary to open the bottle occasionally to admit fresh 
air into it, as that is essential for the formation of 



MILK. 261 

butter. When the process is finished, all the butter 
should be carefully separated from the butter-milk *.*' 
This may be drank ad libitum. 

The preparations of milk known as Corstorphin 
Cream, Devonshire Cream, or Clotted Cream, consist of 
cream and the coagulated curd. They are nutritive 
and delicious substances, but apt to disagree with 
dyspeptics on account of the butter which they 
contain. 

Having noticed the leading alimentary properties 
of milk, and its most frequently used preparations, it 
may be proper now to say a few words on the dis- 
tinctive properties of the different milks in most 
frequent use. - 

It will be seen by reference to p. 249, that Ewes' 
milk contains the largest amount of nutritive matter 
(caseine and butter) ; but on this account is less easy 
of digestion, and, therefore, unfitted for dyspeptics. 
Next to this is Goats' milk, concerning which the 
same remarks may be made. It is said to be useful in 
checking obstinate diarrhoea. Ass's milk is the least 
nutritive, but the most easy of digestion. With the 
exception of woman's milk, it is the richest in sugar 
of milk. In the convalescence from acute maladies, 
in consumptive cases, and chronic diseases of the 
digestive organs, it is a most valuable aliment. Its 
medicinal value seems to depend on the small quantity 
of butter and large quantity of sugar of milk which it 
contains. An artificial ass's milk may be prepared by 



• Dr. A. T. Thomson, The Ehmestie Management of the Sick Room, 



262 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

dissolving a couple of ounces of sugar of milk in a 
pint of skimmed cow's milk. Cow's milk is interme- 
diate, in nutritive and digestible properties, between 
goat's milk and ass's milk. Donne * says that it is the 
only milk which is either very feebly alkaline, often 
neutral, and sometimes slightly acid. The milk of the 
ass and the woman are always very obviously alkaline. 
He thinks that the cause of this peculiarity of cow's 
milk is referable to the fact that this milk is, to a cer- 
tain extent, an artificial production : that is, it is fur- 
nished by the animal long after the time of suckling 
its offspring, and it is well known that the milk 
varies in its qualities at different periods after the par- 
turition of the animal. 

CLASS n. AVES.-^BIRDS. 

This class of animals, like the preceding one, fur- 
nishes a very safe aliment to man, for none of the 
species are poisonous j and, accordingly, a very large 
number are employed as food. My remarks, however, 
will be directed to those in most frequent use in this 
country; — principally to the Conunon Fowl, the 
Pheasant, the Partridge, the Pigeon, the Duck, and 
the Goose. 

The fleshy viscera, and eggs of birds, are used as 
food. 

1. Flesh. — The composition of the muscular flesh 
of birds, according to the analyses of Mr. Brande 
and Schlossberger, has been already stated (see 



* Compies Rendus, 1841, p. 1064; also Conseils aux M^es, 1842. 



FLESH OF BIRDS. 263 

p. 231). " The flesh of birds," says the late Dr. 
Duncan, jun.* " differs very much in its sensible 
properties, not only in different kinds, but even 
in the different muscles of the same bird. The 
pectoral muscles which move the wings are drier and 
more tender than those which move the legs. The 
tendons of the legs are also very strong, and at a cer- 
tain age become bony ; but the flesh of the legs, 
when sufficiently tender, either from the bird being 
young, or from long keeping, or sufficient cookery, is 
more juicy and savoury than that of the wings. 
Of a few birds, especially the woodcock and snipe, 
the legs are at all times preferred to the breast. . In 
the black-cock, the outer layer of the pectoral muscle 
is of a dark-brown colour, while the inner is white. 
A similar difference is observed in many other birds, 
and perhaps it is general in a slight degree. The mus- 
cular organs of birds differ from those of quadrupeds 
in their flesh never being marbled, or having fat mixed 
with the muscular fibres." 

The muscles of those parts of the body most fre- 
quently exercised become firmer, harder, and tougher 
than those which are more rarely used. "That exer- 
cise produces strength and firmness of fibre," says 
Dr. Kitchener f, "is excellently well exemplified in 
the woodcock and partridge. The former flies most — 
the latter walks ; — the wing of the woodcock is al- 



* Supplement to the EncycloptBdia Britannica, art. Foad^ 
t CooJ^ i Oracle. 



304 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

ways very tough, — of the partridge very tender ; 
hence the old doggrel distich, — 

* If the Partridge had but the Woodcock's thigh, 
He'd be the best bird that e'er doth fly.' 

The breast of all birds is the most juicy and nutri- 
tious part.'* 

Castration improves the flesh of birds for the table, 
rendering it more tender and savoury. Of this we have 
an illustration in the capon (the castrated cock). 
Spaying exercises a similar mfluence over the female 
bird ; as in the poulard (the spayed hen). 

The flesh of the older and larger birds is in general 
coarser than that of the younger and smaller animals. 

Though great diversity exists in the flesh of diffe- 
rent orders of birds, yet no accurate distribution of 
those animals, founded on the kind of flesh, can be 
made, because, though the extremes are well marked, 
they run insensibly into each other. The usual di- 
vision is into four classes, as follows : 

a. The White-Jleshedy as the common fowl and the 
turkey. The meat of these animals is white, contains 
but little osmazome, when good is generally liked, 
and when young is exceedingly tender. Chicken 
flesh is, in general, easily digested. Dr. Beaumont * 
states that it is more difficult of digestion than beef. 
He says, that the texture of the chicken being closer 
than that of beef, the gastric j nice does not insinuate 
itself into the interstices of the muscular fibre so 



* Op, mpra cU. p. 122* 



FLESH OF BIRDS. 265 

readily as into beef, but operates entirely upon the 
outer surface, which it dissolves, as a piece of gum 
arabic is dissolved in the mouth, until the last particle 
is dissolved. 

Chicken flesh is nutritious, and is, perhaps, the 
least stimulating of animal foods. It is often retained 
on the stomach of invalids when other meats would 
be immediately rejected. Chicken broth is well 
adapted for irritable stomachs. 

b. The Dark-fleshed Game, as the grouse, and the 
black-cock. The flesh of the wild gallinaceous birds 
is darker coloured, firmer, richer in osmazome, some- 
what less digestible, and more stimulating, than that 
of the chicken. When sufficiently kept it acquires a 
peculiar odour, called fumet, and an aromatic bitter 
taste, most sensible in the back. In this condition it is 
said to be Hpe or highy and is much esteemed as a 
luxury. 

c. The Aquatic (including swimmers and waders), 
as the goose and the duck. The flesh of water fowl 
is mostly firm, penetrated with fat (which often ac- 
quires a rancid and fishy taste), and is more difficult 
of digestion. It forms, therefore, a less appropriate 
aliment for invalids. 

d. The Rapacious, as the hawk and the owl. None 
of these are eaten, partly, perhaps, from prejudice, 
and partly because those which touch carrion acquire 
a cadaverous smell. 

The following table contains Dr. Beaumonfs 
results respecting the digestibility of the flesh of 
birds. 



266 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



DIGESTIBILITY OF THE FLESH OF BIRDS. 



Articles of Diet, 


Alean Time of Chymification. 


In Stomach. 


In Phials. 


Preparation. 


H, M. 


Preparation. 


H. M. 


Turkey, wild .... 
„ domestic . . . 

Groose, wild 

Chicken, full ffrown . . 
Fowls, domestic . . . 

f, ,,..«.• 
Ducks, domestic . . . 

„ „•..*.. 


Roasted 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Fricasseed 

Boiled. 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Roasted 


218 

2-25 

2-30 

2-30 

2-45 

4-0 

40 

4-0 

4-30 


Masticated 


6-30 



2. Viscera. — Some of the viscera of birds are em- 
ployed as aliment. They constitute part of what is 
cajledy in the case of the goose and duck, giblets. 

a. The brains of birds are eaten at the table. In 
their chemical properties they resemble calves' brains. 
John says the cerebrum contains a larger quantity of 
fat (part of which is crystallisable) than the brain of 
the calf : the cerebellum of birds contains less water 
and no crystallisable fat. 

6. Gizzard. — ^This is the muscular or pyloric por- 
tion of the stomach. It consists of a very dense and 
firm muscular or fleshy texture, lined by a thick, 
hard, fibrous or tendinous membrane. On account of 
its density and hardness of texture, it is very slowly 
digested ; and hence is not adapted for persons with 
weak stomachs. Dr. Beaumont found that the gizzard 
of a chicken, introduced into the stomach of the 
Canadian, was not completely dissolved at the end of 
five hours, — the residuum, consisting principally of 
tendinous fascia, wcighe<l seven and a half grans. 



VISCERA OF BIRDS. 267 

c. Intestine. — In the woodcock, the intestine (called 
the trail) is, by epicures, considered a bonne bouche. 

d. Liver. — ^The liver of most birds is a favourite 
morsel. Its peculiar flavour it owes to the bile which 
it contains. Its oily constituent would seem to render 
it difficult of digestion ; but Dr. Beaumont found that 
it was almost as completely dissolved in the same time 
as the breast of a fricasseed chicken. 

I have already (p. 20) referred to the morbidly en- 
larged liver of the goose *, employed in the prepara- 
tion of the celebrated Pdtes de Foies gras de Stras- 
bourg. The principal agents in inducing it are ex- 
ternal heat, obscurity, inactivity, and cramming the 
animals with foodf. At Alsace, a trough in front of 
the animal is always kept " full of water, in which 
some pieces of wood charcoal J are left to steep" 
(Sonnini). In this way the liver becomes enormously 
enlarged, and oftentimes weighs one or two pounds ; 



♦ These livers were highly esteemed by the Romans, who effected 
their enlargement by cramming the animals as in modem times. 
Pliny {Hist, Nat. lib. x. cap. 27, ed. Valp.) tells us, that the honour of 
the discovery was contested for by Scipio Metellus and M. Seius. 

t The ordinary method of producing the disease at Strasburgh, I 
have before noticed (p. 20). For further details, the reader is referred 
to Sonnini {Nouv. Diet, (THist, Nat. art. Oie)y and to the article Foody 
in the Supplement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, 

X Liebig (Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiology, 
p. 133, 2d ed. 1842) observes, that " it is well known that charcoal 
powder produces such an excessive growth of the liver of a goose as 
at length causes the death of the animal." But there is no valid reason 
for supposing that charcoal has any thing to do with the effect in 
question : indeed it does not appear that this substance is used at 
Strasburgh ; for Tiedemann ( Untersuchungen u, das Nuhrungs-Bedurfniss, 
den NahrungS'T)rieb und die Nahrungs-Mittel des Menschen, p. 127, 1836), 
after describing the mode adopted in that city, adds, *' In other places 
charcoal powder is mixed with-the drink." 



268 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

while the animal is excellent for the table, and fur- 
nishesy during roasting, from three to five poimds of 
fat. The change thus induced in the liver is that 
known to pathologists by the name of fatty det/enera^ 
Hon*, in which the liver is very rich in a phosphoric 
oil. It is obvious, therefore, that these diseased livers 
must be difficult of digestion, and unfit for persons 
with delicate stomachs. Dr. Proutf has endeavoured 
to deter indolent and dyspeptic individuals from par- 
taking of them, by suggesting that they " cannot be 
supposed, in all instances, to assimilate them; and 
consequently run considerable risk in inoculating and 
converting their own livers, or other organs, into a 
similar mass of disease." 

3. Fat. — ^The composition of the fat of the goose, 
the duck, and the turkey, has been already stated (see 
p. 182). Goose Grease, when spoiled (by keeping?) 
has produced symptoms of poisoning j;. 

4. Eggs. — ^Both the white or glaire, and the yolk of 
6ggs> ^^ employed as food. 

a. White or Glaire of Eggs. — ^This is also termed 



* Cruveilhier, Diet, de Mid. et de Chir. prat t. viii. p. 326. — An 
analysis of a fatty liver has been published by Vauquelin (quoted by 
Mr. W. J. E. Wilson, in the Cycloptsdia qf Anatomy^ art. Uner\ *' from 
which the quantity of oily matter present may be fairly estimated 
thus : — in 100 parts he found. 

Oil 46 

Parenchyma 19 

Water 36 

100." 
t On the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Dueaus, 
p. 244. 1840. 

\ Christison, Treatise cm Pottofw, p. 593, 3d ed. 



EGGS. 260 

the Albumen of Eggs, or Ovalbumen. Its composition, 
according to Dr. Bostock, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OP WHITE OP EGG. 

Water 800 

Albumen 15*5 

Uncoagulable matter [mucus] 4*5 

1000 

Couerbe has extracted from the white of egg a 
peculiar non-nitrogenous principle, which he first 
called albuminin, but afterwards, oonin. 

The composition and dietetical uses of the white of 
egg have been previously stated (see pp. 186-188 and 
190-193). 

b. The Yolk of egg is a kind of yellow emulsion, 
consisting of oil suspended in water by means of al- 
bumen, and inclosed in a sac called the yolk bag. Its 
composition, according to Dr. Prout, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OP YOLK OP EGG. 

Water 5378 

Albumen 1747 

YeUowoil 2875 

10000 

According to Planche, the oil of yolk of eggs con- 
sists of stearine 10, oleine 90. Liebig states that 
cholesterine and iron may be detected in the yellow oil 
of the yolk. 

The albumen of the yolk is identical in its nature 
with that of the white. Dr. Prout ascertained by com- 
bustion the relative proportions of the fixed con- 
stituents of the white and yolk of three eggs. 
Assuming the weight of each egg to be 1000 grs. the 
proportions of the mineral substances were as fol- 
lows : — 



270 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



FIXED CONSTITUENTS OF EGGS. 



Sulphuric acid .... 
Phosphoric acid . . . 

Chlorine 

Potash, soda, and their } 

carbonates . . . . ^ 
Lime, ma^esia, and > 

their carbonates . . 5 


White of Egg. 


Yolk of Egg, 


Xo. 1. 


No. a. j No. 3. 


No. 1. 


No. 2. 


No.Z. 


0-29 
0-45 
0-94 

2-92 
0-30 


015 
0-46 
0-93 

2-93 
0-25 


018 
0-48 
0-87 

272 
0-32 


0-21 
3-56 
0-39 

0-50 
0-68 


006 
3-50 
0-28 

0-27 
61 


019 
400 
0-44 

0-51 
0-67 


4-90 


4-72 


4-57 


534 


472 


5-81 



Dr. Prout*s observations on the supposed produc- 
tion of lime during the incubation of the egg have 
been before noticed (see pp. 4 and 5, foot-note). 

Fresh or newly laid eggs, when lightly cooked, as 
when poached or very slightly boiled, are nutritive, and 
moderately easy of digestion. Dr. Pearson * has 
justly observed that, in general, the lightest as well 
as the simplest mode of preparing eggs for the table 
is to boil them only as long as is necessary to coagu- 
late slightly the greater part of the white, without 
depriving the yolk of its fluidity. Raw eggs are said 
to be gently laxative, and were formerly in repute in 
cases of jaundice and obstructed liver. When boiled 
hard, and especially when fried in butter, oil, or fat, 
they are less readily soluble in the gastric juice, and are 
commonly very difficult of digestion. Cooked in this 
way they prove injurious to persons whose stomachs are 
delicate, giving rise to various disorders of the digestive 
organs. These observations also apply to omelettes. 



A Practical Synopsis qfths Materia Alimtntaria. 1808. 



REPTILES. 



271 



pancakes^ fritters, and other dishes made with eggs 
and cooked by frying. Yet there are " instances of 
labouring people, and persons who use violent exer- 
cise, with whom eggs, hardened by boiling or frying, 
agree better than in the soft or liquid state" (Pearson). 
These, however, are exceptions to the general rule. 

The following are the mean times of the digestion 
of eggs, as observed by Dr. Beaumont : — 



DIGESTIBILITY OF EGGS. 



Articles of Diet. 


Mean Time of Chymification. 


In Stomach, 


In Phials. 


Preparation. 


a, M, 


Preparation. 


H. M. 


^SS^y whipped .... 
„ fresn 

II II 

II II 

II II 

II 11 ..... 


Raw 
Raw 
Roasted 
Soft boiled 
Hard bailed 
Fried 


1 30 

2 

2 15 

3 
3 30 
3 30 


Whipped 
Raw 

Soft boiled 
Hard boiled 


4 
4 15 

6 30 
8 



The raw yolk of egg is often taken whipped up in 
tea, as an agreeable and easily digestible aliment. 
Mixed with sugar, brandy, and a little cinnamon, it 
forms an exceedingly valuable restorative and stimu- 
lant (see Brandy Mixture, p. 162). Wine is some- 
times substituted for brandy. Flip is prepared with 
hot ale, eggs, nutmeg or ginger, and some ardent spirit 
(rum or brandy). 



CLASS III. REPTILI A." REPTILES. 

The number of reptiles employed by man as food 
is small ; indeed, the Green or Edible Turtle is the 



272 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

only one used in this country. The flesh of some of 
them, however, forms a delicious and wholesome ali- 
ment. When cooked, it resembles somewhat that of 
chicken or veal, is pale, aqueous, soft, rich in gelatine, 
poor in fibrine, and contains little or no osmazome. It 
is easily digestible and nutritive, and, by decoction, 
yields highly restorative broths, which have been much 
valued in consumptive and other maladies. The eggs 
of several are eaten as agreeable and nutritive articles 
of food. 

The Green, or Edible Turtle, above referred to, is 
greatly prized by the epicure. In the markets of 
Jamaica it is bought and sold like beef *. To the tro- 
pical navigator it is highly important as forming a valu- 
able article of food. The female with egg is most 
esteemed. In this country the principal use of the turtle 
is for the preparation of soup. An imitation (called 
mock-turtle) is prepared with the integuments (scalp) 
of the calf s head. The large shield of the turtle*s 
back (dorsal shield) is called by naturalists the Cara- 
pace, by cooks the Callipash (Callapash or Cali- 
pash) ; while the shield of the belly (ventral or 
sternal shield) is denominated by naturalists the 
Plastron^ by cooks the CaUipee (Calipee or Callepee). 
When these two shields have been removed from 
the animal, preparatory to dressing, they are 
scalded, to enable the cook to separate the scales f or 
shell. They are then boiled until the bones can be 



* Br. P. Browne's Hutory qf Jamaica, p. 465. 
t The scales of the dorsal shield are used for veneering ladies' work- 
boxes, and for other purposes. 



TURTLE. 273 

separated, the liquor being kept as a kind of stock. 
The softer parts of the shields (thus deprived of their 
bones) as well as portions of the fins, are, when cold, 
cut into square or oblong pieces, which constitute the 
favourite glutinous or gelatinous morsels in turtle 
soup; and which by turtle-eaters are often erro- 
neously supposed to be green fat. They considerably 
resemble the pieces of the scalp of the calf contained 
in mock-turtle. The pieces from the callipash are 
dark-coloured externally, and are sometimes called 
black or green meat : while those from the callipee are 
white externally. " The callepee, or under part of the 
breast or belly, baked," says Sir Hans Sloane*, " is 
reckoned the best piece." The Jlesh of the turtle is 
sometimes dressed at taverns, in London, as a steak : 
but it is more conamonly used in the preparation of 
soup. By boiling it becomes white, like veal or 
chicken. Besides contributing to flavour the stock, 
it is cut in small pieces and put into the soup. 
The viscera of the turtle are not used, in London, 
as food. But Sir Hans Sloane says that '' the livers 
are counted delicacies. Those who feed much on 
them," he adds, " sweat out a yellow serum, especially 
under the armpits." The fattj/ tissue (green fat) of 
the turtle is of a greenish yellow colour, and on this 
account the animal has been termed the green turtle. 
The lard or fat, when melted out of the tissue in which 
it is naturally contained, is of a warm yellow colour, 
and resembles, both in appearance and taste, marrow. 
It communicates a yellow tinge to the sweat of those 



* Jamaica t voL i. 
T 



274 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

who feed on it; "whence," says Sir Hans Sloane, 
" their shirts are yellow, their skin and face of the same 
colour, and their shirts under their armpits stained pro- 
digiously. This, I believe," he adds, ** may be one of 
the reasons of the complexion of our European in- 
habitants, which is changed, in some time, from white 
to that of a yellowish colour, and which proceeds 
from this, as well as the jaundies, which is common, 
sea air, &c. The fat is used in the preparation of the 
soup; but many of the turtles used in soup, in 
London, contain rery little fat. The green fat is 
said to communicate a green colour to the urine. 
Turtle is highly nutritious, and, probably, when 
plainly cooked, is easy of digestion ; but when taken 
in the form of the highly esteemed " turtle soup/' is 
very apt to disagree with dyspeptics. " Turtle," says 
Dr. P. Browne*, " is delicate, tender food, while 
young ; but, as it grows old, it grows more tough and 
gristly, and is not so agreeable to the stomach in those 
warm countries [Jamaica] ; the juices, however, are 
generally reckoned great restoratives." 

CLASS IV. PISCES.— FISHES. 

This class of animals yields an almost endless 
variety of food for man. It furnishes a much greater 
number of edible genera and species than any other 
class. From it, some nations derive their chief sus- 
tenance. The inhabitants of the most northern parts 
of Europe, Abia, and America, where but few ali- 



* T%€ Civil tmd Noiural History qf Jamaica. 



Fi&H. 279 

mentary plants are found, are oonrpelled to live almost 
exclusively on fish. 

In ancient times, fish formed the chief or sole nutri- 
ment of certain people, who were in consequence 
called Ichthyophagi (from lx(^i a fishy and f^yw^ / eat). 
Herodotus * says that there were three tribes of Baby- 
lonians whose food was fish. They prepared it thos^: 
having dried it in the sun, they beat it very small in 
a mortar, and afterwards sifted it through a piece of 
fine eloth ; they then formed it into cakes, or baked it 
as bread. In another place f he states, that with a 
considerable part of the Egyptians, fish constituted 
the principal article of food ; they dried it in the sun, 
and ate it without any other preparation. 

Some of the smaller and more delicate fishes are 
eaten whole^ as the White Bait|. Some are eaten 



• CUo, cc 

t Euterpe, xcii. 

X White Bait, formerly snpposed to be the fry of some other fisb, at 
the Shad, but now uniTersally admitted to be a disthict tpeclai 
{Clupea alba), is found in immense shoals, during the summar sear 
son, in the Thames, in the neighbourhood of Blackwall and Greenwich, 
to which places the London admirers of this delicacy repair to enjoy 
their favourite dish ; the fish-dinners of these places being proverbially 
excellent. Having had an opportunity of seeing the mode of cooking 
this fish, as practised at Lovegrove^s, at Blackwall, the following notice 
of the process may not, perhaps, be uninteresting : — 

I was informed that the fish should be cooked within an hour after 
being caught, or they are apt to cling together. Those which I saw 
cooked were contained in water in a pan, from which they were from 
time to time removed, as required, by a skimmer. They were then 
thrown on a stratum of flour contained in a lar|;e napkin, in whidi 
they were shaken until completely enveloped with flour. In this stats 
they were placed in a eollender, and all the superfluous flour removed 
by sifting. They were now thrown into hot melted lard, con- 
tained in a copper cauldron or stew- vessel placed over a chareoal fiir. 



376 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

whole, with the exception of the head* The skin, the 
flesh, and the viscera only, of others, are eaten. 

1. Integument. — The corium or true skin of fishes, 
as of many higher animals, is a gelatinous tissue (see 
p. 207) J but varies considerably in thickness in dif- 
ferent species. On account of their gelatinous nature, 
the skins of some fishes are used as food, and em- 
ployed for various purposes in the arts. Thus, by 
boiling, the skin of the Turbot and Ling becomes 
pulpy and gelatinous, and forms a rich and favourite 
nutriment j and various parts about the jowl of the 
Cod are much esteemed by epicures, on account of 
their gelatinous quality. Sole skins, when clean, 
sweet, and well prepared, are used as a substitute for 
isinglass m fining (see pp. 215, 218-219). Dr. 
Fleming says that the skin of the Cod is employed for 
the same purpose. Eel skins are used in the prepara- 
tion of size. 

2. Flesh. — ^The great bulk of the soft parts of fishes 
consists of voluntary muscles forming iheflesh, which 
are disposed upon the sides of the spinal column, — ^in 
four series on either side. They are soft, pellucid, 
and but little permeated with blood. 

The composition of the flesh of the Cod, Haddock, 
Sole, Carp, and Trout, has already been stated (see 
p. 231). It will be seen, by reference to the analyses of 



A kind of ebullition inunediately commenced, and in about two minutes 
they were removed by a tin skimmer, thrown into a cullender to 
drain, and served up by placing them on a fish-drainer in a dish. At 
table they are flavoured with cayenne and lemon juice, and eaten with 
brown-bread and butter ; — ^iced punch being the fsivourite accompanying 
beverage. 



FISH. 277 

Brande and Schlossberger, that fish-flesh contains 
more water than the flesh of either quadrupeds or 
birds. 

In many fishes the flesh is mixed with, or covered 
by, oily or fatty matter, as in the Salmon, the Herring, 
the Pilchard, the Sprat, and the Eel. This is more 
abundant in the thinner or abdominal parts than in 
the thicker or dorsal portions. Hence the thinnest 
part of salmon is preferred by epicures. After spawn- 
ing, the quantity of this oil is greatly diminished. 
But in the Cod, the fish of the Ray-kind, and some 
others, the liver is the only organ which contains fat ; 
the flesh being quite devoid of it. 

The flesh of the Smelt has been analysed by 
Morin *, who found its composition to be as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OP THE FLESH OP THE SMELT. 



Yellow phosphoric oil. 

Fibrine. 

Albumen. 

Gelatine. 

Osmazome. 

Mucus. 



Salts — viz. sal ammoniac, phos- 
phates of potash, lime, 
iron, and magnesia ; chlo- 
ride of potassium, carbo- 
nate of lime, and lactate 
of soda. 

Water. 



In the Cod and many other fishes, the muscles are 
arranged in more or less wedge-shaped masses, called 
JlakeSy which, after cooking, readily separate from each 
other, owing partly to the contraction of the muscular 
fibre, and partly to the solution of the interposed liga- 
mentous or tendinous matter. The white curdy 
matter observed between the flakes of boiled fresh fish 

* Journal de Pharmacie, t. yiii. p. 61 . 



276 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

k a film of albumen produced by the coagulation of 
the serous juices intervening between the muscular 
layers. 

In the flat or eel-shaped fishes^ the flesh has rather a 
fibrous than a flaky arrangement. 

The flesh of the Whiting, the Cod, the Haddock, the 
Sole, the Plaice, the Flounder, the Turbot, and xnamy 
other species, is white : hence they are termed White^ 
fish. The flesh of these fishes, when in season, becomes 
white and opaque by boiling j but, when the smimal is 
out of condition, it remains semi-transparent and 
bluish after being sufficiently cooked. 

The flesh of some species is coloured : thus that of 
the Salmon is pale-red. The higher the colour, the 
more higlhly the flesh of these fishes is esteemed. 

The flesh of the male fish, called the melter or sqfi^ 
roed, is in general considered to be superior to that of 
the female, called the hard-roed : at least this is 
certainly the case with the Salmon and the Herring. 

The flesh of fish is in the greatest perfection for 
food at the period of the ripening of the milt and the 
roe. It is then said to be in season. At this time, the 
flesh, especially of the thinner or abdominal part, of 
many fishes, as oif the Sahnon and Herring, abouads 
in oily matter, and possesses, ia the highest d^giee^ 
flavour and richness. But after the fish has deposited 
its spawn, the flesh beocHues soft» flabby, and inferior 
in flavour, owing to the disappearance of the oil or 
fat which has been consumed in the function of repro- 
duction. " The superiority of deep-sea herrings over 
those caught near the shore and in bays, arises,'' says 



FISH. 



279 



Dr. Fleming *, " from this circumstance. Tbe former 
are fat, while the latter have either recently spawned, 
or are nearly ready for spawning, and, consequently, 
lean." 

The digestibility of fish varies considerably in. dif- 
ferent species. The oily fishes are always moce 
difficult of digestion ; and, in consequence, are unfit 
for the use of invalids. Mdted butter, lobsternsauoe, 
shrimp-sauce, and egg-sauce, are very indigestible 
additions to fish : they are exceedingly obnoxious to 
the stomach, and should be excluded from the table 
of the invalid (see p. 174). Tlie digestibility of fish 
is also injured by frying them (see p. 173). 

The following are the mean times of digestion of 
several kinds of fiah, according to Dr. Beaumont's 
experiments : — 



DIGESTIBILITY OP PISH. 



Articles of Diet. 


Mean Time qf Chymification, 


In Stomach, 


InPhiak. 


PreparatUm, 


tim AMtf 


Preparation, H, M. 


Trout, Salmon, fresh . . 

fi »» »> • • 
Codfish, cured dry • . 

Flounder, fresh . . . 

Catfish, fresh .... 

Salmon, salted .... 


Boiled 

Fried 

BoUed 

Fried 

Fried 

Boiled 


1 30 

1 30 

2 

3 30 

3 30 

4 


Boiled 
Boiled 

BoUed 


3 30 
5 

7^45' 



Tlie Whitmg, the Haddock, the Sole, the Plaice, 
the Flounder, the Cod, and the Turbot, are devoid of 



• Phiioscph^ qf Zoology, vol. u. p. 373. 



280 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

oil or fat (except in their livers) ; and, therefore, be- 
long to the more easily digestible fish. They are also 
less stimulating to the system. On these accounts they 
are preferred to other species for the use of invalids. 
The Whiting and the Haddock are the most delicate 
and tender ; the Turbot and Cod the least so. The 
Whiting, sometimes called " the chicken of the sea," 
stands pre-eminent among them for its tenderness, 
delicacy, easy digestibility, and purity of flavour. 
The Haddock is very similar to the whiting, but has a 
firmer texture, and is inferior in flavour and digesti- 
bility. The Cod, when in good condition, yields an 
excellent food, but it is denser, less delicate, and pro- 
bably somewhat less easy of digestion, than either the 
whiting or haddock. Crimped cod is firmer, keeps 
longer, and has a better flavour, than that which is not 
crimped. The Dogger-Bank Cod is more flaky 
than the Scotch Cod, which is stringy or woolly *. 
Among flat fish, the Sole is distinguished for its 
tenderness, delicacy, and easy digestibility. The 
Flounder f and the Plaice, especially when small, 
are tender and delicate. The Turbot for flavour is 



* There are two well-marked varieties of the Cod, which are known 
respectively as Dogger-Bank and Scotch Cod, The first has a sharp 
nose, elongated before the eye, and the body of a very dark-brown 
colour : the second has a round blunt nose, short and wide before the 
eyes, and the body of a light yellowish ash-green colour. (See Yarrell's 
Brt^A Fiihet). 

t Dr. A. T. Thomson {Domestic Management qf the Sick Room, 
p. 434,) gives, under the head of " Cookery for the Convalescent," the 
following directions for the preparation of Water- Sonchy, — " Take two 
small Thames flounders, boil them in a quart of water to one-third, 
long enough to reduce the fish almost to a pulp. Strain the liquor 
through a sieve, and, having cut the fins off four other small flounders. 



FISH. 281 

justly regarded as "the prince of flat fish," but it is 
richer and less digestible than the flat fish just men- 
tioned. The gelatinous skin is especially unfit for 
delicate stomachs. The Brill, though an excellent 
fish, is inferior in flavour to the turbot, for which, 
however, it is sometimes substituted. 

Salmon, Eels, Herrings, Pilchards, and Sprats*, 
abound in oil, and are, in consequence, difficult of 
digestion, very apt to disturb the stomach, and ex- 
ceedingly injurious to the dyspeptic. Moreover, 
they prove stimulant to the general system. The 
thirst, and uneasy feeling at the stomach, frequently 
experienced after the use of the richer species of 
fish, have led to the employment of spirit to this kind 
of food. Hence the vulgar proverb that " Brandy is 
Latin for FwA." 

The flesh of fish is less satisfying to the appetite 
than the flesh of either quadrupeds or birds. As it 
contains a larger proportion of water (see p. 231,) it 
is obviously less nourishing f . A fish diet, therefore. 



put them into the above-mentioned liquor, with a sufficient quantity of 
salt, a few grains of cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of chopped 
parsley ; and boil just long enough to render the fish proper to be 
eaten. The fish and the sauce should be eaten together. — If flounders 
are not in season, soles or whitings, or small haddocks, may be pre- 
pared in the same manner. — I know few dishes which are so much 
relished as this is by convalescents from fever. I have heard invalids 
ask for it daily for ten or more days. — In advanced convalescence, the 
yolk of one or two eggs may be beaten up with a little soft water, and 
added to the strained liquor before the fish is put into it." 

* In the Standard of Feb. 9, 1842, is a notice of an inquest held 
on the body of a person whose death was caused by the use of sprats. 

t Haller (Elem. PkyM., xix.) found himself weakened by a fish diet ; 
and he states that persons are generally debilitated by Lent diet. 
Pechlin {Ob$ervat. physico-medica, Hamburgi, 1691, p. 513), also states 



282 COMPOUNJ) ALIMENTS. 

18 less substantial than either butcher's meat or poultry. 
Medicinally^ we employ it, when the digestive powers 
are unable to assimilate stronger kinds of aliments, or 
when it is considered desirable to avoid the stimulus 
which butchers' meat communicates to the system. 
"The jockeys who waste themselves at Newmarket, in 
order to reduce their weight, are never allowed meat, 
when fish can be obtained ^.'' 

It is an ancient and popular notion that the frequent 
employment of fish is favourable to the powers of 
generation ; and that those who live principally on 
this kind of food are unusually prolific f. These 
effects have been ascribed to the oil contained in fishes, 
the phosphorus of which possesses aphrodisiac pro- 
perties. That the frequent use of those fish which 
abound in phosphoric oil may have an exciting effect 
on persons previously unaccustomed to this kind of 
diet, I am neither prepared to admit nor to deny. But 
there is, I think, sufficient evidence to prove that the 



that a mechanic nourished merely by fish had less muscular power 
than one who lived on the flesh of warm-blooded animals. Dr. CuUen 
(Mat, Med. vol. i. p. 390), however, maintained that the nutritive powers 
of fish are nearly, if not quite, equal to those of meat ; and in support 
of his opinion he states that he has known " several instances of per- 
sons who felt no weakness from a Lent diet, when a g^reat deal of fish 
was taken ;" and he further observes that there are *' several instances 
of villages inhabited almost only by fishers, and who, therefore, live very 
much upon this sort of aliment, but in whom no diminution of health 
or vigour appears." His evidence, however, is by no means satisfac- 
tory. But to avoid the fallacies attendant on appeals to experience, I 
have relied, in the text, on the chemical composition of fish, as an 
evidence of their inferior nutritive power. 

• A TVeiKMe on Diet, p. 210-21 1, 5th ed. 1837. 

t Montesquieu (QSwres Cwnpletes, U 51-2, 1767), mentions, as in- 
stances in point, the Japanese and Chinese. 



FISH. S83 

ichthyophagous pe(^>}e are not more prolific thaa 
others. *^ In Greenland, aiMi among the Esquimaux/' 
says Foster ^, " where the natives live chiefly upon 
fish» seals^ and oily animal substances, the women 
seldom bear children oftener than three or four times : 
five or six births are reckoned a very extraordinary 
instance. The Pesserais, whom we saw, had not 
above two or three children belonging to each familyy 
though their common food consisted of muscles, fish, 
and seal flesh. The New Zealanders absolutely feed 
on fish, and yet no more than three or four children 
were found in the most prolific families ; which seems 
strongly to indicate that feeding on fish by no means 
contributes to the increase of numbers in a naticm." 

Another ill effect ascribed to fish diet is the pro- 
duction or augmentation of skin diseases, especially 
leprosy and elephantiasis. This notion is a very 
andent one, and probably has some foundation in 
fact. It is not improbable that it was, in part at least, 
the origin of the prohibition from eating fish, under 
which the Egyptians laboured f ; as well as of the 
Mosaic law, that fish without fins and scales must not 
be eaten J. 

Some species of fish, especially in tropical climates, 
possess poisonous properties, either at all times or at 
certain seasons ; or to all persons or only to particular 
individuals. The subject, however, is veiled in great 



* Observations made during a Voyage Round the World, p. 315. 

Loud. 1778. 

t Herodotus (Euterpej xxzvii.) Perhaps the supposed aphrodisiac 

effect of fish may have been one of the causes of the prohibition. 

t LeviHcus, ch. zi. verse ix^xii. 



284 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

obscurity. Sometimes the symptoms are allied to 
those of cholera. An eruption (often resembling 
nettle-rash); and various nervous symptoms (as trem- 
bling or convulsive twitches of the limbs, paralysis, 
and stupor), are occasionally observed. These poi- 
sonous effects have been variously ascribed to the 
aliment on which the fish have fed, — to disease in 
the fish, to the putrefaction of the fish, and to the 
idiosyncrasy of the patient : but none of these hypo- 
theses are satisfactory. 

" For dietetical uses, fishes have frequently to un- 
dergo some sort of preparation, varying according to 
the situation, the necessities, or the taste of the con- 
sumers. When circumstances permit, they are in 
general used in a fresh state; and in large cities, 
where the supply must be brought from a distance, 
various expedients are resorted to, to prevent the 
progress of putrefaction. By far the best contrivance 
for this purpose is the well-boat, in which fish may be 
brought to the place of sale even in a living state. 
Placing the fish in boxes, and packing with ice, is 
another method, and has been extensively employed, 
particularly in the supply of the capital with salmon. 

" In many maritime districts, where fish can be got 
in abundance, a species of refinement in taste, or at 
least a departure from the simplicity of nature, pre- 
vails, to gratify which, the fish are kept for some days, 
until they begin to putrefy. When used in this state 
they are far from disagreeable, unless to the organs of 
smell. Such fish are termed by the Zetlanders blanm- 
fish. 

" Where fish are to be procured only at certain sea- 



FISH. 286 

sons of the year, various methods have been devised 
to preserve them during the periods of scarcity. The 
simplest of these processes is to dry them in the sim. 
They are then used either raw or boiled, and not un fre- 
quently, in some of the poorer districts of the north of 
Europe, they are ground into powder, to be afterwards 
formed into bread. 

" But by far the most successful method of preserv- 
ing fish, and the one in daily use, is by means of salt. 
For this purpose they are packed with salt in barrels, 
as soon after being taken as possible. In this manner 
are herrings, pilchards, cod, and salmon preserved, as 
well as many other kinds of esculent fish. 

" The fish, in many instances, after having been 
salted in vessels constructed for the purpose, are ex- 
posed to the air on a gravelly beach, or in a house, and 
dried. Cod, ling, and tusk, so prepared, are termed, 
in Scotland, salUjish. Salmon in this state is called 
kipper ; and haddocks are usually denominated by the 
name of the place where they have been cured. 

" After being steeped in salt, herrings are, in many 
places, hung up in houses made for the purpose, and 
dried with the smoke of wood. In this state they are 
sent to market, under the name of red^herrings^ 

" Although salt is generally employed in the preser- 
vation of fish, whether intended to be kept moist or to 
be dried, vinegar in certain cases is added. It is used, 
in this country at least, chiefly for the salmon sent 
from the remote districts to the London market. It 
can only, however, be employed in the preservation of 
those fish to which this acid is served as a sauce ^." 

• Fleming's PkUosophy qf Zoology, vol. ii. p. 371-2. 



286 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

By drying, salting, smoking, and pickling, the 
digestibility of fish is greatly impaired ; though, in 
some cases, their savoury, stimulating, and even nu- 
tritive qualities, may be augmented. Driedy salted^ 
smoked, and jncJded fishy therefore, are totally unfit for 
dyspeptics and invalids. By drying, part of the 
water is got rid of, and thereby the relative propor- 
tion of solid or nutritive matter is augmented: but 
the fish is more difficult of digestion. Salt-fish ex- 
cites thirst and feverish sjHDfiptoms. Smoked-fish, as 
smoked-sprats, sometimes prove injurious. '^Putrid 
pickled scJmon * has occasioned death in this country ; 
and I may mention," says Dr. Christison f , " that I 
have known most violent diarrhoea occasioned in two 
instances by a very small portion of the oily matter 
about the fins of Kipper or smoked salmon, so that 
I have no doubt a moderate quantity would produce 
very serious effects." 

3. Viscera. — Several of the viscera of fishes are used 
as aliments ; as the Liver, the Swimming Bladder, the 
Roe or Ovary, and the Milt or Testicle. 

a. The Liver. — ^The livers of fishes always abound 
in oil. In the Cod, the Whiting, the flat fish, and 
some others, this is the only organ which contains oil. 
Though the livers of some fishes, as the Cod and 



• '* The three inditpenaabU marks of the goodness of Piekied Saknoa 
are, Ist The brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the 
skin; 2ndly. The firmness of the flesh; and, Srdly. Its fine pale-red 
rose colour:— without these it is not fit to eat, and was stale either be- 
fore it was pickled, or has been kept too long after" (Dr. Kitoheneri 
CooVi Oracle). 

t Treatise on Poi$an$y p. 503. 3cd cd. 



FISH. 387 

Barbot, are much admired as articles of food, yet they 
are not adapted for invalids and dyspeptics, on account 
of their fatty nature. The oil obtained from the liver 
of the Cod (Cod ail) is celebrated in obstinate rheu- 
matic, gouty, and scrofulous maladies, as well as in 
chronic skin diseases. Dr. Ure^ has suggested the 
adoption of cod livers as a diet for patients who are 
recommended to take the oil, which, on account of its 
nauseous flavour, is very objectionable. In order to 
prevent the loss of oil during the process of cooking, 
^' he recommends the livers to be inunersed entire in 
boiling water, to which a sufficient quantity of salt has 
been added, to raise the boiling point about 220"* F. 
The sudden application of this high temperature coagu- 
lates the albumen of the liver, and prevents the escape 
of the oil. When the liver is cut, the oil exudes, and 
mashed potato may be used a^ a vehicle." 

The constituents of cod-liver oil are stated to be as 
follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF CODLIVER OIL. 



Fatty matter (oleic and mar- 
garic acids combined with 
glycerine.) 

Resm. 

Gelatine. 

Colouring matter. 



Chlorides of calcium and so- 
dium. 
Sulphate of potash. 
Iodide of copper. 
Bromide of potassium. 



The two last ingredients were detected by Herberger j 
but Dr. Ure has recently stated f that he could not de- 
tect iodine in the cod-liver oil sold in London. 

b. The Swimming Bladder. — ^This organ is a gela- 



* PharmaceuticalJoumal, vol. ii. p. 361. 
t Ibid, p. 459. 



288 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

tinous tissue, and has already been considered (see 
pp. 215—220). It constitutes the well-known Isinglass 
and Sound. 

c. The Roe or Ovary, commonly called the Hard 
Ito€y of many fishes is eaten. That of the Carp, 
Pike, Perch, Salmon, Trout, and many other fishes, 
furnishes a much esteemed and nourishing aliment. 
The roe of the Barbel, and of some others, has at 
times proved injurious ; giving rise to nausea, vomit- 
ing, and purging. 

The roe has been analysed by several chemists : 
that of the Pike by Vauquelin*, of the Trout 
and Carp by Morin f , and of the Barbel by Dulong 
d'AstafortJ. Their results shew that the roes of dif- 
ferent fishes have a similar composition and bear a 
striking analogy to the eggs of birds. 

COMPOSITION OP THE ROE OP PISHES. 

Pike. Tromi. Cwrp, BmrM, 

Albumen + ■♦• + + 

Osmazome + ••• + 

Gelatine + + + + 

Oil + + + + 

Phosphorus + + + + 

Sal-Ammoniac ^ -i- •«• 

Chloride of Sodium + + 

Chloride of Potassium ....•«• •«• -i- -i- 

Phosphate of Potash + •«• -i- 

„ of Lime + + + + 

., of Magnesia ....-«• 

Sulphate of Potash -i- 

Carbonate of Soda -i- + 

„ of Potash . . • . . + 

„ of Lime -i- -(- 

An organic salt with base of potash -i- 



* Journal de Pharmade, t. iii. p. 385. 
t Ibid. t. ix. p. 203. 
X Ibid. t. xiii. p. 521. 



FISH. 289 

The purgative property, said to be possessed by 
the roe both of the Pike and the Barbel, is as- 
cribed to the oil, which possesses acrid properties. 

The substance called Caviare* is the roe of several 
species of Acipenser (Sturgeons), preserved by salt- 
ing. The best is that prepared on the shores of 
the Caspian. The following is the composition of 
Caviare : — 

COMPOSITION OP CAVIARE. 

YeUow odorous fatty oil 4*3 

Soluble albumen 6*2 

Insoluble albumen 24*8 

Chloride of sodium and sulphate of soda ... 6*7 

Gelatine, with some salts 0*5 

Water . 57*5 

Fresh onpressed Caviare 100*0 

Caviare is difficult of digestion, and apt to excite 
nausea. Very little of it is used in this country ; but 
considerable quantities of it are exported from Russia 
to Italy. It is extensively employed in Russia and 
other places on fast-days; and is eaten raw with 
toasted bread, or with vinegar and oil, or with lemon 
juice. 

4. Milt or Testicle. — ^This is usually called the Soft 
Roe. Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin analysed the 



* Several kinds of Caviare are met with in Russia. The worst sort 
is the common ftregsed caviare {pajutnaja ikra). A better sort is that 
called grained caviare {temistaia ikra). The cleanest and best sort bag- 
pressed raviare {Mesckechaja ikra), in some parts of Russia a reddish 
kind of ckviare (Krasnaja ikra) is prepared from the roes of the white 
salmon and pike, (For further information consult Brandt and Baize- 
burg's Medicinisch* ZooHogie: and Tooke's View qf the Russian Empire^ 
vol. iii, p. 467--IC9). 

U 



290 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

milt of the Carp ; and John, that of the Tench. The 
milt of the Carp consisted of 76 parts water and 25 
parts of dry residuum. 

COMPOSITION OF THE MILT OF THE TENCH. 

White Fat. 

Osmazome. 

Animal Jelly. 

Insoluble Albumen. 

Phosphates of ammonia, lime, magnesia, and 

potash or soda. 
Water. 

It appears from Fourcroy and Vauquelin's experi- 
ments that phosphorus (not as phosphoric acid) exists 
in the milt. 

The milt of the Cod is used as a garnish, and is 
eaten at the table ; but, on account of its fatty con- 
stituent, is not adapted for delicate stomachs, lliat 
of the Herring is also employed as food. The latter 
(testes harengi) has been recommended by Ritter, 
Neumann, Frank, Siemerling, and Hufeland, as a 
remedy for obstinate cough, hoarseness, and phthisis 
laryngea. It is to be taken in the morning fasting. 
Its efficacy (?) has been ascribed to the common salt 
which it contains. 

CLASS V. CRUSTACEA.^CRUSTACEANS. 

Many of the species of this class are esculent ; and 
some of them form highly esteemed articles of food. 
/^Those in use in this country are the Common Lob- 
ster (Astacus marinus)y the Thorny Lobster, better 
known as the Common Sea Crawfish (Palinurus vul^ 
ffaris)y the River Crawfish (Astacus ftuviatiUs)^ the 
Large Edible or Black-clawed Crab {Cancer Pagurus)^ 
the Common or Small Edible Crab {Cancer M^mas)^ 



CRUSTACEANS. 201 

the Prawn (P(d€em(m serratus), and the Shrimp 
{Crangon vulgaris) . 

These Crustaceans have " a white firm flesh, which 
contains much gelatine. In the membrane, which 
encloses the calcareous shell, is found a resinous sub- 
stance, which, in the living animals, is of a brownish- 
green colour, but becomes red by boiling. From this 
matter proceeds the peculiar odour and taste of these 
animals. The flesh is difficult of digestion ; the broth 
is stimulant. In febrile and inflammatory complaints, 
their use is injurious *." 

The colouring matter of the shells of the crusta- 
ceans, above referred to, has been termed Cancrin. 
Its composition is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF CANCRIN OR COLOURING MATTER OP 

CRUSTACEANS. 

16 atoms of Carbon . . 96 or per cent. . . . 68*08 

13 atoms of Hydrogen . 13 9*22 

4 atoms of Oxygen . . 32 2270 

1 atom of Cancrin . . 141 100*00 

Both the Crab and the Lobster excite, in some con- 
stitutions. Urticaria or nettle-rash, and even colic. 
Neither of them are easily digestible; so that, though 
they form very agreeable and moderately nutritive 
articles of food, they are not appropriate substances 
for dyspeptics or invalids. 

The parts of Crustaceans employed as food are the 
muscles and some of the viscera. The branchiae or 
gills are commonly known under the name of dead 
mens fingers. The muscles (fiesh) of the lobster and 

* Tiedemann, Untertuekimgen iiber Naknmgs-BedUrfmss, &c. 



202 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

crab are principally confined to the parts moving the 
tail and limbs. Their alimentary properties are very 
similar to those of fishes. 

Both lobsters and crabs are apt to disagree with 
some persons ; and to give rise to a sensation of heavi- 
ness at the epigastrium, nausea, depression, giddiness, 
and nettle-rash. CuUen mentions violent colic as also 
having been produced in several instances. These 
effects appear to depend on some peculiar suscepti- 
bility (idiosyncrasy) of particular persons. In some 
parts of the world poisonous crustaceans are found. 

The Lobster is found in considerable abundance 
on the rocky coasts of various parts of England and 
Scotland. The males are preferred, especially in 
winter, for eating : they are distinguished by the nar- 
rowness of their tails, and by " their having a strong 
spine upon the centre of each of the transverse pro- 
cesses beneath the tail, which support the four middle 
plates of their tails." The females (called hen- 
lobsters) are preferred for making sauce on account of 
the coral {ovary) and spawn {ova or eggs) : the 
former, when boiled, is bright red, and is useful for 
garnishing ; the latter serves to communicate both 
colour and flavour. They are known by their broader 
tail and smaller claws. The muscles {flesh or meat) 
of the lobster reside principally in the tail and claws : 
those of the claws being more tender, delicate, and 
easily digestible. It is a popular notion that a part of 
the body of the lobster, called ^^ ilie old lady in her 
arm-chair 9'' proves injurious when eaten. This part 
is the bony teeth of the stomach, and, being indiges- 
tible, should not be eaten. The bag, in which ^* the 
old lady" is contained, is the stomach. The flavour 



MOLLUSKS. 293 

of the lobster is generally considered to be superior 
in both purity and delicacy to that of the other crus- 
taceans. But, on account of its difficult digesti- 
bility, as well as of its occasional ill effects, before 
referred to (see p. 292), it does not form a fit aliment 
for invalids and dyspeptics. " As found in the Lon- 
don market," says Dr. Paris, lobsters " are generally 
underboiled, with a view to their better keeping ; and 
in that case they are highly indigestible.'* The in- 
jurious effects of lobster sauce have been already 
alluded to (see p. 279). 

The Sea Crawfish is frequently used as a substitute 
for the lobster, with uhich it agrees in its general ali- 
mentary properties. But it is usually thought to he 
inferior in delicac}" of flavour and tenderness. 

Of the Crah the same remarks may be made. The 
muscles or fiesh (contained in the claws) is much less 
apt to disturb the stomach than the viscera (liver^ 
testicles, ovaries, &c.), which constitute the soft contents 
of the shell. 

Prawns and Shrimps are almost universal favourites 
on account of their delicious flavour. They are gene- 
rally and correctly regarded as being easier of diges- 
tion than the preceding crustaceans. 

CLASS VI. MOLLUSCA.-^MOLLUSKS. 

In this country a few species only of this class 
are used as food. Among the bivalves^ the principal 
are the Oyster, the Mussel, the Cockle, and the Scal*- 
lop : among univalves^ we have the Periwinkle, the 
Limpet, and the Whelk. To these, as well as to the 
Crustaceans (Lobsters, Crabs, &c.), the term Shell 
Fish is usually applied. 



294 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Some of the edible moUusks are principally and 
extensively used by the poor ; but the Oyster consti- 
tutes a favourite article of food to all classes. 

Molluscous foods are not without danger; since 
Mussels, and even Oysters, occasionally give rise to 
deleterious effects. 

The Oyster holds the most distinguished place 
amongst the foods of this class. It was greatly ad- 
mired by the luxurious Romans, who highly esteemed 
the Oysters of Britain. They are found on various 
parts of our coast, and are caught by dredging. But, 
in order to improve their flavour and size, or, as it is 
termed, \jo fatten them, they are not immediately con- 
sumed, but are laid in beds in creeks along shore^ 
where they rapidly improve. Colchester and other 
places of Essex are the nurseries or feeding grounds 
for the metropolis. 

The flesh, and the liquor or water, of the oyster have 
been analysed by Pasquier *. 



COMPOSITION OF THE OYSTER. 



FUih. 



Fibrinc | 
Albumen 
Gelatine r 
Osmazomc I 
Mucus ) 
Water . . 



12-6 



87-4 



1000 
By incineration the organic 
matters yielded 1*84 of a white 
ash, containing phosphate of lime 
and the same salts as the liquor 
contained. 



Liquor or Water. 

Osroazome. 
Albumen. 

Chloride of sodium. 
Sulphate of lime. 
Sulphate of magnesia. 
Chloride of magncbium. 
Water. 



* M^rat and De Lens, Dtef. de Mai. Mid. t. y. ; and Gmelin, Hamdb. 
d. Ckemie, vol. ii. p. 1478. 



MOLLUSKS. 



295 



The oyster furnishes a delicious and favourite ar- 
ticle of food. It is more digestible in the raw state 
than when cooked (by roasting, scolloping, or stew- 
ing) ; for the heat employed coagulates and hardens 
the albumen, and corrugates the fibrine, which are then 
less easily soluble in the gastric juice ; and the heated 
butter, generally used as an accompaniment, adds still 
more to the indigestibility of the oyster. The following 
are the mean times of digestion of oysters, according 
to the experiments of Dr. Beaumont : — 



DIGESTIBILITY OF OYSTERS. 



Articles qf Diet. 


Mean Time of Chymification. 


In Stomach, 


In Phiah. 


Preparation. 


U, M. 


Preparation, 


H. M, 


Oysters, fresh .... 
ft fi • - • • • 
>» If 


Raw 

Roasted 

Stewed 


2 55 

3 15 
3 30 


Raw, entire 
Stewed 


7 30 

8 25 



As far as my own personal observation extends, the 
finest raw oysters of the London market, usually called 
natives^ rarely disagree even with convalescents and 
dyspeptics ; and Dr. Cullen declares oysters to be easy 
of digestion. But the experience of some other phy- 
sicians is very different to this. In the raw state, 
says Dr. Pearson *, " they agree very well with strong 
stomachs, but by no means so with persons who 
are subject to indigestion ; and dyspeptic and gouty 



* A PracHcal Sffnopsis of the Materia Alimentaria and Materia 
Medka, p. 55. 1808. 



296 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

persons, who have ventured to swallow them in this 
state, have often been violently disordered by them* 
Such persons, if they eat them at all, should have 
them well stewed and seasoned with some aromatic. 
But even in that state they should be eaten rather 
sparingly in the instances above mentioned." Dr. 
Paris * also observes, that " when eaten cold, they are 
frequently distressing to weak stomachs, and require 
the aid of pepper as a stimulant ; and, since they are 
usually swallowed without mastication, the stomadi 
has an additional labour to perform, in order to reduce 
them into chyme.'* In reply to this last statement, 
however, it may be observed, that Dr. Beaumont found 
that an entire raw oyster was chymiiied, in a phial, in 
7i hours, — while masticated beef-steak required &i 
hours. 

It cannot be doubted that oysters disagree ^with 
some constitutions ; and that occasionally they have 
appeared to possess noxious properties. But con- 
sidering the enormous consumption of these animals, 
their supposed deleterious effects are exceedingly 
raref. The late Dr. Clarke | has related some re- 



* DreaiUe on Diet, 

t Some cases of supposed deleterious properties acquired by oysters 
are referred to by Dr. Christison {Dreatise on Poiwiui), as having 
occurred in the years 1816-19 at Hayre and Dunkirk, But it is by no 
means clear that the diseases which prevailed at these places originated 
from the use of oysters. MM. Yauquelin and Chaussier, who were 
appointed to inquire into these cases, denied that they were caused 
by oysters, since many persons were attacked who had not eaten them. 
(See M^rat and De Lens, Diet, de Mai. Mid. vol. ▼. p. 123). 

X TransaetioM* qf the London CoUepe qf Pkjfneians, toL ▼. p. 109. 




MOLLUSKS. 297 

markable cases, in which convulsions, followed in 
two cases by death, occurred in women who had taken 
oysters soon after their delivery. But we are not au- 
thorised in adopting his conclusion, that fresh healthy 
oysters are apt to occasion apoplexy and convulsions 
in puerperal women. The fact that the symptoms did 
not come on until the day after the oysters were taken, 
is against such an assumption. 

The green colour, which certain parts of the oyster 
sometimes assume, has been ascribed by some to ma- 
rine Ulvae, on which the animal has fed, — by others, 
to the absorption of a green-coloured microscopical ani- 
malcule (called Vibrio astrearius). Very recently, 
Valenciennes^ has shewn that the green colouring 
matter is a peculiar organic substance, derived perhaps 
from a peculiar state of the bile of the animal. The 
popular notion that the colour is produced by coppery 
beds, on which the animal is supposed to have laid, is 
totally unfounded f. 

It is a popular notion that the oyster possesses 
aphrodisiac properties, derived from the phosphorus 
which it contains ; but it has not yet been shewn that 
oysters contain more phosphorus than the flesh of 
other animals. 

As 100 parts of the flesh of the oyster contain only 
about 12'6 parts of solid matter, while 100 parts of 



• Canutes RinAu, t. xii. p. 345. F^Tiier 1841. 

t *' I am acquainted with a lady/' says Dr. Paris (Treatise on Diet^ 
p. 8. 5th ed.), '< who is constantly made sick by eating a green oyster ; 
the cause of which may be traced to an erroneous impression she re- 
ceived with respect to the colouring matter being cupreous." 



208 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

butchers' meat contain, on the average^ about 25 parts, 
it is obvious that oysters must be less nutritive than 
butchers* meat. 

When eaten raw it is customary to swallow the 
oyster entire ; but for stewing or making sauce they 
are deprived of the beard (the branchiae or gills *). 
The indigestible nature of oyster sauce has been al- 
luded to. 

Oysters have been employed as medicinal agents in 
phthisis (in which disease they have been vaunted as 
a specific), in chronic affections of the digestive or- 
gans, in scrofula, and several other complaints. They 
are useful as nutrients in the stage of convalescence 
of many disorders, but I am unacquainted with any 
evidence of their curative powers beyond this. 

The Mussel is used as food by the lower classes prin- 
cipally. Its flesh is yellowish and difficult of digestion. 
Dr. Paris f states that the common people, in eating 
mussels, take out a dark part (the heart), which is 

• ** We cannot walk the streets withoat noticing that, in the fish- 
shops, the oysters are laid with their flat sides uppermost ; they would 
die were it otherwise. The animal breathes and feeds by opening its 
shell, and thereby receiving a new portion of water into the concavity 
of its under-shell ; and if it did not thus open its shell, the water would 
neither be propelled through its branchis or respiratory apparatus, nor 
sifted for its food. It is in this manner that they lie in their native 
beds : were they on their flat surfi^ce, no food could be gathered, as it 
were, in their cup ; and if exposed by the retreating tide, the opening 
of the shell would allow the water to escape, and leave them dry — thus 
depriving them of respiration as well as food." (Sir Charles BeU's 
notes to Paley's Natural neology, vol. ii. p. 220-1). The same author 
also observes, that '* in confirmation of these remarks, the geologbt, 
when he sees those shells in beds of diluvium, can determine whether 
the oysters were overwhelmed in their native beds, or were rolled away 
and scattered as shells merely/' 
t Treatiie an Diet. 



MOLLUSKS. 200 

erroneously supposed to be poisonous. Under some 
circumstances mussels acquire deleterious qualities, 
and occasionally prove fatal. The symptoms which 
they give rise to, however, are by no means uniform. 
At one time they are those of irritation of the alimen- 
tary canal ; but " much more conunonly the local effects 
have been trifling, and the prominent symptoms have 
been almost entirely indirect, and chiefly nervous* 
Two affections of this kind have been noticed. One 
is an eruptive disease, resembling nettle-rash, and ac- 
companied with violent asthma ; the other, a comatose 
or paralytic disorder of a very peculiar description *." 
The presence of copper, a putrid condition of the 
mussels, idiosyncrasy on the part of the sufferers, a 
morbid condition of the mussels, and the poisonous 
quality of their food (medusae or starfish), have, at 
different times, been supposed to be the source of 
the deleterious effects ; but at present the cause is 
involved in considerable obscurity. 

Cockles, ScallopSy Periwinkles, Limpets, and Whelks, 
are of inferior moment as aliments. They are princi- 
pally used by the poorer inhabitants on the coast, and 
are not adapted for persons of delicate stomachs. 
Snails are employed in some countries as food. In 
this country the Great or Vineyard Snail (Helix po- 
matia) is a popular remedy for emaciation with hec- 
tic fever and phthisis, on account of its nourishing 
qualities. Figuierf says, its medicinal property re- 
sides in an oil, which he calls Helicine. 



• Dr. Christison, Treatise on Poisons, 
t Journal de Pharmacie, t. xxvi. p. 113. 



300 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Diseased and Decayed Animal Substances.— On 
several occasions (pp. 252, 255, 268, 283, 284, 286, 
289, 291, 292, 296, 297, and 299) I have incidentally 
alluded to the deleterious qualities sometimes acquired 
by certain animal foods. It deserves, however, to be 
specially noticed, with regard to animal foods in ge- 
neral, that when obtained from animals affected with 
disease at the time of their death, they are always 
dangerous, and have in some cases proved fatal ^. 

Moreover, Animal foods, even if procured from per- 
fectly healthy individuals, sometimes suffer a peculiar 
kind of decay or putrefaction, by which they acquire 
poisonous properties. Thus, Sausages made of the 
flesh, viscera, or blood of animals, and cured by 
smoking, have sometimes acquired, by keeping, highly 
deleterious qualities, which, in many cases, has been 
attended with fatal results. Buchner ascribes the 
effects to the presence of a peculiar fatty acid, which 
has been termed hotulinic acid (Wurst-Jett-saiire) . 
Bacatiy probably other kinds of cured meat, Hatn-piey 
Cheese, Milky Goose-grease (see p. 268), Smoked Sprats, 
Pickled Salmon, Kipper or Smoked Salmon (see p. 286), 
and the decayed flesh of quadrupeds (as veal and beef) 
have also at times produced effects analogous to those 
caused by the sausages above alluded tof • 

The cause of the poisonous quality of those animal 
foods is involved in complete obscurity. Liebig j; has 



* Tiedemann, UntertuchMngen i^er da» Naknmg9-Beduifid$9^ &c. pp. 
1 19-120; also, Ltrnd. Med. Gazette, Oct. 21, 1842. 

t For farther details consult Dr. Christison's Treaiiie on Poistms; 
Tiedemann, op, supra cit.j and Buchner's Thkieakgie. 

I Chemistry in its AppUoatiam to AgricuUwre and Physiohj^ pp. 368- 
369. 2d edit. 1842. 



DELETERIOUS ANIMAL FOOD. 



301 



offered an ingenious but gratuitous hypothesis concern- 
ing it. The sausages> he says, are in a peculiar state of 
putrefaction ; and in this condition ** exercise an ac- 
tion upon the organism, in consequence of the stomach, 
and other parts with which they come in contact, not 
having the power to arrest their decomposition ; and 
entering the blood in some way or other, while still 
possessing their whole power, they impart their pecu- 
liar action to the constituents of that fluid.'* 

The subject oi Jishrpoison * has been already noticed 
(see pp. 283, 284, 286, 291, 292, 297, and 299). 



* In connection with the above subject, I subjoin the following 
table, taken from the Times newspaper of April 14, 1842:— . 

Annual Return of FUh seized at BilUngsgate (being unfit to be used as 
human food), from the Ist qf January, 1841, to thelsiqf January, 
1842. 



Salmon . 




136 


Salt-iish . 


. 86 


Turbots 




185 


SmelU . 


. 1,100 


Cod. . 




1,295 


Mullets . 


. 61 


Haddocks 




28,611 


Hallibuts 


24 


Scate . 




287 


Trout . 


. 224 


Gurnets 




. 5,700 


Lin^ 


14 


Mackarel 




. 39,520 


Dones . 


13 


Soles . 




. 9,790 


Dried Haddocl 


t . 324 


Maids . 




. 7,372 


Roach and Da 


€6 . 300 


Plaice . 




. 50,085 


Tench . 


. 82 


Herrings 




27,720 


Pickled Herrir 


igs . 2,800 


Whitings 




1.705 






Brills . 




222 




5,028 
172,629 








172,629 










Totl . 


. 177,657 


Sprats . 


96 bushels. 


Ovsters 
Shrimps 


51 bushels. 


Pickled Salmon . 


3 kits. 


12 bushels. 


Eels . . . 1 


,232 lbs. 


Lobsters 


. 2,819 


Winkles . 


50 bushels. 


Crabs . 


. 2,332 


Whelks 


38 bushels. 


Crawfish 


. 122 


Mussels 


221 


t>ushels. 1 







Total number qf Fish seised and condemned: — 

In tale 177,657 

Sprats 36 bushels. 

Hckled Salmon 3 kits. 

Eels 1,232 lbs. 

Shell-fish in tale 5,774 

Shell-fish 173 bushels. 



302 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

SECT. II.— VEGETABLE FOODS. 

The aliments obtained from the Vegetable kingdom 
greatly exceed in number and variety those procured 
from Animals ; and it is not very easy to adopt a 
classification which shall be at the same time accurate 
and practical. 

The Natural-history method which I have else- 
where* adopted for the Vegetable and Animal Materia 
Medica, and which I have followed to a certain extent 
in the present work, in noticing animal aliments, does 
not appear to me to be sufficiently practical, for my pre- 
sent purpose, to be exclusively adopted. Nor can we 
adopt a chemical classification, since most of the sub- 
stances which we have to notice owe their dietetical 
properties to more than one proximate principle, and 
oftentimes to several. 

On the whole, then, I believe the arrangement of 
Tiedemann f to be the most appropriate for my pre- 
sent purpose, and I shall therefore adopt it. It is 
founded partly on Natural History, partly on the 
Vegetable organs which are used as food. The fol- 
lowing table presents a general view of the classes 
and orders : — 

CLASSIFICATION OF VEGETABLE ALIMENTS. 

I. Aliments derived from Flowering Plants. 

1. Seeds. 

2. Fleshy Fruits. 

3. Roots, Subterraneous Stems, and Tubers. 

4. Buds and Young Shoots. 



* Elements qf Materia Medica, 

t UnterMuchungeu iiber doe Nakntrngs-BedurfnisSf den NakntugS'Trieb 
und die Nakmmgt-MitteL 183G. 



S£EDS. 303 

5. Leaves, Leaf-stalks, and Flowers. 

6. Receptacles and Bracts. 

7. Stems. 

II. Aliments derived from Floiverless Plants. 

1. Ferns. 

2. Lichens. 

3. Algie, or Sea-weeds. 

4. Fungi, or Mushrooms. 



CLASS 1. ALIMENTS DERIVED FROM FLOWERING 

PLANTS. 

The Flowering Plants are also called by botanists 
Phenogamous or Vascular plants. They are Phanero- 
gamiay the CotyledonecBy or Embryonatce of some 
authors. 

ORDER I. SEMINA OR SEEDS. 

The seeds employed as food are of two kinds, yari- 
naceous and oleaginous. 

1. Mealy or Farinaceous Seeds. — ^This division 
includes the alimentary seeds^ of the Cerealia, Poly- 
gonaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Leguminosae, and Cupu- 
liferae. 

a. Cereal Grains or Com. — ^These are the seeds of 
certain grasses, which, on account of their compara- 
tively much larger size, are preferred, for dietetical 
purposes, to other grass seeds. Those commonly 
employed are Wheat, Oats, Barley, Rye, Rice, Maize 
or Indian Corn, Millet, and Sorghum, Durra or 
Guinea Corn. 

The fruit of the grasses is one-seeded, and is called 
a caryopsis. Its endocarpium adheres inseparably 
to the integuments of the seed. The seed, exclusive 



304 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



of its coatSf consists of a fariDaceous albumen^ on the 
outer side and at the base of which lies the embryo. 
In a dietetical point of view the albumen is the most 
important part of the seed. 

The proximate constituents of the Cereal grains are 
as follows : — 

PROXIMATE PRINCIPLES OF CORN. 

Starch. 

Vegetable albumen. 

Vegetable Fibrine. J 

Glutine. f Raw or 

Mucine. i" Ordinary Gluten. 

Oily Matter. ) 

Sugar. 

Gum. 

Earthy Phosphates. 

Ligneous Matter (bran, husk, &c.) 

Water. 

A bitter principle and resin have been found in 
some kinds of corn. The dietetical properties, and 
the proportions, of the alimentary principles found in 
com have been already stated. 

The ultimate composition of several kinds of corn 
is, according to Boussingault *, as follows : — 

ULTIMATE COMPOSITION OF CORN DRIED AT 230* F. 



Carbon . 

Hydrogen 

Oxygen . 

Nitrogen 

Ashes 



Total . . . . 



Wheat. 


Rye. 


OaU. 


461 


46*2 


50-7 


5-8 


5-6 


6-4 


43-4 


44*2 


367 


2-3 


17 


2^ 


2*4 


2-3 


4-0 


10(H) 


10(H) 


lOOK) 



* Minuiiret de VAeadiwue Roy ale dee Sciencee de Vlnttitut de France, 
U xviii. p. 345. 1842. 



WHEAT. 



305 



The Cereal grains and the farinaceous foods ob- 
tained therefrom, are, when sufficiently and plainly 
cooiced, nutritive, and readily digestible. Their nitro- 
genised canstituents, or, in the language of Liebig, 
their plastic elements of nutrition^ are, vegetable albu- 
men, vegetable fibrine, glutine, and mucine; while 
their non-nitrogenised constituents y or the elements 
of respiration^ are, starch (principally), sugar, and 
gum. 

The following table, drawn up from Dr. Beaumont's 
work, shows the mean time of chymification of se- 
veral kinds of food, composed wholly, or partially, of 
the cereal grains : — 

DIGESTIBILITY OP THE CEREAL GRAINS. 











Mean Time qf Chymification* 


Articles qf Diet, 


In Stomach, 


In Phials. 


Preparation. 


H, 


M. 


Preparation, \ H, M, 


Rice 




Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Baked 
Boiled 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 


1 
1 

2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 



30 


30 
45 




15 
30 


Broken 
Baked 

Masticated 


6 15 
6 30 

4 30 


Barley Soup . . 
Barley . . . , 
Cake, Sponge . . 
Custard . . . 
Dumpling, Apple . 
Cake, Com . . . 
Bread, Com . . 
Bread, Wheat, fre 


sh 




- 
1 



1. Wheat. — ^The grains of several species of Triti- 
cum are employed as food under the name of Wheat ; 
viz. Triticum vttlgare, turgidum^ polonicum^ Spelta^ 
and monococcum. In this country, the first species is 
that which is principally cultivated. The flour 

X 



306 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



obtained from Lammas Wheat (Triiicum vulgare, 
variety hybemxnn) has the following composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF WHEATEN FLOUR. 





Frenek %^^ 
^^^<^'' ^ Wheat. 


Odessa 

Soft 
Wheat. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Flour of 
Paris 
Bakers. 


Ditto, of pood 

qualitjf used 

intmblie 

establukments. 


Ditto, 

inferior 

hmd. 


starch .. 
Gluten . 
Suj^ar .. 
Gum .... 

Bran 

Water .. 


71-49 

10-96 

4-72 

3-32 

1000 


66-5 

14-55 

8-48 

4-90 

2-30 

12-00 


62-00 

12-00 

7-56 

5-80 

1-20 

10-00 


70-84 

12-10 

4-90 

4-60 

8-00 


72-00 
7-30 
5*42 
8-30 

12-00 


72-8 

10-2 

4-2 

2-8 

100 


71-2 

10-3 

4-8 

3-6 

• • 

8-0 


67-78 
9*02 
4-80 
4-60 
2-00 

12*00 




100-49 


98-73 


98-56 100-44 100-02 


100-0 


97-9 


100*20 



The quantity of gluten contained in wheat is sub- 
ject to very considerable variation, as will be obvious 
by reference to the table at pp. 202-3. " In general," 
says Sir H. Davy*, " the wheat of warm climates 
abounds more in gluten and in insoluble parts ; and it 
is of greater specific gravity, harder, and more difficult 
to grind. The wheat of the South of Europe, in con- 
sequence of the larger quantity of gluten it contains, 
is peculiarly fitted for making macaroni, and other 
preparations of flour, in which a glutinous quality is 
considered as an excellence." — " In the South of 
Europe," the same authority adds, " hard or thin- 
skinned wheat is in higher estimation than soft or 
thick-skinned wheat; the reason of which is obvious, 
from the larger quantity of gluten and nutritive matter 
it contains f-" 

I am informed by Mr. Hards, miller, of Dartford, 



• Element* qf AgricuUural Chemistry, p. 130-131. 4th ed. 1827. 
t Ibid. p. 138-9. 



SEMOLINA, SOUJEE, MANNACROUP. 307 

that the following are the products obtained by 
grinding one quarter or eight bushels of wheat : — 

PRODUCE OF 1 QUARTER OF WHEAT WEIGHING 504 lbs. 

Flour 3921b8. 

Biscuit or fine middlings 10 

Topping or specks 8 

Best pollard, Turkey poUard, or twenty-penny . 15 

Fine pollard 18 

Bran and coarse pollard 50 

Loss, sustained by evaporation, and waste in > • . 

grinding, dressing, &c ) 

504 lbs. 

Owing to the larger quantity of gluten which it 
contains (see pp. 292 and 293), wheat is more nutri- 
tive than the other cereal grains; and its nutritive 
equivalent, founded on the quantity of its nitrogen, 
is, therefore, less than these (see p. 55). It yields the 
finest, whitest, lightest, and most digestible kind of 
bread ; the greater lightness of which depends on the 
toughness of its dough ; which retaining the evolved 
carbonic acid, swells up during fermentation, and thus 
acquires a vesicular or cellular character. This light- 
ness or sponginess contributes to the digestibility of 
bread ; since the gastric juice more easily permeates 
and acts on it when it has this loose texture. 

Semolina^ Soujee, and Mannacroupy are granular pre- 
parations of wheat, deprived of bran. A manufac- 
turer * of these substances informs me that they are 
prepared from the best Kentish wheat. They possess 
all the nutritive qualities of wheat, and are very agree- 
able, light, nutritive articles of food, well fitted for 
invalids and children. 



* Mr. Walter Levy, of No. 2, White's Row, Spitalfields, London. 



308 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Macaroni, Vermicelli , and Cagliari Paste ^ are pre- 
pared from wheat. They are imported from Genoa and 
Naples, and are manufactured in London by Mr. Walter 
Levy, who prepares them from a paste made from 
semolina. Macaroni and vermicelli have their well- 
known forms given to them by forcing the tenacious 
paste through a number of holes in a metallic plate. 
Three varieties of macaroni are kept in the shops, 
the pipe, the celery y and the ribbon macaroni. The 
Cagliari paste is sold in the form of stars, rings, fleurs 
de lis, Maltese crosses, &c. The nutritive qualities of 
all these preparations are identical with those of 
wheat ; and when plainly cooked, as by boiling, they 
are easily digestible. Boiled in beef-tea they form a 
nutritious kind of soup (Macaroni or Vermicelli Soup)y 
for invalids. Or they may be made into puddings. Dr. 
A.T.Thomson* gives the following directions for the 
preparation of Macaroni or Vermicelli Pmlding : — 
" Take two ounces of macaroni or vermicelli, a pint 
of milk, and two fluid-ounces (four table-spoonfuls) 
of cinnamon water; simmer until the macaroni or 
vermicelli is tender. Next, beat up three yolks of 
eggs and the white of one egg, one ounce of sugar, 
one drop of the oil of bitter almonds, and a glass of 
raisin wine, in half a pint of milk ; and add the 
mixture to the macaroni or vermicelli. Bake in a 
slow oven." 

Some of the powders sold under the name of 
Farinaceous Foods for infants f consist wholly or 



• The Domestic Management of the Sick-Room. 

t Bright'K Nutritious Farina is Potato-starch (see Potatoes). 



FERMENTED BREAD. 309 

partially of wheateri flour, with which, therefore, they 
agree in nutritive qualities. Hards' s Farinaceous Food 
is prepared, as Mr. Hards positively assures me, from 
the finest wheat only. Judging from its colour, smell, 
and microscopic appearance, it must have been sub- 
mitted to some heating process (baking?), by which 
its properties are modified. It is a deservedly esteemed 
aliment for infants. Densham's Farinaceous Food is 
a mixture of three parts wheat-flour and one pari 
barley-meal^. It is an excellent preparation. 

Bread is the most important article of food prepared 
from the flour or meal of wheat. It is of two kinds ; 
fermented or leavened, and un fermented or unleavened. 

a. Fermented or Leavened Wheat-Bread. — This is 
the ordinary Loaf Bread. Wlieaten flour, salt, water, 
and either yeast f or leaven (old dough already in a 
state of fermentation) are the ingredients from which it 



• Mr. Hooper, chemist, of PaU MaU, who prepares Densham's fari- 
naceous food, has kindly furnished me with the mctliod of preparing 
it : — Three parts of the best wheat-flour and one part of the best barley- 
meal are intimately mixed, and the mixture being placed in tins lined 
with paper, is submitted to a heat of about 200'' F. in a baker's oven, 
for three hours. The time generally chosen is between ten o'clock a.m. 
and two o'clock p.m., when the oven has cooled considerably. The 
mixture should not be bro^^ncd by the process, as it then acquires a pea- 
flavour. It loses, by heating, from 25 to 30 per cent, in weight, owing 
to evaporation; and acquires an improved flavour. In this state it keeps 
well, without becoming sour or musty, and makes excellent puddings. 

The barley used in preparing this food is intended to prevent the sup- 
posed constipating cflects of the wheat. 

t Ale and table-beer yeast answer perfectly well. An artiflcial 
yeast, prepared by fermenting a wort made of malt, is sometimes em- 
ployed. Lately, German yeast has been extensively used. It is a 
fiiable soft solid, which, when examined by the microscope, appears 
to consist wholly of yeast globules (Torula Cerevisia). 



310 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

is prepared. Bakers generally employ, in addition, 
potatoes and alum. The yeast or leaven causes 
the sugar of the flour to undergo the vinous fermenta- 
tion, by which carbonic acid gas and alcohol* are 
formed. It is not improbable that the fermentation is 
promoted by the starch, a proportion of which may, 
perhaps, yield an additional quantity of sugar. The 
carbonic acid is prevented from escaping by the 
tenacity of the dough, which, becoming distended 
with gas, swells up and acquires a vesicular texture, 
forming a kind of spongy mass f. In this way, there- 
fore, are produced the vesicles or eyes which give to 
ordinary loaf-bread its well-known lightness and 
elasticity. In well-baked bread these vesicles are 
stratified in layers which are perpendicular to the 
crust i forming thus what bakers term piled or Jlaky 
bread. The tenacity of the dough, on which the vesicu- 
lar structure of the bread depends, is owing to the 
gluten. 



* The alcohol is dissipated by the heat of the oven. A few years 
ago a patent was taken out by Mr. Hicks for coUecting the alcohol 
during the baking process ; and above £20,000 were expended in the 
establishment of a manufactory for bread and spirit ; but, as a commer- 
cial speculation, the scheme failed. The bread prepared under the 
patent was baked in pans, and was generally considered to be less 
agreeable than the ordinary loaf -bread. 

t In the ordinary mode of bread making, the baker mixes together 
water, a little flour, yeast, and potatoes, and sets the mixture aside 
for six or eight hours, to undergo fermentation. The fermented 
mixture is, ** in the language of the bakehouse, the sponge; its forma- 
tion and abandonment to spontaneous decomposition is termed setting 
the sponge ; and according to the relation which the amount of water 
in the sponge bears to the whole quantity to be used in the dough, it 
is called quarter, hafff or wkois sponge.'' (Dr. Colquhoun, Annals qf 
PkUosaphy, N.S. vol. xii. p. 165. 1826.) 



FERMENTED BREAD. 311 

If the vinous fermentation be not checked in due 
time by baking, the dough becomes sour, owing, pro- 
bably, to the formation of both acetic and lactic acids. 

On weighing bread, when taken from the oven, it is 
found to be from 28 to 34 per cent, heavier than the 
flour used in its preparation. " In the formation of 
wheaten bread," says Sir H. Davy*, " more than one- 
quarter of the elements of water combine with the flour ; 
more water is consolidated in the formation of bread 
from barley, and still more in that from oats ; but the 
gluten in wheat being in much larger quantity than in 
other grain, seems to form a combination with the 
starch and water, which renders wheaten bread more 
digestible than other species of bread." 

The common salt used in bread-making serves prin- 
cipally to flavour ; but it also improves the colour of, 
and gives stiffness to, the dough. 

Notwithstanding that the law prohibits, under a 
penalty, the use of alum by bakers, it is very fre- 
quently employed under the name of " stuff.'' It aug- 
ments the whiteness and firmness of bread made from 
inferior kinds of flour, and, by the latter effect, renders 
the bread less liable to crumble when cut, while 
it enables the baker to separate the loaves more 
readily after their removal from the oven. What- 
ever doubts tnay be entertained as to the ill effects 
of alum on the healthy stomach, none can exist as to 
its injurious influence in cases of dyspepsia. Bread 
which contains alum is objectionable, not merely on 



• Elements of Agricultural Chemistry, 4th ed. p. 127. 1827. 



312 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

account of its containing this salt^ but because it is 
generally made from inferior flour, which, when mixed 
with yeast and water, and formed into dough, quickly 
passes through the stage of vinous fermentation, and 
becomes acid. 

Potatoes are very commonly used in bread-making. 
They assist fermentation in the manufacture of bread, 
and render the product lighter. As they contain less 
gluten, they are, of course, less nutritive than wheat 
flour; but in other respects their use is unobjectionable, 
and the law imposes no penalty on the baker for em- 
ploying them. 

The following is Vogel's analysis of wheaten 
bread : — 

COMPOSITION OF 100 PARTS OF WHEATEN BREAD (MADE 
WITH WHEAT-FLOUR, DISTILLED WATER, AND YEAST, 
BUT WITHOUT SALT). 

Starch , 535 

Torrefied or gummy starch 18*0 

Sugar 3-6 

Gluten combined with a little starch . . 20*75 

95-85 
Exclusive of carbonic acid, chloride of calcium, and chloride of 

magnesium. 

From this it appears that a portion of the starch is 
gummified (converted into dextrine) by the process of 
panification. Moreover, as the quantity of sugar in 
the baked loaf is nearly equal to that of the flour, it is 
probable that a certain portion of saccharine matter is 
formed at the expense of the starch. The gluten does 
not appear to have suffered much change in its amount ; 
but in some of its qualities (tenacity and elasticity) it 
has undergone considerable alteration. If a piece of 
bread be " placed in a lukewarm decoction of malt, 



FERMENTED BREAD. 313 

the Starch and the substance called dextrine are seen to 
dissolve like sugar in water, and, at last, nothing re- 
mains except the gluten, in the form of a spongy 
mass, the minute pores of which can be seen only by 
a microscope *. " * 

Liebig f states that 100 parts of fresh bread con- 
tain, on an average, 30*15 pails of carbon; and 
though this statement is meant to apply to rye-bread 
(Schfvartzbrod or black bread) ^ it is probably equally 
applicable to wheaten bread. 

Notwithstanding that bread is denominated the 
staff of lifcy alone it does not appear to be capable of 
supporting prolonged human existence. Boussin- 
gault J came to this conclusion from observing the 
small quantity of nitrogen which it contains ; and the 
Reports of the Inspectors of Prisons, on the effects of 
a diet of bread and water, favour this notion. 

The fine bread prepared from flour only is the most 
nutritive and digestible. Brown breads made from 
wheaten meal, which contains bran, is laxative, as I 
have already stated (see p. 139), and is used by per- 
sons troubled with habitual constipation, as well as by 
those labouring under diabetes. Hot rolls are indiges- 
tible, and unfit for dyspeptics and invalids. Indeed, 
all kinds of new bread are injurious. Rolls, both 
English and French, are made with a much larger pro- 
portion of yeast than is employed for ordinary bread. 



* Liebig's Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiology, 
2d ed. pp. 38, 39. 1842. 
t Animal Chemistry, p. 287. 
t Ann. de Chim. ei Phys, t. Ixviii. 



314 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

The diflferent kinds oi fancy breads are less adapted for 
the use of invalids and of those who sufTer with a tender 
stomach, than the common loaf-bread. Bread which 
has been submitted to compression by the hydraulic 
press becomes dry and hard, and may be kept for au 
almost indefinite period. When used, this compressed 
bread requires to be granulated like semolina*. 

Very recently, Bourchardatf has suggested the use 
of what he calls gluten breads by diabetic patients. 
It is bread made of wheat dough deprived of the chief 
portion of its starch. It is impossible to eat bread 
made of gluten only, on account of its hardness and 
toughness. Hence one-fifth of the normal quantity of 
starch is allowed to remain in ; and in this form the 
bread is tolerably light, edible, and moderately agree- 
able J. But though the substitution of this bread for 
ordinary loaf-bread is attended with a diminution of 
the quantity of sugar contained in the urine, yet tlie 
remedy is a mere palliative, and has no curative ten- 
dency. I have tried it in one case only, and that for 
about ten days, when the patient (a medical man) 
finding himself not improved by it, ceased its use. In 
a case related by Dr. Budd §, the general symptoms of 
diabetes appeared to be relieved by its use. 

Rusks and Tops and Bottoms belong to the class of 
fermented breads. Both are made with wheat flour. 



• See Laignel, Comptes Rendus, 1841, l** Sem. p. 25. 
t Comptes Rendus, Nov. 1841, p. 942. 

X Gluten bread is prepared and sold by Mr. Bullock, chemist, of 
Conduit Street, London. 
§ Lond. Medical Gazette, April 22, 1842. 



UNFEUMENTED BREAD. 315 

butter, sugar, milk, and a considerable quantity of 
yeast, to give them lightness. Notwithstanding that 
they are frequently employed as infants' food, it is ob- 
vious that they are objectionable, on the double 
ground of containing butter and of being fermented. 

/3. Unfermented or unleavened bread. — ^There are 
two principal kmds of unfermented bread, the one 
heavy and compact, the other light and elastic. 

Of the heavy and cmnpact unfermented bread we 
have an excellent example in the common sea biscuit^ 
called ship bready which is hard, compact, heavy, and 
difficult either to cut or chew. That made at the 
Government Victualling Establishment at Weevil, 
near Portsmouth, is composed of wheaten meal (con- 
taining a certain proportion of bran) and water only. 
It must be very obvious that this very cohesive, firm, 
and compact bread, must be slowly digested, as the 
gastric juice cannot so speedily and readily permeate 
it as the light and elastic kinds of bread. It requires, 
therefore, a very perfect mastication and insalivation. 

Notwithstanding this objection, biscuit sometimes 
agrees better with the dyspeptic than fermented bread. 
In such cases the biscuits prepared by Mr. Dodson, on 
the patent unfermented principle, deserve a trial. 
Biscuit powder is frequently used for infants' food, and 
is, of course, free from the objection raised to the 
whole biscuit; the cohesiveness of which has been 
overcome by grinding. It is generally prepared for 
use by the aid of hot water, which likewise tends to 
obviate the foregoing objection. It is greatly superior 
to rusks and to tops and bottoms. 

The Captains biscuits sold in the shops are pro- 



316 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

fessedly un fermented, and made of wheaten flour and 
water, with a small portion of butter. Milk is some- 
times used instead of water. It is reported that some 
biscuit-bakers employ a little yeast, to render the pro- 
duct somewhat less dense. The meal biscuit is prepared 
with wheaten-meal, which contains a portion of bran. 
The common buttered biscuit is rendered somewhat 
light by a little yeast ; and contains, as its name in- 
dicates, butter. Abemethy's biscuits are variously made 
by diflferent bakers : yeast is generally used in their 
preparation. They contain caraway-seeds. The small 
square York biscuit is prepared with wheaten flour, 
butter, milk, and sugar, but without yeast. Of course 
those biscuits which contain butter * are more objec- 
tionable for dyspeptics than plain biscuits. 

Of the light and elastic {spongy) unfermented breads, 
there are several kinds. They owe their lightness to a 
cellular or vesicular texture (similar to that of ordinary 
fermented bread) produced by a gaseous or volatile 
body, not developed by fermentation, but otherwise set 
free in the dough, and, being expanded by the heat of 
the oven, distends the dough. The Patent Unfer- 
mented Bread obtains its lightness from carbonic acid 
developed within the dough by the action of hydro- 
chloric (muriatic) acid, sometimes called spirits of 
salts, on the sesquicarbonate of soda. Gingerbread 
is also rendered light by carbonic acid gas ; but the 
latter is obtained by the mutual action which takes 
place between carbonate of potash and treacle t« 

* The difficult digestibility of butter, and it8 injurious effects on 
dyspeptics, have been already alluded to (see pp. \7% 174, and 179). 
t The ingredients used in the manufacture of gingerbread are /oMr, 



UNFERMENTED BREAD. 317 

1 have tasted some excellent Gingerbread and Ginger- 
bread Nuts made by Mr, Dodson, by the patent un- 
fermented process, without either alum or potashes. 
Several kinds of light biscuits owe their lightness to 
sesquicarbonate of ammonia (volatile or smelling 
salts) which is dissolved in the water used in the 
formation of the dough. In the oven, the heat con- 
verts the ammoniacal salt into vapour, which distends 
the dough. When the whole salt has been nearly eva- 
porated, the texture of the dough has become suf- 
ficiently stiff and dry to prevent the mass shrinking 
to its former dimensions. Biscuits thus prepared 
are porous, but have not the piled texture of ordinary 
fermented bread. As examples of unfermented bis- 
cuits, in the manufacture of which sesquicarbonate of 
ammonia is used, 1 may mention Cracknells, and the 
Victoria and Clarence Biscuits. Cracknells are pre- 
pared with wheaten flour, a small quantity of sugar, a 



treacle, butter, common potashes, and alum. ** After the butter is melted, 
and the potashes and alum are dissolved in a little warm water, these 
three ingredients, along with the treacle, are poured among the flour 
which is to form the basis of the bread. The whole is then thoroughly 
incorporated together, by mixture and kneading, into a stiff dough." 
This dough, ** however thoroughly kneaded, almost invariably requires 
to stand over for the space of from three or four to eight or ten days, 
before it arrives at that state which is best adapted for its rising to the 
fullest extent, and becoming duly gasified in the oven." The alum is 
the least essential ingredient; *' although it is useful in having a decided 
tendency to make the bread lighter and crisper, and in accelerating the 
tardy period at which the dough is in the most advantageous condition 
for being baked." (Dr. Colquhoun, Annals of Philosophy, N. S. vol. 
xii. p.27i. 1826). 

Treacle contains free glucic and melassic acids, which, by their action 
on the carbonate of potash, set carbonic acid free. It is not improbable 
that, during the rising of the gingerbread dough, more glucic acid may 
be formed by the action of the potashes on the saccharine matter. 



318 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

littie milk, butter, eggs, and the sesquicarbonate of 
ammonia. The curl of the oak-leaved cracknells is 
produced by the latter salt. The Victoria Biscuit 
contains, besides the smelling salt, flour, eggs, sugar, 
milk, and butter. The Clarence Biscuit contains some 
eggs, and a few caraway seeds. 

The Patent Unfermented Bread deserves a more 
extended notice. Many years since it was stated in 
the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica 
(art. Baking^) that if, mstead of the ordinary dose of 
common salt being mixed with the dough in the usual 
way, we substitute carbonate of soda and muriatic 
acid in due proportion, and knead them as rapidly as 
possible with the dough, it will rise immediately, 
fully as much, if not more, than dough mixed with 
yeast, and, when baked, will constitute a very light 
and excellent bread. 

By the mutual action of the muriatic acid and car- 
bonate of soda we obtain common salt (chloride of 
sodium), water, and carbonic acid gas. The latter 
ingredient being set free distends the dough and gives 
it a vesicular character. In this way the bread is 
rendered light without the destruction of any of the 
nutritive ingredients of the flour ; and without the 
risk of the production of acetous fermentation, or of 
the decomposition of the gluten. Dr. Colquhoun 
. tried this plan ; and though he used an unnecessarily 
large quantity of the carbonate and acid, the bread 
which he obtained, proved, as he says, " doughy and 
sad, possessed but a few diminutive vesicles, and 
was never piled." His failure arose, I suspect, from 
setting aside the dough for twenty minutes before 



UNFERMEXTED BREAD. 319 

putting it in the oven ; whereas it cannot be too 
quickly heated. 

In 1836, Dr. Whiting * took out a patent for ren- 
dering bread, cakes, light biscuits, and such like farina- 
ceous foods, cellular. Light (spongy), without the aid 
of fermentation. His process is essentially that just 
described. The proportions of the ingredients which 
he directs to be used are as follows : — 

Wheaten Flour . . . 7 lbs. 
Carbonate of soda . 350 grs. to 500 grs. 

Water 2} pints. 

Muriatic acid . from 420 to 560, or as much as may be sufficient. 

Mr. Dodson, of 98, Blackman Street, South wark, 
having purchased the patent of Dr. Whiting, prepares 
bread (white and brown), biscuits, biscuit-powder, and 
cakes, according to the unfermented process. The 
bread appears to me to be made of excellent flour, 
and though it is scarcely so light as the ordinary loaf 
bread, its flavour is very agreeable. It resembles 
home-made bread rather than baker's bread, and keeps 
well without becoming sour or mouldy. I greatly 
prefer the brown to the white unfermented bread. 

A most delicious unfermented bread, equal in light- 
ness to any bread prepared by the fermented process, 
was made, in my presence, by the cook of Mr. John 
Savory, of New Bond Street, according to the follow- 
ing formula f : — 



• Repertory of Patent Jnventitu, N. S. vol. vii. p. 267. 1837. 

t This formula differs somewhat from that published by Mr. Deane 
(Pharmaceutical Journal^ vol. i. p. 492), for making what he terms 
" Pharmaceutical Bread." 



320 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Flour, I lb. 

SoKciiiicRrbonate of soda, 40 grains. 

('old water, half a pint, or as much as may be sufficient. 

Muriatic acid of the shops, 50 minims [drops]. 

rowdcred white sugar, a tea-spoonful. 

Intimately mix the sesquicarbonate of soda and the 
HUgar with the flour, in a large basin, by means of a 
wo<Mlon Kpoon. Then gradually add the water, with 
whifh the acid has been previously mixed, stirring 
(M)nHtantly, so as to form an intimate mixture very 
HpiHHJily. Divide into two loaves, and put into « 
quick oven imme<liately. — If any soda should escape 
(ho action of the acid it causes a yellow spot, which, 
however, is more unsightly than detrimental. The 
sugar can he omitted if thought desirable. 

The unfermented bread possesses several advantages, 
besides those already specified (see p. 318), over the 
ordinary fermented bread. In its manufacture both 
time and trouble are saved ; and all risk of vitiating 
the bi-ead by the use of inferior yeast, or by carrying 
the fermentation too far, thereby avoided. It is well 
adapted for the use of invalids and dyspeptics, with 
whom the ordinary fermented bread disagrees. In 
urinary maladies, likewise, it deserves a trial. In its 
porosity and lightness it is superior to biscuits (see 
p. 316), since it is more speedily permeated, and more 
readily acted on, by the gastric juice. 

Mouldy bread (that is, bread covered with Mucar 
Mucedoy and other allied fungi) has on several occa- 
sions proved injurious *. Colic, headache, great thirst. 



* See Chevallier's paper in the Joum, de Ckim. Mid. t vii. p. 122. 
1831 . The author refers to BarrueVs observations, and also quotes some 
cases published by Westerhoff in 1826. 



UNFERMENTED BREAD. 321 

dry tongue, frequent pulse, and stupor, have been in- 
duced by it. Wheat is liable to several disorders * 
produced by the attack of certain fungi and animals, 
and probably in these states is more or less deleterious 
to health, independent of losing, partially or entirely, 
its nutritive qualities. 

Cakes, of which the Plum-cake may be taken as the 
type, may be regarded as a rich variety of bread ; 
though in common parlance they are considered dis- 
tinct from this. They are composed of wheaten flour, 
butter or lard, eggs, sugar, raisins (the larger kind as 
well as the small Corinthian raisin, popularly called 
the currant), frequently almonds, &c. They form a 
most indigestible kind of food, totally unfit for chil- 
dren, invalids, and dyspeptics. Their indigestible 
quality is principally derived from the butter or lard 
which they contain (see p. 174). 



* The Rev. Professor Henslow, in his Report on the Diseases of Wheat 

(published in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society qf England, 

vol. ii.), states that he has examined wheat infested by five species of 

parasitic fungi ; by the Ergot ; by the little animalcule (Vibrio THtici), 

which produces the Earcockle, Purples, or Peppercorn; and the fly 

called the Wheat Midge (Cecidomyia THtici). The five fungi referred 

to are : — 
1st. The Bunt, Smut-balls, or Pepperbrand ( (/recfo Cartes, De Cand. ; 

Uredofatida, Bauer). 

2d. The Smut or Dust Brand ( Uredo Segetum). 

3dly and 4thly. The Rust, Red-rag, Red-robin, or Red-gum (Uredo 
rubigo and Uredo linearis). 

5thly. The Mildew (Puccinia graminis). 

Mr. Quekett and others have, I think, satisfactorily shown the 
Ergot to be a disease induced by the attack of a fungus, which Mr. 
Quekett has denominated the Ergotatia abortifaciens, (See Trans, of 
the Linn. Society, vol. xviii. ; also my Elements of Materia Medica, vol. ii. 
p. 913, 2d ed.) 

Y 



322 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Mr. Dodson prepares cakes (plain, currant, sultana^ 
or fig) by the unfennented patent process, without 
butter. They are, therefore, free from the objections 
raised to ordinary cakes. 

The action of heat on the butter or lard used in the 
manufacture of pastry (baked paste) y renders this com- 
pound highly injurious to the dyspeptic, who should, 
therefore, most carefully avoid its use. " All pastry is 
an abomination,'' justly observes Dr. Paris *. " I 
verily believe," he adds, " that one half, at least, of the 
cases of indigestion which occur, after dinner-parties, 
may be traced to this cause." I have already (p. 172-3) 
pointed out the injurious influence of heat on oily and 
fatty substances, especially butter. 

The same authority correctly adds, that " the most 
digestible pudding is that made with bread, or biscuit 
and boiled flour : batter pudding is not so easily 
digested ; and suet pudding is to be considered as the 
most mischievous to invalids in the whole catalogue. 
Pancake is objectionable, on account of the process of 
frying imparting a greasiness, to which the dyspeptic 
stomach is not often reconciled ." 

The following is a formula for a boiled bread- 
pudding, adapted for the convalescentf: — "Grate half 
a pound of stale bread, pour over it a pint of hot 
milk, and leave the mixture to soak for an hour in 
a covered basin ; then beat it up with the contents 
of two eggs. Put the whole into a covered basin, 
just large enough to hold it, which must be tied 



• Trtotise OH Diei, bih ed, 

t See Dr. A. T. Thomson's Domestic Management qf the Siek-Room, 



OATS. 323 

in a cloth, and placed in boiling water for half an 
hour. It may be eaten with salt or with sugaj ; and, 
if wine be allowed, it may be flavoured with sherry.'* 

Panada is prepared as follows : — Place some very 
thin slices of crumb of bread in a saucepan, and add 
rather more water than will cover them. Boil until 
the bread becomes pulpy, then strain off the super- 
fluous water, and beat up the bread until it becomes of 
the consistence of gruel ; then add white sugar, and, 
when permitted, a little sherry wine. This forms a 
very agreeable aliment for the sick. 

2. Oats. — The Oat cultivated in this country is 
the Avena saliva or Common Oat. When the grains 
are deprived of their integuments they are called 
groats or grits ; and these, when crushed, are de- 
nominated Embden groatSy and when ground into 
flour, prepared groats. Oatmeal is prepared by grind- 
ing the kiln-dried seeds deprived of their husk and 
outer skin. It is not so white as wheaten flour, and 
has a somewhat bitterish taste. 

The following is the composition of oats, accord- 
ing to Vogel : — 

COMPOSITION OF OATS. 



The Entire Seeds. 

Meal ... 66 
Husk ... 34 



100 



Dried Oatmeal 

Starch 59^ 

Bitter matter and sugar . 8 25 

Gray albuminous matter . 4*30 

Fatty oil 2*00 

Gum 2-50 

Husk, mixture, and loss . 23*95 

10000 

But Oatmeal yielded Dr. Christison the following 
results : — 



324 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

CO^rPOSITION OF OATMEAL. 

Starch 7'2rS 

Saccharo-macilagiiMKis extract . . . 5*8 

• Albumen 3i2 

Oleo-resinoiis matter 0*3 

Lignin (bran) 11*3 

Moisture 6-6 

lOO-O 

Oats are generally considered somewhat less nutri- 
tive than wheat. But from Boussingault's ultimate 
analysis, already referred to (see p. 304), the quantity 
of nitrogen yielded by them is nearly equal to that 
obtained from wheat ; and, accordingly, the nutritive 
equivalent for oats, according to this chemist, differs 
but little from that of wheat (see p. 55). Oatmeal, 
says Dr. CuUen*, " is especially the food of the 
people of Scotland, and was formerly that of the 
northern parts of England ; counties which have 
always produced as healthy and as vigorous a race of 
men as any other in Europe." 

Oats are apt to disagree with some dyspeptics ; or, 
in popular language, they are liable to become acescent 
on the stomach. 

Unfermented oat-bread^ in those unaccustomed to 
it, is apt to occasion dyspepsia, with heartburn, and 
was formerly thought to have a tendency to produce 
skin diseases, but without just grounds. Gruel is a 
mild, nutritious, and, in most cases, an easily digested 
article of food, in chronic diseases and in the conva- 
lescence from acute maladies. In some irritable con- 
ditions of the stomach it is occasionally retained when 
many other foods are rejected. Yet it is less demul- 

* Materia Mediea, toI. i. p. 278. 



OATS. 325 



»» 



cent than barley-water. " Unless gruel be very thin, 
says Dr. A. T. Thomson, " it can scarcely be regarded 
as a diluent ; and when thick, it is too heating an ali- 
ment for patients labouring under febrile symptoms." 
On account of the nitrogenous principle which it 
contains, it is of course more nourishing than the 
starchy preparations (arrow-root, tapioca, sago, &c.) 
frequently employed in the sick-chamber. It is 
prepared from either groats or oatmeal. It may be 
sweetened, acidulated with a little lemon-juice, or 
aromatised with a very small portion of some spice. 
Butter, which is frequently added, is objectionable in 
dyspeptic and other cases where the stomach is tender. 

Oatmeal Porridge or Stir-about is a moderately con- 
sistent mixture, composed of oatmeal and water, and 
prepared by boiling. It is sometimes eaten with milk 
as a moderately nutritive diet. When mixed with the 
thin liquor of boiled meat, or the water in which 
cabbage or kale has been boiled, it is called heef-hrose^ 
or kalc'brose. 

The husk and some adhering starch separated from 
oats in the manufacture of oatmeal are sold in Scotland 
" under the inconsistent name of Seeds*.^^ These, " if 
infused in hot water and allowed to become sourish 
in this state, yield, on expression, a mucilaginous 
liquid, which, on being sufficiently concentrated, 
forms a firm jelly, known by the name of Somins^ 
Dr. A. T. Thomson f gives the following directions 
for the preparation of " Flummery or Sowans'': — 



* Dr. ChrUtison, Dispensatory. 

t Domestic Management qf the Sick- Room, 



326 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Take a quart or any quantity of groats, or of oat- 
meal; rub the groats or the meal for a consider- 
able time, with two quarts of hot water, and leave 
the mixture for several days at rest, until it becomes 
sour ; then add another quart of hot water, and strain 
through a hair sieve. Leave the strained fluid at rest 
until it deposits a white sediment, which is the 
starch of the oats ; lastly, pour off the supernatant 
water, and wash the sediment with cold water. The 
washed sediment may be either boiled with fresh 
water, stirring the whole time it is boiling, until it 
forms a mucilage or jelly ; or it may be dried, and, 
afterwards, prepared in the same manner as arrow- 
root mucilage *. — Flummery is light, moderately nu- 
tritious, and very digestible ; it is, consequently, well 
adapted for early convalescence. It may be eaten 
with milk or wine, or lemon-juice and sugar." 

" A diet of oats," says Dr. Christison, " has the 
credit of tending to keep the bowels open; and I have 
seen it apparently have this effect in several instances 
of habitual constipation, when taken at breakfast in 
the form of porridge. In cases of dyspepsia asso- 
ciated with acidity of stomach, it is on the contrary 
in general a noxious article of food ; and some dys- 
peptics among the working classes recover entirely on 
abandoning it for a time. A curious, though now 
rare, consequence of its long habitual use as food, is 
the formation of intestinal concretions composed of 
phosphate of lime, agglutinating animal matter, and 



*' Flummery should not be made in a metaUic vessel/' 



BARL£Y. 327 

the small stiff silky-like bristles which may be seen at 
one end of the inner integument of tlie oat-seed. This 
affection must have been common in Scotland during 
the last century, as Dr. Monro Secundus, collected 
forty-one specimens, still in the anatomical museum of 
this University. But it is now far less frequent, proba- 
bly in consequence of the oats being more thoroughly 
cleared of their investing membranes before being 
ground into meal. I have had occasion to examine one 
specimen only, which was removed from the rectum 
by Mr. Liston in a case of recto-vesical fistula." 

3. Barley. — Several species of Barley are cultivated 
in this country, viz. Hordeum distichan^ the Conmaon 
Long-eared Bwleyj Hordeum vulgare, the Spring 
Barley j Hordeum hexastichon, Winter Barley ; and 
Hordeum Zeocitron, Sprat or Battledore Barley. The 
grains, when deprived of their husk by a mill, form 
Scotch, hulled, or pot barley. When all the integu- 
ments of the grains are removed, and the seeds are 
rounded and polished, they constitute pearl barley. 
The farina obtained by grinding pearl barley to powder 
is called patent barley. 

The following is the composition of barley accord- 
ing to Einhof : — 

COMPOSITION OF BARLEY. 



The Ripe Seeds. 

Meal 7005 

Husk 1875 

Moisture 11*20 



10000 



Barley-meal, 

Starch 6718 

Fibrous matter (gluten,! ^^g 

starch, and lignm) . . J 

Gum 4-62 

Sugar 5-2i 

Gluten 3-52 

Albumen 1-15 

Phosphate of lime with > Q.04 

albumen S 

Moisture 9-37 

Loss 1-42 

10000 



i 



328 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Tlie husk of barley is slightly acrid. Deprived of 
this, as in Scotch and peari bariey, the seeds are highly 
nutritious. They are considered to be more laxative 
than the other cereal grains. The quantity of gluten 
which tliey yield, is, however, considerably less than 
that obtained from wheat (see p. 203) ; and as they 
contain less nitrogen, their nutritive equivalent is less 
than that of wheat (see p. 65). Count Rumford,* 
however, regarded barley-mealy when used for soup, as 
three or four times as nutritious as wheaten flour. It 
is a constituent of Denshani's farinaceous food (see 
p. 309), being used, on account of its laxative opera- 
tion, to counteract the supposed constipating effect 
of wheat. Barley bread is somewhat more difficult 
of digestion than wheaten bread. Barley water is 
a light, mild, emollient demulcent liquid, which is 
slightly nutritive, and very easy of digestion. It 
forms an excellent diluent beverage in febrOe and 
inflammatory cases, especially maladies of the chest, 
bowels, and urinary organs. It is prepared as fol- 
lows: — ^Take two ounces and a half of peari bar- 
ley; first wash away, with water, the foreign matters 
adhering to the seeds ; then add half a pint of water, 
and boil for a little while. This liquid being then 
thrown away, pour on them four pints (imperial) of 
boiling water J boil down to two pints, and strain. It 
is frequently flavoured with sugar, and sometimes with 
slices of lemon-peel. Compound barley water is pre- 
pared by boiling together two pints of barley water, a 
pint o/ water, two ounces and a half of sliced figs. 



* £tf ajf on Feeding the Poor, 



MALT. 329 

half an ounce of liquorice root, sliced and bruised, 
and two ounces and a half of raisins. They are boiled 
down to two pints, and strained. This decoction is 
emollient, demulcent, and slightly aperient. 

Malt. — ^This is barley which has been made to ger- 
minate by moisture and warmth, and afterwards dried, 
by which the vitality of the seed is destroyed. By 
this process a peculiar nitrogenous principle, called 
diastase y is produced. This, though it does not con- 
stitute more than 1 -500th part of the malt, serves to 
effect the conversion of the starch of the seed into 
dextrine and grape sugar, preliminary to the operation 
of brewing. The colour of the malt varies according 
to the heat employed in drying it : pale or anther malt 
yields a fermentable infusion : hrorvn or hlonm malt is 
not fermentable, but is used to communicate flavour j 
while roasted or high-dried malty which has been 
scorched, is employed for colouring. The infusion 
or decoction of malt (called sweet-wort), contains 
saccharine matter, starch, glutinous matter, and 
mucilage. It is nutritious and laxative, and has 
been used as an antiscorbutic and tonic. Macbride 
recommended it in scurvy, but it is apt to increase the 
diarrhoea. As a tonic, it has been used in scrofulous 
affections, purulent discharges — as from the kidneys, 
lungs, &c., and in pulmonary consumption. The 
decoction is prepared by boiling three ounces of malt in 
a quart of water. This quantity may be taken daily. 

4. Rye. — The cultivated or common rye is the 
Secale cereale of botanists. Though in common use 
among the northern inhabitants of Europe, it is i*arely 
employed as food in England. 



330 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



COMPOSITION OF RYE. 



The Entire Seeds. 

Husk 24-2 

Pure Meal 65*6 

Moisture 10*2 



100-0 



Rye-MeaL 

Starch 61-07 

Gum 1109 

Gluten 948 

Albumen .... 3-28 

Saccharine matter . 3-28 

Husk 6-38 

Undetermined acid & loss 5*42 



100 00 



It contains less gluten than wheat (see p. 203), 
and yields less nitrogen (see pp. 304 and 55) : hence 
it is inferior in nutritive properties to the latter. 

Rye-breadf called in Germany Schwartzbrot, or 
Black Breads has, according to Boeckmann, the fol- 
lowing composition : — 



COMPOSITION OP RYE BREAD. 



Water . . 
"Dry matter . 



1 

67 



- 31-418 
. 68-592 



100 - 100000 



1 



Carbon . . . 45*09 

Hydrogen . , 6-54 

Nitrogen . .} ak.x<^ 

Oxygen . .\^^^ 

Ashes . . . 3-25 



- 45*41 

- 6-45 

- 44-89 
. 3-25 



Dry matter . 100-00 100-00 

From these analyses Liebig calculates that 100 parts 
of fresh bread contain on an average 30*15 parts of 
carbon. 

In those unaccustomed to it^ rye bread is apt to 
occasion diarrhoea, which Dr. CuUen ascribes to its 
readily becoming acescent. 

Rye-pottage is said to be a useful article of diet in 
consumptive cases. 

Rye is exceedingly subject to the attack of the 
Ergot; and to the use of ergotised rye a disease 
termed Ergotism has been ascribed. It assumes two 



RICE. 



331 



forms, one called convulsive, — the other, gangrenous 
ergotism. In the former, convulsion, in the latter 
gangrene of the extremities, constitutes the most 
marked character.* 

6. Rice. — ^This is the well-known grain of Oryza 
saliva. Whilst in the husk it is called paddy (padi or 
paddie) by the Malays, bras when deprived of the 
husk, and nasi after it has been boiled. It is exten- 
sively raised in India, China, and most other Eastern 
countries ; in the West Indies, Central America, and 
the United States ; and in some of the Southern coun- 
tries of Europe. The kinds most esteemed in this 
country are the Carolina and Patna rice. 

The composition of Carolina and Piedmont rice is, 
according to Braconnot, as follows : — 



COMPOSITION OF RICE. 



Starch 

Parenchyma (woody fibre) . . • 

Glutinous matter ....... 

Rancid, colourless, tallowy oil . . 

Uncrystallizable sugar 

Gum 

Phosphate of lime 

Water 

Acetic acid, phosphate of potash, ^ 
chloride of potassium, and vege- > 
table salts of potash and lime . y 



Carolina Rice. 


Piedmont Rice. 


85-07 


83*80 


4-80 


4-80 


3-60 


3-60 


013 


025 


0-29 


005 


0-71 


010 


0-40 


0-40 


500 


7-00 


traces 


traces 


lOOOO 


100-00 



In the manufacture of rice starch by Mr- Orlando 
Jones's patent process, Patna rice is digested in a weak 



• For further details, as well as for references, respecting ergot of 
rye, see my Elemente qf Materia Mediea. 



332 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

solution of caustic alkali (soda), by which the gluten^ 
as it is technically called, is dissolved and removed. 
The insoluble matter consists of starchy and a white 
substance termed by Mr. Jones, fibre. The last- 
mentioned substance appears, when examined by the 
microscope, to consist chiefly of starch grains, but in 
drying it does not split into prismatic columnar 
masses, — in the language of the starch-maker, it does 
not racey — and, therefore, is not fit for commerce. Mr. 
Jones informs me, that in manufacturing rice starch on 
the large scale, Patna rice, dried at from 160** to 18(y* F., 
for several days^ yields 80 per cent, of marketable 
starchy'*'^ and 8-2 per cent. o{ fibre; the remaining 11*8 
per cent, being made up of gluten, gruff* or bran, and 
a small quantity of light starch, carried off* in suspen- 
sion by the alkaline solution. f 

If the alkaline solution of glutinous matter be care- 
fully neutralized by an acid, the gluten is precipitated. 
I have received from Mr. Jones a quantity of this preci- 
pitate. It had a creamy consistence, ao agreeable smell, 
and a bland taste, somewhat like pap. When heated 
it separates into two parts, — a coagulum or curd. 



• According to Vogel, a dried rice yielded him 96 per cent of starch. 

t Vauquelin (Mimoires du Museum d'Histoire NatureUe, t. iii. p. 229, 
1817) says that rice contains scarcely an appreciable quantity of gluten. 
Braconnot, however, in his analyses, obtained 3*6 per cent of gluten. 
It is probable that the 11-8 per cent, loss of weight, experienced by 
digesting rice in a weak alkaline solution, is ascribable, not merely to 
gluten, and the other substances named in the text, but also to gum, 
sugar, and water, contained in the grain. But even assuming this to be 
the case, I suspect that both Vauquelin and Braconnot have underrated 
the glutinous or nitrogenous matter contained in rice. My suspicion 
does not rest merely on Mr. Jones's results, but also on Boussingault's 
statement of the quantity of nitrogen contained in rice. 



BICE. 333 

and a serous or aqueous substance. By keeping it 
curdled, and subsequently underwent a peculiar kind 
of fermentation, evolving a smell somewhat like sour 
yeast. When fresh, it appeared to me well adapted 
for use as food ; and I have a diabetic patient, in the 
London Hospital, now trying its effects. He uses it 
in the form of a baked pudding containing eggs. The 
only other vegetable food which he is permitted to 
take is cabbage. He has, however, a plentiful allow- 
ance of meat, cheese, milk, &c. On this regimen the 
quantity of urine passed in twenty-four hours has been 
reduced, in about ten days, from 11 pints to 3i. Its 
sp. gr., however, is but little changed. 

The granule of rice starch is excessively small. 
According to Vauquelin this starch begins to dissolve 
in wat^r when this liquid has attained a temperature of 
from 122** F. to 132** F. The same authority states 
that an infusion of rice contains a little phosphate of 
lime, which is held in solution by the starch. Vogel 
obtained 105 per cent, of oil from dried rice. 

"Rice," says Marsden *, "is the grand material 
of food, on which an hundred million of the inhabi- 
tants of the earth subsist, and although chiefly con- 
fined by nature to the regions included between, and 
bordering on the tropics, its cultivation is probably 
more extensive than that of wheat, which theEuropeans 
are wont to consider as the universal staff of life." 

Rice, though nutritious, is less so than wheat : this 
is proved by chemical analysis, which shews the much 
smaller proportion of glutinous or nitrogenous matter 

* History qf Sumatra, p. 65, 3d ed. 1811. 



334 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

found in the former than in the latter grain. " Rice/* 
Bays Boussingault *, " is held up as a most nutritive 
food. But though I have lived long in countries which 
produce it, I am far from considering it as a substantial 
nourishment. I have always seen it, in ordinary use, 
replace bread; and when it has not been associated 
with meat, it has been employed with milk.** 

Rice is less laxative than the other cereal grains. 
Indeed, it is generally believed to possess a binding 
or constipating quality ; and, in consequence, is fre- 
quently prescribed by medical men as a light, diges- 
tible, uninjurious article of food in diarrhoea and 
dysentery. 

Various ill eflfects, such as disordered vision, &c., 
have been ascribed to its use f ; but, as I believe, un- 
justly so. Neither does there appear to me to Tbe any 
real foundation for the assertions of Dr. Tytler J, that 
malignant cholera (which he calls the morbus aryzeus, 
or rice disease) is induced by it. 

Rice is employed as a nutriment in a variety of 
forms. Mucilage of RicCj obtained by boiling well- 
washed rice in water, contains both starch and phos- 
phate of lime in solution. It is used as a demulcent 
in diarrhoea. Rice-milk^ rice-pudding, &c., are other 
preparations of rice employed by invalids. Rice^akes 
contain, besides flour, eggs, and sugar, about one- 
third of their weight of rice. 



• Ann, Ckim, et Pkys. Ixvii. p. 413. 

t Bontius, Account of the DUease$f Natural History, ^e. t^ the East 
Indies, translated into English, 1769. Also, Bricheteau, in Tortuelle's 
EUm. (THyffihie, 4«* ^d. 

t Lancet, 1833-34, vol. i. 



MAIZE. 



335 



6. Maize or Indian Com. — ^Thls is the produce of 
the plant called by botanists the Zea Mays. Its 
composition, according to the analyses of Dr. Gorham 
and Bizio, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF MAIZE OR INDIAN CORN. 



I . Dr, Gorham*s Analysis. 



Common State. 



Starch* 770 



Zeine 

Albumen 

Gummy matter . 

Saccharine matter 

Extractive matter 

Cuticle and ligneous fibre 

Phosphate, carbonate, and sulphate of lime, 
and loss ............ 

Water . . 



2. Bizio^s Analysis, 



I 



3-0 

2-5 

175 

1-45 

0-8 

30 

1-5 

90 



Dried. 
84*599 

3296 
2-747 
1-922 
1-593 
0-879 
3-296 

1-648 





1000 



99-98 



Starch 

C Fatty oil 
Zeine . . . .^Gliadine 

(, Zimome 

Zimome 

Fatty oil 

Extractive matter and sugar 

Gum 

Hordein 

Acetic acid, salts, and loss 



80-920 
1-152 
2-499 

2-107 
0945 
0-323 

1-987 
2-283 
7-710 
0-074 

100 000 



MM. Dumas and Payen procured 9 per cent, of 
yellow oil from maize f ; but Liebig J was able to 
obtain only 4*25 per cent. This oil consists, accord- 
ing to Fresenius, of carbon 79'68, hydrogen 11*63, and 
oxygen 8*79. 



* The suhstance sold, under the name of Indian Com Starchy in the 
London shops, is Potato Starch. 
t See ante, p. 1 76. 
t Annalen der Ckemie und Pharmacie, Bd. xlv. S. 126. 1843. 



336 COMPOUND ALIMENTS, 

In America. Asia, and some parts of Europe^ maize 
is extensively used for human existence. '' Like the 
farina of the wheat," says Dr. Dunglison *, " it is 
fomieil into bread, alone or with various additions, — 
as milk« eggs, &c. It is a wholesome and nutritious 
aliment, but with those who are unaccustomed to its 
use it is apt to produce diarrhcea; in consequence, 
pi\>babl\\ of the pn?sence of the husk, with which it is 
alwavs more or le$$ mixed, in the state in which it is 
bn>ught to market. It is on this account that it has 
been reg;inleil as a bread but little adapted for those 
liable to, or labouring under, bowel affections, or in 
times when a choleric predisposition exists." The 
same author further adds +, that *• the young grains, 
ct^nstituting the * rxxisting ears,* make a delicious vege- 
table, readv for the table, too, after the season for 
green |^eas has gone by. When very young, com in 
this state is in its most digestible condition, the husk 
l^ing comj>aratively lender: but when old, a con- 
siderable part of the grain withstands the digestive 
operation, and passes through the bowels unchanged. 
It neeil hanllv, therefore, be addetl, that where bowel 
aflTectious are rife, this veijetable oui^lit to be used with 
caution. Com meal, mixed with cheese, and baked 
into a kind of pudding, fomis the dish which the 
Italians call polenia ^/* 

*. LeffHminoms Seeds. -^ Of the Leguminous Seeds 



• ElememU of Hy^i^me, p. 289. 1835 
^ lUd. p. -J»l. 

: The euUianoe sold in the London shops under the name of 
Poieui^ is fhe meal of Indian com. 



LEGUMINOUS SEEDS. 



337 



the best known in this country are Peas and Beans ; 
but on the continent, and in eastern countries, Lentils 
are in common use* Their composition, as determined 
by Einhof, is as follows : — 



COMPOSITION OF LEGUMINOUS SEEDS. 



Peat 
{Pitum tativum). 

Starch .... 32-45 . 
Amylaceous fibre 21-88 . 
Legumine(Co9etiie) 14*56 
Gutn .... 
Albumen . . . 
Sweet Extractive 
matter . . . 
Membrane . . 
Water .... 
Salts .... 
Loss .... 



6-37 
1-72 

211 

14*06 
6*56 
0-29 

100-00 



Oarden Bean* 
(Vicia Faba). 

. 34*17 . 
. 15-89 . 
. 10-86 . 
. 4-61 . 
. 0-81 . 

. 3-54 . 
. 1005 . 
. 15-63 . 
. 3-46 . 
. 0-98 . 

10000 



Kidney Bea«\ 
(Pkaeeotu* 
vulgarU). 

. 35-94 . 

. 11-07 . 
. 20-81 . 

. 19-37 . 
. 1-35 . 

. 3-41 . 

. 7-50 . 

.(dried) . 

. 0-55 . 



Lentih 
(Bnmm Lens). 



100-00 



32-81 

18-75 

37-32 

5-99 

115 

3-12 



0-57 
0-29 

10000 



Peas, Beans, and Lentils, have been submitted to 
ultimate analysis by BoussingaultJ and by Playfair.§ 



ULTIMATE COMPOSITION OF LEGUMINOUS SEEDS. 



Peas, 
Pla^edr, 


Peas 
(dried in vacuo 

at 230" F.) 
Bouuingauit. 


Beans. 
Plasfair. 


Lentils. 
Plaxfair. 


Carbon . . 35743 
Hydrogen . 5-401 
Nitrogen . ) oq.op^, 
OxygSn. .J 39300 

Ashes . . 3-440 
Water . . 16-000 


46-5 
6-2 

40-0 
4-2 
31 
0-0 


38-24 
5-84 

1 38-10 

3-71 
14-11 


37-38 
5-54 

37-98 

3-20 
15-90 


100-000 


100-0 


10000 


100-00 



* This species is commonly known as broad bean, or Windsor bean, 

t The common dwarf kidney bean, the haricot of the French, is com- 
monly termed French bean. It is a distinct species from the scarlet 
bean {Phaseolus multiflorus). 

% Mhnoires de VAcadSmie Roy ale des Sciences, t. xviii. p. 346. 1824. 

§ Liebig*8 Animal Chemistry. 

Z 



338 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Liebig assumes, that the average amount of carbon 
in peas, beans, and lentils, in the state in which they 
are used, is 37 per cent,; an assumption sufficiently 
near the truth for all practical purposes. 

The quantity of nitrogen contained in these legu- 
minous seeds is larger than that found m the cereal 
grains ; so that if the nutritive quality of vegetables 
was in proportion to the nitrogen which they contain, 
these seeds would be more nutritive than wheat; and, 
accordingly, in Boussingault's scale of nutritive equi- 
valents, their nutritive equivalent is lower, or, in other 
words, their nutritive quality is assumed to be higher 
than that of wheat (see ante, p. 66). For 



44 parts of horse beans, or 

56 parts of white haricots, or 

57 parts of lentils, or 
67 parts of peas, 



.are said to be cqui- > 100 parts of 
valent to ) wheat-flour. 



Experience, however, by no means confirms these 
theoretical conclusions; and Liebig, therefore, offers 
the following explanation of the want of relation be- 
tween their nutritive quality and the proportion of 
nitrogen which they contain. " The small quantity 
of phosphates which the seeds of the lentils, beans, 
and peas contain,** says Liebig *, " must be the cause 
of their small value as articles of nourishment, since 
they surpass all other vegetable food in the quantity of 
nitrogen which enters into their composition. But as 
the component parts of the bones (phosphate of lime 
and magnesia) are absent, they satisfy the appetite 
without increasing the strength." 



* Chemistry i» its Appticatum to Agriculture and Pkysiology,^, 147, 
3ded. 



OILY SEEDS. 339 

I have already (see p. 65) remarked, that were this 
hypothesis correct, the addition of bone-ashes (earthy 
phosphates) ought to add greatly to the nutritive powers 
of the leguminous seeds, and would, in fact, render 
them much more nutritious than the cereal grains. 

Peas and beans are very apt to occasion flatulence, 
and even colic ; and their difficult digestibility aug- 
ments with their age ; for when very young they are 
sweet, and more digestible, but less nourishing. They 
are usually regarded as being stimulating or heating^, 
and, on that account, unfit for febrile and inflam- 
matory cases. 

c. Seeds of CuptUifer^e, — ^The principal cupuliferous 
seed used in this country as food is the Chestnut 
(Castanea vescd). It possesses considerable nutritive 
power, and in Lombardy is used as food by the lower 
classes. Its sweetness, especially when roasted, indi- 
cates the presence of sugar. No oil can be obtained 
from it by pressure. In the raw state, it is very diffi- 
cult of digestion : it requires to be cooked (roasted) 
to split the starch grains which it contains, and thereby 
to render them readily digestible. Dyspeptics should 
carefully avoid chestnuts, even in the cooked state. 

2. Oily Seeds. — To this division belong the Al- 
mond, the Walnut, the Hazel-nut, the Cashew-nut, 
the Pistachio-nut, the Stone-Pine-nut (Pignoli-Pine), 
and the Cocoa-nut. These contain vegetable albu- 
men and caseine, on which their nutritive qualities 



* Beans are believed, by veterinarians, to possess a stimulating in- 
fluence over the horse. 



340 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



principally depend. They also contain a quantity of 
fixed oil, which renders them very difficult of diges- 
tion ; and unfit for dyspeptics and others who have a 
delicate stomach. 

The Almond (both sweet and bitter) is the produce 
of the Amygdalus communis. 



BOULLAY AND VOGEL'S ANALYSES OF SWEET AND 

BITTER ALMONDS. 



BouUay^g Analysis* 

Fixed oU 540 

Emulsion 24*0 

Liquid sugar .... 6*0 

Gum 30 

Seed-coats 5*0 

Woody fibre 40 

Water 3*5 

Acetic acid and loss . . 0*5 



Sweet almonds . . 100*0 



VogeVs Analysis, 

Volatile oil and by. > q^amtit^ 
drocyanic acid . . \ aetermimt^ 

Fixed oil 280 

Emulsin 300 

Liquid sugar .... 6*5 

Gum 3*0 

Seed-coats 8*5 

Woody fibre 5 

Loss 19*0 



Bitter almonds 



100-0 



Sweet almonds are nutritive and emollient, but, on 
account of their fixed oil, difficult of digestion, at 
least when taken in large quantities, or by persons 
whose digestive powers are weak. When rancid they 
are still more apt to disorder the stomach. The husk 
or pellicle of the almond has been known to occasion 
nausea, uneasiness in the stomach and bowels, in- 
creased heat, cedematous swelling of the face, followed 
by nettle-rash. Dr. Winterbottom * suffered twice in 
this way from the use of unblanched sweet almonds ; 
but blanched almonds caused him no inconvenience. 
Almonds are employed as a dessert, and in puddings. 



* Medical Facts and Observations, vol. y. p. 60. 



OILY SEEDS. 341 

cakes, &c. For table use they should always be 
blanched, on account of the injurious qualities of the 
husk. 

Bitter almonds are more or less poisonous to all 
classes of animals. They contain neither volatile oil nor 
prussic acid,* though they yield both these substances 
when submitted to distillation with water; but they 
contain a peculiar crystallizable principle, called 
Amygdalinj whose composition is C^ H^ N O". Now, 
when bitter almond cake is submitted to distillation, 
with water, the amygdalin suffers decomposition by 
the united agencies of the emulsin (of the seed) and 
the water, and yields hydrocyanic acid, volatile oil of 
bitter almonds, sugar, formic acid, and water. 



PRODUCTS OF THE DECOMPOSITION OF AMYGDALIN BY 

EMULSIN. 

Atowu of 



^Carbon 

1 atom of Hydrocyanic Acid ... 2 

2 atoms Volatile Oil of Bitter Almonds 28 

1 atom of Sugar 6 

2 atoms of Formic Acid 4 

7 atoms of Water ....... 



1 atom of Amygdalin 40 



Hjfdrogen 

1 

12 
5 
2 

7 



27 



Nitrogen 

1 








I 




4 
5 
6 

7 



22 



When bitter almonds are chewed, the moisture of 
the mouth and the emulsin of the seeds effect the de- 
composition of the amygdalin, and the formation of 
prussic acid and volatile oil ; and the poisonous opera- 
tion of the seeds depends on the prussic acid. The 
smaller animals, as dogs, pigeons, &c. are readily 



* For the facts in proof of the accuracy of this statement, see my 
Elements qf Materia Medica, vol. ii., p. 1535. 



342 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

destroyed by them. One drachm has killed a 
pigeon, and twenty seeds have destroyed a dog. 
On man they frequently prove injurious even in 
small doses, while, in large ones, they are highly 
deleterious. In some persons, nausea, vomiting, and 
purging, are readily caused by them. On the late Dr. 
Gregory^ they produced first sickness, generally 
tremors, then vomiting, next a hot fit, with an eruption 
of nettle-rash, particularly on the upper part of the 
body. At the same time the face and head swelled 
very much, and there was a general feeling like in- 
toxication. TTie symptoms lasted only a few hours. 
The rash did not alternately appear and disappear, as 
in common nettle-rash. 

When eaten in large quantities, bitter almonds 
have caused serious and even fatal consequences. 
Pierer states that three children, having taken some 
of these seeds, were attacked in a few minutes with 
nausea, vomiting, loss of consciousness and of 
speech, and convulsions; and Mr. Kennedy has 
noticed the case of a stout labourer who died after the 
use of a large quantity of them. These, and other 
observations referred to by Wibmer, Cullen, and 
others, prove that the poisonous effects of the bitter 
almond are similar to those of prussic acid, on the 
developement of which, in fact, their activity de- 
pends. Macaroons and Ratafia cakes, as well as 
Noyau^ which owe their peculiar flavour to these 



* Dr. Christison's Treatite mi PoisonM. 



OILY SEEDS. 343 

seeds, likewise prove injurious when taken in large 
quantities. 

The volatile oil of bitter almonds (frequently sold in 
the shops as essence of bitter almonds) is a most potent 
poison, being in general four times as powerful as the 
prussic acid kept in chemists* shops* A single drop 
of it will kill a cat in a few minutes. Sir Benjamin 
Brodie happening to touch his tongue with a probe 
which had been dipped in it> suffered, almost instan- 
taneously, an indescribable sensation at the pit of the 
stomach, feebleness of the limbs, and loss of power 
over the muscles. These effects were, however, quite 
transient. A few years ago, a lady, in Aldersgate- 
Street, London, was accidentally killed by it. She 
sent to a chemist's shop for beech nut oil, to destroy 
worms, and the person in the shop, mistaking the in- 
quiry for peach nut oil, served her with oil of bitter 
almonds, of which she took half an ounce, by which 
she lost her life. An hypochondriacal gentleman, 48 
years old, swallowed about two teaspoonfuls of the 
oil, and in a few minutes after was found by his ser- 
vant lying in bed, with his features spasmodically con- 
tracted, his eyes fixed, staring, and turned upwards, 
and his chest heaving convulsively and hurriedly. A 
physician, who entered the room twenty minutes after 
the draught had been taken, found him quite insen- 
sible, Ihe pupils immoveable, the breathing stertorous 
and slow, the pulse feeble, and only thirty in a minute, 
and the breath exhaling strongly the odour of bitter 
almonds. Death ensued ten minutes afterwards. 
With these facts before us, it is, I conceive, highly 
improper for ignorant persons to employ it ; yet it is 



344 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

extensively used by cooks and confectioners for 
flavouring ! 

ORDER II. FLESHY FRUITS. 

A very considerable number of fleshy or succuleut 
fruits are employed as food. Of these, however, it is 
intended to notice only such as are in most frequent 
use in this country. 

1. Drupaceous or Stone Fruits. — These are 
called by botanists Drupes. They contain one or two 
seeds (popularly termed the kernels) contained in a 
bony endocarp, commonly called the stones on the out- 
side of which is a soft fleshy mesocarp or sarcocarp 
(usually known as the pulp or flesh of the fruit), which 
is covered by the membranous epicarp (generally de- 
nominated the skin). 

From the Almond tribe are obtained several drupes 
ia common use in this country. Such are the Peach, 
the Nectarine, the Apricot, the Plum, and the Cherry. 
They are usually regarded as difficult of digestion ; 
and the popular opinion is probably the correct one, 
for Dr. Beaumont found that from six to ten hours 
were required for the artificial digestion of peaches. 
They are sometimes eaten with the view to open the 
bowels. When taken too freely they are apt to dis- 
order the digestive organs, and to occasion griping 
and relaxation. 

The following is the composition of several of these 
fruits, according to Berard *. 



* Ann. de Chimie et de Pk^siqne. 1821. 



DRUPACEOUS FRUITS. 



345 



COMPOSITION OP DRUPACEOUS FRUITS OF THE ALMOND 

TRIBE. 



NitrofeaooB matter 
Ck>loiiring matter. . 

Lignine 

Gum 




OreeH'Mute 
(lUime ClaudeJ. 


Peack 
CtPBteJ. 


Ckerriee 
(RojfoUe). 


Unripe. 


Ripe, 


Unripe. 


Ripe. 


Unripe. 


Ripe. 


Unripe. 


Ripe. 


0*76 
0-04 
8*61 
4*10 
traces 
3*70 

quuktitj 

80*39 


0*17 

0*10 

1-86 

5*13 

16*48 

1*80 

▼ery nBall 

quantitj 

74*87 


0*45 
003 
1*36 
5*33 
17*71 
0*45 

traces 

74*57 


0*38 
0*08 
1*11 
306 
34-81 
0*56 

traces 

71*10 


0*41 
0*37 
3*01 
4*33 
0*63 
1*07 

0*08 

90*81 


0*98 

» 

1*31 

4*85 

11*61 

1*10 

0*06 

80-34 


0*31 
0-05 
3*44 
6*01 
1*13 
1*75 

0*14 

88*38 


0*57 

» 

1*13 

8*38 

18*13 

301 

0*10 

74*85 


Sugar 


MiOkadd 

lime 

Water 




100*60 


100*40 


100*00 


100*00 


100*00 

1 


100*00 


100-00 


100*00 



In these analyses, however, no mention is made of 
vegetable jelly (pectine or peetic acid), which, as I 
have before stated (see p. 141), is always a con- 
stituent of these fruits ; but it is probable that, in 
the above table, it is included under the denomination 
of gum. 

The highly palatable flesh of the Peach is slightly 
nutritious from the nitrogenous matter, sugar, gum, 
and pectine, which it contains, while the malic acid 
renders it cooling. Both in the fresh and preserved 
state it is employed as a delicious dessert. Its use is 
objectionable in gouty persons, and in those whose 
bowels are easily disordered. When stewed with 
sugar it may be given as a mild laxative to conva- 
lescents. 

The Nectarine differs from the Peach in having 
a smooth skin. This trivial distinction has led many 
botanists to regard it as a distinct species. 

Gardeners cultivate several hundred sorts of the 
Plum (Prunus domestica). De Candolle admits the 
following as distinct varieties. 



346 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

a. ArmenkHdeSf including the Mirabdk Pbtm. 

fi. ClaueUana, including the Cheen Ooffe, 

y. Myrobalana^ including the Myrobalan Plum. 

d. Damascena, including the Damask Plum, 

c. Tvronensis, including the Orleans Plum, 

g, Juliana f including the Officinal Prune, 

1). Catharinea, including the St, Catharine Plum, 

$. Aubertiana, including the Moffmun Bonum, or Mofjful Phmu 

i, PruneaHnOf including the Damson, 

Dried plums, called prunes, are prepared in warm 
countries by drying the plums on hurdles by solar 
heat; but in colder climates artificial heat is em- 
ployed. In France both methods are adopted ; the 
fruit being exposed to the heat of an oven, and to 
that of the sun, on alternate days. Table prunes are 
prepared from the larger kinds of plum,— as the Saint 
Catherine and the Reine-Claude (Green Gage) : ilfe- 
dicinal Prunes from the Saint Julien. The former has 
an agreeable, very sweet taste ; the latter are some- 
what austere. They are principally imported from 
Bourdeaux. The edible part is the ptdp. 

Fresh ripe plums, taken in moderate quantity, are 
wholesome and nutritive ; but when eaten freely are 
apt to disorder the bowels j an effect more readily ex- 
cited by the unripe fruit. The medicinal prune is 
slightly laxative. The finer kinds of plums are 
employed at the table as a delicious dessert : the 
inferior qualities are used in pies, tarts, conserves, 
and sweetmeats. The larger prunes are eaten at 
table as a dessert. The medicinal pruned form 
an agreeable and mild laxative for children, and 
during convalescence from febrile and inflammatory 
disorders. 

The Cherry possesses dietetical properties similar to 



DBUPACEOUS FRUITS. 347 

those of the plum. In the unripe state it readily 
disorders the bowels. 

The stones of all these drupaceous fruits should not 
be swallowed, as they are apt to cause intestinal obstruc- 
tion. I have known fatal enteritic inflammation pro- 
duced by the accumulation of cherry-stones in the 
appendix caeci. The kernels or seeds yield, like 
the almond, prussic acid. 

The Olive is a drupaceous fruit, which when ripe is 
remarkable for its sarcocarp abounding in a bland 
fixed oil (see Olive Oil, p. 178). Olives farcies a 
VhuUe are sometimes imported. The preserved or 
pickled oliveSy admired, by most persons, as a dessert, 
are the green unripe fruit, deprived of part of their 
bitterness by soaking them in water, and then pre- 
served in an aromatised solution of salt. Several 
varieties are met with in commerce, but the most com- 
mon is the small French olive and the larye Spanish 
olive. Olives a la picholine have been soaked in a 
solution of lime or alkali. Pickled olives are em- 
ployed at the table to excite the appetite for, as well 
as to improve the flavour of, wine. They are also 
used in some sauces. 

The Date is a drupaceous fruit, of vast importance 
in the East, for a considerable portion of the inhabi- 
tants of Egypt, Arabia, and Persia, subsist in great 
part on it. It is the produce of the date palm, or 
Phcenix dactylifera of botanists. Dates have been 
recently analysed by Reinsch *, who gives the follow- 
ing as their constituents : — 

• FharmactuiUches Central-Blattfur 1840, p. 400. 



348 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



COMPOSITION OP DATES. 



Flesh. 

Uncrystallizable sugar . . 58 

Pectin 8*9 

Pectinaceous gum . . . 3*4 

Bassoriue 4*1 

Fatty oil- 0*2 

Wax 01 

Fibre, with traces of colour- ^ 
in^ matter and tannic > 2*3 

acid J 

Water 24*0 



1010 



Kernel, 

Fibre 39-6 

Gummy matter .... 36*4 

Gum and mucus .... 2*5 

Epidermis (albumen) . . 0*6 

An astringent acid (cate- > m* 

chuic ?) \ ' * 

Stearine 0*5 

Oleine 0*3 

Water 13-0 



lOOH) 



It is obvious from this analysis that sugar is the 
leading alimentary constituent of this fruit. In this 
country dates are used principally as condiments. 

2. PoMACEOUS Fruits or Apples. — ^Tliese are the 
produce of the sub-order Pofne^e of Rosaceous plants. 
The edible or pulpy portion of the fruit is the sarcocarp 
or fleshy mesocarp, which is covered on the outside by 
a membranous epicarp (commonly called the peel or 
skin)y and lined on the inner side by a cartilaginous 
endocarp (the core) inclosing the seed. Apples, Pears, 
and Quinces, are familiar examples of this division of 
fruits. The following are the results of Berard^s 
analysis of the Jargonelle pear. 

COMPOSITION OF JARGONELLE (CUISSE-MADAME). 



Nitrogenous matter 
Colouring matter . 



Lignine 
Gum • 



Suflnr . . 
Mfuic acid 
Lime . . 
Water . . 



Unripe. 


Ripe. 


008 


0*21 


0-08 


001 


3-80 


219 


317 


2-07 


6-45 


11-52 


Oil 


0-08 


0-03 


0O4 


86-28 


83*88 


100-00 


100-00 



Rotten. 



0301 

resin so- ^ 

luble in ^ 0H)58 

alcohol 3 

2-534 
3-400 

11-417 

0-786 

traces 

81-500 

99-99 



POMACEOUS FRUITS. 



349 



No mention is here made of vegetable jelly (pectine 
or pectic acid) which the author included, I presume, 
under the head of gum. 

Apples and Pears are very agreeable fruits, but they 
are not in general regarded as easy of digestion ; and 
apples, being of a much firmer texture, are believed to 
be more slowly digested than pears. " In the case of a 
dyspeptic stomach," says Dr. CuUen, " I have known 
apples, a long time after they had been taken down, 
brought up again by eructation in the same masses 
they had been swallowed, and that even after two 
days." Dr. Beaumont's experiments, however, by no 
means confirm ordinary experience, for they appear to 
show that apples, even when raw, are readily di- 
gestible. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF APPLES. 



Articles of IHei, 


Mean Time qf Chymification. 


In Stomach. 


In Phials, 


Preparation. 


H. M. 


Preparation, 


H, M. 


Apples, sweet, mellow, 
„ sour, mellow, 
„ sour, hard . 

Apple dumpling . . 


Raw 
B^'iled 


1 30 

2 

2 50 

3 


Masticated 
Masticated 
Entire pieces 


6 45 

8 30 

18 



Both apples and pears are occasionally eaten to move 
the bowels. Roasted apples are much easier of diges* 
tion than raw apples. They gently promote relaxa* 
tion of bowels; and are, therefore, used by persons 
troubled with habitual constipation. 

The Quince is not eatable in its raw state; but 
stewed in pies or tarts, along with apples, it is much 
esteemed. The expressed juice is cooling and astrin- 



350 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

gent. An excellent marmalade (see p. 144) and syrup 
are prepared from the quince by the confectioner. 
Quince seeds abound in mucilage. 

3. Baccate or Berried Fruits. Berries. — ^To this 
division belong the Currant, the Gooseberry, the Cran- 
berry, the Elderberry, and the Grape ; the eatable part 
of which is the pulp. The epicarp (commonly called 
skin or husk) and the seeds are indigestible, and should 
not be swallowed. The pulp, when freely eaten, 
slightly relaxes the bowels. In the unripe states these 
fruits readily disorder the alimentary canal, and occa- 
sion griping. 

The juice of Red Currants has, according to Proust, 
the following composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF RED CURRANT JUICE. 

Citric Acid, 
Malic Acid, 
Sugar, 

Vegetable Jelly, 
Gum, 
Extractive. 

These fruits are very agreeable and cooling, and are 
eaten both raw and in tarts. A jelly and a jam are 
prepared from them (see pp. 144, 145). 

The constituents of Black Currants are similar to 
those of red currants, with the addition of a pecu- 
liar volatile principle and a violet-colouring matter. 
A jelly (see p. 144), a jam (see p. 145), a paste, and 
fruit lozenges, are made from them. These different 
preparations are employed in febrile and inflamma- 
tory cases, and are in particular request in hoarseness 
and affections of the throat. 

Gooseberries have been analysed by Berard. Their 
composition is as follows : — 



GRAPES. 

COMPOSITION OF GOOSEBERRIES. 



Nitrogeflous matter 

Colouring matter 

Ligninc and Beeds 

Gum 


Vnripe. 


RIpt. 


107 
0-03 
8-45 
1-36 
0-52 
180 
0-12 
o-ii 
86-11 


0-B6 

8-01 
0-78 
6-21 

;i-4l 
0-31 
0-29 
81-10 




Cifricacia 






lOOOO 


lOOflO 



In their general properties they agree with currants. 
Their husks are indigestible, and should not be swal- 
lowed. In the unripe state, gooseberries are apt to 
gripe, and otherwise disturb the bowels. 

The Cranberry is usually eaten when baked; and in 
this way proves an agreeable, and, in general, harmless 
fruit. 

The juice of the Elderberry contains malic acid, a 
little citric acid, sugar, pectin, and colouring matter. 
The inspissated juice, {elder roh) diluted with water, 
forms a cooling beverage in febrile and inflammatory 
disorders. The berries are principally employed in the 
preparation of elder wine. 

The Grape is one of the most valuable and esteemed 
of fruits. Considered with regard to shape and 
colour, the different varieties may be thus arranged : — 
1. Round, dark-red, purple, or black grapes. — This 
division includes a considerable number of sorts. The 
grapes from which port wine * is procured belong to 



* In September, 18^ my friend Mr. Gassiot, of the firm of Martinez, 



352 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



this division, llie black Mtiscardine, common on 
dwelling-houses about London, come under this head. 
The most remarkable variety of this division is the 
black Corinthian grapCy which, when dried, constitutes 
the currant of the grocer. This was formerly pro- 
duced at Corinth (whence its name), but it is now 
grown at Zante, Cephalonia, Patras, &c. At Zante 
the grapes are gathered in August, disposed in couches 
on the ground to dry, cleaned, and laid up in maga- 
zines (called seraglios), where they eventually adhere 
so firmly as to require digging out. They require 



Gassiot, and Co., of Mark Lane, London, showed me sixteen sorts of 
grapes which had been sent by their agent at Oporto as the grapes 
yielding port wine. They were all round, dark, and rather small. 
Those numbered "2" and "16" were the largest berries, and also 
formed the largest bunches; while " 7" and " 14" w^ere the smallest. 
I subjoin the list of g^pes, with the names and remarks, as sent by 
Messrs. Martinez and Gassiot's Oporto agent : — 

" LIST OF THE GRAPES, AS SHIPPED. 

No. 1. Tinta FrancUca Dark coloured wine. 

2. Touriga Full bodied. 

3.7>Wa«^«««J e^. 

4. „ grossa Give abundance, but not of the 

best. 

5. Basiardo Rich. 

6. Alvarelhao Good flavour, but little colour. 

8. Negrtio. 

9. Mourisco preto Body and flavour. 

10. CastiUda. 

11. SouzAo Gives the darkest coloured, bat 

in senerai bad wine. 

12. Donielmkodo Castello, . . Very little colour, and not the 

best wine. 

13. Tinta da Lameira .... Colour and flavour. 

14. Bastardeira Good wine. 

15. Moretto, 

16. Nomra Gives abundance of wine, but of 

the worst quality: has the 
name of the ' Poor Man^s 
Wine: " 



ORAPES. 



353 



eight, ten, or fourteen days for drying. For exporta- 
tion they are trod in barrels. They form one of the 
constituents of the well-known national dish, plum 
pudding^ 

2. Oval, dark^redf purple, or black grapes. — ^To this 
division belong the black and purple Hamburgh grapes. 

3. Round and white grapes. — Of this there are seve- 
ral sorts. 

4. Oval and white grapes. — The Portugal grape 
comes under this division. It is imported, packed in 
saw-dust, and contained in earthen jars, from Portugal 
and Spain. The berries are large, fleshy, sweet, and 
slightly acidulous. They keep a long time after they 
have ripened. 

5. Redy rose-coloured, grayish, or striped grapes. — - 
Of this there are several sorts. 

The juice of both unripe and ripe grapes has been 
examined by several chemists. The following are 
the most important results : — 

COMPOSITION OP GRAPE JUICE. 



Juice qf the Unr^e Orape, 



Proutt. 

Extractive. 
Malic add, a little. 
Citric add, mach. 
Bitaitrate of potash. 
Sulphate of potash. 
Sulphate of lime. 



Unripe Grape Juice. 



1. Deposit 
from tko 
jiniee. 



S. FUteredJ 
Jmice, \ 



Qeig«r» 

Wax. 

Chlorophyile. 

Tannin. 

, Glutinous matter. 

/Tannin. 

Extractive. 

Sufrar (uncrystalliza- 
ble). 

Gallic add. 

Tartaric add (free) 
about 1*13 per cent. 

Malic add (ftee) 
about 3*19 per cent. 

BItartrate of potash. 

Malate, phosphate, 
sulphate, ana muri- 
ate of lime. 



Juice of White Grape of good 
quality. 



Jvice of the Ripe Chape. 



Proutt. 

Extractive. 
Sugar (granular 

and uncrystal- 

lizable). 
Gum. 
Glutinous mat- 1 

ter. 
Malic add, a 

Uttle. 
Citric add, a 

little (tartaric, 

Braeonnot). 
Bitartrate of 

potash. 



Ripe Grape 
juice. 



BArard. 

Odorous mat- 
ter. 

Sugar. 

Gum. 

Glutinous mat- 
ter. 

Malic add. 

Malate of lime. 

Bitartrate of 
potash. 

Supertartrate 
of lime. 



Ripe Grape 
juice. 



A A 



354 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

The composition of grape sugar (called also granular 
sugar or glucose) has been already stated (see p. 113). 
The hitartrate of potash contained in grape juice de- 
posits, along with colouring and other matters, from 
wine, and forms what are termed crude tartar or argol^ 
and the crust of wine. Crude tartar, when purified 
and deprived of colouring matter, constitutes cream of 
tartar^ from which tartaric acid is obtained (see 
p. 153). 

Grapes when dried are called Raisins. In Granada 
the finest kinds of raisins, viz. the Muscatels and the 
BloomSy are sun-dried; while the Lexias (so called 
from the liquor in which they are inunersed), are 
dipped in a mixture of water, ashes, and oil, and 
afterwards sun-dried. By this treatment the juice 
exudes and candies on the fruit. The raisins of Va- 
lentia are prepared by steeping them in boiling water, 
to which a lye of vine stems has been added. The 
alkaline solution serves to remove the waxy coat 
which checks the drying of the berry. The varieties 
of raisins known in the market are distinguished 
partly from their place of growth, as Valentias 
and Smyrnas; partly from the variety of grape 
from which they are prepared, as Sultanas^ Blooms, 
and Muscatels; and partly from the mode of curing 
them, as Raisins of the Sun. Muscatels are the 
finest: Sultanas are stoneless. The raisins of Malaga 
are of three kinds: 1st, Muscatels; 2dly, Sun or 
Bloom Raisins ; and 3dly, Lexia Raisins. 

The small or Corinthian raisins (called, by grocers, 
currants) have been already noticed (see p. 362). 

Fresh grapes^ when ripe, are wholesome, nutritious. 



GRAPES. 366 

refrigerant, and, when taken freely, diuretic and laxa- 
tive ; but the skin and the seeds are indigestible, and 
should be rejected. In the alvine discharges of chil- 
dren who have eaten plum pudding, the currants 
(black Corinthian raisin) will be found almost en- 
tirely undigested. " I think we may assert," says 
Dr. Cullen, " that grapes which contain a large quan- 
tity of sugar, are, if taken without their husks, the 
safest and most nutritive of summer fruits." They 
are used at table as a dessert, and in febrile and 
inflammatory complaints as a very agreeable fruit, 
which allays thirst, and checks febrile heat. In 
the inflammatory form of dyspepsia (called by Sir 
James Clark and others gastritic dyspepsia), and 
in pulmonary affections, ripe grapes are eaten in 
considerable quantities, in Switzerland and other 
parts of the continent, occasionally with consider- 
able benefit, and forming what is called the " Cure 
de Raisins.'"' It deserves consideration how far 
the bitartrate of potash, contained in grapes, may coCl- 
tribute to the beneficial effect. For this salt, like the 
other vegetable alkaline salts, is converted, in the sys- 
tem, into an alkaline carbonate at the expense of 
atmospheric oxygen (see pp. 28-29). In tuber- 
cular phthisis the system manifests no want, but 
rather redundancy, of oxygen. May not the bitar- 
trate, in such cases, prove useful by appropriating to 
itself a portion of oxygen ? If so, in bronchitis with 
a purple tint the same treatment would prove inju- 
rious, as there is a manifest deficiency of oxygen in 
the system. 

Raisins are somewhat more nutritive and less re- 



356 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

frigerant then fresh grapes ; for they abound more in 
sugar and less in acid. If eaten freely they are apt to 
disorder the digestive organs and cause flatulence* 
Tliey are employed at the table as a dessert, and are 
used in various articles of pastry. 

4. The Orange or Aurantiaceous Fruits. — 
These fruits, called by botanists the Hesperidium or 
Aurantiumy are the produce of the genus Citrus : 
they are the Orange, the Lemon, the Lime, the Citron, 
and the Shaddock. Their rind is leathery or spongy : 
the external portion, called Jiavedo or zestCy is yellow, 
and contains a volatile oil lodged in rounded or vesicu- 
lar receptacles. The acid juice of the fruit is lodged 
in small pulpy bags, which are readily separated from 
each other. 

Lemons are imported from Spain, Portugal, Italy, 
and the Azores. Their rind contains a volatile oil 
{essence of lemons), a bitter principle (aurantiin), and 
a peculiar crystalline substance (hesperidin) . It is a 
grateful aromatic and stomachic, and is used as a 
flavouring substance. Candied lemon peel is an agreea- 
ble stomachic, and is employed as a dessert, and in 
confectionery. Lemon Juice is a slightly turbid, very 
sour liquid, with a grateful flavour. Owing to the 
mucilaginous matter which it contains, it readily be- 
comes mouldy, and suffers decomposition. Its con- 
stituents, according to Proust, are as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF LEMON JUICE. 

Citric acid. 

Malic acid. 

Gum. 

Bitter extractive. 

Water. 



LEMONS. 357 

The relative proportions of these ingredients vary 
somewhat according to the degree of ripeness of the 
fruit. One fluidounce (two table-spoonfuls) of good 
juice is equal to thirty-two grains of crystallized citric 
acid, and saturates about 4di grs. of bicarbonate of 
potash. Lemon juice furnishes a most agreeable and 
refreshing beverage, and proves refrigerant and anti- 
scorbutic. It may be either added to barley water, or 
mixed with sugar and water to form Lemonade *. The 
latter may be extemporaneously made, by adding two 
lemons sliced, and two ounces of sugar, to two pints of 
boiling water, and digesting until cold. A somewhat 
similar beverage has been denominated King's Cup. 
These acidulated drinks are exceedingly useful for 
allaying thirst, and as refrigerants in febrile and in- 
flammatory complaints, and in hemorrhages. In the 
latter maladies iced lemonade is to be preferred. When 
there is nausea or a tendency to sickness, effervescent 
lemonade is useful. 

Lemon juice has long been justly regarded as a 
valuable antiscorbutic ; but on account of the difficulty 
of preserving it, a solution of crystallized citric acid is 
often substituted. Experience, however, has proved 
that it is inferior to the recent juice. Even the con- 



* ** Lemonade, as a beverage in putrid diseases, was first introduced 
by the French physicians in the beginning of the seventeenth century ; 
and about the year 1660, an Italian, firom Florence, having learnt the 
process of freezing confectionary, conceived the happy idea of convert- 
ing such beverage into ice. This found a ready sale, and was the 
occasion of so great an increase in the number of sellers of lemonade, 
that in the year 1676 the lAmonadiers of Paris were formed into a 
company, and received a patent from government." (Dr. Paris, Phar- 
macologia). 



358 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

centrated juice is not equal to the fresh fruit. Hence 
Sir Gilbert Blane suggested that the juice should be 
preserved by the addition of a little spirit, without 
the employment of heat; and this plan is usually 
followed. 

Lemon juice is not an infallible specific for scurvy, 
as Sir Gilbert Blane and some others have supposed ; 
for occasionally the malady rages despite of the co- 
pious use of it *• 



* The following extract firom Dr. Johnson's Medico- Ckifurffical 
Review, for 1824^ serves to illustrate the statement in the text : — 

'' Lemon Juice in Scurvy.— It has long been known to many intelU- 
gent observers that salt provisions are not the only cause of scurvy, and 
that lemon juice is by no means an infallible cure for the disease, how- 
ever induced, notwithstanding the evidence of Sir Gilbert Blane, so 
positively advanced to the contrary. In support of our position, we 
shall here bring forward an abstract from an official document of un- 
questionable authenticity and recent occurrence. 

In the year 1822, his Majesty's ship Leander sailed from Trincomalee 
for the Cape of Good Hope, taking on board the mechanics of the 
Dock Yard establishment, then reduced on the island. There were also 
embarked twenty-six invalids, and all the sick that could be removed 
from the hospital. These invalids and sick were principally affected 
with chronic hepatitis, dysentery, and phthisis pulmonalis, all of which 
(even some who were expectorating large quantities of purulent 
matter) recovered on the passage to the Cape. This good fortune was 
counterbalanced by scurvy, which broke out among the crew, and in 
spite of large quantities of lemon-juice plentifully administered, in 
conjunction with every other antiscorbutic which the ship could produce, 
spread to an alarming extent, and in one case proved fatal. Had they 
not reached the Cape at the time they did, the Leander would have pre- 
sented as deplorable a spectacle as the Anson [Centurion], at Juan Fcr- 
nandez, notwithstanding the supposed infallible specific, lemon jwice, 
which, in no instance, on board the Leander, had the slightest effect in 
even checking the ravages of the scurvy. Immediately the ship reached 
the Cape, and the crew got plenty of animal food in conjunction with 
vegetables, they rapidly recovered (see Mr. Bampfield's remarks 
on the subject, in his valuable work on Tropical Dysentery). Speci- 
mens of the lemon-juice used were transmitted to the Ylctualliiig Board, 
and carefully analjbed in London. It was found to be perfectly good." 



ORANGES. 350 

The properties and uses of the Lime are similar to 
those of the Lemon. Lime juice contains the same 
ingredients as lemon juice, but in somewhat different 
proportions. 

The Common or Sweet Orange is a most delicious 
fruit. Its juice has the following composition :— 

COMPOSITION OF ORANGE JUICE. 

Citric Acid. 

Malic Acid. 

Mucilage. 

Albumen. 

Sugar. 

Citrate of Lime. 

Water. 

The proportions, however, vary with the degree of 
ripeness of the fruit. The juice of the ripe orange isl^ 
refreshing and grateful beverage, and is extensively 
used at the table. In febrile and inflammatory com- 
plaints it is a valuable refrigerant ; allaying thirst and 
diminishing preternatural heat. The orange, when 
unripe, is very apt to cause griping ; but when quite 
ripe, is rarely inadmissible: the seeds (called pips) 
and rind, however, should be rejected. Orange peel is 
used as a flavouring agent. It is an agreeable sto- 
machic. 

The Citron is seldom brought to the table in the raw 
state, but it yields some excellent preserves and sweet- 
meats. The juice is employed to flavour punch and 
negus. It forms, with sugar and water, a refreshing 
refrigerant beverage. Candied Citron peel is a favourite 
condiment and sweetmeat. 

The Seville Orange has a rough, sour, and somewhat 
bitter juice, which is used by the cook to flavour 
jellies, and for other purposes. The peel of the Seville 



360 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



orange, and also the small dried green fruits (Oran^ 
geites or Curagoa Oranges) of both the Seville and 
Sweet oranges, are employed for flavouring the liqueur 
termed Curagoa (p. 165) and other substances. 
Candied orange peel is used as a condiment 

5. CucuRBiTACEOUs Fruitsj Pepones; Goubds. — 
Those cucurbitaceous fruits which are employed for 
alimentary ptrrposes contain a pulpy, aqueous, sweet 
or somewhat acidulous, refreshing flesh, which, though 
agreeable to the palate, is difficult of digestion, and 
when eaten freely, relaxes the bowels, and sometimes 
occasions griping pain. It yields but little nutritive 
matter, and readily disagrees with the dyspeptic. 
Pepper is eaten with several of them with the view of 
assisting their digestion, and preventing any injurious 
effect on the stomach. 

The Cucumber is the most commonly employed, 
and, therefore, the best known fruit of this order. Its 
constituents, according to John, are as follows : — 



COMPOSITION OF THE GREEN CUCUMBER. 



7^ Peeled Fruit. 

Sugar and extractive 1 *66 

Chlorophylle 0-04 

Odorous matter .... P 
Fungus-like membrane ^ 
(lignin ?) with phos- > 0*53 
nhate of lime . . 3 
Soluble albumen ... 0*13 
Mucus with free pho8-^ 
phoric acid, an ammo- 
niacal salt, malate, 
phosphate, sulphate, V 0*50 
and muriate of i)otash, 
and phosphate of lime I 

and iron / 

Water 9714 

100*00 



The F)re$h PeeL 

Solid matters f similar to\ 
those of tne peeled 
fruit, but containing^ 15 
much fungus-like mat- 
ter) 

Water 85 



100 



CUCURBITACEOUS FRUITS. 



361 



In its raw state the cucumber is slowly, and with diffi- 
culty, digested, and is usually eaten with condiments 
(pepper, vinegar, and oil) as a salad; but its em- 
ployment should be carefully avoided by dyspeptics. 
When stewed it forms a h'ght and wholesome food. 
Young cucumbers (called gherkins) y as well as the 
full-grown fruits, are eaten as condiments, when 
pickled. 

The Melon, when in perfection, is a very delicious 
fruit. The Cantaloupe variety was examined by 
Payen,* who obtained the following results : — 



(Flesh 



100 parts 

of 
Melon. 



COMPOSITION OP THE CANTALOUPE MELON. 

Flesh qf the Melon. 

Juice .... 1 j/»A)Q 
Do. in the pulp./ ^^ 
Fibrous pulp, 
washea & dried 0*57 

Juice around the 



Internal 
portion 



seeds . . . 6'97 

Fresh seeds . . 1*54 

IFibres. . . . 0-19 

LRinrf 44-44 



»8-5 



100-00 



Crystallizable sugar 1*5 
Pectic acid . . traces 
Uncrystallizable 

sugar 
Vegetable albumen 
Mucilage 
Free acid 
Saponifiable fat 
Nitrogenous matter 
Colouring matter 
Aromatic matter 
Starch 
Lignin 
Salts 
Water 

1000 



The melon, like other cucurbitaceous fruits, is very 
apt to disagree with delicate stomachs, and, to obviate 
this, is usuaUy eaten with salt and pepper, and some- 
times with sugar. 

The Water Melon possesses similar properties to the 
melon. The Vegetable Marrow, when cooked by 



* Journal de Chimie Mid. t.iii. p. 15. 1827. 



362 COMPOUND ALIM£NT8. 

boiling, forms a very agreeable and wholesome article 
of food. The Pumpkin (Pampian) agrees with the 
other cucurbitaceous fruits in its alimentary qualities. 

6. Leguminous Fruits; Legumes or Pods. — ^The 
pulpy mesocarp or sarcocarp of the Tamwrind pos- 
sesses alimentary properties. Its composition, accord^ 
ing to Vauquelin, is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OP TAMARINDS. 

Citric acid 9*40 

Tartaric acid 1*55 

Malic acid 0*45 

Bitartrate of potash 3*25 

Sugar 12 5 

Gum 4*7 

Vegetable jelly (pectine) 6*25 

Parenchyma (lignine) 34*35 

Water 27*55 

100*00 

Tamarind pulp is slightly nutritive. It allays thirst, 
diminishes febrile heat, and when eaten freely proves 
laxative. It is adapted for febrile and inflammatory 
cases ; and is sometimes employed to form whey (see 
Tamarind Whey^ p. 258). The East Indian tamarind 
has a much longer pod than the West Indian fruit. 

The unripe pods of Phaseolus vulgaris (Kidney 
bean or Haricot), commonly called French beans, 
form, when boiled, a favourite dish ; though their nu- 
tritive properties are but slight. They are also eaten 
as a pickle. Scarlet beans (the unripe pods of Phase- 
olus multijlorus), when boiled, are also brought to 
table, and greatly resemble the French bean, to which 
they are preferred by many. 

7. Syconus. — The Fig is a familiar illustration of 
the collective fruit called by botanists the Syconus. 



MULBERRIES. 363 

It consists of a pulpy or fleshy pear-shaped receptacle, 
within which are many seed-like bodies, which are 
the fruits (achenia) properly so called. In the green 
or unripe state figs contain an acrid bitter juice ; but 
as they ripen, this disappears, and is replaced by 
sugar ; and in this state they form an agreeable and 
wholesome food. The figs, which are imported, have 
been dried in the sun or in ovens, are compressed, 
covered with a whitish saccharine efflorescence, and 
have an agreeable though peculiar odour, and sweet 
taste. In this state if freely eaten they are apt to pro- 
duce disorder of the stomach and bowels, and oc- 
casion flatulence, griping, and slight relaxation of 
bowels, especially in children. Their composition is 
as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF PIGS. 

Granular sugar (glucose) 62*5 

Patty matter 0*9 

Extractive with chloride of calcium . . . 0'4 

Gum with phosphoric acid 5*2 

Woody fibre and achenia 15*0 

Water 16*0 

100-0 

In eastern countries figs are eaten as food ; but here 
they are taken as a dessert principally. A roasted or 
boiled fig is a popular poultice for gum-boils. 

8. SoROSis. — ^The Mulberry belongs to this order 
of fruits. It consists of the female flowers, become 
fleshy and grown together, and inclosing a dry mem- 
branous pericarp. Its constituents are as follows : — 

CONSTITUENTS OP MULBERRIES. 

Colouring matter. 

Pectine. 

Bitartrate of potash. 

Sugar. 

Woody fibre. 

Water. 



364 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Mulberries possess very slightly nutritive qualities 
They check thirst, relieve febrile heat, and, when eaten 
freely, gently relax the bowels. 

The Pine^apple^ — the most delicious of fruits, — ib, 
like the mulberry, composed of ovaria and floral en- 
velopes, which have become fleshy and grown together. 
It is a native of South America and of some of the 
West India islands, and is now naturalized in several 
of the hotter parts of Asia and Africa. Its juice was 
examined by Adet, who states its constituents to be 
as follows : — - 

CONSTITUENTS OF THE JUICE OF THE PINE-APPLE. 

Peculiar Aroma. 

Sugar. 

Gum. 

Malic Acid. 

Citric and Tartaric Acids. 

Water. 

" Ripe pine-apples," says Dr. Wright *, ** are 
amongst the finest of our fruits in the West Indies, 
and are relished by all ranks of people, especially sick 
of acute diseases, dysenteries, &c. They have a deter- 
sive quality, and are better fitted to cleanse the mouth 
and gums than any gargle whatever. Besides being 
eaten raw, they are often candied with sugar, and sent 
home as presents." The same authority adds that they 
are made into tarts and pickles. I have before stated 
(see p. 163) they are used for flavouring rum. 

9. Et^bio. — To this order of fruits belong the 
Strawberry, the Raspberry, and the Blackberry. 



* MediekuU Pkmis qf Jammca. 



RASPBERRY. 365 

In the Strafvbei*ry, the seed-like pericarps are dry, 
but are placed upon a fleshy or pulpy receptacle, 
which forms the juicy or succulent part of the fruit. 
The strawberry constitutes one of the most delicious 
of our summer fruits. The following are the con- 
stituents of it : — 

CONSTITUENTS OP THE STRAWBERRY. 

Peculiar volatile Aroma. 

Sugar. 

Mucilage. 

Pectine. 

SSc Acid }«<!»«» P«t« of *««*•• 

Woody fibre. 

Pericarps. 

Water. 

Strawberries contain a very small portion only of 
nutritive matter. They are employed as a very ad- 
mired dessert, and also in the preparation of jellies 
and jams (see pp. 144-145). The grains or seed-like 
pericarps are not digestible, and, it is stated, are apt to 
excite intestinal irritation. The late Dr. Armstrong 
entertained a very strong opinion of the injurious 
effects of these grains, and, on one occasion, in 
which I met him in consultation, he directed the 
patient to suck strawberries through muslin, in 
order to prevent the grains being swallowed. The 
cream frequently taken with strawberries is objec- 
tionable for dyspeptics. 

The Raspberry differs in several respects from the 
strawberry. The pericarps (sometimes called drupes) 
are succulent instead of dr}-; while the receptacle, 
which in the strawberry is juicy, is in the raspberry 



366 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

dry and spongy. In 1838 this fruit was analysed by 
Bley, who found its constituents to be as follows : — 

CONSTITUENTS OP THE RASPBERRY. 

Volatile oil. 

Citric acid. 

Malic acid. 

Crystallizable, fermentable sugar. 

Red colouring matter. 

Mucus. 

Woody fibre. 

It is obvious, however, that he has omitted pectincj 
which is a well-known constituent of raspberries. 
The ashes contained carbonate, phosphate, and muriate 
of potash, carbonate and phosphate of lime and mag- 
nesia, silica, and oxide of iron. 

The raspberry is an agreeable acidulous fruit, con- 
taining very little nourishment, but rarely disturbing 
the stomach. If eaten freely it promotes the action of 
the bowels. Besides being used at the table as a 
dessert, it is employed in the preparation of jellies, 
jams, raspberry vinegar (see pp. 144 and 145), and 
creams. The latter preparation is an objectionable one 
for dyspeptics. 

ORDER III. — ROOTS, SUBTERRANEOUS STEMS, AND 

TUBERS. 

This order includes the Turnip, the Carrot, the 
Parsnip, the Beet, the Potato, and the Jerusalem 
Artichoke. 

Before proceeding to notice them individually, it 
may be advantageous to give a tabular view of theur 
relative digestibility, according to Dr. Beaumont's 
experiments : — 



TURNIPS. 



367 



RELATIVE DIGESTIBILITY OF TURNIPS, PARSNIPS, 
POTATOES, CARROTS, AND BEETS. 









Mean Time qf Chymificatum. 


Articles of Diet. 


In Siomaeh. 


III PhiaU. 


PreparatUm, ' H. M, 


Preparation. 


17. M, 


Parsnips . . . 
Potatoes, Irish . 

»» ft 
Carrot, orange 

1 Turnips, flat . 

Potatoes, Irish 

Beets . . . 

Parsnips . . 

Parsnips . . 

Carrot, orange 

»» »» • • 

Potatoes, Irish 


• 
• 


• 
• • 


Boiled 

Roasted 

Baked 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Raw 

Raw 


2 30 
2 30 

2 30 

3 15 
3 30 
3 30 
3 45 


Mashed 

Mashed 

Mashed 

Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 


6 45 

6 15 
8 30 

13 15 
18 
12 30 
17 15 

14 



The Cruciferous or Siliquose root called the Turnip^ 
is, on account of the large proportion of water of 
which it is made up, but slightly nutritive. By dr}^- 
ing it in vacuOy at 230® F., Boussingault^ found the 
relative proportion of solid and liquid matters which 
it contains to be as follows : — 

QUANTITY OP SOLID MATTER IN TURNIPS. 

Water 92-5 

Solid matter 7*5 



Turnips .... 100-0 

The same chemist submitted the solid or dried matter 
of turnips to ultimate analysis, and obtained the fol- 
lowing results : — 



* Mhnoiret de VAcadimie Roy ale det Sciences, t. xviii. 1842. 



368 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

ULTIMATE COMPOSITION OF THE DRIED TURNIP. 

Carbon 42*9 

Hydrogen 5*5 

Oxygen 42-3 

Nitrogen 1*7 

Asnes ••••f»»« / *o 

Dried Turnip . . 10(H) 

The juice of the turnip contains two nitrogenous 
constituents, viz. vegetable fibrine and vegetable albu- 
men. The first coagulates spontaneously on stand- 
ing,— the second is afterwards coagulated by heat. 

The turnip, though very slightly nutritive, is in 
general easily digested ; and though by some it is re- 
puted flatulent, I have never seen it prove so when it 
has been well boiled. 

The Carrot and Parsnip are Umbelliferous roots in 
common use. They contain vegetable fibrine, vegeta- 
ble albumen, sugar, and volatile oil. The following 
are the constituents of the expressed and dried juice 
of the carrot : — 

EXPRESSED AND DRIED JUICE OP THE CARROT. 

Fixed oil, with some volatile oil i • • 1*0 

Red crystalline neutral substance {carotin) .... 0*34 

Uncrystallizable sugar, with some starch and malic acid 93*71 

Albumen 4*35 

Ashes (alumina, lime, and iron) 0*60 



100*00 



Both the carrot and the parsnip are highly nutritive ; 
but the volatile oil which they contain renders their 
flavour unpleasant to many, and causes them to be apt 
to disagree with some dyspeptics. 

The Beet-root is the produce of a Chenepodiaceous 
plant, and is used both as a garnish and a salad. On 



POTATOES. 369 

The Jerusalem Artichoke is the tuber of the Hetian- 
thus tuberosus. It is in use, on the continent, as a sub- 
stitute for the potato, to which it is inferior in nutritive 
power as well as in flavour. In taste it somewhat re- 
sembles the bottom of the Garden Artichoke (Cynara 
Scolymv^). 

The Potato''^ (Solanum tuberosum)^ next to the 
Cerealia, is the most important and valuable of the 
esculent vegetables. For its introduction into Eng- 
land, from America, we are indebted to Sir Walter 
Raleigh. 

The part of the plant which is used as food is the 
tuber attached to the subterranean stem, of which, in 
fact, it may be regarded as a part in a state of exces- 
sive development. It is provided with a number of 
buds, conmionly called eyes, which, with contiguous 
portions of the potatoes, are used, under the name of 
setSy for multiplying the species. 

When examined by the microscope the tissue of the 
potato is found to consist of a mass of cells, between 
and within which is an albuminous liquor. Each cell 
also contains about ten or twelve starch grains. 

Potatoes have been repeatedly subjected to chemical 
examination ; but the most important investigations 



* This plant is sometimes confounded by writers with the Baiaias 
edulis, the Canvohmbu Batatas of most botanists, whose tuberous roots 
are called Sweet Potatoes, Spanish Potatoes, or Batatas. The latter 
constitute the Potatoes of Shakespeare, as well as of some other authors. 
When boiled or baked they form a wholesome fiirinaceous food, 
which, however, is slightly laxative, and, according to many writers, 
aphrodisiac. 

BB 



370 



COVI\nNl^ AUMKXTS. 



aw Ukv^o of Kinhot\ lMU|Kiilius, Vauquelin, Otto, 
l{;uip* Miolwoli** ajui Bi>u$$iugault. The laat- 
inoiiUoiuHl ohomist submitted the potato to ultimate 
aiialvsis,* aiul obtained the following results : — 



ULTIMATE ANALYSIS OF THE POTATO. 



Water 75-9 

Solid matter dried at 
^XX^'F. in vacuo. . 241 

10(H) 



Carbon 44*i' 

Hydrogen .... ^'f 

Oxygen 44r.T 

Nitrogen 3-7- 

Ashes -9*1 

Solid matter dried at 

23a» F. M vaemo . 10l>9 



So that 100 parts of the Potato, i 
contain llie following substances :- 



Water . 
Carbon 
Hydrogen 
Oxygen . 
Nitrogen . 
Ashes . . 



lO^OI j 

10-77? Sob^ter dried at 
0-3615 230«F. mr«» 
0-9S40' 



. M*l 



lOOO 



From this analysis we learn that the proportion of 
nitrogen contained in the potato is very small ; bot it 
is still smaller in potatoes that have been kept for 
some time. 





Potato, fresh . . 
Ditto, kept 10 months 


79-4 
76-8 


1-80 
1-18 


0-37 
0-23 



From these statements it foUows, that if nitrogenised 



• Mimoire$ de VAeadimie deM Scimee$ de rbuiUmi de Frmmet, L xriii. 
184% p. 345. 



POTATOES. 371 

principles alone contribute to the nutrition of the 
body, the nutritive power of the potato must be very 
low; or, in other words, its nutritive equivalent must 
be very high (see p. 65) ; and accordingly both Bous-* 
singault and Liebig have endeavoured to show that 
this is really the case. Two milch cows, says Bous- 
singault*, were fed with a quantity of potatoes accord- 
ing to my equivalents. They always consumed their 
rations, and had they been fed with less would have been 
insufficiently nourished. A horse may be kept alive 
by feeding it with potatoes, observes Liebig f , but life 
thus supported is a gradual starvation; the animal 
increases neither in size nor strength, and sinks under 
every exertion. 

If we assume that all the nitrogenised principles of 
the potato are alimentary, it follows that butcher's 
meat is about 10*4 times as nutritive as the potato. 
But solanine, and probably other constituents of the 
potato, are nitrogenised though not alimentary princi- 
ples ; and we may, therefore, estimate 1 lb. of butcher's 
meat as being equal, in nutritive power, to lOi lbs. 
of potatoes. 

In the year 1840 some experiments were made on 
the effects of different diets, on the prisoners confined 
in the Glasgow Bridewell ; and the following extract 
from the report J of the inspectors of prisons, de- 



* Ann. de Chim, et de Phys, t. 67, p. 410, et seq. 

t Chemistry in its AppUcation to AgricvUwre and Physiology, p. 82, 
2d ed. 1842. 

X Fifth Report qf the Inspectors of Prisons. IV. Seotlandt Northumber- 
land, and Dnrham, pp. viii. — xi. 



372 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

serves to be noticed here in connection with the 
preceding observations on the nutritive powers of 
potatoes. 

'^Eigktk Dm/.— Cost, including cooking, l|d. 

BreaJfoMt. — 2 lbs. of potatoes boiled. 

Dinner. — 3 lbs. of potatoes boiled. . 

Supper, — I lb. of potatoes boiled. 

A class of ten young men and bojs was put on this diet. All had 
been in confinement for short periods only, and all were employed at 
light work, teazing hair. At the beginning of the experiment eight 
were in good health, and two in indifferent health ; at the end, the 
eight continued in good health, and the two who had been in indiffe- 
rent health had improved. There was, on an average, a gain in weight 
of nearly 31 lbs. per prisoner, the greatest gain being 8} lbs., by a 
young man, whose health had been indifferent at the beginning of the 
experiment. Only two prisoners lost at all in weight, and the quantity 
in each case was trifling. The prisoners all expressed themselves 
quite satisfied with this diet, and regretted the change back again to 
the ordinary diet.'' 

Now the quantity of nitrogen, contained in the 
six pounds of potato allowed to each of these 
prisoners, was equal to that contained in somewhat 
more than nine ounces of butcher^s meat. 

The proximate principles of the potato are water, 
starchy matter (starch grains and amylaceous fibre), 
ligneous matter, proteinaceous principles (vegetable 
fibrine, vegetable albumen, and gluten), /at, gum, 
asparagine, extractive, vegetable acids, salts, and occa- 
sionally solanina. 

The following is a recent analysis, by Michaelis, of 
a red variety of potato, which was suspected to pos- 
sess injurious properties. 



POTATOES. 373 



PROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF THE POTATO. 

Water 66*875 

Starch and amylaceous fibre . . 30*469 

Albumen 0-503 

Gluten 0-055 

Fat 0O5S 

Gum 0-020 

Asparagin 0*063 

Extractire 0-921 

Chloride of potassium .... 0-176 
Silicate, phosphate, and citrate^ 

of iron, manganese, alumina, 

soda, potash, and lime (of these I- 0*81 5 

potash and citric acid are the 

prevailing ingredients) . . 

Free citric acid 0-047 



100-000 



I have already given some account of Potato Starch 
(see p. 133), as well as figures representing its micro- 
scopic appearance (see p. 124). The quantity ob- 
tained from potatoes is subject to considerable diversity 
(see p. 122) ; and varies not only with the sort of 
potato used but also with the season. 

QUANTITY OF STARCH YIELDED BY 100 lbs. OF POTATOES 

AT DIFFERENT SEASONS. 

In August, aboat 10 lbs. 

In September 14i 

In October 14| 

In November 17 

In March 17 

In April IH 

InMaj 10 

From this it will be seen that the quantity of starch 
is at its maximum in the winter season. In the spring 
vegetation becomes active, and the buds begin to grow 
at the expense of the starch contained in the tuber. 
Hence at this season potatoes are less mealy, and, in 
consequence, less esteemed for the table. 

Potato starch agrees with the other amylaceous 



S74 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

substances in its alimentary and dietetical properties 
(see pp. 125-121, and 133). Being devoid of nitro- 
gen it is of course inferior in nutritive power to the 
flour or meal of the cereal grains, which contain 
vegetable fibrine, vegetable albumen, and gluten. But 
being readily soluble in boiling water, it yields several 
agreeable articles of food. It is sold in the shops 
under the name of Potato Flour or Eiiglish Arrofv^ 
root. Bright' s Nutritious Farina, sold for invalids 
and infants, is a carefully prepared potato starch 
slightly scented. The substance sold as Indian Com 
Starch is potato starch coloured blue. BrighCs Uni- 
versal Sanative Breakfast Beverage appears to be a 
mixture of potato starch and chocolate. 

The presence of Citric acid in the potato deserves 
to be especially noticed, since on it probably depends, 
in a great measure, the antiscorbutic property of this 
tuber. Baup* says that the potato yields sufficient 
citric acid to admit of its being employed for the pre- 
paration of this acid, for commercial purposes. 

Solanina, a vegetable alkali possessing powerfully 
narcotic properties, has been, detected by Otto in the 
buds and underground shoots of the potato. '^ If 
potatoes are grown where they are not supplied with 
earth, the magazine of inorganic bases, (in cellars^ 
for example), a true alkali, called solanin, of very 
poisonous nature, is formed in the sprouts which 
extend towards (he light, while not the smallest trace 
of such a substance can be discovered in the roots. 



* Phamuiceutisch€$ Central-Biatt fur 1836, p. 47. 



POTATOES. 376 

herbs, blossoms, or fruits of potatoes grown in the 
field.*" The most delicate test of solanina is, ac- 
cording to Otto, iodine. If small pieces of this be 
added to a weak solution of solanina (as the sul-* 
phate), they become surrounded by a brown syrupy 
fluid. A watery solution of iodine a]so forms, with a 
very weak solution of solanina, a brownish colourf . 
Michaelisj;, however, declares that the colour thus 
produced depends not on the solanina, but on the 
fatty acid of an alkaline [basic] calcareous soap con- 
tained in the potato. Solanina or other noxious 
principle, if present at all, must be contained in ex- 
tremely small quantity in the potato, or must be 
destroyed or removed by cooling, since notwithstand- 
ing the universal employment of this vegetable, 
poisonous effects from it are never heard of; or if 
they occur must be exceedingly rare. Nauche asserts 
that the infusion or decoction of potatoes promotes 
the renal and biliary secretions, and slightly affects 
the nervous system. If the observation be correct, 
it would follow that the water, in which potatoes are 
boiled, extracts or destroys some noxious matter ; and 
as both baked and roasted potatoes are likewise 
wholesome, it follows that heat alone is capable of 
destroying the noxious principle of the potato. 

When potatoes are boiled in water the albumen of 
the liquor contained in the cells and intercellular 
spaces is coagulated, and the starch grains absorb the 

* Otto, quoted by Liebig, Chemistry in its Application to Jgriculture, 
p. 100. 2d edit. 

t Otto, Pharmaceutisches CentraUBlatt fur 1834, pp. 458-459. 
I Ibid, /wr 1838, p. 379. 



370 COMPOUND AUMENTS. 

watery portion of it, swell up, and distend the cells 
in which they are contained. The coagulated albu- 
men forms irregular fibres between the starch grains, 
and probably, also, covers them with a thin film of 
albumen. Lastly, the cells, in which the starch grains 
are contained, separate from each other. Potatoes in 
which these changes are complete are called mealy, 
while those in which they are only partially effected 
are called watery, doughy, or waxy. Potatoes, unlike 
potato starch, do not yield, by boiling, a mucilage or 
jelly. This arises probably from the starch grains 
being enveloped by a coating of coagulated albumen, 
as well by the membrane of the cell in which the 
grains are contained. 

Potatoes, when in good condition and cooked by 
boiling, form a nutritious and easily digestible article 
of food. From an experiment made on the prisoners 
in the Glasgow Bridewell, it would appear that baked 
potatoes are less nourishing than boiled ones. The 
following is an extract, from the report of the Inspec- 
tors, bearing on the point * : — 

" First Diet, — Cost, including cooking, 2)d. 

BreaJfast. — 8 ozs. oatmeal, made into porridge, with a pint of butter- 
milk. 

Dinner. ^3 lbs. of boiled potatoes with salt 

Supper. — 5 ozs. of oatmeal made into porridge, with half a pint of 
buttermilk. 

Ten prisoners were put on this diet (five men and five boys), aU 
under sentences of confinement for two months, and all employed at 
light work (picking hair and cotton). At the beginning of the experi- 
ment eight were in good health and two in indifferent health ; at the 



* Fytk Report qf the Inepectors of Prismu. lY. Scotiand,Nortknmber. 
land, and Dwrham, pp. viii. — xi. 



POTATOES. 377 

end all were in good health, and they had on an average gained more 
than 4\hB, each in weight, only one prisoner (a man) having lost in 
weight. The greatest gain was 9 lbs. 4 ozs., and was made by one of 
the men. The prisoner who was reduced in weight had lost 5 lbs. 
2ozs." 

The Mecond dki was similar to the first, except that a third of a pint 
of skimmed milk was substituted at break&st for a pint of buttermilk. 
Five young men and five women, some of whom had been in prison 
for several months, were put on this diet All were in good health at 
the beginning of the experiment, and all in good health at the end. 
On an average each prisoner had gained rather more than 4 lbs. in 
weight. 

** Third diet, — Cost, including cooking, 2{d. This diet was the same 
as the first, except that the potatoes were baked instead of boiled. 
Three young men, two boys, and five young women, were put upon 
this diet. Most of them had been in confinement about five 
months. The men and boys and two of the women were employed in 
weaving, and the other three women in winding and twisting. All 
were in good health, both at the beginning and at the end of the ex- 
periment. There was, however, an average loss of H ^» ii^ weight, 
the greatest loss being 10 lbs. (by a man), who had been in prison 
nearly five months, and the greatest gain 61 lbs. by a woman, who had 
been in prison about eight weeks. The prisoners all disliked the 
baked potatoes." 

In order to render potatoes more palatable they are 
usually boiled only so far as to make them soft with- 
out affecting their shape ; and probably in this state 
they contain a larger amount of nutritive matter than 
if longer boiled. It can scarcely, however, be doubted 
that they must be more readily permeated by the 
gastric juice, and, therefore, more easily digested, if 
boiled until they begin to break down, or are so 
softened as to be readily mashed. 

Hard and waxy potatoes must, for the same reason, 
be less digestible than mealy ones ; and new potatoes 
being less mealy are less easily digested than old ones. 

The influence of a freezing temperature on the 
potato is remarkable. The effect is mechanical ; the 



^^ . ^ in the cells and intercellular 

^f^j^'^'T^^^'tbe ^^ ^^ freezing, and by this 

^'es, ^^i**" ^ J jWfttes the cells, and destroys the 

/»»***' ^^ of ^^^ tuber. It does not appear, how- 

org^^ ' y chemical change is produced in the first 

^^^' _ ^uber on the starch or the other constituents. 

Clitarditt * obtamed the same proportions of water, 

nlm woody fibre, albumen, sugar, and saline matters, 

^ ^ irpsted, as from unfrosted potatoes. But it is 

^5yjouB> that when the organization and life of the 

potato fs destroyed, decomposition must soon suc- 

Qged ; t^ugh even then the fecula or starch seems but 

little altered. 

I haye already slightly alluded to the antiscor- 
butic firoperty of the potato, and which I have in 
part aslcfribed to the contained citric acid. The im- 
portance of the subject demands a more specific 
reference to it. Sir Gilbert Blanef mentions that 
raw poiktoes sliced, with vinegar, had been found 
beneficfal in scurvy. Much more recently, M. Julia 
FontaneHe | gave a brief sketch of its antiscor- 
butic efiects on sailors, many of whom, he states, 
declared themselves to have been cured of the scurvy 
by the long-continued use of potatoes very slightly 
baked under the ashes, and eaten without salt. 
Nauche § also testifies to the antiscorbutic properties 
of this vegetable ; which he used in the form of de- 



* Journal de Pharmaciej t. xxiv. p. 301. 1838. 
t Diseases of the Fleet. 1781. 
t Journal de Chimie MidicaU, t. ii. p. 129. 1820). 
§ Ibid. t. vii. p. 374. 



POTATOES. 379 

coction. Mr. Dalton* and Mr. Bemcastlef have 
recommended the use of potatoes as a preventive of 
scurvy in ships making long voyages. Dr. Baly f. 
Physician to the General Penitentiary at Milbank, 
has published some interesting observations on the 
antiscorbutic quality of the potato; and he declares 
that its efficacy is not, as some had supposed, impaired 
by a boiling heat, but " as 6rdinarily cooked, it is an 
admirable presei^ative against the scurvy. ^^ In 1840 
he found that scurvy was a disease of rather frequent 
occurrence amongst the military prisoners, whilst 
amongst the convicts it was never seen. The exemp- 
tion of the latter he found could only be attributed 
to their weekly diet containing 5 lbs. of potatoes 
and an onion. The military prisoners, therefore, were 
allowed two lbs. of potatoes weekly during the first 
three months of their imprisonment, three lbs. during 
the second three months, and four lbs. after the expi- 
ration of six months. ** This addition to the dietary 
of the military prisoners was made in January, 1842, 
and not a single case of scurvy has since occurred." 
Dr. Baly has also shown, from the Reports of the 
Inspectors of Prisons, that in those prisons where 
scurvy has prevailed, the diet of the prisoners, though 
often abundant in other respects, has contained no 
potatoes, or only a very small quantity j and that in 
several prisons the appearance of the disease has 
wholly ceased on the addition of a few pounds of 
potatoes being made to the weekly dietary. 

• Loncet, Sept. 4, 1842. 

t Ibid. Sept. 23, 1842. 

X London Medical Gazette, Feb. 10, 1843. 



380 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

These facts, then, are of high importance, inasmuch 
as the potato is a cheap and readily accessible preven- 
tive of scurvy — a disease which the excellent reports 
of the prison inspectors have shovim to be of frequent 
occurrence in this country. 

ORDER IV. — BUDS AND YOUNG SHOOTS. 

Onions, Leeks, Garlic, and Shallots, though usually 
ranked among roots (bulbous roots), are in reality 
buds, formed at or beneath the ground, and whose 
scales are thick and fleshy. They owe their peculiar 
odour and flavour, as well as their pungent and stimu- 
lating qualities, to an acrid volatile oil which contains 
sulphur. This oil becomes absorbed, quickens the 
circulation, and occasions thirst. Passing out of the 
system by the different excreting organs it communi- 
cates its peculiar smell to the secretions. Hence the 
well-known odour of the breath after eating onions or 
garlic. The following are the constituents of onions, 
according to Fourcroy and Vauquelin : — 

COMPOSITION OP THE ONION. 

Acrid volatile oil. 

UncrystaUizable sugar. 

Gum. 

Vegetable albumen. 

Woody fibre. 

Acetic and phosphoric acids. 

Phosphate and carbonate of lime. 

Water. 

Garlic, Leeks, and Shallots, have a similar compo- 
sition. 

If the volatile oil be dissipated by boiling, these 
bulbs no longer possess any acrid or stimulating 
qualities. They then form mild and easily digestible 
aliments ; whereas in the raw state, that is, with the 



LEAVES AND LEAFSTALKS. 381 

oil, they are pungent, acrid, difficultly digestible, 
stimulating substances. 

The young shoots of Asparoffus officinale form a 
delicious article of food, known at table as Asparagus. 
Their constituents are as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagine (Aflparamide). 

Gum. 

UncrystaUizable sugar. 

Vegretable albumen. 

Resin. 

Woody tibre. 

Acetate, malate, phosphate, and muriate of potash and lime. 

Iron. 

Asparagine is a crystalline substance whose formula 
is C® H® N* O* + Aq'. Liebig regards it as a nutritive 
agent (see TTieine). 

Asparagus is a wholesome, very agreeable, light kind 
of aliment, which acts as a mild diuretic, and commu- 
nicates a peculiar and unpleasant odour to the urine. It 
was formerly charged with causing bloody urine and 
accelerating the fits of the gout, but there does* not 
appear to be any ground for such an accusation. It 
is usually brought to table with toasted bread and 
melted butter, and is sometimes eaten in soup. 

ORDER V. — LEAVES AND LEAFSTALKS. 

The green colour of foliaceous parts depends on 
the presence of green globules contained in the celb 
of the leaf. These globules consist of a substance 
called ehlarophylle, which, in its properties, is inter-^ 
mediate between resin and fat. It does not appear to 
possess any alimentary properties. 

" The green matter of plants," says Dr. Prout*, 

"^ On the Naimre and TreatmiiU qf Stomaeh and Urinary DiseaseM, 
p. 300, dd ed. 18^. 



382 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

" is in general little acted on by the stomachs of the 
higher animals ; and hence may, in most cases, safely 
form the portion of the food of diabetic individuals, 
as first, I believe, recommended by Dr. B. G. Babing- 
ton; though on very difTerent principles. In many 
cases of common dyspepsia, also, more especially con- 
nected w^ith derangements of the lower intestines, 
and w^ith irritable states of the mucous membrane, the 
green matter of plants contributes, as above mentioned, 
to the action of the bowels by its excremental proper- 
ties. In dyspeptic affections, however, more imme- 
diately connected with the stomach, it is apt to dis- 
agree, by producing acidity and flatulence, and their 
consequences ; and as such forms of dyspepsia are by 
far the most common, herbaceous vegetable matters in 
general are much less suited for dyspeptic individuals 
than farinaceous." 

The Cabbage Tribe includes the Cabbage (both 
white and red), the Savoy, Greens, the Cauliflower, 
and Broccoli. The parts used are the leaves, and, in 
the case of the two last-mentioned substances, the 
young and compact flowering heads. 

These vegetables by drying lose more than 90 per 
cent, of water. The dried residue is remarkably rich 
in nitrogen as well as in sulphur. 



100 ptarit of 


Water lott 6y 


Nitroaen in the 
drieariuidue. 


mtrooen im tkg 
tmdritdpUmt 


Cabbage .... 


92-3 


37 


0-QS 



According to Boussingault,* from whom these data 



Ann. de Ckim, ei Phy$, 



CABBAGE TRIBE. 



383 



are taken, 810 parts of fresh cabbage, or 83 parts of 
dried cabbage, are equal, in nutritive power, to 100 
parts of wheat (see p. 55). 

The following are the results of Dr. Beaumont's 
experiments on the digestibility of the cabbage : — 

DIGESTIBILITY OF CABBAGE. 



Articles of Diet. 


Mean Time qf Chymyieation. 


In Stomach, 


InPkidU. 


PrfpoTtitwH, 


H, U. 


PreparaHom. 


H, M, 


Cabbage with vinegar . 
Cabbage head .... 
Cabbage 


Raw 
Raw 
Boiled 


2 
2 20 
4 30 


Shayed 

Masticated 

Boiled 


10 15 
12 30 
20 



The Cabbage has been analysed by Schrader^j the 
Cauliflower by Trommsdorff. f 



Cabbage. 

Extractive 2-34 

Gummy extractive . . . 2*89 

Resin 05 

Vegetable albumen . • • 0*29 

Green fecula 0*63 

Water with acetic acid,> 
sulphate and nitrate of 
pota^, chloride of po- 
tassium, malate and 
phosphate of lime, phos- 
phate of magnesia, iron 
and manganese . . , 

100*00 



V 93*80 



Cauliflower, 

Colouring matter. 

Mucilage. 

Resin. 

Vegetable albumen (about 0*5 

Ser cent.) 
orophylle. 

Fatty matter. 

Pectic acid (a product?). 

Woody fibre (about 1*8 per cent) 

Silica. 

Water (rather more than 90 per 
cent) 

Malate of ammonia, malate of 
lime, free malic acid, acetate of 
potash, phosphate of lime, 
chloride of calcium, and sul- 
phate of potash. 

Sourkrout or Sauerkraut. — Sauerkraut is pre- 
pared by the fermentation of cabbage. The plants 

• Schweigger's Jo«ni. fur Chem. Bd. v. S. 19. 1812. 
t PharmaceutiBckes CentraUBUUt fur 1832, p. 97. 



384 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

are collected from the fields in autumn, divided, 
the stalks removed, and the leaves cut by machine or 
hand into slices, a layer of which is placed into a vat, 
alternating with a layer of salt, until the vessel is 
filled, when it is subjected to the pressure of heavy 
weights placed on the whole. At the end of six 
weeks (more or less, according to the temperature), 
when the acetous fermentation is completed, it is con- 
sidered fit for use. The method of cooking it in 
Germany is to stew it simply in its own liquor, with 
bacon, pork, or other fat meat. Dill, caraway seeds, 
and other carminatives, are sometimes added. 

Sauerkraut is not fitted for persons troubled with 
acidity of stomach. It has a slightly relaxing eflfect 
on the bowels. As an antiscorbutic it has long been 
celebrated, and was highly spoken of by Capt. Cook. 

Turnip tops are frequently boiled and used as 
greens, but they are very apt to disorder the bowels. 
The same remarks likewise apply to Spinage. 

The herbaceous part of the Water Cress, the seed 
leaves of White Mustard and of Common Cress, and 
the leaves of Lettuce and Endive, are eaten raw, under 
the name of Salads (Acetaria), with the addition of 
vinegar, oil, salt, and sometimes mustard. They of 
course yield very little nourishment. The three first- 
named plants probably owe their pungency to a 
minute portion of sulphuretted volatile oil, analogous 
to that foimd in horse-radish. 

Lettuce leaves are used at table as a salad. They 
usually abound in a cooling, bland, pellucid juice; 
but the more advanced plant contains a bitter, milky 
juice, which has a slight tendency to promote sleep. 



RECEPTACLES AND BRACTS. 385 

Hence lettuce leaves are eaten at supper by those 
troubled with watchfulness. Galen, in his old age, 
obtained relief iii this way. It is prudent, however, 
to avoid the use of this salad when any tendency to 
apoplexy manifests itself. The inspissated milky 
juice of the lettuce is called Lactucarium, or Lettuce 
Opiumy and is employed medicinally as an anodyne, 
sedative, and soporific. Mr. Loudon enumerates no 
less than fourteen varieties of the lettuce, which are 
cultivated by gardeners for the table. Of these, seven 
are Cahhage lettuces^ and seven Cos lettuces. 

The stalks of Rhubarb leaves are used, when peeled, 
for making pies, tarts, and puddings, in the manner of 
apples and gooseberries. Most species of Rheum may 
serve for this purpose j but Rheum Rhaponticum and 
Rheum hybridum are the kinds usually cultivated. 
Rheum palmatum and Rheum Emodi yield excel- 
lent tart rhubarb. Lassaigne found in the stalks of 
Rheum Rhaponticum oxalic and malic acids. The 
presence of oxalates makes this food highly objec- 
tionable where there is a tendency to oxalate of lime 
calculi. " I have seen,*' observes Dr. Prout, " well- 
marked instances m which an oxalate of lime nephritic 
attack has followed the free use of rhubarb (in the 
shape of tarts, &e.), particularly when the patient has 
been in the habit, at the same time, of drinking hard 
water.'' *»* 

f 

ORDER VI. RECEPTACLES AND BRACTS. 

Of this order it will be necessary to notice one 
vegetable only, namely, the Garden Artichoke (Cynara 
Scolymxis)j whose flower-heads are used before the 

c 



386 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

expansion of the flowers. The parts of these heads, 
which are eaten, are — 1st, the fleshy receptacle, 
usually called the boitoniy deprived of the thistles and 
seed down, vulgarly termed the choke; and, 2dly, the 
taluSf or base of the involucral scales. These contain 
a sweet saccharine and mucilaginous juice with 
starchy matter, and they form a bland readily diges- 
tible article of food ; but the melted butter, with which 
they are usually eaten, renders them objectionable for 
dyspeptics and others with delicate stomachs. 

ORDER VII. — STEMS. 

From the stems of several Cycadaceae, as well as 
from some Palms, is obtained a farinaceous substance, 
which is employed, in the East, as an article of food. 
Sago (see p. 128) is procured from this source. 

CLASS 11. ALIMENTS DERIVED FROM FLOWERLESS 

PLANTS. 

ORDER I. — FERNS. 

From the tuberous rhizomes of ferns is obtained, in 
some of the Polynesian islands, as well as in some 
other parts of the world, a farinaceous or ligneous 
matter, which is employed by the natives as a nutri- 
tive substance. The rhizomes are cooked by baking 
or roasting. In general, however, they are only re- 
sorted to in times of scarcity, when other and more 
palatable food cannot be obtained. * 



* Ellis, Folynenan Researches, vol. i. p. 363; Bennett, Narrative qfa 
Whalinff Voyage, vol. ii. p. 394. ]840.->Diefl*enbacb (Travels m New 
Zealand, vol. ii. 1843) says, that the " korauor mamako, the pulpous stem 
of a tree-fern (Cyathea meduUaris), is an excellent vegetable ;'* and, he 
adds, " it is prepared by being cooked a whole night in a native oven." 



LICHENS. 387 



ORDER II. — LICHENS. 

Many lichens contain a starchy or amylaceous 
matter, called lichenin or fectdoid (see p. 136), to 
which they owe their alimentary qualities. But it is 
usually accompanied with a bitter principle^ which 
gives them an impleasant flavour, and renders them 
apt to disorder the bowels. To separate the latter 
substance they require to be soaked in a cold 
weak alkaline solution, and then washed with cold 
water. 

Several species of Gyrophoray as G. prohoscidea 
/3 arcticay G. hyperborean G* pennsylvanica, and G. Muh- 
lenberyii, are employed by the hunters of the Arctic 
regions of America as articles of food, under the name 
of Tripe de Roche. All four species were eaten by 
Captain Franklin and his companions, in 1821, when 
suffering great privations in America; and to its use 
may their preservation be in part ascribed.* But not 
having the means of extracting the bitter principle, 
these lichens proved noxious to several of the party, 
producing severe bowel complaints. 

Iceland Moss (Cetraria Islandica) is extensively 
used in this country, but principally as a me- 
dicine. Its composition, according to Berzelius, is as 
follows : — 



* Narrative of a Journey to the Shores qf the Polar Sea, 1823. 



388 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. ' 

COMPOSITION OF ICELAND MOSS. 

Starchy matter (Uchenin) ....... 44*6 

Bitter principle (cetrarin) 3 

Uncrystallizable sugar 3*6 

Chloroi)hylle l-B 

Extractive matter 7'0 

Gum 37 

Bilichenates of potash and lime with phos* 

phate of lime 1*9 

Amylaceous fibre 36*2 

101*6 

Like the other lichens, it must be deprived of its 
bitter matter before it is fit for use. One part of sub- 
carbonate of potash (salt of tartar) dissolved in water 
and rendered caustic by an equal weight of lime, is 
sufficient to extract the bitter principle out of 
twenty parts of Iceland moss ; but for this purpose 
the plant must be soaked in the solution for ten or 
fourteen days. Thus deprived of its bitterness, Iceland 
moss may be used as food by boiling it in water or milk, 
and flavouring with sugar, lemon, wine, or spices. A 
concentrated decoction gelatinizes on cooling. 

A decoction of Iceland moss, made with the un- 
prepared plant, and, therefore, containing the bitter 
principle, is used as a demulcent tonic in consump- 
tive cases. It is prepared by boiling down five 
drachms of the moss and a pint and a half of water, 
to one pint. The dose is from two table-spoonfuls to 
a wine-glassful. 

ORDER III. — ALGiS OR SEA WEEDS. 

Several species of the inarticulated Algse are occa- 
sionally employed in some parts of the British islands 
as articles of food. Some of them abound in a muci- 



» 



SEA WEEDS. 389 

laginous or vegeto-gelatinous substance, to which they 
in part owe their dietetical uses. Starch, and, in some 
cases, sugar, are also alimentary principles of some 
of the Algae. 

Laver (Porphyra laciniata and vulgaris) is sold in 
the London shops. When boiled or stewed for several 
hours, until reduced to a pulpy substance, it is brought 
to table as a luxury, under the name of Marine SaucCy 
SlokCy or Slouk*. In its absence. Green Laver (Ulva 
latissima) is sometimes substituted for it. 

Carrageen or Irish MosSy called also Pearl Moss 
(Chandrus crisptis), is extensively used, partly as a 
domestic remedy and partly as a nutritive substance. 

Its composition is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION OF CARRAGEENIN. 

Vegetable jeUy (Carrageenin) 79*1 

Mucus 9'5 

Resin 0-7 

Fat and free acid traces 

Water > .q- 

Salts S 

100-0 

The salts contain chlorine, iodine, bromine, sodium, magnesium, 
potassium, and calcium. 

The substance which I have elsewhere f denomi- 
nated Carrageenin (see p. 145), approximates to the 
mucilage of quince seed in composition. Mulder | 
found it to consist of carbon 45* 17, hydrogen 4*88, and 
oxygen 49'95. 



• The Hon. W. H. Harvey's Manual of the BrUish Alga. 1841. 
t See my ElemetUt qf Materia Medica, vol. ii. p. 874, 2d ed. 
t PkarmaceutUchee Central Biatt fur 1838. 



390 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Carrageenin possesses slight nutritive qualities^ 
In the fonn of decoction, it is employed as a popular 
remedy for consumption, scrofula, &c. A very con- 
centrated decoction gelatinizes on cooling, and the 
jelly thus prepared is used, by careful housekeepers, in 
the preparation of blanc-mange, jellies, white soup, &c. ; 
but it is a wretched substitute for gelatine (isingls^ or 
calves* feet). It has a fishy or seed- weed flavour, 
especially when it has been kept for some days. 

Ceylon or Jafna Moss (Gracilaria lichenoides) is a 
whitish filamentous sea weed brought from India. Its 
composition is as follows : — 

COMPOSITION op CEYLON MOSS. 

Vegetable jeUy 54*5 

True starch 15'0 

Ligneous fibre 18*0 

Gum 4-0 

Sulphate and muriate of soda .... 6*5 

Sulphate and phosphate of lime ... 1*0 

Wax, iron, and loss 1*0 

100*0 

By boiling in water it yields a liquid which gela- 
tinizes on cooling. The decoction or jelly forms an 
agreeable, light, nourishing article of food for invalids 
and children. 

ORDER IV. — FUNGI OR MUSHROOMS. 

Though a considerable number of species of fungi 
are edible — in fact, several form delicious articles of 
food — a small number only are in common use in this 
country. This has arisen, in great measure, from the 
difficulty experienced by the public in discriminating 
wholesome from poisonous species. Nay, it would 



MUSHROOMS. 301 

appear that the same species is under some circum- 
stances edible, under others deleterious. This, if true, 
is a very proper ground for distrust. ** So strongly did 
the late Professor L. C. Richard feel the prudence of 
this, that although no one was better acquainted with 
the distinctions of fungi, he would never eat any, 
except such as had been raised in gardens in mushroom 
beds *." The edible species in most common use in 
this country are, 1st. Agaricm campestris (Common 
Field or Cultivated Mushroom)^ which, in the adult 
state, is employed in the preparation of ketchup, and 
is eaten fresh, either stewed or broiled : the young or 
button mushroom is pickled. 2dly. Morchella escu- 
lenta (Common Morel), employed to flavour gravies, 
ragouts, &c. 3dly. Tuber cibariuni (Common Truffle), 
a subterraneous fungus, used for seasoning. No 
less than thirty-three species of fungi are eaten in 
Russia f. 

The supposed alimentary principle of mushrooms 
is fungxn, already described (see p. 140), to which 
must, in some cases, be added mannite. But it appears 
to me by no means clearly made out that these vege- 
tables possess much nutritive power J. They are cer- 
tainly difficult of digestion, and on certain constitutions 
act very injuriously. Invalids, dyspeptics, and others 
with delicate stomachs, will act prudently in avoiding 
the use of this doubtful order of foods. 



* Lindley, Natural System qf Botany ^ 2d ed. p. 442. 

t Dr. (now Sir G.) Lefevre, London JUedictU Oaxette, vol. xxiii. 
p. 414. 

X ** We do not believe/' sajg the eccentric Dr. Kitchener, in his 
Cook's Oracle, ** that mushrooms are nutritive." 



392 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

2. LIQUID ALIMENTS OR DRINKS. 

The basis of all drinks is water, which I have al- 
ready considered among alimentary principles (see 
p. 78). I have now to notice the compounded 
liquid aliments, or those composed of water combined 
with some other substance. These I shall arrange in 
six orders, as follows : — 

1 . Macilaginous, farinaceous, or saccharine drinks. 

2. Aromatic or astringent drinks. 

3. Acidulous drinks. 

4. Animal broths, or drinks containing gelatine and osmazome. 

5. Emulsive or milky drinks. 

6. Alcoholic and other intoxicating drinks. 

ORDER I.— MUCILAGINOUS, FARINACEOUS, OR SACCHA- 
RINE DRINKS. 

These drinks differ but little from common water. 
They are very slightly nutritive, and are employed as 
demulcents and diluents. They include the liquids 
popularly known in the sick chamber as slops, and 
which on the continent are called tisans. They are 
well adapted for febrile and inflammatory maladies, 
especially when combined with an affection of the 
mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. 

One of the simplest of the drinks of this order is 
Toast Water, which is prepared by infusing toasted 
bread or biscuit in water. By this means the water is 
rendered much more palatable and agreeable, by the 
empyreumatic or aromatic and gummy or starchy 
matter which the toast communicates to it. It is a 
very wholesome and useful drink. 

The other drinks of this order have been already 
considered. (See Gum Water, p. IIO, Stigar Water, 



TEA. 393 

p. 118, Scigo Gruel, p. 130, Tapioca Gruel, p. 131, 
Arraw^root Gruel, p. 132, Common or Oat Gruel, 
p. 324, Barley Water, p. 328, Compound Barley Water, 
p. 328, and Mucilage of Rice, p. 334). 

ORDER II. — ^AROMATIC OR ASTRINGENT DRINKS. 

Under this order are included Tea, Coffee, Chicory, 
Chocolate, and Cocoa. 

1 . Tea — ^The shrub or shrubs from which Tea is 
procured are closely allied to the well-known Camel- 
lia Japonica. Two kinds, known respectively as the 
Thea viridis and T7iea Bohea, are cultivated in the 
botanical gardens of this country ; the first is com- 
monly said to yield Green Tea, the latter Black Tea. 
Though their general characters and appearance give 
the idea of their being distinct species, yet by some 
botanists they are considered to be mere varieties. 
Thus De CandoUe refers them to one species, under 
the name of Thea Chinensis. 

Great discrepancy of opinion exists amongst writers 
as to whether the green and black teas of commerce 
are the produce of one or of two species. Some 
writers contend for one species ; " the green and black, 
with all the diversities of each, being mere varieties 
produced by a difference in the culture, qualities of 
soil, age of the crop when taken up, and the modes 
of preparation for the market*." Others, however, 
assert the existence of two distinct species. Thus Mr. 
Reeves f, whose opinions are entitled to great weight, 
expresses his surprise ^^that any person who has 

* VLohxTiBOxCfi Deseriptwe Accownt of Asam. 1841. 
t Loudon's Gardener's Mafftmnet vol. ix. p. 713. 



394 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

been in China, or, indeed, any one who has seen the 
diflference in the colour of the infusions of black and 
green tea, could suppose for a moment that they were 
the produce of the same plant, differing.only in the 
mode of curing ; particularly as they do not grow in 
the neighbourhood of each other." 

The principal varieties of Black Teas are, Bohea, 
Congou, Campoi, Souchong, Caper, and Pekoe. The 
last-mentioned one is the best. It is prepared from 
the unexpanded leaf-bud. Bohea is the lower grade 
of black tea. To the Green Teas belong Twankay, 
Hyson-skin, Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder. " The 
gunpowder here stands in the place of the pekoe, 
being composed of the unopened buds of the spring 
crop. Imperial, hyson, and young hj'son, consist of 
the second and third crops. The light and inferior 
leaves, separated from the hyson by a winnowing 
machine, constitute hyson-skin.* " 

The latest analysis of tea is that of Mulder .f 

COMPOSITION OP TEA. 

CHINESE. JAVANESE. 

Volatile oil 079 — 0-60 — (^98 — 0-65 

Chlorophylle 2-22 — 1-84 — 3-24 — 1-28 

Wax 0^ — 0-00 — 0-32 — (HX) 

Resin 2*22 — 3-64 — 1-64 — 2-44 

Gum 8-56 — 7-28 — 12-20 —11-08 

Tannin 1780 —12-88 — 17*56 —1480 

Theine 0-43 — 0-46 — 0-60 — 0-65 

Extractive 22-80 -19-88 — 21-68 —18-64 

Apotheme — 1*48 — — 1*64 

Ext obtainedby hydrochloric acid23-60 —19-12 — 20*36 —18-24 

Albumen 3-00 — 2-80 — 3-64—1-28 

Fibrous matter 17.08 —28-32 — 18-20 -27*00 

98-78 —98-30 —100-42 —9770 
Salts included in the above . . -5-56 — 5"24 — 4-76 — 5*36 



* M'CuUoch's Dktumofy of Commerce. 

t PkarmaeeutUehei CetUral-BlaiijMr 1838, p. 403. 



TEA. 395 

According to this analysis, green tea contains more 
tannin than black tea. This accords with every-day 
experience, as well as with the experiments of Mr. 
Brandej*.but it is opposed to the results obtained by 
Sir H. Davy t and Frank4 both of whom state that 
black tea is the most astringent. It is probable, 
therefore, that the amount of tannin in diflferent teas 
is subject to variation. 

The substance called Theine, or Theina^ is a crystal- 
line salifiable base, discovered some years since by 
Oudry §, and since found to be identical with caffeine, 
obtained from coffee. Its formula is C® H* N* O*. It 
exists in tea, in combination with tannic acid. Hot 
water extracts the tannate of theina as well as free 
tannic acid ; but by cooling, both of these substances 
almost entirely precipitate. According to Mulder, 
theina is not to be regarded as the principle which con- 
fers on tea its peculiar or characteristic properties. Its 
action on the system is not very obvious. He gave 
half a grain to a rabbit ; the animal ate but little the 
next day, and aborted the day after. Liebig|| has 
suggested that it may contribute to the formation of 
bile. " Without entering minutely into the medicinal 
action of caffeine (theine)," he observes, " it will surely 
appear a most striking fact, even if we were to deny 
its influence on the process of secretion, that this sub- 
stance, with the addition of oxygen and the elements 



* Quarterly Journal, vol. xii. p. 201. 

t PkOosopkical TraHsactioM for 1803, p. 268. 

X Gmelin, Handbuck der Chemie, vol. ii. p. 1252. 

§ Thomson, Organic Chemiitry, p. 295. 

)) Animal Chemistry, p. 179, etseq. 



396 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

of water, can yield taurine, the nitrogenised compound 
peculiar to bile : — 

1 atom Caffeine or Theine = Cs Na H^ 03 
9 atoms Water . . . . = H» 0»« 

9 atoms Oxygen . . . = 09 

Cs N3 HH Qso 
= 2 atoms Taurine ... 2 (C* N H7 0io)»' 

The same authority adds, that ^^ 2^ths grains of 
caffeine [theine] can give to an ounce of bile the ni- 
trogen it contains in the form of taurine. If an infu- 
sion of tea contain no more than the xoth of a grain of 
caffeine [theine], still, if it contribute in point of 
fact to the formation of bile, the action even of such a 
quantity cannot be looked upon as a nullity. Neither 
can it be denied that, in the case of an excess of non- 
azotised food and a deficiency of motion, which is 
required to cause the change of matter in the tissues, 
and thus to yield the nitrogenised product which enters 
into the composition of bile, that in such a condition 
the health may be benefited by the use of compounds 
which are capable of supplying the place of the nitro- 
genised product produced in the healthy state of the 
body, and essential to the production of an important 
element of respiration. In a chemical sense — and it is 
this alone which the preceding remarks are intended to 
shew — caffeine or theine, asparagine, and theobromine, 
are, in virtue of their composition, better adapted to 
this purpose than all other nitrogenised vegetable pro- 
ducts. The action of these substances, in ordinary 
circumstances, is not obvious, but it unquestionably 
exists." These views, though quite hypotlietical, are 
highly ingenious and interesting. 



TEA. 397 

The peculiar flavour of tea depends on the volatile 
ail which is lighter than water, and has a lemon 
yellow colour, and the taste and smell of tea. Alone 
it acts as a narcotic, but in combination with tannin, 
as a diuretic and diaphoretic. It is extracted from 
tea by hot water, in which, however, it is not always 
equally soluble, its solubility being modified by the 
other constituents. 

The following is the composition of the ashes of 
black tea ; — 

ASHES OF CONGO TEA. 

Chinese, Javanese. 

Potash, sulphate, phosphate, and muriate of potash 2'84 — 3*40 

Oxide of iron, caroonate, sulphate, and phosphate {1.70 1.34 

of lime, and carbonate of magnesia .... J 

Hypermanganate of potash traces — 

Silica . 0-68 — 0-32 



5-24 5*36 

Notwithstanding the extensive employment of tea 
in this country, it is no easy matter to ascertain its 
precise effects on the constitution. Its astringency^ 
proved by its chemical properties, depends on the pre- 
sence of tannin. Of this quality we may beneficially 
avail ourselves in some cases of poisoning, as by 
poisonous mushrooms, by opium or laudanum, or by 
any other vegetable substance containing a vegetable 
alkali, with which tannin combines. Schwann * found 
that tannin throws down a precipitate from the artifi- 
cial digestive liquids, and renders this fluid inert. Does 
the copious use of strong tea, therefore, immediately 
after a meal, impede the process of digestion ? 



* Quoted by MuUer, in his Elements qf Physiology : see Baly's trans- 
lation, p. 546. 



398 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

The peculiar influence of tea, especially of the 
green variety, over the nervous system, depends on 
the volatile oil above referred to. This influence is 
analogous, in some respects, to that of foxglove ; for 
both green tea and foxglove occasion watchfulness, 
and act as sedatives on the heart and blood-vessels. 
These effects of tea are familiar to most persons. It 
is a common practice with those who desire nocturnal 
study to use tea ; and on the same principle it may 
be employed as an antisoporific to counteract the 
efl^ects of opium and intoxicating liquors, and to 
relieve the stupor of fever. As a diluent and sedative 
it is well adapted for febrile and inflammatory dis- 
orders, and most persons can bear testimony to its 
good effects in these cases. To its sedative influence 
also should be ascribed the relief of headache some- 
times experienced by the use of strong tea. In colds, 
catarrhs, and slight rheumatic cases, warm tea is used 
as a diluent, diaphoretic, and diuretic. 

Strong green tea produces on some constitutions, 
usually those popularly known as nervous, very 
severe effects. It gives rise to tremor, anxiety, sleep- 
lessness, and most distressing feelings. On others, 
however, none of these symptoms are manifested. 
Part of the ill effects sometimes ascribed to tea may 
be owing to the use of so much aqueous liquid, — to 
the temperature of the liquid, — to milk and sugar used 
with it, — or to the action of the tannin on the diges- 
tive liquid. But independently of these, tea possesses 
a specific and marked influence over the functions of 
the brain not referrlble to anv of the circumstances 
just alluded to. 



COFFEE. 390 

Weak tea rarely disagrees with the invalid^ and is 
admissible in a variety of maladies, in most of which 
it proves refreshing and agreeable. It is well adapted 
for febrile and inflammatory complaints ; and is par- 
ticularly valuable when we are desirous of checking 
sleep. Moreover, if the suggestions of Liebig, before 
noticed, be correct, tea is by no means to be con- 
sidered as a mere diluent, but as possessing nutritive 
powers of no mean kind. 

2. Coffee. — ^The Coffee plant {Coffea arabica) is 
a native of Arabia felix and Ethiopia, but is exten- 
sively cultivated in Asia and America. It is an ever- 
green shrub, from fifteen to twenty feet high, and bears 
an oval, succulent, blackish red or purplish two-seeded 
berry. The seeds are enclosed in a membranous coat 
(endocarp), called by some botanists a parchment-like 
putamen. Occasionally they are imported with this 
coat remaining on them, and in this state they form 
what is called in commerce coffee in the husk. In 
general, however, they are met with without this coat, 
and in this state are called simply coffee^ or raw 
coffee. They then consist of a homy, yellow, bluish 
or greenish albumen, which is convex on one side, but 
flat on the other side, with a longitudinal furrow. At 
one end of the seed is the embryo, with its cordiform 
cotyledons. 

The varieties of coffee are distinguished in com- 
merce according to their places of growth j but con- 
sidered with reference to their physical properties, they 
are characterized by colour (yellow, bluish, or greenish) 
and size (the smallest seeds being about three lines 
long and two broad, the largest five lines long and two 



400 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

lines and a half broad). Arabian or Mocha Coffee is 
small and dark yellow. Java and East India (Mala- 
bar) kinds are larger and paler yellow. The Ceylon is 
more analogous to the West India kinds (Jamaica, 
Berbice, Demerara, Dominica, Barbadoes, &c.), which, 
as well as the Brazilian, have a bluish or greenish grey 
tint. 

Roasted Coffee is, when ground, extensively adul- 
terated with chicory. To detect the adulteration, 
shake the suspected coffee with cold water in a wine- 
glass : if it be pure coffee, it will swim, and scarcely 
communicate any colour to the fluid. Chicory, on the 
other hand, sinks, and communicates a deep red tint 
to the water. The microscope senes also to detect 
the adulteration; fragments of dotted ducts being 
found when chicory is present, but not when the coflee 
is pure. The presence of roasted com may be de- 
tected by the blue colour produced on the addition of 
a solution of iodine to the cold decoction. 

Coffee has been the subject of repeated chemical in- 
vestigation ; but a good analysis of it is still a deside- 
ratum. 

The following probably are the constituents of raw 

coffee : — 

COMPOSITION OF RAW COFFEE. 

Caffeic acid. 

Tanno-caffeic acid (Gallic acid of some f) 

Caffeine. 

Wax. 

Fixed oil. 

Resin. 

Gum. 

Extractive. 

Albumen. 

LiCTin. 

Sulphur (Robiqmei), 

Lime and Magnesia. 

Iron. 




COFFBE. ^ 401 

Caffetc add is a white powder insoluble in alcohol, 
but soluble in water. Its characteristic property is, 
that when heated it emits an odour precisely similar 
to that, of roasted coffee ; so that the aroma of roasted 
coffee must depend on the decomposition by heat of 
this acid*. Zenneckf, it is true, denies this, and 
asserts that the aromatic principle is neither acid nor 
alkaline ; but he admits that alkalies render it odour- 
less, while the subsequent addition of an acid causes the 
smell to reappear ; a fact strongly confirmatory of its 
acid nature. Pfaff j; analysed this acid, and found it 
to consist of carbon 29*1, hydrogen 6*9, and oxygen 6*4. 

TannO'Caffeic acid is a dark brown extractiform sub- 
stance, whose solution yields a green colour with the 
salts of the peroxide of iron, but no precipitate with 
a solution of isinglass. In these properties it re^ 
semhles catechine (catechu ic acid). 

Caffeine is identical with Theine, already described 
(see p. 395). 

By roasting, coffee suffers some remarkable and 
well-known changes in its sensible properties ; but, in 
a chemical point of view, the precise nature of these 
changes is by no means well determined. The aroma 
is, as I have already stated, ascribed by Pfaff to the 
effect of heat on the caffeic acid. 

The infusion or decoction of coffee forms a well- 
known favourite beverage. Like tea, it diminishes 
the disposition to sleep, and hence is often resorted to 



• Pfaff, Pharmaceutisches Central-Blatt, fur 1831, pp. 423 & 441. 
t Ibid. p. 444. 
\ Ibid. p. 443. 

DD 



402 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

by those who desire nocturnal study. It may also be 
used to counteract the stupor induced by opium, 
alcoholic liquors, and other narcotics. In some con- 
stitutions it acts on the bowels as a mild laxative. I 
have known several persons on whom it has this 
effect ; yet it is usually described as producing consti- 
pation. Employed moderately, I believe it to be a 
wholesome and slightly nutritive beverage. I have al- 
ready (see p. 395 et seq.) explained Liebig*s hypothesis 
of the nutritive agency of caffeine (theine). The im- 
moderate use of coffee is said to produce various ner- 
vous disorders, such as anxiety, tremor, disordered 
vision, palpitation, and feverishness. 

Coffee is occasionally useful in the sick chamber. 
It relieves some forms of headache, especially those 
denominated nervous, and which are unaccompanied 
with sanguineous congestion. It likewise proves bene- 
ficial in some cases of spasmodic asthma. 

Dunnes Essence of Coffee is prepared by subjecting 
moistened roasted coffee to pressure. 

3. Chicory or Succory. — ^The substance sold in 
the shops under the name of chicory is the roasted 
root of the Cichorium Iniybus (Wild Succory, or 
Wild Endive), an indigenous syngenesious plant, 
extensively cultivated in Holland, Belgium, and 
Germany, from whence it is largely imported. The 
root is cut, dried, roasted like coffee in heated iron 
cylinders which are kept revolving, and then ground 
in mills. The powder is employed by grocers and 
others to adulterate coffee (see p. 400). Its infusion 
or decoction forms a perfectly wholesome beverage, 
but which wants the fine flavour for which genyine 



CHOCOLATE. 403 

coffee is renowned. I have been informed, however, 
that some persons prefer the flavour of a mixture of 
coffee and chicory to that of unmixed coffee. Chicory 
is frequently adulterated. A grinder of the article tells 
me that roasted peas and beans, damaged corn, and 
coflfee husks, are used as sophistications, and that 
Venetian red or Armenian bole is employed as a colour- 
ing agent. 

4. Chocolate. — ^This is prepared from the seeds of 
the Theohroma Cacao, a native of the West Indies 
and of Continental America. The kernels of the 
seeds have, according to Lampadius,^ the following 
composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF THE KERNELS OF CACAO SEEDS. 

Fat or oil (butter qf caeao) 53*10 

Albaminous brown substance 1670 

Starch 10.91 

Mucilage or gum 7*75 

Red colouring matter 2*01 

Lignine 0-90 

Water 520 

Loss (from adhesion of mucilage to the filter) 3*43 

10000 

The fat or oil, called butter qf cacaOy is, therefore, 
the principal ingredient of the seeds. It is a white 
solid substance, has a chocolate flavour, and is chiefly 
composed of oleine and stearine; but, unlike most 
other fats, is not apt to become rancid. 

More recently, a nitrogenised crystalline principle, 
called theobrominey has been discovered in these seeds. 
Its formula is C* H* N» O', or C« W N« O*. It is 
very similar to caffeine. 

* Quoted in Bulk's Preussische Pharmakopoe. 



404 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

The husks consist principally of lignine^ but they 
yield by boiling a bronmisk mucilaginous extract. 

Chocolate is prepared by roasting the seeds, and 
depriving them of their husks, which constitute about 
23 per cent, of the whole. The kernels of the roasted 
seeds constitute what is called Nib Cocoa. They are 
ground in a mill, whose sole rests on a heated iron 
plate, by which they are made into a brown pasty 
mass, which, when sweetened with some saccharine 
matter, flavoured with either vanilla or cinnamon, and 
placed in proper moulds, constitutes Chocolate. In a 
large manufactory of this substance in London, honey 
is employed as a sweetener, and a portion of starchy 
matter (sago flour or potato starch) is added, in order 
to give the chocolate a thickening quality. Most of 
the chocolate made at this establishment consists 
merely of the decorticated roasted seeds, sago flour, 
and honey, without any other flavouring ingredient. 

Chocolate furnishes a moderately nourishing and 
very agreeable beverage. On hypothetical grounds, 
Liebig has suggested that the theobromine may con- 
tribute to the formation of the nitrogenised principle 
of the bile and urine ; for with the addition of the ele- 
ments of water and of a certain quantity of oxygen, it 
yields the elements of taurine and urea. 

1 at. theobromine, C" N« H»« O* \ (A at. taurine . . C" N* H» ()• 
22 at. water ... H«0'' 

16 at. oxygen . . 0**r = i 1 at. urea . . . C* N« H* 0» 



QiH N« H« 0*»^ 



C"* N« H» 0*» 



Chocolate, though devoid of the disagreeable quali- 
ties frequently evinced by tea and coffee, of dis- 
turbing the nervous functions, yet is diflicult of 



ACIDULOUS DRINKS. 405 

digestion, on account of the large quantity of oil 
which it contains, and is, therefore, very apt to disturb 
the stomach of dyspeptics and of others troubled with 
a delicate stomach. 

5. Cocoa. — Under this name is sold in the shops 
another preparation of the seeds of the Theohroma 
Cacao. It is prepared by grinding the entire roasted 
seeds (kernels and husks), sometimes mixed with sago 
meal or potato starch. I suspect that, besides the en- 
tire seeds, the husks separated in the manufacture of 
chocolate are also intermixed. It is somewhat less 
oily than chocolate, and being rather astringent, is 
adapted for persons with relaxed bowels. 

ORDER III. — ^ACIDULOUS DRINKS. 

These drinks consist of water, as their basis, and an 
acid, which is usually a vegetable one. 

a- A considerable number of acidulous drinks 
are prepared with the juices of fruits. Of these 
Lemonade, already noticed (see p. 357), is the most 
familiar example. 

fi. Acidulous drinks are also prepared by dissolving 
vegetable acids or acidulous salts in water, and va- 
riously flavouring the liquid. Raspherry-vinegar water 
(see p. 145) and Imperial (see p. 154) are drinks of 
this kind. 

The general eliects of these acidulous drinks have 
been already explained (see p. 148). They allay 
thirst, both as well by the acid as the water which they 
contain. They form cooling, refreshing, antiscorbutic 
drinks, and are well adapted for hot seasons and for 
febrile and inflammatory cases. 



406 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

y- Decoctions of fruits likewise form acidulous 
drinks. They promote the secretions of the alimentary 
canal, and act as laxatives. Apple Tea, a liquid of this 
kind, is prepared by boiling an apple in half a pint of 
water, and adding sugar to the decanted liquor. 

^' The carbonated or effervescent drinks belong to 
this order. They owe their briskness and sparkling 
quality to carbonic acid gas, which has been either 
forced into the liquid by pressure, or developed in it 
after the corking of the bottle. 

The Bottle Soda Water of the shops is, in genera], 
merely a solution of carbonic acid gas in water; and 
might, therefore, be more properly denominated Car- 
lanic acid Water. Webb's Soda Water is an exception 
to this statement, as, in the preparation of it, 15 grains 
of crystallized carbonate of soda are added to every 
10 fluidounces of water; and, in consequence, it 
effervesces on the addition of an acid, after the escape 
of the free carbonic acid. The quantity of gas con- 
tained in these effervescing waters depends on the pres- 
sure employed in their preparation. At the ordinary 
tempemture and pressure of the atmosphere, water 
absorbs its own volume of carbonic acid gas, and 
acquires a specific gravity of 1-0018. By doubling 
the pressure, it takes up two volumes of gas, by 
trebling it three volumes, and so on. Mr. Webb 
informs me, that a pressure of eleven atmospheres is 
used in the preparation of his soda water. Water thus 
charged with carbonic acid forms a refreshing cooling 
beverage. It acts both as a diaphoretic and diuretic, 
and is a most valuable agent for checking nausea and 
vomiting. When it contains bicarbonate of soda in 



ACIDULOUS DBINKS. 407 

solution^ it proves antacid, and is a most valuable 
beverage for persons afflicted with calculi in the blad- 
der. The facts adduced by M. Chevallier * appear to 
me to be conclusive that bicarbonate of soda promotes 
the solution of uric acid in the bladder, and that it 
assists in breaking up and dividing other calculi (the 
phosphates). 

Ginger beer is a weU-knovm popular and agreeable 
beverage. A very superior preparation of this kind is 
made as follows: — Take of White Sugar 20 lbs.. 
Lemon or Lime Juice 18 oz.. Honey lib.. Ginger, 
bruised, 22 oz.. Water 18 gallons. Boil the ginger 
in three gallons of water for half an hour ; then add 
the sugar, the juice, and the honey, with the remainder 
of the water, and strain through a cloth. When cold, 
add the White of one Egg and half an ounce of 
Essence of Lemons. After it has stood for four days, 
let it be bottled. This preparation will keep for many 
months. 

Several other effervescing or carbonated drinks have 
already been noticed — (see Lemon and Kali, p. 162; 
Concrete Acidulated Alkali, p. 153 ; Soda Powders, 
p. 153 J Ginger Beer Powders, p. 154; Effervescing 
Saline Draught, p. 154, and Seidlitz Powders, p. 154). 
They are prepared with a vegetable acid (citric or 
tartaric) and an alkaline carbonate. Hence there is 
formed, in their manufacture, a vegetable alkaline 
salt (citrate or tartrate), the general effects of which 
on the system have been already noticed (see pp. 28 
and 29). 



* London Medical Gazette, vol. xx. p. 542. 



408 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

ORDER IV. DRINKS CONTAINING GELATINE AND 

OSMAZOME. 

(Broths and Soups.) 

These are essentially decoctions of animal flesh 
(meat) ; though frequently vegetables are also used in 
their preparation. 

The composition of the flesh of various species of 
animals has been already stated (see pp. 231, 236, and 
237) ; but the changes which it suffers in the opera- 
tion of boiling are by no means well ascertained. 
The fibrine of the meat is rendered harder, but being 
insoluble in water, contributes nothing to this liquid. 
The albumen of meat is partly solid, partly liquid; 
the latter is coagulated by the boiling water. By 
the united agency of water and heat a portion of 
albumen — or at least a nitrogenous matter — is ren- 
dered soluble, and therefore is contained in the broth. 
The hematosin (see pp. 191 and 247), or colouring 
matter of the blood, dissolves in, and communicates a 
red colour to, cold water : but, as soon as the water 
becomes sufficiently heated, the hematosin coagulates, 
and forms brown flocculi, which float on the top of 
the liquor, and constitute part of what is called the 
scum. The cellular tissue, the bones, the aponeuroses, 
and the tendons, yield, by boiling in water, gelatine. 
The fatty matters melt, and, except when they are 
contained in closed cells, escaping from the meat, float 
on the top of the broth. The nervous or cerebral 
fatty matter (see p. 243), which principally consti- 
tutes the pulp of the nerves, is softened by the heat, 
and is in part carried off* during the process. The 



BROTHS xAND SOUPS. 409 

odour which it evolves when heated is recognised both 
in the broth and the boiled meat. 

Dui:ing the ebullition there are obtained, by un- 
known reactions, other products; viz. IsUy, creatine 
(see p. 236), 2dly, osmazome (see p. 236), or the extrac- 
tive matter on which the odour and flavour of broth 
principally depend ; 3dly, ammonia j 4thly, a sul- 
phuretted compound (sulphuretted hydrogen?), which 
blackens paper moistened with a solution of acetate of 
lead ; 5thly, a volatile acid, analogous to acetic acid ; 
6thly, an odorous volatile acid, similar to butyric 
acid. The three last-mentioned substances are par- 
tially or wholly volatilized. 

Thus, then, the following are the constituents of 
broth and boiled meat : — 



Broth. 
Gelatine. 

Albuminous matter. 
Creatine. 

Extractive matters (o9mazome). 
Lactic acid. 
Salts. 

A little fatty matter. 
Saccharine matter. 
Water. 



Boiled meat. 

Pibrine. 

Albumen (coagulated). 

Gelatinous cellular tissue. 

Pat. 

Nervous matter. 

Water. 



Besides meat, it is customary to employ vegetables 
(as turnips, carrots, onions, &c.) in the preparation of 
broths. These communicate colouring and mucila- 
ginous matters, sugar, nitrogenized matter, volatile 
oils and salts. All the cruciferous plants, as turnips 
and cabbages, yield a sulphuretted and nitrogenized 
principle. Onions and leeks furnish an acrid volatile 
oil : the sweet herbs an aromatic oil. 

The following table, drawn up from Chevreul's 
results, shows the quantity of alimentary matter con- 
tained in broth : — 



410 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Substances used in the preparation 
qf broth. 

Beef 1-433 

Bone 0-430 

Common salt . . . 0*040 

Water .... SOOOHXX) 

Tumipe 

Carrots. . . .J- 0*331 

Onions 



. . . * 
i . • . ^ 

. • • » £ 

(burnt) ,y 



Broth 



Products. 

BoUedmeat . . . 0-858 

Bone 0-392 

Vegetables .... 0-340 



One 



i 



insoluble ' 



The specific gravity of the broth was r0136. 
litre (= 2-iV5Vwine pints) contained — 

Water 985*600 

Organic matters 16*917 

1 Potash 
Soda 
Chlorine ■ . 10*721 

Phosphoric acid 
^ Sulphuric acid ^ 

Phosphate magnesia 

„ lime • • 8*539 

, Oxide copper 

1013-6 

Magendie * states that I litre ( = 2-iVAr wine pints) 
of the broth, which is very carefully prepared by the 
" Compagnie hoUandaise" in Paris, contains from 24 
to 25 grammes (= 370-416 to 386-85 troy grains) of 
dry matter, of which from 8 to 10 grammes 
(=123-472 to 154-34 troy grains) are saline sub- 
stances. It is obvious from these statements that the 
actual amount of nutritive matter in broths is very 
small. 

Beef Tea, Mutton, Veal, and Chicken Broths, are 
the lightest forms of animal food, and are employed 
by invalids and convalescents. Beef Tea is a light 
and pleasant article of diet. Mutton Broth is apt to 
disagree with persons having delicate stomachs, espe- 
cially if the fat be not skimmed from it. It is 



* Comptes Rendus, 1841, t. xiii. 



HILKT DRINKS. 411 

frequently given to promote the operation of purgative 
medicine. Chicken Broth, of all the animal decoctions, 
is the least disposed to disturb the stomach. It 
is especially adapted for invalids with great irritability 
of stomach. Veal Broth is less frequently used. 
When prepared from a knuckle of veal, and sufficiently 
concentrated, it gelatinizes on cooling. 

ORDER v. — EMULSIVE OR MILKT DRINKS. 

These liquids hold in suspension an oily or fatty 
substance in a finely divided state. 

Animal Milk, the principal and most important 
drink of this order, has been already fully considered 
(see p. 247, et seq.) 

Almond MUk is an emulsive liquid used as a drink. 
It is prepared a§ follows : — Take of Sweet Almonds, 
blanched, half an ounce. Powdered Gum Arabic a 
drachm. White Sugar two drachms, and Water six 
ounces and a half. Beat the almonds with the sugar 
and water, and then gradually add the water. Al- 
mond milk agrees with animal milk in many of its 
properties. It contains in solution caseine, sugar, 
and gum, and retains in suspension a fixed oil. It 
forms a very agreeable demulcent drink in colds, 
coughs, and inflammatory affections of the bowels 
and urinary organs. 

Orgeat, Syrup of Orgeat, or Syrup of Almonds, is 
thus prepared : — Take of Sweet Almonds a pound; 
Bitter Almonds four ounces ; Water three wine pints ; 
and Sugar six pounds. Blanch the almonds, and 
beat them in a mortar to a fine paste, adding three 
fluidounces of the water and a pound of the sugar. 



412 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Mix the paste thoroughly with the remainder of the 
water, strain with strong expression, add the re- 
mainder of the sugar to the strained liquor, and 
dissolve it with the aid of a gentle heat. Strain the 
syrup through the linen, and, having allowed it to 
cool, put it into bottles, which must be well stopped, 
and kept in a cool place. — In most recipes for it, about 
an ounce of Powdered Gum is directed to be used, and 
about half a pint of Orange Flower Water : but the 
latter, as found in the shops, is frequently contami- 
nated with lead. Orgeat is demulcent and slightly 
narcotic, owing to the presence of prussic acid (derived 
from the bitter almonds). It is used to flavour drinks 
for invalids, and to allay troublesome coughs. The 
dose of it is from one to two table-spoonfuls. 

The Milk of the Cocoa Nut is an aljbuminous liquid, 
closely allied to vegetable emulsions, though it is de- 
void of oily matter. It holds in solution a proteine 
compound (vegetable caseine ?), sugar, gum, and some 
salts. It is, therefore, slightly nutritive. 

ORDER VI. — ALCOHOLIC AND OTHER INTOXICATING 

DRINKS. 

I have already fully considered the dietetical pro- 
perties of Alcohol and of the different kinds of Ardent 
Spirit in ordinary use in this country (see pp. 60 to 
64, and 157 to 160). Of alcoholic drinks, therefore, 
Malt Liquor and Wine alone remain for consideration. 

1 . Malt Liquor or Beer. — Under this head are 
included AlCy Stout, PorteVy and the weaker kinds of 
beer commonly known as Table or Small Beer. All 
these are fermented infusions of malt flavoured with 
hops. 



S££i»« 



413 



The densities of different kinds of beer are, accord- 
ing to Mr. Richardson, as follows : — 



DENSITY OP BEER. 



Kinds qf Beer. 



Burton Ale, 1st sort 

2d sort 

3d sort 



Common Ale .... 
Ditto, ditto .... 
Porter, common sort . 
Ditto, double . . . 
Ditto, brown stout 
Ditto, best brown stout 
Common table beer 
Good table beer . . . 



Ewcess in poundt per 

Barrel over a Barrel 

qf Water. 



40 to 43 
35 to 40 
28 to 33 

25 to 27 

21 

18 

20 

23 

26 

6 

12 to 14 



Specific Oravity. 



Mil tol'120 

1097 to 11 11 

1-077 to 1092 

1070 to 1073 

1-058 

1050 

1-055 

1*064 

1-072 

1*014 

1-033 to 1-039 



The following are the principal constituents of 

COMPOSITION OP BEER. 

Alcohol. 

Starch sugar. 

Dextrine (starch gum). 

Extractive and bitter matter. 

Fatty matters. 

Aromatic matters. 

Glutinous matters. 

Lactic acid. 

Carbonic acid. 

Salts. 

Water 

1. Alcohol. — ^The quantity of spirit contained in 
different kinds of beer, according to the experiments 
of Brande and Christison, has been already stated 
(see pp. 168 and 159). We may safely assume, with 
Dr. Ure*, that the amount of spirit, ** in cbmmon 



* BictUmary of Arts, p. 105. — For further information respecting 
the quantity of alcohol in beer, the reader is referred to Accum's 
Treatise on Adulterations qf Food, and to the writings of Leo (Pkarma- 
ceuHsches CentraUBlatt, fur 1833, p. 413), Schrader, Wackenroder, and 
Lampadius (Ibid./ur 1834, p. 99, et seq.) 



414 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

strong ale or beer^ is about 4 per cent., or four measures 
of spirits, specific gravity 0-825, ia 100 measures of 
the liquor. The best brown stout porter contains 6 per 
cent., the strongest ale even 8 per cent. ; but comnwn 
beer only one.*' 

2. Carbonic Acid. — ^The quantity of free carbonic 
acid in beer is subject to considerable variation, as the 
following table, taken from Dumas *, shews : — 

QUANTITY OP CARBONIC ACID IN BEER. 

Cmrbamie AddjHr emU. 
to Voiumst. 

Not frothy : . . 2 

Beading, not frothy 3 

Yieldinj^ a little scum, not frothy . 4 

Very slight froth 8 

Slight froth 11 

Moderate froth 15 

Rather strong froth 20 to 22 

Strong froth, much scum . . . . 25 to 26 

■ 

3. Extract. — By evaporation we obtain the soluble 
but fixed and nutritive constituents of beer, in the 
form of an extract, which consists of starch-sugar, 
dextrine, lactic acid, different salts, the extractive and 
aromatic parts of tlie hop, gluten, and fatty matters. 
The quantity of extract yielded by beer is subject to 
considerable variation. It depends not only on the 
strength of the wort, but on the length of the fermen- 
tation and the age of the beer. An imperial pint of 
good porter yields in general about one ounce and a 
half of extract. 

The following is the composition of six varieties of 
beer, according to Wackenroder f : — 



• Traiti de Chimie, t vi. 1843. 

t Pharmaceutisches CentralrBlattfmr 1834, p. 100. 



COMPOSITION OP BEER. 



CONSriTURNTS. 


i 

4 


11 




^1 

1 


J 
1 


III 


AbMlatc ikobnl 


a-iea 

srsN 


T-ma 

B9-TM 


(1-14* 


3-M4 1 1-SG7 

O'DW mno 
B-M9 7818 


I'Ofo 

O-OM 


Cubonic acid .. \ . 


Toul 

Saluble uUt ; vii. phosphate ot 
potuh, more or liH chlnriik 
ofpoU»Lun..nd.iilplu.teaf 


lOO-DOO 

0-0J8 
0-lM 


0-1OT 


iiM-oaa 


lOO-OOO 


100-000 

O-IM 


o-osi 
oios 


tuoliibltiuhilmnCMi irti. pbo(- 
phita a( lime ■nd munolB, 
HlltaNIUBulica 



Considered dietetically, beer possesses a three-fold ~ 
property: — it quenches thirst; it stimulates, cheers, 
and, if taken in sufficient quantity, intoxicates } and, 
lastly, it nourishes or strengthens. Its power of 
appeasing thirst depends on the aqueous ingredient 
which it contains, assisted somewhat by its acidulous 
constituent. Its stimulating, cheering, or intoxicating 
power, is derived either wholly, or principally, from 
the alcohol which it contains. Lastly, its nutritive or 
strengthening quality is derived from the sugar, dex- 
trine, and other substances contfuned in the extract. 
Moreover, the bitter principle of hops confers on beer 
tonic properties. 

From these combined qualities beer proves a 
refreshing and salubrious drink (always presuming 
that it is used in moderation), and an i^reeable and 
valuable stimulus and support to those who have to 



416 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

undergo mucli bodily fatigue. When Dr. Franklin* 
asserted that a penny loaf and a pint of water yielded 
more nourishment than a pint of beer, it is obvious 
that he regarded beer merely as a nutrient, and over- 
looked its stimulating and cheering qualities, of which 
bread and water are totally devoid. 

It is a popular notion, which has, perhaps, some 
foundation in fact, that beer has a tendency to pro- 
mote corpulency. This cannot be the effect of the 
alcohol which it contains, since it is well known that 
confirmed spirit-drinkers are usually slender, or even 
emaciated (see p. 54). 

Considered dietetically, beer differs from wine, in 
containing less alcohol, but more nutritive matter; 
and, in addition, a bitter tonic extractive derived from 
the hop. 

Tlie practice of taking a moderate quantity of mild 
malt liquor, of sound quality, at dinner, is, in general, 
not only unobjectionable, but beneficial. It is espe- 
cially suited for those who lead an active life, and are 
engaged in laborious pursuits. For the sedentary and 
inactive it is less fitted. In the convalescence after 
lingering diseases, it often proves a most valuable 
restorative ; but in delicate conditions of the stomach, 
and in relaxation of the bowels, its use should be 
prohibited. With bilious and dyspeptic individuals it 
frequently disagrees, and by such, therefore, should 
be avoided. In plethoric constitutions, especially 
when there is a tendency to apoplexy, it is objection- 



• Select IVorks, by W. T. Franklin, vol. i. p. 36. Lond. 1818. 



BEER. 417 

able. In some persons it is apt to produce headache, 
and by such it should be, either used sparingly, or 
totally abstained from. 

There are considerable differences in the dietetical 
properties of different kinds of malt liquors, to which 
it is necessary to make allusion. 

Ale is prepared with pale malt, and on this account 
is much lighter coloured than Porter and Stout. The 
strongest kinds of ale are richer in alcohol, sugar, and 
gum, than any other kind of malt liquor : but though 
they thus contain a larger amount of nutritive matte!*, 
they are not fitted for ordinary use, on account of 
their intoxicating and stupefying qualities, and are 
especially to be avoided in diabetic and dyspeptic 
cases. On some persons they act as purgatives. The 
Pale Ale, prepared for the India market, and, there- 
fore, commonly known as the Indian Pale Ale,* is free 
from these objections. It is carefully fermented, so as 
to be devoid of all sweetness, or, in other words, to be 
dry; and it contains double the usual quantity of 
hops : it forms, therefore, a most valuable restorative 
beverage for invalids and convalescents. It is taken 
with benefit by many persons on whom other kinds of 
ale act injuriously. For ordinary use at table, the 
weaker kinds of ale, ^popularly known as Table Ale, 
are to be preferred. 

Porter is prepared from a mixture of pale and high- 
dried or charred malts ; the pale kind being used to 



* " The beer which the English send to the Indies/' says Dumas, 
" is more highly charged with the essential oil [of hops]." 

E E 



418 COMPOUKB AUMENTS. 

give body or strength — ^the dark kind to communicate 
colour.* Moreover, a larger amount of hops is used 
in the preparation of porter than of the ordinary kinds 
of beer. Porter is much better adapted for table use 
than strong ale. It agrees with many individuals on 
whom the latter liquid acts injuriously. When new, 
as generally prepared at the present day, it is called 
mild; by keeping, a portion of acid is developed in it, 
and it is then denominated hard. Formerly, when 
hard porter was in request, publicans were in the 
habit of rendering new beer hard, or, as it was called, 
of bringing it forward, by the addition of sulphuric 
acid. To render old beer mild, carbonate of lime, 
or of soda, or of potash, is used to neutralise the 
acid. 

Beer, es{)ecially Porter, is very extensively adul- 
terated.f Cocculus indums is used to augment its 
intoxicating quality ; and some of the popular treatises 
on brewing give directions for employing it. Thus 
Morrice directs three lbs. of Cocculus to be used for 
every ten quarters of malt. " It gives," says he, " an 
inebriating quality which passes for strength of 
liquor ;" and he adds, that '^ it prevents second fer- 
mentation in bottled beer, and consequently the burst- 



• The high temperatore employed in preparing the brown or black 
inalts greatly alters or actually decomposes the saccharine matter, the 
diastase and other constituents of the grain, and gives rise to the 
formation of a colouring matter analogous to carameL 

t In the Sunday Times of March 13, 1842, is the report of the con- 
yiction of a druggist for selling, and of a brewer for buying, Tarioos 
drugs to adulterate beer. Each was fined £300. The drugs were 
Cocembu Jndieui, Graim </ ParwUge, Li^mfriee, Lkuetd, Cormssy, and 
Cojfeime Ptfper. 




WINE. 419 

ing of the bottles in warm climates." This sophisti- 
cation is a highly dangerous one, cocculus indicus 
being a very poisonous fruit, as well for man as for 
the inferior animals j and the legislature has, therefore, 
very properly imposed a penalty of £200 upon the 
brewer, and £500 upon the seller of the drug. In 
order to avoid detection, brewers' druggists are in the 
habit of preparing a watery extract of the fruit, which 
is sold as black extract or hard multum. Quassia is 
used as a substitute for hops, to communicate a bitter 
taste. Grains of Paradise and Cayenne give pun- 
gency; though it is a common, but erroneous opinion, 
that grains of paradise have an intoxicating or narcotic 
property. Coriander, Caraway^ &c. are used to com- 
municate flavour J LiquoricCy Treacle, and Honey, give 
colour and consistence. A mixture called Beer-heading, 
composed of green vitriol (sulphate of iron), alum, and 
common salt, is used to give a fine frothy or catdifiower 
head to beer. 

2. Wine. By the term wine is usually meant a 
drink or liquid prepared by the vinous fermentation of 
must (i. e. the juice of the grape); but sometimes it is 
made to include the fermented juices of fruits gene- 
rally, as of elderberries, currants, gooseberries, &c. j 
and, in a more general sense, it comprehends all sac- 
charine liquids which have been subjected to the 
vinous fermentation. The liquid called ginger wine 
is an instance of this more extended use of the word 
wine. 

In a dietetical point of view it will be necessary to 
notice those wines only which are obtained from the 



420 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

grape ; and to these, therefore, the following remarks 
are intended to apply. 

Must — the expressed juice of the grape, — whose 
composition I have already noticed (see p. 353), rea- 
dily undergoes fermentation when subjected to a 
temperature of between 60** F. and 80** F. ; while in 
the grape itself the juice does not ferment, owing, as 
Gay-Lussac has shown, to the exclusion of atmos- 
pheric air, the presence of which, therefore, is in some 
way necessary to set up the process of fermentation. 

The peculiar qualities of the different kinds of wine 
depend on several circumstances ; such as the variety 
and place of growth of the vine from which the wine 
is prepared,— - the time of year when the vintage is 
collected, — the preparation of the grapes previously to 
their being trodden and pressed, — and the various 
manipulations and processes adopted in their fer- 
mentation. 

The wines of different countries are distinguished in 
conunerce by various names. The following is a list 
of the wines most commonly met with, arranged 
according to the countries producing them : — 

1. French Wines. — Champagne (of which we have the still, creamtM^, 
or slightly sparklingt—ihef till frothing, — the white — and the pink); Bnr- 
gnndg (red and white); Hermitage; Cdtie Rdtiej Rousillon; FnmHgnae: 
Claret (the most esteemed being the produce of Ltfiite, Latonr, Chiteam 
Margaux, and Haut-Brion); Vin de Grave; Sauteme ; and Barsae. 

2. Spanish Wines.— SAerry (Xeres); Tent (Rota); Mountain (Ma- 
laga); Benicarlo (Alicant). 

3. PortitoalWines.— For/, reJ and loiU/e (Oporto); Bucellas, Lisbon, 
Calcavalla, and Colares (Lisbon). An inferior description of Red Port 
Wine is shipped at Figuera and Aveiro. 

4. German Wines.— HAtiie and Moselle Wines. The term^ocit (a 



WINE. 421 

corruption of Hoekheimer) is usually applied to the first growths of the 
Rhine. The term Rhenish commonly indicates an inferior Rhine 
wine. 

5. Hungarian Wines.— Tbiboy. 

G.Italian and Sicilian Wines. — Lachryma Christi; Marsala; 
Syracuse; lAssa. 

7. Grecian and Ionian Wines. — Candian and Cyprus wines. 

8. Wines of Madeira and the Canary Islands. — Madeira and 
Canary (Teneriflfe). 

9. Wines of the Cape of Good Hope. — Cape Madeira, Pontac, Con- 
stantia red and white (a sweet, luscious wine, much esteemed). 

10. Persian Wines. — Shiraz. 

11. English or Home-made Wines.— Grc^e, Raisin, Currant, Goose- 
berry, &c. 

The composition of wine is subject to considerable 
variation ; but, in a general way, the following may 
be said to be its constituents : — 

CONSTITUENTS OF WINK 

Water. 

Alcohol. 

Bouquet {volatile oilf an ether f). 

Sugar. 

Gum. 

Extractive matter. 

Gluten (except when tannin is present). 

Acetic acid. ^ 

Bitartrate of potash. 

Tartrate of potash and alumina (m German wines). 

Sulphate of potash. 

Chlorides of potassium and sodium. 

CokTuring matter of the husk } (** ^^ ^''*^^' 

Carhonic acid (in Champagne and other effervescing wines). 

1. Bouquet of Wine. — ^Every wine has a peculiar 
odour, called its perfume or bouquet, and which must 
depend on the presence of some volatile principle 
generated during the process of vinous fermentation. 
In some cases, if not in all, it appears to be an ether 
formed by the action of an organic (fatty?) acid on 
the alcohol. Thus by submitting wine lees to distil- 
lation, Liebig and Pelouze procured an oily liquor. 



422 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

having a vinous odour, consisting of omanthic ether 
(C"ff«0») mixed with cenanthic acid (C"H"0*). 

" The wines of wann climates/' says Liebig, *' pos- 
sess no smeU ; wines grown in France have it in a 
marked degree; but in the wines from the Rhine the 
perfume is most intense. The kinds of grapes grown 
on the Rhine, which ripen very late, and scarcely ever 
completely, such as the Biessling and Orleans, have 
the strongest perfume or bouquet, and contain, propor- 
tionally, a larger quantity of tartaric acid. The earlier 
grapes, such as the RtUander and others, contain a 
large proportion of alcohol, and are similar to Spanish 
wines in their flavour, but they possess no bouquet. 
The grapes grown at the Cape, from Riesslings trans- 
planted from the Rhine, produce an excellent wine, 
which does not, however, possess the aroma which 
distinguishes Rhenish wine. It is evident from these 
facts, that the acid of wines, and their characteristic 
perfumes, have some connexion, for they are always 
found together ; and it can scarcely be doubted that 
the presence of the former exercises a certain influence 
on the formation of the latter." 

2. Alcohol. — ^The quantity of alcohol in different 
wines has been already stated (see pp. 167-9). Wines 
which contain a comparatively small quantity of it are 
denominated light wines; as Claret, Sauterne, Hock, 
and Moselle; while those which are rich in it are 
termed strong or generous wines; as Lissa, Port, Mar- 
sala, Madeira, and Sherry. By keeping them in 
casks or bottles the quantity of alcohol in them is 
modified. Madeira and Sherry kept for a moderate 
term of years become somewhat stronger ; the sugar 




WINE. 423 

which they contained becoming siowly converted into 
alcohol, while tartar is deposited. After a time, that 
is> when all the sugar has disappeared, the formation 
of alcohol ceases, and from this period the strength of 
the wine diminishes, partly by the evaporation of the 
spirit through the sides of the cask, and partly by its 
conversion into other substances, as acetic acid. 

3. SiLgar. — ^This is a constituent of many wines. 
Those in which it is very abundant are called sweet or 
luscious wines. Tokay, Tent, Frontignac, Lunel, 
Rivesalte, Constantia, and Malmsey, are examples. In 
these the process of fermentation has been arrested 
before all the sugar was decomposed. Those wines, 
on the other hand, in which all the saccharine matter 
has disappeared, are called dry. Examples of this are 
frequently found in Sherry. 

4. Acids. — All wines are more or less acidulous, as 
determined by litmus. This has been in general attri- 
buted to malic acid; but Dumas thinks that the pre- 
sence of this acid in wine is very doubtful. In old 
and spoiled wines, as well as in the wines of the more 
northern countries, acetic acid is often found. The 
brisk, frothing, sparkling or effervescent wines, — as 
Champagne, which have been bottled before fermen- 
tation is complete, though without its being arrested, 
owe their peculiar properties to carbonic acid retained 
in solution under pressure. Some wines, as Port, 
contain tannic acid, to which they owe their roughness 
and astringency. They derive this from the husk, 
and perhaps in part from the seeds, of the grape. 
The acidity of some wines depends on bitartrate of 
potash. 



424 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

5. Colouring matter, — All wines contain more or 
less colouring matter ; but those which are prepared 
without the husk of the grape are pale, and are de- 
nominated white fvineSy — as Sherry, Madeira, and 
Bucellas. But if the husk of the dark-coloured grapes 
be present during fermentation, the wine acquires a 
deep colour, and is called red wine. By exposure to 
the sun, as well as by age, the colour diminishes. 

6. Tartrates. — ^The most important saline consti- 
tuent of wine is Tartar (Bitartrate of Potash), which 
deposits, along with colouring and extractive matters, 
both in tlie cork and bottle, constituting argoU the 
crusty the hees' wing^ &c. The deposition augments 
with the formation of alcohol. Tartrate of Lime is 
usually found along widi tartar in wine ; and in the 
German wines, Berzelius mentions that there exists 
the Tartrate of Alumina and Potash. 

Wine, when used in moderate quantities, as to the 
extent of two or three glasses daily, proves a very 
grateful, and to those who have been accustomed to it^ 
an almost indispensable stimulant. It quickens the 
action of the heart and blood-vessels, diffuses an 
agreeable warmth through the system, promotes the 
different secretions, augments the muscular force and 
activity, excites the mental powers, and banishes un- 
pleasant ideas and reflections. 

Many persons, who have during a considerable 
period of their lives accustomed themselves to the 
daily but moderate use of wine, have attained a good 
old age; and it cannot, therefore, be denied, that the 
most perfect health is quite compatible with the mo- 
derate enjoyment of wine. 



WINE. 425 

It must be admitted, I think, that wine proves a 
most valuable restorative when the powers of the body 
and mind have been enfeebled by fatigue. Its daily 
use, therefore, is more adapted for those who lead a 
life of great activity, or whose occupations are labo- 
rious, than for the indolent and sedentary. To the 
former it proves a very agreeable stimulus. Taken 
after the fatigues of the day are over, it assists in 
recruiting the exhausted energies. 

But, on the other hand, it cannot be denied that 
the most perfect health is compatible with total ab- 
stinence from wine; and that the habitual employ- 
ment of it, especially by the indolent and sedentary, 
is calculated, in many instances, to prove injurious. 
To a person in perfect health, and who has been unac- 
customed to it, no possible benefit can accrue from 
commencing its use. The preternatural excitement 
which, in these cases, it would occasion, must be fol- 
lowed by a corresponding degree of depression. Even 
though no sensible injury may result therefrom, no 
benefit can be expected to result. The habit of using 
this stimulus creates a want for it ; and thus it often 
happens, that those who have accustomed themselves 
to the temperate use of wine, suffer when they are 
deprived of it. The " artificial states of the constitu- 
tion," says Dr. Christison, " produced by the habits 
of civilized life, are supposed to render it, for some 
people, a necessary stimulant, especially during expo- 
sure to unusual fatigue. So far do some carry this 
notion in the upper ranks of society, as to follow the 
strange practice of allowing wine daily, and in con- 
siderable quantity, even to young healthy children. 



426 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Very few constitutions of this kind really exist among 
those who are willing to think they themselves pos- 
sess it. 

Dr. Paris asserts that '^ there exists no eyidence to 
prove that a temperate use of good wine, when taken 
at seasonable hours, has ever proved injurious to 
healthy adults.'' I am by no means disposed to ques- 
tion the accuracy of this statement, since he has so 
qualified it, that, in almost any case where ill effects 
resulted from the use of wine, they may be ascribed 
to the nonfulfilment of some of the conditions here 
mentioned : viz. the temperate use of the wine, — ^the 
goodness of the liquor, — the seasonable time of taking 
it,— or the health of the individual. All I would 
assert is, that, for healthy individuals, wine is an unne- 
cessary article of diet. 

The actual amount of injury which may be inflicted 
on the system by the use of wine depends on the 
quality and quantity of the liquid used, and on the 
greater or less predisposition to disease which may 
exist in the system. Disorders of the digestive organs 
and of the brain, gout, gravel, and dropsy, are the 
maladies most likely to be induced or aggravated by 
the use of wine. Intoxication, in its varied forms, is 
the effect of the excessive use of it 

Though the effects of wines depend, in the main, 
on the alcohol which these liquids contain, yet they 
differ from those of ardent spirit in several respects. 
In the first place, wine possesses a tonic influence not 
observed after the use of spirit Common experience 
proves to every one that the stimulant influence of wine 
is slower in its production and subsidence than that of 



WINE. 427 

spirit. On this account wine is employed as a tonic 
or corroborant in the convalescence after lingering 
diseases. Secondly , the diseases induced by the ex- 
cessive indulgence in wine are somewhat different 
from those caused by alcohol. Delirium tremens, and 
diseased liver, are the common maladies of spirit- 
drinkers; whereas these affections rarely, if indeed 
they ever, follow the use of wine merely. But, on the 
other hand, gravel and gout are frequent consequences 
of habitual over-indulgence in wine, while they much 
less frequently result from the use of spirit. Thirdly, 
while wine-drinkers are frequently fat, lusty, and 
plethoric, — spirit-drinkers are generally thin and ema- 
ciated (see p. 54). Lastly, the intoxicating influence 
of wine is not equal to that of mixtures of ardent 
spirit and water of corresponding strengths, nor pro- 
portionate, in different wines, to the relative quantities 
of alcohol which they contain. This will be obvious 
from the following* table, drawn up from Mr. Brande's 
results, before quoted (see p. 167, et seq.) : — 

AVERAGE QUANTITIES OF ARDENT SPIRIT AND OF WINE, 
CONTAINING FOUR FLUIDOUNCES OF ALCOHOL (sp. 
gr. 0-825 at 60^ F.) 

Brandy, about . . 8 fluidounces. 
Port Wine . • . 184 ditto. 

Claret 26i ditto. 

Champagne ... 32 ditto. 

Now it appears from this table, that if the intoxicating 
power of vinous liquids were in proportion to the spirit 
contained in them, that a pint of Port wine would be 
almost equal to half a pint of brandy, and that Claret 
would exceed Champagne in its influence over the 



428 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

nervous system ; all of vvhieli we know not to be the 
case. It is, therefore, obvious, that the action of the 
alcohol on the animal economy is modified in the wine 
by the water and vegetable matters with which it is 
either combined or mixed. 

Some doubt on this point has been recently ex- 
pressed by Dr. Christison, w^ho observes, that " wine 
is generally considered less inebriating than its equi- 
valent alcohol, in any other shape. And this fact has 
been vaguely referred to its alcohol being in a peculiar 
state of combination, so as to be more easily digestible. 
Notwithstanding," he adds, '^ the general admission 
of this peculiarity in the effects of wine, doubts may 
be entertained of the doctrine being so unequivocal, or 
so generally applicable, as late authors on wine have 
maintained ; and I suspect it is founded, in part, on 
the mistaken notions that have prevailed as to the 
alcoholic strength of wines, which has been overrated 
by analysts, — and partly on a disregard of the influ- 
ence of habit, which seems to render one species of 
alcoholic fluid more digestible, or in some other way 
less stimulating, than another." 

I am inclined to agree with Dr. Christison in the 
belief that the alcoholic strength of wines has been 
overrated by analysts. But I believe that the same 
has been done with regard to the strength of ardent 
spirits, as ordinarily found in the shops ; both brandy 
and gin, but especially the latter, being usually sold 
considerably below the strength stated by Mr. Brande. 
So that though the actual quantity of alcohol in both 
wines and spirits may be overrated, yet the relative 
proportions are probably correct, or nearly so; and the 



WINE. 429 

inferences which have been drawn as to the compa- 
rative effects of the alcohol contained in these liquids, 
are^ perhaps, not far from the truth. It appears 
to me, therefore, that the evidence of the modifying 
influence exercised by the other ingredients of wine 
on the alcohol contained therein, is greater than Dr. 
Christison is disposed to admit. 

Old wines, it is well known, are less intoxicating 
than new ones. This is usually ascribed to the che- 
mical union which is ultimately effected between the 
alcohol and the water, by which the inebriating power 
of the spirit is lessened. But it is probably due, for the 
most part, to the diminished alcohoUc strength of the 
old wine; for Dr. Christison's experiments have shown 
that the alcoholic strength of wines does not increase 
with age, as many persons have supposed. 

The precise changes which the alcohol undergoes 
in wine are at present but imperfectly known. Dumas 
says that it doubtless passes gradually into the state 
of ether by combining with the different acids con- 
tained or produced in wine, and by which its inebriat- 
ing power must be diminished, or perhaps otherwise 
modified. He also suggests that there may be different 
kinds of alcohol, having a similar relation to each 
other that phosphoric acid bears to pyrophosphoric 
acid ; and that thus the alcohol of old wines may be 
possessed of somewhat different properties to that of 
new wines. 

It is obvious, therefore, that there is not a priori 
anything improbable in the opinion commonly enter- 
tained by connoisseurs in wine, that a brandied wine 
(i. e. wine to which brandy has been added) is more 



430 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

intoxicating than a non-brandied wine of equal 
strength. The wine-growers of Bourgogne have long 
acted on this principle. In cold or rainy seasons, 
when the grape is deficient in sugar, and, in conse- 
quence, yields a poor wine, they prefer adding sugar 
to the must, instead of adding alcohol to the wine. 
" Formerly," says Dumas, " it was supposed that when 
wine was deficient in alcohol, this ingredient, in proper 
quantity, might be added to it to give the proper qua- 
lity. Now, however, whoever considers the phenomena 
of fermentation, will not hesitate to admit that the 
addition of sugar to the must is a very different thing 
to the addition of spirit to the wine : for sugar, in fer- 
menting, produces a chemical movement in which all 
the different materials of the must concur." 

In forming an opinion as to the kind of wine best 
fitted for dietetical use, we must consider the colour, 
the alcoholic strength and intoxicating property, the 
sweetness, the nature and quantity of acid which it 
contains, and the age of the wine. Red wines contain 
more extractive and colouring matters (derived from 
the husk of the grape), which are apt to disagree with 
some dyspeptics. Strang wines are^more likely to 
prove injurious than weak ones. But the inebriating 
quality of wine is not proportional to the quantity of 
contained alcohol. Sweet wines are objectionable in 
dyspeptic and some urinary diseases; as diabetes. 
Acid wines are improper for rheumatic and gouty sub- 
jects. Old wines are, in general, to be preferred to 
new ones; for, in the first place, their alcoholic 
strength is somewhat less ; and, secondly, by keeping, 
wines deposit bitartrate of potash, and colouring and 



WINE. 431 

extractive matters, which are apt to disagree with 
some constitutions. Liebig says, that minute crystals 
of uric acid are deposited from the urine after the use 
of those wines in which the alkali necessary to retain 
the uric acid in solution is wanting ; but that this is 
never observed from the use of Rhenish wines, which 
contain so much tartar. 

On the whole, I am inclined to think, that, of the 
stronger wines employed in this country, good dry 
Sherry is best fitted for dietetical use. It is devoid of 
the extractive and colouring matters found in red 
wine, and is free both from acid and sugar. In general, 
however, I think the lighter or weaker wines prefer- 
able; and of those commonly used in this country 
Claret appears to me the best. 

1. Sheny. — ^This is made in Spain, near Xeres, 
and is exported from Cadiz. " From the gradual 
mixture of wines of various ages,'* says Mr. Busby,* 
" no wine can be further from what may be called a 
natural wine than sherry.'' Boiled must (of the con- 
sistence of treacle, and having a similar flavour, but 
with a strong empyreumatic taste) is employed to 
deepen its colour. Amontillado, or Montillado, (a 
very dry kind of sherry) is added to sherries which 
are deficient in the nutty flavour. Being very light 
in colour, it is also Tised to reduce the colour of 
sherries which are too high. Brandy is added to 
sherry before it is shipped, but never in greater quan- 
tities than four or five per cent. 

Sherry varies considerably in the depth of its co- 

• Viiit to ike Vmeyards qf Spaim amd France. Lond. 1834. 



432 COMPOrXD ALIMENTS. 

lour: and Ixmdon wholesale dealers distinguish five 
kinds, called respectively very pale^ pale, golden, 
brown, and very hron-n; and occasionally an e.rlra 
very pale, and an extra very bronfi, are met with. 
Some years since fashion ran on pale sherries, and to 
meet the demand the wine-growers made their wines 
from the grapes before they were quite ripe, and the 
consequence was, an inferior class of wines was ex- 
ported ; and had the fashion continued, the characters 
of sherries would have been greatly altered. But the 
inferior quality of the pale sherries, thus produced, led 
to a change in the fashion, and now dark or brown 
sherries (coloured as before stated) are run after. It 
should, however, be remembered, that colour is no 
criterion of the goodness of sherrj'. 

I have already stated that of the stronger wines 
sherry is preferable for ordinarv' use, on account of its 
great freedom from acid, sugar, colouring, and extrac- 
tive matters. It is, therefore, the least injurious of the 
strong wines for gouty persons, as well as for those 
troubled with acidity of stomach, and for the lithic 
acid diathesis. 

2. Port-Wine. — This is manufactured on the banks 
of the Douro, and is exported from Oporto. It is 
made from round black grapes (see pp. 351-352); 
and owes its colour and astringency to the husks and 
stalks of the grapes which are contained in the fer- 
menting juice. 

To augment the strength of this wine brandy is 
added to it. In Portugal the juice of the elderberry 
has been employed to augment the colour. To such 
an extent was this at one time practised, that the wine 



WINE. 433 

• 

company of Portugal rooted out the elder trees, and 
prohibited their growth in the wine district. Kino, 
it is said, is used to give roughness or astringency to 
Port-wine. 

Old Port-wine has a duller, browner, and paler tint 
than new wine, which has a more purplish, red or 
ruby tint, and a brighter though deeper colour. To 
detect the shades of colour, dealers use small silver 
dishes, called tasters, having raised bottoms, by the 
reflected light from which, the colour of the wine is 
readily perceived. In order to imitate age, dealers 
sometimes add white Port- wine to the red kind ; but I 
am informed that the crust which is deposited is never 
good and firm. 

Port-wine belongs to the class of stronger wines. 
It more frequently disagrees with individuals than 
sherry ; but to this statement many exceptions occur. 
It is more apt to disorder the head and the stomach, 
and to constipate the bowels, than sherry. It is popu- 
larly supposed to be more strengthening than the 
other kinds of wines ; and, accordingly, is more fre- 
quently resorted to as a medicine. On account of its 
astringency it is particularly adapted for those cases 
which are attended with a relaxed condition of bowels. 

3. Madeira. — ^This wine, the produce of the island 
whose name it bears, is in general somewhat stronger 
and more acid than sherry. Before it is shipped, 
brandy is usually added to it. In order to improve 
its quality it is frequently sent a voyage to the East 
Indies. Heat and agitation are probably the effective 
agents in this improvement. Madeira is well adapted 
for old persons and debilitated constitutions, where its 

F F 



434 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

• 

slight acidity is not objectionable. It is an excellent 
wine for invalids ; but its acidity sometimes causes it 
to disagree. 

4. Champagne. — ^This wine is called after the pro- 
vince of France of which it is the produce. It is 
usually procured from a black grape. The Cham- 
pagne wines are generally divided into the white, and 
the red or pink; and each of these again into the still 
and the sparkling. Of the still Champagne that called 
Sillery is generally admitted to be the best. In this 
country, however, the sparkling Champagne is usually 
preferred ; and of this the wine of Ay is considered 
the best; that which merely creams on the surface 
(demi-moussetia:) being more esteemed than the full- 
frothing (grand-mousseux) . The sparkling, creaming, 
or frothing of these wines depends on the evolution 
of carbonic acid gas. 

If carbonic acid gas be condensed into ordinary 
white wine, it usually renders the latter turbid, owing 
to the precipitation of gliadine contained in the wine. 
But by the previous addition of tannin (which preci- 
pitates the gliadine) this may be prevented. 

Champagne is an exhilarating wine, which speedily 
produces intoxication ; it also acts as a diuretic. It 
excites lively and agreeable feelings, and is, in conse- 
quence, adapted for hypochondriacal cases j it is very 
apt, however, to occasion headache. On account of 
its effervescing property it is occasionally useful in 
allaying sickness and vomiting. It is objectionable in 
gouty subjects. 

6. German Wines. — These are produced principally 
on the banks of the Rhine and the MoseUe. They 



WINE. 435 

• 

are light wines, and remarkable, as I have already 
stated, for their very powerful bouquet (see p. 422), 
as well as for containing tartrate of alumina and 
potash (see p. 424). " A notion prevails that they 
are naturally acid ; and the inferior kinds, no doubt, 
are so: but this is not the constant character of the 
Rhine wines, which in good years have no per- 
ceptible acidity to the taste, at least not more than 
is common to them with the growths of warmer 
regions. Their chief distinction is their extreme 
durability." 

The Johannisherger stands at the head of the Rhine 
wines. It has a very choice flavour and perfume, and 
is characterized by an almost total want of acidity. 
Steinherger ranks next ; and after this follow Rudes- 
heimer, Hochheimevy &c. In this country the term 
Hock (a corruption of Hochheimer) is usually ap- 
plied to the first growths of the Rhine; while the 
inferior Rhine wines are simply called Rhenish wines. 

Of the MoseUe wines the Schartzberger is deservedly 
esteemed. 

The German wines of good quality, are, in general, 
light and wholesome; though they are occasionally 
objectionable on account of their acidulous character. 
They prove diuretic and slightly aperient. Liebig 
asserts that crystals of uric acid are never deposited 
from the urine under their use, on account of the 
tartar which they hold in solution. 

6. Claret Wines. — Under this name are generally 
included the red wines of France, which are produced 
in the districts adjoining Bourdeaux. The most es- 
teemed are, LqfiUe, Latour, Chhteau-^MargavLXy and 



436 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

HatU'Brion. They are light and wholesome wines, 
and well adapted for the table ; though in gouty and 
rheumatic subjects, and in some cases of dyspepsia, 
they prove injurious by their acidity. 

7. Burgundy. — ^This wine enjoys the highest repu- 
tation on the continent. It is stimulant and somewhat 
astringent. It is apt to occasion headache or indi- 
gestion. 



Other intoxicating drinks. — ^Among European na^ 
tions alcohol is the basis of the inebriating drinks in 
ordinary use. But by the Mahometan, and other 
oriental nations. Opium and Hemp are employed for 
producing intoxication. The consideration of these, 
however, scarcely falls within the scope of the present 
work ; and I must, therefore, refer the reader to my 
Elements of Materia Medica for full details respecting 
the effects and uses of these and other narcotic sub- 
stances (Tobacco for example), which are used as 
inebriants. 

3. CONDIMENTS OR SEASONING AGENTS. 

The name of Condiment is usually given to those 
substances which are taken with foods for the imme- 
diate purpose of improving their flavour. But most 
of them serve other, and much more important, pur- 
poses in the animal economy, than that of merely 
gratifying the palate. Most of them are, in fact, ali- 
mentary substances — as Sugar, Oil or Fat, and Veget- 
able Acids. Common Salt, which by most dietetical 



CONDIMENTS. 437 

writers is spoken of as if it were a mere luxury, — as 
if its use were to gratify the palate merely, — is essen- 
tial to health and life, and is as much an aliment or 
food as either bread or flesh. " Without salt, or some 
other mineral substance which can be substituted for 
it, as chloride of potassium, no solid substance could 
be taken into the system ; nor, if it could be taken 
into the blood, could the albumen there be retained in 
solution ; nor could the changes which are requisite 
for life take place in the tissues ; nor could any bile 
be formed. As hydrochloric acid is found in the sto- 
mach, and soda in the bile and blood, it must be 
supposed that there exists some power in the body by 
which the chloride of sodium is decomposed*.*' 

But all the substances employed as condiments are 
not necessary to our existence j and accordingly they 
are not assimilated. This is the case with the aromatic 
and pungent condiments, the volatile oil of which is, 
in many cases, thrown out of the system unchanged ; 
as in the case of Onions. The purposes which these 
substances serve in the animal economy is not very 
obvious ; but it is probable that they promote the 
activity of the assimilating organs, by acting as sti- 
muli ; and in some cases, perhaps, they may serve to 
correct the injurious qualities of the foods with which 
they are taken. 

The following are the orders of condiments usually 
admitted. It will be seen that they have been already 
noticed in other parts of this work : — 



* On Gravel, Calculus, and Gout, by H. Bence Jones, M.A. p. 46. 
Lond. 1842. 



438 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

1. Saline Condiments (see Comnum Sali, p. 223). 

2. Acidulous Condiments (see Acetic Acid, p. 148; Ciirie Acid, 

p. 151 ; and hemou Juice, p. 356). 

3. Oily Condiments (see the Fixed Oils, p. 166). 

4. Saccharine Condiments (see The Saccharine AUmeiUmry Prmeiple, 

p. 112). 

5. Aromatic and Pungent Condiments (see T%e Volaiile or Sstemtiai 

Oils, p. 184). 

Under the name of Sauces are used, at the table, 
mixtures of various condimentary and alimentary sub- 
stances. Salt and spices are essential ingredients of 
them, and vinegar enters into the composition of 
several. Ketchup (made either from Mushrooms 
or Walnuts), Soy, and Essence of Anchovies y are the 
sauces in most frequent use. These substances are 
seldom employed in sufficient quantity to prove inju- 
rious by themselves ; though by provoking the appe- 
tite, and thereby promoting the use of indigestible 
substances, they frequently prove indirectly injurious. 
By invalids and convalescents they should, therefore, 
be carefully avoided. 

" Condiments," says Dr. Beaumont*, *^ particularly 
those of the spicy kind, are non-essential to the pro- 
cess of digestion, in a healthy state of the system. 
They afford no nutrition. Though they may assist 
the action of a debilitated stomach for a time, their 
continual use never fails to produce an indirect debi- 
lity of that organ. They affect it as alcohol or other 
stimulants do — the present relief afforded is at the 
expense of future suflTering. Salt and vinegar are 



* Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice and the Physiology 
of Digestion, p. 40. Edinb. 1S38. 



CONDIMENTS. 439 

exceptions, and are not noxious to this charge, when 
used in moderation. They both assist in digestion, — 
vinegar, by rendering muscular fibre more tender — and 
both together by producing a fluid having some ana- 
logy to the gastric juice," 



410 



PART 11. -OF DIET. 



In this part of my work I propose to consider briefly 
the adaptation of aliment to the different wants and 
conditions of human existence. But as it involves 
the consideration of the digestibility and nutritious 
quality of foods, as well as of the times best fitted for 
eating, I propose to offer a few remarks on these sub- 
jects, before proceeding to the examination of dietaries 
and the dietetical treatment of diseases. 

Chap. I. — Of the Digestibility of Food. 

The term assimilatiofiy as used in its most general 
sense, by Dr. Prout, has been applied to those pro- 
cesses by which alimentary substances are converted 
into the organized tissues * of the body : primary 
assimilation comprising those concerned in the con- 
version of food into blood; — secondary ass^imilation, 
those by which organized or living textures are formed 
from the blood, and afterwards redissolved and re- 
moved from the system. 

I need hardly explain that digestion is one of the 
primary assimilating processes. It comprehends those 
changes effected on the food in the stomach and intes- 
tines ; and is partly a mechanical, but principally a 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 441 

chemical process. Dr. Prout speaks of it as being 
likewise a vitalizing process. 

Most of the well-ascertained changes effected in the 
food in the stomach can be produced out of the body. 
By digestion starch is converted into gum and sugar : 
oily or fatty bodies are minutely divided (not dis- 
solved), and formed into a kind of emulsion : protei- 
naceous substances (fibrine, albumen, caseine, and 
gluten) are dissolved or liquefied in the stomach, and 
afterwards precipitated in the duodenum. Now all 
these processes can be imitated out of the body. Thus 
fi brine or coagulated albumen can be dissolved either 
in the gastric juice withdrawn from the stomach, or in 
an artificial digestive liquor prepared by macerating 
the dried lining membrane of the fourth stomach of 
the calf in water acidulated with hydrochloric acid 
(see p. 71). 

The saccharine matter, the emulsified oily or fatty 
substances, and the finely divided or redissolved pro- 
teinaceous matters are absorbed, and pass into the chyle. 

The formation or secretion of the matters necessary 
'to produce the requisite chemical changes in the food, 
is^ as far as we at present know, a vital act. To dis- 
solve the proteinaceous compounds two substances are 
required, an acid (hydrochloric) and a matter called 
pepsine or chymosine. According to Dumas, the first 
softens these bodies and causes them to swell up, — the 
second determines their liquefaction. 

Without adopting the fermentation hypothesis of 
digestion, to which I have already (see p. 71) offered 
some objections, the necessity of certain agents in the 



442 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

stomach to effect the solution or liquefaction of the 
food is obvious ; and if we admit that these are formed 
by the vital powers, we can readily comprehend how, 
in certain morbid conditions of the organism, the 
digestive agents are altered in their nature, and the 
natural and healthy process of digestion thereby 
deranged. 

The digestibility of food is affected by two classes 
of circumstances ; — the one relating to the foods them- 
selves, the other to those of the individual or the 
organism. 

1. Digestibility of food affected by circumstances 
relating to the foods themselves. — A variety of circum- 
stances affect the facility with which different kinds of 
foods undergo digestion. Some foods are naturally 
more difficult of digestion than others. This is espe- 
cially the case with the oily or fatty substances. I 
have, however, already fully considered the subject, 
and I, therefore, beg to refer my readers to the opinions 
before expressed (see pp. 170-175). 

" Vegetables," says Dr. Beaumont, " are generally 
slower of digestion than meats and farinaceous sub- 
stances, though they sometimes pass out of the 
stomach before them, in an undigested state. Crude 
vegetables, by some law of the animal economy not 
well understood, are allowed, even when the stomach 
is in a healthy state, sometimes to pass the pyloric 
orifice, while other food is retained there to receive the 
solvent action of the gastric juice. This may depend 
upon their comparative indigestibillty ; for it is well 
known that cathartic medicines, various fruits, seeds. 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 443 

&c. which operate as laxatives, are not digested ; are 
incapable of being retained in the stomach ; and pass 
rapidly through the intestinal tube/' 

In digestion, as in all chemical processes, cohesion 
is a force which is opposed to molecular changes ; and 
the efficacy of various means of augmenting the diges- 
tibility of foods is ascribable to their influence in 
lessening this force. The more easy digestibility of 
whipped or lightly-boiled eggs than the same bodies 
when fried or hard-boiled is explicable in this way 
(see pp. 270 and 271). 

Tenderness of fibre facilitates the digestive process ; 
and, therefore, all those circumstances (see pp. 238- 
241) which affect the texture of flesh, have an influ- 
ence over its digestibility. Violent muscular exertion 
immediately previous to the death of an animal 
renders its flesh more tender ; and thus the meat of 
hunted animals is more digestible than it would other- 
wise have been. It is not improbable that the still 
more cruel practices of bull-baiting and whipping 
pigs to deatii, had their origin in some object of this 
kmd (see p. 239). 

Incipient decomposition promotes the tenderness 
and digestibility of food. Most persons are aware 
that fresh-killed meat is tougher than that which has- 
been kept for some time (see p. 239). 

To these observations some apparent objections 
exist. The flesh of young animals, as I have already 
stated (see pp. 239-240), is more tender and soluble 
than that of the adult animal; yet the latter is the 
more digestible. Moreover it might be supposed that 
liquid foods, on account of their lesser cohesion, would 



444 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

be more digestible than solid foods: yet such does 
not appear to be the case. " Solid food," says Dr. 
Beaumont, " is sooner disposed of by the stomach 
than fluid, and its nutritive principles are sooner car- 
ried into the circulation. It has been observed, how- 
ever, that the exhaustion from abstinence is quicker 
removed by liquid than by solid aliment." 

Minuteness of division of solids is an important aid 
to digestion. Thus potatoes, when so far cooked as 
to be easih' mashed, are more easily digestible than 
when cooked for a shorter period of time, so as to 
retain their form; and for the same reason mealy 
potatoes are more digestible than waxy ones (see 
pp. 376 and 377). It is obvious, also, that perfect 
mastication, by effecting the minute division of food, 
must be an important aid to digestion ; and this fact 
cannot be too strongly urged on dyspeptics : for if 
the food be imperfectly chewed and hastily swallowed, 
greater difficulty is experienced in the subsequent 
operation of digestion. To the toothless, therefore, 
artificial teeth are important adjuvants to the gastric 
operations. 

Nor is the process of insalivation, as affecting the 
digestibility of the food, to be overlooked. When food 
has been thoroughly intermixed with the saliva and 
mucus of the mouth, it is more readily and speedily 
permeated and acted on by the gastric juice. We may 
draw an illustration of the use of the saliva from the 
preparatory proceeding of the operation of displace- 
ment by percolation. In order to prepare a tincture 
of any medicinal substance by percolation, the solid 
material, first reduced to a moderately fine powder, is 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 446 

moistened with a sufficiency of the solvent to form a 
thick pulp. This preliminary operation — which is 
analogous to insalivation — facilitates the percolation 
of the remainder of the liquid, while it also assists its 
solvent action on the solid material. If dry food be 
hastily swallowed without being duly admixed with 
the saliva .and mucus of the mouth, we instinctively 
desire drink to moisten the alimentary mass ; so that 
in this dry state it does not appear to be so readily 
converted into chyme ; and it is probable that chylifi- 
cation, as well as chymifi cation, is checked by imper- 
fect insalivation. 

The cookery of foods has for its immediate object 
the gratification of the palate ; but it can scarcely be 
doubted that its more remote end is the promotion of 
digestion. The reader will scarcely fail to observe 
that nearly every substance possessing an organized 
texture, is, by civilized man, submitted to some cook- 
ing process before it is employed as food. One point, 
therefore, attained by cooking, is the more or less 
complete destruction of organization. Its effect, as I 
have before remarked (see p. 238), is not always to 
produce a chemical change in the ultimate constitution 
of food, for it does not appear that roasting affects 
the ultimate composition of meat. Boiling, however, 
produces some changes in the proximate composition 
of it (see pp. 408 and 409), and, in the case of the 
farinaceous substances, serves to break or split the 
starch grains (see pp. 125 and 126). Frying, of 
all culinary operations, is the most obnoxious to 
the digestive function, for reasons which I have before 
explained (see pp. 172 and 173). 



446 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

2. DigestihUiiy of foods affected by circumstances 
relating to the individtud or organism. — ^The state of 
body and mind, idiosyncrasy or constitutional pecu- 
liarity, habit, the interval that has elapsed since the 
preceding meal, the keenness of the appetite, the 
amount of exercise taken either inmiediately before or 
after eating, and the quantity of food swallowed at 
one meal, are some of the circumstances relating to 
the individual, which affect digestion. Violent anger, 
for example, disturbs this process, and, according to 
Dr. Beaumont, gives rise to the appearance of bile in 
the stomach. In febrile diathesis, with dryness of 
mouth, thirst, accelerated pulse, &c. very little or no 
gastric juice is secreted. Under such circumstances, 
therefore, the propriety of withholding food is very 
obvious : if we permit its use no nourishment can be 
obtained from it, while its presence in the stomach is a 
source of irritation. The idiosyncrasy of some con- 
stitutions with regard to mutton has been already 
alluded to (see p. 242). 

Considerable discrepancy of opinion has existed 
with regard to the influence of repose after eating. 
By one class of writers on dietetics exercise is said to 
promote, by another to retard, digestion; and both 
parties appeal to experience for evidence in proof of 
their position. " From numerous trials, I am per- 
suaded/' says Dr. Beaumont, " that moderate exercise 
conduces considerably to healthy and rapid digestion. 
The discovery was the result of accident, and contrary 
to preconceived opinions."' Dr. Combe, on the other 
hand, observes, ^^ that active exercise immediately after 
a full meal, such as is generally taken for dinner, is 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 447 

prejudicial to its digestion, seems to me to be proved 
by daily and unequivocal experience, and I have often 
seen patients labouring under indigestion benefited 
by refraining from it," 

It will, I think, be generally admitted, that after a 
full meal the functions of the body are more or less 
impaired, sluggishness is induced, and a tendency to 
repose experienced. These effects are almost uni- 
versal in the animal kingdom. We experience them 
in our own persons, and we witness them not only on 
our fellow men, but on the inferior animals. The 
dog, when allowed to indulge his natural instinct, lies 
down and sleeps after he has satisfied his appetite ; 
and the Python or Indian Boa, we are told, lies in a 
torpid state for three or four weeks after gorging itself 
with a goat. 

These and many other analogous facts are satisfac- 
tory to my mind that repose is natural to animals 
after a hearty meal ; and that the practice of taking 
the siesttty or after-dinner sleep, is not injurious, if 
moderately indulged in. It should, however, be fol- 
lowed by moderate exercise. But there are excep- 
tions to these statements, and I have met with some 
few persons who have asserted that they find advantage 
in using exercise immediately after dinner j but these 
form exceptions to the general rule. After the earlier 
and lighter meals of the day, breakfast or luncheon, 
quietude or repose is neither desired nor required. 

I shall close these observations on the digestibility 
of foods by subjoining Dr. Beaumont's table, shewing 
the mean time of digestion of various articles of food. 



448 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

as ascertained by experiments on the Canadian, whose 
case I have already had occasion to refer to (see 
p. 169). I may premise, however, that his statements 
are by no means to be implicitly adopted. " The 
rapidity of digestion, as the author himself shows, 
varies greatly according to the quantity eaten, the 
amount and nature of the previous exercise, the in- 
terval of the preceding meal, the state of health and 
of the weather, and also the state of the mind. But 
in scarcely any of the experiments have these condi- 
tions been carefully noted."* 



* Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice and the Physiology 
of Digestion, by W. Beaumont, M.D., Edinb. 1838. Foot-note, p. 37, 
by Dr. Combe. 



44i) 



TABLE 

Shewing the Mean Time of Digestion of the different Articles of Diet, natorally, 
in the Stomach, and artificially in Phials, on a Bath. 

The proportion of gastric Juice to aliment, in artificial digestion, was i^furaUg calcu- 
lated at one ounce of the former to one drachm of the latter, the hath hdng kept as near 
as practicable at the natural temperature, 100* Fahrenheit, with frequent agitation. 



Articles qf Diet. 



Rice 

Pi^' feet, soused . . . 
Tnpe, soused .... 
Eggs, whipped .... 
Trout, salmon, fresh . . 
Trout, salmon, fresh . . 

Soup, barley 

Apples, sweet, mellow . . 
Venison steak , . . . 
Brains, animal .... 

Sago 

Tapioca 

Barley 

Milk 

Liver, beefs, fresh . . . 

EgM, fresh 

Coofish, cured dry . . . 
Apples, sour, meUow . . 
Cabbage, with vinegar 

Milk 

Eggs, fresh 

Turkey, wild 

Turkey, domestic . . . 

Gelatine 

Turkey, domestic . . . 

Goose, wild 

Pig, sucking 

Lamb, fresh 

Hash, meat and vegetables 

Beans, pod 

Cake, sponge 

Parsnips 

Potatoes, Irish .... 
Potatoes, Irish .... 
Cabbage, head .... 



Mean Time qf Chymifioatum, 



In Stomach, 



Preparation, 



Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Raw 

Boiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Raw 

Broiled 

BoUed 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Raw 

Boiled 

Raw 

Raw 

Raw 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Roasted 

Broiled 

Warmed 

Boiled 

Baked 

BoUed 

Roasted 

Baked 

Raw 



H, M. 



1 

1 

1 

I 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

% 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

2 
2 
2 
2 

% 
2 

2 

2 

2 

2 



30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
35 
45 
45 



15 
15 
18 
25 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 



In PkiaU, 



Preparation* 



Whipped 
Boiled 



Masticated 

Boiled 
Boiled 
Bpiled 

Boiled 

Cut fine 

Raw 

Boiled 

Masticated 

Shaved 

R^w 



Boiled 



Broken 
Mashed 



Masticated 



H» Mm* 



4 
330 



6 4$ 



4 
3 
3 



30 
15 
20 



15 
30 
15 



4 

6 
4 
5 

8 30 

10 15 

445 



4 45 



6 16 
6 45 



12 30 



G G 



450 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Articles of Diet. 



Spinal marrow, animal 
Cnicken, full grown 

Custard 

Beef, with salt only 
AppleSy sour, hard . 
Oysters, fresh . . 
Eggs, fresh . . . 
Bass, striped, fresh . 
Beef, fresn, lean, rare 
Beef-steak . . . 
Pork, recently salted 
Pork, recently salted 
Mutton, fresh 
Mutton, fresh 
Soup, hean . . 
Chicken soup 
Aponeurosis • . 
Dumpling, apple 
Cake, com . • . 
Oysters, fresh 
Pork, recently salted 
Pork-steak . • 
Mutton, fresh 
Bread, com . • 
Carrot, orange . 
Sausage, fresn 
Flounder, fresh 
Catfish, fresh 
Oysters, fresh 
Beef, fresh, lean, dry 
Beef, with mustard, &c 

Butter 

Cheese, old, strong . 
Soup, mutton . • 
Oyster soup . . . 
Bread, wheat, fresh 
Turnips, flat . . . 
Potatoes, Irish . . 
Eggs, fresh • . . 
Eggs, fresh . . . 
Green com and Beans 

Beets 

Salmon, salted . . 

Beef 

Veal, fresh . . . 
Fowls, domestic . . 
Fowls, domestic . . 



Mean Time of Ckym^catum, 



In Stomach. 



PrtparmtUm. 



BoUed 
Fricasseed 
Baked 
Boiled 
Raw 
Raw 

Soft boiled 
Broiled 
Roasted 
Broiled 
Raw 
Stewed 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Broiled 
Broiled 
Roasted 
Baked 
Boiled 
Broiled ' 
Fried 
Fried 
Stewed 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Melted 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Boiled 
BoUed 
Hard boiled 
Fried 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fried 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 



H.M, 



2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 



40 
45 
45 
45 
50 
55 



15 
15 
15 
15 
15 
15 
20 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
45 
45 



InPkiaU. 



Pn/HBTniOM* 



Boiled 
Baked 



Entire pieces 
Raw, entire 
Soft boiled 

Roasted 

Masticated 

Raw 

Masticated 



Boiled 



Mashed 



Stewed 
Roasted 



Masticated 



Masticated 

Mashed 
Ilardboikd 



Boiled 



Masticated 



H. M. 



5 25 

6 30 
930 

18 

7 30 
6 30 



8 15 

8 30 

6 45 



6 30 



6 15 



8 25 
745 



7 15 



430 

8 30 
8 



745 
12 30 

6 30 



NUTRITIVE QUALITIES OF FOOD. 



451 



Articles qf Diet. 



Ducks, domestic .... 
Soup, beef, vegetables and > 

bread ) 

Heart, animal . . 
Beef, old, hard, salted 
Pork, recently salted 
Son^, marrow bones 
Cartilage .... 
Pork, recently salted 
Veal, fresh • . 
Ducks, wild . . 
Suet, mutton . . 
Pork, fat and lean 
Tendon . • . 
Suet, beef, fresh 
Beef-steak . • . 
Beef-steak . . 

Beef 

Mutton, fresh 
Cream .... 
Cheese, old, strong 
Cheese, new, mild 
Oil, olive . . . 
Tendon .... 
Cartilage . . . 
Bone, &ef 's, solid 
Bone, hog's, solid 
Parsnips . • • 
Parsnips . . . 
Carrot, orange . 
Carrot, orange 
Potatoes, Irish . 
Cabbage . . . 
Peach, mellow . 
Peach, mellow 



Mean Time qf Chymificaiion. 



In Stomach, 



JTQNifa/tofi* 



Roasted 

BoUed 

Fried 

Boiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Fried 

Roasted 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Boiled 

BoUed 

Broiled 

Raw 

Boiled 

Broiled 



Bailed 
Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 



Ht Ar> 



InPhi(Us. 



PnparatioH, 



4 
4 
4 

4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
5 
5 
5 



15 
15 
15 
15 
30 
30 
3Q 
30 
15 
30 
30 



4 30 



Entire piece 



Masticated 
Masticated 



Divided 

Masticated 
Entire piece 
Cut fine 
Cut fine . 
Entire piece 
Unmasticated 
Raw 

Entire pii 
Divided 
Raw 
Entire piece 
Divided 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Entire piece 
Raw piece 
Entire piece 
Boiled 
Cut small 
Mashed 



H, M, 



13 30 



10 
6301 



10 

12 45 
12 



15 



8 

8 

9 

830 
25 30 
18 

8 30 

eo 

24 
12 
80 
80 

13 15 
18 

12 30 
17 15 
14 
20 
10 
6 



Chap. II. — Of the Nutritive Qualities qf Foods. 

In order to arrive at any accurate conclusions with 
respect to the relative nutritive powers of difTerei^t 



452 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

kinds of foods, it is necessary, in the first place, to 
ascertain the amount of water these substances respec- 
tively contain ; for it will be found that in this re- 
spect the difference between different kinds of food is 
enormous. Thus Turnips and Cabbages contain some- 
what more than 92 per cent, of water, or not quite 8 
per cent, of anhydrous or dry solid matter ; while the 
Fixed Oils or Fats are anhydrous, or nearly so. 

But of the anhydrous or dry matter of foods the 
whole is not necessarily nutritive. I have already 
stated (see p. 138), that the ligneous or woody tissue 
of vegetable foods is indigestible, and is evacuated 
with the faeces. Moreover, the green resinous matter 
of plants, called clilorophyUe^ does not possess ali- 
mentary properties, as I have before remarked (see 
p. 381). So that from the amount of anhydrous, or 
dry solid matter of ordinary vegetable foods, we must 
deduct woody tissue and the colouring matter. 

Furthermore, it is doubtful whether some of the 
substances which enter into the composition of animal 
foods are nutritive, at least under ordinary circum- 
stances; such as pavk'Wax (see p. 235)^ and some of 
the membranous tissues which approximate to homy 
matter in composition (see p. 209). 

Of the positively digestible and nutritive matter of 
foods we must distinguish those principles which are 
nitrogenized from such as are not. For whether the 
views of Liebig, as to the exclusively nutritive quality 
of nitrogenized foods, be or be not correct, it cannot 
be doubted that the mode of nutrition of substances 
which are devoid of nitrogen must be different from 
that of bodies which contain it, and whose ulti- 



NUTRITIVE QUALITIES OF FOOD. 453 

mate composition is identical with that of the living 
tissues. 

The value of non-nitrogenized substances as ali- 
ments is probably in proportion to the quantity of 
carbon which they contain. In this point of view the 
oils and fats exceed all other foods of this class. 

Of the nitrogenized aliments, those which contain 
the largest amount of proteinaceous principles (which 
are identical in ultimate composition with our own 
flesh and blood), exceed all other foods in nutri- 
tive power. I have already (see p. 65) mentioned 
Boussingault's opinion, that the nutritive value of 
nitrogenized foods is in proportion to the quantity of 
nitrogen entering into their composition ; and I have 
pointed out some objections to this notion (see pp. 55 
and 338). I may further add, that if it were true, 
the gelatinous alimentary principles must exceed the 
proteinaceous ones in nutritive power, — a conclusion 
not borne out by experience. 

In the following table, which I have drawn up from 
the best accessible sources, will be found 'the per 
centage quantities of water, anhydrous or dry matter, 
carbon, and nitrogen, contained in foods as we usually 
meet with them in commerce. The numbers con- 
tained in the table are not always the actual ones 
given by the authorities quoted ; but have in most 
cases been obtained by calculation from data furnished 
by tlie authors respectively quoted. 



COMPOUND AUUEKTS. 



TABLE 

a Artnge Qntntitica of Dry Hatter, Moifton, Cirbon, : 




Carhtm. ""^ 



Frmi. 



Liibta. 

Lifbig. 



Omml. 



BtBckmuui. 

Banuingivl*. 
Slnbof. 



IhtWt. 
linhiif. 



NUTRITIVE QUAUTIES OF POOD. 



455 



100 Pabtb. 

Butcher's meat, devoid of fat 

„ „ with l-7th hX mnd 

ceUnlar tismie 

,, „ indading bones, as 

purchaMd 

Fresh beef flesh 

Muscular flesh of Qx 

f, Orif 

w >» fif^^ 

„ „ Chicken 

M M Carp and Trout 

(average) 

„ ^ Cod, Haddock, Ac 

Sole (average). . 

Egg, white of. 

„ Tolk of 

,, dried and purified albumoi of 

Calf *s sweetbread 

Ousters 

I singlass 

BeefTea 

Soup ot the House of Arrest at Giessen 



Solid or 
Mailer. 



as 



99 
35 
»*6 

/ 90*3 to 
\91*8 

94*0 

99*7 

10*7 

TOrO 
90-0 
40*93 

30*0 
19*0 
09*5 
1-509B 



Water 

orMoUA 

ture. 



74 



71 

75 

77*5 

79*7 to 

78*9 

76*0 

77*3 

80*3 

80-0 
80-O 
53*77 

70*0 
87*4 
7-5 
08*4375 



Carbon* 



13*0 
91-75 

19*957 



} 



Nitro- 
gen, 



3*759 



55*00 



0*75 



15-681 



Jtakority. 



Uebig. 

Li^ig. 

Uebiff. 

BoBckmann. 

Schlossberger 

Schlossberger 

Schlossberger 
Schlossberger 

SchkMsberger 

Brande. 

Bostock. 

Prout. 

Scherer. 

Morin. 

Pasquier. 

John. 

Chrislisoii. 

Uebig. 



In several parts of this work (see pp. 175, 180-181, 
183-184, 190, 192, 212-213, 234, and 241) I have 
referred to the statements contained in the Report 
made to the Academy of Sciences in Paris by the 
Gelatine Commission ; and I, therefore, think it advis- 
able to subjoin the conclusions which Magendie, in 
the name of the Commission, has drawn from the facts 
detailed : — 



1. We cannot, by any known proceeding, extract from bones an ali- 

ment which, either alone or mixed with other substances^ can 
be substituted for meat. 

2. Gelatine, albumen, and fibrine, taken separately, nourish animals 

for a very limited period only, and in an incomplete manner. In 
general they soon excite such an insurmountable disgust^ that 
animals die rather than partake of them. 

3. The same immediate principles artificially reunited, and rendered 

agreeably sapid by seasoning, are eaten more readily, and for a 
longer period, than the same substances singly, but their ulti. 
mate influence on nutrition is not better ; for animals who take 
them, even in considerable quantities, die ultimately with all the 
symptoms of complete inanition. 

4. Muscular flesh, in which gelatine, albumen, and fibrine arc unit^ 

according to the laws of organic nature, and where they are 



456 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

associated with other matters — as fat, salts, &c., safllces, even in 

very small quantity, for complete and prolonged nutrition. 
5. Raw bones have the same efiect, but the quantity consumed in 

twenty-four hours ought not to be much greater than m the ease 

of meat 
G. Every kind of preparation, such as decoction with water, the action 

of hydn>chloric acid, and especially the transformation into 

gelatine, diminishes, and, in some cases, seems even to destroy 

the nutritive quality of bones. 

7. The Commission, however, does not wish at present to offer an 

opinion on the employment of gelatine, associated with other 
aliments, in the nourishment of man. It believes that direct 
experiment can alone illustrate this subject in a definite manner. 
It has been actively occupied with this subject, and the results 
will be published in the second and last part of this Report. 

8. Gluten, from wheat or maize, alone satisfies complete and pro- 

longed nutrition. 

9. Fat, taken alone, sustains life during some time, but the nutrition 

is imperfect and disordered. It accumulates in all the tissues, 
sometimes in the state of elaine (oleine) and of stearine, some- 
times in the state of almost pure stearine. 



Chap. HI.— 0/ the Times of Eating. 

An able writer (Dr. Combe), on Digestion and 
Dietetics, has very justly observed, that " the grand 
rule in fixing the number and periods of our meals, is, 
to proportion them to the real wants of the system as 
modified by age, sex, health and manner of life, and as 
indicated by the true returns of appetite.^' 

The time required for the digestion of the food, by 
the healthy stomach, varies from one to three or four 
hours I but hunger, or the desire to take more food, is 
not usually experienced until some time after this, 
viscus has disposed of its contents. If fresh food be 
introduced into the stomach before that of the previous 
meal has been digested, the process of digestion is dis- 
turbed. The solution which Dr. Beaumont offers of 



TIME OF EATING. 457 

this generally admitted fact is, that more food is 
received into the stomachy in the aggregate, than the 
gastric juice can dissolve. But this explanation is by 
no means a satisfactory one. It leads to the conclu- 
sion, that eating a little and often is not injurious, pro- 
vided the total amount of food taken does not exceed 
that capable of being dissolved by the gastric juice. 
General experience, however, is opposed to this 
practice ; and it can scarcely be doubted that, in the 
healthy state of the system, the custom of eating 
moderately at more prolonged intervals is most natural 
to man. 

A variety of circumstances affect the length of 
the interval between each meal. On account of 
the greater activity of the organs of respiration, 
children require to be more frequently fed than 
adults, and they bear hunger less easily. For the 
same reason, also, persons who take much exercise, or 
labour hard, require more frequent and copious meals 
than the indolent and sedentary. In the former the 
number of respirations is greater than in the latter; 
and, therefore, a more frequent supply of food is re- 
quired to supply the necessary quantity of carbon and 
hydrogen to be consumed in the lungs* " A bird 
deprived of food," says Liebig, " dies on the third day, 
while a serpent, with its sluggish respiration, can live 
without food three months or longer." 

From experiments* made "a few years ago at the 
Zoological Gardens, it appears that carnivorous mam- 
malia require one meal in twenty-four hours only, and 

* See the Proceedmgs qf the Zoological Society, No. xviii. p. 49. 



458 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

that if fed more frequently their health sufTers. It was 
fotind that when Leopards and Hyaenas were fed with 
two meals daily they did not continue in equally good 
condition with those which had the same quantity of 
flesh daily in one meal only. It further appears^ that 
in one instance (that of the Leopard), the tanper 
changed for the worse; and in another instance the 
habits were altered as regarded exercise, a diminution 
of which, in confined animals, must be injurious to 
health. 

It cannot be doubted that the practice of having 
fixed periods for eating is more conducive to health 
than eating at irregular intervals. But it will be ob- 
vious, from the foregoing observations, that the periods 
should vary for diiferent classes of individuals. '^ So 
strong is the tendency to periodicity in the system/* 
says Dr. Combe, '^ that the appetite returns at the 
accustomed hour, even after the mode of life, and con- 
sequently the wants of the system, have undergone a 
change; and if not gratified, it again subsides. Ulti- 
mately, however, its calls become too urgent to admit 
of being a second time disregarded.** 

The number of meals per day, and the intervals 
between them, must vary according to several circum- 
stances; but for adults it may be admitted, as a 
general rule, that three meals at least are essential to 
health, though five are in frequent use; viz. breakGeust, 
luncheon^ dinner, tea, and supper. In public pauper 
establishments three only are permitted ; viz. breakfast, 
dinner, and supper. 

1. Breakfast. — The system is more susceptible of 
the influence of morbific causes before break£ut than 



TIME OF EATING. 459 

at any other period of the day. ^ It is wdl known/' 
observes Dr. Combe, '' that the system is more sus- 
ceptible of infection, and of the influence of cold, 
miasma, and other morbid causes, in the morning be* 
fore eating than at any other time; and hence it has 
become a point of duty with all naval and military 
commanders, especially in bad climates, always to give 
their men breakfast before exposing them to morning 
dews and other noxious influences. Sir George 
Ballingall even mentions a regiment quartered at 
Newcastle, in which typhus fever was very, prevalent, 
and in which, of all the means used to check its pro- 
gress, nothing proved so successful as an early break- 
fast of warm coffee. In aguish countries, also, 
experience has shown that the proportion of sick 
among those who are exposed to the open air before 
getting any thing to eat, is infinitely greater than 
among those who have been fortified by a comfortable 
breakfast." 

In some constitutions, especially those denominated 
delicate, much exercise, either of body or mind, before 
breakfast, operates injuriously; producing exhaustion, 
languor, and unfitness for the ordinary occupations of 
the day. 

These facts show the importance of breakfasting 
soon after rising and dressing ; at least in many cases. 
I am fully aware that there are numerous exceptions 
to this. Some persons not only suffer no injury from, 
but actually appear to be benefited by, active exercise 
taken before breakfast; its effect being with them to 
create or augment the appetite. But in others the 
effects are those which I have already stated. I am 



460 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

satisfied, from repeated observation, that in children 
disposed to spasmodic and other brain diseases, the prac- 
tice of making them attend school for two hours before 
breakfast is injurious ; and I fuUy agree, therefore, with 
Dr. Combe, that in '^ boarding-schools for the young and 
'growing, who require plenty of sustenance, and are 
often obliged to rise early, an early breakfast is almost 
an indispensable condition of health." Epileptics, 
especially those disposed to morning attacks, should 
invariably breakfast soon after rising. I think I have 
seen the fits brought on by neglecting this precaution. 
For travellers a light breakfast before starting is a great 
protection ^^ against colds and subsequent fatigue or 
exhaustion." Medical men and others should not, if 
possible, expose themselves to the influence of infec- 
tious or contagious disorders, as fevers, &c. before 
breakfast, as the danger of infection then is greatly 
enhanced. For the same reason the practice of making 
post-mortem examinations and dissections before 
breakfast is to be condemned. 

2. Luncheon. — ^This meal is admissible only when 
either the interval between the breakfast and dinner is 
very prolonged, or when the quantity of food taken at 
breakfast is very small. The lower classes, as well as 
the children of the higher classes, dine early, and thus 
with them luncheon is unnecessary, and accordingly is 
not usually taken. Not so, however, with adults of 
the middling and higher classes. With them, either 
from business or other causes, the practice of dining 
late has become general^ and with such luncheon 
becomes a necessary meal. It should be taken about 
five hours after breakfast, and though called by 



TlMfi 0** EATING. 461 

another name, it may be considered as a light dinner, 
taken to allay the cravings of nature, but not entirely 
to destroy the appetite. 

3. Dinner. — " Supposing nine o'clock to be the 
hour of breakfast," observes Dr. Combe, " the natural 
dinner-hour would be two o'clock ; and such, accord- 
ingly, is that sanctioned by the most extended expe- 
rience, and which ought to be adhered to by all whose 
occupations will admit of its observance, and who 
wish to enjoy the highest health of which they are 
susceptible.'* This rule is a very good general one for 
adults, to which, however, exceptions oftentimes occur. 
Digestion is a process which is not effected in the 
same period of time in different individuals, — in some 
it is slow, in others rapid. In the former a longer 
interval between breakfast and dinner is necessary 
than in the latter. A variety of other circumstances, 
such as the quantity of food taken at breakfast, the 
occupation of the individual, &c. &c. also affect the 
length of the interval. 

Business and the customs of society have led to the 
practice of dining late, which, as I have already stated, 
involves the propriety of taking the intermediate meal 
called luncheon. 

4. Tea. — ^The moderate use of tea or coffee, two or 
three hours after dinner, forms a very Agreeable and 
refreshing meal. 

6. Supper. — General experience is unfavourable to 
the use of much food at supper. To those who dine 
late, supper is an unnecessary meal ; whereas to those 
who dine early, and who take much active exercise, or 
are employed in laborious work after dinner, it is by 



462 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

no means an unnecessary or unwholesome meal. An 
empty stomach, under such circumstances, will some- 
times prove a most disagreeable preventive of sleep. 

Chap. IV. — On Dietaries. 

It will, I think, be generally admitted, that an accu- 
rate acquaintance with the quantity and quality of 
food necessary to the maintenance of human health 
and life, under different circumstances, is a matter of 
great interest to every one j but it is more especially 
so to statesmen, magistrates, naval and military 
officers, physicians and surgeons, governors of hos- 
pitals and other public institutions, and the guardians 
of the poor. To them are entrusted the care and 
supervision of the inhabitants of prisons, ships, gar- 
risons, armies, asylums, hospitals, and poor-houses ; 
and on their knowledge of ignorance depends the 
health or disease — the life or the death — of a consi- 
derable portion of the community. 

The Reports of the Inspectors of Prisons have fur- 
nished abundant evidence of the errors committed by 
magistrates in the dieting of criminals. Debility, 
diarrhoea, scurvy, and other evils known to be con- 
sequences of defective nutriment, have prevailed in 
many of the prisons of this country to a serious and 
alarming extent. I am fully aware of the difficulty, 
in many cases, of determining the cause or causes of 
these evils, and I am willing to admit that, possibly, 
in some of the instances in which defective nutriment 
has alone been charged with the production of diseases 
of an epidemic character, that other morbific causes, 



DIETARIES. 463 

either alone or concurrently with defective nutriment, 
may have contributed to the result. But in some 
eases the cause of the evils is too clear and unequivocal 
to admit of any doubt. Take the case of the Lewes 
House of Correction. The Inspectors of Prisons* 
inform us, that ** Scurvy at one time prevailed in the 
prison : by an increase of the diet it disappeared. The 
diet was again diminished, and the scurvy again ap- 
peared. The diet was then permanently increased ; the 
scurvy again disappeared, and has not since occurred.'' 

The actual quantity of food required for the sup- 
port of human health and life is subject to considerable 
modification by a variety of circumstances; and, there- 
fore, it is quite impossible to lay down a fixed rule, 
or to adopt any standard : for the quantity of food 
which may be suited to the wants of one individual 
may be insufficient for another, or too much for a 
third. Age, sex, the amount and kind of exercise and 
labour, the constitution, the state of health, and the 
condition of life, are some of the modifying circum- 
stances ; the agency of several of which is too obvious 
to require comment. 

Captain Parry,f in his Account of one of the Polar 
Expeditions, states, that experience satisfied him that 
the following daily allowance was quite enough to 
support his crew on ship-board; that is, while per- 
forming the ordinary or regular ship duties : — 



* Third Report qf the Inspectors qf Prisons. Supplement to Part I. 
Home District, p. 94. 1838. 

t Narrative rf (xn Attempt to reach the North Pole in boats fitted for 
the purpose, and attached to His Mojesty^s ship Heda, in the year 1837. 
London, 1828. 



464 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Biscuit 10 ounces. 

Beef Pcmmican^ 9 ounces. 

Sweetened Cocoa Powder . . 1 ounce. 

Rum 1 gill. 

Tobacco 3 ounces per week. 

But this quantity was found to be by no means suffi- 
cient to support the strength of the men during their 
harassing journey across the ice, living constantly in 
the open air, exposed to the wet and cold for twelve 
hours a day, seldom enjoying the luxury of a warm 
meal, and having to perform very severe labour. Their 
strength became considerably impaired, owing to want 
of sufficient sustenance ; and both Captain Parry and 
Mr. Beverley, the surgeon, were of opinion, that in 
order to maintain the strength of the men thus em- 
ployed for several weeks together, an addition would 
be requisite, of at least one-third more, to the provisions 
daily issued. 

In framing prison dietaries an important element 
for consideration is the amount and nature of the 
labour to which the prisoners are subjected; those who 
are put to hard labour requiring a greater quantity of 
food to enable them to support the augmented expen- 
diture of power. Accordingly, in the dietaries framed 
by the Inspectors of Prisons, and adopted by Sir 
James Graham, Her Majesty's Secretary of State for 
the Home Department, this element has been kept 
in view. 



* Pemmican is prepared by drying large thin slices of the lean of 
the meat over the smoke of wood fires, then pounding it, and, lastly, 
mixing it with about an equal weight of its own fat In this state it 
is ready for use without further cooking. 



DIETARIES. 465 

An opinion has of late prevailed that the condition 
of life, as regards liberty or imprisonment, is a cir- 
cumstance which modifies the quantity of food neces- 
sary for the maintenance of health. On this point I 
shall quote the opinion of one of the Inspectors of 
Prisons, in his own words : — " In the construction of 
a dietary for a House of Correction, it is not unfre* 
quently assumed that something less than what is the 
customary food of the labouring population of t\ie 
vicinity should be sufficient for those in the degraded 
condition of criminals. Accordingly, in those agri- 
cultural districts where meat forms but a very small 
proportion of the ordinary food, less has been ac- 
corded, and in some instances none, without consi- 
deration being given to the wide distinction between 
the condition of the freeman and the prisoner : — the 
one enjoying purity of air, active bodily and healthful 
mental exercise, social intercourse, choice and diver- 
sity of diet. It is under such circumstances that the 
smallest modicum of animal food proves sufficient for 
the preservation even of the most robust health. But 
reverse the situation: place the individual, as an 
offender against the law, in a small, cold, ill-ventilated 
cell ; a prey to his own reflections, or, what is worse, 
with his mind almost a vacuum, cut oflf from all real 
social intercourse, subjected to the irksome, uninterest- 
ing labour of treading a wheel or picking oakum ; it 
is in this condition, I contend, that the stimulus of 
animal food becomes indispensable for his support 
against the inroads of low and debilitating diseases. 
I scarcely recollect an instance of scurvy being preva- 
lent in a prison but where it might be distinctly traced 

H u 



466 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

to a want of variety in the diet, and its deficiency in 
nutritive qualities."* 

That deprivation of liberty, with all its accompany- 
ing restrictions, exercises a depressing influence on the 
mind, and through this on the body, cannot be for a 
moment doubted. In this indirect way it becomes a 
means of affecting the organic functions; and thus it 
happens that an amount of nutriment, which, under 
the most cheering circumstances, is barely sufficient 
to sustain health, may prove, when conjoined with 
depressing mental influences, totally insufficient for 
the maintenance of health, and may be followed by 
scurvy and other diseases known to be common conse- 
quences of defective sustenance. 

And here I may be permitted to remind my reader, tliat 
scurvy has ever been a disease remarkable for the influ- 
ence exercised over it by passions of the mind. In Lord 
Anson*s 'Voyage, we are told, " that whatever discou- 
raged the seamen, or at any time damped their hopes, 
never failed to add new vigour to the distemper ; for it 
usually killed those who were in the last stages of it, 
and confined those to their hammocks who were before 
capable of some kind of duty. So that it seemed as 
though alacrity of mind and sanguine thoughts were 
no contemptible preservatives from its fatal malignity." 
Mr. Ives, in his Journal, also gives an excellent illus- 
tration of the beneficial influence of mental exhilara- 
tion on this disease ; for he states, ^^ Upon the British 
fleet coming into the Bay of Hieres (February, 1744), 



* Seventh Report qf the Utpeetors qf Prisons. II. Northern and 
Eastern District, p. iii. London, 1842. 



DIETARIES. 467 

our men understood that the enemy's fleet and ours 
were soon to engage. There appeared not only in the 
healthy, but also in the sick, the highest marks of 
satisfaction and pleasure, and these last mended sur- 
prisingly daily, insomuch that on the 1 1th of February, 
the day we engaged the combined fleets of France and 
Spain, we had not above four or five but what were at 
their fighting quarters." Dr. Lind* relates a still 
more striking exemplification of the position here 
contended for, as having occurred at the siege of Breda 
in 1625. 

In the Dietaries for Prisons recently adopted by the 
Secretary of State, the length of imprisonment has, 
very properly as I conceive, been taken into con- 
sideration. For if it be admitted that imprisonment 
has an injurious influence over the nutrition of the 
body, it is obvious that the longer the period the more 
marked will be the effect. Those, therefore, who have 
to suffer prolonged terms of imprisonment require to 
be better nourished than those who are sentenced for 
shorter periods, in order to enable them the better to 
resist the depressing influences to which they are, for 
a more lengthened term, to be subjected ; and the con- 
sequences of which (viz. loss of health and strength) 
constitute ^^ a punishment not contemplated by law, 
and which it is unjust and cruel to inflict. f" 

Observation and experiment have fully proved the 
absolute necessity of considerable variety of food for 



• Treatise on the Scurvy. 

t Sir J. R. 6. Graham, in a Circular Letter to the Chairmen of Quarter 
Sessions, dated Jan. 27, 1843. 



468 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

the preservation of health and life; and there is nothing 
surprising in this. The body is made up of many 
principles, differing the one from the other in compo- 
sition and chemical properties; and we might a priori 
have presumed, that textures which are chemically dif- 
ferent would require different aliments for their nou- 
rishment. The living body, as I have already stated 
(see p. 4, et seq.), has no power of creating elementary 
substances ; and it is obvious, therefore, that the sys- 
tem must be supplied with foods containing all the 
elements which enter into its composition. Moreover, 
it is not sufficient to present animals with these de- 
ments in their raw or uncombined state; for the animal 
system has no power of forming its organic consti- 
tuents out of simple or elementary bodies. It is 
capable of effecting a considerable number of com- 
binations and decompositions ; but there is a limit to 
its chemical powers. It cannot form the organic con- 
stituents of the tissues out of any substances which 
may happen to contain the same elements, but only 
out of those substances whose composition and pro- 
perties are analogous to, or identical with, those of 
the principles of which the tissues are composed. 
With the exception of cellular tissue and of mem- 
branes, of the brain and nerves, which vegetables can- 
not produce, Liebig denies that the animal organism 
has the power of creating any of the organic principles 
which compose the animal tissues. 

Nitrogenized foods are necessary for the formation 
of tissues into the composition of which nitrogen 
enters. Thus proteinaceous substances (fibrine, albu- 
men, caseine, and gluten) serve for the formation of 



DI£TARI£S. 469 

muscle and of the albuminous tissues, and, in the case 
of infante nourished by milk alone, they must also 
become food for the gelatinous tissues (cartilage, cel- 
lular tissue, membrane, the true skin, &c.) But as 
the foods on which the adult animal feeds, contain, or 
are capable of yielding, gelatine, it is probable that 
the gelatinous tissues are, in this case, wholly or par- 
tially nourished from this source. 

Non-nitrogenized foods serve several important 
purposes in the animal economy; though perhaps 
their ultimate use is to act as fuel to be burnt in 
the lungs, and thereby to develope sufficient heat to 
support the high temperature necessary for the mani- 
festation of vital power. Oily or fatty substances, 
sugar, and the starchy or amylaceous substances, serve 
this purpose. They save the injurious and excessive 
action of oxygen on the tissues of the body. '' By 
diminishing the amount of alkali in the blood, and by 
giving non-nitrogenous food, the scurvy is cured, or 
prevented, in consequence of such substances being 
acted on instead of the tissues of the body. No other 
explanation can be given of the benefit which arises 
from vegetable acids, from fresh vegetables, from 
sugar, wine, beer, wort, treacle, potatoes, &c. all of 
which have been used with the best effects."* Oily 
or fatty substances are absorbed, and afterwards either 
laid up in cells, to be consumed at some future time, 
or immediately burnt in the lungs to furnish heat. 



• Mr. Bence Jones, On Gravely CoIcuIms, and Gotat p. 48. Lond. 1842. 



470 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

According to Liebig, saccharine and farinaceous sub- 
stances also contribute to the formation of fat, though, 
as I have before stated, Dumas denies this. 



1. DIETARIES FOR CHILDREN. 

In children the function of nutrition is more active 
than in adults. They have not merely to repair the 
daily waste, that is, to renovate their tissues, but to 
grow. Their functions of circulation and respiration 
are, therefore, more active than in after-life; and they 
require food ; that is, substances to support the pro- 
cess of respiration, to be administered at shorter 
intervals. 

There is also another reason why in children the 
elements of respiration (non-nitrogenous foods) are 
more necessary than in adults. In the former the 
transformation or metamorphosis of the existing tis- 
sues is less intense than in the latter. In an adult, 
who neither gains nor loses in weight perceptibly from 
day to day, the nourishment and waste of organized 
tissue are equally balanced; but in the young the 
weight augments daily, and, consequently, the nou- 
rishment must exceed the waste. In order that this 
may take place, the child must be supplied with a 
sufficient quantity of non-nitrogenous food, which, by 
yielding carbon and hydrogen to be burnt in the 
lungs, protects the organized tissues from the trans- 
formations consequent on the injurious action of 
oxygen. " What is wanting for these purposes an 
infinite wisdom has supplied to the young animal in 



DIETARIES FOR CHILDREN. 471 

its natural food. The carbon and hydrogen of butter, 
and the carbon of the sugar of milk, no part of either 
of which can yield blood, fibrine, or albumen, are 
destined for the support of the respiratory process, at 
an age when a greater resistance is opposed to the 
metamorphosis of existing organisms; or, in other 
words, to the production of compounds which in the 
adult state are produced in quantity amply sufficient 
for the purpose of respiration. The young animal 
receives the constituents of its blood in the caseine of 
the milk. A metamorphosis of existing organs goes 
on, for bile and urine are secreted; the matter of the 
metamorphosed parts is given off in the form of urine, 
of carbonic acid, and of water; but the butter and 
sugar of milk also disappear ; they cannot be detected 
in the faeces. The butter and sugar are given out in the 
form of carbonic acid and water, and their conversion 
into oxidized products furnishes the clearest proof that 
far more oxygen is absorbed than is required to con- 
vert the carbon and hydrogen of the metamorphosed 
tissues into carbonic acid and water. The change 
and metamorphosis of organized tissues going on in 
the vital process in the young animal, consequently 
yield, in a given time, much less carbon and hydrogen, 
in the form adapted for the respiratory process, than 
corresponds to the oxygen taken up in the lungs. The 
substance of its organized parts would undergo a 
more rapid consumption, and would necessarily yield 
to the action of oxygen, were not the deficiency of 
carbon and hydrogen supplied from another source."* 

* Liebig*s Animal Chemistry^ pp. 6 J and 69. 



472 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Children, for the most paxt^ evince an ahnost in- 
stinctive fondness for sugar, which is supplied to 
them m their mother's milk. This perhaps is to be 
explained by the fact that it is an element of respira- 
tion, and, therefore, is more necessary for them than 
adults, on account of the greater activity of their func* 
tion of respiration. But this fondness for sugar is by 
no means universal among children. In very cold 
countries, substances richer in carbon and hydrogen, 
and, therefore, yielding more heat by combustion^ are 
preferred. " In one of those late extravagant voyages 
to discover a north-west passage," says Sir Anthony 
Carlisle,* ** the most northern race of mankind were 
found to be unacquainted with the taste of sweets, and 
their infants made very wry faces, and sputtered out 
sugar with disgust ; but the little urchins grinned with 
ecstacy at the sight of a bit of whale's blubber." 

The natural appetite I believe to be an index of the 
wants of the system j and ought, therefore, to be con- 
sulted, to a certain extent, in the dieting of children ; 
and I believe that parents commit a gross error who 
totally disregard it. I have seen children refused 
vegetable food, though they ardently desired it, be- 
cause they would not eat what their nurses supposed 
to be the proper proportion of animal food } and, on 
the other hand, I have known children denied animal 
food, on the mistaken notion that it would be injurious 
to them, though the digestive functions were active, 
and the appetite for meat most keen. 



* Practical Observations on the Preservation qf Healthy p. 73. 
Lond. 1838. 



DIETARIES FOR CHILDREN. 473 

Arrow-root, tapioca, sago, potato-starch, tous-les-mois, 
sugar, butter, and other fatty bodies, are elements of 
respiration, and if used in greater quantity than is 
necessary for combustion in the lungs, they contribute 
to the increase of fat; but they do not contain the 
necessary ingredients for the growth of bone, car- 
tilage, ligament, muscle, membrane, and cellular 
tissue. For the latter purpose, nitrogenized food is 
necessary. The caseine or curd of milk is an aliment 
of this kind, supplied by nature, for the use of mam- 
mals. It is a proteinaceous substance^ adapted for the 
growth of the organized tissues ; and is accompanied 
by phosphate of lime, which is necessary for the soli- 
dification of bone. The cereal grains (as wheat, 
barley, oats) also yield most valuable nitrogenized 
foods for children ; and of these, HarcTs Farinaceous 
Food^ Semolina, Groats, Oatmeal, &c. have been already 
noticed. ^ 

The uses of animal foods (meats) have been so fully 
described, that any further reference to them is unne- 
cessary here. 

Children may be over fed or under fed. Instances of 
the former, however, are comparatively rare. Of the 
ill consequences of defective nutriment we have, unfor- 
tunately, too many instances continually presented to 
our notice. Irritable bowels or diarrhoea, tumid ab- 
domen, mesenteric disease, wasting, and fever, are the 
ordinary and obvious effects. They frequently follow 
the continued use of pea-soup and potato stews, — 
dishes which are in common use at poor-houses and 
other establishments for pauper children. Scrofulous 
and strumous diseases, marasmus, rickets, distortions. 



474 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



and pot bellies, so commonly met with among children 
of the poor, are referrible, in part at least, to food de- 
fective either in quantity or quality, or perhaps in both. 
I think it will be found that more than two-thirds of 
pauper children are strumous. They derive this con- 
dition in part, perhaps, from hereditary tendency ; but 
partly also, as I believe, from defective nutriment. 
To the same cause also is ascribable their inferior 
developement. If the children in poor-houses be exa- 
mined, they will be found, for the most part, smaller 
and shorter for their age, more frequently distorted, 
and more readily fatigued, than the children of the 
middling and higher classes. 

Subjoined are the dietaries of several of the prin- 
cipal metropolitan establishments for children : — 



1. FOUNDLING HOSPITAL. 



Brealffatt 



Dinner 



Supper 



1. DIET FOR CHILDREN UNDER NINE. | 

. . Bread, 4 ox.BiiIk, half pint, boiled with an equal quantity of water, j 

Monday . . . . 4 oz. uncooked Mutton for roasting ; 6 oz. Potatoes ; i 

' a OK. of Bread. | 

Tuesday. ... 4 oz. of uncooked Beef to t)e boiled into aoup, with ! 

1| oz. of Rice ; 4 oz. of Bread. 
Wednesday, Same as Monday. 
Thursday . . Same as Tuesday. 
Friday .... Same as Monday. 
Saturday . . Rice Pudding (viz. milk ^ pint, rice 3 oz. treacle ^os.) 

and Suet Pudding (viz. flour 74 oz. suet l^oz. milk 

2 of a pint) alternately. 
Sunday .... 4 oz. of uncooked Beef for roasting (cold) ; € oz. of 

Potatoes; 2 oz. of Bread. 

Bread, 4 oz. ; i of a pint of Milk. 



a. DIET FOR CHILDREN AT AND ABOVE NINE. 

Breakfast Bread, oz. Milk half pint, boiled with an equal quanUty of water. 

Monday. ... 7 oz. of uncooked Mutton, for roasting ; 10 oz. of 
' Potatoes. 

Tuesday. ... 7 oz. of uncooked Beef, to be boiled into soap : 4 os. 
of Bread. 
wuffm^ i Wednesday, Same as Monday. 

Thursday .. Same as Tuesday. 

Friday .... Same as Monday. 

^Saturday . . Rice Pudding, with Suet Pudding alternately. 
Sunday — 7 oz. of uncooked Beef for roasting (cold) ; with 10 
oz. of Potatoes. 

ffmi^fMr Bread, oz. ; Butter, ^ oz. ; Treacle alternate nighu. 



DIBTABIES FOR CHILDREN. 475 

2. ROYAL MILITARY ASYLUM, CHELSEA. 

{Bojft of from 5 to 14 Years of Age.) 



BreattfoMi Milk Pottage. Milk, l-6th of a quart ; Oatmeal, l-16th of a lb. ; 

Bread, l-90tb of a quartern loaf. 

(Sunday ..... Meat, Sox. ; Potatoes, laoz.; Bread, l-aoth qu. loaf, 
'^^'"^"^y * * I Rmv ( [OnSunday the meat is roast beef ; onTues- 
Thursday . . f f^» \ day and Thursday, stewed beef, and on 
Saturday . . J « P****' ( Saturday, stewed mutton.] 
Monday . . . . > Pudding, Suet 14 oz. ; Flour, 6 oz. ; Potatoes, 8 ox. ; 
Friday ....J Beer, half a pint. 
Wednesday, . . Pfease Soup, 1 gill : Potatoes, 13 ox. ; Bread, l-90th 

of a quartern loaf; Beer, half a pint. 

(Daily Bread, l-aoth of a quartern loaf. 
Sunday .... \ 
SSSfiy*;; Ch«ese,Uax.; Beer, half a pint. 
Saturday .. j 
Monday.... \ 
Wednesday, ^ Milk, half a pint. 
Friday .... J 

N.B.— The Meat is estimated as taken from the butcher, including bone. 
A proportion of the very small children on ox. of Meat. 



3. NAVAL. ASYLUM, GREENWICH. 



Brea^att 1 pint Cocoa (4 os. cocoa, 4 ox. sugar, 1 gill milk) ; 5ox. Bread. 



/Sunday .... 
Tuesday . . 
Thursday .. 



Dinner 



Roast Beef, 9^ ox. 
Potatoes, 8 ox. 
Bread. 3^ ox. 
. Beer, half pint. 



Monday. . . . > g ^ puriri*«- \ H ox. Suet, 

Friday .... 5 ^"«* Pudding J ^ ^^ Flour-Bread &Beer as above. 

«r^„^_j.„ 5 Pea Soup (I gill of Pease) 

weonesoay j potatoes, 8 ox.— Bread and Beer as above. 

Isaturday . . \ po^^^J^^ } Irish Stew-Bread & Beer. 
Supper Half pint Milk, and 5 oz. of Bread. 



4. INFANT ORPHAN ASYLUM, DALSTON. 



BreaJtfMt Bread and Milk daily. 

' Monday. . . . Meat, or boiled Beef-steak Pudding. 

Tuesday. . . . Mutton (not ovcr-boiled) Potatoes, and boiled Rice. 

Wednesday Cold Mutton, and family Pudding. 

Dinner. - Thursday . . Roasted Legs of Mutton and PotiTtoes. 

Friday .... Cold Mutton, and fiimily Pudding. 
Saturday . . Roasted Beef, Potatoes, and Suet Pudding. 
^Sunday .... Cold roasted Beef, and mashed Potatoes. 
Beverage— Toast-water. 

Supper Bread and Butter, with MUk and Water. 

Children under three years of age to have Beef Tea, or Mutton Broth, besides ccKl 
Meat, on Sundays. 

Where the medical officers prescribe, Beer is substituted at dinner for Toast-wat^. 

Family Puddings to consist of dried Raisins, Apples, Rhubarb, &c. according to tilie 
season. 

Green Vegetables are occasionally introduced, as circumstances require. 

The Bread to be of the best quality, and two days old before cut. 

The joints to consist of top sides of rounds of the best Ox Beef, weighing about 
28lbs., and legs of the best Wether Mutton, weighing about lOIbs. each. 

As much as they like tp eat, within moderation. 



476 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



5. MR. AUBIN'S ESTABLISHMENT AT NORWOOD, 

SURREY. 



BmU^ati Milk Porridge with Breftd in it. 

(S^J * ' ' ' 1 BiJMdor BoUed Mutton or Beef, with Vegetables 
ThSS2y::j ^''^' 
FwlS?y ^:;:; \ ^^ ^*^ ^'^^ ^ **• 
Wednewlay {BiJud or Boiled Rice Padding, with Milk and 
Saturday ..> Sugar. 

Supper. Bread and Butter, with MUk and Water. 

Children under 8 yean not rettricted to quantity : those from 8 to 14 or 15 are 
allowed 1^ pints Porridge, 4 ox. BnMdfS ox. Meat, 1 lb. Potatoea, { pint Broth, 14 pints 
Soup, 10 oz. boiled Rice, or Box. of Bread and Butter. Those under 7 years oi age 
to be allowed Sago, Arrow-root, Milk, or any other nourishment their tender age may 
require. 

Children, when ill, to be dieted by the medical attendant. Boast Veal or Pork to be 
allowed on Easter and Whit-Sundays, and Roast Beef and Plum Pudding on Christmas 
day. 



6. DIETARY FOR FOUNDLINGS AND ORPHANS OF THE 

HOSPICE DES ENFANS TROUVilS, 

AND THE LUNATIC AND INFIRM CHILDREN OF THE 

HOSPICES DES INCURABLES*, IN PARIS. 



DiTISIOK 
OF THB 

Day. 



Kind OF Food. 



DaUp 



DaUp 






DaUp..,, 
Brealtfati 



DhUttt, m • 



Class h-^I^faMts tett tkan m Month old. 

Milk 

Vermicelli, Semolina, Wheaten or Rice Flour. . 
Sugar 

Class Ih^-Ii^tmU from One to Twelve Montie 
old, or wUU weantng. 

Milk 

White Bread 

YermiceUi, Semolina, Wheaten or Rice Flour. . 
Sugar 

Class Uh^CkUdrenfromOnetoTwoYeareold. 

White Bread 

Soup or Milk Porridge 

Meat BrothforSoupk or Vegetable Broth for Soup 

Meat 

or Dry Li«umes (Haricote, SptU-peae, LeniUe) 
or Fresh Vegetables(CaM<ye, Tundpe, CarroU) 

or Potatoes 

or Rice 



Supper. 



f\ DryLcffumes 

, or Fresh Vegetables 

or Potatoes 

or Rice 

Prunes 

or Currant Jdly . . . . . 
V: or Cheese 



I 



QUAKTITT ALLOWED. 

Ufq^e- 
pared. 



lOd^cag. 

Scent. 
ISddcag. 
ISdtfcag. 

Sd^cag. 

Scent. 

18dto«. 

18d^cag. 

Sdtfcag. 

5d^. 



i 



aOcent. 
Idtoig. 
Sd^cag. 



80 cent. 
5dto«. 
Sdtfcag. 
Sdtoig. 



SOd^cag. 
90 cent. 
90 cent. 
7d<cag. 
10 cent. 
19 cent. 

18 cent. 

15 cent. 
iNo. 

10 cent. 

19 cent. 
18 cent. 

16 cent. 
7 cent. 
9dto«. 
Sdtaw. 



* From the lUplemeni eur U RMme AUmenimire dee UdgUmux et Uoeakeet HeUe do 
la rule Parte, approuoipar le MUdetre do PlnUrUur, le 90 Nooemkro 1841. Parte 1841. 



D1BTAB1E8 FOR CHILDREN. 



a {-i 






SSS2 SSSSS£SSSS"2'- ssssssg" ssaR^s" 



lililllifi 



iilli it 



lilt iinmtmtl iiititu iiiiiil 

2SS2 SSSS£*S88a"'S» SSSgRSS- SSSa^S* 



JMIlif il|,ill|,|, 

as-'St'- 2 288 "as- 2 



1! 






Ml 

Plll 



Ifll liillliiilM Isssiiss wnlil 



;as2 sss8^-2sas-s"' 



88SSXSS- SSKK' 



iiiiii.i. 



I lil I Sli 



1^^ 

ill 

III 



* lis 

III 



ffl 

flf 



j|iT 



I 






Ijiiiii npii 



k££E3' >a:££C£e3 



II I ! 



ij 



478 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



7. MERCHANTS' SEAMEN'S ORPHAN ASYLUM. 

(Ageg of Children ftom 7 to 15 Yeart.^ 



Bredkfoit 41b. Bread, \ pint Milk 

/Sunday ....\ 
Tuesday. . . . 
Wednesday 

Dinner 4 Thursday .. 

Friday ..,, ) 



• ilb. Meat, 6 ox. Potatoet» 4}ob. Floor. 



Monday. . . . r 17Ibs. Rice, boiled and divided among: 90 children. 
^Saturday .. l^lb. Bread. 

lOlba. Peaa in Soup, divided amon; 90 children. 
Supper k\h. Bread, 1 ox. Cheese. 



2. DIETARY FOR THE NAVAL SERVICE. 

" The victualling of the Navy," says Dr. John 
Wilson*, " is as nearly as possible uniform through- 
out the service as circumstances will permit ; at sea it 
is almost entirely so ; in harbour it varies more or less, 
according to the supplies of fresh provisions pro- 
curable in different places." 

In the " Regulations for His Majesty's Service at 
Sea,'' established by the King in Council, Jan. 1st, 
1833, is contained the following scale of diet used in 
the Navy : — 



II 



There shall be allowed to every person serving in His BfiO^*^'* ^V* the following 
quantities of provisions :— viz. 



Bread I lb. 

Beer 1 firsllon. 

Cocoa. 1 or. 

Sugar lioz. 



FreshMeat lib. 

and 

Veppetables 

Tea ioz. 



lib. I 
41b.i 



'* When Fresh Meat and Vegetables are not issued, there shall be allowed in lien theroof— 

SaltBeef |lb.) (orSaltFOrk fib. 

and I- alternately J and 
Flour Slb.j (Pease ^pint. 

** And weeUy, whether Fresh or Salt Meat be iasaed— 

Oatmeal ^pint. | Vinegar ^pint. 



• Statistical Reports of the Health qf the Navy, for the Years 
1830—1836. South American, West Indian and North American, 
Mediterranean and Peninsular Commands. Ordered by the House of 
Commons to be printed, March 24, 1840. 



NAVAL DIETARY. 47 

"n«rallawiDg Scheme showi Ihe prapartian of Proviiiom with S»K MtMtor 



SuniUr . . . 
Mondiy. . 

Weilnndiy 



Satiirdar !' 






On the (Uy« on which Floor la orcleiml to be iuneil, ! 
be aubttituted for ■ portion of FIohf. 

I lb. of Raiiiiu beioK contiilercil rqnil to i 
llb.of Huet ....'.'.'.'.'.'. } ''""' 



H fii Si t| 



111 Btiiiia or CumaM may 



Q BbOTe ■pcria of Provlaiona, »nd 



I lb. of Flour . 
I pint of Wine. 
i |)inl of Spirili 



to be romlclei^l eqiul to 1 1 

ii to be roniidcreil rqual lo 



iiiileml tqul to 1 lb. of other Vegelablo.' 



" After fourteen days' use of salt food, lemon juice, 
with an additional allowance of sugar, is issued as an 
antiscorbutic J." 

* Calavanee*, a kind of pulse. According to Sir H. Sloans it is (he 
Pkateoliu sph/erotptrnna. 

t DhoII or Dal le itie split pease of India. That which is obtained 
from Plifi'eolia radiatu* is reckoned the beet kind. 

t Dr. J. Wiliwn's StatittKoi R^portt. 



480 COMPOUND ALIMBIITS. 

From these statements it is obvious that the quantity 
of food supplied to the Navy is most ample, though 
not excessive. The total weekly allowance, when either 
fresh or salt meat is issued, is as follows : — 

Fretk Meat Diet. Salt Meat Diet, 

Bread 112 oz 112 oz. 

Meat 112 oz 84 oz. 

Vegetables .... 56 oz 

Flour 42 oz. 

Pease ^ [U P*^^ '^^3 • • '^i ^^' 

Oatmeal [| pint say^ . 5 oz 5 oz. 

Sugar lOi oz 10^ oz. 

Cocoa 7 oz 7 oz. 

Total . 302J \~T~ "TT . 290i~ 

Beer 7 gallons 7 gallons 

Vinegar i pint i pint 

Tea IJoz, l| oz. 

The substitution of one kind of provision for 
another is an excellent arrangement, by which con- 
siderable variety of food, so necessary for the preserva- 
tion of health, is obtained. A reasonable complaint, 
however, may be made with regard to the scale of 
equivalents adopted. It will be perceived that 8 oz. 
of fresh vegetables are considered equal to 12 oz. of 
flour, or to half a pint of pease : whereas in reality 
at least 86 oz. of fresh vegetables are required to be 
equal to 12 oz. of wheat flour*. 



* In making the above calculation, I have assumed that 100 parts of 
wheat flour contain 88 parts of dry nutritive matter, and that 100 parts 
of fresh vegetables (potatoes, cabbage, carrots, and turnips) contain, on 
the average, only 12*15 parts of dry nutritive matter. For 

100 parts of potatoes contain about . . 21 parts dry matter. 

„ cabbage „ . . 77 » 

„ turnips „ . . 7*5 „ 

„ carrots „ . . 12*4 „ 

Total 48^6 

Average 12*15 

If we calculate according to Boussingault's nitrogen scale of nutritive 

equivalents (see p. 55), about 105| parts of fresh vegetables (potatoes, 

cabbage, carrots, and turnips), are equivalent to 12 parts of wheat floor. 



BIETARY FOR TROOPS TO INDIA. 481 

Dr. Wilson declares the naval rations to be both 
abundant in quantity and excellent in quality ; and 
he adds that they contribute largely to the high degree 
of health now enjoyed in the Royal Navy. 

The water employed in the navy was formerly 
carried to sea in casks, and soon became putrid and 
offensive owing to the vegetable admixture. The sub- 
stitution of iron tanks for casks has remedied this 
evil ; and the water can now be kept for any length 
of time without becoming offensive either to the 
palate or nose. The metal becomes oxidized, and the 
oxide of iron thus formed mixes with the water j but, 
by its weight and insolubility, it soon falls, at least 
for the most part, to the bottom ; and should a small 
portion remain suspended and be drank, it can have 
no injurious effect, but may possibly prove beneficial/ 



Subjoined are the Scale of Victualling for Troops 

from England to India^ as fixed by the East India 

Company; and the Dietary for Emigrants, as fixed 

by Her Majesty's Colonial Land and Emigration 

Commissioners :— 



I I 



COMPOUND ALIUENTS. 



SCALE OP VICTUALLING FOB TROOPS FROM ENGLAND 
TO INDIA. 



ParTvoDmji . 
Far One Dmy . . 



( Bwfp* Two Piecw, or 



Bier «l the rate of S*v«i PinU per minperiUj, forlwmtywuliii thin qo«iilit)r . 
'ra Wuiice. Lpmon Jnire at tbt rate of One Qa4rt per nun fiir the Voyife aol. 
Bllownnce of Porter >o he exdu.ive of WuUge. 
'«h B«f or Motton to be IiidhI to the Troop* irben jiniciinlile ; 11 lb. per man ' 

d»y, Hilh VegtublCT (Or the Soup, wid Ostmeil. 

• Ne» IndliBeefiml New IndinPork of Dhllib raring. 



QUANTmES FOE EACH MAN PER DAY. 



BnncUy 

Mmd.y 

W«ln»diiy .. 

FrIiUy 

Salurdiy 



liiiii 

la 1-1 



111 



111. 



eire Ihe ume rations u Mer, and Cbildrcn hatf the r 

islf Ibe ratiuo only beinK ■tloned lo WaiDim. 

in Hogihndi wben tbe Dumber of Peraon* ii under 1 

DAILY UEALS. 

mkfMt , BiKDlti, Tea and Sugar. 

oner Accordinaio the abote Scale. 

pper BimlU, Tn and Sn^ar. 



DIETARIES FOB PAUPEHS. 



DIETARY FOB EMIGRANTS. 

e, u the Surjiun may dttennini 



Uvvs. 


1 


1 


1 


P 

i 


1 

i 
i 

t 
i 


1 

1 


1 

n 

)t 


1 


i 




i 


i 

i 
1 

1 


1 


1 


ili 


i 


TuBrt.)... 

ThnndiT. 
Friday , , . 
Batorday,. 


i 

» 

J 
I 
i 
1 


t 


* 

- 


lb, 
t 

i 
1 




i 

i 

i 


Pl.„l. 

If 
It 


! 


•TheB 
t During 

"'IS 


i 


In I 
der 

1' 


'the 

WH 

nd 


aall 
abo 


eof 
Ddia 

i,d' 

lea. 


nti' 
Ml 


ore 

■oti 

i-tl 
"thr 


P" 


tit 
imy 

11 


\tf*. 


rea 
k.re 


Il>au the lecn 
ulBltorllb. 


d riimUtj of 

fRice. 
on. a. Mem 

lire, or 3 ai. 

'dwjwn'ever 
Flour. »ue( 



3. ARMY RATIONS. 



The dailv allowance ID the Soldier in Grtat Britain la t lb. oT Brad, and t Ih. of 
Meal, DiakliigtoEMbFrlgS 01. ofnolid food weekly. For tbia he [iay> a flxed aum daily, 
vli. 6d. whatever may be Ihf market prlee ; any eiceai bang paid for by Goieramenl. 
He flimiahei bimaelf with other proriajoiia. J 



4. DIETARIES FOR PAUPERS. 

It has been very properly stated by the Poor Law 
Commissioners, that in the dieting of the inmates of 
workhouses, the object is to give them an adequate 
supply of wholesome food, not superior in quantity 
or quality to that which the labouring classes in the 
respective neighbourhoods provide for themselves. 

To effect so desirable an object, the Commissioners, 
in their Second Annual Report (1836), have adopted 
six dietaries (numbered from 1 to 6), for use in poor- 



484 



COMPOUND ALIHEirrS. 



houses i and we are told that all of them have been 
employed in different parts of England, and have been 
proved to be sufficient in quantity, and perfectly 
unexceptionable as to the nature of the provisions 
specified in each. 



. DIETARY FOR ARLE-BODIED MEN AND WOMEN. 



Sffi,-::'"" 

Tbundny t n^oiKii .. 

Monday .. lUti 

Saturday..! 


Bnalifatl. \ Dimwr. 


««pp«-. 1 


B[.»l. 


.™Jc».. 


^: 


^p. 


,sc 


B»d. 


a^ 


.«.. 


] 


11 

1! 
11 


A 


Ht. 

i 
* 


ii 


; 


t 
s 

i 

t 


3 
9 


"If 

>» 


ume^nantitieaaawonien. 



2. GENERAL DIETARY FOR THE ABLE-BODIED. 



Friday..!! {iFimeii 


BreaV-ul- Diwntr. 


B^ptT. 


•"■ 


^ 


""■||i4 


ill 


.-^ 


-+ 


* 


1 


i 

i 


» 


l! 


t 


: 


T 

4 

a 


-; 


1 
1 


Old Hople, bdnir all 6a yearaof age and npwarde:-Tbe weekly addition ofl oi. of 

Chfldren nndjro years of lire ;-Br«ad and milk IBr their breaktaal andmpper, or 

• The legetabie* are tatra, and not included la tbe weight cpedled. 



DIETASIEB FOR PADPEBS. 



3. DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



Friday., .ftw™*".. 

Thunday., *^^- 
Saturday.. J^^_^- 


Brialf/arl- 


DIn/ier. 


.^.\ 


»™.. 


Qnul. 


■Sf 


:£■ 


a^r- 


BnU. 


cw 


.».. 


— 




pint, 
■1 
11 

It 
!i 

!i 


S 


u. 

1 

! 


pb,U 

ii 


7 
■ 

S 


9 


tl. 


It 

!i 
It 

11 


Old people of 60 yean of aice and npwirda may be allowed 1 oc of tea, S 01. of 
boiler, and 7 oi. oTauav. per week, In tieu of grael Air breaknat. If deemed ope- 
dieol to make thi. change. • " ^ ^ 

ddldrm under S yeara of age to be dieted at diacntioD -, abore B, to be aDmed tbe 



4. DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS OF BOTH 
SEXES. 





att^vut. 


Wmw. 


-'•1 


B«l. 


fl™i. 




B«p 


B«J. 


.s-f*^- 




a„^ 


Sunday lAfen .... 
Tueaday ] 
Friday.. *H-o.Ka.. 






v-^u- 






•*'- 1 uX. 






's' 


11 


"" 




1 


"■ 


"■ 


"■ 


1* 


SSS,SS:;i;-. 


6 


It 


r 




z 


z 


11 


! 


h 


Wedne«Uy]^^ 


! 


!| 




z 


- 


- 


- 


J 




^^^r^%^^-_ 


s 


il 


z 


z 


= 


" 


■z 


; 


h 


The leKTUblea are not ini^lnded in (he wrigbi ipedfled, ohieh ia far th< 


meal when 


Did people otm yeara of aire and anwarda nay be allowed 1 oi. of lea, So 
and 7 ot of .t«™r. per week, in lien of gruel for breakfaat, if deemed 
make Ihla change. 


..of hotter, 
xpedientlo 


^^^^^^tJil^^!''''"'''''^'' '''""''•'- •^"'■'"'•' 


allowed the 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



5. DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED MEN AND WOMEN'. 





»«V<ut 


»««■. 1 ftwo". 1 




u 


s 


I 


*f 










Smdir .. rVn... 


1 


f 


1 


ij 


ii 


I'l 


1 


1 


1 


f 


t: 


1? 


'i 


«. „. 


"■ 


a. 


Ti 


M™d.r.. rw™... 

Fnd»y .... 1, Wimtn 




1! 


_ 


li 


z 


I = 


- 


J 


r 


-^^^y-iwZ.-^ 




1! 


r 




I; 


-|- 


J 


_ 


11 


Stturiny.. \Wome» 




1! 


= 




" 


il; 


: 


1 


i: 


Old Hoplc of 60 ynn of tee and upnrda may br alloired 1 oz. of tm, i ot. of 
bqtler. .nd? <». of mBar, per week, in li^ of KTml for brakfaat, if d«nied Miwli*iit 
to make thia change. 


Children nndergyeara of age to be dieted at diicrelion i abare 9, to be allowed the 



6. DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



Halurdnj., I IToiiini 
FHd.y....{-;j.g;,- 


Bnalif-tt. 


aiiarr. 




S«pp«. 


11 


i 


u 


i 

1 
I 


I 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 
z' 

1 


< 


iS 


I 


11 


4 


<ii. 




z 




OldmnnlF. beinr allMyearanrnreiind apnrd^ :—1'hf •reekhr addition of 1 oi. of 
t«,andnulk or «g«, to lhoaeforwfiowage«.clinflmiti«ilraayted«mnlreqDiaiM. 

Children under 9 yoara of agr i-Bread and milk for thnr bmklkit and supper, or 
rniElwhen milk cannot beobtalueil! aJao toch proportiana of tbe diDDCt diet aa may 
Be requisite for thdr raptrtlte agej. 

[> iDi. bnlter ordered on WedaMdaribr men. la itatypognphinl emrr] 



From tliese six dietaries each Board of Guardians 



D1ETAB1£S FOB PAUPERS. 487 

of the Poor is required to select one most suitable to 
the circumstances of each Union. 

It will be perceived that beer is not permitted unless 
specially ordered by the surgeon, and that the use of 
tea is confined to the aged and infirm. In all cases 
the sick to be dieted as directed by the medical officer. 

The following table gives a comparative view of 
these dietaries : — 





%Tr 


'^t\ 


DlVTAHl 

N0.3. 1 


-K*." 


%"'" 


n"**. 


1 


Hi 


i iii! 


i 


li 


1 


i 


i 


it- 
la 


i 


i 


PDUIdh ....'.'.',1 

*pid!En?'"i" 
Cbene „ 


u 


M 


IS 


7 


1 


34 


»»• 
14 

TS 

1 


» 

m 

10 


48 


11 


IS 
IS 


1 

M 
13 

< 


S:i^ 


i 


in 


Z 


lis 


187* 

'3 




'a* 

T 


lS7t 

1 


lost 

101 


lOJ 


IBS 


IE! 


t The legel^n in extn, ud ira not included in the wd;,hU •pcdfled. 



The average weekly amount of solid food supplied 
by these dietaries is for men nearly 1 79 ounces, — and 
for women about 152 ounces. 



488 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

Now according to the result of the CommissioDerB 
of Inquiry *, agricultural labourers are unable to pro- 
cure for themselves and families an avers^ allowance 
of more than 122 oz. of solid food (principally bread) 
weekly; and if we assume that the man consumes 
140 ounces (say 134 bread and 6 meat) as his share, 
it is evident that his allowance would not be equal to 
that of the above dietaries. 

The dietary marked No. 2 is that of twenty-six 
Unions of the county of Kent ; and, at a meeting of 
the chairmen and vice-chairmen of all the twelve East 
Kent unions, it was unanimously declared that this 
Dietary had answered well, and that no alteration in 
it was desirable f . 

I have inquired at several workhouses the composi- 
tion of the suet-pudding^ the soup^ and the ffruel, used 
in these establishments. Subjoined are some of the 
answers which I have received. 

1. Soup (in use at the Wapping Workhouse\). — 
Liquor in which 119 lbs. of meat have been boiled. 
Legs and Shins of Beef 42 lbs., Residual Cuttings of 
Meat Oi^lbs., Split-peas 40 lbs.. Onions and Carrots 
16 lbs.. Oatmeal 6 lbs.. Dripping 6 lbs.. Pepper 3oz., 
Salt 1 lb., and Crumbs of Bread 5 lbs. This quantity 
is for 240 females, each having 1 pint (weighing 
about Ulb.) 



* See Mr. Tuffnell's report, in the Second Annual Report <if the P. or 
Law Commissioners, 

t See Mr. Tufihell's report, before cited. 

X For the above and some of the subsequent information respecting 
the Wrapping Workhouse, I am indebted to Mrs. Megson, the very in- 
telligent matron of that establishment. 



DIETARIES FOR PAUPERS. 489 

A pint and a half of the soup prepared at the poor- 
house of St. George^s, Middlesex^ contains 6 ounces 
of meat and bone (equal to about 4^ ounces solid 
meat); 4 th of a pint of Peas, i of an ounce of Groats, 
-riirth of an ounce of Pepper, iVth of an ounce of 
Salt, and ^Vth of a pennyworth of Vegetables. 

2. Gruel (in use at the Wapping Workhouse). — 
Each pint of gruel contains Hoz. of the best Berwick 
Oatmeal. 

3. Suet Puddings (in use at the Wapping Work- 
house). — ^Flour 1 lb., Suet tlb., Water 13 oz. ITiese 
quantities yield, when boiled, full 2 lbs. of pudding. 

Mr. Gray, of the Stepney Union, informs me that, — 

Ibfl. Ibfl. lbs. Ibfl. ox. Ibi. en. 

** 10 Floor with 2^ Saet and 11 Water loit in cookinar 2 1 and yidded 21 7 paddinr. 
10 „ 2} „ 8 „ 4 „ 20 12 „ 

10 » 24 „ 6 „ lis „ 20 5 „ 

So that by making the puddings over stiff, that is, 
with 6 oz. of water, 1 lb. 2 oz. more were lost (equal 
to about 5^ per cent.) than when made with 1 1 lbs. 
of water." 

Mr. Gray has also furnished me with the following 
curious information respecting the loss sustained in 
cooking and serving in pauper establishments. 



490 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



A Table of the Consumption of Beef and Mutton in certain Metropolitan 
Workhouses, shewing the " Number of Boilings, " the " Average 
Weight of each Ration," and the "Total Loss" sustained in cooking 
and serving the same. 



Number of 
Workhouse* 
and l?tate 
of Cooking 
Apparatus. 



1 f^o<vl 
I fTOOd 

1 very jfood 
1 fTOod 
2|!fOod 
1 i^ood 

1 very f^ood 

1 g^ood 

1 very ji^ood 

4g:ood 

4 f^ood 

1 verys^ood 



Period of 
Time over 
Kkich the 
CoHsump- 
lionextends. 



15 months 

15 months 

15 months 

15 months 

3 months 

3 months 

3 months 

3 months 

3 mouths 

3 months 

3 months 

3 months 

2 years. 



Xumber 

of 
BoUings. 



195 

195 

195 

195 

78 

39 

39 

78 

39 

39 

156 

156 

312 



1716 



Weight of . Beef and \ tm r^Ahim^ 
each Aa/ion.; Mutton {in- i JJrf «£lS«2 
[dudingloss) ««<'^«^'V 



J. 



7 ounces 
7 oimccs 
7 onnces 
5 ounces 
7 ounces 
5 ounces 
5i ounces 
7 ounces 

5 ounces 
5i ounces 
54 ounces 
5^ ounces 

6 ounces 



lbs. 

38554 

34134 

34550 

24488 

12689 

8238 

7341 

12181 

8384 

6743 

24671 

27883 

58134 



297990 



lbs. 

12015 

10523 

10840 

7956 

3909 

2504 

2024 

8811 

2371 

1952 

7f43 

8214 

16672 



Centenmal 
J*roportion 
of Loss and 
Waste U 
total Con- 
sumption. 



lbs. 

31*16 

30*83 

31-33 

S3-4S 

30-81 

30-39 

27 57 

31*28 

a6-»7 

28*9 



29*46 
28*68 



90434 



30-06 



The Ox-Beef was without lioue, and consisted of Flanks, Leg of Mutton Pieoet, Clods, 
and HriKkets. 
The Mutton consisted of the Fore Quarters, weighing above 40 lbs. 

The loss sustained in preparint: and scrvinis: cooked meat, in large Public Institutions, 
is very great, and may appear to the unphictised observer extraordinary; but there are 
so many sources from which lovs accrues, that the surprise would be soon removed by 
an attentive consideration of the subject. 

1st, The Cookinp.— The quality of the meat will cause a difference of firom 7 to 8 per 
cent. The want of skill, inattention, or inadvertence, on the part of the Cook, will at 
times increase the loss very greatly; for, in cooking large quantities, great and undivided 
attention is nec<'ssary to produce the article properly cooked. 

2n(l, The Seri-inff.— Great dispatch is ncce&sary in the serving. Two persons, one to 
cut, the other to weigh, will, on the average, have to serve 14 ration.s in two minuter. 
So much to be done.anu, from necessity, in so short a period of time, requires some skill, 
»and not a little practice, on the part of (Carver and Weigher, to keep within a moderate 
loss. Thf; following are among the principal sources of loss: the bone and ^t of 
mutton— the outside alld coarser parts of the beef —the evaporation and the running oiT 
of the juices durintr carving. To these must be added the drafts in weighing. 

The annexed Table shows the ConsumptitMi and Amount of Loss m several large 
Establishments, and, 1 am of opinion, may be considered as something more than an 
approximation to the truth. It extends over a sufficient period of time "to take in 
Meat of all the Seasons." It was cooke<l in different apparatus, and served in the 
separate houses, by careful and intelligent individuals. Tne quantity cooked, and the 
rations served at each house, was sufficient to have formed a good average; but taken 
in the aggregate, they give data for calculation seldom to be met with. 

32 Boiltnas of Mutton.— The parts cooked were the Fore Quarters, weighing 40 Iba. the 
pair ; tne contract price 78. 5d. per stone, 14 lbs. 

Total Quantity Cooked 3209 lbs. 

Loss sustained in Hoiling 563 lbs. 

Centesimal Proportion of Loss to whole Quantity Cooked . . 17*5444 lbs. 

Maximum Loss 19*7 lbs. 

Minimum I>os8 14*3 iba. 

64 Boilings o/Be«/.— Parts : Brisket, thick and thin Flanks, Leg of Mutton Pieces, and 
Clods, the whole free from bone ; contract price 7s. 5d. per stone, 14 lbs. 

Total Quantity Cooked 5772 lbs. 

Loss sustained in lioiling 1018 Iba. 

(Centesimal I^o|>ortion of I/)m to the whole Quantity Cooked 1 7*637 lbs. 

Maximum Loss 21 lbs. 

Minimum Loss 13*8 Iba. 



DIETARIES FOR PRISONERS. 401 



5. DIETARIES FOR PRISONERS. 

I have already (see p. 462, et seq.) offered some 
remarks on the peculiar circumstances affecting the 
diet of persons confined in prisons. 

In January, 1843, the Inspectors of Prisons made 
a Report to the Secretary of State relative to the system 
of Prison Discipline, &c., in which they state that, 
with respect to Dietaries, they have arrived at the fol- 
lowing conclusions : — 

" 1 . We have framed a series of tables, according to the length of the 
imprisonment, the additional punishment of hard labour, and 
the sex of the prisoners ; and, as far as practicable, with regard 
also to the kind and degree of discipline enforced other than 
hard labour. 

2. These dietaries are given as the minimum of what we recommend 

for each class, without reference to the local situations of the 
prisons, or to any peculiar circumstances which may render an 
increase necessary. Such peculiarities may also render it expe- 
dient, in certain cases, to substitute other kinds of food (of an 
equivalent amount of nutriment) for some of those included in 
the scale of diet. 

3. The principle which we are of opinion ought to be acted on in 

framing a scale of prison diet, and that which we have endea- 
voured to carry into effect as far as possible in the annexed scale, 
is, that that quantity of food should be given in all cases which 
is sufficient, and not more than sufficient, to maintain health and 
strength, at the least possible cost; and that, whilst due care 
should be exercised to prevent extravagance or luxury in a pri- 
son, the diet ought not to be made an instrument of punishment. 

4. in endeavouring to ascertain the precise quantities of food which 

ought to be allowed to different classes of prisoners, in accord- 
ance with the foregoing principle, we have been guided by our 
own experience, by the opinions of several prison medical officers 
of longstanding, and by the dietaries in use. 

5. We are of opinion that there ought always to be three meals each 

day in prisons, and tliat at least two of the three should be hot. 

6. That there should be variety in the kinds of food forming the diet, 

with occasional changes; and that a considerable portion of the 
food should be solid. 

7. That in the selection of the kinds of food, it is essential, for the 



492 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

maintenance of health, to include substances which are neces- 
sary for the support of the yarious parts of the body. 

8. That it is very important to ascertain that the water is pare and 

wholesome, and that there is an abundant supply. 

9. That prisoners should not be set to work immediately after any 

meal. 

10. That animal food should form part of the diet of prisoners em- 

ployed at hard labour. 

1 1. That the attention of the medical officer should be directed to the 

scale of diet on which each prisoner is placed, and that he 
should have a discretionary power to increase or diminish the 
quantity of food with reference to the constitution and state of 
health of the particular prisoner. 

12. That Mdth regard to age, it is only in the extremes of youth and 

old age that any distinction of diet is advisable, and that the 
discretion of the medical officer shuuld extend to these cases." 

It will be perceived that the conclusions which the 
Inspectors have arrived at accord with the principles 
which I have advocated in this work. The scale of 
diet which they recommend, and which has been 
adopted by the Secretary of State, is subjoined. 

It appears, however, that the Inspectors were not 
unanimous as to the dietaries ; and it is but fair, there- 
fore, that the reader should be put in possession of 
the following Reasons of Dissent as to the Scales of 
Diet assigned by Mr. F. Hill, one of the Inspectors : — 

"1. There is at present a great want of information on the subject of 
diet generally, both as respects the real quantity of nutriment 
required for health under various circumstances, and the best 
form in which that nutriment can be given, as regards bulk, 
solidity, quantity of animal matter, and the necessary variety to 
supply aU the wants of the frame for renewing bone, muscle, 
&c. There is but little certain knowledge also respecting the 
comparative quantity of nutriment contained in substances 
of different kinds, such as wheaten bread, meat, and potatoes. 

2. Owing to the many circumstances which affect the natural demand 
for food, such as age, sex, constitution, state of health, kind and 
quantity of work, it is difficult, under any arrangement, to deter- 
mine what quantity of food any prisoner ought to have; and it 



DIETARIES FOR PRISONERS. 403 

is impossible, in my opinion, to classify prisoners for this pur- 
pose with any degree of accuracy otherwise than by considering 
the case of each prisoner separately, which may be done by 
laying down a few scales of diet, and then empowering those 
who must be best acquainted with the case of each prisoner, viz. 
the Governor and Surgeon, to settle from time to time, subject 
to the control of the visiting justices, on what scale each prisoner 
shall be placed. 

If a classification be made according to any one or two only of 
the disturbing causes, the rate of diet, if suited to the wants of 
a portion of the class, will, in my opinion, be found insufficient 
for some and too much for others, producing injury to health in 
both cases, and in one waste and extravagance also. 

3. While it is right to give prisoners such a quantity of food as will 

keep up robust health, it is important to allow nothing beyond 
what is really necessary; both because excess of food is inju- 
rious to health as well as deficiency, and because the motives to 
honest industry will be weakened if any thing like luxury be 
admitted into prisons. 

4. It having been declared as a principle that the allowance of food 

ought not to be made an instrument of punishment, and that 
that quantity of food should be given which is sufficient, and not 
more than sufficient, to maintain health and strength, I cannot 
see any ground for giving less food to a prisoner who is em- 
ployed at the same kind of labour as another prisoner, and 
otherwise similarly circumstanced with him, except that he is to 
leave the prison sooner, unless, as has been alleged, the expecta- 
tion of along imprisonment has a depressing efiect on the mind, 
and that efiect can be counteracted, in its influence on the health, 
by a greater quantity of food. Without inquiring into the 
accuracy of the fact, as a general rule, I cannot agree to the 
inference from it. I believe, on the contrary, that a depressed 
state of the mind weakens the digestive powers, and makes 
them incapable of receiving even so much food as when the 
mind is cheerfiiL" 

Sir James Graham^ Her Majesty's Secretary of State 
for the Home Department^ in a letter to the Chairmen 
of Quarter Sessions^ dated 27th January, 1843, adopts 
the recommendations of the Inspectors with regard to 
dietaries, and offers the following very proper obser- 
vations : — 



494 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

" I desire to call the csjiecial attention of the magistracy to 
those rules which relate to the Diet of Prisoners. On the proper 
adjustment of this particular their health mainly depends ; and 
I am convinced that the adoption of the proposed scales will 
prevent the recurrence of those complaints which have frequently 
been preferred, and in some instances justly preferred, against 
the prison authorities. It is by no means intended that the pre- 
cise articles of food specified in the dietaries should be strictly 
adhered to in the table which you may adopt ; other kinds of 
food, containing an equivalent amoypt of nutriment, may, with 
advantage, be substituted, when those articles which have been 
named are either difficult to be obtained in your neighbourhood, 
or are considered not suited to the customs and habits of the 
prisoners ; but that quantity of food must, in all cases, be given 
which is sufficient, though not more than sufficient, to maintain 
health and strength at a moderate cost ; and, while due care 
should be exercised to prevent any approach to luxurious living 
in a prison, the diet ought on ^no account to be made an instru- 
ment of punishment. I have consulted not only the Prison 
Inspectors, but medical men of the greatest eminence, possessing 
the advantage of long experience ; I have carefully revised the 
dietaries now in use ; and I have come to the conclusion,— 

Istly, That animal food should in all cases form part of the 
diet of prisoners employed at hard labour. 

2ndly, That a considerable portion of the food of every pri- 
soner should be solid ; and, 

3rdly, That there should be variety in the kinds of food 
forming the diet, and that occasional changes are 
necessary. 

The dietaries which I now offer for your adoption are framed 
on these principles, and are upheld by medical science, and by 
the recommendation of persons on whose authority and know- 
ledge reliance may be placed, but they have been framed without 
reference to the local situation of particular prisons, or to any 
peculiar circumstances which may render an increase necessary; 
they are therefore proposed as the minimum amount which can 
safely be afforded to prisoners without the risk of inflicting a 
punishment not contemplated by law, and which it is unjust and 
cruel to inflict ; namely, loss of health and strength through the 
inadequacy of the food supplied.'' 



DIETARIES FOR PRISONERS. 496 



DIETARIES FOR PRISONS IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 

Recommended by the Prison Inspectors, and ordered by her Majesty's 
Secretary of State for the Home Department. 



CLASS L 
Prisoners conflned for any term not exceeding^ three days :— ' 

Male*, FemaUi. 

Breakfast 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel. ... I pint of Oatmeal ^niel. 

Dinner 1 lb. of Bread I lb. of Dread. 

Supper I pint of Oatmeal giuel . . 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel. 

CLASS IL 

Convicted prisoners for any term exceeding three days, and not exceeding fourteen 

days:— 

Males. Female*. 

n^M^vf^m* S 1 P^^^ o' Oatmeal gruel; 6 oz. of\l pint of Oatmeal gruel; 6 oz. of 
Break/a»t....\ g^^ / y^^^j 

Dinner 12 oz. of Bread 6 oz. of Bread. 

o ..— / 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel: 6oz. of\l pint of Oatmeal gruel; 6 oz. of 
^"^P^" \ Bread T / Bread. 

Prisoners of this class employed at hard labour, to have, in addition, 1 pint of Soup 
per week. 

CLASS JIL 

Prisoners employed at hard labour for terms exceeding fourteen days, but not more 
than six weeks:— 

Males. Female*. 

.Cr«aV'a#^— 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel ;-» I pint of Oatmeal gpiel; 6 oz. of 
8 oz. of Bread . . ? / Bread. 

Ti;A"^. {'""B^d\r^°'..*:T'..'!.°'.."'}' P-^'fSoup, 6ox.of Bre.d. 

Tuesday and r 3 oz. of cooked Meat, without bone ; \ 3 oz. of cooked Meat, without bone; 
Saturday \ 8 oz. of Bread ; i lb. of Potatoes / 6 oz. of Bread ; 4 lb. of Potatoes. 

Monday, r 8 oz. of Bread : I lb. of Potatoes, or ) 6 oz. of Bread : I lb. of Potatoes, of 

^^'ednesday, ^ 4 1 pint of Gniel, when Potatoes I- I pint of Gniel when Potatoes 

Friday ( cannot be obtained j cannot be obtained. 

Supper.— Sikme as breakfast Same as breakfast. 

CLASS ir. 

Prisoners employed at hard labour for terms exceeding six weeks, but not more than 
three months :— 

Males. Females. 

BtmA/m/.— I pint of Oatmeal gruel; 'i 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel ; 6 os. of 



Sunday, 
Tuesday, 
Thursday, 
Saturday . 



8 oz. of Bread / Bread. 



{!><«««•.— 3 oz. of cooked Meat, with- ^ -,^ «/«^w»i,«j »*«-«. -.-^v.. *u..-^ 

Monday, f 

Wednesday, & { 1 pint of Soup ; 8 oz. of Bread 1 pint of Soup ; 6 oz. of Bread. 

Friday I Supper — Same as breakfast Same as break&st. 

CLASS V. 
Prisoners employed at hard labour for terms exceeding three months :— 

Males. Females. 



Sunday, 
Tuesday, 
Thursday, 
Saturday . 



^Br«aA/a«f.— 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel; 1 1 pint of Oatmeal gruel; 6 ox. of 
6 oz. of Bread / Bread. 

^"ntTtiii^n^/fWS^tJKJh'Sn^iaw-o'cooked Meat, withoutbone; 
It^^.!. . .. !^'\ : \ 4lb.of PoUto«^6oz. of Bread! 

(Br«aVa«/.—l pint of Cocoa, made of \ 1 pint of Cocoa, made of |oz. of 
I oz. of flaked cocoa or cocoa- I flaked cocoa or cocoa-nibs, 
nibs, sweetened with | oz. of mo- [ sweetened with | oz. of molas- 
Wednesday, ■\ lasses or sugar; 6 oz. of Bread j ses or sugar ; 6 oz. of Bread. 

Dinner.— I pint of Soup ; I lb. of Po- \ 1 pint of Soup ; ^ lb. of Potatoes ; 
^ tatoes ; 6 oz. of Bread / 6 oz. of Bread. 

Supper the seven days.— I pint of "t I pint of Oatmeal gruel ; G oz. of 
Oatmeal gruel ; 6oz. of Bread.. / Bread. 



Friday 



496 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



CLASS VI. 
CooYlcted prisonennot emplOTed at hsrd labour finrperiods exceeding ftmil cen drnfut^ 

MoUm. Pemaie$. 

Breakfast. -^Ipini of Oatmeal gruel 't'i I pint of Oatmeal fjoel; 60s. of 



8 oz. of Bread 



Bread. 



SSiSJI; flH«a«-.-Sox.of cooked Meat, with- ) .^ , 

, 1 1 pint of 



Saturday 

Monday, 

Wednesday, 

Friday 



of cooked Meat, witboat bone ; 
lb. Potatoes; 5 ox. of Bread. 



Soap; Sox. of Bread .... 1 pint of Soup; 6 01. of 
Aifiper.— Same as breakfast Same as breakfiurt. 



CLASS VJL 

Prisonert sentenoed by Conrt to solitary confinement) 

Maiet. 
The same as Class VI. Tlie same as Class VL 

CLASS VIJL 

Prisoners for examination, before trial, and m isd e mea n a n ts of the first diTiaion» who 
do not maintain themselves :— 

Males. FewtaUe, 

The same as Class IV. The same as Chns IV. 

CLASS IX. 

DBSTITUTB DBBTOB8. 

UaUs. FewuUes. 

- The same as Class rv. The same as Class IV. 

CLASS X. 

Prisoners under ponishment for prison oflfences for terms not exoeedinii: three dayaa^- 

1 lb. of Bread per diem. 

Prisoners in close confinement for prison offences under the provisions of the 4Sik1 
section of the Gaol Act :— 

Mates. Females. 

BreaJtfast., Ipintof Gniel; 8 oz. of Bread.. 1 pintofGniel; 60s. of Bread. 

Dinner .... 8 oz. Bread 6 oz. of Bread. 

Supper .... 1 pint of Gruel; 8oz. of Bread. . 1 pint of Gruel; fioz. of Bread. 

Note.— The Soup to contain, per pint, S oz. of cooked meat without bone» S os. of jpoCft> 
toes, 1 oz. of barley, rice, or oatmeal, and 1 oz. of onions or leeks, with pepper andfaalt. 
The Gruel, when made in quantities exceedtnip SO pints, to contain 1^ oz. of oat 



pint, and 9 oz. per pint when made in less quantities. The Gruel on alternate daya to be 
sweetened with } oz. of molasses or sugar, and seasoned with salt. 



The following table gives a comparative view of 
the weekly quantity of food allowed to prisoners 
confined for terms exceeding three days :— 





Class S. 


Class S. 

1 


Class 4. 

Class 8. 
Class 9. 


Class 5. 


CLAsaC 
CLikaaT. 




Men. Wmnem, 


Men. .wvosntn. 


Men. 


Women. 


Men, 


Women, 


Men, 


ITmmm. 


Bread es 


188 


»8 


168 


1S8 


168 


196 


196 


196 


168 


116 


Cooked meat, M 








1 ^ 


6 


12 


19 


16 


19 


19 


11 


1 Potatoes — CM 








\ 64 


64 


S2 


S9 


119 


66 


n 


n 


Tdtal solid food 


168 


»8 


: t» 


196 


919 


170 


964 


194 


919 


190 


Oruel ....pinis 


14 


14 


14 


14 


14 


14 


11 


11 


14 


14 


Soup .... pints 








; 


9 


S 


S 


S 


S 


S 


1 


Cocoa ....pints 








1 











s 


s 










1 


I 


1 1 











DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 497 

These dietaries appear to me well * calculated to 
carry into effect the principles laid down by the 

* 

Prison Inspectors, that the quantity of food supplied 
to prisoners should in all cases be sufficient, and 
not more than sufficient, to maintain health and 
strength. 

They have, however, been objected to, on the 
ground that the amount of food which they supply 
is greater than the hard-working, sober, and honest 
labourer can in general obtain for himself and family; 
and, therefore, that they hold out rather a temptation 
than a discouragement to crime. Should such be 
their effect, it is greatly to be regretted ; but it cannot 
form a valid ground for altering them. For the ques- 
tion is, not what the honest labourer can obtain, but 
what is necessary for the prisoner; and under this 
point of view it appears to me that there exists no 
just ground of objection to these rates of diet. The 
dietary for the fifth class, which has been especially 
objected to, as being indulgent if not luxurious, allows 
an ample, but by no means an excessive, amount of 
food, when we take into consideration the hard labour 
to which the prisoners of this class are subjected, as 

well as their term of imprisonment (see p. 465, et seq.) 

• 

6. DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 

In the treatment of many diseases, attention to diet 
is a point of considerable importance ; and in none is 
it more necessary than in non-febrile disorders of the 
digestive and urinary organs. For in acute maladies, 
in which abstinence or low diet is requisite, there is 

K K 



498 OOM POUND ALIMENTS. 

• 

usually no disposition to take food : on the contrary^ 
solids of all kinds are generally loathed ; and in such 
cases, therefore, there is little or no chance of any error 
of diet being committed. Dietetical regimen is more 
important in chronic diseases of the assimilating 
organs, in which the appetite is unimpaired, or even 
increased, — since in such the patient is more apt to 
overstep the bounds of prudence by the employment 
of a diet improper, either from the quantity or quality 
of the food used. In chronic local diseases, when the 
constitution is unimpaired, and the appetite for food 
remains natural, I would, by no means, advocate the 
adoption of a spare or low diet ; since I believe that 
in such cases the indulgence of a moderate appetite 
for plain food is attended with beneficial results. From 
this statement, however, maladies affecting the organs 
of assimilation must be frequently excepted. '^ Natural 
instincts," justly observes Dr. Billing,* "are too often 
thwarted: it is much too common to put patients 
empirically on low diet ; and patients of the higher 
classes — the better educated — very often put them- 
selves on low diet unnecessarily. So far as we may 
take natural instinct for a guide," he further observes, 
" we may assert, that when a patient can eat, he may 
be allowed to do so ; for if he has even a slight degree 
of fever, he cannot eat." 

Several diets, or kinds of dietetical regimen, are 
employed in the treatment of diseases. The most 
important of these are the following : — , 



• First Pnnc^les <if Medicine. 4th edit. p. 109. 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 499 

1. Full, Common, or Meat Diet. — Gn many 
occasions where it is desirable to restore or support 
the powers of the system, patients are permitted to 
satisfy their appetite for plain vegetable and animal 
food. In many indolent diseases, in scrofula, in some 
affections of the nervous system (as chorea and epi- 
lepsy), and in the stage of convalescence after acute 
maladies, &c. this kind of diet is frequently directed. 
In these cases beer and, sometimes, wine are permitted ; 
and spirit is occasionally required. In some diseases of, 
and in accidents occurring in, confirmed drunkards, it 
is frequently found injurious to withhold the stimulus 
to which the patient's system has been long accus- 
tomed ; and thus wine, brandy, rum, or gin, is ordered, 
according to circumstances. 

2. Animal Diet. — ^This term is applied to a diet 
composed of animal food, either exclusively or princi- 
pally. The only disease, in which a diet exclusively 
of animal food is recommended, is diabetes. In this 
malady, strict abstinence from vegetable substances is 
attended with the diminution of both the quantity, 
and the saccharine condition, of the urine. But it 
deserves especial notice that the amount, as well as 
the nature, of the food taken in this disease, requires 
carefully attending to, as the craving for food is 
sometimes apt to induce the patient to indulge to an 
injurious extent. 

A considerable variety of food is necessary for pa- 
tients limited to the exclusive use of animal diet, on 
account of the loathing of the same substance if fre- 
quently repeated. Butcher*8 meat, bacon, poultry, 
game, fish, shellfish, cheese, eggs, sausages, and brarvn. 



500 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

are allowed in private practice. For common drink, 
water, beef-tea, or mutton-hroth, may be sparingly 
used. Milk is generally permitted^ but as it contains 
sugar, its use is not unobjectionable. 

By the use of animal food exclusively, the quantity 
of sugar in the urine of diabetic patients is greatly 
reduced ; but I have never seen this secretion entirely 
lose its saccharine condition by even the most rigorous 
adoption of animal diet. In one case, recently under 
my care in the London Hospital, the quantity of urine 
passBd in twenty-four hours was reduced from about 
eleven, to three or four, pints in the twenty-four hours ; 
but its specific gravity (1040 to 1045) and saccharine 
quality remained unaltered. From whence, it may be 
asked, in such cases, is the sugar derived? Where 
the use of milk is permitted, this perhaps is in part the 
source of it. I have, however, found it, where neither 
milk nor vegetable food was employed ; and in such 
cases the only substances which were used as food, and 
from which sweet or saccharine matter is known to be 
obtainable, were gelatine and oil or fat. But neither 
the sugar of gelatine (jglycicoU) nor the sweet principle 
of oils and fats {glycerine) is identical with diabetic 
sugar {glucose) \ and we are unacquainted with any 
means of converting the two former into the latter 
substance. 

Patients, we are told, sometimes evince such an in- 
ordinate craving for vegetable food, that it is difficult, 
if not impossible, to persevere for any considerable 
length of time on an exclusively animal diet In the 
cases which have fallen under my observation this has 
not been the case. I have several times met with 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 501 

patients who have objected to persevere with this diet, 
not on the above ground, but simply because they be- 
came satisfied of its ineflicacy ; the diminution in the 
quantity of urine not being attended with a corre- 
sponding relief of the constitutional symptoms. 

In those diabetic cases in which it is thought ad- 
visable to permit a limited quantity of vegetable food, 
in conjunction with animal diet, those vegetables 
should be selected which are most highly nitrogenized, 
and which are freest from sugar or substances capable 
of being converted into saccharine matter, as the 
starchy bodies. These conditions are best fulfilled by 
the cruciferous plants, — as cahhagej greens^ catUiJhwery 
broccoli, watercress^ and mustard and cress. Sauer- 
kraut, or fermented cabbage (see p. 383), is some- 
times permitted. The aromatic condiments (as sage, 
mint, marjoram, fennel, parsley, caraway, cinnamon, 
nutmegs, allspice, pepper, mustard, &c.) are, of course, 
unobjectionable, as far as sugar is concerned. Fruits, 
especially apples and pears, are highly objectionable, 
on account of the saccharine and amylaceous matters 
which they usually contain. For drink. Dr. Prout 
recommends sound porter in preference to wine or 
spirits. 

Some practitioners, among whom Dr. Prout deserves 
to-be especially mentioned, object to the exclusive use 
of animal food in diabetes ; ^' but consider a certain 
proportion oi farinaceous matters proper. The re- 
commendation of this admixture of farinaceous mat- 
ters is founded upon a fact already alluded to, and 
apparently well established, viz. that the assimilation 
of the saccharine principle is one of the last functions 






502 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

that becomes extinct in animals. The proportions of 
these two forms of aliment must be varied according 
to the circumstances of the patient ; and particularly 
according to the degree in which he is able to assimi- 
late albuminous, in preference to farinaceous, matters ; 
a point not difficult to be determined by a little atten- 
tion. Of farinaceous matters, the high or stratig^ as 
the farina of wheat in the shape of bread, &c., seem 
to be most easily assimilated. The low kinds of fari- 
naceous matters, as arrow-root, potatoes, &c. (with the 
exception perhaps of rice), seem to be reduced to a 
species of sugar, more difficult of assimilation than 
the sugar from wheat-flour, &c., and in general, there- 
fore, should be avoided*." 

Gluten is a nutritious vegetable principle, to the em- 
ployment of which in diabetes no objection can be 
raised; and I have already (see p. 314) had occasion 
to notice gluten bread, which has been made for the 
use of diabetic patients. 

3. Vegetable Diet. — ^The exclusive employment 
of vegetable food, in conjunction with the use of dis- 
tilled water, has been recommended, by Dr. Lambe "f , 
as a remedy for cancer, scrofula, consumption, asthma, 
and other chronic diseases; but he has, I suspect, gained 
few, if any, proselytes to his opinions and practice. 

4. Spare ob Abstemious Diet. — The term spare 
or abstemious diet is sometimes used to indicate the 



* On the Nature and Dr^atment qf Stomach and Urinary Dieeaeea^ 
p. 4 1 . London, 1 d40. 

t Reports qf the Effects qf a Peculiar Reffimen on Scirrhous T\anour9 
and Cancerous Ulcers, Lond. 1809. — Additional Reports on the EffeeU 
qf a Peculiar Reffimen in cases of Cancer, Scrqfula^ Consun^tion, Asthma^ 
and other Chronic Diseases. Lond. 1815. 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 503 

employment of vegetable substances principally (not 
exclusively). It generally includes the use of the white 
fish (the flesh of which is less nourishing and stimu- 
lating than butchers' meat^ see p. 281), sometimes 
alternating with a limited quantity of poultry or 
butchers* meat. In plethoric habits, where the appetite 
is unimpaired, this diet is ordered in cases of threatened 
apoplexy, gout, &c. By its adoption we diminish 
the quantity of nutritive matter supplied to the system, 
while we keep the digestive organs actively employed. 

6. Fever Diet {Thin Diet; Spoon Diet ; Slops). — 
** In febrile diathesis,'" says Dr. Beaumont*, " very little 
or no gastric juice is secreted. Hence the importance 
of withholding food from the stomach in febrile com- 
plaints. It can afford no nourishment, but is actually 
a source of irritation to that organ ; and, consequently, 
to the whole system." In another place f the same 
author observes, " that drinks received are immediately 
absorbed, or otherwise disposed of, none remaining 
in the stomach ten minutes after being swallowed. 
Food taken in this condition of the stomach remains 
undigested for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, or 
more, increasing the derangement of the whole ali- 
mentary canal, and aggravating the general symptoms 
of disease." 

These observations suggest the approprate diet for 
febrile states of the system. Foods which require 
digestion are to be withheld : indeed, they are gene- 
rally loathed, — want of appetite being one of the 



* Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice^ &c., p. 132. 
t Op, supra cit. p. 99. 



504 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

early symptoms of fever. Aqueous drinks (^com- 
monly called diluents or slops), however, are rapidly 
absorbed without undergoing digestion. Tea, toast- 
water, and barley-water, therefore, may be taken ad 
libitum. Of the foods which are most admissible 
when the patient feels capable of taking them, the 
saccharine and the amylaceous are the lightest and 
most appropriate. Acidulous fruits and drinks some- 
times prove most refreshing. Saccharine substances 
are absorbed and pass into the chyle, and subsequently 
support the process of respiration, while amylaceous 
substances yield sugar in the stomach independently 
of the gastric juice, and probably by the aid of the 
saliva merely (see p. 126). 

6. Low Diet. — In acute inflammation of important 
organs, and after serious accidents, surgical operations, 
and parturition, patients in general are directed to 
adopt a low diet, consisting principally of liquid foods, 
as gruel, broth, milk, tea, and barley-water, and a 
moderate allowance of bread or biscuit, and light fari- 
naceous puddings. The effect of low diet on the 
blood is similar to that of loss of blood j namely, a 
diminution of the number of the blood disks*. 

7. Milk Diet. — Besides cow's milk, which consti- 
tutes the principal article of food, this diet includes 
the use of farinaceous substances (such as arrow-root, 
sago, and tapioca), bread, and light puddings (of rice, 
bread, or batter). Milk diet is ordered when we are 



* See Andral and Gavarret'g Reckerches nor Ut Mod^/icaiumi de Pro- 
portion de quelques Principe$ du Banff . Paris, 1842. 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 505 

desirous of affording support to the system with the 
least possible stimulus or excitement. It is well 
adapted for inflammatory diseases of the chest (phthisis 
especially) » of the alimentary canal, and of the bladder, 
when it is considered expedient to employ a nutritious 
but not stimulating diet. After hemorrhages, when 
the powers of the system have been greatly exhausted, 
a milk diet is frequently beneficial. It has also been 
considered one of the best means of preventing and 
of curing the gout. It is a good diet also for many 
of the diseases of children, especially those of a stru- 
mous or scrofulous nature. In some of the above- 
mentioned maladies, where the stomach is weak and 
irritable, cow's milk is apt to occasion vomiting and 
other unpleasant effects, in consequence of the butter 
which it contains. In such cases, skim-milk or ass's 
milk may be advantageously substituted. 

8. Dbt Diet. — ^In several maladies it becomes ne- 
cessary to restrict the quantity of liquids used ; as in 
valvular disease of the heart, aortic aneurism, diabetes, 
and diuresis with either excess or deficiency of urea. 
The first of these diseases is incurable, and, therefore, 
our object is its palliation. One mode of attempting 
this is, to relieve the obstructed circulation by lessening 
the volume of blood ; and which may be in some 
degree effected by limiting .the amount of drink. In 
aneurism of the aorta we endeavour to lessen the ten- 
sion of, and to promote the deposition of fibrine 
within, the sac. The indications are in part fulfilled 
by a dry diet, by which fulness of vessels and thin- 
ness of the blood are lessened. In diabetes, and also 
in diuresis, with either excess or deficiency of urea, a 



606 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



most important part of the treatment is to diminish, 
as much as possible, the quantity of fluids taken. 

I have said nothing of the nature of the solid food 
which is used by those who adopt a dry diet ; because 
it is subject to considerable variation. In some cases 
a generous, in others a spare, diet should accom- 
pany it. 

Subjoined are the diet-tables of the Metropolitan 
HospUals for the Sick* of the Royal Ordnance Hos^ 
pitalsy and of the Royal Navy Hospitals and Marine 
Infirmaries : — 

1. LONDON HOSPITAL. 



' 


Common Diet. 


MiDDLB Dirr. 


Low Diet. 


Milk Dibt. 


13 ox. Bread. 


\ 






Per Dag, . 


lpintIV>rter,Af(ni. 
^pintdo. Wowten. 
Oruel. 




80X. Bread. 


la OS. Bread. 


BreaJ(fait . . 




Groel. 


Omel. 


' 


8 ox. Beef, with 
Foutoes, thrice 
ft week. 


The iftme, ex- 
, cept thftt <lox. 
/ofMeftt shall 








8 ox. Mutton, 






Dinner . . 


with FOUtoet, 


be given in- 






twice ft week. 


■teftdof8ox. 


Broth. 


IpiiitMilk. 




8 ox. FOtfttoes. & 
Soap, with Ve- 
getftblea, twice 
















\ 


ft week. 








Supper. . . . 


1 pint of Broth. 




Oruel or Broth. 


IpintMiDL. 



2. ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. 



DaUp. 



Common Dibt. 



Milk Porridge. 

IS ox. Bread. 

6ox. Mutt* or Beef 

1 pt Broth [with 
PeaaorPotatoea, 
4timeaaweek]. 

9 pta. Beer, Men, 

I pint. Women. 

1 ox. Butter, 
twice a week. 



Bboth Dibt. 



MilkFOrridn. 
13 ox. BreacL 
9 pinto Broth. 
1 pint Beer. 
1 ox. Batter. 



Thiit obFbybb 
Dibt. 



Milk Forridge. 

IS ox. Bread. 

1 pint of Milk, 
with T^iioca, 
Arrow»iw>t, 
Sago, or Rice, 
aa maybe pie- 
•cribed. 

Bariey-water. 



• 



Mile Dibt. 



MUk Porridre. 
13 ox. BreacC 
apt8.Milk,withTa. 
-*~— Arrow-rooty 
or 




mayDeprei 
Barteywater. 
1 ox. Batter. 
Bread Puddinr, 
i timea a wew, 
when ordered. 



* In addition to the substances specified in the following Diet Tables 
of the Metropolitan • Hospitals, other articles (as chops, steaks, fish, 
wjne, spirit, porter, &c.) are permitted, when specially ordered by the 
medical officers. These are denominated eattras. 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 



507 



3. GUY'S HOSPITAL. 



DaUjf. . . 



Full Dibt. 



14 ox. Bread. 
1401. Batter. 
I qourt Tftble 

Beer. 
8 ox. Meat 

when dressed. 



Middle Diet. 



13 ox. Bread. 

14 ox. Batter. 
Ipt.TttbleBeer. 
4 ox. Meat, 

when dressed, 

and 
4 pint Broth. 



Low Diet. 



13 ox. Bread. 
1 ox. Butter. 
Tea & Sugar. 



Milk Diet. 



13 ox. Bread. 
1 ox. Butter. 
3 pints Milk. 



FeyebDiet. 



6 ox. Bread. 
1 ox. Butter. 
Tea & Sugar. 



Half a pound of Beef (for Beef-tea), or 
Arrow-root or Sago, when order^ 



For each diet. Gruel or Barley-water, as required. 



4. ST. THOMAS'S HOSPITAL. 



DaUy 



Brea^foit .... 



DvtHtt .... 



Supper, 



\ 



Full Diet. 



a pints of Beer; 
14 ox. of Bread. 

Water Gniel. 

4lb.ofBeef,when 
dressed, twice 
a week ; 4 ox. of 
Butter, or 6 ox. 
ofCheese,thrice 
a week; 4 lb. of 
Mutton, when 
boiled, thrice a 
week. 

1 pint proth. four 
timfSaweek. 



Milk Diet. 



Dbt Diet. 



13 ox. of Bread.' 14 ox. of Bread, 
a pints of 



1 pint of Milk. 

1 Dint of Milk 
four times a 
week. 

RicePuddinr 
thrice a week. 



1 pint of Milk. 



Water GraeL 

4 OS. of Butter, 
four times a 
week} Rice 
Pnddinff and 
4 ox. of But- 
ter, three 
times a week. 



FetbbDiet. 



13 ox. of Bread ; 
S pints of Beer. 

Water GrueL 

|ofalb.of Beef 
for tea. 



5. ST. GEORGE'S HOSPITAL. 



Daily 



Break' \ 
/ait 



Dinner -i 



Extra 
Dikt. 



Ordinaky 

DlHT. 



13 ox. Bread. 

Afen* 
a pintsBeer. 

fToMun. 
14'pts.Beer. 

1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk. 

la ox. Meat, 
roasted 

(weighed 
withthebone 

before it is 
dressed) 

four days, — 

boiled three 

days. 4 lb. 

Potatoes. 



Vi«»«>^ J * pintGruel. 



13ox.Bread. 
1 pint Beer. 



1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk. 



One half the 
meat al- 
lowed for 

extra diet. 

|lb.PoUtoe8 



1 pint GrueL 
4 pint Milk. 



Fish Diet. 



iaox.Bread. 



1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Bfilk. 

4 ox. of plain 
boiled white 

flsh(as 
Whiting, 

Plaice, 
Flounders, 

or 
Haddock). 

1 pintGruel. 
4 pint Milk. 



Feyeb 
Diet. 



13ox.Bread. 
Barley Wa- 
ter 

1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk. 



Arrow-root, 
&c. must 

be specially 
directed. 



I pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk. 



Broth 
Diet. 



iaox.Bread. 



1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk. 



1 pt Broth. 
6 ox. light 
Pudding. 



1 pintGruel. 
4 pint Milk. 



Milk Diet, 



iaoz.Bread. 



1 pint Tea. 
4 pint Milk 



UpintsRice 
Milk four 
days. 
4Ib.Breador 
Rice Pud- 
dins three 
days. 



4pintBlilk. 



608 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



6. WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL. 



Daify 



Break' ( 



Dinner 



Supper 



Full 
Diet. 



MiDDLB 
DiBT. 



l4os.Bread. 10ox.Bread. 



1 pint Milk 1 pint Milk 
Porri<Jre,or, Porridre,or 
Rice urueL thin uruel. 



4 lb. Meat 
roasted, 
boiled, or 
chopt. 

fib. of Po- 
tatoes. 



i lb. Meat 
roasted, 

boiled, or 
chops. 

fib. ofPo- 
tatoes. 



1 pint Milk 1 pint Milk 
Porridge, or Porridge, or 
Rice GnieL! thin Grael. 



Low Diet. 



Fixed. 
I lb. Bread. 



1 pint Tea, 

withSogar 

andJdflk. 



No fixed 

Diet 

for Dinner. 



I pint Tea, 

with Sugar 

and Milk. 



CanuiL 



I pint of 
Broth, or A 
lb. of Bread, 
or Rice Pad- 
ding, or 
I pint Beef 
Tea, or a 
Chop, or 
Fish. 



Spoon.or 
Fbtbeui 



I lb. Bread. 



1 pint Tea, 

with Sugar 

and Muk. 



Barley 
Water. 



1 Dint Tea, 

with Sugar 

andMUk. 



iNcumx 

BX.BS' Dl 



f lb. Bread. 
i lb. Meat 
ftlb.Pbtatoea 
k pint Milk. 
I pC. Porter. 



7. MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL. 



Breaks ( 
faet.A 


DiJBTA CARNII 
OB 

Mbat Dibt. 


1 

DiJBTA JUSOULI Dura LACTII DliBTASlMPLBJI 
OB OB OB 

Soup Dibt. Milk Dibt. Simplb Dibt. 


Canckb 
Dibt. 


la OS. Bread. 

ft 

1 pint Milk. 


la ox. Bread. 
IpintBCilk. 


la OS. Bread. 
1 pint Milk. 


6ox. Bread. 

Ipint Barley- 
water. 


laos. 

BTMd. 

41b.Meat. 

41b. F6- 

Utoea. 

lAlk. 




Pkpeidane'Paiiente, 










Dinner < 


^lb.Pototoes.4oz. 
dressed meat (beef 
or mutton), roast 
and boUed alter- 
nately, 4 days. 

4 ox. Meat in Soup, 
8 days. 

Surgeon^ PoHenie, 


I pint Soup, 
made with 4 
ox. Beef, alter- 
nately with 1 
pint of Broth 
with Barley. 


k pint Milk 
with Rice Pud- 
ding, 4 days, 
and^with fit- 
ter Pudding 
• days. 


IpintGmd. 




\ 


fib. Potatoes 4 OB. 
dressed meat (beef 
or mutton), roast 
and boiled alter- 
nately. 










1 
Supper 


1 pint Gruel alter- 
nately, with 1 pint 
of Barley-water. 


IpintOriMl. 


i pint Milk, or 
Ipintofgnid. 


Ipint of Gmd 
or Barley- 
water. 





DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 



509 



a KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL. 



Breakfaat ^ 
Dinner,. \ 
Supper., < 



Full Dibt. 



1 pint Beer, or 
I pint Porter. 
14 ox. Bread. 

IpintBfilk 
Porridge. 

4 lb. Mc«t. 
lib. PoUtoea. 

1 pint Milk 
ronidge. 



MiDDLB 

Dibt. 



14 01. Bread. 

1 pint Milk 
Porridge. 

i lb. Meat. 
4lb. PoUtoea. 

1 pint MOk 
Porridge. 



Milk Dibt. 



1 lb. BnMl. Sim, Bread. 



I pint Milk. 
1 pint Milk. 
1 pint Omel. 



Low Dibt. 



1 pint Omel. 

1 pint Broth. 

[pint Mil 
Jrorncige. 



Fkybe Dibt, 



1 pint Gruel. 

3 pints Barley 
WMer. 

1 pint Milk I 1 pint Milk 
Porridge. 



9. NORTH LONDON HOSPITAL. 



Daily ..' 


Full Dibt. 


Middle Dibt. 


Low Dibt. 


Milk Dibt. 


16 OS. Bread. 

1 pint Milk. 

I lb. Meat and 4 lb. 

Potatoea 4 daya. 
1 pint Sonp or Sice 

three daya. 


16 01. Bread. " 
i pint Milk. 
1 pint Soap or 


8 0S. Bread, 
i pint MQk. 
Oatmeal for 
GmeU 


17 OS. Bread. 
3pintaMilk. 



10. DREADNOUGHT HOSPITAL SHIP. 



BreiUtftutl 



Dinner.. 



I 



^Supper. . . . 



Full Dibt. 



1 pint Tea. 
lib. Bread. 

9 lb. Meat 

jib. of Pota- 
toea. 
apintaBeer 
(if ordered). 

1 pint Broth. 



Ordinabt 
Dibt. 



Ditto. 
Ditto. 

4 lb. of Meat 
41b. ofPota- 

toea. 
1 pint of Beer 
(if ordered). 

1 pint Broth, 
or Gruel. 



Low Dibt. 



Ditto. 
4 lb. Bread. 



IphitofBeef 
Tea. 



1 pint Gmel, 

or Milk 
(if ordered). 



Milk Dibt. 



Ditto, 
lib. Bread. 



IpintBfilk. 



1 pint MOk. 



Fbtbk Dibt. 



Ditto. 



Gniel. 



GmdjOrBar- 
ley water. 



Dr. Carpenter * observes that " there can be little 



* Principles qf Human Physiology, p. 3S4. 



510 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

doubt that, as a whole, the diet of patients in English 
hospitals is much too high, being far better than that 
to which the same class of persons is accustomed in 
health : this is attended with injury to the patients, 
and with increased expense to the institution ; and it 
has further the injurious effect of tempting the patients 
to stay in the hospital for a longer time than is 
necessary.** 

Taking the dietaries of the metropolitan hospitals 
as fair samples of those of the English hospitals 
generally, I am quite willing to admit that the full 
diet of these establishments is, in many cases, '^ better 
than that to which the same class of persons is 
accustomed in health;" but I by no means agree 
with Dr. Carpenter in his sweeping assertion that 
it is " much too high." That life may be sup- 
ported on a more restricted diet cannot be denied ; 
but I agree with the Rev. Mr. Porteus, in his 
letter * to the citizens of Glasgow, that '^ it is a 
difficult matter to ascertain what is necessary to pre- 
serve life/* and that, " wherever the starving point 
lies, the managers of charity funds should endeavour 
to be above it.'* 

In framing dietaries for the public hospitals, it is 
necessary to adapt them to the wants of the average 
of the patients. No diet scale can be formed which 
will not be open to objection in individual cases ; but 



* See Mr. Mott's report, in Tie Second Aimital Report qf ike Poor 
Law ComtmuUmers. 



DIETARIES FOR THE SICK. 511 

I contend as a whole the dietaries of the metropolitan 
hospitals are unobjectionable. To take the hospital 
(London Hospital, Mile End) with which I am con- 
nected, as an example, I may observe, that it is much 
more common to hear the patients complain of the 
insufficiency, than of the superabundance, of its full 
diet. Many of them are strong, healthy men, as sailors, 
accustomed to eat heartily, and who have received some 
accident which has led >to their admission into the 
hospital. Others are convalescents from long and 
lingering illnesses, with depressed vital powers, which 
require, not merely to be maintained, but to be reno- 
vated or raised to the healthy standard. The rations 
allowed are not, in general, greater, but oftentimes less, 
than can be eaten with appetite ; but should, in any 
particular case, the quantity served out be more than 
is requisite, it is the duty of the medical officer to 
place such patient on a more limited diet. 

The objection raised by Dr. Carpenter to the diet of 
the English hospitals, that it has '^ the injurious effect 
of tempting the patients to stay in the hospital for a 
longer time than is necessary," would be valid, if these 
establishments were compelled to retain the patients 
as long as they are disposed to stay ; but such is not 
the case. They are discharged by the surgeon or 
physician, under whose care they have been placed, as 
soon as their state of health permits this to be done 
with safety. 



oli 



COMPOUND AUMBNTS. 



II. DIETARIES OP ROYAL XAVAL HOSPITALS AND 

MARINE INFIRMARIES. 



IVseforMattOB.... 
Pxnuftwi or GneH 
HcftM tott tooch 

Ba 

8a 

Vi 

Tea 

SoJFir 

Milk {£J St :::::: 

BroCh 

(Wine ' ll 

Forci«ii{ or ". ffc 

iFiDrter s^ 

¥€•1 ! 

Fowls - 

Fish 

I 

Rice or Floor pod- j 
<iiny J 




14 ditto 
• ditto 

16 ditto 
4ditto 

16 ditto 
l-6clu <tf • pint 
• 

1 pint i 
Spwt» 
U pinto 

1 pint 



li pinto ; 

4Qcb qoaatitica ' 
in lien of beef i 
or Biottoa M I 
the medical ! 
ofl&cer may 
pmcribe. 
kt the difcretion 
of the medical '• 
officer. I 



14 ditto 
6ditto 

16 ditto 
4ditto 

16 ditto 



I 



« ditto 
16 ditto 
ofpiat 14ch»of pint 

Iditto 

iditto 





Ipint 
U pinto 
lint 



9Ddit«o I 
^ » of a p iat . 



iV0f«.— Two draclimsof ■oocboBf tea, 8 drachms of MmeoTado ragmr, aikd 
of a pint of milk, to be allowed to each patient Ibr a pint of tea morning and erenii^. 



The meat for the fUl and half diet it to be boiled tofcther, with the 14 dracfai 
Scotch barley, 8 drachma of onions, 1 dradim of punkj, and 16 drachms of cnbi 
for erery pint of broth ; or, at the discretion of the medical oAccra, 8 drachnia'.. 
carroto aira 8 dradims (MTtomips, in lien of the csbbafe, which win mske a snAcicBt 
quantity of cood broth to allow a pint to each on fhll and half diet, and half a pint to 
each on low diet :— 



Bi€€ PudMug.—YMch to contain 

Rice Soi. 

8iunr lot. 

Milk Ipint 

Sw» >5io. 

Cmnamon I blade 



FUmr Pmddimg.^EMch to contain 



Floor 4oi. 

loa. 

Ipint 

Ens 1 No. 

Ofngcr < 



SMinr 
Milk.. 



gniad 



DIETARIES FOR THE INSANE. 



513 



12. ROYAL ORDNANCE HOSPITALS. 



ESTABLISHED DIET TABLE. 



Mbalb. 



Fbybr. 



Low. 



Half. 



Full. 



Common 
Deinks. 



Breakfast { 



Dinner 



Supper . . I 



One Pint of 
Tea. 



One Pint of 
WaterGruel 

Bread, 4Ib. 



One Pint of 
Tea 



One Pint of 
Tea 

Broth or \, p._,^ 
BeefTea/*"^* 

Bread ^Ib. 

Meat i\h. 

(To make Broth) 
Potatoes.... ilb. 

One Pint of 
Rice Gmel 



One Pint of One Pint of 
MilkPorridi^ MilkPonridge 



Meat ilb. 

Bread ..|lb. 
Broth IPint 
Potatoes 1 lb. 



One Pint of 
Rice Gruel 



Meat. . . . ) lb. 
Bread ..lib. 
Broth 1 Pint 
Potatoes i^lb. 
Beer . . I Pint 

One Pint of 
Rice Gruel 



Toast and 
Water 

Acidulated 
Drink 

or Cream of 

Tartar and 

Water 



The Fbvbr Diet is adapted to such cases as will not allow of any excitement flrom 
animal food, in the shape of Broth or otherwise : extras, therefore, to this rate of Diet, 
are to be given with the same view, except in cases of early convalescence from Febrile 
Diseases, and of such as are attended with great debility. The Bread is for Panado or 
Toast and Water. 

It is to be considered a General Rate that extras are to be ordered in addition to the 
Fever Diet. In particular cases, however. Rice or Bread Pudding, Sago, an increased 
quantity of Breao, or other similar articles, may be added to the low diet. 

Milk Diet is to be formed bv the substitution of one pint of Milk for Tea, either in the 
Fever or Low Diet, for Breaknst or Supper, or both, at the discretion of the prescribing 
Medical Officer. 

The Meat mentioned in the three first classes of Diet is to be Beef and Mutton 
alternately ; and the best pieces for making Broth are to be selected. 

In particular cases Coffee may be ordered instead of Tea. 

As the Diet Table provides liberally for almost every case of Disease that can occur in 
Hospital Practice, Medical Officers are strictly to adhere to it, unless very peculiar cir- 
cumstances render a deviation unavoidable. The Diet ordered for Convalescents should 
always be increased gradually, and with discrimination. 



The following proportions of Articles are to be allowed for those parts of the above- 
mentioned Diet to which they belong :— 

Tea for one Meal Tea ^ ounce, Sunr ) ounce. Milk k gill. 

Coffee Coffee i ounce. Sugar | ounce, Milk 1 gill. 

Milk Porridge Oatmeal 14 ounce. Milk I gill. Salt i ounce. 

Rice Gruel Rice 14 ounce. Sugar 4 ounce. Milk 1 gilL 

Water GrueL Oatmeal 14 otmce. Sugar 4 ounce. 

Broth Oatmeal 2 ounce. JBarley | ounce. Salt 4 ounce. 

Sago for one allowance. . Sago 1 ounc«> Sugar 4 ounce. Water 2 pint^Wine may be 

added at the discretion of the Medical Officer. 

Rice Pudding Rice 3 ounces. Egg 1, Sugar 1 ounce, Milk 4 pint. Cinna- 
mon 1 Scruple. 

Bread Pudding Bread (from the Man's aUowance) 3 ounces, Milk 14 gill, 

Egg 1, a little Salt, and a few grains of Ginger, Butter 
4 ounce, to smear the inside of the Basin. 



7. DIETARIES FOR THE INSANE. 



I have selected the diet tables of Haiiwell Lunatic 
Asylum^ Bethlem Hospital, and St. Luke's Hospital, 
as examples of the dietaries of public establishments, 
for the reception of the insane. 



L L 



514 COMPOUND ALIMENTd. 

It has been remarked by Dr. Conolly* that in all 
Lunatic Asylums " there are patients who require food 
in much greater proportion than others ; there are also 
some whose restlessness at night seems to be allayed 
by food, although they do not complain of hunger. 
Tlie capriciousness of some patients respecting taking 
food is only to be overcome by temporary indulgence 
and little exUa allowances. Without this considera- 
tion a great amount of discontent will occasionally 
prevail in the wards, particularly among the female 
patients ; and attention to this point is to them more 
important than the application of medicine.*' 

The same writer in another place f observes that 
the cases of refusal of food by insane patients are 
chiefly of two kinds : — " one, in which food is refused 
in consequence of some delusion, or some vow, or 
from mere obstinacy ; the patient being in tolerable 
bodily health, or certainly not incapable of digesting 
food J — another, in which it is utterly repugnant to a 
stomach in a high state of disorder.'* 

In the first description of cases, if all other means 
(such as varying the food, persuasion, &c.), " tried 
with the utmost patience, fail, it is justifiable and even 
necessary to introduce food into the stomach by arti- 
ficial means.'* This is usually effected by the stomach 
pump. " In the second, the condition of the patient 



• 7%e Report of the Resident Physician qf the Hanwett Ltmatic 
Asylum, presented to the Court of Quarter Sessions for Middlesex, ol 
the Michaelmas Sessions, 1840. 

t Tie Third Report qf the Resident Physician of the ComUy ^ 
MiddlestK Poi^^er Lmatic Asyhsm at Hanwell, Oct Ist, 1841. 



DIETARIES FOB THE INSANE. 515 

is entirely different. The tongue is red, or thickly- 
coated ; the bowels are disordered ; there is present a 
low kind of fever ; the brain is highly excited, and 
the patient almost too feeble to stand or walk except 
by sudden and frantic efforts. His face is pale, the 
eyes are sunk, and wild in their expression ; and the 
whole frame is emaciated to an extreme degree. All 
these are so many sure signs of death ensuing on 
long-continued disease of the brain, with all its com- 
plications. No where except in a Lunatic Asylum 
would such signs of sinking life be recorded as the 
result of food being refused. The aversion to take 
food arises, in such cases, as in cases of fever, from 
the general and terrible disorder of the system ; from 
a diseased condition of the stomach itself, among 
other organs, associated with a brain disturbed to 
excess. To force food into the enfeebled and dying 
stomach of such patients would not be sanctioned by 
any well-regulated hospital, or by any competent 
physician ; and their distinction ought not to be over- 
looked because they occur in an hospital for the 
insane.** 



516 



COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



1. THE HANWELL LUNATIC ASYLUM. 



Breai/ast 



(Malet.^MiSk thidLened with Oatmeal and Flmir, 1 pint; 
Bread, 6 oancea. 
PewuUet.—BveMdt 5 oancea; Batter, half an oonce; Sogmr, 4 
ounces per week ; Tea, 1 pint. 

^Sanday r Meat, 5 oancea, cooked. 

Tuesday 1 Yeast Damplini:, 4 oanees. 

Wednesday } Beer, half a pint. 

FHday CVegetablea. 



Dinner 



iSupper. 



Bxtrat. 



< 



SS&-::::::j«S- 



Saturday 



ounces, 
pint. 

Meat Pie Crust, 13 ounces. 
„ „ Meat, li ounces. 
, Beer, half a pint. 

(Ifa/et.— Bread, 6 ounces ; Cheese, 3 ounces ; Beer, half a pint. 
Female*.— ^\Xk thickened with Oatmeal and Floiir, 1 pint^ 
Bread, 5 ounces. 

To W crimen,— Ont-Aoor Workers to be aDowed bnlf n pint of 
Beer at II o'clock, a.m. and at 4 p.m. daily, and 1 ounce of 
Tea and 4 ounces of Sonr per wedu 

To Laundry Wownen^ &c.— Laundry Women to be allowed half 
a pint of Beer at 4 p.m., and tofj^her with Hetpera, &c. 1 
ounce of Tea and 4 ounces of Sugar per week, in lieu of the 
ordinary supper. 



2. BETHLEM HOSPITAL. 



BreaJtfart 



Dinner. 






Sujpper. 



Bxtrae. 



Gruel. 

/Every day Table Beer. 

Sunday ) 8 ox. cooked Meat. 

Tuesday V 8 os. Bread. 

Friday J VegeUbles. 

{Baked Batter Pudding. 
4 OK. Bread. 
1 02. Cheese or ^ ox. Butter. 

{Pea Soup, with Legs and Shins of Beef, 
8 ox. Bread. In the summer montlis. 
Baked Rice Pudding, 4 ox. Bread, 1 oa. 
Cheese, or 4 ox. Butter. 

Thursday Boiled Suet Puddings, 4 ox. Bread, 1 os. 

Cheese, or 4 ox. Butter. 

Saturday Rice Milk, 8 ox. Bread, 3 ox. Cheese, or 

\ 1 ox. Butter. 

5 8 ox. Bread, 3 ox. Cheese or 1 oz. Butter. 
^TkbleBeer. 

/For the Sick, Mutton Broth, Beef Tea, Puddings, Fish, Meat, 

Eggs. Wine, Strong Beer, &c. &c^ or whatever 

may oe ordered by the medical officer. 

r 8 ox. Roast Beef, 8 ox. Bread. (Ifeai.— If it 

riw«#««. n« 3 flOl on an ordinary Meat Day, the patiento 

carursiM uay , . < ^^^^ ^ ^^^^ Dinner on the following day). 

( A Mince Pie, 6d. 
iVffw Ysar*M Dam S^^^ Puddings, in addition to the ordinary 
^^ i dinner. 

Good Friday A Bunn, Id. 

Baeter Monday . . 8 ox. Roast Veal, 8 ox. Bread, Vegetables. 
WkU Monday ....8ox. Roast Vesl, 8 ox. Bread, Vegetablea. 

During the summer, about the month of August,^ ox. Bread, 
Bacon, Beans, 8 ox. Bread, 1 os. Butter. Fruit, consistiaff of 
Currants and Gooseberries, 
In the month of October, Apple Pies, in addition to the ordi- 
\ nary dinner. 




DIETARIES FOR PUERPERAL WOMEN. 



517 



BrtaJtfoti 



Dinner. 



Sufiper. 



3. ST. LUKE'S HOSPITAL. 



i 



(Males,— 2 pints of Qruel made of equal parts of Milk and 
Water with 2 ounces of Bread. 
Femai€$.—H pints Qruel with 3 ounces of Bread. 

'Daily Maiee.—l pint Beer. PenuUee.—i pint Beer. 

Sunday CMalee,—iib. Cooked Meat; Veir^tables; 6 ounces 

fVa A * * J Bread. 

Thursday f^^n^i^''^^^' Cooked Meat ; Vegetables; 6 ox. 

Monday . . f Malee.—i pints Broth * and 6 ounces of Bread. 
Friday I Fematee.—lh pint Broth and 6 ounces of Bread. 

!Malee.—l pint Broth. 4 ounces Bread, fib. Baked 
Suet Puddingr. 
Females.-! ■pint of Broth, 4 ounces Bread, i lb. 
Puddinr. 
(Males.— 2 pints Rice Milk, or 1 lb. Baked Rice 






cutnrrf.t/ ) Pudding:, and 6 ounces Bread, 

sanuroay. . < |?i^a,^e#.— U pint Rice Milk, or 9 lb. Puddingr, and 
\ C o ounces Bread. 



f 8 OK. Bread, and a ox. Cheese or Butter, or, on Wednesdays, 
1 pint Broth and 8 ounces Bread. 
Males.— I pint Beer ; Females, } pint of Beer. 



i 



* The Broth is made of the liquor of the preceding day*s meat, with pease, 9k. and 
3 stones of ft«sh meat, for every 50 patients. 



a DIETARIES FOR PUERPERAL WOMEN. 

The following are the dietaries employed at two 
Metropolitan Lying-in Hospitals. 



1. CITY OF LONDON LYING-IN HOSPITAL. 



BreaJtfast.—TttL and Bread and Butter, ad libitum. 

Dinner.— Broth or Gruel until the third day, after which Boiled Mutton and Broth. 

Tea.—AB Breakfast 

Supper. — Omel until after the ninth day : then Bread and Cheese and Beer. 

should the patient be delicate she is allowed Wine, Fish, Light Puddings, or any 
other thing she may fancy. 

In cases of disease the diet is under the direction of the medical officers. 

¥nien the mother is prcrcntcd suckling, the child is suckled by some other patient, 
or is fed with Arrow-root, or a little of the Gruel prepared for the mother. 



2. GENERAL LYING-IN HOSPITAL, WESTMINSTER. 



Dr. Rigby informs me that there is no peculiar dietary. GrueL with Bread and 
Butter and Tea, is the chief diet for the first three davs ; then a little Broth or Light 
Pudding ; so that by the fifth day or so Meat is permitted. 

If the mother be unable to suckle, the infimt is occasionally fed with Gruel or equal 
parts of Milk and Water slightly sweetened. 



618 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 



Chap. V. — On the Dietetical Regimen suited Jar LHS" 
ordered States of the Digestive Organs. 

In consequence of the great extent to which the 
precedmg parts of this work have run out, — an extent 
considerably greater than was originally contem- 
plated, — ^I am under the necessity of compressing the 
subjects of this chapter into a much narrower compass 
than was at first proposed. Most of them, however, 
have already been incidentally referred to; and the 
principles, on which are founded the precepts, which I 
am aboiit to lay down, have been before sufficiently 
discussed. The present chapter is, in fact, a condensed 
and brief summary of some of the topics already 
examined. In order, therefore, to save repetition, I 
shall put within brackets the pages at which the dif- 
ferent points under examination have been respec- 
tively considered. 

The subjects of the present chapter may be conve- 
niently arranged under the following heads :^ 

1. Cookery of Foods. 

2. Times of Eating. 

3. Quantity of Food taken at one meal. 

4. Conduct before, at, and after eating. 

5. Nature and Quality of the Food eaten. 

• 

1. Cookery of Foods. — ^The influence of cookery on 
food I have on several occasions already referred to 
(see pp. 126, 191, 208, 211, 234, 238, 270, 286, 446, 
&c.) 

Foods possessing an organized texture, as animal 



BOILED FOOD. 519 

flesh and amylaceous substances, require to be cooked 
previous to use (see p. 445). To this statement tlie 
oyster is an exception (see p. 295) ; the raw animal 
being more digestible than the cooked one. Apples, 
pearjs, and some other fruits, likewise form exceptions. 

By salting, smoking, and pickling (see pp. 227 and 
286) the animal textures become harder and more 
indigestible; and foods thus prepared are, therefore, 
unfitted for the use of dyspeptics. From this state- 
ment bacon must, in some cases, be excepted ; as it 
occasionally proves more digestible than the fresh fat 
(see p. 173). 

Sausages and cured meats occasionally acquire de- 
leterious qualities by keeping (see p. 300). 

The ordinary operations of the cook may be reduced 
to five in number; viz. boiling, roasting, broiling, 
baking, and frying. 

Boiling is the operation by far the best suited for 
the dyspeptic, the convalescent, and the sick. In the 
case of vegetables, it eflfects the solution of gummy 
and saccharine substances, and the expulsion, wholly 
or partially, of volatile oil (see p. 380) ; while starch 
grains are ruptured and partially dissolved (see 
p. 126), and albuminous and fibrinous liquids coagu- 
lated (see p. 375). The changes which it effects on 
animal flesh have already been fully considered (see 
pp. 408-409). Over-boiling proves injurious to cer- 
tain substances, as to eggs (see pp. 191 and 270), — 
which are thereby hardened, and rendered difficult of 
digestion, — and to the gelatinous foods, which become 
by it both less digestible and less nutritive (see pp. 
208 and 211). Boiling renders potatoes more fit for 



520 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

u«e, not merely by promoting their digestibility and 
nutritive power, but also by extracting or destroying 
noxious matter in the tuber (see p. 375). Over-boil- 
ing, however, though it inay promote their digestibility, 
probably lessens their nutritive quality (see p. 377), 
Foliaceous parts, as of cabbages, greens, &c. require 
well boiling to render them digestible. 

Roastiriffy next to boiling, is the best method of 
preparing food for dyspeptics. It splits and renders 
more or less soluble starch grains, and, therefore, serves 
to make some vegetables more digestible and nutri- 
tive than they would be in the raw state ; as apples 
(see p. 349) and potatoes. It also coagulates the 
vegetable albumen. It deprives flesh of part of its 
water, liquefies the fat, which thereby partially escapes 
during the operation, coagulates the albumen, and 
corrugates the fibrine. It does not appear that it 
effects any change in the composition of the proteina- 
ceous constituent of meat (see p. 238). Roasted meat 
should be neither over-dmie nor under-done. It is a 
popular opinion that it is much more nourishing when 
under--done ; but this is, probably, an error. For the 
juice, which is more abundant in the under-dressed 
meat, is almost entirely aqueous, and can possess very 
slightly nutritive qualities. Moreover, by the pro- 
longed roasting, the water of the juice is evaporated^ 
the nutritive matter almost entirely remaining in the 
cooked meat; the composition of the solid or dry 
matter of which is, as I have already stated, identical 
with that of raw meat. So that well-done meat, pro- 
bably, differs essentially from meat under-dressed, in 
having a little less both of water and fat, while it has 



TIMES OF EATING. 521 

the additional advantage of being more digestible. By 
roasting^ the gelatine is not extracted, as in the 
operation of boiling. 

Broiling eflfects the same changes in meat as those 
produced by roasting, but more rapidly; so that while 
the outside is scorched, the inside retains its juiciness. 
Broiled meat, like roasted meat, is more savoury, 
though somewhat less fitted for very delicate stomachs, 
than boiled meat. A well-broiled mutton chop, how- 
ever, is, for the most part, an unobjectionable dish for 
the dyspeptic. 

Baking is a more objectionable process than any of 
the preceding. Though the general effects produced 
by it are analogous to those of roasting and boiling, 
yet meat so cooked is less fitted for delicate stomachs 
in consequence of being more impregnated with em- 
pyreumatic oil. From an experiment already related 
(see pp. 376 and 377), it appears that baked potatoes 
are less nutritive than boiled Ones. The dyspeptic will 
act wisely in avoiding the use of all baked foods, ex- 
cept, perhaps, baked amylaceous puddings, as puddings 
made with sago, tapioca, arrow-root, rice, &c. 

Frying is of all culinary operations the most 
objectionable; fried foods being more obnoxious to 
the digestive organs than foods prepared by any other 
methods. The reason of this I have already explained 
(see p. 173). Invalids, convalescents, and dyspeptics, 
will, therefore, do well to eschew this method of 
cookery ; and abstain from the use of eggs, omelettes, 
pancakes, fritters, fish, livers, and other dishes cooked 
by frying. 

2. Times of Eating, — I have already fully discussed 



522 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

this topic (see p. 456), It is to be remembered that 
the practice of eating a little and often is, for the most 
part, injurious ; and that the adoption of fixed periods 
for taking food is much more conducive to health 
than eating at irregular times. The length of the 
interval between the meals must, however, be regulated 
by circumstances ; such as the rapidity of digestion^ 
the age, the amount of fatigue or labour, &c. In 
some persons (as those of sluggish temperament) 
digestion is much slower than in others ; and in such 
the interval between the meals ought to be more pro- 
longed, in order that fresh food may not be introduced 
into the stomach before that of the previous meal has 
been disposed of. Children, old persons, and those 
who are engaged in laborious occupations, require 
food at shorter intervals. 

Breakfast should in general be taken soon after 
rising, for reasons already assigned (see p. 469). Din- 
ner should follow at an interval of about five hours^ 
more or less according to circumstances. The practice 
of dining late is objectionable for the dyspeptic ; the 
most natural and healthy dinner-time being about the 
middle of the day. Luncheon is admissible only 
where dinner is unavoidably late, or where fatigue 
has been endured. Tea or a liquid meal may succeed 
dinner at an interval of three or four hours. Supper 
for those who dine late is unnecessary. 

3. Quantity of Food taken at one Meal. — The 
quantity of food proper to be taken at one meal can 
only be determined by the feelings of the patient, as 
it varies in different individuals, and under different 
circumstances. It is impossible, therefore, to affix a 



QUANTITY OF FOOD TAKEN. 523 

Standard of weights or measures by which this can be 
ascertained. On this point I cannot do better than 
quote the following observations of Dr. Beaumont : — 
" There appears to be a sense of perfect intelligence 
conveyed from the stomach to the encephalic centre, 
which, in health, invariably dictates what quantity of 
aliment (responding to the sense of hunger and its 
due satisfaction) is naturally required for the purposes 
of life ; and which, if noticed and properly attended 
to, would prove the most salutary monitor of health, 
and effectual preventive of, and restorative from, 
disease. It is not the sense of satiety^ for this is 
beyond the point of healthful indulgence, and is 
Nature's earliest indication of an abuse and overburthen 
of her powers to replenish the system. It occurs 
immediately previous to this, and may be known by 
the pleasurable sensation of perfect satis/action, ease, 
and quiescence of body and mind. It is when the 
stomach says enough^ and is distinguished from 
satiety by the difference of the sensations — ^the former 
feeling enough — the latter too much. The first is pro- 
duced by the timely reception into the stomach of 
proper aliment, in exact proportion to the require- 
ments of nature, for the perfect digestion of which a 
definite quantity of gastric juice is furnished by the 
proper gastric apparatus. But to effect this most 
agreeable of all sensations and conditions — the real 
Elysian satisfaction of the reasonable epicure — timely 
attention must be paid to the preliminary processes, 
such as thoi*ough mastication, and moderate or slow 
deglutition. These are indispensable to the due and 
natural supply of the stomach at the stated periods of 



524 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

alimentation ; for if food be swallowed too fast, and 
pass into the stomach imperfectly masticated^ too 
much is received in a short time, and in too imperfect 
a state of preparation, to be disposed of by the gastric 
jmce. 

4. Conduct be/ore, at, and after eating. — Excessive 
fatigue, whether^mental or bodily, immediately before 
a meal, disturbs the digestive function. The stomach 
participates with the other parts of the system in the 
exhaustion, and its function is thereby impaired. A 
little rest before eating is, therefore, under such 
circumstances, desirable. Hence the wisdom and 
advantage ^^ of appropriating half an hour to any 
light occupation, such as dressing, before setting down 
to dinner*." 

While at meals eat slowly, masticate thoroughly, 
and cease as soon as a feeling of satisfaction is per- 
ceived. Indulgence in the use of a variety of food at 
one meal leads to the overburthening of the stomach 
by provoking the appetite beyond its natural extent. 
This the dyspeptic should carefully avoid. 

I have already expressed my opinion of the pro- 
priety of repose after dinner (see pp. 446 and 447^. 
The Inspectors of Prisons seem to have been influenced 
by a similar opinion when they came to the conclu- 
sion ^' that prisoners should not be set to work 
immediately after any meal" (see p. 492). But the 
after-dinner repose should be followed by moderate 
exercise. 

5. Nature and Quality of the Food eaten. — I have 

• Dr. Combe, The Pkynohgy qf DigeitUm, p. 260. 4th ed. 



NATURE AND QUALITY OF FOOD. 625 

already remarked (see p. 230) that man is an omni- 
vorous animal ; that is, he requires both animal and 
vegetable food. 

Several alimentary principles (fibrine, albumen, 
caseine, oil, and sugar) are found in both animal and 
vegetable foods. But the nutritive principles of animal 
foods are intermixed with a much smaller proportion 
of non-nutritive substances than those of vegetable 
foods. Hence animal diet yields a much larger 
amount of nourishment than vegetable diet. 

Vegetable food requires for its digestion more time, 
and probably greater power of the gastric organs, than 
animal food. Moreover, it is more apt to create fla- 
tulency and acescency than the latter. " Its digesti- 
bility is, however, dependent upon the same laws as 
those that govern the solution of animal food ; and it 
is facilitated by division and tenderness*.** 

" Bulk is, perhaps, nearly as necessary to the arti- 
cles of diet as the nutrient principle. They should 
be so managed that one shall be in proportion to the 
other. Too highly nutritive diet is, probably, as fatal 
to the prolongation of life and health as that which 
contains an insufficient quantity of nutriment. It 
has been ascertained that carnivorous animals will 
not live on highly concentrated food alonef .** (See 
p. 466). 

According to Dr. Beaumont's observations, solid 
food is sooner digested than liquid food. Fluids 



• Dr. Beaumont, Eaperimenis and Obsermtums on the Gastric Juices 
p. 27. Edinb. ed. 1838. 
t Ibid. p. 31. 



526 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

holding proteinaceous substances (albumen or caserne) 
in solution, as milk or raw egg, are coagulated in the 
stomach before they suffer the action of the gastric 
juice, which subsequently redissolves them. Solutions 
of gelatine (as strong broths and soups) being unsus- 
ceptible of coagulation, are not digested imtil they 
have acquired a more solid consistence by the absorp- 
tion of their more watery part. These observations* 
therefore, suggest some useful practical applications. 
Persons with weak stomachs . should not indulge in 
the copious use of liquid food. 

Acidity of stomach arises from the presence of acids 
derived either from the gastric vessels or from the food. 
The latter is the only source of acidity which it will 
be requisite for me to notice, and that so far only as 
may be necessary to explain the nature of the alimen- 
tary substances which develope acid. 

Lactic acid (see pp. 115 and 156) is one of the 
substances derived, in part at least, from the food. The 
alimentary principles which yield it are sugar, dextrine 
(starch gum), and gum:* those which furnish it with 



* The organic principles capable of yielding lactic acid have a coin- 
position analogous to that of the acid itself: that is, they consist of 
carbon and water (or its elements). 

Atoms, Aiomt. 

Lactic acid 12 carbon + 10 water. 

Starch 12 carbon + 10 water. 

Dextrine 12 carbon + 10 water. 

Cane sugar 12 carbon -i- 11 water. 

Gum 12 carbon + 11 water. 

Sugar of milk .... 12 carbon + 12 water. 

Grape sugar .... 12 carbon + 14 water. 

But in order to convert them into this acid, or, in other words, to 
effect what has been termed the lactic fermmtatiomy the presence of 



NATURE AND QUALITY OF FOOD. 527 

the most facility are sugar of milk and dextrine. The 
acidity of stomach which is produced in some dys- 
peptics by saccharine substances, arises from the 
developement of lactic acid. Milk also is apt to dis- 
agree with such individuals, not only in consequence 
of the difficult digestibility of its fatty constituent (the 
butter), but also on account of the conversion of its 
sugar into lactic acid. Both bread and beer contain 
dextrine, and are the occasional sources of this acid. 
The tendency which some farinaceous substances — as 
oatmeal (see pp. 156 and 326) and potato starch 
(p. 133) have to cause acidity of stomach, is owing, 
probably, to the formation first of dextrine, and 
afterwards of lactic acid. 

Some of the fatty acids are also produced in the 
stomach from the food. The volatile ones (as butyric 
acid from butter) are exceedingly obnoxious to this 
organ. The disagreeable sour and rancid eructations 
which sometimes follow the use of fatty foods, espe- 
cially of melted butter, are due to the developement of 
these acids. 

The difficult digestion of oils and fats I have on 
several occasions noticed (see p. 174); and to the 
remarks already offered on this subject I must refer 
my reader for further information. I have expressed 



an organic nitrogenized substance, which has been modified by ex- 
posure to the air, is necessary: Its influence is that of a kind of ferment* 
Diastase, caseine, and animal membrane (as that of the stomach), 
when they have been exposed to the air, act as ferments. According to 
Boutron and Fremy (Joum. de Pharm. t. xxyii. 1 841) mannite and 
viscid matter are not always simultaneously developed with lactic acid, 
as stated by some other chemists (see ante, p. 115). 



t 
m 



528 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

an opinion (see pp. 171 and 172), that in cases where 
these substances prove obnoxious to the stomachy it is 
in consequence of the evolution of the oily or fatty 
acids. In connexion w^ith this opinion I may refer to 
some recent observations of Dumas,* w^ho has sug- 
gested that the separation of the neutral fats into an 
acid and a base is probably effected by a kind of 
fermentation (which he denominates the fatly fer^ 
mentation) set up by an albuminous substance, aided 
by the presence of air, water, and a certain tempera- 
ture. Thus the facility with which butter becomes 
rancid depend? on the presence of caseine; from 
which it is necessary to separate it in order to its 
preservation. This is usually effected by fusion. The 
acid properties which the fats sometimes acquire in 
the stomach may arise from their having undergone 
some analogous change ; and Dumas suggests that the 
influence of pepsine on the fats should be examined. 

New bread, rolls, fancy bread, cakes (especially rich 
plum cakes), and hot buttered toast, should be care- 
fully avoided by the dyspeptic. Good loaf bread, when 
a day old, is in general unobjectionable : it may be 
taken either in the form of dry toast, or, in some cases^ 
thinly covered with butter. When the ordinary loaf 
bread disagrees with the patient, Dodson's unfcrmenled 
bread (see p. 319) maybe tried. Biscuits, on account 
of their compactness, are slow of digestion, though 
they sometimes suit dyspeptics better than fermented 
bread. Pastry, suet and yeast pudding, and pancake 



• Traiti de Chimie applique auac Arts, t. vi. 1843. 



NATURE AND QUALITY OF FOOD. 529 

are totally unfit for those troubled with a delicate 
stomach (see p. 322). 

Of butcher's meat, mutton and beef are best fitted 
for the dyspeptic. They should be cooked by boiling, 
roasting, or broiling; and moderately well dressed. 
With some persons, however, mutton is apt to dis- 
agree (see p. 242) ; with others I have occasionally 
found beef to disagree. The young meats (lamb and 
veal) are less adapted for persons troubled with indi- 
gestion, being both less indigestible and nutritive than 
the older meats. Veal is further objectionable on ac- 
count of the melted butter and stuffing usually eaten 
with it. Pork should be avoided by dyspeptics ; but 
pickled pork and bacon are, in general, less objection- 
able than fresh pork (see p. 175). 

Venison is one of the most digestible of meats (see 
p. 239) ; but it is too savoury and stimulating for 
convalescents. The flesh of the rabbit is light, and 
easy of digestion. 

Of birds, the white-fleshed, as the common fowl, 
are best fitted for dyspeptics and invalids, on account 
of their meat being readily digestible, moderately 
nutritious, and not too stimulating. They are best 
cooked by boiling, and should be eaten without 
melted butter. Game, as the pheasant and par- 
tridge, is richer and more stimulating. The aquatic 
birds, as the duck and goose, are more diflScult of 
digestion on account of their flesh being permeated 
with fat; and they are, therefore, unfit for weak 
stomachs. 

The white fish (as the sole and whiting) form light 

M M 



530 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

and easily digestible articles of food, and are well 
adapted for the use of dyspeptics, invalids, and con- 
valescents. They should be cooked by boiling, and 
eaten without melted butter. Salmon, eels, herrings, 
and sprats, abound in oil, and on that account are 
objectionable. Cured fish of all kinds are unfit for 
persons with a delicate stomach. 

Shell fish, with the exception of the oyster, are 
difficult of digestion, and should be avoided by the 
dyspeptic. 

Mealy potatoes, when well boiled, are readily diges- 
tible ; and, in general, are an unobjectionable article 
of food. The cabbage tribe is somewhat uncertain : 
when sufficiently cooked it is frequently taken by 
dyspeptics without any inconvenience; but at other 
times it proves indigestible, and occasions flatulence. 
Pease and beans, especially when old, are difficult of 
digestion, and apt to cause flatulence. 

The oily seeds, as the walnut, the filbert, and the 
almond, are highly indigestible foods. 

Of the fleshy fruits, the grape is the safest. Apples 
and pears should be roasted before use. Oranges, 
when quite ripe, seldom prove injurious ; unripe ones, 
however, are apt to gripe. 

For drink, simple water or toast water are unobjec- 
tionable. In many cases the limited use of weak table 
ale is unattended with ill effects (see p. 417). Malt 
liquor of all kinds, in some instances, proves in- 
jurious, creating flatulence and acidity, and otherwise 
disturbing the digestive functions. In such cases a 
small quantity of sherry wine may be substituted. 



NATUBE AND QUALITY OF FOOD. 531 

Dr. Paris states, that, in some cases of dyspepsia, wine 
and beer equally disagree with the stomach, producing 
acidity and other distressing symptoms ; and in such, 
he observes, " very weak spirit may, perhaps, be taken 
with advantage/* To the accuracy of this observation 
I can bear testimony, having repeatedly found the 
substitution of a weak spirit preferable to fermented 
liquids. 

A weak infusion of black tea rarely proves inju^ 
rious (see p. 398 et seq.) Coffee, employed mode- 
rately, is, in general, a wholesome beverage (see 
p. 401 et seq.) Chocolate and cocoa are objectionable 
in some cases, on account of their oily ingredient (see 
pp. 404 and 405). But to all these statements ex- 
ceptions occasionally are met with. 

I have already stated (see p. 436) that many of 
the substances called condiments are, in £Bu;t, aliments ; 
and as such their dietetical properties have already 
been alluded to. But the hot and pungent condi- 
ments, such as pepper, cayenne, mustard, &c. as well 
as the ingredients of some of the sauces, cannot be 
regarded as alimentary. They act as stimulants to 
4he stomach, and though, when used very moderately, 
they may not prove injurious, it can scarcely be 
doubted that their free employment must be hurtful to 
the dyspeptic, not only by provoking the appetite 
beyond its natural limit, but also by exciting the 
stomach itself. On this subject, however, I have 
already offered some remarks, to which the reader is 
referred (see p. 438.) 

I do not think it necessary to enter further into 



532 COMPOUND ALIMENTS. 

tlie digestible properties of aliments, and their suita- 
bility to the dyspeptic, as these subjects have been 
already fully discussed in previous parts of this 
work. 



INDEX. 



A. 

rAGK 

Abstemious diet . . . 502 

Acid, acetic .... 148 
** ** conversion of, into 
carbonic acid and 
water . . 28 

** benzoic, conversion of, into 

hipparic acid . . 43 
" caffeic . . . .401 
" carbonic, quantity of, pro- 
duced in tbe system . 1 1 
" cerebric .... 243 
" choleic . . . .224 
** citric .... 151 
** hippnric . . .43 

hydrocyanic or prussic . 341 
lactic or milk . . .156 
" malic .... 155 
" of tartar . . . .153 
** oxalic .... 155 
*' pectic .... 141 
pyroligneous . .149 

tannic .... 156 
tanno-caffeic . .401 

tartaric .... 153 



4t 



it 
tt 
*< 



44 



il 



t< 



conversion of, into 
carbonic add and 
water . 28 

uric, conversion of, into 
urea . . . .83 
Acidity of stomach, causes of . 526 
Addulatid drops . . .155 
Addulous alimentary prindple, the 146 
Acroldne or acroleon . .173 

Agricultural labourers, average 
quantity of food of . . 488 

Air, vita] 26 

Albumen, animal . . .190 
composition of, accord- 
ing to Dumas . . 39 
composition of, accord- 
ing to Mulder . . 66 
vegetable . . .200 

Alcohol 157 

** action of, on the liver . 52 
** obtained in bread-making 310 
an element of respiration 50 



<f 



11 



<( 



44 



44 



44 



44 



44 



44 



44 



44 



44 



(4 



44 



4« 



PAOB 

Alcoholic alimentary principle, the 157 

Ale 417 

*' Indian pale . . . .417 

" table 417 

Algas, or sea-weeda . . . 388 
Alimentary priuciple, the aqueous 78 
principles . .77 

containing an 
excess of 
oxygen . 25 
containing an 
excess of 
hydrogen . 23 
relative pro- 
portion of 
carbon and 
oxygen in . 27 
relative quan- 
tity of hy- 
drogen and 
oxygen in . 21 
whose oxygen 
and hydro- 
gen are in 
the same 
ratio as in 
water . 22 
Alimentiveness, or the propensity 

to eat and drink . .18 

Aliments, compound . . 230 

derived from flowerless 

plants . . . 386 
proper . . 230 

simple . , ,77 
solid . . .230 

Alkali, concrete acidulated . .153 

Allspice 185 

Almonds, sweet and bitter . . 340 
Ammonia in the atmosphere . 35 
** maple juice . . 38 

Amontillado . . . .431 
Amygdalin . . .341 

Amylaceous alimentary prindple 121 
Animal diet .... 499 
** substances, diseased and 

decayed . . 300 
Anthiarin 56 



44 



tt 



tt 



tt 



534 



INDEX. 



f » 



n 



•( 



Antucorbutic adds 

lemon juice 
potatoes 
■weetwort 
Aponearoies of mammalu 
Apples 
Apple tea . 
Apricot 

Arabine (soluble gum) 
Army rations 
Arrack or rack . 
Arrow-root, common or 
Indian . 

East Indian 

English 

Portland . 

Tahiti 
Arsenic in bones 
Artesian weUs 
Artidioke, the garden 

" the Jerusalem 
Asafoetida . 
Asparagine 
Asparagus 
Azote, fee nitrogen. 



»« 



•< 



<t 



<t 



PAoa 
. 147 
. 358 
374, 378 
. 329 
. 235 
. 349 
. 406 
. Z4A 
. 109 
. 483 
. 1G4 
West 
. 131 
. 134 
. 374 
. 134 
. 133 
4 
. 94 
. 385 
. 369 
. 65 
381, 396 
. 381 



B. 

Baccate or berried fruits . 350 

Baking 521 

Bark-bread (barkbrodj . 138 

Barley 327 

** bread . .328 

" meal . .328 

** patent . .327 

*' peari .327 

** Scotch . . .327 

••• water . .328 

" " compound . 328 

Batatas 369 

Bean, broad .... 337 
«* garden .... 337 
" kidney . .337 

*' scarlet .337 

" Windsor . .337 

Beef-brose or kale-brose . 325 

Beefilesh .237 

"tea 410 

Beer 412 

Beer-finings .... 219 
Beer-topers and spirit-tipplers, 
differenoe between . .54 

Bees 53 

Beet-root 368 

Bile, assists the chymification of 
oils and fats .... 171 

Birds 262 

'* eggs of .... 268 



Birds, fat of 
" the aquatic 
" the dark-ileshed 
'* the rapacious . 
<* the white-ileahed 
** risoera of 

Biscuit meal 
** powder . 

Biscuits, Abemethy . 

'* buttered 

" captains' 

(t 

It 



rxaa 
2€0 
265 
265 
265 
264 
266 
316 
315 
316 
316 
315 
315 
316 
246 
69 



m 



York . 
Blood 

'* corpuscles 
Bodies, organised or living, che- 
mical elements of 3 
** simple or undecompounded 2 

Boiling 519 

** loss of weight 
Bones 
Bone-black 
Bracotte 
Brandy 
" burnt 
*' mixture . 
Bread 

adulteration of 

barley 

black 

brown 

compressed 

Dodson's patent 

fancy 

^uten 

loaf 

new 

oat . 

piled or flaky 

pudding . 

formula for unfermented 



. 490 
. 232 
5 
. 251 
. 161 
. 152 
. 162 
. 309 
. 311 
. 32ft 
. 313 
. 139 
. 314 
. 319 
. 314 
. 314 
. 310 
. 313 
. 324 
. 310 
. 322 
. 320 
patent unfermented . . 316 
ship .... 315 

unfermented or unleayAed 315 
wheat .... 309 
Breads, of the light and elastic 
(spongy) unfermented . 316 

Breakfast 458 

Bright's farina .... 374 

Broccoli 382 

Broiling 520 

Broths and soups . 408 

Browning 119 

Buds and young shoots . 380 

BurgundT wine .... 436 
Butchers' meat .... 236 

Butter 179 

" cause of its becoming rancid 528 
" milk .260 



«« 



u 



tt 



«l 



tl 



«« 



«< 



t« 



<< 



If 



II 



II 



II 



II 



<l 



II 



II 



II 



INDEX. 



635 



Cabbage 



It 



lettuces 



<< 



tt 



II 



C. 

PAGE 

. 382 

. • • «3oO 

Cacao 403 

Caffeine 401 

Cagliari paste .... 308 

Cakes, plnm, &c. . .321 

'< Dodson's anfermented . 322 

Calavances .... 479 

Calcinm 73 

Calf 's sweetbread . .244 

Callipash and callipee .272 

Caramel 119 

Carbon ..... 6 
'* hydrates of . . . 22 

Carbonic acid, production of, in 
the system . 11, 28, 51, &c. 

Carrageen, or Irish moss . 389 

Carrageenin - 

Carrot 

Caseine, animal 

composition of, according 

to Dumas . 
quantity of, in milk 
y^^etable 

Caseum 

Cassada or cassava bread 

Cartilages of mammals 

Cauliflower, the 

Caviare . 

Celery 

Cellular tissue of mammals 

Cereal grains 

Cerebric acid 

Ceylon or Jafna moss « 

Champagne 

Charcoal, v^^etable 

Cheese 

Cherry, the 

Chestnut . 

Chicken . . . 
" broth . 

Chicory or succory 

Chloride of sodium 
** potassium 

Chlorine . 

Chlorophylle 

Chocolate . 

Choleic acid 

Choudrin . 

Chymosine 

Chymous mass of the dog, compo- 
sition of 

Cinnamon 

Citron, the 

Claret wines 

Clay, eaten as a luxury 

Climates, cold, remarks on 



145, 389 
. 368 
. 193 



39 
193 
201 
193 
131 
235 
382 
289 

65 
235 
305 
243 
390 
434 
6 
194 
161 
339 
264 
411 
402 
223 

75 

70 
381 
403 
224 
207 
441 

45 

185 

359 

435 

6 

15 



346, 



II 



<« 



Cloves 
Cocoa 

" nib . 
Cod . 

liver oil 

sounds 
Cockles 
Cocote 
Coffee 

** Dunn's essence 
Collin or oolla 

Condiments or seasoning agents 
Constipation, diet for 



of 



rAOB 

185 
405 
404 
280 
287 
220 
299 
252 
399 
402 
207 
436 
139. 349 



Cooked meat, loss in preparing and 

serving .... 490 

Cookery .... 445, 518 
Cooking, loss in . . . 490 

Corintbs, or currants . . . 354 

Com 304 

Corstorphin cream . .261 

Cos lettuces .... 385 
Crayfish, the sea . 293 

Cows' heels .... 223 

Crab 293 

Cranberry, the . . 351 

Cream 250 

*' clouted or Devonshire . 261 

Creatine 236 

Cremes 165 

Crustaceans .... 290 
Cucumber .... 360 

Cucurbitaceous fruits . 360 

Cnra^oa ..... 165 

Curd 193 

Cure de raisins .... 355 
Cures de petit lait . . 260 

Currants, red and black . 350 

Currant juice .... 350 
Currants or corinths . . . 354 



D. 



Dal 479 

Date 347 

Densham's farinaceous food . 309 

Dextrine . . 413, 414, 415 

DhoU 479 

Diabetes, diet for . . . 499 
Diamond, the .... 6 

Diastase 329 

Didym 2 

Diet 440 

abstemious .... 502 
animal .... 499 
common .... 499 
dry . . .84, 505 
fever 503 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



1 



536 



INDEX. 



Jjittf lif b . • « 
for diabetk psticnU 
fuU . 
lent . 

low . . . 
iD'at . 
milk . 
ipare . 
fpoon 
tbifl . 
TegeUble 



PAOK 

281, 507 
. 499 
. 499 
. 282 
. 504 
. 499 
. 501 
. 502 
. 503 
. 503 
. 502 



JHeUria 4G2 



" for children . 
** emigranta 



it 



t* 



«< 



<< 



it 



*t 



<• 



I* 



<( 



<( 



<• 



tt 



tt 



*t 



<i 



<i 



paopen 



oompantive 
riew of . 



pnsonen . 
puerperal women 
the insane 
the fick . 
troopt for India 



470 
483 
483 

487 
491 
517 
513 
497 
482 



pnaon 



464, 491 



<< 



i< 



i< 



it 



41 



<< 



tt 



tt 



*« 



«< 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



(• 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



<f 



tt 



tt 



tt 



t • 



470 
476 
516 



509 
517 



fiietary for fonndlinga in Fans 
tor orphani in Paris 
of Bethlem Hospital 
of Dreadnought Eloapital 
ship .... 
of the Citj of London 

Lying-in Hospital 
of the Foundling Hospital 474 
of the General Lying-in 

Hospital .517 

of Guy's Hospital . . 507 
of Han well Lunatic Asy- 
lum .... 516 
of the Infant Orphan Asy- 
lum .... 478 
of King's College Hospital 509 
of the London Hospital . 506 
of Marine Infirmaries . 512 
of the Merchant's Sea- 
man's Orphan Asylum 478 
of the Middlesex Hospital 508 
of Naval Hospitals . 512 

of the Naval Asylum . 475 
of North London Hospital 509 
of the Norwood Establish- 
ment for Children 
of the Royal Military Asy- 
lum .... 
of Royal Ordnance Hos- 
pitals .... 
of Soldiers 

of St. Bartholomew's Hos- 
pital .... 
of St. Georgia's Hospital . 
of St. Luke's Hospital 
of St. Thomas's Iloiipilal 



476 
475 

513 

483 

506 
507 
517 
507 



Dietary of the Naval 
t* 

Digcauon 



tt 

t« 

Dinner 

Drinks 
tt 

«t 

tt 
tt 

tt 
tt 

tt 
Dock 



tt 



rA«a 

. 478 

Hospital 508 

440 

Liebig's hypotiieBs of . 71 

xo 11 

. 461 

. 392, 529 

. 405 

istoxi- 

. 412 
. 393 



aridnloos 
aleobolic and 

eating . 
aromatic or 
containing 



emulsive or mUky 
mucilaginous, 

or saodiarine 
or liquid aliments 



. 408 
. 411 



392 
392 
263 



t< 
tt 



E. 

Eating, timet of. 

repose after 
conduct before, at 
after . 
EeU . 
Eggs 
" cannot support life 
** fi zed constituents of 
" flip . 

white or glaire of 
yolk of 
Elatcrin 
Elderberry 
Elements, d|nnical 
Endive, the 
Entophyta 
Entozoa 
Ergotism . 
Etserio 



ft 
tt 



456, 

447, 

and 



521 
524 

525 
281 
268 

44 
270 
271 
268 
269 

56 

351 

2 

381 

92 

92 
331 
364 



F. 



Farina, fossil .... 6 

Fats 528 

*' animal . . .182 

Fattening 53 

Farinaceous food for infants. 308, 374 
'* or starchy substances. 121 

Fecula 125 

Fermentation, digestive . 71, 441 
fatty . .528 

lactic . . 526 

panary . 310 

viscous .115 

• • • • 386 

• • ■ • Oo 



11 
tt 
tt 
it 



Ferns 
Ferrotypes 



INDEX. 



637 



tt 



<t 



t« 



(< 
II 
II 
l« 
II 
II 



PAGE 

Ferruginous compoaDds . 229 

Fibrine, animal . . . .189 
composition of, aecordmg 

to Dumas . , . .39 
composition of, according 

to Mulder . . .66 
vegetable . 260 

Rg, the 362 

Fish diet . . 283, 507 

methods of preserving . . 285 
milt of .289 

poison .... 301 
poisonous species of . . 283 
the roe or ovary of . . 288 
the viscera of . . . 286 
Fishes .... 274, 276 

Fixed oils 166 

Flesh 236 

** and blood of animals, com- 
position of the . 238 
** tenderness of . .238 
Flounder, the ... . 280 
Flour, wheaten .... 306 

Fluorine 76 

Flummery 325 

Food consumed by and excretions 

of a horse in 24 hours, table of. 41 
Food, digestibility of . . . 440 
** do. affected by circumstances 
relating to thefoods them- 
selves .... 442 
Foods, animal . . 231,525 

bulk of . . .525 

chemical elements of 2 

digestibility of, affected by 
circumstances reli^ng to 
the individual or organism 446 

524 
31 
522 
514 
525 
451 



ti 



tt 



ti 



it 



tt 
II 
II 
II 
II 
II 



nature and quality of 

nitrogenized 

quantity of, at a meal 

refusal of, by lunatics 

solid and liquid 

the nutritive qualities of 

vegetable . 
Fowl. 

Fruits, aurantiaceous . 
** cucurbitaceous . 
*' drupaceous or stone 

fleshy 

leguminous 
Frying 
Fnmet 

Fungi or mushrooms . 
Fungin 
Fur of tea kettles 



II 
II 



302, 525 
264 



. 356 
. 360 
. 344 
. 344 
. 362 
173, 521 
. 265 
. 390 
. 140 
. 88 



G. 



II 



tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
II 



rAOB 

Gastric Juice .71 

Gelatine altered by heat . 208 

Coromisrion, experiments 

made by the French 212, 455 
common , . . 207 
dry and hard . 220 

French .220 

from elastic tissues . 207 
Nelson's patent opaque . 220 
pale English machine-cut 220 

215 

205 

208 

. 163 

. 407 

. 316 

. 67 

. 207 

. 201 

. 201 

. 205 

. 201 

. 202 

215, 500 

. 265 

. 53 

20, 267 

. 351 



sugar . . 

Grelatinous alimentary principle 

*' substances 

Gin . 
Ginger beer 
Gingerbread 
Globules of the blood 
Glue . 
Gluten 

" Beccaria's 
" bread . 
** pure 
Glutinous matter 
Glycicoll . 
Gtoose 

'* fattening of 
** fatty liver of 
GkK>seberries 
Grormandizing powers of the natives 
of the Arctic Regions . 15 

Gourds 360 

Grape, the .... 351 

juice .... 353 
sugar . .113 

** not detected in the 

blood ... 48 

Greens 382 

Grenetine 220 



II 
tt 
tt 



Groats 
Gruel 

" used at Poorhouses 
Gums 

Gum Arabic losenges . 
pastes (p&tes) 
said to support life 
** water 
Gypsum, eaten . 
in water 



II 



II 



tt 



323 

324 

489 

108 

111 

111 

37 

110 

74 

96 



Garlir 



. 380 



H. 

Haddock, the 

Hard's farinaceous food 

Haricot 

Hartshorn 

H axel-nut . 

Hemp, Indian 

Herring 



280 
309 
302 
221 
339 
436 
281 



538 



INDEX. 



PAUK 



Hippuric acid, formation of, in the 
system 43 

Horse, food consumed by, and ex- 
cretions of . . . .41 

Hydrogen 21 



1. 



Iceland moss 


. 387 


Ichthyophagi 
Imperial . 
Indian com starch 


. 275 
. 154 
. 374 


Indigestion, diet for 
Insane, dietaries for . 


. 518 
. 513 


Iron 


. 66, 229 


Isinglass . . . . 


. 215 


** varieties of . 


. 217 



J. 



Jams 


. 145 


Jargonelle, the . 
Jellies, fruit 


. 348 
. 144 


Jelly, calf 's-foot 
** isinglass . 

Jerusalem artichoke 


. 210 

207—210 

. 140 

. 369 



K. 



Ketchup 439 

Kidney 245 

King's cup .... 357 

Kirschenwasser .... 165 



L. 

Lactalbumen 

Lactic acid 

Lactometer 

Lactncarium 

Laver 

Leaves and leafistalks 

Leeks 

Legumine . 

Leguminous fruits ; 

pods 
Lemonade 

" iced . 
Lemon and kali . 

" juice 

" " artificial 
Lemons 
Lentils 



. 193 
. 115, 156 
. 253 
. 385 
. 388 
. 381 
. 380 
. 201 



legumes or 

. 362 
. 357, 156 
. 357 
. 152 
. 356 
. 152 
. 356 
. 337 



PAGE 

Lettuce leaves .... 384 
** opium .... 385 
Lichenin, or feculoid . . .135 

Lichens . . . . .387 

Liebig's plastic elements of nutri- 
tion ... .31 
" elements of respiration 31 
Ligaments of mammals . 235 
Ligneous alimentary principle, the 135 
Lignine ; woody fibre . .135 
Lime . • .73, 228 
'* phosphate. . 73,117,228 
'' sulphate . . 74, 96 
Limpets ..... 299 
Liqueurs and compounds . .165 
Liquid aliments, or drinks . . 392 
Liquorice . . . . .120 
Liver, fatty, of the goose . .267 
'' the frequency of diseases of 
the, in tropical cUmates . .20 
Lobster, the ... . 292 
Luncheon ..... 460 



M. 

Macaroni . 

Madeira 

Magnesium 

Maize, or Indian com 

Malt 

** liquor 
Mammals . 

" fat of 
** muscles, or 
Mannacroup 
Mannite . 
Maraschino di zara 
Marmalade 
Marrow 

** the vegetable 
Meat, black 

" butcher's 

** diet 

" salted 

" white 
Melon, the 

** the water 
Milk 



almond 

and lime water 

animal 

artificial 



cocoa-nut 
cows' 
cream of 
diet . 



flesh 



. 308 
. 433 
. 75 
. 335 
. 329 
. 412 
. 232 
. 235 
of . 235 
. 307 
. 115 
. 165 
. 145 
. 181 
. 361 
. 237 
. 236 
. 499 
. 226 
. 237 
. 361 
. 361 
247, 250 
. 411 
. 259 
. 411 
. 261 
. 261 
. 412 
. 248 
. 251 
. 504 
. 261 



INDEX. 



539 



PAOK 

Miik.goati' .261 
" quantity of cream in cows' . 253 
" skimmed .... 251 
" snpplied to the London Hos- 
pital 254 

Molasses and treacle . .119 

Molkencnren .... 260 

MoUosks 293 

Mord, common . . .391 

Moss, carrageen or Irish . 389 

'* Ceylon, or Jafna . 390 

Mucilage Ill 

Mucilaginous or gummy alimen- 
tary principle, the * . .108 
Mulberry, the . . 363 

Muscle 231 

Muscular flesh .... 231 
Mushroom, fidd or cultivated . 391 
Mussel, the .298 

Mussels and oysters, deleterious 
effects of ... . 294 

Mustard 65 

" and cress . 384 

Mutton, occasional ill effects of . 242 
Mutton broth .... 410 



N. 

Nectarine, the . . 

Nitrogen or azote 

** generation of 
Nitrogenized foods 
Non-nitrogenised foods 
Nutmeg 

Nutritive equivalents . 
Nutritious fiuina 



O. 



. 345 

. 29 

. 35 

. 31 
36, 469 

. 185 

. 55 

. 374 



Oats .... 




. 323 


Oat-bread, unfermented 




. 324 


Oatmeal 




. 324 


Oatmeal porridge 

Obesity, mode of promoting 

Oil, Florence 


: 


. 325 
. 53 

. 178 


** GallipoU . 
" Genoa 




. 178 
. 178 


** Lucca 




. 178 


" olive, or sweet 




. 178 


** Provence 




. 178 


•• Sicily 
** Spanish 

** sweet, droppings of 
Oils, essential or volatile 




. 178 
. 178 
. 178 
. 184 


" fixed . 




. 166 


Oily alimentary principle, tl 
Oletiginous aliments . 


le 

• 


. 166 
. 166 



PAOS 

Olive 347 

Olive, pickled . . .347 

Onion 380 

Opium 436 

Orange 356 

Orange, the Seville . . . 359 
Orange-juice .... 359 
Organic tissues .... 209 

Orgeat 411 

Osmazome . . . 236, 409 

Ox, liver of the . . . 245 

Oxalic add .... 155 

Oxygen 25 

" consumption of, in respi- 
ration 11 

Oyster, the ... . 294 



P. 



Packwax 235 

Panada 323 

Pancakes 322 

Parsley .... 184, 501 

Pastry 322 

Pat^ de foies gras . 20, 267 

Peas 337 

Peach, the 345 

Pearl moss .... 389 

Pectine 141 

Ptetinaoeous alimentary principle, 

the 140 

Pemmican 464 

Pepones . . . . 360 

Pepper 185 

Pepsine . . . 71, 441 

Periwinkles .... 299 

Petit.toes 223 

Phosphates, earthy . 73, 117, 227 
Phosphorus . . . 57, 61 

Pilchards 281 

Pine-apple 364 

Picrotoxine . . . .56 

Phiice, the 280 

Plum, the 345 

Polenta 336 

Pomaoeous fruits or apples . . 348 

Porridge 325 

Port-wine 432 

Porter 417 

Potash 75 

" quadroxalate of . 156 

" salto .229 

Potassium 75 

PoUto flour .374 

** starch .133 

"the .... 369 

Potatoes, quantity of starch yielded 

by 373 



540 



INDEX. 



PAOK 

37 
154 
153 
154 
293 
121 



Potatoes cause dropsy 
Powders, g^inger^beer 
*' soda . 
«• Scidlitz 
Prawns and shrimps 
Preserves . 
Prison diet, dissent of Mr. Hill 

respecting .492 

** ** observations of the 
Secretary of State 
on . . . 494 
** Inspectors, conclusions of. 491 
Prisoners, weekly allowance of food 

to 496 

Proteine . .39, 186 

Proteinaceous alimentary principle 185 
principles, animal . 189 
'' vegetable 198 

Prunes 346 

Pudding, black . .246 
bread .... 322 
flour .... 512 
rice .... 512 
sago .... 129 
sact .... 489 
Putrescent matter, ill effects of . 89 
Pyrrhin 86 



PAOK 



«« 



It 



Q. 



Quina 
Quince, the 



56 
349 



R. 



Rabbit 

Raisin^ 

Raisins 

Ras])berry, the . 

Ratafias 

Rations, army . 

Receptacles and bracts 

Rennet 

Reptiles 

Respiration 

Rhubarb 

Rice. 

*' mucilage of 

*' spirit . 
Riootta 
Roasted flesh 
Roasting . 
Roe . 

" hard . 

" soft . 
Rolls, hot . 



. 237 
. 477 
. 354 
. 365 
. 165 
. 483 
. 385 
. 258 
. 271 
. 11 
. 385 
. 331 
. 334 
. 164 
. 251 
. 238 
445, 521 
. 288 
278, 288 
278, 289 
. 313 



Roots, subterraneouB stems, and 
tubers ..... 366 



Rum 

Rusks 

Rye . 
bread 
ergot of 
" pottage 



«( 



<i 



. 162 
. 314 
. 329 
. 330 
. 331 
. 330 



S. 



Saccharine alimentary principle 
Sago, pearl and brown 

** meal 
Salep - . 

Saline alimentary principle 
Salmon, the 
Salt, common 

" of sorel 
Salted meat 
Salts, potash 
Sauces 
Savoy, the 
Scallops 
Scurvy 
Seeds 

. leguminous 

mealy or farinaceous 

of cupuliferse 

oily 



tt 



tt 



i< 



tt 



Semolina 

Serai 

Shallots 

Sheeps' trotters 

Sherry 

Shrimps . 

Sise . 

Slops 

Smelts 

Snails 

Snow , 

Societies, teetotal 

*' temperance 
Soda powders 

** water, bottled 

" ** Webb's 
Sodium 

'* chloride of, conversion of 
into hydrochloric add 
and soda 
Solanina 
Sole, the 



358 



223» 

225^ 



112 
128 
128 
135 
223 
281 
226 
156 
226 
. 229 
. 438 
. 382 
. 299 
379, 466 
303, 325 
. 336 
. 303 
. 339 
. 339 
. 307 
. 251 
. 380 
. 223 
. 431 
. 293 
. 207 
. 503 
. 277 

. 87 
. 51 
. 51 
. 153 
. 406 
. 406 
. 72 



Sorosis 

Souchy, water 

Soujee 

Soup for prisoners 

" used at poorhouiies 
Soups 



. 83 
. 374 
. 280 
. 863 
. 280 
. 307 
. 496 
. 488 
211,233. 408 



INDEX. 



541 



(< 



i< 



drink 



PAOB 

. 383 
. 325 
. 502 
. 384 
50, 157 
. 529 



Soorkrout or Sauerkraut 

Sowing, or Sowans 

Spare diet . 

Spinage 

Spirit 

** weak, as a 

Sponge 310 

Sprato' 281 

Starch 122 

potato . .133 

rice .... 134 

Stems 386 

Stir-about 325 

Strawberry, the . .365 

Stuff, used by bakers . .311 

Suet puddings, formulae for . 489 

** ** used at poorhouses. 489 

Succory or chicory . . 402 

Sugar an element of respiration 44 
boiled . . . .118 
brown .117 

burnt .119 

candy .... 118 
cannot support life . .36 
crystal .117 

liquorice . .120 

potato .... 117 
purified or refined .116 

Sulphur 62 

Sulphuretted hydrogen of water . 92 

Supper 461 

Sweetwort 329 

Sweetbread .244 

Syconua 362 

Syrup of almonds . 411 

of orgeat .... 411 



14 
ti 



14 



44 



44 



44 



44 

44 



44 



T. 

Tasters, wine 

Tamarind, the 

Tapioca 

Tea . 

Tench, the 

Tendons of mammals 

Theine 

Theobromine 

Tickor 

Tickhur 

Toast water 

Tops and bottoms 

Tous-les-mois 

Tripe 

** de roche . 
Truffle, common 
Turbot, the 
Turnips 



393, 



403, 



433 
362 
130 
461 
290 
235 
395 
404 
134 
134 
392 
314 
132 
245 
387 
391 
280 
367 



Turnip-tops 
Turtle 



PAOB 

. 384 
. 271 



U. 

Universal sanative breakfast beve- 
rage 374 



V. 



Veal 
" broth 

Vegetable albumen 
aliments 
caseine 
diet . 



It 



44 

II 
44 



** best adapted 
divers 
fibrine 



C4 

Venison 

Vermicelli 

Victualling of troops for India 

Vinegar 

'* common 

** distilled. 

« malt 

** pickling 

** proof . 

" white 

•* wood 
Viscera of quadrupeds 



for 



240 
411 
200 
302 
201 
502 

27 
200 
242 
308 
482 
146 
149 
150 
149 
149 
149 
149 
149 
242 



W. 



Water 

14 



II 
14 
II 

II 
II 
II 
II 
14 
41 
II 
II 
44 
II 
(I 
II 
II 
11 
14 
II 



as a dietetical remedy 
barley 

common, purification of 
'* tests of the usual 
impurities in . 
cress .... 
impregnated with lead 
lake . . . . 
marsh . . . . 
of the Dead Sea 

Preservation of, at sea 
*rof. Clark's patent for 
rain 
river 



sea . 
snow 
spring 
Thames 
toast 
well 
** of London 



80 

S3 

328 

102 

100 

384 

96 

100 

100 

104 

481 

103 

85 

87 

104 

87 

87 

91 

392 

94 

90 



542 



INDEX. 



Waters, carbonated or acidalout 



fi 



« 
J* 



r; 



ff 
«« 
*« 
i« 
<« 
i« 
«< 
«< 

•i 
<< 
<i 
<< 



41 

* 

<l 
it 
<< 
It 
It 
it 
it 
it 



'* chalybeates 
common . 
dialilled . 
mineral . • 
of Bath and "Brutol . 
chalybeate or femiginoiu . 106 



PAOB 

. 106 
. 106 
. 85 
. 107 
. 105 
. 106 



Malvern 
of Cheshire 
Cheltenham 
Geyser and Reiknm 
Harrowgate 
Teplits 

Isle of Wight . 
the Thames and Colne, 
table of the solid con- 
stituents of 
Tonbridge Wells 
purging saline 
saline .... 
snlphated chalybeates 
snlphureoos or hepatic 
the alkaline 
brine 
cakareoQS 
siliceous , 



Wheat 
Wheaten bread 



106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 



88 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
305 
309 



WheatCDflonr 
Whelks 
Whey 
" alum 

'* cream of tartar 
" mostard 
'* rennet 
" tamarind . 
** white wine 
White bait 
Whiting, the 
Whisky . 
Wine 

Wines, boaqoet of 
Bufgnndy 
Champagne 
claret 
German 
Madeira 
port 
sherry 



t< 
It 

4t 
If 

it 
II 



rA«i 
. 30C 
. 29S 
. 253 
. 25f 
. 25f 
. 25< 
. 25! 



. 251 
. 251 
. 27! 
. 28< 
. 16 
. 41 
• 42 
. 4^ 
. 4^ 
. 43 
. 43 
. 43 
. 43 
. 43 



Zeiger 
Zymome 



25 
20 



§ 

s 



/ 






THE END. 



WtLW^ ANB eolI.TV, kftlK^H MTBIIT, SlkOWllIU, UIIIBON. 



[ 



l1 



1 



■. 



ii 



• i 
tl 

■■ 






i 



'., 



n 

■I 

t 



I 






f ( 



■9BBBneSHB99Bi 



BBS 



Jime 1843. 



A CATALOGUE OF 

NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 



PRINTED FOR 



LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS, 

laONDON. 



i 



i 



AGRICULTURE AND RURAL 
AFFAIRS. 

a 



Bayldon On valoinic Rent*, Stc. • 
" the Valuation of Pro- 

perty for P«>or'« Rate ... 
Crocker'a Land -Surwy ing 
Davy'a Agricttltural Chemintry 
Jnhnaon'a Farmrr't Enryrlupirdia 
London's Knrydopttdia of A|cri- 
culture -T . . . . 
Low's KlraaeBts of Apiculture 
'< BmHli of the I)nmmtiratrd 
AuimaU of Great Britain - 



ih. 
7 
7 

13 

16 

IH 

ib. 



ARTS, MANUFACTURES, 
AND ARCHITECTURE. 

Brande'a Dictionary of Science, 

Literature, and Art - 
Gwilt's Encyclopedia of Arclutec- 

ture 



Loudon'* Rncyclopsrdia of Cottaic't 
1 Villa Architecture and 



10 



Farm, and ' 

{■'uiuiture - - • - - 17 

Portcr'i Manufacture of Silk - - 23 

" « Pnrrelain ft Glass ih. 

KaTage's Dictionary of Printing - 25 

lire's Dictionary of Arts, Manofac- 

tores, and Mines - - - 31 

BIOGRAPHY. 

Aikia's Life of Addison ... 3 
Bell's Lires of the most eminent 

BriUsh Poets ... 4 
Biographical Dictionary of the So- 
ciety for the DillVision of Useful 

Knowledcv ib. 

Dorer's Life of the Kinc of Prussia b 
Dunham's Lives of the EarW Wri- 
ters of Great Britain - 
** Lives of the British 

Dramatics 
Forster's Statesmen of the Com- 

monwealtli of England 
Cleiff's Lives of the most Eminent 
Briti»h MUitarv Commanders - 
Harfoni'ii IJfe ofDr. Burgess 
Jackson's Life nf Wellington - 
James's Life of the Black Prince - 
'* I^ves of the most Eminent 
Foreign Statesmen - - . 
Maunder's Biographical Trra»nry . 
Roscoe's Lives of eminent British 

Lawyers 

Russen's Correapondcnce of the 

Duke of Bedford .... 

Shelley's Livn* of the most eminent 

Literary Men of Italy, 

Spain, and Portao^ 

*' Li^-cs of the most eminent 

French Writers 

Smith's Memoirs of the Marquis de 

Pom)>al 

Russell's f'orrrspondence of the 

fourth Ihike of Bedford 
Souther's Lives of the British Ad- 
mirals - - - - - ib. 



ib. 
- lb. 



ib. 
10 
13 
ib. 

ib. 
20 

25 

25 



tb. 

r 

25 



BOOKS OF GENERAL 

UTILITY. 

Donovaa'a Domestic Economy 9 

Hints on Etiquette • - - 11 

Hudson's Parent's Hand-book - 12 

" EKeeutor's Guide - -13 

" On Making WiUa • ib. 

Manual for Mediaaica' InstitntioM 18 

MaaadWaTrawnrrofKMwIadffs SO 

Sdeatisc and JJHtenrf 




ANALYTICAL INDEX. 



Page* 

Maund«>r's Trfa««ry - - . ib. 

Treasurv of HiBt4try and 

" Biotfrapliiral Treaoury - ib. 

Geography - - 20 

Riddle's Diamond Latin-Englikh 

Dictionary - - - - - 21 

SluMt Whist 26 

Thomson's Domestic Management 

nf thr Sick Utmrn • CO 
Tomlin«'M Law Dictionary - -Sit 

Waltxing, Essay on • • - 31 

BOTANY AND GARDENING 
IN GENERAL. 

CnU'-ott's Si-ripturf ll<>rl>al - - 6 

( on vr nut ions on Botany • - ib. 

Drummond's Fimt SUc\» to Botany b 
Cl«>ndinning i)n hr C'ultuie uf the 

Pineapple ... .9 

Grii{or'a Eastern Arboretum - - In 

llenslow's Botany - • - 11 
Hoarc On ('ulti\ation of the Grape 

Vine on Oj>en Walls - - - ib. 

Hooker's Brittsli Flora . - - ib. 

" Icunes Plantarum - - ib. 
*' Compendium of English 

Flora - - - - ib. 

•• Ditto m Latin - - - ib. 
" and Taylor's Muscologia 

Britannica - - - 13 
JackMin's Pictorial Flora - - 13 
Knanp's Gramina Britannica - 14 
Lind ley's TIteory of Horticulture - 16 
•■ Outline of the First Prin- 
ciples of Horticulture - ib. 
" Cuioe to the Orchai d and 

Kitclien Garden - • ib. 

" Introduction to Botany - 15 

'* Natural System of Botany ib. 

« Horn Medica . - . 16 

" School Botany - ib. 

** Svnopsi* of British Flora ib. 

Loudon's Horttts Britannicus - 17 
" " Liinioais Londinensis ib, 
" EncyclopiMlia of Trees 

and Shrubs - - 16 

<« M Gardening ib. 

" " Pbints - 17 
" Suburban Garden and 

Villa Companion - ib. 
" Cemetcriea and Church- 
yards ..---- ib. 
Rrptoo's Landscape Gardening and 

Landscape Architecture - 24 

Rivem's Rose Amateur's Guide - ib. 

Rolieru On the Vine - - • ib. 

Rogers's VegcUble Cultivator • 25 

Smith's Introduction to Botany - 26 

•< EngUahFkm - - - ib. 

CHRONOLOGY. 

Blair's Chronological Tables 4 

Nicolas's Chronology of History • 23 

Riddle's Ecclesiastical Chronology 34 

COMMERCE AND MERCAN- 
TILE AFFAIRS. 

M'CuUoch's Dictionarv of Con- 

mrrce and Commer. Navigation - 30 

Steel's Shipmaster's Assistant - 28 

GEOGRAPHY l ATLASES. 

Butler's Sketch of Ancient and 

Modem Geography 5 

" Atlas of Modem Ouography ib. 

** " Andeotdo. - - ib. 

Hall's New General Attaa - - 10 

M«Cttllodi's DictlottMy. Ocogra- 

phical,8Utistienl,aadHsrtoriMa 30 



Pages 

Malte-Brun's Geography - - 18 
Maumirr's Treasury of Geography 

and History • • - • 20 

Murmy's Knryrlop. of Geography . 22 

Walker's British iUas - - - 31 



HISTORY. 

Addison's HiMtory of the Knights 
Tfmplars ... 
Brll-s HUtory of Ku«i<in 
Bloomfleld's Translation of Thu- 

cydides 

Cooley's History of Maritime and 
Inland Discovery ... 
Crowe's History or France 
Dunham's Hiat'iry of Spain and 
Portugal 
** History of Europe dur< 

in«r the Middle Agra . 
" Hiklory of the German 

Empire ... 
" History of Denmark, 

Sweden, and Norway - 
" History of Poland 

Fergus's History of United SUtes 
nfAmrrica - - - - . 
Grattau's History of Nctlierlands • 
Keightley's Outlines of History • 
" History of England - 

" Elementary do. - 

" History of Greece 

" Elementary do. - 

History of Rome 
Elementary do. - 
Hist. of Roman Empire 
Quentions on the above 



<« 



ib 



ib 

8 

ib. 

ib. 

ib. 
ib. 

8 
ib. 

6 
14 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 
ib. 

90 
18 

30 
31 
3S 



riWSnBSB^ 



Histories, svparate 
M'CuUoch's Dictionary, Historical, 

Geographical, and Statistical 
Mackintosh's HHtory of England - 
Maunder's Treasury uf Hbtory and 

Geosraphy 

Moore^s History of Ireland 
Rome. History of - • - • 
RusMil's CocTe»pondcncc of the 

Ihike of Bedford - • - . 26 
Scott's History of Scotland - - ih. 
tiismondi's fflstory of the Fall of 

Roman Empire - 36 
" History of the lUllan 

Republics ib. 

Stebbing's History of the Christian 

Church - ' tl 

** History of ReCormation ib. 

Switseriand. History of • -Si 

Thirlwall's Ilistnry nf Greece - ib. 

Turner's History of England • 30 

JUVENILE BOOKS, 

IMCLVDtMO MRS. MAkCKT'S WOEKt. 

Boy's (the) Country Book • 12 

" Own Book ... 5 

Ladies' (the Young) Book .33 

Marret's Conversations — 

(hi tlie History of England • 1 

On Cliemistn - - - . ib. 

On Natural Philoeophy - . ib. 

On Political Economy • . 19 

On VegeUble Physiotogr . ib. 

For Children - . - . ib. 

" The Game of Grammar • ib. 

. " Mary's Grammar . - ib. 

" John Hopkins's Notions of 

Political Economy - . ib. 
** WiUys Hobdays - -lb. 

" " Stories for Yovng 

ChUdran - T {b 

<« TImSmmobs- - - • lb' 

Matryat>Maat«nnan Beady- . ib* 



i 



O CATALOtiDK OF NEW WORKS. 




ONE- VOLUME 



bICTtQNARttS. 



RURAL SPORTI. 






F^flK 




CATALOGUE, 



§•<?. «fC. 



ADDISON.-THE KNIGHTS TEMPLARS. 

By C. G. AoDisotf , of the Inner Temple. 8d Edition, enlai^g^, 1 vol. square crown 8Vo. with 
Illustration!, 18b. doth. 

ADDISON.-THE TEMPLE CHURCH IN LONDON : 

Its History and Antiquities. By C. G. Addison, Esq., of the Inner Temple ; Author of 
"The History of the Knights Templars. *> Square crown 8to. with Six Plates, 5s. cloth. 

ADDISON.-A FULL AND COMPLETE GUIDE, HISTORICAL 

AND DESCRIPTIVE, TO THE TEMPLE CHURCH. (From Mr. Addison's ** History of 
the Temple Church.") Square crown 8vo. Is. sewed. 

AIKIN.-THE LIFE OF JOSEPH ADDISON. 

Illustrated by many of his Letters and Private Papers never before published. By Lucy 
AiKitf. 3 vols, post 8vo. with Portrait from Sir Godfrey Kncller*s Picture. 18s. cloth. 

BAILLIE'S (JOANNA) NEW DRAMAS. 

3 vols. 8vo. j^l. 16s. boards. 

BAILLIE'S (JOANNA) PLAYS ON THE PASSIONS. 

3 vols. 8ro. jf 1. Us. 8d. boards. 

BAINBRIDGE.-THE FLY-FISHER'S GUIDE, 

Illustrated by Coloured Plates, representini;: upwards of 40 of the roost usefbl Flies, accurately 
copied Arom Nature. By G. C. Bainbrxdob. 4th Edition, 8vo. 10s. Od. cloth. 

BAKEWELL.-AN INTRODUCTION TO GEOLOGY. 

Intended to convey Practical Knowledge of the Science, and comprising the most important 
recent discoveries ; with explanations of the ficts and phenomena which serve to confirm or 
invalidate various Geological Theories. By Robert Bakbwbll. Fifth Edition, considerably 
enlarged, 8vo. with numerous Plates and Woodcuts, 31s. cloth. 

BAYLDON.-ART OF VALUING RENTS AND TILLAGES, 

And the Tenant's Right of Entering and Quitting Farms, explained by several Specimens of 
Valuations; and Remarks on the Cultivation pursued on Soils in different Situations. 
Adapted to the Use of Landlords, Land-Agents, Appraisers, Farmers, and Tenants. 6th 
Edition, re-written and enlarged, by Joh k Don a ldson. With a Chapter on the Tithe-Com- 
mutation Rent-Charge, by a Gentleman of much experience on the Tithe Commission. 8vo. 
10s. 8d. doth. 

BAYLDON.-TREATISE ON THE VALUATION OF PROPERTY 

FOR THE POOR'S RATEj shewing the Method of Rating Lands, Buildings, Tithes, Mines, 
Woods, Navigable Rivers and Canals, and Personal Property : with an Abstract of the Poor 
Laws relating to Rates and Appeals. By J. S. Batldon, Author of ** Rents and Tillages." 
1 vol. 8vo. 7s. 8d. boards. 









I 

I 

1 

I 

J 



u 



i 






- 



t 



CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 



BELL-LIVES OF THE MOST EMINENT ENGLISH PCI 

By Robert Belx, Esq. 2 vols. fcp. 8to. with Vigrnette Titles, ISs. cloth. 

BELL.-THE HISTORY OF RUSSIA, 

From the Earliest Period to the Treaty of Tilsit. By Robbst Bbll» Bsq. » vols. ft| 

with Vignette Titles, 18s. cloth, 

BELLAMY.-THE HOLY BIBLE, 

Newly Translated Arom the Original Hebrew only. By J. Bella m t. 4to. Farts I to & 

BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY 

Of the Society for the Diffusion of Useftd Knowledge. To be continued Qnarterly, ia 
yolomes. Vol. 1, Part 1— Aa to Agathoclba, 8vo. ISs. doth. 

„ „ 3, completing Vol. 1— AoATHOCLBa to Albxan dkk III. of Sc( 
8vo. 12s. cloth. 

Vol. 2y Part 1— Alexamdbb ov Sbleucia to Ambilhon, 8to. 12a. doth.. 
„ „ 2, completing Vol. 3— Ambimoclbs to Antblmi (Lkoncb), 8v 
cloth. 
S* To be continued Quarterly.— The work will probably not exceed Thirty Volames. 

There is also a Monthly issue in Parts, each containing one-third of the half- volume, 4b. i 

Part 12 is publishei. 

BISCHOFF.-PHYSICAL, CHEMICAL, AND GEOLOGH 

RESEARCHES on the Internal Heat of the Globe. By Gustav BiscHorr, Ph.D. Prt 
of Chemistry in the University of Bonn. 3 vols. Vol. 1, 8vo. Plates and Woodcuta, 10 

BLAINE.-AN ENCYCLOPJIDIA OF RURAL SPORTS ; 

Or, a complete Account, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shootin|c» Fi 
Racing, and other Field Sports and Athletic Amusements of the present day. By Dblj 
P. Blainb, Esq. Author of "Outlines of the Veterinary Art,** ** Canine Pathology,** A 
lllnstrated by nearly 600 Engravings on ^*ood, by R. Branston, from Drawinga hy . 
T. Landseer, Dickes, &c. 1 thick vol. 8vo. pp. 1256, £^. 10s. bound in fkncy cloth. 

BLAIR'S CHRONOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL TABLE 

From the Creation to our time. New Edition, greatly improved, with Additiona and C 
tions fh>m the most authentic Writers, printed in a convenient form, in 1 voU royal 8vo. 

In the Pi 

BLOOMFIELD.-HISTORY OF THE PELOPONNESIAN W 

By Thuctdidbs. Newly translated into English, and sccompanied with very copiooa 
Philological and Explanatory, Historical and GeographicaL By the Rev. S. T. Bloom i 
D.D. F.S.A. 3 vols. 8vo. with Maps and Plates, ^n. Ss. boards. 

BLOOMFIELD.-THE GREEK TESTAMENT : 

With copious English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanstory. By the Rev. 
Bloom fibld, D.D. F.S.A. Sd Edit, improved, 3 vols. 8vo. with a Map of Palestine, 40a. 

BLOOMFIELD.-COLLEGE & SCHOOL GREEK TESTAMEI 

With English Notes. By the Rev. S. T. Bloom fibld, D.D. New Edition.— Jim# recd^i 

BLOOMFIELD.-GREEK AND ENGLISH LEXICON TO T 

NEW TESTAMENT: especially adapted to the use of Colleges, and the Higher Claai 
Public Schools ; bnt also intended as a convenient Manual for Biblical Students in gei 
By Dr. Bloom fibld. Fcp. 8vo. 9b. cloth. 

BOSWORTH.-A DICTIONARY OF THE ANGLO-SAX 

LANGUAGE: containing the Accentuation, the Grammatical Inflexions, the Irre 
Words referred to their Themea, the Parallel Terms flrom other Gothic Language* 
Meaning of the Anglo-Saxon in English and Latin, and copious English and Latin Ind 
serving as a Dictionary of English and Anglo-Saxon, as well as of Latin and Axkgl^JA 
With a Preftioe, on the Origin and Connection of the German Tongues, a Map of Langi 
and the Essentials of Anglo-Saxon Grammar. By the Rev. J. Doswobth, LL.D. Dr. 
of Leyden, Aec. Royal 8vo. pp. 766, jn. Ss. boards. Cambridge, 18M. 



tan 




PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 






BOrS OWN BOOK (THE) : 

A Complete BBcyclopKdui «f all the Diversions, Athletic, Scientific, «Bd Recreative, «f Boy- 
hood and Yoath. 19th Edition, square 12mo. with many Engpravings on Wood, 88. Od. boards. 

BRANDE.-A DICTIONARY OF SCIENCE, LITERATURE, 

AND ART ; comprisinnf the History, Description, and Scientific Principles of every Branch 
of Human Knowledge ; with the Derivation and Definition of all the Terms in General Use. 
Edited by W. T. Brands, F.R.S.L. & E. ; assisted by Joseph Cauvin, Esq. The various 
departments are by Gentlemen of eminence in each. 1 very thick vol. 8vo. pp. ia52,illu8trated 
by Wood Engraving ^n, bound in cloth. London, 1843. 

BRAY -THE PHILOSOPHY OF NECESSITY; 

Or, the Law of Consequences as applicable to Mental, Moral, and Social Science. By Ch Amuis 
Baay. 2 vols. 8vo. 15s. cloth. 

BREWSTER- TREATISE ON OPTICS. 

By Sir David Brewstbr, LL.D. F.R.S., &c New Edition. J vol. fcp. 8vo. Vignette Title, 
«nd U6 Woodcuts, fis. cloth. 

BRITTON.-THE ORIGINAL PICTURE OF LONDON : 



With a Description of its Environs. Re-edited, and mostly re-written, by J. Brittov, 
j F.S.A. &c. 28th Edition, with upwards of 100 Views of Public Buildings, Plan of the Streets, 

and Two Maps, 18mo. 9s. neatly bound; with the Maps only, 6s. bound. 

BULL.-HINTS TO MOTHERS, 

For the Management of Health during the Period of Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room; 
with an Exposure of Popular Errors in connection with those subjects. By Thomas Bull, 
M.D. Physician Accoucheur to the Finsbury Midwifery Institution, &c. Aec 8d Edition. 
1 veL fcp. 8vo. enlarged, pp. 336, 7s. cloth. London, 1841. 

BULL.— THE MATERNAL MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN, 

in HEALTH and DISEASE. By T. Bull, M.D. Fcp. 8vd. 7s. clath. 

BURNS. -THE PRINCIPLES OF CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY; 

containing the Doctrines, Duties, Admonitions, and Consolations of the Christian Religion. 
By John Burns, M.D. F.R.S. Sth Edition, 12ma 7s. boards. 

OONTBNTS. 

Man is created for a Future State of Happiness ; on the Means by which a Future State of 
Happiness is procured ; of what is required of Man that he may obtain a Future State of 
Happiness ; ofthe Nature of the Future sUte of Happiness ; of the Preparation for the Future 
Btate Af Hsppiness ; of Personal Duties : of Relative Duties ; ofthe Duties Men owe to God { 
of the Admonitions and Consolations afforded by the Christian Religion. 

BUTLER.-SKETCH OF ANCIENT & MODERN GEOGRAPHY. 

By Samuel Butlbr, D.D. late Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry; and formerly Head 
Master of Shrewsbury School. New Edition, revised by his Son^ 8vo. 9e. boards. 

The prcMiit edition ha« been careftillr reriscd by the author's ton, and euch altermtions introduced m oo nt i nn a ll y 
progreMtve dieooverin and the lateat information rendered necesaary. Recent Travels haxe been oonatantljr con- 
sulted where anr doubt or difficulty seaaed to require it; and sonw additional matter has been added* both in the 
ancient and modem part. 

BUTLER.-ATLAS OF MODERN GEOGRAPHY. 

By the late Dr. Butlbr. New Edition ; consisting of Twenty-three coloured Maps, firom a 
New Set of Plates. 6vo. with Index, 128. half-bound. 

BUTLER.— ATLAS OF ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY ; 

Consisting of Twenty-three coloured Maps. With Index. By the late Dr. Butlbr. New 
Edition. 8vo. 12a. half-bound. 

*«* The above two Atlases may be had, half-bound, in One Volume, in 4to. price 248. 




l- ' JjLh 



CATALOGUK OF NEW WORKS 



BURDER -ORIENTAL CUSTOMS, 

Applied to the Illnstration of the Sacred Scriptures. By Samubl Burdbb, A.M. 
with additions, fcp. 8vo. 8s. 6d. cloth. 



Sd Edit. 



CONTENTS. 



Houses and Tents— Marriage— Children— Senrants—Food and Drink— Dresa and Clotbinir— 
Presents and Visiting— Amusements— Books and I>ctters— Hospitality— Trarcllinur — Hespfct 
and Honour— Afi^culture— Cattle and Beasts— Birds, Insects, and lUmtiles— Fruit and Wine 
—Kings and Government— War— Punishments— Relifcion— Time and Seasons— Medicine- 
Funerals, &c. 

CALLCOTT— A SCRIPTURE HERBAL. 

With upwards of 120 Wood Engravings. By Lady Callcott. Square crown 8vo. pp. 566, 
jtfl. 5s. cloth. 



ThU work conUinn an recount of all the Plants, nra^, TcrfkinM, and Gnmt, mentioofd in the BiMe •. with 
or more woodcuta of erenr speciea (excepting two, of which no anthentic fieurv can he obtained ). The Bibl» name* 
are retained, and the modem Botanic appellationa added ; together with the Linncan claaa ana order, and alao the 
Nataral orders, arcordin|f to the latest anthoritiea. The texts of Scripture in which the plants are mentioiMd uv 
• ennmeraied ; and an account of ttie growth, native country, and uses of the plants is given, collected frtnn nadent 
ud modem authors. 

CATLOW.-POPULAR CONCHOLOGY ; 

Or, the Shell Cabinet arranged: t)eing an Introduction to the Modem System of ConcbologT: 
with a sketch of the Natural History of the Animals, an account of the Formation of the SheUs» 
and a complete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Aonbs Catlow. Fcp. 8to. 
with 312 Woodcuts, lOs. 6d. cloth. 

CAVENDISH'S (SIR HENRY) DEBATES OF THE HOUSE OF 

COMMONS, during the Thirteenth Parliament of Great Britain, commonly called the 
Unreported Parliament. To which are appended, Illustrations of the Parliamentary History 
of the Reign of George III., consisting of Unpublished Letters, Private Journals, MemoirSy 
&c. Drawn up from the Original MSS., by J. Wright, Esq., Editor of the Parliamentary 
History of England. In 4 vols, royal 8vo. Vol. 1 is now ready, 25s. cloth. This work la 
also published in Parts, 6s. each, of which six are now published. 

**. These Reports (176S — 1T74} constitute a raluable addition to Hansard's Debates, and contain much rari«nia 
matter—inter alia, upwards of one hundred new speeches of Burke ; thej, in fiict, go far to fill up a hitherto hopeieaa 
gap in our 1*arliamentarT hixtory— and the publiration, with ita important appendices, does great honour to the 
akill and indujitry of the discoverer and editor." — Qi'AaTCRLT Rctibtv, No. 140, Sept. 1842— note, page 390. 

CHERRY.-THE ART OF SHOEING HORSES. 

By the Sibur db Sollbysbl. To which are added. Notes on his Practice. By Frbdbrick 
Clifford Chbrry, Principal Veterinary Surg^n, late to the Second Life Guards. 8vo. pp. 80^ 
5s. cloth. 

CHINA.-THE LAST TEAR IN CHINA, 

To the Peace of Nankingp : as sketched in Letters to his Friends, by a Field Oflker actively 
employed in that Country. With a few concluding Remarks on our Past and Future Policy 
in China. 2d edition, revised. Fcp. 8vo. with Map, 78. cloth. 



CHINESE NOVEL.-RAMBLES OF THE EMPEROR CHING 

Tih in Kfengf Nan : a Chinese Tale. Translated by Tkin Shen ; with a Preface by Jambs 
Lboob, D.D. 2 vols, post 8vo. 21s. cloth. 

*' These rambles of the Haroun Alraschid of the Celestial Kmpire Kire a rerr enrtons, and, at the present momcBt, 
a peculiarly interesting riew of Chinese opinions, usages, and inatitntiona."'TAiT's MaaAttif a. 

CLAVERS.-FOREST LIFE. 

By Ma rt Clavbrs, an Actual Settler ; Author of <' A New Home, Who '11 Follow ?" 2 vols, 
fcp. 8vo. pp. 642, 12s. cloth. 

COLTON.— LACON ; OR, MANY THINGS IN FEW WORDS. 

By the Rev. C. C. Colton. New Edition. 6vo. ISs. cloth. 

CONVERSATIONS ON BOTANY. 

9th Edition, improved, pp. 802, fcp. 8vo. with 22 Plates, 7s. 6d. cloth ; with the plates coloured, 
12s. cloth. 

The oUect of thU work ia to enable children and jouag nmans to aMuire a kao«Isd|M of the regetablt produc- 
tions of their native country, by introduchig to thea, in a familiar owaaOT. the priaciptaa of the linamn S^tem of 
BotJicy. For thi« purpose, the arranaement of Unuraa is briefly expUiaad ; a nativv nlant of each chua, with a 

&^**'*?^?*** " •unia«l> •^ Ulastnilad by aa •ngmriBf; a ahort accowit la adiM of aona of tb« principal 
foreigB apccica. 



IM 




CONVERSATIONS ON MINERALOGY. 

With Plates, enf^^ved by Mr. and Mn. Lowry, Arom Original Drawings. 3d Bdition» en- 
larged. 3toIb. 12mo. 14s. cloth. 

COOLEY.-THE HISTORY OF MARITIME AND INLAND 

DISCOVERT. By W. D. Coolbt, Esq. S vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 188. cloth. 

COPLAND.-A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE ; 

comprising General Pathology, the Nature and Treatment of Diseases, Morbid Structures, 
and the Disorders especially incidental to Climates, to Sex, and to the different Epochs of 
Life, with numerous approved Formulae of the Medicines recommended. By Ja m bs Copla nd, 
M.D., Consulting Physician to Queen Charlotte*s Lying-in Hospital ; Senior Physician to the 
Royal Infirmary for Children ; Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London ; of the 
Medical and Chirurgical Societies of London and Berlin, &c. Publishing in parts, of which 8 
have appeared.— Fart 8 was published on November 4th. 

CROCKER— ELEMENTS OF LAND SURVEYING. 

Fifth Edition, corrected throughout, and considerably improved and modernized, by T. O. 
Bunt, Land Surveyor, Bristol. To which are added, TABLES OF SIX-FIGURB LOGA- 
RITHMS, &c., superintended by Richard Farley, of the Nautical Almanac Establishment. 
I vol. post 8vo. 13s. cloth. 

* .* The work throoghoat is eatirdj reriied, and much new matter has bera added ; there arc new chapters, con- 
taining very full and minute DtRctiona relatin|f to the modem Practice of Survejing, both with and without tne aid 
of angular inttmmenU. The method of Plottug Estates, and Casting or Computii^ their Areas, are described, tec. 
Sec. The chapter on LereUing also is new. 

CROWE.-THE HISTORY OF FRANCE, 

From the Earliest Period to the Abdication of Napoleon. By E. E. Crowb, Esq. 3 vols. fcp. 
8vo. with Vignette Titles, 18s. cloth. 

DAVY (SIR HUMPHRY).-AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY: 

With Notes by Dr. John Davy. 6th Edition, 8vo. with 10 PUites, 16s. cloth. 

CoNTSNTs: — Introduction — The General Power* of Matter which influence V«getation — The Oiganixation of 
Plants— iknla— Nature and Constitution of the Atmospheiv, and its infloetice on Vegetables— Manures of Vcjntable 
and Animal Origin -Manures of Mineral Origin, or Fossil Manures — ImproTcment of Lands bj Burning— £aperi- 
menta on the Nutritire Qualities of diiferent uraaaes, Ac 



DE CUSTINE.— THE EMPIRE OF THE CZAR, &c. 

By the Marquis Dr Custimr* Translated from the French. 3 vols, post 8vo.— Jm^ ready. 

Thtf Foreign Quarterly Reriew, No. 61 (just published), obsenres^' The Marquis De Custine's work on Russia ia 
j shortly to appear. It is described by those who have read fragments of it to be most nolently hostile to Rutt'- 

Some \ery extraordinary circumstances are aasigned as the cause of this tone of hostility." 

DE LA BECHE.-REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF CORN- 

WALI^ DEVON, and WEST SOMERSET. By Hrnrt T. Dr la Brchr, F.R.S. &c.. 
Director of the Ordnance Geological Survey. Published by Order of the Lords CommisdonerB 
of H.M. Treasury. 8vo. with Maps, Woodcuts, and 13 ]aTge Pates, Us. cloth. 

DE MORGAN.— AN ESSAY ON PROBABILITIES, 

And on their Application to Life Contingencies and Insurance Offices. By Auo. dr Morgan, 
of Trinity College, Cambridge. 1 voL fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Title, 68. cloth. 

DENDY.-THE PHILOSOPHY OF MYSTERY. 

By W. C. Drndy. 1 vol. 8vo. las. cloth. 

DOCTOR (THE), &c. 

5 vols, post 8vo. jtl. Us. Od. cloth. 

" AdmiraMj as tlie mystery of the ' Doctor* has been m es er rtd np to the present moment, there is no longer any 
f«ason for afierting secreay on the subject. The author la Robert Soathey : he acknowledged the Ihct shortly bsfbre 
his last illness tohis most confidential friend, an M.P. of high diameter. In a priTate letter ttom Mrs. SiMithey, 
dated February 27, 1643, she not only states the fact, but adds that the greater part of a sixth volnme had gone 
through the pms, and that Southey looked forward to the ^easure of drawing her into it as a contributor ; giving her 
foil authority to affirm thai her huabaad ia the author.*^— RouuiT Baix, Esq. in Thb Stort TaLtan, No. I. 



asi 



CATALOGUE OF NEW WOrI^S 



I 



I 

I 



DODDRIDGE. -THE FAMILY EXPOSITOR; 

Or, a Parapknse and Vertion of the New Testament : with Critical Notes, and a Practiral 
Improvement of each Section. By P. Doddridob, D.D. To which is prefixed, a Life €ft the 
Author, by A. Kippis, D.D. F.ILS. and S.A. New Edition, 4 vols. 8vo. jTI. I6a. cloth. 

DONOVAN —TREATISE ON CHEMISTRY. 

By MicHABL DoMOYAN, M.ILl.A. Fourth Edition. 1 vol. fcp. 6vo. with Vignette Title, 
68. cloth. 

DONOVAN. -A TREATISE ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

By M. Donovan, Esq. M.R.I.A. Professor of Chemistry to the Company of Apothecuiea in 
Ireland, a vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 12s. cloth. 

DORA MELDER : 

A Story of Alsace. By Met a Sander. Translate^l and edited by the Rev. C. B. TRyler, 
Author of '* Records of a Good Mau*s Life," &c. Fcp. 8vo. pp. 286, 3 llluiitratioos, 7a. cloth. 

DOVER.-LIFE OF FREDERICK II. KING OF PRUSSIA. 

By LoKO Dover. 2d Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 28s. boards. 

DRUMMOND.-FIRST STEPS TO BOTANY, 

Intended as popular Illustrations of the Science, leadinip to its study as a branch of general 
education. By J. L. Drum mono, M.D. 4th Edit. 12mo. with numerous Woodcuts, 98. bds. 

DUNHAM.-THE HISTORY OF THE GERMANIC EMPIRE. 

By Dr. Dunham. 3 vols, fcp 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 188. cloth. 

DUNHAM.-IIISTORY OF EUROPE DURING THE MIDDLE 

AGES. By Dr. Dunham. 4 vois. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, jKI, 4s. cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE HISTORY OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. J 

By Dr. Dunham. 5 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, ^\. 10s. cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE HISTORY OF DENMARK, SWEDEN, AND 

NORWAY. By Dr. Dunham. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 188. cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE HISTORY OF POLAND. 

By Dr. Dun ham. 1 vol. fcp. 6vo. with Vignette Title, 68. cloth. 

DUNHAM.-THE LIVES OF THE EARLY WRITERS OF 

GREAT BKl IAIN. By Dr. Dunham, R. Bell, Esq. &c. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette 
Title, 6.S. cloth. 

DUNHAM, &C.-THE LIVES OF BRITISH DRAMATISTS. 

By Dr. Dunham, R. Bell, Esq. &c. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 128. cloth. 

ELLIOTSON.-HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY : 

With which is incorporateil much of the elementary part of the " Institutiones Ph)8iologica:*' 
of J. F. Blunienbach, Professor in the University of OOttingen. By John Elliotson, M.D. 
Cantab. F.U.S. Fifth Edition. Complete in 1 thick vol. 8vo. with nomerooa Woodcuts, 
pp. 1206, d.2. 28. cloth ; separately in three Parts, as follows:— 

Part I, General Physiology, and the Organic Functions. 6th Edition, IDs. 6d. 

** 3, The Animal Functions. 5th Edition, 14s. 

'* 3, Human Generation; the Growth, Decay, and Varieties of Alankind: with an 
Appendix on Mesmerism, 1 7s. 

FAREY.-A TREATISE ON THE STEAM ENGINE, 

Historical, Practical, and Descriptive. By John Fa ret. Engineer. 4tA. IlloBtrated by 
numeroos Woodcuts, and 2S Copper-plates. ifcS. Ss. boards. 



I, 



FERGUS. - HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 

From the Discovery of America to the Election of General Jackson to the Preaideiicy. By the 
Rev. 11. Fkbgus. a vols. licp. 8vo. with Vignette Tttlea, 19a. cloth. 

■ m il I • ■ - - - ~ 11 1 I I " • I "- - "1 i -iT r-i i T i gr" " 1 r~ ii T 




PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 



FORD.-THE NEW DEVOUT COMMUNICANT, 

According to the Church of England ; containing an Account of the Inatitution, Prayers, and 
Meditations, before and after the Administration, and a Companion at the Lord's Table. By 
the Rev. James Ford, B.D. 7th Edition, 18mo. 28. 6d. bound in cloth, with gilt edges; 
fcp. 8vo. Ss. 6d. bound. 

FORI).-A CENTURY OF CHRISTIAN PRAYERS, 

On FAITH, HOPE, and CHARITY ; with a Morning and Evening Devotion. By the Rev. 
Jambs Ford, B.D. Sd Edition, 18mo. 4s. cloth. 

FORSTER.-THE STATESMEN OF THE COMMONWEALTH 

OF ENGLAND. With an Introductory Treatise on the Popular Progress in English History. 

By John Forstbr, Esq. 5 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Original Portraits of Pym, Eliot, Hampden, 

Cromwell, and an Historical Scene after a Picture by Cattermole, i£\. 10s. cloth. 
The Introductory Treatise, intended as an Introduction to the Study of the Great Civil War in 

the Seventeenth Century, separately, 2s. 6d. sewed. 
The above 5 vols, form Mr. Forster*s portion of the Lives of Eminent British Statesmen, by Sir 

James Mackintosh, the Right Hon. T. P. Courtenay, and John Forster, Esq. 7 vols. fcp. 8vo. 

with Vignette Titles, ^^2. 2s. cloth. 

FOSBROKE.-A TREATISE ON THE ARTS, MANNERS, 

MANUFACTURES, and INSTITUTIONS of the GREEKS and ROMANS. By the Rev. 
T. D. FosBROKB, &c. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 12s. cloth. 

FRAN KUM -DISCOURSE ON THE ENLARGED AND 

PENDULOUS ABDOMEN, showing it to be a visceral affection attended with important 
consequences in the Human Economy ; with cursory Observations on Diet, Exercise, and the 
General Management of Health : for the use of the Dyspeptic. By Richard FranRum, Esq. 
Surgeon. 
The Second Edition, augmented, with a Dissertation on Gout, suggesting new physiological views 
as to its Cause, Prevention, and the best Course of Treatment. Fcp. 8vo. pp. 126, 6s. cloth. 

GLEIG -LIVES OF MOST EMINENT BRITISH MILITARY 

COMMANDERS. By the Rev. G. R. Glbig. S voU. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 18s. cloth. 

GLENDINNING.-PRACTICAL HINTS ON THE CULTURE 

OF THE PINE APPLE. By R. Glrndinmno, Gardener to the Right Hon. Lord RoUe, 
Bicton. 12mo. with Plan of a Pinery, &s. cloth. 

GOOD -THE BOOK OF NATURE. 

A Popular Illustration of the Creneral Laws and Phenomena of Creation. By John Masom 
Good, M.D. F.R.S., &c. Third Edition, corrected, 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. 24s. cloth. 

GRAHAM.-EN6LISH ; OR, THE ART OF COMPOSITION 

explained in a Series of Instructions and Examples. By G. F. Graham. Fcp. 8vo. pp. 348, 
7s. cloth. 

GRAHAM.- HELPS TO ENGLISH GRAMMAR; 

Or, Easy Exercises for Young Children. Illustrated by Engravings on Wood. By G. F. 
Graham, Author of " English, or the Art of Composition."— /n the press, 

GRATTAN.-THE HISTORY OF THE NETHERLANDS, 

From the Invasion by the Romans to the Belgian Revolution in 1830. By T. C. Grattan, 
Esq. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Title, 6a cloth. 

6RAY.-FIGURES OF MOLLUSCOUS ANIMALS, 

Selected from various Authors. Etched for the Use of Students. By Makia Emma Gray. 
Vol. I. pp. 40, with 78 plates of Figures, 12s. cloth. 

THE GENERA OF BIRDS ; 

Comprising their Generic Characters, a Notice of the Habits of each Genus, and an extensive 
List of Species, referred to their several Genera. By Gborgb Robkrt Gray, Acad. Imp. 
Georg. Florent. Soc. Corresp. Senior Assistant of the Zoological Department, British Museum ; 
and Author of the " List of the Genes of Birds," &c. &c. Illustrated with Three Hundred 
and Fifty imperial quarto I'lates, by David William Mitchell.— In preparation, 

*«* Publication will commence when One Hundred Subscribers* Names have been obtained. 
Prospectuses may be obtained of all Booksellers ; a Specimen may be seen at the Publishers. 




10 CATALOGUE OF NEW WOKKS 

GREENER —THE GUN ; 

Or, a Treatise on the various Descriptions of Small Fire Arms. By W. Grrenbr, Invcsntor of 
an improved method of Firing Cannon by Percassion, &c. 8vo. with Illustrations, 15s. cloth. 

GREENER -THE SCIENCE OF GUNNERY, 

As applied to the Use and Construction of Fire Arms. By William Grbbnkr, Aatborof 
"The Gun," &c. With numerona Plates, 15s. cloth. 

GRIGOR.-THE EASTERN ARBORETUM; 

Or, Reg^ister of Remarkable Trees, Seats, Gardens, &c. in the County of Norfolk. With 
Popular Delineations of the British Sylva. By James Grigor. Illustrated by 60 Drmfring* 
of Trees, etched on copper by H. Nin h am. 8to. 178. 6d. cloth. 

GUEST. -THE MABINOGION, 

From the Llyfr Coch o Hergest, or Red Book of Hergrest, and other ancient Welah 9fSS. : 

with an English Translation and Notes. By Lady Charlotte Guest. 
Fart 1. Containing the Lady of the Fountain. Royal 8vo. with Fac-simile and Woodcuts, 8a. 
Part 2. Containing Peredur Ab Evrawc ; a Talc of Chivalry. Royal 8vo. with Fac-simile and 

Woodcuts, 88. 
Part 3. Containing the Arthurian Romance of Geraint, the Son of Erbin. Royal Svo. with 

Fac-simile and Woodcuts, 8s. 
Part 4. Containing the Romance of Kilhwch and Olwen. Royal 8vo. with 4 Illastrations and 

Fsc-similc, 8s. 
Part 5. Containing the Dream of Rhonabwy, and the Tale of Pwyll Prince of Dyved. Royal 

8vo. 8s. 

GUIDE TO ALL THE WATERING & SEA-BATHING PLACES 

of Great Britain ; containing full and accurate Descriptions of each place, and of the Curio- 
sities and striking Objects in the Environs; and forming an agreeable and useful Companion 
during a residence at any of the places, or during a summer tour in quest of health or 
pleasure: with a Description of the Lakes, and a Tour through Wales. New Edition, 
including the Scotch Watering Places, 1 thick vol. 18mo. illustrated by 94 Views and 
Maps, 158. bound. 

GWILT -AN ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ARCHITECTURE ; 

Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt, Esq. F.S.A. Illustrated with | 
upwards of 1000 Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. In 1 thick vol. 8vo. 
containing nearly 1300 closely-printed pages, j6r2. las. 6d. cloth. 

HALL- NEW GENERAL LARGE LIBRARY ATLAS OF 

FIFTY-THREE MAPS, on Colombier Paper; with the Divisions and Boundaries carefUlly 
coloured. Constructed entirely ttom New Drawings, and engraved by Sidney Hall. New 
Edition, thoroughly revised and corrected ; including all the Alterations rendered necessary 
by the recent Official Surveys, the New Roads on the Continent, and a careful Comparison 
with the authenticated Discoveries published in the latest Voyages and Travels. Folded in 
half. Nine Guineas, half-bound in russia ; full size of the Maps, Ten Pounds, half-bound in 
russia- 

The following Mkm hare been re-engrared. from entirelj new dnim* — Ireland. South Africft, Turkey In AbU ; 
the following hmve been mat(>riaU7 improTca — Switxerland, North Italr, South ItAly, Egypt, Central (iermany. 
Southern GermanT, Greece, Austria, Spain and Portugal ; a new map of Cmna, corrvctea from the recent governnient 
■nnrey of the coast trcm Canton to >ankin (to whkh u appended, tlie Province of Canton, on an enlarged acalc, in 
a acpante compartment), has since been added. 

HANSARD. -TROUT AND SALMON FISHING IN WALES. 

By G. A. Haksard. lamo. 6s. 6d. cloth. 

HARCOURT.-THE DOCTRINE OF THE DELUGE ; 

Vindicating the Scriptural Account from the Doubts which have recently been cast upon it by 
Geological Speculations. By the Rev. L. Vebmon HABcomnT. 9 vols. 8vo. 868. cloth. 

HARFORD.-LIFE OF THOMAS BURGESS, D.D. F.R.S. &c. 

Late Lord Bishop of Salisbury. By John S. Harvord, Esq. D.CL. F.L.S. 9d Edition, with 
additions, fcp. 8vo. with IV>rtrait, 8s. 6d. cloth. 

flAWKER.-INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG SPORTSMEN 

In all that relates to Guns and Shooting. By Lieut. Gol. P. Hawker. 8th Edition, corrected, 
enlarged, and improved, with namerons explanatory Plates and Woodcats, 8vo. j^l. Is* cloth. 



PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. II 



HENSLOW.-THE PRINCIPLES OF DESCRIPTIVE AND 

PHYSIOLOGICAL BOTANY. By J. S. Henalow, M.A. F.L.S. &c. 1 vol. fq>. 8vo. with 
Vignette Title, and nearly 70 Woodcuts, 68. cloth. 

HERSCHEL.-A TREATISE ON ASTRONOMY. 

By Sir John Hbbschbl. New Edition. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. Vignette Title, 6s. cloth. 

HERSCHEL.-A PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE ON THE 

STUDY OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. By Sir John Hbrschbl. New Edition, 1 vol. 
fcp. 8vo. with vignette title, 6s. cloth. 

HINTS ON ETIQUETTE AND THE USAGES OF SOCIETY : 

With a Glance at Bad Habits. By A^o^ttf. *' Manners make the man." 25th Edition, 
revised (with additions) by a Lady of Rank. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d. handsomely bound in flmcy 
cloth, gilt edges. 

General Observations ; Introductions— Letters of Introduction— Marriage— Dinners — Smoking ; 
Snuff— Fashion— Dress— Music— Dancing— Conversation— Advice to Tradespeople — Visiting; 
Visiting Cards— Cards— Tattling— Of General Society. 

HOARE -A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CULTIVATION 

OF THE GRAPE VINE ON OPEN WALLS. By Clembkt Hoabb. 8d Edition, 8vo. 
7s. 6d. cloth. 

CONTBNTS. 

Introduction : Observations on the present Method of Cultivating Grape Vines on open Walls ; 
on the capaoiiity and extent of the Fruit-bearing Powers of the Vine ; on Asnect : on Soil ; 
on Manure; on the Construction of Walls ; on the Propagation of Vines ; on the Pruning of 
Vines; on the Training of Vines; on the Management of a Vine during the first five years of 
its growth; Weekly Calendariai Register; General Autumnal Prunings; on the Winter 
Management of the Vine ; on the Planting and Management of Vinra in the public thorough- 
fares of towns ; Descriptive Catalogue of twelve sorts of On^>e8 most suitably adapted for 
Culture on open Walls. 

HOLLAND-PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ; 

Or, Considerations on the Course of Life. Translated from the French of Madame Necker de 
Saussure. By Bliss Holland. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. 198. 6d. cloth. 

S* The Third Volume, formiug an appropriate conclusion to the first two, separately, 7s. 6d. 

HOLLAND. -A TREATISE ON THE MANUFACTURES IN 

METAL. By J. Holland, Esq. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. Vignette Titles, and about 300 Woodcuts, 
18s. cloth. 

HOLLAND-MEDICAL NOTES AND REFLECTIONS. 

By Hbnby Holland, M.D. F.R.S. &c. Fellow of the Royal Colle^^e of Physicians, Physician 
Extraordinary to the Queen, and Physician in Ordinary to His Royal Highness Prince Albert. 
2d Edition, 1 vol. 6vo. pp. 654, 18s. cloth. 

HOOKER.-THE BRITISH FLORA, 

Vol. 1 ; comprising Phaenogamous or Flowering Plants, and the Ferns. By Sir William 
Jacbson Boobbb, K.H. LL.D. F.R.A. and L.S. &c. &c &c. Fifth Edition, with Additions 
and Corrections; and 173 Figures illustrative of the Umbelliferous Plants, the Composite 
Plants, the Grasses, and the Ferns. In Two Vols. 8vo. pp. 502, with 12 Plates, 14s. plain ; 
with the plates coloured, 24s. cloth. 

Vol* 2, in Two Parts, completing the British Flora, 2ls. boards. 

HOOKER.-COMPENDIUM OF THE ENGLISH FLORA. 

2d Edition, with Additions and Corrections. By Sir W. J. Uookbb. 12mo. 7s. 6d. doth. 
THE SAME IN LATIN. 5th Edition, 12mo. 7s. 6d. 

HOOKER.-ICONES PLANTARUM ; 

Or, Figures, with brief Descriptive Characters and Remarks, of New and Rare Plants, selected 
from the Author's Herbarium. By Sir W. J. Hookbb, K.H. LL.D. &c. 4 vols. 8vo. with 
I 400 Plates, jf 5. 12s. doth. 






I 

I 



HOOKER AND TAYLOR.-MUSCOLOGIA BRITANNICA. 

Containing the Mosses of Great Britain and Ireland, systematically arranged and described ; 
with Plates, iUastrative of the character of the Genera and Species. By Sir W. J. Hookkr 
and T. Taylor, M.D. F.L.S., &c. ad Edition, 8vo. enlargfed, 318. 6d. plain ; aes. Ss. coloured. 

HOWITT (MARY). -THE HOME. 

Or, Family Cares and Family Joys. By Fredbrika Bbbmbr. Translated by Mabt 
How ITT. 3 vols, post 8vo. 21s. boards. 

HOWITT (MARY). -THE NEIGHBOURS : 

A Story of Every-day Life in Sweden. By Fredbrika Brbmeb. Translated b> Mabt 
UowiTT. 2d Edition, 2 vols, post 8to. 18s. boards. 

HOWITT -THE RURAL LIFE OF ENGLAND. 

By William Howitt, New Edition, medium 8vo. with Eni^ravinfi^s on wood, by Bewick and 
Williams, uniform with *' Visits to Remarkable Places,*' 21 a. cloth. 

CONTENTS. 



Life of the Aristocracy. 
Life of the Ainicnitural Population. 
Picturesque and Moral Features of the Country. 
Strong Attachment of the Enj^lish to Country 
Life. 



The Forests of En]|^land. 

Habits, Amusements, and Condition of the 
People; in which are introduced Two New 
Chapters, descriptive of the Rural Waterinfir 
Places, and Education of the Rural Population. 



HOWITT.-VISITS TO REMARKABLE PLACES ; 

Old Halls, Battle-Fields, and Scenes illustrative of Strikinf^ Passages in English History and 
Poetry. By William Howitt. New Edition, medium 8vo. with 40 Illustrations by 
S. Williams, 21s. cloth. 

SECOND SERIES, chiefly in the Counties of DURHAM and NORTHUMBERLAND, with a 
Stroll along the BORDER. 1 vol. medium 8vo. with upwards of 40 highly .finished Woodcuts, 
from Drawings made on the spot for this work, by Messrs. Carmichael, Richardsona, and 
Weld Taylor, 21s. cloth. 

HOWITT.-RURAL AND DOMESTIC LIFE OF GERMANY : 

With Characteristic Sketches of its Chief Cities and Scenery. Collected in a General Tour, 
and during a Residence in that Country in the Years 1840-42. By William Howitt, 
Author of " The Rural Life of EngUnd," " Visits to Remarkable Places,»» " The Boy's 
Country Book,** &c. 1 vol. medium 8vo. with above 50 Illustrations, 21s. cloth. 

HOWITT.-THE STUDENT-LIFE OF GERMANY. 

From the Unpublished M8S. of Dr. Cornelius. By William Howitt. 8vo. with 24 Wood- 
Engravings, and Seven Steel Plates, 21s. cloth. 

*•* 'I his Tolome contains Forty of the meet famous STrDcwT-So^ton, with the Original Music, adspted to the 

PiaDofoite by Winkehneyer. 

HOWITT.-COLONISATION AND CHRISTIANITY : 

A Pt>pular History of the Treatment of the Natives, in all their Colonies, by the Europeans. 
By William Howitt. 1 vol. post 8vo. lOs. 6d. cloth. 



HOWITT.-THE BOY'S COUNTRY BOOK : 

Being the real Life of a Country Boy, written by himself; exhibiting all the Amusements, 
Pleasures, and Pursuits of Children in the Country. Edited by William Howitt, Author 
of " The Rural Life of England,*' &c. ad Edition, 1 voL fcp. 8vo. with about 40 WoodcuU, 
8s. clotb. 

HUDSON.-THE PARENT'S HAND-BOOK ; 

Or, Guide to the Choice of Professions, Employments, and Sitnationa ; containing nseftil and 
practical Information on the snbject of placing out Young Men, and of obtaining thdr Edu- 
cation with a view to particular occopationa. By J. C. Huosom, Esq. Author of ** Plain 
Directions for Making WiUs.** Fcp. 8vo. pp. 254, 6a. cloth. 

"ThtoTohmMwUlbeftmBdwefU to any punt who te piJmMIj neditatiag tqpoa that dWevtt nMect bow or when b* 
can bMt place hia aooa in the ir««id."— SracTAToa. 



BB^B^BOBaassvi^BBiBsai 




PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 13 

HUDSON-PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WILLS 

In Conformity with the Law, and particularly with reference to the Act 7 Will. 4 and 1 Vict, 
c. 36. To which is added, a clear Exposition of the Law relating^ to the distribution of Per- 
sonal Estate in the case of Intestacy ; with two Forms of Wills, and much usefiil information, 
&c. By J. C. Hudson, of the Legacy Duty Office, London. I2th Edition, corrected, with 
notes of cases judicially decided since the above Act came into operation. Fcp. 8vo. 38. Od. 
cloth, got edges. 

HUDSON.-THE EXECUTOR'S GUIDE. 

By J. C. Hudson. Sd Edition, fcp. 8to. 5s. cloth. 

*»* The above two works may be had in 1 volume, price 78. cloth. 

INGEMANN -KING ERIC AND THE OUTLAWS; 

Or, the Throne, the Church, and the People. By Ingbmann. Translated from the Danish 
by Janb FaANCBS Chapman. 3 vols, post 8vo. 31s. 6d. boards. * 

JACKSON-PICTORIAL FLORA ; 

Or, British Botany delineated, in 1500 Lithographic Drawings of all the Species of Flowering 
Plants indigenous to Great Britain ; illustrating the descriptive works on English Botany of 
Hooker, Lindley, Smith, &c. By Miss Jackson. 8vo. 15s. cloth. 

JACKSON, &C.-THE MILITARY LIFE OF FIELD-MARSHAL 

THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, K.G. &c. &c. By Major Basil Jackson, aud CapUin 
C. RocH roRT ScoTT, late of the Royal Staff Corps. 3 vols. 8vo. with Portraits and numerous 
Plans of Battles, SOs. cloth. 

JAMES-EVA ST. CLAIR ; 

And other Collected Tales. By G. P. R. Jambs, Esq. 3 vols, post 8vo. 31s. boards. 

Also, by the same Author, 

The Jacquerie— The Ancient Regime— Corse de Leon— The King's Highway— Henry of 
Guise— The Huguenot— The Gentleman of the Old School— The Robber— Life and Adventures 
of John Marston Hall— Mary of Burgundy— One in a Thousand— Attila. Each in 3 vols, post 
8vo. 31b. 6d. boards. 

JAMES- A HISTORY OF THE LIFE OF EDWARD THE 

BLACK PRINCE, and of various Events connected therewith, which occurred during the 
Reign of Edward III. King of England. By G. P. R. Jambs, Esq. 3d Edition, 9 yoIs. 
fcp. 8vo. with Map, 15s. cloth. 

JAMES-LIVES OF MOST EMINENT FOREIGN STATESMEN. 

By G. P. R. Jambs, Esq., and E. E. Cbowb, Esq. 5 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 
308. cloth. 

JENYNS.-MANUAL OF BRITISH VERTEBRATE ANIMALS ; 

Or, Descriptions of all the Animals belonging to the Classes Mammalia, Avea, Reptilia, Am- 
phibia, and Pisces, which have been hitherto observed in the British Islands ; including the 
Domesticated, Naturalized, and Extirpated Species. The whole systematically arranged. 
By the Rev. Lkonard Jbntns, M.A. F.L.S., &c. 1 vol. 8vo. ISs. boards. 

JOHNSON.-THE FARMER'S ENCYCLOPJIDIA, 

And Dictionary of Rural Affairs: embracing all the recent Discoveries in Agricultural Che- 
mistry ; adapted to the comprehension of unscientific readers. By Cothbbrt W. Johnson, 
Esq. F.R.S. Barrister-at-Law, Corresponding Member of the Agricultural Society of KOnigs- 
berg, and of the Maryland Horticultural Society ; Author of several of the Prize Essays of 
the Royal Agricultural Society of England; and other Agricultural Works; Editor of the 
" Fanner's Almanack,** &c. 1 thick vol. 8vo. pp. 1834, illustrated by Wood Engravings of the 
best and most improved Agricultural Implements, ^t2, lOs. cloth. 



TgrrTilfig~B il'iBlf-rrii wiriM^artimirTBriiiMrrrTi — iTTiw—iiii ■■■•lawi i ■!■ ■■SI jTiiTw'm r»MBrnBBai 
14 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 

KANE. -ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY ; 

Including the most Recent Discoreries and Applications of the Science to Medicine and 
Fbarmacy, and to the Artt. By Robert Kanb, M.D. M.R.I.A., Professor of Natural 
Philosophy to the Royal Dublin Society. 1 thick volume, 8yo. with 286 Woodcjts, 34*. cloth. 

KATER AND LARDNER.-A TREATISE ON MECHANICS. 

By Captain Katbk and Dr. Lakonbk. New Edition. 1 vol. fcp. 8to. Vignette Title, and 19 
Platet, comprising 3M distinct figures, 6a. cloth. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 

By Thomas Kbiohtlby, Esq. In 2 vols. 12mo. pp. 1206, Us. cloth ; or bound, 158. 

For the coorenicnct of Schools, the toItudcs will alwajt be told tepanitely. 

KEIGHTLEY.-AN ELEMENTARY HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 

By Thomas Kbiohtlby, Esq., Author of "A History of England," "Greece,** ''Borne," 
** Outlines of History," &c. &c. 12mo. pp. 364, 5s. bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE HISTORY OF GREECE. 

By Thomas Kbiohtlby, Esq. Third edit. 12mo. pp.506, 6a.6d. cloth, or7s. bound. 
ELEMENTARY HISTORY of GREECE, 18mo. pp. 264, Ss. 6d. bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE HISTORY OF ROME 

To the end of the Republic. By Thomas Kbiohtlby, Esq. Third edition, 12roo. pp. 519, 
6s. 6d. cloth ; or 7s. bound. 

ELEMENTARY HISTORY of ROME, 18mo. pp. 294, Ss. 6d. bound. 

KEIGHTLEY.-THE HISTORY OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 

From the Accession of Augustus to the end of the Empire in the West. By T. Kbiohtlby, 
Esq. 12mo. pp. 456, 6s. 6d. cloth, or 7s. bound. 

QUESTIONS on the HISTORIES of ENGLAND, Parts 1 and 2, pp. 56 each ; ROME, 3d edit, 
pp. 40; GREECE, 3d edit. pp. 42. 12mo. sewed, is. each. 

KEIGHTLEY.-OUTLINES OF HISTORY, 

From the Earliest Period. By Thomas Kbiohtlby, Esq. New Edition, corrected and con- 
siderably improved, fcp. 8vo. pp. 468, 6a. cloth ; or 6s. 6d. bound. 

KIPPIS.-A COLLECTION OF HYMNS AND PSALMS, 

For Public and Private Worship. Selected and prepared by A. Kippis, D.D., Abbaham 
Rbbs, D.D., the Rev. Thomas Jbkvis, and the Rev. T. Morgan. To which is added, a 
Sdpplbmbitt. New Edition, corrected and improved, 18mo. 5s. bound. 

KIRBY & SPENCE.-AN INTRODUCTION TO ENTOMOLOGY; 

Or, Elements of the Natural History of Insects : comprising an account of noxious and nseftil 
Insects, of their Metamorphoses, Food, Stratagems, Habitations, Societies, Motions, Noises, 
Hybernation, Instinct, ftc By W. Kikby, M.A. F.R.S. & L.S. Rector of Barham; and W. 
Spbncb, Esq. F.R.S. & L.S. 6th Edit, corrected and muchenlarged, 2 vols. 8vo. 31s. 6d. cloth. 

TlM flrat two volunic* of the " latroduetfam to Eatonolonr" arc pvbUahcd m a BriMjiite woi^. dktiact fh>m 
tha third aod fourth TolwnM, and, thoofrh much calantd* at a coaMderabl* rvdactira of pricv. ia otder that 
theavmenma elaaa of rradria who coafiae thtb atody of uaccta to that of their aiaaana and rauMMar aatd aot be 
hartheaad with tha coat of tha techaieal portioa of tha work, ralatlag to thkr aaatomj, phjaiology, Ac! 

KNAPP.-6RAMINA BRITANNICA ; 

Or, Representations of the British Grasses : with Remarks and occasional Descriptions. By 
I. L. Knapp, Esq. F.L-S. & A.S. 2d Edition, 4to. with 118 Plates, beauUAUly coloured, 
pp. 260, £9, I6t. boards. 

LAING.-A TOUR IN SWEDEN, 

In 1838 ; comprising observations on the Mond, Political, and Bconomictl State of the Swediah 
Nation. By Samubl Laino, Esq. 8vo. 19s. doth. 





PRINTED rOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 15 



LAIN6.- NOTES OF A TRAVELLER, 

On the Social and Political State of France, Prussia, Switxerland, Italy, and other parts of 
Europe, during the present century. By Sam dbl La i no, Esq. ad Edition, 8vo. 16s. cloth. 

LAING -JOURNAL OF A RESIDENCE IN NORWAY, 

Dnrinf? the years 1834, 1835, and 1836 ; made with a view to inquire into the Rural and Political 
Economy of that Country, and the Condition of ita Inhabitants. By Samuel Laino, Esq. 
9d Edition, 8vo. Us. cloth. 

LAING.-THE CHRONICLE OF THE KINGS OF NORWAY, 

From the Earliest Period of the History of the Northern Sea King^s to the Middle of the Twelfth 
Century, commonly called the Heimskrin^la. Translated from the Icelandic of Snorro 
Sturleson, with Notes, and a Preliminary Discourse, by Samubl Lai no. Author of ** A 
Residence in Norway," " A Tour in Sweden," " Notes of a Traveller," %lc,— Preparing for 
publication* 

LARDNER'S CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA; 

Comprising? a Series of Origrinal Works on History, Biospraphy, Literature, the Sciences, Arts, 
and Manuftu^turea. Conducted and edited by Dr. Lakonbb. 

The Series, complete, in One Hundred and Thirty-three Volumes, jf39. IBs. (Three volumes 
remain to be published.) The works, separate, 6s. per volume. 

LARDNER.-A TREATISE ON ARITHMETIC. 

By D. Lardnbb, LL.D. F.R.S. I vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vig^nette Title, 6a. cloth lettered. 

LARDNER.-A TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY & MAGNETISM. 

By Dr. Lardnbb. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. 138. (VoL 3 is in the press.) 

LARDNER.-A TREATISE ON GEOMETRY, 

And its Application to the Arts. By Dr. Lardnbb. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. Vignette Title, and 
upwards of 300 litres, 6s. cloth. 

LARDNER.— A TREATISE ON HEAT. 

By D. Lardnkr, LL.D., &c. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Woodcuts and Vig^nette Title, 6a. cloth. 

LARDNER.-A TREATISE ON HYDROSTATICS AND PNEU- 

MATICS. By Dr. Lardnbb. New Edition. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. 6s. cloth. 

L. E. L.-THE POETICAL WORKS OF LETITIA ELIZABETH 

LANDON. New Edition (1839), 4 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Illustrations by Howard, Aec. 38s. cloth 
lettered ; or handsomely bound in morocco, with ^t edi^es, jCT. 4s. 

The following may be had separately :— 

THE IMPROVISATRICE 10s. 6d. I THE GOLDEN VIOLET 10s. 6d. 

THE VENETIAN BRACELET . . lOs. 6d. | THE TROUBADOUR lOs. 6d. 

LIFE OF A TRAVELLING PHYSICIAN, 

From his first Introduction to Practice ; including 30 Years* Wanderings throughout the 
greater part of Europe. S vols, post 8vo. 3 coloured Plates, Sis. 6d. doth. 

LINDLEY.-INTRODUCTION TO BOTANY. 

By Prof. J. Lindlby, Ph.D. F.R.S. L.S. Aec. Sd Edition (1839), with Corrections and consi> 
derable Additions, 1 large vol. 8vo. pp. 606, with Six Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 188. cloth. 

LINDLEY.-A NATURAL SYSTEM OF BOTANY ; 

Or, a Systematic View of the Organization, Natural Affinitiea, and Geographical Distribution 

of the whole Vegetable Kingdom ; together with the uses of the most important species in 

Medicine, the Arts, and Rural or Domestic Economy. By John Lindlbt, Ph.D., F.R.S., 

L.S., Aec. 3d Edition, with numerous additions and corrections, and a complete list of 

Genera, with their synonyms. 8vo. 18s. cloth. 




r 



16 CATALOOUB OF NRV TOIIKS 

LINDLEY.-FLORA MEDICA ; 

A Dotanical Account of all the most important Plants used in Medicine, in different Parts of 
the World. By John Linolky, Ph.D., F.R.S., &c. 1 vol. 8vo. 18s. cloth lettered. 

LINDLEY. SCHOOL BOTANY ; 

Or, an Explanation of the Characters and Differences of the principal Natural CUsaes and 
Orders of Plants belon^ina: to the Flora of Europe, in the Botanical Classiftcation of Dk 
Canoolle. For the use of Students preparing for their matriculation examination in the 
University of London, and applicable to Botanical Study in general. By John Lindlby, 
Ph.D., F.11.S., &c. 1 vol. fcp. Svo. with upwards of IGO Woodcuts, 6s. cloth lettered. 

LINDLEY -A SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH FLORA, 

Arranged accordingto the Natural Orders. By Professor John Lindlry, Ph.D , F.R.S., &c. 
The Sd Edition, with numerous additions, corrections, and improvements, 12mo. pp. 390, 
lOs. 6d. cloth. 

LINDLEY.-THE THEORY OF HORTICULTURE ; 

Or, an Attempt to Explain the Principal Operations of Gardening upon Fliysiological Prin- 
ciples. By John Linoley, Ph.D., F.R.S. I vol. Svo. with Illustrations on Wood. 12s. 
cloth. 

TliU book in written in the hope of providing the iniellicent gardener, and the »cientifle amateur, correctly, with 
the ralionalia of the more impurtAnt operation* of Horticulture: and tiie author haa cndeavonrt-d to pr«iient to hi« 
readent an intelligible fxplanation, founded upon well-aAi-ertained facta, which they can judgw of liy their own taeaau 
of olmervation, of the K«'neral nature of vri^ftahle action*, and of the cau^ea which, while they control the powrra 
of life in plants, are capable of )M.-ine reeulatcd by them^elve*. The poaaeafcion of auch knowlecige will n«>c«*«arilT 
teadi them how to improve their mcthoaa of cultiTatlon, and lead them to the diacorery of n«w and better mudra. 

LINDLEY.-AN OUTLINE OF THE FIRST PRINCIPLES OF 

HORTICULTURE. By Professor Lindlby. 18mo. 28. sewed. 

LINDLEY.- GUIDE TO ORCHARD AND KITCHEN GARDEN; 

Or, an Account of the most valuable Fruits and V^etables cultivated in Great Britain : with 
Kalendars of the Work required in the Orchard and Kitchen Garden during every month in 
the year. By Georob Lindlby, C.M.H.S. Edited by Profkssor Lindlby. 1 lar^ 
vol. Svo. 16s. boards. 

LLOYD.-A TREATISE ON LIGHT AND YISION. 

By the Rev. H. Lloyd, M.A., Fellow of Trin. Coll. Dublin. Svo. 15s. boards. 

LOUDON. -AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF TREES AND SHRUBS ; 

being the " Arboretum et Fruticetnm Britannicum" abridged : containing the Hardy Trees 
and Shrubs of Great Britain, Native and Foreign, Scientifically and Popularly Described ; 
with their Propagation, Culture, and Uses in the Arts ; and with Engravings of nearly all 
the Species. Adapted for the use of Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Foresters. By J. C. 
Loudon, F.L.S. &c. In Svo. pp. 1234, with upwards of 2000 Engravings on Wood, 4», 10s. 
bound in cloth. 

The Original Work may be had in 8 vob. Svo. with above 400 OcUvo Plates of Trees, and 
upwards of 2500 Woodcuts, jfi'lO, cloth. 

LOUDON.- AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF GARDENING ; 

Presenting, in one systematic view, the History and Present SUte of Gardening in all Coun- 
tries, and its Theory and Practice in Great Britain : with the Management of the Kitchen 
Garden, the Flower Garden, Laying-out Grounds, &c. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. &c. A New 
Edition, enlarged and much improved, 1 large voL Svo. with nearly 1000 Engravings on Wood, 
pp. 1312, 50s. cloth. 

LOUDON.-AN ENCYCLOPiEDIA OF AGRICULTURE; 

Comprising its History in all Coontries ; the Principles on which Agricultural Operations 
depend, and their Application to Great Britain and simihur Climates. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. 
ftc. The Third Edition, 1 large vol. 8vo. pp. 1418, with nearly 1800 Wood Engravings, 
iTS. lOs. cloth. 






PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 17 



••I 

I 



LOUDON.-AN ENCYCLOP JIDIA OF PLANTS ; 

Including all tlie Plants which are now found in, or have been introduced into, Great Britain ; 
givini^ their Natural History, accompanied by such descriptions, enpjaTed figures, and 
elementary details, as may enable a begrinner, who is a mere English reader, to discover the 
name of every Plant which he may find in flower, and acquire aU the information respecting 
it which is useful and interesting. The Specific Characters by an Eminent Botanist; the 
Drawings by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L.S. A New Edition (1841), with a New Supplement, com- 
prising every desirable particular respecting all the Plants originated in, or introduced into, 
Britain between the first publication of the work, in 1839, and January 1840: with a new 
General Index to the whole work. Edited by J. C. Loudon, prepared by W. H. Baxter, Jun. 
and revised by George Don, F.L.S. ; and 800 new Figures of Plants on Wood, from Drawings 
by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L.S. One very large voL 8vo. with nearly 10,000 Wood Engraving 
pp. 13M, ^3. 13s. 6d. 

The New Supplement (1841), separately, 8vo. pp. 190, 15s. cloth. 

LOUDON.-AN ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF COTTAGE, FARM, AND 

VILLA ARCHITECTURE and FURNITURE. ConUining Designs for Cottages, Villas, Farm 
Houses, Farmeries, Country Inns, Public Houses, Parochial Schools, &c. ; with the requisite 
Fittings-up, Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Oflices, Gardens, and Garden Scenery : 
each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks illustrative of the Principles of 
Architectural Science and Taste on which it is composed, and Greneral Estimates of the Expense. 
By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. &c. New Edition (1842), corrected, with a Supplement, containing 
160 additional pages of letter-press and nearly 300 new engravings, bringing down the work to 
1842. 1 very thick vol. 8vo. pp. 1326, with more than 2000 Engravings on Wood, ^es. 3s. cloth. 

*«* The New Supplement, eeparately, 8vo. pp. 174, 7s. fid. sewed. 

LOUDON.-HORTUS BRITANNICUS: I 

A Catalogue of all the Plants indigenous to or introduced into Britain. The 3d Edition (1832), 
with a NBwSuppLBMBNT,prepared,underthe direction of J. C. Loudon, by W. U. Baxter, 
and revised by Gborob Don, F.L.S. 1 vol. 8vo. pp. 766,31s. fid. cloth. 

The First Supplement (1835) #<parafWy, 8vo. pp. 26, 2s. 6d. sewed. 
The New Supplement (1839) #<para/e/y,8vo. pp. 742, 8s. sewed. 

LOUDON. -THE SUBURBAN GARDENER AND VILLA 

COMPANION : comprising the Choice of a Villa or Suburban Residence, or of a situation on 
which to form one ; the Arrangement and Furnishing of the House ; and the Laying-out, 
PUinting, and general Management of the Garden and Grounds ; the whole adapted for grounds 
fi'om one perch to fifty acres and upwards in extent ; intended for the instruction of those 
who know little of Gardening or Rural Alfairs, and more particularly for the use of Ladies. 
By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. &c. 1 vol. 8vo. with above 300 Wood Engravings, 20s. cloth. 

LOUDON.-HORTUS LIGNOSIS LONDINENSIS; 

Or, a Catalogue of all the Ligneous Plants cultivated in the neighbourhood of London. To 
which are added their usual prices in Nurseries. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. &c. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

LOUDON.-ON THE LAYING-OUT, PLANTING, AND 

MANAGEMENT of CEMETERIES ; and on the Improvement of Churchyards. By J. C. 
Lou DON, F.L S. &c. 8V0. with 60 Engravings, 12s. cloth. 

LOW. -THE BREEDS OF THE DOMESTICATED ANIMALS 

of Great Britain described. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E. Professor of Agriculture in the 
University of Edinburgh ; Member of the Royal Academy of Agriculture of Sweden ; Corre- 
sponding Member of the Conseil Royal d'Agriculture de France, of the Soci^t^ Royale et 
Centrale, &c. &c. The Plates from Drawings by W. Nicholson, R.S.A. reduced from a Series 
of Oil Paintings, executed for the Agricultural Museum of the University of Edinburgh, by 
W. Shiels, R.S.A. 2 vols, atlas quarto, with fifty-two plates of animals, beautifully coloured 
after Nature, 4^16. I6s. half-bound in morocco. 

Or in four separate portions, as follow :— 

The OX, in 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 22 plates, £^. I6fl. 6d. half-bound in morocco. 
The SHEEP, in 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 21 plates, dS^. I6s. 6d. half-bound in morocco. 
The HORSE, in 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 8 plates, ^3, half-bound in morocco. 
The HOG, in 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 5 plates, £2, 2s. half-bound in morocco. 

c 



18 CATALOQUB OF NEW WORKS 



I 



LOW-ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL AGRICULTURE; 

Comprehending: the Cultivation of Plants, the Husbandry of the Domestic Animals, and the 
Economy of the Farm. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E., Professor of A^cultnre in the Uni- 
versity of Edinburg:h. 8vo. 4th Edition, with Alterations and Additions, and above 900 Wood- 
cuts, 18s. cloth. 

■ .* This edition rontnins lirfrc and interesting addition* on th<> rhi>miral conttitntion and evolof^ical relations of 
•oils : on the cflVcts of climate? and altitude ; on the nature, uaea, and action of manwes ; on tnc prmciples of Uiacc 
and the aucceasion of crops ; on the theory and practice of draining, &c. 

MACAULAY.-CRITICAL AND HISTORICAL ESSAYS CON- 

TRIBUTED to the EDINBURGH REVIEW. By the Bight Hon. Thomas Babimotox 
Macau LAY. 8 vols. 8vo. 368. cloth. 

MACAULAY.-LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. 

By T. B. Macaulay, Esq. 3d Edition, crown 8vo. pp. 192; 10s. 6d. cloth. 

MACKENZIE. -THE PHYSIOLOGY OF VISION. 

By W. Mackenzie, M.D., Lecturer on the Eye in the University of Glasgow. 8vo. with 
Woodcuts, 10s. 6d. boards. 

MACKINTOSH, &C.-THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 

By Sir Jambs Mackintosh ; W. Wallace, Esq. ; and Robert Bell, Esq. 10 vols. fcp. 
8V0. with Vignette Titles, j£'8. cloth. 

MACLEOD.-ON RHEUMATISM, 

And on the Affections of Internal Organs, more especially the Heart and Brain, to which it 
g^ives rise. By R. Maclbod, M.D. Physician to St. Gcori^e's Hospital. 1 voL Svo.pp. 173, 
7s. cloth. 

MALTE-BRUN.-A SYSTEM OF UNIVERSAL GEOGRAPHY, 

Founded on the Works of Maltk-Brun and Balbi, embracing: an Historical Sketch of the 
Progress of Geofijaphical Discovery, the Principles of Mathematical and Physical Geofovphy, 
and a complete Description, from the most recent sources, of the Political and Social Condition 
of all the Countries in the World : with numerous Statistical Tables, and an Alphabetical Index 
of 12,000 Names. One thick vol. 8vo. closely and beautifully printed, SOs. cloth. 

MANUAL FOR MECHANICS' INSTITUTIONS. 

Published under the superintendence of the Society for the Difftision of Useful Knowledfipe. 
Post 8vo. 6s. cloth. 

MARCET (MRS.)-CONVERSATIONS ON THE HISTORY OF 

ENGLAND. For the Use of Children. Vol. 1, conUining the History to the Reign of 
Henry VII. 18mo. pp. 354, 4s. 6d. cloth. 

" Jurenile lit«ratnre will freely own how much it is indebti^l to Mrx. SJarret, not only for the prrarnt, hut all h*r 

ftrect^inK works. She imparts int«-reiit to dry and dull details ; and, while she teAclu.it, \Hrsrts a de«ire in her inipila 
or AirUier knowledge, so pleasantly imparted. Tliese ' ('onversations.' ailmirahly suited to the capacities of chUdrea, 
may be skimmed advantagvoualy by ' children of a larger growth.' "— Litk&ahy Uazbttb. 

MARCET.-CONVERSATIONS ON CHEMISTRY ; 

In which the Elements of that Science are familiarly Explained and Illustrated by Experiments. 
I4(h Edition (1841), enlarged and corrected, 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. pp. 732, 14s. cloth. 

MARCET.-CONVERSATIONS ON NATURAL PHILOSOPHY ; 

In which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained, and adapted to the compre- 
hension of Young Persons. 10th Edition (1830), enlarged and corrected by the Author. 
In 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. pp. 484, with 23 Plates, 10s. 6d. cloth. 

• 

OftheGeneral Properties of Bodies; the Attraction of Gravity; the Laws of Motion; Compound 
Motion ; the Mechanical Powers ; Astronomy ; Causes of the Earth's Motion ; the Planets ; 
the Earth; the Moon; Hydrostatics; the Mechanical Properties of Fluids; of Springs, 
Fountains,^.: Pneumatics: the Mechanical Properties of Air ; on Wind and Sound: Optics; 
the Visual Angle and the Reflection of Mirrors ; on Refraction and Colours; on the Stmctore 
of the Eye, and Optical Instruments. 



ii 



: 



I 



PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 



19 



MARCET -CONVERSATIONS ON POLITICAL ECONOMY; 

In which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. 7th Edition (1839), revised 
and enlan^i 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. pp. 424, 7s. 6d. cloth. 
Introduction ; on Propeity ; the Division of Labour ; on Capital ; on Wages and Population ; on 
the Condition of the Poor; on Value and Price: on Income: Income from Landed Property; 
Income from the Cultivation of Land ; Income from Capital lent ; on Money ; on Commerce; 
on Foreign Trade; on Expenditure and Consumption. 

MARCET. - CONVERSATIONS ON VEGETABLE PHYSIO- 

LOGY; comprehending the Elements of Botany, with their application to Agriculture. 
Sd Edition (1839)^ 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. pp. 474, with 4 Plates, 98. cloth. 

Introduction ; on Roots ; on Stems ; on Leaves ; on Sap ; on Cambium and the peculiar Juices 
of Plants ; on the Action of Light and Heat on Plants ; on the Naturalization of Plants j on 
the Action of the Atmosphere on Plants; on the Action of Water on Plants ; on the Artificial 
Mode of Watering Plants ; on the Action of the Soil on Plants : on the Propagation of Plants 
by Subdivision ; on Grafting ; on the Multiplication of Plants uy Seed ; the Flower ; on Com- 
pound Flowers ; on Fruit ; on the Seed ; on the Classification of Plants ; on Artificial Systems ; 
on the Natural System; Botanical Geography; the Influence of Culture on Vegetation; on 
the Degeneration and Diseases of Plants ; on the Cultivation of Trees ; on the Cultivation of 
Plants which produce Fermented Liquors ; on the Cultivation of Grasses, Tuberous Roots, and 
Grain ; on Oleaginous Plants and Culinary Vegetables. 

MARCET.-CONVERSATIONS FOR CHILDREN ; 

On Land and Water. 2d Edition (1839), revised and corrected, I voL fcp. 8vo. pp. 356, with 
coloured Maps, showing the comparative altitude of Mountains, 6s. 6d. cloth. 

MARCET -THE GAME OF GRAMMAR, 

With a Book of Conversations (fcp. 8vo. pp. 54, 1842) shewing the Rules of the Game, and 
affording Examples of the manner of playing at it. In a varnished box, or done up as a post 
8vo. volume in cloth, 88. 

MARCET. -MARY'S GRAMMAR; 

Interspersed with Stories, and intended for the Use of Children. 6th Edition (1841), revised 
and enlarged. 18mo. pp. 336, 3s. 6d. half-bound. 

MARCET. — JOHN HOPKINS' NOTIONS ON POLITICAL 

ECONOMY. 3d Edition (1834), fcp. slo. pp. 194, 4s. 6d. cloth. 

S* A smaller Edition (the second, 1833), in 18mo. pp. 176, Is. 6d. sewed. 

MARCET.-WILLY'S HOLIDAYS ; 

Or, Conversations on Different Kinds of Governments, intended fSor Young (Children. l8mo. 
pp. 158 (1836), 2s. half-bound. 

MARCET.-WILLY'S STORIES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN. 

Third Edition, l8mo. pp. 138 (1839), 2s. half-bound. 

The House-building; the Three PiU (the Coal Pit, the Chalk Pit, and the Gravel Pit): and the 
Land without Laws. 

MARCET.-THE SEASONS; 

Stories for very Young Children. 4 vols. l8nH). new Editions : Vol. 1, Winter, 3d Edition, 
pp. 180, 1839; Vol. 2, Spring, 3d Edition, pp. 196, 1839 ; Vol. 3, Summer, 3d Edition, pp. 178, 
1840 ; Vol. 4, Autumn, 3d Edition, pp. 1&4, 1840. 28. each volume, half-bound. 

MARRIAGE GIFT. 

By a Moth kr. A Legacy to her Children. Post 8vo. 5s. cloth, gilt edges. 

MARRYAT.-MASTERMAN READY ; 

Or, the Wreck of the Pacific. Written for Young People. By Captain Marry at. 3 vola. 
fcp. 8vo. with numerous Engravings on Wood, 22s. 6d. cloth. 

S* The volumes tepturateljf, 78. 6d. each, cloth. 



^ 



I 



20 CATALOODB OF NEW WORKS 



MARTINGALE— SPORTING SCENES AND COUNTRY CHA- 

RACTERS. By .Martingale. I vol. iquare crown 8vo. beautifully embelliabed with 
Wood Engnraving^s in the biff heat style of tbe Art, iff 1. la. bandaomely bound in a new style. 

MAUNDER.-THE TREASURY OF KNOWLEDGE, 

And LIBRARY of REFERENCE : containinff a new and enlarged Dictionary of the Ensrliah 
Langua^, preceded by a Compendious Grammar, Verbal Distinctions, &c. ; a new Uniyeraal 
Gazetteer ; a Compendious Classical Dictionary ; a Chronological Analysis of General History ; 
a Dictionary of Law Terms, &c. &c. By Samuel Maundek. 14tb Edition. 1 yol. fcp. Sro. 
pp. 810, with two engraved Frontispieces, 8s. 6d. cloth ; or handsomely bound in roan, letteted, 
with gilt edges, 10s. 6d. 

MAUNDER.-THE SCIENTIFIC & LITERARY TREASURY ; 

A new and popular Encyclopaedia of Science and the Belles Lettres ; including all Branches of 
Science, and every Subject connected with Literature and Art. The whole written in a familiar 
style, adapted to the comprehension of all persons desirous of acquiring information on the 
subjects comprised in the work, and also adapted for a Manual of convenient Reference to tbe 
more instructed. By Samuel Maunder. 2d Edition, 1 thiclc vol. fcp. 8vo. of 1700 closely- 
printed columns, pp. 840, with an engraved Frontispiece, lOs. handsomely bound in fancy 
cloth, lettered ; or bound in roan, gilt edges, 128. 

MAUNDER.-THE BIOGRAPHICAL TREASURY; 

Consisting of Memoirs, Sketches, and brief Notices of above 12,000 Eminent Persons of all Ages 
and Nations, fh)m the Earliest Period of History ; forming a new and complete Dictionary 
of Universal Biography. 4th Edition, with a " Supplement," from the Accession of Qocea 
Victoria to the Present Time. 1 vol. fcp. 8\'o. pp. 876, with engraved Frontispiece, 8s. 6d. 
cloth ; or roan, gilt edges, 10s. fid. 

MAUNDER -THE TREASURY OF HISTORY & GEOGRAPHY ; 

Comprising a General Introductory Outline of Universal History, Ancient and Modem, and a 
complete Series of separate Histories of every Nation that exists, or has existed, in the World ; 
developing their Rise, Progress, and Present Condition, the Moral and Social Character of 
their respective inhabitants, their Religion, Manners, and Customs ; together with the Geo- 
graphical Position and Commercial Advantages of each Country ; their Natural Productions 
and General Statistics. BySAMUBLMAUND e a.— /n the pret. 

M'CULLOCH.-THE PRINCIPLES OF POLITICAL ECONOMY: 

with some Enquiries respecting their Application, and a Sketch of the Rise and Progre s s oi 
the Science. By J. R. M'Cullocii, Esq. New Edition, enlarged and corrected thronghoat, 
8vo. 16s. 

M'CULLOCH -A DICTIONARY, GEOGRAPHICAL, STATIS- 

TICAL, AND HISTORICAL, of the various Countries, Places, and Principal Natural OI^|ecta 
in the WORLD. By J. R. M*Culloch, Esq. 2 thick vols. 8vo. pp. 1980, j£'4, bound in cloth. 
Illustrated with Six Large important Maps as follow :— | 

1. The World, on Mercator's Projection ; with enlarged scales introduced of Canton River, Van 

Dieman's Land, Hooghly River, Island and Town of Singapore, and Colony of Good Hope. 

9. Aaia on a very extensive scale, embracing every recent Survey (coloured), 

S. Great Britain and Ireland, exhibiting the Navigable Rivers, and completed and proposed 

Railways} with Dublin Bay, the Caledonian Canal, and the River Thames, introduced on 

an enlarged scale. 

4. The British Possessions in North America, with part of the United States, compiled ttiun 
official sources ; with Plans of the Cities and Harbours of Montreal and the Island ot 
Newfoundland, introduced on an enlarged scale. 

5. Central and Southern Europe, with the Mediterranean Sea; the Mouth of the Schelde intro- 
duced on an extended scale. 

6. Central America and the West Indies, fh>m the latest and best authorities ; with the laland 
of Jamaica, the Harbours of Port Royal and Kingston, and the Harbour and City of Havana, 
introduced on an enlarged scale. 

** Th* ntnt of infeniiatkm this Dietionarx affords on the •vbjccto refrmtl to ia ita tiUa is trolr rararWac- It 
eaiuMA fiftU to prow a ▼ado-BMCiuii to tiM atadeat, whow iaqulriea will be gnidod bj ita Ufht,aBd aauaSoabj ita dMr 
and fraqutatly daboratad c o m n w n ieation a . Ervry fx^bUc room in which eoaiiii«re«, poUUea, or Utnmtttre. lonna tha 
aub^tet of diaevaaton, ought to be ftaralalMd wUh tbeae toIiuiics."— Olou, Sept. Tth, 18U. 



PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 21 






M'CULLOCH.-A DICTIONARY, PRACTICAL, THEORETI- 
CAL, AND HISTORICAL, OF COMMERCE AND COMMERCIAL NAVIGATION. IHm- 
trated with Maps and Plans. By J. R. M<Cvlloch, Esq. A New Edition, with a new and 
enlarged Supplement, containing the New TariiT, the New Corn Law (with an Article on the 
latter), and bringing down the information in the work to September 1842. One closely 
and beautiAilIy.printed vol. 8vo. of more than 1350 pages, j^. lOs. boards. 

*•* The New Supplement separately, 6s. sewed. 

MEREDITH. 

By the Countbss op Blbssinoton. 3 vols, post Svo.—Netu^ ready. 

MILNE -TREATISE ON THE VALUATION OF ANNUITIES 

AND ASSURANCES on LIVES and SURVIVORSHIPS; on the Constmction of Tables of 
Mortality ; and on the Probabilities and Expectations of Life. Wherein the Laws of Mortality 
that prevail in different parts of Europe are determined, and the Comparative Mortality of 
different Diseases and of the Two Sexes are shown : with a variety of Tables. By Joshua 
MiLNB, Actuary to the Sun Life Assurance Society, a vols. 8vo. iffl. lOs. boards. 

MILTON'S L' ALLEGRO AND IL PENSEROSO, 

With Illustrations by Members of the Etching Club. Imp. Byo.— {In preparation,) 

MONTGOMERY'S (JAMES) POETICAL WORKS. 

New and only Complete Edition (1841). With some additional Poems, and Autobiographical 
Prefaces. Collected and Edited by Mr. Montgombry. 4 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Portrait, and 
Seven other beautiftilly-engraved Plates, 30s. cloth ; or bound in morocco, with gilt edges, 
jgl. 16s. 

MOORE'S (THOMAS) POETICAL WORKS. 

First and only Complete Edition (1841). Edited by Mr. Mookb. With Autobiographical 
Prefaces. 10 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Portrait, and 19 other highly-finished Plates, ^n. 10s. 
fancy cloth ; or 4^4. lOs. handsomely bound in morocco, with gilt edges* 

MOORE'S LALLA ROOKH. 

Twentieth Edition (1843), I vol. meditm 8vo. beautiftilly illustrated with 13 Engravings 
finished in the highest style of Art, 31s. handsomely bound in cloth and ornamented ; or 40s. 
with India Proof Plates, in cloth. 

MOORE'S LALLA ROOKH. 

Twenty-first Edition (1843), I vol. fcp. 8vo. with Four Engravings, Arom Paintings by Westall, 
lOs. 6d. cloth ; or 148. handsomely bound in morocco, with gilt edges. 

MOORE'S IRISH MELODIES. 

Fifteenth Edition (1843), with Engraved Title and Vignette, 10s. cloth lettered ; or 13s. 6d' 
handsomely bound in morocco, with gilt edges. 

MOORE.-THE HISTORY OF IRELAND. 

By Thomas Moorb, Esq. Vols. 1 to 3, with Vignette Titles, 18s. cloth. 

MORAL OF FLOWERS. 

8d Edition, 1 vol. royal 8vo. with 34 beautifully-coloured Engravings, jtfl. 10s. half-bound- 

MORGAN.~THE PRINCIPLES AND DOCTRINE OF ASSU- 

RANCES, ANNUITIES on LIVES, and CONTINGENT REVERSIONS, stated and explained. 
By W. Mokoan, F.R.S. Actuary to the Society for Equitable Assurances on Lives, ftc. 8vo. 
13s. boards. 






22 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 

MORTON -A VETERINARY TOXICOLOGIC AL CHART, 

Containing: those Agents Vnown to cause Death in the Horse ; with the Symptoms, Antidote*, 
Action on the Tissues, and Tests. By W. J. T. Mobton. 12mo. 6s. in case; 8s. 6d. on rollers. 

MORTON -A MANUAL OP PHARMACY, 

For the Student in Veterinary Medicine; containing the Substances employed at the Royal 
Veterinary College, with an attempt at their classification, and the Pharmacopoeia of that In- 
stitution. By W. J. T. Morton. 2d Edition, 12nio. pp. 3M, 9s. cloth. 

MOSELEY.-ILLUSTRATIONS OF PRACTICAL MECHANICS. 

By the Rev. H. Moskley, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King's 
College, London ; being the First Volume of the Illustrations of Science by the Profeasors of 
King's College. 1 vol. fcp. Swo. with numerous Woodcuts, 88. cloth. 

MOSELEY.-THE MECHANICAL PRINCIPLES OF ENGI- 

NEERING AND ARCHITECTURE. By the Rev. H. Mosblby, M.A. F.R.S., Professor of 
Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in Ring's College, London ; and Author of '* Illustrations 
of Mechanics," &c. 1 vol. 8vo. with Woodcuts and Diagrams, 34s. cloth. 

MOSELEY.-ILLUSTRATIONS OF PRACTICAL MECHANICS. 

By the Rev. II. Mosblky, M.A. ; being the first volume of" Illustrations of Science, by the 
Professors of King's College." 2d edition, 1 vol. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts, 8a. clotb. 

MURRAY.-ENCYCLOPiEDIA OF GEOGRAPHY ; 

Comprising a complete Desiription of the Earth : exhibiting its Relation to th« Hearenly 
Bodies, its Physical Structure, the Natural History of each Country, and the Industry, Com- 
merce, Political institutions, and Civil and Social State of all Nations. By Huoh Murray* 
F.R.S.E. : assisted in Astronomy, &c. by Professor W^allace ; Geology, &c. by Professor 
Jameson ; Botany, &c. by Sir W. J. Hooker ; Zoology, &c. by W. Swainson, Esq. New 
Edition, brought down to 1840: with 82 Maps, drawn by Sidney Hall, and upwards of 1000 other 
Engravings on Wood, from Drawings by Swainson, T. Landseer, Sowerby, Stmtt, &c. repre- 
senting the most remarkable Objects of Nature and Art in every Region of the Globe. 1 voL 
8vo. containing upwards of 1500 pages, j6^, cloth. 



NARRIEN.-ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRY ; 

Consisting of the first Four and Sixth Books of Euclid, chiefly from the Text of Dr. Robert | 
Simson : with the principal Theorems in Proportion, and a Course of Practical Geometry on 
the Ground ; also. Four Tracts relating to Circles, Planes, and Solids, with one on Spherical 
Geometry. By Mr. Narribn, Professor of Mathematics in the Royal Military CoUet^e, 
Sandhurst. 8vo. pp. 288, with many diagrams, lOs. 6d. bound. 

NICOLAS.-THE CHRONOLOGY OF HISTORY. 

Containing Tables, Calculations, and Statements indispensable for ascertaining the Dates of 
Historical Events, and of Public and Private Documents, flrom the Earliest Period to the 
Present Time. By Sir Harris Nicolas, K.C. M.G. Second edition, corrected throughout. 
1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Viguette Title, 6s. cloth. 

O'SULLIVAN.-OF THE APOSTACY PREDICTED BY ST. 

PAUL. By the Rev. Mortimkr O'Svllivan, D.D. Rector of Killyman. Royal 8to. 
pp. 696, 14s. cloth. 

PARKES.-DOMESTIC DUTIES ; 

Or, Instructions to Young Married Ladies on the Management of their Households and the 
Regulation of their Conduct in the various Relations and Duties of Married Life. By Mrs. 
W. Parkbs. 5th Edition, fcp. 8vo. 98. cloth. 

Social Relations— Household Concerns— the Regulation of Time— Moral and Religious Duties. 

PARNELL.-A TREATISE ON ROADS; 

Wherein the Principles on which Roads should be made are explained and illustrated by the 
Plans, Specifications, and Contracts made use of by Thomas Telford, Esq. on the Holyhead 
Road. By the Right Hon. Sir Hbney Paerbll, Bart., Hon. Memb. Inst. Civ. £ng. London. 
Second Edition, greatly enlanred, with 9 large xdates, itl. Is. doth. 




PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 23 

PEARSON-PRAYERS FOR FAMILIES : 

Consitting of a Form, sbort but comprehensive, for the Morning and Evening of every day in 
the week. Selected by the late E. Pba rbon, D.D. Master of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. 
To which is prefixed, a Biographical Memoir of the Editor. New Edit. 18mo. 2s. 6d. cloth. 

PEARSON.-AN INTRODUCTION TO PRACTICAL ASTRO- 

NOMY. By the Rev. W. Pearsoit, LL.D. F.R.S., &c.. Rector of South Killworth, 
Leicestershire, and Treasurer to the Astronomical Society of London. 9 vols. 4to. with 
Plates, jei. 7s. boards. 

Vol. 1 contains Tables, recently computed, for facilitating the Reduction of Celestial observa- 

tions ; and a popular explanation of their Construction and Use. 
Vol. a contains Descriptions of the various Instruments that have been useftilly employed in 

determining the Places of the Heavenly Bodies, with an Account of the Methods of A(yusting 

and Using them. 

PERCIVALL.-THE ANATOMY OF THE HORSE ; 

Embracing the Structure of the Foot. By W. Pbrciya ll, M.R.C.S. 8vo. pp. 478, iff I . cloth. 

PERCIVALL.-HIPPOPATHOLOGY ; 

A Systematic Treatise on the Disorders and Lameness of the Horse ; with their modem and 
most approved Methods of Cure; embracing the doctrines of the English and French 
Veterinary Schools. By W. Pbrcivall, M.R.C.S. Veterinary Surgeon in the 1st Life Guards. 
Vol I, 8vo. pp. 340, lOs. 6d. boards; Vol. 3, 8vo. pp. 436, 14s. 

PEREIRA.-A TREATISE ON FOOD AND DIET, 

And the Dietetical Regimen suited for a Disordered State of the Digestive and other Organs : 
with Formulas of Dietaries for Prisons, Union Workhouses, and other Public Institutions. 
By JoN. Pbrbira, M.D. F.R.S. Author of ** Elements of Materia Medica.'* 8vo. 

PHILLIPS.-AN ELEMENTARY INTRODUCTION TO MINE- 

RALOGY; comprising a Notice of the Characters and Elements of Minerals; with Accounts 
of the Places and Circumstances in which they are found. By William Phillips, F.L.S. 
M.G.S., &c. 4th Edition, considerably augmented by R. Allan, F.R.S.E. 8vo. numerous 
Cuts, 128. cloth. 

PHILLIPS-FIGURES AND DESCRIPTIONS OF THE 

PALiEOZOIC FOSSILS of CORNWALL, DEVON, and WEST SOMERSET; observed in 
the course of the Ordnance Geological Survey of that District. By John Phillips, F.R.S. 
F.G.S. &c. Published by Order of the Lords Commissioners of U.M. Treasury. 8vo. with 
60 Plates, comprising very numerous figures, 9s. cloth. 

PHILLIPS.-A GUIDE TO GEOLOGY. 

By John Phillips, F.R.S.G.S., &c. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Plates, 6s. cloth. 

PHILLIPS.-A TREATISE ON GEOLOGY. 

By John Phillips, F.R.S.O.b., Ike. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles and Woodcuts, 
12s. cloth. 

PORTER. -A TREATISE ON THE MANUFACTURE OF SILK. 

By G. R. PoRTBR, Esq. F.R.S. Author of " The Progress of the Nation,'* &c. 1 vol. 8vo. with 
Vignette Title, and 39 Engravings on Wood, 6s. cloth. 

PORTER.-A TREATISE ON THE MANUFACTURES OF 

PORCELAIN AND GLASS. By G. R. Portbr, Esq. F.ILS. I voL fcp. 8vo. with Vignette 
Title and 50 WoodcuU, 6s. cloth. 

PORTLOCK.-REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF THE COUNTY 

of LONDONDERRY, and of Parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh, examined and described under 
the Authority of the Master-General and Board of Ordnance. By J. E. Pobtlock, F.ILS. 
&c. 8vo. with 48 Plates, a4s. cloth. 






! 




24 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 



I 






POWELL.-THE HISTORY OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, 

From the Earliest Pcriotis to the Present Time. By Ba dkn Powell, M.A., SaTilUn Prof4 
of Mathematics in the University of Oxford. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. Vignette Title, 6a. doth. 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 

8vo. The last part publislied is Part 9 for 1841, 68. cloth. 

REECE.-THE MEDICAL GUIDE, 

For the use of the Clergy, Heads of Families, Seminaries, and Junior Practitionerfl in Medi- 
cine ; comprisiiiff a complete Modem Dispensatory* and a Practical Treatise on the Distin- 
fpiishinj? S>'mptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure and Palliation, of the Diseases incident to the 
Human Frame. By R. Rebck, M.D. late Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Londooy 
&c. 16th Edition, 8vo. pp. 600, I2s. boards. 

REEVE -CONCUOLOGIA SYSTEMATICA : 

Or, Complete. System of Conchology : in which the Lepades and MoUuscaare deacrihed and 
classified acconling to their Natural Organization and Habits ; illustrated with SOO highly 
finished copper-plate engravings, by Messrs. Sowerby, containing above 1500 figures of Sheila. 
By L. Rebvk, F.L.S. &c. 

Vol. 1, containing the Lepades and Bivalve Mollusca, with ISO Plates, iffS. 5«. cloth ; with 

coloured Plates, j65. 10s. cloth. 
Vol. 2, the ** Univalve Mollusca,*' with 171 Plates, ^*. 9s. cloth ; coloured, ^7, 12a. cloth. 

REPTON.-THE LANDSCAPE GARDENING & LANDSCAPE 

ARCHITECTURE of the late Humphry Rbpton, Esq.; being his entire works on these 
subjects. New Edition, with an historical and scientific Introduction, a systematic Analysia, 
a Biographical Notice, Notes, and a copious alphabetical Index. By J. C Loudon, P.JL1.S. 
&c. Originally published in 1 folio and S quarto volumes, and now comprised in 1 toI. Sto. 
illustrated by upwards of 250 Engravings, and Portrait, 80s. cloth; with coloured xdatea, 
4^. 66. cloth. 

RIDDLE. - A DIAMOND LATIN ENGLISH DICTIONARY. 

For the waistcoat-pocket. A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation of Latin 
Classical Words. By the Rev. J. E. Riddlk, M.A. Royal S2mo. 4s. bound. 

A nu>»>t niipful little Irxlcnn tn tlir K«^n«riil rpadrr tilio amy wiit)i fur an krcmnotlating iaterpnter of ■ocfa Lstta 
wordH or »irnt«nrM at mojr be ruvuuntered in every duy'it ca*iud literary exerciaes. It is at onc« copiowa and 
•U(*cinct." — Muiisii!<o Hcealu. 

RIDDLE.-LETTERS FROM AN ABSENT GODFATHER ; 

Or, a Compendium of Religious instruction for Young Persons. By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, 
M.A. Fcp. 8vo. Gs. cloth. 

RIDDLE. -ECCLESIASTICAL CHRONOLOGY ; 

Or, Annals of the Cliristian Church, from its Foundation to the present Time. Containing a 
View of General Church History, and the Course of Secular Events ; the Limits of the 
Church and its Relations to the State; Controversies; Sects and Parties; Rite^t 
Institutions, and Discipline ; Ecclesiastical Writers. The whole arranged according to the 
order of Dates, and divided into Seven Periods. To which are added. Lists of Councils and 
Popes, Patriarchs, and Archbishops of Canterbury. By the Rev. J. B. Riddle, M.A., 
Author of '* The Complete Latin Dictionary.*' 1 vol. 8vo. 15s. cloth. 

RIVERS. -THE ROSE AMATEUR'S GUIDE : 

Containing ample Descriptions of all the fine leading Varieties of Rosea, regulariy clasaed in 
their respective families ; their History and Mode of Culture. By T. Riybks, Jon. 9d Edi- 
tion, with Alterations and Additions. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. 60. cloth. 

/Unonf the additions to the Dre«nit EditioD will be foond fViU Dircettooa for Raising New Roaca fhm Seed, by 
OMtdea nerer before pnhliikhrtl, appended to each Family; with deacriptiocu of tha moat rrmarkable Naw Boa a a 
latdj introduced ; an alphabetical list of all the New Roaea and Show Fkowpra. 

ROBERTS —A COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF THE CULTURE 

of the VINE under GLASS. By James Robbets, Gardener to M. Wilson, Esq. Bshton Hall, 
Yorkshire. 12mo. 5s. 6d. cloth. 

ROBERTS.-AN ETYMOLOGICAL AND EXPLANATORY 

DICTIONARY of the Terms and Langnage of GEOLOGY; designed for the eariy Student, 
and those who hare not made great progress in the Science. ByG. Hobeets. Fcp. 6a. cloth. 



I * 



i^lSLl St S tB ^ gH 



PRINTED FOR LONGMAN^ BROWN, AND CO. 2d 



ROBINSON- GREEK AND ENGLISH LEXICON TO THE 

NEW TESTAMENT. By B. Robinson, D.D. Author of " Biblical Retearches." Edited, 
with careful reviBion, corrections, &c. by the Rev. Dr. Bloom field. 1 vol. 8vo. 18s. cloth. 

R06ERS.-THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR; 

Containing^ a plain and accurate Description of all the different Species of Culinary Vegetables, 
with the most approved Method of Cultivating them by Natural and Artificial Means, and 
the best Modes of Cooking them ; alphabetically arranged. Together with a Description of 
the Physical Herbs in General Use. Also, some Recollections of the Life of Philip Millbk, 
F. A.S. , Gardener to the Worshipftil Company of Apothecaries at Chelsea. By Jo h n Roobes, 
Author of ** The Fruit Cultivator." Fcp. 8vo. 78. cloth. 

ROME.-THE HISTORY OF ROME. 

2 vols fcp. Svo. with Vignette Titles, 128. cloth. 

RONALDS.-THE FLY-FISHER'S ENTOMOLOGY, 

Illustrated by Coloured Representations of the Natural and Artificial Insect ; and accompanied 
by a few Observations and Instructions relative to Trout and Grayling Fishing. By Alprbo 
RoNA LOS. 2d Edition, with 20 Copperplates, coloured, Svo. I4s. cloth. 

ROSCOE.-LIVES OF EMINENT BRITISH LAWYERS. 

By Henry Roscob, Esq. 1 vol. fcp. Svo. with Vignette Title, 6s. cloth. 

RUSSELL.-CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN, FOURTH DUKE 

OF BEDFORD, selected from the Originals at Wobum Abbey : with an Introduction by 
Lord John Russell. Vol. 1, Svo. 18s. cloth. 

%* Vol. 2 is in the press. 

SANDFORD.-WOMAN IN HER SOCIAL AND DOMESTIC 

CHARACTER. By Mrs. John Sandford. 6th Edition, fcp. Svo. 6s. cloth. 

Causes of Female Influence; Value of Letters to Woman ; Importance of Religion to Woman ; 
Christianity the Source of Female Excellence ; Scripture illustrative of Female Character ; 
Female Influence on Religion ; Female Defects; Female Romance ; Female Education ; Female 
Duties. 

SANDFORD.-FEMALE IMPROVEMENT. 

By Mrs. John Sandforo. 2d Edition, fcp. Svo. 7s. 6d. cloth. 

The Formation of Female Character; Religion a paramount Object; the Importanceof Religioiu 
Knowledge; Christianity, Doctrinal and Practical ; the Employment of Time ; Study, its Mode 
and its Recommendation; Accomplishment; Temper; Taste; Benevolence; Marriage; the 
Young Wife ; the Young Mother. 

SANDFORD.-LIVES OF ENGLISH FEMALE WORTHIES. 

By Mrs. John Sandforo. Vol 1, containing the Lives of Lady Jane Grey and Mrs. Colonel 
Hutchinson, fcp. Svo. 6s. 6d. cloth. 

SAVAGE.-A DICTIONARY OF PRINTING. 

By William Savage, Author of" Practical Hints on Decorative Printing," and a Treatise 
" On the Preparation of Printing Ink, both Black and Coloured." In I vol. Svo. with numerous 
Diagrams, j£l. 6s. cloth. 

SCOTT.-THE HISTORY OF SCOTLAND. 

By Sir Walter Scott, Bart. New edition. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. with Vignette Titles, 12s. cloth. 

SEAWARD.- SIR EDWARD SEAWARD'S NARRATIVE OF 

HIS SHIPWRECK, and consequent Discovery of certain Islands in the Caribbean Sea: with 
a detail of many extraordinary and highly interesting Events in his Life, ftrom 1783 to 1749, as 
written in his own Diary. Edited by Miss Jane Porter. 8d Edition, with a New Nautical 
and Geographical Introduction, containing ExtracU ftrom a Paper by Mr. C. F. CoUett, of the 
Royal Navy, identifying the isUmds described by Sir E. Seaward. 2 voU. post Svo. 21s. cloth. 

I ~-~^ ' ' — " — ■^■™— =^-^^"^= 



J 



26 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 



SELECT WORKS OF THE BRITISH POETS, 

From Chaucer to Withers. With Biog^rapbical Sketches, by R. Sodthky, LL.D. 1 vol. 8to. 
308. cloth ; with g^ilt edfi^es, Sis* 6d. 

SELECT WORKS OF THE BRITISH POETS, 

From Bon Jonson to Bcattie. With Biog^phical and Critical Prefaces, by Dr. Aikin. 
1 vol. 8vo. 188. cloth ; with g-ilt edf^es, 208. 

• ." The p^rulinr feature of thrne two works m, that the Poenu inrluded arc printed entire, without matilation or 
abridgment ; care being taken that such poemi only are included a« are fit for the pcnual or jrouth, or for reading ■ 
aloud. 

SHAKSPEARE, BY BOWDLER. 

THE FAMILY SHAKSPEARE; in which nothin^c is added to the Orif^nal Text ; bat thow 
words and expressions arc omitted which cannot with propriety be read aloud. By T- Bowolbb, 
Esq. F.R.S. Seventh Edition (1839)> 1 large vbl. 8vo. with 36 Illustrations after Smirke, &c. 
80s. cloth ; or 318. 6d. gilt edges. 

%* A Library Edition, without Illustrations, 8 vols. 8vo. £A, 14s. fid. boarda. 

SHELLEY, &c.- LIVES OF THE MOST EMINENT LITERARY 

MEN OF ITALY, SPAIN, and PORTUGAL. By Mrs. Shbllby, Sir D. Brewstbb, 

J. MoNTOOMBRY, &c. 3 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vig^cttc Titles, ISs. cloth. 

SHELLEY.-LIVES OF MOST EMINENT FRENCH WRITERS. 

By Mrs. Shbllby, and others. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 128. cloth. 

SHORT WHIST : 

Its Rise, Prc^ess, and Laws ; with observations to make any one aVThist Player ; containing 
also the Laws of Piquet, Cassino, Ecart^, Cribbage, Backgammon. By Mi^or A * * * * *. 
7th Edition. To which are added, PrecepU for Tyros. By Mrs. B * * * * *. Fcp. 8vo. ^s, 
cloth, gilt edges. 

SISMONDI.-THE HISTORY OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLICS ; 

Or, of the Origin, Progress, and Fall of Freedom in Italy, {mm a.d. 476 to 1805. By J. C. L. 
deSisMONDi. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 128. cloth. 

SISMONDI.-THE HISTORY OF THE FALL OF THE ROMAN 

EMPIRE. Comprising a View of the Invasion and Settlement of the Barbarians. By J. C L. ^ 
de SisMONDi. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 12s. cloth. ' 

SMITH.-AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF BOTANY. 

By Sir J. E. Smith, late President of the Linnean Society. 7tb Edition (1833), corrected ; in 
which the object of Smith's ** Grammar of Botany" is combined with that of the ** Introduc- 
tion." By Sir William Jacbsoit Hoobbr, K.H., LL.D., &c. 1 voLSvo. pp. 522, 86 Steel 
Plates, 16s. cloth ; with the Plates coloured, £2, l2s. 6d. cloth. 

SMITH.-THE ENGLISH FLORA. i 

By Sir Jambs Edward Smith, M.D. F.R.S., late President of the Linnaean Society, &c. * 
6 vols. 8vo. jtf3. 12s. boards. 

Contents :— Vols. I. to IV. the Flowbrino Plants and the Fbrns, £2, 8s. 

Vol. V. PRrt 1, 128.— Cryptogam I A ; comprising the Mosses, Hepetics, Lichens, Characes, 
and Algse. By Sir W. J. Hoorbr. 

Vol. V. Part 2, 128.— The Funoi— completing the work, by Sir J. W. Hoorbr, and the Rev. 
M. J. Bbrrblby, F.L.S. Aec. 

SMITH.-THE WORKS OF THE REV. SYDNEY SMITH. 

2d Edition, S vols. 8vo. with Portrait, pp. 1412, S6s. cloth. 

Thia collection conaints of tbe author'* contributions to the Edinburgh ReTicw, Pttcr Pljmlcjr'a Letters oa the 
H Catholics* and other miscelUne<ms works. 

I SMITH.-LETTERS ON THE SUBJECT OF THE CATHOLICS, 

I to my Brother Abraham who lives in the Country. By Pbtbb Pltmlbt. 21st Edition^ 

1 post 8vo. pp. 200, 7s. cloth. 



IB-aBAaB!fiAtt9BaBiSSeCaB 



r 






PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 27 

SMITH.-THE MEMOIRS OF THE MARQUIS DE POMBAL. 

By Jo H N Sm iTH , Private Secretary to the Marquis De Saldana. 2 vols, post 8vo. with Portrait 
and Autographs, 21 s. cloth. 

The«e Memoirs embrftce a period of thirtr-three rear*, tad contain a Inctd aiuninarj of the atat* of Portnnl pr«- 
Tioua to the death of John V.— Poll particnlan of the earthouake of 176&— The Oporto Wine Cotnpanr— ThcJeauita, 
and the mean* Pombal took to lappress that aocietT — The Aveiro conapiracy — Rupture wiUi the Court of Booie— 
Reforms — The Jesuit Mala^nrida and his eztraordinary hallucinations — His trial and execution — UniTcrsity and 
educational reforms — Disputes with Spain — Pombal's resignation after the death of Jos^ih — His examinatian, and 
the i«ntence passed upon nun — Illness and death of Pombal. With much original matter, and documents obtained, 
from the Pombal fanulj and other sources never before published ; estracta &om Pombal's writings ; and remarka* 
on the present condition and prospects of Portugal. 

SMITH.-AN INQUIRY INTO THE NATURE AND CAUSES 

OF THE WEALTH OF NATIONS. By Adam Smith, LL.D. With a Life of the Author, 
an Introductory Discourse, Notes, and Supplemental Dissertations. By J. R. M*Cvlloch. 
New Edition, corrected throug^hout, and gnreatly enlarged, 8vo. with Portrait, j^l. Is. cloth. 

SOUTHEY'S (ROBERT) POETICAL WORKS. 

First and only Complete Edition (1838-42). Ck>llected and edited by Mr. South by. With 
Autobiographical Prefaces. 10 Vols. fcp. 8vo. with Portrait, and 19 other highly-finished 
Plates, j6'2. IOs. fancy cloth ; or £i. 10s. handsomely bound in morocco, with gilt edges. 

The following may be had, separately, in cloth :— 



JOAN of ARC 1 vol. 5s. 

MADOC 1 vol. 6s. 

CURSEof KEHAMA 1 vol. 58. 



TH ALA BA 1 vol. Ss. 

BALLADS, &c 2 vols. IDs. 

RODERICK 1 voL 6s. 



SOUTHEY, &c. -LIVES OF THE BRITISH ADMIRALS; 

with an Introductory View of the Naval History of England. By R. South ey, Esq. and 
R. Bell, Esq. 5 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, jgl. lOs. jcloth. 

SPACKMAN.-STATISTICAL TABLES 

Of the Agriculture, Shipping, Colonies, Manufactures, Commerce, and Population of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and its Dependencies, brought down to the year 1843. 
Compiled from Official Returns. By W. F. Spackmait, Esq. Fcp. 8vo. pp. 162, 5s. cloth. 

SPIRIT OF THE WOODS. 

By the Author of " The Moral of Flowers." 2d Edition, 1 vol, royal 8vo. with 3S beautiftiUy- 
coloured Engravings of the Forest Trees of Great Britain, jSI, lis. 6d. cloth. 

SPOONER.-A TREATISE ON THE INFLUENZA OF HORSES. 

Showing its Nature, Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment; embracing the jubject of Epizootic 
Disease generally. By W. C. Spooner, M.R.V.C. 12mo. pp. 118, 3s. 6d. cloth. 

SPOONER.-A TREATISE ON THE STRUCTURE, FUNC- 

TIONS, AND DISEASES of the FOOT and LEG of the HORSE; comprehending the 
Comparative Anatomy of these parts in other Animals, embracing the subject of shoeing and 
the proper Treatment of the Foot; with the Rationale and EflfecU of various Important 
Operations, and the best methods of performing them. By W. C. Spoonbe, M.R.V.C. 
12mo. pp. 396, 7s. 6d. cloth. 

STEBBING.-THE HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH, 

from its Foundation to a.o. 1492. By the Rev. H. Stebbino, M.A. &c. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. 
with Vignette Titles, 128. cloth. 

STEBBING.-THE HISTORY OF THE REFORMATION. 

By the Rev. H. Stebbino. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, 12s. cloth. 

— PHENS.— A MANUAL OF BRITISH COLEOPTERA; 

, BEETLES: containing a Description of all the Species of Beetles hitherto ascertained to 
habit Great Britain and Ireland, Aec. With a Complete Index of the Genera. By J. F. 
TEPHENS, F.L.S. Author of " Illustrations of Entomology." I vol. post Svo. 14s. cloth. 



"^•^t! 



28 



CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 



STEEL'S SHIPMASTER'S ASSISTANT, 

And OWNER'S MANUAL ; contaiuinjir Information necesnry iSor penons connected with 
Mercantile Affairs ; consistinfi: of the Riegulation Acta of the Caatoma for the United Kinf • 
dom, and British Possessions abroad ; Navigation Laws ; Re$n«try AcU ; Duties of Castoma 
of the United Kingdom, the British Plantations in America, Canada, and Isle oi Man, in the 
East Indies, Cape of Good Hope, New South Wales, and Van Diemsn'a Land ; Swunglfling 
Acts ; Pilotaf^e throughout England and Scotland ; Insurances ; Commercial Treaties ; Do^ 
Charges on Shipping, &r. New Edition, corrected by J. Stikbman, Secretary to the East 
India and China Association. With Tables of Monies, Weights, Measures, and KTrhanges. 
By Dr. Kblly. With a Supplement. I vol. 8to. jSI. la. cloth. 

STRONG-GREECE AS A KINGDOM : 

A Statistical Description of that Country— its Laws, Commerce, Resources, Public Institutions, 
Army, Navy, &c.— from the arrival of King Otho, in 1833, down to the present time. Flrom 
Official Documents and Authentic Sources. By Frederick Strong, Esq. Consul at Athens 
for the Kingdoms of Bavaria and Hanover. 8vo 15s. cloth. 

SUNDAY LIBRARY : 

Containing nearly One Hundred Sermons by the following eminent Divines. With Notes, ftc. 
by the Rev. T. F. Diboin, D.D. 6 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Six Portraits, 80a. cloth. 



1 



I 



Archbp. Lnwn^nce 

" S«cker 
Bp. Bloomfield 

<* Gray 

" Heb«r 

" Hobart 

" Home 

" Horsier 



B 



Hantinffford 

Maltby 

Mant 

Newton 

Porteiui 

J. B. Sumner 
" V»n MUdert 
Dean Chandler 



IP- 



it 
it 



Archdeacon Narea 
Pott 
Dr. Blair 
" Chalmers 
" D'OtIt 
" Paley 
" Parr 
" ShatUeworth 



ProfcMor White 
ReT. Arch. Alison 
C. Benson 
Joshua Gilpia 
G. HaawiU 
RobertHaU 
J. Hewlett 
A. Irrin* 



it 
« 

<■ 



Rer W. XoiiM 



MVmjUmi) 



« 
•I 

<< 



H. H. MilBWB 
R. Morehcnd 
Thoouu Renaen 
J. H. Spry 
Srdnej Smith 
Thonua Tc 



SWAINSON.-A PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE ON THE 

STUDY OF NATURAL HISTORY. By W. Swainsoit, Esq. I vol. fcp. 8vo. 6s. doth. 

SWAINSON.-A TREATISE ON THE NATURAL HISTORY 



AND CLASSIFICATION of ANIMALS, 
cloth lettered. 



By W. Swainson, Esq. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. 6e. 



SWAINSON.-NATURAL HISTORY AND CLASSIFICATION 

OF QUADRUPEDS. By W. Swaiitson, Esq. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with vignette title and 176 
Woodcuts, 66. cloth. 

SWAINSON.-NATURAL HISTORY AND CLASSIFICATION 

OF BIRDS. By W. Swainson, Esq. Fcp. 8vo. Vignette Titles and above 900 Woodcats. 
128. cloth. 

SWAINSON.-ANIMALS IN MENAGERIES. 

By W. Swainson, Esq. Fcp.Svo. Vignette Title and numerous Woodcuts, 6s. cloth lettered. 

SWAINSON.-NATURAL HISTORY AND CLASSIFICATION 

OF FISH, AMPHIBIANS, AND REPTILES. By W. Swainson, Esq. a vols. fcp. 8vo. 
with numerous Woodcuts and Vignette Titles, las. cloth. 

SWAINSON.-HABITS AND INSTINCTS OF ANIMALS. 

By W. Swainson, Esq. 1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette and numerous Woodcuts, 6s. cloth. 

SWAINSON.-A TREATISE ON MALACOLOGY ; 

Or, the Natural Classification of Shells and Shell-fish. By W. Swainson, Esq. 1 voL ficp. 
8vo. with Vignette Title and very numerous Illustrations on Wood, 6s. cloth. 

SWAINSON AND SHUCKARD.-HISTORY AND NATURAL 

ARRANGEMENT OF INSECTS. By W. Swainson, Esq., and W. E. Shuckaed, Esq. 
1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Title and Woodcuts, 6s. cloth. 



as 



S-£ 




PJWNTBD FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO 




SWITZERLAND.-THB HISTORY OF SWITZERLAND. 

1 vol. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Title, 6s. cloth. 

TATE -THE CONTINUOUS HISTORY OF THE LIFE AND 

WRITINGS OF ST. PAUL, on the basis of the AcU ; with IntercaUry Matter of Sacred 
Narrative, supplied from the Epistles, and elucidated in occasional Dissertations : with the 
Hors Paalinc of Dr. Paley, in a more correct edition, subjoined. By Jamks Tatb, M>A. 
Canon Residentiary of St. Paul's. 8vo. with Map, 13s. cloth. 

TAXIDERMY ; 

Or, the Art of Ck>llecting:, Preparing:, and Moontinfc Objects of Natural History. For the 
use of Museums and Travellers. With S Plates, Sth Edition, 12mo. 7s. 6d. cloth. 

TAYLOR— THE STATESMAN. 

By Hbmry Taylor, Esq., Author of " Philip Van Artevelde." 12mo. te. 6d. boards. 

THACKER -THE COURSER'S COMPANION. 

By Thomas Thackbr. 9d Edition, revised and enlarg^ed ; to which is added. The Breeder's 
Guide, or Breeding in all its Branches. 3 vob. 8vo. jffl. 10s. cloth. 

THACKER.-A POCKET COMPENDIUM OF COURSING 

RULES AND BYE-LAWS, for Use in the Field. By Thomas Thackbb. Is. 6d. sewed. 

THIRLWALL.-THE HISTORY OF GREECE. 

By the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of St. David's. Vols. 1 to 7, fcp. 8vo. with Vignette 
Titles, jer2. 2s. cloth. 

THOMSON'S SEASONS. 

Edited by Bolton Cornby, Esq. Illustrated with Seventy-seven Designs drawn on Wood, 
by the following Members of the Etching Club :~ 

J. Brll, Sculptor, J. C. IIonlcT, Frank Stone, H. J. TownMud, 

C. W. Cope, J. P. Knight, C. Stonbouae, T. Webeter, A.R.A. 

Thomu Oretwick, R. Redgrave, A. R. A. F. Tajler, 

Engraved by Thompson and other eminent Engravers. 

Handsomely printed in square clh)wn 8vo. (1843), pp. 336, ais. richly bound in ultra-marine 
cloth ; in morocco in the best manner by Hayday, 36s. 

«»« A few copies printed on prepared paper of great beauty, forming a most unique book, 
j^. 3s. in ultra-marine cloth ; in morocco in the best manner by Hayday, ^£2. 178. ; or in 
Russia, j£'S. 

" Few worki of tht cUm have • Curer prospect of popoUrity than this new edition of Tsoittoir, iUutratad t>T th« 
members of the Etching Club. Most of the designs are in accordance with the spirit of the author^— some of them 
beautifol. TIm landscape Tigncttee contributed by Mr. Cesswick entitle him to a first place as a book-illustrator ; 
exltibiting a Tersatilitj of tuent for which his warmest admiren oonM hitherto have hanilT ventured to give him 
credit. Mr. F. Tatlbb is not far behind, aa his designs at pp. 11, 12, and W, will most satisfkctorilT prove ; and he 
comes one step nearer historical art than Mr. Creswick, in risht of nis clever management of rustic flgurea. M eaais. 
Cors, HoRSLaT. Rbdoeatb, and Bkll, with all their true English feeling, and the grace of their conceptiooa, are a 
degree nu>re amoitions. Mr. Bxtx's preparatory outline of ' ^uing ' gives indications of grace, poetry, and nncy, 
worthy of being carried to the highest perfection. This booa is bcautif^y brousht out: the vignettes are tnm 
copper, blocks produced by the electrotype process. This gives a peculiarity of effect to the impressions more easy to 

Ecrccive than to describe. Other of our classical poems are to follow, illustrated in a similar fashion. Mr. Bolton 
oRNBT's laboura are not the less to be commended because they are unobtrusive : the work is extrrmely well edited, 
and therefore entitled to a place on the library shelf as well as on the drawing-room tabic."— ATBCMJioit. 

THOMSON.— THE DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK 

ROOM, necessary, in Aid of Medical Treatment, for the Cure of Diseases. By Anthokt 
Todd Thomson, M.D. F.L.S. &c. I vol. post 8vo. pp. 518, 10s. 6d. cloth. 

THOMSON.-CHEMISTRY OF ANIMAL BODIES. 

By Thomas Thomson, M.D. Regiuf Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow. 
8vo. 16s. cloth. 



I 



^aJ i 



30 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 



I 



TOMLINS.-A POPULAR LAW DICTIONARY ; 

Familiarly explaining^ the Terms and Nature of English Law ; adapted to the com prehension 
of persons not educated for the lesral profession, and affording^ information peculiarly uaefol 
to Magristrates, Merchants, Parochial Officers, and others. By Thomas Eolymb Tomlims» 
Attorney and Solicitor. In 1 thick vol. post 8vo. 18s. doth. 

The whole work hu been reriaed by • DaniBter. 

TOOKE.-A HISTORY OF PRICES ; 

With reference to the Causes of their principal Variations, firom 1799 to the Present Time. 
Preceded by a Sketch of the History of the Com Trade in the last Two Centariea. By Thomas 
TooKB, Esq. F.R.S. S vols. Svo. j£^1. 16s. cloth. 

(A Continuation of the Above.) 

AN ACCOUNT of PRICES and of the State of the CIRCULATION in 1838 and 1899 ; with 
Remarks on the Com Laws, and on proposed Alterations in our Banking System. 8vo. 12b. cloth. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 

8vo. The last part published is Part 3 of Vol. 3, with Plates, 4s. 6d. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF 

LONDON. 4to. The last part published is Part 1, Vol. 3, with Plates, Us. coloured, 
and 13s. plain. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE INSTITUTION OF CIVIL 

Engineers, 4to. Vol. II. with Twenty-three finely engraved Plates, 288. cloth. 
Vol. III. with Nineteen finely engraved Plates, je2. 138. 6d. cloth. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF BRITISH 

ARCHITECTS of LONDON : consisting of a series of Papers on " Antiquities," and " Con- 
straction." By R. Willis, M.A. F.R.S. &c. ; Ambrose Poynter; Herr Kallmann, of Han- 
over; Dr. Faraday ; Mr. Bracebridcre ; Herr Bcuth, of Berlin ; Joseph Gwilt, F.S.A. F.A.S. ; 
Mr. C. H. Smith ; Mr. C. Fowler, Hon. Sec. ; Mr. W. A. Nicholson, of Lincoln ; and Mr. J. P. 
Papworth. Vol. I. Part 3, 4to. with numerous lithographic and woodcut illustrations, 34s. cloth. 

%* Part 1, Vol. I. uniform with the above, 168. cloth. 

i TRANSACTIONS OF THE LINNEAN SOCIETY OF LONDON. 

The last part published is Part I, Vol. XIX. 4to. with Plates, 18s. 



TURNER -A REGISTER OF EXPERIMENTS, 

Anatomical, Physiological, and Pathological, performed on Living Animals. By J. Turnbh, 
M.R.V.C. 8vo. Ss. 6d. sewed. 

TURNER.-THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, 

From the Earliest Period to the Death of Elisabeth. By Sharon Turner, Esq. F.A.S. 
R.A.S.L. 13 vols. 8vs. adrS. Ss. cloth. 

Or four separate portions, as follow : — 

THE HISTORY of the ANGLO-SAXONS; comprising the History of England from the 
Earliest Period to the Norman Conquest. 6th Edition, 3 vols. 8vo. Jt2, 5s. boards. 

THE HISTORY of ENGL.VND during the MIDDLE AGES; comnriMing the Reigns from 
William the Conqueror to the Accession of Henry VIII., and also the History of the Litera- 
ture, Religion, Poetry, and Progress of the Reformation and ot the Language during that 
period. 3d Edition, 5 vols. 8vo. 4^3, boards. 

THE HISTORY of the REIG.V of HENRY VI 11.; compri.iing the Political History of the 
commencement of the English Reformation : being the First Part of the Modem History of 
England. 8d Edition, 3 vols. Svo. 368. bds. 

THE HISTORY of the REIGNS of EDWARD VI., MARY, and ELIZABETH; being the 
Second Part of the Modem History of England. 8d Edition, 3 vols. Svo. 83s. boards. 



I 



i 



m 



TURNER —THE SACRED HISTORY OF THE WORLD, 

Philosophically congidered. By Sharon Turner, F.S.A. R.A.S.L. New Edit. 3 vola.Svo. 43t. 

Vol. 1 considers the Creation and System of the Earth, and of its Vegetable and Animal Races 
and Material Laws, and Formation of Mankind. { 

Vol. 3, the Divine Economy in its special Relation to Mankind, and in the Deluge, and the 
History of Human Affairs ; 

Vol. 3, the Provisions for the Perpetuation and Support of the Human Race, the Divine System 
of our Social Combinations, ana the Supernatural History of the AVorld. 

TURNER -A TREATISE ON THE FOOT OF THE HORSE, 

And a New System of Shoeing, by one-sided nailing ; and on the Nature, Origin, and Symptoms 
of the Navicular Joint Lameness, with Preventive and Curative Treatment. By Jambs 
TuRNBB, M.R.V.C. Royal 8vo. pp. 118, 7s. 6d. boards. 

TURTON'S (DR.) MANUAL OF THE LAND AND FRESH- 

WATER SHELLS of the BRITISH ISLANDS. A New Edition, thoroughly revised and with 
considerable Additions. By John Edward Gray, Keeper of the Zoological Collection in 
the British Museum. 1 vol. post 8vo. with Woodcuts, and 13 Coloured Plates, 15s. cloth. 

URE.-DICTIONARY OF ARTS, MANUFACTURES, & MINES ; 

Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. By Andrew Urb, M.D. 
F.R.S. M.6.S. &c. New Edition, in 1 thick vol. 8vo. illustrated with 1,341 Engravings on 
Wood, jSi. 10ft. cloth. 

WALKER-BRITISH ATLAS OF FORTY-SEVEN MAPS, 

CAREFULLY COLOURED; comprising separate Maps of every County in England, each 
Riding in Yorkshire, and North and South Wales; showing the Roads, Railways, Canals, 
Parks, Boundaries of Boroughs, Places of Election, Polling Places, &c. Compiled trom the 
Maps of the Board of Ordnance and other Trigonometrical Surveys. 4y J. and C. Walkbb. 
Imperial 4to. coloured. Three Guineas, half-bound ; large paper. Four Guineas, half-bound. 

*4* Each County may be had separately, in case, 3s. 6d. 

WALTZINCx. - REFORM YOUR WALTZING. THE TRUE 

THEORY of the RHENISH or SPANISH WALTZ, and of the German Waltz, d Deux Tempt, 
analysed and explained for the first time. By An Amateur. Fcp. 8vo. uniform with " Hints 
on Etiquette," price Half-a-Crown. 

The Figure of 8 in both these Waltzes on an entirely new principle. 

* .* Waltiing is the art of a gentleman, and never yet was taught or understood by a dancing-master. 

" The author of these amusing hints cannot he a more enthusiastic admirer of waltzing than we are. It was a 
source of enjojmrnt to us in tlic land of itn legitimate home for many a reu in the days of yore ^ but, h^las, lis sort 
{ fKUM^es ces jours de nte ! we are now too old and rheumatic to be aole to indulge in such pasUmes. ThoM of our 

readers, however, who are younger and more active than ourselves, and who wish to know what real waltzing actually 
means, cannot do better than benefit by the system laid down and recommended for adoption by ' An Amateur,' 
whose remarks are well calculated to prove serviceable to the uninitiatad."*— Uxitxd Sikticx Oazxttb. 

WARDLAW.-SERMONS, 

By Dr. Ward law. 8vo. 13s. boards. 

WARDLAW.-DISCOURSES ON THE PRINCIPAL POINTS 

OF THE SOCINIAN CONTROVERSY— the Unity of God, and the Trinity of Persons in the 
Godhead ; the Supreme Divinity of Jesus Christ ; the Doctrine of the Atonement ; the Christian 
Character, &c. By Ralph Warolaw, D.D. 5th Edition, 8vo. 15s. cloth. 

WATERTON.-ESSAYS ON NATURAL HISTORY, 

Chiefly Ornithology. By Charlks Watkrton, Esq., Author of ** Wanderings in South 
America." With an Autobiography of the Author, and a view of Walton Hall. Third 
Edition, fcp. 8vo. 8s. cloth. 

WELLBELOVED.-EBURACUM ; 

Or, York under the Romans. By C. Wsllbkloved. Royal 8vo. with 17 Plates, 128. cloth. 






32 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS PRINTED F0» LONGMAN AND CO. 



WESTWOOD.-INTRODUCTION TO THE MODERN CLASSI- 

FICATION OF INSECTS; comprising an Account of the Habits and TrmnsformatiODS of the 
different Families ; a Synopsis of all the British, and a Notice of the more remarkable Forvijpi 
Genera. By J. O. Wbstwood, Sec. Ent. Soc. London, F.L.S., Sk. S toIs. iDuatrmted with 
above 150 Woodcuts, comprising about 2500 distinct Figures, ^^2. 7s. cloth. 

WHITE'S COMPENDIUM OF THE VETERINARY ART; 

Ck>ntaining Plain and Concise Observations on the Construction and Management of the 
Stable ; a brief and popular Outline of the Structure and Economy of the Horae ; the Natare> 
Symptoms, and Treatment of the Diseases and Accidents to which the Horse ia liable; the 
beet method of performing various Important Operations ; with Advice to the Purchaaera of 
Hones ; and a copious Materia Medica and Fharmacopceia. 17th Edition, entirely recoa* 
stmctedjwith considerable Additions and Alterations, bringing the work up to the present stale 
of Veterinary Science. By W. C. Spooner, Veterinary Surgeon, dec. &c. Svo. pp. 588, with 
coloured Plate, 16s. cloth. London, 1842. 









YOUNG LADIES' BOOK (THE) : 

A Manual of Elegant Recreations, Exercises, and Pursuits. 4th Edition, with nnmerooa 
beautifully executed Engravings on Wood. ji^l. Is. elegantly bound in crimson silk, lined with 
imitation of Mechlin lace. 



Just published f 
Octavo, price Half-a Crown, boards, the New Edition of Messrs. Longman and Co.'a 

(Sfneral Catalogue 

Of WORKS in all departments of ENGLISH LITERATURE, Cl\S8iftrd, with a 
alphabetical Index. With the necessary Corrections and Additions to March l8iS. 

AUOf Svo, GraiUf 

MESSRS. LONGMAN & CO.'S CATALOGUE op OLD BOOKS for 1843, 
containing various Works in General literature ; besides Bolanous, Acta Sanctorum, U Tola. 
Ibl.— Baronii AnnalesSacri kt Ecclksiastici, 42 vols. fol. large paper -Labbsi BTCoLvri 
Bacramenta Consilia ad Regriam, 33 vols, fol.— PiaA.NBSi, Opere, 25 vols, fol.— BeacriptioB de 
I*Bfypt9« par ordre de Napokk>n, 23 vols. fol. papier v<^lin—&c. &c. 



WHITE'S COMPENDIUM OF CATTLE MEDICINE; 

Or, Practical Observations on the Disorders of Cattle and other Domestic Animals, except 
the Horse. 6th Edition, re-arranged, with copious Additions and Notes, by W. C. SrooMaa, 
Vet. Surgeon, Author of a "Treatise on the Influenza," and a "Treatise on the Foot and 
Leg of the Horse,'' &c. 8vo. 9s. cloth. , 

WHITE -THE GOSPEL PROMOTIVE OF TRUE HAPPINESS. 

By the Rev. Hugh White, M.A. 12mo. 68. cloth. 

WILDE-AUSTRIA : 

Its Literary and Medical Institutions ; with Notes on the Present State of Science, and a 
Guide to the Hospitals and Sauator)- Establishments of Vienna. By W. R. Wildb, M.R.I.A. 
L.R.C.S.I. Corresponding Menil)er of the Imperial Society of Pbysicans of Vienna, 4be.; 
Author of " Narrative of a Voyage to Vienna, Palestine," &c. Post 8vo. Map, 9a. 6d. doth. 

WILKINSON.-THE ENGINES OF WAR, &r. 

Being a History of Ancient and Modern Projectile Instruments and Engines of Warfiare and 
Sporting; including the Manufacture of Fire Arms, the History and Manufturtwc of Gun- 
powder, of Swords, and of the cause of the Damastrus Figure in Sword Bladea, with aome 
Observations on Bronze : to which arr added, Remarks on some Peculiaritiea of Iron, and en 
the Extraordinary EflTect produced by the Action of Sea-water on Cast Iron ; with I)etaila of 
various Miscellaneous Experiments. By tl. WiliKinsox, M.R.A.S. 1 vol. 8vo. 9a. doth. 

WOOD. -A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON RAILROADS, AND 

INTERIOR COMMUNICATION in GENERAL; containing numerous Experimenta on 
the Powers of the Improved Locomotive Engines, and Tables of the comparative Coat of Con- 
veyance on Canals, Railways, and Turnpike Roads. By Nicholas Wood, Colliery Viewer, 
Memb. Inst. Civ. Eng. &c. Tliird e<lition, ver)- greatly enlarged, with IS large Platea, and 
aeveral new Woodcuts. ±1. lis. 6d. cloth. 






h ii.i ijii. 11 m 



itiiMiN k%\> o(*if.vt ,»KiK«za crar.rT.t-XHmtii.i., inMDn^. 



w 



I 



\ 



WHt 




