Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



LI 



Tx 





COMPLETE 

CONFECTIONER, 

PASTM-COOK. AND BAKEE. 

' PLAIN AND PRACTICAL 04 

, DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING 

CONFECTIONARY AND PASTRY, 

AND FOR BAKING; ^■ 



4 



CONSISTOG OF *W« 

* DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING ALL SORtS OF PREl^iKRVES, 
SUGAR-BOILING, COMFITS, [LOZEr^GES, v 

ORNAMENTAL CAKES, .. V-^ 

idES, J.IQUEURS, WATERS, GUM-PASTE ORNAMENTS, 
SYRUPS, JELLIES, MARMALADES, COMPOTES, ^ 

BREAD-BAKING, 
ARTIFICIAL YEASTS, FANCY BISCUITS, 
CAKES. ROLLS, MUFFING, TARTS, PIES, &c. &c^^ . 

WITH ADDITIONS ANfel ALTBRAT'IOlTS, 

BY PARKINSON, 

Pi-acticjil Confectioner, Chestnut Street, 
PHILADELPHik: / 

LEA AND BLANCHARD, 

1844. 



i 



^ V t 




iv fREFACE TO T^V AHESICAN EDITION. 

adorned,«ire have consulted every authority, French or 
English, within our reach; but the basis of our little 
work is to be found in Read's Confectioner, a late Lon- 
don publication. ^ 

Having for many years been(connected with the old- 
est, most extensive and successfu|^confectionary estab- 
lishment in the country, we have been enabled to make 
from our own experience many important modiiScations 
and to introduce many additional receiptsy)articularly 
in relation to the various articles of luxury \^ich the \ 

bounty of our soil and climate render almost exllusively 
American. 

The volume has thus been increased in size, and we 
trust improved in value. \ 

Trusting that our efforts to advance the popular 
knowledge of the art which has for many years engaged 
our attention, may meet with approbation, we present 
the result df our labours to a candid and indulgent 
public. 

Chostnut Street, 
Philadelphia, 
Dsa 1843. 



f 



PREFACE 
TO THE ENGLISH EDITION. 



Much as there has been written in Cookery Books on the art of 
Confectionary, there ari few, very few works on the subject now 
extant which are pracpcally written, and these are difficult to be 
obtained, even at highjprices; and, having been published some years 
since, they do not contain any of the modern improvements, or arti* 
cles which have been introduced within these few years. The object 
of the pre^nt Treatise is to supply this deficiency, and to convey in- 
struction ii as plain and concise a manner as possible to the inexperi- 
enced, or young apprentices, that they may be enabled to learn their bu- 
siness more efficiently than many masters can or will instruct them in it. 

The style and character of the present work will be found quite 
different from anything which haa preceded it. In the part relating 
to Sugar-boiling I have endeavoured to show the causes of the effects 
which take place at the different stages, with the uses to which each 
of the processes is applied. The deficiency on Hard Confectionary 
which occurs in all other works will be found amply supplied in this. 
In the proportions for medicated lozenges I have preferred those 
which are ordered by the different Colleges of Surgeons in their 
pharmacopoeias to those used by the trade, as being more Hkely to 
qontain the true quantities of the different drugs which should com- 
pose them. It is from this source that they were originally derived, 
as at one time Ihey formed no inconsiderable part of pharmacy ; but 
they are now only made by confectioners. 

The Section on Ices I have endeavoured to render as plain and 
intelligible as possible, and although I have given general as well as 
definite rules for the mixture of each sort, yet the last cannot at all 
times be implicitly followed, but must be modified or altered with 
respect to the flavouring matter so as to suit the taste of the em- 
ployer or the parties for whom they are intended ; tliis should always 
be most scrupulously attended to, if it is wished to give satisfaction, 
as no fixed rules can be given which will admit of their being made 
to please all persons. 

The business of confectionary is divided into several branches, 
some of them being quite distinct and separate from each other. 
The branch known as Hard Confectionary is literally the whole of 
the business, according to the strict meaning of the word, which is 
derived from the French words confitures — comfits, things crusted 
1* Cv) 



m 



VI PREFACE TO THS ENGLISH EDITION. 

over with dry sugar ; and con^wn^r— -confectioner, a noaker or seller 
of comfits or other sweetmeat^ The other branches are the Orna- 
mental and Soft Confectionar3^Sl The latter relates to everythinff 
connected with the oven, or all sorts of cakes and soft biscuits, and 
more particularly to the preservation of fruits; the other, as the 
name implies, to every description ot ornaments necessary for the 
decoration of the table. Hard Confectk>nary still remains a distinct 
branch or trade of itself; in fact, many persons' sole occupation is 
the making of lozenges and comfits, librmed pan-work. Some also 
combine with these the different articles \|pnnected with sugar-boiling 
and preserving. The latter are in gen'ml blended together, and 
mostly practised by cooks and pastry-cooks^ but the chief business 
of a confectioner is alone connected with thSornamental department, 
and everything necessary for the dessert. V 

I have thought it requisite to mention tnW^ecifically, so as to 
prevent the occurrence of errors which parents and guardians of 
families often fall into respecting the nature of the busin«£;s^ and also 
with regard to the capacity of the child which they intend should be 
brought up to it I have heard many say, *^ Never miad ; he is a 
stupid fool, and may do very well to make cakes." If making cakes 
were the sol^ object he would have to accomplish, perhaps he might' 
do very well ; but even this requires more ingenuity than is gerrerally 
considered ; and if the welfare of the child is studied, so as to enable 
him to obtain his livelihood in a respectable manner, they must find 
some means of enabling him to acquire a considerable deal more 
knowledge than is general with a common-place education, to enable 
him to compete with the talent at present in the labour-market The 
person adapted for this business should be neat and cleanly in his 
habits, of a lively and ingenious mind, have a quick conception of 
design, a delicate taste, with a general knowledge of architecture, 
mythology, and the fine arts ; for they are as requisite in the con- 
struction of a Piece Montee, or an allegorical subject to embellish 
the table, as to an architect or sculptor in the construction of an ex- 
pensive building or monument. I do not mean to infer that his in* 
formation must be so extensive, or that he will be required to make 
the tour of Italy, Rome, and Greece, to study the original masters ; 
but let him take Nature for his guide ; and if he possess the rudi- 
ments or principles of the art of design, he cannot fail, with a little 
attention and perseverance, to become an adept in the higher or orna- 
mental branches of his basiaess. 




CONTENTS. 



THE CONFEGTIONEU. 



Sect. I. — Confectionary, 

Clarification of Raw Sugar. .. 13 

To clarify Loaf Sugar 14 

Degrees of boiling Sugar ..... 14 

Syrup *'. . . 15 

Small Thread 15 

Large Thread 15 

Little Pearl 15 

Large Pearl ....#« 15 

Chrystallizatto^ 15 

To ascertain the degree of 

the blow IB 

The Feather 16 

Candy 16 

TheBall 17 

TheCrack 17 

Caramel 17 

Sect. II. — Syrups. 

General Rules and Observa- 
tions 18 

Iniiisions 18 

Decoctions 19 

Raspberry Syrup 20 

Pineapple Syrup 20 

Raspberry Vinegar Syrup .... 20 

Strawberry Syrup 21 

Currant Syrup 21 

Morello Cherry Syrup 21 

Mulberry Syrup 21 

Gooseberry Syrup 21 

Lemon Syrup 21 

Orange Syrap 21 

Orange-Flower S^rup 21 

Sirop de Capillaire. — Syrup of 

Maidenhair 21 

Syrup of Liquorice 22 

Syrup of Violets 22 

Syrup of Pinks 22 

Syrup of Roses 23 

Syrup of Wormwood 23 

Syrup of Marshmalldws ..... 23 

Syrup of Sarsaparilla 23 

Syrup of Coltsfoot 23 



Syrup of Ginger 23 

S^rup of Almonds 24 

Sirop de Pistache 24 

Syrup of Coffee 24 

Syrup of Rum Punch 24 

Brandy and Wine Syrups .... 24 

Section III. — Crystallized Su' 
gar^ and articles crystaHixed^ 
commonly called Candies. 

Crystallized or Candied Sugar. . 25 

Fruits to Crystallize 25 

Crystallized Chocolate 26 

Liqueur Rings, Drops and other 

Devices 26 

To form a Chain with Liqueur 

Rings 27 

Sect. IV. — Candy — Bonbon — 
Conserve* 

Ginger Candy 27 

Peppermint, Lemon and Rose 

Candy 27 

Coltsfoot or Horehoond Candy 27 

Artiticial Fruit, Eggs, &c 27 

Burnt Almonds 28 

Burnt Akuonds — Red 28 

Filberts and Pistachios 28 

Common Burnt Almonds. .... 28 

Orange Prawlings 29 

Lemon Prawlings 29 

Sect. V. — Crack and Caramel. 

Barley Sugar 29 

Barley Sugar Drops 29 

Barley Sugar Tablets or Kisses 29 

Acid Drops and Sticks 30 

To extract the Acid from Can- 
died Drops, &.C 30 

Raspberry Candy 31 

Clove, Ginger, or Peppermint 

Candy ^ . 31 

Brandy Balls, &c 31 

Nogat 32 

Almond Rock 32 

Almond Hardbake 32 

(TO) 



ii 
I 



I 



via 



COJ^TENTS. 



On Sugar-Spinnino. 

To make a Silver Web 33 

To make a Gold Web 33, 

Chantilly Baskets 33 

Grape, Orange, or Cherry Bas- 
kets 34 

Aimoud Baskets 34 

Spanish Candy 34 

Vases or Baskets, &c., in Span. 

ishCandy 34 

Sect. VI. — Chocolate. 

Cacao Nuts 35 

Roasting* 35 

The Making of Chocolate .... 36 

Vanilla Chocolate 36 

Cinnamon, Mace or Clove Cho- 
colate 37 

Stomachic Chocolate 37 

Chocolate Harlequin Pistachios 37 
Chocolate Drops, with Nonpa- 
reils 37 

Sect. VII. — Lozenges, 

Peppermint, No. 1 ^, 38 

Peppermint, No. 2, . . , 38- 

Peppermint, Nos. 3 and 4. . . . . 3d 

Transparent Mint, No. 5 38 

Superfine Transparent Mint Lo- 
zenges 39 

Rose Lozenges 39 

Cinnamon Lozenges 39 

Clove Lozenges 39 

Lavender Lozenges 39 

Ginger Lozenges 39 

Nutmeg Lozenges 39 

RhuWrb Lozenges 39 

Sulphur Lozenges 39 

l^olu Lozenges 39 

Ipecacuanha Lozenges 39 

Saffron Lozenges 40 

Yellow Pectoral Lozenges ... 40 

Lozenges for the Heartburn. . . 40 

Steel Lozenges 40 

Magnesia Lozenges ....... . 40 

Nitre Lozenges 40 

Marshmallow Lozenges 40 

Vanilla Lozenges 40 

Catechu Lozenges 40 

Catechu ii PAmbergris 40 

CatediU'With Musk 40 

Catechu with Orangc-flowers.. 40 



Catechu with Violets 

Ching's Yellow Worm Xiozcngcs 
Ching's Brown Worm Lozenges 



"^1^1 Pipe 
rWppei 



irmint or other Pipes .... 

Brilliants 

Refiaed Liquorice 

Seci3»on VIIL— PflrtiZe Drops, 

Chocolate Drops 

Coffee Props 

Cinnamcwi Drops 

Clove Drops 

Vanilla Drops 

Violet Drops 

Catechu Drops , 

Ginger Drops . . . .^ 

Lemon Drops 

Rose Drops 

Peppermint Drops 

Orange-flower Drops 

Orgeat Drops 

Raspberry Drops 

Sect. IX. — Comjiis, 

Scotch Caraway Comfits 

Bath Caraways 

Common Caraways . . » 

Cinnamon Comfits 

Coriander Comfits 

Celery Comfits 

Caraway Comfits, pearled . . » . 

Almond Comfits 

Cardamom Comfits 

Barberry Comfits 

Cherry Comfits 

Comfits flavoured with Liqueurs 

Orange Comfits 

Lemon Peel or Angelica 

Nonpareils 

To colour Nonpareils or Comfits 

Comfits in Gum Paste. 

Raspberry Comfits 

Ginger Comfits 

Clove Comfits 

To colour Loaf-sugar Dust • . . 

Sect. X^^Fruit JeUies. 

Apple Jelly ...:.. 

Quince Jelly 

Red Currant Jelly 

White and Black Currant Jelly 



40 
40 
41 
41 
41 
41 
41 

43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 
43 

44 
45 
45 
45 
46 
46 
46 
46 
46 
46 
47 
47 
47 
47 
47 
47 

47 

47 
48 
48 

48 
48 
48 
49 



CONTENTS. 



ijc 



Violet-coloured Carrant Jelly . . 49 

Cherry Jelly 49 

Barberry Jelly . . . i * , , 49 

Raspberry Jelly 49 

Gooseberry JeUy , 49 

Blackberry Jelly< .', , 49 

Sect. XI. — Marmalades or Jams, ' 

Apple MariQalade 50 

Quince Marmalade 50 

Apricot Marmalade or Jam ... 50 

Cherry Marmalade or Jam ... 50 

Orange Marmalade 50 

Grape Marmalade 50 

Sect. XII.— 0/ Fruit and other 
Pastes, 

Fruit Pastes and Cakes 51 

Apple or Pippin Paste 51 

Apple Cheese 51 

Apricot Paste 51 

Green Apricot Paste 52 

Currant Paste 52 

Black Currant Paste 52 

Raspberry Paste 52 

Cherry Paste 52 

Peach Paste, 52 

Plum Paste 52 

Damson Cheese 52 

Quince Paste 53 

Orange Paste 53 

Iiemon Paste 53 

Raspberry Cakes 53 

Clear Cakes, or Jelly Cakes . . 53 

Marshmallow Paste 54 

Arabic Paste , 54 

Date Paste , 55 

Jujube Paste , 55 

Senegal Paste 55 

White Liquorice Paste 55 

Black Liquorice Paste 55 

Jujube Gum 55 

Oomme des Dattes 56 

Gum of Violets 56 

Almond Paste—Orgeat Paste. . 56 

Sect. XIII.— Frui^jj Preserved 
• with Sugar, 

Wet Fruits 56 

Green Apricots, wet 57 

Green Apricots, pared wet. ... 58 

Ripe Apricots, wet 58 

Ripe Peaches, whole, wet 58 I 



Ripe Nectarines, wet 58 

Figs, wet 58 

Greengages, wet 58 

Mogul Plums 59 

Damsons, wet 59 

Green Gooseberries, wet. .... . 59 

Green Gooseberries in the form 

of Hops, wet 59 

Cucumbers or Gherkins, wet. . 59 

Green Melons 60 

Ripe Melons, wet 60 

Lemons, whole, wet 60 

Oranges, whole, wdt 60 

Whole Orange Peels 60 

Orange or Lemon Peels, wet. . 60 

Orange or Lemon Chips 61 

Angelica, wet 61 

Eringo Root 61 

Pine Apple, whole, wet 61 

Pine Apple Chips or Slices ... 61 

Chetries, wet or dry 62 

Whole Cherries 62 

Grapes in Bunches* 62 

Currants in Bunches, wet .... 62 

Barberries in Bunches, wet. ... 63 

Raspberries, whole, wet 63 

Pears, whole, wet 63 

Pears, Red, wet 63 

Quinces, Red or White, wet. . 64 

Ginger, wet 64 

Candied Fruit 64 

Dried Fruit '. 64 

Sect. XIV. — Compotes. 

Green Apricot Compote ....... 65 

Ripe Apricot Compote , . 65 

Compote of Apples, with Je^ly. 65 

Apple Compote . . . . ,^ 65 

Grape Compote 65 

Currant Compote » 65 

Raspberry Compote 66 

Strawberry Compote 66 

Macedoine of Fruits 66 

Cherry Compote ^ . . . 66 

Sect. ^W.— Brandy Fruits. ... 66 
Sect. XVI. — On Bottled Fruits, 
or Fruits Preserved without 

Sugar 67 

Sect. XVII.— 0/ Cooling DrinJcs 

for Balls and Routs. 
Gooscl)erry, Currant, Raspberry 

and Strawberry Waters .... 68 



CONTENTS. 



Cherry Water ..•...• 

Apricot and Peach Water • . . • 

Orgeat Water 

Lemonade • • 

Orangeade • 

Sbctp. XVIII.— &<». 

To freeze Ices 

Cream Ices ^ 

Raspberry, fresh fruit anfl Jam 

Strawberry 

Currant, fresh & preserved fruit 

Barberry Ice 

Apricot, fresh Fruit, and Jam. . 

Peach Ice 

Pine Apple, fresh &, preserved ft 

Ginger Ice • 

Brahma Ice 

Orange Ice Cream • . 

China Orange Ice Cream 

Cherry Ice Cream. 

Harlequin Ice 

Lemon Ice Cream. 

Mille Fruit Cream Ice 

Custard Ices 

Custard for Ices 

Plombiere Ice, or Swiss Pudding 

The Sauce 

Almond or Orgeat Ice Cream. 

Pistachio Ice Cream 

Filbert Ice Cream 

Chestnut Ice 

Burnt Filbert Ice Cream ..... 
Burnt Almond Ice Cream .... 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Chocolate Ice 

TealoB 

Vanilla Ice 

Noyau Cream Ice . . 

Maraschino Cream Ice ...... . 

Water Ices 

Currant Water Ice 

Cherry Water Ice 

Gooseberry Water Ice ',,. 

Raspberry Water Ice. ....... 

Apricot Water Ice * . . . 

Peach Water Ice 

Damson Ice 

Pine-Apple Water Ice ...*... 
Fresh Pine- Apple Water Ice. . 

Apple-water Ice 

Pear- Water Ice 



69 
69 
69 
69 
69 

70 
72 
72 
73 
73 
73 
73 
73 
73 
73 
73 
73 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
75 
75 
75 
75 
75 
75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
76 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
78 
78 
78 
78 



Orange- Water Ice 78 

Lemon-Water Ice 78 

Maraschino-Water Ice 78 

Punch-Water Ice 78 

Roman Punch Ice. 79 

MUle Fruit Water Ice 79 

. Sect. XIX.— JeUiea. 

Calves* Feet Jellies 79 

Coffee Jelly 79 

Tea Jelly, Green or Black. ... 79 

Fruit Jellies. 

« 

Strawberry Jelly 80 

Pine- Apple Jelly 80 

Jelly of Apricots 80 

Orange Jelly 80 

Blano Memge 80 

Sect. XX. — EssenceB. 

Lemon, Orange, and Bergamot 81 

Essence de Cedrat 81 

Allspice, Cloves, Cinnamon, oi^ 

Nutmegs, &c. 82 

Ginger, Peppermint, Vanilla, 

and Almonds • 82 

Sect. XXI. — Meringues, Icing, 

Dry, in the form of Eggs . . * . 82 

Kisses 83 

Italian Meringues ........... 83 

Mushrooms 83 

Icing , for Wedding or Twelflh 

Cakes, Sec * . . . . 84 

On piping Cakes, Bon-bons, Sec, 84 

Sect. XXIL— &ttm Paste. 

For Ornaments 85 

For Gilding on 86 

Papier MOch^e 86 

To gild Gum Paste, &c 86 

To Bronze Gum-Paste 87 

On the Construction of Assiette^ 

and Pieces Mont.6e8 87 

Of Pieces Monties 88 

Biscuit Paste to imitate Marble 

Rocks, &.C. 88 

Confectioners* Paste 89 

Assiettes Months, or Dressed 

Plates 89 

On Modelling 90 

Modelling Tools 92 

Mtdelling Wax 92 



CONTENTS, 



XI 



Sect. XXIII.— On Colours, 

To Prepare Cochinesvl 92 

Carmine, Yellow, Prussian Bhic. 

Sap Green, &. Spinach Green 93 

Vermilion and Cinnabar 94 

Cole Ammoniac, Umber, Bistre, 

audBLck 94 

The Shades produced by a Mix- 
TUiiE of Colours. 

Purple, Lilac, Orange, Gold, Le- 
mon, and Green. • 94 

Sect. XKIV. -^Distillation. 
On Essential Oils 95 

Distilled Waters. 

Orange-Flower, &. Rose Water 96 
Cinnamon, Peppermint, Lemon- 
Peel, & Black-Cherry Water 97 

Spirits for Liqueurs. 

Distilled Spirituous Waters lor 

Liqueurs 98 

Hungary Water 98 

Maraschino de Zara 98 

Kirchenwasser 99 



Eau Divine 99 

£au de Cologne 99 

Curasao 99 

Eau de M<^li8se des Carmes. . . 99 

The English Method 99 

Spirit of Coffee, and Almonds. 99 
Spirit of I'ea, and Usquebauglu 100 
Liqueurs 100 

Ratafias. 

lUtafia de Cafd 100 

Ratafia de Cacao 100 

Ratafia des Noyaux 100 

Ratafia of Cherries 101 

Ratafia des Cassis 101 

Ratafia of Raspberries 101 

Ratafia des Fleurs des Oranges 101 

Ratafia d*(£illets 101 

Ratafia d*Angclique 101 

Vespetro ♦. . . 101 

Chrdme de Barbade 101 

Chrdme d*Orange 101 

Ratafia d'Anis 101 

Ratafia de Brout des Noiz .... 102 

Sect. XXV.— TAc Stove or Hot 
Closet 102 



THE pastry-cook:. 



Introduction 103 

Blaivched Almonds, Icing, Pre- 
PARED Treacle, Sl Rennet.. 104 

Fancy Biscuits. 

Abernethy, American, Brighton, 
Buttered, Captains, Drop, Fil- 
bert, Lemon, and Naples ... 105 

Queens, Rout, Savoy, Seedy, 
Wine, York, and rowder. . . 106 

Drops, and Cracknels 107 

Sect. I. — 7%« Oven, 

Cakes 107 

Savoy Cakes 108 

Cold Mixtures 108 

Almond Savoy Cakes and Al- 

mond Hearts 109 

VeniceCake 109 

Savoy, to represent a Melon . . 109 
Savoy, to imitate a Hedgehog.. 109 
Bordeaux or Parisian Cakes . . 110 



Italitin Bread 110 

Rice Pound-Cake 110 

Wafers 110 

Cakes. 

Almond Cakes.' 110 

Almond Savoy Ill 

Bride, Bath, and Banbury .... Ill 

Breakfast 112 

Cinnamon, Currant, . Caraway, 
Common Cheese, Curd Cheese, 

and Almond Cheese 112 

Lemon Cheese, Derby, Diet 
Bread, Ginger, Lord Mayors, 

and Lunch 113 

Moss, Macaroon, Plum, Pound, 

and Prussian 114 

Queens, Queen's Drops, Rout, 

Raspberry, and Ratafias. . . . 115 
Savoy, Sponge, Seed, Shrews- 
bury, Tea, Twelftli, and York- 
shire 116 



xu 



COWTJBWTS. 



York Drops, Anne Pagers, York 
Cakes, Jumbles, Cinnamon 
Biscuit, Hazlenut Kisses, and 
Vanilla Biscuit 117 

Trifle, Cocoanut, Sans Soucies, 
Cocoa Biscuit, Lady Cake, 
and Lady Fingers 118 

Spoon Biscuit, Small Biscuits 
with Almonds, Biscuits with 
Cream, Biscuits glazed with 
Chocolate 119 

Biscuits glazed with Orange. • 120 

Fancy Bread, Ginger-Bread, 
BuNSfHoLLs, MuFFiNSy Crum- 
pets, &c. 

Almond Bread, Colchester, and 

Diet 120 

French Rolls, Short Bread, 



Queen's Ginger-Bread, Spice 
Ginger-Bread, Thick Ginger- 
Broftd, and Sweetmeat Nuts. . 12X 

Spice Nuts, Muftins, Wheat 
MuflSns, Rice Muf&ns, Rice 
Cakes, and Buckwheat Cakes 122 

Flannel Cakes, Indian Slappers, 
Johnny-Cake, Com Bread, 
Crumpets, and Rusks 123 

Sweet Rusks, Tops &. Bottoms 124 

Of Pastes in general — Preli- 
minary Remarks 124 

To MAKE Puff Paste. 

Ingredients, <^c 12S 

Puff, Short, and Tart Pastes . . 12G 

Apricot Tart , 136 

Covered and Raspberry Tarts. 127 
Mince Pies, and Raised Pie. . . 127 



TH-E B AKE R. 



INTRODUCTIO^f. * 128 

General Remarks ON Baking.. 129 

Family Loaf-Bread 132 

Brown or Diet Bread 134 

Bread not liable to become Bit- 
ter. 134 

Artificial Yeasts. 

Yeast to Preserve 135 

Potatoe Yeast 135 

Dr. Lettsom's Method 1 35 

Artificial Yeast 134 

Patent Yeast 136 

Alum, Potatoes^ &c. ........ 137 

Method of making Bakers* 
Bread. 

The Old Method 141 

Modern Method 142 

Substitute for Wheat-Flour 
Bread. 

Bread Com 143 

Rice 145 

Potatoes 145 

Bread made of Rootd 147 



Ragwort 147 

Turnip Bread 147 

Apple Bread 143 

Meslin Bread 143 

Salep Bread 143 

Oat and Barley Bread 143 

Dcbretzen Bread 143 

Millet Bread 149 

Maize Bread 149 

Homminy Cake 149 

Bean Flour Bread 149 

Buckwheat Bread 149 

Acorn Bread 150 

Oatmeal Cakes 150 

Oatmeal and Pease Bread .... 150 

Chestnut Bread 150 

Potatoe Bread 150 

Rye Bread — Barley Bread. ... 150 

The Bread Tree 151 

Bread Fruit Bread 152 

Sago Bread 153 

Casava Bread. 153 

Plantain Bread ............. 153 

Banana Bread • 153 

Moss Bread 154 

Dried Fish Bread 154 

Earth Bread 164 



THE CONFECTIONER. 



^h^^^^^^^^a^ ^H^i^<W|^i^^^^# 



SECTION I.— OONPBOTIONART, 



As sroAB is the basia or g^round-work of the confectioner's art, it ui 
(Mssentially necessary that the practitioner should carefully study and . 
observe the difference in its qualities, the changes which it undergoes 
or efiects when combined with other articles in the process of manu- 
facture, and also the different forms which it assumes by itself at va» 
rious 8ta)3fes. Without this knowledge, a man will never become ft 
thorough and efficient workman, and it can only be acquired by prac- 
tice and experience. 

The first process which it undergoes in the hands of the confec- 
tioner, is that of clarification. It is conducted on the same principle 
as the refining of sugar, although not carried out in every particular. 

Clarijicatian of Raw Sugar, — For every six pounds of sugar re- 
quired to be clarified, take one quart of water, the white of an e^g^ 
and about half a teacupful of builock*s blood. Less than a pint will 
be sufficient for 112 pounds ; but if a very fine, transparent, and 
colourless syrup is required, use either charcoal, finely powdered, or 
ivory black, instead of the blood. Put the white of the e%g in the 
water and whisk it to a fix)th, then add either of the other articles 
mentioned, and the sugar, place the pan containing the ingredients 
on the stove-fire, and stir them well with a spatula, until the sugar is. 
dissolved, and is nearly boiling. When the ebullition commences, 
llirow in a little cold water to check it; this causes the coarser part^ 
to separate more freely, by which means the whole of the impurities*^ * 
attach themselves to the clarif3ing matter used ; continue this for 
about five minutes, using about one pint of water to every six pounds- 
of sugar, or more, until you consider the whole of the dross is dis- 
charged, and there remains a fine clear syn^p. Then place it by the 
side of the stove, and carefully remove with a skimmer the scum 
which has formed on the top: it may also be taken off as it rises, but 
1 find the best method is to let it repiain a short time after it is clari 
fied before it is reoaovedt otherwise, if you take it off as it rises, part 
of the syrup is also taken with it. When either charcoal or black is 
used, it must be passed through a filtering-bag made of thick fiannel, 
in the shape of a cone, having a hoop fastened round the top to keep 
it extended, and to which strings are sewn that it may be tied or sus- 
pended in any convenient manner: what runs out at first will be 
a 13 



» ■!.* 



14 TBIB^ CeKi^CTIOKES. 

quite black ; retarn this again iiAo the bag, and continue doing so 
until it runs fine and clear. 

If a little lime, about a spoonful, or any other alkali is added to the 
sugar with the water, &c., it will neutralize the acid which all raw 
sugars contain, and fhey will be found to stand much better after they 
have been manufactured, by not taking the damp so soon. This is 
not generally done by the trade, but it will be found beneficial if 
practised. 

To clartfif Loaf Sugar. — ^This is clarified by mixing the whites of 
eggs with water, without any other assistance, for having been jtre- 
▼iously refined, it does not require those auxiliaries again to separate 
the coarser parts, unless it is of an inferior quality, or an extra fine 
syrup, as for bon-bons and other fancy articles, is required. When it 
is necessary to have a very fine sparkling grain, in that case break 
your lump into small pieces and put it in a preserving-pan, with a 
sofiScient quantity of water to dissolve it, in which has been mixed 
the white of an egg and powdered charcoal,* as fat raw'sugar, fol- 
lowing those instructions already given. Afier the sugar has been 
drained from the bag, pass some water through to take off any which 
may be left in the charcoal, which you use for dissolving more sugar. 

'The scum should always be reserved, when charcoal or black is not 
used, to mix with the articles of an inferior quality. 

The best refined loaf sugar should be white, dry, fine, of a brilliant 
sparkling appearance when broken, and as close in texture as po»» 
sible. The best sort of brown has a bright, sparkling, and gravelly 
look. East India sugars appear finer, but do not contain so much sac- 
charine matter, yet they are much used for manufacturing the best 
sort of common sweetmeats, when clarified, instead of loaf sugar. 

Degrees of boiling Sugar.'^This is the principal point to which the 
confectioner has to direct his attentran ; for if he is not expert in tliia 
particular, all his other labour and knowledge will bo useless : it is 

* Charcoal varies in its qualities, according to the wood from which 
it is prepared. That made from porous woods, such as the willow, 
alder, &c., is the best for clarifying liquids ; animal charcoal, or bone 
black, is also equally good, on account of its light and poroys nature ; 
that made from hard woods is only fit for fuel, as it does not possess the 
clarifying and decolouring properties like that made from the more soft 
and porous woods. When newly prepared, or if it has been kept fi^ee from 
air, it has the property of absorbing all putrid gases ; ** it is also capable 
of destroying the smell and taste of a variety of animal and vegetable 
substances^ especially of mucilages, oils, and of matter in which extrac- 
tive abounds ; and some articles are said to be even deprived of their 
characteristic odour, by remaining in contact with it, as valerian, ^alba- 
num, balsam of Peru, and musk. The use of charring the interior of 
water'casks, and of wrapping charcoal in cloths that have acquired a bad 
smell, depend upon this property. None of the fluid menstrua with which 
we are acquainted have any action whatever, as solvents, upon carbon."— 
Pari$*8 Pkarmacologia. 



THB CONFECTIOVBB. 15 

the foundatioQ on which he must haild to acquire success in his under- 
takingB. 

There are seven essential points or degrees in boiling sugar; some 
authors give thirteen, but many of these are useless, and serve only 
to show a critical precision in the art, without its being required in 

gracUce ; however, for exactness, we will admit of nine, viz : — 1. 
Imall thread. 2. Large thread. 3. Little pearL 4. Large pearL 
5. The blow. 6. The feather. 7. Ball. 8. Crack. 9. Caramel. 
This last degree derives its name from ** a Count Albu^e Caramel, 
of Nismes, who discovered this method of boiling sugar.^* — Gunter^a 
Coirfeciioner, 

In describing the process, I shall (proceed in .a different manner to 
other writers on the subject, by classing it under different heads, ac- 
cording to the uses to which it is applied. 

SYRUP. 

Under this head are comprised the degrees from the small thread 
to the large pearl ; for at these points the sugar is kept in a divided 
etate, and remains a fluid of an oily consistency. A bottle which 
holds three ounces of water will contain four ounces of syrup. The 
method of ascertaining those degrees, according to the usages of the 
trade, is as follows :«— 

Small Thread, — Having placed the clarified syrup on the Ore, let 
it boil a little, then dip the top of your finger ia the boiling syrup, 
and on taking it out apply it to the top of your thumb, when, if it has 
attained the degree, on separating them a small ring will be drawn 
out a little distance, about as fine as a hair, which will break and re* 
solve itself into a drop on the thumb and finger. 

Large TArea42.-~Continue the boiling a little longer, repeat the 
same operation as before, and a larger string will be drawn. 

Littie PearL — ^To ascertain this degree, separate the finger from 
Uie thumb as before, and a large string may be drawn, which wfll 
extend to nearly the distance the fingers may be opened. 

Large PearL — The finger may now be separated fn»n the tiiumb 
to the greatest extent before the thread will break. 

CBYSTALIiIZATION. 

This takes the degrees of the blow and feather. The particles of 
the sugar being now brought together within the sphere i^ their 
activity, the attraction of cohesion commences, whereby tl^«^ attach 
themselves together and form quadrilateral pyramids with oblong and 
rectangular bases. This is generally, but improperly, termed candy, 
thereby confounding it with the degrees at which it grains, .also 
termed candy. This certainly seems ** confusion worse confounded ;*' 
but if things are called by their proper names, many of those seem- 
ing difiSculties and technicalities may be avoided which tend only to 
GGofnse and embarrass the young practitioner, without gaining any 



16 THE COITFECTiomSB. 

desired end or purpose. If it were ^neratly classed into the degrees 
of crystallizatioiii the true meaning and use would at once be ex- 
plained and understood by the greatest novice. 

The nature and principle of this operation are these. First, as in the 
case of syrup (the first four d^rees), when the water has absorbed as 
much sugar as it is capable of containing in a cold stAte, by continu- 
ing the boiling, a further portion of the solvent (water) is evaporated, 
and sugar remains in excess, which, when exposed to a less degree 
of heat, separates itself, and forms crystals on the surface and sides 
of the vessel in which it is contained, and also on anything placed or 
suspended in it. But if it is exposed too suddenly to the cold, or dis- 
turbed in its action by being shaken, or if the boiling^ has been con- 
' tinued -too lon^, the crystals will form inegularty by the particles 
being brought m too close contact, and run too hastily together, form- 
ing a mass or lump. 

To obtain this part in perfection, the boiling should be gradual, and 
continued no longer than till a few drops let fall on a cold surface 
show a crystalline appearance* or after being removed from the fire 
a thm siiin will form on the surface. It should then be taken from 
tiie fire and placed in a less h^a but not cold place, and covered or 
pBt into a stove or hot closet to prevent the access of cold atr. A 
few drops of spirits of wine, added when the sugar has attained the 
proper degree, will conduce to a more perfect crystalline form, scarcely 
attainable by any other means^ as it bais a great affinity with the water, 
thereby causing the sugar to separate itself more freely* It must be 
used with caution, as too much will cause it to grain. 

To ascertain the Degree of the B/o».— -Continue the boiling of 
the sugar, dip a skimmer in it and shake it over the pan, then blov 
through the holes, and if small bubbles or air-bladders are eeen on 
the other side, it has acquired this degree. 

The Feather.-^Dip the skimmer again into the sugar, and blow 
dirottgh the boles as before, and the bubbles will appear larger and 
stronger. Or if you ghe the skimmer a sodden jerk, so as to tiarow 
the sugar firom you, when it has acquired the degree, it will appear 
hanging from the skimmer in fine long strings. 



CAlfTDT. 



Sugiir, after it has passed the degree of the feather, is of itself 
naturally inclined to grain, that is to candy, and Will form a powder 
if agitated or stirred : for as the boiling is continued, so is the water 
evaporated until there is nothing left to hold it in solution : therefore 
that body being destroyed by heat, which first changed its ordinal 
form to those we have already enumerated, as this no longer exists 
with it, it naturally returns to the same state as it was tefore the 
solvent was added, which is that of minute crystals or grains, being* 
held together by tbe attraction of cohesion, unless, as before stated, 
ibey are separated by stirring, die. 



THE COKFECTIONBB. 17 

The sugar being evaporated by boiling from the last degree, leaves 
a thin crust of crystals round the ftdes of the pan, which shows it has 
attained the candy heiglit ; and this crust must be carefully removed, 
as it forms, with a damp cloth or sponge, or the whole mass will 
candy if suffered to remain. To prevent this is the chief deside- 
ratum, all further proceedings for which specific rules will be given 
in their proper places. 

The remaining degrees can be ascertained after the following man- 
ner: — 

Tke Ball — Provide a jug of clean cold water, and a piece of 
round stick. First dip in the water, then in the sugar, and again in 
the water ;* take off the sugar which has adhered to it, and enjea- 
vour to roll it into a ball between the finger and thumb in the water : 
when this can be done, it has attained the desired degree. If it forms 
a large hard ball which will bite bard and adhere to the teeth when 
eaten, it is then termed the large ball, et contra. 

The Crack, — Follow the direct ions given for the ball. Slip the 
sugar off from the stick, still holding it in the water, then press it 
between the finger and thumb ; if it breaks short and crisp, with a 
slight noise, it is at the crack. 

CarameL — To obtain this degree it requires care and attention, 
and also to be frequently tried, as it passes speedily from the crack to 
the caramel. Try it as before directed, and let the water be quite 
cold, or you will be deceived. If on taking it off the stick it snaps 
like glass, with a loud noise, it has attained the proper degree; it will 
also, when it arrives at this point, assume a beautiful yellow colour ; 
after this it will speedily burn, taking all the hues from a brown to a 
black; therefore, to prevent this, dip thQ bottom of the pan into a 
pail of cold water as soon as it comes to caramel, as the heat which 
19 CQntained in the pan and sugar is sufficient to advance it one de- 
gree ; also be careful that the flam^ of the fire does not ascend roand 
the sides of the pan, which will burn it 

In boiling sugar, keep tl;ie top of the pan partially covered from the 
time it commences boiling until it has attained the ball or crack : the 
steam which rises, being again thrown on the sides, prevents the 
formation of the crust or crystals. 

To prevent its graining, add a little of any sort of acid when it is 
at the crack — a table-spoonful of common vinegar, four or five drops 
of lemon-juice, or two or three drops of pyroligneous acid : any of 
these will have the desired effect ; this is termed greasing it: but 
remember that too much acid will also grain it, neither can it be 
boiled to caramel if there is too much. A little butter added when 
it first commences boiling will keep it from rising over the pan, and 
also prevent its graining. About as much cream of tartar as may be 
laid on a sixpence, and added to seven pounds of sugar with the water, 
or equal quantities of cream of .tartar and alum in powder, added when 

* This should be performed as speedily as possible. 
2* 



I'S THE CONFECTIOWBll. 

it boils, will also keep it from candying*. If sugar is poured on a 
slab that is too hot it is very apt to grain ; this is frequently the case 
after several casts have been worked off in rotatioa; therefore, when 
you find it inclined to turn, remove it to a cooler spot, if possible, and 
not handle it any more than is necessary. 

Sugar that has been often boiled or warmed is soon acted upon by 
the atmosphere, whereby it becomes clammy and soon runs, as it is 
weakened by the action of the fire. Acid causes the same effect 

If it has passed the degree you intended to boil it at, add a little 
water, and give it another boiL 



SECTION II. SYHUPS. 

These are either the juices of fruits, or a decoction or infusion of 
the leaves, flowers, or roots of vegetables, impregnated with a suffi- 
cient quantity of sugar for their preservation and retaining them in a 
liquid state. 

A great portion of this class comes more under the notice of the 
apothecary than the confectioner ; but it may now be considered, witd 
lozenges, as a branch of pharmacy in the hands of the latter, the 
most agreeable of which are now manufactured by him to supply the 
place of fresh fruits, &c., when out of season, for the making of cool- 
ing drinks, ices, &c., for balls and routs. 

General Rides and Observations. — Two things are essentially 
necessary to be observed, which are: — the proper methods of making 
decoctions and infusions These require some knowledge of the 
nature and properties of v^etable matter. 

The virtues of most plants are extracted by infusion, and this is 
generally the case with aromatic plants, and those whose proper- 
ties depend on an essential oil ; for, in boiling, the whole of the 
aroma of the plant is dispersed, and the syrup loses that delicate 
flavour for which it is prized* 

Aromatic herbs, and the leaves of plants in general, yield thei^ 
virtues most perfectly when moderately dried. Cold water extracts 
from these in a few hours, the lighter, more fragrant and agreeable 
parts, and then begins to take up the more ungrateful and grosser. 
By pouring the same liquor on fresh parcels of the herb, it becomen 
stronger, richer, thicker, and balsamic. 

Those only should be decocted whose principles consist of motel* 
lage, gum, or resin, and require boiHng to extract them. 

The compact resinous woods, roots and barks, yield their virtues 
most freely while fresh. Dry, they yield little to cold or moderately 
warm water, and require it to be boiling. By this process the grosser, 
more fixed saline and mucilaginous parts are dissolved, the resinous 
melted out, and the volatile dissipated. * 

dfhfusions, — ** These are watery solutions of vegetable matter, 
obtained by maceration, either in hot or cold water, with the assist- 



THE CONPECTIONEli. 10 

ance of ebullition. In selecting and condncting the operation, the 
following general rules should be observed : — 

" 1st. Lifusion should always be preferred before decoction, where 
the virtues of the vegetable substance reside in volatile oil, or in 
principles which are easily soluble ; whereas, if they depend upon 
resinu-mucilaginous particles, decoction is an indispensible operation. 

** 2nd. The temperature employed must be varied according to the 
circumstances of each case, and infusion made with cold is in general 
more grateful but less active than one made with^heat. 

••3rd. The duration of the process must likewise be regulated by 
the nature of the substances ; for the infusion will differ according to 
the time in which the water has been digested on the materials ; thus 
the aroma of the plaut is first taken up, tlien in succession thecolour- 
ingr, astringent, and gummy parts. 

JDecoclions. — ** These are solutions of the active principles of vege- 
tables, obtained by boiling them in water. 

•• Ist. Those principles only should be decocted whose virtues re- 
side in principles which are soluble in water. 

" 2nd. If the active principle be volatile, decoction must be an in- 
jurious process; and if it consists of extractive matter, long boiling, 
by favouring its oxidizement, wilt render it insipid, insoluble, and 
inert. 

** 3rd. The substances to be decocted should be previously bruised 
or sliced, so as to expose an extended surface to the action of the 
water. 

** 4th. The substances should be completely covered with water, 
and the vessel slightly closed, in order to prevent as much as possi- 
ble the access of air ; the boiling should be continued ^thout inter- 
ruption, and gently. 

** 5th. In compound decoctions, it is sometimes convenient not to 
]put in all the ingredients from the beginning, but in succession, ac- 
cording to their hardness, and the difficulty with which their virtues 
are extracted ; and if any aronaatic or other substances containing 
volatile principles, or oxidizable matter, enter into the composition, 
the boiling decoction should be simply poured upon them, and covered 
up until cold. 

** 6th. The relative proportions of different vegetable substances 
to the water must be regulated by their nature. The following 
general rule may be admitted. Of roots, berks, or dried woods, from 
two drachms to six to every pint of water : of herbs| or flowers, half 
that quantity will suffice. 

•* 7th. The decoction ought to be filtered through linen while hot, 
as important portions of the dissolved matter are frequently deposited 
on cooling ; care must also be taken that the filter is not too fine, for 
it frequently happens that the virtues of a decoction depend upon the 
presence of particles in a minutely divided state.'* — > Paru's Phar* 
macologia. 

All acid syrups ought to have their fiill quantity of sugar, so as to 



20 THE GONFBCTIONSB. 

bring them to s consistence without boiling, because the very action 
of much heat destroys their acidity, and makes thrm liable to candy; 
and this more particularly holds good where the infusion or juice, &c., 
has any fragrancy in flavour, because the volatile oil is dissipated by 
boiling. The same observation is also applicable to those infusions 
of ilowers which give out their colour, and whicli is necessary to be 
retained, such as violets, pinks, &c., as boiling injures them. 

Those syrups which are made from decoctions, and do not take a 
sufficient quantity of sugar to bring them to a due consistence with- 
out boiling, require to be clarified so as to render them transparent ; 
but this is often an injury, as the whites of eggs take off some of their 
chief properties with the scum ; therefore, the decoction should first 
be rendered clear by settling or filtering, and the sugar should be 
clarified and boiled to the height of the feather or ball before the 
decoction is added, when it must be reduced to the proper degree. 

The best and most general method of making syrups is to add a 
mifBcient quantity of the finest loaf-sugar, in powder, with the juice 
or infusion, &c., stirring it well until a small portion settles at the 
bottom, then place the pan in a larger one containing water ; this is 
termed the bain-marie ; put it on the fire, and the beat of the water 
as it boils will dissolve the sugar ; when this has been thoroughly 
effected, take it off and let it cool ; if niore sugar is added than the 
quantity above named, it will separate in crystals, and not leave suffi- 
cient remaining in the syrup for its preservation. (See observations 
on Sugar-boiling). When cold, put it into small bottles, fill them, 
cork closely, and keep in a dry cool place. Be particularly careful 
that no tinned articles are used in the making of syrups from the juice 
of red fruits, as it will act on the tin and change the colour to a dead 
blue. 

Raspberry Syrup.-^One pint of juice, two pounds of sugar. 
Choose the fruit either red or white, mash it in a pan, and put it in a 
warm place for two or three days, or until the fermentation has com- 
menced. All mucilaginous fruits require this, or else it would jelly 
after it is bottled. Filter the juice through a flannel bag, add the 
sugar in powder, place in the bain-marie, and stir it until dissolved ; 
take it ofi', let it get cold, take off the scum, and bottle it. 

\_Pine-apple Syrup, — Take one and a half pints of syrup boiled to 
the ball, add to this, one pint of the juice of the best Havanna pine- 
apples; let it then come to a boil, remove the scum, and bottle 
when cool.] 

Raspberry Vinegar Syrup. — One pint of juice, two pints of apple 
' vinegar, four pounds and a half of sugar. Prepare the juice as before, 
adding the vinegar with it, using white vinegar with white rasp- 
berries ; strain the juice and boil to the pearl. 

Three pounds of raspberries, two pints of vinegar, three pounds of 
sugar. Put the raspberries into the vinegar without mashing them, 
cover the pan close, and let it remain in a cellar for seven or eight 
days : then filter the infusion, add the sugar in powder, and finish in 



THE CONFECnONEH. 21 

the bain-marie. This is superior to the first, as the beautiful aroma 
of tbe fruit is lost in the boiling, as may be well known by its scenting 
the place where it is done, or even the whole house ; the fruit may 
also be afterwards used with more for raspberry cakes. 

IStrawberry Syrup. — Make as pine-apple ; taking care to strain 
carefully at least twice, through a fine fiannei bag, so as to remove 
entirely all sediment, and the small seed of the fruit] 

Cuprant Syrup, — One pint of juice, two pounds of sugar. Mix 
together three pounds of currants, half white and half red, one pound 
<^' raspberries, and one pound of cherries, without the stones; mash 
the fruit and let it stand in a warm place for three or four davB» 
keeping it covered with a coarse cloth, or piece of paper with holes 
pricked in it to keep out any dust or dirt. Filter the juice, add the 
sugar in powder, finish in the bain-marie, and skim it. When cold, 
put it into bottles, fill them, and cork well. 

Morello Cherry Syrup. — ^Take the stones out of the cherries, mash 
them, and press out the juice in an earthen pan ; let it stand in a cool 
place for two days, then filter ; add two pounds of sugar to one pint 
of juice, finish in the bain-marie, or stir it well on the fire, and give 
it one or two boils. 
, Mulberry Syrup. — One pint of juice, one pound twelve ounces of 

I sugar. Press out the juice and finish as cherry syrup. 
I Gooseberry Syrup. — One pint of juice, one pound twelve ounces 

\ of sugar. To twelve pound's of ripe gooseberries add two pounds of 
I cherries without stones, squeeze out the juice, and finish as others. 
Lemon Syrup. — One pint and a quarter of juice, two pounds of 
'sugar. Let the juice stand in a cool place to settle. When a thin 
skin is formed on the top, pour it off and filter, add the sugar, and 
finish in the bain-marie. If the flavour of the peel is preferred with 
ii, grate off the yellow rind of the lemons and mix it with the juice 
to infuse, or rub it off on part of the sugar and add it With the re- 
mainder when you finish it. 

Orange Syrup. — As lemon syrup. 

Orange-Mower Syrup. — Picked orange flowers one pound, sugar 
three pounds. Take one half of the sugar and make a syrup, which 
boil to the large pearl, put the flowers in a basin or jar, and pour the 
syrup on them boiling hot, cover the jar or basin quite close and let 
them infuse in it for five or six hours, then drain off the syrup, boil 
the remaining portion of sugar, and pour over them as before ; when 
cold, Strain and bottle. 

Strop de CapiUaire. — Syrup of Maidenhair. — ^There are several 
sorts of Maidenhair, but the best is that of Canada, which has a 
pleasant smell joined to its pectoral qualities. The true Maiden- 
hair — CapUlus Veneris ~^\b a native of Italy and of the southern 
parts of Prance. It has an agreeable but very weak smell. Common 
or English Maidenhair — TrichoTnanes — is usc^lly substituted for the 
^ true, and occaBionally for the Canadian. Its leaves consist of small 
round divisions, growing as it were in pairs. It grows on rocks, old 



1 



22 THB CONFECTIONEB. 

walls, and shady banks, and ahoald be gatnered in September. 
Black Maidenhair — Adianthum Nigrum — has smooth and shining' 
leaves, the middle rib being black, and the seeds are ail spread on the 
back of the leaf. It grows on shady banks, and on the roots of trees. 
White Maidenhair — Wall Rue — Tent Wort — Rata Murana Salvia 
Vit<B. — The leaves of this are shaped something like rue, and covered 
all over the back with a small seed-like dust. Golden Maidenhair — 
Muscus CapiUaris — grows in moist places, and the pedicle arises 
from the top of the stalk. I have given these particulars, because I 
find they are often substituted one for the other by persons who are 
not aware that there is any difference. Although all of them have 
nearly the same qualities, only two have a volatile oil, but they aro 
all muciiaginoua 

Canada capillaire two ounces, sugar two pounds. Chop the 
capillaire into small bits, and make as orange-flower syrup. By this 
method the oil is not allowed to escape, which being exceedingly 
odoriferous and volatile, is soon dissipated if boiled ; or make a cold 
infusion (See Infusions) of the plant by putting one^quart of water to 
four ounces of capillaire, add four pounds of sugar, and finish in the 
bain-marie, adding one ounce of orange-flower water.* [This is ft 
lashionable and delicate syrupy but is rarely obtained genuine.] 

Simple syrup, flavoured with orange-flower water, is usually sub- 
fitituted for it« 

Syrup of Liquorice. — Liquorice-root two ounces, white maidenhair 
one ounce, hyssop half an ounce, boiling water three pints; slice the 
root and cut the herbs small, infuse in the water lor twenty-four 
hours, strain and add sufficient sugar, or part sugar and honey, to 
make a syrup ; boil to the large pearl. An excellent pectoral. 

Syrup of Violets, — One pound of violet flowers, one quart of water, 
four pounds of sugar. Put the flowers cleared from their stalks and 
calx, into a glazed earthen pan ; pour on the water boiling hot, and 
stop the pan quite close ; let it remain in a warm place for a day, 
then strain off the infusion through a thin cloth ; add the sugar, and 
place in the bain-marie : stir it w^ and heat it until you can scarcely 
bear your finger in it ; then take it off, and when cold, bottle. A 
laxative. This syrup is often adulterated by being made with the 
flowers of hearts-ease, or columbine scented with orrice-root, and 
coloured. 

Syrup of Pinks. — Clove pinks, one pound eight ounces, water 
two pints and a half, sugar, three pounds. Let the flowers be fresh 

fathered, cul off the white points of the petals and weigh them, 
'inish as syrup of violets. This syrup may be made with a cold in* 

*The pectoral quality of this syrup — for it is ofien sold for such pur- 
poses in shops — would be much improved if made with the addition of 
liquorice-root, as ordered by the Pharmacopoeias — ^'^ Five ounces of ca- 
pillaire, two ounces of liquorice-root, six pints of water ; white sugar a 
sufficient quantity; two ounces of orange-flower water." 



( 



THB CONFBCnONBB^ 23 

fusion of the flowers, first pounding Ifaem with a Httle water in a 
marble mortar. Finish as before* If the flowers of the dove pink 
cannot be obtained, use other pinks, adding a few cloves to infuse 
with them, so as to give the flavour* 

Syrup of Roses, — The dried leaves of Provence roses eight 
ounces, double rose leaves six onnces, water one quart, sugar four 
pounds. Pour the water on the leaves when nearly boiling, into a 
glazed earthen vessel, cover it quite close, and let it remain in a 
warm place for a day ; then strain and finish as violets. The leaves 
of the damask rose are purgative. 

Syrup of Wormwood. — There are three sorts of wormwood most 
generally known, — the common, sea, and Roman. The first may be 
distinguished by its broad leaves which are divided into roundish 
segments, of a dull green colour above, and whitish underneath; its 
taste is an intense and disagreeable bitter. The sea wormwood has 
smaller leaves and hoary both above and underneath ; it grows in 
salt marshes, and about the sed coasts; the smell and taste are not 
BO strong and disagreeable as the common. The Roman diflers from 
the others by the plant being smaller in all its parts ; the leaves are 
divided into fine filaments and hoary all over, the stalk being either 
entirely or in part of a purple colour. lis smell is pleasant, and the 
bitterness not disagreeable: it is cultivated in gardens. The sea 
wormwood is generally substituted for it 

The tops of Roman wormwood two ounces, water one pint, sugar 
two pounds. Make an infusion of the leaves in warm water, strain, 
add the sugar to the infusion, and boil to the pearl. If the common 
wormwood only can be obtained, put the tops into three times the 
above quantity of water, and boil it over a strong fire until reduced 
to a pint. This will deprive it of part of its bitterness and disagree- 
able smell. 

Syrup qf MarshmalUnos — Strop de Cfuimauve, — Fresh mallow 
roots eight ounces, water one quart, sugar three pounds. Cleanse 
the roots, and slice them; make a decoction (See Decoctions), boiling 
it a quarter of an hour, so as to obtain the mucilage of the root; 
strain, and finish as wormwood. One ounce of liquorice-root and one 
ounce of white maidenhair, with a few stoned raisins, may be added. 

[Syrup ofrSarsaparUla, — Haifa pound of bruised sarsaparilla root, 
two ounces of ground orange peel, one ounce liquorice-root, sassafras 
bark bruised, two ounces, one gallon of water; boil to half a gallon, 
strain ; to each pint of liquor add one pound of sugar ; put on the fire 
till it boils, abd take off the scum which arises.] , 

Syrup of Coltsfoot. — Fresh Coltsfoot flowers one pound eight 
ounces, water one quart, sugar three pounds. Pick the flowers ab^ut 
February, and make an infusion of them wilh hot water; strain, and 
finish as wormwood synip. Two or three haodfuls of the leaves may 
be pounded and infused instead of the flowers. 

Syrup of Ginger. — Ginger two ounces,, water one pint, sugar two 
pounds. 



24 TUB COHFSGTIONER. 

Slice the root if freeb, or bruise it if dried ; pour the water on it 
boiling, and let it macerate in a warm place for a day, then strain, 
and boil to the pearL 

[Another, — A better flavoured and a richer ginger syrup is made 
in the following manner. — Take any quantity of scraped, white, Ja- 
muica ginger and infuse for several days in good spirits of wine ; 
decani the clear liquor when sufficiently saturated with the ginger, 
and add to the hot sugar, previously boiled to the ball or feather, a 
sufficient quantity of the liquor to impart to the syrup the agreeable 
aroma of the ginger root. 

The spirit will be rapidly driven off when it is poured into the 
boiling syrup, and a bland and beautiful syrup will be the result; let 
it cool, and bottle immediately.] 

Syrup of Almonds — Sirop de Orgeat. — One pound of sweet 
almonds, four ounces of bitter ones, one pint and a half of water, sugar 
three pounds, orahge»flower water two ounces. 

Blanch the almonds, and as they are blanched throw them into cold 
water ; when they are finished, take them out and pound them in a 
marble mortar, sprinkling them with a little orange-flower water to 
prevent their oiling, or use water with the juice of a lemon; add 
sufficient in the pounding to reduce them to a paste, and when quite 
fine add half a pint more water; mix, and strain through a tamia 
cloth twisted tight by two persons: receive the milk which comes 
from the almonds into a basin ; what is left in the cloth must be 
pounded again with some of the water, and strained. Continue this 
until the whole of the milk is obtained, and the water, is consumed ; 
then clarify, and boil the sugar to the crack; add the milk of 
almonds, and reduce it to the pearl; then strain it again, add th«). 
orange-flower water, and stir it well until nearly cold ; when cold, 
bottle; shake the bottles well for several succeeding days, if you see 
it at ail inclined to separate, which will prevent it 

/Strop de Pistache is made in the same manner, colouring it green 
with a little spinach^ 

Syrup of Coffee, — ^Fresh roasted Mooha coffee two pounds, water 
one quart, sugar three pounds eight ouncesi Grind the co^e in a 
mill, and make a cold infusion with the water in a clpSe vessel ; let 
it stand for a day, then filter it through blotting paper ; add the sugar, 
and finish in the bain-marie. 

Syrup of Bum Punch, — Jamaica rum one quart, the juice of twelve 
or fourteen lemons, sugar four pounds. Rub off the yellow rind of half 
of the lemons on a piece of the sugar, and scrape it off with a knife 
into a basin as it imbibes the oil; elarifyand boil the remaining por- 
tion to the crack ; strain the juice into the rum, and add to it the 
sugar with that on which the peels were rubbed ; mix together, and* 
give it one boil. The yellow rind of the peels may be cut off very 
thin, and infused in the spirit for some days before the syrup is made. 

jirantfy and Wine Syrups may be made in the eame manner. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 25 

SECTION III. CRIZSTALLIZED SUGAR, >ND ARTICLES CRYSTAL- 
LIZED, COMMONLY CALLED CANDIES. 

Crystallized or Candied Stigar, — Provide a round mould, smaller at 
the bottom than the top, of any size you may think proper, made 
either of tin or copper, with holes pierced round the sides about three 
inches asunder, so as to fasten strings across in regular rows from the 
top to the bottom, leaving sufficient room for the sugar to crystallize 
on each string without touching, or it will form a complete mass; 
paste paper round the outside to prevent the syrup from running 
through the holes. Have the mould prepared, and let it be clean and 
dry ; take sufficient clarified syrup to fill the mould, and boil it to the 
degree of crystallization or the feather, and add a little spirit of wine ; 
remove it from the fire, and let it rest until a thin skin is formed on 
the surface, which you must carefully remove with a skimmer ; then 
pour it into the mould, and place it in the hot closet, where you let it 
remain undisturbed for eight or nine days, at 90 degrees of heat, or 
half that time at 100 ; then make a hole, and drain off the super- 
fluous sugar into a pan placed below to receive it; let it drain quite 
dry, which will take about twelve hours ; then wash off the paper 
from the mould with warm water, place it near the fire, and keep 
turning it to warm it equally all round ; then turn it up and strike 
the mOuld rather hard upon the table, when the sugar will relieve 
itself and come out : put it on a stand or sieve in the clos6t, raise the 
heat to 120 degrees, and let it remain until perfectly dry* Particular 
attention should be paid to the heat of the closet, which must be kept 
regular and constant, and this can easily be accomplished at a^small 
expense with many of the patent stoves which are now in general 
nse, and also without causing any dust A Fahrenheit's or Reaumur's 
thermometer should be so placed that the heat may at all times be 
ascertained. 

This may be coloured with prepared cochineal, or other liquid 
colour, or by grinding any particular colour with the spirits of wine, 
and adding it to the syrup before it comes to the feather. 

Fruits to^ Crystallize, — Have! a square or round tin box, smaller at 
the bottom than the top, with wire gratings made to fit at convenient 
distances, and having a hole with a tube or pipe to admit a cork, and 
drain off the syrup. Take any of the preserved fruits wet (which 
see), drain from them the syrup, and dip them in lukewarm water to 
take oflT any syrup which may adhere to them ; dry them in the 
closet; when dried, place them in layers on the gratings, side by 
side, so as not to touch each other; continue in this manner with any 
sort of fruit until the box is full ; then fix the whole with a weight, 
to keep it steady. Boil a sufiSciency of clarified sugar to fill the box 
to the degree of crystallization or the blow, add a little spirit of wine, 
and remove it from the fire. When a thin skin has formed on the top, 
remove it carefully with a skimmer, and pour the sugar into the 



26 THE CONFECTIONEK. 

mould ; place it in the closet at 90 degrees of heat, and let it remain 
tor twelve hours, then drain off the syrup into a pan from the tube at 
bottom, and let it remain in the closet until quite dry ; then turn 
them out by striking the box hard upon the table, separate them care- 
fully, and put them in boxes with paper between each layer. When 
different fruits, paste, knots, &c., are mixed together indiscriminately, 
it is termed milie-fruit candy. Any sort of fruit or gum pastes, when 
tlioroughly dried, may be crystallized in the same manner. When 
the syrup is drained off, if you find the size of the crystals is not large 
enough, another lot of syrup may be prepared and poured over it ; 
let it remain in the closet for seven or eight hours, then drain and 
finish as before. 

If small pieces of stick are pushed down at each corner, or in any 
other vacancy, when you fill the mould, one of these may be with- 
drawn at any time you may wish to ascertain the size of the crystals, 
which will save the trouble of giving a second charge of sugar. 

Crystallized Chocolate, — Prepare some sugar, as in the preceding 
articles, and pour it into the box. When a thin crust is formed on the 
top, make a hole on one side, and push the articles previously shaped 
with chocolate, as for drops, gently under with your finger ; put them 
in the stove to crystallize, as other articles. After the syrup is 
drained off, and the articles dried, they must remain until quite cold 
before being turned' out, as the chocolate continues soft for some 
time. 

Liqueur Rings, Drops, and other Devices, — These are all made 
afler the same manner. A square box is necessary, which you fill 
with very dry starch powder. Sugar, powdered very fine and dried, 
will ^swer the same purpose. The depth of the box should be 
suited to the articles intended to be made. Shajie the box, or pass a 
knife repeatedly through the powder, that it may be solid ; smooth 
the surface with a straight piece of wood ; have a thin piece of fiat 
board, on which is fastened a number of little devices, about an inch 
asunder, and to suit the width of the box; these may be made either 
of lead, plaster, or wood, in the form of rings, diamonds, stars, bot- 
tles, scissors, harps, shoes, or any other form your fancy may suggest; 
make the impressions in the powder in regular rows, until the box is 
fall ; then prepare some sugar as for the preceding articles, boiling it 
to the blow, and flavouring it with any sort of spirit or liqueur, such 
as brandy, rum, noyau, Maraschino, cinnamon, rosolis, &c., colourings 
the syrup accordingly. It should be prepared in a pan with a lip to 
it When a thin skin has formed on the top, place a cork in the lip 
of the pan, but not to close it, allowing a space for the sugar to run 
out, the cork being merely to keep back the skin; then fill the im- 
pressions you made in the powder and place them in the stove at 90 
degrees ; let them remain a day, then take them out, and their sur- 
faces will be found quite hard and^solid ; brush the powder from them 
with a light brush, when they may either be painted, crystallized, or 
piped. Many of these bon-bons are beautifully piped and cgloured to 



THE CONFECTIONER. 27 

represent dogs, horses, costumes, and theatrical characterfl; the fur 
on the robes is imitated with while or coloured sugar in coarse grains, 
and lace-work is done by means of a pin. 

Liqueur drops are made with the impression of half a ball to any 
required size, or other forms. If the flat parts of two are moistened, 
put together, and dried in the stove, they will form drops perfectly 
round. 

To form a Chain with Liqueur Rings, — Have some moulds to form 
the impressions in powder, as in the preceding, in the shape of the 
links of a chain ; fill them with syrup at the blow, as before, and put 
them in the stove for a day ; when ihey are hard and fit to be taken 
CMit, place them on their ends in the powder ; have another mould of 
a link in two halves, and with this form the impression between each 
of the others so as to make it complete ; then fill them, and finish aa 
before. 

SECTION IV.— CANDY BONBON CONSERVE. 

The articles that come under this head are made by the sugar 
being brought to the bull, when it is grained by rubbing It against the 
sides of the pan. From this all fancy articles arc made, such as fruit, 
eggs, cups, vases, &,c. 

Ginger Candy, — Take clarified syrup and boil it to the ball ; flavour 
it either with the essence of ginger or the root in powder ; then with 
a spoon or spatula rub some of it against the side of the pan until you 
perceive it turn white ; pour it into small square tins with edges, or 
paper cases, which have been oiled or buttered, and put it in a warm 
place, or on a hot stone, that it may ^come dappled. The syrup 
should be coloured yellow, while boiling, with a little saffron. 

Peppermint^ Lemon and Rose Candy are made afler the same 
manner, colouring the lemon with saffron, and the rose with 
cochineal. 

Coltsfoot or HoreJumnd Candy, — Make a strong infusion of the 
herbs, (See Infusions under the head of Syrups,) and use it for dis- 
solving the sugar, instead of taking syrup; raw sugar is mostly used 
for those candies. Boil it to the luill, grain it and finish as ginger 
candy. 

Artificial Fruit, Eggs, i^e, — Prepare moulds with plaster of Paris 
from tne natural objects you wish to represent ; make them in two, 
three, or more pieces, so as to relieve freely, and have a hole at one 
end into which the sugar may be poured ; let them be made so as 
each part may be fitted together exactly ; and for this purpose make 
two dr three round or square indentions on the edge of one part, so 
that the corresponding piece when cast, will form the counterpart, 
which may at all times be fitted with precision* Let the object you 
would take the cast from be placed in a frame made either of wood 
ox of stifT paper, embed a part of it in fine sand, soft pipe-clay, or 



28 THE CONFECTIONER. 

modelling wax, leaving as mach of the mould exposed as you wish to 
form at one time, and oil it with sweet oil ; mix some of the prepared 
plaster with water, to the consistency of thick cream, and pour over 
It ; when tliis is set, proceed with the other portions in the same 
manner until it is complete. Let them dry and harden for use. 

Take a sufficient quantity of syrup, (clarified with charcoal or 
animal black) to fill the mould, and boil it to the small ball ; rub 
some of it against the side to grain it ; when it turns white, pour it 
into the moulds: take them out when set, and put them into the 
stove at a moderate heat to dry. The moulds must be soaked for an 
hour or two in cold water previously to their being used, which will 
be found better than oiling them, as it keeps the sugar delicately 
white, which oil does not. Ck>lour your articles according to nature 
with liquid colours (see Colours) and cameVs-hair pencils, or the usual 
pigments sold in boxes may be used. If a gloss is required, the 
colours should be mixed with a strong solution of gum Arabic or 
isinglass, to the desired tint* Eggs and fruit may be made as light 
and apparently as perfect as nature, by having moulds to open in two, 
without any orifice for filling them. Fill one half with the grained 
sugar, immediately close the mould, and turn it round briskly that it 
may be covered all over equally. To accomplish this, it is necessary 
to have an assistant that it may be done as speedily as possible. 

Burnt Almonds, — Take some fine Valencia or Jordan almonds, and 
sift all the dust from them ; put a pint of clarified syrup into the pan for 
each pound of almonds, and place it with the almonds on the fire ; boil to 
the ball, then take it ofifand stir the mixture well with a spatula that 
the sugar may grain and become almost a powder, whilst each almond 
has a coating. Put them into a coarse wire or cane sieve, and sift all the 
loose sugar from them, and altso separate those which stick together. 
When cold, boil some more clarified syrup to the feather, put in the 
almonds, give them two or three boils in it, take them from the fire, and 
stir them with the spatula as before, until the sugar grains; sifl and 
separate them, and keep them in glasses or boxes. A third coat may be 
given them in the same manner as the second, if they are required 
large. 

Burnt Almonds — Red, — The same as the last, using prepared oochi- 
Deal to colour the syrup whilst it is boiling. 

Filberts and Pistachios. — These are done the same as burnt almonds, 
but they are usually denominated prawlings, the nuts being only put 
into the ^ogar for two or three minutes before it is taken from the 
fire, and stirred. 

Common Burnt Almonds. ^^These are made with raw sugar and 
skimmings, if you have any. ^ Put some water with the sugar to dis- 
flolve it ; when it is near boiling, add the almonds, and let them boil 
in it until it comes to the small ball ; or when the almonds crack, take 
them from the fire, and stir them with a spatula until the sugar grains 
and becomes nearly a powder ; put them into a sieve, and separate 
the lumps. 



THB CONFEOTIONES* 39 

Orange PrawUngs, — Take four or five liavanna oranges, and cut 
off the peel in quarters, or small lengths; talte off all the pith or 
white part of the peel, leaving only the yellow rinds, and cut in small 
pieces, about an inch long, and the size of pins. Have about a pint 
of clarified sugar boiling on the fire ; when it comes to the blow, put 
in the pieces of peel, and let them boil until the sugar attains the 
sinall ball ; take them ofiT, and stir them with the spatula until the 
sugar grains and hangs about them; sift off the loose sugiir; when 
cold, separate and keep them in a dry place. 

Levion Frawlings. — As orange. 



SECTION V. CRACK AND CARA3IEL. 

These comprehend all articles in sugar-boiling which cat short and 
crisp. They are used for all sorts of ornamental sugar-work. The 
rules and observations already laid down under this head must be par- 
ticularly noted, especially those for greasing the sugar so as to prevent 
its graining. 

Barley Sugar, — Boil some clarified loaf sugar to the crack or cara- 
mel degree, using a little acid to prevent its graining: pour it out on 
a marble slab, which has been previously oiled or buttered. Four 
pieces of iron, or small square bare, are usually employed to form a 
sort of bay to prevent the sugar running off the stone, which is neces- 
sary in large casts. When the edges get set a little, remove the 
bars, and turn them over into the centre. This is occasionally fla- 
vonred'with lemons. When it is required, pour a few drops of the 
essential oil of lemons in the centre, before the edges are folded over, 
then cut it into narrow strips with a large pair of scissors or sheep- 
shears. When nearly cold, twist them, put them into glasses or tin 
boxes, and keep them closed to prevent the access of air. It is sel- 
dom boiled higher than the crack, and safilron is used to make it the 
colour of caramel. 

This derives the name of barley sugar from its being origmally 
made with a decoction of barley, as a demulcent in coughs, for which 
it is now most generally used. 

Barley Sugar Drops, — Boil some sugar as for the preced ing. Spread 
some finely powdered and sifted loaf sugar on a table or tea-trny, 
with a piece of stick, round at the end similar to the half of a ball ; 
make several holes, into which you run the sugar from a lipped pan, 
or it may be dropped on an oiled marble slab with a funnel, letting 
only one drop fall at a time; or from the lip pan, separating each 
drop with a small knife, or a straight piece of small wire; take them, 
off the stone with a knife, mix them with powdered loaf sugar, sill' 
them from it, and keep in glasses or tin boxes. 

Barley Sugar Tablets or Kisses. — Spread some sugar, as for the 
last ; have a piece of wood about an inch and a half thick, with the 

3# 



30 THE CONFBCTIOIVEB. 

surface divided into small squares, each being about an inch, and half 
an inch in depth ; with this form the impressiona in the sugar, and 
fill them with sugar boiled as for drops, flavouring it with essence of 
lemon ; or instead of this it may be poured out in a sheet on an oiled 
marble slab, as for barley sugar, and when nearly cold divide it into 
pieces with a tin frame, having small square divisions, when the whole 
sheet may be divided at once by pressing hard on it so as to cut it 
nearly through. When cold, separate them and mix them with 
powdered sugar, take them out and fold them separately in fancy or 
coloured papers, with a motto on each. They are also occasionally 
made into balls thus: — First cast the sugar in a sheet on an oiled 
marble slab; when the edges a^re set, fold them in the middle, then 
oil a pmall square tin with edges to it, put the sugar in this, and 
place it under the fire-place of the stove so as to keep warm ; cut off 
a piece and roll it into a pipe, then cut it into small pieces with a pair 
of shears, and let your assistant roll it into small balls under his hand 
on a sand-stone ; marble is too smooth for this purpose. Many lads 
who are used to it can turn e'lsht or ten under each hand at one time. 
When they are finished, put tnem into powdered sugar, wrap them 
in fancy papers, fringed at the ends, put a motto in eacJi, and fasten 
them with small bands of gold paper. Sometimes a cracker is folded 
up in each, which is made with two narrow strips of stiff paper, a 
small piece of sand or glass paper is pasted on the end of each, and 
these are placed over each other with a little fulminating powder be* 
tween, a piece of thin paper is bound round it, and pasted to keep 
them together ; when these are pulled asunder, the two rough sur- 
faces meeting cause the powder to explode, and out flies the ball of 
sugar with the motto. This innocent amusement often causes mucb 
mirth in a company. 

Acid Drops and Sticks. — Boil clarified sugar to the crack, and 
pour it on an oiled marble stone : pound some tartaric or citric acid 
to a fine powder, and strew over it about a half or three quarters 
of an ounce of the former, according to its quality, and less of the 
latter, to seven pounds of sugar ; turn the edges over into the mid- 
dle, and mix the acid by folding it over, or by working it in a similar 
m*anner as dough is moulded, but do not pull it ; put it in a tin rubbed 
over with oil or butter, and place it under the stove to keep warm ; 
then cut off a small piece at a time, and roll it into a round pipe ; 
cut them off in small pieces the size of drops, with shears, and let 
your assistant roll them round under his band, and flatten them. Mix 
them with powdered sugar, sifl them from it, and keep them in boxes 
or glasses. 

When flavoured with lemon, they are called lemon-acid drops,— 
with otto of roses, rose-acid drops. -The sticks are made in the 
same manner as the drops, without being cut into small pieces. 

To extract the Acid from Candied JDrops, <!frc — All the articles 
which have acid mixed with them are extremely liable to grain, when 
they are useless for any purpose whatever, except to sell for broken 



f 



THE CONPECTIONEB. 31 

pieces, as they cannot be boiled again unless the acid is» extracted. 
The methpd of deing this is at present not generally known in the 
trade, and it is kept by many that are in possession of it as a great 
secret- A sovereign is often paid for this recipe alone. However 
great the secret may be considered, it is pnly returning to the first 
principle in the manufacture of sugar. When the juice is expressed 
from the canes, it contains a considerable quantity of oxalic acid, 
which must be destroyed before it will granulate into sugar: for this 
purpose lime is employed, which has the desired effect; so will it also 
in this case, but chalk or whitening is most generally used. First 
dissolve your acid sugar in water ; when this is thoroughly accomplish- 
ed, mix in a sufficient quantity of either of these alkalies in powder 
to cause a strong effervescence ; after it has subsided, pass it through 
a flannel bag, according to the directions for clarifying sugar. The 
filtered syrup will be fit to use for any purpose, and may be boiled 
again to the crack or caramel degrees as well as if no acid had ever 
been mixed with it. Let the pan it is dissolved in be capable of con- 
taining as much again as there is in it, or the effervescence will fiow 
over. 

Raijiherry Candy. — ^Thie may either be made from raw or refined 
sugar. Boil it to the crack, and colour it with cochineal ; pour it on 
a stone rubbed over with a little oil or butter, cut off a small piece, 
and keep it warm to stripe or case the other part, when finished ; to 
the remainder add a little tartaric acid (not so nfiuch as for drops), 
and some raspborry-paste, sufficient to flavour it. The residue of 
raspberries used for making vinegar, and preserved with an equal 
quantity of sugar, or even less, as for raspberry cakes, does very well 
for this purpose. Fold the edges over into the centre, and attach it 
to a hook fixed against the wall : pull it towards you, throwing it on 
the hook eacf) time after having pulled it out; continue doing this 
until it gets rather white and shining, then make it into a compact 
long roll, and either stripe it with the piece you cut off, or roll it out 
in a sheet with a rolling-pin, and wrap it round it so as to form a sort 
of case; then pull it into long narrow sticks, and cut them the required 
length. ^ 

Clove^ Singer., or Peppermint Candy. — ^These are all made in the 
same way as raspberry, using the essential oil of each for flavour. 
• For clove, the mixture, \yhilst boiling, is coloured with cochineal; 
ginger with saffron ; but the peppermint must be kept perfectly 
white, except the stripes, which is done by cutting off as many pieces 
from the bulk as you have colours, which should be in powder; put a 
sufficiency in each piece to give the desired tint, and keep them 
warm. When the remaining portion of the sugar is pulled, lay them 
over the surface in narrow stripes, double the roll together, and the 
face each way will be alike. Pull them out into long sticks, and 
twist them; make them round by rolling them under the hand, or 
they may be cut into small pieces with a pair of shears or scissors. 

Brandy Balls, i!f'c» — These are made from loaf sugar, boiled to the 



32 THE CONFECTION EB. 

crack, and coloured either with cociiineal or ealiVon, and finished in 
the same way as acidulated drops, without being flattened. 

Nogai, — 'l\vo pounds of sweet ahnonds, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of water. Blanch the almonds, and cut them in slices, dry 
them at the mouth of a cool oven, and if slightly browned the better; 
powder the sugar, and put it into a stewpan, with the water; place, 
it on the fire to melt, stirring it with a spatula •until it becomes a fine 
brown, then mix in the almonds, and let them be well covered with 
the sugar; pour it out on an oiled niarble stone. It may be made 
into a thick or thin sheet, and cut with a knife into email pieces, such 
88 dice, diamonds, &.c.^ The surface may be strewed with currants, 
fillets of pistachios, or coarse sugar, and cut into different forms with 
tin cutters. It may also be formed into baskets, vases, &.c. Oil the 
interior of a mould, and spread the nogat over it, whilst warm, as 
thin and even as possible. To save the fingers from being burnt, it 
may be spread with a lemon. Detach it from the mould when warm, 
and let it remain until cold that it may retain its shape perfectly, thea 
fasten the different parts together with caramel sugar. For baskets, 
a handle of spun sugar may be placed ov^r it, or ornamented with it 
according to fancy. These may be filled with whipped or other 
creams when required to be served. ^ 

Jlmond Rock. — This is a similar production to nogat, and is made 
with raw sugar^ which is boiled to the crack. Pour it on an oiled 
stone, and fill it with sweet almonds, either blanched or not; the 
almonds are mixed with the sugar by working them into it with the 
bands, in a similar manner as yuu would mix anything into a piece 
of dough. If they were stirred into the sugar in the pan it would 
grain, which is the reason why it is melted for nogat. Form the rock 
into a ball or roll, and make it into a sheet, about two inches thick, 
by rolling it with a rolling-pin. Tlie top may be divided into diamonds 
or squares by means of a long knife or piece of iron: when it is 
nearly cold cut it into long, narrow pieces with a strong knife and 
hammer. 

Almond Hardb(tke. — Oil a square or round tin with low edges; 
split some almonds in half, put them in rows over the bottom, with 
the split side downward, until the surface is covered ; boil some raw 
sugar to the crack, and pour it over them so as to cover the whole 
with a thin sheet of sugar. Cocoa nut, cut in thin slices, currant, 
and other similar candies, are made as the hardbake, except that the 
sugar is grained before it is poured over. 

ON SUGAR-SPINNING. 

To attain proficiency in this part, it requires much practice, and 
also a good taste for design, and to be expert in the boiling of sugar, 
taking particular care to avoid its graining. Baskets, temples, va^^ea, 
fountains, &c., are made by these means. It may almost be termed 
the climax of the art. The moulds for this purpose may be made 



f 



THE CONFECTIONER. 33 

either of copper or tin, po as to deliver well. Let them be sliofhtly 
rubbed all over, on the part you intend to spin the su^r, with butter 
or ofl 

Boil clarified syrup to the degree of caramel, taking care to keep 
the sides of the pad free from sugar. The moment it is at the crack, 
add a little acid to grease it (see Sugar Boiling). When it has at- 
tained the required degree, dip the bottom of the pan into cold water, 
take it out, and let it cool a little ; then take a common table-spoon, 
dip it in the sugar, holding the mould in your left hand, and from the 
spoon run the sugar over the mould, either inside or out, with the 
threads which flow from ijt, which may be either fine or coarse, ac- 
cording to the state of the sugar; if they are required very coaree, 
pass the hand over them two or three times ; for when it is hot it 
flows in finer strings than it will when cooler ; form it on the mould 
into a sort of trellis-work ; loosen it from the mould carefully, and let 
it remain until quite cold before it is taken off, that it may retain its 
shape. When the sugar gets too cold to flow from the spoon, place 
It by the side of the stove or fire to melt Young beginners had bet- 
ter draw their designs for handles of baskets, £lc., on a stone with a 
pencil before it is oiled, and then spin the sugar over them. 

Th make a Silver Web, — Boil clarified syrup to the crack, using the 
same precautions as before observed, giving it a few boils after the 
acid is added ; dip the bottom of the pan in water and let the sugar 
cool a little; then take the handle of a spoon, or two forks tied to- 
gether, dip it into the sugar, and form it either on the inside or out- 
side of a nK)uId, with very fine strings, by passing the hand quickly 
backwards and forwards, taking care that it does not fall in drops, 
which would spoil the appearance of the work. With this may be 
represented the hair of a helmet, the water of a fountain, (fee. Take 
a fork, or an iron skewer, and hold it in your left hand as high as you 
can, dip the spoon in the sugar, and with the right hand throw it over 
the skewer, when it will hang from it in very fine threads of con- 
siderable length. 

To make a Gold Web. — Boil syrup to caramel height, colouring it 
in^ith saffron, and form it as directed for the last. It can be folded up 
to form bands or rings, &c. Fasten it to the other decorations with 
caramel. 

If any of the strings or threads of sugar should pass over those 
parts where they are not required, so as to spoil the other decorations 
in the making of baskets or other ornaments, it may be removed with 
a hot knife without breaking or injuring the piece. 

Chantilly Baskets. — Prepare some ratafias, let them be rather small, 
and as near of a size as possible ; boil some sugar to the caramel de- 
gree, rub over the inside of a mould slightly with oil, dip the edge 
of the ratafias in sugar, and stick them together, the face of the rata- 
fias being towards the mould, except the last two rows on the top, 
which should be reversed, remembering always to place their faces 



34 THE CONFECTTONEK. 

to meet the eye when the sugar is cold ; take it out, and join the bot- 
tom and top together with the same sugar; make a handle of spun 
sugar, and place over it. Some sugar may be spun over the inside 
of the basket, to strengthen it, as directed for webs. Line the inside 
with pieces of Savoy or sponge cakes, and fill it with custard or whip- 
ped cream, or the slices of cake may be spread with raspberry jann. 
Half fill it with boiled custard, then put in a few Savoy or almond 
cakes, soaked in wine, and cover the top with whipped cream; or it 
may be filled with fancy pastry, or meringues. All sorts of fancy 
Cakes may be made into baskets or ratafias. 

Grape, Orange, or Cherry Baskets. — ^These. are made similar to the 
last ; the oranges are carefully peeled and divided into small pieces, 
taking off the pith. Insert a small piece of stick or whisk in the end 
of each, dip them in caramiel, and form them on the inside of an oiled 
mould. Cherries and grapes may be used either fresh, or preserved 
wet, and dried. Dip them in caramel, and form them as oranges. 
Each of these, or any other fruit, after being dipped in caramel, may 
be laid on an oiled marble slab separately, and served on plates in a 
pyramid, with fancy papers, flowers, &c. The baskets are finished 
as Chantilly with spun sugar. 

Almond Baskets^ — Blanch some fine Jordan almonds, and cut them . 
into thin slices, and colour them in a small copper pan over the fire 
with prepared liquid colour (see Colours). Put them into the pan, 
and pour in colour sufficient to give the desired tint; rub them^bout 
in the pan with your hand until they are quite dry: form them as for 
a Chantilly basket, or else form them on an oiled marble slab, and 
spin sugar over them on each side. Afterwards arrange them in 
a mould, or build them to any design, first having a pattern cut out 
in paper, and form them on the stone from it. 

Spanish Candy. — Oil a quart of clarified syrup to the crack. Have 
some icing previously prepared as for cakes, or mix some fine pow^ 
dered loaf sugar with the white of an egg to a thick consistency as 
for icing; take the sugar from the fire, and as soon as the boiling haa 
gone down stir in a spoonful of this or the icing, which must be done 
very quickly, without stopping. Let it rise once and fall ; the second 
time it rises, pour it out in a moulder paper case, and cover it with 
the pan to prevent its falling. Some persons pour it out the first time 
it rises, and immediately cover it as before. It may be made good 
both ways. If it is required coloured, add the colouring to the syrup 
whilst it is boiling, or with the icing, adding moresugar to give it the 
same stifilhess as before. 

Vases or Baskets, 4^c,, in Spanish Caw dy.— Prepare some plaster 
moulds, as for grained sugar ; soak them in water before you use 
them ; prepare some sugar as for the last, and fill the moulds. When 
finished they may be ornamented with gum-paste, piping, or gold- 
paper borders. Fill them with flowers, meringues, fancy pastry, 
caramel, fruits, &c. They may also be made in copper or tin moulds, 
by first oiling them before they are filled. 



THE CONFECTIONER, 35 



SECTION VI.— CHOCOLATE. 

Cctcao Nuts, — The cocoa or cacao nut, of which chocolate is made, 
is the seed of the fruit of a treo common in South America and the 
West Indies. The seeds of the nuts, which are nearly of -the shape 
of an almond, are found to the number of from thirty to forty in a 
pod. The pods are oval, resembling a cucumber in shape. The dif- 
ferent sorts are distinguished by name, according to the places which 
produce them, thus, — the cacao of Cayenne, Caraccas, Berbice, and 
the islands of Sl Magdalen and Domingo. These all differ in the 
size of their almonds or seed, quality and taste. The most esteemed 
is the large Caraccas, the almond of which, though somewhat iiat,* 
resembles the shape of a large bean. The next are those of St. Mag- 
dalen and Berbice. The seeds of these are less flat than those of the 
Oaraccas kind, and the skin is covered with a flne ash-coloured dust. 
The others are very crude and oily, and only fit to make the butter 
of cacaa The kernels, when fresh, are bitter, and are deprived of 
this by being buried in the ground for thirty or forty days. Good nuts 
should have a thin brittle skin, of a dark black colour; and the ker- 
nel, when the skin is taken off, should appear full and shining, of a 
dusky colour, with a reddish shade. Choose the freshest, not worm- 
eaten, or mouldy on the inside, which it is subject to be. 

Equal parts of the cacao of Caraccas, St. Magdalen, and Berbice, 
mixed together, make a chocolate of tirst-rate quality ; and these pro- 
portions give to it that rich and oily taste which it ought to have. 
That made from the cacao of Caraccas only is too dry, and that from 
the islands too fat and crude. 

Roasting. — Take a sufficient quantity of nuts to cover the bottom 
of an iron pot two or tlireo inches deep, place them on the fire to 
roast, stirring them constantly with the spatula tliat the heat may be 
imparted to them equally. A coflee-roasting machine would answer 
for this purpose admirably, taking care not to torrefy them too much, 
as the oil of the nut sufiers thereby, and it becomes a dark brown or 
black, grows bitter, and spoils the colour of the chocolate. Musty or 
mouldy nuts must be roasted more than the others, so as to deprive 
them of their bad taste and smell. It is only necessary to heat them 
until the skin will separate from the kernel on being pressed between 
the fingers. Remove them from the fire, and separate the skins. If 
you have a large quantity, this may be accomplished by putting them 
in a sieve which has the holes rather large, but not so much as to 
allow the nuts to pass through ; then squeeze or press them in your 
bands, and tlie skins will pass through the meshes of the sieve; or, 
after being separated from the nuts, they may be got rid of by win- 
nowing or fanning them in a similar manner to corn. When they 
are separated, put them again in the fire, as before directed, stirring 
them constantly until warmed through, without browning. You may 
^now when they are heated enough by the outside appearing shiny ; 



96 THE CONFECTIONER. 

again winnow, to separate any burnt skin which naay have escaped 
the first time. 

The Making of Chocolate, — An iron pestle and mortar is requisite 
fos this purpose, also a stone of the closest grain and texture which 
can be procured, and a rolling-pin made of the same materia], or of 
iron. The stone must be fixed in such a manner that it may be 
heated from below with a pot of burning charcoal, or something 
similar. 

Warm the mortar and pestle by placing them on a stove, or by 
means of charcoal, until they are so hot that you can scarcely bear 
your hand against them. Wipe the mortar out clean, and put any 
convenient quantity of your prepared nuts in it, which you pound 
until they are reduced to an oily paste into which the pestle will sink 
by its own weight. If it is required sweet, add about one-half, or 
two-thirds of its weight of loaf sugar in powder ; again pound it so 
as to mix it well together, then put it in a pan, and place it in the 
stove to keep warm. Take a portion of it and roll or grind it well on 
the slab with the roller (both being previously heated like the mor- 
tar) until it is reduced to a smooth impalpable paste, which will melt 
in the mouth like butter. When this is accomplished, put it in another 
pan, and keep it warm until the whole is similarly disposed of; then 
place it again on the stone, which must not be quite so warm as pre- 
viously, work it over again, and divide it into pieces of two, four, 
eight, or sixteen ounces each, which you put in moulds. Give it a 
shake, and the chocolate will become flat When cold it will easily 
turn out. 

The moulds for chocolate may either be made of tin or copper, and 
of different devices, such as men, animals, fish, culinary or other uten- 
sils, &c. ; also some square ones for half-pound cakes, having divi-, 
visions on the bottom which are relievoed. These cause the hollow 
impressions on the cakes*. 

The Bayonne or Spanish chocolate is in general the most esteemed. 
The reason of its superior quality is attributed by some to the hard- 
ness of the Pyrenean stone which they employ in making it, which 
docs not absorb the oil from the nuts. They do not use any pestle 
and mortar, but levigate their nuts on the stone, which is fixed on a 
slope; and in the second pounding or rolling the paste is pressed 
closely on the stone, so as to extract the oil, which runs into a pan 
containing the quantity of sugar intended to be used, and is placed 
underneath to receive it ; the oil of the cacao and sugar are then well 
mixed together with a spatula, again mixed witfi 5ie paste on the 
stone, and finished. 

Vanilla Chocolate. — Ten pounds of prepared nuts, ten pounds oC 
sugar, vanilla two ounces and a half, cinnamon one ounce, one drachmj 
of mace, and two drachms of cloves, or the vanilla may be usedi 
solely. 

Prepare your nuts according to the directions already given. Cut, 



THE CONFECTIONER. 37 

» 

the vanilla in small bits, pound it fine with part of the Bogar, and 
mix it with the paste ; boil about one-half of the sugar to the blow 
before you mix it to the chocolate, otherwise it will eat hard. Pro- 
ceed as before, and either put it in small moulds or divide it in 
tablets, which you wrap in tinfoil. This is in general termed eatable 
chocolate. 

Cinnamon^ Mace or Clove Chocolate, — These are made in the same 
manner as the last, using about an ounce and a half or two ounces 
of either sort of spice, in powder, to that quantity, or add a suffi- 
ciency of either of these essential oils to flavour. 

Stomachic Chocolate. — Four ounces of chocolate prepared without 
sugar, vanilla one ounce, cinnamon in powder one ounce, ambergfris 
forty-eight grains, sugar three ounces; warm your paste by pounding 
in the heated mortar, or on the stone, add your aromatics in powder 
to the sugar, and mix it well with the paste; keep it close in tin 
g . boxes. About a dozen grains of this is to be put into the chocolate 
pot when it is made, which gives it an agreeable and delightful fia- 
vour, and renders it highly stomachic. It may also be used for flavour- 
ing the chocolate tablets. 

Chocolate Harlequin Pistachios, — Warm some sweet chocolate by 
pounding it in a hot mortar; when it is reduced to a malleable paste, 
take a little of it and wrap round a blanched pistachio nut, roll it in 
ur^ I the hand to form it as neat as you can, throw it in some nonpareils of 
J j various colours; let it be covered all over. Dispose of the whole in 
the same manner; fold them in coloured or fancy papers, with mot- 
toes; the ends should be cut like fringe. Almonds may be done tha 
same way, using vanilla chocolate, if preferred. 

Chocolate Drops, with Nonpareils. Have some warm chocolate, as 

for pistachios; some add a little butter or oil to it to make it work 

more free ; ma^e it into balls about the size of a small marble, by 

rolling a little in the hand, or else put some of the paste on a flat 

ned-I pi^^c^ ^^ wood, on which you form, and take them off with a knife. 

^^ji.| Place them on sheets of white paper about an inch apart. When the 

bich' ^bcet is covered, take it by the corners and lift it up and down, let- 

jstle *'"o ^^ touch the table each time, which will flatten them. Cover 

^jj J the surface entirely with white nonpareils, and shake off the surplus 

ggg^ ones. When the drops are cold they can be taken off the paper 

^ easily. The bottom of the drops should be about as broad as a six- 

aced pence. Some of them may be left quite plain. 

^g]l Good chocolate should be of a clear red brown. As the colour is 

^jjg, paler or darker, so is the aHicIe the niore or less good,. The surface 

should be smooth and shining. If this gloss comes off by touching, 

.. it indicates an inferior quality, and is probably adulterated. When 

Is ot broken, it ought to be compact and close, and not appear cnimbly. 

13 ^^ should melt gently in thetmouth when eaten, leaving no roughness 

used Qj. astringency, but rather a cooling sensation on the tongue. The 

latter is a ceftain sign, of ilB being genuine. 

I 
I 

\ 

t 



n 

it 
er 



ind 
en- 
li?i- 
low 



38 ' THE COZVFECTIOIVER* 



SECTIOW VII. — LOZENGES, 

Thssk are composed of loaf sugar in fine powder, and other «fit^ 
stances, either Ii<}aid or io powder, which are mixed together eimI 
made into a paste with dissolved gum, rolled out into thin sheets, an<i 
formed with tin cutters into little cakes, either oval, square, or rou»<l« 
and dried. 

One ounce of gum tragacanth, and one pint of water. Let it 
soak in a warm place twenty -four hours ; put it in a coarse towel or 
cloth, and let two persons continue twisting it until the whole of the 
gum is squeezed through the interstices of the cloth. One ounce of 
this dissolved gum is sufficient for four or five pounds of sugar ; ooe 
ounce of dissolved gum Arabic to twelve ounces of sugar. 

Either of these gums may be used separately, or in the proportion 
of one ounce of gum dragon to three ounces of Arabic mixed to- 
gether. These are generally used for medicated lozenges ; but guoi 
Arabic alone is considered to make the best peppermint. 

Peppermint Lozenges, No. 1. — Take double-refined loaf sugar, 
pound and sift it through a lawn sieve ; make a bay with the sugar 
on a marble slab, into which pour some dissolved gum, and mix it 
into a paste as you would dough, flavouring the mass with oil of 
peppermint. One ounce of this is sufficient for forty pounds of loz- 
enges. Some persons prefer mixing their gum and sugar together 
at first in a mortar ; but as it is indififerent which way is pursued, that 
may be followed which is most convenient Roll out the paste on a 
marble slab until it is about the eighth of an inch in thickness, using 
atarch powder to dust it with, to prevent its sticking to the slab and 
pin. Before cutting them out, strew or dost over the surface with 
powder mixed with lawned sugar, and rub it over with the heel of 
your hand, which gives it a smooth face. This operation is termed 
*' facing np." Brush this ofij and again dost the surface with starch 

Eowder, cut them out, and place in wooden trays. Put them in the 
ot closet to dry. Note. — All lozenges are finished in the same 
manner. 

Peppermint Lozenges, No. 2. — ^These are made as Na 1, adding a 
little starch-powder or prepared plaster as for gum paste to the paste, 
instead of using all sugar. 

Peppermint Lozenges, Nos. 3 and 4.— Proceed in the same manner 
as for No. 2, using for each, more starch powder in proportion. Use 
smaller cutters, and let the paste be rolled thicker. 

Transparent Mint Lozenges, No. 5. — These are made from loaf 
sugar in coarse powder, the finest having been taken out by sifting it 
through a lawn sieve. Mjx it into a paste with dissolved gum Arabic 
and a little lemon juice. J^Iavour with oil of peppermint. Finish as 
fi)r Na 1. 



THE CONPECnONKB, 89 

Superfine TWmaparerU Mint Lozenges* — ^The sugar for these must 
be in coarser grains. Pass the sugar through a coarse hair sieve. 
Separate the finest by siding it through a moderately fine hair sieve. 
Mix and flavour as the others, 

^ate, — ^The coarser the grains of sugar, the more transparent the 
lozenges. The finer particles of sugar being mixed with it, destroy 
their transparency. The solution of gum should be thicker in pro- 
portion as the sugar is coarse. 

Mose Lozenges, — Make your paste as No. 1, using the essential oil 
or otto of roses to flavour them ; or the gum may be dissolved in rose 
i water, and a little essential oil may be added to give additional fla- 
[ Toar, if required. Colour the paste with carmine or rose pink. 

[ Cinnamon Lozenges. — Gum tragacanth, dissolved, two ounces, 

V lawned sugar eight pounds, cinnamon in powder one ounce, essential 

oil ten drops. 
I Mix into a paste, and colour with bole ammoniac. A stomachic. 

Gove Lozenges. — Sugar eight pounds, cloves three ounces, gum 
^ tragacanth two ounces. 

! Each lozenge should contain two grains of cloves. A restorative 

and stomachic. 



( 



Lavender Lozenges. — Make as rose lozenges, using the oil of laven- 
der instead of rose. 

Ginger Lozenges.— .Eight pounds of sugar and eight ounces of the 
^ best ground ginger. Mix into a paste with dissolved gum. Essence 
J Httay be used instead of the powder, colouring it with saflron. A" 
stimulant and stomachic. 

^ Nutmeg Lozenges. — Sugar eight pounds, oil of nutmegs one ounce, 
dissolved gum sufficient to mix into a paste. A stimulant and stomas 
> chic. 

[ Rhijibarh Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, best Turkey rhubarb, m 

powder, ten ounces. 

Suifhur Lozenges, '^Foar pounds of sugar, eight ounces of sub- 
limed sulphur, gum sufficient to make a paste. For asthma and the 
piles. 

L To!u Lozenges.— SaghT four pounds, balsam of tolu three drachma, 

f or the tincture of the balsam one fluid ounce, cream of tartar six 

ounces, or tartaric acid one drachm, dissolved gum sufficient to make 
a paste. These may also be flavoured by adding a quarter of an ounce 
of vanilla, and sixty drops of the essence of amber. The articles 
must be reduced to a fine powder with the sugar. A pectoral and 
balsamic. 

Ipecacuanha Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, ipecacuanha one ounce, 
apothecaries' weight, dissolved gum sufficient to make a paste. Make 
960 lozenges, each containing half a grain of ipecacuanha. An ex- 
pectorant and. stomachic, used in coughs. 



40 THE CONPECTIONEK. 

Saffron Xoz6f>ges.«— Safiron dried and powderedi four ounces, sugar 
four pounds, dissolved gum sufficient. An anodyne, pectoral, em- 
menagogue. 

Yellow Pectoral Lozenges, — Sugar one pound, Florence orris-root 
powder twelve drachms, liquorice-root, six drachms, almonds one 
ounce, saffiron in powder four scruples, dissolved gum sufficient to 
make a paste. Make a decoction of the liquorice to moisten the gum 
with. 

Lozenges for the Heartburn. — Prepared chalk four ounces, crab's, 
eyes prepared two ounces, bole ammoniac one ounce, nutmeg one^ 
scruple, or cinnamon half an ounce. Make into a paste with dis- 
solved gum ArfLbic. 

Steel Lozetiges. — ^Pure iron filings or rust (^ iron one pound, cinna* 
mon in powder, four ounces, fine sugar seven pounds, dissolved gum. 
ft sufficient quantity to make a paste. A stomachic and tonic. 

3Iagnesia Lozenges, — ^Calcined magnesia eight ounces, sugar four 
ounces, ginger in powder two scruples, dissolved gum Arabic 8u$- 
cient to form a paste. 

Magnesia two ounces, sugar eight ounces, sufficient gum Arabic 
to make a paste, dissolved in orange-flower water. 

Nitre Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, sal-nitre one pound, dissolved 
giun tragacanth, sufficient to make a paste. A diuretic internally ; 
held in the mouth it removes incipient sore throats. 

Marshmallow Lozenges, — Marshmallow roots in powder one pound, 
or slice the root and make a strong decoction, in which you dissolve 
the gum, fine sugar four pounds. Mix into a paste. If six drops of 
laudanum be added, with two ounces of liquorice, the pectoral quality 
of these lozenges will be improved. Good for obstinate coughs. 

Vanilla Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, vanillja in powder^ six 
dunces, or sufficient to give a strong flavour. Make into a paste 
with dissolved gum. 

' Catechu Xorcfi^cs. -*- Sugar four pounds, catechu twelve ounces^ 
Make into a paste with dissolved gum. 

Catechu a V Ambergris. — To the paste for catechu lozenges add' 
Mxteen grains of ambergris. .,. 

Catechu with Musk, — The same as for catechu, adding sixteen 
grains of musk. ^ 

Catechu with Orange-Jtowers^-^AB before, adding twelve drops of 
essence of neroli. 

Catechu with Violets, — As before, adding Florence orris-root in 
powder, three drachma. These are all used to fasten the teeth, and 
disguise an ofiTensive breath. 

Chitig^s Yellow fVorin Ldzenges.^^Fme sugar twenty-eight pouqds, 
calomel washed in spirits of wine one pound, salfron four drachms, 
dissolved gum tragacanth sufficient to make a paste. Make a decoc- 



THE CONFECTIONEK, 41 

tion of the saffron in one pint of water, strain, and mix with it 
Each lozenge should contain one grain of mercury. 

dung's Brown Worm Lozenges, — Calomel washed in spirits of 
wine (termed white panacea uf mercury), seven ounces, resin of jalap 
three pounds eight ounces, fine sugar nine pounds, dissolved gum 
sufficient quantity to make a paste. Each lozenge should contain 
half a grain of mercury. 

Panacea, one ounbe, resin of jalap two ounces, sugar two pounds. 
Dissolve a sufficient quantity of gum in rose-water to make a paste. 
Make 2520 lozenges, weighing eight grains each, and containing a 
quarter of a grain of calomel and half a grain of jalap. 

These lozenges shonld be kept very dry after they are finished,*fis 
the damp, acting on the sugar and mercury, generates an acid in them. 

Note. — In mixing these, as well as all other medicated lozenges, the 
dili'erent powders should be well mixed with the sugar, in order that 
each lozenge may have its due portion. If this is not attended to, 
the perfect distribution of the component parts cannot be depended on, 
and one lozenge may contain double or treble the quantity of medi- 
cated matter it ought to have, whilst others contain comparatively 
none ; therefore those that have the greatest portion may often prove 
injurious by acting contrary to what was intended. 

Bath Pipe. — Eight pounds of sugar, twelve ounces of liquorice. 
Warm the liquorice and cut it in thin slices, dissolve it in one quart 
of boiling water, stir it well to assist the solution ; let it settle, when 
dissolved, to allow any impurities or bits of copper which are oflen 
found in it to fall down ; pour it off free from the sediment; dissolve 
the gum in the clear part, and mix into a paste as for lozenges. Roll 
out a piece with your hand in a round form ; finish rolling it with a 
I long flat piece of wood, until it is about the size of the largest end of 

[ the stem of a tobacco-pipe. Dry them in the stove as lozenges. 

These may be also flavoured with anise-seed by adding a few drops 
of the oil, or with catechu or violets by adding the powders of orris- 
root or catechu. 

Pqjpermini or other Pipes. — Any of the pastes for lozenges may be 

formed into pipes by rolling it out as directed for Bath pipes. They 

are occasionally striped with l>lue green, and yellow, by making 

I strips with liquid colour on the paste and twisting before you roll it 

r out with the board. 

Brilliants^-^Teike either of the pastes for peppermint lozenges 
from No. 1 to 4, and cut it into small fancy devices, such as hearts, 
diamonds, spades, triangles, squares, &c. 

Refined Liquorice, — Four pounds of the best Spanish juice, and two 
pounds of gum Arabic. Dissolve the gum in warm water, as for 
Bath pipe. Strain and dissolve the gum in the solution of liquorice. 
I Place it over a gentle fire, in a broad pan, and let it boil gradually* 

stirring it continually (or it will burn) until it is reduced tp a pa^te.' 
Roll it into pipes or cylinders of convenient lengths, and polish by 



42 THE CONFECTIONER. 

putting them in a box and rollingr them together, or by rubbingr them 
with the hand, or a cloth. This is often adulterated by using glue 
instead of gum, and by dipping the pipes- in a thin solution, which 
gives Ihera a beautiful gloss when dry. In establishments where 
this is manufactured on a large scal6,"the liquorice is dissolved in a 
large bain-marie, and stirred with spatulas which are worked by a 
steam-engine. ^ 



SECTION VIII. PASTILE DROPS. , 

Choose the best treble-refined sugar with a good grain, pound it, and 
pass it through a coarse hair sieve; sift again in a lawn sieve to take 
out the finest part, as the sugar, when it is too fine, makes the drops 
heavy and compact, and destroys their brilliancy and shining appeal*-, 
ance. 

Put some of the coarse grains of sqgar into a small drop pan (these 
are made with a lip on the right side, so that when it is held in the 
left hand the drops can be detached with the right), moisten it with 
any aromatic spirit you intend to use, and a sumcient quantity of 
water to make it of a consistence just to drop off the spoon or spatula 
without sticking to it. Colour with prepared cochineal, or any other 
colour, ground fine and moistened with a little water. Let the tint 
which you give be as light and delicate as possible. Place the pan 
on the stove fire, on a ring of the same size. Stir it occasionally ' 
until it makes a noise, when it is near boiling, but do not let it boilf 
then take it from the fire, and stir it well with the spatula until it is 
of the consistence that when dropped it will not spread too much, 
but retain a round form on the surface. If it should be too thin, add 
a little coarse sugar, which should be reserved for the purpose, and 
make it of the thickness required. Have some very smooth and even 
plates, made either of tin or copper; let them be quite clean, and 
drop them on these, separating the sugar from the lip of the pan with 
a piece of straight wire, as regularly as possible. About two hours 
afterwards they may be taken off with a thin knife. If you have not 
the convenience of tiii or copper plates, they may be di^pped on 
smooth cartridge paper. Wet the back of the paper when you want 
to take them off. Cover the bottom of a sieve with paper, lay them 
on it, and put them in the stove for a few hours. If they remain, 
too long, it will destroy their fragrancy. 

Chocolate Drops. — One pound of sugar, one ounce of chocolate. 
Scrape the chocolate to a powder, and mix it with the sugar in coarse 
grains, moisten it with clean water, and proceed according to the 
instructions already given, but do not mix more than can be dropped 
out whilst warm at one time. If any remains in the pot, it will grease 
the next which you mix, and will not attain the consistence required. 

Cijfee Drops* — One ounce of coffee, one pound of sugar. Make a 






THE CONFECTIONEH. 43 

stronnf and clear infusion of coffee, as directed for coffee ice, and use 
it to moisten the sugar. Make tlie drops as above. 

Cinnamon Drops. — One ounce of cinnamon, one pound of sugar. 
Pulverize the cinnamon, and sift it through a Jawn sieve. Mix it 
with the sugar, and add two or three drops of the essential oil. If 
the flavour is not strong enough, moisten it with the water and pro- 
ceed as before. The flavour may be given with the essential oil only, 
colouring them with bole ammoniac. 

Clove Drops, — Make as cinnanvon. 

Manilla Dr(ips» — Make as cinnamon, using a little sugar to pound 
the vanilla. Use sufficient to give a good flavour; or it may be 
moistened with the essence of vanilla ; but this greases it as choco* 
late. 

Violet Drops, — One pound of sugar, one ounce of orris-powder. 
Moisten with water, and colour violet. 

Catechu Drops. — One pound of sugar, three ounces of catechu. 
Make as violet. These may alpo have the addition of a little musk 
or ambergris — about fifteen grains. 

Ginger Drops. — Mix a sufficient quantity of the best powdered 
ginger to give it the desired taste, or flavour it with the essence of 
ginger, and colour it with saflTron. Moisten with water, and make as 
others. 

Lemon Drops. — Rub off the yellow rind of some lemons on a piece 
of rough sugar, scrape it off, and mix it with the coarse sugar. Use 
sufficient to give a good flavour, and colour with saffron a light yel- 
low ; moisten with water, as others^ 

Rose Drops. — Moisten the sugar witb rose water, and colour it with 
cochineal. 

Peppermint Dfops.— Moisten the sugar with peppermint water, or 
flavour it with the essence of peppermint, and moisten it with water. 

Orange-flower Drops. — Use orange-flower water to moisten the 
sugar, or flavour it with the essence of neroli and moisten with 
water. 

Orgeat Drops — Make milk of almonds, as directed under the head 
of Orgeat Syrup, using a little orange-flower water ; moisten the 
euffar with it. 

Raspberry Drops, — Press out the juice of some ripe raspberries 
through a piece of flannel or cloth, and moisten the sugar with it.' 
All fruit drops are made in the same way,— that is, with t(^ expressed 
juice, — except pine-apple. When you first rub. off the rind of the 
fruit on sugar, pound the pulp of the fruit, and pass through a hair 
sieve. Scrape off the sugar on which the rind was rubbed, and mix 
it with a sufficient quantity of the pulp to give the desired flavour to 
the coarse grains, and moisten it with water. The whole of these 



44 THE CONFECTIONER. 

grease the sugar, and require the same precautions as chocolate 
drops. 



SECTION IX. COMFITS. 

A COPPER comfit-pan is requisite for this purpose. A bar, having 
chains at each end, with a hook and swivel in the centre, is attached 
to it, by which it is suspended from the ceiling or a ];>eam, so as to 
hang about as high as the breast over a stove or charcoal fire, that the 
pan may be kept at a moderate heat and at such a distance as to 
allow it to be swung backwards and forwards without touching the 
fire or stove. A preserving*pan, containing clarified syrup, must be 
placed by the side of the stove, or over another fire, that it may be 
kept hot, but not boiling ; also a ladle for throwing the syrup into the 
pan, and a .pearling cot. This last somewhat resembles a funnel, 
without the pipe or tube, and having a small hole in the centre with 
a pointed piece of stick or spigot fitted into it, which, being drawn 
out a little, allows the syrup when placed in it to run out in a small 
stream. A piece of string tied several times across the centre of the 
top of the cot, and twisted with the spigot, allows it to be drawn out 
and regulated at pleasure. 

Scotch Caraway Comfits, — Sift two pounds of seeds in a hair sieve 
to free them from dust, put them into the comfit-pan, and rub thpm 
well about the bottom with your hand until they afe quite warm ; have 
some clarified loaf sugar in syrup and boiled to the small thread ; give 
them a charge by pouring over them about two table-spoonfuls to com- 
mence with ; rub and shake them well about the pan, that they may 
take the sugar equally, until they ate quite dry. Be careful in not 
making them too wet in the first charges by using too much syrup, 
or they will lie of a lump and get doubled, and you will have diffi- 
culty in ^rtinff them. It will prevent their sticking together if the 
hand is passea through them between every swing of the pan, and 
also add to their smoothness. Do not let the heat under the pan be 
too strong, or it will spoil their whiteness. Give them four or five 
charges, increasing the quantity of syrup a little each time, and let 
each charge be well dried before another is given, dusting them at 
the last charge with flour. Sift them in a hair sieve, and clean the 
pan. Put them in again, and give them four or five charges more, 
with a dust of flour at the last ; then sift them and clean the pan. 
Proceed in this manner until they are one-third of the required size. 
Put them into the stove or sun to dry until the next day, then clarify 
and boil some sugar to the large thread, keep it warm ashefore, divide 
the. comfits, and put part of them in the pan, so as not to have too 
many at one time, for as they increase in size you must divide them 
into convenient portions, so that you may be enabled to work them 
properly without encumbering the pan. Give them four or five 
charges of syrup, proceeding in tiie same manner as before, until they 



THE CONFECTIONER. 45 

are two-thirds or more of the required size, and stove them until the 
next day. Continue in this manner with each portion alternatelyi 
until they are all done. On the third day, boil the syrup to the small 
pearl, and give eight or ten charges as before, without using flour, so 
ais to finisii them> lessening the quantity of syrup each time. Swing 
the pan gently, and dry each charge well. Put them in the stove 
for half an hour or an hour after each charge, and proceed alternately 
with each portion until they are finished, when they should be about 
the size of peas. Put them in the stove for a day, then smooth them 
with the whitest loaf sugar in syrup, boiled to the small thread ; add 
two or three table-spoonfuls of dissolved gum Arabic with it to give 
them a gloss. Give three or four charges with a very gentle heat, 
the syrup being cold and the pan scarcely warm. Work and dry 
.each charge well before another is added : when finished, dry them' 
in a moderate heat. It is the best way, if possible, to dry comfits in 
the sun, as it bleaches them. If the stove is at a greater heat than 
the sun in a moderately warm day, which is from 70 to 80 degrees of 
Fahrenheit, it will spoil their whiteness. 

Bath Caraways, — These are made in the same way, but only half 
the size. 

Commmt Cktraways, — Sift the seeds, and warm them in the pan, as 
for Scotch caraways. Have some gum Arabic dissolved, throw in a 
ladletul, and rub them well about the pan with the hand until dry, 
dusting them with^ flour. Give them three or four coatings in this 
manner, arid then a charge of sugar, until they are about one half the 
required size. Dry them for a day, give them two or three coatings 
of gum and flour, finish them by giving three or four charges of sugar, 
^and dry them. These are made about the size of Bath caraways. 
Colour parts of them different colours, leaving the greatest portion 
white. 

Cinnamon CorMs. — Cinnamon is the bark of a tree, of which there 
are two sorts. The inferior quality is that usually sold for cinnamon, 
And is otherwise known as cassia, or cassia lignea. This breaks short, 
and has a slimy mucilaginous taste, is thicker, and of a darker colour 
than the cinnamon, which is the inner bark. This breaks shivery, 
and has a warm aromatic taste, and is of a reddish colour. 

Take one pound of cinnamon bark, and steep it in water for a few 
hours to soften it ; cut it into small pieces about half an inch long, 
and the size of a large needle. Dry it in the stove. Put your pieces. 
When dry, int^j^ comfit- pan, arid pour on them a little syrup, as for 
Scotch carad^K proceeding in the same way until they are one-* 
third the ri^^M size. You must not use your hand for these as 
yo« would fg/j^hmwaySf as they are liable to break in two. Dry 
them in thclVtove, then suspend the pearling pot or cot from the ba^ 
of the pan or c ejfcng y so as to hang over the centre of Ihe pan ; boil 
some clarified l«k|k;arto the large pearl, and fill the cot; put some 
of the prepared cHnts in the pan, but not too many at a time, as it 



46 THE CONPECTIOKER. 

is difficult to get them to pearl alike. Keep the syrup at the boiling 
point: open the spigot of the cot so as to allow it to ran in a very 
small stream, or more like a continued dropping; swing the pan 
backwards and forwards gently, and keep a stronger fire under the 
pan than otherwise. Be careful that the syrup does not run too fast, 
and wet them too much, but so that it dries as soon as dropped, which 
causes them to appear rough, if one cot full of sugar is not enough, 
put in more until they are the required size. When one lot is 
finished put in sieves to dry, and proceed to another ; but do not let 
them lie in the pan after you have finished shaking them. They 
will be whiter and better if partly pearled one day and finished the 
next Use the best clarified sugar to finish them. 

Coriander Comfits. — Proceed with these as for Scotch caraways, 
working them up to about the same size. The next day pearl them 
to a good size, as for cinnamon. 

Celery ComfiU* — ^Put one pound of celery seed into the pan, and 
proceed as for Scotch caraway comfits, working them up to the size 
of a large pin's head. Dry and pearl them as cinnamon. 

Caraway Comfils^ pearled, — When the comfits are about the size 
of Bath caraways, dry and pearl them as cinnamon. 

Almond Cornea. — Sifl some Valencia almonds in a cane or wicker 
sieve, pick out any pieces of shell which may be amongst, them, and 
also any of the almonds which are either very small or very large, 
usin^ those which are as near of a size as possible; take about (out 
pounds, put them in the comfit-pan, and proceed in precisely the same 
way as for Scotch caraways ; or, they may first have a coating of 
dissolved gum Arabic ; rub them well about the pan with the band, 
and give them a dust of fiour; then pour on a little syrup at the 
anall thread, work and dry them well, then give them three or four 
more charges, and a charge of gum with a dust of flour. Proceed in 
this way until they are one-third the required size, then dry them 
for a day, and proceed and finish as for caraway comfits. For the 
cheaper or more common comfits, more gum and flour are used in 
making them. 

Cardamom Comfits, — The seeds should be kept in their husks until 
they are required to be used, as they lose much of their flavour and 
virtues when deprived of them. They are often mixed with grains 
of paradise, but these have not the aromatic taste of the cardamom, 
and are more hot an^ spicy. Break the husks of the cardamoms by 
rolling them with a pin ; separate the skins from the seeds, put two 
pounds into the comfit-pan, and proceed as for ||||U}h caraways. 
Make them a good size, and quite smooth. 



IJKcfa 



Barberry Comfits, — ^Pick the barberries from the^HUks, and dry 
them in a not stove on sieves ; when dry, put about t^;«|^)ounds into 
the comfit-pan, and proceed as for almond comfits, sdving them firat a 
charge of gum and flour, and finish as others. ^Uf^ them of a good 
size and quite smooth; finish with very white looRKgar with syrup, 



THE CONFECTIONER. 47 

Cherry Cbwi/Jfe.— These are made from preserved cherries, dried. 
Roll them in your hand to make them quite round, dust them with 
powdered loaf sugar, and dry them again; then proceed as for bar- 
berry comfits. Any other preserved fruits may be made into comfits 
after the same manner. 

Camfita favoured with Liqueurs. — Blanch some bitter almonds, or 
the kernels of apricots or peaches ; let them soak in hot water for an 
hour, then drain them, and put them into any sort of liqueur or spirit 
you may desire. Lower the strength of the spirit water, that the ker- 
nels may imbibe it the better, cork the jug or bottle close, and let 
them infuse in it until the spirit has fully penetrated them, which will 
be about fourteen or fifteen days ; then take them out, drain and dry 
them in a moderate heat ; when dry, proceed as for almond comfits. 

Orange Conifits. — ^Take some preserved orange-peel, and cot it into 
small thin strips; dry them in the stove, and make as cinnamon 
comfits. 

Lemon Peel or Angelica may be made into comfits after the same 
manner. Let the strips of peel be about the size of the pieces of 
cinnamon, and thoroughly dried before working them in the pan. 

iVonparctV*.— Pound some loaf sugar, and sift it through a fine wire 
sieve ; sift what has passed through again in a lawn sieve, to take 
out the finest particles, so that you have only the fine grain of sugar 
left without dust. Put about two pounds of this into the comfit-pan, 
and proceed as for Scotch caraways, working them well with the 
band until they are about the size of pins* heads. 

To colour Nonpareils or ComfiU. — Put some of your comfits or non- 
pareils into the comfit-pan, shake or rub them about until warm, then 
add a sufficient quantity of prepared liquid colour (see Colours) to 
give the desired tint ; be careful not to make them too wet, nor of 
too dark a colour, but rather light than otherwise ; shake or rub them 
well about, that they may be coloured equally ; dry them a little over 
the fire, then put them in sieves, and finish drying them in the stove. 
Clean the pan for every separate colour. 

COMFITS IN GUM PASTE. 

Raspberry Comfits. — Prepare some gum paste made with sugar, or 
the scrapings of the comfit-pan pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve. It may be flavoured with raspberry jam, by mixing some with 
the paste. Colour it with prepared cochineal ; mould it into the 
form of raspberries, and dry them irt the stove ; when they are per- 
fectly dry and hard, pearl them as for cinnamon comfits, working 
them until the size of natural raspberries. Colour them when dry 
with cochineal, as comfits. 

Ginger Comfits, — Flavour gum paste with powdered ginger, make it 



48 THE CONFECTIONER. 

into Binall balls about the eize of coriander seeds, or peas ; dry, and 
proceed as for Scotch caraways. Colour them yellow when iinislied. 

Clove Comfits. — Flavour sugar gum paste with the oil of cloves, and 
mould it in the form of cloves. Dry and finish as others. 

Any flavour may be given to this sort of comfits, and they are 
moulded to form the article of which it bears the name, or cut into 
any device with small cutters. Dried, and finished as other comfits. 

7h colour Loaf-Sugar Dust, — Pound some sugar, and sift it through 
a coarse hair sieve ; sift this again through a lawn sieve, to take out 
the finer portions. Put the coarse grains into a preserving pan, and 
warm tbem over the stove fire, stirring it continually with the hand ; 
pour in some liquid colour to give the desired tint, and continue to 
work it about the pan until it is dry. 



SECTION X. — FRUIT JELLIES. 

These are the juices of mucilaginous firuits, rendered clear by fil- 
tering them through a flannel bag, and adding an equal weight of 
sugar ; boil to the consistence of a jelly. If the boiling is continued 
too long they will become ropy, or more like treacle. 

^pple Jelly, — Take either russet pippins, or any good baking apples; 
pare and core them, cut them in slices into a preserving pan contain- 
mg sufiicient water to cover them ; then put them on the fire, and 
boil them until they are reduced to a mash. Put it into a hair sieve, 
that the water may drain ofi^, which you receive in a basin or pan ; 
then filter it through a flannel bag. To every pint of filtered juice 
add one pound of loaf sugar, clarify, and boil it to the ball. Mix the 
juice with it, and boil until it jellies; stir it with a spatula or wooden 
spoon, from the bottom, to prevent burning. When it is boiled enough, 
if you try it with your finger and thumb, as directed in sugar-boiling, 
a string may be drawn similar to the small pearl : it may also be 
known by its adhering to the spatula or spoon, or a little may be 
dropped on a cold plate; if it soon sets, it is done. Take off the scum 
which i;^es on the top. This is in general used for pouring over pre- 
served wet fruits. This jelly may be coloured red with prepared 
cochineal. 

Quince Jelly, — ^This is made as apple jelly. The seed of the quince 
is very mucilaginous. An ounce of bruised seed will make tfaree 
pints. of water as thick as the white of an egg. 

lied Currant Jelly., — ^Take three quarts of fine ripe red currants, 
and four of white ; put them into a jar, tie paper over the top, and 
put them into a cool oven for three or four hours, or else into a pi&n 
of boiling water; when they are done, pour them into a jelly bag; 
what runs out at first put back again ; do this until it runs fine and 
dear. To each pint of filtered juice add one pound of loaf sugar 
clarified and boiled to the baU: mix the filtered juice with it, and 



THE CONFECTIONEB. 49 

Te^nce it to a jelly, stirring it well from the bottom with a spatula. 
Wbat scum forms on the top take off with a skimmer, put it into pots 
or glasses, and when cold cut some pieces of paper to the size of the 
tope, steep it in brandy, and put over it ; then wet some pieces of 
bladder, put it over the top of the pot or glass, and tie it down. 

White and Black Currant Jelly. — These are made in the same way, 
usin^ part red currants with the black ones. 

Violet-coloured Currant Jelly. — This is made as red currant jelly, 
mixing two pounds of black currants with ten of red. 

* Cherry Jelly. — Pick off the stalks and take out the stones of some 
fine ripe Morello cherries, and to every four pounds of cherries add 
one pound of red currants; proceed as for currant jelly. 

Barberry Jelly, — Take some very ripe barberries, pick them from 
their stalks, and weigh them. To every pound of fruit take three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, add sufficient water to m^ke it into 
a syrup, put in the barberries, and boil them until the syrup comes to 
the pearl, taking off any scum which may rise. Then throw them 
into a fine hair or lawn sieve, and press the berries with a spoon to 
extract as much juice as possible from them. Receive the syrup and 
juice in a pan, put it ngain on the fire, and finish as apple jelly. 

Any of these jellies may be made without fire on the same principle 
as clear cakes. Get the fruit ripe and fresh gathered, obtain the juice 
by expression, and filter it through a fiannel bag; add an equal weight 
of sugar to that of filtered juice, stir it well together until the sugar 
is dissolved, and place it in a warm place or the sun for a few days, 
when it will be a fine jelly. Those made in this manner retain the 
natural flavour of the fruit. 

Baspberry Jelly. — ^Take one and a half gallons of ripe raspberries 
and a naif gallon of ripe currants, press out the juice and filter it; to 
a pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar, and nnish as other jellies. 

Gooseberry Jelly. — Make as currant jelly ; or it may be made of 
green gooseberries, as apple jelly. 

[Blackberry Jelly. — Make as currant jelly — using half a gallon of 
raspberries to one gallon of bkck currants ; finish as usual.] 

SECTTON XI. ^MARMALADES OR JAMS. 

Marmalade is generally a term applied to a preserve made either 
of oranges, lemons, apples, pears, quinces, or plums ; but I know no 
difference between marmalades and jams, as they are each of them 
the pulp of fruits reduced to a consistence, with sugar, by being boiled. 
If Tt contains too much sugar it will crystallize, or what is termed 
candy. The top and sides of the vessel which contains it will be 
covered with-a thin coating of sugar; and if there is not enough in it, 
or it is not sufficiently boiled, it will soon ferment. Keep them in a 
cool dry place. 
5 



50 THE COKFECTIONEB. 

Apph Marmalade, — Pare and core some good apples; eat thonx in 
pieces into a preserving pan, with sufficient water to cover them ; put 
them on the Are, and Iwil until they are reduced to a mash, then pass 
the whole through a colander; to each pound of palp add twelve 
ounces of sugar; put it on the fire, and boil it until it will jelly ;. try 
it as directed for apple jelly ; put it into pots when cold, and cover 
the top with paper dipped in brandy, or pour over it melted mutton 
euet, and tie it over with paper or bladder. 

Quince. Marmalade. — Make as apple, colouring it with prepared 
cochineal, if required red ; let the fruit be quite ripe. 

Green Jlpricot Marmalade or Jam, — Prepare the fruit by blanching 
and greening (as for green apricots, wet). When they are green, 
pulp them by rubbing them through a coarse hair sieve or colander ; 
for each pound' of pulp clarify and boil to the blow one pound of loaf 
sugar; mix it with the pulp and boil it until it will jelly ; take off any 
scum which may arise with a skimmer. This jam is of an excellent 

freen colour, and is very useful for ornamenting and piping almond 
read, &c. 

Cherry Marmalade or Jam. — Take out the stones and stalks from 
some tine cherries and pulp them (hrough a cane sieve ; to every three 
pounds of pulp add half a pint of currant juice, and three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ; mix together and boil until it 
will jelly. Put it into pots or glasses. 

(yurrants, raspberries, plums, and gooseberries are all made in the 
same manner. Pulp the fruit through a cane sieve, the meshes of 
which are not large enough to admit a currant to pass through 
whole. To each pound of pulp add one pound of loaf sugar, broken 
small, and boil to the consistence of a jelly. 

Orange Marmalade^-Tuke the same weight of sugar as of oranges ; 
cut the oranges in half, squeeze out the juice, and strain it ; boil the 
peel in water until they are quite tender, and a strong straw may be 
passed through them ; then drain them from the water, scoop out the 
pulp, leaving th^ rind rather thin ; cut it into thin fillets ; boil the 
juice of the oranges with the sugar, and skim it when it is nearly 
done ; add the peels, and finish as others. Part of the peels may be 
pounded and mixed with the marmalade, instead of the whole be'mg 
cut in fillets ; but then it is not so clear, and is a practice which is 
now almost abandoned, except by a few private persons. Lemon 
marmalade is made in the same way. 

[Grape Marmalade, — Put green grapes into a preserving pan, with 
sufficient water to cover them. Put them on the fire and boil until 
reduced to a mash ; put the pulp through a sieve the meshes of which 
are not sufficiently large to admit the seed to pass through ; to each 
pound of pulp add two pounds of the best Joaf sugar and boil to the 
consistence of a jelly.] 



THE CONPECTIONBIt* 61 



SECTION XII. OF FRUIT AND OTHER PASTES. « 

Fruit Pastes and Cakes. — ^These are the pulp of fruits, reduced by 
heal to a kind of marmalade, with the addition of from half a pound 
to a pound, and in some cases, double the weight of sugar to each 
pound of pulp, which is evaporated to the required consistence. They 
can be formed into rings, knots, &c., and either crystallized or 
candied. 

Jpple or Pippin Paste, — Take any quantity of good dressing apples, 
pare, core and put them into a preserving pan with a little water, or 
just sufficient to cover them. Boil until they are reduced to a mar- 
malade, slJrring thom to prevent burning. To every pound of- 
reduced pulp add half or three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, clari- 
fied and boiled to the blow ; pass the pulp through a hair sieve before 
you mix the sugar with it; put it on the fire and let it boil for three 
or four minutes, keeping it constantly stirred from the bottom, when 
it will be sufficiently evaporated. If it be required coloured, add 
liquid colour sufficient to give the desired tint when you mix the 
sugar. Spread the paste on small tin or pewter sheets (these should 
be about a foot wide, by a foot and a-half long, and perfectly level) 
i^ith a thin knife, about the eighth of an inch in thickness; put them 
in the stove for a day ; take them out, and cut the paste into long 
narrow strips, about a quarter of an inch in width ; if the paste is 
dry enough, the strips can be easily pulled off; form them into rings- 
or knots, or cut into diamonds to form leaves, or any other device your 
fancy may suggest Put them in boxes with a sheet of paper between 
each layer. This paste is occasionaly flavoured with lemon, and is 
principally used for ornamenting the tops of twelfth cakes. 

j^le Cheese. — Pare, quarter, and core your apples as for paste ; 
put them into a jar, and cover the top with the parings; tie paper 
over the top, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are quite 
done; take off the parings, and pass the apples through a hair-sieve 
into a preserving pan. To each pound of pulp add half a pound of 
loaf sugar clarified and boiled to the blow ; place it over a slow fire, 
stirring it constantly from the bottom until reduced to a stiff paste, 
which will not stick to the hand ; ■ put it into small moulds, hoops, or 
glasses. Dry in a moderately warm stove for a few days ; take them 
out of the moulds, turn them, and place them again in the stove to 
finish drying. Keep in boxes as paste-knots, or cover the glasses 
with brahcly papers. 

Apricot Pasie.-^Tsike ripe apricots, pot them in a preserving pan 
with as much water as will cover them; let them simmer on the fire 
for two or three minutes, or 6ca]|i imtil they are tender ; drain the 
water from them, and pms the pulp through* a hair sieve ; to each 
pound of pulp take three-quarters of a pound of sugar, which you 
clarify and boil to the blow; put the apricots on the fire, and let 



52 THB CONFECTIONES. 

them simmer, stirring them constantly until reduced to a thick mar- 
roa1ac(,e ; then add the sugar ; mix it well with the paste, and let it 
boil a minute or two longer ; take it from the fire, and put into 
moulds, pots, or crimped paper cases ; or it ma^ be spread on small 
plates, as for apple paste^ and formed into rings or knots. Place ia 
the stove until dry. If put in paper cases, the paper must be wetted 
to get out the paste. Take it out of the moulds, turn it* and put it 
again into the stove to finish drying. 

Green Apricot Paste. — Take apricots before they are ripe, scald as 
the last, and green them. (See Greening Fruit.) Pass the pulp 
through a sieve, and reduce it ; to each pound of reduced pulp add 
one pound of loaf sugar clarified and boiled to the blow. Finish as 
ripe apricot paste. 

Currant Paste, — Put any quantity of ripe currants, either red or 
white, or a part of each mixed, into a hair sieve, press out their juice 
into a preserving pan ; put it on the fire, and keep it constantly stir- 
red until evaporated to a thick consistence. To each pound of re- 
duced pulp add three-quarters of a pound or a pound of loaf sugar 
clarified and boiled to the blow. Let it boil a minute or two, and 
finish as other& 

Black Currant Paste is made the same as the last. These currants, 
not being so juicy as the others, may be put into a jar, tied over, 4ind 
baked in a moderate oven, or put into a kettle of boiling water lor a 
few hours, to extract the juice from them. 

Raspberry Paste, — As currant paste. 

Cherry Paste. — Take ripe cherries, deprive them of their stalks 
and stones, put them in a preserving pan, and boil them a little; then 
pass them through a hair sieve, reduce the pulp, and weigh it To 
each pound add a pound of loaf sugar; add it to the paste, and finish 
as apricot. 

Peach Paste. — Choose some very fine and ripe peaches, take ofiT the 
skin, and cut them in small pieces into a preserving pan ; put them 
on the fire, &nd reduce to a thick consistence, stirring it continually. 
For each pound of reduced pulp take half or three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar; clarify and boil it to the blow ; add it to the pulp; 
pat it again on the fire, and let it boil a few minutes. Finish as 
other pastes. 

Plum Paste, — Plums of any kind are preserved in the same man- 
ner, whether green-gages, magnum-bonums, Orleans, damsons, &c. 
Take out their stones, and boil the fruit in a little water, as for apri- 
cot paste ; pass them through a sieve, and for each pound of reduced 
pulp take a pound of sugar; clarify and boil it to the blow; mix it 
with the paste, and evaporate to th^ required consistence. 

Damson CSieese. — Pfck the dtalkis from tllft damsons, put them in a 
jar, tie it over, and bake in a cool oven ; when done, pass them 
through a sieve into a preserving pan ; put it on the fire to reduce. 



THE CONFECTIONBK. 63 

For each pound of pulp take half a pound of sosrar, boiled to the 
blow ; mix with the paste, aad finish as for apple cheese. This, as 
well as all the pastes, may be evaporated to the required consistence 
by naeans of a water bath, which is done by placing the pan in which 
it is contained in another with water, which is kept boiling; this pre- 
vents the possibility of its being burnt, but it occupies more time. 
The kernels of the fruit may be blanched and added to it just before 
it is taken from the fire. Put it into moulds or hoops; dry Ihem in 
the stove, first on one side and then on the other. All plums are 
done in the same manner. 

Quince Patie. — Proceed as for apple paste. 

Orange Paste. — Squeeze the juice from Seville or sweet oranges, 
and boil the peels in three or four waters to take ofl^part of their bit- 
terness. In the first put a little salt. When they are quite tendor 
remove the white pith or pulp, and pound them quite fine in a mortar, 
with part of the juice, using sufficient to make them into a paste ; 
then pass it and the remaining portion of the juice through a sieve 
into a preserving pan ; put it on the fire, and reduce to a mar?nalade ; 
weigh it, and for each pound take three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
SQgar ; clarify and boil to the blow ; mix it with the paste, evaporate 
ow^r a gentle fire to a good consistence, and finish as apple, ^he 
rinds of the oranges may be pared ofl' before they are squeezed, which, 
if boiled in one water, will be sufficient, as the pith of the peel is 
^extremely bitter and indigestible, and the flavour or essential oil ia 
^contained only in the yellow porous part. 

Lemon Paste. — Make as orange paste, using part of the juice and 
double the weight of sugar ; or it may be made by using only the 
pounded peel with the same weight of sugar. 

Raspberry Ca^cs.— Take ripe raspberries, press the juice from half 
of them, and put the pulp back with the others ; reduce them on the 
fire. To each pound of pulp add two pounds of loaf sugar in pow- 
der; put it again on the nre, stirring it constantly until it is evapo-^ 
rated to a very thick paste. Have a tin ring, with a handle by the 
Bide, about the size of an old penny piece, and twice the thickness ; 
wet the ring, and place it on your small pewter or tin plates, fill it 
with the paste, smoothing over the top with a knife ; then remove the 
ring, and the cake will remain. Lay them off in rows, and make 
three or four marks on the top with the handle of a table spoon ; put 
them in the stove to dry, turn them with a thin knife, and put them 
again in the stove to dry perfectly. Place them in boxes, with paper 
between each layer. 

The residue from the making of raspberry vinegar may be employ- 
ed for this purpose, or they may be made by adding a pound of fine 
powdered sugar to a pound of jam. Any of the fruit pastes may be 
formed into cakes like* these, or into drops, by forcing them out on 
paper with a small pipe and bladder attached to it. 

Clear Cakes, or Jelly Cakes, — Take the filtered juice of fruits, as 
5* 



54 THE COKFECTIOKBB. 

for jelly (see Jellies) ; to each pint of juice add one pound of loaf 
sugar, dissolve it in the juice thoroughly, place it on the fire and heat 
it, but it must not boil ; put it into small pols, moulds, or glasses, so 
as to form cakes about half an inch thick ; place them on the stove, 
which must not be too hot, or they will melt instead of forming a 
jelly ; about seventy-five or eighty degrees Fahrenheit is quite hot 
enough. When a crust has formed on the top, take out the cakes by 
carefully turning the knife round the sides of the pot, place them on 
small plates of tin or pewter, and dry on the other side. When dry 
they can be cut into diamonds, squares, or any shape you please. 
These are certainly some of the most delicate and beautiful of this 
class which were ever invented, fit even to gratify the palate of the 
most fastidious. The fruit from which they are made should be 
gathered as fresh as it possibly can, except apples, as the mucilage 
is injured by keeping, and if the fruit has fermented it is entirely 
destroyed. 

Pastes formed with €rum — Pdie de (hiimauve — Marsh^Mcdlow 
Paste, — Gum Arabic three pounds, roots of fresh marsh-mallows 
eight ounces, one dozen of rennet apples, loaf sugar three pounds. 
Peel, core, and cut the apples in pieces. Cleanse the roots, and 
slice them lengthways in an obli<}ue direction; add this to seven 
pints of water; soft or river water is the best when filtered; put it 
on the fire and boil for a quarter of an hour, or until reduced to six 
pints ; pound and sift the gum through a hair sieve ; strain the de- 
coction into a pan with the gum ; put it on a moderate fire, or into a 
bain-marie, stirring it until the gum is perfectly dissolved; then 
strain it through a coarse towel or tamis cloth, the ends being twisted 
by two persons ; add it to the sugar, which has been previously cla- 
rified and boiled to the feather ; dry it well over the fire, keeping it 
constantly stirred from the bottom. When it has acquired a thick 
consistence, take the ^ites of eighteen eggs, and whip them to a 
strong froth ; add them to the paste, and dry until it does not stick to 
the hand when it is applied to it ; add a little essence of n^roli, or a 
4arge glassful of double orange-flower water, and evaporate again to 
the same consistence. Pour it on a marble slab well dusted with 
Btarch-powder, flatten it with the hand ; the next day cut it into strips, 
powder each strip, and put them in boxes. Powder the bottom that 
they may not stick. 

Pide de Gomme Jlrabique — Arabic Pastc-^Yery white gum Arabic 
two pounds, sugar two pounds, orange-flower water four ounces, the 
whites of twelve eggs. Pound and sift the gumi add it to the water, 
dissolve and evaporate it over a slow fire, or in the bain-marie, stir- 
ring it constantly until it is reduced to the consistence of honey with 
the sugar in syrup. Whip the whites to a strong snow ; add it to the 
paste with the orange-flower water, gradually; stir and finish as 
marsh-ihallow paste, for which this is mostly substituted, and much 
used for coughs. It should be very white, light, and spongy. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 55 

Piute des Dattes — Date Poa/c.-r- Dates one pound, gnm Senegal 
three pounds, loaf sugar in syrup two pounds and a half, orange- 
flower water four ounces. Make as marsh-mallow paste, using rather 
more water to dissolve the gum. 

Pate des Jujubes — Jujube Paste. — Jujubes four ounces, currants 
washed and picked four ounces raisins stoned one pound, sugar two 
pounds, very white gum Arabic two pounds and a half. Open the 
jujubes, and boil them with the currants and raisins in two quarts of 
water until reduced to three pints , strain the decoction through a 
tamis cloth, twisted by two persons ; add the sugar in syrup with the 
gum, which has been previously pounded and dissolved in a sufficient 
quantity of water; evaporate it by a moderate heat, as pdtede gui- 
mauve; pour it into tin moulds slightly oiled, having edges about a 
quarter of an inch deep; dry in the stove, take it out of the tins, and 
cut it with a pair of scissors into small diamonds. 

Pdtede Gomme Senegal — Senegal Paste. — Gum Senegal two pounds, 
sugar one pound. Dissolve the gum in orange-flower water and 
common water; or dissolve it in common water, and flavour with 
essence of neroli ; add the sugar, when clarified and boiled to the 
blow ; evaporate, and finish as p4te de jujube. This is usually sold 
for jujube paste, or else picked gum Arabic made into a paste as ^ 
Senegal, and coloured with prepared cochineal or saffron. 

Pate de blanche RegHsse — White Liquorice Pflw/e.— This is made 
the same as marsh<mallow paste, using liquorice-root instead of mal- 
low. It may be made without the eggs, and finished as jujubes. 

Pdle de RegHsse noir — Black Liquorice Paste. — ^The best refined 
liquorice one pound, gum Arabic four pounds, loaf sugar two pounds, 
Florence orris-root one ounce. Dissolve the gum and liquorice in 
seven pints of water, keeping it stirred over a slow fire ; add the 
sugar in syrup with the orris-root, evaporate to a paste, and finish as 
jujubes. 

Gomme des Jujubes — Jujube Gum. — Jujubes one pound, very white 
and picked gum Arabic two pounds, powdered sugar two ounces. 
Pound the jujubes in a marble mortar with five pints of water, put 
the whole into a pan and boil until reduced to three ; strain the decoc- 
tion through a cloth, beat up the white of an effg with a glass of 
water, and mix part of it with the decoction as it boils ; throw in a 
little at a time of the remaining part, to check* the ebullition. When 
it is all used, take ojff the scum, put it again on the fire to evaporate 
the water, adding at the same time the gum and sugar, powdered and 
passed through a horse-hair sieve. Stir it with the spatula until dis- 
solved. When it is of the consistence of honey, place it in the bain- 
marie, and neither stir nor touch it, that it may be clear. When it 
has acquired body enough, so as not to stick to the back of the hand 
when applied to it, pour it into moulds previously oiled wiUi good 
olive oil, as for jujubes ; place in the stove tor finish drying ; when 
dry take it out, and cut in small pieces. 



56 THE CONFECTIONER. 

P&lG de jnjube and white liquorice may be done ih the same man- 
ner, using only half the quantity of sugar. 

Gomme des Duties. — One pound of dates, two pounds of very white 
picked guui Arabic, sugar two ouncea. Make as jujubes. 

GuTn of ViohU. — Violet flowers one pound, picked gum two pounds, 
sugar four ounces in syrup. Pour three pints of water at the boiling 
point on the flowers in an earthen jar; stop it perfectly close, and keep 
it in a warm place for ten or twelve hours ; strain the infusion by ex- 
pression into a flat pan or dish, place it on an inclination, and Jet it 
rest for an hour that the faeces may subside ; pour ofl^ the clear gently 
from the bottom or settling, and add to it six grains of turnsole 
bruised, and ?ix grains of carmine, as this clear infusion is not sufli- 
ciently coloured to give it the beautiful tint of the violet. Mix in the 
powdered gum and sugar, stir it over a moderate fire until dissolved, 
pass it through a sieve, and finish in the bain<marie as jujubes. 

Any of these gums, when dry, may be crystallized. 

Mnond Paste — Orgeat Paste, — One pound of sweet almonds, a 
quarter of a jx)und of bitter almonds, two pounds of sugar. Blanch 
the almonds, and throw them into clean cold water as they are done, 
to preserve their whiteness ; let them soak for a day, then dry them 
in a cloth, and pound thenj quite fine in a mortar, sprinkling them 
with orange-flower water or lemon juice to prevent their oiling; 
then with a spatula rub them through a fine wire sieve ; what will 
not pass through, pound again until they are quite fine ; clarify the 
sugar and boil it to the ball ; mix the almonds with it, and stir it well 
over the fire with the spatula until it comes together; then take it 
from the fire, and put it into an earthen pan to cool ; when cold, 
pound it again, make it into sticks or tablets, dusting the board or 
stone with powdered sugar; or put into pots, and tie bladder over it, 
to be used as wanted. 

SECTION Xlir. — FRUITS PRESERVED WITH SUGAR. 

Wbt Fruits. — Most of the friiits are first prepared by being 
blanched, that is, boiled in water; they are then drained and put into 
boiling syrup, where they remain for a day. The syrup being now 
weakened with the juice of the fruit, it is poured off, more sugar is 
added, and it is reduced again to syrup by boiling, and poured hot 
over the fruit: this is continued until it is fully saturated with sugar, 
which may be known by the syrup b«ing no longer weakened with 
the juice of the fruit. Keep them in a dry but not warm place, as 
too much heat will cause them to ferment, more especially if they 
are not fully incorporated with sugar; nor in a damp place, or they 
will become mouldy. 

All green fruits require to be greened, so as to bring them to theif 
original colour, for in tlanching they assume a yellowish cast: this is 
probably occasioned by a poriion^of the alkali being extracted in the 



THE CONFECTIOmEK* 57 

boiling. The green colour of fruits and leaves depends upon an 
excess of alkali; and in proportion as acid or alkali prevails in them, 
eo are they coloured from red to violet, blue, and green ; therefore if 
alkali is added to the water, the colour is retained. This is exempli- 
fied in the everyday domestic duties of the cook, who uses soda, pot- 
ash, or muriate of soda (common salt), in boiling her greens or cab- 
bages. I have here stated the principle on which their colour depends, 
tofihow that there is no necessity for green fruits being kept for some 
lime in brass or copper pans, whereby they take up a portion of ver- 
digris, which often proves injurious. 

*■ Prick your fruit several times with a fork or large needle, to allow 
the sugar to penetrate the more freely. As you do them, throw them 
into a pan of cold water, which prevents their turning black at the 
places where they are pricked ; add a little soda or potash, and set the 
pan by the side of the stove to heat gradually, but not to boil, or at 
the most only to simmer ; when the fruit swims, take it out with a 
skimmer and put it into cold water ; if they are not green enough, 
drain them and put them again into the water they were first boiled 
in, or else into a weak syrup; place them by the side of the stove to 
heat gradually as before, stirring them occasionally. They may be 
covered with vine leaves, or a handful of spinach ; if salt is used in 
greening them, they will require to be soaked for a few hours in cleanf 
cold water, to again extract that portion which they have absorbed, 
or it will spoil their flavour. It is best to blanch fruits which are 
very juicy in hard or pump water, or with the addition of a little alum 
to river water. 

Chreen Jiprieots, wet — ^Get the apricots before the stone is formed in 
them, when they can be pierced through with a pin or needle ; put 
them into a bag with plenty of salt, and shake them about in it to take 
off the down and silkiness of the skin; take them out and put them in 
cold water. Or this may be done by making a strong ley with wood 
ashes; strain it through a cloth; let it be quite clear; make it boiling 
hot and throw in your apricots; let them remain about a minute, take 
them out, and put them into cold water ; then take off the fur when 
they are cool by either rubbing them with your hands in the water, 
or drain, and rub them in a towel or coarse cloth. Put them into 
another pan of cold water, and place them over a slow fire to heat 
gradually and scald. When they are quite soft and can be crushed 
between the finger and thumb, take them out and throw them into 
cold water ; drain them quite dry in sieves ; make a thin syrup, that 
is, at the small thread ; boil it in a fiat preserving pan, put in the 
apricots, give them a few boils, and take off any scum that rises; 
have sufficient syrup in the pan that the fruit may float; pour them 
with the syrup into an earthen pan, and keop them covered until the 
next day ; then drain oflTthe syrup, add more sjnrup or sugar to it, and 
boil to the large thread ; put in the fruit, and let the syrup boil over 
them four or five times : repeat these operations for five days, increas- 



68 THE CONPECTIONER. 

jng the syrup a degree each day until it has attained the large pearl, 
taking off the scum each time: it must not exceed this, or it will 
crystallize; put them in dry pans covered with syrup, for use; or, 
when cold, drain them from the syrup, and put them into small glasses 
by themselves, or mixed with other fruits preserved in the same man- 
ner; fill the vacancies with apple jelly, wet a pieee of bladder and 
tie it over the top. 

Green Apricots^ pared wet — Pare off the skin with a small knife« 
and throw them into cold water as you do them ; green, and finish as 
the former. 

Ripe Apricots, wet. -^ Have the fruit not too ripe, make an incisioD 
in the siae to take out the stone, or they may be cut in halves, and 
peeled or preserved with the skin on ; have a preserving pan on the 
fire with 'water boiling, throw them in, and as they rise to the top 
take them out and put them into cold water. If they are blanched 
too much they will break, therefore it is better to have two pans of 
cold water to throw them in, so as those may be separated which are 
broken ; drain them from the water, and put them in a thin syrup 
which is boiling on the fire ; do not put in too many at a time ; put 
in the hardest first, and give them about a dozen boils ; take them 
out carefully and put them in an earthen pan ; give the soft ones only 
two or three boils; cover them with the syrup and let them remain 
until the next day; drain the syrup from them, add more sugar to it, 
and boil and skim it until it has acquired the degree of the lar^re 
thread; give the apricots two or three boils in it; the sofl ones only 
require to have the syrup poured on them boiling hot ; repeat this for 
four or five successive days, and on the last day boil the syrup to the 
large pearl. If yott find, after they are finished, that the syrup has 
been boiled too high, mix a little powdered alum with a spoonful of 
water, and add to it. 

Ripe Peaches^ whole, wet. — Get the finest peaches, without any 
green spots on the skin ; prick them all over with a large needle to 
the stone, throw them into cold water, blanch, and finish as ripe 
apricots. 

Ripe Nectarines, weU — Preserve as peaches. 

Figs, weU — Get the figs nearly ripe, prick them four or five times 
with the point of a knife, throw them into cold water, put them on the 
fire and boil until they are tender ; finish as ripe apricots. 

Greengages, tuei.— Let the fruit be not quite ripe but sound, prick 
them with a fork or needle, and throw them into cold water ; scald 
and green them ; when they are of a fine green, increase the heat ; 
take them out with a skimmer when they swim, and throw them into 
oold water; drain them on sieves; put them in syrup that is boiling; 
give them two or three boils in it ; pour them into an earthen pan ; 
drain the syrup from them the next day, add more sugar and boil to 
the thready taking off any scum which may arise ; pour the syrup 



THE CONFECTIONKB. 69 

over them boiliifg hot; repeat this for five or six days, and finish as 
for greea apricots. 

Mogul Plums. — Take the largfest Mogul plums, with clear skins, 
not quite. ripe, prick tbeiii all over with a fork and throw them into 
cold spring water; scald them until tender, taking care not to have 
too many in the pan at a time, nor blanch them too much, as they 
will soon break in pieces; take them out and throw them into cold 
water, drain, and put in just sufficient fruit to cover the bottom of the 
pan ; cover with boiling syrup, and let therii have a dozen boils in it; 
finish as ripe apricots. 

It would be a needless repetition, to give separate directions for 
preserving every sort of plum,)lis the instructions already given will 
enable any person of ordinary discernment to manage any other sort 
not mentioned. 

Damsons^ wet. — Prick the damsons and throw them into boiling 
By rap, and let them boil in it until the skins burst, skimming it as 
they boil; do not put in any more than will swim; let them remain 
until the next day; drain the syrup, and add more sugar to bring it 
to the proper degree ; give them a few boils in it, and repeat the same 
-en the next day ; finish as other plums. 

Oreen Gooseberries^ wet. — Get some fine large gooseberries, prick 
them three or four times with a large needle, and throw them into 
cold water; put them on the fire to blanch; when they rise takg 
them out and throw them into cold water, green them, and preserve 
as green apricots. 

Green Gooseberries in Ihe form of Hops^ wet. — Take the finest green 
gooseberries for this purpose, slit each gooseberry in four or six slits, 
but so as not to come asunder, and take out the seeds. Take a needlo 
and white thread, make a knot at the end, and pass the needle through 
the stalk end of the gooseberry that is split; take another and do the 
same, making the end of one go partly into the other; continue this 
nntil you have six or eight on the thread, which will resemble a hop; 
fasten the end of the thread, and dispose of all of them in the same 
manner, throwing them into cold water as they are finished : blanch 
them, and let them lie in the water they were blanched in all night; 
the next day green them, and finish as for green gooseberries, wet. 

Cucumbers or Gherkins^ wet. — Let them be clear, free from all 
spots, and of a good green ; prick them all over with a fork, throw 
them into a pan of water mixed with a handful of salt, let them lie in 
this for a day or two, then take them out, put them into fresh water 
and blanch them until tender ; the next day drain and green them in 
a weak syrup; increase the degree of the syrup each day, giving 
them a few boils in it each time; if the cucumbers are large, you can 
cut them in two and take out the seeds. After the second boiling in 
the syrup, let them remain in it for two or three days before it is 
boiled again : finish as green apricots ; a few pieces of ginger may be 
added. 



60 TUB CONPECTIONEB. 

(rreen Melons, — Proceed as for cucumbers. They may be preserved 
either whole or io slices. Wbeu dried and candied, it imitates green 
citron. 

Ripe Melons^ wet — Cut the melons in slices, and pare off the out- 
side skin ; let them lie in salt and water for two or three days, take 
them out, drain and blanch in fresh water until tender ; throw them 
into cold water •; when cold,' drain them on sieves ; give them a 
boil in thin syrup the next day, increase the degree of the syrup, and 
pour it boiling hot over them. A little lemon-juice, vinegar, or v a 
handful of bruised ginger may be added to the syrup, which will much 
Improve the flavour; boil the syrup, increasing it a degree for three 
or four days, as for other fruits. '*'' 

Lemons whole, weL — Choose some fine large lemons with clear 
skins, carve the rind with a small penknife, into flowers, stars, diamonds, 
or any design your fancy may suggest, taking care not to cut deeper 
than the white pith of the peel ; throw them into a pan of cold water, 
put them on the fire and let them boil gently until a strong straw or 
the head of a pin will penetrate the rind ; throw them into cold water; 
when cold, drain them dry, and put them into a thin syrup when boil- 
ing; give them five or six boils in it, and put them in an earthen pan; 
the next day drain the syrup from them, and add more sugar or syrup 
to increase it a degree ; boil it and when it boils, pour it over the 
lemons: repeat this for two days ; on the third day let the lemons boil 
in the syrup for four or five minutes; the next day boil the syrup and 
pour it over them; when you find tlie syrup has penetrated the 
lemons, and they look clear, drain the syrup from them, adding more 
if necessary, so as to have sufficient to keep them well covered ; put 
them in glasses, and pour the syrup over them. When cold, cut a 
piece of bladder to the size of the glass, wet it, and tie it down. 

Oranges whole, wet — These are preserved the same as lemons. 

Whole Orange Peels. — Choose your oranges of a fine clear skin ; 
make a hole at the stalk end, large enough to admit the end of a 
spoon, with which you take out the pulp; throw them in salt and 
water, and let them remain for three or four days or a week; drain 
them frofti this, and put them into a pan of fresh water, and let them 
boil until the end of a straw may be pushed through^'the peel ; throw 
them into cold water ; with the end of a spoon clear out any part of 
the pulp which may have adhered to them ; drain off the water; put 
them in a tub or pan, and pour boiling syrup over them ; let them 
remain in this for three or four days; take them from the syrup and 
boil it again, adding more as the peels imbibe it, so as to keep them 
well covered ; boil the syrup once every four or five days, and pour 
it hot over them ; do this until it has fully penetrated them. 

Orange or Lemon Peels, wet — ^Cut the fruit in half; express the 
juice, and throw the peels into salt and water, as for whole orange 
peels, preserving them in the same way. If you have any quantity, 
put tbetu one jn the other, and pack them in rows round -the bottom 



THE COKFECnoITER. 61 

of a largfe tub or cask ; proceed in this manner, potting them in lay- 
ers until it is half or three parts full ; have a hole near the bottom, 
with a cork fitted into it. When the syrup requires boiling, draw it 
off at the hole. 

Orange or Lemon Chips. — ^Cot the thickest peels into lon^ thin 
pieces, turning them off so as to make but one or two chips from a 
peel, in a similar manner as you would pare off the rind of an apple, 
only, instead of holding the knife in an oblique direction, so as to 
take off the surface, it is held more parallel, so as to cut the whole 
substance of the peel. Let them be as near as possible of the same 
thickness, or the peel may be sliced across, so as to form rings; pre- 
eerve them as for whole orange peels. If they are wanted in a hur- 
ry, they may be blanched without being put into salt and water. Boil 
them until they can be c/ushed between the finger and thumb; drain 
them from the water, and pour boiling syrup over them as for others. 

Jlngelica, wet — Cut some stalks of fine tender angelica into pieces 
about six inches long, or any other suitable length. Put them into a 
, pan of water on the fire until they are soft, then put them into cold 
water; draw off the skin and strings with a knife,- and put them into 
cold water again ; next boil them until they look whitish ; let them 
cool; drain them from the water, and put them in an earthep pan; 
pour boiling syrup over them until they float. The next day dram it 
off, without disturbing the angelica; boil with more sugar, if re- 
quired, taking off any scum which may rise ; pour it over the stalks 
whilst it is hot; repeat this for seven or eight days, boiling the syrup 
the last time to the large pearl. 

Eringo Root — ^Choose your roots without knots; wash them clean, 
and boil in water until they are tender ; peel off the outside skin, slit 
them, take out the pith, and thcow them into cold water ; drain, put 
them into a thin syrup, and give them a few boils ; aflerwards finish 
as annfelica. 

Pine Apple whole, wet — Take off the top and stem of the pine ; 
prick the apple with a pointed knife in six or eight places, or more, to 
the centre ; put the pine in a pan with plenty of water, and boil it 
until tender ; take it out and throw it into cold water ; when cold, 
drain it quite dry, and pour over it, boiling hot, some syrup at the 
small thread. In two days pour off the syrup and boil it to a degree 
higher, aclding more sugar if necessary; repeat this every third day, 
until the pine is sufficiently impregnated with the sugar ; the last 
time the sugar must be at the large pearl. The top of the pine is 
greened and preserved as other green fruits, putting it in its proper 
place when finished. Carefully skim the sugar each time, that the 
pine may be quite clear. 

Pine Apple Chips or Slices,- — Take off the top and stalk, and pare 
the outside of the pine; cut it into slices half an inch thick; strew, 
over the bottom of a pan with powdered sugar ; cover it with slices 
6 



62 T&B COKFECTIONBR. 

of pine-apple,, then a layer of sugar, and a^in of pine, and 00 alter- 
nately until the whole is disposed of, covering the top with a layer 
of sugar ; place it in a warm place or stove for three or four days ; 
then boil it with the juice of two or three lemons for ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour, taking off any scum which rises. If the syrup 
is too thick, add a little water ; continue this boiling for three or four 
days, when it will be fit for use. 

CAerriea, wet or dry. — Take the best Kentish or May Duke cher- 
ries; cut a quill as if you were going to make a pen, only, instead of 
its being sharp, it. must be round at the end ; hold the cherry in your 
left hand, and with the other push the quill into it by the stde of the 
stalk, as far as the top of the stone ; then take hold of the stalk, and 
with the aid of the quill pull the stone out with the stalk, without 
breaking the fruit in pieces, which would be the case otherwise. Put 
sufficient clarified sugar into a preserving pan for the cherries to 
swim ; boil it to the blow, and throw in the prepared fruit ; let them 
boil in it for five or ten minutes, keeping them under the syrup by 
pushing them down with a fiat piece of wood having a handle at the 
back. The next day drain off the syrup ; reduce it by boiling ; put 
in the cherries and boil them again for five minutes ; repeat this for 
four days, giving the cherries a few boils in the syrup each day. If 
they are required dry, drain the syrup from them, spread them on 
sieves, and dry in the stove at a good heat, turning them- every day. 
Put only sufficient on the sieves so as just to cover the bottom. Keep 
them in boxes prepared, or in glasses. 

Whole Cherries, — Shorten the stalks of some fine cherries; put 
them into an earthen pan, with a layer of powdered sugar and a layer 
of cherries, covering the top with sugar ; let them stand for two or 
three days ; put them on the fire in a preserving pan, and let them 
boil in the syrup for three or four minutes ; repeat this for four days. 
Keep them in syrup, or dry, when they are wanted, as the preceding ; 
they may also be tied together to form bunches, and preserved in the 
same manner. 

Grapes in J5«7icA«8.— Get some bunches of fine grapes, before they 
are perfectly ripe ; take out the stones with a large pin or needle ; put 
them in a preserving pan, with plenty of water and a little salt ; let them 
simmer on the fire about a quarter of an hour ; cover the pan, and let 
them stand in this water until the next day ; pour this ofi^, and add 
fresh ; in a few hours drain them dry, and put them into a thin syrup, 
which must be boiling on the fire ; give them a few boils in it, or the 
grapes may be put into the syrup when cold, and heat it gradually 
until it boils ; put them in an earthen pan ; the next day drain off the 
syrup, reduce it to the small pearl, adding more sugar if necessary, 
and skimming it; pour it boiling over the grapes; repeat this four or 
five times, finishing with syrup at the large pearl, and keep them 
well covered in it 

CurranU in Bunches^ t£;e/.— -Take the finest carrants you can get. 



THB COKFECTIOKEB. 63 

either red or white ; stone them with a pin or the nih of a pen, tak- 
ing care not to cut them more than is necessary ; tie six or eight 
boDches together with a piece of thread, or they may be tied to a 
email piece of stick. Take as much clarified sugar as will allow the 
currants to float ; or put one pound of sugar to each pound of cur- 
rants ; clarify and boil it to the blow ; put in your friiit, and let them 
have live or six boils ; take the scum off with paper ; repeat th# boil- 
ing next day when they are finished. IT you boil them again, the 
syrup will become a jelly, when you can put them in glasses. 

Barhtrries in Bunches^ wet. — Proceed as for currants. 

Raspberries^ whole, wet — Take the finest and driest raspberries you 
can get, but not over-ripe. Take the same quantity of sugar in 
weight as you have of raspberries ; clarify and boil it to the btew ; 
put in the fruit, and give .them a dozen boils, taking off the scum 
with paper; drain off the syrup, and put them into pots that are very 
dry ; cover them with apple jelly, or make a jelly with the syrup the 
raspberries were boiled in, with the addition of a little currant or 
cherry juice when cold. Tie them over with brandy papers and 
bladder. 

Pears, whole, wet, — Take some fine large pears, either eating or 
baking, but those for eating must not be too ripe ; they are fit for this 
purpose when the pips are black. Throw them into a pan of water, 
with two ounces of alum ; put them on the fire, and scald them until 
tender; take them out, and throw them into cold water; pare off the 
rind very thin and even ; prick them several times with a fork or pin 
to the core, and scald them again until they are quite sofl, or until 
the head of a pin or straw will pass through them ; a little lemon 
juice may be added to the water in the second boiling, or with the 
eyrup; when they are finished blanching, throw them into cold water; 
when cold drain them from this, and put them into a thin syrup at 
the small thread ; give them two or three boils in this ; skim, and put 
them in an earthen pan ; the next day drain off the syrup, and add 
more sugar, ai^ reduce it another degree ; boil your pears in it, as 
before, and repeat the process for four days, finishing with the syrup 
at the large pearl. Keep them in covered pans for use. 

Pears, Bed, wet, — Take some good baking[ or other pears; pare 
and cut them in half, and take out the cores with a little scoop for the 
purpose; if they are first blanched a little, they can be pared easier 
and better. Boil them in water, with sugar sufficient to make it only 
just sweet, a little lemon juice, and a few allspice or cloves. Put a 

Eiece of pewter, or a pewter spoon, in the bottom of the pan, and 
oil them until they are quite tender and of a fine red ; or prepared 
cochineal may be added instead, using sufficient to give the desired 
tint ; take out the fruit, and add enough sugar to the water they were 
boiled in to make a syrup; boil to the large thread; put in the pears, 
and give them two or three boils in it ; skim, and put them In an 
earthen pan ; boil the syrup twice more, and pour it on them, raising 
it to the degree of the large pearL Keep them in dry pans for use. 



64 TnB CONFECTIONSn. 

Quinces, B£i or Whiter wet,* — ^Preserve as pears. 
For these preserves it is a good plan to have flat pieces of woody 
like covers, to put on the fruit, so as to keep it under the syrup. 

Ginger, wet, — ^This article is mostly imported from India and China, 
in jars or pots. Divide the largest races or roots from the smaller 
ones; take largest for preserving, as the smaller ones will serve for 
planting; clean and cut (hg roots into neat pieces, and throw them 
mto cold water as you do them. Boil them three times in fresh water, 
throwing them into cold each time, or sOak them in water for four or 
five days ; drain, and boil in fresh water till tender ; take them, out, 
and throw them into cold water, in which has been mixed a little 
lemon juice or vinegar; peel them, and throw them into the water 
again as they are done, to keep them white ; let /the roots remain in 
this a few hours, then drain them dry on sieves; put them in an 
earthen pan; pour over them, when cold,'a thin syrup, at the small 
thread; let them be well covered with the syrup; in two or three 
days drain off the syrup ; add more sugar, and boil to the large thread ; 
when cold pour it over the ginger. After three or fodr days boil the 
sugar a degree higher, and pour it in hot; continue this until your 
roots look clear and are fully impregnated with sugar ; finish with the 
syrup at the large pearl. 

Candied Fruit, — Any fruit or peel which has been first preserved 
in syrup may be candied. 

Take the fruit out of the syrup and let it drain on sieves ; then dip 
the sieve with the fruit into lukewarm water, to wash off the syrup 
from the surface ; take it out, let it drain, and dry it in the stove. 
Boil some fresh syrup to the blow ; put in the fruit and give it a boil 
in it. The fruit when it is put in will reduce the sugar, it must there- 
fore be boiled to the same degree again. With a spoon or spatula 
tub the sugar against the side of the pan, to grain it ; when it begins 
to whiten put the fruit in the white part separately: with two forks 
take it out and lay it on sieves or wire frames, for the sugar to draia 
from it. 

Dried Fruit, — Any of those fi"uits which are preserved with syrup 
may be dried : they are also better when fresh dried. Warm the 
fruit in the syrup ; take it out and drain ; spread it on sieves or wires ; 
put them in the stove to dry, turning them frequently until perfectly 
dried. When the fruit is drained from the syrup, it may be dusted 
with loaf-sugar when you put it in the stove, and for two or three 
times when you turn it. Too much heat will blacken the fruit, 
therefore let the heat of the stove be about 100^ or li(P of Fahren- 
heit's thermometer. 

SECTION XIV.— COl^IPOTES. "^ 

These are prepared in the same way as wet fruits, and served in 
oompotiers, which are deep glass dishes belonging to the dessert 
service. 



TRB CONFBCTIOKES. 65 1 



In summer, ripe fruits are simply blanched and boiled up in a thin 
syrup, a little lemon-juice is added, and served ; these are only for 
present use. In winter, take those fruits which are preserved in 
syrup, drain, dip them in luke-warm water, and serve in a thin syrup, 
with the juice of a lemon. 

Green apricot Compote, — Prepare your fruit as for green apricots,^ 
.wet; throw them into syrup that is boiling^ ; take them off the fire, 
and let them remain for four or five hourS ; drain off the syrup, and 
boil to the thread ; pour it over the fruit; when cold, serve. 

JRipe jSpricot Compote, — Cut the apricots in half, and peel them ; 
blanch them in water that is just sweetened ; drain them from this ; 
add sugar to the water, and boil to the thread ; pour it over the apri- 
cots ; let them remain in it for two or three hours ; then drain and 
boil the syrup again to the large thread ; pour it over the apricots ; 
add the juice of a lemon, with some of the kernels blanched ; when 
cold, serve. 

Peaches, nectarines, and green-gages are done as these. 

Compote of Jpples, with Jelly, — Pare some fine pippins very neat- 
ly ; core them with an apple corer ; put them into syrup, and boil 
gently ; put only just sufficient syrup to cover them, that it may be 
reduced to a jelly ; if it has not body enough, cut a few in pieces and 
put with it ; when the apples look clear and are tender, take them 
out ; add to the apples, while boiling, the juice and yellow rind of a 
lemon, with a few cloves. Strainv the syrup^ and reduce it to a jelly ; 
pour part into the compotier, and when cold dress the apples taste- 
fully on it. The hole where the core was taken out may be filled 
with any sort of marmalade or jelly. Cut the remaining part of the 
jelly in pieces or croutons, and place round or over them ; orna- 
ment them with red currant or other jelly, in any way that your 
fancy may dictate. * 

Apple Compote. — Take some fine apples; peel and cut them in 
halves, quarters, or thick slices, and take out the cores; blanch them 
in a very thin syrup until tender; take them out, and add more sugar 
to that which they were boiled in, with the yellow peel and juice of a 
lemon and a few cloves ; reduce it to the small pearl ; put in the 
apples, and give them a few boils in it; let them remain until cold; 
take off the scum, if any; strain the syrup, and serve. 

Pears and quinces are done as these, or coloured as for pears wet, 
which see. 

Grape Compote. — Pick and stone some fine ripe grapes; put them 
in boiling syrup at the large pearl; give them three or four boils in 
it ; let them cool, take off the scum, and serve. 

Currant Compote. — Take the largest currants you can get, either 
red or white ; pick out the seeds, and throw them into boiling syrup 
at the large pearl ; give them two or three boils, and let them stand 
in the syrup; take off the scum, and serve when cold. 
6» 



i 



60 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Raspberry Compote. — Choose some very fine and dry raspberries ; 
boil sofne«syrup to the blow, take it from the fire, and throw in the 
raspberries; let them stand for four or five hours; stir them gently; 
put them on the fire, and let the syrup just boil; take off the scum, 
and when cold serve. 

Strawberry Compote. — Take off the stalks, and throw them into 
syrup at the small thread ; when it is near boiling, take them off, let 
them cool, and serve ; or they may be prepared by putting them m 
Ihe'compotier, and covering them with white currant jelly warmed. 

Macedoine of Fruits. — Put some of all sorts of fruits, prepared for 
compotes, together, and serve in the same glass, with syrup and a 
little lemon-juice. 

Cherry Compote. — Cut off the stalks of some fine cherries about 
half way; wash them in cold water, and let them drain quite dry; 
boil some syrup to the large pearl; throw in the cherries, and let 
them boil quickly for^five or six boils; take them off, and let them 
remain unlil cold ; take off the scum, if any, and dress them in the 
compotier, with their stalks upwards; pour in the syrup, and serve, 
adding the juice of lemon. 

Damsons, mulberries, Orlean plums, and barberries are done the 
same way, taking out the stones of the plums and barberries ; the 
cherries may be also stoned. 



SECTION XV. — BRANDY FRUITS. 

All fruits may be preserved with brandy ; but only the best sort 
of plums, such us apricots, magnum-bonums, peaches, green-gages, 
mirabciles, &c., with cherries and pears, are thoj^e usually done. 

The fruit should be gathered before it is perfectly ripe, when it is 
prepared by blanching, &c., precisely the same as if it were intended 
for wet fruits ; those preserved in this manner are often taken from 
their syrup and put in brandy ; when the fruits are blanched put them 
for a day or two in a. thin syrup, then take them out and arrange them 
in glasses; cover them with white brandy, into which you have 
mixed five ounces of powdered white sugar candy, and tie them over 
with bladder. Cherries are an exception to this rule. Take some 
fine Morello cherries, and cut off half the stalk ;.put them into brandy, 
and stop them close for a month ; drain off the brandy, and to eaeli 
quart add eight ounces of powdered loaf sugar or white sugar candy ; 
.dissolve and pour it over the cherries. Keep them well covQred with 
spirit. 



THE CONFECTIONBB. 67 



SSCTION XVI. ON BOTTLED FRUITS, OR FRUITS PRESERVED 

WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Choose wide-mouthed bottles, which- are made for this purpose; 
let them be clean and perfectly dry ; gather the fruit during dry 
weather, and fill the bottles if possible on the same day; shake the 
fruit well down by knocking the bottom edge of the bottle on the 
table ; prepare some corks or bungs (which are made for fruit bottles 
by being cut the contrary way of the grain); pour boiling water over 
them, which will deprive them of any smell or dirt; repeat this a 
second time, if necessary, letting them remain in the water each 
lime until it is cold ; cork the tottles well, and tie them over with 
wire or string. M. Appert recommends that they should be luted 
with a mixture made of fresh slaked lime and soft cheese ; this is to 
be spread on rags and tied over the mouth of the bottle ; they are 
then placed in a boiler and cold water as far as their mouths ; a cover 
is put on with a piece of linen round it to prevent evaporation, the 
water is then heated to boiling, and is kept at this point until it is 
considered that the fruit is boiled in their own water or juice ; the 
fire is then withdrawn, and they are suffered to remain in the water 
for an hour, when it may be drawn off. The method which I in 
generat pursue is to raise the water to the boiling point, and keep it at 
Sils heat for about an hour, according to the nature of the fruit; they 
are then suffered to remain in the water until it is cold. I find this 
way generally successful. When they are taken out, cover the 
mouth of the bottle with melted rosin or bottle wax. 

This method is much superior to that of preparing them with water, 
which renders the fruit flat, dead, and insipid, the whole of the fla- 
vour of the fruit being imparted to thg water, except when bottled 
very green, when it does not lose it so much. 

A method I have tried with pretty good success, is to obtain the 
fruit before it is ripe, bottle it, and fill the bottles with cold spring 
water, in which are dissolved some oxymuriate of potass, cork them 
close, and cover the mouths with rosin. Plums done in this way had 
the natural bloom on them. I found these were better than those 
done in a similar manner by heat. A few bottles of them fermented. 
After the fermentation was over I corked them close, and in six 
months I opened some, when they had a smell like wine^ and were 
not so fiat as those which were well preserved by heat, and filled 
with water ; these certainly look well to the eye, but they are only 
fit to be used for large pies, when the water should be made into a 
syrup with sugar, and put in with it 

The first method, which is the same as Appert*s, or nearly so, is 
decidedly the best; it retains the natural flavour, and may be used 
for any purpose it is required, it being as good as fresh fruit. 



68 THS CONFECTIONER. 

The pulp or jaice of fruits may also be preserved in tlie same way; 
if the fruit is not ripe enough to pulp, put it into a jar, and stop it 
close, place it in a kettle of cold water, heat it until it boils, and let 
it continue at this point for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; take 
it out and pass the pulp through a hair-fiieve ; bottle, and finish as 
before. 

This method of M. Appert*s is not altogether original, but was an- 
ticipated by the experiments of Mr. Boyle. A system somewhat on 
the same principle has been practised by many in the trade for years, 
which is this. The fruit is bottled and carefully corked, the bottles 
are then placed on the top of the oven, where they are suffered to 
remain for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, according to the tempera- 
ture, which is generally from 120° to 140° Fahrenheit's thermometer. 
Atone place I ascertained the heat during the process, and it averaged 
130°. Another system practised is that of heating the bottles in « 
cool oven. 

The principle endeavoured to be accomplished is to destroy the 
small portion of oxygen contained in the bottle afler being corked, by 
converting it into carbonic acid gas; but some other unknown agent 
must be produced, as this may be done without heat, which the fer- 
mentation of the fruit would cause by itself; for, according to the 
experiments of Hildcbrand, had the oxygen of the atmosphere 
remained unaltered, it would have caused putrefaction ; for he found 
that oxygen mixed with a small quantity of azote, promoted pitrefac- 
tion more than pure oxygen. He found that hydrogen gas was the 
greatest preservative, nitrous next, and afler this carbonic. These 
experiments were tried on meat, but they may be equally applicable 
in respect to fruit, when the auxiliary produced by heat is not 
definitely known. 

Fruit should always be bottled and boiled on the same day it is 
fathered ; for the longer the fruit lies together the more it sweats ; 
fermentation commences, which is accelerated in the bottles by heat, 
and there is great danger of their bursting. 

All decay^ or bruised fruit should be carefully excluded, and that 
(ihould be preferred which is not quite ripe. 

When finished, the bottle ehould be kept in a cool dry place. 

SECTION XVII.— OP COOLING DRINKS FOR BALLS AND ROtJTS. 

These may be made either with fresh fruit, janr, or syrups. The 
last merely requires the addition of water and lemon-juice to make 
them palatable. 

Gooseberry^ Currant, Rasfherry, and Strawberry Waters, — Mash 
either of these fruits when ripe, and press out the juice through a 
hair-sieve, add a little water to it, and give it a boil ; then filter it 
through a flannel bag, some syrup, a little lemto-juice and water, to 
make it palatable, but rich, although not too sweet, which is often the 
fault with these and compotes ; ice them the same as wine, and serve. 



THB CONFBCTIONES. 69 

Cherry Water, — Pound the cherries with the stones to obtain the 
flavour of the kernel, and make as above. 

Apricot and Peach Water as cherry water : or, if made from jam, 
add a few bitter almonds pounded quite fine, using a little water and 
lemon-juice to pound them with; add them to the jam with water 
and lemon-juice to palate; strain it through a lawn sieve, ice, and 
serve. 

Orged$ Water, — Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and one 
ounce of bitter ; pound them very fine in a mortar, using water to 
prevent their oiling ; use one quart of water and a glass of orange- 
flower water, and make as directed for oi'geat syrup ; add sugar to 
palate, strain it through a lawn sieve, ice, and serve. 

Lemonade. — Rub oflf the yellow rinds of six lemons on sugar ; 
squeeze out their juice, and add to it a pint and a half of water, and 
half a pint of syrup, the white of an eq^^ with the sugar which has 
imbibed the oil from the rind ; mix them well together ; if not to 
your palate, alter it ; strain through a flannel bag, ice, and serve. 

Orangeade is made as lemonade, using China oranges instead of the 
lemons. 



SECTION XVIII. ICES. 

[There is no article of the dessert kind that deserves a more ele- 
vated position than well-made ices, as well for their intrinsic merit 
as for the agreeable gout which they impart to a well-got-up enter- 
tainment. 

Philadelphia has for a long time enjoyed a pre-eminent reputation 
in the manufacture of these delicious compounds ; the rage however 
for cheap articles, without a due regard to their merits, has made sad 
inroads into the business; and, in order to accommodate this spirit of 
retrenchment, ignorant pretenders have consented to the base prac- 
tice of making mferior articles, which they palm ofif on the unwary 
under the specious guise of economy. With these persons it is a 
custom' to use three-fourths milk and only one-fourth of the legiti- 
mate article^ cream, and, in order to procure a sufficient body, to in- 
termix boiled flour, arrowroot, or potatoe flour ; also to flavour with 
tartaric acid instead of fresh lemons, tonquin bean instead of vanilla, 
and inferior fruits when the best only should be used. 

We mention these facts in order to caution young beginners against 
any such fatal mistakes. The best ingredients should always be 
used. Obtain your cream invariably fresh from a dairyman who is 
tenacious of his reputation, and who is known to produce a pure rich 
article; it cannot be too good^ and if not used immediately should be 
kept in ice until wanted. Good cream cannot be had (even where 
large quantities are used) for a less price than twenty cents per 
quart. Use cream entirely, and on no account mingle the slightest 



70 TRB CONFBCnoKSH. 

quantity of milk, which detracts materially from the richness and 
smoothness of the ices. Always use the finest flavoured to be ol>- 
tained, and follow implicitly the following very copious directions, 
and you will be certain to be rewarded by a fine article, of which 
you may well he proud :] 

UtermU requidU for makin^.^^hit Pewter pots of various sizes, 
suitable to the quantity of mixture intended to be frozen. Tin or 
zinc will not answer &e purpose, as it congeals the mixture too 
quickly without allowing it a sufficient time to become properly in- 
corporated, and forms it in lumps like hailstones. 

2d. Half pint, pint, pint and a half, and quart moulds, and some m 
the form of fruits made to open in the centre with a hinge : these 
also require to be made of the same material. 

3d. Ice pail& These should be adapted to the size of the pots, 
about the same de]^h, and eiffht or ten inches more in diameter ; if 
even greater, it is immaterial, the depth being the principal consider- 
ation, for the deeper it is the greater caution is required to prevent 
the salt from entering the mixture; for as the ice aissolves, the pot 
descends, and the water runs under the cover, which, being salt, 
spoils the contents; neither have you a sufficient basis whereon the 
pot rests so as to mix your creams, &c*, with the spatula ; conse- 
quently, half your exertions are lost by its constant sinking when you 
apply the least effi)rt to scrape it from the sides. There should be a 
hole near the bottom, with a cork fitted into it, so as to be drawn at 
pleasure, that the water may be allowed to run off' when there is too 
much. 

4th. The spatula. This is an instrument somewhat resembling a 

fardener's spade ; it should be made of stout copper and tinned, the 
lade being about four inches long by three in width, round at the 
end, and having a socket to receive a wooden handle ; this is for 
scraping the cream, d^c, from the sides of the pot as it freezes, and 
for mixing it. 

5th. Either a large mortar and pestle, or a strong box and mallet 
for pounding the ice. 

6ib. A spade wherewith to mix the ice and salt together, fixing 
your pails, &c. 

7th. A tin case or box, with a kind of drawer fitted to it so as to 
be drawn out at pleasure, and having shelves or divisions ; this is for 
keeping the ices in the form of firuits, after they are finished, until 
requirS for the table. 

To freeze Ices. — ^This is accomplished through the medium of ice. 
Of itself it does not contain sufficient firigorific power to congeal a 
liquid body to the required consistence without an auxiliary; the 
usual one employed is that of salt As a general rule, take about 
two pounds to every six pounds of ice, which I think will be nearly 
the quantity required. I cannot state precisely, as it is the custom 
to mix it by guess ; but note, the fireezing quality depends on the 



THE C05FBCTX0mR« 71 

qoantitj of salt which la used, conseqaently, the more there is mixed 
with the ice the quicker are the creams, SLc., frozen. 

- Pound a sufficient quantity of ice small, and let some salt be well 
mixed with it ; place the pot containing the mixture in a pail, which 
you fill (the latter) with pounded ice and salt as far as the lid ; str^w 
a handful of salt on the top of the ice, let it remain a few minutes until 
you have similarly disposed of others, as three or four may he done at 
a time if required, then whirl them round briBkly by means of the 
handles for five minutes, take off the lids one at a time, and with the 
spatula stir or carry the unfrozen part well round the sides, turning 
the pot also with the left hand ; continue this for two or three minutes, 
which serves to soften what has already frozen, as well as helps to 
freeze the remaining portion ; then scrape it from the sides, put on 
the lids, whirl round again briskly, ^s before directed, repeating the 
same operations every four or five minutes. As it forms into con- 
sistence, do not spare your labour in well working or mixing it 
together when you scrape it down, so as to make it perfectly smooth 
and free from lumps, for the smoothness of your ice depends on this 
operation ; continue to freeze until the whole is well set. Ice when 
well frozen should be about the consistence of butter, tough to the 
feel, of a good colour, and without any lumps in it. Those which 
contain too much syrup cannot be frozen to the degree required, and 
those which have too little freeze hard, and feel short and crisp, like 
compressed or frozen snow, which arises from having too many watery 
particles in it, by the excess of either water or milk according to the 
nature of your ice. In either case it may be ascertained when you 
commence freezing, by the first coat which is formed round the side?. 
It should then be altered by either adding moVe cream or water, with 
juice, or pulp of fruit, or other flavouring matter in proportion, as the 
case may be, if too rich, and vice versd, by the addition of more syrup, 
&c., when poor; but at all times the necessity of altering them should 
be avoided, as the component parts cannot be so perfectly blended 
together, without considerable extra labour, as if they were properly 
mixed at the commencement. 

During the time of freezing, or after the creams, &(S., are moulded 
and set up, if there is too much water in the pail, the frigorific power 
is lessened ; a little increases it, as at first it is only a solution of the 
salt ; but as the ice dissolves and mixes with it, it decreases; there- 
fore, when it comes to the top drain it ofi^ and fill up with fresh salt 
and ice. 

When the ices are properly frozen, take out the pots, drain off the 
water, empty the i)ail, again replace them and fill them with fresh 
salt and ice, as berore ; then spread the creams over the sides of the 
pot, when they are ready for use, if they are intended to be served in 
a shop or by glassfulls. Should it be required for moulds, line the 
bottom with a piece of paper, before you put it on ; if there is no im- 
pression or figure on the top, you may cover that also with paper ; in 
filling them press it well in, so as to fill every part ; leave a little pro> 



72 _, THE COKFECTIONBR. 

jecting above the surface to form the top, which you put on ; pack 
the moulds in a pail, and fill the vacancies with pounded ice well 
mixed with plenty of salt, strew a handful also on the lop. 

Ices shotild be moulded from half an hour to an hour before they 
are required to be served. 

When you want to turn them out, wash the mould well in cold 
water that no salt may remain on it ; take olf the bottom and top, and 
the ice will come out easily. 

For fruit moulds, fill each with either cream or water ice of the 
same kind as that which you would represent, and fbr the better re- 
semblance to nature, preserve the stone with the stalk and leaves of 
each, which put in their proper places, allowingf the leaves to project 
outside; close the mould, wrap it in paper, and place it in ice as 
others ; when you want to turn thera out, wash the shape in luke- 
warm water to take ofl^ the paper, and be careful that you do not- 
injure the leaves, as they will often be found frozen to it ; dip it agaia 
in water, open it and take out the ice, which you colour to nature 
with camelVhair pencils and liquid colour (see Colours); the down 
or bloom is represented by dusting it with dry colour in powder, tied 
in a small thin muslin bag, or by means of a dry camelVhair pencil ; 
line the shelves of the case with paper or vine leaves, and put in 
the fruit as it is finished ; let the case be surrounded wiih pounded ice 
and salt, as for moulds. 

Ices may be divided into three classes, viz: cream, custard, and 
water. These derive their names from the basis of which they^re 
compose<l, the flavouring matter mixed with it giving the other defi- 
nition; thus we say, raspberry cream and raspberry water; but cus- 
tard ices are not so particularly defined as the others by the basis, and 
either only receives the name of the flavour given to it, or as that of 
cream. 

Cream Ices, — These are composed entirely of pure fresh cream, 
with the juice or pulp of fruit either fresh or preserved, and syrup or 
sugar so blended together as the taste of one may not predominate 
over that of another ; but if either Is in excess it should be that of 
the fruit. 

Bmpherry of fresh fruit.-^ One quart of raspberries, one quart of 
cream, three-squarters of a pound or a pound of sugar, a few ripe 
currants and gooseberries, or currants and ripe cherries may be added, 
^instead of all raspberries, which is much approved by some, and the 
juice of two lemons ; * ma^h the fruit, and pass it through a sieve to 
take out the skins and seeds; mix it with the other articles; add a 
li'itle prepared cochineal to heighten the colour; put it in the pot and 
freeze. 

* The quantity of frtiit required for these ices will depend, in a great 
measure, on the quality of the fruit and the seasons in which it is pro-' 
duced ; a pint and a half will be found sufficient when it is good in fine 
seasons ; the quantity stated in each weight is the greatest required. 



THE CONFECTIONEB. 73 

JYoie, — ^AH ices made with red fruit require this addition of cochi- 
neal. 

Raspberry ^ from Jam, — One pound of jam, one quart >of cream, 
about six ounces of sugar t)r syrup, to palate, and the juice of two 
lemons. Mix as before. 

\ Strawberry. — As raspberry. 

Currant Ice from fresh Fruit. — One pint and a half of ripe currants, 
ha]f a pint of raspberries, one quart of cream, the juice of two 
lemons, and twelve ounces of sugar. Mix as raspberry. 

Currant Ice, — Preserved Fruit. — The same proportions as raspberry, 
using either jam or jelly. 

Barberry Ice. — Use the sameproportions as before. For fresh barber- 
ries, first soften them by either boiling them in the syrup you intend 
to use, or put them in a stew-pan, and stir them over the fire until 
tender ; pass them through a sieve, mix, and freeze as raspberry. The 
barberries, having much acid, do not require any lemon-juice to be 
mixed with them. 

Jpricot. — Fresh Fruit. — Twenty-four fine ripe apricots, one quart of 
cream, twelve ounces of sugar, the juice of two lemons, with a few 
of the kernels blanched ; mash the apricots, rub them through a sieve, 
mix, and freeze. 

Jijjorieot, from Jam. — Twelve ounces of jam, one quart of cream, 
the juice of two lemons, eight ounces of sugar, a few kernels or bit- 
ter almonds blanched and pounded fine ; rub the whole through a 
sieve, and freeze. 

Feach Ice, — The same proportions as apricot 

Pine Jpple — Fresh Fruit. — One pound of fresh pine apple, half a 
pint of syrup in which a pine has been preserved, two or three slices 
of pine apple cut in small dice, and the juice of three lemons; pound 
or grate the apple, pass it through a sieve, mix, and freeze. 

Pine Jjpple — Preserved Fruit. — Eight ounces of preserved pine, four 
slices cut in small dice, one quart of cream, the juice of three lemons, 
and sufficient syrup from the pine to sweeten it ; pound the preserved 
pine, mix lemons with the cream, &c., and freeze. 

Ginger Ice. — Six ounces of preserved ginger, one quart of cream, 
half a pint of the syrup from the ginger, sugar sufficient to sweeten 
it with, and the juice of two lemons; pound the ginger in a mortar, 
add the cream, &c., and freeze. 

[Brahma Ice. — One quart of cream, the whites of ten eggs, one 

and a half pounds of powdered sugar of the best quality ; mix the 

whole in a tin saucepan ; put it on the fire, stirring constantly, until 

* it boils once; then add two wine-glasses of Cura^oa, half a glass of 

orange-flower water ; put it into the pot, and freeze.] 

Orange Ice Cream. — Six oranges, threS lemons, one quart of cream, 

7 . . 



74 THE CONFECTIOiraK. 

and twelve ounces of s^g^ar or of syrup, to palate ; rob off the yel- 
low rind of two or three of the oranges on part of the sugar, scrape 
it off with a knife, squeeze out the juice of the oranges and lemons, 
and strain it; mix it with the cream and the sugar on which the rind 
was rubbed, add the other part of the sugar, dissolve and freeze. 

China Orange Ice Cream, — Eight oranges, two lemons, one quart 
f^ cream, twelve ounces of sugar ; rub off the rind of four or five of 
the oranges and one lemon on sugar, squeeze, and strain the juice ; 
add the cream, &«., mix, and freeze. 

Cherry Ice Cream, — Two pounds of cherries, one quart of cream, 
and twelve ounces of sugar or syrup ; pound the cherries, with tlie 
stones, in a mortar, adding a few ripe gooseberries or currants if ap- 
proved of; pass the pulp through a sieve, add the cream and sugar 
with the juice of two lemons and a little cochineal, mix, and freeze. 

With preserved fruit it is made the same way, adding a little 
noyau, or a few bitter almonds pounded for the flavour of the kernel. 

[Harlequin Ice: — This is formed by putting a small quantity of each 
kind of ice into the same mould, taking care to have as great a va- 
riety of colours as possible placed so as to produce a contrast; cover 
the mould with salt and ice as before directed, and let it remain half 
an hour, when it will be fit to turn out. When the colours are tastily 
disposed of, it produces a good effect for the table, but is not much ad- 
mired on account of the jumble of flavours.] 

Lemon Ice Cream, — Six large lemons, one quart of cream, and 
twelve ounces of sugar or half pint of syrup ; grate off the peels of 
three of the lemons into a basin, squeeze the juice to it, let it stand 
for two or three hours, strain, add the cream and syrup, and freeze or 
mix as Seville orange ice. 

Mille Fruit Cream Ice, — Make a lemon cream ice, and flavour it 
with elder flowers, mix in some preserved dried fruits and peels cut 
in small pieces. Before it is moulded, sprinkle it with prepared co- 
chineal, and mix it a little, so as it may appear in veins or marbled. 

Custard Ices, — ^These are similarly composed to the cream ices, 
with the addition of six eggs to each quart of cream. All kinds of 
nuts, liqueurs, essences, infusions, or biscuits, are principally mixed 
with it 

Custard for Ices. — One quart of cream, six eggs, and twelve ounces 
of powdered loaf sugar; break the egga into a stew-pan, and whisk 
them together ; add the cream and sugar ; when well mixed, place 
it on the fire, and continue stirring it from the bottom with the whisk, 
to prevent burning; until it gets thick; take it from the fire, con- 
tinue to stir it for a few minutes, and pass it through a sieve. If the 
custard be suffered to boil, it will curdle. 

Flombiere Ice, or Swiss Pudding. — Take one pint and a half of 
cream and half a pint of milk, and make them into a custard with 
seven yolks of eggs ; flavour it either with Cura^oa, Maraschino, or 



THE CONFECTIONEK. 76 

rom ; freeze the castard, and add about a quarter of a pound of dried 
cherries, orange, lemon, and citron peel, and currants; mix these in 
ihe iced custard. The Cura^oa, or rum, &.C., may be. poured over the 
fruit when you commence freezing, or before, which I consider pre- 
ferable to flavouring the custard. Prepare the mould, which is round, 
and something in the shape of a melon, made to open in the centre 
with a hinge. Strew over the inside with some clean currants, fill 
the mould, and close it; immerse it in some fresh ice mixed with 
cialt. Before it is required to be turned out, prepare a dish as 
follows : — 

The Sauce. — Make a little custard, and flavour it with brandy; 
dissolve some isinglass in water or milk, and when it is nearly cold 
add sufficient to the custard to set it ; pour it into the dish you intend 
to serve it on. As soon as it is set, turn out the pudding on it and 
serve. 

Almond or Orgeat Ice Cream, — One quart of cream, eight ounces 
of sweet almonds, two ounces of bitter almonds, twelve ounces oi 
sugar, and two ounces of orange-flower water; blanch the almonds^ 
and pound them quite fine in a mortar, using the orange-fiower water 
in pounding, to prevent their oiling: rub them through a sieve, and 
pound again the remaining portion which has not passed through, 
until they are fine enough; then mix them with the cream, and make 
it into a custard with eggs, as the preceding ; strain, and when cold, 
freeze. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, eight ounces of pis- 
tachios, and twelve* ounces of sugar; blanch and pound the pistachios 
with a little of the cream; mix and finish as orgeat ice, flavouring it 
with a little essence of cedrat, or the rind of a fresh citron rubbed on 
sugar ; or the custard may be flavoured by boiling in it a little cinna- 
mon and mace and the rind of of a lemon. '^ 

Filbert Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, one pound of nuts, and 
twelve ounces of sugar or one pint of syrup; break the nuts, and roast 
the kernels in the oven ; when done, pound then^ with a little creaoi, 
make a custard, and finish as almond ice. 

Chestnut Ice. — As the preceding, taking ofl^ the husks and skin. 

Burnt Filbert Ice CVeam.— Use the same proportions as in filbert 
ice ; put the kernels into the syrup, and boil till it comes to the 
blow ; stir the sugar with a spatula, that it may grain and adhere to 
the nuts ; when cold, pound them with the sugar quite fine ; make 
a custard, and mix them with it, allowing for the sugar that is used 
for the nuts ; mix, and freeze as the others. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream. — Make as burnt filbert ice. 

Coffee Ice Cream. — ^One quart of cream, five ounces of Mocha cofiee, 
and twelve ounces of sugar; roast the coffee in a coarse iron or other 
stew-pan, keeping it constantly stirred until it is a good brown colour; 



76 THE (JONPECTIONEK. 

throw it into the castard cream whilst it is quite hot, and cover it 
closely ; let it infuse for an hour or two, then strain and freeze. 

The cream may be made with an infusion of coffee, thus: take the 
quantity of coffee, fresh roasted and ground to a fine powder ; put this 
into a common glass bottle or decanter, and pour on it sufficient ccdd 
river 'water to moisten the powder and make an infusion ; stop the 
bottle close, and let it remain all night ; the next day filter the infu- 
sion by passing it through some fine lawn or blotting paper placed in 
a glass funnel ; by this process a very strong and superior infusion is 
obtained, which contains the whole of the aroma of the coffee. Dr. 
Ratier observes, — "I have tried this process with boiling and with 
cold water ; and I have assured myself, by comparison, that the pow- 
der drained by the cold water, and treated then with boiling water, 
gave nothing but a water slightly tinted with yellow, and devoid of 
odour and flavour. It is, besides, proper to pass an equal quantity of 
water to the first, over the grounds, in order that the second water 
may serve for new powder.'\ Use this for flavouring the custard, 
and freeze. 

Chocolate Ice, — One quart of cream, six ounces of chocolate, and 
ten ounces of sugar ; dissolve the chocolate in a little water, or make 
the sugar into a syrup, and dissolve it by putting it on the side of the 
stove, or over the fire ; add the cream and eggs, and make it into a 
custard as before ; when cold, freeze. 

Tea Ice. — One quart of cream, two ounces of the best green tea, 
and twelve ounces of sugar ; put the tea into a cup, and pour on it a 
little cold river water in which has been dissolved a small portion of 
carbonate of soda, about as much as may be placed on a fourpenny 
piece ; let it remain for an hour or two, then ^add a little boiling 
water, sufllicient in the whole to make a very strong infusion ; or the 
boiling water may be dispensed with, adding more cold water in pro- 
portion, and letting it soak longer, when a superior infusion will be 
obtained ; strain it, and add to the cream and eggs. Finish as the 
others. 

Vanilla lee. — One quart of cream, half an ounce of vanilla, twelve 
ounces of sugar; cut the vanilla into small pieces, and pound it with 
the sugar until it is quite fine, add it to the cream and eggs, make it 
into a eostard, strain, and when cold freeze, or it may be flavoured 
with the essence of vanilla. (See Essences). 

Noyau Cream lee, — Make a custard cream, and flavour it with 
Boyau ; finish as almond ice. 

Maraachino Cream Ice* — Make as noyau, flavouring it with Mara- 
schino de Zara. All liqueur ices are made the same way, using the 
difi^rent liqaeurs with which each is named, or they may be made in 
this way: — Take a quart of cream, put it into the ice-pot with six 
ounces of sugar, which you place in the ice ; work or whisk it well 
about the sides with a whisk for &^e minutes ; add a glassful of 



THE CONPiJCTIONER. 77 

liqueur, work this well together, then whisk the whites of two egga 
to a strong froth, add two ounces of sugar to them, mix this well with 
the cream, and freeze to the required consistence. This produces a 
very beautiful, soft, and mellow cream. 

Water Ices, — These are the pulp or juice of fruits mixed with 
syrup, lemon juice, and a little water, so as to bring tb^m to a good 
flavour and consistence when frozen. 

Currant Water Ice. — Two pounds of ripe currants, eight ounces of 
raspberries and ripe cherries, one pint of syrup, and one pint of water. 

Pick and mash the fruit, and strain it through a sieve, add the 
syrup and water, put it in the ice-pot and freeze* 

Cherry Water Ice, — Cherries two pounds, either Kentish or May 
Duke, ripe gooseberries four ounces, one pint of syrup, half a pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons ; pound the cherries with the 
stones in a mortar, pass the juice of the fruit through a sieve, mix 
the syrup and water with it, and freeze ; if it should not freeze suffi- 
ciently, add a little more water. 

Gooseberry Water Ice. — Ripe gooseberries two pounds, the red hairy 
sort is the best, one pound of cherries, one pint of syrup, one pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons; mash the fruit and pass it through 
a sieve, mix it with the syrup and water, and freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. — One quart of ripe raspberries, four ounces 
of ripe cherries and currants, half a pint of syrup, half a pint of water, 
and the juice of two lemons. Mash the fruit and pass the juice 
through a sieve, mix the syrup water and lemon with it, and freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. — Two pottles of the best scarlet pines, one 
pint of syrup, half a pint of water, and the juice of two lemons. 

Mix as currant. All red fruits require the addition of a little pr&* 
pared cochineal to heighten the colour. 

Apricot Water /c€,— Eighteen or twenty fine ripe apricots, accord- 
ing to their size, half a pint of syrup, half a pint of water, the juice 
of two lemons. 

Mash the apricots and pass them through a sieve, mix the pulp 
with the syrup water and lemon-juice, break the stones, blanch the 
kernels, and pound them fine with a little water, pass them through 
a sieve, add it to the mixture, and freeze. 

Peach Water lee. — One pound of the pulp of ripe peaches, half a 
pkit of syrup, half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons. Mix as 
apricot. If the fruit is not ripe enough to pulp, open them and take 
out the stones, put them in a stew-pan with the syrup and water, boil 
until tender, and pass them through a sieve ; mix in the pounded 
kernels; when cold} freeze. 

Damson Ice. — One quart of damsons, one pint of syrup, half a pint 
of water. Mix as peach ice. Magnum-bonums, Orleans, green- 
gages, or any other plum may be done in the same way. 

7# : ' 



78 THE CONFECTIONEB. 

Pine-apple JVater Ice. — Half a pint of pine syrup, one pint of water, 
the juice of two lemons, and three or four slices of preserved pine 
cut into small dice; mix and freeze. 

Fresh Pine-apple Water Ice, — One pound of pine-apple, one pint 
of syrup, half a pint of water, and the juice of two lemons. Cut the 
pine in pieces, and put it into a stew-pan with the syrup and water, 
and boil until tender ; pass it through a sieve, add the lemon-juice, 
with two or three slices of the pine cut in small dice, mix and freeze 
when cold. The pine may be pounded instead of being boiled, and 
mixed with the syrup, && 

The whole of these ices may be made with preserved fruit instead 
of fresh. 

One pound of jam or jelly, one pint of water, the juice pf two-lem* 
ens, and syrup sufficient to make it palatable. 

jSpple-Waier Ice* — Pare and (Sore some fine apples, cut them iii 
pieces into a preserving pan with sufficient water for them to float, 
ho\\ until they are reduced to a marmalade, then strain : to a pint c^ 
apple-water add half a pint of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a little 
water; when cold, freeze. 

Pear-PVater Ice. — Prepare as apple ice. 

Orange-Water lee. — One pint of China orange-juice, one pint of 
syrup, half a pint of water, the juice of four large lemons. 

Rub off the yellow rind of six oranges and two lemons on sugar, 
scrape it off and mix with the strained juice, syrup and water. 

Lemon-Water Ice. — Haifa pint of lemon-juice, half a pint of water, 
one pint of syrup, the peels of six lemons rubbed off on sugar, or the 
yellow rind may be pared or grated off, and the juice squeezed to it 
in a basin ; let it remain for an hour or two, then strain, mix, and 
freeze ; whip up the whites of three eggs to a strong froth, with a 
little sugar, as for meringues ; when the ice is beginning to set, work 
this well in it, which will make it eat beautifully soft and delicious; 
freeze to the required consistence ; if the ice is to be served in giasse«^ 
the meringue may be added after it has been frozen. Orange-water 
ice may be done the same. 

Marasehino-Water /c£'-— Make a lemon ice as the above, using less 
water, and making up the deficiency with Maraschino ; but be careful 
the taste of the lemon does not prevail too much; add more water and 
syrup to correct it if it does. Noyau and all other liqueur ices are 
made the same way, using that to flavour the lemon ice which it bears 
the name of. Champagne and wine ices the same. 

Punch- Wafer Ice. ^^^ikke either a good lemon ice, or use som(ef 
orange-juice with the lemons, in the proportion of one orange to twe 
lemons; either rub off the yellow rind of the lemons on sugar, or pare 
it very thin, and soak it. in the spirit for a few hours ; when the ioe 
is beginning to set, work in the whites of three eggs to each quarts 
beaten to a strong froth, and mixed with sugar as for meringue, or 



*tB'B CONPECTIONEH. 79 

add the whites without whisking th^m; when it is nearly frozen/take 
out the pot from the ice, and mix well with it a glass each of rum 
and brandy, or sufficient to make it a good flavour ; some like the 
taste of the rum to predominate, but in this case of course you will be 
guided by the wish of your employer: In general the prevailing fla- 
vour distinguishes it by name, as rum-punch or brandy-punch ice ; 
after the spirit is well mixed, replace the pot and finish freezing. If 
champagne, arrack, or tea is added, it is then termed champagne- 
punch ice, arrack-punch ice, &c. 

Punch d la Romaine — Roman Punch Ice, — Make a quart of lemon 
ice, and flavour it with a glass or two of each, of rum, brandy, cham- 
pagne, and Maraschino ; when it is frozen, to each quart take the 
whites of five eggs and whip them to a very strong froth ; boil half a 
pound of sugar to the ball, and rub it with a spoon or spatula against 
the sides to grain it ; when it turns white, mix it quickly with the 
whites of eggSy stir it lightly together, and add it to the ice; when 
cold, mix it well together, and serve it in glasses; less sugar must be 
used in the ice, so as to allow for that which is used in making the 
meringue. 

Mille Fruit Water Ice. — Make a good lemon ice, with a pint of 
syrup, half a pint of water, and as much strained lemon-juice as will 
give it the desired flavour, with some elder flowers infused in syrup; 
wheii the ice is frozen, mix it in some preserved green fruits and 
peels cut in small dice ; if any large fruits are used, such as apricots, 
peaches, pine-apples, &c., they must be also cut in dice like the peels; 
sprinkle it with prepared cochineal, and mix it a little bo as it may 
appear in veiodL 



SECTION XIX. ^JELLIES. 

[Calves' Fed Jellies. — Boil down one set of calves' feet in four 
quarts of water till it is reduced to one half, then strain through a 
sieve, in order to remove the bones; when settled and cold take off 
the grease on the surface, then boil, with the following additions : — 
twelve eggs, three pints of good Madeira wine, and two pounds of 
loaf sugar, the juice of four lemons; stir the mixture well with a 
whisk or spatula, and Alter through a fine flannel bag. Jellies of 
Champagne and other wines are made in the same manner. 

Coffee Jellt/ is made the same as preceding, using, instead of Ma«- 
deira wine, a decoction of coffee, prepared as follows: — infuse half a 
pound of roasted Mocha coffee, pulverised or ground, in one quart of 
water, strain ofl" the decoction, and add to it a little brandy. 

Tea Jellt/— Green or B/ac*.— Treat in the same way, using an in- 
fusion of half an ounce of tea to one quart of water. 



80 THE CONFECTIONSA* 



FRUIT J£LLIES« 

Strawberry Jelly. — One pound of picked strawberries, press them 
lightly, and put them in four ouncee of clear syrup; cover the infu- 
sion, and let them stand all. night; strain through a bag on the fol- 
lowing morning: in the mean time clarify half a pound of sugar; 
when nearly clarified add to it a few drops of prepared cochineal, to 
give it a fine red colour; after which, strain it through a sieve, and 
add to it an ounce of clarified isinglass, the juice of two sound lemons, 
and afterwards the fruit ; stir the jelly gently, and put it in a mould 
placed in ice. 

N. B. — To clarify isinglass, take one ounce of the best Russia, cut 
it in small pieces, wash it several times in clear warm water, put it on 
the fire in a small pan with one pint of soft water, let it boil suffi- 
ciently, taking care to skim it well ; when it is reduced to one^half, 
strain through a napkin into a clean vessel. The sugar and isinglass 
should be only lukewarm when you mix them. These remarks apply 
to all jellies of this kind. 

Pine Jpple Jelly. — Take a fine ripe pine apple, cut it small, and 
strain the juice through a hair sieve, then throw it into the boiling 
syrup, let it boil up, and when nearly cold strain it through a silk 
sieve, add a little caramel to give the jelly a fine yellow tinge ; 
then the juice of two fine lemons, and an ounce of clarified isinglass. 
Proceed as before. 

Jelly of ^pricoU, — Take the stones out of one dozen and a half of 
fine ripe apricots and boil them in the syrup, which, in this case, 
should be as light coloured as possible ;. when boiled sufficiently to 
extract the flavour, strain through a napkin, add the necessary quan- 
tity of isinglass, and finish as usual. 

Orange Jelly, — Squeeze the juice out of twelve Havanna oranges 
and one lemon, strain through a fine linen cloth, then mix with the 
syrup boiled to the ball ; add the clarified isinglass, filter through a 
fine flannel bag, and finish as before. 

The foregoing will suffice for all fruit jellies. ' 



BLANC MANGE. 

Take four ounces of sweet almonds blanched, half an ounce of 
bitter almonds, pound them in a clean mortar, moisten them gra- 
dually with orange- flower water, mix this with^one quart of fresh 
cream and one ounce of clarified isinglass, put into a saucepan, con- 
stantly stirring till it boils, then pass through a fine sieve, and form 
into a mould, and put on ice. 

Blanc Mange may he flavoured with vanilla. Mocha cofTee, mari»- 
chino, pistachios, and strawberries; in which case the bitter almonds 
should be left out.] 



THE CONFECTIONER. 81 



SECTION XX. ON ESSENCES. 



The essences or essential oils sold for general use are or ought to 
be obtained by distillation ; but for many purposes they may be ob- 
tained equally as good, and, in some cases, superior, without. As 
these are often adulterated with olive or nut oils, or with spirits of 
wine, the fixed oils may be detected by pouring some of the suspected 
essence on a piece of clean writing paper, and holding it before the 
fire ; the quantity of fixed oil it contains will remain, leaving a greasy 
mark, whereas the pure essential oil will evaporate without leaving 
any appearance ; if spirits of wine be added, pour a little water or oil 
of turpentine into the /adulterated sample, and it will turn milky, as 
the two will not unite without producing this effect. It is often 
sophisticated with the oil of turpentine, which is the lightest of all 
essential oils; in this case, rub a drop over the hand and hold it by 
the fire, when it may be recognized by the smell, or if burnt it will- 
give out a dense black smoke. 

Rectified spirits of wine dissolve the volatile oil and resin of vege- 
tables (their taste and smell most frequently reside in these), whilst 
water acts on the saline and mucilaginous parts. Proof spirit, which 
is a mixture of both these, extracts all their virtues, and through this 
we are enabled to obtain the essence or tincture of any vegetable, of 
superior quality to that generally sold, and at considerably less ex- 
pense. The essential oil of lemons or oranges is obtained by rubbing 
off the yellow rind on the rough surface of a piece of loaf sugar, which 
is much superior for flavour to that produced by any other means. 
Scrape off the sugar after it has imbibed the oil, and dry it in a gentle 
heat, put it into small glazed pots, and tie them over with bladder; it 
will keep any length of time unimpaired. The same observation 
holds good as regards all fruit whose flavour or essential oil resides in 
its peel. 

Essence of Lemon, — Eight ounces of lemon peel, ten ounces of rec- 
tified spirits of wine. Pare or grate off the yellow rind of the lemon 
very thin and weigh it, put it into a bottle and pour the spirit on it, 
stop it close, and let it steep for fourteen days, when it is fit for use. 
Proof gin or white rum will serve equally well, but not such as is 
generally sold at the gin*shops; this is excellent for ices, creams, 
lemonade, &c. In many establishments, where quantities of peel are 
thrown away, the cost of this would be comparatively trifling, com- 
pared with the price of the inferior oil generally sold. 

Essence of Orange, — Make as lemon, using only four ounces of the 
yellow rind. 

Essence of BergamoU — From the peel of the bergamot lemon. 

Essence de Cedrat — Prom the yellow part of the fresh citron peel ; 
it may also be obtained by pressing the yellow part of the peel be- 
tween two glass plates, and by the distillation of the flowers of the 
citron-tree. 



82 THE COWFECTIOKER. 

Allspice^ Cloves^ Cinnamon^ or Nutmegs^ ^'c, — Two ounces of spice, 
one pint of proof spirit Bruise the spice, put it into a bottle, stop it 
close, let it remain fourteen days, and filter for use. 

The oil from nutmegs is oflen extracted from them by decoction, 
before they are brought to the market, and their orifices closed again 
with powdered sassafras; this may be ascertained by the lightness of 
the nut; if it is punctured with a pin, the oil will be pressed from it 
when good. These oils may be obtained by expression or distillation ; 
they hold resin in solution, and consequently sink in water. The 
essences usually sold are made by adding half an ounce of the pure 
oil to one pint of spirits of wine. 

Essefice of Ginger. — ^Tbe best Jamaica or China ginger two ounces, 
proof spirit one pint. Powder the ginger, mix it with the spirit, stop 
close, and let it steep for twelve or fourteen days. 

This is the same as is sold for " Oxley's concentrated essence of 
Jamaica ginger," — a mere solution of ginger in rectified spirits— 
Paris*a Pharmacologia, 

Essence of Peppermtni. — ^•* A spirituous solution of the essential oil, 
coloured green by^ spinach leaves." Ibid. This essential oil is ob- 
tained by distillation. Four pounds of dried leaves yield one ounce. 

Essence of Vanilla. — Vanilla two ounces, water ten ounces, rectified 
spirit three-quarters of an ounce. Cut the vanilla in small pieces, 
and pound it fine in a marble mortar, with loaf sugar (about a pound), 
adding the white of an egg and the spirit. Put it into a glazed pot, 
tie a piece of writing paper over it, and make a hole in it with a pin ; 
stand the pot in warm water, keeping it at that heat for twenty-four 
hours, then strain for use. 

One drachm of this is equal to an ounce of vanilla, and is excellent 
for flavouring ices, creams, liqueurs, &c. 

Essence of Bitter Almonds. — ^This is obtained by distilling the cake 
or residue of the almonds afler the oil has been expressed from them. 
It is a deadly poison, containing prussic acid, like all other nuts or 
leaves, which possess the bitter principle. Flies drop dead when 
passing over the still when it is in operation. The essence usually 
sold is one ounce of oil to seven ounces of rectified spirit. 



SECTION XXI. — ^MERINGUES AND ICING. 

Dry Meringues in the form of Eggs* — Ten whites of eggs, twelve 
ounces of sugar. 

Obtain the newest laid eggst, and separate the white from the yolk 
very carefully ; put the whites into a pan, which must be quite free 
from grease ; whisk them to a very strong froth so as it will support 
an egg, or even a greater weight; have the sugar pounded and sifted 
through a lawn sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible; spread soma 
pieces of board about an inch thick, then with a table or dessert spoou 



K 



THE CONFECTIONER. 83 

drop them on the paper about two inches asunder, dust them with fine 
powdered loaf sugar, blow off all that does not adhere, and put them 
into a cor' oven to bake until they are a nice light brown ; if the oven 
ehould be too warm, when the surface gets dry or hardened coyer 
Ihera with paper; as soon as they are done take them off with a knife, 
press the inside or soft part down with the top or the back of a spoon, 
place them on sieves, and put them into the stove to dry ; when they 
are required to be served fill them with any kind of preserved fruit or 
cream, if it is rather acid the better, and put two together. 

The quality of the meringues will depend on the eggs being well 
whipped to a very strong froth, and also on the quantity of sugar, for 
if there is not enough they will eat tough. 

[Kisses, — Twelve ounces of sugar powdered very fine and passed 
through a silk sieve, the whites of six eggs beaten to a strong froth ; 
mix and lay out on paper, as for dry meringues: when baked, place 
two together. The size should be about that of a pigeon's egg."] 

Italian Meringues, — One pound of sugar, the whites of six eggs. 
Clarify the sugar and boil it to the blow ; in the mean timje whip up 
the whites as for the last, take the sugar from the fire and rub it a 
little against the sides of the pan to grain it ; as soon as it begins to 
turn white, mix in the whipped eggs, stirring the sugar well from 
the bottom and sides of the pan with the whisk or spatula ; lay them 
off, and bake as dry meringues ; these may be coloured by adding the 
liquid colour to the syrup so as to give the desired tint; and either 
of them may be flavoured by rubbing off the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or cedrats on sugar, and scraping it off as it imbibes the oil ; or it 
may be flavoured with vanilla, by cutting it in small pieces and pound- 
ing it with some sugar, or with any liqueur by adding a spoonful or 
two when you mix the eggs or sugar. They may also be varied in 
form, and baked on tin or iron plates instead of wood, that the bottoms 
may be quite firm. The tops may be covered with almonds or pis- 
tachios, blanched and cut small or in fillets, or with currants, or 
coloured sugars ; tlie whole depending on the taste and ingenuity of 
the artist. 

Mushrooms. — ^To make these, take either of the pastes for merin- 
gues or light icing, as for cakes ; put some into a bag in the shape of 
a cone, with a tin pipe at the end, the same as used for Savoy bis- 
cuits ; lay them off in drops the size yon wish them to be, on iron 
plates rubbed quite clean and dry, bake them as you would merin- 
gues, make also a smaller drop to form the stalk ; when they are 
baked, take them off the tin and scoop out a little with your finger 
from the bottom near the edge, to form the hollow rough surface 
andemeath; then dry them in the stove ; scrape some choc9late and 
dissolve it in a little warm water, and rub a little over the rough part 
nnderneatb ; then place the stalk in the centre, fixing it with a little 
icing, and let the flat part which was on the tin be placed outermost 
to represent where it was cut. 



84 THE CONFECTIONEK. ^ 

leing for Wedding or Twelfth CakeSf 4re. — PooDd, and sift eome 
treble-refined sugar through a lawn sieve, and put it into an earthen 
pan, which must be quite fre>? from grease ; to each pound of sifted 
sugar add the whites of three eggs, or sufficient to make it into a 
paste of a moderate consistence, then with a wooden epoon or 
spatula beat it well, using a little lemon-juice occasionally, and more 
white of egg if you find that it will bear it without making it too thin, 
until you have a nice light icing, which will hang to the sides of the 
pan and spoon ; or, if it is dropped from the spoon, it should remain 
on the top without speedily losing the form it assumed. A pan of 
icing, when well beat and finished, should contain as much again in 
bulk as it was at the commencement: use sufficient lemon-juico to 
give the icing a slight acid, or it will scale off the cake in large pieces 
when it is cut Many prefer the pyrol igneous acid to the Iemon« 
juice, but the flavour is not so delicate, and it always retains a smell 
of the acid; neither did I ever find, as some assert, that it improves 
the quality and appearance of the icing; the only advantage derived 
from it is that of economy. 

On piping CakeSf Bon-bona, ^c. — This is a method of ornamenting 
wedding, twelfth-cakes, and other articles with icing, by means of 
small pipes or tubes; these are most generally made with writing- 
paper folded in the form of a cone, in the same manner as a grocer 
makes up his papers for small lots of sugar, tea, &c. The tube is 
filled with icing, made as for cakes, the base of the cone, or the place 
where it was filled, is turned down to prevent the sides opening, and 
the escape of the icing ; the point is then cut off with a sharp knife 
or scissors, so as to make a hole sufficiently large to form the icing, 
when squeezed or pressed out, in a thread of the required size, and 
which will either be fine or coarse according to the length of the 
point which is cut ofl^. If the hole at the point of the cone is not per- 
fectly straight when the icing is pressed out, it will form a spiral 
thread, which is very inconvenient to work with. Stars, borders, 
flowers, and difi^erent devices, are formed on cakes after they are iced, 
the execution of which depends on the ability and ingenuity of the 
artist. Baskets, Chinese and other temples, &,Cm are formed on moulds 
by these means, first giving them a coating of white wax, which is 
brushed over them afier it is meltei^, and when cold, the icing is 
formed on it like trellis-work ; when finished, the mould is warmed, 
and the icing easily comes off. Some of the pipes which are used 
cannot be formed with paper, as the tape and star-pipes, which are 
made of tin, having a bag fastened to them in a similar manner to 
that generally used for dropping out Savoy biscuits, macaroons, &c., 
only much smaller, the point of the tin tube of the one being fluted to 
form a star, and in the other it is flat, so that when the icin^ is forced 
pr squeezed through, it comes out in a broad thin sheet, like a piece 
of tape. I employ a ^et of pipes made of tin, with small bags fastened 
to them ; these are of different dimensions; the orifice of the round 
ones commences at the size of a common pin, and the tape pipes from 



THE CONFECTIONER, 85 

a quarter to half an inch in width. I find these much hetter than 
paper ones, as the trouble and time which is lost in constantly making 
new ones is amply repaid by the others, as they are not very expen- 
sive and are always ready for use. These pipes should be in the 
hands of the confectioner what the pencil or brush is to the painter, 
— capable of performing wonders with men of genius. Some of the 
bon-bons, which may be seen in the shops, are proofs of what I assert; 
and many things are so cleverly done, that many persons would be- 
lieve that they were either formed in a mould or modelled. I have 
not space to enlarge further on this subject, but much more might be 
given in explanation ; therefore the artist must be guided by his own 
genius and fancy.* 



SECTION XXII. GUM PASTE. 

Take one ounce of picked gum-tragacanth ; wash it in water, to 
take off any dust or dirt ; put it into a clean pot, and pour on it rather 
more than half a pint of water, or sufficient to cover the gum about 
an inch ; stir it frequently, to accelerate the solution ; it will take 
twenty-four hours to dissolve; then squeeze it out through a coarse 
cloth, as directed for lozenges, taking care that everything employed 
in the making is very clean, or it will spoil the colour; put it into a 
mortar, adding gradually six or eight ounces of treble-refined sugar, 
sifted through a lawn sieve; work it well with the pestle, until it is 
incorporated and becomes a very white smooth paste ; put it into a 
glazed pot, cover the paste with a damp cloth, and turn the pot upside- 
down on an even surface, to exclude the air. When it is wanted, 
take a little of it and put it on a clean marble, and work some more 
sugar into it (which has been sifled through a lawn sieve) with the 
fingers, until it is a firm paste, which will break when pulled ; if it is 
not stiff enough, it will roll up under the knife when you cut it from 
the impressions in your paste-boards ; if it is too stiff, work in a little 
of your prepared paste with it, to soften it When your paste works 
harsh and cracks, it has too much gum in it ; in this case, use a little 
water to work it down ; and if the gum is too thin it will crack, and 
dry too soon from the excess of sugar, therefore add some more 
strained gum that has not been mixed with sugar. The same obeer 
vation also holds good with respect to lozenges. If it is required 
coloured, add a little prepared cochineal, or any other colour in fine 
powder; mix it on the stone. If they are to be flavoured with any 
essence, add it at the same time. This paste is fit to be eaten, and is 
the foundation of gum-paste comfits, dragees, &c. 

Gum Paste for Ornaments. — Take some of the prepared paste, as 

* An excellent work for the use of the ornamental confectioner is Page's 
** Acanthus,^* whici^ may be obtained of any bookseller. 
8 



86 THE CONJ-ECTIOWER. 

for the last, and work into it on the stone some very fine starch pow- 
der, using equal quantities of starch and sugar. This may also be 
made with rice flour, instead of starch. These are chiefly used for 
pieces montees. It may be moulded or modelled into any form, or 
cut but from figures or borders carved in wood, called gum-paste 
boards, using a little starch-powder to prevent its sticking whilst 
working it ; a little tied up in a small muslin bag is the handiest for 
use. When you want to get the paste from the impressions in the 
boards, take a small piece of paste and press it at each end ; if it does 
not come out very readily, moisten the piece, and touch that in the 
impression at three or four places, which, being damp, adheres to it 
and draws it out. 

Paste pw gilding on, — Take some dissolved gum, as before, and 
make it into a paste with a little starch-powder to finish it; or it may 
be made with some of the prepared sugar gum-paste, finishing it with 
etarch-powder. 

Papier Mdchee, — Take the cuttings of either white or brown paper, 
and boil them in water until reduced to a paste; press the water 
from it when cold enough, and pound it well in a mortar ; put it into 
a pan or glazed pipkin,- with a little gum Arabic, Senegal, or com- 
mon glue, made into* rather a thick mucilage with water ; this is to 
give it tenacity ; place it on the fire and stir it until well incorpo- 
rated ; if it is not stifle enough when cold, flour may be added to make 
it of the proper consistence; it should be about the same substance as 
gum paste. This may be used for forming the rocks of a piece men- 
tee, or for vases, cassolettes, &c. ; in fact anything you desire may be 
made with it, as with gum paste ; it is very durable, not being easily 
broken, and is very light; it is now much used, instead of compo- 
sition, for the decorations of rooms and articles of furniture. It is 
from this that paper trays, snuffboxes, &c., are manufactured, and it 
is much used in France for making various beautiful little ornaments 
for containing bon-bons, &c. It may be moulded or modelled into any 
form, or cut from impressions in wood or plaster, &c. When the 
object is dry, give it a coating of composition, made with parchment 
size, and whitening or lamp-black, mixed to the consistence of oil 
paint, according to the colour it is required. Smooth it with glass 
paper, and paint or gild as wood, or japan it.* 

To gild Gum Paste, ^e. — Those articles which are gilt are seldom 
intended to be eaten, therefore first give them a coating of parchment 
size and whitening, .as the papier m^chee, or paint them with oil 
colour. When this is dry, brush over a coat of gold size, and let it 
remain until nearly dry, or so as it will stick to the fingers a little ; 
then take a small dry brush, termed by gilders a tip, rub a little 

* For further particulars, and for the method of taking the impressions 
of moulds with composition, see the * Guide to Trade — The Carver and 
Gilder,' Knight & Co., p. 53. 



TH£ CONFECTIONER. 87 

grease over the back of your hand, and pass the brush overitgentlv; 
apply it to the gold leaf, which it will take up, and place it on the 
part you intend to gild ; blow on it to make it smooth ; the gold leaf 
may first be divided into small pieces with a knife on a leathecpad or 
cushion, to suit the size of your work ; rub it over gently with a piece 
of wool, to make it appear glossy. Those parts which have not taken 
the gold, just breathe on, then apply a small piece of'the leaf, and rub 
again with the wool. If your piece is intended to be eaten, let the 
paste be perfectly dry and smooth ; then prepare some mucilage of 
gum Arabic, strain it, and grind it well with an equal portion of white 
sugar candy; lay it over the part you intend to gild with a stiff 
brush ; when dry, breathe on it, so as to moisten it, and gild as 
before. 

To Bnmze Gum Paste. — Prepare* your object, if not to be eaten, as 
for gilding, giving it a coat of invisible green, prepared with turpen- 
tine, a little japan gold size, and a small portion of oil ; when it is 
nearly dry, dip a fitch pencil in some bronze powder, shake off the 
loose pieces which hang about the brush, and apply it to the parts you 
wish to assume the appearance of copper, which are in general the 
most prominent. 

Another method. — Smooth your finger with sand-paper, and give it 
a coat of isinglass dissolved, or parchment size; when this is dry, 
give it a coat of colour made as follows : — Take a sufiicient quantity 
of prepared indigo, with verditer blue, and a little spruce ochre or 
saffron, in such proportions as to make a deep green ; grind them to- 
gether with white of eg^ and powdered sugar-candy, or with parch- 
ment size; give it a coat of this, and when nearly dry apply the 
bronze as befor& 

On the Construction ofAssiettes and Pieces Jtfbn/ces.— To be a profi- 
cient in this part requires a general knowledge of the fine arts, par- 
ticularly the principles of architecture ; for without this, however well 
your piece may be finished with regard to workmanship, it still re- 
mains a dull, heavy, unmeaning mass, having no proportion nor a 
particle of true design in it. I have seen many pieces, and some in 
(he principal shops, with these defects, although otherwise well exe- 
cuted. My limits will not allow me to enter into the details neceS" 
sary to illustrate this part, therefore the artist must refer to books on 
the subject ; but in the absence of these it is best to work from some 
correct drawing, which, with the few notes I shall subjoin, may serve 
for general purposes. 

There are many prevailing styles or orders of architecture, as the 
Egyptian, Grecian, Roman, Saxon, Norman, Gothic, &c. The Gothic 
is the most beautiful, being pointed, and is generally used for cathe- 
drals and chui'ches. The Norman is plain and simple, with, semi- 
circular arches. The Saxon is after the same style, into which are 
introduced some ornamental workings. The Egyptian is more flat 
and square, embellished with hieroglyphics. In the Grecian and 



88 THE CONFECTIONER. 

BofDan architectnre there are five orders, viz., Tascan, Doric, Ionic, 
CorinthiaD, and Composite ; and a building may be denominated Ionic, 
Corinthian, &c., merely from its ornaments. The namber of cohimns, 
windows, &c., may be the same in either order, but varied in their pro- 
portions. The height of the columns in each is, — for the Tuscan, 
seven times its diameter; Doric, eight; Ionic, nine; Corinthian, ten; 
Composite, ten. The Tuscan is quite plain, without any ornament 
whatever ; the Doric is distinguished by the channels and projecting 
intervals in the frieze, called tryglypbs; the Ionic by the ornaments 
of its capital, which are spiral, and called volutes ; the Corinthian by 
the superior height of its capital, and its being ornamented wifh 
leaves, which support very small volutes ; the Composite has also a 
tall capital, with leaves, but is distinguished from the Corinthian by 
having the large volutes of thS Ionic capital. The Grecian and 
Roman orders differ in some respects as to the style of each, but for 
particulars refer to works on the subject. These orders are adopted 
for buildings, with various modifications, in most parts of the world. 

The Chinese have a peculiar kind of style, which needs no descrip- 
tion, as it is generally represented in this country on our delft ware, 
&c. The Swiss style, which is something of the Gothic, is very well 
adapted for pieces montees, as well as the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian 
orders, they being more light and elegant. 

Of Pieces Montees. — These are in general made to represent build- 
ings of all descriptions, fountains, trophies, vases, cups, helmets, the 
last being generally mounted on pedestals and filled with flowers, 
fruit, &c. ; also rocks, bridges, fortifications, &c. &c., the building, dz^c, 
being" generally made with gum-paste, confectioners' or almond pastes,- 
The bodies of rocks may be formed with pieces of rock sugar, cakes, 
biscuits, &Cm of all descriptions, being fixed together with caramel 
sugar ; those not intended to be eaten may be made with papier m&- 
chee and common gum-paste ; the rocks or bottoms of these are often 
formed with pieces of cork, flocks, and paper, the surface being 
afterwards covered with a coating of very thin icing, which is appli^ 
with a brush. 

To construct your pieces with accuracy, first cut out your intended 
design in stout-paper, in suitable parts to be put together ; then roll 
out the paste thin on a marble stone ; lay your pattern on it, and cut 
your paste to it with a small sharp-pointed knife; let it dry, and fix 
It together with some dissolved gum, or a little gum-paste made rather 
thin with water. Cut your ornaments or decorations from paste- 
boards; let them dry a few minutes, and fix them in their proper 
places. Water may be represented with a piece of looking-glass, and 
falling water with silver web or spun glass. 

Biscuit Paste to imitate Marble Pocks, ^c, for Ptices Montees, — 
Prepare some paste as for Savoy cakes (see p. 94); take on&-third 
of the mixture, and add to it some dissolved chocolate ; stir the whole 
well together, and divide into two equal portions ; to one part add 
some more of the mixture, when you will have a light and dark 



THE OONFEGTIONEB. 89 

bro\PD ; mix together some prepared cochineal or carmine and infu- 
sion of saffron, to make a dark orange, and stfT this into another por> 
tion of paste ; divide it, and add to one part some more of the paste, 
which will give a light and dark orange ; hutter or paper a sqaare 
tin, and put in a spoonful of each coloured paste in rotation, spread- 
ing it with the spoon so as it may appear in layers, beginning with 
the dark colours, and so alternately until the whole is used ; or one- 
half of each may be put into another tin, and mixed all together, so 
that it may appear in veins ; bake it in a moderate oven, and when 
cold cut it into pieces as it is required, to represent pieces of rock, 
marble, &c. For variety, the paste may be coloured with spinach 
green, infusion of saffron, red, and blue, and either put in layers or 
mixed together as before, 

• Pate d* Office, or Confectioners^ Paste, — Take one pound and a 
quarter of fine flour, and ten ounces of loaf sugar sifled through a 
fine sieve; make a bay, and put in it a sufficient quantity of the yolks 
or whites of eggs, or whole eggs, to make it into a moderate stiff 
paste; work it well, and make it quite smooth; let it reihain covered 
over for a short time, that it may get mellow. If this paste is re- 
quired white and delicate, use the whites only of the eggs. This ia 
used for the frame-work or building of the pieces montees, or for the 
bottom or foundation on which you build your biscuits, sugar, &c. 
Roll it out on an even board or marble slab until it is about one-sixth 
of an inch in thickness, or more, according to the weight it has to 
bear. Dust your sheet, and roll it on the pin; then lay or roll it over 
a baking-plate slightly buttered; press out any air-bladders which 
may be underneath, and prick it with the point of a sharp-pointed 
knife in a few places ; lay on your patterns, cut it out to the desired 
form, and bake in a moderate oven ; or it may be cut out when the 
paste is half baked, and finish baking it afterwards ; or it may be 
dried in the stove instead of being baked. If it should be blistered 
when it is taken from the oven, put it immediately on an even board, 
and place another on it ; remove it when it is cold, and it will be 
quite straight. 

This patste may be made with the addition of half an ounce of dis- 
solved gum-dragon, pounding it well in a mortar, and using less eg;g9. 
Each of these may be coloured to any desired tint, when it should be 
dried in a stove instead of being baked. Fix the parts together, when 
finished, with some of the same paste made thin with dissolved gum, 
or with caramel sugar; ornament it with spun sugar, or with coloured 
sugar-sands. (See Coloured Sugar). 

From this paste, or almond paste, may be made cottages, temples, 
fountains, pyramids, castles, bridges, hermits'-cells, vases, or any 
other required forms, which are to be made in different pieces and put 
together afterwards, or formed in moulds, and either baked or dried 
in the stove. 

jSssiettes Monties, or dressed plates, — These are composed of pieces 

8* 



90 THE CONFECnONEK. 

of wire of different sizes to suit the dimeneions of the piece, which 
is bound round with sitvcr or tissue paper, and fastened with paste. 
These wires, after they are fashioned to the desired figure, are fixed 
with binding" wire, and the whole is finished with stout Bristol-board 
or card paper, ornamented gold borders and papers, and decorated 
with gum paste. They are placed in the centre of the table, with 
bon-Dons, &c. 

On Modelling. — ^This art is most important to the confectioner. It 
is not so difficult to accomplish as is generally supposed ; it only re- 
quires patience and perseverance, with a close attention to the pro- 
portions and orders of nature. A few modelling tools, and facility in 
handling the paste, is all that is requisite to become an expert model- 
ler. The form of the body must first be made with the fingers, the 
more minute parts with the tools and a pair of scissors; the last id* 
very useful for dividing the fingers on the hands and the toes of a 
human figure. The proportions necessary to form it are these : — the 
whole length of a human being is six times the length of his feet, 
eight times of his head (that is, from the crown to the chin), ten 
times of his face, or the distance from the crown to the mouth; the 
thumb is as long as the nose or the biggest joint of the middle finger ; 
the fore finger is shorter than the third, and the little finger is 
than the third by one "joint ; the width of the wrist is as ~ 
thumb, end about a quarter ; this varies ; the ear is ah 
of the nose, its breadth half its length ; the arm is th| 
length of the head, or four faces ; the leg, from the km 
bottom of the foot, measures two heads and a-half ; the 
one-sixth of the human stature, if divided into three pt 
tain first the toes from the top of the large one to the 1( 
•the little one ; Dex!t the middle of the foot, and lastly t{ 
instep. There is also a slight difference between the pro[ 
male and female. In infancy and very early youth the foi 
much alike in both sexes. The head is oval, very much ei 
backwards, with the forehead and top of the head comparativi 
the jawbones are short and have little depth ; the bones of the^ 
are short and flat; in the male subject, the elevation of the fi'c 
sinuses at the eyebrows, which characterizes the male head, is wai 
ing ; and the neck is very small in proportion to the head. In old ai 
the cheeks and mouth fall in, because of the wasting of the teetl 
the nose and chin approach each other ; the fat is absorbed, and tl 
muscles shrink, which covers the surface with wrinkles ; and in time,^ 
the bones too are wasted, and the figure bends beneath its own 
weight. With these directions proceed to model the human figure, 
referring to anatomical plates for the position of the muScles, &e. 
When the figure is complete, proceed to dress it in any style Or cos- 
tume you may fancy, making it from the same paste, and colouring 
it, giving the figure any attitude you may think proper, but always 
prefer the graceful, avoiding the stiff and awkward. The modelling 
of animals and birds is on the same principle, the wings of the latter 




THE CONFECTIONER. 61 

being pushed or cut in moulds or pasteboardB. Flowers are tnoatiy 
done with cuttera in the form of the leaf of the flowers jou would 
wish to represent ; form the calyx in a mould, and fasten it on a piece 
of wire ; Gx the leaves on the calyx to imitate nature, and colour 

them accordingly. 



92 THE CONFECTIOMES. 

Modelling 7\W«.-»No. 1 is termed the rose-stick, the thio flat end 
beiii^ used for forming the leaves of roses out of modeUing wax by 
flattening a piece of it on a table until it is of the required form and 
size; the other end is used for fluting and making borders. 

No. 2 is by some termed a foot tool, being used for forming the 
edges and borders to wax baskets, the circular end being necessary 
for working underneath any part, or circular mouldings, and also for 
the paws of animals. 

No. 3. The curved thin end is used as a cutting tool, and for the 
formation of leaves ; and the opposite end for fluting. 

No. 4 serves as a gouge, and is used in the formation of leaves for 
flowers. 

The curves of each tool are also requisite for diflTerent purposes in 
modelling, and for forming the raised and depressed parts in the 
human figure, animals, &.c. They should be made of beech^ as it 
relieves better when used about fat or modelling wax. There are 
many others, but these will be found quite sufficient for most purposes, 
with the dotting or pointing tool, which a coAmon skewer, or piece 
of round pointed stick will supply its place. The tool usually made 
for this purpose has a concave or semicircular hollow at the thick end, 
for making beading, or else with a flat round end, similar to a tam- 
bour needle; the last being used for working up the leaves of roses, 
&.C., in the hollow of the hand, when they are made of gum-paste. 

Modelling Wax. — This is made of white wax, which is melted and 
mixed with lard to make it malleable. In working it, the tools and 
the board or«tone are mqistened with water to prevent its adhering; 
it may be coloured to any desired tint with dry colour. 



SECTION XXII.— -ON COLOUBS. 

- Many of the colours prepared for use in this art come more pro- 
perly under the denomination of dyes, alum and cream of tartar 
being used as a mordant ; and many of them are prepared in the 
same manner as for dyeing. One of the principal colours requisite 
for the confectioner's use is coccinella, or cochineal. The sorts gene- 
rally sold are the black, silver, foxy, and the granille. The insect is 
of two species, the fine and the wild cochineal; the fine diflers from 
the wild in size, and is also covered with a white mealy powder. The 
^best is of a deep mulberry colour, with a white powder between the 
wrinkles, and a bright red within. A great deal of adulteration is 
practised with this article^ both at home and abroad ; it is on this 
account that persons prefer the silver grain, because it cannot be so 
well sophisticated. Good cochineal should be heavy, dry, and more 
or less of a silvery colour, and without smell. 

To prepare Cochineal — Pound an ounce of cochineal quite fine, 
and put it into a pint of river water with a little potash or soda, and 



THE CONFECTIONER. 



9^ 



let it boil ; then add about a quarter of an ounce powdered alum, the 
eame of cream of tartar, and boil for ten minutes ; if it is required for 
keeping, add two or three ounces of powdered loaf sugar. 

Carmine. — Reduce one ounce of cochineal to a fine powder, add to 
it six quarts of clea]: rain or filtered water, as for cochinbal. Put this 
into a large tin saucepan, or a copper one tinned, and let it boil for 
three minutes, then add twenty-five grains of alum, and let it boil 
two minutes longer; take it off the .fire to cool; when it is blood 
warm pour off the clear liquor into shallow vessels, and put them by 
to settle for two days, covering them with paper to keep out the dust 
In case the carmine has not separated properly, add a few drops of a 
solution of tin, or a solution of green vitriol, which is tin dissolved in 
muriatic acid, or the following may be substituted :-«one ounce and a 
half of spirit of nitre, three scruples of sal-ammoniac, three scruples 
of tin dissolved in a bottle, and use a few drops as required. When 
the carmine has settled, decant off the clear w^ich is liquid rouge. 
The first sediment is Florence lake, which remove, and dry the 
carmine for use. This preparation is by far superior to the first, for 
in this the same colour is obtained as before, which is the liquid rouge, 
the other and more expensive parts being invariably thrown away. 
The carmine can be obtained by the first process, as can be seen if 
the whole is poured into a clear bottle and allowed to settle, when 
the carmine will be deposited in a layer of bright red near the 
bottom. It produces about half an ounce of carmine. 

Yellow, — Infuse safiron in warm water, and use it for colouring 
any thing that is eatable. The English hay-^ffron is the best; it is 
taken from the tops of the pistils of the crocus flower; it is fre- 
quently adulterated with the flowers of marygolds or safflower, which 
is known as the bastard safiron, and is pressed into thin cakes with 
oil. Good saffron has a strong agreeable odour, and an aromatic taste. 
Gum paste and other articles which are not eaten may be coloured 
with gamboge dissolved in warpi water. 

Prussian Blue may be used instead of indigo, if preferred, but must 
be used sparingly. 

Sap Crreen, — ^This is prepared from the fruit of the buckthorn, and 
is purgative. 

Spinach Green. — ^This is perfectly harmless and will answer most 
purposes. Wash and drain a sufficient quantity of spinach, pound it 
well in a mortar, and squeeze the pounded leaves in a coarse cloth to 
extract all the juice ; put it in a pan and set it on a good fire, and stir 
it occasionally until it curdles, which will be when it is at the boiling 
point ; then take it ofi'and strain off the water with a fine sieve ; the 
residue left is the green ; dry it and rub it through a lawn sieve. 
This is only fit for opaque bodies, such as ices, creams, or syrups. 

Another green is made with a mixture of saffron or gamboge, and 
prepared indigo ; the lighter the green the more yellow must be a^* 



» 



94 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Vermilion and Cinnabar are preparatioDs'of mercury, and shoold 
lEiever be used ; they are of a lively red colour, but carmiQe will 
answer most purposes instead. 

Dole Ammoniac* — There is also the French and Germa n bole. These 
earths are of a pale red, and possess alexipbarmic qualities; they are 
frequently used in confectionary for painting and gilding. 

Umber, — ^This is of a blackish brown colour ; it is an earth found 
near Ck)iogne. 

Bistre.'^T}[i\s is an excellent light brown colour prepared from wood 
soot. 

These browns are harmless, but sugar may be substituted for them 
to any shade required by continuing the boiling after it has passed the 
degree of caramel until it is burnt, when it gives a black-brown, but 
water may be mixed with it so as to lessen the shades. Dissolved 
chocolate may also be substituted in some cases for the brown colours. 

Black, — Blue-black is powdered charcoal, or ivory black, which is 
obtained from the smoke of burnt ivory ; but bone black is generally 
substituted instead ; either of these may be used, but are only required 
for painting gum paste, when not intended to be eaten. 

Obtain any of these colours in fine powder, and mix them with 
some dissolved gum Arabic, a little water, and a pinch of powdered 
sugar candy ; mix them to the required consistence for painting. For 
sugars they must be used in a liquid state, and be added before it has 
attained the proper degree ; it may also be used in the same manner 
for ices, creams, &c., and for icings it can be used either way. 

THE SHADES FBODUCED BY A UIXTUEE OF COLOUES. 

Purple, — Mix carmine or cochineal, and a small portion of indigo. 

Lilac, — The same, making the blue predominate. 

Orange.— Yellow, with a portion of red. 

GeUL — The same, hut the yelbw must be more in excess. 

Lemon, — Use a solution of saffron. 

Green, — Kue and yellow. , 

SECTION XXUI. — ^DISTILLAl^^ON. 

This art is of great importance to a confectioner, as it enables him 
to make his own oils, waters, and spirits for liqueurs and ratafias, 
instead of purchasing at a high rate those vile adulterations which 
are often sold. 

The still or apparatus for distilling consists of a cucurbit, which is 
a copper pot or boiler, and contains the wash, dregs, or infusions to 
be distilled. A cover, with a large tapering neck or pipe in the cen- 
tre, is fixed on, and a continuation of small pipe, made either of tin 



THE COITFECTtONBB. 95 

or pewter, of several feet in length, is bent into a spiral form, and 
termed the worm. This is plac^ in a tub containing water, which 
is fastened on to the end of the necic. The joints or crevices are 
luted, to prevent evaporation, with a paste made of linseed meal, or 
equal portions of slacked lime or whitening, flour and salt, moistened 
with water, and spread on rags' or pieces of bladder, when it is applied 
to the joints and crevices. The water in the tub where the worm is 
should be kept quite cold, except in distilling oil of anise^eeds ; and 
for this purpose a tap or cock should be placed aboat half-way down 
the tab, that the top of the water may be drawn off when it is warm. 
Again fill it with cold water, and keep coarse cloths dipped in cold 
water to put round the alembic or still in case it should boil too fast. 
It is by these means that the steam or vapour which rises with the 
heat is condensed, and runs out at the end qf the pipe in a small stream. 
If the operation is well conducted, it should never exceed this. When 
the phlegm arises, which is a watery insipid liquor, the receiver must 
be withdrawn, for if a drop of it should run in, it must be cohobated, 
that is, re-distilled, as rt will thicken the spirit and spoil the taste. 

The still should not be filled above three parts full, to prevent it 
rising over the neck, should it happen to boil violently, as in this case 
it would spoil what is already drawn, which must be re-distilled. 



ON ESSElNTIAL OILS. 

To obtain these from plants or peels, the articles should be infused 
for two or three days, or even longer, in a sufficient quantity of cold 
water, until it has fully penetrated the pores of the materials. For 
this purpose roots should be cut into thin slices, btirks reduced to a 
coarse powder, and seeds slightly bruised ; those of sofl and loose 
texture require to be infused two or three days, the harder and more 
compact a week or two, whilst some tender herbs and plants require 
to be distilled directly. After the solvent has folly penetrated, distil 
it with an open fire ; that is, a fire under the still like a common 
washing copper, which immediately strikes the bottom. Regulate 
the fire so as to make it boil as speedily as possible, and that the oil 
may continue to distil freely during the whole process; for the longer 
it is submitted to an unnecessary heat without boiling, a greater por- 
tion of the oil is mixed with the water than there would otherwise be. 
The oil comes over the water, and either sinks to the bottom or 
swims on the top, according as it is lighter or heavier than that fiuid. 
What comes over at first is more fragrant than that towards the end, 
which is thicker, and should be re-distilled by a gentle heat, when it 
leaves a resinous matter behind. 

AH essential oils, after they are distilled, should be sufifered to stand 
some days in open bottles or vessels, loosely covered with paper to 
keep out the dust, until they have lost their disagrjseable fiery odotir, 
and become quite limpid : put them into small bottles, and keep them 



96 THE CONFECTIONEH* . 

qaite full in a cold place. The light oils pass over the ewan neek of 
the commoQ still, but the heavier ones will not so readily^ therefore a 
large low head is preferable ; the heavier^oils are those from cloves, 
allspice, cionamon, &c., or such as contain a portion of resin. 

Some plants yield three times as much oi^ if gathered when the 
flowers begin to fall off, — as lavender; others when young, before 
they have sent forth any flowers, — as sage ; and others when the 
flowers begin to appear, — as thyme. 

All fragrant herbs yield a large portion of oil when produced in 
dry soils and warm summers. Herbs and flowers give out a larger 
quantity of oil after they have been partly dried in a dry shady place. 
Four pounds of the leaves of the dried mint yield one ounce of oil, 
but six poHBdfl of fresh leaves only three drachms and a-half. This 
oil is more fine and bright when rectified — that is, re-distilled. 

After the distillation of one oil, the worm should be carefully 
cleansed, bypassing a little spirit of wine through it, before another 
is proceeded with. 

A great quantity of oil is wasted by confectioners when they pre- 
serve their lemon and orange peels by boiling them in open vessels 
instead of a still ; what is saved by this means alone would soon repay 
the expense of the apparatus. 



DISTILLED WATEBS. 

These are obtained in a similar manner to the oils, with a high 
narrow-necked still, and differ from ihem by the oil being retained or 
united with the water. Plants for this purpose should oe gathered 
fresh on a dry day, as the water drawn from them in this State is 
more aromatic when they are dry ; for the oil is mixed with an aque- 
ous fluid in the plant, which concretes and separates in drying. 

Herbs should be bruised and steeped fur a day in about three times 
Iheir quantity of water when green, but considerably more when dry ; 
but at all times suflScient water should be added that some may be 
left to prevent the herbs or flowers being burnt to the bottom of the 
still. After all the water is drawn, the distillation should continue 
so long as any taste or smell of the ingredients comes over ; and the 
Are should be so regulated that the water may run in a small con- 
tinued stream. 

If a superior article is required, it must be re-distilled by a gentle 
heat, with the addition of a little pure spirit (about one-twentieth 
part) which has not got any bad smell. 

Orange-Flower Water, — The leaves of orange flowers three pounds, 
water three pints. 

Rose Water. — As orange flower, using either the damask or pale 
single rose. Neither the purgative quality of the damask, nor ihe 
astringent quality of red rosea, rises in distillation, but is contained in 
the water left in the still. 



THB CONFBCTIONSB. 97 

Cinnamon IT'a/tfr.-— Cinnamon one pound, water two gfallona. 
Bruise or break the spice, and infuse it in water for two days. Some 
consider it sufficient to simmer the spice in the still for half an hour, 
putting back what comes over, and filtering the whole when cold 
through a flannel bag or blotting paper. 

Peppermint Water. — Dried herb one pound aq.d a half, or green 
herb three pounds, to a gallon of water. 

Lemon-Peel Water, — Two pounds of fresh peel to the gallon. 

Black-Cherry Water, — Twelve pounds of ripe fruit to a gallon of 
water. Bruise the fruit in a mortar so as to break the stones, that 
the flavour of the kernel may be obtained. , 

Angelica^ star, anise-seed, caraway, lavender, rosemary, myrtle, 
vanilla, raspberry, strawberry, and all other waters, are made in the 
same manner ; the first half of the water which comes over is the best 
and strongest 

SPIRITS FOR LiaiTEURS. 

Spirits and alcohol are obtained by the distillation of fermented 
articlea The peculiar taste of each depends on the essential oil of 
the article from which it is prepared being held in solution : there- 
fore, by knowing the nature of its oil, alcohol may be made to imitate 
any desired spirit A few drops of nitric ether added to malt spirit 
will impart to it the flavour of cognac brandy ; and two scruples of 
benzoic acid, mixed with one quart of rum, will give it the taste of 
arrack. Brandy is generally recommended for the use of the confec- 
tioner in making spirits for liqueurs, but a superior article may be 
made with less expense from rectified spirits of wine, or pure spirit 
which has neither taste nor smell, as the spirit afterwards drawn will 
only have the flavour of the articles with which it is required to be 
impregnated. Rectified spirits may be obtained from the dregs of 
beer, cider, ale or wine, suitable for any purpose, as well as from 
brandy. 

Spirits rise in the still with less heat than watery infusions, there- 
fore it is best to distil by means of the bain-marie, that is, by the still 
being placed in another vessel containing water. This method is 
more safe, as it prevents accidents, and the articles from being burnt. 

Common spirits may be deprived of their impurities by mixing them 
with an equal quantity of water, and distilling them by a gentle heat, 
or in a water-bath. Continue the operation until the phlegm arises, 
which will appear milky and is of a nauseous taste. A great quan- 
tity of the oil which it retained will remain in the water. If the 
spirit was very impure, a second rectification may be necessary, as 
before. A very pure and tasteless spirit may be obtained by mixing 
with the spirit, after rectification, one-fourth of its weight of pure dry 
salt of wormwood or tartar. Let it stand a little time in a senile keai^ 
and distil in the bain-marie. A small portion of alum bemg added, 
9 



98 THB CONFBOTIOWKB. 

prevents any of the salt beingf brought over with the spirit. The 
result is pure alcohol. It may be reduced to proof spirit by mixing 
twenty ounces of alcohol with seventeen of water, by weight 

Distilled Spirituous Waters for Liqueurs, — Orange, rose, pink, jes- 
Bamines and all other flowers, are made -by adding eight pounds of 
the leaves or petals of the flowers to a gallon of pure proof spirit. 
Put them in a cold cellar or ice-house to infuse for a week. Distil in 
the bain-marie to dryness. If they are distilled on an open gentle 
Are, water should be added to the articles when they are put on the 
fire, so as to prevent their being burnt. 

Lavender, mint, rosemary, angelica, the yellow rind of lemon and 
orange peels, and oergamot, lemon, vanilla, ginger, and orris-root for 
violet, and other herb^ are made by adding two pounds of the plant, 
&c., partly dried, to a gallon of pure proof spirit. Let it steep in a 
jar close covered for twelve or fourteen days in a cool place, and dis- 
til in the bain-marie. Myrtle and balm-me/ma?, one pound to the gal- 
lon. If any of the waters appear rather turbid when they are first 
drawn, they will become clear and bright by standing a few days. 
Filter them through blotting paper-placed in a glass or earthenware 
funnel over a bottle to receive them. 

Strawberries, raspberries, &c., sixteen pounds to the gallon. 

Cinnamon, coriander, caraways, cloves, &c., are made by adding 
one pound of the bruised seed or spice to the gallon of proof spiriL 
Cardamoms four ounces, nutmega and mace three ounces to the gallon. 

Hungary Water, or Aqua iJegitia?.— Fresh gathered rosemary flow- 
ers in full bloom, four pounds to the gallon of pure proof spirit. It 
may also be made with the addition of one^und of each of marjo- 
ram and lavender flowers, and two quarts more of spirit. Distil im- 
mediately. Half a pound of sage leaves, and two ounces of ginger, 
are recommended as an excellent addition by foreign writers. 

Maraschino de Zara. — Morello cherries nine pounds, black wild 
cherries seven pounds, or sixteen pounds of Morello cherries,* one 
pint and a-quarter of Kirchenwasser, spirit of roses one ounce and 
a-half, spirit of orange flowers one ounce and a-half, of jessamine a 
quarter of an ounce, peach or cherry leaves one pound and a-quarter ; 
pick the stalks from the cherries and press out their juice, pound the 
stones and skins with the leaves in a mortar, and steep all together 
for a fortnight, — some only filter the infusion, — and add to it four 
pounds and a-half of treble-refined sugar; dissolve and strain through 
a jelly-bag ; but a superior spirit may be obtained by the addition of 
four quarts of rectified proof spirit ; distil with the bain-marie, and 
rectify. 

_. I III— ■ ■ - ■ ■ — ■■■—,— — .. ^ I— 

* Genuine Maraschino is the spirit of Morello cherries, as Kirchen- 
wasser is of black cherries. Maraschino may also be made from goose- 
berries. Ripe gooseberries 102 pounds ; black cherry leaves bruised, 12 
pounds ; ferment as Kirchenwasser ; distil and rectify it. 



THE COXIFSCTIONSI^. 99 

Kirchenumsaar, — ^Get some small black cherries and a few Morello 
cherries quite ripe, take off their stalks and put them in a cask with 
the head oQ] cover the top or surface of the cherries with mortar or 
wood ashes mixed to a consistence with water, let them stand for six 
weeks or two months, during which time they will ferment, then 
take off the covering and distil them. 

Eau Divine. — Essence of bergamont and lemon, of each one 
drachm, rectified spirit one gallon, fresh balm leaves two ounces; 
distil with 'the bain-marie; add orange-flower water five ounces. The 
liquor is made by adding to this four pounds of treble refined sugar 
dissolved in two gallons of water. 

JEau de Cologne. — Spirit of rosemary two quarts, essence of berga- 
mot four ounces, balm water two quarts, essence of cedrats and citrons 
four ounces, neroli two drachms, rosemary two ounces, spirits of wine 
ten quarts ; draw fourteen quarts. 

Balm water two pints and a-quarter, spirit of rosemary three pounds 
and a-ha]f, oil of rosemary one drachm, essence of lemon three 
drachms, of cedrats two drachms, of neroli two drachms and a-half, 
of bergamot three drachms, rectified spirit twelve pounds, distil in 
the bain-marie, and keep in a cool place for some time. 

Curagao, — This is a species of wild or bitter orange ; the dried 
peel may be obtained from the chemists ; the yellow peel of Seville 
oranges, dried and powdered, will answer as well ; use one pound to 
the gallon of rum or rectified spirit, and distil as the others. 

£au de Melissa des Carmes, — Spirit of balm eight pints, spirit of 
lemon and citron four pints ; spirit of nutmegs, musk, and coriander, 
of each two pints, spirit of thyme, cinnamon, anise-seed, marjoram, 
hyssop, green-verdigris, or the vitriol of iron, sage, angelica-root, and 
cloves, of each one pint; distil, and keep in an ice*house for twelve 
months. Supposed to be the original recipe of the barefooted Car- 
melites, now in possession of the Company of Apothecaries of Paris. 

7%e English Method, — Fresh balm leaves four ounces, fresh lemon- 
peel two ounces (the yellow rind), coriander seeds and nutmegs, of 
each one ounce, angelica-root, cinnamon, and cloves, of each half an 
ounce, rectified spirit two pounds, brandy two pounds, powder the dry 
ingredients, and steep the whole in a close vessel with the spirit for 
four or five days. Two pints of rectified spirit and one pint of balm- 
water may be used instead of the spirit and brandy; distil in the 
bain-marie nearly to dryness; re-distil and keep it for some time in a 
cold cellar or ice-house. This is an elegant and beautiful cordial. 

Spirit (f Coffee. — ^One pound of the best Mocha coffee, fresh roasted 
and ground, add to it one gallon of rectified proof spirit, let it infuse 
for a week, and distil in the bain-marie. 

&)irit of bitter Almonds. — One pound of blanched almonds, one 
gallon of proof spirit ; pound the almoQds quite fine with a little 
water, to prevent their oiling, add them to the spirit with aa ounoO 



100 THE CONFBenONlBS. 

of braised angelica-root, steep for a week, and distil in the bain- 
marie. 

Spirit of Tea. — Four ounces of the best tea to a gallon of rectified 
proof spirit, pour a little cold water on the tea and let it infuse for 
three or four hours, add it to the spirit, and distil it in a week- - 

Escubac — Usqttebough, — Saffron one ounce, catechu three ouncest 
ambergris half a grain, dates without their kernels, and raisins, each 
three ounces, jujubes six ounces, anise-seed, cloves, mace, and cori- 
ander seed one drachm, cinnamon two drachms, proof spirit six quarts, 
pound^e ingredients, infuse for a week and distiL The whole of 
these spirituous distilled waters are for making liquors and for fla- 
vouring ices, liqueurs, bon-bons, drops, &c., or anything in which 
liquors are introduced. 

LIQUEURS. 

These are made by mixing equal proportions of any of the spirits, 
water, and sugar together, that is, one pint of spirit, one pint of 
water, one pound of the treble-refined sugar; dissolve the sugar in 
the water, add it to the spirit, and filter through blotting-paper ; being 
perfectly clear and colourless when drawn, they require to be coloured 
of the same tint as the articles from which they were extracted, and 
for this purpose none but those which are perfectly harmless should 
be employed, as prepared cochineal, infusion of safiron, burnt sugars 
or indiga 

BATAFIAS. 

These are liqueurs made by the infusion of the ingredients in spi- 
rits, and are similarly composed to the spirituous wafers, but instead 
of being distilled they are simply filtered, and sugar is added to them. 

Ratafia de Cafe. — Fresh roasted Mocha cofiee ground, one pound, 
proof spirit one gallon, loaf sugar one pound and a haff; infuse for a 
week, string it every other day, filter, bottle, and cork close. 

Hatafia de Cacao. — Cacao of Oaracca one pound. West India cocoa 
nuts eight ounces, proof spirit one £;allon, roast the nuts and bruise 
them, add them to the spirit and infuse for fourteen days, stirring 
them occasionally, filter and add thirty drops of essence of vanilla 
and two pounds of sugar. 

Ratafia des Noyaux. — Half a pound of bitter almonds, half a pound 
of sweet almonds, proof spirit one gallon, (peach or apricot kernels 
may be used instead of the bitter almonds), three pounds of loaf sugar; 
beat the almonds fine with part of the sugar, steep the whole together 
for twelve or fourteen days, and filter; this liqueur will be much im- 
proved if rectified spirit is reduced to proof with the juice of apricots 
oV peaches. 



THB CONFECTIONBB. 101 

Radafia of C/^em'e5.-->Morello cherries eight pounds, bJack cberriesi 
eight pounds, raspberries and red or white currants of each two 
pounds, coriander-seeds three ounces, cinnamon half an ounce, mace 
naif an ounce, proof spirit one gallon; press out the juice from the 
fruit, take one-half of the stones of the cherries and pound them with 
the spices, and add two pounds and a half of sugar, steep for a month 
and ^iter. 

Ratafia des Cassis, — Ripe black currants six pounds, cloves half a 
drachm, cinnamon one drachm, black currant leaves one pound and a 
half, Morello cherries two pounds, sugar five pounds, proof spirit eight 
quarts ; bruise the spice, infuse a fortnight, filter, and bottle. 

Ratafia of Raspberries. — Raspberries quite ripe eight pounds, proof 
spirit one gallon, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon and cloves, steep 
for fourteen days, stirring it occasionally. Currants and strawberries 
are made the same. 

Ratafia des Fkurs des Orflwges.— Fresh orange*flowers two pounds, 
proof spirit one gallon, sugar two pounds; infuse for eight or ten 
hours. 

Ratafia cfCEillets. — The petals of clove pink§, with the white parts 
pulled off, four pounds, cinnamon and cloves twenty-five grains, proof 
spirit one gallon, sugar three pounds. Infuse for a month, filter, and 
bottle. 

Ratafia d'jingelique, — Angelica seeds one ounce, angelica stalks 
four ounces, bitter almonds four ounces, one drachm each of cinnamon 
jBLikd cloves, proof spirit six quarts, loaf sugar four pounds. Blanch 
jand pound the almonds with some of the sugar, or a little watery 
pound the other ingredients a little, and bruise the stalks. Infuse for 
a month, stirring it occasionally. Filter and bottle, 

Fej|}e/ro.*— Coriander seed one ounce, angelica seed two ounces, 
fennel and anise-seed of each two drachms, two lemons, two oranges, 
the zest of two citrons, two quarts of rectified spirit and two pounds 
of sugar, caraway seeds four grains. Bruise the ingredients, pjire 
off the yellow rind of the lemons and oranges, and squeeze the juice. 
Dissolve the sugar in a pint of water. Infuse the whole together for 
fourteen days. Strain, filter, and bottle. 

Chreme de Barbade. — The yellow rind of three oranges and three 
lemons, cinnamon four ounces, mace two drachms, cloves one drachm, 
rum nine quarts, fresh balm leaves six ounces. Infuse and distil in 
the bain-marie, or strain ; add an equal quantity of sugar with water. 

Chreme rf' Orange. — Thirty-six sweet oranges, sliced, tincture of 
saffron one ounce and four drachms, orange-flower water four pints, 
rectified spirits two gallons, water eighteen quarts, loaf sugar eigh- 
teen pounds. Dissolve the sugar in the water : mix the other articles 
and infuse for a fortnight. Filter and bottle. 

"Ratafia d'*inis. — Star anise-seed four ounces, proof spirit one gal- 

9* 



102 THB COKFECTIONSS. 

]on. Infuse for a fortnight ; add two pounds of sagar, or a pint and 
a-balf of syrup, and a little essence of vanilla. 

Batafia de Brout des Noix. — Young walnuts, when the shells 4ire 
not formed, number eighty, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, of each half 
a drachm, proof spirit one gallon. Pound the nuts in a mortar, add 
them and the spice to the spirit, with two pounds of sugar. Infuse 
for two months, stirring it occasionally ; press out the liquor through 
a cloth. Filter and bottle. 



SECTION XXV. THB STOVE OB HOT CLOSET. 

This is a useful and indispensable appendage in confectionary; it 
\s generally constructed like acnpboard in the recess of a wall. The 
walls or sides should be composed of bricks, or wood lined with tin 
or sheet iron, to retain the heat, with pieces of wood nailed or fastened 
in the sides, about four inches asunder, to form a groove for trays or 
boards to rest on, which is necessary for the drying of lozenges, com- 
fits, bon-bons, &.c. ; there should also be a few strong shifting shelves 
made either of small bars of round iron or wood, like a grating, on 
which candy pots or sieves may be placed ; the grooves for these 
should be so constructed as to be capable of inclination so as to drain 
off the syrup from the candy pots without taking them from the 
shelves ; the door should be made to shut close, with a small door at 
the top to let out any excess of heat I have before remarked that it 
may be heated by means of many of the modern stoves. At places 
where the oven is heated with wood, furze, &c., a common iron pot 
or crock with three legs is filled with the live embers, or it may be 
filled with burning charcoal and covered with wood ashes, which is 
replenished night and morning, which gives the heat required. 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 



^^^>^i*'»^^N^^*^^vN^^^^^^fc^^^^^ 



INTRO DI70TION, 

Wb DOW come to a very important, because a very difficult, branch 
of the art of baking, whether exercised as a profession, or by private 
individuals, namely the manufacturing of what are technically called 
^^ fancy goods" The reader scarcely need be informed, that this 
term includes all those varieties of baked manufactured eatables, in 
which such ingredients as sugar, eggs, spice, and butter, are usedy 
with many other not necessary to enumerate here. 

It ought to be observed, that the following directions for making 
the kind of goods alluded to, have been all tesiedy and found to be so 
exceedingly accurate as to proportions, that a deviation in a quantity 
so small as an eggj or even half an egg^ will deteriorate the quality 
of the article. These directions are not generally known in the trade, 
and out of the trade they are entirely, we believe, unknown. They 
will be found, therefore, a valuable acquisition to those ladies who 
manage their own domestic affairs, and who are in the habit of mak- 
ing little knick-knacks for their children, br their dessert tables. 

Previous to giving the directions in question, it will be necessary 
for our readers to be made acquainted with the mode of preparing 
certain articles, which are more or less employed in the manufactur- 
ing feney goods. We are aware that there are many private indi- 
viduals who would object to use the preparation called ** honey- wa- 
ter," as well as that called " prepared treacle," on the ground of their 
consisting chiefly of drugs. As regards, however, the use of carbo- 
nate of ammonia (honey-water), it may be safely affirmed, that there 
is, in small quantities, nothing unhealthy in it, but on the contrary. 
The truth however is, the carbonate of ammonia used in biscuits, 
&c., is volatilized by the heat of baking, and of course it all escapes. 
Its operation is therefore mechanical, and the only effect it has upon 
the biscuit is to make it light. 

With regard to the article called prepared treacle, which consists 
of treacle, alum, and pearlash, we have to observe, that alum taken 
in considerable quantities is decidedly unwholesome, it being of a 
powerfully astringent nature ; but in the very small quantity here 

103 



104 THE PASTE Y-COOK. 

prescribed, and considering that treacle is an asperient, and will con* 
sequently counteract the effects of the alum, we should say, that 
t])ere can be no harm in using it. Pearlash, being an alkali, we 
should consider rather beneficial than otherwise, as it would prevent 
the treacle of the ginger-bread turning acid on the stomach. 

Having made these preliminary observations, we shall at once 
proceed to give directions for making those preparations used io 
pastry and fancy goods. The break alluded to in making fancy bis- 
cuits, is an instrument similar to that used in manufacturing ship- 
biscuits, but of course c^ much smaller dimensions. 



BLANCHED ALMONDS, ICXNe, PBEFARED THEAGLE, AND 

RENNET. 

Blanched Almonds, — Cover your almonds with water, in a stew- 
pan ; set the pan on the fire, and strain them off as soon as the water 
begins to boil, by which means the skins will peel off easily ; put 
them under the oven for a night, in a sieve, and they will be dry and 
fit for use. J 

Icing for a Cake, — Take one pound of donble-refined sugar, 
pound it fine, and sift it through a lawn sieve ; then beat the whites 
of three eggs in a very clean pan, with a whisk, till they are a strong 
froth, and hang round the pan, leaving the bottom clear ; then, with 
a wooden spoon, beat in your sugar, a little at a time, with about a 
tea-spoonful of lemon-juice — beat it till it becomes a nice thick smooth 
batter, and will hang round the pan to any thickness you may choose 
to spread it. Theni' when your cake is nearly cold, spread your 
icing nicely over the top, and round the sides, with a pallet-knife ; let 
it stand in a warm place, where it will be safe froin hurt, and it will 
soon dry. 

Prepared Treacle, — ^Dissolve two ounces of 4ilum in a quarter of a 
pint of boiling water, and stir it into seven pounds of treacle; then 
dissolve four ounces of American pearlash in a quarter of a pint of 
cold water, and well incorporate it with the treacle by stirring. 

Rennet. — Milk is turned into curds and whey by means of rennet, 
which is the stomach of a calf taken out as soon as it is killed, well 
cleansed from its contents, then scoured inside and rubbed with salt ; 
when thoroughly salted, it is stretched on a stick to dry. A bit of 
this is to be soaked in boiling water for several hours, and the liquid 
put in milk-warm from the cow, or made of that warmth. Use aione 
can prescribe the exact quantity : never use niore than enough to turn 
it, as it hardens the curd. The gizzard skin of fowls and turkey. may 
be prepared in the same way, and answer the same purpose. 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 105 



FANCY BISCUITS. 

Memeihy Biscuits. — (See Seed Biscuits.) 

American, — Rub half a pound of butter into four pounds of flour ; 
add a full pint of milk, or water; well wet them up; break your 
dough well, and bake them in a hot oven. 

Brighton. — Take one pound and a quarter of good moist sugar, and 
roll it till it is fine; then pass it through a sieve with two pounds and 
a half of flour ; rub in two ounces of butter ; make a hole in the mid- 
dle ; strew in a few caraway seeds ; pour in half a* pint of honey* 
water, and a quarter of a pint of milk ; beat it well with your hand 
till about hajif the flour is incorporated ; then mix it together ; rol) it 
out in thin sheets; cut them out, and place them on your buttered 
tins about two inches apart ; wash with a little beer ; and bake them 
in a good steady heaL 

Buttered, — Rub one pound of butter into seven pounds of flour ; wet 
up with one quart of warm water, and half a pint of good yeast ; break 
down smooth ; prove your dough well ; and bake in a strong heat. 

Captains. — Rub four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour ; 
wet up with a quart of water; break your.dough smooth; and bake in 
a good strong heat. 

Drop. — Warm your pan ; then put in one pound of powdered loaf 
sugar and eight eggs ; beat it with a whisk till it becomes milk-warm ; 
then beat it till it is cold ; stir in a pound of sugar, two ounces of fine 
sifted flour, with about half an ounce of caraway seeds ; put your bat- 
ter into the bladder, and drop it through the pipe, in quantities about 
the size of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper ; sift sugar over the top, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Filbert. — Rub a pound of butter into three pounds and a half of 
flour; make a hole, and put in ten ounces of powdered loaf sugar; 
wet up with four table-spoonsful of honey water, one of orange-flower 
water, and three-quarters of a pint of milk ; break your dough smooth ; 
mould them as large as a nutmeg, and as round as you can ; cut them 
twice across the top each way, about half through, with a sharp knife; 
place them on your tin ; and bake them in a steady heat. 

/^emon.— Prepare your dough as for filbert biscuits, only leave out 
the orange-flower water, and use about six drops of the essence of 
lemon ; cut them out, and dock, them with a lemon docker; bake them 
in a good steady heat. 

Naples. — Take six ounces of good moist sugar, and six ounces of 
loaf; a quarter of a pint of water ; and proceed the same as for diet 
cake, with six eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of flour; have your 
tins papered; fill them nearly full of the batter; sugar over the tops; 
and bake them in rather a brisk oven. These biscuits are, in fact, 
nothing more than diet-bread batter, fancifully dropped into tin. 



106 TOB PASTBY-COOK. 

papered with white paper, and baked in a warm oven, with a little 
sugar eifted over the top. 

Queens. — Rub one pound of butter into two pounds of flour ; mix 
one pound of powdered sugar with it ; then make a hole and pour in 
a quarter of a pint of milk, to mix it up with ; you may add a few 
caraways, if you choose ; roll the paste in sheets of the thickness of a 
halfpenny ; cut them with an oval to about the size of an egg ; place 
them on clean tins, but see that they do not quite touch, prick them 
with a fork, and bake them in a slow oven till they begin to change 
colour ; when they are cold, they will be crisp. 

i2ou/.*— Powder one pound of loaf sugar, and soak it in three parts 
of half a pint of milk ; let it stand two hours ; then add two table- 
spoonsful of honey water, and one egg; rub half a pound of butter into 
two pounds of ilour ; make a hole in it, and mix it up with your sugar 
and milk. Or you may rub half a pound of butter into two pounds 
of flour, make a hole and put one pound of powdered sugar in the 
middle ; then pour in three parts of half a ^int of milk, and two table- 
spoonsful of honey water ; mix ii up together; let it lie ten minutes; 
cut it out, and place them in buttered tins, see they do not touch; 
wash with milk, and bake quickly. 

Savoy, — Powder and sift one pound of loaf sugar ; sift one pound 
of flour ; warm a pan, and put in the sugar ; break one pound oif egg 
upon it; beat both together with a whisk till it becomes warm — beat 
till it is cold, and then stir in your flour ; have a bladder and pipe 
ready ; put your batter into the bladder, and force it through on sheets 
of paper; sift sugar over them and bake in a quick oven; when cold 
turn them up, and with a washing brush wet the bottom of the paper; 
turn them back again, and in five minutes they will come ofl" easily. 

Seedy, — Rub one pound of butter into seven pounds of flour ; roll 
one pound of moist sugar fine, and put into the middle with two 
ounces of caraway seeds; wet up with one pint and a half of milk, 
and one pint of honey water; bake in a hot oven. 

Wine. — Take two pounds of floor, two pounds of butter, and four 
ounces cf sifted loaf sugar ; rub the sugar and the butter into the floor, 
and make it into a stiff paste with milk ; pound it in a mortar; roll it 
out thin, and cut it into sizes and shapes to your fancy; lay them on 
buttered paper, in a warm oven, or iron plates brushed with a little 
milk. When done, you can give them a glaze by brushing them over 
with a bru^ dipped in eggs. A few caraway seeds may be added 
if thought proper. 

Tork. — Prepare your mixture as for filbert biscuits ; desk them with 
the Duchess of York, or any other docker — they are best baked in a 
hot oven, and not washed over. 

Powder, — Dry your biscuits in a slow oven ; roll them and grind 
them with a rolling-pin on a clean board till the powder is fine; sift 
it through a fine hair-sieve, aqd it is fit for use. 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 107 

Drcps. — Take half a tea-cup of water, six eggs, and one pound of 
•sifted loaf sugar — whisk them together till thick; then add a few 
caraway seods, and eighteen ounces of flour — mix it lightly together, 
and drop the mixture on wafer-paper, about the size of a small wal- 
nut ; sitl sugar over them, and bake in a hot oven. 

Cracknels, — Rub six ounces of butter into three pounds and a half 
of flour — make a hole, and put in six ounces of powdered loaf sugar- 
wet up with eight eggs and a quarter of a pint of water — break your 
dough smooth — niake them and dock them like a captain's biscuit — 
form them on your reel ; drop them into a stew-pan of water boiling 
over the fire — when they swim take them out with a skimmer, and 
put them into a pailful ^f cold water ; let them remain full two hours 
before you bake them — you may drain them in a cloth or in a sieve— > 
bake them on clean tins in a brisk oven« or on the bottom of the oven. 



SECTION I.— THE OVEN. 

Cakes. — Rich pound-cake; twelfth, or bride-cakes: butter two 
pounds twelve ounces, sugar one pound twelve ounces, currants five 
pounds, citron one pound and a-half, almonds six ounces, nutmegs, 
mace, and cinnamon, of equal parts, in powder, two ounces; eggs 
twenty, brandy half a pint — these proportions allow for the cake 
being iced. If more sugar is preferred, the quantity must be the 
same as the butter ; but less is used in this instance, that the cake 
may be light, and also to allow for the fruit, which would make it 
too sweet Double the quantity of almonds may be used if required, 
as some persons prefer more. 

Warm a smooth pan, large enough for the mixture ; put in the 
butter, and reduce it to a fine cream, by working it about the pan 
with your hand. In summer the pan need not be warmed, as it can 
be reduced to a cream without; but in the winter keep the mixture 
as warm as possible, without oiling the butter. Add the sugar and 
mix it well with the butter, until it becomes white and feels light in 
the hand. Break in two or three eggs at a time, and work the mix- 
ture well, before any more is added. Continue doing this until they 
are all used and it becomes light ; then add the spirit, currants, peel, 
spice, and almonds, some or most of these being previously cut in 
thin slices, the peel having also been cut into small thin strips and 
bits. When these are incorporated, mix in the flour lightly : put it 
in a hoop with paper over the bottom and round the sides, and placed 
on a baking-plate. Large cakes require three or four pieces of stiff 
paper round the sides ; and if the cake is very large, a pipe or funn6l, 
made either of stiff paper or tin, and well buttered, should be put in 
the centre, and the mixture placed round it ; this is to allow the mid- 
dle of the cake to be well baked, otherwise the edge would be burnt 
two or three inches deep before it could be properly done. Place the 
tin plates containing the cake on another, the surface of which is 



108 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

covered an inch or two thick with sawdust or fine ashes to protect 
the bottom. Bake it in an oven at a moderate heat. The time re^ 
quired to bake it will depend on the state of the oven and the size of 
the cal^e. When the cake is cold, proceed to ice it (See Icings for 
Cakes.) Wedding-cakes have generally, first, a coating on the top 
of almond icing ; when this is dry, the sides and top are covered 
with royal or white icing. Fix on any gum paste or other orna- 
ments whilst it is wet; and when dry, ornament it with piping, 
orange-blossoms, ribbon, &c. ; the surface and sides are often covered 
with small knobs of while sugar candy whilst the icing is wet 

Twelfth-cakes are iced with white or coloured icing, and deoo* 
rated with gum paste, plaster ornaments, piping-paste, rings, knots, 
and fancy papers, &c., and piped. ♦ 

Savoy Cakes- (hot mixture J.^^ne pound of loaf sugar powdered, 
one pint of good eggs, and fourteen ounces of flour. Warm a pan, 
free from grease, with the sugar in it in the oven until you can 
scarcely bear your hand against it ; then take it ouf and pour in the 
eggs: whisk the whole together with a birch or wire whisk until it 
is quite light and cold, when it will be white and thick. If it should 
not whisk up well, warm it again apd beat it as before ; or it may be 
beat over the stove fire until it is of the warmth of new milk. When 
it is finished, sift the fiour and stir it in lightly with a spoon, adding 
a few drops of essence of lemon to flavour it Butter some tin or 
copper moulds regularly, so that there is not more on one place than 
another, nor too thick either, with rather less on the top of the mould 
than the sides. Dust it with loaf sugar sifled through a lawn sieve. 
Knock out all that does not adhere, and again dust it with fine fiour ; 
turn it out, and knock the mould on the board as before. Tie or pin 
a piece of buttered paper round the mould, so as to come two or three 
inches above the bottom. Fix the mould in a stand and nearly fill it 
Bake in a moderate oven. When done, the top should be firm and 
dry. Try it by pushing in a small piece of stick or whisk, and if it 
comes out Ary^ it is done. The surface of the cake should be quite 
smooth. There is as much art in buttering the mould properly as in 
preparing the mixture, if not more. 

Cold Mixtures, — Separate the yolks from the whites when you 
break the eggs. Put the yolks into a clean pan with the sugar, and 
the whites in another by themselves. Let the pans be quite free 
from grease. If they are rubbed round with a little flour, it will 
take off any which may be left about them. Wipe them out with a 
clean cloth. Beat up the yolks and sugar by themselves, with a 
wooden spoon, and afterwards whip up the whites to a very strong 
froth. If they should happen to be rather weak, a bit of powdered 
alum may be added. When the whites are whisked up firm, stir in 
the yolks and sugar. Sift the flour and mix it in lightly with the 
spatula, adding a little essence of lemon to flavour it. Fill the 
moulds and bake as befoic. When cakes are^iade in this way, the 



THE FAaOCBY-COOK* 199 

eirga should be quite freeh aad good, otherwise the whites cannot be 
whipped up. When weak, pickled eggs are used. I find a good 
method is to beat the eggs first by themselves, over a fire, until they 
are warm ; then add the sugar, and whip it over the fire until it is 
again warm, or make as for hot mixtures, and heat it twice. 

Mmond Savoy Cakes and Jllmond Hearts. — One pound of blanched 
sweet almonds (four ounces of them may be bitter), two pounds of 
sugar, one pint of the yolks of eggs, half a pint of whole eggs, one 
pound of flour, and the whites of twelve eggs beat to a firm froth. 

Pound the almonds with the sugar in a mortar, and sifl them through 
a wire sieve, or errind them in a mill, and mix them with the sugar 
in the mortar. First mix the whole eggs well with the almonds and 
sugar, then add the yolks by degrees, stirring the whole until quite 
light ; then mix in the whites, and afterwards the flour, lightly ; pre* 
pare some moulds as for Savoy cakes ; but some only butter them. 
Fill the moulds three parts full and bake them in a moderate oven. 
For almond hearts, butter some tins in the shape of a heart, but with- 
out bottoms; cover a baking-plate with paper; place the tins on it, 
and fill them nearly three parts &n with the mixture : dust a little 
sugar on the top, and bs^ke them in a moderate oven. 

. Venice Cake, — Take a Savoy cake and cut it in slices, half or 
three-quarters of an inch thick, in a parallel direction from the bot^ 
torn to the top ; spread over eq,ch slice with raspberry or apricot jam, 
or some of each alternately, or any other sort of preserve. Replace 
each piece in its original form ; when completed, make an icing as 
directed for cakes, with four whites of the eggs to a pound of sugar, 
which will make it rather thin. It may be coloured with cochineal, 
&c. ; spread it over the cake, which, being thin, will run into the 
flutes and mouldings of the cake, when it will appear of the same 
form as before. Let it dry in the mouth of the oven, but be careful 
it does not get discoloured. When it is dry, ornament it with piping. 
Savoy cakes are oflen (k)ne in the same manner, without being cut in 
slices, to ornament them ; or they may be done without icing, and 
either piped or ornamented with gum paste bordel^, &c., which are 
fixed on with dissolved gum Arabre. Volutes or high and prcjecting 
figures are supported with small wire. 

Savoy Cake to represent a Melon, — Bake a cake* in a melon-mould ; 
when cold, cover it with icin^ as for a Venice cake. Whilst it is 
wet, stick on some pieces of loaf sugar, to imitate the surface of the 
melon. Strew over it some yellow and green sugar-sands ; or paint 
it when dry to imitate nature. Form the stalk, leaves, &c., out of 
gum-paste, and fix them in the centre, on the top. 

Savoy Cake to imitate a Hedgeliog, — Bake a cake in a mould of that 
form ;. blanch some Valentia or Jordan almonds; cut them into small i 
fillets and stick them over the surface, to form the quills or prickles 
of the hog. Put in two currants for the eyes. 



110 TRB TAafmt"€>oon, 

Bordeaux or Parinan Cakes. — ^Make a miztare as for ponnd-caleSr 
leaving out the fruit, peel, apices, &c. ; bake it in a round or oval 
hoop. When baked and cold, cnt it into slices, half an inch thick ; 
spread each slice over with jam or marmalade. The ootside of the 
cake may be cut round, or iluted to form a star ; and the centre of 
the cake is occasionally cut out to about an inch and a half from the 
edge, leavin^r the bottom slice whole : this may be filled with pr&* 
served wet or dry fruits, creams, or a trifle. The top is ornamented 
with piping, wet or dry fruits^ and peels, or piped with jam ^Dd 
icing. 

Italian Bread. — One pound of butter, one pound of powdered loaf 
sugar, one pound two ounces of flour, twelve eggB^ half a pound of 
citron, and lemon-peel. Mix as for pound-cake. If the mixture 
begins to curdle, which it is most likely to do from the quantity of 
eggs, add a little of the flour. When the eggs are ail used, and it ia 
light, stir in the remainder of the flour lightly. Bake it in long, nar* 
row tins, either papered or buttered : first put in a Iiiyer of the mix- 
ture, and cover it with the peal cut in large thin slices; proceed ini^ 
this way until it is three parts fnll^ -and bake it in a moderate oven. 

Bice P(H*nrf-C5afte.— One pound of butter^ one pound of powdered 
loaf sugar, twelve ounces of flour, half a pound^f ground rice, and 
twelve eggs. Mix as Italian bread, and bake it in t^ papered hoop. 
If it is required with fruit, put two pounds of currants, three-quarters 
of a pound of peel, one nutmeg, grated, and a little pounded mace. 

Wafer8.-^Fouf ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, eight ounces 
of flour, the yolk or white of one egg, and half a tea-cupful of milk or 
water. Melt the butter in the water ; mix the egg, sugar and flour 
together, adding, by degrees, the melted butter and water ; or, instead 
of the butter, it may t^ made into a thin batter with cream, and a 
little orange-flower water, or any other essence, to flavour it. The 
mixture may be coloured. Make the wafer-tongs hot over the hole 
of a stove or clear fire. Rub the inside surfaces with butter or oil, 
put in a spoonful of the batter, and close the tongs immediately ; put 
them on the fire, turning them occasionally until the wafer is done, 
which a little practice will soon enable yoa to ascertain; roll the 
wafers on a small round stick, stand them on their ends in a neve, 
•od put them in thevtove to dry; serve them with ices. 

CAKE8. 

Almond Cakes. — Take one pound of sweet Valentia, or Provinee 
almonds — cover them wfth boiling water in a saucepan ; let them just 
boil up, then strain them out of the water, and rub them out of their 
skins; cut about two ounces of them into thin slices; put the rest into 
a mortar, with one pound and a half of loaf sugar, the whites of six 
^gg^ And one table-spoonful of orange-flower water ; pound it fine ; 
lay your wafer-paper on the tin, and drop your almond cakes on it 



VBB PA8XST-COOK. Ill 

about the size of a wtlirat — then drop a few of year cat alnonds oa 
each of them, and bake them in a slow oven. 

Abntmd Satmf, — Take one ounce of bitter and three ounces of sweet 
almonds; boil and skin them; pat them into a mortar, with the yolks 
of six eggs, and half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded very fine ; then 
whisk up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and mix it as lightly 
as you can with the rest; then stir in four ounces of flour as lightly 
as you can ; bake it in a slow oven, if in a hoop you must paper it, 
and sugar your cake over the top; but if in a shape, you must butter 
the shape ; then shake fine sugar over into it before you put in the 
batter. 

Bride, — Wash and pick one pound and a half of currants very 
clean; dry them in a cloth — stone four ounces of lAuscatel raisins — 
add a quarter of an ounce of mace, and half as much cinnamon ; pound 
it fine in a mortar; boil four ounces of Jordan almonds in a little 
water; strain the water off, skin them and pound them fine; take 
two ounces of d^tron, two ounces of candied orange, and two ounces 
of candied lemon peel ; cut them into thin slices ; break eight good 
sew eggs into a basin ; take one pound and a quarter of fine fiour, and 
aift in one pound of loaf sugar powdered fine ; warm a pan, and beat 
one pound of best butter with your hand, till it comes to a very fine 
cream ; put in your sugar, and beat it together till it is fine and white 
•— then put in a fifth part of your flour ; give it a stir, and put in 
nearly half your eggs ; continue to beat it ; add a little more flour, 
and the rest of your eggs; beat it again; stir in the rest of your flour 
and currants-* then add your almonds, raisins, candied peel, spice, 
and half a gill of the best brandy-**mix all well together; paper year 
hoop with double paper round the aide and bottom ; put in your cake, 
and bake in a very slow oven. 

Bath»^^Take one pound and a quarter of good moist sugar ; roll it 
fine — put in a pan with three-quarters of a pint of water; let it stand 
all night ; rub three ounces of butter into four pounds and a half of 
floor; make a hole and pour in your sugar with half a pint of honey 
water— -rub it out thin— 4:ut out, and phce them on buttered tins— 
wash with water, and bake in a quick oven. 

JBanbury.-^Ttike one pound and a half of flour, and one pound of ' 
batter; roll your butter and part of the flour out in sheets; wet up 
the rest of your fiour with one or two table-spoonsful of good yeast, 
and about a quarter of a pint of water ; roll out your paste in a large 
aheet; douUe it up and roil it out again; do the same five times; cut 
it up in square pieces, not more than one ounce and a half— have a 
few currants mixed with a little candied peel chopped fine, a little 
moist sugar, and a little brandy — put two tea-spoonsful on each piece; 
bring the two corners together over the middle, and close them up in 
an oval shape ; turn the closings downwards ; shake a little powdered 
sugar over the topa-^put them on a cold tin; let them stand ,awhil6 
in the cold to prove them, and bake them in a steady oven* 



112 THB FASTBT-OOOK. 

There is aootbcr method, which is ae follows :=— 

Take two pounds of carrants, half an ounce each of jgrround allspice 
and 'powdered cioaamon ; four ounces each of candied orange and 
lemon peel ; eight ounces of butter, one pound of moist sugar, and 
twelve ounces of flour ; mix the whole well together; roll out a piece 
of puff paste ; cut it into oval shapes ; put a small quantity of your 
composition into each, and double them up in the shape of a puff; put 
the whole on a board, flatten them down with a rolling*pin, and sift 
powdered sugar over them^-do not put them too close together ; bake 
them on iron plates in a hot oven. 

Breakfast. — Put a tea-spoonful of good yeast into two pounds of 
flour ; mix the yeast and a little of your flour with a half pint of warm 
milk, about the consistence of batter. When your paste has risen 
well, take a little milk, — melt three ounces of butter in it ; put a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs into the flour and yeast, 
and with the milk and butter mix it well into dough. Be careful that 
neither your butter nor milk is so hot as to scald tile flour or yeast, 
and also that your dough is not too soft Make your paste into cakes 
about two inches thick ; put them into buttered hoops: lay the hoops 
on iron plates, and when they are lightly risen, bake them in a warm 
oven. When done, cut them into slices half an inch thick, and butter 
each slice as you would a roll ; then cut them into pieces, and serve 
up for breakiast or tea. 

Cinnamoih CurratUf and Oiriittfay.— Rub one pound of butter into 
three pounds and a half of flour ; make a hole, and put in one pound 
of powdered loaf sugar ; then wet it up with half a pint of honey 
water, and half a pint of milk. Divide your dough into three parts ; 
add to one part a little powdered cinnamon ; to another a few cur- 
rants : to the other a few caraway seeds. Roll them in sheets to the 
thickness of the currants; cut them about the size of a penny-piece; 
wash with a little milk, and bake in a good steady heat 

Common Cheeie, — ^Take four ounces of butter ; heat it with a wooden 
«poon in a warm pan, till it comes to a fine cream. Then add hm 
jQunces of powdered sugar; beat it well; add the yolk of one egg; 
beat again — then add one whole egg ; beat all well together, and mix 
in four ounces of clean currants. Lay your puff paste in the patties ; 
All them half full ; shake a little sugar over, and bake them in. a good 
heat 

(Jurd Cheese. — Warm one pint of new milk; stir in a bit of rennet^ 
keep it warm till a nice curd appears ; break it to pifeces, and strain 
the whey through a hair-sieve. Then, having your mixture prepared 
as for common cheese-cakes, but without any currants, put it into the 
sieve with the curd, and rub it all through together. Then mix in 
your currants; fill them out, and bake them in a good heat 

Almofid Cheese. — ^Take three or four bitter, and one ounce of sweet 
almon4^; hdil and skin them ; put them into a mortar, with two ounces 
of loaf sugar, and the yolks of two eggs ; pound them fine. Then rub 



TAB 7ASTRT-0O0K. 113 

two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix all toother. Put pufF paate 
in the patties; fill them three-parts full with the batter; lay a few cut 
almonds over the top ; sugar over, and bake them in a steady oven^ 

Lemon Cheese. — Prepare your mixture as for common cheese-cakes, 
and grate the rind of a nice fresh lemon,, and mix with it. The cur- 
rants may be left out or not. ' 

jDeriy.— Rub one pound of butter in two pounds and a half of flour; 
make a hole, and put in one pound of powdered loaf sugar ; beat two 
eggs with three table-spoonsful of honey water, and as much milk as 
will make up half a pint. Add half a pound of currants; mix all up 
together ; make them what size you please, and bake them in a steady 
oven. 

Diet Bread, — Whisk the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs 
together, so as just to break them. Put a quarter of a pint of water 
into a saucepan, or small stew-pan ; add a pound of loaf sugar, and put 
it on the fire. Take it off just before it boils; put in the eggs, and 
6tir it well together till cold ; then stir in lightly one pound of flour, 
and put your mixture into square tins prepared. Sift sugar over the 
tops, and bake in a warm oven, till they are dry and firm oq the tops. 
A few currants or caraway seeds may be occasiotially used to vary 
them. 

Ginger, — Prepare your dough as for Bath cakes, but add as much 
ground ginger as will give them a pleasant taste ; cut them about 
the thickness of a shilling, and full as large as a penoy-piece ; wash 
them with water, and bake quick. 

Lord Mayors, — Put one pound of sifted loaf sugar and eight eggs 
into an earthen pan ; whisk them well for about five minutes, until 
quite thick. Then add a few caraway seeds, and a pound of flour ; 
mix it all up lightly with a spoon, and drop them on paper, about the 
size of a small tea-cup; place them on iron plates; sift sugar or car- 
away seeds on the top, and bake in a hot oven. When done, take 
them ofl* the papers, and stick two together. 

Lunch, or School, — Rub half a pound of moist sugar into two 
pounds of flour ; make a hole in the middle of it, and put in a table- 
spoonful of good thick yeast (not bitter) ; warm half a pint of milk 
rather more than blood-warm, but not hot enough to scald the yeast ; 
mix it with the yeast and a little of the flour, about one-third part 
When it haa risen, which will be in about three quarters of an hour, 
if the yeast is good, melt half a pound of butter in a little more 
milk ; — be careful it is not hot enough to scald the yeast. Add one 
pound and a-haif of currants, a little candied peel*, and grated rind 
of lemon, and a tea-spoonful of powdered allspice, — mix all together ; 
butter your hoop, or tin, put it in, and set it in a warm place to rise. 
When it has risen, bake it in a warm oven. When you think it is 
done, stick in a small twig of your whisk, and if it comes out dry it 
is done ; but if it is stiqky, it is not su^ciently baked. The cake 
10* 



114 TRB FASTBT-COOK. 

ahoold be mixed up rather softer than bread doagrh. A few yolks of 
eggs mixed up with it will make it eat much better. 

* Moss. — Rub a little rout cake paste through a fine sieve, and it will 
look like moss. Gently squeeze a little together, about the size of 
haU-a-crown, and bake them on wafer paper of a light colour. After 
they are done, touch the tops with cochineal. If they are made up 
round, the finger pressed in the middle, and two or three caraway 
comfits put in, they will resemble birds* nests, with eggs in them ; 
and to make the resemblance more complete, just touch the tops 
with a green colour. 

Macaroon. — Prepare your mixture as for almond cakes (but do not 
cut your almonds), and add two spoonfuls of orange-fiower water ; 
lay them out on the wafer-paper, in an oval shape ; sift sugar over 
them, and bake them in rather a brisk oven ; when lightly coloured 
over, they are done. 

Plum. — Set a sponge with one pound of flour, half a pint of warm 
milk, and about three table-spconfuls of good yeast. Then take four 
ounces of butter, four ounces of powdered sugar, two eggs, and four 
ounces of flour. Proceed to beat it up the same as for pound cake ; 
then put in your sponge, and beat all well together ; after which, add 
one pound of currants, nicely cleaned. Paper your hoop to put it in ; 
bake it withont proving, and in a slow oven. 

Pound. — Take one pound of butter, beat it with your hand in a 
warm pan till it comes to a fine cream ; put in one pound of powder- 
ed loaf sugar — beat it together to a nice cream. Previously, have 
one pound and a quarter of flour, sifted ; put in a little, and give it a 
stir ; put in four eggs, and well beat it ; then take a little more flouV, 
and four more eggs, as before, and beat it we^l again ; then stir in 
the remainder of your flour. If you bake them in small cakes, but- 
ter your tins ; if in large cakes, paper your tins. Sugar over the top, 
and bake them in a moderate heat. Some persons use this method : — 
Sift one pound of loaf sugar, and add to it one pound of fresh butter, 
melted a little, and worked with the hand to the consistency of 
cream ; beat them together, und while doing so, add ten eggs ; keep 
beating the whole till well incorporated. Take four ounces of can- 
died orange or lemon peel, shred or cut small, a few currants, and 
one pound of flour ; mix the whote^well together, and put in a hoop ; 
sift some sugar on the top, and then bake in a warm oven. 

Prussian.^-Ruh four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour ; 
wet up with one quart of milk, warm, one pint of warm water, four 
yolks of eggs, and half a pint of good thick yeast ; but if you are 
obliged to take more yeast, leave out some of the water, or you will 
make them too poor : let your dough lie about ten or twenty minutes; 
mould them up round, about half or three quarters of a pound each ; 
place them on your tins, about two inches from each other, and 
put them in a warm place, and prove theo>well. Bake in a good 



THE FASTST-COQK. 115 

Steady heat, and melt a little batter to wash them with when they 
are done. 

Queens. — Melt one pound of butter a little, in a preserving pan, 
and then work it with the hands to the thickness of cream ; put to it 
one pound of fine loaf sugar, well sifled, and beat it up for a minute 
or two ; add eight eggs, and t\yo spoonfuls of water ; beat it up for 
two minutes, and add twenty ounces of flour, and a handful of cur- 
rants ; mix it well together ; put them in small round tins, bake 
them in a hot oven, and in about five minutes give the tins a smart 
tap, and the cakes will fall out. 

Queen's Drops, — Prepare your mixture the same as for pound- 
cakes, but add about two ounces more of flour, one pound and ,a-half 
of currants ; drop them on whited-brown paper, in drops about the 
size of a large nutmeg, about two inches from each other ; put your 
sheets on tins, and bake them in a steady oven. 

Rout. — ^Take one pound of sweet almonds, boil them and skin them ; 
then take one pound of loaf sugar, — pound both in a mortar, and get 
as much as you can through a sieve ; put the rest into a mortar 
again, with four yolks of eggs, and the rind of a nice lernon ; pound 
it very fine, and put in what has passed through your sieve, and mix 
it all together ; cot them in blocks, or make them in aiiy shape you 
please. Sprinkle them lightly with a little water ; sift sugar over 
them, and put them on tins that have been rnbbed with a bit of but- 
ter. See that they have room, so as not to touch each other ; bake 
them in a rather brisk oven till they are lightly coloured over. If 
you see them coloured too deep at the bottom, put cold tins over 
them. 

Raspberry.^^To one pound of raspberry jam put one pound of loaf 
sugar, powdered, and^ sifted fine; mix it well together, and have a 
ring made of tin, with a handle on the side of it, about the size of a 
penny-piece ; place the ring on a sheet of paper ; fill it with the jam, 
and move your ring, and the cake will remain ; do the same till the 
whole is done. Make the tops smooth with your knife as you fill 
them ; then put them in a warm place to dry, till they get a little 
set ; then take the crooked end of the handle of a spoon, and make 
five or six marks on the top of each cake. Set them to dry again, 
till they are fit to be removed ; then take them ofif with the point of 
a knife ; have a box prepared to put them in, and lay slips of paper 
between every layer of cakes. 

i2a^a/Sa«.— -Take four ounces of bitter, and four ounces of sweet 
almonds — boil -and skim them; put them into a mortar, with one 
pound of loaf sugar, and the whites of four eggs ; pound it together 
very fine, and drop them out upon white-brown paper. See that they 
are all about the size of a nutmeg, and full an inch apart ; shake 
sifted sugar over them, and bake them in tins, in a slow oven : when 
they are all of a colour they are done ; when cold they will come off 
the paper. 



IIG THE PASTE Y-CO^C 

ikiwnf. — Take care that the shape in which it ia to be baked k 
clean and dry ; butter it, and sift .su^r into it, but turn out all the 
sugar that does not stick to the butter ; then have half a pound of 
sifted sugar, and six ounces of sifted dour ; warm your pan, put in 
your sugar, break in four whole eggs, and then one yolk; whisk it 
till it is first warm, and then cold ; then stir in your flour, and turn 
your butter into the shape, and bake it in a slow oven ; it will take 
about one hour. When done, turn it out bottom uppermost: — it wiil 
look very handsome for the middle of the table. 

Sponge. — To three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, break 
three-quarters of a pound of eges into a warm pan — whisk it till it is 
cold, and stir in half a pound of flour — have your tins ready buttered 
and sugared ; put about three parts of a table-spoonful into each of 
them, sifl sugar over them, and bake them in a brisk oven. 

« 

Se^d. — Proceed as directed for pound-cakes, but instead of currants 
and candied lemon- peel, substitute a few caraway seeds—- omit the 
sugar on the top. 

Shrewsbury, — Powder three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and 
mix it with one pound and a quarter of flour — ^chop three-quarters of 
butter into pieces amongst it, with the scraper — then add one white 
and three yolks of eggs — mix it together to a smooth paste; roU it 
into thin sheets, and cut out your cakes about the size of half a crowii 
— place them on clean tins not to touch — bake them in a slow oven 
till they begin to change colour. 

Tea. — Beat eight eggs into a pan with a whisk till they come to a 
good head — ^then add one pound of loaf sugar powdered — beat both 
together till it becomes thick and whitish — then stir in one pound of 
sifted flour, but do not be^t^t again— take a -spoon in your left hand 
and a knife in your other — lay a sheet of paper on your tin ; take up 
a spoonful of batter, and with your knife strike as much out of the 
spooii as will make a cake the size you like— see that they are about 
an inch apart, and make them as round as you can -^ bake them in 
a rather brisk oven till they are nicely coloured over; if they do not 
come off the paper easily, when cold, damp the bottom as directed in 
Savoy biscuits. You may vary these cakes by dropping caraway 
seeds, sugar, or currants, on the top, be0»re you bake them. 

Twelfth. — Prepare your mixture p for pound-cake, plum-cake, or 
bride-cake, which you please — if you prepare it for pound-cake, take 
two pounds of currants, four ounces of candied orange and lemon peel, 
to every pound of sugar — make them of any size you please — when 
done, ice them over, as directed in page 104, and lay on your orna- 
ments while the icing is w«t You may get the ornaments from the 
wholesale confectioners. 

Yorkshire. — flub four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour, 
wet up with one quart of warm milk, one pint of warm water, and 
half or three-quarters of a pint of good yeast, let it prove about twenty 



TKB PAJdTKY-COOK. 117 

minutes, make it into cakes and put them on wana tioa — see that they 
have room so as not to touch— when well proved, make a hole in the 
middle, the sisse of a large thimble—^bake them in a hot oven— when 
done, wash them with a little melted butter. ^ 

York Drops, — Braise eight ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar, 
having bleached and dried them as directed — add the whites of three 
eggs, and rub them with the pestle till quite fine— -then add the 
whites of four more eggs, and one pound of sifted loaf sugar — mix all 
well together, and lay it out on paper the size of large peas ; bake in 
a warm oven, or on iron plates, 'and when done and cold, take them 
off the paper. 

[Jinne Page's, — One pound of butter, two pounds of flour, one pound 
of the best loaf sugar, two ounces of caraway seed, half a pint of 
good rose-water. Rub the sugar into the butter, and then mix care- 
fully an the sifted flour and caraway seed with the rose-water. Roll 
the mass thus formed into sheets to about the thickness of a dollar, 
and shape with small tin cutter ; lay them on baking-dishes, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

These are commonly called A. P.'s. 

York Cakes, — Rub into six ounces of butter one pound of sifled 
flour ; then mix together half a pound of pulverized loaf sugar, four 
ounces currants, well washed and dried, and half an ounce of pow* 
dered cloves; rub in with the butter and flour half a pint of warn) 
milk ; roll- out the paste into thin sheets, and cut with a round cutter, 
and bake at a moderate heat 

Jumbles. — Half a pound of butter, half a pound of the best loaf 
sugar, pulverized, half a pound, <^ finely-sifled flour ; rub intimately 
together with three eggs and half a wineglass of rose-water, add 
half an ounce, of ground cinnamon and one grated nutmeg ; bake in 
a moderate heat on waxed tins. 

Cinnamon J9twut7.— -Grind in a clean mortar a quarter of a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanched ; to which add, gradually, the whites of 
three eggs, and then three-quarters of a pound of the best pulverized 
loaf sugar, and two ounces of ground cinnamon ; form into a paste^ 
which should be laid out on greased tins, in diamond or other shapes; 
ice with cold water, to produce a gloss, and bake. 

Hazlenut hisses.— *Beat one pound of pulverized white sugar with 
tlie whites of eight eggs over a slow i^Q until they are light, then 
add four ounces of blanched filberts, cut fine ; lay them out on paper, 
alid bake in a slow oven. 

Vanilla Biscuit — Beat with a whisk the whites of ten eggs to a 
very strong froth, add three-quarters of a pound of finely-pulverized 
loaf sugar, ten ounces of sifted flour, three cloves of vanilla pulve- 
rized with three ounces of loaf sugar. Stir all these ingredients to- 
gether for one minute, and put the batter into paper bag or cornet ; 
lay out on waxed tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 



118 THB PA8TftY*C00K. 

Trifle.'-^'PltLce seireral altereate layers of Savoy biscait and biCter 
ainnond maccaroons in a handsome glass bowl, or dish, and satuFate 
them with the best Madeira wine ; cover the surface of the top layer 
with any kind of jelly, jam, or marmalade (red carrant jelly is gene- 
rally preferred) ; ihen take the whites of four eggs, half a pound of 
pulverized loaf sugar, the juice of one sound lemon, a little rose-wa- 
ter, and one pint of cream ; whisk all to a froth, and put lightly into 
the bowl, in the shape of a cone ; and ornament according to fancy^ 
with coloured sugars. 

Cocoanut Cakes. — One pound of blanched sweet almonds, the whites 
of twelve eggs, three pounds of the best pulverized loaf sugar, three 
large cocoanuts, finely grated. 

Pound the almonds in a clean roorkr, with the whites of the twelve 
eggs, until the mixture is perfectly smooth, then add the pulverized 
sugar and the grated cocoanut, and work the whole in the mortar into 
a tolerably stiff paste; form the cakes about the size of a walnut, and 
lay out on baking-plates previously well waxed. 

Sans Soucies. — One pound of blanched sweet almonds, the whites 
of three eggs, two pounds of pulverized loaf sugar. 

Pound the almonds with the whites of the eggs until reduced to a 
smooth paste, and then gradually mix in the sugar. Roll a portion 
of the mass thus formed in powdered sugar, and cut them into pieces 
about an inch long, and form them into the letter S, and bake on wax 
plates. 

Cocoa Biscuit — Three-quarters of a pound 6f blanched sweet 
almonds, half an ounce of good Caraeas cocoa, previously roasted, 
two eggs, three pounds of pulverized loaf sugar. 

Incorporate in a clean mortar the almonds, coeoa, and the eggs, 
vntil the mass becomes perfectly smooth, then add the sugar, with a 
small portion of vanilla, in powder. Form the biscuit with a tin cu^ 
ter of fancy shape ; lay on waxed plates, glaze the surface of the 
eakes with cold water, and bake in a tolerably quick oven. 

Lady Ctz^e.— Two pounds of powdered loaf sugar, half a pound of 
fresh butter, seven ounces of blanched sweet almonds, and one 
ounce of blanched bitter almonds. 

Beat in a clean mortar the almonds till reduced to a smooth paste, 
addmg occasionally a little rose-water, to prevent them from oiling ; 
add the sugar and butter; then add the whites of thirty fresh eggs, 
previously whisked to a very strong froth ; then mix in, very lightly, 
two pounds of finely-sifted flour, and bake in tin pans about twelve 
inches long, eight broad, and two inches deep. This cake requires 
a quick oven — thirty to thirty-five minutes will be sufficient time. 
When cool, ice as before directed, and score with a sharp knife. 

Lady Finger9*^^l?\it the yolks of four eggs in a small basin with 
four ounces- of poiQnded sugar, on wbieh you have grated the peel of 
one good fresh lemon ; work this well with a spatula for fire minutes ; 



TBB PA8TST-C00K. 119 

after wbicb, beat up tbe whites of the four eggs, and when they are 
very stiff, pour a fourth part of them on the yolks, which you after- 
wards mix with the remainder of the whites, with the addition of 
two ounces of sifted flour, stirring continualJy, to make the whole 
, very smooth. • 

Then form your biscuits on half sheets of white paper, folded in 
such a manner that they are only three inches in length, and no 
larger than your finger. As soon as one.sheet is full, cover your bis- 
cuits with fine sugar, and place on a baking-plate, which you put in 
the oven as soon as the surface of the biscuits become glossy by the 
melting of the sugar. Bake in a moderate oven, and when they have 
acquired a fine colour take them out ; when sufficiently cool, remove 
from the paper by moistening the opposite side^ or with the blade of 
a very thin knife. Place them afterwards two and twjp, with their 
backs to each other, in order not to injure the glossy sides. 

Biscuit d la CuiUiire {Spoon Bi8cuif).-^M'ix the yolks of three eggs 
with four ounces of fine su^r and half a clove of vanilla, powdered 
and passed through a silk sieve; after working these ingredients for 
five minutes, add a whole egg, then work them again for five minutes ; 
after which add another whole egg, and continue to work them for 
five minutes longer ; then beat op the whites of the first three eggs 
to a very stiff froth, and mix them, together with two ounces of dried 
an4 finely-sifted flour, to the former ingredients : when the batter is 
quite sleek, lay out on paper, and bake as Lady-fingers. 

Small Biscuits with Almonds, — Prepare three yolks as usual ; work 
them ten minutes with four ounces of sugar and an ounce of pounded 
bitter almonds; add a whole egg, and work together full five minutes 
longer; then beat up the whites very stiff, and mix them with the 
yolks, together with'one ounce and a half of wheat flour dried in the 
oven and passed through a fine sieve : work this batter till it is quite 
sleek* and then pour it in small copper moulds formed like small 
melons, carefully buttered and covered twice with* sugar. Mask the 
biscuit with fine sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Biscuits with Cream, — After mixing the yolks of three eggs with 
four ounces of fine sugar, (on which half the peel of a small lemon 
has been grated), work the mixture for ten minutes ; then beat up 
the three whites as usual ; mix them gradually with the yolks, toge- 
ther with one ounce and a half of dried sifted flour, and four spoonsful 
of whipped cream, well drained : the whole being lightly mixed toge- 
ther and very sleek, put it in moulds or cases, covering the tops of 
the biscuits with fine sugar ; when the sugar is melted, put the bis- 
cuits in a gentle oven, and let them bake twenty or twenty-five 
minutes. When taken out of the oven, be careful to put- them on 
their sides to prevent their sinking. r 

Biscuits glared with CAoeoiiito.— Prepare the same ingredients as 
the last, but flavour them with half a clove of vanilla pounded and 
passed through a silk sieve ; thea p«t them in a case ten inches in 



120 THB PA8TKY-C00K. 

length by eeven in width, which you put in a gentle oven. In fortf 
or fifty minutes after, see if your biscuit feels tolerably firofi ; if it does, 
take it out of the oven, and as soon as it is quite cold, turn the case 
and take out the biscuit, which you cut into small squares, lozenges, 
&c. : then mix the white of an egg with an ounce of finely-powdered 
white sugar and three ounces of chocolate, which, after being grated* 
you have dissolved for a few minutes in the mouth of the oven : work 
the whole with a silver spoon for five minutes, adding a little white 
of egg to make it rather thick and glossy, and then cover the top of 
the biscuit thickly with it, smoothing it with a spatula ; after which 
put the biscuit for five or six minutes in the oven, and then let cooL 

Biscuits glazed with Orange. — Rub the peel of a fine orange on a 
piece of sugar, then scrape off all the coloured parts, and, after bruis- 
ing them with a rolling-pin, mix them with three ounces of fine sugar 
and the white of an egg\ beat the whole for five or six minutes, then 
glaze the biscuit (prepared like the last, except you omit the vanilla) 
with it. Flavour the biscuit with either the half of an orange peel, 
lemon or citron, or with cofiee. If you wish to glaze them d la rose^ 
colour the glazing with vegetable red, and add one drop of essence 
of roses to it.] 



FANOT BREAD, OIN6EH>BREAD, BUNS, ROLLS, MUFFIITS, 

CRUMPETS, &C. 

Almond Bread, — Having bleached and dried eight ounces of sweet, 
and once ounce of bitter almonds, bruise them in a mortar ; add one 
egg, and with the pestle rub it all very fine. If you find it getting 
oily before it becomes fine, increase the quantity of egg. When fine, 
grate into it the rind of one lemon; and add one pound two ounces of 
sifted loaf sugar. Mix with yolks of eggs, until it becomes a soft . 
batter ; now add to the rest two ounces of fiour, and mix ail well toge- 
ther ; then pour jour batter into square fiat buttered tins, with the 
sides and ends turned up about two inches high ; bake in a warm 
oven, and when cold, ice it over with the icing (see article to ice, 
bride, and other cakes, p. 104), and sprinkle some nonpariel sugar- 
plums on the top. You may cut it in any shape or form, and mix 
it with your rout cakes. 

. G>7c/<ejj/er .-^Prepare your dough as for Bath cakes; out it with a 
Colchester cutter to about the thickness of a penny-piece, wash it 
with milk, bake it quick, wash it with egg and milk, while hot; when 
baked and cold, cut them apart. 

DieL^^Pui three-quartPTs of a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, 
wifh a quarter of a pint of water; put it over a steady fire and stir it 
till it is dissolved; beat six eggs with a whisk in a pan; when the 
sugar boils, pour it gently on the eggs, keeping it well beat till cold; 
then stir into it three^uarters of a pound of fine sifted flour ; have 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 121 

your frames papered, fill them three parts full with the batter, sift 
su^ar over them» and bake ihem in a steady oven* 

French Rolls. — Set a sponge with a quart of warm water, and half 
or three-quarters of a pint of good yeast ; let your sponore rise and 
drop, then melt one ounce of butter in a pint of warm milk, and one 
ounce of salt, to wet up with; it will take about seven pounds of flour 
altogether; let it lie about half an hour, then put them on warm tins; 
prove them well, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Short Bread. — Rub one pound of butter into three pounds of flour; 
make a hole aff^d-put in one pound of powdered sugar; then wet up 
with a quarter of^ pint of honey water, a quarter of a pint of milk, 
and two eggs ; brefak them in round pieces about as big as a walnut ; 
roll them round or oval, to the size of a tea-saucer ; pinch round the 

' edge; place them at the distance of one inch from each other on clean 

tins, not buttered ; cut half a pound of candied orange or lemon peel 
into pieces, and lay them on the top of your cakes; bake them in a 

* . good steady oven. 

Queen's Ginger-Bread, — ^Take two pounds of honey, one pound and 
three-quarters of the best moist sugar, three pounds of flour, half a 
pound of sweet almonds blanched and cut thin, half a pound of candied 
orange; peel the rinds of two lemons, grated, and an ounce of pOw- 
I dered cinnamon, half an ounce of nutmeg, cloves, mace, and cardi- 

moms, mixed and powdered, and a wine-glassful of water; put your 
honey and water into a pan over the fire, and make it quite hot ; mix 
the other ingredients into the flour, and pour in your honey, sugar, 
and water, and mix all well together; let it stand till next day : make 
it into cakes and bake it; rub a little clarified sugar until it will blow 
in bubbles through a skimmer, and with a paste-brush rub over your 
ginger-bread when baked. 

^ce Ginger-Bread, — Take three pounds of flour, one pound of 
moist sugar, four ounces of candied lemon or orange peel, cut small, 
one ounce of powdeied ginger, two ounces of powdered allspice, half 
an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a handful of caraway seeds, and 
three pounds of treacle ; rub the butter with your hand into the flour; 
then add the other ingredients, and mix it in the dough with the trea« 
cje ; make it into cakes or nuts, and bake them in a warm oven. 

' Thiek Ginger'Bread, — Prepare seven pounds of treacle, rub three- 
quarters of a pound of butter into twelve pounds of flour; mix three 
ounces of caraway, two ounces of ground coriander seeds, and two 
ounces of ground allspice, with your flour and treacle; mould it well 
together, make it into cakes, point them, butter the sides, and place 
them close together on buttered tins; put up-sets round them, wash 
*** with milk, and bake in a steady heat; when they are done, wash with 
egg and milk. 

Sweetmeat Nuts, — Prepare seven pounds of ti:?aclo ; mix four ounces 
of ground ginger, six ounces of ground allspice, eight ounces of cali- 
11 



122 THE PASTRY-COOK, 



f 



died lemon and orange, cot sinall, with nine pounds of flour; wet it 
up with your .treacle, then beat into your dough four pounds of butter, 
and five pounds of good moist sugar; lay them off on buttered tins, 
about the size of walnuts, flat them down, wash them with water, and 
bake them in a slow oven. 

Spice Nuts. — Prepare seven pounds of treacle; rub half a pound of i 

butter into nine pounds of fiour; mix four ounces of ground allspice, 
four ounces of ground ginger, two ounces each of caraway and cori- 
ander seeds powdered with your butter, flour, and treacle; foil half a 
pound of moist sugar^ and strew it over the top, so that you take a 
little in every piece you cut from it; roll them out in long rolls about 
the size of your finger ; cut them in pieces the size of a nutmeg ; 
place them on buttered tins, but not to^ touch ; wash with water or 
small beer, and bake in a good steady oven. 

il/u^fi5.-^Muflin6 are baked on a hot iron plate, and not in an oven. 
To a quarter of a peck of flour add three-quarters of a pint of yeast, 
four ounces of s^alt, and as much water (or milk) slightly warmed, as . 
is sufficient to form a*dough of rather a soft consistency. Small por- 
tions of the dough are then put into holes, previously made in a layer 
of flour about two inches thick, placed on a board, and the whole is 
covered up in a blanket, and suflfered to stand near a fire, to cause 
the dough to rise; when this is efi^ected, they will each exhibit a 
scmi-globular shape ; they are then placed on a heated iron plate, and * 
baked ; when the bottoms of the muffins begin to acquire a brownish 
ColoCif^ they are turned, and baked on the opposite side. 

[Wheat Muffins. — Melt a sniall piece of butter into a quart of milk, 
and set it aside until cold — beat four eggs very light, and make a 
batter by adding alternately and very gradually a little milk and a 
little flour, until the batter is of the proper consistence, which is quite 
thin — then add a large spoonful of yeast, if you do not use the pow- 
ders as directed in the note on page 123. Bake them in muffin-rings 
on a griddle, and butter them before serving, — they must be torn 
asunder to butter, as cutting them open renders them heavy. 

Rice Muffins,^-\\xce muffins are made in the same manner exactly 
as rice cakes, except that^the batter of the former is thinner — that is, 
to a quart of milk and three eggs, you put less rice and less floun 

Rice Cakes, — Boil half a pint of rice until quite soft, setting it asidi 
until perfectly cool; beat three eggs very light and put them with 3P 
pint of wheat flour to the rice, making it into a batter with a quart 
of milk ; beat it well, and sot it to rise with a spoonful of yeast, or use 
the yeast powders as dirt^ted above. Bake on a griddle, and butter 
them before sending them to table. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — To a quart of buckwheat meal put a little Indian 
meal (say a table-spoonful) and a little salt; make them into a batter 
with cold water, taking care to beat it very well, as the excellence 
Of buckwheat cakes depends very much on their being well beaten; 



% 



>^ 



THE FASTBY-COOK. 123 

Ihen put in a large spoonful of good yeast,* and set to rise ; when 
sufficiently risen, bake them a clear brown on ft griddle. They are 
usually buttered before being sent to table. ^ 

Flannel Cakes, — Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a quart of milk, 
and after stirrinsr it well, set it away to cool ; then heat four egg^ 
very light, and stir them into the milk in turn with half a pound or 
lifted ilour ; putjn a spoonful of yeast, and set it aside. These are 
baked on a griddle like buckwheat cakes, and are always buttered 
before being sent to table. 

Indian Slappers. — Taa pint of Indian meal, add a handful of wheat 

flour and a little salt ; beat three eggs very light and stir them, ii) turn 

with the meal, into a quart of milk. These cakes require no yeast, 

" and should be baked as soon as mixed. They are baked on a griddle, 

and buttered before serving. 

Johnny'Cake, — To a quart of sifled Indian meal (for this cake 
coarse meal should always be used) add a pint of warm water, and a 
tea-spoonful of salt; mix the meal gradually into the water, and 
when mixed beat it very hard, until quite light, then spread it out 
smoothly and evenly upon a board. Let this board be then placed 
before the fire, having something to support it behind ; when done, 
cut it in squares, and send it to table, without butter. 

Corn-Meal Bread, — To a pint of siAed corn-meal (not too fine) add 
a small piece of butter and two eggs, well beaten ; make it. into a 
batter with new milk, and put in a spoonful of yeast. It will require 
an hour to rise. This bread is best baked, in small tin pans.] 

Crumpeta. — Crumpets are made of batter composed of flour, water 
(or milk), and a small quantity of yeast. To one pound of the best 
wheatgi)4oDr you may add three table-spoonfuls of yeast A portion 
of the liquid paste, not too thin (after being suflered to rise), is 
poured on the heated iron plate, and baked, like pancakes in a pan. 

Husks. — Rub six ounces of btitter into foar pounds of flour ; set a 

sponge with a pint and a-half of warm milk, and a half pint of yeast; 

Mrhen the sponge rises, add four ounces of good moist sugar, mix it 

u}> together, let it prove a little, then roll it out about the size of a 

# rolling-pin ; flat it down with your hand, and place the cakes at a 

* Many persons now make use of the yeast powders, and give them a 
decided preference. T^ey certainly possess the advantage of requiring 
less time, and thereby enabling you to make muflins, buckwheat cakes, 
&e. — ^which, set with yeast, require some hours in the preparation — at 
a quarter of an hour's notice. The ingredients are the super-carbo- 
nato of soda and tartaric acid, to be used in the following manner : — 
A spoonful of soda, and a spoon two-thirds full of tartaric acid, are to be 
^ dissolved separately in a little water. The soda is to be put into the bat. 
ter when it is partly beaten, taking care that it is perfeetly dissolved ; and 
the acid is to be added when the cook is ready to begin baking, as they 
must not be allowed to stand after the efiervescenc^ ti^es place. 



124 THE PASTST-COOK. 

distance from each other, 6o as not to touch ; prove them well, and 
bake them in a moderately heated oven; when cold, cut them in 
slices; place them to touch on" the tins, and brown them off in a 
brisk oven. 

Sweet Rusks, — Cut a diet bread cake into thin long slices ; lay 
them on iron plates and brown them quickly, in a very hot oven ; 
turn them when of a light-brown colour ; and when of a similar 
colour on the other side, they are done. 

Tops and Bottoms, — Prepare your mixture as for rusks, make it 
into small halls about the size of a large walnut, place them on your 
tins in straight rows just to touch ; prove them well ; bake them in 
a moderate heat : when cold, draw a sharp knife between every row ; 
to cut your balls out square, turn them on their side, and cut them 
through the middle one at a time : place them on the tin as close as 
you can, with the cut part upwards ; put them in a brisk oven ; 
watch them till they are nicely browned over ; then they are done. 



OF PASTES IN GBNEBAL — PRELISUNARY BEHABKS. 

[The first grand object for our consideration is the proper method 
of making paste ; for upon our skill in that important branch of 
the pastry-cook's art, will the success of our future operations mainly 
depend. Whenever the paste happens to be ill made, its bad ef- 
fects will invariably appear in the baking; and if even by chance ^ 
the colour should turn out loleral^ly well, it will be still highly unsatis- 
factory to competent judges ; in short, paste thus made will always be 
heavy, have an unpleasant flavour, and, above all, be very indi- 
gestible ; and, indeed, it is owing to the general ignorance that pre- 
vails respecting its proper amalgamation, that good pastry is so rarely 
made ; and that the number of good family pastry-cooks is so small. 

It is much more easy to bake pastry than to make it The oven 
requires aire, constant attention^ and practice, it is true ; but the art 
of making pastry is quite another thing — an art that, admits of no 
mediocrity— a good memory, taste practice, and dexterity, being ab- 
solutely necessary in that branch of the business ; for it is really 
from the manner of mixing the various ingredients of which it is * j 
composed that it acquires its good or bad quality. 

An indispensable requisite is cleanliness in those who have to pre* 
pare elegant viands, and the most scrupulous attention must be paid 
to delicate management and order. In a pastry-cook these requi- 
sitions are absolutdy indispensable. 



TO MAKE PUJPP PASTE. 

I shall now endeavour to give directions for the composition of this 
delicate and elegant kind of paste. 



) 

I 

I 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 125 

Ingredients. — ^Twelve ounces of fine-sifted flour, twelve ounces of 
butter^two drachms of fine salt, and the yolks of two eggs. 

Manner of Working, — Having placed the twelve ounces of flour 
on the board, make a small hole in the middle ; in which, put the 
two drachms of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and nearly a glass of 
water ; and with the ends of the fingers of your right-hand gradually 
mix in the surrounding flour, adding a little water where necessary, 
fill the paste is of a proper consistence, rather firm than otherwise ; 
then prove it by leaning your hand on the board, and working it for 
some minutes, when the paste will become soft to the touch, and 
glossy in appearance. 

It is of importance to observe, that this paste should be neither tdb 
stifl'nor too soft, but of a proper medium ; yet it will be better when 
it is a little too soft than when too stiff. 

The same process must be attended to in summer as in winter; 
though many persons pretend that this kind of paste should be made 
BtifFer in summer than in winter, on account of the difference in the 
two seasons. As far as regards the hardness of the butter, this mode 
of reasoning has certainly some truth in it ; for, inasmuch as the 
winter is favourable to the work, so does the heat of summer render 
our operations troublesome and diflicult, and prevent them sometimes 
from having the desired efiect, particularly in the making of puff 
paste. 

The reason why summer paste should not be made sofler than that 
made in*. winter, is this: — if, when the paste is soft, it be buttered, 
and afterwards placed on ice, as is practised in summer, the butter, 
which is a greasy substance, will become quickly congealed by the 
coldness of the ice ; while the paste, which is only a moist body, will 
scarcely be affected by it ; and, consequently, the butter being fro- 
zen, and the paste soft, it will follow that, in working it, the butter 
not being held by the paste sufficiently firm to unite with it, will 
. break into small pieces ; and after having received the two first turns, 
will appear in small lumps, like large peas. On rolling it again, and 
placing on the ice, the cold acts with greater force on the small par- 
ticles of butter, which quickly become like so many icicles, and the 
paste, in consequence, will be completely spoiled ; for, in baking, 
these particles of butter melt, and, separating themselves from the 
paste, render it incapable of uniting with them. 

When the paste has been made as above, take three-quarters of a 
' pound of butter, in pieces, which for twenty minutes has been in a 
pail of spring water, thoroughly imbued with a few pounds of pounded 
ice previously well washed; then squeeze and work well in a napkin 
in order to separate the water from it, and at the same time to render 
it soft, and above all, of an equal consistence; then as quickly as pos- 
sible roll the paste on a marble slab, into a square, and placing the 
butter in the middle, cover with an equal thickness of paste, by rais- 
ing the paste over it. After rolling it out'two or three feet in length, 
11* 



126' THB FASTBY-COOK. 

fold it into three parts by doubling one part over the other; after 
which roll it out again, and fold it once RK)re into three equal parts— 
now roll it to a greater length, envelope it with a clean linen cloth 
which has been dusted with some sifted fioar — lay this on some finely 
pounded ice, taking care to have several folds of cloth between the 
paste and the ice, to prevent the moisture striking through — place on 
the top of the paste a dish containing some pounded ice— this serves 
to keep the surface of the paste cool, and also to prevent it becoming 
soft by the action of the air. After three or four minutes, remove 
the dish, and turn the paste upside down, instantly covering it as 
before. This operation should be performed three times in the same 
ifianner, and with the same precautions. 

Lastly, roll it out two or three times according to what you intend 
to make of it, and use it as expeditiously as possible, lest the heat of 
the season should render it too soft to handle, or prevent its having 
the desired effect in baking. 

Thus, in less than half an hour, it is possible to make very fine puff 
paste, having previously everything ready — the ice pounded, the but- 
ter frozen, and the oven quite hot, otherwise it cannot be done. This 
is important, as it is sometimes an hour before the oven can be made 
hot ; and therefore the paste should not be begun to be made till the 
oven is half heated. The following is another method.] 

Puff Paste, — Take one pound of flour, and one pound of good firm 
butter; cut your butter into slices; roll it in thin sheets on some of 
your flour ; wet up the rest with about a quarter of a pint of water ; 
see that it is about as stiff as your batter; roll it to a thin sheet; cover 
it with your sheets of butter ; double it in a three double; do the same 
five times; then double it up; lay it in the cold to use when you want 
it, keeping the air from it : you ought to make it before the sun rises, 
unless you have a cold place to make it in. The following is another 
method ; — Take one pound of flour, and eight ounces of butter; rub 
the butter into the flour with your hand, and make it into a paste with 
water, to the consistence of very thick batter; roll out your paste 
thin; break eight ounces more butter into pieces of the size of a shil- 
ling, and put them in all parts of your paste ; fold it up ; and after stand- 
ing a short time, roll it out again ; when it has been rolled out three 
times, it is fit for use. 

Short Paste, — Rub one pound of butter into one pound and a quar- 
ter of flour ; wet it up stiff with cold water ; work it smooth, and it is 
fit for use. 

Tart Paste, — ^Eight ounces of butter rubbbed into a pound of flour 
with your Band, and made into a stiflT paste with water, is an excel- 
lent paste for tarts. 

Apricot Tart, — Lay your puff paste in patties ; put your jam in the 
middle, and bake them in a brisk oven ; or you may bake your puff 
paste first with a bit of bread in the middle; then take oat the bread 
—fill the hole with jam ; it will look very handsome. 



THE PASTRT-COOK. 127 

(hvered Tart. — ^Take your short paste ; cut it into pieces to the siza 
of your patties; roll them out thiu; lay in the bottoms; put your fruit 
as htgfh as you can ; put a pinch of sugar on the top ; close your tart; 
sprinkle water over it; put a pinch of powdered loaf sugar on the 
top ; and bake them in a good steady heat. 

Raspberry ycr/. — Take your short paste; cut it into pieces of 
nearly the size of your patties; about the thickness of a penny-piece; 
then with your thumb drive it thin in the middle ; leave it thick at 
the edge ; cut it round close to the patty, and notch it with the back 
of your knife; thin your raspberry-jam with a little water, and fill 
the tart three parts full ; bake them in a brisk oven. Or you -may 
made them with puff paste, in the same manner as apricot tarts, if 
you choose. 

Mince Pies, — St6w three pounds of lean beef till it is tender; chop 
it fine with one pound and a half of beef suet, one dozen of apples, 
and one pound of stoned raisins ; mix all together, with three pounds 
of currants, washed and picked clean, half a pound of citron, half 
an ounce, together, of cloves, cinnamon, and mace, pounded fine, a 
little allspice, a pint of brandy, and three half pints of cider, and 
one pound and a half of good moist sugar ; squeeze it close down 
in a glazed pan, and it will be fit for use ; then roll your puflf paste 
in sheets, about the thickness of a penny-piece ; cut out the tops to 
the size of your pies ; put your cuttings for bottoms ; fill them to 
your fancy ; cover and close them ; and bake them in a steady oven. 

Raised Pie* — Take seven pounds of fiour; then take one pound of 
mutton suet, clarified down ; put it into a saucepan with one pint and 
a half of water, and set it over the fire till it boils ; make a hole in 
the middle of your flour, and pour in your liquor boiling hot ; then 
mix in your flour with a spoon till you can bear to put your hand in; 
mix it till it becomes a nice smooth piece of dough ; cover it over 
with a cloth; and raise your pies with as much of it as will' make the 
size you want ; when filled and nicely closed, wash with Qggy and 
lay on your ornament Your oven must be brisk, if for small pies; 
but if for large ones, a more steady heat will be best. 



THE BAKER. 



a^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^A^Mtf 



INTRODUCTION. 

Baking, or the art of malting bread, is amon^fst the earliest modes 
resorted to by the more advanced portions of mankind for the prepa- 
ration of food. In the early ages, however, loaf or leavened bread 
was unknown, as it is amongst uncivilized nations to this day. The 
North American Indians contrive, by pounding their maize, or Indian 
corn, to make a sort of cake, which they bake by means of hot cin- 
ders. This serves them, and, indeed, occasionally the Anglo-Ameri- 
cans, as a substitute for loaf or leavened bread, and ' may be called 
unleavened bread. But in some parts of the world bread is not 
known; in others it may be known, but is not used — as amongst the 
people inhabiting the vast Pampas on the Rio de la Plata, where 
scarcely anything is eaten but beef. 

Bread may be thus defined ; — A nutritive substance made of corn, 
generally wheat, or other farinaceous or mealy vegetables, ground or 
reduced into tlour or meal, that is, a powder more or less fine, and 
kneaded or mixed with water,'and baked in an oven, upon hot ashes 
or other grise. This process makes unleavened bread, or, in other 
words, un fermented bread, or what is now called biscuits. To lea- 
vened or fermented bread, that is, the bread generally used in our 
house?, there must be an addition, yeast, or some other substance 
which has the property of promoting fermentation. 

The origin or etymology of the word bread is not without interest 
Home Tooke says, bread is brayed grain, from the verb to bray or 
pound in a mortar, the ancient way in which flour was mode.- The 
meaning of bread, therefore, is something brayed — brayed wheat, or 
wheat bread — pease brayed, or bread — oats brayed, or bread, &c. 
The word bread was spelt differently in different ages; thus we have 
hrede^ breed, &c. Dough, Home Tooke says, comes from the Anglo- 
Saxon word deaw'ian, to wet, to moisten. Doughy or dow, means 
wetted. The bread, that is, brayed corn or grain, by being wetted 
becomes dough. 

Loaf comes from the Anglo-Saxon word hltf-ian, to raise, to lift up. 

(138) 



THE BAKER. 129 

ThuB, after the bread or brayed corn has been wetted, by which it 
becomes dough, then follows the leaven, by which it becomes loaf, 
that is, raised. Leaven is derived from the French word lever, to 
raise. 

Bread, in some countries, is not made entirely of meal, much less 
t>f wheaten flour. In many parts of Sweden, the bread is composed 
partly of the bark of trees, particularly during winter. 

In Westphalia, a kind of very coarse black bread is made, of which 
the peasants bake one large loaf for the whole week. This is divided 
for use with a saw. It is called pumpernickel, and is sometimes 
exported. In many parts of Germany, bread is made of grain nearly 
entire, or but just bruised, which is very coarse, and frequently forms 
part of the food of horses. 

The Romans, before they had acquired the art of baking, were 
called, either by way of distinction or reproach, the pulse-eating peo- 
ple. According to some authorities, indeed, the earlier nations knew 
no other use of their meal than to make of it a kind of porridge. 
Such was the food of the Roman soldiers for several centuries, or at 
most their skill extended no farther than to knead unleavened dough 
into cakes or biscuits. Even at present, as has been before intimated, 
there are many countries where the luxury of bread is unknown. 

Loaf-bread is seldom used in the northern parts of Europe and Asia, 
except by the higher classes of inhabitants. You never see loaves in 
Sweden, though in the towns rolls are common enough. Gottenburg 
is a considerable town, containing between twenty and thirty Ihou- 
6and inhabitants. In the year 1812 it was crowded with merchants 
from all parts of Europe, being at that time the great connecting link 
between Great Britain and the Continent. Towards the end of that 
year only, the captain of an English packet ordered a Gottenburg 
baker to bake for him a quantity of bread, amounting altogether to 
the value of one pound sterling. The baker was astotiished, and in 
feet confounded, at so great an order, and refused to comply till the 
captain gave him security that he would carry off and pay for the 
loaves, declaring that he could never dispose of so great a quantity 
pf bread in Gottenburg, if it were left on his hands. In the country 
parts of Siveden, nothing in the character of bread is to be met with, 
excepting rye cakes, which are represented as nearly as bard as flinti 
and which are only baked twice a year. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON BAKINO. 

Baking, as a business or profession, was never confined to the baking " 
of common bread alone, that is to say, bread in every-day use. A 
baker we take to mean a person who bakes and prepares any farina- 
ceous substance intended for human food. If this definition be cor- 
rect, then it will follow that not only loaf-bread baking, biscuit-baking, 
fancy-bread baking, belong to the business of the baker, but also pas- 



180 ' THB BAKBR. 

try making and confectionery. We know, indeed, that all these 
branches are frequently to a certain extent practised by the same 
individual, and therefore, in a work of this kind, they oug*ht all to be 
treated of, which we intend to do under separate heads. 

The ancients had a great variety of spice bread and sweetmeats, 
and these, there is every reason to believe, were produced by the 
persons called bakers ; pastry-cooks and confectioners being unknown 
as separate professions. The Asiatics were exceedingly fond of 
sweetmeats, and there can be little or no doubt that a similar taste 
was introduced by them among the Romans, when they were carried 
to Rome to practise their calling there. The Rhodians, we are told, 
had a particular kind of bread sweetened with honey, so exquisitely 
pleasant, that it was eaten with other delicacies after dinned by way 
of dessert 

The French, who are excellent bakers, have a great variety of 
breads, and these for the most part have been long introduced into. 
Great Britain. The common bread of that country, or bread for gen- 
eral nse, may be divided into three classes : — wheaten bread, made 
of the finest flour, sometimes called firsts; second, or honsehold 
bread, made of flour somewhat coarser, called seconds; and brown 
bread, made of flour called thirds, and sometimes of flour of various 
degrees coarser than thirds. The coarseness or fineness of flour 
(supposing the wheat of the same quality) depends upon the dressing, 
or the separating of tTie flour from the husks of the wheat, after it 
has been reduced to a powder. The finest flour is entirely separated 
from the bran or husks — the other description not entirely so, but the 
broad bran is removed from the coarsest flour. The writers in many 
of our celebrated Encyclopsedias say, that " our household bread is 
made of the whole substance of the grain, without the separation of 
either the finest flour or the coarsest bran." This is a mistake 
altogether. 

In making pure wheaten loaf bread, no other ingredients should 
be employed but flour, water, yeast, or some other innocent ferment- 
ing matter. Various other ingredients are used, principally by those 
engaged in making bread for sale. The London bakers employ alum, 
for the purpose ^ making the bread whiter, &c» Home-baked bread 
is never so white, even when made from the same flour, as that pro- 
duced by the public baker ; but of this we shall speak when we come, 
to describe the methods of bread-making used by public bakers; at 
present we shall confine ourselves to bread as made in families for 
daily use. 

The goodness of bread, whether baked at home or abroad, will de- 
pend, firstly, upon the quality of the flour employed ; secondly, upon 
the quality of the yeast; and, thirdly, upon the skill and care of the 
baker. The process of baking, though simple enough, requires some 
experience on the part of him or her who may undertake to perform 
it We need scarcely say, that experience is only to be acquired in 
one way, and that way is too obvious to need pointing out. To judge 



THE BAKER. 131 

of f!oar, experience is also necessary ; bat any one may fbrnn a pretty 
accurate idea whether it is ^ood or bad, hy attending to the follow- 
ing directions : — If flour is of a fine white colour, it may be pro- 
nounced good, so far as colour is concerned ; but if it be brown, it 
shows that either it was made from bad wheat, or that it has been 
coarsely dressed — that is, particles of bran, more or less fine, have 
been left in it. Brown flour, however, may be of a good, sound qual- 
ity, and flne white flour not so. To judge of flour, take a portion in 
your hand and press it firmly between your thumb and forc-flnger, at 
the same time rubbing it gently, for the purpose of making a level 
surface upon the flour. By this means you will be able to ascertain 
the colour, by observing the pressed and smooth surface ; and the act 
of pressing and smoothing it, will enable you to ascertain these facts. 
If it feel loose and lively in the hand, it is of good quality ; if on the 
contrary it feels dead or damp, or in other words clammy, it is de- 
cidedly bad. 

Flour ought to be a few weeks old before it is used ; but it will 
keep good much longer, if kept in a dry place covered over. Bat it 
is, perhaps, better to trust to your miller or mealman, who, if you are 
a good and constant customer, will take care to serve you with good 
flour for his own sake ; for if he employs any tricks, he is sure to be 
discovered when the bread comes out of the oven. 

It has been found by analysis, that wheat flour consists of three 
principal substances, namely, starch, gluten, and sugar, and a very 
small portion of albumen ; of these, the starch is the most nourish- 
ing as food. The gluten resembles animal glue in its tenacious qua- 
lities ; and its smell, when subjected to a strong heat, is foetid, like 
burning horn or feathers. It will not ferment in warm water and 
yeast, but like a piece of flesh will become putrid.- Mr. Edlin says, 
that " this substance is totally diflTerent from vegetable matter, but 
rather resembling animal." The gluten in wheat-flour is the cause 
of its forming an adhesive paste with water, and of its rising in 
leaven. 

Starch forms the most considerable part of wheat-flour, and there 
is reason to believe, from so many persons subsisting on potatoes, 
which contain much starch and no gluten, that it is the most nutri- 
tious ; but starch cannot be made into bread, because it wants the 
mucilaginous gluten to give it tenacity, and the saccharine matter, 
or sugar, to induce fermentation. 

From experiments made by Mr. Edlin, it appears that a pound of 
wheat contains three ounces of bran, ten ounces of starch, six drachms 
of gluten, and two drachms of sugar ; which, with the loss of two 
ounces in grinding and reducing the flour to starch, make one pound, 
or sixteen ounces. From this it appears that he did not discover the 
albumen, which M. Seguin considers the fermenting principle. 

Mr. Edlin also ascertained by experiment, that starch, isinglass*, 
and sugar, mixed in proper quantities, and fermented with yeast, will 
make a light and porous bread* 



132 THE BAKBR. 

Flour-paste may be considered as merely a viscid and elastic ti»* 
sue, the interstices of which are filled with starch, albumen, and 
sugar. We know that it is from the gluten that the dough derivefl 
its properly of rising on the admixture of leaven ; the leaven acting 
on the sweet principle of the wheat, gives rise in succession to the 
vinous and acetous fermentation, and of consequence to alcohol, 
acetic, and carbonic acids. The latter gas tends to fly off, but the 
gluten resists its disengagement, expands like a membrane — forms a 
multitude of little cavities, which give lightness and sponginess to 
the bread. 

To judge of good yeast, no positive directions can be given. Yeast 
should always be fresh, and if made from table ale it is better, because 
less bitter than that made from very strong ale. If the yeast is sour, 
the dough will not rise. Originally what is called leaven was uni- 
formly employed, and it is now sometimes used as a substitute for 
yeast. Those who use it, keep a pound or more dough from baking 
to baking. It is kept in a wooden barrel, or bowl, covered with flour. 
Before it is fit to use, it must be both stale and sour. . Bread made in 
this way is said to be more digestible, but it is not so pleasant to the 
taste. Leaven is now only used at sea. 

A good oven is necessary for the prod action of good bread. If the 
oven be heated, as in country places, by dry wood, furze, or fern, 
burnt in the oven itself, it ought to be built round, not long, as there 
will be in the former case a greater equality of heat. The roof 
should be from twenty inches to two feet high in the centre ; the 
mouth no larger than will be sufficient to admit Ihe bread. But many 
people who make their own bread' send it to be baked at the baker's. 
We have seen good ovens attached to a stove, and heated by the 
kitchen fire. These are not sufficiently capacious to contain loaves 
enough for the consumption of a large family, but they answer the 
purpose of a small family very well. To save room, it will be neces- 
sary, in stove ovens, to bake in tins. Bread thus baked is much more 
smooth and neat than when baked in the ordinary way; but the plea- 
sant crispness of the crust is wanting. 

The ovens used in London and some other large towns are, for the 
most part, heated by a furnace placed on one side. The heat in these 
ovens is very equable, and the baker is enabled to keep it up at all 
times with very little trouble, and with less expense than by the old 
method. 

FAMILY LOAF-BREAD. 

Under this hoad we shall give directions for makinfif bread of wheat 
flour only, The manufacturing of barley flour, rye flour, and a mix- 
ture of different kinds of flours, with or without the addition of vari- 
ous other nutritive substances, &c., into bread, will be treated of 
hereafter. 

Family or Home-Baked Bread.^^An expeditious and simple method 



' } 



TH£ BAKEH. 133 

of maJting bread for a small family is as follows: — Tate lialf a bushel 
of flour ; put all this flour excepting about four pounds into a tub or 
pan, and in winter place it before the fire to warm. Mix six ounces 
or half a pound of powdered salt with the flour — but it would be bet- 
ter to work the salt in with the dough. Then take a pint of good 
fresh yeast, and well mix it with a sufficient quantity of blood-warni 
water. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour ;— pour the water 
and yeast gradually into the hole of the flour, mixing the water and 
flour with your hands till both become well incorporated. ' Cover this 
mixture up, and place it near the fire till it has well rrsen, that is to 
say, fermented. Then work the other flour into it with your fists, 
till it becomes a nice, smooth, tough dough. Make this dough into^ 
loaves, and bake in an oven properly heated : if too hot, your bread 
will be burnt outside, an^ not done inside. ' It will take from an hour 
find a half to two hours in baking, but the bread should always remain 
in the oven half an hour after it has become broWn ; or, as it is tech- 
nically called, it ^^i\\ not be soaked through. This is a method we 
have known to be used with success in many families, though not 
aware that it ever has been published before. 

For large bakings, the following method is best : — 
The common way is to put the flour into a trough, tub, or pan, suf- 
ficiently large to permit its swelling to three times the size it at pre- 
sent occupies. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour. For 
half a bushel of flour take a pint of thick fresh yeast — that is, yeast 
not frothy — mix it with about a pint of soft water made blood-warm. 
The water must not be hot Then gently mix with the yeast and 
water as much flour as will bring it to the consistence of a thick 01* 
stifl* batter-— pour this mixture into the hole in the flour, and cover it 
by sprinkling it over with flour — lay over it a flannel or sack, and in 
cold weather place it near, not too near, the fire. This is called lay- 
ing the sponge. When the sponge— or this mixture of water, yeast, 
and flour — has risen enough to crack the dry flour by which it was 
covered, sprinkle over the top six ounces of salt — (more or less to 
suit the taste) : mind, the time when the salt is applied is of great' 
importance. We haye seen directions in which we are told to mix 
the salt with the water and yeast. The efiect of this would be 
to prevent fermentation, or, in other words, to prevent the sponge 
from rising. After the salt is sprinkled over the sponge, work ft 
with the rest of ihe flour, and add from time to time warm water 
(not hot) till the whole is suflSciently moistened ; that is, scarcely as 
moist as pie-crust. The degree of moistness, however, which the' 
mixture ought to possess can only be taught by experience — when 
the water is mixed with the composition, then work it well by push- 
ing your fists into it — then rollingr it out with your hands — folding it 
up again — kneading it again wiih your fists, till it is completely 
mixed, and formed into a stifle, tough, smooth substance, which is 
Cjsilled dough — great care must be taken, that your dough be not too 
moist on the one hand, and on the other that every particle of flour 
12 



134 raK BAKEB. 

be tboroaghly incoiporated. Form your doagh into a lump like a 
large dumplings again cover it up, and keep it warm to riee or fer- 
ment A tier it has been rising about twenty minutes, or half an 
hour, make the dough into loaves, first having shaken a littio j9our 
over the board to prevent sticking. The loaves may be made up ia 
tin moulds, or if it be desired to make it into loaves to be baked with- 
out the use of mt)ulds, divide the dough into equal parts, according 
to the size you wish to have your loaves — make each, part into the 
form of a dumpling, and lay one dumpling, if we may so speak, upoa 
another — then, the oven being properly heated, by mean^ of an in- 
strument called a peel, a sort of wooden shovel, put in your loaves, 
and immediately shut the door as close as possible. A good deal of 
nicety is required in properly placing the loaves in the oven — they 
must be put pretty closely together. The bread will take from an 
hour and a-balf to two hours to bake properly. 

Brown or Diet Bread is made of flour from whicl^ the coarsest flake 
bran only is removed. This bread is made as in the preceding direc- 
tions. By boiling a pound and a-quarter of bran in a gallon of the 
water in which the bread is made, and then straining it, there will 
be an increase of one-sixth more than if mixed with plain water. 

Bread not liable to become bifier,-^Th\8 process is an invention of a 
Mr. Stone. He took a tea-spoonful of yeast and mixed it with three 
quarters of a pint of warm water. He then took a bushel or fifty- 
six pounds of flour, and havmg put it into the kneading trough, and 
made a bole in the middle of it large enough to contain two gallons 
of water, he poured in his small quantity, and took a stick and stir- 
red it until it was as thick as a batter pudding — having covered this 
i^nge with a sprinkling of flour, it was left to ferment for an hour, 
at the end of which time he took a quart more of warm water and 
poured in, and repeated the operation of stirring it in with more flour, 
and again sprinkling it with flour, when it was again left for tv^o 
hours, when it will be found to have risen and broken through the 
flour— then add three quarts or a gallon of water, and stir in flour to 
the consistence of butter, and again cover it with dry flour — and in 
about three or four more he mixed up his dough ; which done, he 
covered it up warm and let it stand to prove four or five hours more, 
when he made up his loaves and baked them. The bread was as 
light aiiB as porous as if one pint of yeast had been made. 

Having, as we trust, explained the process of baking as it is prac- 
tised 1:^ those who adhere to its simple principles, and who employ 
no other ingredients than those necessary to produce good bread, we 
iriiall now proceed to describe the methods pursued by the public 
baker ; and, at the same time, give a description of a public bake- 
housey and the duties of the persons employed therein. 



%«E BAKEB. 185 



ARTIFICIAL TEASTS. 



Previous to entering upon the subject of public bakingf, by which 
so large a portion of the people are supplied with their daily bread, it 
will he necessary to lay before our readers some of the various me- 
thods by which yeast is compounded. Of brewers' yeast, or the yeast 
of ale and beer, we have already spoken, and therefore it will be 
necessary again to revert to it. Several of the following directions 
for the preparations of yeast have been long before the public, and 
some of them the writer has not had an opportunity of testing by 
experience, but there is no reason to doubt of their efficiency ; of the 
patent yeast, however, now pretty generally used by the public 
bakers, he can speak with confidence, having witnessed the whole 
process of making it, and experienced its perfect applicability to the 
manufacturing of bread. We shall first, however, treat of the mode 
of preserving brewers' yeast. 

Teast to Preserve. — ^Take a quantity and work it well with a whisky 
till it becomes thin; then procure a wooden dish or platter, clean and 
dry, and with a soft brush lay a thin layer of yeast on the dish, and 
turn the top downwards to keep out the dust, but not the air, which 
is to dry it. When the first coat is dry, lay on another, and let that 
dry, and so continue till the quantity is sufficient ; by this means, it 
may soon be made two or three inches thick, when it may be pre- 
served perfectly good, in dry tin canisters, for a long time. When 
you use it for baking, cut a piece and lay it in warm water till it is 
dissolved, When it is fit for use. 

Potatoe Yeast is made of mealy potatoes boiled thoroughly soft— . 
they are then skinned and mashed as smooth' as possible, when as 
much hot water-should be put on them as will make a mash of the 
consistency of ^ood beer yeast Add to every pound of potatoes two 
ounces of treacle, and when just warm stir in for every pound of 
potatoes two large spoonsful of yeast Keep it warm till it has done 
fermenting, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use. A pound 
of potatoes will make nearly a quart of yeast, and it is said to be 
equally as good as brewers' yeast. 

The following are Dr. LetUomU directions for making another Pre- 
pared Teast, — ^Thicken two quarts of water with four ounces of fiour, 
Soil it for half an hour, then sweeten it with three of brown sugar ; 
when almost cold, pour it along with four spoonfuls of bakers' yeast 
into an earthen jug, deep enough for the fermentation to go on with- 
out running over ; place it a day near the fire ; then pour ofi* the thia 
liquor from the top, shake the remainder, and close it up for use, first 
straining it through a sieve. To preserve it sweet, set it in a cod 
cellar, or hang it some depth in a well. Always keep some of this 
yeast to make the next quantity that is wanted. 

Artificial Few/.— Take two ouaces of flour, boil it in a quart of 



136 THE BAKEB. 

water, till it comes to the consistence of a thin jelly, pour it into a 
machine for impregnating water with fixed air ; then put into the 
lower vessel some coarse powdered marble, and poar on it some sul- 
phuric acid diluted with water. The apparatus is now to be adjust* 
ed, and the upper vessel put in its place, and nearly stopped. The 
fixed air now passes through the valve, and ascends into the middle 
and upper part of the machine, where the gas is absorbed by the 
fiour jelly in considerable quantity ; and in the course of a few hours 
ibe matter will be found so strongly impregnated, as to be in a state 
of fermentation. This artificial yeast may now be put into a bottle 
for use. The great advantage of this yeast is, that it may be made 
in situations where it is impossible to procure brewers* yeast. The 
foregoing (^eration need not be performed but once by the same in- 
dividual, as the process may be carried on by mixing this ariificictl 
yeasty which was invented by the late Mr. Henry, with the preced- 
mg preparation recommended by Dr. Lettsom, which it will cause to 
ferment the same as brewers' yeast. 

Another artificial yeast is made as follows : — Take half a pound 
of fine fiour, the same quantity of coarse brown sugar, and a quarter 
of a peck of bruised malt ; boil these over the fire for a quarter of 
an hour, in half a gallon of water, then strain the liquor through a 
sieve into an upright jug, and when cooled to 80 degrees of heat, add 
one pint of the artificial Seltzer water, or, if procurable. Seltzer wa- 
ter itself, or water impregnated with fixed air — ^the mixture will 
soon begin to ferment :. it should then be set before the fire, and 
when ebullition ceases, the yeast will sink to the bottom. Four oft 
the clear liquor, and the yeast will be fit for use. 

Patent Yeast, which is extensively used by the London bakers, and 
which is, perhaps, preferable to all other yeasts, is made as follows : 
— Take half a pound of hops and two pailfuls of water, mix and boil 
in the oven till the liquid is reduced to one pailful ; strain the decoc- 
tion into the seasoning tub, and when it is sufficiently cool put in half 
a peck of malt In the mean time, put the hops, strained ofi^ again 
into two pailfuls of water, and boil as before till they are reduced tp 
one ; strain the liquid while hot into the seasoning tub. The hekt 
will not injuriously afiect malt, previously mixed with tepid water. 
-Boil the hops again as before, and strain ofi'as before into the season- 
infr tub. When the liquor has cooled down to about blood-heat, strain 
X)ff the malt, and add to the liquor two quarts of patent yeast set 
apart from the previous making. It ought to be observed, that brew- 
ers* yeast will not answer the purpose.* To the malt and hops some 
add a little fiour, but the patent yeast is quite as good without the 
^our, which in summer Is apt to make the yeast go sour. By the 

* If this be the case, it may be fairly asked, by what means the first 
patent yeast was generated ? The answer is, by a chemical process si- 
milar to that invented by Mr. Henry, and which wo have given under 
I3ie head of ARTinciALYEAsr. 



THE BAKSB. "^ 1^7 

V 

above process five gallons of very good yeast may be made, wbich 
will be ready for use the day after it is made. It occupies in manu- 
facturing from about seven o'clock in the morning till two or three in 
the afternoon ; but it gives very little trouble to the baker. 

ALUM, POTATOES, &C. 

These ingredients are now considered indispensable by the London 
bakers in the manufacturing of second or household bread, that is, 
the bread in daily use in the metropolis. The effects of alum upon 
bread are not well understood ; but it is generally said to bleach and 
jact as an astringent. Accum says, that *^ the theory of the bleaching 
property of alum, as manifested in the panification (making into bread) 
of an inferior kind of floor, is by no means well understood; and 
indeed it is really surprising, that the effect should be produced by so 
■ small a quantity of that sul^tance, two or three ounces of alum being 
auffieient for a sack of flour. From experiments in which I have 
been employed, with the assistance of skilful bakers, I am authorized 
to state, that without the addition of alum, itdoeanot appear possible 
to make white, light, and porous bread, such as is used in this me- 
tropolis, unless the flour be of the very best quality." 

Mr. A. Booth, the lecturer on Chemistry, asserts, that "alum 
bleaches from the attraction of alumina, one of its constituent parts, 
tcTthe colouring matter of the flour, and also acts as an astringent on 
the bread." 

If these opinions are to be relied opon^ of course the question is 
settled, as to the indispensability of alum in making London bread. 
Accum asserts, that he, in conjunction with skilful bakers, has tested 
the thing by experiments, which prove that alum cannot be dispensed 
with. For our part, we are inclined to think, that the whiteness of 
the London bread is owing, in some degree, to the process of baking, 
a process widely differing from that followed by women in making 
home-baked bread ; wbich, as we have elsewhere asserted, is never 
so white or so porous, though made of the same flour, as bakers* bread. 
Accum, whatever talent he might possess as a chemist, was a fraudu- 
lent writer, and therefore his assertions are not to be relied'on, as to 
the experiments which he alleges he had made. We agree with 
him, however, in his observation, that ** the theory of the bleaching 
property of alum, &e., is by no means well understood.*' 

The quantity of alum used in baking is much less than the public 
generally imagine, even by the most fraudulent of cheap-bread bakers, 
and indeed much smaller than many of the bakers themselves ima- 
gine. This may appear a strange assertion, and it is probably one 
never made before in print ; but a little explanation will make the 
point quite clear. It is well known that the bakers are liable to a 
heavy fine if alum is found on their premises'. To avoid this liability 
as much as possible, they have long been in the habit of buying the 
12* 



138 THE BAKER. 

alum ready powdered at the druggists, under the appellation of tUtff, 
The druggists keep this s/ujf, which th^j bakers imagine is unadul- 
terated ground or powdered alum, but which is, in fact, a compound, 
consisting of one part alum, and three parts of muriate of soda, that 
is, common table salt This compound is ma4^ by pounding the salt 
with the alum in a mortar, and is kept by the druggists in pouiid 
packages, which they sell at twopence each. For this statement we 
haye the authority of several druggists, and the evidence of our own 
eyes. It may appear extraordinary that the bakers should sutler 
themselves to be so cheated; but be this as it may, we believe it to be 
the fact. It should be recollected, that few bakers are readers, par- 
ticularly of scientific or medical works. In the fourth edition of 
Gray*s supplement to the PharmacopoDia and Treatise on Pharma- 
cology, under the head oJ stuff ^ this term is thus defined : — ** Alum, in 
small crystals, one pound, common salt three pounds, to mix with 
Hour for baking." We have the evidence of our own senses for know- 
ing, that the respectable bakers of home or household bread do not pat 
more than half a pound or eight ounces of stuff to a sack of floor; and 
this stuff, as we have shown on the authority of Gray, only contains 
one-fourth part, or two ounces, of alum, the remainder being common 
salt. -Some persons, however, will ask for powdered alum, but the 
druggist, knowing from the quantity required and the appearance of 
his customer that it iswanted for baking, uniformly serves him with 
the before- described mixture of salt and alum. This we have fire- 
quently seen done. The object of the druggist is profit. It would 
be scarcely worth his while to sell powdered alum for twoperiee a 
pound. Gray, in his book, puts it down at one shilling and sixpence 
a pound. This is ridiculously too high to sell by the pound, but it is 
generally charged a penny an ounce. The writer, giving this infor- 
mation to his baker, he exclaimed, ** You don*t say so! — ^the infamous 
rogues — why the rascally druggists cheat us before we can cheat our 
customers ! !" 

Such being the case, it seems almost incopceivable, that so small 
a quantity as two ounces of alum in two hundred and eighty pounds 
of flour, the weight of a sack, should have any effect in bleaching it; 
especially when we consider that one hundred parts of alum contain 
but a fraction more than ten parts of alumina, the only constituent in 
alum, as we are informed, that possesses the property of bleaching. 
Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that alum, though perhaps not 
by itself, yet in conjunction with other ingredients, has the effect of 
whitening^he bread. A circumstance occurred, winch we have from 
indisputable authority, of a baker leaving out of his dough, by acci- 
dent, his usual quantity of stuff, cootaining not more than two ounces 
of alum. The consequence was a batch of brown bread, which he 
was obliged to sell at half price. 

Alum, it is true, is used in small quantities-^fbr the most part in 
quantities too small to affect the health, perhaps, materially ; but still, 
as it only whitens the bread, and makes it otherwise more pleasing 



THE BAKES. 130 

to the eye, while it deteriorates its wholesomcness, and injures its 
flavour, one would suppose that the great majority of people would 
prefer home-baked bread, as it is called, or bread without alum. 
This, however, they do not do ; and there is little probability that 
they ever will. The Londoners in particular do not like home-baked 
bread. There have been" many instances of persons being induced 
for the sake of their health to eat it for a time, but they always re- 
turn to the alumed bread ; and we question whether there is a single 
baker in the metropolis who sells sufficient home*baked bread to sup- 
port himself and his family. 

Formerly every baker was his own meatman or miller. This is 
the case now in Glasgow, and in other parts of Scotland. The ba- 
kers buy their own wheat, and manufacture it into flour at their own 
mills, which are held by them as joint-stock proprietors. 

It seems to be generally agreed, that alum in bread is detrimental 
to the health of those who consume it. The fact, however, is, that 
the bakers eat the same bread as their customers; and it appears 
very improbable, that there should be a set of men who knowingly 
poison themselves. The following is Dr. lire's opinion upon the et> 
fects of alum eaten in bread : — ' 

** The habitual and daily introduction c^ a portion of alum into the 
human stomach,*' says Dr. Ure, in his Dictionary of Chemistry, 
** however small, must be prejudicial to the exercise of its functions, 
and particularly to persons of a bilious and costive habit. And, be- 
sides, as the best sweet flour never stands in need of alum, the pre- 
sence of this salt indicates an inferior and highly acescent food, which 
cannot fail to aggravate dyspepsia, and which may generate a calcu- 
lus diathesis in the urinary organs." 

To ascertain whether alum is present in bread, crumble a portion 
when somewhat stale into cold distilled water; then squeeze the 
mass through a piece of cloth, and pass the liquid through a paper 
filter. A limpid infusion will thus be obtained. A dilute solution 
of muriate of baryta, dropped into the filtered infusion, will indicate 
by a white cloud, more or less heavy, the presence and quantity 
of alum. 

It is said, that to counteract the costive quality of alum, when 
consumed in large quantities, the bakers frequently use jalap in the 
composition of Uieir bread. This we do not believe. Dr. Darwin 
says, that when much alum is used, it may be distinguished by the 
eye in the place where two loaves have stuck together in the oven : 
they break from each other with a much smoother surface than those 
which do not contain alum. We believe this to be correct ; — indeed 
the bakers say, that this is one of their reasons for using alum. 

When the statute was enacted by king John for regulating the 
price of bread, and during many of the subsequent statutes of assize, 
the baker was his own manufacturer, purchasing his own corn, and 
having it ground and separated into flour, pollard, and bran. Accord- 
ing to PownalPfl work on the assize of bread, which wo have no 



140 THE BAKER. 

doubt is correct, this flour, or the flour from which tho bran and pol- 
lard only arc separated, was found, from an unvaried scries of experi- 
ments made from Age to age, through the course of many hundred 
years, to be three-fourths in weight of the whole grain of wheat, 
taking all sorts of wheats together; and the bread made from this 
flour has always been decreed the standard of the food of bread corn. 
But, by insensible degrees, the manufacture of bread became separated 
into two distinct employments. To this cause Mr. Edlin attributes 
the custom — the pernicious custom, as he considers it — of making 
bread from other flour than that we have described, which many per- 
sons assert is more wholesome and more nutritious than that made of 
the finest flour. The miller not considering himself liable to the 
assize laws, made different kinds of flour, some of which was ex- 
tremely fine and white. The bread made of this flour was so very 
white, and pleasing to the eye and palate, that in the course of a few 
years it got into general use, and the j)eopIe, particularly the Lon- 
doners, refused to buy the bread made of the whole of the grain, 
except the husks, or coarse and fine bran. 

To this circumstance, perhaps, may be attributed the almost uni- 
versal use of alum in bakers' bread not made of the finest flour; and 
very little of it is* so made, for it is impossible from a second flour, 
which is the flour generally used, to make bread white without the 
employment of the bleaching properties of this ingredient. 

The assize of bread has been for some time abolished, and the baker 
is entitled to sell his bread for as much as anybody is willing to give 
for it. There is very properly still a heavy penalty attached to sell- 
ing bread short of weight. 

Potatoes, called by the bakers fruit, are used by them for the pur- 
pose of aiding the fermentation, and, as they say, for the purpose of 
improving the appearance of the bread, and not for saving flour. 
Indeed, in the small quantities in which we have seen them used, not 
more than seven or eight pounds to two hundred and eighty pounds 
of flour, there can be little or nothing gained by them. Potatoes, 
however, as well as damaged rice, are no.doubt used in large quan- 
tities by cheap, fraudulent bakers. We utterly disbelieve the stories 
about bakers using ground bones to adulterate bread, for this reason — 
namely, that the expense of making them fit for such a purpose would 
be much greater than the cost of flour itself. 

There are instances on record of convictions having been obtained 
against bakers for using gypsum, chalk, and pipe-clay, in the manu- 
facture of bread. 

Carbonate of ammonia, which is sometimes used by bakers in pro- 
ducing light and porous bread from sour or damaged flour, does not 
appear to be liable to the same objections as those urged against 
alum; as the action of the former upon the bread is merely mechani- 
cal, no part of this salt remaining in bread after it is baked. During 
the operation of baking, it causes the dough to swell up into air bub- 
bles, which carry before them stiff dough, and thus it renders the 



THE BAKES. 141 

dough porous ; the salt itself is at the same time totally volatilized, 
and not a particle remains in the bread. Carbonate of ammonia, 
however, has not, like alum, the property of bleaching the bread. 

It is said, that the carbonate of magnesia of the shops, when well 
mixed with flour in the proportion of twenty to forty grains to a pound 
of flour, materially improves it for the purpose of making bread. Tt 
is recommended to be employed when the flour is new, or of a bad 
quality. Mr. Davy, professor of Chemistry, says, that this substance 
must be most intimately mixed with the flour, previous to laying the 
sponge; and gives it as his decided opinion, that not the slightest 
danger can be apprehended from the use of so innocent a substance, 
In such small quantities as he recommends. 

METHOD OF MAKING BAKERS' BBEAD. 

Having briefly described the utensils of a bakehouse, and having 
descanted at some length (but not longer, it is hoped, than the im- 
portance of the subject requires) upon the ingredients used by public 
bakers in the manufacture of bread, we shall proceed at once to show 
the methods they generally employ. We must observe, however, 
that the first method described was witnessed by Mr. Gdlin nearly 
forty years ago; and the second, which is the mode now generally 
followed, has been witnessed by the writer himself in all its details. 

The Old MsihocL — To make ^ sack of flour into bread, the baker 
bakes that quantity of flour, and empties it into the kneading trough 
•—it is then carefully siAed through a wire sieve, which makes it lie 
lighter and reduces any lumps that may have been formed in it. The 
next process is lo dissolve two ounces of alum, technically stvffy or 
some call it rocky, in a little water placed over the fire. This ia 
then poured into the seasoning tub, and four or five pounds of salt are 
added to it, with a pailful of water pretty hot, but not too much so. 
When this mixture, technically liquor, has cooled to the temperature 
of about 84^, from three to four pints of yeast are mixed in it, and the 
whole having been strained through the seasoning sieve, is emptied 
into a hole made in the mass of the flour, and mixed up with a portion 
of it to the consistence of thick batter. Dry flour is then sprinkled 
over the top. This is called the quarter sponge, and the operation is 
denominated setting. The sponge most then be covered up with 
sacks or woollen cloths to keep it warm, if the weather be cold. 

In this situation it is leA three or four hours, when it gradually 
swells and breaks through the dry flour laid upon its surface. 
Another pailful of water, impregnated with alum and salt, is now 
added and well stirred in, and the mass sprinkled with flour and 
covered up as before. This is called setting half sponge. 

The whole is then well kneaded, with about two pailsfui of more 
water, for about an hour, when the dough is cut into pieces with a 
knife ; and to prevent it spreading, pinned or kept at one end of the 



142 THE BAKES. 

troagh by a pin board. In this state it is left to prow^ as the bakera 
call it, for about four hoars. After the proving process is over, the 
dough is again well kneaded for about half an hour. It is then 
removed from the inside of the trough to its lid, where it is cut into 
pieces, and weighed into the quanties suitable for each loaf. 

The operation of moulding the dough can be learnt only by prac- 
tice. It consists in cutting the masses of weighed dough, each into 
two equal parts. They are then kneaded either round or long, and 
one placed in a hollow made in the other; and the union is completed 
by a turn of the knuckles on the centre of the upper piece. The 
loaves are left in the oven from one hour and a half to two hours. 
They are then taken out, and, to prevent their splitting, are turned 
their bottom side upwards. They are afterwards covered up with a 
blanket to prevent as much as possible evaporation, by which weight 
is lost, and the bread becomes dry and unpalatable. 

Mr. Edlin^has made one mistaKe in the above account ; namely, as 
regards the time when the salt and alum are incorporated with the 
flour. These inffredients ought never to be put into the sponge. If 
they were, the salt would retard the fermentation, and this Mr. Accum 
as a chemist ought to have known, and not, like many others, have 
copied and adopted Mr. Edlin's error. 

With the exception just alluded to, the foregoing mode of making 
bread was pursued by the bakers some years ago, and is atill practised 
by some of them ; but the following is the process now pursued. 

Modem MBthod^-^TuVe a peck ofj)otatoes (about eight pounds) and 
boil them with their skins on — then mash them in the seasoning tub^ 
add two or three quarts of water, about the same quantity of patent 
yeast (as directed to be prepared, page 136), and three or four pounds 
of flour; stir together well, and cover the mixture np close with a 
sack, and let it stand from six to twelve hours, when it will have 
become what is called ferment. Then empty a sack of second flour 
into the trough-— some sift it in — and take a little less than one quar- 
ter of the sack of flour, and pin or block it up to one end of the trough 
with the pin-board. Then bring the seasoning tub with the ferment 
in it to the trough, pour in a sufficient quantity of warm water — in 
summer, cold > — stir up the mixture with the hands, and mash any 
lumps of potatoes (fruit) that may be in— next, strain it through a 
sieve for tlie purpose of separating the skins of the potatoes; then 
pour the mixture liquor into the floor which had been previously 
pinned or blocked up at one end of the trough, and mix it well into 
the flour with the hands — sprinkle a little flour over the top, and let 
it stand five or six hours, during which time the sponge will have 
risen twice. The first rising is suffered to break and go down. In 
about an hour or so, according to the heat of the bakehouse, the sponge 
rises a second time, and just as it is about again to break, or when 
the air escapes by the bursting of the bubbles, a sufficient quantity 
of water (about three pailsful) to make up the batch is poured into the 
sponge from the seasoning tub, the water having dissolved in it pre- 



t^E BAKES. 143 

vlously about four pounds of salt and eight ounces of what is called 
stuff — (some use more than a pound or sixteen ounces 6f stuff). 
The liquor ought to be well mixed with the sponge; which being 
done, the pin-board is taken away, and the whole of the flour is well 
worked up into one mass, which is blocked up by the pin-board to one 
end, and left about an hour in summer, and two hours in winter, to 
prove ; the vacant part of the trough is then sprinkled with flour to 
prevent the dough from sticking, the pin-board is knocked out, and 
the dough is pitched out of the trough on to the lid of the opposite 
trough, when it is cut into masses and weighed — technically scaled 
off. These masses are then moulded into shape and put aside in a 
regular manner, to be finally moulded into loaves, taking care to 
mould those first which were^first scaled off. Previous to the mould- 

j ing, the oven must be well swabbed out, or cleaned with the swabber 
or scuttle, and the up-sets chalked to prevent the bread sticking to 
them. They are then placed at the back and on each side of the 
oven by means of the peel ; the long loaves, or the quartern and half- 
quartern bricks, are put into the . oven, packed together as close as 
possible — the common round bread is also packed close — but the cot- 
tage bread must be placed separately, each loaf by itself, or it will 
not be crusted all round. After placing the loaves in the oven, or, as 
the bakers say, setting the batch, which requires a good hand to do 
properly, an up-set is placed in front of it. The potatoes for the next 
ferment are put into a tin or iron kettle, generally round, but some- 
times in the form of a fish-kettle, and placed in the oven to boil. 

* "When the potatoes are done, and while they are hot, the ferment for 

the next hatch must be mixed. Twenty-four hours elapse from the 
mixing the ferment to the time when the bread is taken out of the 
oven. 

SUBSTITUTE FOB WHEAT*FI»OUR BBEAD. 

Under this head we intend to treat of the various substitutes which 
have been used at different times, and in different countries, for bread 
made of wheat flour. We allude to bread made of rye, barley, oats, 
peas, beans, buckwheat, maize, farinaceous roots, and of mixed sub- 
V stances, &c. This subject is not without interest, independent of 

utility, and a work of this kind would scarcely be complete if it were 
not introduced. We shall enter upon it with few general remarks. 

Bread Com — properly so called, of which bread is made in this 
country, and other civilized nations, comprehends the seeds of all 
eerealia, or farinaceous grass-like plants, for they all contain a farina- 
ceous or mealy substance of a like nature ; and which substance is 
chiefly composed of starch. The seeds or grain in common use are, 
first and principally, wheat ; second, rye ; and third, barley. 

Wheat is- the only grain from which really good, porous, or light 
bread can be made ; but rye and barley are occasionally used, as well 



144 TRfi fiARSB. 

as other grain. The hread, however, is of an inferior quality. A 
sort of bread is also made from oats^ maize, rice, millet, &,c. 

Rice is said, and no doubt truly, to nourish more human beings 
than all the other seeds together used as food ; and it is by many con- 
sidered the most nutritive of all kinds of grain. Accum, in the Jirt 
of making Bread, says, that •* it has been ascertained, that one part 
of rice contains as much food and useful nourishment as six of wheat ;** 
an assertion by the way which we are much inclined to disbelieve. 
But be this as it may, there is no doubt that rice makes a very nou- 
rishing and healthy food, notwithstanding the prejudices that prevailed 
against it, on the unfounded allegation that it caused diseases in the 
eye. Rice is the principal food of most of the eastern nations, a fact 
which shows that it is not unhealthy. Rice is not, however, often 
made into bread without the addition of flour, and when it is, it forms 
a loaf of very inferior quality* 

Maize is frequently employed as bread-corn in America, but it will 
not by itself make good loaf bread ; but unleavened cakes are made 
of it, very nntritive and palatable. 

Oatmeal is seldom used for making loaf-bread, but is extensively 
used in the north of Great Britain in making unleavened bread, com- 
monly called oat-cakes. It may be observed here, that the objection 
to biscuits, oat-cakes, maize-cakes, and other unleavened bread, on 
the ground of their being unhealthy, and of course not nutritive, ap- 
pears to be without foundation. There can be no doubt, however, 
that they are inferior as food to good wheaten loaf-bread. 

The seeds of leguminous plants, such as pease and beans, are some- 
times used as substitutes for bread-corn. They yield a great deal of 
meal) which is of a sweetish taste, but it forms a coarse bread, and is 
generally considered neither palatable nor digestible. Dr. Cullen 
says, that "on certain farms in his country, upon which the legumi- 
nous seeds are produced in great abundance, the labouring servants 
are much fed. upon this kind of grain ; but if such servants are removed 
to a farm upon which the leguminous seeds are not in such pl6Dty, 
and they are, therefore, fed with the cerealia (wheat, barley, &c.), 
they soon find a decay of strength ; and it is common for servants, in 
making such removals, to insist on their being provided daily, or 
weekly, with a certain quantity of the leguminous meal.'* It does 
not, however, follow, that pease or bean-flower bread would be found 
generally so nutritive or digestible as wheat-flour bread. A great 
deal may be attriboted to habit, and the laborious employment of 
farmers' servants in the open air. 

All the vegetable substances from which bread is made, contain 
more or less of starch, or what is otherwise called amylaceous fecula, 
and this is the most valuable and nutritive part of all such substances, 
whether they consist of grain, or roots, &c. 

We scarcely need observe, that the potatoe, amongst roots, is the 
most extensively used as a substitute for bread. lo many countries, 



\ 



TRB BAKER. 145 

; pBrticnlarfy Irelandt it is almost the exclusive food of the poor. Thd 
{x}tatoe contains a great deal of starch. 

Rice, notwithstanding its rough and dry qualities, as a farinaceous 
. vegetable, is capable of being converted into bread, without the addi- 
{ tion of any other substance. The Americans, however, make bread 
of rice by washing it in water till perfectly clean. They then, after 
the rice has been sufficiently drained, put it into a mortar, and reduce 
it while damp into a sort of powder ; it is then completely dried, and 
passed through a hair-sieve. The flour thus obtained, it is said, is 
then generally naixed with a Httle Indian corn-meal, and boiled into 
a thickish consistence, which is sometimes mixed with boiled pota- 
toes, and fermented and baked in tins, or pans, in the usual manner. 
The bread, we are told, made in this way, is light and wbolesome— - 
** pleasing to the eye, and agreeable to the taste." 

But a sort of bread may li^ made from rice, without the addition of 
any other kind of meal. Let a sufficient quantity of rice-flour be put 
into a kneading trough, and at the same time let a due proportion of 
flour be boiled, into which throw a few handsful of rice in the grain, 
and boil it till it is broken. This compound will form a thick and 
viscous substance, which is poured upon the flour, and the whole is 
kneaded with a mixture of salt and yeast, or other fermenting matter. 
The dough is then covered with flannel or other cloths to keep it 
warm, and left to rise. This dough, tliough firm at first, in the course 
of fermentation becomes as liquid as soup, and is quite incapable of 
being worked into loaves, io the usual manner, by the hand. The 
following is the mode by which this difficulty is surmounted: — The 
oven is heated while the dough is rising ; and it being sufficiently hot, 
the dough is put into a tin pan, which is covered with a paper, or 
large leaves. The tin is then placed in the oven, and immediately 
reversed or turned upside down ; the heat prevents the dough from 
spreading, and, in fact, fixes it in that shape given it by the stewpan 
or box. This bread is said to be ** both beautiful and good ;" but 
when it gets stale, it becomes very much deteriorated — as indeed 
does all bread in which there is rice. 

Potatoes^ mixed in various proportions with meal, are frequently 
employed in the making of bread. The London bakers all use them 
in greater or less quantities — iiot, as they say, to save flour, but to 
assist fermentation. There are various ways in which potatoes may 
be used with meal in the production of bread, — potatoes alone will 
not make good bread ; the potatoe is not of an adhesive quality, and 
the bread is not only brown and heavy, but crumbles to pieces. 
M. Parmentier, to render it more adhesive, mixed with the pota toe- 
meal a decoction of bran, and sometimes honey and water; either of 
which, he says, much improved it, by rendering it lighter, better 
coloured, well tasted, and sufficiently consistent 

He obtained also, he adds, well-fermented bread, of a good colour 
and taste, by mixing some potatoe pulp with meal of wheat, or pota* 
13 



I 



146 THE BAKSR. 

toe-meal, with the addition of yeast and salt After repeated trials, 
he recominends, in times of scarcity, a mixture of potatoes with the 
meal of wheat, in preference to the meal of any other grain. Where 
no flour or grain can be obtained, Parmentier recommends the use of 
bread made from the amylaceous (partaking of starch) powder of 
potatoes, — potatoe pulp, mixed and fermented, with the addition of 
honey. Potatoe-meal, when mixed with water, acquires a gluey 
consistence, but bread made from this and the flour of wheat is never 
of a good colour. That, however, which is made of a mixture of the 
pulp with the flour of wheat, is much whiter. Parmentier, we are 
informed, made bread very much resembling that of wheat, by mixing 
four ounces of amylaceous powder of potatoes, one drachm of muci- 
lage, extracted from barley, one drachm of the bran of rye, and one 
drachm of glutinous matter, dried and pounded into powder. 

A German writer upon country affiiirs, of the name of Khyogg, 
who has obtained the name of the Rustic Socrates, recommends, that 
potatoes well boiled and carefully peeled should be put into a knead- 
ing-trough, covered with boiling water, and beaten or bruised till they 
are converted into a kind of soup, throughout of one consistence. 
This soup may be mixed with the flour of wheat in the proportion of 
one-fourth, one-third, and even one-half; and if the flour be of good 
quality, the bread will be found pleasant, nourishing, and wholesome. 
This is the principal food of the peasantry in German Lorraine, and 
the people of that country are remarkable for their healthy, robust, 
and vigorous constitutions; the young men are tall and handsome, 
and the country is thickly populated. 

In Vogstand and in Saxony, potatoes are prepared for bread by 
peeling them, grating them very fine, and by putting the pulp into a 
milk-pail, or some other suitable vessel. It is then mixed with cold 
water, which is allowed to remain upon the pulp twenty-ibur hours. 
The water is then drawn ofi^, and other water added, and again drawn 
till the water comes oflf quite pure. The potatoe pulp is then drained 
through a clean cloth, and then spread upon a plate, or some other 
surface, till dry. After this, it is reduced to a fine powder, mixed 
with an equal portion of wheat flour, and made into bread hy the 
usual process. 

We have thought it right to lay before our readers the various 
ways in which it has been recommended to employ potatoes in mak« 
ing bread in times of scarcity ; but after all, our own opinion is, that 
the best and most economical mode of using potatoes is simply to boil 
them as they do in Ireland, where, it is much to be regretted, they 
stand instead of all other food to the mass of the population. 

Many other substances have been employed in making hread other 
than those of the flour of farinaceous vegetables, such as wheat, bar- 
ley, rye, Indian-corn, oats, &.c. The latter grain makes an excellent 
nnleavened bread, and is much eaten in Scotland, Lancashire, and 
several of the northern English counties. It is called oat-cakei and 
is 5>referred by many persons to wheaten bread. 



THE BAKBR. 147 

Bread made of Roots, — M. Parmentier, late chief Apothecary in the 
Hotel des Invalides, whose authority we have before quoted, has pub- 
lished numerous and very curious experiments on the vegetables, 
which in times of scarcity might be used in the subsistence of ani« 
mals, as substitutes i'or those usually employed for that purpose. The 
result of these experiments in the mind of M . Parmentier wad, that 
starch is the nutritive part of farinaceous vegetables, and that the 
farina of plants was identical with the starch of wheat. The plants 
from which he extracted this farina are the bryony, the iris, gladiolusi 
ranunculus, fumaria, arum, dracunculus, mandragora, colchicum, fili- 
pendula, helleborus, and the roots of the gramen caninum arvense, or 
dog grass of the fields. 

The mode employed by M. Parmentier to extract the starch, or 
farina, from these vegetables, was merely bruising and boiling. The 
roots were cleansed and scraped, then reduced to a pulp, which being 
soaked in a considerable quantity of water, a white sediment is de* 
posited, which when properly washed and dried will be found to be 
pure starch. M. Parmentier converted this starch into bread by 
mingling it with an equal quantity of potatoes reduced to a pulp, and 
employing the usual quantity of yeast or other leaven. The bread, 
we are informed, had no bad taste, and was of excellent quality. 

Prom these experiments of M. Parmentier, it appears, that it is 
chiefly the amylaceous matter or starch of grain that is nutritious ; 
and, that the nutritive quality of other vegetable substances depends 
in a great measure on the quantity of that matter which they contain. 
Starch formed into a jelly, and diffused in water, will keep a long 
time without change. 

Ragwort, — ^Bread has been made in times of scarcity from the roots 
of this plant. When ragwort root is first taken out of the ground, it 
is sofl and viscous, but becomes hard in a short time, and may be pre- 
served in that state for years without bring at all deteriorated, pro- 
viding it be kept in a dry, airy place. When this root is ground and 
reduced to flour, which it may easily be, it has an agreeable nut-like 
taste. It is said to be easily digested when made into bread, and to 
be more nutritive and "exhilarating," than wheaten bread. The 
same properties and effects are attributed to radishes, but we appre- 
hend not truly. 

Turnip Bread — is made of turnips mixed with equal quantities of 
wheat flour. The turnips must be iirst washed clean, then pared and 
boiled. Mash them and press the water out of them — at least the 
greater part. Mix with an equal quantity in weight of coarse meal 
Sour — make the dough in the usual manner, and when risen, form it 
into loaves, and bake it rather more than ordinary bread ; when taken 
from the oven it will be light and sweet, with a little taste of the 
turnip. " After it has been allowed to stand," says our authority, 
" twelve hours, the taste of the turnips is scarcely perceptible, and 
the smell is quite gone. After an interval of twenty-four hours, it 



148 THB BAKBB. 

etnnot be known that it has turnips in its composition, although it 
has still a peculiar sweetish taste: it appears to be rather superior to 
hread made only of wheat flour, is fresher and moister, and even after 
a week continues very good." We are of opinion, however, that it 
cannot be so good as wheat bread ; for, independent of other consi- 
derations, turnips do not contain so much starch or nutritive matter 
as wheat 

Jlpple Bread, -— A bread said to be very superior to potatoe bread 
has been made from the use of common apples with meal. Boil one* 
third of peeled apples ; while quite warm, bruise them into two^thirds 
of flour, including ^the proper quantity of leaven, or yeast; knead 
without water, the juice of the fruit being quite sufficient When 
this mixture has acquired the consistency of paste, put it into a ves- 
sel to rise for about twelve hours. By this process may be obtained 
a very sweet bread, full of eyes and extremely light ^ 

Meslin Bread. — A good bread is made in many parts of England 
from what is called meslin, which is a mixture of rye and wheat. 
This is raised on one and the same ground at the same time, and 
passes through the processes of reaping, thrashing, grinding, and 
dressing, in the mixed state. 

Saiep Bread, — Dr. Percival recommends the employment of orchis 
root in powder, or, as it is called, salep. He says, that an ounce of 
salep, dissolved in a quart of water, and mixed with two pounds of 
flour, two ounces of yeast, and eighty grains of salt, produced a 
remarkably good loaf, weighing three pounds two ounces ; while a 
loaf made of an equal quantity of the other ingredients, without the 
salep, or powdered orchis root, weighed but two pounds twelve ounces. 
If the salep be in too large quantities, its peculiar taste will be dis- 
tinguishable in the bread. 

Oat and Barley Bread, — ^The Norwegians, we are informed, make 
bread of barley and oatmeal baked between two stones. This bread, 
it is added, improves by age, and may be kept thirly or forty years ! ! 
At their great festivals, they use their oldest bread ; and it is not 
unusual, at the baptism of a child, to have bread that was baked at 
the baptism of the grandfather. 

Bebreizen Bread, — In some parts of Hungary, Debretzen for in- 
stance, they have a peculiar mode of fermenting bread without yeast, 
by means of a leaven made in the following manner. Two large 
handsful of hops are boiled in four quarts of water ; this decoction is 
. poured upon as much wheaten bran as it w^ll moisten, and to this are 
added four or five pounds of leaven. When the mass is warm, the 
ingredients are well worked together, so as to be thoroughly mixed. 
It is then deposited in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and after- 
wards divided into small pieces, about the size of hens* eggs, which 
are dried by being placed upon a board and exposed to dry air, but 
, not to the sun ; when dry, they are laid up for use, and may be kept 
for six months. 



THB BAKER. 149 

The following is given as the mode by which bread is made from 
the above-described ferment. For baking six iarge loaves, six good 
haodsful of these balls are dissolved in seven or eight quarts of warm 
water — this mixture is poured through a sieve atone end of the 
bread-trough, and after it three quarts of warm water, the remaining 
mass being well pressed out. The liquor is mixed up with flour suP 
iicient to form one large loaf; they then strew this mass over with 
flour, the sieve with its contents is put upon it, and the whole is 
covered up and kept warm and left to rise, or till the flour upon it 
begins to crack. Fifteen quarts of warm water, in which six hnnds- 
ful of salt have been dissolved, are then poured upon it through the 
sieve; the necessary quantity of flour is added, and the whole is woll 
knoaded together. The dough is then covered up and kept warm for 
h«lf an hour. It is then formed into loaves which arc kept for another 
half hour in a warm room ; and after that they are put into an oven, 
where they remain for two or three hours according to their size.' 

There is certainly an advantage in this kind of ferment — which is, 
its capability of keeping for a long time, and of being made in large 
quantities. On this account it would be convenient on board of ships, 
or in the camp of an army. 

- Mllei Bread. — Bread made of millet, if eaten when warm, is pretty 
palatable, but when cold, it becomes dry and crumbly. JBesides, 
though nutritive when boiled, it is not so in bread; but becomes a 
very powerful astringent According to Pliny, however, it would 
Appear, that millet was in- very general use as tbod in Italy among 
the peasantry. ** There is no grain," he says, ** more heavy, or which 
Bwelis more in baking." Probably the Italians had seme method for 
counteracting its astringent properties. It is said to be an excellent 
leaven, and has been recommended for malting. 

Maize Bread — is made of maize, or Indian-corn flour, which is in 
common and extensive use in nearly all parts of North and South 
America. Knead the flour with a little salt and water into a stiff 
mass — roll out into thin cakes, and bake on a hot iron. A h7)e is 
frequently used in America. Another kind of maize bread is called 

Homminy Cake, — To make this the Indian-corn, freed from the 
husks, is boiled with a small portion of French beans, until the whole 
becomes a pulp; this is made into cakes, and baked over hot embers, 
or it may be eaten in the pulp, which is frequently the case. 

Bean Flour Bread,— ^Il^i^q a quarter of a peck of bean flour and one 
ounce of salt; mix it into a thick batter with water — pour a sufficient 
quantity of this batter to make a cake in an iron kettle ; and bake 
over the fire ; it will require frequent turning. 

Buckwheat Bread -^'iQ thus directed to be made by the Board of 

Agriculture: Take a gallon of water, set it over a fire, and when it 

boils, let a peck of buckwheat flour be mixed with it, little by little, 

and keep the mixture constantly stirred, to prevent any lumps being 

13* 



150 THE BAKES. 

formed, till a thick batter is made. Then add two or three oances 
of salt, set it over the fire again, and allow it to boil an hour and a 
half; pour the proper proportion for a cake into an iron kettle, and 
bake it. 

Morn Bread — is made of ripe acorns deprived of their husks or 
skins, and beaten into a paste. To extract the astringent quality of 
the acorns, put the paste into water for a night, and then press the 
water from the paste. The mass when dried and powdered must be 
kneaded up into a dough with water, and raked out into thin cakea^ 
which may be baked over embers. This bread is said not to be dis- 
agreeable, and no doubt was considered a great luxury by our British 
ancestors in the time of the oak^worshipping Druids. 

OalmecU Cakes are thus made : — To a peck of oatmeal add a ^w 
table-spoonsful of salt; knead into a stiff paste with warm water; roll 
the paste into thin cakes, and bake it in an oven, over a hot iron plate, 
or on embers. Sometimes oat-cake is fermented a little, which makes 
the cakes light and porous. 

Oatmeatand Pease Bread. — To a peck of pease flour, and a like 
quantity of oatmeal, previously well mixed, by praissing the two flours ! 

through a sieve, add three or four ounces of salt ; knead into a stiflT 
mass \^ith warm water ; roll out into thin cakes ; and bake in an oven. 
In some parts of Lancashire and Scotland, this kind of bread is made 
into flattened rolls, and they are usually baked in an iron pot. j 

Chestnut Bread — is made from horse-chestnuts, which are Beldom 
or never used for food in this country, though their nutritioui quali- 
ties are well known to the people in the southern parts of Europe, 
particularly in some districts of Italy, and in the island of Corsica, 
where it is the chief and almost the whole of the food of the peasantry. 
To make this bread, take a peck of horse^hestnuts ; peel the skins 
off them ; let them be bruised into a paste ; dilute the mass with water, 
which destroys their astringency, and then strain them through a 
sieve ; a milky liquor is thus separated, which on standing de|)osits a 
fine white powder ; this, on being dried and ground into flour, is found 
to be wjthout smell or flavour. It is then made up, sometimes by 
itself, and not unfrequently with an equal portion of wheat flour, into 
a paste, with warm milk and a little salt, and when baked makes a 
very eatable bread. 

Potaioe Bread. — Boil the potatoes, and rub them through a cullen* 
der or sieve, and, while hot, rub them in with the flouf, which ought 
to be previously dried. The potatoes should be in proportion to the 
flour of one-third or one-halfi Milk and water is sometimes used for 
making potatoe bread. 

Bye Bread — Barley Bread — and bread made of equal parts of rye 
flour and wheat flour, or of equal parts of barley flour, rye flour, and 
wheat flour — are made in the same way as already described. Milk, 
or milk and water, is preferred, in makmg rye bread, to pure water. 



.( 



THE BAKER. 151 

The Bread 7Vtf«,-— Various eabstances have been employed in dit 
ferent parts of the world as substitutes for making bread, in the 
absence of farinaceous or flour-yieiding* vegetables. The bread tree, 
or rather the fruit of this tree, ranks first among the substances alluded 
to. The bread tree is common in many parts of the east. It is very 
abundant at Surinam, where extensive avenues may be seen of it, 
loaded with luxuriant crops of fruit. As a brief account of this e.Ttra- 
ordinary tree cannot fail to be interesting to our readers (previous to 
giving a description of the mode of preparing the fruit for food), we 
beg to lay before them the following remarks and extracts. 

All the species of the bread fruit tree, of which there are eight, are 
natives of the South Sea islands. More than one hundred and fifly 
years ago, this tree had excited great interest amongst Europeans, 
and particularly amongst the people of Great Britain. Dampier, who 
performed his voyage round the world in 1688, thus describes it: — 

*'The bread fruit, as we call it, grows on a large tree as big and 
high as our largest apple trees ; it hath a spreading head, full of 
branches and dark leaves. The fruit grows on the boughs like 
apples; it is as big as a penny loaf when wheat is at five shillings the 
bushel; it is of a round shape, and hath a thick tough rind. When 
the fruit is ripe it is yellow and sofl, and the taste is sweet and plea- 
sant. The natives of Guam use it for bread. They gather it when 
it is full grown, while it is green and hard; then they bake it in an 
oven, which scorcheth the rind and maketh it black ; but they scrape 
off the black crust, and there remains a tender thin crust ; and the 
inside* is soft, tender, and white, like the crumb of a penny loaf. 
There is neither core nor slone in the inside, but all is of a pure sub- 
stance like bread. It must be eaten new, for if kept more than twen- 
ty-four hours, it becomes hard and choaky ; but it is very pleasant 
before it is too stale. This fruit lasts in season eight months in the 
year ; during which the natives eat no other sort of bread kind. I 
did never see this fruit anywhere but here. The natives told us 
there was. plenty of this fruit growing on the rest of the Ladrone 
islands; and I did never hear of it anywhere else.'* 

So much for Dampier's account, which, however, does not appear 
to be quite correct The great circumnavigator, Cook, thus describes 
the fruit in question: — " it grows on a tree about the size of a mid- 
dling oak. Its leaves are nrcquently a foot and a half long, of an 
oblong s^ape, deeply sinuatcd like those of the fig-tree, which they 
resemble in consistence and colour, and in the exuding of a white 
milky juice upon being broken. The fruit is about the size and shape 
of a child's head, and the surface is reticulated, not much unlike a 
trufile. It is covered with a thin skin, and hath a core about as big 
as the handle of a small knife. The eatable part lies between the 
skin and the core. It is as white as snow, and somewhat of the con- 
sistence of new bread. It must be roasted before it is eaten ; bein^g 
divided into three or four parts. Its taste is insipid, with a slight 



152 TRS BAKBH. 

soarness, somewhat resembling' that of the crumb of wheaten bread, 
mixed with a Jerusalem arttcholce.** 

The above is the sober and satisfactory account of the bread tree 
and its fruit, as given by the illustrious Cook. Dr. Hawkesworth's 
description of its advantages is amusing, but extravagant. He says, 
*Mf a man plants ten bread fruit trees in his lifetime, which he may 
do in about an hour, be will as completely fulfil bis doty to his' own 
and future generations, as the natives of our less temperate climate 
can by ploughing in the cold winter, and reaping in the summer's 
heat, as often as those seasons return. Even if, after he has procured 
bread for his present household, he should convert the* surplus into 
money, and lay it up for his children." 

The bread fruit tree has been planted in some of the West India 
colonies, but with little success as to "any advantages to be derived 
from it. Indeed, its fruit appears to us to have been greatly exag- 
gerated with respect to its beneficial application as foc^ for the use 
of man. It has been observed, however, that " even in those colonies 
into which the bread fruit has not beep generally introduced as an' 
article of food, it is used as a delicacy ; or whether employed as bread, 
or in the form of pudding, it is considered as highly palatable by the 
European inhabitants." 

Breitd Fruit Bread, — ^To prepare the fruit for use instead of bread, 
it must be roasted, either whole, or cut into three or four pieces. It 
is also cooked in an oven, which renders it soft, and something" like 
a boiled potatoe; not quite so mealy as a good one, but more so than 
those of an inferior description. The Otaheitans make thre^ dishes 
of it, by putting either milk or the milk of cocoa-nut to it, then beat- 
ing it to a paste with a stone peslle, and afterwards mixing it with 
ripe plantains, bananas, or mahie. 

This mahie is a preparation of the ripe bread fruit, for which it is 
substituted during the season, just before gathering a/resh crop. It 
is made thus: — The fruit is gathered just before it is'^perfectly ripe, 
and being laid in heaps, is closely covered with leaves ; in this state 
'it undergoes a fermentation, and becomes disagreeably sweet. The' 
core is then taken out entire, by gently pulling the stalk, and the 
fruit is thrown into a hole which is dug for that purpose, generally in 
- the houses, and neatly lined in the bottom and sides with grass; the 
whole is then covered with leaves, and heavy stones laid upon them. 
In this state it undergoes a second fermentation, and becomes sour ; 
after which it undergoes no change for many months. It is taken out 
of the hole as it is wanted for use, and being made into balls, it is 
wrapped up in leaves, and roasted or baked. After it is baked, it will 
keep five or six weeks. It is eaten both cold and hot, and the natives 
seldom make a meal without it. To Europeans, however, the taste 
is said to be as disagreeable as that of a pickled olive generally is the 
first time it is eaten. 

&igo Bread — is made from the wood of the sagolree, in the follow- 



TBB BAKES. 153 

ing manner : — The natives of the islands of Banda and Amboyna saw 
the body of the tree into small pieces, and, after bruising and beating 
them in a mortar, pour water upon the fragments. This is left for 
some hours undisturbed, to let the pithy farinaceous matter subside. 
The water is then poured off, and the meal, being properly dried, is 
formed into cakes, or fermented and made into brea3, which, it is 
said, is nearly as palatable as wbeaten bread. The Hottentots make 
a kind of bread from another species of sago tree. The pith of this 
tree is collected, and tied up in dressed calf, or sheep-skin, 'and tlien 
baried in the ground for several weeks, which renders it mellow and 
tender. It is then made into cakes, which are baked under hot em- 
bers. Others roast the sago tree pith, and make it into a kind of 
porridge. 

The sago of commerce is made from the pith of this tree, but it is 
granulated by passing it through a sieve. It acquires its "brown 
oolour from drymg it on hot stones. 

Casava Bread — is made in the Caribbee Islands, from a very poi- 
sonous root called Jairopa Maniat^ rendered wholesome by the extrac- 
tion of its acrid juice, which the Indians use for poisoning their 
arrows. So powerfully poisonous is this juice, that a tea-spoonful is 
sufficient to take away the life of a man. The root of the maniat^ 
after being washed, scraped clean, and grated in a tub, is enclosed in 
a sack made of rushes, of very loose texture. This sack is suspended 
upon a stick placed upon two wooden forks. A heavy vessel is sus- 
pended to the bottom of the sack, and is so contrived as to press the 
jttice out of the roots. When the juice is all taken from the roots, 
they become a sort of starch, which is exposed to smoke in order to 
dry it; when well dried, it is passed through a sieve: it is now called 
casava. It is baked into cakes by laying it on hot plates of iron, or 
OD hot earth. The article called tapioca is the finest part of casava, 
collected and formed into small tears, by straining the mass, whil^ it 
is still moist, so as to make it into smalt irregular lumps. 

Plantain Bread — is made from the fruit of the plantain tree. This 
fruit is about a foot long, and from an inch and a half to two inches 
In diameter, and has a tough skin, within which there is a soft pulp, 
of a sweet flavour. The fruit is generally cut when green ; the skin 
is taken off, and the heart is roasted in a clear cold fire for a few 
minutes : it is then scraped, and served up as bread. This tree is a. 
native of the East Indies, and other parts of the Asiatic continent, but 
is cultivated on an extensive scale in Jamaica. It is said, that with- 
out this fruit the West India islands would be scarcely inhabitable, as 
no species of provisions could supply its place. Wbeaten bread fiour 
is not 60 agreeable to the negroes, and they greatly prefer it to the 
fruit of the bread tree. 

Banana Breads— is made of the fruit of the banana tree. This fruit 
is about four or five Inches long, of the shape of a cucumber, and of a 
highly grateful flavour. They grow in bunches that weigh twelve 



154 tHB BAKBK. 

poands and upwarda The pulp of the banana tree is softer than that 
of the plantain tree, and of a more luscious taste. When ripe it is a. 
very pleasant food, either undressed, or fried in slices like fritters. 
All classes of people in the West Indies are very fond of it. Whea 
preparing for a voyagfe, they take the ripe fruit and squeeze it through 
a sieve; then form the mass into loaves, which are dried in the sun, 
or baked on hot ashes, having been previously wrapped up in leaves. 

Moss Breads or bread made of moss, is prepared from a species of 
the tribe lichen, called rein-deer moss, which contains a considerable 
quantity of starch. The Icelanders form the lichen islandicus into 
bread, and it is said to be very nutritive. The moss is collected in 
the summer, dried, and ground into powder — of which bread gruel 
and pottage are made. It is also boiled in milk or whey, till it comes 
to a jelly. It should be previously steeped some hours in warm water» 
in order to extract the bitter matter with which it is imprecated, 
which is not only disagreeable as to taste, but is also a^purgative. 

Dried Fish Bread. — We have shown that a great variety of sub- 
stances are used as substitutes for Hour bread. We now come to 
dried fish, which appears to be an odd thing to make bread ot la 
Iceland, Lapland, Crim Tartary, and other parts of the north, a kind 
of bread is made of dried fish, beaten first into powder, sometimee 
with the inner bark of trees, and then made up into cakes. % 

Earth Bread. — But the strangest substitute for corn bread that has 
ever been employed, is a kind of white earth found in Upper Lusatia, 
of which the poor in times of scarcity have frequently made bread. 
This bread earth, if we may so designate it, is dug out of a bill where 
salt-petre had formerly been worked. When heated by the sun it 
cracks, and small globules proceed from it like meal, which fennent 
when mixed with flour. It is said on good authority, that on thie 
earth, made into bread, many persons have subsisted for a oonsidera- 
ble time. An earth very similar is found in Catalonia. 



1 



THE END. 



^ 




3»^ NOW PUBLISHING, •*^^e 




m 
o 



52; 
o 

g 

S 
o 






► 



a 

I 

o 
2; 



ENCYCLOPAEDIA AMERICANA. 



A NEW EDITION. 



A POPULAR DICTIONARY 

or 

ARTS, SCIENCES, LITERATURE, HISTORY, 
POLITICS AND BIOGRAPHY, 

INCLUDING 

A COPIOUS COLLECTION OF ORIGINAL ARTICLES 

i« 

AMERICAN BIOGRAPHY. 

ON THE BASIS OF THE SEVENTH EDITION OF THE GEHMAN 

CONVERSATIONS-IiEXICON. 

BDITSD BT 

FRANCIS LIEBER, 

ASSISTED BT^ 

E. WIGGLESWORTH AND T. G. BRADFORa 




PHILADELPHIA: 
LEA AND BLANCHARD. 

1843. 

»^^— ^— IW— — — «■ I I I l'"l li nn I II I ——1 

IN THIRTEEN VOLUMES. 




o 

W 

< 

o 
o 

o 

> 

pes 

o 



^—1 






PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



Washington Irving^s Works. 



A NEW AND BEAUTIFUL EDITION OF 



T 






'! 



EMBBACINa 



The Sketch Book, Knickerbocker's New York, Bracebridge 

Hall, Tales of a Traveller, The Conquest of 

Granada, The Alhambra; 

fin ^Ebo a^al <dctabo VoluxtUBt hiftl) a ^otttaft of ^ ^utfiiit. 

Back of the Works embraced in tfaii edition nay be bad separately, in two Tolonies. ISmo. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS; 

OR SCENES, INCIDENTS, AND ADVENTURES IN THE FAR WEST, 

With Two large Maps. In Two Volumes. 



ASTORIA; 



Or Anecdotes of an Enterprise beyond the Rocky Monntaios, 

In Two Volames. 



A HISTORY OF THE LIFE AND VOYAGES OF 

CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS; 

B«yind and coaected by tfae Autimr. In Two Yoliimet, octatit' 






THE CRAYON MISCELLANY; 

Containing a Tour on the Prairies, Abbotsford and Newstead Abbey, Le- 
gends of the Conquest of Spain. In Three Volumes, 12 mo. 



THE BEAUTIES OF.WASHINGTON IRVING; 

A small volume far the pocket, neatly done tip in extra cloth. 
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. | 



PAaKINSON'S CONFECTIONARY 
»ro. 180 OBssTirnT stbbbt, 

Public and Private Balls, Pic-Nics, Soirees 
AND Wedding Entertainments, supplied with e veiy 
i delicacy ; an entirely new style of Ornamental 
Pyramids, Cottage, Ratihe and Chantilly Bas- 
kets, for Table Decoration furnished at shortest 
notice, 

THE SPACIOUS AND MAGNIFICENT SALOONS 

attached to this establishment are open during 
the day and evening for the reception of visitors. 
Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Ices, and every variety 
of Refre^ment served at a few moments' notice. 

OaDSRS 

FROM any part OF THE UNITED STATES, 

f 

for all kinds of Preserved Fruits, Jellies, Jams, 
French, Italian and Martinique Liqueurs, Syrups 
(prepared from the choicest fruits), Bon-bons, 
Christmas Goods, D'ragees and every variety of 
Fancy Confectionary, attended to with Prompt- 
ness and Punctualitv. % 

155 



PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



WAUDLE'S IMMMD WM: 

THE ONLY COMPLETE EDITION. 



THE 

LETTERS OF HORACE WALPOLE, 

EARL OF ORFORD, 

OOICTAININO 
SEARI.T THBEE BUVDRED I.ETTE&8, 

Now first published from the (Hriginitls, formin|r an uninterrapted series* 
from the year 1735 to 1797 ; oontaininf his letters to George Montagu, 
Esq. ; Sir Moraoe Mann ; Richard West, Esq. ; Ladj Craven ; Gray (the 
poet Hon. H. Seymour Conway ; John Chute, Esq. ; Sir David D&lrym- 
ple ; Rev. William Mason ; Lady Herrey ; the Earl of Hertford ; Richard 
Bentley, Esq.; Earl of Strafford; Mrs. Hannah More; David Hume, 
Esq., d&c, ^bCf with a splendid Portrait of the Author, in Four beautiful 
Yolumei. 

** Besides its anrivalled beauty and tarillianqr, Uw colleetion bas the move Important 
merit of beinf tbe liveliest pictare of manners, and the best eiHtome of political his^ 
tory tbat not only tbis, but any country possesses.**— Q«arter/y Review. 

** No general colleetion of tin letters of Horace Walpole baa ever been made whicb 
will at all compare in fulness witb tbe present work."* —JVortk jStn. Review. 

** Borate Walpole may decidedly claim preeminence for ease and liveliness of ex- 
pression, terseness of remark, and felicity of narration above almost all tbe epistolary 
writers of Great Britain."— ^Martcr/y Review. 

** Wa!pole*s Letters are full of wit, pleasantry, and informatimi, and written witii 
singnlar neatness and sprigbtliness."— £<itm6«r^ Review, 

"One of the most nsefUl and important publication tbat bas issued from tbe press 
for the last quarter of a century. Jt is illustrated with notes, drawn up witb con- 
summate tact. Such a work> so enriched witb all tbat is necessary to render it com- 
plete, is one of tbe most valuable tbat any lover of sterling English literature can 
possess."— Am. 

** As a book of reference, this edition ef WalpoIe*s Letters moat beneelbrth lake 
its place among tbe memoirs and histories of tbe time. As a book of gossip, it is 
perhaps the completest work of tbe kind in the English language.**— 7!l« T^mee. 

** One of the very best works of its class, if not unique, in the English language ; 
a work full of information, AiU of anecdote, and full of amusement ; equally fit for 
tbe library of tbe scholar, the dilettante, the artist, tbe statesman, and the general 
reader.**— JUt«rafy Oazstte. 

** Walpole's Letters are unequalled in our language ; deligbtfbl in themselves, and 
a most amusing and instructive commentary en tbe liistory of parties, and <rf tbe 
country, from 1735 to ITVl.'^—Jttheiueum. 

** It is tbe only complete edition of tbe incomparable letters of this * prince of 
epistolary writers,' as he has been Justly called ; and the letters tberaselvea are 
arraaged in chronological order.*^— Dublin Evening MaiL 

***nioee who have never yet read Horace Walpole's letters— and they must be still 
in their teens— have much enjoyment before them ; those who are familiar witb his 
style, including all who deserve to read, will here renew the pleasure they have so 
oRen expenemed."—Maming Henld. 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



I 

1 



PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



I 



i 



COOPER'S NAVAL HISTORY; 



A NEW EDITION. 



A NAVAL H ISTORY 

OF 

THE UNITED STATES, 

BY J. FENIMORE COOPER, ESQ. 

la Two handsome Volumes^ bound in embossed clotb. 

A new EditioB, revised and corrected, with an Index to the volumes. 



** If tiiere was one man before all otfaere, wlioin we could have selected fbr this 
task, that man was Mr.Ck>oper. In all thinpns relative to the Navy be writes with 
enthusiasm. The ocean is his elements With the glorious career of the service in 
which his youth was passed, lie takes a laudable i^ride, and he betrays in every page 
the earnest desire of his heart to make its merits known to the world. In dwelling 
upon the achievements of our young Navy, the pure American fire of his genius once 
mcM'e blazes out as brightly as ever. In the interest which he has thrown around 
the cruises and combats of our ships of war, we trace tlie master hand which drew 
the Pilot; nor will many chapters in this work yield in point of romantic interest 
to any of his sea-novels. Many of the naval actions of the ftevolutioa, and especially 
the cruisings of Paul Jones, and the desperate fight between the Bon-Homme 
Richard and the Serapis, have all the richness of romaacei with the method and 
accuracy of strict history.**— j9«Mrt««« Tntoelier, 

* ** The VLl^ary of the Navy of the United Statea ftom the e&rliest period of its 
existence, in the dawn of the Revolution, through all its discouragements, reverses, 
trials, and glory, was a task worthy of the author, who hdd established a reputation, 
as a deecriber of nautical events, superior to that of any other living writer. The 
task has been so performed as to leave nothing to desire. No work of higher interest 
has bees published in the United States for many years. The glories of American 
victories are firily portrayed, whilst, at the same time, care is taken, in every case, 
f \ to exhibit a 4kir and impartial estimate of the strength and appointments of anta> 
^ ' gonists* vessels or fleets. In this way the work acquires the credit due to a grave 

and impairtial hii^tory .^'—ito/ttmore Chrvnicie, 

" We have perused this history with no little curiosity and with great interest. 
Considering the brief existence of the American marine, its annals are more event- 
ftil, more romantic, and more various, than any in existence. Nothing can surpass 
the energy which enabled the United States to form an effective navy, at a time 
when they could hardly be said to have had a political existence, and when they 
were beset by greater difllcnlties than any which an infant nation had ever yet to 
encounter. Thiscoasideration has animated the present historian, whose enthusiasm 
seems to be kindled by has office of chronicler, even more than when he formerly 
sought inspiration ftom the same source in constructing his famous stories of the 
sea. Altogether this history is a valuable one, and cannot ftil to pass into universal 
ciKUhition. The incidents which took place in the naval war with Tripoli, are 
grander and more heroic than any thing in the circle of romance, and are detailed 
with all the vigour and animation of Mr. Cooper's genius." — Britiah Jfaval and 



SOI4D BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



THE SPEECHES 

HENRY LORD BROUGHAM, 

Upon Questions relating to Public RlghtSy Dutie^ and InterettSy 

WITH HISTORICAL INTRODUCTIONS ; 

In Two handsome Volamesi bound in embossed cloth, or law sheep. 

CONTBlfTS. 

Military Flogging — Qaeen Caroline — ^Libel on the Durham Clergy- 
Dissertation on the Law of Libel — Commerce and Manufactures — Agri- 
cultural and Manufacturing Distress— -Army Estimates — Holy Alliance — 
SIaTery-»-Law Reform-^Parliamentary Reform— Education — Poor Laws 
— Scotch ParKaraentary and Burgh Reform — Scotch Marriage and 
Divorce Bill — Establishment of the Liverpool. Mechanic's lustituto^— 
Speech on Neutral Rights — Affairs of Ireland — Speech at the Grey 
Festival — Change of Ministry in 1834 — Business of Parliament -^ Mal- 
treatment of the North American Cdlonies — Speech on tiic Civil List— 
Privilege of Parliament 

*' Tlie period embraced by these two volumes extends over a space of thirty yean, 
item 1810 to 1840, a most exciting period, during all of which Mr. Brougham, or Lord 
Brougham, played a most diptingniiiiiud part; and upon the character and events of 
wbicli he exerted no a)cau intJuunce. 

*' In brief, the hioKraphical ligaments which bind together the subjects so ably 
handled iu these volumes, impart compactness, sirt* ugtb, and beauty to the whole, 
and the head of a family who introduces such works to his sons and daughters, 
secures to them an inheritance which must endure to ibem for the whole period of 
existunee."—JVa(iMiai Jnieltigencer. 

** Who does not desire to possess all the speeches of this great philanthropist on 
the subject of the poor laws, the edtication of the people, tiie law of libel, and other 
great topics of universal concernment ? In the two large volumes before us, all ihete 
proud etlbrts of h«uaan learning, genius, and intellect, are embodied— each speech 
being preceded by a htstoricAl introduction of the occasioii and cireumatances under 
which it was deltvcrcd. Na English library will be complete without these volaues.** 
— JV*«fo York OammemiaL 

** These volumes cotttaia a mine of literary and political wealth strongly eharae- 
teristic, both in manner and matter, of this great original genius. The independcnep, 
the vigour, the manliness of thought, which Is here displayed, and tlie stores of 
wisdom and learning with whidi the volumes abouud, cunnot fail to secure fbr their 
autJiur a more full appreciation tkao ne has iu this couutxy especially ei^oyed.**— 



THE ECCLESIASTICAL AND POLITICAL HISTORY 

OP THK 

POPES OF ROME, 

DURING THE SIXTEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES, 
BY LEOPOLD llANKB, 

PROTBSSOR IN T9S UNIVERSITY OF BERLIN; 

Translated from the Gorman by Sarah Aastin. In Two Volumes* 

** To the high qualifications of profhund research, careflU accuracy, great flilrneis 
and candour, with a constant reference to the (renius and spirit of each sttcoessive 
age, common to the historians of Germany, Mr. Ranks adds tbt otann of a singalarly 
lucid, terse and agreeable style." — Quarttrlf Rniew, 



i 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



PUBLISHED BY LKA & BLANCHARD; 



■ m 



TB£ SBSCOND SBRIBS OF MISS STBICKI^AND'S LIVBg OF 
THE ^UKJSMS OFKNGLAND; containing Elizabeth of York, 
sumamod tlie Good Queen of Henry the VII., the Six Queens of 
Henry the VIII., and Queen Mury the First, in 2 vols., 12mo. 

UORU BROUGHAi>rS HISTORICAL SKETCHES OF 
STATESMEN WHO FLOUUl!<iHED IN THE TIME OF 
GEORGE HI.-- Containing L/jrd Chatham. Lord iNorth. Mr. Fox, 
Mr. Sheridan, Mr. Pitt, Mn Canning, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Grattan, 
Washington, FrankUn, Charles Carroll, Napoleon, '^I'alleyrand, La- 
fayette, &C., 2 vols. Fourth edition. 

THE UNITED IRISHMEN, their Lives and Times, by H R. Madden, 
M. D., author of Travels in the East, &c. ; in two volumes, I2mo. 

ROMANTIC BIOGRAPHY OF THE AGE OF ELIZABETH, 

or Sketches of Life from the By-ways of History by the Benedictine 
Brethren of Glendalough. Edited by W. Cook Taylor, LL. D. &lc. 
of Trinity College, Dublin, author of *"rhe Natural History o^ 
Society," in 2 volumes, 12mo. 

LIVES OF EMINENT LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC MEN 
OF ITALY. By Mre. Shelley, Sir David Urewster, James Montgomery 
9nd others. ContaJoinff Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Lorenzo de 
Medici, Galileo, 'I'asso, &€., &c., 2 vols. 

A MEMOIR OF THE LIFE AND M'RITINGS OF MRS. 
HEMANS. By her Sister, Mrs. Hughes. 1 vol., 12ma 

THE MOST EMINENT FRENCH WRITERS. By Mrs. Shelley 

and others. Containing Racine, Fenelon, Rousseau, Moiiore, Cor- 

neile, &.c., &c. 2 vols. 
SKETCHES OF CONSPICUOUS LIVING CHARACTERS OF 

FRANCE* Containing Thieni, Chauteauhriand, Laifitte, Guiaot, La 

Martine, &.c., &c. Translated by R. M. Walsh. 

THE CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS OF 

LORD BROUGHAxM, with a sketch of his Character. Two vols., 

royal 12mo. 
THS CRITICAL AND HISCEIiLAMBOUS WTRITINGS OP SIR 

EDIVARD LYTTON BULWKU, Author of " Pelham," " The 

Disowned," &c. 
LIFE OP THOMAS JEFFERSON. By Prof. Tucker, of the University 

of Virginia; 2 vols., 8vo. 
GEISLER'S TEXT BOOK OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY. 

Translated from the third German edition. By Francis Cunningham. 

3 vols., 8vo. 

AN INQUIRY INTO THE VALIDITY OF THE BRITISH 
CLAIM TO A RIGHT OF VISITATION AND SEARCH 

of American vessels suspected ta be engaged in the African Slave 
Trade. By Henry Whealon, LL. D., Minister of the United States at 
the Court of Berlin. Author ef ** Elements of international Law,'' 
&€. In one volume. 

LOCKHAIiT'S LIFE OP SIR WALTER SCOTT, a fine ediUon 
with a~ portrait, in 7 vols., 12mo. 

THE CPURT AND TIMES OF FREDERICK THE GREAT, 

edited with an introduction, by Thomas Campbell, Esq., author of the 
Pleasures of Hope, The Life of Petrarch, &.c. ; 2 vols., 12nio. 

MADAME DE SEVIGNE AND HER CONTEMPORARIES, 

comprising sketches of above one hundred of the most eminent persons 
of her times, 2 vols., 12mo. | 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



I 



MRS. ELLIS'S TEMPERANCE TALES, or Hints to those who 
would Make Home Happy, by Mrs. Ellis, late Miss Stickney, author 
of The Women of England, &c., &.c. Containing — The Dangers of 
Dining Out, Confessions of a Maniac, SomerviUe Hall, The Rising 
Tide, The Favourite Child, First Impressions, and The Minister's 
Family, in 2 vol., 12mo. 

'* The tendency of this work is one of the best and noblest, and the scenes 
and persons described are, in most instances it is believed, Portraits, aiming, 
as it does, at the correction of a too prevalent vice, that of intemperance, it 
is expected te command, amongst the serious and thinking part of the 
community, the same popularity that Pickwick and Humphrey's Clock 
have done in their peculiar circle." — Publishers Circular* 

KEBLE'S CHRISTIAN YEAR. Thou^ghts in verae, for Sundays and 
Holidays, throughout the year. The third edition, in one neat volume'- 

THE CHILD'S CHRISTIAN YEAR. Hymns for every Sunday and 
Holiday, compiled for the use of Parochial schools, iirst American from 
the second London edition, adapted more especially to- pastoral and do- 
mestic teachings; a small pocket volume to match the * Christian Yeitf.' 

BISHOP HEBER'S POETICAL WORKS. Complete m one neat 
volume, to match ' Keble's Christian Year.' 

TALES AND SOUVENIRS OF A RESIDENCE IN EUROPE. 
By the Lady of a distinguished Senator of Virginia. In one volume, 
extra embossed cloth. 

THE QUEEN OF FLOWERS, OR MEMOIRS OF THE ROSE* 
a beautiful little volume, with coloured plates, and handsomely done up 
with gilt edges. 

THE SENTIMENTS OF FLOWERS, OR THE LANGUAGE 
OF FLORA. Embracing an account of nearly 300 difierent Flowers 
with their powers in Language. With coloured plates. A small volume, 
embossed cloth, gilt edges. 

THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS, with iUustrative Poetry. To 
which Lb now first added The Calendar of Flowers. Revised by the 
Editor of * The Forget-Me-Not.' The sixth American edition, with 
coloured plates. Handsomely done up in embossed leather, gilt edges. 

THE YOUNG WIFE'S BOOK. A Manual of religious, moral, and 
domestic duties. A small pocket volume. 

THE YOUNG HUSBAND'S BOOK. A Manual of the duties, moral, 
religious, and domeduc, jnposed by the relations of married life. A 
small volume, to match * The Young Wife's Book.' 

STORIES FOR VERY YOUNG CHILDREN, Ulustrated by numer- 
ous wood cuts, containing Winter, Spring. Summer, and Autumn, by 
Mrs. Marcet, author of Conversations on Chemistry. 

LAWS OF ETIQUETTE, OR RULES AND REFLECTIONS 
FOR CONDUCT IN SOCIETY. By a Gentleman. A smaU 
pocket volume. Many thousands of which have been sold. 

ETIQUETTE FOR THE LADIES. With Hints 6n the Preservation, 
Improvement, and Display of Female Beauty. A small volume to 
match the Laws of Etiquette. 

THE CANONS OF GOOD BREEDING; by the author of 'The 
Laws of Etiquette ;' a small pocket volume in embossed cloth. 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



^ 



And in Caaaj on his Lite and Geniiu, b; ARTiiDit Monrarr, Ebo^ willi ■ 

Fortnit Bound in One or Two Volumes, and in varioua 

Hlyles, to suit the Furchaieis. 

ALSO, TO MATCH THE ABOVE. THE 

SELECT WORKS OF TOBIAS SMOLLET; 



With a PortraiL Bound in One or Two Volumei, to matcli Fielding. 



STANLEY THORN, 

BY HENRY COCKTON, 

Author of " ValoQtine Vox, the Venlriloquiat," fltc., with namcrouB Illut 

tntione, designed bj Crulhahank, Leech, &.i%, and Engraved b; 

Yeager. In one Biijial Ootavo Volome, bound in emboentd cloth. 

THB PORCEKAIMf TOWERi 

OR NINE STORIES OF CHINAl 
Compiled from oiigm.1 Murce. ; nilh Illa9tra(ioii& In Cue Volume. 

GUY FAWKES; 

OR, THE GUNPOWDER TREASON 

AN HISTORICAL ROMANCE, 

* BY WILLIAM HARRISON AINSWORTH, 

Author of " The Tower of London," " Jack Sheppard," ic, in Ono 
Volume, 8vo^ with Flute*. 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



PUBLISHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 






' WORKS FOR 
SOSOO£S, COKfiSOBS, UO. 



A NEW EDITION OP 



ARifcyrrs elements of physics, or natural fhi. 

LOSOPHY, GENERAL AND MEDICAL. Written for ani venal 
use, in plain, or non- technical language. Complete in 1 vol. Revised 
and corrected from the last English edition, with additions, by Isaac 
Hays, M. D. A work used extensively in various seminaries. 

H£RSCH£L>S ASTRONOMY, a newedi^on, with a preftMie, and a 
Series of Questions for the examination of Students, vrith Engravings, 
by S. C. Walker, in 1 vol., 12mo. 

BREWSTER'S OPTICS, a new edition, with an appendix, and numeioos 

cuts, by Professor Bache, in 1 vol., 12mo. 

J3UTLER'S ATLAS OF ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY, consistiQg of 
21 coloured maps, v^th a complete accentuated index. 

BUTLER'S GEOGRAPHIA CLASSICA, or the Application of 
Ancient Geography to the Classics ; 4th American edition, with Ques- 
tions, 1 vol. 



Bolmar^s French Series. 

New editions of the following works, by A. Bolmar, forming in connec- 
tion with *' Bolmar*s Levizac,** a complete series for the acquisition of the 
Frenoh language. 

A SELECTION OF ONE HUNDRED PERRIN'S FABLES, 

accompanied by a Key, containing the text, a literal and free transla- 
tion, arranged in such a manner as to point out the difference between 
the French and English idiom, &c., in 1 vol., 12mo. | 

A COLLECTION OF COLLOQUIAL PHRASES, on eveiy top\c 
necessary to maintain conversation, arranged under different heads with 
numerous remarks on the peculiar pronunciation and uses of various 
words ; the whole so disposed .as considerably to facilitate the acquisi- 
tion of a correct pronunciation of the French, 1 vol., 18mo. 

UBS AVENTURES DE TELEMAQUE PAR FENELON, in 1 

vol., 12mo., accompanied by a Key to the first eight books, in 1 vol., 
12mo., containing like the Fables, the text, a literal and free translation, 
intended as a sequel to the Fables. Either volume sold separately. 

ALL THE FRENCH VERBS, both regular and irregular, in a small 
Tolume. 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



with many aoo^OHi uiuBiraiionB, 

EiieriiVfMl by Yeager, from Designsby Sibaon. This edition corlainB, in 
ai:, upwards of 0ii4fuiidred Illustrationi. 

rOSTHUMOUS PAPERS OF THE PICKWICK CLUB, 

^ wmi FOETV.PI 



OLIVER TWISTi. 

Witfi B new Preface, sod Twenty-four IIliulrHtioD*. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, 



^ SKETCHES, 

Illustrative of every-day Life and every-day People. 

XPITH TTWEWTT ILLXTSTRATIOirs. 

All the sbove worhs gro priiili^d on <ine paper— tho IlluatrationB on tinted 
paper — and tiandaomclf bound in emboesed cloth, to mitch. Each work 
may be had Bcparately. 

Clieap editions of thcee works, triibout plates, are also published by Leu 
and Bliinchard, and can be had of all hooksetlera. 

THE PIC-NIC PAPERS, 

Ity tuioui hands. Edited by Charles Dickens, Esq., author of "Oliver 
Twist," Niciiolas Nickleby," &C., in Two Volumes. 

SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLB R S. 



PfJBLiSHED BY LEA & BLANCHARD; 



A TEXT ICOK OF 

PRACTICAL GEOLOGY AND MFNERALOGY, 

With instruotioQs fer the qualitative analysis of Muieral9«^ 
BY JOSHUA TRIMMER, F.G.S., 

TXnCTH TXFTO HUKDREji AND T^TZLLVZ: "W^OOD OUTSp 

A handsome Octavo volame, bound in embossed cloth. 

This is a systematic introduction to Mineralogy, and Geology, admirably 
calculated to instruct the student in those sciences. The organic remains 
of the varioofi formations are^Hvell illustrated by numerous figures, Which 
are drawn with great accuracy^ , ^ 



THE BRIDGE WATER TREATISES ON THE POWER, WIS- 
DOx>I AND GOODNESS OF GOD, as manifested in the Creation. 
containing Bell, Chalmers, Kidd, Whewell, Prout, Kirby, Roget and 
Buckiand, with numerous engravings, wood cuts, and maps. Tlie 
whole series forms a beautiful set of books, in 7 volumes, 8)fp, to be had 
in handsome cloth or half bound with calf backs and comerd. 






The following" Three Treatises can be had separately : 

GEOLOGY AND JUINERAaOpY, oonmdered with reference to Na- 
tural Theology, by the Rev. vPm. Buckiand, D. D., Canon of Christ 
Church, ancTReader in Geology and Mineralogy in the University of 
Oxford ; with nearly 100 copper-plates and large coloured maps ; a new 
edition, from the late London edition, with supplementary notes and 
additional plates. 

ROGETS' ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE EIIYSIOLOGY; with 
nearly 500 wood cuts, in two voluaios ; second AmedcsQi Cvi'iion. 

THE HISTORY, HABITS AND INSTINCTS op ANIMALS; 

by Rev. Wm. Kirby, M. A., F. R. S. ; illustrated by numetous ccp[.or- 
piate engravings. 

\ 

A POPULAR TREATISE ON " 

VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY; 

Published under the auspices of the Society for the Promotion. oC 

Popular Instruction ; 

WITH HtJlttEBOUS WOOD dtJTS, 

In One Volume, 12mo. 



y'i^V^ 



THE MILLWRIGHT AND MILLER'S GUIDE. By Oliver Ewiw. 
The Tenth Edition with Additions and Corrections, by the Prcfnssor 
of Meriianics in the Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania ; and a Descrip- 
tion of an Improved Merchant Flour Mill. With Engru 'ings. By G. 
& O. Evans, Engineers. 
This ia a practical work, and baa had a very ex**^nded 6f le. 



SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 






«• 



^' 



/ 



. 



Jtt 



k 



