



.^^^ \ 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2006 witli funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/completecookplaiOOsandricli 



THE 

COMPLETE COOK. 



PLAIN AND PRACTICAL 

DIKECTIONS 

FOR 

COOKING AND HOUSEKEEPING; 

WITH UPWARDS OF 

SEVEN HUNDRED RECEIPTS: 

CONSISTING OP 

DIRECTIONS FOR THE CHOICE OF MEAT AND POULTRY 

PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING, MAKING 
OF BROTHS AND SOUPS; 

BOILING, ROASTING, BAKING, AND FRYING 
OF MEATS, FISH, &c. 

SEASONINGS, COLOURINGS, COOKIiVG VEGETABLES ; 

PREPARING SALADS, CLARIFYING; 

MAKING OF PASTRY, PUDDINGS, GRUELS, GRAVIES, GARNISHES, &c. 

AND, WITH 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WINES. 



WITH ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS, 

BY J. M. SANDERSON, 

Of the Fiunklin House. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

LEA AND BLANCHARD. 

1846. 



.^ J^c-,^^^*-^ ^f.-^- 



Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1843, by 

LEA AND BLANCHARD, 

in the clerk's office of the district court of the United States in and for 
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



J. FA&AN, STEREOTYPER. 



J. AND W. KITE, PRINTERS. 

(8) 



THE 


PREFACE 

TO 

ENGLISH EDITION. 


LIBRARY 



The following work has been written, not only with the view o* 
furnishing a complete Cookery Book, but also for the purpose of in 
structing, in a simple manner, inexperienced mistresses and servants, 
in the elementary principles of the culinary science ; not losing sight 
of endeavouring to inculcate the relative duties of the employer and 
the employed. Almost the only cookery book in our language, ia 
which reasons are given for the doctrine laid down, is " The Cook's 
Oracle,'' by the late Dr. Kitchiner. The Doctor's work, though ex- 
ceedingly valuable, is a book fitted more for the improvement of the 
initiated, than for the instruction of those who possess no knowledge 
of the subject. There are many other books of cookery to which 
exceptions might be taken, but we have no wish to enhance our own^ 
work by depreciating the labours of others. We have done our best 
to produce a book, which all who can read may understand, and by 
which all may be instructed. Dr. Kitchiner says, in his " Rudiments," 
and says truly, " I have taken much more pains than any of my pre- 
decessors to teach the young cook how to perform, in the best manner, 
the common business of her profession." In our " rudiments" we 
have endeavoured to teach that which a woman should know before 
Bhe can be called a " young cook," as well as that which a young 
cook has to learn. 

To conclude ; ours is a book intended for the use of persons who 
keep servants, and those who keep none. If we give expensive re- 
ceipts, we also show, that good, substantial dishes, and the most deli- 
cate, may be prepared at as little, or even less, expense than the 
ordinary, or common preparations of food. In our receipts, in particu- 
lar, we have written, necessarily written, many things which have 
been written before, but we feel assured that, taken as a whole, our 
work will not be found devoid of originality. 

For the art of baking, and all the little knick-knacks of fancy bread, 
such as biscuits, sweet cakes, &c., and for confectionary, we refer our 
readers to two little works, by the Editor of " The Cook," called 
"The Baker," and "The Confectioner,"* which form part of the series 
of "Industrial Guides." 

* " The Baker" and " Tho Confectioner" will shortly be published by Lo3 & 
Blaiichard, at 25 cents, in one volume. 

1* (3) 



PREFACE 

TO 

THE AMERICAN EDITION 



It is said that " Good wine needs no bush," and according 
to the same rule a good book should require no apology, (as a 
preface generally appears to be). In this instance, as we are 
not the author, we intend to devote the small space allowed us, 
to the praise of this our adopted work ; for, of all the English 
books on this subject, none, according to our ideas, possess 
half the claims to public approval as this one does. The author, 
whoever he is, is certainly a proficient in his business ; and, 
although making no pretensions to a literary character, has 
laid down his rules and precepts in a clear and concise manner. 

Very few additions or alterations have been made in this 
work ; in fact none, excepting where circumstances rendered it 
necessary; it being considered best to send it forth to the Ame- 
rican world with all its beauties untouched ; at the same time 
we wish it to be understood that we do so, not because the 
subject is a barren one ; on the contrary, were we to condense 
all the necessary information we have on this science, we should 
swell our small book to the dignity of a three-volumed work ; 
but, by so doing, we should place it beyond the reach of that 
class to whom its precepts will prove most valuable. We hav 
therefore concluded, after due reflection, to leave such labours 
alone until we have more time and experience. 

The American stomach has too long suffered from the vile 
concoctions inflicted on it by untutored cooks, guided by sense- 
less and impracticable cook-books ; and it is to be hoped, that 

1** (5) 



VI PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 

as this subject is now becoming more important in these days 
of dyspepsia, indigestion, dec, a really good book will be well 
patronised, and not only read, but strictly followed ; and let it 
not be said hereafter that " the American kitchen is the worst 
in the world." 

As we have made but few alterations or improvements, we 
do not consider it at all necessary to offer to the public any 
apology for our seeming presumption in thus undertaking, at 
our age, to edit a work which we think requires little improve- 
ment, and consequently no great degree of talent on our part. 
Should we ever undertake anything original, we shall then act 
with more humility. All that we ask, in the present case, is 
the wide and extended use of the " Complete Cook." 



THE COMPLETE COOK. 



RELATIVE DUTIES OF MISTRESS AND MAID. 

In this our little work, we more particularly address ourselves to 
Cook Maids in small families, where two maid servants only are kept, 
and where, consequently, all the business of the kitchen falls upon 
the cook, both as regards cleaning and cooking. In such families, it 
is true, the mistress in the house will take a part in the business of 
cooking upon herself; a most laudable custom, both as regards eco- 
nomy, and the real interests of the cook maid. To such mistresses, 
particularly the younger portion, it is hoped our little book will not 
be unacceptable. Cooking is neither a mean, nor a simple art. To 
make the best and the most of everything connected with the suste- 
nance of a family, requires not only industry and experience, but also 
considerable mental capacity, or, at any rate, an aptness to learn. 

One of the principal, if not the principal, requisite, in a cook, ia 
order — that faculty by which a person is enabled to keep all things in 
their proper places. Without order there can be no cleanliness, an- 
other indispensable requisite in a cook : to be always cleaning, is not 
to be clean. There are some foolish, fussy women, who, with all the 
disposition on earth to be clean, not having order, dirty one thing aa 
fast as they clean another. Nor is order an essential requisite, aa 
regards the cleanliness of a kitchen, and of kitchen utensils, only; in 
dressing food, without order there can be no good cooking. 

VVe have said, that the mistress will take a part in a small family 
in the business of cooking. We, perhaps, should have rather said, 
ought to take a part; for we are sorry to say, that there is too much 
reason to believe, that good housewifery is much neglected in the 
educating of young ladies now-a-days. If a mistress be really not 
acquainted with the general principles of cooking, she ought to do 
one of two things — either to make herself acquainted with them aa 
an humble learner, or to keep out of the kitchen altogether; for her 
ignorant interference with a good cook maid will do no good, but may 
do a great deal of harm. And while on this subject we must give a 
word of friendly advice to the unfortunate cook, who may happen to 
fall in with an ignorant, irritable mistress. Let her take care to 
refrain from going into a passion with her: if the. mistress scolds, let 
the maid be mild ; and above all, let her not scold again, or answer 
in an angry or insulting manner. This is a hard thing to do, we are 
aware, particularly where a servant feels herself injured ; but if she 
can do it, she will not only gain the victory over her mistress, but she 

(13) 



14 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

will also feel a consciousness, a happy consciousness .-ying left- 
undone those things which she ought not to have don ^ and of having 
done those things which she ought to have done. But if the tempera 
and habits of the mistress and maid are incompatible to that good un- 
derstanding which ought always to subsist between the employer and 
the empJoyed, the best course for the servant t/v do is, to give notice 
and leave. Let not this, however, be done m anger : before giving 
Vv'arning, let her consult her pillow. 

It has been well observed, that it behoves every person to be ex- 
tremely careful whom she takes into her service; to be very minute 
in investigating the character she receives, and equally cautious and 
scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, 
many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing 
the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted, that the robbery, 
or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a 
servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who 
knowing, or having well-founded suspicions, of such faults, is prevail- 
ed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him, or her, into another 
place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, 
and often refuse to give a character, because they are displeased that 
a servant leaves their service \ but this is unpardonable, and an abso- 
lute robbery ; servants having no inheritance, and depending on their 
fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and 
to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large ; 
and such as are honest, frugal and attentive to their duties, should be 
liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire ser- 
vants with zeal to acquit themselves well. 

Servants should always recollect, that everything is provided lor 
them, without care and anxiety on their part. They run no risks, 
are subject to no losses, and under these circumstances, honesty, in- 
dustry, civility, and perseverance, are in the end sure to meet with 
their reward. Servants possessing these qualifications, by the bless- 
ing of God, must succeed. Servants should be kind and obliging to 
their fellow-servants; but if they are honest themselves, they will not 
connive at dishonesty in others. They who see crimes committed and 
do not discover them, are themselves legally and morally guilty. At 
the same time, however, well recollect, that tittle-tattling and tale- 
bearing, for the sake of getting in your mistress's good graces, at the 
expense of your fellow-servants, is, to the last degree, detestable. A 
sensible mistress will always discourage such practices. 

We have knov^^n servants imagine, that because their employers 
are kind to them, that because they do not command them to do this 
or that, but rather snlicit them, that, therefore, they cannot do with- 
out them, and instead of repaying their good-nature and humanity by 
gratitude and extra attention, give themselves airs, and become idle 
and neglectful. Such conduct cannot be too much condemned, and 
those servants, who practise it, may depend upon it, that, sooner or 
later, they Vv^ill have cause to repent. Let it be remembered, that vice 
ft veil as virtue has its reward, though of a very different character. 



DUTIES OF MISTRESS AND MAID. 15 

We shall conclude this our friendly advice to young- cooks, by an 
extract from the ''Cook's Best Friend,'' by the late Dr. Kitchiner. 
Nothins^ can be done in perfection, which must be done in a hurry, 
(except catching of fleas), — '* Therefore," says the Doctor, " if you 
wish the dinner to be sent up to please your master and mistress, and 
do credit to yourself, be punctual ; take care, that as soon as the 
clock strikes the dinner bell rings. This shows the establishment is 
orderly, is extremely gratifying to the master and his guests, and is 
most praiseworthy in the attendants. But remember you cannot ob- 
tain this desirable reputation without good management in every 
respect; if you wish to ensure ease and independence in the latter 
part of your life, you must not be unwilling to pay the price for which 
only they can be obtained, and earn them by a diligent and faithful 
performance of the duties of your station in your young days, in which 
if you steadily persevere, you may depend upon ultimately receiving 
the reward your services deserve." 

All duties are reciprocal; and if you hope to receive favour, endea- 
vour to deserve it by showing yourself fond of obliging, and grateful 
when obliged. Such behaviour will win regard, and maintain it; 
enforce what is right, and excuse what is wrong. 

Quiet, steady perseverance, is the only spring which you can safely 
depend upon infallibly to promote your progress on the road to inde- 
pendence. 

If your employers do not immediately appear to be sensible of your 
endeavours to contribute your utmost to their comfort and interests, 
be not easily discouraged; persevere, and do all in your power to 

MAKE YOURSELF USEFUL. 

Endeavour to promote the comfort of every individual in the family; 
let it be manifest that you are desirous to do rather more than is re- 
quired of you, than less than your duty; they merit little who perform 
nothing more than what would be exacted. If you are desired to help 
in any business that may not strictly belong to your department, un- 
dertake it cheerfully, patiently, and conscientiously. 

The foregoing advice has been written with an honest desire to 
augment the comfort of those in the kitchen, who will soon find, that 
the ever-cheering reflection of having done their duly to the utmost 
of their ability, is in itself, with a Christian spirit, a never-failing 
source of comfort in all circumstances and situations, and that 

" Virtue is its own reward." 

Having thus briefly touched upon the relative duties of mistress 
and maid, we shall now proceed to make some general remarks (and 
though general, we think them most important) as respects the busi- 
ness of Cooking as an art, or, more properly speaking, as a science. 



16 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS ON COOKERY— IM 
PORTANCE OF GOOD COOKERY AS REGARDS HEALTH 
AND TEMPERANCE. 

It is an old, and somewhat vulgar sayingf, thoug-h very expressive, 
that '* God sends meat, and the devil cooks." This adage shows, that 
cooking has always been considered of some importance in this coun- 
try, even among the lowest classes of society. A great deal too little 
attention, however, is paid to the art of preparing food for the use of 
those who eat; and we think we may say, without much exaggera- 
tion, that in many families, even to this day, one-half of their moat ia 
wasted, and the other half spoilt. But the mere waste arising from 
this system of cooking, or rather want of system, is not the greatest 
evil, though this is an enormous one; the diseases that badly dressed 
food occasions to^he stomach are even a greater evil than the one to 
which we have first referred. A bad cook will turn that which waa 
intended by the Giver of all good for the nourishment of the body into 
a sort of poison. The functions of the stomach, when loaded with 
crude, undressed, or half-dressed meat, are unable to digest it. Hence 
the stomach is not only injured, but a train of diseases is engendered, 
sufficient to render one's life miserable. From the cause alluded to 
arises acidity, or sourness of the stomach, which gives rise again to 
heart-burns, hiccups, flatulencies, or wind ; which again creates paina 
in the stomach and head, and, indeed, in other parts of the body. 
Then again we have, from the same cause, the various descriptiona 
of nightmare, horrid dreams, and restless nights. Country people, 
in agricultural districts in particular, think themselves, when so 
afflicted, bewitched, or possessed by the devil, when, in fact, if pos- 
sessed at all, they are possessed by bad cookery and indigestible diet. 
Instead of resorting to charms, such persons ought to resort to a dose 
of opening medicine, and take care to eat food which is not spoilt by 
dressing. But the greatest of all ills by which we can be afflicted, 
ill-dressed, indigestible food will bring about — intellectual confusion — ■ 
perhaps madness — for be assured, that a deranged stomach is always, 
more or less, accompanied with a deranged head. 

In support of these opinions we might adduce many authorities of 
the highest reputation, but wo shall content ourselves with the fol- 
lowing : — " It cannot be doubted," says Dr. Choyne, " that the clear, 
ready, and pleasant exercise of the intellectual ftcultits, and their 
easy and undisturbed application to any subject, is never to be obtain- 
ed but by a free, regular performance of the natural functions, which 
the lightest (most digestible) food can only procure." Again, Dr. 
Cheyne says, " he that would have a clear head must have a clean 
stomach. It is sufficiently manifest how much uncomfortable feelinga 
of the bowels affect the nervous system, and how immediately and 
completely the general disorder is relieved by an alvine evacuation." 
Then we have the testimony of Abernethy, who says, "we cannot 
reasonably expect tranquillity of the nervous system, whilst there is 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 17 

disorder of the digestive organs. As we can imbibe no permanent 
source of strength but from the digestion of our food, it becomes im- 
portant on this account, that we should attend to its quantity, quality, 
and the periods of taking it, with a view to ensure its proper diges- 
tion." But what says Dr. Kitchiner, who was an able physician, and 
the most learned and scientific writer upon the culinary art 1 " The 
stomach," he asserts, "is the main-spring of our system; if it be not 
sufficiently wound up to warm and support the circulation, the whole 
business of life will, in proportion, be inefiectually performed — we can 
neither think with precision — walk with vigour— sit down with com- 
fort — nor sleep with tranquillity. There would be no difficulty in 
proving, that it influences (much more than people imagine) all our 
actions." 

" One of the greatest, perhaps the greatest, moral writers of our 
age, Dr. Samuel Johnson, was a man," says Boswell, " of very nice 
discrimination in the science of cookery." He often remarked, " that 
some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretending not to 
mind, what they eat ; for my part, I mind my belly very studiously and 
very carefully, and I look upon it, that he who does not mind his 
belly, will hardly mind any thing else." To this, Kitchiner adds, 
"the Doctor might have sa.\d, cannot mind any thing else." The 
energy of our brains is sadly dependent on the behaviour of our 
bowels. Those who say, 'tis no matter what we eat, or what we 
drink, may as well say, 'tis no matter whether we eat, r r whether we 
drink. 

Again, as to the relative importance of cookery as a science. Mr. 
Sylvester, in his Domestic Economy^ says, that it is not difficult to 
foresee, that this department of philosophy must become the most 
popular of all others, because every class of human beings is inter- 
ested in its result." Again, the same writer says, " if science can 
really contribute to the happiness of mankind, it must be in this de- 
partment. The real comfort of the majority of men in this country is 
sought for at their own fire-sides : how desirable then it becomes to 
give every inducement to be at home, by directing all the means of 
philosophy to increase domestic happiness I" 

Dr. Waterhouse, in his Lectures, thus speaks of the stomach : — 
" The faculty the stomach has of communicating the impressions made 
by the various substances that are put into it is such, that it seems 
more like a nervous expansion from the brain than a mere receptacle 
for food." 

From allusions in the great Milton's writings, it is quite evident, 
that he appreciated the science of cookery highly. Speaking of phi- 
losophy, he says, 

" 'Tis a perpetual feast of nectar'd sweets, 
Where no crude surfeit reigns." 

Again, 

" That which is not good is not delicious 
To a well-govern'd and wise appetite." 

But we have better evidence than these allusions, of Milton's at- 



18 T H E C O M P L E T E C O O K. 

tachment to nicely dressed dishes. In his brother's, the judge's 
testimony, in support of a nuncupative will, which it was alleged he 
made before his death in favour of his third and last wife, a passage 
occurs, to the effect, that, approving of his dinner on a certain occasion, 
he said, "this will do; get something nice for me to eat, for when I 
am gone it will be all your's." We quote from memory. The cele- 
brated Dr. Parr, the great Grecian and theologian, was much attached 
to good eating himself, and thought it very necessary, both for the 
liealth of the body and the mind. A few weeks before his death, for 
he was perfectly conscious that he had but a short time to live, he 
made arrangements for his funeral ; and, amongst other things, he 
prepared a bill of fare for his funeral dinner. The dishes were all 
cold. He expressed his regret to a clerical friend of ours, that he 
could not give them a hot dinner, "but that is impossible," he said, 
**for there is not convenience in the house to cook for so large a 
number. I am much afraid," he continued, " lest you parsons should 
get a hot dinner for yourselves, and leave the poor laymen to the cold 
meat; but I should be very angry if I could know it. I always liked 
to take care of my own stomach, and of other people's. If that ia 
wrong, nothing can be right." 

There are people who imagine, that it is beneath the dignity of a 
philosopher to trouble himself about eating; such a one vi'as that gay 
fribble of a marquis, who, finding Descartes enjoying himself over a 
good dinner, exclaimed, " Hey ! what, do you philosophers eat dain- 
ties?" "Do you think," replied Descartes, "that God made good 
things only for fools'?" 

There is a point with regard to the importance of good cookery, 
upon which we have not touched, though one of first-rate consequence, 
namely, temperance, from the neglect of which so many, and such 
deadly, evils arise. Let a man load his stomach with crude, indi- 
gestible food, that is, ill-dressed meats or other substances, and what 
is the consequence 1 he feels ill — in fact, he is ill — his mind does not 
possess its proper vigour and elasticity ; in one word, the whole man, 
mind and body, is disordered — unhinged. He seeks relief in spirits, 
and he obtains it, perhaps, temporarily. Hence is the beginning of 
dram drinking, and all its concomitant evils; which it would fill a 
volume to enumerate. The members of temperance societies, and 
the promoters of temperance in general, would do well to turn their 
attention to this point, and we think they will agree with us on the 
importance of diffusing the art of cookery — the art of preparing good 
and wholsome food — as widely as possible among the people. 

In this country we have the best of all descriptions of butcher's meat 
in the world, and, with a few exceptions, the worst cooks. If the 
poor, half-fed meats of France, were dressed as our cooks, for the most 
part, dress our well-fed excellent meats, they would be absolutely 
uneatable. In France, the cooks, both private and public, contrive to 
make most excellent and easily digestible food, out of substances that 
we should throw away, as perfectly incapable of being rendered fit to 
eat, or at least palatable. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 19 

It hiiS been proved by Dr. Prout, that sugar, butler, or oil, and 
white of egg, or substances partaking- of their nature, form the chief 
alimentary food of man. The saccharine, or sugary principle, in its 
extended sensf, is mostly derived from vegetables. A proper know- 
ledge of these principles forms the basis, or foundation, of French 
cookery, or, indeed, every other good system of cookery. It does not 
follow, however, that it is necessary that a cook should understand 
these things philosophically, so as to be able to give a reason for them. 
It is sufficient for him or her to take for granted the maxims or rules 
that have been deduced from them, and act accordingly. 

In France, most substances intended for food are exposed, by means 
of oil or butter, or grease, in a frying-pan, to a heat of 600^^ Fahren- 
heit, that is, nearly three times hotter than boiling water. This ia 
done by frying, or by some other method similar to frying. They are 
then put into a macerating or stewing vessel, with a little water, and 
kept for several hours at a temperature, or heat, below the boiling 
point; that is to say, the liquid is never allowed to bubble up, nor yet 
scar<;ely to simmer. By these united processes, it has been clearly 
proved, that the most hard and tough substances, whether vegetable 
or animal, are, more or less, reduced to a state of pulp, fit for the 
action of the stomach, and consequently for easy digestion. 

In this country, the majority of cooks, particularly in small families, 
toss the meat into a large quantity of water, make the water boil as 
speedily as possible, and as fast as possible; and foolishly imagine, 
that it will be sooner and better done. But what is the consequence? 
The outside of the meat is rendered so tough, that it will not admit 
the heat to penetrate the inside, which remains undone, and the result 
is, that both the outside and inside meat are spoilt, or at least greatly 
damaged, both as respects flavour and wholesomeness. Here an 
anecdote occurs to us, which, though it has been before related, will 
serve to illustrate our subject. An Irishman was ordered by hia 
master to boil him an egg for his breakfast, and was particularly en- 
joined to boil it soft. After waiting for more than ten minutes, the 
master inquired after his egg^ which, however, was not forthcoming ; 
the servant was seeing about it. Another five minutes elapsed, when 
the impatient master was coolly told his egg was not done — "Yer 
honour told me to bile it soft, and sure I've biled it a qua rter of an houi , 
and it is as hard as ever." 

Our ignorant, and too often unteachable, cook maid, would laugh 
at the simplicity of the Irishman — not considering that the very means 
she uses to make meat tender and palatable, that is, fast boiling, are 
just as absurd as those taken by Paddy to boil an egg soft. 

There is no rule, they say, without an exception ; but, generally 
speaking, ill-dressed meats, or even solid food well-dressed, taken in 
large quantities, are indigestible. It is a mistake to imagine, that 
people \yho take violent exercise in the open air, are always free from 
indigestion, and those numerous diseases to which it gives rise. That 
they^re not so liable as those confined to a house, or a workshop ia 
true ; and there are some stomachs that appear to be able to digest 



20 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

any thing; but these are exceptions to the general rule — they do not 
aftect the truth of the rule itself. 



PHILOSOPHICAL COOKERY.—COUNT ROMFORD. 

The first person, perhaps, with any pretensions to learning and 
philosophy, who studied the dressing of meat, for food, as a science, 
was a gentleman of the name of Thompson, who was afterwards 
created Count Romford, by one of the German princes. This excel- 
lent and ingenious individual lived in the last century. He demon- 
strated, by experiments, the principles which in our foregoing remarks 
we have merely asserted. We are about to give an abstract of some 
of his observations and experiments on this subject, which are so 
Bimply and clearly detailed, that they are perfectly intelligible to 
every common intellect, and we are sure will be read with interest 
and advantage, not only by cooks, but also by all classes of persons 
interested in the health and welfare of society at large. 

The process by which food is most commonly prepared for the table 
— BOILING — is so familiar to every one, and its efTeets are so uniform, 
and apparently so simple, that few have taken the trouble to inquire 
how, or in what manner, these effects are produced ; and whether any 
and what improvements in that branch of cookery are possible. So 
little has this matter been made an object of inquiry, that few, very 
few indeed, it is believed, among the millions of 'persons who for so 
many ages have been daily employed in this process, have ever given 
themselves the trouble to bestow one serious thought on the subject. 

The cook knows from experience, that if his joint of meat be kept 
a certain time immersed in boiling water it will be done, as it is called 
ir -he language of the kitchen; but if he be asked ivhat is done to it? 
or how, or by what agency, the change it has undergone has been 
effected ^ if he understands the question, it is ten to one but he will 
be embarrassed ; if he does not understand it, he will probably an- 
swer, without hesitation, that " the meat is made tender and eatable 
by being boiled.'''' Ask him if the boiling of the water be essentia' 
to the success of the process 1 he will answer, " without doubt* 
Push him a little farther, by asking him whether, were it possible U 
keep the water equally hot without boiling, the meat would not be 
cooked as soon and as well, as if the water were made to boil 1 Here 
it is probable that he will make the first step towards acquiring know 
ledge, by learning to doubt. 

When you have brought him to see the matter in its true light, ani 
to confess, that in this view ofit,the subject is new to him, you may 
venture to tell him (and to prove to him, if you happen to have a ther 
mometer at hand,) that water which just boils is as hot as it can pos 
sibly be made in an open vessel. That all the fuel which is used in 
making it boil with violence is wasted, without adding in the smalle.sj 
degree to the heat of the water, or expediting or shortening the pro- 
cesf^ofcookinga single instant: that it is by the heat — i\fi intensity — and 
the time of its duration, that the food is cooked ; and not by boiling 



PHILOSOPHICAL COOKERY. 21 

or ebullition or bubbling up of the water, which has no part whatever 
in that operation. 

Should any doubts still remain with respect to the inefficacy and 
inutility of boiling, in culinary processes, where the same degree of 
heat may be had, and be kept up without it, let a piece of meat be 
cooked in a Papin's digester, which, as is well known, is a boiler 
whose cover (which is fastened down with screws) shuts with so 
much nicety that no steam can escape out of it. In such a closed 
vessel, boiling (which is nothing else but the escape of steam in bub- 
bles from the hot liquid) is absolutely impossible; yet, if the heat ap- 
plied to the digester be such as would cause an equal quantity of water 
in an open vessel to boil, the m.eat will not only be done, but it will 
be found to be dressed in a shorter time, and to be much tenderer, 
than if it had been boiled in an open boiler. By applying a still 
greater degree of heat to the digester, the meat may be so much 
done in a very few minutes as actually to fall to pieces, and even tha 
very bones may be made soft. 

Were it a question of mere idle curiosity, whether it be the boiling 
of water, or simply the degree of heat that exists in boiling water by 
which food is cooked, it would doubtless be folly to throw away time 
in its investigation ; but this is far from being the case, for boiling 
cannot be carried on without a very great expense of fuel ; but any 
boiling hot liquid (by using proper means for confining the heat) may 
be kept boiling hot for any length of time, without any expense of 
fuel at all. 

The waste of fuel in culinary processes, which arises from making 
liquids boil unnecessarily, or when nothing more would be necessary 
than to keep them boiling hot, is enormous ; there is not a doubt but 
that much more than half the fuel used in all the kitchens, public and 
private, io the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner. 

But the evil does not stop here. This unscientific and slovenly 
manner of cooking renders the process much more laborious and trou- 
blesome than otherwise it would be ; and (what by many will be con- 
sidered of more importance than either the waste of fuel, or the 
increase of labour to tiiO cook) the food is rendered less savoury, and 
very probably less nourishing, and certainly less wholesome. 

It is natural to suppose that many of the fiiner and more volatile 
parts of food (those which are best calculated to act on the organs of 
taste) must be carried off with the steam, when the boiling is violent : 
but the fact does not rest on these reasonings : it is proved to a de- 
monstration, not only by the agreeable fragrance of the steam that 
rises from vessels in which meat is boiled, but also from the strong 
flavour and superior quality of soups which are prepared by a long 
process over a very slow, gentle fire. But the volatile parts of food 
are not only delightful to the organs of taste — the Editor has no doubt 
that they are also stimulating and refreshing to the stomach. 

In many countries where soups constitute the principal part of the 
food of the inhabitants, the process of cooking lasts from oi^e meal time 
to another, and is performed almost without either trouble or expense. 



22 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

As soon as the soup is served up, the ingredients for the next meal 
are put into the pot (which is never suffered to cool, and does not re- 
quire scouring;) and this pot, which is of cast iron, or of earthenware, 
being well closed with its thick wooden cover, is placed hy the side 
of the Jire, where its contents are kept simmering for many hours, 
but are seldom made to boil, and never but in the gentlest manner 
possible. 

Were the pot put in a close fire-place (which might easily be con- 
structed, even with the rudest materials, with a few bricks or stone, 
or even with sods, like a camp-kitchen,) no arrangement for cooking 
could well be imagined more economical or more convenient. 

Soups prepared in this way are uncommonly savoury, and there is 
little doubt that the true reason why nourishing soups and broths are 
not more in use among the common people in most countries, is 
because they do not know how good they really are, nor how to 
prepare them \ in short because they are not acquainted with them. 
There is another important reason which the Editor must add — the 
common people for the most part cannot spare time from their labour 
to stay at home and attend to them. 

To form a just idea of the enormous waste of fuel that arises from 
making water boil and ei;«j?ora^e unnecessarily in culinary processes^ 
we have only to consider how much heat is expended in the forma 
lion of steam. Now it has been proved by the most decisive and un 
exceptionable experiments that have ever been made by experimental 
philosophers, that if it were possible that the heat which actually 
combines with water, in forming steam (and which gives it wings to 
fly up into the atmosphere,) could exist in the water, without changing 
it from a dense liquid to a rare elastic vapour, this water would ba 
neated by it to the temperature of red-hot iron. 

Many kinds of food are known to be most delicate and savoury when 
cooked in a degree of heat considerably below that of boiling water; 
and it is more than probable that there are others which would be im- 
proved by being exposed to a heat greater than that of boiling water. 

In many of the seaport tov^^ns of our New England States, it 
has been a custom, time immemorial, among people of fashion, to 
dine one day in the week (Saturday) on salt fish, and a long habit 
of preparing the same dish has, as might have been expected, led to 
very considerable improvements in the art of cooking it. We have 
often heard foreigners who have partaken of these dinners, declare 
that they never tasted salt fish dressed in such perfection. The se- 
cret of this cooking is to keep the fish a great many hours in water, 
which is just scalding hot, but which is never made actually to boil. 

The Count being desirous of finding out whether it was possible to 
roast meat with a much gentler heat than that usually employed, put 
a shoulder of mutton in a machine contrived for drying potatoes: tho 
result, which we give in the Count's own words, was as follows : 

"After trying the experiment for three hours, and finding it showed 
no signs of being done, it was concluded that the heat was not suffi- 
ciently intense, and, despairing of success, it was abandoned to tho 
cookmaids. 



PHILOSOrillCAL COOKERY. 23 

"It beinjT late in the evening, and the cookmaids thinking-, per* 
haps, that the meat would be as safe in the drying machine as any 
where else, left it there all night; when they came in the morning 
to take it away, intending to cook it for their dinner, they were much 
surprised to find it already cooked^ and not merely eatable, but per- 
fectly done, and most singularly well tasted. This appeared to them 
the more miraculous, as the fire under the machine was quite gone 
out before they left the kitchen in the evening to go to bed, and as 
they had locked up the kitchen when they left it and taken the key. 

This wonderful shoulder of mutton was immediately brought in tri- 
umph, and though we were at no great loss to account for what had 
happened, yet it certainly was unexpected : and when the meat was 
tasted we were much surprised indeed to find it very different, both 
in taste and flavour, from any we had ever tasted. It was perfectly 
tender, but though it was so much done it did not appear to be in the 
least sodden or insipid ; on the contrary, it was uncommonly savoury 
and high-flavoured. It was neither boiled, nor roasted, nor baked. 
Its taste seemed to indicate the manner in which it had been pre- 
pared : that the gentle heat to w^hich it had for so long a time been 
exposed, had by degrees loosened the cohesion of its fibres, and con- 
cocted its juices, without driving off" their fine and more volatile parts, 
and without washing away or burning and rendering rancid its oils." 

Having given an abstract of Romford's opinions and experiments 
on boiling water as a medium for the preparation of meat for the food 
of man, we shall now take an opportunity of remarking, that the same 
rule will not apply to the cooking of the greater part of vegetables, 
which must be put into the water boiling hot, and which cannot be 
boiled too quickly. This does not apply, however, to potatoes, which 
cannot be' boiled too slowly. These things, however, will be treated 
of more particularly in the receipts, which we shall give for the 
cookingof different kinds of vegetables. 

Seasoning is a very important element in the art of cookery. Ex- 
perience is absolutely necessary to acquire this art, which to be pro- 
perly done, requires great judgment and delicacy of taste. All the 
recommendations of Dr. Kitchiner and others to season by weight and 
measure, as apothecffries serve out drugs, are in the nature of the 
thing impracticable. "What's one man's meat is another man's 
poison," is a homely proverb, but a true one. So in seasoning, what 
one person likes, another may dislike. The writers we have alluded 
to ridicule the idea of directing the cook to use a pinch of that, and a 
dust of the other. M. Ude justly observes, " that where the quantities 
are indefinite, it is impossible to adjust the exact proportions of spice, 
or other condiments, which it v^ill be necessary to add in order to 
give the proper flavour." If these remarks are correct, and who can 
doubt it, the general terms " handful, pinch, and dust," are the best 
that can be applied as directions upon such a subject. 

In the use of salt in cooking, considerable judgment is required. 
The best rule is to employ as little as possible. It is easy to make 
a dish too fresh, salt ; but if made too salt, it cannot be made fresh 



24 THECOMPIiETECOOK. 

again. Sugar may be applied with advantage in various dishes, 
where it is not generally used in this country, and which will be 
enumerated hereafter, but great care must be taken, that in such pre- 
parations it should be employed to enrich, not to sweeten. The taste 
of sugar should not predominate, or even be recognised. We allude 
more particularly to soups and gravies, and in some cases in vegeta- 
bles, such as green peas for instance. Meat intended to be broiled, 
or fried, should be well peppered, but never salted ; salt renders it 
hard. The author of "Domestic Cookery" says, that "salt should 
not be put into the water in which vegetables are boiled." We dis- 
agree with this lady ; indeed, she disagrees with herself; for in 
another part of her book she directs salt to be put into the water in 
which potatoes are to be boiled ; and we are quite sure it is very 
necessary in boiling cabbage, savoys, and most other descriptions of 
greens. 

It ought to be well understood, that pepper and all descriptions of 
spice require to be subjected to the action of heat to bring out their 
genuine flavour. Thus it will be seen, that though it is very prac- 
ticable to sweeten or salt things after they are dressed, it is not so aa 
respects flavouring them with spice. In the use of spices it is, how- 
ever, very important to take care that the aroma (commonly called 
smell), which they give forth, should not be allowed to evaporate or 
escape. Druggists and medical men always keep their essential oils, 
tinctures, volatile spirits and volatile gums, in ground stopper bottles, 
which are perfectly air-tight. This puts us in mind of a foolish cus- 
tom, which cannot be too much deprecated, of exposing in the open 
air aromatic herbs, such as marjoram, thyme, mint, and several 
otliers, which are known by the general term of sweet herbs, and 
which are extensively used in seasoning. These herbs ought always 
to bo kept as much as possible excluded from the air. This may be 
partially effected by tying the dried herbs in paper bags, but it is 
much better to reduce the leaves to a coarse powder, and confine it 
in well-corked bottles. 



RULES AND MAXIMS OF THE .KITCHEN. 

In our foregoing remarks we have endeavoured to explain the 
leading principles upon which the art of cookery is founded — princi- 
ples with which the young cook should become thoroughly acquainted. 
We now proceed to lay down a series of rules or maxims, relative to 
the dressing of meat, and the general management of the kitchen. 
These rules should be well studied, and the most important of tiiem 
committed to memory. By doing this a cook will save a great deal 
of trouble and loss of time, and she will also, by her knowledge of the 
general principles of the art, be enabled to vary, and probably nn- 
prove the receipts, which she may have occasion to consult. In short, 
when she knows what must be always done, and what must nevei be 
done, she is, in a great measure, mistress of her art, inasmuch as iho 
details will be easily ac(iuirod by practice. 



RULES OF THE KITCHEN. 25 

WHAT MUST ALWAYS BE DONE, AND WHAT MUST 
NEVER BE DONE. 

1. Keep yourself clean and tidy ; let your hands, in particular, he 
always clean whenever it is practicable. After a dirty job always 
wash them. A cleanly cook must wash her hands many times in the 
course of the day, and will require three or four aprons appropriated 
to the work upon which she is employed. Your hair must never be 
blowsy, nor your cap dirty. 

2. Keep apart things that would injure each other, or destroy their 
flavour. 

3. Keep every cloth, saucepan and all other utensils to their pro- 
per use, and when done with, put them in their proper places. 

4. Keep every copper stewpan and saucepan bright without, and 
perfectly clean within, and take care that they are always well 
tinned. Keep all your dish-covers well dried, and polished ; and to 
effect tiiis, it will be necessary to wash them in scalding water as 
soon as removed from the table, and when these things are done let 
them be hung up in their proper places. 

5. The gridiron, frying-pan, spit, dripping-pan, &c., must be per- 
fectly cleaned of grease and dried before they are put in their proper 
places. 

6. Attention should be paid to things that do not meet the sight in 
the way that tins and copper vessels do. Let, for instance, the pud- 
ding cloth, the dish-cloth, and the dish-tub, be always kept perfectly 
clean. To these may be added, the sieve, the cullender, the jelly- 
bag, &,c., which ought always to be washed as soon after they are 
used as may be practicable. 

7. Scour your rolling-pin and paste-board as soon after using as 
possible, but without soap, or any gritty substance, such as sand or 
brick-dust; put them away perfectly dry. 

8. Scour your pickle and preserve jars after they are emptied ; 
dry them and put them away in a dry place. 

9. Wipe your bread and cheese-pan out daily with a dry cloth, and 
scald them once a week. Scald your salt-pan when out of use, and 
dry it thoroughly. Scour the lid well by which it is covered when 
in use. 

10. Mind and put all things in their proper places, and then you 
fi'ill easily find them when they are wanted* 

11. You must not poke things out of sight instead of cleaning 
Ihem, and such things as onions, garlick, &,c., must not be cut with 
the same knife as is used in cutting meat, bread, butter, &:.c. Milk 
must not be put in a vessel used for greasy purposes, nor must clear 
liquids, such as water, &c., be put into vessels, which have been 
used for milk, and not washed; in short, no vessel must be used for 
any purpose for which it is not appropriated. 

12. You must not suffer any kind of food to become cold in any 
metal vessel, not even in well-tinned iron saucepans, &c., for they 
will impart a more or less unpleasant flavour to it. Above all things 

2* 



36 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

you must not let liquid food, or indeed any other, remain in brass or 
copper vessels after it is cooked. The rust of copper or brass is 
absolutely poisonous, and this will be always produced by moisture 
and exposure to the air. The deaths of many persons have been 
occasioned by the cook not attending to this rule. 

13. You must not throw away the fat which, when cold, accumu- 
lates on the top of liquors in which fresh or salt meat has been boiled; 
in short, you ought not to waste fat of any description, or any thin^, 
else, that may be turned to account; such as marrow-bones, or any 
other clean bones from which food may be extracted in the way of 
Boup, broth, or stock, or in any other way : for if such food will not 
suit your table, it will suit the table of the poor. Remember, "Wil- 
ful waste makes woful want." 

14. A very essential requisite in a cook is punctuality: therefore 
rise early, and get your orders from your mistress as early as possible, 
and make your arrangements accordingly. What can be prepared 
before the business of roasting and boiling commences should always 
be prepared. 

15. Do not do your dirty work at a dresser set apart for cleanly 
preparations. Take care to have plenty of kitchen cloths, and mark 
them so as a duster may not be mistaken for a pudding-cloth, or a 
knife-cloth for a towel. 

16. Keep your spit, if you use one, always free from rust and dust, 
and your vertical jack clean. Never draw up your jack with a weight 
upon it. 

17. Never employ, even if permitted to do so, any knives, spoons, 
dishes, cups, or any other articles in the kitchen, which are used in 
the dining room. Spoons are sure to get scratched, and a knife used 
for preparing an onion, takes up its flavour, which two or three 
cleanings will not entirely take away. 

18. Take great care to prevent aL preparations which are delicate 
in their nature, such as custards, blancmange, dressed milks, &c., Sic, 
from burning to which they are very liable. The surest way to ef- 
fectually hinder this is to boil them as the carpenter heats his glue, 
that is, by having an outside vessel filled with water. 

19. You ought not to do any thing by halves. What you do, do well. 
If you clean, clean thoroughly, having nothing to do with the "slut's 
wipe," and the " lick and a promise." 

20. And last, though not leasts be teachable : be always desirous to 
learn — never be ashamed to ask for information, lest you should ap- 
pear to be ignorant ; for be assured, the most ignorant are too fre- 
quently the most self-opinionated and most conceited ; while those 
who are really well informed, think humbly of themselves, and regret 
that they know so little. 

CHOICE AND PURCHASING OF BUTCHERS^ MEAT. 

Inferior joints of the best animals should always be preferred to the 
prime joints of the ill-fed or diseased beasts. Inferior joints of good 



CHOICE OP BUTC hers' MEAT. 27 

meat such as stickins^s, legs and shins of beef, shoulders of muttoa 
and veal, may, if well dressed, be made as nourishing and palatable 
as the superior joints, and may be bought much cheaper ; but no cooking, 
however well executed, will ever make bad meat good. Ill-condi 
tioned beasts, too, are for the most part unhealthy. 

21. Beef. — Ox beef is considered, truly, the best.' Bull beef is 
coarse, tough, and has a strong, disagreeable smell and taste. Next 
to ox beef, that of a young heifer (if spayed the better) is preferred. 
Some persons, indeed, think it is the best. It is the most delicate 
and tender of all description of beef. Cow beef, particularly a young 
cow that has not had more than two or three calves, is very good. 
The grain is closer, and the fat whiter, than ox beef. Good beef has 
a fine, smooth, open grain, interlarded with thin streaks of delicate 
fat; and is of a deep healthy looking red colour. When the fat is of 
a dirty yellow colour, the meat is not good : it indicates its having 
been fed upon artificial food, such as oil cake. Grass-fed meat, or 
that fed upon hay and corn meal, is the best. When beef is old, a 
horny streak runs between the fat and lean ; the harder this is, the 
older the meat. The flesh is not good flavoured, and eats tough. 

22. Mutton. — Good mutton is firm in the grain ; of a bright red 
colour; the lean delicately interlarded with thin streaks of fat; the 
fat itself being of a brightish white, tinted with a delicate pink. The 
fat of rotten mutton, in which the sheep was afliicted with a liver 
disease, is always of a dead white, and the flesh is of a pale colour. 
Such mutton is both unwholesome and unsavoury. The best way to 
detect this kind of mutton, is to examine the liver before it is re- 
moved from the sheep. If the liver be without bladders, or other 
marks of disease, the mutton is sound. Ewe mutton is not so good aa 
wether mutton; the flesh is generally paler, and the texture finer. 
The best mutton is that which is fed upon the natural grasses. This 
is the reason why the Welsh and mountain Scotch muttons are so 
firm, short, and sweet. The sheep have liberty to choose their own 
food. Mutton fed on rape and turnips does not eat so well, nor near 
BO well, as the grass-fed. Ram mutton has a strong, and, in some 
seasons of the year, an exceedingly disagreeable flavour. It is said 
that wether mutton, to be eaten in perfection, should be five years 
old ; but it is scarcely ever kept to that age. In wether mutton there 
is a knob of fat on the part of the leg, where in the ewe you will find 
a part of the udder. 

23. Venison when young has the cleft of the haunch smooth and 
close, and the fat is clear, bright and thick. In old venison, the cleft 
is wide and tough. If, after running a long, narrow, sharp knife into 
the lean of venison, it comes out without smelling, the venison is 
sweet. Some persons like it a little gone, and others a good deal. 
This state of putrescency is called by gourmands haul gout, high 
tasted ; we should rather say at once, stinking. Venison requires 
more keeping than any other sort of meat to make it tender, unless it 
be dressed immediately it is killed, that is, before it is cold. 

24. Veal. — Tins meat, to be truly good, delicate, fine flavoured, and 



28 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

tender, ought not to be more than five or six weeks old, and, of 
course, fed exclusively upon the milk of the mother. Writers on 
cookery gravely tell us, that the whiteness of veal is partly caused 
by the calf licking chalk. This is .nonsense. The chalk is given to 
prevent calves from scouring, not to make their flesh white. However, 
whiteness is no proof of veal being good and juicy; it is caused by 
frequent bleeding. The flesh of the bull calf is said to be the firmest, 
but not so white. The fillet of the cow calf is sometimes preferred 
for the udder. The kidney of good veal is well covered with healthy 
looking fat, thick and firm. The bloody vein in the shoulder should 
look blue ; if it be of any other colour, the meat is stale. Fresh veal 
is dry and white. When it is spotty and clammy it is stale. The 
kidney is gone when the fat or suet upon it is not firm. The kidney 
goes first. 

25. Lamb that is fresh will have the veins bluish in the neck and 
fore-quarter. If there be a faint smell under the kidney it is not 
fresh. When the eyes are sunk in the head, it is a sure sign the lamb 
has been killed too long. Grass lamb, which is the only lamb that is 
in perfection, comes in in April, but it is better in May and June ; that 
is to say, when men with hard hands can afford to eat it, and when 
there are green peas to eat with it. House lamb, for those who can 
afford to pay for it, and like to eat it, may be obtained all the year 
round. 

26. Pork. — The quality of this kind of meat depends in a great 
measure upon its feeding. If grossly fed, it is bad, for the pig will 
eat any thing in the absence of delicate food. Dairy-fed pork we are 
told is the best: it is good, but we think not the best. To our taste, 
that is to be preferred in every respect which is fed not merely on 
dairy food, but upon good wholesome corn meal, whether of barley, 
oats, peas, or beans. Cookery writers tell us, that "if the rind is 
tough, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, the meat is old ;" 
and they add, that a thin rind is a merit in all pork." These direc- 
tions are no guide whatever to the choice of pork : the rind may be 
made thin by dressing, but there are those, and no bad judges either, 
who prefer thick rinds. Moubray, on Poultry, &c., says^" the west- 
ern pigs from Berks, Oxford, and Bucks, possess a decided superiority 
over the eastern of Essex, Sussex, and Norfolk ; not to forget another 
qualification of the former, at which some readers may smile, a thick- 
ness of the skin, whence the crackling of the roasted pig is a fine 
gelatinous substance, which may be easily masticated, whilst the 
crackling of the thin-skinned breeds is roasted into good block tin, 
the reduction of which would almost require teeth of iron." So much 
for thin rinds. When pork is fresh, the flesh will be smooth and dry ; 
when stale, clammy. What is called measly pork is to be avoided 
as a poison. It may be known by the fat being full of kernels, and 
by the general unwholesomeness of its appearance. 

27. Bacon is good when the fat is almost transparent and of a de- 
licate transparent pink tinge. The lean should adhere to the bone, 
be of a good colour, and tender. Yellow streaks in bacon show it is 



CHOICE OF POULTRY, EGGS, FISH, i&C. 29 

becoming rusty ; when all is yellow, all is rusty and unfit to eat. 
Bacon and hams are frequently spoilt in the curing. Taste a little 
of the lean, and you will be able to judge whether it be too salt or 
not. 

28. Hams are the best part of the pig when properly cured, per- 
fectly sweet, and not too salt. To ascertain whether a ham is tainted, 
run a sharp knife under the bone, and if it comes out with a pleasant 
smell, and clean, the ham is good. 

Summary of Directions. — Choose meat that has a clear red liver, 
free from knots and bladders, with kidneys firm, close, and well sur- 
rounded with firm, hard fat ; the skirts which line the ribs should bo 
full and fat. Meat possessing these qualifications may be depended 
on as of the first quality ; but if the kidney or kernels of an animal 
have spots resembling measles, as is too frequently the case with 
pork, the meat is unwholesome. 

We have said thus much on the choice of meats, but persons who 
keep up what is called an establishment, will do best to trust to their 
butcher, porkman, fishmonger, and poulterer, and not to choose at all, 
excepting tradesmen, taking care to deal only with the most respect- 
able in the neighbourhood. 

CHOICE OF POULTRY, EGGS, AND FISH, AND SEASONS 
OF FISH. ^^. 

Povltry of all kinds are preferred of a short thick maW?*broad and 
plump in the breast and thick in the rump and fat in the back. The 
epurs should be short as indicating youth, and the comb red as indi- 
cating health. The beak, bill, and claws, in a young bird will be 
tender, and the skin of the legs comparatively smooth ; the contrary 
are certain indications of an old bird. But the best test of a fowl, as 
respects its age, is to try the two bones which run by the side fef the 
belly to the vent ; if these are gristly and easily broken at th6^ end, 
the fowl is young. To judge of the age of geese or ducks, IJltle.or 
no dependence is to be placed upon the colour of the legs and bills — 
this varies according to complexion ; but if the bills and feet 
coarse red streaks, or a tinge of red in them, the bird is old. In yoi 
geese and ducks the above marks are not to be seen, and the wel 
will be smooth and thin. 

29. Rabbits, young and in good condition, will be fat about the 
kidneys, and by the side of the belly. The flesh should be white, 
and if young, the legs will break easily. 

30. Fowls are plentiful from August to January ; chickens come 
in about April, tame ducks in May, continue through the summer 
months, and go out in October. Young geese may be dressed in the 
latter end of May and through the summer, but a goose is not 
thoroughly ripe till after stubbling, that is, about Michaelmas. Tur- 
key poults are in season from May onwards, but turkeys are in high 
season about Christmas. 

31. Rabbits and Pigeons may be had the year round ; wild rab 



30 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

bits are best in the winter season ; young- pigeons may be had in 
February, and till September; wood-pigeons in December and 
January. 

32. Game. — Hares, partridges and pheasants from September 
through the winter: the game season closes with February. All 
kinds of water-fowl are most plentiful in keen, dry weather, especially 
V cold 'weather, after snow; also larks, wood-cocks, snipes, &,c. 

33. Eggs. — New eggs have always a rough fresh-looking shell, 
but this appearance may be effected by artificial means, and the 
purchaser be cheated with rotten ones, instead of getting fresh. A 
new-laid egg will sink in water, bad ones are more or less buoyant; 
but tiiis is a tedious way of testing eggs. Th6 best way is to form a 
6ort of tube with the left hand, holding with the right hand the figg, 
close and opposite to this tube, in the light. If the egg is good the 
meat will look clear, and partly transparent; if bad, it will look dark 
with black spots in it. 

34. Fish should be broad and thick of their kind, their eyes bright, 
gills red, and the scales close and shining: fish should feel firm to 
the touch and stiff. Stale fish have always a loose, limber feel, 
especially about the vent; their eyes are sunk and dim, the scales 
loose and flabby, and the whole has a dingy, disagreeable appearance. 
Lobsters and crabs are to be judged by their weight; if they feel 
light, they have wasted themselves by long keeping. 

35. Seasons of Fish. — There are some kinds of fish absolutely 
poisonous ^ten out of season; such are salmon, and skate. The 
following will give some idea of the seasons of fish, but they vary 
according to the weather. Cod comes in about October, and goes out 
about February; it is sometimes good for a short time about August. 
Salmon comes in in February, is in high season during May, June, 
and July, declines in August, and is quite out in September. Pickled 
Balmon is good from May till September. Herrings are in season as 
long as they are full of roe; when shotten, they are worthless. 
Sprats are best in frosty weather. Lobsters and crabs are plentiful 
in the spring and early part of the summer. Haddock, flounders, 
muscles, come in in September or October, and are out about April 
or^'May. Jacks or pikes, eels, perch, tench, carp, and other fresh 
water fish, become plentiful about April or May, according to the 
weather. Eels are never out of season, but in cold weather are 
hardly to be procured. Hallibut is in season from the beginning of 
May until the end of September. 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 

36. A great deal has to be done before the cook can commence the 
operation of cooking. She has to truss her fowls and prepare her 
fish, butcher's meat, and vegetables, with other things not necessary 
to mention here. Never wash butcher's meat except for the purpose 
of cleansing it of blood, which would otherwise disfigure it when 
dressed. Few joints require this operation ; heads, hearts and scrags 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 31 

alwaypi rcquiro to be well washed before they are cooked, but if they 
or any thing else are intended for roasting or frying, they should 
first be rendered perfectly dry, by rubbing with a coarse cloth, or 
otherwise. Salt rubbed in with warm water will speedily remove 
the blood and cleanse the meat. Hares must be always well washed 
with salt and water, or milk and water. 

37. Trussing is little required in butcher's meat ; but loins, boned 
and stuffed, such as those of beef, mutton and pork, must of course 
be trussed. This is done by spreading the stuffing and seasoning 
over them, then rolling them up as tightly as possible, tying up with 
a tape or string, and securing all by skewers. The long flap of the 
fillet of veal must be filled with stuffing, and then secured as above 
directed. 

38. All kinds, of poultry should be killed the first thing in the 
morning, when their crops are empty. They should be plucked 
while they are warm ; be sure take out all the flues, and let the hair 
be singed ofl'with white paper. It is recommended to crop fowls and 
pigeons immediately you have them; but there is a difference of 
opinion as to the time of drawing them ; some say they should be 
drawn as soon as killed, or at least as soon as bought, which prevents 
the disagreeable flavour so often perceived in chickens; others say, 
and indeed the generality of cooks are of this opinion, that they should 
not be drawn till just before they are dressed, as it is apt to make 
them dry : we are of opinion that poultry should be drawn soon after 
Ihey are killed ; we do not believe that this makes them dry, though 
we are sure that to leave them undrawn will be apt to make them 
stink. 

39. In drawing poultry, or removing the entrails, a very small slit 
may bo made under the vent with a penknife, at which slip in the 
fore-finger, and if there is any internal fat about the vent, draw it out, 
as it is in the way of taking out the entrails, and, if left in, would be 
very strong when roasted. Next get hold of the gizzard, which may 
be known by its being the hardest part of the interior; draw it out 
carefully; it will generally bring the whole of the intestines with it, 
but if tile liver should be left, again slip in the finger and take hold 
of the heart, which will bring out with it the liver, which you must 
not touch for fear of bursting the gall-bladder. The heart is generally 
left in by poulterers, but it is much better out, as it is apt to give a 
bloody appearance to the interior of the fowl. Trim round the vent 
with a pair of scissors. 

40. Be careful to take away the gall-bladder from the liver with- 
out breaking it, for if one drop of the gall escapes, the whole liver is 
spoilt. The gizzird consists of two parts, with a stomach or bag in 
the middle, containing gravel and undigested food ; one part of the 
skin by which the two parts of the gizzard are united is rather nar- 
rower than the other; slit this vvitii a knife, and turning the gizzard 
inside out, remove the stomach bag and trim round the gizzard, but 
avoid cutting the skin by which it is joined in the middle. 

41. In trussing poultrv, cut off the neck about two joints from its 



32 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

commcncemeot at Ihn shoulders, but be pure to leave half an inch, or 
more, of the skin longer than the part of the neck remaining-, for the 
purpose of wrapping over on being tied. 

42. The legs of fowls intended to be roasted should be taken off 
about one inch below the first joint ; the feet and legs of young 
chickens are generally left on, but they must be scalded in boiling 
water, and the claws and outside scaly skin taken off. Thrust the 
liver through a slit made in the skinny part of one pinion, and the 
gizzard tiirough the other; then turn the top of the pinion over the 
back, lay the legs close to the sides; with a wire skewer fix the 
middle joint of the pinion outside of the knee joint of the leg, and so 
through the body to the other knee and pinion ; with a short skewer 
fix the lower joint to the lower part of the body ; then the feet, or 
whatever part of them is left, may turn back over the belly. The 
skewer for this purpose must go through the sidesmen, fixing the 
stumps or feet between them. For a fowl that is to be boiled, a slit 
is made on each side of the belly, and the leg-stump tucked in. 

43. To remove the crop and windpipe of those whose heads are left 
on, open the skin a little just in front of the throat; then pull each 
separately gently, first from the beak or bill, then from the stomach. 
Fowls whose heads are taken off may have the crop removed by 
putting the finger down the throat. The windpipe is easily removed 
in the same way. 




[Trussed Fowl for roastin?.] 

44. Before dressing, a little flour should be dusted over fowls. 
Poulteren-, to make the bird look plinnp, often break the breast bone; 
thi*! is a bid practice — it lets the air into the fowl, and drys the meat; 
it often breaks the gall-bladder, and, of course, spoils the fowl, and it 
always renders the bone troublesome. The head of capon, we ought 
to observe, is often twisted under the wing in the same way as a 
pheasant's. 

45. Ducks have the feet always left on, but the wings must be 
taken off at the middle joint; in doing this, leave more skin than be- 
longs to the bone. The feet must be scalded, and the skin and clawa 
taken away ; they then must be turned over the back. \n placing the 
skewers, keep the thigh joints outside of the pinions, and run the 
skewer through the leg, then through the bit of skin that hangs below 
the pinion, then through the body, the other pinion, skin, and the 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 



33 



other leg The short skewer must be inserted just above the joint, 
which is twisted to turn back the feet. Tie the skin round the throat;- 
put in the seasoning at the vent and turn the lump through a small 
slit in the apron. "^ 



^^-^TV^iFrfe^-? 



iS§^_ 






B 



if^^^ 



[Trussed Duck for roasting.] 

46. Geese are trussed exactly in the same way as ducks, except 
the feet are cut off, and dressed with the giblets. The liver is some- 
times dressed separately, and considered by some persons a great 
delicacy. A pioce of greased white paper should be laid over the 
breast, and secured with a string, not skewers, before a goose is put 
down to roast. 

47. Turkeys are trussed the same way as fowls, but the sinews of 
the leg must be drawn out before trussing. The gizzard of a turkey 
intended to be roasted should be scored, and both gizzard and liver 
covered with the caul of veal or lamb; but buttered paper does a3 
well, and is more generally used: this is to prevent them becoming 
dry. The breast sliould be secured in the same way, with a piece of 
buttered paper. Nicely clean th? head, and twist it under the wing. 

48. Fiffeons should be cIeaT.ed with great care. For roasting, 
truss with the feet on ; tie the joints close down the rump, and turn the 
feet over the front (see engraving). Most people season them. For 




^ 



[Trussed Pigeon for roasting.] 




[Trussed Pheasam.J 



boiling or stewing, cut off the feet, and truss just as fowls for boiling. 
For broiling, lay tliem open by cutting them down the back, and lav 
3 



34 



THE COMPLETE COOK, 



ing them flat As pigeons have no gall, no extra care will be required 
with the liver. 

49. Pheasants, Partridges, and Guinea Fowls, are trussed with 
the head tucked under the wing, and the feet on, which are twisted 
and tied to the rump, and turned back over the breast. The liver 
may be used in the stuffing. 

50. Wild Ducks, and all other web-footed wild fowl, should have 
the feet left on, and be cleaned and trussed in the same manner a 
tame ducks. 

51. Woodcocks, Plovers, &,o., and all other birds that live by sue 
tion, are not drawn ; the feet are left on, the knees twisted rouwi 




[Trussed Woodcock.] 

each other, and raised over the breast, by which means each foot 
turns back and falls on the side of the rump. 

52. Hare, trussed for roasting, has the legs turned back without 
disjointing, so that the haunches are thrown up, much in the form 
that a cat is often seen sitting — the end bones of the fore and hind 
legs meet each other, and lie side by side. Two skewers should bo^ 
inserted, one where the end of the leg meets the fleshy part of the 
shoulder, and the other where the end of the shoulder meets tho 
fleshy part of the leg ; the head is fixed back with a skewer thrust 




[Trussed Hare.j 

into the mouth, through the head, and into the back between the 
shoulders. The belly should be slit no more than is necessary for 
taking out the paunch. To secure its keeping in place, a string w 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 35 

employed for bracing it; the string- is laid across the back, twisted 
round the end of both skewers, and brought back across the back and 
tied. In skinning hares and rabbits, particularly bares, the ears and 
tails should be preserved entire, as they improve the appearance of 
these dishes on the table, and are much esteemed. 

53. Rabbits for boiling are opened all the way down the belly ; 
joint the legs at the rump so as to admit of their turning along the 
sides ; turn''the shoulders back to meet them, so that the lower joints 
of each lie straight along, side by side; the head should be skewered 
down to the right shoulder. Rabbits for roasting are trussed liko 
hares. 




^^ [Trussed Rabbit for boiling.] 

54. Fawns or Kids are generally trussed and dressed in the same 
way as hares. As the flesh is of a dry nature, they should be covered 
with a caul or buttered paper, which should be tied on, not skewered. 
Fawns will not keep above a day or two at the furthest. 

55. Sucking Pigs, the moment they are killed, should be put into 
cold water for a few minutes. Some persons then rub them over 
with powdered resin: others object to this on account of the flavour 
of the resin, which the pig will retain, if not well washed. Put the 
pig for half a minute into a pail or pan of boiling water, and take it 
out and pull off" the hair or bristles as quickly as possible. If any 
should remain, put it again into hot water; when quite free from hair, 
wash it thoroughly with warm water, and then rinse it several times 
in cold water, that no flavour of the resin may remain. The feet 
should be taken off at the first joint: then make a slit down the belly 
and remove the entrails ; once more wash the pig inside and out in 
cold water, and wrap it in a wet cloth till you are ready to dress it, 
which should be done as soon as possible. Fill the belly with season- 
ing, and sew it up; skewer back the legs, and the trussing is com- 
pleted. The feet, heart, liver, lights, and melt, are to be dressed 
separately, when well cleaned. This dish is called pig's pettitoes. 

56. Fish, in cleaning, should have every particle of the entrails 
very carefully removed. If the blood has settled down the back-bone, 
or elsewhere, it should be carefully taken away, and care should be 
taken not to break the gallbladder of the liver. Some fish must be 
slit in order to clean them ; others may have their entrails drawn out 
at the gills, which should be always done when it is practicable. 
Mackerel, perch, &c. are cleaned in this way. Flat fish may be so 



.»-yf 



THE COMPLETE COOK. 



cleaned, but it is usual to make a slanting slit on one side, just below 
the gill, in order to put in the finger and remove the clotted blood 
from the back-bone. Fishes with scales should be scraped from the 
tail to the head, till all the scales are removed ; others, such as soles 
and eels, are skinned. The cook ought not to depend upon the clean- 
ing of fish by the fishmonger, but carefully examine them before 
dressing. 

57. Eels are remarkably tenacious of life, and appear to suffer 
after they are cut into several pieces. In order to take the sense of 
feeling entirely from this fish, it is only necessary, before it is skinned, 
to pierce the spinal marrow, just at the back- of the skull, right 
through, when all feeling in the eel will instantly cease, though it 
has the appearance of being alive. Then raise the skin, at the" part 
cut or pierced, draw it back over the mouth and head, secure the head 
with a strong fork to a table, or dresser, and draw back the whole 
skin. To prevent the eel from slipping through your hands, rub tbem 
with salt, and you will then draw off the skin easily. Eels, except 
very small ones, require to be slit all the way from the vent to the 
gills, and the inside of the back-bone should be rubbed with salt. The 
liver, roe or melt, are much esteemed, and should be therefore pre- 
served. 

58. Fish without Scales, <^c. — Cod, mackerel, whiting, and some 
other fish, being without scales, need nothing doing to them except 
drawing them and washing or wiping. Sprats, for broiling, should 
have a long bird-skewer run through their eyes, or a common knitting- 
needle. Neither sprats nor the silver-stringed herring, which is the 
best, should ever be drawn. They should be wiped dry and clean. 
Fish for frying, should not be washed if it be possible to avoid it. If 
they require washing, it should be done an hour or two before they 
are fried, and wrapped up in a coarse cloth till they are thorough- 
ly dry. 

59. Turhot, Plaice, Flounders, ^c, having been gutted and wiped, 
enould be sprinkled with salt, and hung up for several hours before 
dressing. 

60. Cod, having been drawn and washed, will eat firmer if it be 
sprinkled with salt some time before putting it into the fish-kettle, 
with cold v^rater, where it may remain an hour or two before boiling, 
or it may be hung up like plaice, &c. 

61. Oysters, if fresh from the sea, that is, uncleansed by the fish- 
monger, should, as soon as received, be laid in a pan or tub, with the 
flat shell upwards, and the whole fish covered with spring water; to 
which put a pint of salt to every two gallons of water. In a few 
hours the fish will have cleansed themselves, and become fit for use. 
If they are required to be kept longer, the water should be taken 
away at night, and renewed in the morning; but they are never 
bettor than after they have been in the water from six to ten hours. 
There are persons who recommend that they should always be kept 
nnder water, which they say should be renewed every twelve hours. 
Such persons forget that oysters, in their natural state, are not under 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 37 

water when the tide is out. Some writers recommend fresh water, 
but for what reason we know not, except to spoil the fish. Others 
order them to be sprinkled with flour, or oatmeal, for the purpose 
of making the fish white. We believe it has no such effect — 
much less will it feed them. Clear fresh springr water with a little 
sail, is the best ; in this they will soon scour themselves, and become 
delicately white. Oysters should be opened very carefully — be 
turned round on the shell — the lower shell preserves the liquor best, 
and then served immediately; but they are better when eaten and 
opened at table. Every moment the oyster is kept after it is opened^ 
injures it in quality and Jlavour. If served on the flat side of the 
shell, the liquor should be preserved and used for flavouring-. — N. B. 
Oysters when taken fresh from the clean sea, that is, from beds de- 
void of mud, require no cleansing; but, on the contrary, we are as- 
sured on good authority, are much better without it. The process of 
cleansing deprives the fish of its flavour to a certain extent, and very 
much weakens the delicious liquor in the shell. 

62. Vegetables, particularly green, in preparing for dressing, re- 
quire great attention in point of cleanliness. If vegetables for boiling 
can be gathered perfectly clean, immediately before being put in the 
pot, they preserve their colour much better without washing. But 
this will seldom be the case, particularly with those purchased of the 
greengrocer. When they are a little stale, which is almost always 
the case, if not gathered in your own garden, putting them in water 
for a few hours will refresh them. Salt and water should be used for 
the purpose of bringing out the slugs, or caterpillars, in which sum- 
mer cauliflowers and cabbage very often abound. Every drop of cold 
water, if possible, should be shaken out of them before boiling. Green 
peas, broad beans and French beans, ought not to be washed. Tur- 
nip greens, if quite clean and fresh, are better not washed ; but it 
otherwise they must be washed through several waters. 

63. Asparagus, Artichokes, Spinach^ ^c. — Scrape the stalks of 
asparagus clean, tie them up with tape, in bundles of twenty-five or 
thirty each ; cut off" the ends of the stalks to an equal length. If quite 
frf^^sh they need not be washed. Artichokes require thorough wash- 
ing, and should be soaked two hours or so in water before dressing. 
Spinach should be picked leaf by leaf; washed in three or four 
waters, and thoroughly drained. Celery should be well soaked. 

64. Potatoes and Jerusalem Artichokes should be well scrubbed 
with a birch broom, besom, or scrubbing brush, and washed very clea 
just before boiling; but they should never be the least wetted till they 
are about to be dressed. Some persons like them best boiled in the 
skins; they are best peeled before boiling when they are old or 
epecky. 

65. Carrots, Parsnips, Beetroots, and Turnips. — Carrots and 
parsnips should be well washed and scrubbed, but not scraped, as it is 
apt to injure the flavour. After boilintr, rub the skins with a coarse 
cloth. jFur soups, &c., they should be scraped. Beetroots should be 
washed and scrubbed very clean, but if the red sort be scraped, or cut 

3» 



38 TIIECOMPLETECOOK. 

with a knife, the colour will escape. When done, carefully rub with 
a rough cloth. Wash and peel turnips. 

Having given directions for the preparations for cooking, we now 
proceed to Cooking itself; and shall begin v^ith 

SOUPS AND BROTHS, &c. 

In our general directions we have given pretty full instructions on 
the art of making broths, stews, &c., which instructions are of them- 
selves sufficient to enable a young cook, possessed of diligence and 
common sense, to prepare the diticrent varieties of these dishes, with- 
out the assistance of particular receipts. We give, however, the fol- 
lowing. 

66. Clear Gravy Soups. — Cut half a pound of ham into slices, and 
lay them at the bottom of a large stew-pan, or stock pot, with two or 
three pounds of veal and the same weight of lean beef; break the 
bones and lay them on the meat; pare two turnips and skin two large 
onions; wash clean, and cut into pieces two large carrots, two iieads 
of celery; put in a large blade of mace, and three cloves; cover the 
stew-pan close, and set it over a clear fire; when the meat begins to 
Btick at the bottom of the stew-pan, turn it, and when there is a nice 
brown glaze at the bottom of the stew-pan cover the meat with hot 
water; put in half a pint when it is coming to a boil ; take off the 
ecum, and put in half a pint more of cold water; then skim it again, 
and continue to do so till no more scum rises: now set it on one side 
of the fire to boil gently for four hours; strain through a clean tamis 
(do not squeeze it, or the soup will be thick) into a clean stone pan ; 
let it remain till it is cold, then remove all the fat; when you bottle 
it, be careful not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the pan. 
The broth should be of a fine amber colour, and very clear. If it is 
not quite as bright as you wish it, put it into a stew-pan ; break two 
whites and the shells of eggs, mix well together and put them into 
the soup, set it on a quick fire, and stir it with a whisk till it boils, 
then set it on one side till it settles; run it through a fine napkin; 
then it is ready. If you skim your broth carefully as directed above, 
it will be ck^ar enough; clarifying it impairs the flavour. — Ohserve. 
This is the basis of almost all gravy soups, which are called by the 
name of the vegetables that are put into them: carrots, turnips, 
onions, celery, and a few leaves of chervil, make what is called spring 
soup; to this a pint of green peas, or asparagus, or French beans cut 
into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, is an improvement. With rice, 
Scotch barley, or vermicelli, maccaroni or celery, cut into lengths, it 
will be the soup usually called by those names. Or turnips scooped, 
round or young onions, will give you a clear turnip or onion soup. 
The roots and vegetables used must be boiled first, or they will im- 
pregnate the soup with too strong a flavour. Seasoning for those soups 
is the same, viz. salt, and a very little cayenne pepper. 

67. Ox Tail Soup. — Take three or tour ox tails; divide at the 
joints; well wash, and soak them. Put them on the fire; to each 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, &C. 39 

tail allow a quart of water; when they boil, take off all the scum. K 
four tails add four onions, and eight or ten corns of allspice and black 
pepper to each tail. Simmer it slowly till the meat on the bones is 
tender. Then take out the tails, scrape off ail the meat and cut it 
small; strain the soup through a sieve. To thicken it, take two 
ounces of butter, and as much flour as it will take up; mix it well 
with the whole, and let it simmer another half hour. If not perfectly 
smooth, it must be strained again ; then put in the meat, with a glass 
of wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a little cayenne, and 
salt to taste ; simmer it again a few minutes. Or instead of thicken- 
ing the soup, the meat may be returned to the gravy and wanned 
again, with or without the addition of carrots and turnips. 

68. Hotch-jjotch. — Take lamb or mutton chop?, and stew them in 
good gravy, with the addition of almost every kind of vegetable. A 
summer hotcli-potch is composed of young onions, carrots, asparagus 
green peas, lettuce, turnips, spinach, and parsley ; a winter one is com- 
posed of full-grown turnips cut small, old carrots cut small or grated, 
celery and onions sliced, dried peas — the green or blue sort are the best 
colours for this purpose. I^he peas will take much longer boiling than 
either meat or green vegetables. Put them in the liquor boiling, and 
let them boil an hour before the addition of meat, and the other vege- 
tables. The proportion is four pounds of meat to a gallon of stock, 
and two quarts of vegetables. Boil the meat and vegetables between 
two and three hours, slow boiling, with the lid on. If you add green 
peas or asparagus tops among the vegetables, keep out nearly all of 
them till within half an hour of sending them to table ; then letthern 
Doil fast till tender. Season with salt and pepper, and serve all to- 
gether. Some people make it of brisket of beef, and add a bunch 
of sweet herbs. The beef will require stewing longer. A leg of 
beef, cut in pieces, and stewed six or seven hours, with carrots and 
the other ingredients, makes very good soup. A little small beer is 
in improvement to all brown soups. 

69. Fish Broth. — Thick-skinned fish, and those which have gluti- 
nous, jelly-like substances, are the best. The liquor which eels have 
been boiled in is good enough of itself, as they require but little water. 
The liquor in which turbot or cod has been boiled, bcjil again, with 
the addition of the bones. If purposely made, small eels, or grigs, 
or flat fish, as flounders, soles, plaice or dabs, or the finny parts of 
cod, will do for the purpose. A pound of fish to three pints of water ; 
add peppercorns, a large handful of parsley, and an onion ; and boil 
till reduced to half. A spoonful of catsup, or vinegar, is an improve- 
ment. This broth is very nourishing and easy of digestion; but for a 
sick person, leave out the catsup or vinegar. 

. 70. Cock-a-leeky Soup. — Take a small knuckle of veal, and a large 
fowl, or a scrag of mutton instead of veal. An old fowl will do. Add 
three or four large leeks, cut in pieces of half an inch long. Simmer 
in three quarts of good broth for an hour. Then add as many more 
leeks, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil three-quarters 
of an hour iong.i^^, and serve all togetriur. The leeks which are put 



40 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in first, is with the intention of thickening the soup ; and those which 
lire put in last, should retain their form and substance. 

71. Scotch Brose, or Crowdy. — Take half a pint of oatmeal ; put 
it before the fire, and frequently turn it till it is perfectly dry and of a 
light brown. Take a ladle-full of boiling water, in which fat meat 
has been boiled, and stir it briskly to the oatmeal, still adding more 
liquor till it is brought to the thickness desired, which is about that 
of a stiff batter; a little salt and pepper may be added, if the liquor 
with which it was made was not salt. Kalebroseis the same thing, 
but with the addition of greens, cut small, and boiled in the liquor. 

72. Pease Soup.--Vi\\. a quart of split peas to three quarts of 
boiling water, not more (Dr. Kitchiner says cold water,) with half a 
pound of bacon, not very fat, or roast beef bones, or four anchovies; 
or, instead of water, the liquor in which beef, mutton, pork or poultry, 
has been boiled ; it will be very much better, but taste the liquor, as it 
must not be too salt. Wash two heads of celery, cut small (half a 
drachm of celery seed, pounded fine, and put into the soup, a quarter 
of an hour before it is finished, will flavour three quarts,) two onions 
peeled, and a spri^ of savoury, or sweet marjoram, or lemon thyme. 
Let it simmer very gently, stirring it every quarter of an hour, to 
keep the peas from sticking to or burning at the bottom of the pot. 
Simmer till the peas are tender, which will be in about three hours. 
Some cooks now slice a head of celery and half an ounce of onions, 
and fry them in a little batter, and put them into the soup, till it is 
li;: -itly browned; then work the whole through a coarse hair sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve, or through a tamis, with the back of a 
wooden spoon ; then put it into a clean stew-pan, with a tea-spoonful 
of ground black pepper; let it boil again for ten minutes, and if any 
fat arises skim it off. Send up on a plate some toasted bread, cut into 
little pieces, an inch square; or cut a slice of bread (that has been 
baked two days) into dice, not more than half an inch square ; put 
half a pound of quite clean dripping, or lard, into an iron frying-pan; 
when it is hot fry the bread ; take care to turn the bread with a slice, 
that it may be of a delicate brown on both sides ; take it up with a 
fish-slice, and lay it on a sheet of paper to drain the fat ; be careful 
that this is done nicely. Send them up in one side dish, and dried 
and powdered mint, or savoury, in another. The most economical 
method of making pease soup, is to save the bones of a joint of roast 
beef, and put them into the liquor in which mutton, or beef, or pork, or 
poultry, has been boiled, and proceed as in the first receipt. A hock 
or shank bone of ham, a ham bone, the root of a tongue, or a red or 
pickled herring, are favourite additions with some people ; others send 
up rice or vermicelli with pease soup. Pease soup may be made sa- 
voury and agreeable to the palate, without any meat, by putting two 
ounces of fresh and nicely clarified beef, mutton, or pork dripping, 
with two ounces of oatmeal, and mix this well into a gallon of soup 
prepared with the peas and vegetables, according to the first receipt, 
or in water alone. 

73. Pease Soup and Pickled Pork. — Take two pounds of pickled 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, &C. 41 

pork, which will make very good broth for pease soup; ifthe pork is 
too salt, put it in water on the over-night. The pork should not be 
in salt more than two days. Put on the articles, mentioned in the 
first receipt, in three quarts of water ; boil these gently for two hours; 
then put in the pork, and boil gently for an hour and a half, or two 
hours, according to the thickness of the pork ; when done, wash the 
pork clean in some hot water ; send it up in a dish, or cut it into little 
pieces, and put them into the tureen, with the toasted bread, &c., or 
as in the first receipt. The meat being boiled no longer than to be 
done enough to eat, you can get excellent soup without the expense 
of any other meat. 

74. Plain Pease Soup. — To a quart of split peas, and two heads of 
celery, and a large onion, put three quarts of broth, or soft water; let 
them simmer gently over a slow fire for three hours. Stir them up 
every quarter of an hour, to prevent the peas sticking at the bottom 
of the pot, and burning. 

75. Spanish Soup. — Take about three pounds of beef, off the leg 
or shin, with or without the bone — if with the bone, well crack it — a 
pound of knuckle of ham, or gammon. More than cover them with 
water, and when it boils skim it, and add a tea-spoonful of pepper. 
The ham will probably make it sufficiently salt — if not, add a little. 
Let this simmer by the side of the fire until it is three parts done, 
which will take two hours and a half. And then well wash some 
cabbage plants, or small summer cabbage; cut these into small pieces, 
also onions cut small; a tea-cup full of rice, with a bit of eschalot; 
put these in the saucepan, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour or 
twenty minutes, until the rice is boiled enough. Then take it from 
the fire ; separate the meat, vegetables, and rice, from the soup, and 
eat the soup before the meat. Separate the meat from the bones, and 
mix it with the vegetables. If the plants are too strong, scald them 
before putting them in the saucepan. In the summer, a few young 
peas make a great improvement. Leeks are better than onions, a3 
you can have more in quantity of vegetables. The Spaniards use 
garlic. This will dine a family of seven or eight people. 

76. Chicken Broth. — Chicken bones, and the heads and feet, make 
a basin of good broth, provided the fowls have been boiled, and the 
liquor used instead of water. The heads and feet of four fowls may 
be boiled in a quart of water, with the addition of an onion and a blade 
of mace, a little pepper and salt. Chicken broth may be enriched 
by the additic>n of a knuckle bone of veal, a bit of beef, or three or 
four shank bones of mutton. 

77. Mutton Broth. — Scrags of mutton, or sheeps' heads, make a 
very good family dinner. Two or three scrags of mutton, or two 
sheeps' heads, may be put on in a two-gallon pot; when it boils, skim 
it well, then add six ounces of Scotch or pearl barley, or rice; let it 
boil an hour or more; then add eight or ten turnips, three or four car- 
rots, cut up, and four or five onions. Half an hour before serving, put 
in a few small suet dumplings, a little parsley, and a few marigold 
blossoms. This broth should boil two hours and a half, or three hours. 



4s THE COMPLETE COOK. 

The knuckle of a shoulder of mutton answers very well in this man- 
ner. Serve the meat on a separate disii, and the broth, dumplings, 
and vegetables, all together in a large tureen. 

78. Mutton Chop Broth. — Cut the chops from a neck or loin of 
mutton ; cut as much as is required into thin chops ; put them in a 
stew-pan, with an onion or two, a little salt, and cold water enough 
to cover them. Skim well when it boils, and let it stew slowly three- 
quarters of an hour, or an hour. Turnips may be boiled in this liquor, 
or boiled separately, and mashed. Serve the broth and meat to- 
gether. In broth intended for invalids, the vegetables and spice 
should be left out. 

79. Soup and Bouilli. — For the bouilli, roll five pounds of brisket 
of beef tight with a tape, put it into a slew-pan; four pounds of the 
leg of beef; about seven or eight quarts of water ; boil these up quick ; 
scum it ; add one large onion, six or seven cloves, some whole pep- 
per, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, two heads of celery ; 
stew them very gently, closely covered, for six or seven hours; about 
an hour before dinner, strain the soup through a piece of flannel (put 
the rough side upwards,) or a hair sieve ; have ready boiled carrots 
and turnips sliced, spinach, a little chervil, and sorrel, two heads of 
endive, one or tv/o of celery, cut in pieces. Put the soup into a tu- 
reen. The carrots and turnips in separate dishes; add a little salt 
and cayenne to the soup. Take the tape from the bouilli very care- 
fully, and serve in a dish. A leg or shin of beef, with a piece of fat 
beef, will answer the purpose. 

80. A Cheap Sonp. — Two pounds of lean beef, six onions, six po- 
tatoes (parboiled,) one carrot, one turnip, half a pint of split peas, four 
quarts of water, some whole pepper, a head of celery, a red herring; 
when boiled, rub through a coarse sieve, add spinach and celery 
boiled, dried mint, and fried bread. 

81. Veal Soup. — Cut the meat off in thin slices; put the meat in a 
large jug or jar; put to it a bunch of sweet herbs, half an ounce of 
almonds, blanched, and beat fine ; pour on it four quarts of boiling 
water; cover it close, and let it stand all night by the fire; the next 
day, put it into an earthen vessel; let it stew very slowly till it is re- 
duced to two quarts; take off the scum as it rises while boiling, and 
let it stand to settle; then pour it clear off, and put it into a clean 
saucepan ; mix with three ounces of either boiled rice or vermicelli. 

82. Calf's Head Soup. — Take a calPs head, wash it clean, stew 
it with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, mace, 
pearl barley, and Jamaica pepper ; when it is very tender, put to it 
some stewed celery ; season it with pepper ; and serve it with tha 
head in the middle. 

83. Giblct Soup. — The most economical way is to take a pound or 
two of beef skirts, or of knuckle of veal; cut it into pieces two or 
three inches square; a set of goose giblets, or four sets of ducks', or 
the head, neck, and feet, of a turkey or two, or of six or eight fowls; 
all of these are good, either separate or together. Clean them well, 
split the heads, cut the gizzards across, crack the pinions and feet 



SOUPS ANDBROTHS,&C. 43 

bones. Put all together into a stew-pan, with an ounce of butter, the 
red part of two or three carrots cut up, two or three onions sliced, and 
a clove or two of eschalots. Shake it over a clear slow fire a few 
minutes, to draw the gravy, then add water or broth enough to cover 
the whole ; let it simmer two hours or more, then season with salt 
and pf'pper, and a large spoonful of catsup, and serve all together. It 
may be thickened with rice or barley, which should be added as soon 
"IS it boils. — A more expensive way : Prepare the giblets a? above 
and set them on with good gravy, enough to cover them ; tie in a 
muslin bag an onion or two, a small bundle of sweet herbs, a few 
leaves of sweet basil, and twenty corns of allspice, the same of black 
pepper. Let it simmer till the giblets are tender, then take them out 
and cover up close while you thicken the gravy ; remove also the bag 
of spice and herbs. Make some force meat balls as follows: when 
the livers are done enough to chop fine, take them out or part of them, 
pound thnm fine with half their weight in butter^ and the yolks of 
three haid-bniled eggs; season with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, sage, and 
onions, scalded and chopped very fine, and also a leaf or two of sweet 
basil. Mix with half a tea-cup full of bread crumb?, wet with the 
yolk of an v.gg^ and make up into little balls with a little flour. Hav- 
ing removed iht giblets, thicken the soup with butter and flour, and 
when it boils add the balls; let them simmer a quarter of an hour, 
then add a glass tjf wine, a large table-spoonful of catsup, and the 
juice of half a Seville orange or lemon. Put in the giblets to warm 
through, and it is ready. 

84. Kitchiner^s cheap Soup. — Wash in cold water four ounces 
of Scotch barley, and put into five qjarts of water, with four ounceg 
of sliced onions; boil gently one hour, and pour it into a pan; then 
put into a saucepan from one to two ounces of fresh beef or mutton 
dripping. Dripping for this purpose should be taken out of the pan 
as fast as it drips from the meat; if suffered to remain in the pan it 
is apt to become rancid. If no dripping is at hand, melted suet will 
do, or two or three ounces of fat bacon minced fine. When melted 
in the saucepan, stir into it four ounces of oatmeal, and rub them 
together until they become a soft paste. Then add, by degrees, a 
spoonful at a time, the barley broth, stirring it well together till it 
boils. For seasoning, put in a tea-cup or basin a drachm of celery or 
cress seed, or half a drachm of each, and a quarter of a drachm of 
cayenne, finely powdered, or a drachm and a half of black pepper 
finely powdered, or half allspice; mix them smooth with a little of 
the soup; then stir it into the rest; simmer it gently another quarter 
of an hour, season with salt, and it is ready. The flavour may be 
varied by any variety of herbs, or thickening with garlic or eschalot 
instead of celery; a larger portion of onions, or carrots and turnips, 
or rice, or paste, instead of oatmeal or barley. 

85. Soup Maigre. — Divide two or three beads of celery, two large 
carrots, three or four moderate-sized turnips, some onions, two young 
jtettuces, a handful of spinach leaves, and a little sorrel. Cut the 
worst half of the vegetables in small pieces, and put them into the 



44 T TI E COMPLETE COOK. 

8tew-pan with three ounces of bnttpr; lot them fry till the vno-otahlesd 
are brown and the butter absorbed ; put a g^allon of boilino- wa'or info 
the pan; when it boils fast, skim it well, stir in a liLtie flour, and 
add some stale crust of bread ; put in two dozen of black peppery and 
the same of allf^pice, with two or three blades of mace; let it simnier 
for an hour and a half, then set it aside for a quarter of an hour, tiiea 
strain it off very gently, so as not to disturb the settlino-s at the Kot«^ 
torn of the stew-pan, which clean. When the soup has stood two? 
hours, pour it back again, avoiding' to disturb any sediment, if any* 
should escape from the first draining. Cut up the remainder of the.; 
vegetables and boil them in water live minutes, then drain them, and 
when the soup again boils, afy them to it, and let it simmer till they 
are tender, which will be about three-quarters of an hour; season,! 
with salt, cayenne, and a table-spoonful of catsup. If green peas aro:) 
in season, the liquor in which they have been boiled, added to the' 
soup, is a great improvement. 

86. Mock Turtle. — Have the head and broth ready for the soup 
the day befiire it is to be eaten; it will take eight hours to prepare it 
properly. Get the calf's head with the skin on, the fresher the better, 
take out the brains and wash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak in spring water for an hour, then lay it in the stew-pan, 
cover it with cold water, and half a gallon over; as it becomes warm 
a great deal of scum will rise, which must be immediately removed ; 
let it boil gently for one hour, then take it up. When almost cold 
cut the head into pieces about an inch and a half long and an inch' 
and a quarter broad ; the tongue into mouthfuls, or rather make a 
side dish of the tongue and brains. When the hnad is taken out, put. 
in about five pounds of knuckle of veal, and as much beef; add to the^ 
stock all the trimmings and bones of the head; skim it well, then, 
cover it close, let it boil five hours; reserve two quarts of this to. 
make gravy sauce, then strain it oft and let it stand till the next 
morning; then take olTtho fat, put a large stew-pan on the fire, with 
half a pound of good fresh butter, twelve ounces of onions sliced, four 
ounces of green sage chopped ; let tliese fry one hour; rub in half a 
pound of flour by degrees, add your broth till it i.s the thickness of 
cream; season it with a quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of black popper, ground very fine, salt to your taste, 
add the rind of one lem./n peeled very thin ; let it simmer very gently 
for one hour and a half, then strain it through a hair sieve, do not rub 
your soup to get it through the sieve or it will make it grouty ; if it 
do not run through easily, knock a v.^ooden spoon atjainst the side of 
the sieve; put it into a clean stew-pan with the head, and season by 
adding, to each gallon of soup, half a pint of wine, Madeira, or claret 
if you wish it dark; two table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, the same of 
catsup, one of essence of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of" curry powder, or 
a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, the peel of a lemon pan-d very tliin. 
Let it simmer gently ti'l the meat is tender; this may take from half 
an hour to an hour; take care that it is not over-done; stir it fre- 
quently to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the stew-pan ; 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, &C. 45 

Krien the meat is quite done, take out the lemon peel, and the soup 
is ready. Serve with force meat stuffing-, or balls. 

87. Carrot Soup. — Wash and scrape six large carrots, peel off the 
red outside (which is the only part used for this soup), put it into a 
gallon stew-pan, with one head of celery, and an onion cut into thin 
pieces ; take two quarts of veal, beef, or mutton broth, put the broth 
to the roots, cover the stew-pan close, and set it on a slow stove for 
two hours and a half, when the carrots will be soft enough; put in a 
tea-cup full of bread crumbs, boil for two or three minutes, rub it 
through a tamis, or hair sieve, with a wooden spoon, add broth, and 
make it nearly as thick as pease soup; season it with a little salt, and 
send it up with some toasted bread, cut into pieces half an inch 
square. The celery and onions should be sliced and fried in butter, 
or nicely clarified dripping, and then put in the stew-pan and the 
broth added to it. Or thus : Put some beef bones with four quarts of 
liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large 
onions, a turnip, pepper and salt, into a stew-pan, and stew for three 
hours; have ready six large carrots scraped, and cut thin ; strain tha 
Boup on them, stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve, 
or a coarse cloth ; then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as 
thick as, pease soup. Make the soup the day before it is to be used; 
add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yel- 
low. The soup is better made with a shin of beef. 

88. Curry or Mulligatawny Soup. — Cut four pounds of a breast 
of veal into pieces about two inches long and one inch broad ; put the 
trimmings into a stew-pan with two quarts of water, with twelve 
corns of black pepper, and the same of allspice; when it boils skim it 
clean, and let it boil an hour and a half; then strain it off; while it 
is boiling, fry of a nice brown in butter the bits of veal, and four 
onions; when they are done put the broth to them, put it on the fire; 
when it boils skim it clean, let it simmer half an hour, then mix two 
spoonfuls of curry, and the same of flour, with a little cold water, and 
a tea-sooonful of salt ; add these to the soup, and simmer it till the 
veal i» quite tender, and it is ready ; or bone a couple of fowls or rab- 
bits, and stew them the same as veal, and you may put in a bruised 
eschalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of black pepper and all- 
spice. The fowls and rabbits should be cut into joints, and fried of a 
nice brown in some batter. 

89. Eel Soup. — To make a tureen full, take two middling sized 
onions, cut them in half, and cross your knife over them two or three 
iimes; put two ounces of butler into a stew-pan ; when it is melted, 
put in the onions, stir them in the pan till they are of a light brown; 
cut into pieces three pounds of unskinned eels, put them into your 
stew-pan, and shake them over the fire for five minutes; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and when they boil, take the scum off 
very clean, and then put in a quarter of an ounce of the green leaves 
(not dried) of winter savoury, the same of lemon-thyme, and twice 
the quantity of parsley, two drachms of allspice, the same of black 
pepper ; cover it close^ and let it boil gently for two hours, skim it 

4 



46 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

clean and strain it off. To thicken it, put three ounces of butter into 
a clean stew-pan ; when it is melted stir in as much hour as wiil 
make it of a thick paste, then add the liquid by degrees, let it simmer 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve, then put your soup on in 
a clean stew-pan, and have ready some little square pieces of fried 
fish of nice light brown — either eels, soles, plaice, or skate, win do, 
the fried fish should be added about ten minutes before the soup is 
served up. Force meat balls are sometimes added. Excellent fish- 
soup may be made of cod's head, or skate, or flounders, boiled in no 

;inore water than will cover them, and the liquor thicKened wim 

jpatmeal, &c. 

90. Gourd Soup should be made of full-grown gourds, but not 
those that have hard skins; slice three or four, and put them into a 
etew-pan with two or three onions and a good bit of butter, set thcra 
over a slow fire till quite tender, be careful not to let them burn; 
then add two ounces of crust of bread, and two quarts of good con- 
somme, season with salt and cayenne pepper ; boil ten minutes or a 
quarter of an hour, skim off all the fat, and pass it through a tamia 
when quite hot. Serve up with fried bread. 

91. Game Soup. — In the game season it is easy to make very good 
soup at a little expense, by taking all the meat off the breasts of any 
cold birds that have been lefl on the preceding day, and pound it in a 
mortar; beat to pieces the legs and bones, and boil in some broth for 
an hour ; boil six turnips, and mash them and strain them through a 
tamis cloth, with the meat that has been pounded in a mortar; strain 
your broth and put a little of it at a time into the tamis to help you 
to strain all of it through. Put your soup kettle near the fire, but do 
not let it boil. When ready to dish your dinner, have six yolks of 
eggs mixed with half a pint of cream, then strain it through a sieve; 
put your soup on the fire, and as it is coming to boil, put in the eggs^ 
and stir it well with a wooden spoon. Do not let it boil, or it will 
curdle. 

92. Turnip and Parsnip Soups are made the same as carrot soupi 

93. Celery Soup — Split six heads of celery into slips about two 
inches long; wash them well, lay them on a hair sieve to drain, and 
put them into three quarts of gravy soup in a gallon soup pot ; set it 
by the side of the fire to stew very gently till the celery is tender-— 
this will take about an hour; if any scum rises, take it off. Season 
it with a little salt. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm 
of the seed pounded fine may be considered as the essence of celery, 
which may be had very cheap, and can be bought at any season ; put 
this in about a quarter of an hour before the soup is done, and a little 
sugar will give as much flavour to half a gallon of soup as two heads 
of celery — or add a little essence of celery. 

94. Lamb Stew.— Take a lamb's head and lights, and wash them ; 
remove all the bones and skin from the nose, put them in the pot with 
some beef stock made with three quarts of water and two oounds of 
shin of beef, strained ; boil very slowly for an hour, wash and strin/j 
two or three good handfuls of spinach, put it in twenty minutes before 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, &C. 47 

Berving-, add one or two onions and a little parsley a short time before 
it conres off the fire ; season with salt and pepper, and it is ready. 
Serve all together in a tureen. 

95. Hare, Rabbit , or Partridge Soup. — When hares and rabbits 
and other game are too tough to eat (in the ordinary way of cooking,) 
they will make very good soup. Cut off the legs and shoulders of a 
hare, divide the body crossways, and stew very gently in three quarts 
of water, with one carrot, about one ounce of onions, two blades of 
pounded mace, four cloves, twenty-four black peppers, and a bundle 
of sweet herbs; stew it till the hare is tender. Most cooks add to the 
above two slices of ham or bacon, and a bay leaf, but the hare makes 
sufficiently savoury soup without this addition. The time this will 
take depends upon the age and time it has been kept before it is 

.dressed ; as a general rule, about three hours. Make a dozen and a 
half of force meat balls, as big as nutmegs. When hare is tender, 
take the meat off the back and upper joints of the legs ; cut it into 
mouthfuls, and put on one side ; cut the rest of the meat off the legs, 
shoulders, &c., mince it and pound it in a mortar with an ounce of 
butter, and two or three table-spoonfuls of flour moistened with a little 
60up; rub this through a hair sieve, and put it into the soup to thicken 
it ; let it simmer for half an hour longer, skim it well, and put it 
through the tamis in the pan again; put the meat in, a glass of port 
or claret wine, with a table-spoonful of currant jelly to each quart of 
soup. Season it with salt ; put in the force meat balls, and when all 
is hot,<he soup is ready. 

96. Portable Soup. — The fresher the meat is from which this 
article is made the better. Shins or legs of beef answer very well, 
and you may add trimmings of fresh meat, poultry, or game, and the 
liquor in which a leg of mutton, or a knuckle of veal, has beenboiled. 
No salt, on any account, must be used. If you have a digester, it 
should be used for this article, in preference to a closely covered stew- 
pan, but the latter will do. Just cover the meat with cold liquor, and 
let an hour at least be occupied in coming to boil. Skim it, and 
throw in cold water tv/o or three times, for the purpose of throwing 
up the scum, which must be carefully removed. When thoroughly 
cleared of the scum, close the vessel, and let it boil for eight or ten 
hours. Strain through a hair sieve into an earthenware pan, and let 
the liquor cool. The meat will do for potting. Every particle of fat 
must be removed from the top, and the gravy put into a well-tinned 
copper stew-pan, taking care that the sediment is separated from it; 
put in two drachms of whole black pepper, and let it boil briskly with 
the lid off over a quick fire. The scum, if any, should of course be 
removed. When it becomes very thick, and is reduced to about a 
quart, put it into a smaller stew-pan, set it over a gentle fire, and let 
it simmer till reduced to the consistence of very thick syrup. It must 
now be watched every moment. Take out a few drops oh a cold 
epoon or plate; if it soon sets into a stiff jelly, it is done enough. If 
not, boil it a little longer till it does. Have ready some small pots 
with lids, such as are used for potting meat ; or it may be poured cut 



48 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

on a large flat dish, so as to be a quarter of an inch deep ; when cold, 
turn it out, and, with a paste cutter, divide into squares ofhalf an ounce 
or an ounce each. Or pour it into the round parts ofbasins or cups turned 
upside down. Put them in a warm room, and turn them frequently 
for eight or ten days, then they will be thoroughly dry and hardened 
like glue. Put them in a tin box, or a glass case, in a dry place, and 
they will keep for years. If ai any time the surface appears mouldy, 
wipe it off, or tlie taste will penetrate the mass. The chief use of 
this article is in country places, or at sea, where fresh meat cannot 
be obtained. A basin of broth, soup or gravy of any strength, may be 
had in five minutes, by dissolving one or more of these cakes in boil- 
ing water; any llavouring ingredients may be added at pleasure. See 
Flavouring. 

97. Green Turtle Soup. — This recipe has been collated from the 
best authorities, to which is added our own experience. The day be- 
fore you wish to serve up the soup it will be necessary to cut off' the 
head of your turtle, and place it in a positio'* to allow all the blood to 
be drained from it. The next morning open t.' e turtle, being careful to 
do so without breaking the gall. After cutting all around the upper 
and lower shell, drain the water off, divide the meat in small pieces, 
and wash clean and carefully. Then put the shells in a large pot of 
boiling water, where you let them remain until you find they separate 
from the. flesh readily; but no longer, as the softer parts must be 
tKHled again. Keep the liquor and stew the bones thoroughly ; after 
which it is to be used for moistening the broth. The flesh of. the in- 
terior parts, and the four legs and head, must be cooked in the follow- 
hig manner. Mask the bottom of a large stew-pan with slices of ham, 
over which lay two or three knuckles of veal, according to the size 
of the turtle; and over the veal place the inside flesh of the turtle, co. 
vering the whole with the other parts of the turtle. Add to it about 
a gallon of the liquor in which the bones were stewed, and place on 
the fire until thoroughly done, which you must ascertain by sticking 
your knife into the fleshy part of the meat; and if no blood issue 
from it, add another gallon of the liquor. Then throw in a bunch of 
the stalks of sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, bay leaves, savoury, com- 
mon thyme, and sweet basil ; also a l)andful of parsley and green 
onions, and a large onion stuck with cloves, and a few grains of pep- 
per. Let the whole stew until thoroughly done, say from three to 
four hours. The leaves of the herbs are to be used for making a sauce, ^ 
to be described hereafter. When the larger portions of the turtle are 
done, place them aside to be used when wanted. When the flesh is 
also thoroughly done, drain on a dish, and make a white thickening 
very thin, and add to it through a tamis some portion of the liquor 
of the bones, and place on the fire until it boils ; and, having arrived 
at the proper consistency, neither too thick nor too thin, set the stew- 
nan on the side of the stove, and skim off all the white scum and fat 
that arises to the surface. Then cut the softer parts — green fat and 
white meat- — into dice of about an inch square (without any waste,) 
and add to the sauce, which must be allowed to simmer gently unli 



BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE, &C. 49 

eufficiently done, when it must be taken off, at the same time skini' 
ming it carefully. Then take the leaves of the sweet basil, sweet 
marjoram, lemon thyme, common thyme and winter savoury, together 
with a handful of parsley, some green onions, a large onion cut in 
four pieces, with a few leaves of mace ; put the whole in a stew-pan 
with a quarter of a pound of butter. Let this simmer on a slow fire 
until melted, and add a bottle of Madeira and a small lump of sugar, 
and boil gently for an hour. Then rub it through a tamis, and add 
to your sauce, which you must boil until no white scum arises; then 
with a skimmer drain out all the bits of turtle, and put them into a 
clean stew-pan, and pass the sauce through a tamis into the stew- 
pan containing the turtle, and proceed as follows. Take out the fleshy 
part of a leg of veal, say about one pound, scrape off all the meat 
without leavmg any of the fat or sinews in it, and soak in about the 
same quantity (one pound) of crumbs of bread, which, when well 
soaked, squeeze and put into a mortar with the veal, a small quantity 
of calfs udder, a little butter, the yolks of four eggs hard boiled, a lit- 
tle cayenne pepper, salt and spices, and pound the whole very fine. 
Then thicken the mixture with two whole eggs, and the yolk of a 
third ; and, to try its consistency, put it in boiling hot water ; if you 
find It too thin, add the yolk of another egg. When it is perfected* 
take one half of it, and add some chopped parsley. Cook it and roll 
into balls the size of the yolk of an egg ; poach them in boiling wa- 
ter with a little salt, Th? other half must be made also into balls, 
and place the whole on a sieve to drain. Before serving your soup, 
squeeze the juice of two or three lemons, with a little cayenne pep- 
per, and pour it into the soup. The fins maybe served as a side dish, 
with a little turtle sauce. When lemon juice is used, be careful that 
the lemons are good ; a musty lemon will spoil all the turtle, and 
too much will destroy its flavour. 

98. Irish Slew. — Take two pounds of potatoes; peel and slice, and 
parboil, and throw away the water; rather more than two pounds of 
mutton chops, either from the loin or neck ; part of the fat should be 
taken off; beef two pounds, six large onions sliced, a slice of ham, or 
lean bacon, a spoonful of pepper, and two of salt. This stew may be 
done in a stew-pan over the fire, or in a baker's oven, or in a close 
covered earthen pot. First put a layer of potatoes, then a layer of 
meat and onions, sprinkle the seasoning, then a layer of potatoes, and 
again the meat and onions and seasoning ; the top layer should be po- 
tatoes, and the vessel should be quite full. Then put in half a pin 
of good gravy, and a spoonful of mushroom catsup. Let the whol . 
stew for an hour and a half; be very careful it does not burn. 

BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE AND GRAVIES. 

These articles are all nearly allied to each other, differing princi» 

pally in degrees of strength. In extensive establishments, a large 

quantity of stock, both brown and white, is constantly kept. Stocks 

are distinguished by the names of first stock, or long broth, — in tho 

4* 



60 1 H E C O M r L E T E COOK. ' OA li 

French kitchen, " le ^rand bouillon'' — second stock, in French, **juM 
de hoeuf,'' — and jelly slock, in French, '* consommeJ" In preparing a 
regular dinner, they will all be found exceedingly useful. The ma- 
terials for the making of stocks will not cost much, if the cook does 
her duty. In such case, she will take great care of all the trimmings 
of meal, and the necks, heads, gizzards, feet, &c., of game and poul- 
try. Boiled and roast meat gravy not used ought to be carefully 
collected and kept. The author of " The Housekeeper'' s Guide,''* 
says, " We should recommend the cook when she sets away after the 
dinner the meat on clean dishes, to collect in one basin every drop of 
roast meat giavy ; in another, every drop of boiled meat gravy ; and 
in another, every little bit of trimming of dressed meat, and pour over 
It some hot liquor, in which meat has been boiled, or hot water. Next 
morning, when she prepares meat for dressing, let her collect all the 
little trimming bits, and boil them with the liquor and bits set by the 
day before. This may be done before the fire is wanted for other 
purposes. Thus she will always have gravy in store for every emer- 
gency. Then if she have white sauce to prepare, such as celery or 
oyster sauce, parsley and butler, or caper sauce, the cold boiled meat 
gravy (which she will most likely find a stiff" jelly) will form an ex- 
cellent basis for it, much more rich and relishing than water. If she 
wants good brown gravy for roast meat, or fried, the cold roast meat 
gravy will enrich and colour the stock or store gravy, with the addi- 
tion of any flavouring that may be required. Good managers, who 
attend to this every day, do not know what it is to be distressed for 
gravy, or running to the butcher's for gravy beef." The cook, we 
must add, should be careful to have her broth or stock clear, and 
devoid of fat, which, eaten by itself, that is, unincorporated with 
farinaceous or vegetable substances, is very indigestible, yielding 
little or no nourishment, but when so incorporated, fat becomes very 
nutritious and wholesome — more so indeed, according to some writers, 
than lean meat. 

99. First Stock, or Beef Broth, <SfC. — Wash a leg or shin of beef 
very clean ; let the butcher crack the bone in two or three places, 
and take out the marrow ; add meat trimmings, and heads, necks, 
gizzards, feet, &c., of game and poultry ; cover them with cold water ; 
■watch and stir up well, and the moment the simmering commences 
skim it very clear of all the scum. Then add some cold water, which 
will make the remaining scum rise, and skim it again. No fat should 
enter into the composition of brotli of this description, nor indeed of 
any other, unless incorporated with meal by way of thickening. 
Stock should be quite clear and limpid. When the surface of the 
broth is quite clear, put in carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, accord- 
ing to the quantity. Some persons direct one moderate sized carrot, 
a head of celery, two turnips, and two onions. But this is a very 
poor criterion as to the quantity which ought to be used of these 
vegetables, which differ so much in size. No taste of sweet herbsf, 
spice, &c., should be given to the stock. After the vegetables are 
added, cover it close, and set it by the sido of the fire, 'and let it sim- 



BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE, &C. 51 

mer very g^ently, not wasting the broth, for four or five hours, or 
more, according to the weight of the meat. Strain through a sieve 
into a clean, dry stone pan, and put it in a cold place, for use. Thia 
is the basis for all sorts of soup ami sauce, whether brown or white. 
The meat may be used for immediate food, or for making potted beef 
— that is, if it be not overdone to rags. 

100. The following method has been adopted in the kitchen of tho 
reviser for several years past, and is inserted as being more concise 
than the English plan: — Put in a large boiler, of the capacity of six 
or seven gallons, two large skins of beef; a small piece of the rump 
of about five pounds ; five gallons of water, and two handsf^^ of salt ; 
place the pot on the fire, and before it commences to boil, and whilst 
boiling, skim it carefully and frequently, adding a little cold water to 
bring up the scum completely. When you find no more scum rising 
to the top, add three large carrots, three turnips, and three onions 
with six cloves stuck in them (that is, two cloves in each onion), and 
let it boil for four or five hours. Before using it, skim all the fat oflf 
the top, and strain it through a double sieve. If the beef is to be used, 
let it be taken out of the pot when cooked, and pour over it a little of 
the top of the broth, to keep it moist until it may be wanted, when 
you can serve it with such sauce as you may fancy. For a family it 
will be necessary to make the broth about once a week, but great 
care should be taken to keep a portion always on hand. 

101. Second Stock may be made from the meat left after straining 
the first stock off, by covering it with water, and by letting it go on 
boiling for four or five hours. This stock will produce good glaze, or 
portable soup (see 316). 

102. Glaze is a strong gravy boiled as quick as possible till it 
/hickens, as directed in braising (see 316). 

103. Beef Gravy, sometimes called second stock, or in French jus 
de boeuf, is thus made : — Take a slice of good lean ham, or lean bacon, 
four or five pounds of gravy beef, cut into eight or ten pieces, a car- 
rot, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, and a head of celery. Cover 
the bottom of a clean well-tinned stew-pan with these things, putting 
in the ham first, and then put a pint of stock, or water; cover close; 
set over a moderate fire till the water is so reduced as to just save 
the ingredients from burning, then turn it all about and let it brown 
slightly and equally all over. You must put in three quarts of boiling 
water just at the moment the meat has obtained its proper colour ; 
if it is suffered to burn, the gravy will have a bad taste, and if the 
water is put in too soon the gravy will want flavour. When it boils 
up, skim carefully and clean the sides of the stew-pan with a cloth. 
The gravy ought to be delicately clean and clear. Set it by the side 
of a fire, and stew gently for about four hours; strain through a tamis 
sieve, skim it careftilly, and put it in a cold place. If well managed, 
that is, not boiled too fust, it will yield two quarts of good gravy. 

104. Gravy for Roast Meat. — Take the trimmings off the joint 
you are about to cook, which will make half a pint of plain gravy. 
Colour by adding a few drops of burnt sugar. ' If you do not wish to 



52 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

make gravy in this way, about half an hour before the meat is done 
mix a salt-spoonful of salt with a full quarter of a pint of boiling 
water : drop this by degrees on the brown parts of the meat, set a 
dish under to catch it, and set it by ; the meat will soon brown again. 
When the gravy you have made is cold take the fat from the surface, 
and when the meat is done, warm up the gravy and put it in the dish. 
Or you may make good browning for roast meat by saving the browa 
bits of boiling or roast meat: cut them small, put them into a basin 
and cover them with boiling water, and put them away ; next put 
them into a saucepan and boil two or three minutes, then strain it 
through a sieve, and put by for use. When you want gravy for use 
put two table-spoonsful in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, with a 
little salt. If for roasted veal, put three table-spoonsful into half a 
pint of thin melted butter. The gravy which remains in the dish 
after the family has dined should be put by to enrich hashes or little 
made dishes. 

105. Gravy for Boiled Meat is nothing more than a tea-cup full 
of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled, carefully skimmed 
and free from fat. 

106. Gravy for Roast Veal. — Make in the same way as for any 
other roast meat, and make a tea-cup full of thick melted butter, or 
melt the butter in the gravy. The same gravy for target or loin of 
lamb. 

107. Rich brown Gravy for Poultry^ Ragout, or Game. — If your 
stock or store gravy is poor, to enrich it add one pound of meat to one 
pint of your store gravy ; cut the meat clear from the bones, chop it 
up as fine as mince meat, chop also one ounce of ham, or gammon, 
unless you have by you the gravy that has settled in the dish from a 
ham. Lay at the bottom of the stew-pan one ounce of butter, an 
onion sliced, and the chopped meat ; cover it close, and set it on a 
clear, slow fire ; move it about to prevent it sticking. When the 
gravy draws, and the meat is rather brown, add by degrees the 
liquor ; when it boils, pui in the bones of the meat, chickens' head 
and feet ; and when it boils again carefully skim it. Add a crust of 
bread toasted brown, a sprig of winter savoury, or lemon thyme and 
parsley, a dozen berries of allspice, a strip of lemon peel, and a dozen 
black peppercorns; cover it close and keep it boiling gently till it is 
reduced to half; when cold, take off all the fat and thicken it with 
the following thickening: Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan ; lake 
out all the buttermilk that may be at the top, then sprinkle flour into 
it, shaking it all the time : make it a thick paste, and stir this into 
your gravy boiling. 

SAUCES. 

These are a very numerous class of condiments, particularly in 
French cookery. Foreigners say that the English have only one sauce 
(melted butter) for vegetables, fish, flesh, and all other eatables requir- 
ing sauce — and they add, with some truth, that they seldom make 



SAUCES. 53 

it good. It certainly is a very general sauce, botn m England and 
the United States ; and, therefore, we shall begin our recipes with 

108. Melted Butter cannot be made good with mere flour and 
water. Dr. Kitchiner says, that he has tried every way of making 
this sauce, and gives it as his opinion that the following, if carefully 
observed, will be always found to give satisfaction : Cut two ounces 
of butter into little bits, put it into a clean stew-pan, with a large tea- 
spoonful of flour, arrow-root, or potatoe starch, and add two table- 
spoonsful of milk ; when thoroughly mixed, add six table-spoonsful of 
water, hold it over the fire, and shake it round the same way every 
minute, till it begins to simmer ; then let it boil up. This is a good 
recipe for melted butter where it is not intended to be used with acids 
or wine, which will have the effect of curdling the milk. Pure water 
is best when the melted butter is intended for fish and puddings, to 
which any mixture of wine is intended. Clear stock or gravy, instead 
of water, is preferable when it is intended to be eaten with roast meat, 
or for vegetables to be eaten with roast meat. The old-fashioned 
method of mixing is as good as the Doctor's. It is as follows : Break 
up the butter on a trencher, and work the flour into it thoroughly, 
then add it to the cold liquid in the saucepan ; or you may drop the 
flour, a quarter of an hour before it is set on the fire, on the top of 
the liquid, without stirring at all ; when the flour has all sunk to the 
bottom, shake it round till the flour is well incorporated with the 
liquid ; then add the butter, and melt over a clear brisk rire. Fresh, 
rich cream is sometimes used instead of milk, water, or grav3r. You 
should take care that your saucepan for melted butter be always well 
tinned, and ke-pt delicately clean. Some recommend a silver sauce- 
pan ; but this seems to us to be a stupid piece of extravagance. Dr. 
Kitchiner, however, who talks a great deal about economy, gravely 
tells us that a pint silver saucepan will not cost more than four or 
five pounds ! Melted butter is frequently spoilt in the making ; for 
ordinary purposes it should be of the thickness of good cream, but 
when intended to be mixed with flavouring, it should be of the thick- 
ness of light batter. If by any chance it become oiled, put a spoonful 
of cold water to it, and stir it with a spoon, or pour it back and for- 
wards till it is right again. By mixing such vegetables as parsley, 
chervil, and others, generally eaten with melted butter, and sending 
them to the table on a little plate, those who like their flavour may 
mix for themselves. In the same way, all descriptions of flavouring 
essences, such as catsup, anchovy, &c., &,c., may be mixed at table. 
This plan will be found to be a great saving in butter. 

109. Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, while Meat, Fish, or 
Vegetables. — You have no occasion to buy meat for these sauces, as 
their flavour is but small. The liquor that has boiled fowls, veal, or 
rabbit, or a little broth that you may have by you, or the feet and 
necks of chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will do very well. Stew 
with a little water any of these, add to it an onion sliced, a bit of le- 
mon peel, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, some white peppercorns, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour is good ; then strain it, 



54 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt 
to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is 
taken from the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is frequently used 
in fricassee, but if you have cream it is better, as the egg is apt to 
curdle. 

110. Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. — Boil two eggs hard, rub 
them down in a mortar with an anchovy, two dessert spoonfuls of oil, 
three of vinegar, an eschalot, cayenne (sometimes,) and a tea-sppon- 
ful of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added ; then 
strain it; eschalot vinegar instead of eschalots eats well; if so, omit 
one spoonful of the common vinegar: salt to your taste. 

111. A very rich Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Rabbits. — Pick, 
rub and wash a pint of young mushrooms, and sprinkle with salt to 
take off the skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt, a 
blade of mace, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, and apiece of butter 
rolled in flour: boil them up and stir till done, then pour it into the 
dish with the chickens ; garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh 
mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, with a little mushroom pow- 
der with the cream. 

112. Sauce for boiled Carp, or Boiled Turkey. — Make some melted 
butter with a little water and a tea-spoonful of flour, and add a quarter 
of a pint of cream, half an anchovy not washed, chopped fine; set it 
over the fire, and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of Indian soy: 
if that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more; add a little 
salt, and half a lemon ; stir it well to prevent it curdling. 

113. Green Sauce for green Geese or Ducklings. — A glass of 
white wine, some scalded gooseberries, a pint of sorrel juice, some 
white sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up, and serve in a boat. 

114. Egg Sauce. — Boil the eggs hard, chop thera fine, then put 
them into melted butter. 

115. Onion Sauce. — Take the skins off ripe onions, remove the 
rooty fibres and the tops, let them lie in salt and water an hour, then 
put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them till they are 
tender. You should allow them plenty of water. When tender, 
skin them, cut them exceedingly small, or rub them through a colan- 
der ; season them with pepper and salt, and mix with an equal quan- 
tity of thick melted butter. This sauce is usually eaten with shoulder 
or leg of mutton. If you wish it very mild, use the large silvery 
onions, and boil them in several waters. Onion sauce is also eaten 
with rabbits, boiled ducks, tripe, and sometimes with a scrag of mut- 
ton or veal. 

116. Apple Sauce. — Take four or five juicy apples, two table-spoon- 
fuls of cold water or cider; instead of putting the lid on, place the 
parings over the apples, and put them by a gentle fire. When they 
sir.k they are done; remove the saucepan from the fire, and beat up 
tne apples; take the parings from the top first, add a bit of butter, a 
tea-spoonful of fine powdered sugar, and a dust of nutmeg. 

117. Gooseberry Sauce. — Scald half a pint of green gooseberries; 
do them till they are tender, but not broken ; drain them on a sieve ; 



SAUCES. 65 

when the liquor is cold, take half a pint of it, and make a thick batter 
of it, stir in the gooseberries with a little grated ginger and lemon 
peel. This sauce is soaaetimes used for mackerel. 

118. Wow wow Sauce, for stewed beef or bouilli. Quarter and 
elice two or three pickled cucumbers or walnuts, or part of each, chop 
fine a handful of parsley, make some melted butter in half a pint of 
broth in which the beef is boiled, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard 
and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and the same of port wine and mush- 
room catsup: let it simmer till thick, then stir in the parsley and 
pickles to get warm ; pour the whole over the beef, or put in a sauce 
tureen. The flavour may be varied by a tea-spoonful or two of any 
kind of the vinegars. 

119. Curry Sauce is made by putting a little powdered curry into 
eome melted butter, or curry vinegar. 

120. Parsley and Butter. — Wash and pick leaf by leaf some pars- 
ley ; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil 
tlie parsley about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, 
and then bruise it to a pulp: put it into a sauce boat, and mix with it 
by degrees about half a pint of melted butter. Never pour parsley 
and butter over boiled things, but send up in a boat. 

121. Fennel and Butter for Mackerel is prepared in the same way 
as parsley and butter. 

122. Plum Pudding Sauce. — A glass of sherry, half a glass of 
brandy, cherry bounce or Cura^oa, or essence of punch, and two tea- 
gpoonfuls of pounded lump sugar (a very little grated lemon peel is 
sometimes added,) in a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter : grate 
nutmeg on the top. 

123. Anchovy Sauce. — Pound three anchovies in a mortar with a 
bit of butter ; rub it through a double hair sieve with the back of a 
wooden spoon, and stir it into about half a pint of melted butter, or stir 
in a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Many cooks add cayenne 
and lemon juice. 

124. Caper Sauce. — Take a table-spoonful of capers, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar; mince one-third of them very fine, and divide the 
others in half; put them in a quarter of a pint of melted butter, or 
good thickened gravy ; stir the same way as you do melted butter, or 
it will oil. Sometimes half a Seville orange or lemon or parsley, 
chervil, or tarragon, are added. 

125. 3Iock Caper Sauce. — Take French beans, gherkins, green 
peas, or nasturtiums, all pickled ; cut them into bits the size of capers ; 

f»ut them into half a pint of melted butter; add two tea-spoonfuls of 
emon juice or vinegar. 

126. Shrimp Sauce. — Shell a pint of shrimps, and stir into half a 
pint of melted butter ; a little cream makes a delicate addition. It is 
used with salmon, turbot, and soles. 

127. Oyster Sauce — Two dozen oysters will make half a pint of 
sauce, not more. Open the oysters, save all the liquor, perfectly free 
from bits of shell, scald the oysters in the liquor till they look plump, 
then take out the fish and add to the liquor two ounces of butter rolled 



50 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in flour, and two table-spoonfuls of cream ; boil it up. Take off the 
beards or frino^y part of the oysters; if they are large, cut them in 
two; stir them in the butter, and set them by the fire for a minute or 
two, but do not let them boil, as it hardens them. 

128. Lobster Sauce. — Choose a hen lobster, pick out all the spawn 
and red coral that runs down the back, pound it to a paste with a 
lump of butter, pull the meat of the back and claws to pieces with 
two forks, stir the lobster into some boilins^ hot melted butter ; keep 
it on the fire till the lobster is warmed through, and well mixed. 
You may add, if liked, catsup, lemon juice, cayenne, anchovy ; but the 
simple flavour of the lobster is best. A little cream is an improve- 
ment. 

129. Liver Sauce. — Scald the liver, clear away all the fibres and 
specky parts, pound it in a mortar, with a bit of butter, then boil it up 
with melted butter; season it with cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon 
juice. You may add catsup or anchovy. 

180. Bread Sauce is either made with gravy or milk. Stew the 
heads, necks, and feet of the poultry tor which it is intended, with an 
onion, a little allspice, and a few peppercorns; when reduced to half 
a pint, strain it and boil up again ; put in a small tea-cup full of bread 
crumbs, let it boil till quite stifl', hold it over the fire and shake it till 
it boils thoroughly, then put it on the hob till time to serve; stir in a 
bit of salt, one ounce of butter, and two table-spoonfuls of cream. 

1.'31. Sauce for Tripe, Calf's-licad, or Cow-heel. — Garlic vinegar 
according to taste, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, mustard and 
black pepper a tea-spoonful of each, stirred into oiled melted butter. 
(See 4G6.) 

132. Celery Sauce. — Take fresh celery; take off all the outside 
leaves, leave none but what are quite crisp, and which may be known 
by their breaking siiort without any strings, cut up in pieces about an 
inch long, take liquor that has boiled veal, chickens, or lamb, when 
fast boiling. 

138. Tarragon or Burnet makes rich pleasant sauce, chiefly usea 
for steaks; sent to table in a sauce tureen. 

V?A. Sorrel Sauce for Lamb or Veal, and Sweet-breads. — Two 
quarts of sorrel leaves will not make more than a sauce tureen of 
sauce; pick and wasli them clean, put them into a stew-pan with one 
ounce of butter, cover close and set over a slow fire for a quarter of 
an hour ; then rub them through a coarse hair sieve, season them with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a small lump of sugar, squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, and make the whole thoroughly hot. 

185. Poor Man's Sauce. — A handful of young parsley leaves, 
chopped fine, a dozen of young green onions, chopped fine, put to 
them salt and pepper, two table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and four of 
vinegar; a little scraped horse-radish, pickled French beans, or gher- 
kins, may be added. This sauce is taken with cold meats. 

136. Trufjle Sauce. — Truffles are only good while in season, that 
i.-', in a green state. Add two ounces of butter to eighteen truffleg 
sliced, simmer them together till they are tenuer ; then add as muck 



SAUCES. 67 

good gravy, brown or white, as to bring it to a proper thickness, sea- 
son it with salt, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. 

137. Sharp Sauce for Venison. — Best white wine vinegar half a 
pint, loaf sugar pounded a quarter of a pound ; eiramer it gently ; skim, 
and strain it through a tamis. 

139. Sweet Sauce for Venison. — Currant jelly, either black or red, 
n>8lted and served hot; others like it sent to table as jelly. 

139. Wine Sauce for Venison^ Hare, or Haunch of Mutton. — 
Take equal parts of rich mutton gravy, without any flavourings, and 
port wine. Simmer them together to half a pint, add a table-spoonful 
of currant jelly, let it just boil up. 

140. Sauce for a Pig, — Three quarters of a pint of good beef gravy, 
six or eight leaves of sage, chopped very fine, a blade of mace, a tea- 
cup full of bread crumbs, and eight white peppercorns; let them boil 
six or eight minutes, then stir into the sauce the brains, gravy, and 
whatever sticks about the dish on which you have split the pig, one 
ounce of butter rolled in flour, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and one or 
two of catsup, if liked; simmer a minute or two, and serve in a sauce 
tureen. • 

141. Turtle Sauce. — To a pint of rich beef gravy, thickened, put 
a wine glass of Madeira, six leaves of basil, the juice and peel of half 
a lemon, a few grains of cayenne or curry powder, an eschalot sliced, 
a table spoonful of essence of anchovy; simmer together five minutes, 
then strain, and add a dozen turtle force meat balls. This sauce ia 
used for calf s head, or hashed or stewed veal, or for any other rich 
dish in imitation of turtle. 

142. A Sauce for all sorts of Fish. — Haifa pint of port or claret, 
half a pint of rich gravy, a little nutmeg, three anchovies, two table- 
spoonfuls of catsup, and salt; simmer all together till the anchovies 
are done, then add three ounces of butter thickened with flour, arrow- 
root, or potatoe mucilage ; when it boils, add some scraped horse- 
radish, a dozen or two of oysters, a lobster cut in bits, a few smai. 
mushrooms, and half a pint of picked shrimps or crawfish. This 
sauce is intended to pour over the fish — boiled carp, tench, pike, 
whiting, boiled cod, and haddock. 

143. Pudding Sauce. — Half a glass of brandy, one glass of white 
wine, a little grated rind of lemon, half an ounce of grated loaf sugar, 
and a little powdered cinnamon, mixed with melted butter. It is a 
good way to keep a bottle of these ingredients to mix with melted 
butter when wanted. In a bottle containing one pint of brandy and 
two pints of sherry, steep the kernels of apricots, nectarines, and 
peaches, with an ounce of shaved lemon rind, half an ounce of mace, 
and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; pour off clear to mix with but- 
ler. Two table-spoonfuls will flavour a boat of sauce; the mace and 
lemon peel may be steeped in half a pint of brandy, or a pint of sherry, 
for fourteen days; strain, and add a quarter of a pint of capillaire. 

144. Custard Sauce. — For rice or other plain puddings, or with 
fruit pics, stir a pint of sweet cream in a double saucepan till it boils; 
beat the yolks of two or three eggs, with a spoonful of cold cream, 

5 



68 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

and an ounce of powdered sugar; pour the boiling- cream to tbero, and 
pour backwards and forwards two or three times to prevent cupjlirr^ ; 
then set the inner saucepan over the boiling water, and stir it con- 
tinually one way till it thickens. Serve in a china basin with grated 
nutmeg, or pounded cinnamon strewed over the top. 

145. Roe Sauce. — Boil the soft roes of mackerel, clear away all 
the skin, and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon ; beat up 
the yolk of an egg with a little salt and pepper, a little fennel and 
parsley scalded and chopped fine, rub the wiiole together, and stir 
into melted butter. Some people prefer a spoonful of catsup, essence 
of anchovy, or walnut pickle. 

BOILING. 

As this is the most common mode of preparing food for human 
sustenance, it is therefore the more necessary that its principles 
should be well understood ; for though the operations of boiling may 
appear to be very simple, yet a great deal of skill and judgment is 
j-equired to carry them into ejffect properly. We repeat, that the 
young cook ought to read attentively our observations upon this sub- 
ject, in the "Introductory Remarks." Instead of using the word 
boiling,, we ought rather to have said, the mode of preparing meats 
for food by means of hot water; for we are quite convinced, that all 
meats are more or less injured by being subjected to a boiling heat; 
that is, a heat of 212° of Fahrenheit. We have dressed salt cod fish 
in water never exceeding 145° of heat, and it was much more tender, 
and better flavoured, than when dressed in boiling water: we ought 
to add, that the fish is required to remain in this partially hot water 
four or five hours, in which time it becomes divested of the salt, and 
eats, comparatively speaking, quite fresh. 

146. Take care that your vessel is large enough for the water to 
cover the meat, and to surround it. Do not suffer the steam to escape; 
and to effect this, see that the lid of the vessel fits it as closely as 
possible; by this means the water may be kept at a proper heat, that 
is to say, nearly simmering, but not bubbling, whereby fuel will be 
saved, and the meat much better dressed. In short, one of the 
greatest errors that can be committed in boiling meat, is to suffer the 
water to boil violently. It has the effect of hardening the outside of 
the joints, or, in other words, making it tough, while the inside will 
be raw, or only partially done. 

147. Always prefer soft water to hard, whenever the former is to 
be procured. River, or clean rain water, should be used in preference 
to hard spring water; but your water must always be as pure and as 
bright as possible. 

148. In making up a fire for cooking, regard must be had as to 
whether it is intended for boiling or roasting, or for both. A moderate 
fire is best for boiling, but a brisk and somewhat fierce fire is required 
for roasting. If you are going to roast and boil at the same fire, you 
must take care that your boiling vessels are sufficiently far removed 



BOILING. 59 

from it With a good kitchen range, or steam cooking apparatus, all 
this may be done without difficulty or trouble. 

149. All fresh meats are directed by the generality of culinary 
writers to be put into the pot, or saucepan, when the water is warm, 
not hot; but salt meat, for the most part, should be put in when the 
water is perfectly cold ; by this means the superfluous salt will be 
extracted from it The pot should not, with fresh meat, be allowed 
to boil, or rather to arrive at the boiling point, under forty or fifty 
minutes; more time should be taken with salt meat. The usual 
direction is, as above, to put fresh meat into warm water — but we 
are convinced, that the better plan is always to use cold. Meat, 
thoroughly cooked, will take twenty minutes boiling to each pound. 
Salt, a little more. 

150. When the scum rises, let it be carefully removed; and if the 
heat of the water is checked with a small portion of cold water, it 
will throw up an additional scum, which must, of course, be also care- 
fully taken away. The scum rises just as the water is beginning to 
boil. The nice clear appearance of the meat, when done, in a great 
measure depends upon attending to the above directions. 

151. When the liquor in your vessel once boils, after all the scum 
has been cleared away, let it continue to simmer till the meat is done. 
From fifteen to twenty minutes is generally directed to be allowed 
for each pound of meat, but twenty is better. Never stick your fork 
into meat, whether boiling or roasting, upon any account; the eflfect 
will be to let out the gravy. Bacon is an exception. 

152. Meats of any description, just killed, and still warm, whether 
to be roasted or boiled, will do as soon, and eat as tender, as meat 
which has hung the usual time ; but if once suffered to become cold 
after slaughtering, it will require more dressing, and after all will 
not eat so tenderly, unless hung a proper time. 

153. Meat which has been frozen must be immersed in cold water 
two or three hours, or till the frost is taken out of it, before it is 
dressed, or it will never be well done. In cold weather meat requires 
more dressing than in warm. 

154. Salt meat will require more boiling than fresh, and thick 
parts, whether salt or fresh, rather more than thin ones. 

155. In boiling bacon, if very salt, it is a good plan to take away a 
part or the whole of the water, when it is on the point of boiling, and 
filling up the pot with cold water. This process renders it more 
mild. Bacon or ham is done when the skin is easily removed, or the 
fork leaves it readily. 

156. Hams, beef; tongues, and even pork, which have been kept 
long in pickle, should be soaked before they are boiled — if hard, ia 
warm water. A ham weighing twenty pounds, or upwards, will take 
from five to six hours to dress it well (the water should not boil) ; 
and a large dry tongue should be boiled, or rather simmered, for four 
hours or more. The following is a good plan to dress a ham : Put a 
certain quantity of suet into the pan which is to be used for the cook- 
ing of the ham ; then put in the ham and cover it with paper, over 



60 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

which lay a cover of coarse paste, or the paper may be used withool 
the paste, or the paste without the paper; place the pan in the oven, 
where let it remain till the ham is done. The gravy coming from the 
meat will be a jelly, which, mixed with fresh slock or broth for gravies, 
&c. will greatly improve it. 

157. Meat boiled by steam requires no water unless soup is wanted. 
Meat boiled in the ordinary way should not be permitted to touch the 
bottom of the pot. This object may be effected by placing a fish-drain 
in the pot, or by putting a plate upside down in it, or laying some 
skewers across it a little way from the bottom. 

158. There is a method of boiling meat without allowing it to 
4ouch or come in contact with the water. This plan, which is little 

followed in America, has been strongly recommended. To effect this 
object, fowls filled with oysters may be boiled in a bladder, or in a 
close jar, by which means they are deliciously stewed, and the flavour 
and animal juices are all preserved. Meat of any description may 
be dressed in a similar manner, that is, by putting it into a close jar 
and immersed in water, which is kept boiling till the meat is done. 
The Scotch dress their haggis in this way, and the custom was fol- 
lowed by the ancient Romans. Similar modes of dressing meat are 
used by savages in different parts of the world. 

159. Any thing that is to be warmed and sent to the table a second 
time, should be put into a basin or jar, placed in hot water, which is 
not permitted to come to the boiling point. If allowed to boil, the 
meat will harden, or the sauce will be reduced and become thick; by 
avoiding these chances the flavour will be preserved, and the viands 
may be warmed up more than once without injury. The steam ap- 
paratus now employed in most kitchens, is admirably adapted to this 
purpose, since the heat can be regulated by the required temperature. 

160. The beads, brains, and so forth, of animals, every thing in 
fact, which in the cleaning process requires soaking, should be soaked 
in warm, not hot water, as the hot will fix the blood, and injure both 
the appearance and flavour of the viand. All cooks must be particu- 
lar in keeping their saucepans well skimmed ; nothing will more 
completely spoil a dish of any kirnl than the nef lect of this essential 
point. In order to take off the fat from the braise, or any other gravy, 
plunge the basin containing it into cold water; the fat will immedi- 
ately coagulate, and may be removed. 

161. It is much better to dress meat immediately after it is killed, 
that is, while it is warm, than to suffer it to get cold, and not let it 
hang a proper length of time. Indeed, there is no doubt that meat 
dressed while warm is as tender, or nearly as tender, as when it has 
been hung for some days. If, therefore, you cannot procure well- 
hung meat, and can get that which has been just killed, you ought to 
prefer the latter. 

162. Bacon, ham, and salt beef, may be done, if you want to use 
your fire for vegetables, half an hour before serving, as it will not sustain 
any injury by remaining that time in the hot liquor; but all other 
descriptions of meat would be injured by such a course of proceeding 



BOILINO. butcher's MEAT, &C. 61 

163. Potatoes must never be boiled with meat, or indeed with any 
thing else, for the meat is injured by the potatoes and the potatoes by 
the meat. 

164. Yon may boil turnips, carrots, parsnips, and pease pudding, 
with salt meat ; by so doing^ these vegetables will be improved, and 
the meat not injured ; but the liquor will not keep so long, though it 
will be rendered better for some kinds of soup. 

165. Green vegetables, such as savoys, &,c., should be always put 
into boiling water with a handful of salt, particularly if they are 
harsh and strong; they are generally kept boiling till they are done. 
In warm countries, in Italy, for instance, they first boil them in a 
large quantity of water for a considerable time; but as this will 
neither make them sweet nor tender, they are frequently taken out 
of the pot, and well washed in cold spring water ; they are then boiled 
again till they are sweet and tender. Old tough meat may be simi- 
larly treated with like effect. 

166. Old potatoes must never be put into warm or hot water. On 
the contrary, the water in^ which this useful vegetable is boiled should 
be perfectly cold when the potatoes are first put in. New potatoes 
are better put in boiling water. 

BOILING— BUTCHER'S MEAT AND POULTRY. 

The general directions which we have given for boiling in the pre- 
ceding pages, if they have been well studied by the young cook, as 
we trust they have, render it useless for us to go into the question at 
any length ; we shall, therefore, content ourselves with a few special 
directions relative to the dressing of the different things designated 
at the head of this section. It will not be necessary to give a great 
multiplicity of receipts; for if the general principles of boiling are 
well understood, and we have spared neither time nor space to make 
them so, the cook will find no difficulty in preparing any particular 
dish without especial directions from us, or any other writer. The 
receipts which follow are selected according to the best of our judg- 
ment. We do not pretend to say that they are original ; upon such 
a subject it is impossible to be original, with the exception, perhaps, 
of a few instances. Dr. Kitchiner apologises in his "Cook's Oracle," 
for his " receipts differing a little from those in former cookery books." 
Very different is this open and candid proceeding from that of a 
voluminous writer of great pretensions, who claims the following 
mode of dressing rice, which is as old as the introduction of that 
article into this country, as original! "Tie some rice in a cloth, 
leaving plenty of room for it to swell ; boil it in water for an hour or 
two, and eat it with butter and sugar, or milk."' 
• 167. Boiled Beef. — Fresh boiled beef is called heefbouilli by some, 
but in the French kitchen the term means fresh beef dressed, without 
absolutely boiling, it being suffered only to simmer till it is done. 
Indeed, it may be laid down as a general rule, that whether you are 
dressing beef bouilli, or any other meat, it should never be suffered 
5* 



63 THE COMPLETE COOK. >"? 

to go into a boiling gallop^ except for a minute or two, for th6 pur- 
pose of throwing- up the scum. After the scum is all cleared away, 
let it simmer till it is done. But you must be careful not to let your 
meat boil too quickly ; for this purpose it should be put over a mo- 
derate fire, and the water made gradually hot, or the meat will be 
hardened, and shrink up as if it were scorched ; but by keeping the 
meat a certain time heating, without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
dilate, and it not only yields the scum more freely, but the meat ia 
rendered more tender. The advantage of dressing fresh meat in the 
way practised by the French with regard to fresh beef is twofold. In 
the first place, meat dressed in this manner affords much more 
nourishment than it does cooked in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion, and will yield soup of a most excellent quality. (See Soup and 
Bouilli, and 99.) 

168. Boiled Salt Beef. — A piece of beef of fifteen pounds will take 
three hours, or more, simmering after it has boiled, and it ought to be 
full forty minutes on the fire before it does boil ; skim carefully ; put 
a tea-cup full of the liquor, and garnish with sliced carrots. Vegeta- 
bles, carrots, turnips, kale, parsnips; sauce, melted butter. Pease 
pudding is sometimes boiled with salt beef, and the liquor, if not too 
salt, will make good pease soup. An aitch, or H bone of beef, a 
round, or ribs salted and rolled, and indeed all other beef, are boiled 
in the same way. Briskets and other inferior joints require, perhaps, 
more attention than superior ones; they should in fact rather be 
stewed than boiled, and in a small quantity of water, by which means, 
if good meat, they will be delicious eating. 

169. Mutton. — A leg will take from two to three hours boiling. 
Accompaniments — parsley and butter, caper sauce, eschalot, onion, 
turnips, carrots, spinach, &c., and to boiled mutton in general. 

170. JSeck of Mutton. — As the scrag end takes much longer to 
boil, some people cut it off and boil it half or three-quarters of an 
hour before the rest, as it is apt to be bloody, however well washed ; 
you had better skim it well. When it is time to put the best end in, 
add cold water to check the heat, allowing an hour and a half or 
three-quarters, after the second boiling up. Cut off some of the fat 
before dressing, or at least peel off the skin when taken up. For 
accompaniments, see 169. 

171. Shoulder^ boiled. — The whole is sometimes boiled, and some- 
times cut in half, taking the knuckle part, and leaving the oyster for 
roasting ; it will take not less than two hours slow boiling, though it 
may not weigh above five pounds. Boil it either plain or in broth. 
Accompaniments, 169. 

172. Breast, boiled, will require from two and a half, to three 
hours. Accompaniments, 169. 

173. Sheeps' Heads, plain boiled. — Boil them two hours ; before boi[ 
ing, take out the brains, wash them clean and free from all skin ; chop 
about a dozen sage leaves very small, tie them in a small bag, and let 
them boil half an hour, then beat them up with pepper and salt, and 



BOILING. — butchers' MEAT, & C . 6& 

half an ounce of butter ; pour it over the head, or serve in a boat or 
tureen ; skin the tongue before serving. Accompaniments, 169. 

174. Leg of Lamb, boiled. — From an hour and a quarter to an hour 
and a haltl Accompaniments — caper sauce, melted butter, turnips, 
spinach, carrots, &c. 

175. Neck, boiled. — One hour ; if very large, an hour and a quar- 
ter. 

176. Lamb's Head and Pluck. — Parboil the lights and a small bit 
of the liver till it v^^ill chop fine, and boil the head in the same liquor; 
it will take nearly an hour to boil ; scald the brains, tied up in a small 
bag, with five or six sage leaves, chopped very fine ; they will take 
twenty minutes to do ; warm the mince in a little of the liquor, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; thicken with flour, and half an 
ounce of butter, and stir in the brains. Take up the head ; skin the 
tongue; pour over the mince; sippets of toasted bread and slices of 
lemon. The liver, heart, and sweetbread, to be fried, and laid round 
the dish with slices of bacon; or served in a separate dish, which ia 
preferable, as the liver requires a little brown gravy. Vegetables, 
turnips, carrots, &.c. 

Browned. — After boiling, wash the head with the yolk of an egg ; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown it in a 
dutch oven, the mince to be poured round it. Some people like the 
flavour of catsup in the mince ; others like a little sliced lemon peel, 
and a spoonful or two of cream. 

177. Boiled Veal. — A knuckle, whether of leg or shoulder, will 
take full two hours. A scrag of neck or breast, an hour and three- 
quarters to two hours. Sauce, melted butter, parsley and butter, 
celery, &,c. 

178. Calfs Head, boiled. — Let it be cut in half by the butcher, 
and all the inside bones removed ; take out the brains, wash the head 
well in several waters, with a little salt, to draw out the blood ; boil 
it slowly in plenty of water two hours or two hours and a quarter. 
Sauce. Well clean the brains, and boil them in a cloth half an hour, 
with about a dozen sage leaves chopped fine, or parsley, or part of 
each ; when done, beat them up in a small saucepan, with a little salt 
and pepper, one ounce of butter, and a little lemon juice ; have them 
ready quite hot to pour over the tongue, when skinned. Some peo- 
ple mix the brains with parsley and butter, and pour over the whole 
head. However it is dressed, it is usually garnished with sliced 
lemon. 

179. 7V/pe, when raw, will take four or five hours simmering. If 
previously well boiled, twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be in milk, or milk and water, or equal parts of milk and its 
own liquor. Boil with the tripe eight or ten large onions. To keep 
the tripe warm, serve it in the liquor, and beat up the onions with 
pepper, salt, and butter ; or the tripe may be served without liquor, 
and the onion sauce poured over. If onions are not approved, serve 
parsley and butter, or caper sauce. Tripe may be cut in pieces the 
size of a hand, dipped in batter and fried, with rashers of bacon 



64 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

laid round the dish. — N. B. Mustard is always an accompaniment of 
tripe, and generally vinegar also. 

In some of the English towns, particularly at Birmingham, famous 
for tripe, the belly or paunch of the animal, after being well cleaned, 
(in doing which thoroughly great attention and care must be observed,) 
is sent to the oven in a deep earthenware pot, or jar, closely covered 
over the top, and baked, or rather stewed, in just a sufficient quantity 
of water, for four or five hours, or till it is well done. It is sold while 
yet hot, in the public-houses or tripe shops, at so much a " large or 
small CM<," with a proportionate quantity of "broth," that is, the liquor 
in which it has been stewed ; nothing else is eaten with it, except 
mustard and salt. In Birmingham it is usually eaten for supper, and 
of course by candle-light, and at no other meal ; a relation of ours, 
however, was so fond of it, that he used to have the dining-room 
darkened, and the candles lit, in order that he might partake of it for 
his dinner, under the same apparent circumstances as at supper. 
We have heard of whist devotees who could not play the game with 
any gusto by daylight, and who resorted to the same expedient to 
imitate night as our tripe gourmand. Tripe cooked in the Birming- 
ham fashion is delicious — far, very far, superior to that gotten in 
London ; this may be partly accounted for by the fact that all meat ia 
greatly deteriorated by being twice subjected to heat. 

180. Cow-heel in the hands of a skilful cook, will furnish several 
good meals; when boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, egg and 
bread-crumb them, and fry them a light brown ; lay them round a 
dish, and put in the middle of it sliced onions fried, or the accompani- 
ments ordered for tripe. 

181. Pi^'s Pettitoes consist of the feet and internal parts of a suck- 
ing pig. Set on with a quantity of water, or broth ; a button onion or 
two may be added, if approved — also, four or five leaves of sage chop- 
ped small. When the heart, liver, and lights, are tender, take them 
out and chop fine ; let the feet simmer the while ; they will take from 
half to three-quarters of an hour to do. Season the mince with salt, 
nutmeg, and a little pepper, half an ounce of butter, a table -spoonful 
or two of thick cream, and a tea-spoonful of arrow-root, flour, or pota- 
toe starch ; return it to the saucepan, in which the feet are ; let it 
boil up, shaking it one way. Split the feet, lay them round in the 
mince. Serve with toasted sippets. Garnish. . Mashed potatoes. 

182. Salt Pork requires long boiling, never less than twenty 
minutes to a pound, and a thick joint considerably more. A leg of ten 
pounds will take four hours simmering, a spring two hours, a porker's 
head the same. Be very careful that it does not stick to the pot. No 
sauce is required, except a quarter of a pint of the liquor in which it 
was boiled, to draw the gravy, and plenty of good fresh mustard. A 
chine is usually served quite dry. The vegetable accompanimenta 
are pease pudding, turnips, carrots, and parsnips. 

183. Pickled Pork, which is usually bought pickled, requires to be 
well washed before boiling, and must boil very slowly. It is seldom 
eaten alone, but as an accompaniment to fowls, or other white meat. 



MEAT, &C. 65 

' 184. Bacon, Ham, Tongues. — First, well wash and scrape clean. 
If very salt, it may soak in cold water a few hours ; allow plenty of 
water, fresh rain or river water is best ; put it in when the chill is 
off, and let it be a good while coming to the boil, then keep it very 
gently simmering. If time allows, throw away nearly or quite all the 
liquor of bacon as soon as it boils up, and renew it with fresh cold 
water ; reckon the time from the second boiling. A pound of streaky 
bacon will require three-quarters of an hour to boil ; a quarter of 
an hour for every additional pound. If good bacon it will swell in 
boiling, and when done the rind will pull off easily. Take it up on 
a common dish to remove the rind, and sprinkle it over with bread 
raspings, sifted through a flour dredge, or grater. A ham of twelve 
or Iburteen pounds will require four or five hours simmering, or four 
hours baking in a moderate oven. When done, remove the skin aa 
whole as possible, and preserve it to cover over the ham and keep it 
moist. If to be served hot, strew raspings as above ; but if intended for 
eating cold, omit the raspings. It will be much the more juicy for not 
cutting hot. Set it on a baking stand, or some other contrivance, to 
keep it from touching the dish ; this preserves it from swamping in 
the fat that drips from it, keeps the fat nice and white for use, and 
also makes the ham keep the longer from becoming mouldy, by the 
outside being perfectly dry. Whether hot or cold, garnish with 
parsley. A neat's tongue, according to its size, age, and freshness, 
will require from two hours and a half to four hours slow boiling. 
When done, it will stick tender, and the skin will peel off easily. A 
dried chine, or hog's cheek, may be allowed the same boiling as bacon, 
viz. four pounds an hour and a half, and a quarter of an hour for every 
additional pound. 

185. To poach Eggs. — The best vessel for this purpose is a frying 
pan ; but it must be kept for that purpose only, or the grease will ad- 
here to the water, and spoil the delicate appearance of the eggs. A 
wide-mouthed stew-pan will do as well. Both the vessel and water 
must be delicately clean. Break the eggs into separate cups ; when 
the water boils, gently slip in the eggs, and set the vessel on the hob 
for a minute or so, till the white has set, then set it over the fire ; let 
it once boil up, and the eggs are done. The white should retain its 
transparency, and the yellow appear brightly through it. Take up 
very carefully with a slice; trim ofl^any rough edges of white, and 
serve on buttered toast, a piece for each egg, a little larger than the 
egg itself; or on a fish drainer. Garnish with sliced bacon or ham, 
sausages, or spinach. 

186. Turkeys, Capons, Chickens, c^c, are all boiled exactly in the 
same manner, only allowing time according to their size. A chicken 
will take about twenty minutes — a fowl, forty — a fine five-toed fowl 
or a capon, about an hour — a small turkey, an hour and a half — a large 
one, two hours or more. Chickens or fowls should be killed at least 
one or two days before they are to be dressed.* Turkeys (espe- 

* If they are dressed immediately after they are killed, befare the fiesh ia cold^ lUI 
poultry eat equally tender. 
' 6* 



66 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

cially large ones) should not be dressed till they have been killed 
three or four days at least — in cold weather, six or eight — or they will 
neither look white nor eat tender. Turkeys and large fowls should 
have the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn out. Fowls for boiling 
should be chosen as white as possible : those which have black legs 
should be roasted. The best use of the liver is to make sauce. Poul- 
try must be well washed in warm water ; if very dirty from the singe- 
ing, &.C., rub them with a little white soap, but thoroughly rinse it off 
before you put them into the pot. Make a good and clear fire; set 
on a clean pot, with pure and clean water, enough to cover the turkey, 
&c. ; the slower it boils, the whiter and plumper it will be. Whea 
there rises any scum, remove it; the common method of some (who 
are more nice than wise) is to wrap them up in a cloth, to prevent 
the scum attaching to them ; which if it do by your neglecting to 
skim the pot, there is no getting it off afterwards, and the poulterer 
is blamed for the fault of the cook. If there be water enough, and it 
is attentively skimmed, the fowl will both look and eat much better 
this way than vi'hen it has been covered up in the cleanest cloth; and 
the colour and flavour of your poultry will be preserved in the most 
delicate perfection. 

FISH. 

187. Salmon to boil. — The water should be blood- warm : allow 
plenty to cover the fish, with a good handful of salt, and a quarter of 
a pint of vinegar; this makes the fish boil firm. Remove the scum 
as fast as it rises. Keep it at a very gentle boil from half an hour to 
an hour, according to the thickness of the fish. When the eyes start, 
and the fins draw out easily, it is done. Lay the fish-drainer across 
the kettle a minute or two before shifting the fish. Sauce, lobster, 
shrimp, anchovy, or parsley and butter. Melted butter is the uni- 
versal sauce for fish, whether boiled, fried, or baked. Whatever other 
eauce is served, plain melted butter must never be omitted: we shall 
therefore only refer to the number of other sauces suitable for parti- 
cular kinds of fish. Observe, also, potatoes, either boiled or mashed, 
are the only vegetables eaten with fish, excepting parsnips with salt 
fish. 

188. Broiled Salmon. — This is a good method of dressing a small 
quantity of salmon for one or two persons. It may be cut in slices 
the whole round of the fish, each taking in two divisions of the bone ; 
or the fish may be split, and the bone removed, and the sides of the 
fish divided into cutlets of three or four inches each : the former 
method is preferable, if done neatly with a sharp knife. Rub it 
thoroughly dry with a clean rough cloth; then do each piece over 
with salad oil or butter. Have a nice clean gridiron over a very clear 
fire, and at some distance from it. When the bars are hot through 
wipe them, and rub with lard or suet to prevent sticking; lay on the 
salmon, and sprinkle with salt. When one side is brown, carefully 
turn and brown the other. They do equally well or better in a tin, 



PISH. 6? 

ot flat dish, in an oven, with a little bit of butter, or sweet oil; or 
tuey may be done in buttered paper on the gridiron. Sauce, lobster 
or shrimp. 

189. Baked Salmon. — If a small fish, turn the tail to the mouth, 
and skewer it; force meat may be put in the belly, or, if part of a 
large fish is to be baked, cut it in slices, egg it over, and dip it in the 
force meat. Stick bits of butter about the salmon (a few oysters laid 
round are an improvement). It will require occasional basting with 
the butter. When one side becomes brown, let it be carefully turned, 
and when the second side is brown, it is done. Take it up carefully, 
with all that lies about it in the baking dish. For sauce, melted 
butter, with two table-spoonsful of port wine, one of catsup, and the 
juice of a lemon, poured over the fish; or anchovy sauce in a boat. 

190. Pickled Salmon. — Do not scrape off the scales, but clean the 
fish carefully, and cut into pieces about eight inches long. Make a 
strong brine of salt and water; to two quarts, put two pounds of salt, 
and a quarter of a pint of vinegar; in all, make just enough to cover 
the fish ; boil it slowly, and barely as much as you would for eating 
hot. Drain off all the liquor; and, when cold, lay the pieces in a kit 
or small tub. Pack it as close as possible, and fill up with equal 
parts of best vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Let 
it remain so a day or two, then again fill up. Serve with a garnish 
of fresh fennel. The same method of pickling will apply to sturgeon, 
mackerel, herrings, and sprats. The three latter are sometimes 
baked in vinegar, flavoured with allspice and bay leaves, and eat 
very well ; but will not keep more than a few days. 

191. Tiirbot, Halibut, and Brills boiled. — Score the skin across 
the thick part of the back, to prevent its breaking on the breast, 
which it would be liable to do when the fish swells in boiling. Put 
the fish in the kettle in cold water, with a large handful of salt; as 
it comes to boil, skim it well, and set it aside to simmer as slowly as 
possible for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. If it boil fast it 
will break. It may be garnished with fried smelts or gudgeons, laid 
all round like spokes of a wheel. Sauce, lobster or shrimp. 

192. Soles and Dutch Plaice may be boiled exactly in the same 
way as turbot, and with the same garnish and sauce, or with parsley, 
fennel, or chervil sauce. If you have not a turbot kettle, these flat 
fish boil very well in a large frying pan, provided it admits depth of 
water to cover them. 

193. Soles, fried.— Ea.v\ng cleaned, wipe them thoroughly dry, 
and keep them in a coarse cloth an hour or two before using. In 
case any moisture should remain, flour them all over, and again wipe 
it off! They may be fried either with or without bread crumbs or 
oatmeal. If bread crumbs are to be used, beat up an egg very finely; 
wash over the fish with a paste-brush ; then sprinkle over it bread 
crumbs or oatmeal, so that every part may be covered, and one part 
not be thicker than another. Lift up the fish by a fork stuck in the 
head, and shake off^any loose crumbs that may adhere. Have plenty 
of fat in your pan, over a brisk fire, and let it quite boil before you 



68 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

put the fish in. The fat may be salad oil, butter, lard or dripping. 
If sweet and clean, the least expensive answers as well as the best, 
but let there be enough to cover the fish. Give the fish a j^entle 
ehove with a slice, that it may not stick to the pan. In about four or 
five minutes one side will be brown ; turn it carefully, and do the 
other; which, being already warm, will not take so long-. The best 
way to turn a large sole, is to stick a fork in the head, and raise the 
tail with a slice, otherwise it is liable to be broken with its own 
weight. If the soles are very large, it is a good way to cut them 
across in four or five pieces, by which means the thick parts can havp 
more time allowed them, without overdoing the thin. The very same 
rules will apply to the frying of Dutch plaice, flounders, eels, jack 
perch, roach, and other fresh-water fish. Jack and eels to be cut in 
pieces three or four inches long. Sauce, anchovy, parsley and butter, 
or melted butter flavoured with mushroom catsup. Garnish, sprigs 
of parsley or lemon juice. 

194. Soles or Eels, steiced. — They may be first half fried, so as to 
give them a little brownness ; then carefully drain them from fat; 
season with pepper and salt, and set them on with as much good beef 
gravy as will cover them. Let them simmer very gently for a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes, according to their thickness, but be 
very careful thnt they be not overdone. Take up the fish very gently 
with a slice. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter; flavour with 
mushroom catsup and port wine; simmer a minute or two, then, 
strain it over the fish. Some people do not like the addition of wine, 
and instead thereof mix the thickening with a tea-cup full of good 
cream, seasoned with cayenne and nutmeg, and with or without the 
addition of a spoonful of catsup. 

195. Cod. — The head and shoulders, comprehending in weight two- 
thirds or three-quarters of the fish, is much better dressed separately; 
the tail being much thinner would be broken to pieces before the 
thicker parts are done. The best way of dressing the tail, is to fry it. 
For boiling cod, allow plenty of room and water, that the fi.-^h may be 
perfectly covered. Put it in blood-warm water, with a large handful 
of salt. Watch for its boiling, that it may be set a little aside. A 
small cod will require twenty minutes after it boils; a large one, hdlf 
an hour. When the fins pull easily, and the eyes start, the fish is 
done. Slip it very carefully on the fish plate, that it may not be 
broken. Take out the roe and liver, which are much esteemed ; 
they will serve to garnish the dish, together with horse-radish and 
slices of lemon, or fried smelts, or oysters. Sauce, oyster. The sound, 
a fat jelly-like substance, along the inside of the backbone, is the great 
delicacy of the fish. Cod is sometimes boiled in slices. Let them 
be soaked half an hour in salt water; then set on with cold spring 
water and salt, just enough to cover them. Let it boil up; then 
carefully skim and set aside for ten minutes. Serve with the same 
sauce as above. Slices of cod are much better fried as soles. Slices 
of crimped cod, for boiling, are put in boiling water, and when done 

, served on a napkin. , ,_ ^ ...:.. 



VI sn. - 69 

196. Ling is a large finih, somewhat resembling- cod, and may be 
dressed in the same way, but is very inferior in quality. 

197. Haddock is but a poor fish, make the best of it. It may be 
boiled, and served with e<rg sauce, but it is better stuffed, and baked 
or broiled, and served with good gravy, or melted butter, flavoured 
with anchovy or mushroom catpup. 

198. Whitings may be skinned or not. Fasten the tail to the 
mouth ; dip the eggs and bread crumbs, or oatmeal, and fry as soles ; 
or they may be cut in three or four pieces, and fried. They do not 
take long to fry ; not more than five minutes; but several minutes 
should be allowed to drain the fat from them, as the ./eauty of them 
is to be perfectly dry. Sauce, anchovy, or parsley and butter. 

199. Stiirgeo7i. — If for boiling take off the skin, which is very rich 
and oily; cut in slices; season with pepper and salt; broil over a 
cb'ar fire ; rub over each slice a bit of butter, and serve with no other 
iccompaniment than lemon; or the slices may be dipped in season- 
ing or force meat, twisted in buttered white paper, and so broiled. 
Por sauce, serve melted butter with catsup. Garnish with sliced 
emon, as the j'lice is generally used with the fish. 

200. Roast Sturgeon. — A piece of sturgeon may be tied securely 
«n a spit, and roasted. Keep it constantly basted with butter, and 
when nearly done dredge with bread crumbs. When the flakes begin 
to separate, it is done. It will take about half an hour before a brisk 
fire. Serve with gcwjd gravy, thickened with butter and flour, and 
enrichod with an anchovy, a glass of sherry wine, and the juice of 
half a Seville orange or lemon. 

201. Slewed Sturgeon. — Take Pnouirh gravy to cover the fish ; 
set it on with a table-spoonful of salt, a few corns of black oepper, a 
bunch of sweet herb-, an onion or two, scraped horse-radisn, and a 
glass of vinegar. Let this boil a few minutes ; then set it aside to 
become pretty cool; then add the fish; let it come gradually to boil; 
ar.d then stew gently till the fish begins to break. Take it off im- 
mediately ; keep the fish warm; strain the gravy, and thicken with 
a good piece of buttp'r ; add a glass of port or sherry wine, a grate of 
nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. Simmer till it thickens, and then 
pour over the fish. Sauce, anchovy. 

202. Mackerel, boiled. — Put them on with cold water and salt. 
When the kettle boils, set it aside, but watch it closely, and take up 
the moment the eyes begin to start, and the tail to split. Sauce, 
paisley and butter (fennel), or roe sauce, or gooseberry sauce. Gar- 
nish, fennel and slices of lemon. 

203. Broiled Mackerel. — Cut a slit in the back that they may be 
thoroughly done. Lay them on a clean gridiron (having greased thp 
bars), over a clear, but rather slow, fire. Sprinkle pepper and salt 
over them; when thoroughly done on both sides, take them upon a 
very hot dish without a fish plate. Rub a bit of butter over each fish, 
and put inside each a little fennel and parsley, scalded and chopped, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and a bit of fresh butter. Fennel 
sauce, parsley and butter. 





70 • THE COMPLETE COOK. 

204. Baked or Pickled Mackerel. — Take off the heads ; open the 
fish ; take out the roes, and clean them tborong-hly ; rub the inside 
with pepper, salt, and allspice, and replace the roes. Pack the fish 
close in a deep baking pan; cover with equal parts of cold vinegar 
and water, and two bay loaves. Tie over strong white paper doubled, 
or still thicker. Let them bake an hour in a slow oven. They may 
be eaten hot, but will keep ten days or a fortnight. Cold butter, and 
fresh young fennel (unboiled)^are eaten with them. Sprats or her- 
rings may be done in the same way. 

205. Skate and Thornback. — These fish (like cod) are frequently 
crimped, that i?, slashed in slices, by which means the meat contracts, 
and becomes more firm as the watery particles escape. Cut them in 
pieces, and boil in salt and water; serve with anchovy sauce; or 
they may be fried with egg and bread crumbs, as soles; or stewed as 
soles. 

206. Smelts, Gudgeons, Sprats, or other small Fish, fried. — 
Clean and dry them thoroughly in a cloth, fry them plain, or beat an 
egg on a plate, dip them in it, and then in very fine bread crumbs, 
that have been rubbed through a sieve : the smaller the fi^^h, the finer 
should be the bread crumbs — biscuit powder is still better; fry them 
in plenty of clean lard or dripping; as soon as the lard boils and is 
still, put in the fish; when they are delicately browned, they are 
done; this will hardly take two minutes. Drain them on a hair sieve, 
placed before the fire, turning them till quite dry. 

207. Trout is sometimes fried, and served with cri?p parsley and 
plain melted butter. This answers best for small fish. They are 
sometimes broiled, which must be done over a slow fire, or they will 
break. While broiling, sprinkle salt and baste with butter; serve 
with an%ovy sauce, to wliich may bo added a few chopped capers 
and a little of the vinegar. The sauce is generally poured over 
the fish. 

208. Slewed Trout. — When the fish has been properly washed, 
lay it in a stew-pan, with half a pint of claret or port wine, and a 
quart of good gravy ; a large onion, a dozen berries of black pepper, 
the same of allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of mace; cover the 
fish-kettle close, and let it stew gently for ten or twenty minutes, 
according to the thickness of the fish ; take the fish up, lay it on a 
hot dish, cover it up, and thicken the liquor it was stewed in with a 
little flour; season it with a little pepper, salt, essence of anchovy, 
mushroom catsup, and a little chili vinegar; when it has boiled ten 
minutes, strain it through a tamis, and pour it over the fish ; if thera 
is more sauce than the dish will hold, send the rest up in a boat. 

209. Red Mullets. — These delicate fish are sometinjes fried, and 
served with anchovy sauce; but more frequently either stowed or 
baked. 

210. Eels, fried. — Skin and gut them, and wash them in cold 
water; cut them in pieces four inches long; season them with pep- 
per and salt; beat an cg^g well on a plate, dip them in the egg, and 
then in fine bread crumbj; firy them in fresh clean lard ; drain thero 



FISH. n'r • 71 

well from the fat; g-arnish with crisp parsley. Sauce, plain, and 
nieitcd buttor shrirpf^ned with lemon juice, or pa;sley and butter, 

211. Boiled Eels. — T\vi?t them round and round, and run a wire 
skewer through them. Do them slowly in a small quantity of salt 
and water, with a s^poonful of vineirar, and a handful of parsley. They 
may be put in cold water, and will take very few minutes after they 
boii. Sauce, parsley, or fennel, and butter. 

212. Pike or Jack. — For cither bakinir or boiling, it is upual to 
stutithem with pudding. To pecure it, bind it round with narrow 
tape. The fish may be dressed at full length, or turned with its tail 
in its mouth. For boiling, use hard water with salt, and a tea-cup 
full of vinegar ; put it in blood-warm, and when it boils set it aside 
that it may simmer slowly. It will take from ten minutes to half an 
hour, according to its size. Sauce, oyster. Garnish, slices of lem.on, 
laid alternately with horse-radish. If baked, being stuffed, put it in 
a deep dish, with a tea-cup full of gravy, and soine bits of butter stuck 
over it. Serve witli rich thickened gravy, and anchovy sauce. 

For frying, the fish is to be cut in pieces, and may be done with 
egg and bread crumbs, as soles. The usual sauce is melted butter 
and catsup, but anchovy or lobster sauce is sometimes used, 

213. Carp, fried. — The same as soles; make sauce of the roe, and 
anchovy sauce with lemon juice. 

^14. Carp, stewed. — -With the addition of preserving the biood, 
which is to be dropped into port or cluret wine, well stirring the whole 
time, carp may be stewed in tbe same manner as sturgeon, the wine 
and blood to be added with the thickening, and the whole poured over 
the fish. Sippet of bread toasted, sliced lemon and barberries. The 
earnc process for lampreys. 

215. Perch, boiled. — Put them on in as much cold spring water as 
will cover them, with a handtlil of salt. Let them boil up quickly; 
then set aside to simmer slowly for eight, ten, or fifteen minutes, ac- 
cording to their size. Sauce, parsley and butter, or fennel, or melted 
butter with catsup. 

216. Salt Fish. — It should be soaked a considerable time in soft 
water, changing the water two or three times. The length of time 
required will be according to the hardness or softness of the fish. One 
night will do for that which has been but a fortnight or three weeks 
in salt; but some require two or even three nights' soaking, and to 
be laid through the intermediate days on a stone floor. Set it on in 
cold or luke-warm water, and let it be a long time coming to boil. It 
fc^liould be kept at a slow simmer from half an hour to an hour and a 
half. When done enough, lay the tin fish-drainer across the kettle; 
remove any straggling bones and skin; pour through a quart of boil- 
ing watef to rinse it, and serve with plenty of egg sauce, red beet- 
root, parsnips, and mashed potatoes. Some of the parsnips and beet- 
roots should be served whd'ei, or in slices for garnish, together with 
horse-radish, and a di^ "also of equal parts of red beet-root and^jars- 
nips, mashed together, with pepper, butter, and cream. Salt fish is 
sometimes served with the vegetables. When boiled as above, it is 



72 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

broken in flakes, and stewed a few minutes in good gravy, flavoured 
with onions or eschalots, but not salted, and thickened with flour, but- 
ter, and cream ; then beat up with it either potatoes, or parsnips and 
beet-root, mashed with cream and butter. Sauce, egg. Salt fish, 
whether cod, ling, haddock, or salmon, is often cut in slices, soaked 
in beer, and broiled as red herrings for a breakfast relish. 

217. Terrapins. — This is a favourite dish for suppers and parties ; 
and, when well cooked, they are certainly very delicious. Many 
persons in Philadelphia have made themselves famous for cooking this 
article alone. Mrs. Rubicam, who during her lifetime always stood first 
in that way, prepared them as follows. Put the terrapins alive in a pot 
of boiling water, where they must remain until they are quite dead. 
You then divest them of their outer skin and toe-nails ; and, after 
washing them in warm water, boil them again until they become quite 
tender, adding a handful of salt to the water. Having satisfied your- 
self of their being perfectly tender, take oflr' the shells and clean the 
terrapins very carefully, removing the sand-bag and gall without 
breaking them. Then cut the meat and entrails into small pieces, 
and put into a saucepan, adding the juice which has been given out 
in cutting them up, but no water, and season with salt, cayenne, and 
black pepper, to your taste ; adding a quarter of a pound of good but- 
ter to each terrapin, and a handful of flour for thickening. After stir-_ 
ring a short time, add four or five table-spoonfulsof cream, and a half 
pint of good Madeira to every four terrapins, and serve hot in a deep 
dish. Our own cook has been in the habit of putting in a very little 
mace, a large table-spoonful of mustard, and ten drops of the gall ; 
and, just before serving, adding the yolks of four hard boiled eggs. 
During the stewing, particular attention must be paid to stirring the 
preparation frequently ; and it must be borne in mind, that terrapins 
cannot possibly be too hot. 

218. Oysters au gratin. — Take the best oysters you can find, and 
dry them on a napkin ; you then place them on a silver shell, made 
expressly for the purpose, or fine, large, deep oyster shells, if handier, 
which should be well cleaned, placing in them four or six oysters, 
according to their size ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, 
mushrooms hashed very fine, a small quantity of bread crumbs, with 
which the surface of the oysters must be covered, placing on top of 
all a small piece of the best butter. Then put them in a hot oven, 
and let them remain until they acquire a golden colour. Serve 
them hot. 

219. Oysters, stewed. — For this purpose the beard or fringe is 
generally taken off. If this is done, set on the beards with the liquor 
of the oysters, and a little white gravy, rich but unseasoned ; iiiaving 
boiled a few minutes, strain oflf the beards, put in the oysters, and 
thicken the gravy with flour and butter (an ounce of butter to half a 
pint of stew,) a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, or mace, a spoonful of 
catsup, and three of cream; some prefer a little essence of anchovy to 
catsup, others the juice of a lemon, others a glass of white wine ; the 
flavour may be varied according to taste. Simmer till the stew is 



ROASTING. HI 73 

thick, and warmed through, but avoid letting: them boil. Lay toasted 
sippets at the bottom of the dish and round the edg-es. 

220. A more simple, and, as we think,a better method is to put, say two 
hundred oysters in a saucepan with nothing but their own juice ; place 
tlitm on a brisk tire, and let them remain, stirring them occasionally, 
until they begin to boil, then remove them, and pass the juice through 
a tin colander, leaving the oysters to drain. Then mix well together 
three-quarters of a pound of good butter, and a handful of flour. 
When this is done, strain the juice of the oysters through a sieve into 
the saucepan containing the butter and flour, and put it on the fire 
again, and add pepper and salt to your taste, stirring the whole fre- 
quently and briskly. When it begins to boil again, add the oysters, 
and the following articles, well beaten together, viz., the yolks of 
three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and the juice of half a lemon; 
whilst adding these, stir the whole briskly, and serve immediately. 

221. Oysters^ fried. — Large oysters are the best for this purpose. 
Simmer for a minute or two in their own liquor; drain perfectly dry; 
dip in yolks of eggs, and then in bread crumbs, seasoned with nutmeg, 
cayenne, and salt ; fry them of a light brown. They are chiefly used 
as garnish for fish, or for rump steaks; but if intended to-be eaten 
alone, make a little thick melted butter, moistened with the liquor of 
the oysters, and serve as sauce. 

222. Broiled Oysters. — The oysters should be the largest and finest 
you can get. Prepare your gridiron, which should b'- a double one 
made of wire, by rubbing with butter, and having placed your oysters 
6o that they will all receive the heat equally, set tl -.^m over a brisk 
fire, and broil both sides without burning them. Let them be served 
hot, with a small lump of fresh butter, pepper and salt, added to them. 
Some establishments serve them egged and breaded; either way, 
however, they are goo^. 

ROASTING. 

223. Mind that your spit is clean, and take care that it passes 
through the meat as little as possible. Before it is spitted, see that 
the meat is jointed properly, particularly necks and loins. When on 
the spit it must be evenly balanced, that its motion may be regular, 
and all parts equally done ; for this purpose, take care to be provided 
with balancing skewers and cookholds ; a cradle spit is the best. 

224. The bottle or vertical jacTv is an excellent instrument for 
roasting, better than spits for joints under forty pounds; but if you 
have neither of these things, as is often the case in small families, a 
woollen string tv^isted round a door key makes a good substitute. In 
this case a strong skewer should be passed through each end of the 
joint, in order that it may be conveniently turned bottom upwards, 
which will insure an equality of roasting and an equal distribution of 
the gravy. A Dutch oven is a convenient utensil for roasting small 
joints; but by far the best and most economical thing of the kind is, 
improperly, called the American oven, by which you may roast meat 
bctbrc a sjtfing-room fire, without any extra fuoi, and without the 

C? * . ■'■ ' - - ^> . ■»••■ 



74 T H E C O M r L E T E C O O K. 

slightest inconvenience to the persons occupying the apartment. 
This contrivance will save, in the course of a year, all the expense, 
and more, of its original cost, in bakings, with this additional consi- 
deration, that meat so dressed will be equal to roasted meat. Meat 
cooked in a common oven, to say nothing of the abstracting of the 
dripping by the generality of bakers, is greatly inferior, both in flavour 
and tenderness, to that dressed in the American oven, where the air 
is not confined. It is not, however, meat alone that may be dressed 
in the American oven. All sorts of cakes may be made in it, and 
indeed, all the operations of baking and roasting may be performed 
by it, on a limited scale, but sufficiently large tor a small family in 
contracted circumstances; in short, with the addition of the recent 
improvement, a sort of oval iron covering, we have baked bread before 
a parlour fire as perfectly as it could be produced by the regular pro- 
cess of baking; in one word, no family, whether in poor or middling 
circumstances, ought to be without the American oven, which may 
be had for a few shillings. 

225. The fire for roasting should be made up in time, but it is 
better not to be very hot at first. The fire should, in point of size, 
be suited, to the dinner to be dressed, and a few inches longer at each 
end than the article to be roasted, or the ends will not be done. 

226. Never put meat down to a fierce fire, or one thoroughly 
burnt up, if you can possibly avoid it; but if not, you must take care 
and place it a considerable distance from the grate ; indeed, meat 
should always be done slowly at first; it is impossible to roast a joint 
of very considerable size well under some hours. It is said that 
George III., who lived principally upon plain roasted and boiled joints, 
employed cooks who occupied four, five, or even six hours in roasting 
a single joint; but the result amply repaid the loss of labour and 
time; the meat was full of gravy, perfectly tender, and of a delicious 
flavour. 

227. In placing paper over the fat to preserve it, never use pins or 
skewers; they operate as so many taps, to carry off the gravy; be- 
sides, the paper frequently starts from the skewers, and is, conse- 
quently, liable to take fire, to the great injury of both the flavour and 
appearance of the meat. For these reasons, always fasten on your 
paper with tape, twine, or any other suitable string. 

228. The fire should be proportioned to the quantity of the meat 
intended to be roasted, as we have intimated above. For large joints 
make up a good strong fire, equal in every part of the grate, and well 
backed by cinders or small coals. Take care that the fire is bright 
and clear in the front. The larger the joint to be roasted, the farther 
tt must be kept from the fire till nearly done — mind that. When 
you have to roast a thin and tender thing, let your fire be little and 
brisk. 

229. When your fire is moderately good, your meat, unless very 
small, ought not to be put down nearer than from ten to fifteen inches 
off the grate; in some instances a greater distance would be prefer- 
able, but it is impossible to lay down any definite rule on this subject. 

2t30. Slow roasting, like slow boiling, is the best, and the more 



ROASTING, BROILING, &C. 75 

slow, in reason, the better. The time usually directed to be allowed 
for roasting m^at, where the fire is good, the meat screen sufficiently 
large, and the meat not frosted, is rather more than a quarter of an 
hour to a pound, but we take this to be too short a time; however, 
the cook must judge for herself; much will depend upon the tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere, fee, and more upon the degree of basting it 
has undergone. The more the meat is basted the less time it will 
take to do^ for the meat is rendered soft and mellow outside, and con- 
sequently, admits the lieat to act upon the inside. On the contrary, 
meat rendered hard on the outside by having too hot a fire, or neglect- 
ing to baste, the fire is prevented from operating upon the interior. 
When the meat is half done the fire should be well stirred for brown- 
ing, that is, it must be made to burn brightly and clearly. When 
the steam begins to rise, depend upon it the meat is thoroughly done, 
that is, well saturated with heat, and all that goes off from the meat 
in evaporation is an absolute waste of its most savoury and nourish- 
ing particles. 

231. A good cook will be particular to place her dripping pan so 
as to catch the dripping, but not the loose hot coals which may chance 
to fall from the fire. Your dripping pan should be large, not lesa 
than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inches broad, and should 
have a well covered well on the side from the fire, to collect the drip- 
ping; "this," says Dr. Kitchiner, " will preserve it in the most deli- 
cate state." 

232. Roasting and boiling, as being the most common operations 
in cooking, are generally considered the most easy ; this is a great 
error: roasting, m particular, requires unremitting attention toper- 
form it well, much more so than stewing, or the preparing many made 
dishes. A celebrated French author, in the Almanack des Gout' 
manils, says, that " the art of roasting victuals to the precise degree, 
is one of the mo.-t difficult things in this world, and ijou mayjind half 
a thousand good cooks sooner than one perfect roaster ; Jive minutes 
on the spiff more or less, decide the goodness of this mode of 
cookery.'' 

ROASTmG, BROILING, AND FRYING. 

Before entering into any detail as to the best method of preparing 
the different dishes imder this head, we must recommend the young 
cook to again carefully read our preliminary observations on roasting. 
We may here too be allowed to er.ter our most decided protest against 
baking meat, generally speakin-g — whether in the common brick 
oven, or in the iron ovens attached to kitchen ranges, particularly in 
the latter, unless they have a draught of air through them, when they 
will dress, or rather roast meat very well. Meat cannot be subjected 
to the influence of fire without injury, unless it is open to the air, by 
which the exhalations are carried off, and the natural flavour of the 
meat is preserved. Under the idea of saving fuel, persons are induced 
to use stoves in their kitchen instead of ranges. They should con- 



76 . ;> T H E C O M P L E T E COOK. u 

sider, however, that baking" not only injures the meat, but absolutely 
Kpoils the dripping, which from roasted meat is much^^nore valuable 
than the extra cost of coals. For a small family, we recommend the 
bottle jack — and for large establishments, a kitchen range, a smoke 
jack, and the usual quantity of plating for stewing, or boiling-. In 
the following receipts we have generally indicated the time which a 
joint will take roasting, but a good cook will never wholly depend 
upon lime, either in roasting or boiling; she ought to exercise her 
own judgment, as to whether a thing is done or not When roast 
meat streams towards the fire, it is a sure sign that the meat is nearly 
done. On no account, whatever, should gravy be poured over any 
thing that is roasted. It makes the meat insipid, and washes oil the 
frothing, or dredging. 

233. Sirloin of Beef, roasted. — Sirloin or ribs, of about fifteen 
pounds, will require to be before a large sound fire about three and 
a half or four hours; take care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier on one side than the other; put a little clean drippinj? in the 
dripping pan (tie a piece of paper over it to preserve the fat), b-tste it 
well as soon as it is put down, and every quarter of an hour all the 
time it is roasting, till the last half hour; then take off the paper, and 
make some gravy for it; stir the fire and make it clear; to brown 
and froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it with butter, and 
dredge it with flour; let it go a few minutes longer, till the froth 
ri^"■ 3; take it up. Garnish it with a hillock of horse-radish, scraped 
at fine as possible with a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire pudding is 
an excellent accompaniment. The inside of the sirloin should never 
be cut hot, but reserved entire for the hosh, or a mock hare. 

234. Rump and Round. — Rump and rounds of beef are sometimes 
roasted ; they require thorough doing, and much basting to keep the 
outside from being dry. It should be before the fire from three hours, 
and upwards, nccording to size. Gravy and garrnsh as above. 

235. Mock Hare. — The inside lean of a sirloin of beef may be 
dresse^l so as to resemble hare, and is by many people greatly pre- 
ferred to it. Make a good stuffing. If possible, get the inside meat 
of the whole length of sirloin, or even of two, lay the stuffing on half 
the length, turn the other end over and sew up the two sides with a 
strong twine, that will easily draw out when done ; roast it nicely, 
taking care to baste it well, and serve with sauces and garnishes the 
same as hare; or, it may be partly roasted and then stewed, in rich 
thickened gravy with force meat balls, and sauce. 

236i Ribs of Beef , boned. — Take out the ribs, &c. and roll it ag- 
round as possible; bind with tape ; roast with or without veal stuffing, 
laid over before rolling. Thoroughly soak it, and brown it before a 
quick fire. Roast beef accompaniments, and, if liked, wow-womt 
sauce. 

237. Roasting Mutton. — A saddle of mutton of ten or twelve 
pounds will take from two hours and a half to three hours roasting. 
Mutton should be put before a brisk fire; a saddle of mutton requires 
to be protected from the heat by covering it with paper, which should 



ROASTING, BROILING, &, C . 77 

be taken off about a quarter of an hour before it is done ; when of a 
paie-brown colour, baste it; flour it lightly to froth. The leg of 
mutton, the shoulder, the loin, the neck, the breast, and the haunch^ 
require the same treatment as the saddle, with the exception of 
papering, which, however, may be sometimes required. The haunch 
should be served with plain but rich mutton sauce, and with sweet 
sauce ; of course separately. 

238. Mutton, Venison fashion. — Hang till fit for dressing a good 
neck of mutton ; two days before dressing it, rub it well twice each 
day with powdered allspice, and black pepper ; roast it in paste, as 
ordered for the haunch of venison. 

239. Roasting Veal. — This meat r'^quires particular care to roast 
it a nice brown ; the fire should be the same as for beef; a sound 
large fire for a large joint, and a brisker for a smaller: soak tho- 
roughly, and then bring it nearer the fire to brown ; baste on first 
pulling down, and occasionally afterwards. When done and dished, 
pour over it melted butter, with or without a little brown gravy. 
Veal joints, not stuffed, may be served with force meat balls, or rolled 
into sausages as garnish to the dish ; or fried pork sausages. Bacon 
or ham, and greens, are generally eaten with veal. 

240. Fillet of Veal of from twelve to sixteen pounds will require 
from four or five hours at a good fire ; make some stuffing or force 
meat, and put it under the flap, that there may be some left to eat 
cold, or to season a hash ; brown it, and pour good melted butter over 
it ; garnish with thin slices of lemon and cakes or balls of stuffing. 
A loin is the best part of the calf, and will take about three hours 
roasting ; paper the kidney fat and back. A shoulder from three 
hours to three hours and a half; stuff it with the force meat ordered 
for the fillet of veal, or balls made of 271. Neck, best end, will take 
two hours; same accompaniments as the fillet. The scrag part is 
best in a pie or broth. Breast from an hour and a half to two hours. 
Let the caul remain till it is almost done, then take it off to brown it; 
baste, flour and froth it. 

241. Veal Sweetbread. — Trim a fine sweetbread (it cannot be too 
fresh), parboil it for five minutes, and throw it into a basin of cold 
water. Roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of an egg, and prepare 
some bread crumbs. When the sweetbread is cold, dry it thoroughly 
in a cloth; run a lark-spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the 
ordinary spit; egg it with a paste-brush ; powder it well with bread 
crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried bread crumbs round it, and 
melted butter, with a little mushroom catsup, or serve them on but- 
tered toast, garnished with egg sauce, or with gravy. Instead of 
spitting them, you may put them into a tin dutch oven or fry them. 

242. Roasting Lamb. — To the usual accompaniments of roasted 
meat, Iamb requires green mint sauce or salad, or both. Some cooks, 
about five minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a little fresh- 
gathered and finely minced parsley, or crisped parsley. Lamb and 
all 3^oung meats ought to be thoroughly done ; therefore, do not take 
eithe" lamb or veal oflT the spit till you see it drop white gravy. 



■^ 



THE COMFLETE COOK. 



VVhfin green mint cannot be got, mint vinegar is an acsrptable sub- 
Btitute tor it, and crisp parsley, on a side plate, is an admirable 
accompaniment. Hind-quarter of eight pounds will take from an 
hour and three-quarters to two hours; baste, and froth it. A quarter 
of a porkling is sometimes skinned, cut, and dressed lamb Cushion, and 
sent up as a substitute for it. The leg and the loin of lamb, when 
little, should be roasted together, the former being lean, the latter fat, 
and the gravy is better preserved. Fore-quarter often pounds, about 
two hours, ft is a pretty general custom, when you lake off the 
shoulder from the ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange, or lemon, over 
them, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt ; this may be 
done by the cook before it comes to table. Some peo;>le are not 
remarkably expert at dividing these joints nicely. Leg of five 
pounds, from an hour to an hour and a half. Shoulder, with a quick 
fircj an hour. Ribs, almost an hour to an hour and a quarter; joint 
them nicely, crack the ribs across, and divide them from the brisket 
after it is roasted. Loi?i, an hour and a quarter. Neck, an hour. 
Breast three-quarters of an hour. 

243. Roasting Pork. — If this meat be not well done, thoroughly 
well done, it is disgusting to the sight and poisonous to the stomach. 
"In the gravy of pork, if there is the least tint of redness," says Dr. 
Kitchiner, " it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite. Other moots 
under-done are unpleasant, but pork is absolutely uneatable." A Leg 
of eight pounds will require about three hours; score the skin across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in diamonds) about a quarter of an 
inch apart; stuff the knuckle with sage and onion minced fine, and a 
little grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 
See 252 and 270. Do not put it too near the fire ; rub a little sweet 
oil on the skin with a paste-brush, or a goose- feather ; this makes the 
crackling crisper and browner than basting it with dripping, and it 
will be a better colour than all the art of cookery can make it in any 
other way ; and this is the best way of preventing the skin from 
blistering, which is principally occasioned by its being put too near 
the fire. 

244. Leg of Pork roasted loithout the skin ; or Mock Goose. — 
Parboil a leg of pork, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast; 
baste it with butter, and make a savoury powder of finely minced of 
dried or powdered sage, ground black pepper, salt, and some bread 
crumbs rubbed together through a colander ; you may add to this a 
little very finely minced onion; sprinkle it with this when it is almost . 
roasted ; put a half pint of made gravy into the dish, and goose stuffing ' 
tinder the knuckle skin, or garnish the dish with balls of it, fried or 
broiled. 

245. Spare rib : when you put it down to roast, dust on some flour. . 
and baste it with a little butter ; dry a dozen sage leaves, rub thenr 
through a hair sieve, put them into the top of a pepper box, and about 
a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter; du.st 
the pulverised sage, or savoury powder, in, or sprinkle it with duck 
stuffing ; some people prefer it plain. 



fl o A s T I N a . 79 

246. Loin of Pork, of five pounds, must be kept at a good distance 
from the fire, on account of the crackling, and will take about two 
hours — if very fat, half an hour longer: stuff it with duck stuffing 
(252 and 270 ;) score the skin in stripes about a quarter of an inch 
apart, and rub it with salad oil. You may sprinkle over it some of 
the savoury powder recommended for the mock goose (244.) 

247. Sucking Pf^ should be about three weeks old, and it ought to 
be dressed as quickly as possible after it is killed; if not quite fresh, 
the crackling can never be made crisp. It requires constant attentior^ 
and great care in roasting. As the ends require more fire than the 
middle, an instrument called the pig-iron has been contrived to hang 
before the latter part. A common flat iron will answer the purpose, 
or the fire may be kept fiercest at the ends. A good stuffing m;iy be 
made as follows : — Take five or six ounces of the crumb of stale bread ; 
crumble and rub through a colander; mince very fine a handful of 
sage, and a large onion; mix with an egg, pepper, salt, and apiece of 
butter about the size of an egg ; fill the belly, and sew it up ; put it 
to the fire, and baste it with butter tied up in a rag, by applying it to 
the back of the pig. Kitchiner recommends bastinfr it with olive oil 
till it is done. It should never be left. It should be placed before a 
clear brisk fire, at some distance; and great care should be taken 
that the crackling should be nicely crisped, and delicately browned. 
It will require from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the 
size of the pig. When first put to the fire, it should be rubbed all 
over with fresh butter, or salad oil ; ten minutes after this, and when 
the skin looks dry, dredge it well with flour all over. Let this re« 
main on an hour, and then rub it off with a soft cloth. A sucking pig 
being very troublesome to roast, is frequently sent to the oven. A 
clever baker will do it so as to be almost equal to roasted ; he will re- 
quire a quarter of a pound af butter, and should be told to baste it well. 
(See 284.) Before you take the pig from the fire, cut off the head, 
and part that and the body down the middle; chop the brains very fine 
with some boiled sage leaves, and mix them with good veal or beef 
gravy, or what runs from the pig when you cut the head off. Send 
up a tureen full of gravy besides. Currant sauce is still a favourite 
with some of the old school. Lay your pig back to back in the dish, with 
one half of the head on each side, and the ears at each end, which you 
must take care to make nice and crisp, or you will get scolded, and 
deservedly. When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the skin long, round 
the end of the legs. 

248. Turkey, Turkey Poults, and other Poultry. — A fowl and a 
turkey require the same management at the fire, only the latter will 
take longer time. Let them be carefiilly picked, break the breast- 
bone (to make them look plump,) and thoroughly singe them with a 
sheet of clean writing paper. Prepare a nice brisk fire for them. 
Make stuffing according to 269; stuff them under the breast wliere 
the craw was taken out; and make some into balls, and boil or fry 
them, and lay them round the dish; they are handy to help, and you 
can reserve some of the inside stuffing to eat with the cold turkey, ar 



80 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

to enrich a hash. Score the gizzard ; dip it in the yolk of an err?, or 
melted butter, and sprinkle it with salt and a few grains of cayenne; 
put it under one pinion, and the liver under the other; cover the liver 
with buttered paper, to prevent it getting- hardened or buint. When 
you first put your turkey down to roast, dredge it with flour, then put 
about an ounce of butter into a basting ladle, and as it melts baste the 
bird. Keep it at a distance from the fire for the first half hour that it 
may warm gradually, then put it nearer, and when it is plumped up, 
and the steam draws towards the fire, it is nearly done enough ; then 
dredge it lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into your bastinfif 
ladle, and as it melts baste the turkey with it; this will raise a finer 
froth than can be produced by using the fat out of the pan. A very 
large turkey will require about three hours to roast it thoroughly ; a 
middling sized one, of eight or ten pounds, about two hours ; a small 
one may be done in an hour and a half. Turkey poults are of various 
eizes, and will take about an hour and a half Fried pork sausages 
are a very savoury accompaniment to either roasted or boiled turkey. 
Sausage meat is sometimes used as a stuffing, instead of the ordinary 
force meat. If you wish a tcrkey, especially a very large one, to be 
tender, never dress it till at least four or five days (in cold weather, 
eight or ten) after it has been killed, unless it be dressed immediately 
after killing, before the flesh is cold ; be very careful not to let it 
freeze. Hen turkeys are preferable to cocks for whiteness and 
tenderness, and the small tender ones, with black legs, are most 
esteemed. Send up with them oyster, egg, and plenty of gravy 
sauce. 

249. Capons or Fowls must be killed a couple of days in moderate, 
and more in cold, weather, before they are dressed, unless dressed 
immediately they are killed, or they will eat tough : a good criterion 
of the ripeness of poultry for the spit, is the ease with which you can 
pull out the feathers; when a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help you 
to ascertain this. They are managed exactly in the same manner, 
and sent up with the same sauces, as a turkey, only they require pro- 
portionably less time at the fire-^a full-grown five-toed fowl about an 
hour and a quarter; a moderate sized one, an hour; a chicken, from 
thirty to forty minutes. Have also pork sausages fried, as they are in 
general a favourite accompaniment, or turkey stuffing; see Force 
meats, 278 ; put in plenty of it, so as to plump out the fowl, which 
must be tied closely (both at the neck and rump,) to keep in the stuflf^ 
ing; some cooks put the liver of the fowl into this force meat, and 
others mince it and pound it, and rub up with flour and melted butter. 
When the bird is stuffed and trussed, score the gizzard nicely; dip it 
into melted butter ; let it drain, and then season it with cayenne and 
salt ; put it under one pinion, and the liver under the other; to. pre- 
vent their getting hardened or scorched, cover them with double pa- 
per buttered. Take care that your roasted poultry be well browned;, 
it is as indispensable that roasted poultry should have a rich brown] 
complexion, as that boiled poultry should have a delicate white one. 



ROASTING. 81 

For sauces, see 111 ; or liver and parsley, and those ordered in the 
last receipt. 

250. Goose. — When a goose is well picked, singed and cleaned, 
make the stuffing with about two ounces of onion, and half as much 
green sage ; chop them very fine, adding four ounces of stale bread 
crumbs, a bit of butter about as big as a walnut, and a very little pep- 
per and salt (to this some cooks add half the liver, parboiling it first,) 
the yolk of an egg or two, and, incorporating the whole together, stuff 
the goose ; do not quite fill it, but leave a little room for the stuffing 
to swell. From an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters will 
roast a fine full-grown goose. Send up gravy and apple sauce with it. 
Geese are called green till they are about four months old. 

251. Canvass Back Ducks, or Red Neck Ducks. — Let your duck 
be young and fat, if possible; having picked it well, draw it and singe 
carefully, without washing it, so as to preserve the blood, and conse- 
quently, all its flavour. You then truss it, leaving its head on for the 
purpose of distinguishing it from common game, and place it on the 
spit before a brisk fire, for at least fifteen minutes. Then serve it 
hot, in its own gravy, which is formed by the blood, &c., on a large 
chafing dish. The best birds are found on the Potomac river; they 
have the head purple, and the breast silver colour, and it is consideroi 
superior in quality and flavour to any other species of wild duck. 
The season is only during the cold weather. 

252. Duck. — Mind your duck is well cleaned, and wiped out with 
a clean cloth ; for the styTmg, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green sage; chjp them very fine, and mix them with two 
ounces of bread crumbs, a bit of butter about as big as a walnut, a 
very little black pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg to bind it; 
mix these thoroughly together, and put into the duck. From half to 
three-quarters of an hour will be enough to roast it, according to the 
size ; contrive to have the feet delicately crisp, as some people are 
very fond of them; — to do this nicely, you must have a sharp fire. 
Gravy sauce, and sage and onion sauce. To hash or stew ducks, the 
same as goose. If you think the raw onion will make too strong an 
impression upon the palate, parboil it. To insure ducks being ten- 
der, in moderate weather kill them a few days before you dress them. 

253. Haunch of Venison. — To preserve the fat, make a paste of 
flour and water, as much as will cover the haunch; wipe it with a 
dry cloth in every part ; rub a large sheet of paper all over with but- 
ter, and cover the venison with it ; then roll out the paste about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Lay this all over the fat side, cover it with 
three or four sheets of strong white paper, and tie it securely on with 
packthread ; have a strong close fire, and baste your venison as soon 
as you lay it down to roast (to prevent the paper and string from burn- 
ing;) it must be well basted all the time. A buck haunch which ge- 
nerally weighs from twenty to twenty-five pounds, will take about four 
hours and a half roasting in warm, and longer in cold, weather. A 
naunch of from twelve to eighteen pounds will be done in about three 
nours, or three hours and a half. A quarter of an hour before it ia 
done, the string must be cut, and the paste carefully taken off; now 



82 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

baste it with butter, dredge it ]ic,^htly with flour, and when the froth 
rises, and it has got a very light-brown colour, it is done. Garnish 
the knuckle bone with a ruffle of cut writing paper, and send it up 
with good strong (but unseasoned) gravy in one boat, and currant jelly 
sauce in the other, or currant jelly in a side plate (not melted.) See 
for Sauces, 187, 138, 139. Buck venison is in greatest perfection 
from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and doe from November to January. 
Neck and Shoulder of venison are to be treated the same way as the 
haunch, but they will not take so much time, nor do they need the 
paste covering. 

254. A Faicn should be dressed as soon after it is killed as pos- 
sible; when very young, it is dressed the same as a hare; but they 
are better eating when the size of the house lamb, or when they are 
large enough to be roasted in quarters. The hind-quarter is consid- 
ered the best. Fawns require a very quick fire. They are so deli- 
cate that they must be constantly basted, or be covered with sheets 
of fat bacon ; when nearly done, remove the bacon, baste it with 
butter, and froth it. Serve with venison sauce. 

255. A Kid is very good eating when a suckling, and when the 
dam is in fine condition. Roast, and serve it like a fawn or hare. 

256. Hare when young is easy of digestion, and very nourishing— 
when old, the contrary, unless rendered so by keeping and dressing. 
"When you receive a hare, take out the liver — if it be sweet, parboil 
it, and keep it for stuffing. Wipe the hare quite dry; rub the inside 
with pepper, and hang it in a cool place till it is fit to be dressed, that 
is to say, till it comes to the point of putrefaction, but not putrefied. 
Then paunch and skin, wash and lay it in a large pan of cold water 
four or five hours, changing the water two or three times; lay it in 
a clean cloth; dry it well, and truss. To make the stuffing, see 272. 
Let it be stiff"; put it in the belly, and sew it up tightly. The skin 
must be cut to let the blood out of tiie neck. Some persons baste it 
with skimmed milk, but we decidedly prefer dripping; it ought to be 
constantly basted till it is nearly done; then put a little bit of butter 
into your basting ladle; flour and froth nicely. Serve with good 
gravy and currant jelly. Cold roast hare, chopped to pieces, and 
stewed in water for a couple of hours, will make excellent soup. 

257. Rabbit. — Put it down to a sharp clear fire ; dredge it lightly 
and carefully with flour; take care to have it frothy and of a fine 
light brown; boil the liver with parsley while the rabbit is roasting; 
when tender, chon them together; put half the mixture into melted 
butter, use the other half for garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cut 
off" the head, divide it, and lay half on each side the dish. A fine 
well-grown and well-hung warren rabbit, dressed as a hare, will eat 
very much like it. 

258. A Pheasant should have a smart fire, but not a fierce one ; 
baste it, butter and froth it, and prepare sauce for it. Some persons, 
the pheasant being a dry bird, put a piece of beef or rump steak into 
the inside before roastipg. It is said that a pheasant should be sus- 
pended by one of the long tail feathers till it falls. It is then ripe 



SEASONINGS 



83 



and ready for the spit, and not before. If a fowl be well kept, and 
dressed as a pheasant, and with a pheasant, few persons will discover 
the pheasant from the fowl. 

259. Guinea Fowls, Partridges, Pea Fowls, Blackcock, Grouse^ 
and Moorgamcy are dressed in the same way as pheasants. Par- 
tridges are sent up with rice sauc", or bread sauce, and good gravy. 
Blackcock, nioorgame, and grouse, are sent up with currant jelly and 
fried bread crumbs. 

260. Wild Ducks, Widgeon, and Teal, are dressed before a clear 
fire, and on a hot spit. Wild ducks will require fifteen or twenty 
minutes to do them in the fashionable way, but to do them well will 
require a few minutes longer. Widgeon and teal, being smaller 
birds, of course will require less time. 

261. Woodcocks and Snipes are never drawn; they should be tied 
on a small bird spit, and put to roast at a clear fire ; a slice of bread 
is put under each bird, to catch the trail, that is the excrements of the 
intestines; they are considered delightful eating; baste with butter, 
and froth with flour; lay the toa?t on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toast; pour some good gravy into the dish, and send some up in a 
boat. They are generally roasted from twenty to thirty niinutes — 
but some epicures say, that a woodcock should be just introduced to 
tiie cook, for her to show it the fire, and then send it up to table. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon. Snipes are dressed in the same way, but 
require less time. 

262. Pigeons, when stuffed, require some green parsley to be 
chopped very fine with the liver and a bit of butter, seasoned with a 
little pepper and salt; or they may be stuffed with the same as a fillet 
of veal. Fill the belly of each bird with either of these compositions. 
They will roast in about twenty or thirty minutes. Serve with 
parsley and butter, with a dish under them, with some in a boat. 
Garnish with crisp parsfey, fried bread crumbs, br^ead sauce, or gravy. 

263. Small Birds. — The most delicate of these are larks, which 
are in high season in November and December. When cleaned and 
prepared for roasting, brush tiiem with tiie yolk of an egg, and roll 
in bread crumbs; spit them on a lark-spit, and tie that on a larger 
Bpit; ten or fifteen minutes at a quick fire will do them ; baste them 
with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are 
quite covered, while roasting. Sauce, grated bread fried in butter, 
which set to drain before the fire that it may harden ; serve the 
crumbs under the larks when you dish them, and garnish them with 
slices of lemon. Wheatears are dressed in the same way. 

264. Reed Birds. — Having carefully picked your birds, v/hich 
should be very fat, draw them Vvith the greatest care possible so as 
not to rob them of any fat, and truss them on a skewer, which you 
fasten to the spit, and cook them before a brisk fire ; a very few 
minutes is requisite. In serving them, place them on buttered toast, 
and pour a small portion of gravy over them. Let them be hot. 
This is generally considered the best manner of serving reed birds, 
although many persons prefer them breaded and fried, or barbacued. 



84 T II E C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

"When they are very fat it is unnecepsary to draw Ihcm. The season 
for this delicious bird is from the middle of September to the first or 
eecond week in October. 



SEASONINGS. 

The art of making seasoning's, or stuffings, principally consists in 
Eo proportioning the flavours as that none may predominate, or be 
tasted more than another. In stuffing, care must be taken to leave 
room for swelling ; if not, it is apt to be hard and heavy. 

265. Seasoning for Roast Pork, Ducks, or Geese. — Two-thirds 
onion, one-third green sage, chopped fine, bread crumbs equal in 
weight to the sage and onions; season with a little pepper and salt, 
and incorporate it well with the yolk of an egg or two, and a bit of 
butter. Some omit the bread crumbs, and some again do not like the 
onions, while others add to them a clove of garlic. 

266. Seasoning for a Sucking Fig. — A large teacup full of 
grated bread, two ounces of butter, season with nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper; scald two small onions, chop fine, and about thirty leaves of 
young sage, and egg beat fine, and mix altogether, and sew it in the 
belly of the pig. 

267. Seasoning for a Goose. — Scald the liver, chop fine, crumb 
twice its weight in bread, chop fine four small onions, or an equal 
weight of chives, half the weight of green sage, half an ounce of 
butter, the yolk of an egg, and a table spoonful of potato starch ; 
season highly with salt and pepper; mix well. 

268. Chesniit Seasoning for Goose. — Fry or boil chesnuts till the 
outer skin comes off" very easily, and the inside will pound or grate ; 
rexluce them to powder, scald the liver of the goose, and an onion or 
two, the juice of a lemon, season with pepper, cayenne, salt; mix 
well toofether. 



STUFFINGS AND FORCE MEATS. 

269. Stiiffing for Veal, Roast Turkey, Fowl, t^^c. — Mince a 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow (beef suet will do,) the same 
weight of bread crumbs, two drachms of parsley leaves, a drachm 
and a half of sweet marjoram (or lemon thyme,) and the same of 
grated lemon peel, an onion, chopped very fine, a little salt and 
pepper, pound thoroughly together, with the yolk and white of two 
Gggs, and secure it in the veal with a skewer, or sew it in with a 
needle and thread. Make some of it into balls or sausages; flour 
and fry or boil them, and send them up as a garnish, or in a side dish, 
with roast poultry, veal, or cutlets, &c. This is sufficient quantity 
for a turkey poult; a very large turkey will require twice as much; 
an ounce of dressed ham may be added to the above, or use equal 
parts of the above stuffing and pork sausage meat. 

270. Goose or Duck slvfing. — Chop vt^ry fine about one ounce of 
green sago leaves, two ounces of onion also chopped fine (both un« 



STUFFINGS, &C. 

boiled,) a bit of butter about the size of a walnut, four ounces 
bread crumbs, a little salt and pepper, the yolk and white of an egg: 
Bome add to this a little apple. 

271. Force meat balls for turtle, mock turtle, or made dishes :— 
Pound some veal in a marble mortar, rub it through a sieve with aa 
much of the udder as you have of veal, and about the third of the 
quantity of butter ; put some bread crumbs in a stew-pan, moisten 
with milk, add a little chopped eschalot, and a little parsley; rub 
them well together in a mortar till they form a smooth paste ; put it 
through a sieve, and when cold, pound and mix all together, with the 
yolk of three eggs boiled hard; season it with curry powder, or 
cayenne pepper and salt; add the yolks of two unboiled eggs, rub it 
well together, and make small balls; a few minutes before your soup 
is ready, put them in. 

272. Sticffing for Hare. — Three ounces of fine bread crumbs, two 
ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, eschalot half a drachm, one drachm 
of parsley, a drachm of lemon thymo, marjoram, winter savoury, a 
drachm of grated lemon peel, and the same of pepper and salt; mix 
these with the white and yolk of an egg ; de not make it thin, for if 
it is not stiff enough, it will be good for nothing ; put it in the hare 
and sew it up. If the liver is quite sound, parboil it, mince it very 
fine, and put to the stuffing. 

273. Veal Force meat — Of undressed veal take two ounces, scrape 
it quite fine, and free from skin and sinews, the same quantity of 
beef or veal suet, and the same of bread crumbs; chop fine one 
drachm of lemon peel, two drachms of parsley, the same quantity 
of sweet herbs, and half a drachm of mace or allspice beaten to a 
fine powder ; pound all together in a mortar, break into it the yolk 
and white of an egg^ rub it all well together, and season with pepper 
and salt. This may be made more savoury by adding cold pickled 
tongue, eschalot, anchovy, cayenne, or curry powder. 

274. Stuffing for Pike^ Carp, or Haddock. — A dozen oysters 
bearded and chopped, two yolks of eggs, a small onion, or two cloves 
of eschalot and a few sprigs of parsley chopped fine, season with 
cayenne, mace, allspice, pepper, and salt ; add their weight of bread 
crumbs,, or biscuit powder, then put two ounces of butter into a stew- 
pan, and simmer them till they have sucked up the butter ; as they 
begin to bind, sprinkle over them more bread crumbs or biscuit 
powder, till the whole forms into a ball, with which stuff the fish. 
Some people like the addition of ham or tongue scraped, and suet or 
marrow instead of butter. 

Another way. Beef suet, or marrow and fat bacon, and fresh 
butter, two ounces of each ; pound them with the meat of a lobster, 
ten or twelve oysters, one or two anchovies; season with thyme, 
parsley, knotted marjoram, savoury, chopped fine and scalded ; add 
salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, a few drops of essence of eschalot ; add 
the yolk of an egg, and bread crumbs. This pudding will be suffi* 
ciently done in the belly of the fish, if you do not add the eschaipt in 
substance. 
7* 



86 T II K COMPLETE COOK. 

275. Stuffing for Heart and many other pur^wses. — Tako half a 
pound of grated bread ; chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef cfT 
lamb suet, or beef marrow; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; a 
handful of parsley leaves, thyme about a quarter as much, six spriga 
of marjoram and vervain, winter savoury or knotted marjoram, and 
the juice of a quarter of a lernon. Mix well with two eggs well 
beaten. You may add a dozen of oysters, chopped, and the liquor, 
or two ounces of dressed ham, chopped. This stuffing may be used 
for a turkey, with an equal quantity of sausage meat parboiled ; rub 
them well together, and keep out half a pound, to which add an egg, 
to make up into balls and fry, and lay round the dish as a garnish. 
Turkey is sometimes stuffed with chesnnts (see 267) ; take basil and 
parsley instead of onions, and add a quarter of a pound of dressed 
ham grated, and a little nutmeg. 

276. A very rich stuffing for Veal, Poultry, and Game. — Take 
two pounds of beef suet, one pound of bread crumbs, a tea spoonful 
of thyme, the same quantity of marjoram, a tea-cup full of chopped 
parsley, chopped eschalot a table spoonful, half a lemon grated, half 
a nutmeg, half an ounce each of salt and pepper, and five eggs, well 
mixed. 

277. Veal Cake. — Boil six eggs hard, cut the yolks in two, butter 
a mould ; lay some of the pieces of egg at the bottom, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley; then lay thin slices of veal and ham; 
sprinkle again with the seasoning, and then eggs, and so on till the 
dish is filled. Then add gravy, till it covers the top of the meat; 
spread one ounce of butter over the top, tie it over with paper, and 
bake one hour ; then press it close together with a spoon, and let it 
stand till cold. Another way is to pound the meat instead of slices, 
iwo-thirds of lean veal and one-third of fat ham. When the cake ia 
wanted, set the mould in boiling virater for a minute or two, and the 
cake will turn out. 

278. Force meal for Veal or Foivls. — Take equal parts of cold 
veal, beef suet, ham or gammon, a few parsley leaves, a small onion, 
the rind of lemon a little; chop all together very fine; season with 
pepper, salt, cayenne, mace, or nutmeg; pound the whole in a mortar, 
with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, and add two eggs to bind it. 
This is a good three meat for patties. 

279. Light force meat balls. — Cold veal or chicken a quarter of a 
pound, chopped, half a pound of suet, chopped, crumbs of bread a tea- 
cup full. Season with sweet herbs, and spice and eschalots, and three 
or four eggs beat separately ; mix these articles with all the yolks and 
as much of the whites as is necessary to bring it to a moist paste, roll 
them in small balls, and fry them in butter, or lard, for«, garnish to 
roast turkey, fov;}, &-c. 

280. Egg balls. — Boil four eggs for ten minutes and put them into 
cold water; when th(^ are cold beat the yolks in a mortar with the 
yolk of a raw egg, some chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of flour, a 
pinch or two of salt, and a little black pepper, or cayenne; rub them 
well together, roll them into small balls, and boil them two minutes. 



Baking j£ EAT, &c. 87 

281. Brain balls. — Take a calf's brains, or two or three lambs', 
scald them for ten minutes, quite free from every bit of vein and 
skin, beat up vi'ith seasoning the same as egg balls, adding a tea 
spoonful of chopped sage ; rub a tea-cup full of bread crumbs, three 
tea spoonfuls of flour, and a raw egg with them. Make them up into 
balls, rub each ball with bread, fry them with butter or lard; serve 
as a garnish to calf's head, or as a separate side dish. 

282. Curry balls. — Take bread crumbs, the yolk of an egg boiled 
hard, and a bit of fresh butler; beat together in a mortar, and season 
with curry powder ; make them into small balls, and boil or fry 
them. 

BAKING MEAT, &c. 

283. As baking is the only means by which the poor inhabitants 
of towns for the most part can enjoy a joint of meat at home,* we 
shall say a word or two upon the subject, particularly with regard to 
those joints which, when they are carefully baked, most resemble 
roasted ones. Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, 
&c., may be baked with advantage, if the meat be good and tolerably 
fat. Besides the joints here enumerated, there are many others which 
may be baked, providing the meat is not poor or lean. The follow- 
ing are observations on baking meat by a well-experienced baker ; 
they are particularly deserving the attention of a careful house- 
keeper. 

284. "A pig when sent to the baker prepared for baking should 
have its ears and tail covered with buttered paper, properly fastened 
on, and a bit of butter tied up in linen to baste the back with, other- 
wise it will be apt to blister. With a proper share of attention from 
the baker, this way is thought to be equal to a roasted one. 

285. "A goose prepared as for roasting, taking care to have it on 
a stand, and when half done, to turn the other side upwards. A duck 
should be treated in the same way. 

286. "After a buttock of beef has been in salt about a week, well 
wash it, and put it in a brown earthen pan with a pint of water, cover 
the pan quite over and tightly with two or three thicknesses of cap 
or foolscap paper (never use brown paper — it contains tar, Slc). 
Bake for four or five hours in a moderate heated oven. A ham pro- 
'perly soaked may be baked in the same way. 

287. "Bakers are in the habit of baking small cod fish, haddock, 
and mackerel, with a dust of flour and some bits of butter put on 
them. Eels, when large and stuffed. Herrings and sprats in a 
brown pan, with a little vinegar and a little spice, and tied over with 
paper. A hare, prepared the same as for roasting, with a few pieces 
of butter and a little drop of milk put into the dish, and basted several 
times, will be found nearly equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it 
properly, put it into a jar or pan, and cover it over, and bake it in a 

* We hope, however, in a few years, to see the American oven supersede the ca»« 
torn of dressing meat iii the public bake-house. 



88 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

moderate oven for about three hours. In the same manner legs and 
shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c., prepared with a seasoning of onions, 
turnips, &c., may be baked: they will take about four hours; let 
them stand till cold to skim off the fat ; then warm up altogether, or 
part, as you may want it. 

288. '* The time that each of the above articles should take, depends 
much upon the state of the oven ; they should be sent to the baker in 
time, and he must be very neglectful if they are not ready dl the time 
they are ordered." 

289. We may be here allowed to remark, that the process of dress- 
ing meat in an oven in a covered pan is more analogous to stewing 
than it is to baking. It is, however, an excellent mode of cooking. 
The great objection to baking meat in an open pan, and among many 
other different descriptions of dishes, is the bad flavour which is apt 
to be imparted to it. There is, too, another objection to baked meat, 
which arises from the exclusion of the external air, or for want of a 
draught. The exhalations from the meat in baking, &.C., not being 
carried off) they have a tendency to sodden it. 

290. Dr. Kitchiner, no mean authority, deprecates thp machines 
which the economical grate-makers call roasters, being in fact, as he 
asserts, "in plain English — ovens." The Doctor intimates, that these 
things are all very well for saving fuel, but affirms that the rational 
epicure, who has been accustomed to enjoy beef well roasted, will 
Boon discover the difference. Notwithstanding this high authority, 
we have no hesitation in stating, that meat cooked in the roaster 
attached to Flavell's cooking apparatus, is as good as meat roasted 
before the fire. But we ought to observe, that Mr. Flavell's roaster 
has a current of air passing through it when so employed, but when 
used as an oven the current of air is prevented by the introduction of 
a damper. We can state from the experience of some years, that the 
apparatus alluded to is a most excellent contrivance for cooking 
generally. 

291. " Nothing can be more preposterous," says Mr. Sylvester, in 
his ' Philosophy of Domestic Economy,' " and inappropriate, than the 
prevailing construction and management of a gentleman's kitchen. 
Before the discovery of the stew hearths, all the culinary processes 
were carried on with one immense open grate, burning as much fuel 
in one day as might do the same work for ten. The cook and the 
furniture of the kitchen get a proportion of this heat, the articles to 
be dressed another portion, but by far the greatest quantity goes up 
the chimney. 

292. "The introduction of the stew hearth has in some degree 
reduced the magnitude of these grates ; but they are yet disgraceful 
to science and common sense. In the present state (1819) of culinary 
improvement, a kitchen may be fitted up with apparatus, requiring 
much less labour and attention, with much less consumption of fuel ; 
rendering the food more wholesome and agreeable, and also prevent- 
ing that offensive smell which has made it so often necessary to 
detach the kitchen from the rest of the house." 



PRYING 



89 



293. The stew hearth is a most useful addition to the ordinary 
kitchen grate, but small families of limited means are seldom possessed 
of one. A stew hearth, indeed, or a substitute for one, which may be 
easily obtained, is indispensable in French, and indeed in good Eng- 
lish cookery. 

FRYING. 

294. Frying, as is properly observed by Dr. Kitchiner, is often a 
convenient mode of cookery; it may be performed by a fire which 
will not do for roasting or boiling, and by the introduction of the pan 
between the meat and the fire, things get more equally dressed. 

295. Be very particular that your frying pan is perfectly clean be- 
fore using it. Never use any oil, butter, lard, or drippings, which 
are not perfectly free from salt, and pf^-.fectly sweet and fresh. Aa 
frying is, in fact, boiling in oil fat, it is of the first importance that 
your fat should be clean, or it will spoil the look as well as the 
flavour, and salt will prevent the meat from browning. 

296. Good oil is, perhaps, the best to fry in, but sweet fresh lard, 
or clarified mutton or beef suet, will answer every purpose, nearly, 
if not quite as well as the best oil or butter, and, what is of greater 
importance, at a much less expense. Nice clean dripping is almost 
as good as any thing. After you have done frying preserve your fat, 
which, if not burnt, will do for three or four fryings; but fat in which 
fish has been fried will do for nothing else. 

297. If your fat is not of a proper heat, your frying cannot be well 
done ; this is, in short, the great secret in frying, which the young 
cook ought and must acquire. The frying pan must be always set 
over a sharp and clear fire, or otherwise the fat is too long before it 
becomes ready. When the fat has done hissing, or bubbling, that is, 
when it is still, you may be pretty sure that it is hot enough. It is a 
good way to try the heat of your fat, by throwing a little bit of bread 
into the pan ; if it fries crisp, the fat is of the right heat — if it burns 
the bread, it is too hot. 

298. When your things are well done, take care and drain all the 
fat from them most thoroughly, particularly those that have been 
fried in bread crumbs, &c. ; if you do not, your cookery will be marred. 
Fried fish ought to be quite dry. This depends in a great measure 
upon the fat in which they are dressed being of a proper heat. If the 
fish are well done, and are well drained of the fat, they will become 
quite dry and crisp in a few minutes after they have been taken out 
of the pan. If this, however, should not be the case, and the fish on 
the contrary should be damp and wet, lay them on a soft cloth before 
the fire, turning them occasionally till they are dry. They will 
sometimes take ten or fifteen minutes drying. 

299. In preparing bread crumbs in a considerable quantity, in order 
to save unbroken the crust, and preserving it fit tor the table, cut 
your loaf into three equal parts, that is, cut off" the bottom and top 
crusts, and use the middle part or the crumb for your frying. The 



00 TIIECOMPLETECOOK. 

bread should be at least two days old. A |rood and cheap substitute 
for bread is oatmeal, which will cost, comparatively speaking, 
nothing. 

It is scarcely necessary to refer the cook to our general remarks 
upon the above operation. Frying is preferred by many persons to 
broiling; and our own opinion is, that steaks, chops, &c., may be 
dressed with much more certainty and regularity by the former, than 
by the latter, method. But plenty ofoil, butter, or sweet grease, must 
always be used, or the frying will be imperfect. 

300. Steaks. — Cut them rather thinner than for broiling; put some 
butter, or, what is much cheaper and quite as good, some clarified 
dripping or suet, into an iron frying-pan, and when it is quite hot put 
in the steaks, and keep turning them until they are done enough. 
The sauce for steaks, chops, cutlets, &c,, is made as follows: — Take 
the chops, steaks or cutlets, out of the frying pan ; for a pound of meat, 
keep a table-spoonful of the fat in the pan, or put in an ounce of but- 
ter ; put to it as much flour as will make it a paste; rub it well toge- 
ther over the fire till they are a little brown; then add as much boil- 
ing water as will reduce it to the thickness of good cream, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, or pickle, or browning; 
let it boil together a few minutes, and pour it through a sieve to the 
steaks, &c. To the above is sometimes added a sliced onion, or a 
minced eschalot, with a table-spoonful of port wine, or a little escha- 
lot wine. Garnish with scraped horse-radish, or pickled walnut, gher- 
kins, &c. • Some beef-eaters like chopped eschalots in one saucer, and 
horse-radish grated in vinegar in another. Broiled mushrooms are fa- 
vourite relishes to beef-steaks. 

301. Beef-steaks and Onions. — The steaks are fried as directed 
above; the common method is to fry the onions cut small, but the best 
plan perhaps is to use onions prepared as directed in 115. 

302. Sausages. — Sausages are not good unless they are quite 
fresh. Put a bit of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, before it gets 
hot put in the sausages, shake the pan, and keep turning them (be 
careful not to break or prick them in so doing); fry them over a very 
slow fire till they are nicely browned on all sides; when they are 
done, lay them on a hair sieve, place them before the fire for a couple 
of minutes to drain the fat from them. The secret of frying satisages 
is, to let them get hot very gradually — then they will not burst, if 
they are not stale. You may froth them by rubbing them with cold 
fresh butter, and lightly dredge them with flour, and put them in a 
cheese-toaster for a minute. The common practice to prevent their 
bursting is to prick them with a fork ; but this lets out the gravy. 

303. Veal Cutlets should be about half an inch thick ; trim and flat- 
ten; fry in plenty of fresh butter, or good dripping; when the fire is 
very fierce, you must turn them often — but when not so, do them 
brown on one side before you turn them. Make gravy of the trim- 
mings, &c. ; you may add some browning, mushroom or walnut cat- 
sup, or lemon, pickle, &c. Or you may dress them as follows: Cut 
the veal into pieces about as big as a crown piece; beat them with a 



FRYING. 91 

cleaver, dip in egg-, beat up with a littler salt, and then in fine bread 
crumbs ; fry them a light brown in boiling lard ; serve under them 
gome good gravy or mushroom sauce, which may be made in five mi- 
nutes. Garnish with slices of ham, or rashers of bacon, or pork sau- 
Fages. Many persons prefer frying veal cutlets with ham or bacon 
rashers, which will afford sufficient fat to fry them, but will be done 
much sooner; remove the rashers, and keep them warm. When the 
veal is done, take it out, pour off any fat that may remain, and put into 
the pan a large tea-cup full or more of gravy or broth, and a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. When it boils, add herbs and crumbs of bread, 
pour over the veal, and lay the rashers round the edge of the dish. 
Garnish, sliced lemon. 

1304. Sweetbreads should always be got fresh and parboiled imme- 
diately. When cold cut them in pieces about three-quarters of an 
inch thick, dip them in the yolk of an eg^^^ then in fine bread crumbs 
(some add spice, lemon peel, and sweet herbs;) put some clean drip- 
ping into a frying-pan ; when it boils put in the sweetbreads, and fry 
them a fiue brown. For garnish, crisp parsley ; and for sauce, mush- 
room catsup and melted butter, or anchovy sauce, or bacon, or ham. 
This is called full dressing. They are dressed plain as follows : Par- 
boil and slice them as before, dry them on a clean cloth, flour them, 
and fry them a delicate broXvn ; take care to drain the fat well from 
tliem, and garnish them with slices of lemon and sprigs of chervil, 
pars' ey, or crisp parsley. For sauce, mushroom catsup, or. force meat 
balls made as 278. 

305. Lamb or Mutton Chops are dressed in the same way as veal 
Ciitlots, and garnished with crisp parsley, and slices of lemon. If they 
are bread-crumbed, and covered with buttered writing paper, and then 
broiled, they are called '■' Maintenon cutlets.'''' 

306. Pork Chops. — Take care that they are trimmed very neatly ; 
they should be about half an inch thick; put a frying-pan on the fire, 
with a bit of butter; as soon as it is hot, put in your chops, turning 
them often till brown all over, and done ; take one upon a plate and 
try it ; if done, season it with a little finely minced onion, powdered 
sage, and pi->pper and salt. Sauce, sage and onions, or Robert sauce. 

307. Fried E^gs. — Well-cleansed dripping, or lard, or fresh but- 
ter, is the best fat for frying eggs. Be sure the frying-pan is quite 
clean; when the fiit is hot, break two or three esfgs into it; do not 
turn them, but, while they are frying, keep pouring some of the fat 
over them with a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to look white, 
which it will in about a couple of minutes, they are done enouo"h ; the 
white must not lose its traui^parency, but the yolk be seen blushing 
through it. If they are done nicely, they will look as white and de-- 
licate as if they had been poached; take them up with a tin slice, 
drain the fat from them, trim neatly, and send them up with toasted 
bacon round them. For Frying Fish, see section Fish, p. 66, par. 
193, (^c. 



\ 

92 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

BROILING. 

308. Let your grridiron be quite clean, particularly between tlie 
bars, and keep it brin-ht on the top. . Before usinsf it, you should be 
careful to make the bars thoroughly hot, or otherwise that part of the 
moat which is covered by the bars will not be equally done with the 
other parts of the steak or chop. 

309. Chops, steaks, or slices for broiling-, should be from half to 
three quarters of an inch in thickness; if too thick, they will be done 
outside before the inside — and if too thin, they will be dry and 
gravy less. 

810. In broilingf, a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, and to 
obtain this you should prepare your fire in time, so that it may burn 
clear. It is a good plan to lay over a pretty strong fire a layer of 
cinders, or coke; some use charcoal, but cinders or coke are equally 
good. If your fire is not bright you cannot give the nice brown ap- 
pearance to the meat, which is not only pleasing to the eye, but is 
relishing to the taste. 

311. The bars of the best gridirons are made concave, terminating 
in a trough to catch the gravy, and keep the fat from falling into the 
fire and making a smoke, wijich will spoil both the appearance and 
taste of the broil. Before using the gridiron the bars should be 
rubbed with clean mutton suet. The cook should watch the moment 
when the broil is done. Send it to the table immediately on a hot 
dish, from whence it sliould be transferred to the mouth all hot! — 
smoking hot! ! ! The upright gridiron, whicli is made of strong wire 
and may be now boiisiht in the streets for a few pence, is, as Dr. 
Kitchiner avers, the best, as it can be used at any fire, without fi^ar 
of smoke, and ilie trough under it preserves all the gravy. The 
Dutch oven, or bonnet, may be substituted for the gridiron, when the 
fire is not clear. 

312. Steaks and Chops. — Meat to be broiled should be hung till it 
is tender; the inside of a sirloin of beefj cut in!o steaks, is greatly 
preferred by most people. But steaks are generally cut frotn the 
rump (ihe middle is tlie Lest), about six inches long, four inches wide, 
a»id half an inch thick. Do not beat liiem, it makes them dry arid 
tasteless.. Steaks should be done quickly; for this purpose, lake care 
to have a very clear brisk fire, throw a little salt on it, make the 
gridiron hot, and set it slanting to prevent the fat from dropping into 
the fire, and making a smoke. It requires more practice and care 
than is generally supposed to do steaks to a nicety; and for want of 
these little attentions, this very common dish, which every body \a 
supposed capable of dressing, seldom comes to table in perfection. 
Some like it under, some thoroughly, done. It is usual to put a 
table-spoonful of catsup, or a little minced eschalot, into a disji before 
the fire, while you are broiling; turn the steak with a pair of steak- 
tongs; it will be done in about ten or fifteen minutes; rub a bit (f 
butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles and finely scrapei' 
horse-radish. Serve with the usual sauces. 



BRAISING, GLAZING, <fcc. 93 

313. Kidneys. — Cut them through the lonof way, score them, 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them, and run a wire skevvor 
through them to keep them from curlinjr on the oridiron, so that they 
may be evenly broiled. Broil them over a very clear fire, turning 
them often till tliey are done; they will take about ten or twelve 
minutes, if the fire is brisk: or, fry them in butter, and make gravy 
from them in the pan (after you have taken out the kidneys), by put- 
ting in a tea spoonful of flour; na soon as it looks brown, put in as 
much water as will make gravy; chey will take five minutes more 
to fry than to broil. Serve with the usual sauce. Some cooks chop 
a f^)W parsley leaves very fine, and mix them with a bit of fresh 
butter and a little pepper and salt, and put a little of this mixture on 
each kidney. 

314. A Fowl or Rnbhit. — Pick and truss it the sapie as for boil- 
ing, cut it open down the back, wipe the inside clec^ with a cloth, 
Bea:^on it with a little pepper and salt, have a clear fire and set the 
gridiron at a good distance over it, lay the chickon on with the inside 
towards the fire (you may es!:^ it and strevv some grated bread over 
it), and broil it till it is a fine brown ; take care the fleshy side is not 
burnt. Lay it on a hot dish, pickled mushrooms or mushroom sauce 
thrown over it, or parsley and butter, or melted butter flavoured with 
mushroom catsup. Garnish with slices of lemon, and the liver and 
gizzard, slit and notched, seasoned with pepper and salt, and broiled 
nicely brown. 

315. Pigeons. — Clean them well, and pepper and salt them ; broil 
them over a clear slow fire ; turn them often, and put a little butter 
on thern; when they are done, pour over them either stewed or 
pickled mushrooms, or catsup and melted butter. Garnish with fried 
bread crumbs, or sippets. Or, when the pigeons are trussed for broil- 
ing, flat them with a cleaver, taking care not to break the skin of the 
backs or breast; season them with popper and salt, a little bit of but- 
ter, and a tea spoonful of water, and tie them close at both ends; so, 
when they are brought to table, they bring ihcir sauce with them 
Ego- and dredge thnm well with grated bread (mixed with spice and 
sweet nerbs), lay them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently; if 
your nre is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well but 

red, to keep thern from getting smoked. They are much better 
broiled whole. 



BRAISING, GLAZING, •BL\NCFIING, LARDING, AND 
BONING. 

316. A braiser, or braising pan, is a sort of oblong camp kettle, 
with a bordered lid, on which, and secured by the border, is put small 
burning coal, charcoal, or wood ashes. The lid should fit the pan as 
close as possible. 

•317. Braising. To braise your meat, put the meat into the braiser 
(a good stew-pan will answer the purpose, but not so well) ; then 
cover the meat with thick slices of lat bacon ; lay round it six or eight 



94 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some celery, and if it be to brown, 
some thick slices of carrots; meat trimmino-?, or fresh meat bones, ai 
pint and a half of water, or the same quantity of stock, which wills 
make it richer than water will; over the meat lay a sheet of white 
paper, season and put the pan, with the lid well fastened down and 
tight, over a moderately hot stove, rather slow. It will require two 
or three hours, according to its size or quality. The meat and gravy; 
are then put into a colander to drain, but be sure to keep it quite hot,, 
ekim the gravy very carefully, and boil it as quick as you can till iti 
thickens ; then glaze the meat — and if it has been larded, put it into 
the oven for a few minutes. 

318. Glazing consists in covering meat with a preparation called 
glaze, which is strong gravy boiled as quick as possible till it thickens, 
as directed in Raising. The glaze is put on with a brush kept for 
the purpose. Hams, tongues, and stewed beef, may be thus glazed, 
if thought proper. 

319. Blanching is performed by putting the article in cold Vv^ater 
over the fire, and when it boils up, take it out and plunge it into cold 
water, and let it remain till quite cold. This will make it white and 
plump. Tongues, palates, &c., are said to be blanched, when after 
long boiling the skin can be easily peeled off. 

320. Larding and Forcing. Possess yourself of larding pin? of 
different sizes; cut slices of bacon into bits of proper lensfth, quite 
smooth ; pierce the skin and a very little of the meat withthe larding 
pin, leaving the bacon in ; the two ends should be of equal length 
outwards. Lard in rows the size you think proper. Forcing is 
nothing more than stuffinu fowls, &.o., with force meat, which is 
generally put in between the skin and the flesh. 

321. Boning. To bone any bird, the cook should begin first to 
take out the breast-bone ; she will then have sufficient spnce to 
remove the back with a sharp small knife, and then she must take 
out the leg bones. The skin must be preserved whole, and the meat 
of the leg be pushed inwards. 



COLOURINGS, THICKENINGS, FLAVOURINGS, SEASON- 
INGS, STOCKS, GRAVIES, SAUCES, STUFFING, FORCE- 
MEAT, AND CLARIFYING. 

Having laid down, as we trust, clearly and fully, under the pre- 
ceding heads, all that is necessary to be known, generally speaking, 
with regard to ordinary dishes, we shall now proceed to treat of those 
preparations which are employed in the compounding of made dishes. 
together with those articles which the prudent, care-taking cook wil. 
always keep by her as stores, ready to be used when wanted. Bv 
• made dishes' we mean not only those commonly so called, but also 
those in the dressing of which other articles are sometimes, or al- 
ways, used by way of stuffing, seasoning, &.c. — such, for instance, as» 
geese, ducks, and roast pork. This done, we shall then give direo 



COLOURING, OR BROWNING. 95 

tions for the choice of meat, fish, and poultry, recipes for cooking 
them, and the best mode of carving- them, under separate heads. 
Recipes for cooking all other dishes, will also, of course, bo given. 



COLOURING, OR BROWNING. 

322. The greater part of the preparations for colouring are very 
unwholesome, or, in other words, very indigestible. They are em- 
ployed to give the appearance of richness, but they are worse than 
useless, bemg used for the silly purpose of pleasing the eye only, 
generally at the expense of the stomach and taste. Most of the pre- 
parations for colouring are a medley of burnt butler, spices, catsup, 
wine, flour, and other things not necessary to mention. A French 
writer says, the generality of cooks calcine bones till they are as 
black as a coal, and throw them hissing hot into the stew-pan, to give 
a brown colour to their broths and sou.ps. These ingredients, under 
the appearance of a nourishing gravy, envelop our food with stimulat- 
ing acid and corrosive poison. Such things as essence of anchovy are 
frequently adulterated with colouring matters containing red lead! 
The following recipes for colouring are pretty harmless, and, except 
for the purpose of pleasing the eye, as useless as they are innocent. 

Some persons, instead of colouring or browning their soups after 
they are made, brown the meat of which they are intended to be 
made, by putting it into a stew-pan with a little butter, salt, and pep- 
per, bu-t without vi^ater ; then covering it close, placing it over a clear 
fire, all the time shaking it to keep it from sticking to the pan, till 
the meat becomes of a light brown, when the liquor of which the soup 
or gravy is to be made is added. 

The best colouring is, perhaps, the following: Haifa pound of 
powdered lump sugar and a table-spoonful of water, put into a clean 
saucepan, or frying-pan, and set over a slow fire and stirred with a 
wooden spoon till it is of a fine brown colour, and begins to smoke ; 
then add an ounce of salt, and dilute by degrees with water, till it is 
of the thickness of soy ; boil, take off the scum, and put it into well- 
corked bottles ; or you may, provided you do not wish to keep the 
above by you, colour your gravies or soups by pounding a tea-spoonful 
of lump suorar, and putting it into an iron spoon, which hold over a 
quick fire till the mixture becomes of a dark-brown colour; mix with 
the soup or gravy while it is hot. Some persons use butter in the 
first mixture instead of water. 

Toasted bread, quite hard and of a deep brown, not burnt, may be 
put into the boiling gravy, without stirring, ard then carefully strain 
off the gravy without any crumbs of bread in it. You may also 
colour with flour browned on a flat-iron over ttie fire, /arious flavour 
ing articles serve also the purpose of colouring. 



y6 THE COMPLETE COOK 



THICKENINGS, 



323. Flour, or somo other farinaceous article, is, or ought to be, the 
basis of all thickening-s; starch of potatoes, or indeed any oLher pure 
starch, is a good substitute for flour. We do not recommend pre- 
parations of Carraghan moss, ivory dust, or eg-f^s ; they are trouble- 
some, and not at all necessary. A table-spoonful of potatoe or any 
other starch, such as arrow-root, mixed in two table-spoonsful of cold 
water, and stirred into soup, sauce, or gravy, &c. and aftervv'ards sim- 
mered, just before serving, will thicken a pint. Flour will also 
answer the same purpose. In large establishments, the following' 
thickening is generally kept r^ady prepared ; the French call it rouoc ; 
it is thus made: Put some fresh butter, if clarified the better, (or 
Bome use the skimmings of the pots, clean and not impregnated with 
Vegetables,) into a stew-pan over a clear slow fire; when it is melted, 
add fine flour sufficient to make it the thickness of paste; stir welli 
together when over the fire, for ten or fifteen minutes, till it is quite i 
smooth and of a fine "yellow-boy" colour. Do all this gradually audi 
patiently, or you will spoil your thickening by getting it burnt, of 
giving to it a burnt flavour, which will spoil your gravy, &c. Pour- 
it into an earthen pan for use, it will keep for a fortnight; and if,, 
when cold, it is thick enough to be cut with a knife, a large spoonful! 
will be enough to thicken a quart of gravy, &c. Most made dishes,, 
such as sauces, soups, and ragouts, are thus thickened. The broth i 
or soup, &c., to which the thickening is put, must be adde^ by 
degrees, so as to incorporate them well together. To cleanse or: 
finish a sauce, put into a pint two table-spoonsful of broth, or warm: 
water^ and put it by the side of the fire to raise any fat, &c., which i 
must be carefully removed as it comes to the top. 

We would strongly recommend mistresses of families, particularly 
those residing in the country, where potatoes are cheap, to keep a 
good stock of potatoe starch always by them. If kept dry and from 
•.he air, it will keep almost for any length of time. Damaged po- 
tatoes will yield starch or mucilage, if raw. It may be made from 
the old potatoes, when by germination in the spring they have be- 
come unfit for the table, or from the refuse of a newly gathered crop 
in the autumn. The starch will be found extremely useful, not only 
in a thickening, but also for mixing with wheat flour in making; 
bread, &c. Starch may be made, and is made, from various vege-- 
table substances, and used as a substitute for corn flour. The follow- 
ing is the mode of making potatoe starch ; arrow-root starch and alii 
other starches are made by a similar process: 

The potatoes must be carefully washed and peeled, and every 
speck removed ; provide yourself with a number of deep dishes, ac-- 
cording to the quantity of starch you wish to make; for every pound i 
of potatoes to be prepared in each dish, put a quart of clear water;; 
grate them into the water on a bread grater; stir it up well, and them 
pour it through a hair sieve, and leave it ten minutes to settle, orr 
till the water is quite clear; then pour off" the water, and put to it a. 



FLAVOURINGS. 07 

quart of fresh water: stir it up, then let it settle, and repeat this till 
the water is quite clear. You will at last find a fine white powder 
at the bottom of the vessel ; lay this on a piece of paper in a hair 
sieve to dry, either in the sun or before the fire ; when thoroughly 
dry, it is ready for use. It is perfectly tasteless, and may he used to 
thicken melted butter, instead of flour. A great deal of the arrow- 
root sold in the shops is neither more nor less than potatoe starch. 
Though we strongly recommend it as effectual and economical for 
the above purpose, for an invalid it is very inferior in strength and 
nutricious qualities to the Indian arrrow-rool starch. 

324. White Thickening. — Put half a pound of good butter into a 
sauce-pan, and melt over a slow fire, then drain tiie butter and take 
out the buttermilk, then add to the butter enough flour to make a 
thin paste, and place it on the fire for fifteen minutes, taking care not 
to let it colour. Pour it into a pan and let it stand until wanted. 



FLAVOURINGS. 

325. Judiciously prepared flavourings are of the first importance 
in the higher branches of cookery, and indeed, they are indispensably 
necessary in all descriptions of made dishes. The principal agentd 
employed for flavouring are mushrooms, onions, anchovy, lemon juice 
and peel, vinegar, wine, especially claret, sweet herbs, and savoury 
spices, A good housewife will always take care to have a stock of 
tiie principal flavourings by her ready for use, as occasion may re- 
quire. They are easily prepared for keeping, and the making of 
essences and flavoured vinegars, &c., from the herbs, is a very agree- 
able efnployment, and one highly becoming a good wife and mistress 
of a family. We by no means wish to undervalue elegant accom- 
plishments in ladies, but accomplishments after all are but ornaments, 
whereas good housewifery is an essential ; so thought our ancestors 
two hundred years ago, and so continue to think all those who set a 
proper value on the comforts of domestic life. Markham, in his 
English Housewife, 1637, says, " to speak then of the knowledge 
wlTich belongs to our British housewife, I hold the most principal to 
be a perfect skill in cookery. She that is utterly ignorant therein, 
may not, by the lawes of strict justice, challenge the freedom of mar- 
riage, because, indeed, she can performe but half her vow ; she may 
love and obey, but she cannot cherish and keepe her husband." 
Having said enough, we trust, to induce young ladies, particularly in 
the above quotation, to take our advice into their consideration, we 
shall proceed to make a few observations on taste, as intimately con- 
nected with this part of our subject. 

A correct taste is a qualification which every cook ought to possess, 
but few persons naturally do possess it, and therefore, the palate re- 
quires to be cultivated as much in the culinary art, as the eye in the 
art of drawing. But tastes differ in different persons, and therefore, 
the cook, in providing a dinner, ought, if possible, to consult the tastes 
of the parties who are to eat it, rather than her own. This subject, 
8* 



98 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

however, if pursued, will run us out to a much greater extent than 
our limits will allow, and, after all, we should not be able to lay down 
any definite rules of taste. There is one direction which we shall 
give, and v.'hich a cook will find it worth her while to attend to, 
namely, ichenever she Jinds the palate become dull by repeatedly 
tasting, one of the best ways of refreshing it is to masticate an apple j 
Of to wash her mouth loell with milk. 

FLAVOURINGS, ESSENCES, POWDERS, &c. 

326. To prepare sweet Herbs for keeping. — It is highly desirable, 
according to the taste and style of living of the family, that prepara- 
tions of sweet herbs, either in powder, dried bunches (the powder is 
best,) or in the form of essences and tinctures, be always kept at 
hand, ready for use. The following is the best way of preparing 
them: — Gather your herbs, including thyme of the various sorts, 
marjoram and savoury, sage, mint, and balm, hyssop and pennyroyal, 
when they are come to full grov»'tli, just before they begin to flower; 
when they must be gathered perfectly free from damp, dust, dirt, and 
insects. Cut oft' the roots, and tie the herbs in small bundles. Dry 
as quick as possible, either in the sun, in a dutch oven before the fire, 
or in a dry room with a thorough draught. When quite dry, pick off 
the leaves, and rub them till they are reduced to a fine pov/der, when 
bottle close for use. Seeds of parsley, fennel, and celery, should be 
kept for the purpose of flavouring, when the green herb cannot be 
obtained. 

327. Savoury Soup Powder is compounded of parsley, winter sa- 
voury, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme, of each two ounces; sweet 
basil, one ounce; verbinia leave.? and knotted marjoram, of each half 
an ounce ; celery seed and bay leaves (some leave out the bay leaves,) 
of each two drachms. Dry in a Dutch oven, thoroughly, but not to 
scorch ; then rub the leaves to a fine powder. The seeds will be best 
ground, but pounding will do ; sift all through a hair sieve, and bottle 
for use. This is an excellent compound. 

328. Curry Powder may be made almost, if not altogether, as good 
as the Indian, by taking three ounces of coriander seeds; turmeric 
two or three ounces; black pepper, mustard, and ginger, one ounce 
of each ; allspice and lesser cardamons, half an ounce each, and cumin 
seed, a quarter of an ounce. Put the inyredients in a cool oven for 
the nisrht; thoroughly pound and mix together, and close bottle for 
use. Do not use cayenne in a curry powder. 

329. Povjderfor Ragouts. — A good powder for flavouring ragouts 
is compounded of salt, one ounce; mustard, lemon peel, and black 
pepper, ground, of each half an ounce; allspice and ginger, groinid, 
nutmeg, grated, and cayenne pepper, of each a quarter of an ounce. 
Dry in a Dutch oven before a gentle fire; pound in a mortar, and sift 
through a hair sieve. 

330. Powder for Brown made dishes. — Black pepper and .Jamaica, 
ground, of each half an ounce; nutmeg, grated, half an ounce; cinna- 



FLAVOURINGS, &C. 99 

mon, in powder, a quarter of an ounce ; cloves, one drachnn ; dry ; finely 
powder and bottle. 

331. Powder for White made dishes. — White pepper half an 
ounce; nutmeg- a quarter of an ounce ; mace one drachm; dried le- 
mon peel, grated, one drachm. 

332. Preserved Orange and Lemon Peels. — Shave the thin skin, 
without a particle of \viiite,ofFyour superfluous Seville orange and lemon 
peel ; put in a mortar, with a small lump of dried sugar to each peel ; 
beat them well till the rind and sugar be blended together in a kind 
of marmalade ; let the mixture he pressed close in a bottle, with a 
tea-spoonful of brandy at top, and secure from the air with a cork or 
bladder. This will be found a better flavouring, and more handy than 
grating dry rinds. 

333. Essences, or Tinctures of Herbs, Szc. — Combine their essen- 
tial oils with good tasteless spirits (which is better than brandy, and 
much cheaper) in the proportion of one drachm of essential oil to two 
ounces of spirits; or fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the leaves, seeds, 
roots, or peel, perfectly dry, then pour over them spirits of wine, vine- 
gar, or wine; keep the mixture steeping in a warm place, not hot, 
for twelve or fourteen days, when strain and bottle close for use. Bot- 
tles with glass stoppers are best. These essences are very handy, and 
are to be hud all the year round. 

334. Essence of Anchovies. — Purchase the best anchovies, that 
have been in pickle about a year. Pound twelve of them in a mortar 
to a pulp, then put them into a well-tinned saucepan, by the side of 
the fire, with two table-spoonfuls of best vinegar sherry, or brandy, or 
mushroom catsup; stir it very often till the fish are melted, then add 
fifteen grains in weight of the best cayenne pepper ; stir it well, then 
rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon ; bottle and cork 
very tight with the best cork. When the bottle is opened, cork it 
well again with a new cork, as the least air spoils it. That which re- 
mains in the sieve makes a pleasant relish for breakfast or lunch, with 
bread and butter. If a large quantity is made, press it down in small 
jars. Cover it with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. 

335. Anchovy Poioder. — Pound the anchovies in a mortar, rub them 
through a sieve, make them into a paste with the finest flour, dried, 
roll it into thin cakes; dry them before a slow fire; when quite crisp, 
pound or grate them to a fine powder, and put into a well-stopped 
bottle. It will keep good for years, and is a savoury relish sprinkled 
on bread and butter. 

336. Oyster Powder. — Open the oysters carefully, so as not to cut 
them, except in dividing the gristle from the shells ; put them into a 
mortar ; add about two drachms of salt to a dozen oysters, pound them 
and rub them through the back of a hair sieve, and put them into a 
mortar again, with as much flour, thoroughly dried, as will make 
them into a paste ; roll it out several times, and lastly, flour it and 
roll it out the thickness of half a crown, and divide it into pieces 
about an inch square; lay them in a dutch oven before the fire, take 
care they do not burn, turn them every half hour, and when they 



100 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

begin to dry, crumble them ; they will take about four hours to dry ; 
then pound them fine, sift them, and put them into bottles ; seal them 
over, 

'S'S7. Spirit of mixed Herbs. — Take winter savoury, lemon thyme, 
sweet basil, and lemon rind, celery seed one drachm, steep them in a 
pint of spirits of wine. Then drain and bottle the liquor. The herbs, 
after draining-, will keep two or three weeks, and may be used lor fla- 
vouring. 

3;38. Tincture of Lemon or Seville Orange Peel. — Half fill a wide- I 
mouthed bottle with good spirits; shave the thin rind ofl^ the lemon, 
and put it into the bottle until it is full : it may be either strained off 
into bottles, or suffered to remain on the rind. 

S'i9. Spirits of mixed Spice. — Black pepper one ounce, allspice 
half an ounce, boih finely powdered ; nutmeg quarter of an ounce, 
grated ; infuse in a pint of spirits of wine, strain, and bottle. 

MADE DISHES. 

There is little to be added to our general remarks on this subject, ^ 
under the heads of Stewing, Hashing, Thickening, Flavouring, &c. 
Made dishes are almost innumerable. They are, however, nothing 
more than meat, poultry, or fish, stewed very gently till they are ten- 
der, with a thickening sauce of some kind or other poured over them. 
Their difl^erence consists in their flavour, which may be so modified 
by an ingenious cook as to moke them almost endless. Let our pre- 
liminary remarks on these subjects be well studied. We subjoin a 
few receipts. 

340. Calf's Head, — Take the half of one, with the skin on ; put it 
into a large stew-pan, with as much water as will cover it, a knuckle 
of ham, and the usual accompaniments of onions, herbs, &c., and let 
it simmer till the flesh may be separated from the bone with a spoon ; 
do so, and Vv'hile still hot cut it into as large a sized square as a piece 
wri' ao. it of; the trimming and half the liquor put by in a tureen ; 
t' the :^ maining half add a gill of white wine, and reduce the whole 
of that, by quick boiling, till it is again half consumed, when it should 
be poured over the large square piece, in an earthen vessel, sur- 
rounded with mushrooms, white buttoned onion, small pieces of 
pickled pork, half an inch in breadth, and one and a half in length, and 
the tongue in slices, and simmered till the whole is fit to seive up; 
bome brown force meat balls are a pretty addition. After this comes 
from table, the remains should be cut up in small pieces, and mixed up 
with the trimmings and liquor, which (with a little more wine,) pro- 
perly thickened, will make a very good mock turtle soup for a future 
occasion. 

341. Hashed Meat. — Cut the meat into slices about the thickness 
of two shillings, trim oflTall the sinews, skin, and gristle, put nothing 
in but what is to be eaten, lay them on a plate ready ; prepare your 
eauce to warm in it, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently till it 



MADE DISHES 



101 



18 thorouglily warm ; do not let it boil, as that will make the meat 
touo^h and hard. 

342. Hxished Beef or Mutton. — One tea-spoonful of Harvey sauce, 
one of Tomata sauce, the same quantity of any other sauce ; pepper, 
Bait, cayenne, half a wine glass of port wine, and a couple of capsi- 
cums cut fine ; mix with the remains of the gravy of the preceding 
day, of beef or mutton ; if necessary to thicken, add one shake of the 
flour dredger. This is a good hash. 

343. Sandwiches are an elegant and convenient luncheon, if nicely 
prepared ; the bread should be neatly cut with a sharp knife ; what- 
ever is used must be carefully trimmed from every bit of skin, gristle, 
&c., and nothing must be introduced but what you are absolutely cer- 
tain v;ill be acceptable to the mouth. 

344. A good Scotch Haggis. — Make the haggis-bag perfectly 
clean ; parboil the draught, boil the liver very well, so as it will grate, 
dry the meat before the fire, mince the draught and a pretty large 
piece of beef very small; grate about half of the liver, mince plenty 
of suet and some onions small ; mix all these materials very well to- 
gether, with a handful or two of the dried meal ; spread them on the 
table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices; take any 
of the scraps of beef that are left from mincing, and some of the wa- 
ter that boiled the draught, and make about a quart of good stock of 
it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in it; 
then sew up the bag, but be sure to put out all the wind before you 
Bew it quite close. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in 
a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two hours boiling. 

345. Mr. Phillips''s Irish Stew. — Take five thick mutton chops, or 
two pounds oft' the neck or loin ; two pounds of potatoes, peel them, 
and cut them in halves ; six onions, or half a pound of onions, peel 
and slice them also. First, put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of 
your stew-pan, then a couple of chops and some of the onions; then 
again potatoes, and so on, till the pan is quite full ; a small spoonful 
of white pepper, and about one and a half of salt, and three gills of 
broth or gravy, and two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup ; cover all 
very close in, so as to prevent the steam from getting out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a very slow fire. A small slice 
of ham is a great addition to this dish. Great care should be taken 
not to let it burn. 

346. Mutton Chops delicately stewed^ and good Mutton Broth. — 
Put the chops into a stew-pan with cold water enough to cover them, 
and an onion ; when it is coming to the boil, skim it, cover the pan 
close, and set it over a very slow fire till the chops are tender ; if 
they have been kept a proper time, they will take about three-quarters 
of an hour very gentle simmering. Send up turnips with them — they 
may be boiled with the chops; skim well, and then send all up in a 
deep dish, with the broth they were stewed in. 

347. Minced CoUops. — Take beef, and chop and mince it very 
small, to which add some salt and pepper ; put this, in its rav/ state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When in- 



1U2 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

tended for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fry them. Add a little water to it, and 
then put in the minced meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it 
will be fit to serve up. 

348. Brisket of Beef , steioed. — This is prepared in exactly the 
same way as "soup and bouilli." 

349. Harricot of Beef. — A stewed brisket cut in slices, and sent up 
with the same sauce of roots, &c., as we have directed for harricot of 
mutton, is a most excellent dish, of very mo<lerate expense. 

350. Salt Beef baked. — Let a buttock of beef, which has been in 
salt about a week, be well washed and put into an earthen pan, v.'ith 
a pint of water ; cover the pan tiijht with two or three sheets of 
foolscap paper ; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately heated 
oven. 

351. Beef baked like red deer, to he eaten cold. — Cut buttock of 
beef longways, beat it well with a rolling- pin, and broil it ; when it is 
cold, lard it, and macerate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, 
mace, and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days ; then bake 
it in rye paste, let it stand till it is cold, and fill it up with butter; let 
it stand for a fortnight before it is eaten. 

352. 8hin or Leg of Beef stewed. — Have the bone sawed in three 
or four pieces, and the marrow either taken out, or stopped with paste. 
Cover with cold water, and having skimmed it clean, add onions, car- 
rot, celery, sweet herbs, and spice. Let the whole stew very gently 
three hours and a half or four hours. Meanwhile, cut up the red part 
of two or three carrots, two or three turnips, peel two dozen button 
onions, boil them, and drain them dry; as the onions and turnips 
should retain their shape, and the carrots require longer to boil, they 
ought to be put in a quarter of an hour earlier. Do not let them be 
over-done. When the meat is quite tender, take it out with a slice, 
and strain the soup. Thicken the soup with a small tea-cup full of 
flour, mixed either with a little butter, or the fat of the soup. Stir 
this well in till it boils, and is perfectly smooth ; if not, it must be 
strained through a tamis, and carefully skimmed, and then returned 
to warm the vegetables. The meat may be served whole, or scraped 
from the bones, and cut in pieces. Season the soup with pepper, salt, 
and a wine glass each of port wine and mushroom catsup, and pour 
over the meat ; or, if necessary, put the meat in a stew-pan to warm. 
Serve all together. Curry may be added, if approved — also, force 
meat balls. 

353. Hare. — Instead of roasting a hare, stew it; if young, plain — 
if an old one, lard it. The shoulders and legs should be taken ofl^, and 
the back cut in three pieces; these, with a bay leaf, half a dozen es- 
chalots, one onion pierced with four cloves, should be laid with as 
much good vinegar as will cover them, for twenty-four hours in a deep 
dish, in the meantime, the head, the neck, ribs-, liver, heart, &c., should 
be browned in frothed butter, well seasoned ; add half a pound of lean 
bacon, cut in small pieces, a large bunch of herbs, a carrot, and a fevv 
allspice. Simmer these in a quart of water till it is reduced to about 



MADE MEATS. 103 

half the quantity, when it should be strained, and those parts of the 
hare which have been infused in the vinegar, should (with the whole 
contents of the dish) be added to it, and stewed till quite done. Those 
who Jiiie onions may brown half a dozen, stew them in part of the 
gravy, and dish them round the hare. Every ragout should be dressed 
the day before it is wanted, that any fat which has escaped the skim- 
ming spoon may with ease be taken off when cold. 

354. Jugged Hare. — Wash it very nicely, cut it up in pieces proper 
to help at table, and put them into a jugging pot, or into a stone jar, 
just sufficiently large to hold it well ; put in some sweet herbs, a roll 
or two of rind of a lemon, and a fine large onion with five cloves stuck 
in it ; and if you wish to preserve the flavour of the hare, a quarter of a 
pint of water ; if you are for a ragout, a quarter of a pint of claret- or 
port wine, and the juice of a lemon. Tie the jar down closely with a 
bladder, so that no steam can escape; put a little hay in the bottom of 
the saucepan, in which place the jar; let the water boil for about 
three hours, according to the age and size of the hare (take care it is 
not over-done, which is the general fault in all made dishes,) keep- 
ing it boiling all the time, and fill up the pot as it boils away. When 
quite tender, strain off gravy from fat, thicken it with flour, and give 
it a boil up ; lay the hare in a soup dish, and pour the gravy to it. 
You may make a pudding the same as for roast hare, and boil it in a 
cloth, and when you dish your hare, cut it in slices, or make force 
meat balls of it for garnish. For sauce, currant jelly. Or a much 
easier and quicker way of proceeding is the following : Prepare the 
hare as for jugging; put it into a stew-pan with a few sweet herbs, 
half a dozen cloves, the same of allspice and black pepper, two large 
onions, and a roll of lemon peel ; cover it with water ; when it boils, 
skim it clean, and let it simmer gently till tender (about two hours ;) 
then take it up with a slice, set it by a fire to keep hot while you 
thicken the gravy; take three ounces of butter and some flour, rub 
together, put in the gravy, stir it well, and let it boil about ten mi- 
nutes; strain it through a sieve over the hare, and it is ready. 

355. Slewed Rump Steaks. — The steaks must be a little thicker 
-han for broiling ; let them all be the same thickness, or some will be 
done too little, and others too much. Put an ounce of butter into a 
Btew-pan, with two onions; when the butter is melted, lay in the 
rump steaks, let them stand over a slow fire for five minutes, then 
turn them, and let the other side of them fry five minutes longer. Have 
ready boiled a pint of button onions; they will take from half an hour 
to an hour; put the liquor they were boiled in to the steaks; if there 
is not enough of it to cover them, add broth or boiling water to make 
up enough for that purpose, with a dozen corns of black pepper, and 
a little salt, and let them simmer very gently for about an hour and 
a half, and then strain off as much of the liquor (about a pint and a 
half,) as you think will make the sauce. Put two ounces of butter in 
a stew-pan ; when it is melted, stir in as much flour as will make it 
into a stiff paste; some add thereto a table-spoonful of claret or port 
wine, the same of mushroom catsup, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 



104 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

a quarter of a tea-spoonful of ground black pepper; add the liquor by 
(letrrees, let it boil up for fifteen minute?!, Bkiai it, aiid strain it; serve 
up the steaks with tlie onions round the dish, and pour the gravy 
over it. 

350. Broiled Rump Steaks with Onion Gravy. — Peel and slice 
two larore onions, put them into a quart stovv-pun, with two table- 
spoonfuls of v»?ater ; cover the stew-pan close, set it on a siow fire till 
the water has boiled away, and the onions have got a little browned, 
then add half a pint of good broth, and boil the onions till they are 
tender; strain tiie broth from them, and chop them very fine, and sea- 
son with nmshroom catsup, pepj)er, and so it; put the onion into it, 
and let it boil gently for five minutc^s, pour it into the dish, and lay 
it over a broiled rump stenk. U instead of broth you use i{(X):l beef 
gravy, it will be superlative. Stewed cucumber is another agree- 
able accompaniment to rump steaks. 

357. Bubble and Squeak. — For tijis, as for a hash, select those parts 
of the joint that Jiave been least done; it is generally nmde with 
slices of cold boiled salted beef, sprinkled with a little pepper, and 
just lightly browned with a bit of butler, in a frying-pan; if it is 
fried too much, it will be hard. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry, 
and chop it small; take the beef out of the frying-pan, and lay the 
cabbage in it; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it; keep the pan 
moving over tlie fire for a few minutes, lay the cabbage in the middle 
of the dkh, and the meat round it. 

358. Hashed or minced Veal. — To make a hash, cut the meat into 
into slices : to prepare minced veal, mince it as fine as possible (do 
not chop it); put it into a stew-pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or 
mutton broih, or make some with tiie bones and trimmings, as ordered 
for veal cutlets, a little lemon peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream ; thicken with butter and flour, and season it with salt, a table- 
spoonful of lemon pickle or basil wine, or a pinch of cuiry powder. 
If you have no cream, beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs with a 
little milk ; line the dish with sippets of lightly toasted bread. 

359. To make an excellent Ragout of cold Veal. — Either a neck, 
loin, or fillet of veal will furnish this excellent nigout with a very 
litile expense or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cutlets; put a 
piece of butter, or clean dripping, into a frying-pan; as soon as it is 
hot, flour and fry the veal of a light brown; take it out, and if you 
have no gravy ready, put a pint of boiling water into the frying-pan, 
give it a boil up for a minute, and strain it in a ba.^ln while you make 
Bomo thickening in tlie following manner: Put about an ounce of 
butter into a stew-pnn ; as soon as it melts, mix it with as much flour 
as will dry it up; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and gradually 
add to it the gravy you made in the frying-pan; let them simmer 
together for ten minutes; season it with pepper, salt, a little mace, 
and a wine-glassful of mushroom catsup or wine; strain it through a 
{amis to the meat, and stew very gently till the meat is thoroughly 
warmed. If you have any ready boiled bacon, cut it in slices, anc 
put it to warm with the meat. , 



MADE MEATS. 106 

36G' Veal Olives.— Cat half a dozen slices off a fillet of veal, half 
an inch thick, and as long and square as you can; flat them with a 
chopper, and rub them over with an egg that has been beat on a plate; 
cut some fat bacon as thin as possible, the same size as the veal ; lay 
it on the veal, and rub it with a little of the egg ; make a little veal 
force meat, and spread it very thin over the bacon ; roll up the olives 
tight; rub them with an egg, and then roll them in fine bread crumbs; 
put them on a lark-spit, and roast them at a brisk fire ; they will tako 
three-quarters of an hour. Rump steaks are sometimes dressed this 
way. Mushroom sauce, brown or beef gravy. 

361. Knuckle of Veal to ragout. — Cut the knuckle of veal into 
slices of about half an inch thick ; pepper, salt, and flour them ; fry 
them a light brown ; put the trimmings in a stew-pan, with the bone, 
broke in several places; an onion shred, a head of celery, a bunch of 
Bweet herbs, and two blades of bruised mace ; pour in warm water 
enough to cover them about an inch ; cover the pot close, and let it 
6tew very gently for a couple of hours ; strain it, and then thicken it 
with flour and butter; put in a spoonful of catsup, a glass of wine, 
and juice of half a lemon; give it a boil up, and strain into a clean 
stew-pan ; put in the meat, make it hot, and serve up. If celery is 
not to be had, use a carrot instead, or flavour it with celery seed. 

362. Scotch Collops. — The veal must be cut the same as for cut- 
lets, in pieces about as big as a crown piece ; flour them well, and 
fry them of a light brown, in fresh butter ; lay them in a stew-pan ; 
dredge them over with flour, and then put in as much boiling water 
as will cover the vea , pour this in by degrees, shaking the stew-pan, 
and set it on the fire ; when it comes to a boil, take off the scum, put 
in an onion, a blade of mace, and let it simmer very gently for three- 
quarters of an hour ; lay them on a dish, and pour the gravy through 
a sieve over them. Lemon juice and peel, wine, catsup, are some- 
times added. Add curry powder, and you have curry collops. 

363. Slices of Ham or Bacon. — Ham or bacon may be fried, or 
broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, or toasted with a fork ; take 
care to slice it of the same thickness in every part. If you wish it 
curled, cut it in slices about two inches long (if longer, the outside 
will be done too much before the inside is done enough) ; roll it up, 
and put a little vi^ooden skewer through it; put it in a cheese-toaster, 
or dutch oven, for eight or ten minutes, turning it as it gets crisp. 
This is considered the handsomest way of dressing bacon ; but we 
like it best uncurled, because it is crisper and more equally done. 
Slices of ham or bacon should not be more than half a quarter of an 
inch thick, and will eat much more mellow if soaked in hot water for 
a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before they are broiled. 
If you have any cold bacon, yoif may make a very nice dish of it, by 
cutting it into slices of about a quarter of an inch thick.; grate some 
crusts of bread, as directed for ham, and powder them well with it 
on both sides; lay the rashers in a cheese-toaster — they will be brown 
on one side in about three minutes — turn them, and do the other. 
These are delicious accompaniamejots to poached or fried eggs. The 



106 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

bacon having been boiled first, is tender and mellow. They are an 
excellent garnish round veal cutlets, or sweetbread, or calf's head 
hash, or green peas, or beans, &c. 

364. A Devil. — The gizzard and rump, or legs, &c., of a dressed 
turkey, capon, or goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, peppered, 
salted, and broiled, sent up for a relish, being made very hot, has ob- 
tained the name of a "Devil." 

865. Marrow Bones. — Saw the bones even, so that they will stand 
Bteady; put a piece of paste into the ends; set them upright in a 
saucepan, and boil till they are done enough ; a beef marrow bone 
will require from an hour and a half to two hours; serve fresh toasted 
bread with them. 

366. Ragout of Duck, or any other kind of Poultry or Game. — 
Partly roast, then divide into joints, or pieces of a suitable size for 
helping at table. Set it on in a stew-pan, with a pint and a half 
of broth, or, if you have no broth, water, with any little trimmings 
of meat to enrich it; a large onion stuck with cloves, a dozen berries 
each of allspice and black pepper, and the rind of half a lemon shavea 
thin. When it boils skim it very clean, and then let it simmer gently, 
with the lid close, for an hour and a half. Then strain off the liquor, 
and takeout the limbs, which keep hot in a basin or deep dish. Rinse 
the stew-pan, or use a clean one, in which put two ounces of butter, 
and as much flour or other thickening as will bring it to a stiff paste . 
add to it the gravy by degrees. Let it boil up, then add a glass of 
port wine, a little lemon juice, and a tea-spoonful of salt; simmer a 
few minutes. Put the meat in a deep dish, strain the gravy over, and 
garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The flavour may be varied at 
pleasure, by adding catsup, curry powder, or any of the flavouring 
tinctures, or vinegar. 

ARTIFICIAL PREPARATIONS OF MEAT, FISH. &c., FOR 
DRESSING, SALTING, DRYING, &c. 

By the phrase "artificial preparations of meat," wo allude to thosff 
things which, before dressing, have to undergo the processes of salt- 
ing, drying, smoking, pickling, &c. Before these n)eats can be 
cooked they must be prepared, and we, therefore, think it right (if 
for nothing else but the sake of order), to deviate from the line of pro 
ceeding of our predecessors, and to give directions for such prepara- 
tions previous to the recipes for cooking them. It is impossible, fo. 
instance, to dress salt meat before it is salted. 

SALTING. 

367. There are many methods recommended for carrying this 
operation into effect. The following in our opinion are the best :— 
Before salting, particularly in the summer, all the kernels, pipes, and 
veins, should be taken out of the meat, or all your salting will be in 
vain. The meat will not keep. The salt should be rubbed thorougblf 



SALTING. 107 

tnd equally into every part of the meat, and great care should be 
taken to fill the holes with salt, where the kernels have been taken 
out, and where the butcher's skewers have been stuck. It is also 
necessary, directly meat conies into the house for saltina, to wipe 
away any slime or blood that may appear. In very hot weather meat 
will not hang a single day without being liable to fly-blows; if once 
tainted, it will not take the salt. In winter it is best to let it hang 
for two or three days, but take care that it does npt get frost-bitten. 
The salt should be heated in very cold weather before it is applied to 
the meat. 

368. It is a good plan to slightly sprinkle meat with salt a day or 
two before finally salting; this will draw out the blood. But the first 
brine should be thrown away, as it is apt to injure butcher's meat, 
and always has a tendency to make bacon rusty. The meat shouid 
be wiped thoroughly clean after the preparatory salting. 

369. Different quantities of salt fire recommended ; a pound of salt 
is sufficient for a middling sized joint; for a round of beef of twenty- 
five pounds, a pound and a half should be rubbed in all at once, though 
others rub in a little at a time for two or three days ; but at any rate 
it requires to be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. The 
less salt used the better, providing vou use enough to preserve the 
meat. Too much salt extracts the juices of the meat and makes it 
tough. Coarse sugar or treacle and bay salt are used by some in the 
following proportions : Two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of sugar, 
add three-quarters of a pound of common salt. A little saltpetre 
rubbed in will make the meat red, but is apt to harden it. 

370. Meat should not be kept in salt any longer than is necessary 
to thoroughly cure it. In the course of four or five days it will be 
ready for dressing ; but if intended to be eaten cold, two or three daya 
more will make it keep longer and improve its flavour. Some people 
let meat lie in salt for a fortnight, and perhaps this is necessary for 
large hams and thick pieces of beef, but much depends upon the 
quantity of brine. If this be sufUcient to cover the one-half of the 
meat, every time it is turned, less time will be required. 

371. Hasty salting is sometimes necessary. When this is the 
case, rub half the quantity of salt to be used into the meat, which 
put in a warm place till the time of dressing. Before putting it into 
the pot, flour a coarse cloth and pack the meat in it; put it into the 
water when boiling. After it has boiled half of the usual time, that 
is, when it is half done, take it up, rub in the remainder of the salt 
and again pack it in a floured clotli : it should boil a little longer 
than when salted in the usual manner. Some persona simply boil it 
in very salt water, but the above plan is the best. 

372. Flavoured salt meal may be made by pounding some sweet 
herbs, onions, &c., with salt, and it may be rendered still more relish- 
ing by the addition of a little zest, or savoury spice. 

373. Pickling meat is effected as follows : there are other plans, 
but we prefer the method given in the Encyclopaedia Britannica : — 
Six pounds of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces of saltpetre, 



108 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

boiled in four gallons of water, skimmed and allowed to cool, forms a 
very strong pickle, which will preserve any meat completely im 
merged in it. To effect this complete immersion, which is essential, 
either a flat stone or heavy board must be laid on the meat. The 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be boiled up occa- 
sionally with additional salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the meat, and by the detection of 
the pickle by the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, the albu- 
men (which would cause the pickle to spoil) is coagulated, and rises 
in the form of scum, which must be carefully removed. Albumen is 
so called because it resembles in appearance the white of an egST, and 
of whose nature it also partakes. It is a constituent in all meat. 
Pickled meat gains in weight; salted in the common way, that is, not 
immersed or covered with brine, it loses about one and a half in six* 
teen. 

374. Jerked beef is made by cutting it into thin pieces, or slices, and 
dipping tiiem into sea or salt water, and then drying them quickly in 
the sun. In the West Indies, where they can scarcely cure meat in 
the ordinary way on account of the excessive heat, they adopt the 
above method of preserving beef. 

375. Curing bacon is effected by various methods: some use com- 
mon salt only, which answers the purpose very well, but others con- 
sider a mixture of salt and sugar or molasses to be preferable. The 
proportions are, common salt, bay salt, and coarse sugar, or molasses, 
two pounds each, saltpetre six ounces. The quantity used must de- 
pend upon the size of the hog to be cured. The blood should be tho- 
roughly drawn out of the meat by common salt before finally dressed 
for curing, and the dirty brine thrown away. Finely powder and dry 
the salt, and let it be well rubbed in ; the heavier the hand employed, 
the sooner the bacon will be cured. The flitches must be always 
kept with the rind downwards. The top flitch must be put every day 
for a month at the bottom — thus changiiig them all round. Some use 
bay salt only, others rub in a little saltpetre, for the purpose of red*- 
dening the lean of the bacon (see Drying, No. 381.) 

376. Hams. — The modes of curing hams are various in different 
parts of the country, and by different people. We give the follow- 
ing : For three hams about twenty pounds each, take common salt and 
coarse sugar two pounds each, bay salt and saltpetre six ounces each, 
black pepper four ounces, juniper berries two ounces; mix together, 
and grind or pound, and dry before the fire ; rub this mixture, while 
warm, into the hams, and then add as much common salt as will en- 
tirely cover them. In two or three days pour over the hams a pound 
of molasses; baste them with the pickle every day for a month, put- 
ting each day the top ham to the bottom ; drain and smoke (see Dry- 
ing and Smoking;) or, take two quarts of water, two pounds of salt, 
four ounces of saltpetre, one pound of bay salt, two pounds of mo- 
lasses ; boil all together, and when cold pour the mixture over the 
ham, but do not rub them. To give a smoky flavour, some persons 
recommend a pint of tar water to be poured into the brine ! Thia 



DRYING, SMOKING, &C. 109 

pickle is sufficient for two moderately sized hams , they will require 
to be about three weeks in pickle, when they must be drained, and 
sewed up separately in coarse hessens wrappers, and hung to dry 
in a kitchen of moderate temperature, or laid upon a bacon rack. 

377. Yorkshire hams are completely covered with the following 
pickle, in quantities according to the meat to be cured : Common salt, 
a peck ; bay salt, five pounds ; saltpetre and sal prunel, of each two 
ounces, all pounded together. Having thoroughly cleansed your 
hands, rub thoroughly in this mixture, and lay the rest over them ; 
after lying three days, take out the meat and boil the pickle in two 
gallons of water; put in as much common salt as will make the 
pickle bear an egg; skim and strain: when cold, pour it over the 
meat, and let it lie a fortnight. Yorkshire hams are not smoked. 

378. Tongues, chines, chops, <^c. — The pickle first given in 376 
will answer tor tongues, &c. A neat's tongue will take a fortnight to 
pickle, a calf's or hog's tongue eight or ten days, a small chine ten 
days, or not more than a fortnight ; a large one, nearly three weeks. 

379. Mutton hams, — The following is a good pickle for mutton hams 
and tongues of all kinds. Take equal parts of common salt, bay salt, 
and coarse sugar ; to every pound of this mixture add of saltpetre and 
sal prunel one ounce each, and of black pepper, albpice, juniper ber- 
ries, and coriander seed, half an ounce each ; bruise or grind altoge- 
ther, and dry before the fire; apply this mixture hot. 

380. Hung or Dutch beef. — Hang a fine tender round of beef, or 
the silver part only, for three or four days, or as long as the weather 
will allow ; then rub it well with the coarsest sugar (about a pound 
will do,) two or three times a day, for three or four days. The sugar 
having thoroughly penetrated the meat, wipe it dry, and apply the 
following mixture: Four ounces each of common salt and bay salt, 
two ounces each of saltpetre and sal prunel, one ounce each of black 
pepper and allspice. Rub them well in every day for a fortnight ; then 
roll up the beef tight, and bind or sew it in a coarse cloth, and smoke 
it. (See 381, &c.) Boil a part as it may be wanted, press it with a 
heavy weight till cold, when it may be grated for sandwiches. It 
will keep a long time. 

DRYING, SMOKING, &c. 

381. Drying may be eflfected by simply draining your salted or 
pickled meat, and hanging it within the warmth of a fire in a dry 
kitchen, but smoked dried meat is preferred by most persons, and cer 
tainly deserves the preference. The fuel employed for this purpose 
must be wood ; sawdust (not deal or fir sawdust) is generally era- 
ployed. Care must be taken not to melt or scorch the meat ; if dried 
in a common kitchen chimney, it must be hung high enough. The 
fire must be kept in a smothering state, which may be easily done 
with sawdust, and in a place set apart for smoking ; it is or ought to 
be kept burning slowly night and day. The best way is to send your 
meat to persons who make a business of smoking — (not tobacco.) Do 

9* 



110 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

not dry your meat in a bakehouse, or strew it with bran when drained 
for drying ; both will render the meat liable to be infested with those 
voracious little wretches called weevils. Drying meat by a malthouse 
kiln generally causes it to rust. After smokingr, the wrappers should 
be removed and replaced with clean ones. It is not a bad plan to 
whitewash hams two or three times, when they are required to keep 
a long time. 

382. Dried or kippered salmon is prepared by cleaning (without 
washing,) and scaling the fish ; split and remove the bone ; pickle for 
two or three days with equal parts of salt and sugar, and a little black 
pepper and saltpetre; keep it well pressed down; when cured, 
stretch each fish with a piece of stick, and dry it either with smoke 
or otherwise. 

383. Herrings^ <^c. must be wiped clean ; salted as above ; in 
twenty-four hours take them out of the salt, run a stick through the 
eyes, and hang them in rows over an old cask half filled with dry saw- 
dust, in the midst of which thrust a red-hot iron. 

384. Haddock, cod, and ling, <^*c. are usually split down the mid- 
dle for salting let them lie two or three days in equal parts of salt and 
sugar ; then stretch on sticks, and dry in the sun or artificially. 

CURING, &c. WITH PYROUGNEOUS ACID. 

385. Mr. Lockett, according to Dr. Wilkinson, in the Philosophical 
Magazine, 1821, was the first person who applied pyroligneous acid 
in the curing of meat. Mr. S. ascertained, that if a ham had the re- 
duced quantity of salt usually employed lor smoke-dried hams, and 
was then exposed, putrefaction soon took place where pyroligneous 
acid was not used ; even one-half of this reduced portion of salt is 
sufficient when it is used, being applied cold, and the ham is then 
effectually cured without any loss of weight, and retaining more ani- 
mal juices. In fact, pyroligneous acid, or acid of burnt wood, commu- 
nicates the same quality to the meat as the process of smoking. 

386. In using this acid for curing hams, mix about two tablo 
spoonfuls in the pickle for a ham of ten or twelve pounds, and when 
taken out of the pickle, previous to being hung up, paint the ham 
over with the acid by means of a brush ; a little more acid is re- 
quired for neats' tongues. Dried salmons brushed twice with the 
acid, will be more efiectualiy cured than by smoking them for two 
months. 

387. This acid will preserve meat for many weeks without salt. 
Mr. Lockett kept some beef-steaks perfectly sweet above six weeks. 
He covered the bottom of the plate with the acid, and turned the 
steaks every day. 

388. Hams and beef cured in this way, require no previous soak- 
ing in water to being boiled, and when boiled, they swell in size and 
are extremely succulent; the flavour is increased, and the meat ren- 
dered more nutritious. Two table-spoonfuls of acid added to the 
pickle for Westphalia ham is required, and when the ham is removed 



FRESH MEAT. Ill 

from the pickle, it must be well washed in cold spring water and 
dried, and then some of the acid applied over it by means of a brush, 
and this repeated two or three times at about a week's interval. 

389. To cure herrings, cod, haddock, and other fish, with pyrolig- 
neous acid, salt them a little for a day or two — not more — less may 
do; then dry them well with a coarse cloth, then dip them into the 
acid, and dry in the air; v^hen dry, repeat the process a few times, 
suspending them like the manufacturer of candles. The red colour 
in dried salmons and herrings is generally attributed to nitre (salt- 
petre;) very frequently tobacco dissolved in a fluid not very agreeable 
(urine) is employed for the purpose of reddening, in Holland. Pyro- 
ligneous acid will not answer for pickling, being too strong when 
diluted with water it loses its virtue. The vinegar of the shops may 
be advantageously improved by the addition of this acid. 

KEEPING FRESH MEAT. 

390. All kinds of meat should be hung till they are tender, but not 
till they are putrescent ; or, at any rate, not a moment longer than 
when you can perceive a slight degree of putrescency in them. Some 
things, such as venison, hares, &c., require to be hung longer than 
others, and some persons require meat to be high, or partly putrescent, 
before it is dressed, and these we fear must have their palates pleased 
whatever may be the consequence to their stomachs. Dr. Kitchiner 
says, "Although we strongly recommend that animal food should be 
hung up in the open air, till its fibres liave lost some degree of their 
toughness, yet let us be clearly understood also to warn you, that if 
kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health as 
it is disagreeable to the smell and taste." Meat should be hung in a 
draught of air, and in the shade, particularly in the summer months ; 
and it should be dried twice a day to keep it from being rendered 
musty by the damp. The time meat should be hung to be tender 
depends upon the dampness or dryness of the air, and the degree of 
heat. In damp warm weather it is exceedingly liable to become 
putrescent; in cold dry weather, not. 

391. If you find that your meat will not keep till it is wanted, it is 
a good plan to slightly roast it, or boil it, which will enable you to 
keep it a day, or even two or three days longer; but we repeat it 
must be very slightly roasted or boiled, or it will eat like meat done 
a second time. 

392. Boerhave says,, that the best method of keeping flesh in sum- 
mer, is to steep it in Rhenish wine, with a little sea salt, by which 
means it. may bo preserved a whole season. 

393. According to Dr. Franklin, as quoted by Dr. Kitchiner, game 
or poultry killed by electricity becomes tender in the twinkling of an 
eye; and if it be dressed, will be delicately tender. We have no 
doubt, indeed it is an established fact, that if they are killed by the 
operation of cold lead, the twisting of the neck, or any other of the 
ordinary modes of destroying animal life, the same result will take 



112 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

pkce, provided they are dressed before they are cold, that is, before 
the sinews and muscles have become set; once set, they must be 
suffered to relax by keeping, before the animal, whether ^ame or 
poultry, or any other creature, is fit for dressing. Take a fowl, kill 
it, put it into an oven, or amongst hot ashes, while it is still warm 
with life, without picking off the feathers or taking out the entrails, 
and it will be delicately tender eating, and perfectly sweet. The 
feathers will be burnt away, and the entrails are taken out in the 
shape of a ball ; the gypsies understand this mode of cooking. A 
military friend of ours partook of part of a calf roasted alive in the 
burning of the buildings of a farm-yard, in an enemy's country; he 
was not particularly hungry, but he says he never ate meat more deli- 
cious and tender. We mention these things merely to illustrate a 
principle, not as an example to be followed. In this country it is im- 
practicable to dress butcher's meat while still warm with life; in hot 
countries it is nearly always done. 

394. For keeping meat from becoming putrescent, recipes, of 
which the following is the substance, were published some years ago, 
and sold at the enormous price of seven shillings and sixpence : Take 
a quart of the best vinegar, two ounces of lump sugar, two ounces of 
Bait ; boil these ingredients together for a few minutes, and when 
cold, anoint with a brush the meat to be preserved. For fish, the 
mixture is directed to he applied inside; for poultry, inside and out. 
Of course both fish and poultry are to be cleansed. 

395. Pyroligneous acid, either with or without the sugar and salt, 
would be much more effectual ; besides, it possesses, to a certain ex- 
tent, the property of not only preventing putrescency, but of curing 
it when commenced. 



ON THE USE OF ACIDS IN DRESSING FOOD. 

On perusing our work previous to going to press, we do not think 
that we have dealt sufficiently on the use of vinegar in dressing food. 
Of pyroligneous acid in the preservation and curing of meats, we 
have treated pretty largely. In all stews, and most made dishes, 
the flavour is much improved, and we think the food rendered more 
digestible, by the moderate use of vinegar: we recommend, how- 
ever, none but the best vinegar, which ought to be applied to the 
meat previous to its being put in the slew-pan. We will give fo? 
example the following receipt for 

396. Brazilian Slew. — Take shin or leg of beef; cut it mto slices 
or pieces of two or three ounces each ; dip it in good vinegar, and, 
with or without onions, or any other flavouring or vegetable sub- 
stances, put it in a stew-pan, and without water ; let it stand on a 
etew-hearth, or by a slow fire, for two three, or four hours, when it 
will be thoroughly done, will have yielded plenty of gravy, and be as 
** tender as a chicken." Great care must be taken that the heat is 
sufficiently moderate. This is the usual mode of dressing all descrip- 
tions of meat in the Brazils. We have recommended leg or shin of 



COOKING VEGETABLES. ll3 

beef, because it in fact makes the richest and most nutritious stew, 
and may be had at a low price ; but any other meat or fish may be so 
dressed. The only objection to it is, that it is too rich ; but this may 
be remedied by eating less of it, and a greater quantity of potatoes or 
other vegetables. A pound and a half of leg of beef, without bone, 
so dressed, and plenty of potatoes, will dine four people luxuriously. 

397. Alamode Beef of the shops, which, when well dressed, ia 
very delicious, is made by thickening the gravy of beef that has been 
very slowly stewed as above with vinegar, and flavoure/^ with bay 
leaves, allspice, «Sz.c., according to taste. The following process will 
be found a good one: cut your beef, mouse buttock, or sticking pieces, 
or legs (legs are the best), &c., into pieces of two or three ounces 
each; put into a deep stew-pan some beef dripping, to keep the meat 
from sticking to the bottom ; mince onions, which mix with the beef, 
previously dipped in vinegar, and put the mixture into a deep stew- 
pan. When quite hot, flour the meat with a dredger, and continue 
to do so till you have stirred in enough to thicken it; then cover it 
with boiling water, which should be put in by degrees, stirring it 
together with a wooden spoon. Flavour with black pepper, allspice, 
bay leaves, champignons, truflies, mushrooms, &.c., according to taste ; 
but allspice, black pepper, and salt, will answer every useful purpose. 
Let it stew as slowly as possible for four or five hours. We can 
testify from experience that oar Brazilian stew and beef alamode are 
cheap and delicious dishes. 

COOKING VEGETABLES. 

This branch of cookery, though apparently very simple, requires 
the utmost attention, and no little judgment. 

398. You should always boil vegetables in soft water, if you can 
procure it ; if not, put a tea-spoonful or more of carbonate of soda in it 
to render it so. 

399. Take care to wash and cleanse all vegetables from dust and 
other impurities, before putting them into the pot or pan ; they should 
be thoroughly cleansed ; for which purpose it will be necessary to 
open the leaves of greens, or otherwise you may send to the table 
some fine, fat, overfed caterpillars, and thus spoil the whole dish. 

400. Upon the whole, it is best to boil vegetables in a saucepan by 
themselves. The quicker they boil, the greener they will be. When 
they sink, they are generally done enough, if the water has been kept 
constantly boiling. When done, take them up immediately^ and tho- 
roughly drain. If vegetables are a minute too long over the fire, they 
Jose all their beauty and flavour. If not thoroughly boiled tender, they 
are tremendously indigestible ; and much more troublesome during 
their residence in the stomach, than underdone meats. 

401. Vegetables are in greatest perfection, when in greatest plenty, 
and they are only in greatest plenty when in full season. All vege- 
tables are best when they are so cheap as to enable the artisan to eat 
them. Very early peas, or very early potatoes — that is, peas or po- 



il4 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

tatoes raised by artificial means — may be vabjed as great rarities, but 
for nothing else. We may assert the same thing of nearly all other 
vegetables. Sea kale and early rhubarb are, perhaps, exceptions. 
All vegetables should be ripe ; that is, ripe as vegetables ; otherwise, 
like fruits, they are bad tasted and unwholesome. To eat peas or 
potatoes in perfection, you must eat them not much before Mid- 
summer. 

402. With regard to the quality of vegetables, the middle size are 
to be preferred to the very large. Green vegetables, such as savoys, 
cabbages, cauliflowers, &,c., should be eaten fresh, before the life \s 
out of them. When once dead, they are good for nothing but the 
dunghill. This description of vegetables will live a long time after 
they are cut, but the fresher they are the better. Any one may easily 
see if they have been kept too long. There are two ways of sending 
peas to market : the one is, by packing them in sacks, where they fre- 
quently become heated, and, of course, in a great measure spoilt. The 
other is, by sending them in sieves, which is by far the best way, but, 
being somewhat more expensive, sieve peas fetch a higher price than 
sack peas. 

403. Greens, roots, salads, &c. &c., when they have lost their fresh- 
ness by long keeping, may be refreshed a little by putting them in 
cold spring water for an hour or two before they are dressed ; but this 
process will not make them equal to those which are gathered just be- 
fore they are boiled. 

404. The following remarks, by a writer in the Edin. Encyclo. on 
this subject, are very just, and well worth the perusal : — " Most vege- 
tables, being more or less succulent, require their full proportion of 
fluids for retaining that state of crispness and plumpness which they 
have when growing. On being cut or gathered, the exhalation from 
their surface continues, while, from the open vessels of the cut sur^ 
face, there is often great exudation or evaporation, and thus their na* 
tural moisture is diminished, the tender leaves become flaccid, and 
the thicker masses, or roots, lose their plumpness. This is not only 
less pleasant to the eye, but is a real injury to the nutritious powers 
of the vegetable ; for in this flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres are 
less divided in chewing, and the water which exists in vegetable sub- 
stances in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly 
nutritious. The first care, therefore, in the preservation of succulent 
vegetables is, to prevent them from losing their natural moisture." 

405. To preserve colour, or give colour, in cookery, many good 
dishes are spoilt. This is a great folly. Taste, nourishment, and 
digestibility, ought to be th^ only considerations in the dres&ing of 
food. 

406. When vegetables are quite fresh gathered, they requirr much 
less boiling than those that have been kept. According to Xitch- 
iner, fresh vegetables are done in one-third less time than stal^ 

407. Strong-scented vegetables, we need scarcely say, ougb* to be 
kept apart. If onions, leeks?, and celery, are laid amongst suc^ r^«r.- 
cate things as cauliflowers, they will spoil in a very short time 



DRESSING VEGETABLES. 115 

408 Succulent vegetables, such as cabbages, and all sorts of greens, 
are best preserved in a cool, damp, and shady place. Potatoes, tur- 
nips, carrots, and similar roots, intended to be stored up, should never, 
on any account, be cleaned from the earth adhering to them, till 
they are to be dressed. Never buy washed potatoes, &.c. from your 
shopkeeper; have them with the soil about them, and wash them 
just before they are boiled. 

409. As the action of frost destroys the life of vegetables, and 
causes them speedily to rot, and as the air also injures them, all roota 
should be protected by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or 
eartli, and covering them with straw or mats. There are, however, 
some sorts of winter greens, such as savoys, &c., which are made 
much better and more tender by frost. 

PARTICULAR DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING VEGE- 
TABLES. 

410. Cauliflowers. — Take off the outer leaves; round such as are 
young, leave just one leaf; put them with some salt into boiling wa- 
ter; boil according to size, from fifteen to twenty minutes; try the 
Btalk with a fork ; when the stalk feels tender, and the fork is easily 
withdrawn, the flower is done ; take up instantly, with a wire ladle. 
Both brocoli and cauliflower, unless boiled till they are tender, are 
neither pleasant to the taste, nor wholesome to the body ; but over- 
boiling will break and spoil them. Sauce, melted butter. 

411. Brocoli. — Choose close firm heads, nearly of a size. Put 
them into boiling water with salt; allow them plenty of room in boil- 
ing, or they will break ; and boil them fast, or they will lose their co- 
lour. They will take from ten minutes to half an hour, according to 
the size of the heads. When the stalks are tender, which you can 
know by putting a fork up the middle of the stalk, they are done. 
Take them up with a wire ladle, that the water may run off without 
bruising the heads. Serve on a buttered toast. Sauce, melted 
butter. 

412. Cabbage.— LsiYge full-grown cabbage and savoys will take 
half an hour or more in boiling. Strip all the outside leaves till you 
come to the white quick grown ones; then shave the stocks of the 
leaves that are left on, and score the stalk a little way up. Drain 
them carefully when boiled, and serve them on a drainer. 

413. Young Coleioorts and Sprouts — Do not be too saving in 
trimming sprouts, as harsh or bad leaves will spoil a whole dish. 
They will take from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour in boiling. 
Be careful in draining, so as not to spoil the shape of the heads. 

Cold cabbage may be fried and served with fried beef. It will re- 
quire a little bit of butter, a little good gravy, and a little pepper and 
salt. Shake it about well, and let it remain no longer in the pan 
than is necessary to make it hot through. 

414. Red Cabbage. — Thi^ is sometimes stewed, for eating with 
bouilli beef. Take a small red firm cabbage ; wash, pick, and cut it 



116 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in slices half an inch thick; then pick it to pi+}ces leaf by leaf. Make 
half a pint of melted butter, in 5 saucepan large enough to contain 
the whole. Shake the cabbage from the water that hangs about it, 
and put it to the melted butter, with a tea-cup full of good gravy, an 
onion, sliced, and pepper, salt, and cayenne. Let it stew half an hour 
or more, keeping the saucepan close shut.. When quite tender, add 
a glass (jf vinegar; let it just boil up; then serve. 

415. Spinach. — Pick leaf by leaf, wash it in three waters, put a 
little salt in the boiling water, boil it very quickly, and keep it under 
the water; seven or eight minutes will be sufficient to boil it; strain 
it on the back of a sieve, and press it as dry as possible between two 
plates ; spread it on a dish, and score it crossways, in squares of an 
inch and a half, or two inches. Spinach is often served with poached 
eggs and buttered toast, or slices of fried bread. It is sometimes 
etev^ed in the following manner: — When it has boiled five minutes, 
strain and press it, and put it in a small stew-pan, the bottom just 
covered with rich boiling gravy; add a bit of butter, a little pepper, 
ealt and nutmeg, and two table-spoonsful of cream; stew it five 
minutes. 

416. Vegetable Marroio or Gourd. — Gather the fruit when the 
size of an egg ; put it into boiling water, v/ith a little salt ; boil it 
until it is tender, which will be in about half an hour; cut it in siicea 
half an inch thick; lay it on buttered toast; sprinkle it with pepper 
and salt; pour melted butter over it. If the fruit has seeds in it, the 
seedy part must be scooped out, but they are not so good in this state. 
The fruit may be cut in slices raw, and fried in butter, and served 
with melted butter and vinegar. 

417. Turnips. — Put them into boiling water, with a little salt; 
when tender, take them up and drain the water from them ; they 
will take from half an hour to an hour boiling. If for mashing, boil 
them a little longer. If they are lumpy or Stringy, rub them through 
a colander, then put them into the saucepan, with an ounce of butler, 
a. spoonful of cream, a little pepper and salt ; stir them well till the 
butter is melted, and the whole well mixed. 

418. Green Peas. — Peas do not require much wmter to boil them 
in. Before you put the peas into the boiling water, throw in a lump 
of sugar aruj a little salt; boil a few tops of mint with them. If they 
are young and fresh, they will not take more than ten minutes to a 
quarter of an hour; if not very young, they will require from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Chop up the mint to garnish ; stir a lump 
of butter with them in the dish, and a little pepper and salt. 

419. To stew Peas. — Young peas are best for this purpose ; but 
stewing is the best way of preparing old ones. To a quart of peas 
allow a quart of gravy ; put them in when the gravy boils, with three 
lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt ; stew till the peas are 
quite tender, then thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. They 
may be stewed without gravy ; thus, tp a quart of peas allow a let- - 
tuce, two or three tops of mint, and an onion, cut up and washed ; the 
water that hangs round the lettuce will be sufficient; add pepper. 



DUE SSTNG VEGETABLES. 117 

salt, and f^uo-nr, as aliove ; stew vo.ry ^rpntly for two hours ; then beat 
up an ffjfo-, nnd stir in with an ounce of butter. 

420. Carrolfi. — Wa?h them well be(bro you put them into the pot. 
Thoy are best boiled with meat which they do not injure. If they 
are youn^ they will boil in twenty minutes or half an hour; large 
old ones will take two hours to boil them tender; do not quarter car- 
rots to boil — it renders them tasteless. If they are young-, leave on a 
little of the top, and rub them with a coarse cloth; old ones are best 
rubbed after thoy are boiled; the skin comes from them more easily. 
Never scrape carrots — if they are rough, brush them. Sauce, melted 
Iwitter. 

421. Windsor Beans. — Young beans are best when the eyes are 
of a green colour; when the eyes are dark, they are old and eat 
strong; young beans will boil from twenty minutes to half an hour. 
Put them into plenty of boiling water, and a spoonful of salt; if yon 
boil them after they become tender, the skins v,/ill shrivel; boil a 
large bunch of parsley with them ; ciiop some for parsley and butter. 
Stir a lump of butter with them, and put a little parsley in the dish 
for garnish. 

422. French or Kidney Beans. — The smooth or dv,7arf beans come 
in earliest, but the scarlet runners are considered the best ; choose 
them young and nearlyof a size, top and tail them, slit them down 
the middle and cut across. If they are old, take the skin from each 
side; put them in boiling water with some salt; boil them fast from 
ten minutes to a quarter of an hour; stir with them a lump of butter. 
Sauce, melted butter. 

423. Harricot Beans are the seeds of French beans, full grown ; 
they are sometimes called colly beans. Stew them in gravy, thickened 
with flour and cream, or they may be fried in butter ; stir in a lump 
of butler when in the dish, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, then put 
in some gravy. 

424. Jerusalem Artichokes, — Scrub them clean, and put them into 
tiie pot with cold water; throw in a handful of salt, do not let them 
be covered with water, and leave oft the lid; they take about the 
same time boiling as potatoes. When they are tender they are done; 
drain them and peel them. Keep them as hot as possible; they may 
be kt'pt hot by putting them in a'dish over another di^h in which is 
i)ot water. Sauce, melted btitter and vinegar, or good thick gravy. 

425. Aspara.frus. — Scrape the stalks clean; tie them in bundles 
with bass, put them in boiling water with a little salt in it ; a tin. 
saucepan is best. If they are fresh, they will be done in ten or 
/.v(.'lve minutes; if they are not fresh, they will take a little longer. 
Take up the niomf^nt they are tender, otherwise the heads will be 
broken, the flavour spoilt, and the colour spoilt; take them up very 
carefully with a slice, cut the bass, just dip some toasted bread in the 
liquor in which the asparagus has been boiled, put it on a drainer 
with a little melted butter, and the heads of the asparagus should be 
.aid inwards round the dish; or they may be laid on a buttered toast.- 

426. Artichokes. — Soak in cold water; put them into plenty of 

10 

I 



118 THE COMPLF.TE COOK. 

boilinnf water, throw in a handful of palt. They rcniiiro an hour nnj 
a half or two hours in hoiling. Try them by pulling a leaf; if it draw 
out easily, they are done; drain them on a sieve, or serve on a 
vegetable drainer. Sauce, melted butter and vineg"ar. 

427. Red Beet-root. — Boil them whole, put them in boiling water; 
they require from an hour and a half to three hours in boiling. If 
for garnish, leave them whole till wanted for use, then scrape and cut 
up inlo slices. If for salads, scrape and cut in slices hot, and pour 
cold vinegar over them. 

For stewing, boil them an hour or more, then skin and slice them ; 
season them with pepper and salt, and stew till tender, with young 
onions, in good gravy: when nearly done, stir in a bit of butter rollod 
in flour and cream : this is a pleasant and nourishing dish. They 
may be baked dry in the same manner as potatoes, and eaten with 
cold butter, salt, and pepper. 

428. White Beet-root. — This useful and wholesome plant affords 
two very pleasing varieties. The leaves stripped from thnir large 
fibrous stalks resemble spinach. Put in boiling water and boil them 
very fast; they take but a few minutes; drain, and press them very 
dry. Sauce, melted butter. The stalks tie in bundles, dress as 
asparagus. Sauce, melted butter and vinegar. 

429. Herbs to fry to eat with liver, or with rashers and eggs. — 
Clean and drain four handfuls of young spinach, and two of young 
lettuce leaves, two handfuls of parsley and one of young oniong 
chopped small ; set them over the fire in a stew-pan ; put one ounce 
of butter and some pepper and salt ; close the pan up and shake it 
well, and when it boils, set it on the hob or stove to simmer slowly 
till the herbs are tender. Serve them on a dish with the liver, or 
rashers and eg^^ ; lay them on the herb.^. 

430. K(de^ Sea and Scotch. — This last kale is a favourite sort of 
greens for winter and spring; the heads should not be gathered before 
November. These will take a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes 
fast boiling; put them into boiling water. The sprouts, which in 
spring are very abundant, will boil in a few minutes. Sauce, melted 
butter. 

Sea Kale is boiled tied up in bunches, like asparao-us. It is eaten 
with rich gravy, or thick melted butter, and may be served on toasted 
bread. 

431. Celery makes an excellent addition to salads; it also gives an 
agreeable flavour to soups and sauce, and is sometimes stewed as an 
accompaniment to boiled or stewed meat. Wash six or eight heads, 
and take off the outer leaves ; cut the heads up in bits three or four 
inches long. Stew them till tender in half a pint of veal broth, or 
white gravy; then add two spoonsful of cream and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer the 
whole together. The leaves will do to flavour soup that is to be 
strained. 

'. 432. Mushrooms. — The large flap mushrooms are excellent broiled. 
Have a very clear fire; make the bars of the gridiron very clean, and 



DRESSING VEGETABLES. 119 

rub them with rmiUon suet to prevent them from sticking- ; a few 
minutes will broil them. When they stearn but, sprinkle them with 
pepper and salt; have ready a very hot dish, and when thoy are taken 
up, lay a bit or two of butter under and over each. To stew theni, 
put them in a small saucepan with pepper and salt, a bit of butter and 
a spoonful or two of ^ravy of roast meat or cream ; shake them about, 
and when they boil they are done. 

483. Morels resemble mushrooms in their growth and many other 
respects, and are usually dressed in the same manner. It is not 
possible, however, to make catsup from them, which shows that they 
do not possess the same qualities as mushrooms. For a stew or ragout 
of morels, take off their stalks; split them, if large, into two or three 
pieces ; wash them and put them into a basin of warm water, and 
cleanse them from the sand, &c. ; then blanch, drain and put them 
into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some lemon juice. 
Moisten, after a few turns in the stew-pan, with either brown or 
white sauce. There are various other modes of dressing- them, but 
as morels are not much eaten in this country, the above may suffice. 
Morels are of a higher and finer flavour in Eastern countries tlian 
here. 

434. Truffles. — These are a very curious description of vegetables; 
they grow under ground, no part of the plants ever being seen on the 
surface. It is like the mushroom kind, a species of fungus, and is 
propagated by seed which is nurtured by the decaying of the old 
plant. They are found about ten inches below the surface of the 
earth, dogs being trained to discover them by their scent. The truffle 
lias a very rich, tart, and high flavour when fresh and in season, but 
loses it when dried, or out of season. They are not very common in 
America, but they are found in great quantities in France and Italy, 
A writer in Rees'sCyclopa)dia informs us, that " truffles are generally 
in seed about August, when they are of a fine high flavour and agree- 
able smell; continue good till the beginning of winter, and sometimes 
as late as March ; but those gathered between March and July are 
Sinn II, white, and of a poor flavour. The same authority, in the same 
article, intimates that truffles are tenderest and best in spring, though 
easiest found in autunm ; the wot swelling them and the thunder and 
lightning disposing them to throw out their scents: hence by the 
ancients they were called thund*er-roots. Hogs are fond of them ; 
hence the common people call them swine-bread." It is now, the 
editor may observe, a well-established fact, that truffles are not good 
after March, or before August. They require a great deal of wash- 
ing and brushing, in several waters, before they can be applied to culi- 
nary purposes. When fresh and fine they are very rich, and are a 
very delicious addition to some dishes. They may be, and frequently 
are, stewed like mushrooms, and prepared in other ways, and eaten 
by themselves. 

435. Cucumbers may be stewed in the same way as celery, with 
the addition of some sliced onions; or the cucumbers and onions Inay 



120 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

be fii'rit flouivd and fried in butter; then add the gravy, and stew til) 
tender; sknn oft' the iat. 

436. Parsnips. — Ch;an and dress just the same as carruts, they 
require boihn^ from one hour to two, accordini^ to their size and 
freshness; they should be drained well, and set on the hob in a dry 
saucepan to steam ; they are sometimes mashed with butter, pepper, 
salt, and cream, or milk, the same as turnips; they are eaten alone, 
or with salt beef or salt pork. {Sauce, melted butter and vhiegar. 



POTATOES. 

437. In our directions for dressing vegetables, we speak lastly of 
potatoes — not because the cooking of this e very-day food is of the 
least importance, but because, on the contrary, it is of the greatest. 
There are few persons, simple as the process may appear to be, who 
can cook potatoes well with certainty. Potatoes from the same 
ground, and of the same kind, dressed by the same cook, may come 
to table one day palatable and nutritious, and the next tiie very re- 
verse of these qualities. How does this happen % The cook acts 
upon no principle. By accident the potatoes may be boiled well, and 
by accident they may be boiled bad : in one word, the boiling of 
potatoes is, with the generality of cooks, all chance work. A friend 
of ours, Mr. John Barker, the attorney, no mean judge in such mat- 
ters, always averred, that a woman who could boil potatoes and melt 
butler well^ was a good cook ; he never requires any other proof of 
the capabilities of a cook. The fact is, those who thoroughly under- 
stand the elements of any art or science, find little or no difficulty in 
what are called the higher branches. It is for this reason that we 
have, in our little work, dwelt so much upon elementary principles, 
in preference to filling it up with long receipts, which every body 
may obtain, but which do not teach any principle of the art of cookery. 
Dr. Kitchiner observes, that " the vegetable kingdom affords no food 
more wholesome, more easily procured, easily prepared, and less ex- 
pensive, than the potatoe." This is perfectly true, and yet how few 
are there that can boil potatoes properly ! In Ireland, as every body 
knows, potatoes constitute almost entirely the food of the great mass 
of the people ; in Ireland, therefore, necessity must have taught the 
people the best mode of cooking them. Their process is this: the 
potatoes, unpeeled, that is with their jackets on, after being washed, 
are put into a cast-iron pot of cold water, which is placed on the fire. 
When the water boils, a small quantity of cold water is put into the 
pot to check the boiling; this is once or twice repeated. When the 
potatoes are done, or nearly done, the water is poured away from the 
potatoes, which are again subjected to the fire to let the steam evapo- 
rate, and make the potatoes mealy. They are then served up in the 
usual way, (we are speaking of the tables of the middling class(!s,) 
and each person takes as many potatoes as he chooses; he peels thenj, 
depositing the skins by the side of hi.'^ plate. In the course of the 



POTATOES. 121 

dinner the potatoes on the table will become cold, when a fresh supply 
is ordered, and when furnished, the host calls out to his guest, "a hot 
putaloe, Sir." Before the dinner is finished, you will have two or 
three supplies of hot potatoes, and the last, though all from the same 
pot, are to our taste better than the first. They are all the time kept 
«n the fire; the action of the heat completely evaporates the moisture 
from the potatoes, aud those at the bottom of the iron pot become par- 
tially roasted. Such is the Irish mode of dressing potatoes, and if we 
could reconcile ourselves to the " bother''^ of peeling them, and to the 
disagreeable appearance of a table-cloth nearly covered with potatoe 
skins, there is no doubt that we should consider the Irish way of 
dressing and serving potatoes the best. The generality of modern 
cookery books recommend the dressing of potatoes with their skfns 
on, like the Irish, but direct that they should be peeled before sent to 
the table; this mode spoils the potatoes by cooling them; when so 
dressed, they should be eaten hot. We recommend that potatoes, ex- 
cepting when young, for the table, should be always pared, carefully 
pared, before they are boiled : that they should be put into cold water 
with salt, and boiled quickly, till they are nearly done ; that then the 
water should be poured off, and the potatoes again subjected to the 
fire, covered with a close lid, till they are quite done, when the lid 
ought to be removed, and the moisture evaporated. They may be 
then mashed, or served whole. The cook should take care to have 
potatoes pretty much of an equal size, or, if this be not practicable, 
she should divide the large ones. We ought, however, to add, with 
regard to peeling potatoes, that most people very fond of this root 
insist upon it, that you do not get the true flavour if you do not dress 
it wiih the skin on. Let it be always remembered, that- potatoes differ 
very much in quality, and that no cook can dress a bad potatoe into a 
good one. 

This brings us to the choice of potatoes. We can lay down no 
rule, notwithstanding what former writers have said, for the choice 
of potatoes. As it is with pudding, so it is with potatoes — the proof 
is in the eating. The dealers in nuts say, " Crack and try before you 
buy," and we say as regards potatoes. Boil and try before you buy; 
tiie expenditure of one half-penny will enable you to do this. Dr. 
Kitchiner says, that "reddish coloured potatoes are belter than the 
white, but the yellowish ones are the best." The colour of a potatoe 
is no criterion of its goodness or badness; there are good of all 
colours, and there are bad of all colours. You should never buy 
washed potatoes ; they should never be washed till they are to be 
used, and as little as possible exposed to the open air. When frost- 
bitten, they are good for nothing as regards culinary purposes. There 
are various directions given by writers for dressing potatoes, some of 
which we subjoin. Kitchiner says, that "most boiled things are 
spoiled by having too little water; but potatoes are often spoiled by 
too much." It is sufficient to just cover them with water. Potatoes 
may be boiled well according to either of the subjoined methods; but 
after trying all, we prefer our own, 
10 '^ 



122 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

438. PoluLoes to boil. —To boil, ch(X)se them ail of a size, that tlioy 
may be all done together; put them on with cold water, and a spoon- 
ful of salt, in a eaucepan larger than they require, without the lid, , 
and with not quite water enough to cover them. When they boil, , 
put in a little cold water; do this twice or three times as they come to 
boil. V/hen a fork will easily go into them, strain off, and put the 
saucepan on the hob for two minutes, for the steam to evaporate. If 
done too soon, fold a coarse cloth and cover them up immediately, to 
keep tliem hot and mealy ; but tliey are best served immediately they 
are done. 

Another Method. The best method in the opinion of some, is to 
wash the potatoes quite clean and put them in the saucepan with a 
large table-spoonful of salt, and cover them with water ; but when 
they boil up, pour three parts of the water away, put the lid on the 
saucepan, and set them where they will boil, but not very fast. Ob- 
serve if the skins are cracked; if not, carefully crack tliera with a 
fork to let the watery matter contained in the potatoe out; this you 
cannot do until they are nearly done. When they are boiled sutfi- 
ciently, drain all the water away; take off the lid, and hold them 
over the lire for a minute, giving them a gentle shake. They are 
best served immediately, while they are dry and hot. This method 
is good in a small family, but where there are a great many to dine 
it would be best to pare them, and take out all the eyes with the point 
of your knife; wash them, put them in the saucepan witli a large 
table-spoonful of salt, cover them with water, and when they boil, pour 
three parts of the water off, close the saucepan, and let them boil 
gently ; when done, dry them over the fire. As potatoes should be 
always served hot, by this method you lose no time in taking off" the 
skins. 

489. Potatoes to steam. — Let the potatoes be washed, and put into 
the steamer, when the water boils in the saucepan beneath ; they 
will take about three-quarters of an hour to steam, and should be 
taken up as soon as done, or they become watery. 

440. T'o roast. — Wash and dry potatoes all of a size ; put them in 
a dutch oven, or cheese toaster, or in the oven by the side of the lire; 
take care that the heat is not too great, or they will burn before they 
are baked through. They may be parboiled lirst; in that case they 
will take less time in biking. 

441. Potatoes mashed. — When the potatoes are thoroughly boiled 
or steamed, drain them dry, pick out every speck, and while hot rub 
them through a colander into a clean saucepan, in which warm them, 
stirring in half an ounce or an ounce of butter, and a table-spoonful 
of milk, with a little pepper and salt; do not make them too wet; 
then put them into tiie scallop shells, or padding shells buttered, the 
tops washed over with the yolk of an egg, and browned in an oven 
by the side of the lire ; but best in a dutch oven. Some people con- 
sider a mixture of boiled onions an improvement. 

442. Potatoes roasted under meat. — Parboil large potatoes; peel 
them, and put them m nu earthen di^h, or daiall tin pan, under meat 



that is roastinw. They will partake of the basting, sniting, und flour- 
ing-, that are put on the meat; when one side is brown, turn and 
brown the other. They may be baked in the same manner in an oven. 
44;i Potatoes fried or broiled. — Cut cold potatoes into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, and fry them brown in a clean drippino-pan. 
Some people like them shaved in little thin piece?, sprinkled with salt 
and pepper, and stirred about in the frying-pan till hot through. They 
are very good fried whole ; first dip them in egg and roll them in 
bread crumbs; they are likevv'ise very good broiled on a gridiron, after 
being partially boiled. Cold potatoes, which are generally thrown 
away, are very good when broiled. 

444. Fotatoe Bulls. — Mix maslied potatoes with a beaten egg, roll 
them in balls and fry them, either with or without crumbs. 

445. Potutoe Snow. — Wash very clean some potatoes of a white 
mealy sort ; set them on in cold water, and boil them according to 
the first direction; when done, strain the water from them, crack the 
skins, put thenj by the fire until they are quite dry and fall to pieces; 
then rub them through a wire sieve on the dish they are to be served 
on, and do not disturb ihern. 

SALADS. 

446. Among the principal salad herbs we may reckon lettuce, of 
which the v/hite cos in summer, and in winter the brown Dutch cos 
and brown cos, are the best; endive, of which the curled leaf is pre- 
ferred; corn-salad and water-cress, both of which are preferred when 
the leaves have a brovvnii-h cast; mustard and cress, or small salad- 
ing, of which a succession may bo kept up through the spring months ; 
celery, young, crisp, and well blanched. All or any of these may be 
united in the composition of a salad. Cucumbers, eitlier sliced by 
themselves, or mixed with other articles. Radishes give a lively 
appearance, by way of garnish, to a salad, but are not themselves 
improved by dressing. Red-beet also is much in request for winter 
salads, especially mijs,ed with endive. Young onions or escalions are 
liked by many people, but much disliked by others; therefore they 
should not be mixed in the bowl, but sent up on a small dish by them- 
selves. Sorrel gives a pleasing acid taste; and pimpernel, or burnet, 
gives a flavour resembling that of cucumber. Dandelion, if well 
grown and well blanched with a tile or slate (in the same manner as 
endive), is equally good and wholesome. 

Let the mgredients of the salad be well picked, and washed and 
dried ; but do not add the dressing till just before eating, as it is apt 
to make the salad flabby. The most simple way of dressijig a salad 
is, perhaps, the best ; certainly the most wholesome ; merely salt, oil, 
and vinegar, to taste ; one table-spoonful of the best olive oil to three 
of vinegar, is a good proponion. For those who do not like oil, or 
when it is nut at hand, the following may be used as a substitute; 
TJm^ gravy that has dropped from roasted meat, good svveet thicK 
cream, a bit of (VcJi butler rubbed up with fine moist t.ui;ai, >r just 



124 THE COMPL'ETE COOK. 

melted, without either flour or water; great care must be taken in 
thus melting' the butter, or it will be apt to oil or curdle; it must be 
shaken one way only, and kept near the fire no lono-or than is neces- 
Biiry to dissolve the lumps — on no account suffered to boil. Eggs 
boiled for salads require ten or twelve minutes boiling, and should 
immediately be plunged into cold water. 

\n the more complicated preparation of a salad, great care must be 
taken that every additional ingredient is thoroughly well blended be- 
fore proceeding to add another. 

Prepare the dressings in the bowl, and add the herbs ; after stirring 
them in, take care that all the various colours are displayed. The 
coral of a lobster or a crab makes a beautiful variety with a lettuce, 
onion, radish, beet, and white of egg. The following are the ordinary 
proportions, but various tastes will suggest variety : The yolks of two 
eggs rubbed very smooth with a very rich cream ; if perfectly rubbed ■ 
and quite cold, they will form a smooth paste without straining; a 
tea-spoonful each of thick mustard, salt, and powdered loaf-sugar, or 
a little cayenne instead of mustard, less than half of the mustard ; 
when these are well rubbed in, add two table-spoonfuls of oil (or 
whichever of its substitutes is adopted), and then four spoonfuls of the 
best white wine vinegar; then lay the herbs lightly on. 

Cv.cumhers are only to be pared and sliced, with slices of onion, 
which correct their crudity, and render them less unwholesome; the 
pickle for them consists of pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. 



VINEGARS FLAVOURED. 

Vinegar is employed in extracting flavours as well as spirits and 
wine. But such extracts are principally used with salads, or as 
relishes to cold meats, and in a few instances to flavour sauces and 
Boups ; but, in English cookery, flavours extracted by sherry wine are 
preferred for soup. 

447. Vinegar for Salads. — Take three ounces each of tarragon, 
chives, eschalots, savoury, a handful of the tops of balm and mint, all 
oj'y and pounded ; put these into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon 
oV the best vinegar, cork it close and set it in the sun, and in a fort- 
niglit strain it off', and press the herbs to get out all the juice; let it 
stand a day to settle, and then strain it through a filtering bag. 

448. Basil Vinegar or Wine. — Sweet basil is in perfection about 
the middle of August; gather the fresh green leaves, quite free from 
stalk, and before it flowers ; fill a wide-mouthed bottle with them, fill 
it with vinegar or wine, and steep them ten days ; if you want a very 
strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let 
them steep fourteen days more; strain it and bottle, cork it close; it 
is a very agreeable addition to cold meat, soups, sauces, and to the 
mixture generally made for salads. A table-spoonful, when the soup ' 
is ready, impregnates a tureen-full with the basil and acid flavours at 
a very little expense, when fresh basil and lemons arc very dear. 



CATSUPS 



isr* 



The flavour of other sweet or savoury herbs may be preserved in the 
same manuer, by infusing- them in wme or vinegar. 

449. Burnet Vinegar is made exactly in the same way as the 
above, and imparts t[ie flavour of cucumbers so exactly, when steeped 
in vinegar, that the nicest pajato could not distinfruissh it from the 
fruit itself. This is a nice relish to cold meat, salads, &c. Burnet is 
best in season from Midsummer to Michaelmas. 

450. Cress or Celei-y Vinegar. — Pour over a quart of the best 
vineo^ar to an ounce of celery or cress seeds, when dried and pounded ; 
let them steep ten days, shake it every day, then sirain and bottle in 
ijmall bottles. 

451. Ilorse-radish Vinegar. — Pour a quart of best vineg-ar on 
three ounces of fcraped horse-radish, one drachm of cayenne, and an 
ounce of shred eschalot; let it stand a week. This is very cheap, 
and you have an excellent relish for cold beef, salads, &c. Horse- 
radish is in perfection in November. 

452. Garlic, Onion, or Eschalot Vinegar. — Put and chop two 
ounces of the root, pour over them a quart of the best vinegar, in a 
Dottle, shake it well every day for ten days; then pour oft" the clear 
hquor into half-pint bottles.- A few drops of the garlic will flavour a 
pint of gravy, as it is very powerful. 

453. Tarragon Vinegar. — Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh 
gathered tarragon leaves. They should be gathered on a dry day, 
just before it flowers, between Midsummer and Michaelmas. Pick 
the leaves ofi' the stalks, and dry them a little before the fire; cover 
them with the best vinegar, and let them steep fourteen days; then 
strain them through a flannel jelly-bag till it is fine, then pour it into 
half-pint bottles, cork them tight, and keep them in a dry place. 

454. Elder Flower Vinegar is prepared in the same manner aa 
above, and other herbs also. 

455. Green Mint Vinegar is made exactly the same way, and tho 
same proportions, as basil vinegar. In housed lamb season, green mint 
is sometimes not to be got, it is then a welcome substitute. 

456. Camp Vinegar. — Take four table-spoonfuls of soy, a quarter 
of an ounce of cayenne pepper, six anchovies, bruised and chopped, 
walnut pickle a quarter of a pint, a clove of garlic shred fine; steep 
the whole for a month in a quart of the best vinegar, shake it four or 
five times a v/eek, strain it through a tamis, and put it in half-pint 
bottles, close corked and sealed, or dipped in bottle cement. 

457. Capsicum, Cayenne, or Chili Vinegar. — Pound fifty fresh 
red chiiies, or capsicums, or a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper; 
steep in a pint of the best vinegar foj: a fortnight. 



CATSUPS. 

These rank high, and deservedly so, amongst the lists of flavour- 
ngs, particularly mushroom catsup, with the directions for the making 
af which wo have been at considerable pains. You cannot be certain 
jf having it good, unless you make it yourself, for no article is 



126 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

more adulterated and diluted than this most delicious and useful i 
flavourer. 

458. WaJmit Catsup. — Take three half sieves of walnut shells, 
put them into a tub, mix them up well wilh common salt, about a 
pound and a half. Let them s-tand six days, frequently beating and , 
washing them; by this time the shells become soft and pulpy; thcat 
bv bankinir them up on one side of the tub, raising- the tub on the i 
bame side, the liquor will run clear off to the other; then take that 
liquor out.' The mashing and banking- maybe repeated as long- ag i 
any liquor runs. The quantity will be about three quarts. Simmer- 
it in an iron pot as loner as any scum rises; then add two ounces of 
allspice, two ounces of ginger, bruised, one ounce of long pepper, onei 
ounce of cloves, with the above articles; let it boil slowly i'ov half aai 
hour; whon bottled, take care that an equal quantity of spice goes* 
into each bottle; let the bottles bo quite filled up, cork them tight,, 
and seal then; over. Put them into a cool and dry place, for one year- 
before they are used. 

459. Oyster Catsup. — Take fine large fresh oysters, open them, 
carefully, and wash them in their own liquor, to take any particle of 
shell that may remain, strain the liquor aftor. Pound the oysters in a 
mortar, add the liquor, and to every pint put a pint of sherry, boil it 
up and skim, then add two anchovies, pounded, an ounce of common 
salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one of cayenne. Let it boil; 
up, skim it, and rub it through a sieve. Bcjttle it when cold, and seal! 
it. What remains in the sieve will do i'ov oyster sauce. 

460. Cockle and Muscle Catsup. — The same way as oyster catsup. 

461. Mushroom Catsup. — The juice of mushrooms approaches the 
nature and flavour of gravy meat more than other vegetable juices. . 
Dr. Kitchiner sets a high value, and not without reason, upon goodi 
mushroom catsup, " a couple of quarts of which," he says, " will save: 
some score pounds of meat, besides a vast deal of time and trouble.'*' 
The best method of extracting the essence of mushrooms, is thatt 
which leaves behind the least quantity of water. In all essences, it! 
is quality, not quantity, to which we ought to look. An excess of 
aqueous fluid in essences renders them less capable of keeping; while 
in flavouring sauces, &.c. a small quantity is sufllcient, so that by this- 
means you do not interfere with the thickness or consistency of the 
thing flavoured. Mushrooms, that is, field mushrooms, begin to come: 
in about September. There are several varieties of these fungi, and I 
they differ very much, both in their wholesomeness and flavour. The; 
best and finest flavoured mushrooms are those whicli grow spontane-- 
ously upon rich, dry, old pasture land. The following is the mode of," 
making good mushroom catsup, o'r, as Dr. Kitchiner calls it, " double? 
catsup," ' 

Take mushrooms of the right sort, fresh gathered and full grown, 
but not maggoty or putrescent ; put a layer of these at the bottom of 
a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with salt; then put another 
layer of mushrooms, sprinkle more salt on them, and so on alternately, 
mushroom.- and salt. Let them remain two or three hours, by which . 



CLARIFYING. 127 

lime the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, nnd have mada 
thetn easy to break ; then pound them in a mortar, or break them well 
with your hands; then let them remain in this state for two days, not 
more, mashing- them well once or twice a day ; then pour them into a 
stone jar, and to each quart add an ounce and a half of whole black 
pepper, and half an ounce of allspice ; stop the jar very close, and set 
it in a saucepan or stew-pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling- for 
two hours at least. Take out the jar, and pour the juice clear from 
the settlings, through a hair sieve into a clean stew-pan. Let it boil 
very gently for half an hour ; but to make good or double catsup, it 
should boil gently till the mushroom juice is reduced to half the quan- 
tity, or, in other words, till the more aqueous part is evaporated ; then 
skim it well, and pour it into a clean dry jar or jug-; cover it close, 
and let it stand in a cool place till next day, then pour it off as gently 
as possible (so as not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the jug,) 
through a tamis, or thick flannel bag, till it is perfectly clear; add a 
table-spoonful of good unflavoured spirits (brandy is dear and not a 
whit better than common spirits of wine of equal strength) to each 
pint of catsup, and let it stand as before. A fresh sediment will be 
deposited, from which the catsup is to be poured off gently, and bot- 
tled in half pints, washed with spirit. Small bottles are best, as they 
are sooner used, and the catsup, if uncorked often, is apt to spoil. The 
cork of each bottle ought to be sealed or dipped in bottle cement. 
Keep it in a dry cool place; it will soon spoil if kept damp. If any 
pellicle or skin should appear upon it when in the bottle, boil it up 
again with a few peppercorns. It is a question with us, whether it 
would not be best to dispense with the spice altogether, and give an 
addition of spirits. When a number of articles are added to the cat- 
sup, such as different spices, garlic, eschalot, anchovy, &c. &,c., the 
fiavour of the mushroom is overpowered, and it ceases to be, properly 
speaking, mushroom catsup. 

462. Mushroom Catsup witJwut Sjrlce is made thus : — Sprinkle a 
little salt over your mushrooms. Three hours after, mash them; next 
day, strain off the liquor, and boil it till it is reduced to half. It will 
not keep long, but an artificial mushroom bed will supply sufricient 
for this, the very best of mushroom catsup, all the year round. 

463. Mushroom Powder may be made of the refuse of the mush- 
rooms, after they have been squeezed, by drying them well in a dutch 
oven, or otherwise, and then reducing them to powder. If the mush- 
rooms themselves are dried and pounded, the powder will be much 
stronger. Tincture or essence of mushrooms, we apprehend, might 
be niade, by steeping dried mushrooms in spirits. 

CLARIFYING. 

464. Clarified Butler. — Put the butter in a clean saucepan over a 
very clear, slow fire, and when it is melted, carefully skim off the but- 
ter-milk, which will swim on the top; let it stand for a minute or two 
for the imouritjes to sink to the bottom, then pour the clear butter 



128 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

through a sieve into a basin, leaving the sediment at thelxittom of the ' 
pan. 

465. Burnt Butter. — Pat two ounces of fresh butter into a fryino-- 
pan ; when it becomes a dark brown coiour, add a table-spoDufnl and 
a half of good vinegar and a little salt and pepper. Thii is used lor 
sauce to boiled iish or poached eggs. 

466. Oiled Butter. — Put two ounces of fresh butter into a sauce- 
pan, melt it gradually till it comes to an oil, and pour it off quietly 
from the dregs. This will supply the place of olive oil. 

467. To clarify Dripping. — Be careful that no cinders or ashes 
fall into thedrippmg-pan, and empty the well before the meat is salted 
or floured, as the dripping will be more valuable. The NoLtiiiglinin 
ware are the best vessels for Ue<jping dripping in ; where much drip- 
ping is made, however, keep one general receiving pot ; do not put \n 
seasoned dripping, or dripping of game and poultry; this should be 
kept by itself; it answers very well to baste similar articles again, or 
it makes very good common crust for meat pies, or f(ir frying; it is 
not tit ibr delicate pastry. Tiie cook will tind at the bottom of the re- 
ceiving pot, after it has stood a few days, some gravy which may be 
useful to make gravy, and if not removed will spoil the colour of the 
dripping ; then put the dripping into a saucepan over a clear slow fire, 
at a good distance ; when it is nearly boiling skim it well, then let it 
boil, and immediately put it aside; when cool, and a little settled, 
pour it steadily through a sieve into the pan ; this is very nice drip- 
ping tor pastry. What remains may be put into the receptacle of 
seasoned dripping, or kept by itself, and will do tor basting meat. 

In this manner the fat that settles on the top of stews and boils and 
soups may be clarified and turned to use. Remove the fat before you 
add the vegetables or seasoning. Nothing makes a lighter piecrust 
than this sort of fat. It should be used soon, as the moisture hanging 
about it will turn it sour. 

468. To clarify Suet and Fat. — Take away whatever fat or suet 
that is not likely to be used oft' a loin of mutton, loin of veal, or sirloin 
©f beef. An inch thickness of fat may be taken from a loin or neck 
of mutton, and a good deal of fat from the kidney ; then shave it into 
very thin slices, or chop it upas suet; pick out all veins and skin, 
then put it into a stone jir or saucepan, and set it in a slow oven, or 
over a stove till it is melted; then strain it through a hair sieve into 
jars or pots; when quite cold, tie over the jirs. Be careful not to put 
this or dripping into a warm place. 

469. Hog's Lard. — The inside fat or leaf of a pig should bo beaten 
with a lard-beater, or rolling-pin ; then put it into a jar or earthen 
pot, in a large kettle of boiling water, till it is melted ; add a little 
salt and a little rosemary — the last may be left out if not preferred. 
When melted, pour it into jars or bladders, nicely cleaned. The bits 
of skins that are left are called crittens, and chopped up with apples 
or currants to make fritters, or a pie. Lard is frequently melted in a 
brass kettle over a slow fire. It is better to surround it with water. 

470. Clarified Sugar is merely brought to a syrup in the followinij 



ip. PICKLES. 129 

manner: — Break up the sug-ar in larg'e jumps, and allow a pint of 
water to every two pounds of sugar: but whatever quantity is em- 
ployed, keep out a quarter of a pint cold. Put tlie sugar and water 
in the preserving pan, with the white of one egs well beaten, to every 
two pounds of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, set it on the fire, 
and when it boils fast, throw in tlie quarter of a pint of cold water; 
this is intended to throw up ihe scum. When it boils again, take the 
vessel from the fire and let it stand to settle; then remove all scum, 
and place it in a hair sieve; what runs through may be returned to 
the rest: give it another boil, and again settle and skim. It should 
not be stirred after the sugar is dissolved and syrup begins to warm. 
In this manner sugar is clarified for jelly which is to be put in glasses. 



PICKLES. 

Like Dr. Kitchiner, we are not fond of pickles. They are, indeed, 
for the most part, mere vehicles for taking up vinegar and spice — and 
very unwholesome, indigestible vehicles tbcy are. By pounding them, 
as they do in India, they are rendered less indigestible. Those who 
are fond of relishes, and who are wise enough not to gratify their 
tastes at tiie expense of their stomachs, will find the various flavoured 
vinegars, mixed to each individuars liking, an excellent substitute for 
pickles. . 

471. There are three methods of pickling; the most simple is, 
merely to put the articles into cold vinegar. The strongest pickling 
vinegar of white wine should always be used for pickles; and for 
such as are wanted for white pickles, use distilled vinegar, which is 
as white as water. This method we recommend for all such vege- 
tables as, being hot themselves, do not require the addition of spice, 
and such as do not require to be softened by heat, such as capsicums, 
chili, nasturtiiHus, button onions, radish-pods, horse-radish, garlic, and 
eschalots. Half fill the jars with best vinegar, fill them up with the 
vegetables, and tie down immediately with bladder and leather. One 
ridvantage of this plan is, that those who grow nasturtiums, radish- 
pwls, and so forth, in their own gardens, may gather them from day 
to day when they are exactly of the proper growth. They are very 
much better if pickled quite fresh, and all of a size, which can 
t^carcely be obtained if they be pickled all at one time. The onions 
should be dropped in the vinegar as fast as peeled ; this secures their 
colour. The iiorse-radish should be scraped a little outside, and cut 
up in rounds half an inch deep. Barbaries for garnish ; gather fine 
full l)nnches before they are quite ripe; pick away all bits of stalk 
nnd leaf and injured berries, and drop them in cold vinegar ; they 
may be kept in salt and water, changing the brine whenever it begins 
lo ferment : but the vinegar is best. 

472. The second method of pickling is that of heating vinegar and 
spice, and pouring them hot over the vegetables to be pickled, which 
are previously prepared by sprinkling with salt, or immersing in brine. 
It is better not to boil the vinegar, by which process its strength is 



1^ THE COMTLETE COOK. 

evaporated. Put the vinegar and spice into a jar, bun^ it down ; 
tightly, tie a bladder over, and let it stand on the hob, or on a trivet v 
by the side of the fire, for three or four days, well shaken three or four ' 
times a day; this method may be applied to gherkins, French beans,, 
cabbage, brocoli, cauliflowers, onions, and so forth. 

473. The third method of pickling is when the vegetables are in ftr 
greater or less degree done over the fire. Walnuts, artichokes, arti-- 
choke bottoms, and beet-roots, are done thus, and sometimes onions i 
and cauliflowers. 

474. Gherkins or young Cucumbers should be the size of a finger; ; 
if smaller they have not attained their flavour, if much larger they 
are apt to be seedy; put them in unglazed stone jars; cover thenii 
with brine, composed of a quarter of a pound of salt dissolved in ai 
quart of boiling water, and left to become cold; cover down the jnrsi 
and put them on the hearth before the fire for two or three days, till; 
they become yellow; then pour off the brine, drain the cucumbers,, 
scald and dry the jars, return the cucumbers and cover them witfii 
vinegar: set them again before the fire and let them remain until' 
they become green, which will be in eight or ten days; then pour ofl' 
the vinegar, and put to them a pickle of fresh vinegar (prepared for 
gherkins, French beans, and so forth, as directed.) To each quart,, 
black pepper two ounces, ginger one ounce, salt one ounce, cayennoi 
half a drachm, mustard-seed one ounce. 

The vinegar in which the cucumbers were greened should be bot- 
tled: it will make good sauce for cold meat or salads. Cucumbers* 
are often steeped in vinegar on purpose to give it a flavour. 

475. French Beans. — The best sort for this purpose are white- 
runners. They are very large long beans, but should be gathered I 
quite young, before they are half grown; they may be done in thai 
same way as gherkins, but will not require so long a time, and thai 
first vinegar is not so nice as that from cucumbers. 

476. Onions. — Onions should be chosen about the size of marbles,, 
the silver-skinned sort are the best. Prepare a brine and put themi 
into it hot; let them remain one or two days, then drain them, and,, 
when quite dry, put them into clean dry jars, and cover them with \ 
hot pickle, in every quart of which has been steeped one ounce each 
of horse-radish sliced, black pepper, allspice, and salt, with or with- 
out mustard-seed. In all pickles the vinegar should always be two > 
inches or more above the vegetables, as it is sure to shrink, and if the ^ 
vegetables are not thoroughly immersed in pickle they will not keep. . 

477. Red Cabbage. — Choose fine firm cabbages: the largest areiy 
not the best; trim off' the outside leaves; quarter the cabbage, take- 
out the large stalk, slice the quarters into a colander, find sprinkle a 
little salt between the layers; put but a little salt, too much will 
spoil the colour; let it remain in the colander till next day, shake it 
well that all the brine may run off"; put it in jars, cover it with a hot 
pickle composed of black pepper and allspice, of each an ounce; 
ginger pounded, horse-radish sliced, and salt, of each half an ouncd 



PICKLES. 131 

to every quart of vineg-ar (steeped as above directpd) ; two capsicums 
may be added to a quart, or one drachm of cayenne, 

478. Garlic and Eschalots. — Gurlic and eschalots may be pickled 
in !ho same way as onions. 

479. Melons, Mangoes, and long Cucumbers, may all be done in 
the same manner. Melons should not be much nior^^ than half g^rovvn; 
cucumbers full grown, but not overgrown. Cut otf'tlie top, but leave 
it han<,nn(r by a bit of rind, which is to serve as a himre to a box-lid ; 
with a marrow-spoon scoop out all the seeds, and fill the fruit with 
equal parts of mustard-seed, ground pepper, and ginger, or flour of 
mustard instead of the seeds, and two or three cloves of garlic. The 
lid which encloses the spice may be sewed down or tied, by running 
a while thread tiirough the cucumber, and through the lid, and then, 
tying it together, cut off the ends. The pickle may be prepared with 
the spices directed for cucumbers, or with the following, which bears 
a nearer resemblance to India. To each quart of vinegar put salt, 
flour of mustard, curry powder, bruised gmger, turmeric, half an 
ounce of each, cayenne pepper one drachm, all rubbed together with 
a large glassful of salad oil ; eschalots two ounces, and garlic half 
an ounce, sliced; steep the spice in the vinegar as before directed, 
and put the vegetables into it hot. 

4S0. Brocoli or CauliJIowers. — Choose such as are firm, yet of 
their full size; cut away all the leaves, and pare the stalk; pull away 
the flowers by bunches, steep in brine two days, then drain them; 
wipe them dry and put them into hot picUle; or merely infuse for 
three days three ounces of curry powder in every quart of vinegar. 

481. Walnuts. — Be particular in obtaining them exactly at the 
proper season ; if they go beyond the middle of July, there is danger 
of their becoming hard and woody. Steep them a week in brine. If 
they are wanted to be soon ready for use, prick them with a pin, or 
run a larding pin several times through them; but if they are not 
vi'anted in haste, this method had better be let alone. Put them into 
a kf'ttle of brine, and give them a gentle simmer, then drain them on 
a sieve and lay them on fish drainers in an airy place, until they be- 
come black, which may be two days; then add hot pickle of vinegar 
in which has been steeped, in the proportion of a quart, black pepper 
one ounce, ginger, eschalots, salt, and mustard-seed, one ounce each. 
Most pickle vinegar, when the vegetables are used, may be turned to 
use, walnut pickle in particular; boil it up, allowing to each quart 
four or six anchovies chopped small, and a large table-spoonful of 
eschalots, also chopped. Let it stand a few days, till it is quite clear, 
then pour oft' and bottle. It is an excellent store sauce for hashes, 
fish, and various other purposes. 

482. Beet-roots. — Boil or bake gently until they are nearly done* 
according to the size of the roots they will require from an hou 
and a half to two hours; drain them, and when they begin to cool 
peel and cut in slices half an inch thick, then put them into a pickle 
comp(3sed of black pepper and allspice, of each one ounce, ginger 
pounded, horse-radish sliced, and salt, of each half an ounce to wery 



i32 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

quart of vinegar, steeped. Two capsicums may be added to a quart, 
or one drachm of cayenne. 

483. CauliJImoers or Brocoli. — Choose firm full-ofrown cauliflowers 
and brocoli, cut away all the leaves and pare the stalk, and instead of 
sleeping in cold brine, set them over the fire in cold brine, and let it 
heat gradually. Just before it comes to boil, take them up in a wire 
ladle, and spread them on a cloth before the fire; when quite dry, put 
them into glass or jars, and add cold pickle, according to the second 
method of making pickle (472). 

484. Artichokes. — Gather young artichokes as soon as formed ; 
throw them into boiling brine, and let them boil two minutes ; drain 
them; when cold and dry put them in jars, and cover with vineofar, 
prepared as method the third, but the only spices employed should be 
ginger, mace and nutmeg. 

485. Artichoke Bottoms. — Get full-grown artichokes and boil them, 
but not so much as for eating, but just until the leaves can be pulled ; 
remove them and the choke ; in taking off the stalk, be careful not to 
break it off so as to bring away any of the bottom ; it would be better 
to pare them with a silver knife, and leave half an inch of tender stalk 
coming to a point; when cold, add vinegar and spice, the same as for 
aitichokes. 

486. Mushrooms. — Choose small white mushrooms ; they should 
be but one night's growth. Cut ofTthe roots, and rub the mushrooms 
clean with a bit of flannel and salt; put them in a jar, allowing to 
every quart of mushrooms one ounce each of salt and ginger, half an 
ounce of whole pepper, eight blades of mace, a bay leaf, a strip of le- 
mon rind, and a wine-glassful of sherry ; cover the jar close, and let it 
stand on the hob or on a stove, so as to be thoroughly heated, and on 
the point of boiling; so let it remain a day or two, till the liquor is ab- 
sorbed by the mushrooms and spices; then cover them with hot vine- 
gar, close them again, and stand till it just comes to a boil ; then take 
them away from the fire. When they are quite cold divide the mush- 
rooms and spice into wide-mouthed bottles, fill them up with the vine- 
gar, and tie them over. In a week's time, if the vinegar has shrunk 
so as not entirely to cover the mushrooms, add cold vinegar. At the 
top of each bottle put a tea-spoonful of salad or almond oil ; cork close, 
and dip in bottle resin. 

487. Samphire. — On the sea-coast this is merely preserved in wa- 
ter, or equal parts of sea-water and vinegar; but as it is sometimes 
pent fresh as a present to inland parts, the best way of managing it 
under such circumstances, is to steep it two days in brine, then drain 
and put it in a stone jar covered with vinegar, and having a lid, over 
which put thick paste of flour and water, and set it in a very cool oven 
all night, or in a warmer oven till it nearly, but not quite boils. Then 
let it stand on a warm hob for half an hour, and let it become quite cold 
before the paste is removed ; then add cold vinegar, if any more is re- 
quired, and secure as other pickles. 

488. India?!. Fickle. — The vefietables to be employed for this fa- 
vourite pickle, are small hard knots of white cabbage sliced, cauli- 



. il O O PICKLES. ^ '*^ 133 

flowers or brocoli in flakes, long- carrots not larger than a finder, or 
laroe ciirrots sliced (the former are far preferable,) gherkins, Frenclj 
beans, small bottom onions, white turnip radi.<hes half grown, radish- 
pods, eschalots, young hard apples, green peaches when the trees arc 
thinned before the stones begin to form, vegetable marrow not larger 
than a hen's eg^, small green melons, celery, shoots of green elder, 
horse-radish, na^iturtiums, capsicums, and garlic. As all these vege- 
tables do not come in season together, the best method of doing this 
is to prepare a large jar of pickle at sucli time of the year as most of 
the things may be obtained, and add the others as they come in sea- 
son. Thus the pickle will be nearly a year in making, and ought to 
btand another year before nsing, when, if properly managed, it will 
be excellent, but will keep and continue to improve for years. For 
preparing the several vegetables, the same directions may be observed 
»s for pickling them separately, only take this general rule — that, if 
possible, boiling is to be avoided, and soaking in brine to be preferred ; 
be very particular that every ingredient is perfectly dry before put- 
ting into the jar, and that the jar is very closely tied down every time 
that it is opened for the addition of fresh vegetables. Neither mush- 
rooms, walnuts, nor red cabbage, are to be admitted. 

For the pickle- To a gallon of the best wine vinegar add salt 
three ounces, flour of mustard half a pound, turmeric two ounces, 
white ginger sliced three ounces, cloves one ounce, mace, black pep- 
per, long pepper, white pepper, half an ounce each, cayenne two 
drachms, eschalots peeled four ounces, garlic peeled two ounces; 
steep the spice in vinegar on the hob or trivet for two or three days. 
The mustard and turmeric must be rubbed smooth with a little cold 
vinegar, and stirred into the rest when as 'near boiling as possible. 
Such vegetables as are ready may be put in ; when cayenne, nastur 
liums, or any other vegetables mentioned in the first method of pick- 
ling, come in season, put them in the pickle as they are ; any in the 
second method, a small quantity of hot vinegar witiiout spice ; when 
cold pour it off, and put the vegetables into the general jar. If the 
vegetables are greened in vinegar, as French beans and gherkins, 
this will not be so necessary, but will be an improvement to all. 
Onions had better not be wet at all ; but if it be desired not to have the 
full flavour, both onions, eschalots, and garlic, may be sprinkled with 
salt in a colander, to draw off all the strong juice ; let them lie two or 
three hours. 

The elder apples, peaches, and so forth, to be greened as gherkins. 
See method the second (472.) 

The root--, radishes, carrots, celery, are only soaked in brine and 
dried. Haifa pint of salad oil, or of mustard oil, is sometimes added. 
It should be rubbed with the flour of mustard and turmeric. It is not 
essential to Indian pickle to have every variety of vegetable here men- 
tioned ; but ull these are admissible, and the greater variety the more 
epproved. 
11* 



134 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

PASTRY.— GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

We are no friends to pastry, particularly what is called the rich 
flaky pastry. It is decidedly iiidi^restible, and consequently unvvhoie- 
sofne. A crisp, short paste, however, we consider nutritious; the but- 
ler, lard, &LC. being thoroughly incorporated with the flour iti the pro- 
cess of making it. Oleaginous substance?, such as lard, become not 
only perfectly innocuous, when well mixed with farina, and well 
baked or boiled, but very nourishing and wholesome; and this we 
take to be the best way of preparing such things for human food. 

In making pastry, the cook, as indeed she ought to be on all occa- 
sions, should be particularly clean and neat. Her utensils should be 
kept in " apple-pie order," and when they are done with, they should 
be carefully cleaned and put in their places. Her paste-board and 
rolling-pin, let it be remembered, shoijld, after using, be well scoured 
with hot water alone. She should not use soap, sand, or stone dust 
of any kind. A marble slab is preferable to a board for rolling paste. 
Both are generally made too small to be convenient. Three feet long 
by two feet wide is a good size. In making a paste, a good cook will 
have no waste of any kind, and particularly she will not make more 
at one time than she wants, under the idea that she can keep it in 
flour till the next time of making ; for it is ten to one but that the old 
paste will spoil the new. No Hour except the very best can be used 
for fine descriptions of pa.stry, and in damp weather it should be dried 
before the fire, but not scorched. Clarified dripping, good lanl, mar- 
row, salt butter well washed, may be used for ordinary pastry ; indeed, 
if they are pure and sweet they will form good pastry, with good flour 
and good management. In wealthy families, however, where economy 
is not an object, and every thing tor the table is required to be of the 
first quality, the safest plan is to use the best fresh butter. The fat 
that settles on stews, and on the broth in which meat has been boiled, 
may be used tor pastry, that is, provided it is tasteless. Suet is some- 
limea used for meat pies, but though it makes a light crust, when hot, 
it does not eat well when cold. 

A most wholesome crust is made without butter or any other oily 
matter.- For this pufpose take half a quartern of dough, work in an 
egg, and cover your pie. This will be sutficient for a large one. A 
great deal more butter,, or fat of some kind or other, was formerly 
directed to be used in making pastry than at present. For ordinary 
purposes, half the weiglit of lard, or butter, is sufficient, but in the 
richest crusts the quantity should never exceed the weight of flour. 
Eggs may be added to enrich the crust; use no more water or other 
liquid in making paste than is absolutely necessary, or, in other words?, 
take care not to "put out the miller's eye," that is, to make the paste 
loo moist. The great thing is to incorporate the flour well with the 
fat, which you cannot do if you allow too njuch water or milk in the 
first instance. 

The under or side crust, which should be th'n, should not be made 
so rich as the top crust, as otherwise it will make the gravy or syrup 



PASTRY. 135 

gfRHKy. All diphes in which pies are to bo baked should be buttered 
or greased round the edaes to prevent the crust from sticking, and if 
there be an under crust, all over the in.side : — the same must be 
done with tins or saucers. 

There is a number of other little things to bo attended to in mak- 
ing pastry, which we will enumerate in as few words as wo can. 
Fruit pics or large tarts should have a hole made in the middle of the 
crust, and it is a good plan in a family pie to place a small tea-cup in 
the middle of the pie; this will form a receptacle for the syrup, and 
prevent its bniling over. For the same reason meat pies should have 
holes round their edges, but they do not require a tea-cup. The 
thickness of the crust must be regulated by the judgment of the cook 
with reference to the nature of the pie, and the circumstances of the 
party by whom it is to be eaten. Top crusts vary in thickness from 
half an inch to an inch or more. Of course a meat pie will require a 
longer time to bake than a fruit one, and some descriptions of fruit 
again longer than others. The edges of pies are sometimes crimped 
or jagged, and some persons further ornament them with leaves, or 
stars cut out of paste, and laid on the top of the crust. Pigeon and 
game pies, &.c. are general iy washed over with finely beaten yolk of 
eggs, simply to give them a nice appearance, but they are just as 
nice without it. We ought to add, that where the paste is wanted 
to adhere, as in the upper and under crusts of a pie, it is a good plan 
to touch the parts with tlie white of an egg; a little water will do, 
but not so well. 

489. Flaky and Short Crusls. — In making a Jlaky crust a part of 
the flit should be worked witii the hand to a cream, and then the 
whole of the flour well rubbed into it before any water or milk is 
added. The remaining fat must bo stuck on the paste and be rolled 
out. For crisp crust, by far the most wholesome, the whole of the 
fat should be rubbed in and thoroughly incorporated with the flour. 
Water or milk must be added when this is done, and the dough, or 
rather paste, made up. The pie-board and rolling-pin should be well 
dusted with flour, and the dough sliould be well beaten with the pin 
to thoroughly mix it, and render it light. Mind, in rolling out paste 
do not drive the pin backwards and forwards, but always keep rolling 
from you. In making flaky crusts the paste must be rolled out thin, 
and the fat or butter laid all over it; then roll it up and beat it till it 
putfs up in little bladders: it should be then finally rolled out, and 
put in the oven as quickly as possible. 

490. Raised Crust. — Put two pounds and a half of flour on the 
paste-board, and put on the fire in a saucepan three-quarters of a pint 
of water, and half a pound of gooti lard; when the water boils, make 
a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in the water and lard by degrees, 
gently mix it with a spoon, and when it is well mixed, then knead it 
with your hands till it becomes stifi'; dredge a little flour to prevent 
it sticking to the board, or you cannot make it smooth ; then set it 
aside for an hour, and keep it cool : do not roll it with your rol'ing- 
pin, bat roll it with your hands, about the thickness of a quart pot; 



136 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

cut it into six pieces, leaving a little for the covers ; put the left hand, 
clenched, in the middle of one of the pieces, and with the other on 
the outside work it up ao^ainst the back of the left to a round or oval 
shape. It is now ready for the meat, which must be cut into small 
pieces with some fat, and pressed into the pie; then cover it with the 
paste previously rolled out to a proper thickness, and of the size of 
the pie; put this lid on the pie and press it toofelher with your thumb 
and lingL-r, cut it all round with a pair of scissors, and bake for an 
hour and a half. Our good old country housewives pride themselves 
very much upon beino- able to raise a largo and high pork pie. This 
crust vvill answer for many meat and other pies baked in dishes 
or tins. 

491. Puff Paste. — This paste is nearly the same as what we have 
called (439) flaky crust, and, of course, made upon the same princi- 
ples. If f^giTB are desired, allow three yolks to a pound of butter or 
lard. Rub a fourth part of the fat to a cream, then mix the eggs 
with it, and afterwards the flour. A very little water will suffice to 
vyet it. Beat it with the pin to make it flaky; roll it out thin three 
times, puttinfT in a portion of the fat each time, and roll it from you: 
after each rolling, beat it well. 

492. Sweet Paste. — This is suitable to fruit tarts generally, apples 
perhaps excepted, for which we recommend a puflT paste. To three- 
quarters of a pound of butter put a pound and a half of flour, three or 
four ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint 
of new milk. Bake it in a moderate oven; if required to be iced, 
see 500. 

493. Crust for Savoury Pies. — To two pounds of flour, one and a 
half of butter, or lard, and the yolks of three eggs; rub part of the 
fat to a cream with the eggs, then rub in the flour; v^'et with cold 
water, and roll out with the remainder of the butter. This crust is 
suitable f)r pigeon, rabbit, hare, and other savoury pies. 

494. A rich Short Crust. — Rub to a cream a quarter of a pound 
of butter ; add one pound of well-dried and very fine flour, and two 
ounces or more of pounded loaf-sugar; rub together till they are tho- 
roughly incorporated ; then add the yolks of two good-sized eggs, and 
as much boiling hot cream as will bring it to a proper consistence. 
Bike \i\ a moderate oven. . 

495. Biscuit Paste. — Take six yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of loaf-sugar, a pound of flour, and a tea-cup full of milk. Rub these 
ingredients into a stiff pnste. This paste is only fit for light preserved 

■fruits that require scarcely any baking. It is sometimes cut out in 
rounds, a bit of jam or jelly placed on each, and baked in tins. 

49G. Crust for Venison Pasty. — Raised crust (490) will do, but if 
a richer be required, increase the quantity of butter, and add eggs. 
Let the top crust be substantial, and line the sides of the dish, but not 
the bottom. 

497. Stringing Paste m jst be made more tenacious than I he other 
descriptions. A quarter of a pound of flour to one ounce of butter, 



PIES, TARTS, AND PUFFS. 137 

•with a very little water, will make paste which may be drawn out in 
fine striny.--^ and laid across the tartlets. 

498. Foiatoe Paste. — Boil your potatoes; rub through a colander, 
and while quite hot add butter and an egg". Use plenty of Hour on 
the pie-hoard and rolling-pin; cover your pie, and put it into the oven 
while quite warm. 

499. Rice Paste. — Simmer the rice in water or milk till quite soft 
and pulpy; drain it well oft; stir in yolks of eggs, one to a quarter 
of a pound of rice, and a little butter, if you like. Roll out the paste 
with a dust of flour. Cover your pie and bake without suffering to 
cool. Tills paste will do for either savoury or sweet pies. 

500. Icing Pastry. — When nearly baked enough, take the pastry 
out of the oven and sift fine powdered sugar over it. Replace it in 
the oven and hold over it, till the sugar is melted, a hot salamander 
or shovel. The above method is preferred for pastry to be eaten hot: 
for cold, beat up the white of two eggs well, wash over the tops of 
the pies with a brush, and sift over this a good coating of sugar; 
cause it to adhere to the egg and pie crust; trundle over it a clean 
brush dipped in water till the sugar is all moistened. Bake again for 
about ten minutes. 



PIES, TARTS, AND PUFFS. 

501. Perigord Pie. — Make a force meat chiefly of truffles, a small 
quantity of basil, thyme, parsley, knotted marjoram, the liver of any 
kind of game (if of woodcocks, that and the entrails, except the little 
bag), a small quantity of fat bacon, a few crumbs, the flesh of wild or 
tame fowls, pepper, and salt. Lard the breasts of pheasants, par- 
tridges, woodcocks, moor-game, or whatever game you have, with 
bacon of different sizes; cut the legs and wings from the backs, and 
divide the backs ; season them all with white pepper, a little Jamaica 
pepper, mace, and salt ; make a thick raised crust to receive the 
above articles; it is thought better than a dish, but either will do. 
Line it closely with slices of fine fat bacon, then cover it with stuflT- 
ing, and put the different parts of the game lightly on it, with whole 
green truffles, and pieces of stuffing among and over it, observing not 
to crowd the articles, so as to cause them to be underbaked. Over 
the whole lay slices of fat bacon, and then a cover of thick common 
crust. Bake it slowly, according to the size of the pie, which will 
require a long time. 

Some are made with a pheasant in the middle whole, and the other 
game cut up and put round it. 

502. Sole Pie. — Split the soles from the bone, and cut the fins 
close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers with oysters. They eat ex- 
cellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred 
of oyt^ters; put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls 
of broth, and some butter. When the pie is baked, pour in a cupfttl. 
of thick cream boiled up with a tea-spoonful of flour. 



138 THE COMPLETECOOK. 

503. Eel Pie. — Cut the eels in lengths of two or throe inches, 
after skinning thorn ; season with pepper and salt, and place in the 
diirh with some bits of butter and a little water, and cover it with 
pd.stp. Middle-sized eels do best. 

504. Oyster Fie. — Open the oysters and strain the liquor from 
thesn ; parboil them after taking oif the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, 
cut them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, season them 
v*ry lightly witli salt, popper, and mace, then put half a tea-cup full 
of liquor, and the same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven, and before 
you serve, put a tea-cup full of cream, a little more of oyster liquor, 
and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. 

505. Pilchard Pie. — Clean and skin the white part of large leeks; 
scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a di.-.h, and, be- 
tween the byers, two or three salted pilchards which have been 
soaked for two or three hours the day before. Cover the whole with 
a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up 
the side crust with a knife and empty out all the liquor; then pour 
in half a pint of scalded cream. 

506. A remarkably Jine Fish Pie. — Boil two pounds of small eels; 
having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off and throw the bones i 
into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion, , 
and boil till rich, and strain it; make force meat of the flesh, an i 
anchovy, parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four; 
ounces of. butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take ' 
the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay it on the force 
meat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper; pour the gravy over*, 
and bake. Ob.-erve to take off the skins and fins, if cod or soles. 

507. Becf-sleak Pie. — Take beef-steaks tliat have been well hung, 
beat them gently with a circular steak-beater, season them with > 
pepper, salt, and a little eschalot minced very fine. Roll each steak: 
with a good piece of fat, and fill your dish. Put some crust on thei 
edge an inch below it, and a cup of water or broth in the dish. Cover" 
with rather a thick crust, and set in a moderate oven. 

508. Becf-sleak and Oyster Pie. — l^repare tlie steaks as above,, 
without rolling, and put layers of them and of oysters. Stew that 
liquor and beards of the latter, with a bit of lemon peel, mace, and a:i 
sprig of parsley. When the pie is baked, boil with above three"* 
spoonfuls, and an ounce of butter rolled with flour. Strain it, and*! 
put it into the dish. • 

509. Veal, Chicken and Parsley Pie. — Cut some slices from the^ 
neck or leg of veal ; if from the leg, about the knuckle; season thenif 
with salt, scald some parsley that is picked from the stems and press i 
it dry ; cut it a little and lay it at the bottom of the dish, then put the 
meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish witli milk, but not so higii 
as the crust: cover it with crust, and when baked, pour out a little of 
the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chickens 
may be cut up and cooked in the same way. 

510. Veal Olive Pie. — Make the olives in the following manner; 
Cut long thin slices of veal, beat tiiem, lay on them thin slices of fat 



PIES, TARTS AND PUFFS. 139 

bacon, and over them a layer offeree meat, seasoned high with shred 
eschalot and cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of two fingers, 
but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with 
a small skewer, rub egg over them. Put them round and round the 
dit«h, making the m.iddle highest; fill it up almost with water, and 
cover it. Add gravy, cream, flour, and mushroom powder, when 
baked. 

511. Veal Pie. — Take some of the middle or scrag of a small neck; 
season it with pepper and salt, and either put to it, or not, a few slices 
of lean bacon or ham. if it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, 
cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper, and also force meat and 
eggs, and if you choose add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads 
cut into small bits, and cocks'-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich 
gravy to pour in after baking ; it will be very good without any of the 
latter additions. 

512. A rich Veal Pie. — Cut steaks from the neck or breast of veal ; 
season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and a very little clove in 
powder. Slice two sweatbreads, and season them in the same man- 
ner. Lay a puff paste on the edge of the dish; then put the meat, 
yolks of hard eggi*, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the top 
of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and 
fill up the dish with water; cover, and when it is taken out of the 
oven pour in at the top, through a funnel, some veal gravy and rich 
cream, warmed together. Lay a paper over the crust, that it may 
not be too brown. 

513. Calfs Head Pie. — Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, 
with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
blade of mace, and a few peppercorns, in three pints of water. Keep 
the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and 
let the other be eaten ; butter, simmer the bones in the broth till it is 
very good. Half boil the head, and cut it into square bits; put a 
layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat, then 
lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish is 
full ; and take care not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too 
solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be 
first pretty well seasoned with salt, pepper, and a scrape or two of 
nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover 
it with a tolerably thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, 
pour in as much gravy as it will hold, and do not cut it till perfectly 
cold, in doing which observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut 
out a large piece, going down to the bottom of the dish, and when cut 
thus, thinner slices can be cut. The different colours and the jelly 
have a beautiful marble appearance. A small pie may be made to 
eat hot, which, with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffle.-^, and 
morels, has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many 
days; slices make a pretty side dish. Instead of isinglass, use a 
calf's foot or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. 
The pickled tongues of calves' heads may be cut instead of, or in ad- 
dition to, ham. 



149 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

514. Excellent Pork Pies to cat cold— Cut the trimininfrs ofF n 
hog when cut uj5, and if you have not sufficient, tako the meat otf f- 
Bweet-bonf?. Beat it well with your rollinor-pin ; season with salt ana 
keep the lean and fat separate. Raise common crust either in a 
round or oval form ; put a layer of lean and then a layer of fat, or 
mix your fat and lean, and so on till you have filled the pie to the 
top; lay on the lid, cut the edge smoothly round, and pinch it close. 
Bake in a slow oven, as the meat is very solid. Do not put any 
water or bone into pork pies. The outside pieces will be hard unleas 
they are cut sn)all and pressed close. See raised crust, 490. 

515. Lamb Pie. — Make it of the breast, neck, or loin ; it should 
not be seasoned much with salt and pepper; the bone taken out, but 
not the gristles ; a small quantity of jelly gravy should be put in hot; 
put two spoonfuls of water before bakincr. This pie should not he 
cut until cold. House lamb is one of the most delicate things that 
can be eaten. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either 
be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the bpst. Season with 
only pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and 
as much gravy when taken out of the oven. Meat pies being fat, it 
is best to pour out the liquor on one side, take the fat off, and put it 
in again and a litiie more to it (by means of a funnel), at the top. 

516. Mutton Pie. — Take steaks from the loin "or neck of mutton 
that has been kept some time hanging ; beat them and cut off soma 
of the fat; add pepper, salt, and a small onion; put a litiie water at 
the bottom of the dish, and paste on the edge, put in the steaks, and 
cover it over with rather a thick crust. If you make raised smal) 
pics, break the bones in two; season and cover them over, pinch the 
edges. When baked, pour into each a little gravy made of mutton, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and a small hit of onion. 

.517. Chicken Pie. — Take two young fowls, cut them up and season 
them with salt, a little mace, nutmeg, and white pepper very finely 
powdered ; add a small bit of cayenne. Put the chickens, force meat 
balls, slices of ham or gammon, and hard eggs, in turn by layers. If 
they are to be made into raised pies, add no water; if in a dish, put 
a little at the bottom. Make gravy of the scrag or a knuckle of veal, 
with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with mace, white pepper, 
an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. Add morels, 
truffles, mushrooms, and so forth, if eaten hot; but not, if eaten cold. 
Should you make this pie in a dish, put as much gravy as it will hold; 
but if in a raised crust the gravy must be strained, and then put w 
cold, as jelly. Make the jelly clear by boiling with it the whites of 
two eggs well beaten; take away the meat previous to adding the 
whites; strain it through a muslin sieve. 

Young Rabbits are prepared in the same way ; their legs should 
be cut short, and the breast-bones must not be put in ; they will help 
to make the gravy. 

519. G-iblet Pie. — Nicely clean goose or duck giblets; stew them 
in a little water with a bunch of sweet herbs, black pepper, onion, a 
little salt, till nearly done; let them stand till cold. If you have not 



PIES, TARTS, AND PUFFS. 141 

enough to fill the dish, put a veal or beef-steak, or two or three mut- 
ton chops, at the bottom. Put the liquor that you have stewed your 
giblets in into the dish ; put in the giblets, and when baked, pour into 
it a tea-cup full of cream. 

520. Green Goose Pie. — Pluck and singe two young green geese 
of a good size ; bone them and wash ; season them well with allspice, 
mace, pepper, and salt. Put one inside the other and press them as 
close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Butter them well, and 
bake either with or without crust. If made a pie of, the cover must 
fit the dish close, to keep the steam in. It will keep many days. 
Gravy-jelly may be put in when served. 

521. Staffordshire Goose Pies. — Bone, wash, and season the birds 
with allspice, mace, pepper, and salt. Put rather a small turkey in- 
side a goose, duck, fowl, and then less birds, tongue or force meat. 
Force meat may fill up the spaces between the crust and fowls, and 
be omitted within. Ornament the crust, and put a knob or flower at 
the top by which to lift it, as it must not be cut, but kept to cover the 
pie. A less expensive and smaller pie may be made by omitting the 
goose and turkey. All pies made of white meats or fowls are im- 
proved by a layer of fine sausage meat. 

522. Hare Pie to cut cold — Cut up the hare ; season it; and bake 
it with force meat and egg^ in a raised crust or dish. When served, 
cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy. 

523. Partridge Pie. — Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the 
legs at the knees ; season them with chopped parsley, thyme, mush- 
room?, pepper, and salt. Put a slice of ham and a veal cutlet at the bot- 
tom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. 
Put puff paste on the edge of the dish ; cover it ; brush it over with 
eggs ; and bake an hour. 

524. A French Pie. — Lay a puff paste on the edge of a dish ; put 
into it either chickens jointed, veal in slices, or rabbits, with force 
meat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, a few truffles, and artichoke 
bottoms. 

525. Pigeon Pie. — Rub the pigeons with salt and pepper, inside 
and out ; put a bit of butter inside, and, if approved, some parsley chop- 
ped fine, with the livers, salt, and pepper. Lay a beef-steak at the 
bottom of the dish, and place the birds on it. Between every two a 
hard egg. Lay a bit of ham on each pigeon ; put a cup of water at 
the bottom of the dish. When ham is cut for pies or gravy, take the 
under part rather tiian the prime. Season the gizzards and two joints 
of the wings, and place them in the middle of the pie ; and over them, 
in a hole made in the crust, three feet, nicely cleaned, to show what 
pie it is. 

526. Squab Pie. — Cut apples, and lay them in rows, with mutton 
chops, a little sugar, and an onion ; cut fine, and put among them. 

527. Duck Pie. — Bone a fowl and a full-grown duck ; wash them, 
season with a small quantity of mace and allspice, in the finest pow- 
der, with salt and pepper. Put the fowl within the duck. Put a 
calf's tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and skinned, into the 

12 



142 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

fowl; press the whole closo. The skins of the legs should be drawn 
inwards, that the body of the fowl may be quite smooth. The apaco 
between the sides of the crust and fowl may be filled with a fine forco 
meat, if approved. 

Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or dish, with a thick 
crust ornamented. 

528. Rabbit Pie. — Cut up two young rabbits ; take a pound of fat 
pork, that has been in pickle a week ; cut it into small bits; season it 
with salt and pepper, and put into a dish. Parboil the livers and 
brains, and beat them in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fat 
bacon or ham ; add mace, salt, pepper and sweet herbs, chopped fine. 
Make this into small balls, and distribute in the dish, with artichoke 
bottoms, cut in dice. Grate half a small nutmeg over, and add half a 
pint of port, and the same quantity of water. Cover with a tolerably 
thick crust, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. 

529. Vegetable Pie. — Cut young- carrots, artichoke bottoms, let- 
tuces, mushrooms, turnips, broad beans, scalded and blanciied, onions, 
celery, parsley, and add peas. Or use any of them you may chance 
to have. Make them into a stew, with some good veal gravy ; sea- 
son with salt and {>epper. Bake a crust over a dish, with some paste 
over the edge, and a cup turned bottom upwards, to prevent its sink- 
ing when baked. Pour the stew into the dish, and lay the crust over 
it. Winter vegetables may be used in the same way. A cup of cream 
is a great improvement, 

530. An Herb Pie. — Take one handful of spinach, two handfulsof 
parsley, from the stems, some mustard and cress, two lettuces, a few 
leaves of borage, and white beat leaves. Wash and boil them a little, 
and then drain out all the water; cut them small; mix, and lay in a 
dish ; sprinkle with some salt ; mix a batter with two eggs well beaten, 
a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, as much flour as will bring it 
to. a paste not very thick, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good 
crust, and bake. 

531. To prepare Venison for Pasty. — Take the bones out; season 
and beat the meat ; lay it in a stone jar in large pieces ; pour upon it 
some plain drawn beef gravy, rather weak. Put the bones on the 
top ; then set the jar in a saucepan over the fire ; simmer between 
three and four hours. Put it in a cold place until next day. Then 
remove the cake of fat. Lay the meat in handsome pieces on a dish. 
Put some of the gravy in, and keep the remainder for the time of 
serving. Venison thus prepared will require less time in baking, and 
a thinner crust. 

532. Venison Pasty. — A boned and skinned shoulder makes a good 
j)asty. It must be beaten and seasoned. Add the fat of a loin of 
mutton, well hung, as the shoulder is lean. Steep twenty-four hours 
in equal parts of vinegar and port. Rub the shoulder well with sugar 
for two or three days, as it is sinewy. Wipe it clean from the sugar 
and wine when it is used. Either in the shoulder or side the meat 
must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be pro- 
portioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to find it. 



PASTRY. 14.'1 

Dust some salt and peppor at the bottom of the dish, put a bit of but 
ter ; then the meat, nicely paci<ed, so as not to be hollow. Bake be-j 
tween three and four hours in a slow oven. Take some fine old mutton, , 
and boil with the bones of the venison to make gravy : season it with 
salt, pepper, and a little mace; put half a pint of this gravy, cold, into 
the dish ; butter the venison; line the sides of the dish with a thick^ 
paste ; lay a thick crust over the top. Put the remainder of the , 
gravy, hot (when it is baked,) into it, with a funnel, through the hole 
at the top. 

533. To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well as Veni- 
son. — Bone a sirloin, or a small rump of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, 
after hanging several days; beat it well with a rolling-pin; then rub 
ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar ; then pour over it a 
glass of vinegar, and a glass of port wine. Let it lie five days and 
then wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very hign with 
salt, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, &c. To ten pounds of meat, one pound, 
or nearly, of butter ; spread it over the meat. Lay it in the dish. Put 
a crust round the edges, rather thick, and cover. It must be baked ia 
a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more wa^ 
ter than will cover them, and one glass of port wine, a little salt and 
pepper, in order that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the 
pasty when baked. Put it in the pie, through a funnel, at the top of 
the pasty. Sugar gives shortness and better flavour to meat thaa 
salt (too great a quantity of salt hardens it,) and is quite as good a 
preservative, except from flies. 

534. Apple Pie. — Wipe the outside of some apples, pare, and core 
them ; boil the parings and cores in a little water till it tastes well ; 
strain, and put a bit of bruised lemon, a little sugar and cinnamon, 
and simmer again. Put a paste round the edge of the dish ; place the 
apples in it; when one layer is made, sprinkle half the sugar, shred 
lemon peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider. Put in the 
liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. Add butter when cut, 
it' hot. To flavour the pie you may add quince, marmalade, orange 
paste, or cloves, to flavour. 

535. Cherry Pie should have a mixture of currants or raspberries, 
or both. 

530. Currant Pie. — With or without raspberries. 

537. Mince Pies. — Of scraped beef or tongue, free froiri skin and 
string, two pounds, four pounds of beef suet chopped fine, two pounds 
of jar raisins stoned and chopped, six pounds of currants nicely 
cleaned, perfectly dry, of chopped apples three pounds, the peel and 
juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a quarter of a pint of brandy, 
a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, the same 
of pimento, in fine powders. Press the whole into a deep pan when 
well mixed, and keep it covered in a cool place. Have orange, and 
lemon peel, and citron, ready, and put some of each in the pies when 
made. Half, or a quarter of the quantity may be made, unless for a 
very large family. 

638. Tarte de Moie. — Put a light paste into a dish, then layers of 



144 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

all kinds of sweetmeats, biscuits, marrow, and butter. Add a mode- 
rately rich custard, not verj' sweet, and seasoned with orange liower 
water; give it a scald, and pour over the whole. It will take half 
an hour to bake. Turn it out. It is good hot or cold. 

539. Rhubarb Tart. — Take the skin otf the rhubarb, and cut tho 
stalks in lengths of four or five inches. Make a syrup for a quart 
basin. Take a pound of common lump sugar; boil it in nearly half a 
pint of water to a thin syrup; skim it, and put in the rhubarb, and as 
it simmers shake the pan over the fire. It will turn yellow at first, 
but keep it very gently simmering till it greens, and then take it off. 
When cold, put in a tart dish, with as much syrup as will make it 
very moist. Put a light crust -over, and when that is done, the tart 
will be sufficiently baked. Quarter the crust, and fill the dish with 
custard or cream. 

540. To prepare Cranberries for Tarts. — Simmer them in moist 
sugar, without breaking, twenty minutes; and let them become cold 
before used ; a pint will require nearly three ounces of sugar. Tlie 
Russian and American sorts are larger and better flavoured than tho.-e 
of England. The juice, when pressed from the baked fruit and 
sweetened, makes a fine drink in fevers. Stewed with sugar, they 
eat exceedingly nice with bread. 

541. Lemon Tart. — Take the rind of four lemons, pared rather 
thick, boil it in water till tender, and beat fine. Add to it four ounces 
of lump sugar, four ounces of blanched almonds cut thin, the juice of 
the lemon, and a little grated peel. Simmer to a syrup; when cold 
turn it into a shallow tin, lined with a thin rich puff paste, and lay 
bars of the same over. As soon as the paste is baked, take it out. 

542. Orange Tartlets or Puffs. — Line patty-pans ; when baked, 
put in orange marmalade made with apple jelly. 

543. Fried Patties. — Mince a bit of cold veal and six oysters with 
a few crumbs of bread, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a small bit of lemon 
peel; add the liquor of the oysters; warm all in the tosser, but do 
not boil it; let it get cold. Make a good puft' paste, roll thin, and 
cut it in round or square bits ; put the meat between two of them, 
pinch the edge to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. 
This is a very good thing — and baked, is a fashionable dish. Wash 
all patties over with egg before baking. 

544. Oyster Patties.— Fai a fine puff paste into small patty-pans; 
put a bit of bread in each, and cover with paste ; bake them; and in 
the mean time make ready the oysters. Take off the beards of the 
oysters ; cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, 
with a grate of nutmeg, a little white peppnr and salt, a bit of lemon 
chopped very fine, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; 
take the bread out of the patties, and fill them, after simmering them 
a few minutes. Observe to put a bit of bread into all the patties, to 
keep them hollow while baking. 

545. Beef Patties. — Cut very fine some underdone beef with a 
little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little onion or eschalot 
Make plain paste, thin, in an oval shape; fill it with minco, pinch 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 145 

tJie edges, and fry them of a fine brown. The paste should be made 
with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. 

546. A good Mince for Patties. — Two ounces of ham, four of 
chicken or veal, one egg boiled hard, a blade of mace, salt, and pep- 
per, three cloves in powder. Just before you serve, warm it with 
four spoonfuls of rich gravy, four spoonfuls of cream, and an ounce 
of butter: fill as usual. 

547. Apple Puffs. — Pare and core the fruit, and either stew them 
in a stone jar, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple 
with sugar and lemon peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple 
juice as you can. Bake them in a thin paste, in a quick oven ; a 
quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince mar- 
malade is a great improvement; cinnamon pounded, or orange flower 
water, in change. 

548. Lemon Puffs. — Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double 
refined sugar, grate the rind of two large lemons and mix it with the 
sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a long time, add 
them to the sugar and peel, and beat them for an hour. Make it up 
in any shape you please, and bake them on ^aper ; put on tin plates, 
in a moderate oven. Do not remove the paper till cold. Oiling the 
paper will make it come off" with ease. 

549. Excellent light Puffs. — Mix two spoonfuls of flour, half a 
spoonful of brandy, one egg, a little grated lemon peel, a little loaf- 
sugar, some nutmeg; then fry, but not brown; beat it in a mortar 
with five eggs; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite 
hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown, 
Serve them immediately with sweet sauce. 

550. Cheese Puffs. — Strain cheese curd from the whey, and beat 
half a pint of it fine in a mortar, with three eggs, a spoonful and a 
half of flour, only one white of the eggs, a quarter of a nutmeg, orange 
flower water, and sugar to make it sweet. Put a little of this paste 
in very small round cakes on a tin plate. A quarter of an hour will 
bake them, if the oven is hot. Serve with pudding sauce. 

PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &,c. 

The first thing to be learnt, with regard to making puddings, is 
the composition of the batter. Without good batter, you cannot have 
good pudding ; and without good eggs, flour, and milk, you cannot 
have either. For all kinds of puddings and pastry, it is of great im- 
portance that your flour should be of the very best quality. Your 
milk too should be good. The goodness or badness o/ milk depends 
much on the kind of food upon which the cow is fed ; hnl cows fed 
upon the same food do not yield milk of the same quality. A cow 
that gives a large quantity of milk does not always produ^ a propor- 
tionate quantity of cream, and of course poor milk will not make so 
good a pudding as rich. Flour is not the better for being fresh 
ground, as Dr. Kitchiner intimates, but on the contrary. It should, 
however, be perfectly sweet. The goodness of well-manufactured 
12* 



146 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

flour depends upon the quality of the wheat from which it is made. 
Without good wheat you can have no good flour. In one word, to 
ensure a good pudding, your eggs must be new laid, your butter 
rich and fresh, your flour of the first quality, and all your ingredients 
of the same character. In the making of a pudding — a. good pudding 
—the cook must observe the utmost cleanliness, both as respects her- 
self and the utensils which she uses. The eggs directed to be used 
in the following receipts are full-sized hen eggs ; if pullet eggs are 
used, two will be required for one hen egg. There is no substitute, 
that we know of, for eggs in pudding making. We have heard male 
said female old women talk about using, as substitutes for eggs, snow 
and small beer. Dr. Kitchiner says, truly, " that they will no more 
answer this purpose than as substitutes for sugar or brandy." Batter 
puddings in all their varieties are composed of milk, eggs, and flour. 
As has been properly observed, " the proportions may vary, and other 
articles may be added, by which the name is changed, but the great 
matter is to know how to mix eggs, flour, and milk, and then yoa 
may easily adopt any variety that is directed." In using eggs, you 
should always break them, one by one, into separate cups, or at any 
rate take care not to spoil all your eggs by the admission of one that 
is bad into the mass. Let the eggs be well beaten, and then add the 
flour, with a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg, and mix the eggs and 
flour thoroughly before any milk is added ; then by degrees put in as 
much milk as will bring the batter to the consistency you wish. It 
ought, indeed it must be, well stirred immediately before being put 
into the basin or dish. 

The vessel in which a batter pudding is to be dressed must be well 
buttered. Dripping, or lard, will answer as well for a baked pud- 
ding. The cloth tied over the basin must be buttered, or dipped in 
boiling water, wrung out, and dredged with flour, but buttering 
is best. 

The pudding will break in boiling, if the batter do not exactly fill 
the vessel. In baking, the pudding is sure to swell considerably, and 
therefore the batter should not fill the vessel by about an inch. Be- 
fore putting the pudding into the pot, take care that the water boils 
rapidly, and afterwards make the water boil as soon as possible, which 
must be kept up till the pudding is done. Just after putting the pud- 
ding into the pot, it should be shook two or three times to prevent it 
settling. 

The length of time that a pudding requires to be boiled depends 
upon its size, and, in some degree, upon the material of which it is 
made. The less flour, the shorter time is required for boiling. A 
one-egg pudding, not exceeding three parts of half a pint in quantity, 
in a tea-cup, will require about twenty or twenty-five minutes boiling; 
or with three eggs about half an hour; and so on in proportion. But 
the best way of ascertaining when a pudding is done, is to run your 
fork into the middle of it, and if the fork comes out cZear, the pudding 
is done. 

551. To make Pudding Paste. — Beat one egg, mix it with half & 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 147 

pound of suet, well chopped, add one pound of flour ; well mix , then 
add as much cold water as is requisite to bring it to a stiff' paste ; 
flour the pie-board and rolling-pin, and beat the paste till it puffs up; 
roll it out to the size desired, and put in the fruit. If boiled in a 
basin, it should be well buttered, and the cloth well^ floured before 
tying it over. This paste is used for all kind of fresh fruit. A very 
small quantity of sugar should be put in with the fruit to draw the 
juice, but not much, or it will become so juicy as to by.rst the crust. 
A fruit pudding is lighter boiled in a cloth, but it should be well 
secured to prevent the juice from escaping. An hour and a half will 
boil a pudding of this size, if boiled in a cloth ; if in a basin, allow 
another quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The same paste will 
do for a roll pudding and meat puddings. 

552. Flum Pudding. — To make a rich plum pudding take a pound 
of marrow, or suet, well chopped, a pound of fine flour tlried, eight or 
ten eggs beaten well ; half a nutmeg grated; as much mace, cinnamon, 
and gmger, all powdered very fine ;" a pinch of salt ; mix these well 
together, and beat up into a batter; then add one pound of currants, one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped a little; the currants should be 
rubbed in a cloth, and well picked, or well wash and dry them ; two 
ounces of candied citron peel, or part lemon, and orange, cut small ; and 
two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and cut up in bits; two ounces 
of loaf-sugar grated ; then add these to the batter, and put in a wine- 
glass of brandy ; well mix them together. It may be boiled in a but- 
tered basin or mould ; if the batter should be too stiff, put a glass of 
white wine in it. It will take four or five hours boiling. Strew over 
it powdered loaf-sugar; garnish with sliced lemon. Sauce, contain- 
ing half a glass of best brandy, a glass of white wine, a little rind of 
lemon grated, and a little powdered cinnamon, half an ounce of grated 
loaf-sugar, mixed with an equal quantity of very thick melted butter. 
It is a good plan to make and keep by you a little of this sauce, and 
then it is ready at any time. In a bottle containing a pint of sherry, 
and half a pint of best brandy, add two ounces of loaf-sugar, a quarter 
of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of shaved lemon rind, with kernels 
of apricots, peaches, and nectarines, and steep in a little white wine; 
when steeped, pour it off clear, and put to the wine and brandy ; and 
add half a quarter of a pint of capillaire. Two table-spoonfuls of this 
sauce will flavour a boat-full of thick melted butter. 

553. A plain family Plum Pudding. — Beat up three eggs, six 
ounces of suet chopped, a pound of flour, a third part of a pound of 
raisins, and the same weight of currants; one ounce of candied orange 
or lemon peel, cut small, half a tea-spoonful of ground allspice, a little 
salt, two ounces of brown sugar: make a stiff batter with water, and 
mix the fruit and spice well in. If boiled in a basin, allow three hours 
and a hah"; if in a cloth, three hours. 

554. A common Plum or Currant Pudding is nothing more than 
a suet pudding, with the addition of plums, or currants, and allspice, 

555. Very light Plum Pudding. — Mix grated bread, suet, and 
stoned raisins, four ounces each, with two well-beaten eggs three or 



148 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

four spoonfuls of milk, and a little salt: boil four hours. Sauc^, a 
spoonful of brandy, sugar, and nutme<r, in melted butter. 

556. National Plum Pudding. — Mix suet, jar raisins, and cur- 
rants, one pound each, four ounces of crumbs of bread, two table- 
spoonfuls of suu^ar, one table-spoonful of grated lemon peel, half a 
nutmeg, a small blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of ginger, and six well- 
beaten eggs. Boil it five hours. — IS. B. If you want to keep plum 
puddings good for a long time, say some months, hang them in a cold 
place in the^loth in which they were boiled. When wanted to ba 
used, take them out of the cloth, cover them with a clean one, and 
warm them through with hot water; they will then be fit for the 
table. 

557. Potatoe Pudding. — Boil mealy potatoes in their skins, accord- 
ing to the rule laid down, skin and mash them with a little milk, pep- 
per, and salt: this will make a good pudding to bake under roast meat. 
With the addition of a bit of butter, an egg, milk, pepper, and salt, 
it makes an excellent batter for a meat pudding baked. Grease a 
baking dish ; put a layer of potatoes, then a layer of meat cut in bits, 
and seasoned with pepper, salt, a little allspice, either with or with- 
out chopped onions; a little gravy of roast meat is a great improve- 
ment: then put another layer of potatoes, then meat, and cover with 
potatoes. Put a buttered paper over the top to prevent it from being 
burnt, and bake it an hour or an hour and a half. 

558. Cottage Potatoe Pudding. — Two pounds of mashed potatoes 
rubbed through a colander, two or three eggs well beaten, two ounces 
of moist sugar, three-quarters of a pint of milk, a little nutmeg and 
salt, three ounces of raisins, or currants. It is very good without the 
fruit, and will take three-quarters of an hour to bake. Omitting the 
milk and adding three ounces of butter, it makes a very nice cake. 

559. For a rich sweet Potatoe Pudding. — Rub a pound of potatoe 
meal through a colander; add half a pint of cream, nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, and from two to four ounces of loaf-sugar, from two to four 
ounces of fresh butter or marrow, from three to six eggs, two ounces 
of sweet almonds, blanched and cut, one ounce of candied citron, cut 
small, a few dried currants, a spoonful of ratafia or brandy : put a 
crust round the edge of the dish and entirely line the dish : if baked, 
put in the batter, bake, and when it is brown, it is done. Only 
substituting potatoe for flour, a very good family plum pudding may 
be made, but it should be baked. 

560. Carrot Pudding.— Gr Bite a raw red carrot; mix with double 
the weight of bread crumbs, or Naples biscuit, or part of each; to a 
oound and a half put half a pint of new milk or cream. 

561. A Black-cap Pudding.— Ruh three table-spoonfuls of flour 
^'mooth by degrees into a pint of milk, strain it, and simmer it over 
the fire until it thickens; stir in tvvp ounces of butter ; when cold, 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten and strained, and half a pound 
of currants rubbed and picked ; put the latter into a cloth well but- 
tered, tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water ; keep it in motion 
for five minutes, that it may be well mixed. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &:C 14l9 

562. Sago Pudding. — Boil a pint and a half of new milk with 
four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinna 
mon, nutmeg; sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs; put a paste 
round the dish, and bake slowly, 

563. A very good Pudding. — Mix one pound and a half of suet, 
cut small, and free from skin, with two pounds of flour, a pound of 
currants picked and rubbed in a coarse cloth, six eggs well beaten, a 
table-spoonful of infusion of saffi-on, a glass of brandy, a little grated 
ginger, a pinch of salt, and a pint of milk ; put it into a basin that 
will' just hold it, tie a floured cloth tight over it, and put it into a pot 
of boiling water. Boil it four hours. 

564. Bread and Butler Pudding. — Slice bread, and butter it, and 
lay it in a dish with currants between each layer, and sliced citron, 
orange, or lemon peel ; pour over an unboiled custard of milk, two or 
three eggs beaten, a little grated nutmeg, a little ratafia ; two hours 
at least before it is baked, to soak the bread. 

565. Almond Pudding. — Beat half a pound of sweet and a few 
bitter almonds with a spoonful of water, then mix four eggs, four 
ounces of butter, two spoonfuls of cream put warm to the butter, one 
spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg and sugar to taste. Butter some 
cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with pudding sauce. — 
Or, beat fine, four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter almonds, with 
a little wine, yolks of six eggs beaten, peel of two lemons grated, six 
ounces of melted butter, nearly a quart of cream, and juice of one 
lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round 
the dish. 

566. Kitchiner^s Pudding. — Beat up three eggs, strain them 
through a sieve, and gradually add to them a quartet of a pint of new 
milk; stir them well together; rub together in a mortar two ounces 
of moist sugar, and as much nutmeg as will lie on a sixpence ; stir 
these to the eggs and milk, then add four ounces of flour, and beat it 
to a smooth batter (the only way of doing this is, by adding a little 
of the milk, &c., and mixing that to a smooth paste, then gradually 
thinning it). Stir to it by degrees seven ounces of suet chopped fine, 
and three ounces of bread crumbs ; mix the whole half an hour or 
more before boiling; well butter a mould or basin, tie over a pudding 
cloth very tight, and boil it three hours. Half a pound of muscatel 
raisins, cut in half, and a little grated lemon peel, will make the above 
a good plum pudding: or without the plums, by adding half a pint 
more milk, it bakes well under meat as a Yorkshire pudding; or it 
may be baked in saucers or tin patty-pans, and served with wine 
sauce. An hour Vv'ill bake it the size of a saucer. — Or, simmer for 
ten minutes half a pint of milk with a roll of lemon peel, and two 
blades of mace,; strain it into a basin, and put it away to cool; beat 
three eggs with three ounces of loaf-sugar, the third part of a nut- 
meg, and three ounces of flour ; mix well with the eggs, add the 
milk by degrees; then three ounces of butter broken in bits, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of currants rubbed and picked, 
three ounces of raisins stoned and chopped ; mix all well together 



150 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

butter ft mould, tie a cloth tightly over and boil it two hours and a 
half. Serve with melted butter, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a 
little loaf-sugar. 

567. A Dutch Rice Pudding-. — Soak four ounces of rice in warm 
water half an hour, then drain the water from it, and throw the rice 
into a stew-pan, with half a pint of millc, half a stick of cinnamon, 
and simmer till tender; when cold, put four whole eggs, well beaten, 
two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cup full of cream (or milk where 
cream is scarce or dear), and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of 
a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon peel. Put a light puff paste in 
a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

568. Rice Puddings. — It will be well to make a few observations 
on rice before we enter upon rice puddings. Large long corn which 
is quite white and clear is the best ; though this may cost a little 
more money, it will be f)und the cheapest. Bad rii^e has a dingy red 
and .yellow appearance, and is dusty ; in this state it is almost sure 
to turn the milk with which it is used. The best rice takes less 
sugar to sweeten it, and the flavour of it is much superior to the 
inferior sort. Good rice will soon become tender and swell, and 
when this is the case it is done. Inferior rice may be used for broths 
or stews, as thickeners, but it is not so wholesome as the best. Rice 
should be kept in a vessel closely shut, and in a dry place. It does 
not keep well after grinding; it is almost sure to become sour. It 
should be ground as it is wanted. 

569. A Rice Pudding. — Take two parts of a pound of rice, put it 
in a cloth or bag that would hold three times the quantity; put it into 
boiling water, and let it boil an hour. Take it up, and beat two eggs 
and add to it; mix and beat with the rice a little sugar, nutmeg, and 
one ounce of suet, or butter, with or without currants ; flour a cloth 
and tie it tight in it, and let it boil half an hour. Sauce, boiled milk 
with a little sugar and nutmeg, or wine sauce. 

570. A baked Rice Pudding. — The above may be used, enriched 
by slices of bread and butter laid at the top, with a little sugar and 
nutmeg strewed over. — Or, scald the rice in a small quantity of 
water; when all the water is ab^^o-rbed by the rice, add a quart of new 
milk, and let it boil up, with a stick of cinnamon for flavour;* beat 
three or four eggs with fine moist sugar, stir to them gradually the 
boiling milk and rice ; add one ounce of beef suet or butter ; when it 
is in the pan, or dish, which should be buttered before putting in, 
grate nutmeg over the top; put it in the oven as soon as made, and 
bake an hour. 

571. Ground Rice Pudding. — Put on the fire a quart of new 
milk ; put into it five or six young laurel leaves, a stick of cinnamon, 
a pinch of salt; when it boils, stir into it a quarter of a pound of ground 
rice, which has been previously wetted with a little cold water; stir 

♦Laurel Ir^aves are iiBually directed ; but they are decidedly poisonojis, and wt 
•trongly disapprove of tlie use of them. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 151 

till it boils and thickens. As if is apt to burn, a double saucepan is 
the best for this purpose. Take the flavourings out, and stir into it 
throe or four eggs, well beaten, with an ounce of sugar, and a little 
grated nutmeg : throe-quarters of an hour will bake it. This pudding 
(if desired) can be very much enriched by adding one or two more 
eggs, two ounces of fresh butter or marrow, a tea-cup full of cream, 
and a large spoonful of brandy, ratafia, or noyeau. 

572. Rice Snow Balls. — Pick and wash half a pound of the best 
rice, boil it in water for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, drain it 
quite dry; there should be more water than the rice will take up: 
after it is well drained through a sieve, divide it into six parcels; 
take apples as for dumplings, surround each with rice; tie them in a 
clotli separately, and rather loosely; boil one hour. Sauce, sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

573. Plain Rice Pudding. — If you wish to boil it, take half a 
pound of ground rice, put it into a bag that would hold three times as 
much, put it into the saucepan containing boiling w^ter ; let it boil 
an hour and a quarter. For baking, take a third part of a pound of 
rice, put it into a deep dish with tv^o quarts of skim milk; it will take 
an hour and a half baking. Sauce, cold butter, and sugar and nut- 
meg, or preserved fruit. 

574. Rice Bignels. — In a pint of new milk simmer three ounce? 
of rice till it becomes a stiff paste; add half a tea-cup full of thick 
cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, two ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
a little powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, and two eggs well 
beaten; grate a small tea-cup full of bread crumbs; when the rice is 
cold, cut it into bits and roll it into small balls, dip each in the egg, 
roll in the bread crumbs, and fry them quickly. Sauce, wine sauce. 

575. Vermicelli, Sago, Tapioca, and Russian Seed Puddings. — 
These are all inade in the same way as rice puddings. Arrow-root 
pudding is made as ground rice pudding. It is generally baked in a 
dish lined with paste, and turned out. 

576. Yeast Dumplings. — Procure half a quarter of dough from the 
baker's. Keep it covered over by the fire till it is wanted. Should 
it be wished to make the dough at home, set half a quarter, or rather 
less, of the best flour, with a wine glass full of fresh yeast, stirred 
into half a tea-cup full of milk, just warm. Let it rise, in a warm 
place, for about an hour. Then make your dumplings, and boil. Each 
dumpling should be about the size of an egg. Put them in a large 
eaucepan of boiling water, or in a steamer, which is much better; 
they should boil or steam twenty minutes. Stick in a fork; if done, 
the fork will come out clean. Take them up, and they should be 
eaten directly, as they become hard in their own steam. Tear them 
apart with your fork ; if cut with your knife it will make them close. 
French baker's dough is always very light, and is much better for 
dumplings. Sauce, cold butter and sugar, or wine sauce. 

577. Suet Pudding. — Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound 
and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
as little miik as will make it. Boil it four hours. It eats well the 



152 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins and 
necks of mutton, finely shred or chopped, makes a more delicate pud- 
ding- than suet; and both are far better for the purpose than butter, 
which causes the pudding to be heavy or close. 

578. Hunter's Pudding. — Mix a pound of suet, a pound of flour, a 
Dound of currants, a pound of raisins, stoned and a little cut, the rind 
of half a lemon, shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers, m fine 
powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk 
as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a flannel cloth, or a 
melon mould, eight or nine hours. Sweet sauce. Add sometimes a 
spoonful of peach water, for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, 
after it is boiled, six months, if tied up in the same cloth, and hung 
up, folded in a sheet of cap paper, to preserve it from dust, being first 
cold. When used, it must first be boiled a full hour. 

579. Marlborough Padding. — Cover the dish with a thin puflf 
paste ; then take candied citron, oranoe, and lemon peel, each one 
ounce; slice these sweetmeats very thin, and lay them all over the 
bottom of the dish; dissolve six ounces of butter, without water, and 
six ounces of powdered sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; 
stir them over the fire until the mixture boils, then pour it on the 
sv/eetmeats, and bake the pudding three-quarters of an hour in a mo- 
derate oven. 

580. Custard Pudding. — Boil a quart of milk until it is reduced 
to. a pint; take from it a few spoonfuls, and let it cool, mixing with 
it, very perfectly, one spoonful of flour, which add to the boiling milk, 
and stir until it is quite cool. Beat four yolks and two whites of 
eggs, strain them, and stir them into the milk, two ounces of sifted 
sugar, two or three spoonfuls of wine, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Put it into a basin, .tie a cloth over it, and boil it half an hour ; untie 
tfe^ cloth, cool the basin a little, lay a dish upon the top of it, and turn 
it out. 

581. Custard. — Boil half a pint of new milk, with a piece of lemon 
peel, and two peach leaves, and eight lumps of white sugar. Should 
cream be used instead of milk, there will be no occasion to skim it; 
boat the yolks and whites of three eggs, strain the milk through 
coarse mushn, or a hair sieve; then mix the eggs and milk very 
gradually together, simmer it gently on the fire, and stir it till it 
thickens. 

582. Almond Custard. — Boil in a pint of milk or cream two or 
three bitter almonds, and cinnamon, and a piece of lemon peel, pared 
thin, with eight or ten lumps of sugar; let it simmer to extract the 
flavour, then strain it, and stir it till cool. Beat the yolks of vsix G(r(Ts^ 
mix them with the milk, and stir the whole over a slow fire, until o** 
a proper thickness, adding one ounce of sweet almonds, beaten fine 
in rose water. 

583. Rice Custard. — Take a cup of whole Carolina rice, and seven 
cups of milk; boil it, by placing the pan in water, which must never 
be allowed to go off the boil until it thickens ; then sweeten it, and 
add an ounce of sweet almonds pounded. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 153 

584. Baked Vermicelli Pudding,— ^Simmer four ounces of vermi- 
celli in a pint of new milk ten minutes; then put into it half a pint 
of cream, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, four ounces of butter 
warm, the same of white sugar, and yolks of four eggs, well beaten. 
Bake it in a dish without a lining. 

585. Marrow Pudding. — Four ounces of marrow, four of biscuits, 
or French biscuits, three of jar raisins, stoned, candied orange peel, 
sugar and nutmeg to the taste. Place these articles in layers in a 
dish surrounded by paste ; then beat up four eggs, leave out the whites 
of two, in half a pint of cream, or good milk, and pour it over the 
other ingredients. It will take an hour and a half to bake. 

586. The Conservative Pudding. — Take four sponge biscuits, a 
quarter of a pound of ratafia and macaroone cakes, mixed, the yolka 
of eight eggs, a glass of brandy, half a pint of cream, well beaten 
together, the cakes being soaked in the brandy and cream. Butter a 
quart mould, place dried cherries or stoned raisins in a pattern over 
it, pour in the mixture, and place the mould in a stew-pan, surrounded 
by water, and let it simmer an hour and a half over charcoal. 

587. Economical Pudding. — In families where there are loose 
pieces of bread, they can be made into a pudding instead of throwing 
them on one side. Boil as much milk as the size of your dish will 
require, put in a bit of lemon peel, and two or three of young laurel 
leaves ; cut up the bread crust too in thin slices. When the milk 
boils, take out the flavourings, put in the bread, cover it up, and set 
it by the fire to swell ; then beat it up fine, and stir to it two or three 
eggs well beaten, with a little moist sugar and ground allspice, a bit 
of butter or suet, chopped fine, or a bit of good beef dripping. A few 
currants or not ; currants are apt to turn the milk wheyey. Three- 
quarters of an hour will bake it. It is a very wholesome pudding for 
children. 

588. A delicate Bread Pudding. — Take fine bread, grated fine, 
and rich new iniik. When the milk boils, put in the bread crumbs; 
for every table-spoonful of bread, allow one eggy well beaten; 
sweeten it with loaf-sugar to your taste, and grate in a little nutmeg. 
Put it into a buttered basin, and boil it from twenty minutes to fifty, 
according to the size of the pudding. If baked, rather less time will 
do it. It only roqnirns to be a light brown. 

569. Barley Pudding. — Take a quarter of a pound of Scotch or 
pearl barley. Wash, and simmer it in a small quantity of water ; 
pour off the water, and add milk and flavourings as for rice puddings. 
Beat up with sugar and nutmeg, and mix to the milk and barley in 
the same way. It may be more or less rich of eggs; and with or 
without the addition of butter, cream, or marrow. Put it into a but- 
tered deep dish, leaving room for six or eight ounces of currants, and 
an ounce of candied peel, cut up fine, with a few apples cut in small 
pieces. An hour will bake it. 

590. Hard Dumplings. — Mix flour and water, with a bit of salt, to 
the consistency of dough. Make it into dumplings, and boil them half 
an hour. Serve them with butter and salt. Skimmer cakes are made 



154 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in the same way, and flatted to the thickness of half an inch, and 
boiled on the skimmer, which should be previously buttered ; when 
done, it will slip off tlie skimmer. They are eaten with sugar and 
butter. 

591. Newmarket Pudding. — A pint of new milk, half a lemon 
rind, a little cinnamon, and a bay leaf; simmer a few minutes, sweeten 
with loaf-sugar, and strain by degrees to five well-beaten eggs (leav- 
ing out two whites;) pour this over thin slices of bread and butter 
strewed with currants. Bake half an hour. 

592. A light Pudding — Take a pint of new milk, eight eg^s, and 
half a pint of cream, to two spoonfuls of flour. Beat the yolks, and 
whites of the eggs separately ; beat up the batter without the whites, 
but, just before putting it in the pot, or oven, slir in the whites, with 
one ounce of fine loaf-sugar, a little powdered cinnatnon, or nutmeg, 
and half a glass of brandy or ratafia. Butter the basin or mould which 
it will exactly fill. Put it into the water fast boiling, and keep it 
shaking about several minutes, lest the eggs should settle on one side. 
Half an hour will boil it. When turned out, grate over the top fine 
sugar and nutmeg, with melted butter, or wine sauce, round it; or 
stick bits of raspberry jam, or red currant jelly, at top. If baked, it 
will not require more than twenty minutes. A rich puff' paste, put 
round the edge of any baked pudding, greatly improves the appear- 
ance. 

593. A Yorkshire Pudding. — Beat up four eggs, and mix with 
them, by degrees, four spoonfuls of flour ; beat it to a smooth paste, 
and add a pint of new milk and a pinch of salt. Put it into a shallow 
square tin, under roast meat. It should not be put down until the 
meat is warmed through, and begins to drip; or till the fire is become 
clear and fierce, so that the batter shall soon boil. The tin should be 
very hot when the pudding is put in, to keep the floury part from 
settling. 

594. A nice Suet Pudding. — Take two or three eggs, well beaten, 
with half a pound of suet, chopped fine, a pound of flour, a pinch of 
salt, and some grated ginger and nutmeg. Beat tiiese up very smooth 
with cold water to rather a thick batter. A few currants may be 
added. Two hours will boil it. White wine sauce. 

595. Mother Eve's Pudding. — Take equal weights of suet, plumf, 
currants, sugar, apples chopped up, bread crumbs, and flour, with an 
egg to an ounce of the ingredient, candied peel, spice, and salt. Boil 
six hours. 

596. Newcastle Pudding. — Butter half a melon mould, or quart 
basin, and stick all round with dried cherries, or fine raisins, fill up 
with bread and butter — and steam it half an hour. 

597. Hastij Pudding. — Boil a quart of new milk, cinnamon or bay 
leaves. While boiling, shake in from a flour dredger two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, andlitir it until it thickens. Then pour it into a 
deep dish, stir in an ounce of butter, the same of moist sugar, and 
grate nutmeg over the top. 

598. Arrow-root Pudding.^— Arrow-root pudding is made in the 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 155 

same way as hasty pudding", with the exception of shaking the arrow- 
root in, which should be stirred into a liltle cold milk, and then stirred 
into the boiling milk. 

599. A Friar's Omelet — Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir in 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of white sugar; when 
cold, add four eggs, well beaten; put it into a baking dish thickly 
strewed over with crumbs of bread, so as to stick to the bottom and 
sides; then put in the apple-mixture ; strew crumbs of bread over the 
top ; when baked, turn it out, and grate loaf-sugar over it. 

600. A Swiss Pudding. — Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced 
apples, with sugar between, until the dish be as full as it will hold ; 
let the crumbs be the uppermost layer ; then pour milk over it, and 
bake. 

601. Oxford Puddings. — Take a quarter of a pound of grated bis- 
cuit, the same quantity of currants, the same of suet, finely chopped, a 
spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg; mix them well together. 
Take the yolks of three eggs, and make up the puddings into balls. 
Fry them a light colour in fresh butter, and serve with white wine 
sauce. 

602. Mujin or Cabinet Pudding. — Cut three or four muffins in 
two, pour over them boiling milk sufficient to cover them, cover them 
up until they are tender. Make a rich custard with eight eggs (only 
four whites,) a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, an 
ounce of almonds, blanched and cut, lemon peel and nutmeg grated, 
and a glass of ratafia or brandy. Butter a tin morfld for boiling — for 
baking, a disli. Put a layer of dried cherries, greengages, apricots, 
or French plums; cover with custard, add more fruit, then custard, 
until the mould or dish is quite full. Boil an hour and a half, and 
serve with wine sauce. It should not float in the water, but stand in 
a stew-pan, and only water enough to reach half way up the mould. 
If for baking, it will not take so long. Lay a pufF paste round the 
edges of the dish. 

Stale muffins are very good boiled in milk and eaten with wine 
sauce. 

603. French and Italian Puddings. — These puddings are com- 
posed of sliced French rolls, eggs, and cream. Five or six eggs to a 
pint of cream, and as much roll as will thicken it; sweeten it with 
loaf-sugar ; a pound of suet, chopped fine, may be added or omitted. 
Line the dish with pufi' paste ; lay at the bottom six or eight apples, 
cut up, a pound of raisins stoned, a few dates sliced, or a few French 
plums, some candied orange peel, sugar, ami spice. Pour the pud- 
ding over this, grate nutmeg at top, and bake of a fine pale brown. 

604. A Cheese Pudding. — Half a pound of cheese grated, butter 
two ounces, four eggs, a little cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a dish, 
and bake twenty minutes. 

605. A very rich Pudding of prime ripe FruiL — This is made 
sometimes by pressing the fruit through a sieve, if apricots, green- 
gages or peaches ; sweet juicy apples, or rich mellow pears, may be 
grated; or the fruit may be scalded a few minutes in white wine; 



156 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

then the skins and stones removed, and beaten in a mortar. W^-ei. 
cold mix with rich custard, cream, eggs, and bread cruinbti, or Na- 
ples biscuit, with loaf-sugar to taste; the iiernels blanched, and a glass 
of brandy or Madeira wine. Then bake in a dish edged with pufF 
paste, and call it according to the fruit employed — apricot pudding, 
peach pudding, and so forth. If the cook is ordered to make such a 
pudding, it is tit she should know how to do it; but it is a great pity 
to spoil good things by such incongruous mixtures; the batter alone 
would make a much better pudding; and the fruit and wine might be 
saved for -dessert. For these rich delicate puddings, the tinctures are 
preferable to the spice in substance. 

606. Ckesnut Pudding. — Roast chesnuts, or boil them a quarter 
of an hour; blanch, peel, and grate, or pound in a mortar, with a little 
white wine. 'To a dozen chesnuts, add six eggs, well beaten, a pint 
and a half of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; mix it well 
together; sweeten to taste; add a little salt and nutmeg; simmer 
over the fire till it thickens, stirring it well. Then bake it in a dish, 
edged and lined with puff paste. 

607. Rusk Pudding is exactly the same thing as bread and butter 
pudding, except that the butter is spread on rusks instead of bread. 
The richness may be varied at pleasure. Let it steep two hours or 
more before putting in the oven. 

608. Portugal Pudding. — Rub up four table-spoonfals of ground 
rice, or semilina, with three ounces of butter, and stir in it a pint of 
cream ; stir it till it boils and is quite thick. Then stir in two whole 
eggs, and the yolks of three more, well beaten, with a quarter of a 
pound of loaf-sugar, a little salt and nutmeg. Butter a dish, and bake 
it an hour. When it is done, have ready another dish of the same 
eize, or a very little deeper; on the bottom of this spread a layer of 
raspberry jam, then the puddings and then a layer of apricot jam. 
This pudding is very delicate without the mixture of fruit, with wino 
or lemon sauce instead. 

609. Tansey Pudding. — Make a rich batter with Naple-biscuits, 
eggs, cream, and a little sugar ; chop up a very few tansey leaves, 
and a few of spinach; enough to give the whole a green colour. Set 
it in a double saucepan, over boiling water, till it becomes quite thick ; 
then pour it into a buttered basin or mould ; tie it up securely ; and 
let it boil three-quarters of an hour. L(^t it stand a few minutes after 
taken up; then turn out, and serve with wine sauce. 

610. To make Curd for Cheesecakes, and other 'purposes. — Milk 
is turned to curds and whey by means of rennet, which is the stonuicli 
of a calf, taken out as soon as it is killed, well cleansed from its con 
tents, then scoured inside and out with salt, and when thoroughly 
salted stretched on a stick to dry. A bit of this is to be soaked in 
boiling water for several hours, and the liquor put in milk warm from 
the cow, or made that warn)th. Use alone can prescribe the exact 
quantity. Never use more than enough to turn it, as it hardens the 
curd. The gizzard skin of fov»'ls and turkeys may be prepared iu 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 157 

the same way, and answer the same purpose ; or the curd for cheese- 
cakes may be bought of the regular dairy people. 

611. Cheesecakes. — The basis of cheesecakes is professedly the 
curd of milk as turned for cheese; but many are made entirely with- 
out it. The following recipe is much approved : Take the curd of 
eight quarts of new milk; rub the curd in a coarse cloth till quite free 
from whey ; then work into it three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
three biscuits, and an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a little salt, 
and such spices as you choose, finely powdered. Beat ten eggs (half 
the whites) with three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf-sugar, a wine- 
glass full of brandy or ratafia, and a pint of rich cream. Having well 
mixed all these ingredients, rub them with the hand through a coarse 
hair sieve ; then add a pound of currants, rubbed in a coarse cloth, 
and picked, and an ounce of candied citron, cut as small as possible. 
Line tin patty-pans with rich puff paste, put in the mixture, and either 
entirely cover with paste, or put on only bars or leaves. They will 
take about twenty minutes to bake in rather a quick oven. By sub- 
stituting half a pound of sweet almonds for currants, and half an 
ounce of bitter, blanched, and beaten to a paste, almond cheesecakes 
may be made ; or lemon orange cheesecakes, by substituting for the 
currants two or three candied lemons or oranges, pounded in a 
mortar. 

612. Polaloe Cheesecakes.— Ta.ke half a pound of mashed potatoes, 
rubbed through a colander, or a quarter of a pound of mucilage, or 
potatoe starch; mix with a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-cup 
full of cream, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and two eggs, finely 
beaten, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, either chopped fine or 
beaten in a mortar, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon ; well mix these 
ingredients. Put in patty-pans, or saucers, lined with paste. Do not 
more than half fill, as the substance will swell. Sift over fine sugar, 
and bake in a quick oven a quarter of an hour. Four or six ounces 
of currants may be substituted for part or all of the candied peel, or 
the grated rind and juice of a lemon or Seville orange may be added; 
also a little brandy cr ratafia : but do not make the mixture too moist. 

613. A plain Cheesecake. — Turn three quarts of milk to curds ; 
break it, and drain the whey ; when dry, break it in a pan, with two 
ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of 
thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three 
ounces ol' currants. 

614. Bread Cheesecakes. — Pour a pint of boiling cream on « penny 
loaf; let it stand two hours ; mix half a pound of butter, warm, with 
eight eggs, and a grated nutmeg ; beat the whole in a mortar ; then 
add half a pound of currants rubbed and picked, two ounces of sugar, 
a spoonful of wine, and the same of brandy. 

615. Common Pancakes. — Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and 
milk ; fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard ; a little salt, nut- 
meg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served 
10 eat with them. — Or, when eggs are scarce, make tlie batter with 

13* 



158 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

small beer, ginger, and so forth ; or water, with flour, and a very little 
milk, will serve, but not nearly so well as eggs and all milk. 

616. Pancakes of Rice. — Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a 
small quantity of water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, 
eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg ; stir in eight ounces of butter, 
just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick 
enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. 

617. Cream Pancakes. — Mix the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, 
with a pint of cream, two ounces of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg, cin- 
namon, and mace. Rub the pan with a bit of butter, and fry the pan- 
cakes thin. 

618. Fritters. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer 
sort, and put pared apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, and fry 
some of it in each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, 
make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served 
on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be made into fritters. 

6.19. Oyster Fritters. — Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs; 
season a very little with nutmeg. Beard the oysters, and put as many 
as you think proper in each fritter. 

620. Potatoe Fritters. — Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine, 
beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one 
large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter well half an hour. It will be 
extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard into a stew-pan, 
and drop a spoonful at a time of the batter into it. Fry them ; and 
serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one 
dessert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar, 
warmed together ; not to be served in the dish. 

BAKING. 

621. Bread. — Put a quartern of flour into a large basin, or small 
pan, with two tea-spoonfuls of salt; make a hole in the middle, then 
put in a basin four table-?poonfuls of good yeast, stir in a pint of milk 
•ukewarm; put it in the hole of the flour, stir just to make it of a thin 
natter, and then strew a little flour over the top ; then set it on one 
side of the fire, cover it over with a cloth, let it stand till the next 
morninsf; add half a pint more of warm milk, and make it into dough, 
knead it for ten minutes, then set it in a warm place by the fire for 
one hour and a half, then knead it again, and it is ready for either 
loaves or bricks. 

622. Sally Lunn Tea Cake. — Take a quarter of a pint of thick 
small-beer yeast, and one pint of warm milk, and put into a pan with 
flour sufficient to make it of a thick batter ; let it stand by the fire till 
it has risen as high as it will, about two hours. Two ounces of 
lump sugar, dissolved in a pint of new milk, a quarter of a pound of 
Dutter rubbed in the flour very fine ; then make your dough ; let it 



COOKING INDIAN CORN,iSz;C^ 150 

Stand half an hour, then make your cakes and put them on tins; 
when they have stood to rise, put them in a quick oven. When egga 
are plentiful you may put four eggs instead of milk — they will make 
it much lighter. 

French rolls are made much in the same \vay ; instead of using all 
milk put half water, and use only butter and a little salt. 

623. A Plum Cake. — A quartern of dough, half a pound of moist 
sugar, half a pound of butter, a tea-cup full of cream and two eggs, a 
pound of currants (add raisins if you please) a tea-spoonful of allspice, 
two ounces of candied orange peel cut small, and an ounce of carra- 
way seeds. Roll the dough out several times, and spread over the 
several ingredients; flour the pan well, and set it on one side the fin; 
to rise ; bake an hour and a half. A richer cake may be made by 
adding more sweetmeats, butter, eggs, and almonds, and so forth. 
The dough made as bread ; when risen, melt the butter in warm 
milk and put to it with the other ingredients, and put to rise. 

624. A plain Pound Cake. — One pound each of butter, loaf-sugar, 
and flour, and nine eggs; work the butter to a cream, pound the su- 
gar, and add then the eggs ; beat all together twenty minutes, then 
lightly add the flour; mix, put in a tin or hoop lined with buttered 
paper. Bake an hour in a moderate oven.* 

AMERICAN MODE OF COOKING INDIAN CORN, PUMP- 
KINS, &c. 

Maize or Indian corn has never been extensively used in Great 
Britain, and the editor has every reason to believe that this has arisen 
from the almost total ignorance of the English people as to the mode 
of preparing it for human food. It is, perhaps, the most productive 
crop that can be grown, and its nutritious qualities, when properly 
prepared, are equal to its productiveness. We are satisfied that ft 
may be grown in that country, or, at any rate, in the south and east- 
ern parts of it, with great advantage ; indeed, the experiment has 
been tried, and with decided success. The late Mr. Cobbett grew an 
average crop of the dwarf kind on Barn Elms farm, Surrey, for three 
or four years, as tJie editor can testify from his own personal inspec- 
tion, and he himself has succeeded in rearing the large sort to perfec- 
tion, the cobs or ears, when quite ripe, averaging eight or nine 
inches ; this, however, was effected upon a small scale, and in a gar- 
den. *t 

625. Indian Cake, or Bannock. — This, as prepared in our own 
country, is cheap and very nice food. Take one quart of Indian meal, 
dressed or sifted, two table-spoonfuls of treacle or molasses, two tea- 
epoonfuls of saU, a bit of "shortening" (butter or lard) half as big as 
a hen's egg, stirred together; make it pretty moist with scalding 
water, put it into a well-greased pan, smooth over the surface with a 

* Full directions for these and all other similar preparation« are given in " The 
Baker," liv the sani-j i.:ditor. 



160 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

6ix)on, and bake it brown on both sides before a quick fire. A little 
stewed pumpkin, scalded with the meal, improves the cake. Bannock 
split and dipped in butter, makes very nice toast. 

626. Green Indian Corn. — This is a most delicious vegetable. 
"When used as a vegetable the cobs, or ears, are plucked about the 
time that the corn has arrived at a milky state, or just before it as- 
sumes a solid substance. A part of the leaves or filaments by which 
the cob, or ear, is surrounded, is taken away, and the cobs boiled from 
twenty to forty minutes, " according to its age." When it is done, it 
is served with cold or melted butter, and eaten (after being stripped 
of its remaining leaves) by taking the two ends of the cob in the 
hands, and biting off the corn. The editor can bear testimony to its 
delicious quality from having grown it in his own garden and par- 
taken of it. 

627. Indian Corn, or Maize Pudding, baked. — Scald a quart of 
milk (skimmed milk will do,) and stir in seven table-spoonfuls of sifted 
Indian meal, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-cup full of molasses or trea- 
cle, or coarse moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of powdered ginger or 
sifted cinnamon ; bake three or four hours. If whey is wanted, pour 
in a little cold milk after it is all mixed. 

628. Boiled Maize Pudding. — Stir Indian meal and warm milk 
together " pretty stiff;" a little salt and two or three " great spoon- 
fuls" of molasses added ; also a spoonful of ginger, or any other spice 
that may be preferred. Boil it in a tight-covered pan, or in a very 
thick cloth ; if the water gets in, it will ruin it. Leave plenty of room, 
for Indian meal swells very much. The milk with which it is mixed 
should be merely warmed; if it be scalding hot, the pudding will 
break to pieces. Some chop suet very fine, and warm in the milk; 
others warm thin slices of apple to be stirred into the pudding. Water 
will answer instead of milk. 

629. Pumpkin and Squash Pie. — The usual' way of dressing 
pumpkins in England in a pie is to cut them into slices, mixed with 
apples, and bake them with a top crust like ordinary pies. A quite 
different process is pursued in America, and the editor can testify to 
the immense superiority of the Yankee method. In England, the 
pumpkin is grown for show rather than for use; nevertheless, when 
properly dressed, it is a very delicious vegetable, and a universal 
favourite with our New England neighbours. 

The following is the American method of making a pumpkin pie: 
Take out the seeds, and pare the pumpkin or squash; but in taking 
mi the seeds do not scrape the inside of the pumpkin ; the part nearest 
whe seed is the sweetest ; then stew the pumpkin, and strain it through 
a sieve or colander. To a quart of milk for a family pie, three eggs 
are sufiicient. Stir in the stewed pumpkin with your milk and 
beaten-up eggs till it is as thick as you can stir round rapidly and 
easily. If the pie is wanted richer make it thinner, and add another 
egg or two ; but even one egg to a quart of milk makes " very decent 
pies." Sweeten with molasses or sugar ; add two tea-spoonfuls of 
salt, two tablc-spoonl'ula of sifted cinnamon, and one of powdered 



COOKING INDIAN CORN, &C. 161 

ginger ; but allspice may be used, or any other spice that may be pre- 
ferred. The peel of a lemon grated in gives it a pleasant flavour. 
The more eggs, says our American authority, the better the pie. 
Some put one egg to a gill of milk. Bake about an hour in deep 
plates, or shallow dishes, without an upper crust, in a warm oven. 

There is another method of making this pie, which, we know from 
experience, produces an excellent dish: Take out the seeds, and grate 
the pumpkin till you come to the outside skin. Sweeten the pulp; 
add a little ground allspice, lemon peel, and lemon juice; in short, 
flavour it to your taste. Bake without an upper crust. 

030. Carrot Pies.— These pies are made like pumpkin pies. The 
carrots should be boiled very tender, skinned, and sifted. 

631. American Custard Puddings^ sufficiently good for common 
use, may be made by taking five eggs beaten up and mixed with a 
quart of milk, sweetened with sugar and spiced with cinnamon, all- 
spice, or nutmeg. It is well to boil your milk first, and Jet it get 
cold before using it. " Boiling milk enriches it so much, that boiled 
skim milk is about as good as new." (We ddubt this assertion ; at 
any rate, it can only be improved by the evaporation of the water.) 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

032. American Plum Pudding. — Pound six hard fine biscuits 
(crackers), soak them for some hours in milk sufficient to cover the 
mass; add three pints of milk, beat up six eggs, and mix; flavour 
with lemon brandy, and a whole nutmeg grated ; add three-quarters 
of a pound of stoned raisins, rubbed in flour. Bake not quite two 
hours. 

633. Rennet Pudding or Custard. — A pudding may be made ot 
this description in five minutes. Take a wine-glass full of wine, in 
which a small portion of calf's rennet has been kept soaking ; put it 
into a quart of cold new milk, and a sort of custard will be the result. 
This sweetened with loaf-sugar and spiced with nutmeg is very good. 
It should be eaten immediately, for in a few hours it begins to 
curdle. 

634. American Apple Puddings. — Take your apples, and bore out 
the core without cutting them in two. Fill up the holes with washed 
rice. Tie up each apple very tight, and separately in the corners of 
a pudding bag. Boil an hour, or an hour and a half. 

635. Bird's Nest Pudding. — If you wish to make what is called a 
bird's nest pudding, prepare your custard ; take eight or ten pleasant 
apples, prepare them and take out the core, but leave them whole; 
set them in a pudding-dish, pour your" custard over them, and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

636. American Souse. — Take pigs' feet, ears, &c. well cleaned, 
and boil or rather simmer them for four or five hours, until they are 
too tender to be taken out with a fork. When taken from the boiling 
water it should be put into cold water. After it is packed down tight, 
boil the jelly-like liquor in which it was cooked with an equal quantity 
of vinegar; yalt as you think til, and cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, 



162 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

at the rate of a quarter of a pound to a hundred weight, must be mixed 
with it when scalding hot. 

037. American dry Bread. — As far as possible, have bits of bread 
eaten up before they become hard. Spread those that are not eaten, 
and let them dry, to be pounded for puddings, or soaked for brewis. 
Brewis is made of crusts and dry pieces of bread, soaked a good 
while in hot milk, mashed up, and salted, and buttered like toast. 

638. Another sort of Breicis. — The author of Domestic Cookery 
observes, that a very good meal may be bestowed on poor people in a 
thing called- breivis, which is thus made: Cut a very thick upper 
crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling, and 
nearly ready ; it will attach some of the fat, and when swelled out, 
will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. 

639. Salt Fish. — The New England mode of dressing salt fish is 
an excellent one, and ought to be generally adopted. Keep the fish 
many hours (at least seven or eight) in scalding hot water, which 
must never be suffered to boil. 

640. To preserve Cheese. — Cover the cheese carefully with paper, 
fastened on with paste, so as totally to exclude the air. In this way 
cheese may be kept for years. 

641. American Mince Meat. — Take the good bits of vegetables, 
and the cold meat left after dinner. Mash your vegetables fine, and 
chop your meat very fine. Warm it with what remains of gravy, or 
roast meat dripping. Two or three apples, sliced and fried to mix 
with it, are considered an improvement. Some like a little sifted 
sage sprinkled in it. After it is warmed, lay it upon a large slice of 
toasted bread. Potatoes should not be used in the preparation of 
American mince meat 

GRUELS, CREAMS, SYLLABUBS, JELLIES, &c., &c. 

642. Common Flummery is merely water gruel flavoured, and 
eaten cold. Soak in cold water a pint of very fine white oatmeal ; 
when it has steeped a day and a night, pour off the water quite clear. 
Then put upon the oatmeal three pints of fresh water, and let that 
stand also a day aiid a night ; then strain it through a hair sieve, and 
boil it till it is as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time; 
sweeten it with loaf-sugar, and put a spoonful of ratafia or noyeau, or 
a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour it into saucers or shallow 
dishes. It is eaten with sugar and cream, or wine, or cider. 

643. Rice Flummery is ground rice thickened with milk, the same 
as for good rice pudding. In a pint of new milk, simmer three ounces 
of ground rice till it is become a very thick paste, sweeten it with 
loaf-sugar, flavour with ratafia or peach water, put it in a bason or a 
mould; when it is cold,* turn it out. Sauce; half a pint of new 
milk, a glass of white wine, a large tea-cup full of cream, the juice 
of a small lemon, sweetened with loaf-sugar. Or you may pour 
roimd it cream or custard. 

644. French Flummery. — Take two ounces of isinglass to a quart 



GRUELS, CREAMS, (Sc C . lC}ti 

of cream; simmer them a quarter of an hour; sweeten with loaf 
sugar; flavour wilii rose water; strain it into a mould; when cold, 
turn it out, and put round it baked or dried pears. 

645. Dutch Flummery is composed of isinglass boiled in water, 
enriched with lemon, eggs, and wine. Take two ounces of isinglass, 
boil it half an hour in a pint and a half of water, and grate off with 
loaf-sugar the yellow rind of two lemons ; sweeten with loaf-sugar, 
a pint of white wine, and the juice of three lemons. Beat up seven 
eggs, and strain the above to them, stirring all the time. Put it into 
the saucepan a minute or two to scald — by no means let it boil. Then 
pour it into a basin, and stir it till nearly cold, and then let it stand a 
few minutes to settle, and put it into a tin mould previously dipped in 
cold water. 

646. Blancmange. — Tf for a sick person, boil an ounce of the best 
isinglass, with a stick of cinnamon, in half a pint of water. The 
isinglass will become a very thick jelly in half an hour's boiling. 
Then mix to it a pint of new milk, and sugar to taste. Let it boil 
up once, and strain through a tamis, or swan-skin jelly-bag, into a 
bason. Pour it into a mould, or custard cups, when nearly cold; 
pour it very steadily, and keep back any sediment. When turned 
out, raise it all round the edges with a silver knife ; turn the mould 
on a dish, shake it once or twice. If properly prepared, it will turn 
outeia beautiful white jelly, like marble; garnish with flowers or with 
sweetmeats, or sliced lemon. 

647. A richer Blancmange. — Simmer an ounce or little more of fine 
isinglass in a pint and a half of new milk; add the rind of half a 
lemon, shred very fine a blade or two of mace, a stick of cinnamon, 
and sweeten vi'ith tvv^o ounces and a half of loaf-sugar. Blanch and 
pound, with a spoonful of rose water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, 
and eight or ten bitter; put to the milk, and mix. When the isin- 
glass is quite dissolved, strain through a linen flannel, to half a pint 
of rich cream, and stir together well. When it has stood an hour, 
pour it off into another bason, leaving the sediments at the bottom, 
and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly glasses, or custard 
cups. Two table-spoonfuls of noyeau will answer the purpose of the 
almonds. And the isinglass may be dissolved in a pint of water and 
half a pint of milk. 

618. Arrow-root Blancmange. — Put two tea-cups full of arrow- 
root to a quart of milk. Flavour it with an ounce of sweet almonds, 
and fifteen or sixteen bitter, blanched and pounded ; or with noyeau. 
Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold milk, and pour to it the boil- 
ing milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the saucepan, and boil 
it a minute or two, still stirring. Dip the moulds in cold water. Turn 
it out when cold. 

649. Italian Cream. — Rub on a lump of sugar the rind of a lemon, 
and scrape it off with a knife into a deep dish or china bowl ; add two 
ounces and a half of sitlted sugar, a gill of brandy, the juice of a 
lemon, and a pint of double cream ; then beat it up well with a whisk; 
boil an ounce of isinglass in a gill of water till quite dissolved; strain 



164 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

it to the oilier ingredients ; beat some time, and fill llie mould ; and 
when cold and set well, turn it out on a dish. The above may be 
flavoured with any kind of liquor; strawberry, raspberry, or any kind 
of fruit; coloured with prepared cochineal, and named to correspond 
with the flavour given. 

650. Clouted or Clotted Cream. — The milk which is put into the 

Ean one morning stands till the next; then- set the pan on a hot 
earth, half full of water; put this over a stove from ton to twenty 
minutes, according to the quantity of the milk; it will be done 
enough when bladders rise on its surface; this denotes that it is 
nearly boiling, which it must by no means do, but must be instantly 
removed from the fire, and placed in a cool place till the next morn- 
ing, when the cream is thrown up, and is ready for the tai)ie, or for 
butter, into which it may be converted by stirring it with the hand, 
but not very readily. This is sometimes called Devonshire cream, 
and it is imagined by those who do not know better, to be much richer 
than the common cream. The artificial process employed in raising 
this cream causes the milk to yield a greater quantity, but the quality 
and flavour are inferior to cream raised naturally, and so is the butter 
made from it. 

051. Cream for Fruit Pies. — There are many ways of preparing 
cream. For fruit pies, simmer a pint of new milk, rind of Seville 
orange or lemon, cinnamon, either, or all, as you may choose. Whisk 
up the yolks of three eggs, with half a spoonful of flour, and one or 
two of cream; gradually add the boiling milk, set it over the fire, 
and whisk till it is of the consistence of a thick cream. When it is 
removed tVoni the fire, and rather cool, add a table spoonful of rose or 
orange, water, or a tea-spoonful of syrup of clove gilly flowers. 
When quite cold, take off the top of the pie and pour in the cream ; 
return tl»o cover, either whole or cut in quarters. If eggs are dear, 
one whole egg will whisk up with a spoonful of rice flour or arrow- 
root, and will answer for thickening. Richer cream may be prepared 
with an equal quantity of cream and milk, flavoured with almond, 
lemon, sack, ratafin, or brandy, and called by tho name of the article 
by v.'hich it is fl-ivoured principally. Bt; careful not to let your creams 
boil, or th<'y will curdle. Creams may be prepared with fresh or pre- 

* served fruits. Luscious fruits are improved by the addition of lemon 
juice. 

052. Birch's Receipt for Mock Cream. — Mix half a spoonful of 
flour with a pint of new milk; let it simmer five minutes to take oflf 
the rawness- of the flour; then beat up the yolk of one egg, stir it 
into the milk while boiling, and run it throuifh a fine sieve. A lea- 
Sjwonful of arrow-root would do better than flour. 

653. Trifle. — Mix in a large bowl a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar, a bit of lemon peel grated fine, and the juice of a whole 
lemon, half a gill of Lisbon or sweet wine, the same of brandy, and 
a pint and a half of good cream. Whisk the whole well, and take 
*oft' the froth as it rises with a skimmer, and put it on a sieve; con- 
tinu«j to whisk it till you have enough of the whip; set it in a cold 



GRUELS, CREAMS, &C. 105 

place to drain three or four hours. Then put in a dish six or eight 
Bponge biscuits, two ounces of almonds, blanched and t^plit, a quarter 
of a pound of ratafia, some grated nutmeg and lemon peel, currant 
jelly and raspberry jam, half a pint of sweet wine, and a little 
brandy ; when the cakes have absorbed the liquor, pour over about a 
pint of custard, made rather thicker than for apple pie; and, when 
wanted, lay on plenty of the whip, and throw over a few nonpariei 
comfits. 

654. Whip Sijllahub. — Make a whip as in the last receipt ; mix 
with a pint of cream half a pint (jf sweet vviue, the juice of a lemon 
a glass of brandy, six ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, grated nutmeg; 
nearly fill the custard cups with the mixture, and pnton with a spoon 
some of the whip. 

655. Gooseberry or Apple Fool. — Stew green gooseberries or 
apples, peeled or cored ; add to them a little moist sugar, enough to 
draw the juice, to two quarts of fruit a quarter of a pound of sugar. 
When quite tender, pulp through a coarse sieve; add what more 
sugar is necessary to yonr taste, and a quart of new milk warm from 
the cow ; if not from the cow, warm it by the fire ; a tea-cup full of 
cream; mix with it an egg, or two yolks, well beaten. Let it thicken 
in the milk; be careful it does not boil. When cold, mix the fruit, 
and stir all togcth ;r till well united. A little grated ginger is an im- 
provement, nutmeg and lemon rind also, and half a glass of brandy. 

655. Calves' Fe^t Jelly. — Take our calves' feet, not from the tripe 
shop, which have been boiled till almost all the gelatine is extracted, 
but buy them at the butcher's. Slit them in two, take away the fat 
fiom between the clavv's, v^ash them well in lukewarm water, put 
them in a large saucepan or stew-pan, cover them with water; when 
the liquor boils, skim it well, and let them boil gently six or seven 
hours, that it may be reduced to about two quarts. Then strain it 
through a sieve, and put it by till next day. Then take off all the 
oily part which is at the top, with pieces of kitchen paper applied to 
it; by so doing you may reniove every particle of the oily substance, 
without wasting any of the jelly. Put the jelly in the stew-pan to 
inelt; add a pound of lump sugar to it, the juice of lemons, the peel 
of two, six whites and shells beat well together, and a bottle of Sherry 
or Madeira; whihk the whole together until it is on the boil; then put 
it by the side of the stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour. 
Then strain it through a jelly-bag; what is strained first must be put 
into the bag, and repeated until it is quite. bright and clear. Then 
put the jelly in moulds till it is cold and firm. Put it in a cold place. 
If you wish to have it very stiff, add half an ounce of isinglass, wiaen 
the wine is put in. It may be flavoured by the juice of various fruits 
and spices, &c., and coloured with cochineal, saffron, spinach juice, red 
beet-root juice or claret. It is sometimes made with cherry brandy, 
noyeau rouge, or essence of punch, instead of wine. Ten shank mut- 
ton bones, which may be bought for a trifle, will give as much jelly as 
{, calPs foot. 

656. Whey. — Boil a pint of milk, put to it a glass or two of white 
14 



166 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

wine; put it on the fire till it boils again; then pour it on one sido 
till it has settled. Pour off the clear whey, and sweeten as you like. 
Cider is often used instead of wine, or half the quantity. When there 
is no fire in the sick room, it may be put hot into a bottle, and laid 
between the bed and mattrass. It will keep warm several hours. 

657. Arrouj-root. — A dessert spoonful will thicken half a pint. It 
may be made with milk, and flavoured at pleasure, and according to 
circumstances, if for the sick. The method of mixing is, to moisten 
the arrow-root with a very little liquid, and stir it into a smooth paste ; 
then pour the rest of the milk to it in a boiling state, stirring it one 
way all the time, and a minute or two afterwards. If it is not thick, 
return it to the saucepan, but that wastes it. If you pour it carefully, 
it will be thick by mixing the milk, and quite smooth. 

658. Gruel is made of Scotch oatmeal, or cracked groats, or com- 
mon oatmeal. The Embden, or cracked groats, or Scotch oatmeal, 
is preferable to the common, both for flavour and nutriment, but can- 
not be made so quickly. A block-tin saucepan, or a brass skillet, is 
the best for preserving the colour of the gruel ; and a hair sieve ta- 
strain. Set on the groats in cold water, half a pint to three quarts of 
water. Let it boil three quarters of an hour. In that time it will be 
reduced to two quarts. Then strain it. The groats may be boiled up 
again, and will make another quart of gruei, but they must bo boiled 
longer than at first. Scotch oatmeal may be made a mess at a time. 
To a pint of water two ounces of oatmeal ; mix it with a little ctild ! 
water, and stir it into the rest while boiling. This may be strained i 
or not. Let it boil ten minutes. 

659. Robinson s prepared Groats are prepared in the same way, , 
but do not require so much boiling ; a large spoonful of this will make ! 
a pint of gruel. A bit of butter and salt are generally stirred in gruel ; : 
or sugar and nutmeg, according to taste. 

660. Rice Gruel. — This is principally used for bowel complaints,, 
but is not so good as arrow-root. A table-spoonful of ground rice vvilll 
thicken a pint of milk or water. Mix it in the same manner as oat-- 
meal gruel; boil in a bit of dried orange or lemon peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon. Let it boil about ten minutes, sweeten with loaf-sugar, 
and add two glasses of port, or one of brandy, as may be required. 

661. Barley Gruel. — This also is used to give to a person in a state 
of great debility. Either Scotch or pearl barley may be used ; it re- 
quires a great deal of washing. If time allows, it should be boiled ini 
a small quantity of cold water; when it boils up, pour off; add fresh \ 
boiling water for the gruel. To a quart of water put two ounces of 
barley ; boil till reduced one half, then strain it off. Put to it half aa 
much port wine, and sugar to taste; simmer it together two or throe 
minutes. Rewarm it from time to time as wanted. The barley will 
do to put in broth. 

662. Thick Mil/c, or Flour Caudle, is used for the same purpose, 
A large table- spoonful of flour will thicken a pint. It may be fla- 
voured with cinnamon, or dried orange or lemon peel. Great care 



GRUELS, CREAMS, &C. 167 

must be taken that it does not burn. A double saucepan is best for 
tlie purpone, or a brass kettle. Half water may be used. 

663. Barley Water. — Scotch or pearl barley may be used. Wash, 
or boil up, as tor barley gruel ; to a quart of water, barley two ounces. 
Simmer till of an -agreeable thickness, and strain. Boil the barley 
up again, and it will make a pint more. This is a very cooling drink. 
It also is a pleasant thing to take medicine in. Lemon juice and peel, 
raisins, figs, liquorice root, sugar, honey, and gum arabic, with these 
additions it is often used either lor complaints of the chest, confined 
bowels, or stranguary ; or powdered nitre a drachm to a quart, ig 
often found good for fever. (Merely for a drink, put sugar and lemon 
peel.) Rub up the nitre with honey or sugar, mix it with a little 
barley water, and then pour it on the whole quantity in a boiling state. 
Stir it well together. 

665. Beef Tea. — Take a pound of flesliy beef, cut in slices (without 
the least bit of fat;) boil it up in a quart of water, and skim it well ; 
then put it on one side to simmer twenty minutes. Season if approved, 
but generally only salt. 

666. Shank Jelly. — Soak twelve shanks of mutton some hours. 
Brush and scour them well. Put them in a saucepan, put three quarts 
of water to them, add a bunch of sweet herbs, thirty or forty black 
peppers, twenty Jamaica, three blades of mace, an onion, and a crust 
of bread. toasted brown, and put them on a hot hearth, closely covered. 
Let them simmer five hours very gently; then strain it off, and put it 
in a cool place. It may have the addition of a pound of beef, if ap- 
proved, for flavour. This is a very good thing for people who are 
weakly. 

667. Tapioca Jelly. — Choose the largest sort. Pour cold water 
on, and wash it two or three times ; then soak it in fresh water five 
or six hours, and simmer it until it becomes quite clear. Add wine, 
lemon juice, and sugar. Boil the peel of the lemon in it. It thickens 
very much. 

667. Posset. — This is more potent than whey, and in which the 
curd is not separated. Either ale or wine will turn it. Put on the 
fire, in a kettle, a quart of new milk, with a stick of cinnamon; cut a 
slice of bread ; as the milk boils, lay it at the top, and let it boil a mi- 
nute or two ; then put it aside to soften. Put a pint of very strong 
ale, with sugar and nutmeg, or white wine. Boil up the milk again, 
take the bread out with a slice, and lay on the ale or wine ; then very 
gently pour over the boiling milk, and let it stand until the head rises 
like that of a syllabub. Then serve. A richer posset may be made 
by substituting Naples biscuits for bread. A brandy posset is a quar 
of rich custard poured over a glass and a half of brandy. 

668. Orgeat. — Boil a quart of new milk with a slick of cinnamon. 
Put to it two ounces of loaf-sugar, and let it cool. Blaiich and beat 
to a paste, with a little rose water, three ounces of sweet almonds, 
and two dozen bitter. Stir them to^ the milk; boil it up again, and 
continue stirring till cold. Then add half a glass of brandy. 

669. Orange Marmalade. — Seville oranges are in perfection about 



m 



THE COMPLETE COOK. 



tlie end of March and bp,^inninpr of April, at wJiich time marmalade 
ehould be made. Allow two pounds of sugar to each pound of Seville 
oranges; grate the oranges lightly, and slice them down with a very 
sharp knife, as thin as possible, and straight through. Notiiing must 
be kept out but the seeds. Clarify the sugar, put the fruit in, and 
boil it slowly for at least an hour, until the chips are perfectly tender 
and clear, and it will jelly ; a little of the grate may be put in, if 
approved ; the rest is good seasoning for puddings. 

670. Fruit Jelly. — Put the fruit, carefully picked, into a stone jar; 
cover close; set it in a kettle of cold water, which reaches not more 
than three parts the height of the jar. Let it boil half an hour (more 
or less, according to the nature of the fruit; black currants are much 
longer running to juice than either red currants or raspberries). 
Strain through a jelly-bag or lawn strainer; or the juice may be 
strained more quickly, by setting on the fruit in a preserving pan, and 
carefully stirring round the sides as it begins to heat, that it may not 
burn ; strain through a jelly-bag or lawn strainer. To every pint of 
juice allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Set on the juice over a clear fire; 
when it boils, put in the sugar. When it has boiled some time, and 
the scum thickens and gathers together, skim it on to a sieve, and 
continue to do so while the scum rises; what runs from it may be 
returned to the rest. When it has boiled forty minutes, try a few 
drops, by putting on a plate in a cool place. If this become stiff 
almost immediately, the jelly is done enough. If not, it must be 
boiled till it will. The jelly may then be strained through a hair 
sieve, but if it have been properly skimmed this is not necessary, and 
it is a great waste. The best way is to pour it into a spouted jug that 
will contain the whole, and then into small jelly pots or glasses. Be 
very careful not to pour aside, or smear the edges, as an accident of 
this sort, however carefully wiped away, renders the jelly apt to turn 
mouldy. White currant jelly should be strained through a muslin or 
lawn sieve. 

PRESERVES. 

671. Jams. — In making jam of very ripe juicy fruit, a portion of 
jelly may be taken from it which will improve the jam, taking care 
to have sufficient syrup to jelly round the fruit. Each quart of fruit 
and two pounds of sugar will admit the removal of half a pint of jelly 
without injury. 

Strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, and currants: put an 
equal weight of loat-sugar and fruit; put the fruit in a preserving 
pan ; bruise it a little and put it on the stove; stir it carefully to keep 
it from sticking to the bottom and sides of the pan. Let it boil before 
adding the sugar, and if there is plenty of juice from the fruit, so that 
there is no danger of it burning, let it boil a quarter of an hour before 
adding the sugar; it must boil half an hour afterwards. Skim on to 
a sieve, and add that which runs through to it. Try the stiffness of 
the jelly by putting a little on a plate and setting it in a cool place ; 



PRSS ER VES. 169 

if it becomes stiff when quite cold, it has boiled sufnciently; if not 
stitf, boil it until it is. 

'i'ije scarlet or mulberry strawberries are the best for preserving; 
they must be quite ripe and dry : to three pints of strawberries allow 
halfapintof red currant jelly. For gooseberry jam, take the small 
dark hairy sort named Crystal, or a large bright hairy sort called the 
Warrington. Smooth gooseberries do not do well in preserving. 

Lisbon sugar answers very well when the jam is wanted for im- 
mediate use, and in large families where it is much used. Put six 
pounds of Lisbon sugar to seven of fruit. Gooseberries and black 
currants sliould be boiled an hour; if not stiff in that time, boil it 
lonjrer. 

672. Cherries. — To preserve cherries without boiling, take fine 
ripe Morello cherries; cut the stalks an inch from the fruit, end put 
tliem into wide-mouthed bottles; when full, put powdered loaf-sugar 
over the top, and pour in a little brandy. Cork and cement, or tie 
over with leather and bladder. They will keep all the winter 
through, and do very well for desserts. 

673. To bottle Damsons or Gooseberries. — Damsons should have 
attained their dark colour, but not be ripe. Be careful not to bruise 
Ihem. Fill wide-mouthed bottles: shake thegn down so that you may 
get as many in as possible. To each bottle put a wine glass of good 
home-made wine, either ginger or raisin ; no other sort is good. Tie 
them over with bladders, and put them to stand in a large pot with 
cold water to reach the necks of the bottles; put a fire under the pot, 
and let the water boil ; when the bladders begin to rise and puff, prick 
them with a pin. As soon as the water boils remove the fire, and let 
the bottles remain there until they are quite cold. Next day remove 
the bladders, and put over the top a thick layer of powdered loaf- 
sugar and a spoonful of brandy; then cork them tight, and seal or 
cement them. 

674. Gooseberries. — The same rules do for gooseberries, but they 
should be full grown, and gathered when green. 

675. Currants. — Currants full grown, but not turned, may be pre- 
served in the same way; cut the stalks of!' with scissors. 

676. To keep Codlins several months. — Gather codlins at Midsum- 
mer of a middling size; put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling 
water over, and cover the pan with cabbage leaves; keep them by 
the (ire fill they would peel, but do not peel them; then pour the 
water off till both are quite cold. Place the codlins in a stone jar 
with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scalded them. 
Cover the pot with bladder, and tie very close, and then cover it with 
coarse paper again. It is best to keep them in small pots, such aa 
will be used at once when opened. 

677. To preserve Apricots in jelly. — Pare the ft-uit very thin and 
stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder and strew 
over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear; move them 
into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the 
liquor to a quart of codlin liquor made by boiling and straining, and a 

14* 



170 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit 
into it, and give one boil ; skim well and put into small pots. 

678. A very nice preserve of Apr i cols, — Choose the finest apricots 
when quite ripe; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them ; lay 
them in halves on dishes, with the hollow parts upwards; have an 
equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew it over 
them; break the stones, and blanch the kernels; when the fruit has 
lain twelve hours, put it with the sugar and juice, also the kernels, 
into a preserving pan ; lot it simmer very gently till clear, then take 
out the pieces of apricots singly ; put them into small pots, and pour 
the syrup and kernels over tliem. The scum must be taken oW as it 
rises. Cover with brandy paper. 

.Greengages and egg- plums may be preserved in the same way. 

679. Dried Apricots. — Proceed as above, but instead of pouring 
the syrup over them after the last boil, drain them close, strew over 
sifted sugar to cover them, and dry them on a wire sieve on a stove, 
or in a slow oven ; they must be turned several times, but ought not 
to be cold till quite dry. 

680. Apricots or Peaches in brandy. — Wipe and v/eigh the fruit, 
and take a quarter of the weight of fine powdered sugar; put the fruit 
into an ice-pot that sjiuts very close, throw the suoar over it, and 
then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the 
pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of 
water till the brandy be as liot as you can possibly bear to put your 
finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the 
brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. 

6S1. Apricot Jam. — Divide fine apricots that have become yellow, 
but are noi over ripe; lay the hollow part uppermost on china dishes, 
and strew over twelve ounces of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit ; 
Jet it lie until it becomes moist, then boil it twenty minutes, stirring 
it well. Blanch the kernels, and boil with the jam. 
. 682. To preserve Ginger. — If your ginger can be had green, it is 
best. Pare it nicRly witii a sharp knife, and throw it into cold water 
as you pare it, to preserve the whiteness. If fresh ginger cannot be 
procured, have the finest large white races of Jamaica ginger. Boil 
it several times in water till tender, then pare and proceed as above; 
set on the ginger in cold water and boil it. Pour off the liquor, and 
put cold water; then boil it up again. Do this a tiiird time, till the 
ginger is tender, then throw it into cold water; when quite cold, 
.drain the ginger and put into a china bowl. Clarify sugar for pre- 
serving it, in the proportion of eight pounds of sugar to seven of gin- 
g-er. Let the sui^ar become cold, then pour over the ginger enough 
to cover it. Let it stand two days, then strain the syrup from the 
ginger and boil it with the remainder of the sugar; let them boil 
together twenty minutes or half an hour. When cold, again pour it 
over the ginger, and let it stand three or four days; by this time the 
ginger will have finely swollen. Then strain the syrup, boil it up, 
and pour it hot over the ginger. If the ginger is well swollen, and 
the syrup quite rich, nothing more is necessary ; but if not, boil it 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 17l 

affair, at the interval of three or four days. Wide-mouthed bottles 
are best for keepins" it. Divide the syrup to each; cork and seal, or 
dip in bottle cement. 

6S3. Cherries in brandy. — Weiijh the finest Morellos, havin^f cut 
off half the stalk; prick thorn with a now needle, and drop them into 
ajar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three-quarters of the weisfht of 
suffar or white candy ; strew, fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder 
over them. 

684. Danuon Cheese. — It is sometimes made with the whole skins 
and pulp of the fruit, sometimes with the pulp only. In cither case 
the fruit is first to be baked or boiled in a stone jar till it is tender, 
and the stones will separate. If the skins are to be used, merely take 
out the stones with a spoon, then measure it into the preserving- pan. 
If the skins are objected to, rub it throuo'h a very coarse sieve, that 
so they may be retained with the stones. Havin*? measured the fruit, 
Get it over a clear brisk fire, and let it boil quick till the liquid has 
evaporated and the fruit becomes quite dry ; then add loaf-sufjar 
powdered, in the proportion of half a pound to a quart of fruit, and let 
it go on boiling- till the jam candies to the sides of the pan. The 
stones should be cracked, and the kernels skinned and boiled in the 
jam ; this gives it a very pretty appearance, but some people object 
to it It should be put out in shallow vessels, such as potting jars, 
saucers, and so fbrtii, and tirrned out when brought to table. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

In preparing meat for the table, and in laying out the table, refer- 
ence ought to be had to the carving department — a very onerous one 
to all, and to many a very disagreeable one. The carving knife of 
course ought to bo sharp, and if to be used by a lady, in particular, 
light and handy ; dexterity and address in the manner of using it 
boing more required than strength, either in the knife or the carver. 
When a lady presides, a seat sufficiently high for her to have a com- 
plete command over the joints should be provided, and the dish should 
he sufficiently deep and capacious, so as not to endanger the splash- 
ing of the gravy. It should also be placed as near to the carver as 
possible, leaving room for his or her plate. A knife with a long 
blade is required for a large flashy joint; for ham or bacon a middling 
sized, sharp-pointed one is preferable, and for poultry or game a short 
knife and sharp-pointed is best. Some like this knife a little curved. 
We do not presume to give any directions as respects the serving of 
the guests; no one it is presumed would take the head of the table 
not acquainted with the common rules of politeness, which principally 
consist in endeavouring to please everybody. 

685. Fish. — As fish is the first thing to be carved, or served, we 
shall first speak of it. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes, 
which in cod and fine fresh salmon, and some other sorts, are large. 
A fish trowel is necessary, not to say indispensable, in serving many 
kinds of fish, particularly the larger sort. 



172 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

686. Turbol, <^'c. — The trowel is to be carried flatways from the 
middle of the fish, and the carver should bring- out as mucii meat as 
will lie upon it. The thick part is the best, and of course most es- 
teemed. When one side is cleared, the bones ought to be taken 
away — which done, serve the under part. The meat on the fins is 
cronsidered by some a great delicacy. Halibuts, plaice, and other 
larofe fish, are served in a similar way. 

687. A Cod's Head and Shoulders, perhaps, require more atten 
tiou in serving- than any other. It is, too, considered a handsome 
dish. In carving, introduce the trowel along the back, and take otFa 
piece quite down to the bone, taking care not to break the flakes. Put 
in a spoon and take out the sound, a jelly-like substance, which lies 
inside the back-bone. A part of this should be served with every 
slice of fish. The bones and glutinous parts of a cod's head are much 
liked by most people, and are very nourishing. 

688. Salmon — Cut slices along the back-bone, and also along the 
flank. The flank or thin part is the best and richest, and is preferred 
by all accomplished gourmands. Tiie back is the most solid and thick. 
The tail of salmon is not so fine as the other parts. The head is 
seldom used. The liver, melt, and roe, are generally served, but 
seldom eaten. 

689. Soles are easily carved. You have only to cut through the 
middle part of the fish, bone and all, and subdivide and serve accord- 
ing to the size offish. The thick parts are best; the roes when well 
done are very nice. 

690. Mackerel. — The trowel should be carried under the meat, 
horizontally over the back-bone, so as to raise one side of the meat 
from the bone. Remove the bone, and serve the other side of the fish. 
When fresh, well cleaned, and well done, the upper end is considered 
the best. The roes are much liked. 

691. Eels, IVhiting Jack, c^c, when intended to be fried, are pre- 
viously cut in pieces of a suitable size for serving. When they are 
boiled, cut through them in the same way as soles. Large jacks will 
admit of slices being taken off with a trowel without the bones. Small 
fish are served whole. 

692. Ailch Bone of Beef. — Cut a slice an inch thick all through. 
Put this by, and serve in slices from the remainder. Some persons, 
however, like outside, and others take off" a thinner slice before serv- 
ing, for the sake of economy. The rich, delicious, soft fat, which re- 
sembles marrow, lies at the back of the bone : the firm fat is cut in 
liorizontal slices at the edge of the meat. Some prefer one and some 
the other. The skewer used to keep the meat together when boiling, 
should be taken out before coming to the table, and, if necessary, be 
replaced by a silver one. 

693. A Round, w Buttock, aiid thick Flank of Beef, are carved 
in horizontal slices, that is, in slices from the top. Pare and neatly 
cut all round. Some prefer the silver side. 

694. A Brishet of Beef is cut lengthways, right down to the bone. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 173 

The soft mellow fat is found underneath'. The upper part is firm, but 
gristly ; if well done, they are equally good to our taste. 

695. Sirloin of Beef, the glory of the dinner-table, may be com- 
menced carving, either by beginning at the end, and cutting slice? 
along the bones, or across the middle ; but this latter mode wi 
draiu the gravy from the remainder. The inside is very juicy and 
tender, but the outside is frequently preferred. The inside fat is rich 
and marrowy, and is considered loo much so by many. The inside 
of a sirloin is frequently dressed (in various ways) separately. 

696. Fillet of Veal is the corresponding part to the round in an ox, 
and is cut in the same way. If the outside brown be not desired, 
serve tlie next slice. Cut deep into the stuffing, and help a thin slice, 
as likewise of fat. A fillet of veal should be cut very smooth and 
thin. 

697. Breast of Veal answers to the brisket of an ox. It should be 
cracked lengthways, across the middle of the bones, to divide the 
thick gristly part from the ribs. There is a great difference in these 
parts ; and as some prefer the one, and some the other, the best way 
is to ask to which the preference is to be given. The burr, or sweet- 
meat, is much liked, and a part should be served with each slice. 

698. Necks and Loins of all sorts of meat, if properly jointed by 
the butcher, require only to be cut through ; but when the joints are 
too thick for one, cut a slice between each, that is, cut one slice with- 
out bone, and another with. Some prefer one, and some the other. 

699. Calfs Head affords a great variety of excellent meat, differ- 
ing in texture and flavour, and therefore requires a judicious and 
ekiltul carver properly to divide it. Cut slices longways under the 
eye, taking care that the knife goes close to the bone. The throat 
sweetbread, or kernel, lies in the fleshy part, at the neck end, which 
you should help a slice of with the other part. The eyes are con- 
eidered great delicacies by some. They should be taken out with 
the point of your knife, and each cut into two. A piece of the palate 
(which lies under the head), a slice of the tongue, with a portion o^ 
the brains, should be given to each guest. On drawing out the jav/- 
bone, some delicious lean will be found. The heads of oxen, sheep, 
lambs, &c., are cut in the same way as those of calves. 

700. A Leg of Mutton, ^c. — Begin to cut in the midway, between 
the knuckle and farther end. The slices should be thin and deep. If 
the outside is not fat enough, cut some from the fat on the broad end, 
in slices. Many prefer the knuckle, or venison bit, to the middle 
part; the latter is the most juicy — the former, in good, well-done 
mutton, is gelatinous and delicately tender. There is some good meat 
on the back of the \eg, or aitch bone ; this should be cut lengthways. 
It is, however, seldom carved when hot. To cut out the cramp bone, 
take hold of the shank in your left hand, and steadily cut down to the 
thigh bone ; then pass the knife under the cramp bone, hege of 
Jamb and pork are cut in the same way. 

701. A Saddle, or Collar of Mutton, sometimes called the chine, 
snould be cut lengthways, in long slices, beginning close to the back- 



i1r4 . THE COMPLETE COOK. 

bone, and thus leavinor the ribs bare. The fat is taken from the outer 
ends. The inside ot' the loin is very tender, and in the opinion of 
Bome gourmands is preferred to the upper part. It is best, perhaps, 
to cut the inside lengthways. 

702. Shoulder of Mutton. — To carve this joint (which when pro- 
perly dressed is very fine eating) economically for a very small family, 
the best way is to cut away the underneath part when hot, and if any 
more is required, to lake it from the knuckle. This plan leaves all 
the gravy in the upper part, which is very nice when cold. The 
usual way, however, of carving a shoulder of mutton, is to cut slices 
deep to the bone, in the hollow part. The prime part of the fat lies 
on the Outer edge, and is to be cut in thin slices. Some good delicate 
slices of lean may be taken from each side of the ridge of the blade- 
bone. No slices can be cut across the edge of the blade-bone, 

' 703. Haunch of Venison or Mutton. — Cut down to the bone in 
circular slices at the narrow end, to let out the gravy. You may 
then turn the broad end of the haunch towards you; insert the knife 
in the middle of the cut, and cut thin deep slices lengthways to the 
broad end of the haunch. The fat of venison is much esteemed ; 
those who help should take care properly to apportion both the fat 
and gravy. 

704. Fore-quarter of Lamb. — Separate the shoulder from the 
scovel, or breast and ribs, by passing the knife under it (the shoulder). 
The shoulder of grass lamb, which is generally pretty large, should ' 
have a little lemon or Seville orange juice, squeezed over it, and be 
sprinkled with a little pepper and salt, and then placed upon another 
dish. If the lamb be small, it is usual to replace the shoulder. The 
breast and ribs should be cracked across by the butcher, and be 
divided. Help either from that, the ribs, or shoulder, according to 
choice. 

705. Ham. — The most economical way of cutting a ham, which is 
seldom or never eaten at one meal, is to begin to cut at the knuckle 
end, and proceed onwards. The usual way, however, is to begin at 
the middle, and cut in long slices through the thick fat. By this 
means you come at once to the prime, but you let out the gravy. 
Another plan is to cut a small hole on the top of the ham, and withi 
a very sharp knife enlarge the hole, by cutting thin circular slices. , 
In this latter way you preserve the gravy, and of course keep the ' 
meat moist to be eaten when cold. 

706. Tongue. — This much-esteemed relish, which often supplies 
the place of ham, should be cut in thin slices across, beginning at the 
thick middle part. Serve slices of fat and kernel from the root. 

707. A Sucking Pig is generally slit down the middle in the 
kitchen, and the cook garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. 
Separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then do the 
same thing with the leg. Divide the ribs, which are frequently con- 
sidered the most choice part, into two or three helpings, presenting 
an ear or jaw with them as far as they will go, and plenty of stance. 
Some persons prefer the leg, because not so rich and luscious as tho 



f DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 175 

ribs. The neck end between the shoulders is also sometimes pre- 
ferred. The joints may be divided into two each, or pieces may be 
cut from them. 

708. A Fowl — The legs of a boiled fowl are always bent inwards, 
and tucked into the belly, but before it is put upon the table, the 
skewers by which they are secured oug-ht to be removed. The fowl 
should be laid on the carver's plate, and the joints as they are cut off 
placed on the dish. In taking off the wing, the joint only must be 
divided with the knife, for, by lifting up the pinion of the wing with 
the fork, and then drawing it towards the legs, the muscles will se- 
parale in a much better form than you can effect by cutting with a 
knife. Next place the knife between the leg and body, and cut to 
the bone ; turn the leg back with the fork, and the joint will give way, 
if the fowl be young and well done. The merrythought is taken 
out when the legs and wings are all removed ; the neck-bones are 
taken off by putting in the knife, and pressing it under the long broad 
part of the bone, then lift the neck-bone up and break it off from the 
part that sticks to the breast. The breast itself has now to be 
divided from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close 
to the breast, quite down to the tail; then lay the back upwards, 
put your knife into the bone half-v;ay from the neck to the rump, 
and on raising the lower end it will readily separate. The last 
tning to be done is to turn the rump from you, and neatly to take off 
the two sidesmen. Each part should be neatly arranged on the dish, 
but it is almost impossible to give effectual written descriptions for 
carving fowls; the best plan is to observe carefully a good carver, and 
th^n, by a little practice, you will become perfect. The breast and 
the wings are considered the best parts. 

709. A Pheasant. — Take out the skewers; fix your fork in the 
centre of the breast, slice it down; remove the leg by cutting in the 
sideway direction, then take off the wing, taking care to miss the neck- 
bone. When the legs and wings are all taken off, cut off slices of 
the breast. The merrythought is separated by passing the knife 
under it towards the neck; the other parts are cut as before directed 
in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the favourites, 
particularly the former, but the leg has a higher flavour. 

710. Partridges and Pigeons. — Partridges are carved like fowls, 
but the breast and wings are not often divided, the bird being small. 
The wing is the prime bit, particularly the tip; the other choice parts 
are the breast and merrythought. Pigeons may be cut in two, either 
from one end to the other of the bird, or across. 

711. Goose or Duck. — Cut off the apron of the goose and pour into 
the body a large spoonful of gravy, which should be mixed with the 
stuffing. Some persons put, instead of the gravy, a glass of port wine, 
in which a large tea-spoonful of mustard has been previously stirred. 
Cut as many slices from the breast as possible, and serve with a por- 
tion of the apron to each plate. When the breast is all served, and 
not till then, cutoff the joints; but observe, the joints of water-fowl 
are wider spread and go farther back than those of land-fowl. 



i7^ THE C O M r li E T E COOK. • (I 

712. A Turkey should not be divided till the breast is disposed of;* 
but if it be thought proper to divide, the same process must be fol-.t 
lowed as directed in a fowl. The followiniif is the bast mode of serving) 
this delicious bird : Begin cuttinf^- close to the breasl-bone, scooping 
round so as to leave the mere pinions. Each slice should carry with 
it a portion of the pudding, or force meat, with which the craw is 
stuffed. 

713. Hare. — Put the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut^ 
all the way down to the rump, on the side of the back-bone. By doingv 
the same on the other side, the hare will be divided into three parts., 
The back should be cut into four parts : the shoulder must be taken, 
off in a circular line. The pieces as they are cut should be neatly 
placed on the dish ; in helping, some pudding and gravy should be 
given to each person. The above mode of carving is only applicable 
to a young hare; when the hare is old, it is not practicable to divide 
it down, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a lit- 
tle turn inwards at the joints, which you must endeavour to hit, and 
then cut, and with the fork turn it completely back. When both legs 
are taken off', you will find a fine colJop on each side of the back, 
which back you may divide into as many pieces as are necessary. 
Take off the shoulders, which some persons are very i'ond of, and 
which are called the sportsman's pieces; but the legs and back 
are considered the prime. When all the guests are served, it is usual 
to take oft' the head, and by putting the knife between the upper and 
lower jaw, you may divide them; then lay the upper flat upon your 
plate, put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into 
two; you will thus get at the brains, which may be served with the 
ears and tail to those who like them. Some persons direct tlie carver 
to serve with slices, as much as possible, off the sides of the back-bone, 
from the shoulder to the rump. 

714. Rabbits are generally cut up in the same way as hares. The 
back and legs are considered the best parts. The back should be cut 
into two pieces. 

GARNISHES. 

Parsley is the most universal garnish to all kinds of cold meat, 
poultry, fish, butter, cheese, and so forth. Horse-radish is the garnish 
for roast beef, and for fish in general ; for the latter, slices of lemon 
are sometimes laid alternately with heaps of horse-radish. 

Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, turkey, and fish, and for roast veal 
and calPs head. 

Carrot in slices for boiled beef, hot or cold. 

Barberries fresh or preserved for game. 

Red beet-root sliced for cold meat, boiled beef, and salt fish. 

Fried smelts as garnish for turbot. 

Fried sausages or force meat balls round roast turkey, capon, or 
fowl. 

Lobster coral and parsley round boiled fish. .,^ i: ...,;.. i^u.- 



SETTING OUT A TABLE. 177 

Fennel for mackerel and salmon, either fresh or pickled. 

Currant jelly for game, also for custard or bread pudding:. 

Seville orange in slices for wild ducks, widgeons, teal and so forth. 

Mint, either with or without parsley, for roast lamb, either hot or 
cold. 

Pickled gherkins, capers, or onions, for some kMids of boiled meat 
and etews. 

SETTING OUT A TABLE. 

A prudent housekeeper, in providing for a family, or for company, 
will endeavour to secure variety, and avoid extravagance, taking care 
not to have two dishes alike, or nearly alike, such as ducks and pork, 
veal and fowls; and avoiding, when several sorts are required, to have 
such things as cannot be eaten cold, or cannot be warmed or re-cooked. 
There is a great waste occasioned if these principles are overlooked 
in providing for a party. When a table is to be set out, it is usual 
to place nearly the whole provisions at once ; but if comfort is the 
object, it is better to have each dish and its accompanying sauces and 
vegetables sent in separately, hot from the kitchen. 

For plain family dinners, soup or pudding is placed at the head of 
the table, and meat at the lower end ; vegetables on each side of the 
middle, and sauce boats in the middle. Boiled meat at the top; roast 
meat at bottom; soup in the middle; then the vegetables and sauce 
boats at cross corners of the middle dish. Poultry or mutton at bot- 
tom ; boiled poultry at top; roast poultry, or game, at bottom ; vege- 
tables and sauces so disposed as to give the appearance of the whole 
table being covered without being crowded. 

When there are several courses, the first consists of soups, stews, 
boiled fish, fricassees; poultry with ham, bacon, tongue, or chine; 
and roast or boiled meat. 

For second courses, birds and gnme of all sorts, fish fried, pickled, 
or potted ; pigeon pies, patties, brawn, omelets, oysters stewed or 
scolloped, and lobsters or crabs. Tarts, cheesecakes, and sweet dishes 
of all kinds, are sometimes placed v;ith the second course, but more 
froqunntly form separate courses by themselves. 

The dessert is usually served in another room, which is a great ac- 
commodation both to the servants, who can prepare it at leisure, and 
to the guests in quitting the smell of a hot dinner. A d'oyley, a 
finger glass, two wine glasses, a china dessert plate, and silver knife 
and fork, and spoon, to each person. Every variety of fruit, fresh and 
preserved, is admissible ; and biscuits, and pound-cake, with an 
epergne or stand of jellies in the middle. Varieties of wine are 
generally placed at each end. 

The modern practice of dining late has added importance to the 
luncheon, and almost annihilated the supper meal. The following 
Rre suitable for either: soups, sandwiches of ham, tongue, dried 
fiausage, or beef; anchovy, toast or husks; potted beef, lobster, or 
cheese; dried salnion, lobsters, crayfish or oysters, poached eggs; 
15 



178 THE COMPLETE COOR. 

patties; pigeon pies; sansacrps; toast with marrow (served on a 
water plate), cheesecakes; pulis, mashed or scolloped potatoes, brocoli ; 
asparagus, sea-kale with toast, creams, jellies, preserved or dried 
fruits, salad, radishes, &,c. If a more substantial supper is required, 
it may consist of fish, poultry, game; slices of cold meat, pies of 
chickens, pigeons, or game ; lamb or mutton chops, cold poultry, 
broiled with high seasoning, or fricasseed; rations or toasted cheese. 

MADE WINES, &C.--GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING 

715. The best method of making these wines is to boil the ingre- 
dients, and ferment with yeast. Boiling makes the wine more soft 
and mellow. Some, however, mix the juice, or juice and fruit, with 
sugar and water unboiled, and leave the ingredients to ferment spon- 
taneously. Your fruit should always be prime, and gathered dry, and 
picked clean from stalks, &c. The lees of wine are valuable for dis- 
tillation, or making vinegar. When wine is put in the cask the fer- 
mentation will be renewed. Clear away the yeast as it rises, and fill 
up with wine, for which purpose a small quantity should be reserved. 
If brandy is to be added, it must be when the fermentation has nearly 
subsided, that is, when no more yeast is thrown up at the bung-hole, 
and when the hissing noise within is not very perceptible: then mix a 
quart of brandy with a pound of honey ; pour into the cask, and paste 
stiff brown paper over the bung-hole. Allow no hole for a vent peg, 
lest it should once be forgotten, and the whole cask of wine be spoiled. 
If the wine wants vent, it will be sure to burst the paper; if not, the 
paper will sufficiently exclude all air. Once a week or so, it must 
be looked to; if the paper is burst renew it, and continue to do so till 
it remains clear and dry. A great difference of opinion prevails as to 
racking the wine," or suffering it to remain on the lees. Those whc 
adopt the former plan do it at the end of six months; draw off the 
wine perfectly clear, and put it into a fresh cask, in which it is to re- 
main six months, and then be bottled. If this plan is adopted, it may 
be better, instead of putting the brandy and honey in the first cask, 
to put it in that in which the wine is to be racked; but on the whole 
it is, perhaps, preferable to leave the wine a year in the first cask, 
and then bottle it at once. All domestic wines improve more in the 
cask than in the bottle. Have very nice clear and dry bottles; do 
not fill them too high. Good soft corks, made supple by soaking in a 
little of the wine ; press them in, but do not knock. Keep the bottles 
lying in saw-dust. This plan will apply equally well to raspberries, 
cherries, mulberries, and all kinds of ripe summer fruits. 

716. Ginger Wine. — To make eighteen gallons of v;ine — twenty 
gallons of water, fifty pounds of loaf-sugar, two and a half pounds of 
bruised ginger, hops a quarter of a pound, the shaved rinds of eighteen 
lemons or Seville oranges ; let these boil together for two hours, care- 
fully skimming. Pour it, without straining, on to seven pounds of 
raisins: when cool put in the juice of the lemons or oranges; rmse 
the pulp in a pint or two of the wine, and strain it to the rest. JFer 



MADE WINES, &C. 179 

in«nl it with yeast; mix a quarter of a pint of solid yeast with a pint 
or two of the wine, and with that work the rest; next day tun it, 
raisin?, hops, ginger and all together, and fill it up for a fortnight 
either with wine or with good new beer; then dissolve three ounces 
of isinglass in a little of the wine, and return it to the rest to fine it: 
a few days afterwards bung it close. This wine will be in full per- 
fection in six months. It may be bottled, but is apt to fly; and if 
made exactly by the above directions, and drawn from the cask, it 
will sparkle like champaign. 

717. 3Jead, Melheglin, or Honey Wine. — Boil honey in water for 
an hour : the proportion is from three to four ix>unds to each gallon : 
half an ounce of iiops will both refine and preserve it, but is not com- 
monly added : skim carefully, draining the skimmings through a hair 
sieve, and return what runs through. When a proper coolness, stir 
in yeast; a tea-cup full of solid yeast will serve for nine gallons. Tun 
it, and let it work over, filling it up till the fermentation subsides. 
Paste over brown paper, and watch it (see No. 725). Rich mead 
will keep seven years, and afford a brisk, nourishing, and pleasant 
drin-k. Some people like to add the thinly shaved rind of a lemon to 
each gallon while boiling, and put the fruit, free from pith, into the 
tub. Others flavour it with spices and Si^eet herbs, and mix it with 
new beer or sweet wort : it is then called Welsh Braggart. 

718. Parsnip Wine. — To make a kilderkin: Set on double the 
quantity of water, and for every gallon of water allow four pounds of 
parsnips cleaned and sliced. When the water boils, put in the par- 
snips, and boil till they are perfectly tender ; drain through a sieve or 
colander without pressing; immediately return it to the copper with 
fifty-six pounds of loaf-sugar ; it will soon boil, being already hot, and 
what drips from the sieve may be added afterwards ; six ounces of 
hops, and boil it two hours. Ferment with yeast ; let it stand four 
days to work in a warm place ; then tun and paste paper over. It is 
most likely it will work up and burst the paper, which must be re- 
newed. It may be cleared with isinglass, but will not require any 
brandy. 

719. Malt Wi7ie, or English Sherry. — For an eighteen-gallon 
cask allow fifty-six pounds of good moist sugar, and sixteen gallons 
of water; boil them together two hours, carefully skimming. When 
the scum is all removed, and the liquor looks clear, add a quarter of a 
pound of hops, which should boil a quarter of an hour or twenty 
minutes. When the liquor is quite cool add to it five gallons of 
strong beer in the height of working: cover up, and let it work forty- 
eight hours; then skim and tun. If none remains for filling up, use 
new beer for that purpose. This method may be adopted with all 
boiled wines, and will be found to improve their strength, and promote 
their keeping. In a fortnight or three weeks, when the head begins 
to sink, add raisins (free from stalks) ten pounds, sugar-candy and 
bitter almonds of each half a pound, and a pint of the best brandy : 
brown paper as in former articles. It may be bottled in one year 



180 THE C O M P I. E T E COOK. 

lut if left three years in the wood, and then bottled, it will be found 
equal in strength and flavour to foreign wine. 

720. Orange or Lemon Wine, boiled. — (For quantity of fruit, see 
No. 726.) To make eighteen gallons, twenty gallons of water, fifty- 
six pounds of loaf-sugar, the whites and shells of a dozen eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of hops ; boil together the sugar, water, and eggs ; 
when it has boiled an hour, and become quite clear, add the hops and 
the thinly shaved rinds of two or three dozen of the fruit — more or 
less, according as the bitter flavour is desired. Let it boil, in all, two 
hours: meanwhile, remove all the peel and white pith of the fruit, 
and squeeze the juice. Pour a gallon or two of the hot liquor on the 
pulp; stir it well about, and, when cool, strain to the rest, and add 
the juice. (N. B. Some people strain off the hops, rind, and eggs; 
others prefer their remaining: it is by no means important which 
mode is adopted.) Work it with yeast, as the foregoing article, and 
refine with isinglass dissolved in a quart of brandy. This wine should 
be one year in wood, and one in bottles, when it will be found ex- 
cellent. 

721. Grape Wine. — The larger the proportion of juice, and the 
less of water, the nearer it will approach to the strength and richness 
of foreign wine. There ought not to be less than one-third of pure 
juice. Squeeze the grapes in a hair sieve, bruising them with the 
hand rather than any heavier press, as it is better not to crush the 
stones. Soak the pulp in water until a sufficient quantity is obtained 
to fill up the cask. As loaf-sugar is to be used for this wine, and it is 
not easily dissolved in cold liquid, the best plan is to pour over the 
BUgar (three pounds in every gallon required) as much boiling water 
as will dissolve it, and stir till it is dissolved. When cold put it in 
the cask with the juice, fill up from water in which the pulp has been 
steeped. To each gallon of wine put half an ounce of bitter almonds, 
not blanched, but cut small. The fermentation will not be very great. 
When it subsides, proceed with the brandy and papering as 726. 

722. Raisin Wine. — There are various modes of preparing this 
wine, which is, perhaps, when well made, the best of our domestic 
wines. The following receipts are considered good : — For raisin 
wine, without sugar, put to every gallon of soft water eight pounds 
of fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins : let them steep a month, stirring 
every day; then drain the liquor and put it into the cask, filling up as 
it works over : this it will do for two months. When the hissing has 
in a great measure subsided, add brandy and honey, and paper as the 
former articles. This wine should remain three years untouched ; it 
may then be drunk from the cask, or bottled, and will be found excel- 
lent. Raisin wine is sometimes made in large quantities, by merely 
putting the raisins in the cask, and filling it up with water: the pro- 
portion as above: carefully pick out all stalks. In six months rack 
the wine into fresh casks, and put to each the proportion of brandy 
and honey. In cider countries, and plentiful apple years, a most ex- 
cellent raisin wine is made by employing cidqr instead of water, and 



MADE WINES, &C. 181 

Steeping in it the raisins. Proceed in every respect as in the last 
ar.licla. 

723. Raisin Wine with Sugar. — To every gallon of soft water 
four pounds of fresh raisins; put them in a large tub; stir frequently, 
and keep it covered with a sack or blanket. In about a fortnight the 
fermentation will begin to subside : this may be known by the raisins 
remaining still. Then press the fruit and strain the liquor. Have 
ready a wine cask, perfectly dry and warm, allowing for each gallon 
one pound or one pound and a half Lisbon sugar; put this into the 
cask with the strained liquor: when half full, stir well the sugar and 
liquor, and put in half a pint of thick yeast; then fill up with the 
liquor, and continue to do so while the fermentation lasts, which will 
be a month or more. Proceed with brandy, &c., as in the foregoing 
articles. 

724. Raisin Wine, in imitation of Frontignac. — For every gallon 
of wine required, allow two pounds of raisins; boil them one hour in 
water ; strain the boiling liquor on loaf-sugar, two pounds for every 
gallon; stir it well together: when cool put it in the cask with a 
moderate quantity of yeast (as last article). When the fermentation 
subsides, suspend in the cask a muslin bag containing' elder flowers, 
in the proportion of a quart to three gallons of wine. When per- 
fectly clear, draw off the wine into bottles. 

725. Currant or Gooseberry Wine without boiling. — Suppose the 
cask to be filled is a kilderkin, to make it rich you should have fifty 
quarts of fruit, bruise it, and add to it half that quantity of water. Stir 
it well together, and let it stand twelve hours ; then strain it through a 
coarse canvass bag or hair sieve to fifty-six pounds of good Lisbon su- 
gar, and stir it well. Put the pulp of the fruit into a gallon more wa- 
ter ; stir it about, and let it stand twelve hours. Then strain to the 
above, again stirring it; cover the tub with a sack. In a day or two 
the wine will begin to ferment. When the whole surface is covered 
with a thick yeasty froth, begin to skim it on to a sieve. What runs 
through may be returned to the wine. Do this from time to time for 
several days, till no more yeast forms. Then put it into the cask. 

72G. Orange or Lemon Wine without boiling. — For an eighteen- 
gallon cask, half a chest of Seville oranges; they are most juicy in 
March. Shave the rinds of a dozen or two (more or less according as 
the bitter flavour is desired, or otherwise.) Pour over this a quart or 
two of boiling water : cover up, and let it stand twelve hours, then 
strain to the rest. Put into the cask fifty-six pounds of good Lisbon 
sugar. Clear off' all the peel and white pith from the oranges, and 
squeeze through a hair sieve. Put the juice into the cask to the 
sugar. Wash the sieve and pulp with cold water, and let the pulp 
soak in the water twenty-four hours. Strain, and add to the last, con- 
tinually stirring it ; add more water to the pulp, let it soak, then strain 
and add. Continue to do so till the cask is full, often stirring it with 
a stick until all the sugar is dissolved. Then leave it to ferment. 
The fermentation will not be nearly so great as that of currant wine, 
but the hissing noise will be heard for some weeks; when this sub- 
15* 



182 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

sides, add honey and brandy, and paste over with brown paper. This 
wine should remain in the cask a year before bottlin<T. 

727. Cowslip or Clary Wine. — The best method of making these 
wines is to put in the pips dry, when the fermentation of the wine 
has subsided. This method is preferred for two reasons ; first, 
it may be performed at any time of the year when lemons are cheap- 
est, and when other wine is making; secondly, all waste of the pips 
is avoided ; being light they are sure to work over if put in the cask 
while the wine is in a state of fermentation. For a kilderkin boil fifty- 
six pounds of good moist sugar, with twenty gallons of water, and a 
quarter of a pound of hops ; shave thin the rinds of three dozen le- 
mons or Seville oranges, or part of each; they may be put in the boil 
the last quarter of an hour, or the boiling liquor poured over them ; 
squeeze the juice to be added when cool, and rinse the pulp in the 
hot liquor. Work with yeast as in the foregoing articles. In two 
days tun the liquor, and keep it filled up either with wine or new 
beer, as long as it works over; then paste brown paper, and leave it 
for four, six, or eight months. The quantity of flowers is one quart to 
each gallon of wine. Let them be gathered on a fine dry day, and 
carefully picked from every bit of stalk and green. Spread them 
thinly on trays, sheets, or papers, and turn them often. When tho- 
roughly dry, put them in paper bags until the wine is ready to receive 
them. Put them in at the bung-hole ; stir them down two or three 
times a day, till all the cowslips have sunk; at the same time add 
isinglass. Then paste over again with paper. In six months the 
wine will be fit to bottle, but will be improved by keeping longer in 
the cask; the pips shrink into a very small compass in drying; the 
quantity allowed is of fresh-gathered flowers. Observe also, that 
wine well boiled, and refined with hops and isinglass, is just as good 
used from the cask, as if bottled, which is a great saving of time and 
hazard. Wine made on the above principles has been often praised 
by connoisseurs, and supposed to have been bottled at least a year, 
which, in fact, had not been bottled half a day. 

728. Birch Wine. — The liquor of the birch tree is to bo obtained 
in the month of March, when the sap begins to ascend. One foot 
from the ground bore a hole in each tree, large enough to admit a 
faucet, and set a vessel under; the liquor will run for two or three 
days without injuring the tree. Having obtained a sufficient quan- 
tity, stop the holes with pegs. To each gallon of liquor add a (juart 
of honey, or two and a half pounds of sugar; boil together an hour, 
stirring it well ; a few cloves may be added fur flavour, or the rind of 
a lemon or two; and, by all means, two ounces of hops to nine gal- 
lons of wine. Work it with yeast; tun, and proceed as in former re- 
cipes: refine with isinglass. Two months after making, it may be 
drawn off and bottled ; and in two months more will be fit for use, but 
will improve by keeping. 

729. Elder Wine. — The quantity of fruit required is one gallon of 
ripe elder-berries, and one quart of damsons or sloes, for every two 
gallons of wine to be produced; boil them in water till the damsons 



MADE WINES, &C. 183 

burst, frequently breaking tliem with a flat stick ; then strain and re- 
turn the liquor to the copper. The quantity of liquor required for 
eighteen gallons of wine, will be twenty gallons: whatever, there- 
fore, the first liquor proves short of this, add water to the pulp; rub it 
about and strain to tliQ rest: boil two hours with fifty-six pounds of 
coarse moist sugar; a pound and a half of ginger bruised, a pound of 
allspice, and two ounces of cinnamon, loosely tied in a muslin bag, 
and four or six ounces of hops. When quite cool work on the fore- 
going plan, tun in two days, drop in the spice and suspend the bag by 
a string not long enough to let it touch the bottom of the cask : fill it up 
for a fortnight, then paste over stiff brown paper: it will be fit to 
tap in two months; will keep for years, but does not improve by age 
like many other wines ; it is never better than in the first year of its 
age. 

730. Damson or Black Cherry Wine — may be made in the same 
manner, excepting the addition of spice, and that the sugar should be 
finer. If kept in an open vessel four days, these wines will ferment 
of themselves ; but it is better to forward the process by the use of a 
little yeast, as i#fbrmer recipes: they will be fit for use in about eight 
months. As there is a flatness belonging to both these wines if bot- 
tled, a tea-spoonful of rice, a lump or two of sugar, or four or five rai- 
sins, will tend to enliven it. 

731. Cherry Brandy. — For this purpose use either morello cherries 
or small black cherries; pick them from the stalks; fill the bottles 
nearly up to the necks, then fill up with brandy (some people use 
whiskey, gin, or spirit distilled from the lees of wine.) In three 
weeks or a month strain ofl:' the spirit; to each quart add one pound 
of loaf-sugar clarified, and flavour with tincture of cinnamon or 
cloves. 

732. Raspberry Brandy. — Scald the fruit in a stone jar set in a 
kettle of water, or on a hot hearth. When the juice will run freely, 
strain it without pressing: to every quart of juice allow one pound of 
loaf-sugar; boil it up and skim ; when quite clear pour out; and when 
cold, add an equal quantity of brandy. Shake them well together and 
bottle. 

733. Sherbet. — In a quart of water boil six or eight sticks of rhu- 
barb ten minutes: strain the boiling liquor on the thin shaved rind 
of a lemon. Two ounces of clarified sugar, with a wine-glassful 
of brandy, stir to the above, and let it stand five or six hours before 
using, 

734. Raspberry Vinegar may be made either by boiling down the 
juice with an equal weight of sugar, the same as for jelly, and then 
mixing it with an equal quantity of distilled vinegar, to be bottled 
with a glass of brandy in each bottle ; or in a china bowl or stone jar 
(free from metallic glaze) steep a quart of fresh-gathered raspber-^ 
ries in two quarts of the best white wine vinegar. Next day strain 
the liquor on an equal quantity of fresh fruit, and the next day do the 
same. After the third steeping of fruit, dip a jelly bag in plain vine- 
gar to prevent waste, and strain the flavoured vinegar thr',ngh it into 



184 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

a stone jar. Allow to each pint of vinegar a pound of loaf-sugar pow- 
dered. Stir in the sugar with a silver spoon, and, when dissolved, 
cover up the jar and set it in a kettle of water. Keep it at boiling 
heat one hour; remove the scum. When cold, add to each pint a 
glass of brandy, and bottle it. This is a pleasant and useful drink in 
hot weather, or in sickness : one pint of the vinegar to eight of cold 
water. 

735. Lemonade. — For a quart of water six lemons, and two ounces 
of loaf-sugar. Shave half the lemons, or rub the sugar over them. 
Squeeze the juice of the lemons to the sugar, and pour the water 
boiling hot. Well mix the whole, and run it through a jelly-bag pre- 
viously wrung out of scalding water. Lemonade may be obtained, 
when the fruit is not in season, by using the syrup of lemons; (sim- 
mer each pint of juice with three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar; 
strain and bottle:) or the citric acid — two drachms of citric acid, 
twenty drops of essence of lemon, a pint of clarified syrup or capil- 
laire. This may be reduced at pleasure with boiling water. 

736. Pop, or Ginger Beer. — The principal difference between 
ginger pop and ginger beer, is, that the former is bottrcd immediately, 
the other is first put in a barrel for a few days. It is also usual to 
boil the ingredients for ginger beer, which is not done for pop. Both 
are to be bottled in stone bottles, and the corks tied or wired down. 
If properly done, the corks and strings will serve many times in 
succession ; the moment the string is untied the cork will fly out 
uninjured. The bottles as soon as empty should be soaked a few 
hours in cold water, shaken about and turned down, and scalded 
immediately before using. The corks also must be scalded. On 
one pound of coarse loaf or fine moist sugar, two ounces of cream 
of tartar, and one ounce of bruised ginger, pour a gallon of boiling 
water: stir it well and cover up to cool, as the flavour of the 
ginger is apt to evaporate. It is a good way to do thus for the 
last thj;ig at night; then it is just fit to set working the first thing 
in the morning. Two large table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir to it a 
t^a-cup full of the liquor; let it stand a few minutes in a warmish 
ijlao'O, then pour it to the rest; stir it well, and cover up for eight 
lioifrs. Be particular as to time. If done earlier, the bottles are 
apt to fly — if later, the beer soon becomes vapid. Skim, strain, bot- 
tle, cork, and tie down. The cork should not touch tlie beer. It 
will be fit for use next day. Lemon rind and juice may be added, but 
are not necessary. 

'^ 737. Ginger Beer. — The proportions of this may vary. Loaf-su- 
gar is preferable to moist; some say a pound to a gallon, others a 
pound and a half; some allow but half an ounce of ginger (sliced or 
bruised) to a gallon, others an ounce; a lemon to a gallon is the usual 
proportion, to which some add a quarter of an ounce or half an ounce 
of cream of tartar; the white of an egg to each gallon is useful for clari- 
fying, but not absolutely necessary. Some people put a quarter of a pint 
of brandy to four gallons of beer by way of keeping it : half an ounce 
of hops boiled in it would answer the same purpose. Boil the sugar, 



MADE WINES, &C. 185 

water, and whites of eggs well beaten; skim carefully. Then add 
the ginger, and shaved rind of lemons; let it boil half an hour; clear 
the lemons of the white pith and put them in the wine. When cool, 
stir in the yeast (two table-spoonfuls to a gallon,) put it in the bar- 
rel without straining, and bung close. In a fortnight draw off anJ 
bottle. It will be ready for use in another fortnight, and will keep 
longer than ginger pop. If cream of tartar is used, pour ths boiling 
liquor over it, but do not boil it. 



INDEX 



Tliejigures at the beginning of the lines refer to the numbers of the para' 
graphs ; those at the end, to the pages. 



Advice to Cooks (Dr. Kitchi- 
ner's) 15. 

American mode of cooking In- 
dian corn, pumpkins,&c.,159. 
625 . . Indian cake, or bannock, 
159. 

334 Ancliovy, essence of, 99. 

335 . . powder of, 99. 
153 . . sauce, 55. 

677 Apricots, to preserve in jelly, 

169. 

678 . . a very nice preserve for, 

170. 

679 .. dried, 170. 

680 . . or peaches in brandy, 170. 

681 . . jam, 170. 
657 Arrow-root, 166. 
4^26 Artichokes, 117. 

424 .. Jerusalem, 117. 
Artificial preparation of meat, 

fish, &c., for dressing, salt- 
ing, drying, &,c., 106. 

425 Asparagus, 117. 

84 Bacon, to boil, 65. 

621 Baking, bread, 158. 

622 . . Sally Lunn tea cake, 458. 

623 . . plum cake, 159. 

624 . . a plain pound cake, 159. 
Baking meat, &c., 87. 

5J83 . . general remarks on, 87. 

284 Baking a pig, 87 

285 .. a goose, 87. 

286 . . buttcck of beef, 87. 

287 .. fish, 87. 

288 . . time for, 88. 

289 . . objection to, 88. 

290 . . Kitchiner (Dr.) on, 88. 
663 Barley Water, 167. 

448 Basil vinegar, or wine, 124. 

421 Beans, Windsor, 117 

422 . . French, 117. 

423 . . harricot, 117. 



397 Beef alamode, 113. 

167 .. boiled, 61. 

168 . . boiled salt, 62. 
342 • • hashed, 101. 

349 . . harricot of, 102. 

350 . . salt, baked, 102. 

351 . . baked like red deer, to bo 

eaten cold, 102. 

233 . . sirloin of, roasted, 76. 

234 . . rump and round, roasted, 

76. 
236 . . ribs of, roasted, 76. 
665 . . tea, 167. 
736 Beer, ginger, 184. 

427 Beer-root, red, 118. 

428 . . white, 118. 

259 Blackcock, roasted, 83. 
319 Blanchuig, 94. 

646 Blancmange, 163. 

647 .. a richer, 163. 

648 . . arrow-root, 1 b3. 

628 Boiled maize pudding, 160. 
Boiling, 20. 
. . general directions for, 58. 

146 . . vessels for, 58. 

147 . . water for, 53. 

148 . . fire for, 58. 

149 . . directions for putting in the 

pot, 59. 

150 . . to scum, 59. 

151 . . how long to do, 59. 

152 . . meats just killed, 59. 

153 . . frozen meat, 59. 

154 . . salt meat, 59. 

155 . . bacon, 59. 

156 . . liam, beef, tongues, pork, 

59. 

157 . . by steam, 60. 

158 . . without coming in contact 

with Avater, 60. 

159 . . warming up, 60. 

160 . . soaking before, 60. 

1 161 . . meat just killed, 60. 

(187) 



188 



IN DEX 



162 Boiling : what meats may re- 
main in the hot liquor, 60. 

1G3 .. potatoes not to be boiled with 
meat, 61. 

164 . . what vegetables may be, 61. 

165 .. vegetables, 61. 

166 . . old potc!.toes, 61. 

. . butcher's meat, poultry, and 
general remarks on, 61. 

321 Boning, 94. 
281 Brain balls, 87. 

316 Braising, glazing, blanching, 

larding, and boning, general 
remarks on, 93. 

317 Braising, 93. 

732 Brandy, cherry, 183. 
731 . . raspberry, 183. 
638 Brewis, American, 162. 
191 Brill, to boil, 267. 

411 Brocoli,115. 

356 Broiled rump steaks with onion 

gravy, 104. 
Broiling, 92. 

308 . . gridiron for, 92. 

309 . . thickness of chops for, 92. 

310 . . fire for, 92. 

311 . . when done, 92. 

. . general remarks on, 75, 92. 

312 . . steaks, 92. 

312 .. chops, 92. 

313 .. kidneys, 93. 

314 .. fowl, 93. 

314 .. rabbit, 93. 

315 . . pigeons, 93. 

Broth or stock, and gravies, 
49. 
99 Broth, beef or stock, 50. 
69 .. fish, 39. 

76 . . chicken, 41. 

77 .. mutton, 41. 

78 . . mutton chop, 42. 

322 Browning, 95. 

357 Bubble and squeak, 104. 
108 Butter, melted, 53. 

464 .. clarified, 127. 

465 . . burnt, 128. 

466 . . oiled, 128. 

Cabbage, 115. 

412 .. cold, 115. 
414 .. red, 115. 

178 Cairs head, boiled, 63. 



340 Calf's head, to hash, 100. 
249 Capons, to roast, 80. 
186 . . to boil, 65. 

213 Carp, fried, 71. 

214 . . stewed, 71. 
420 Carrots, 117. 

Carving, directions for, 171. 
686 . . fisli, 171. 

686 . . turbot. Sec, 172. 

687 . . cod's head and shoulders, 

172. 

688 . . salmon, 172. 

689 . . soles, 172. 

690 Carving mackerel, 172. 

691 .. eels, whiting, jrick,&c., 172. 

692 . . aitch-bone of beef, 172. 

693 . . round, and flank of beef, 

172, 

694 .. brisket of beef, 172. 

695 . . sirloin of beef, 173. 

696 .. fillet of veal, 173. 

697 .. breast of veal, 173. 

698 . . necks and loins, 173. 

699 . . calf's head, 173. 

700 .. leg of mutton, 173. 

701 .. saddle of nmtton, 173. 

702 .. shoulder of mutton, 174. 

703 . . haunch of venison, 174. 

704 .. fore-quarter of lamb, 174. 

705 . . ham, 174. 

706 . . tongue, 174. 

707 . . sucking pig, 174. 

708 . . fowl, 175. 

709 .. a pheasant, 175. 

710 . . partridges and pigeons, 175 

711 . . goose or duck, 175. 

712 .. turkey, 176. 

713 . . hare, 176. 

714 . . rabbits, 176. 
Catsups, 125. 

458 . . walnut, 126. 
4.59 .. oyster, 126. 

460 . . cockle and mur;cle, 126. 

461 . . mushroom, 126. 

462 . . mushroom, without spioe, 

127. 

463 . . mushroom powder, 127. 
410 Cauliflowers, 115. 

431 Celery, 118. 

640 Cheese, to preserve, 162. 

684 . . damson, 171. 

611 Cheesecakes, 157. 



INDEX. 



189 



610 

612 
613 
614 
672 
683 
186 



29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 

195 
676 

413 

347 
232 



Cheesecakes, to make curd for, 
156. . 

. . potatoe, 157. 

. . a plain, 157. 

. . bread, 157. 

. . Cherries, 169. 

. . in brandy, 171. 

Chickens to boil, 65. 

Choice and purchasing ot* 
butcher's meat, 26. 

. . general remarks on, 26 — 
27. 

.. beef, 27. 

. . mutton, 27. 

. . venison, 27. 

.. veal, 28. 

.. lamb, 28. 

. . pork, 28. 

. . bacon. 28. 

. . hams, 29. 

. . summary of directions, 29. 

Choice of poultry, eggs, and 
fish, and seasons offish, 29 

. . poultry of all kinds, 29. 

.. rabbits, 29. 

.. fowls, 29. 

. . rabbits and pigeons, 30. 

. . game, 30. 

. . eggs, 30. 

. . fish, 30. 
. seasons of fish, 30. 

Clarifying, 127. 

Cod to broil, 68. 

Codlins, to keep for several 
montlis, 169. 

Coleworts, young, 115. 

Collops, minced, 101. 

Colouring, 95. 

Colourings, thickenings, fla- 
vourings, seasonings, stocks, 
gravies, sauces, stuffings, 
force meats, and clarifying, 
remarks on, 94. 

Cookery, general remark-s on, 
16. 

. . importance of good, as re- 
gards health, &c., 16. 

. . Johnson (Dr.), his observa- 
tions on, 17. 

.. Sylvester (Mr.) on, 17. 

. . Waterhouse (Dr.) on, 17. 
. Milton's writings on, 17. 
16 



Cookery, Parr (Dr.) on, 18. 

. . Prout (Dr) on, 19. 

. . Philosophical, — Count 

Romford, 20. 
Cooking, preparations for, 29. 
180 Cow-heel, 64. 

649 Cream, Italian, 163. 

650 . . clouted or clotted, 164. 

651 . . for fruit pies, 164. 

652 . . Birch's receipt for mock, 

164. 

489 Crusts, flaky, short. 135. 

490 . . raised, 135. 

493 for savoury pies, 136. 

494 . . a rich short, 136. 
Cucumbers, 124. 

435 . . stewed, 119. 

Curing, &c.,with pyroligneoua 
acid, 110. 

385 . . general remarks on, 110. 

386 hams for, 110. 

. . salmon for, 110. 

387 . . time it will keep, 110. 

388 . . hams and beef require no 

previous soaking, 110. 

389 .. herrings, cod, haddock, 111. 
375 . . bacon, 108. 

675 Currants, 169. 

581 Custard, 152. 

582 . . almond, 152. 

583 .. rice, 152. 

673 Damsons or gooseberries, to 

bottle, 169. 
364 Devil, 106. 

382 Dried or kippered salmon, 110. 

383 . . herrings, 110. 

384 . . haddock, cod, ling, «fec., 

110. 
467 Dripping, to clarify, 128. 
Drying, smoking, &.C., 109. 
. . general remarks on, 109 
252 Duck, to roast, 81. 

. . canvas back or red-neck 
81. 
576 Dumplings, yeast, 151 . 
590 . . hard, 153. 
192 Dutch plaice, to Boil, 67. 

Duties, relative, of mistress and 
maid, 13. 

194 Eels, stewed, 68. 



190 



NDEX 



210 Eels, fried, 70, 

211 .. boiled, 71. 
280 Egg balls, 86. 

. . plums, to preserve, 170. 
185 . . Eggs, to poach, 75. 

253 Fawns to roast, 82. 
216 Fish, salt, to boil, 71. 

56 . . cleaning, 35. 

57 . . eels, 36. 

58 .. witliout scales, 37, 

59 . . turbot, plaice, flounders, 37. 

60 . . cod, 37. 

61 . . oysters, 37. 

639 Fish, salt, American mode of 

dressing, 162. 
372 Flavoured salt meat, to make, 

107. 
325 Flavourings, 97. 

. . essences, powders, &c., 98. 

642 Flummery, common, 162. 

643 . . rice, 162. 

644 .. French, 162. 

645 .. Dutch, 163. 

278 Force meat, for vea' or fowls, 

86. 

279 . . light, 86. 
320 Forcing, 94. 

278 Fowls, to roast, 86. 
363 Fried slices of ham or bacon, 
105. 

618 Fritters, 158. 

619 . . oyster, 158. 

620 . . potatoc, 158. 
Frying, 89. 

294 . . Kitchiner (Dr.) on, 89. 

295 . . what to use for, 89. 

296 . . dripping for, 89. 

297 . . the great secret in, 90. 

298 . . to know when done, 90. 

299 . . bread crumbs for, 90. 
Frying, general remarks on, 

75, 89. 

300 . . steaks, 90. 

301 .. beef steaks and onions, 90. 

302 . . sausages, 90. 

303 . . veal cutlets, 90. 

304 . . swee* breads, 91. 

305 .. lamb chops, 91. 

305 • . mutton chops, 91. 

306 . . pork chops, 91. 

307 . eggs, 91. 



61 . . oysters, 36. 
216 . . salt fish, to boil, 71. 
Fuel, waste of, 21. 

Garnishes, 176. 
682 Ginger, to preserve, 170. 

102 Glaze, 51. 
318 Glazing, 94. 

250 Goose, to roast, 81. 

244 . . mock, 78. 

674 Gooseberries, 169. 

655 Gooseberry, or apple fool, 165. 

103 Gravy beef, 51. 

104 . . for roast meat, 51. 

105 . . for boiled meat, 52. 

106 . . for roast veal, 52. 

107 . . rich brown for poultry, ra 

gout, or game, 52. 
97 Green turtle soup, 48. 

Greengages, to preserve, 170. 

659 Groats, Robinson's prepared, 

166. 
259 Grouse, to roast, 83. 

Gruels, creams, syllabubs, jel. 

lies, &c., &,c., 62. 
658 Gruel, 166. 

660 . . rice, 166. 

661 . . barley, 166. 
206 Gudgeons, 70. 

259 Guinea fowl, to roast, 83. 
197 Haddock, to boil, 69. 
344 Haggis, a good Scotch, 101 
191 Halibut, to boil, 67. 

376 Hams, curing, 108. 

377 . . Yorkshire, 109. 

379 . . mutton, 109. 
184 . . to boil, 65. 
235 Hare, mock, 76. 
256 . . to roast, 82. 

353 . . stewed, 102. 

354 . . jugged, 103. 

341 Hashed meat, remarks on, 100 
326 Herbs, sweet, to prepare foi 

keeping, 98. 
337 . . spirit of, mixed, 100. 
333 . . essence, or tinctures of, 99. 
429 .. to fry, 118. 
68 Hotch-potch, 39. 

380 Hung or Dutch beef, 109. 

625 Indian cake, or bannock, 159 



INDEX, 



191 



626 Indian corn, green, 160. 

627 . . corn pudding, IGO. 

671 Jams, 168. 

635 Jelly, calves' feet, 165. 

666 . . shank, 167. 

667 . . tapioca, 167. 
670 .. fruit, 168. 
374 Jerked beef, 108. 

430 Kale, sea and Scotch, 118. 
Keeping fresh meat. 111. 

390 . . general remarks on. 111. 

391 . . slightly roasted for, 111. 

392 . . best method for. 111. 

393 . . Franklin (Dr.) on, 111. 
393 .. to kill fowl for. 111. 
394,395 recipes for, 112. 

255 Kid, to roast, 82. 

Kitchen, rules and maxims of, 

24. 
. . what must always be done, 
and what must never be 
done, 25. 
290 .. grates, 88. 

174 Lamb, a leg, boijed, 63. 

1 75 . . neck of, boiled, 63. 
242 . . roasting, 77. 

176 Lamb's head and pluck, 63. 
. . browned, 63. 

469 Lard, hog's, to clarify, 128. 
320 Larding, 94. 
735 Lemonade, 184. 
196 Ling, to boil, 69. 

202 Mackerel, boiled, 69. 

203 . . broiled, 69. 

204 . . baked, or pickled, 70. 
Made dishes, remarks on, 100. 

365 Marrow bones, 106. 

641 Mince meat, American, 162. 

259 Moor game, to roast, 83. 

433 Morels, 119. 

209 Mullets, red, 70. 

432 Mushrooms, 118. 

169 Mutton, a leg, boiled, 62. 

170 . . neck of boiled, 62. 

171 . . shoulder, boiled, 62. 

172 .. breast, boiled, 62. 

237 . . roasted, 76. 

238 . . venison fashion, 77. 



342 Mutton, hashed, 101. 

.346 .. chops delicately stewed,l 01 

346 . . broth, good, 101. 

599 Omelet, friar's, 155. 

338 Orange or lemon peel tincture 

of, 100. 
332 .. preserved, 99. 
669 . . marmalade, 167. 
668 Orgeat, 167. 
219 Oysters, stewed, 72. 

221 . . fried, 73. 
218 . . au gratin, 72. 

222 . . broiled, 73. 

615 Pancakes, common, 157. 

616 .. rice, 158. 

617 .. cream, 158. 

120 Parsley and butter, 55. 

436 Parsnips, 120. 

259 Partridges, to roast, 83. 

491 Paste, puff, 136. 

492 . . sweet, 136. 

495 . . biscuit, 136. 

497 .. stringing, 136. 

498 . . potatoe, 137. 

499 . . rice, 137. 

Pastry, general observations 
on, 134. 

500 . . icing, 137. 

496 Pastry, crust for venison, 136. 
531 . . to prepare venison for, 142. 
533 . . of beef or mutton, to eat aa 

well as venison, 143. 

543 Patties, fried, 144. 

544 . . oyster, 144. • 

545 .. beef, 144. 

546 . . a good mince for, 145. 
259 Pea fowl, to roast, 83. 

418 Peas, green, 116. 

419 .. to stew, 116. 
215 Perch, to boil, 71. 
258 Pheasant, to roast, 82. 

Pickles, general remarks on,19. 

471 Pickling, first method of, 129. 

472 . . second method of, 129. 

473 . . third method of, 130. 

474 . . gherkins, 130. 

475 .. French beans, 130. 

476 . . onions, 130. 

477 . . red cabbage, 130. 

478 . . garlic and eschalots, 131. 



192 



INDEX. 



479 Pickling, melons, mangoes, and 

long cucumbers, 131. 

480 . . brocoli or cauliflowers, 131. 

481 .. walnuts, 131. 

482 . . beet-roots, 131. 

483 . . cauliflowers and brocoli, 

132. 
,484 .. artichokes, 132. 
485 . . artichoke bottoms, 132. 
48fi . . mushrooms, 132. 

487 . . samphire, 132. 

488 . . Indian, 132. 
373 Pickling meat, 1 07. 
378 .. tongues, 109. 
378 . . chines, 109. 
378 . . chops, 109. 

501 Pic, perigord, 137. 

502 .. sole, 137. 

503 . . eel, 138. 

504 . . oyster, 138. 

505 . . pilchard, 138. 

506 . . a remarkable fine fish, 138. 

507 . . beef-steak, 138. 

508 . . beef-steak and oyster, 138. 

509 . . veal, chicken, and parsley, 

138. 

510 . . veal olive, 138. 

511 .. veal, 139. 

512 . . a rich veal, 139. 

513 . . calPs head, 139. 

514 . . excellent pork to eat cold, 

140. 

515 . . lamb, 140. 

516 Pie, mutton, 140. 

517 .. chicken, 140. 

. . young rabbits, 140, 

519 . . giblet, 140. 

520 . . green goose, 1 40. 

521 . . Staflbrdshire goose, 141, 

522 . . hare to eat cold, 141. 

523 .. partridge, 141. 

524 .. a French, 141. 

525 . . pigeon, 141. 

526 . . squab, 141. 

527 . . duck, 141. 

528 .. rabbit, 142. 

529 . . vegetable, 142. 

530 . . an herb, 142. 

534 . . apple, 143. 

535 . . cherry, 143. 

536 .. currant, 143. 

537 . . mince, 143. 



245 
246 
182 



439 
440 
441 

442 



629 Pie, pumpkin, 160. 

630 .. carrot, 161. 

Pies, tarts, and puffs, 137. 

247 Pig, sucking, roasted, 79. 
181 Pig's Pettitoes, boiled, 64. 

262 Pigeons, to roast, 83. ' 

212 Pike, 71. 
736 Pop, 184. 

243 Pork, roasting, 78. 

244 . , leg of, roasted without the 
skin, 78. 

spare rib of, 78. 

loin of, roasted, 79. 

salt, boiled, 64. 
183 .. pickled, boiled, 64. 
667 Posset, 167. 

437 Potatoes, 120. 

438 . . to boil, 122. 
. to steam, 122. 
. to roast, 122. 
. mashed, 122. 
. roasted under meat, 129. 

443 . . fried or broiled, 123. 

444 . . balls, 123. 

445 . . snow, 123. 

248 Poultry to roast, 79. 

38 . . time of killing, 31. 

39 . . drawing, 31. 

41-42 Poultry, trussing, 31. 

45 . . ducks, 33. 

46 . . geese, 33. 
turkeys, 33. 
pigeons, 33. 
pheasants, partridges, and 

guinea fowls, 34. 
wild ducks, 34. 
woodcocks, plovers, &c., 34. 
hare, 34. 
rabbits, 35. 
fawns or kids, 35. 
sucking pigs, 35. 

327 Powder, savoury soup, 98. 

328 . . curry, 98. 
for ragouts, 98. 
for white-made dishes, 99. 
for brown-made dishes, 98. 
anchovy, 99. 

336 .. oyster, 99. 
461 . . mushroom, 126. 

Preserves, 168. 

Puddings, cheesecakes, &c.^ 
145. 



47 

48 
49 

50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 



329 
331 
330 
335 



INDEX 



193 



Pudding-, to make paste, 146. 

. . plum, 147. 

. . a plain family plum, 147. 

. . a common plum, 147. 

. . a very light plum, 147. 

. . national plum, 148. 

. . potatoe, 148. 

. . cottag'e potatoe, 148. 

. . rich sweet potatoe, 148. 

. . carrot, 148. 

. . black cap, 148. 

. . sag-o, 149. 

. . a very good, 149. 

. . bread and butter, 149 

. . almond, 149. 

. . Kitchiner'3, 149. 

. . Dutch rice, 150. 

. . rice, 150. 

. . another rice, 150 

. . baked rice, 150. 

. . ground rice, 150. 

. . rice snow balls, 151. 

. . plain rice, 151. 

. . vermicelli, 151. 

. . tapioca, 151. 

. . sago, 151. 

. . Russian seed, 151. 

. . suet, 151. 

. . Hunter's, 152. 

. . Marlborough, 152. 

. . custard, 152. 

. . baked vermicelli, 153. 

. . marrow, 153. 

. . conservative, 153. 

. . economical, 153. 

. . delicate bread, 153. 

. . barley, 153. 

. . Newmarket, 154. 

. . a light, 154. 

. . Yorkshire, 154. 

. . a nice suet, 154. 

. . mother Eve's, 154. 

. . Newcastle, 154. 

. . hasty, 154. 

. arrow-root, 1 54. 
■ . a Swiss, 155. 
. . Oxford, 155. 

. muffin, or cabinet, 155 

. French and Italian, 155. 

. a cheese, 155. 

. a very rich, 155. 

. chesnut, 156. 
16* 



607 
608 
609 
628 
631 
632 
633 
634 
635 
636 
637 
547 
548 
549 
550 



Pudding, rusk, 156. 

. . Portugal, 156. 

. . tansey, 156. 

. . boiled maze, 160. 

. . American custard, 161 

. . American plum, 161. 

. . rennet, 161. 

. . American apple, 161. 

.. bird's nest, 161. 

. . American souse, 161. 

. . American dry bread, 162. 

Puffs, apple, 145. 

. . lemon, 145. 

• . excellent light, 145. 

. . cheese, 145. 



257 Rabbit, to roast, 82. 
366 Ragout of duck, or any other 
kind of poultry or game, 106. 
264 Reed birds, 83. 
574 Rice bignets, 151. 
Roasting, 73. 

223 . . spitting before, 73. 

224 . . best kind of spits for, 73. 

225 . . fire for, 74. 

226 . . time for, 74. 

227 .. to preserve the fat v^rhite, 

74. 

228 . . how to make a fire for, 74. 

229 . . distance from fire for, 74. 

230 . . slow, 75. 

231 . . dripping-pan for, 75. 

232 . , attention to, 75. 

. . general remarks on, 75. 

Salads, 123. 
446 . . general remarks on, 123. 

187 Salmon to boil, 66. 

188 . . broiled, 66. 

189 .. baked, 67. 

190 . . pickled, 67. 
Salting, 106. 

367 . . general remarks on, 106. 
363 . . meat, 107. 

369 . . quantities for, 107. 

370 . . time for, 107. 

371 . . hasty, 107. 
343 Sandwiches, 101. 

Sauces, 52. 
109 . . for fricassee of fowls, rab. 
bits, white meat, fish, or ve- 
getables, 53. 



194 



INDEX 



110 Sauces, for cold fowl or par- 

tridge, 54. 

111 . . very rich mushroom for fowls 

or rabbits, 54. 

112 . . for boiled carp, or boiled 

turkey, 64. 

113 . . green, for green geese, or 

ducklings, 54. 

114 . . egg, 54. 

115 . . onion, 54. 

116 . . apple, 54. 

117 . . gooseberry, 54. 

118 . . wow-wow, 55. 

119 . . curry, 55. 

120 . . parsley and butter, 55. 

121 . . fennel and butter for mack- 

erel, 55. 

122 . . plum pudding, 55. 

123 . . anchovy, 55. 

124 . . caper, 55. 

125 . . mock caper, 55. 

126 . . shrimp, 55. 

127 . . oyster, 55. 

128 .. lobster, 56. 

129 . . liver, 56. 

130 .. bread, 56. 

131 . . for tripe, calf's head, or 

cow heel, 56. 

132 . . celery, 56. 

133 . . tarragon, or burnet, 56. 

134 . . sorrel, for lamb or veal, and 

sweetbreads, 56. 
J 35 . . poor man's, 56 

136 .. truffle, 56. 

137 . . sharp for venison, 57. 

138 . . sweet for venison, 57. 

139 . . wine for venison, hare, or 

hamich of mutton, 57. 

140 . . for a pig, 57. 

141 .. turtle, 57. 

142 .. for all sorts of fish, 57. 

143 . . pudding, 57. 

144 . . custard, 57. 

145 . . roe, 58. 
71 Scotch brose, 40. 

362 . . collops, 105. 

Seasonings, general observa- 
tions on, 84. 

265 . . roast pork, ducks, or geese, 

84. 

266 . . sucking pig, 84. 

267 . goose, 84. 



268 Seasonings, chesnut for goose, 
84. 

Setting out a table, 177. 

Sheep's heads, boiled, 62. 
733 Sherbet, 183. 

205 Skate, to boil, 70. ' 
263 Small birds, to roast, 83. 

206 Smelts, to fry, 70. 
261 Snipes, to roast, 83. 

192 Soles, to boil, 67. 

193 . . fried, 67. 

194 . . stewed, 68. 
Soups, broths, &c., 38. 

66 Soup, clear gravy, 38. 

67 . . ox tail, 38. 

70 . . cock-a-leeky, 39. 

72 . . pease, 40. 

73 . . pease and pickled pork, 40 

74 . . plain pease, 41, 

75 . . Spanish, 41. 

79 .. and bouilH, 42. 

80 . . a cheap, 42. 

81 .. veal, 42. 

82 .. calf's head, 42. 

83 .. giblet,42. 

84 . . Kitchiner's cheap, 43. 

85 . . maigre, 43. 

86 . . mock turtle, 44. 

87 . . carrot, 45. 

88 . . mulligatawny, or curry, 45. 

89 . . eel, 45. 

90 . . gourd, 46. 

91 . . game, 46. 

92 . . turnip and parsley, 46. 

93 .. celery, 46. 

95 . . hare, rabbit, or partridge, 

47. 

96 . . portable, 47. 

339 Spice, spirit of, mixed, 100. 
415 Spinach, 116. 
206 Sprats, to fry, 70. 
413 Sprouts, young, 115. 
629 Squash pie, 160. 

291 Stew, hearth, 88. 

292 . . hearth, usefulness of, 89. 

94 .. lamb, 46. 
98 .. Irish, 49. 

345 .. Mr. Phillips's Irish, 101 

348 .. brisket of beef, 102. 

352 Stowed shin or leg of beefj 

102. 
355 . , rump steaks, 103. 



IN DEX 



195 



99 Stock, first, or beef broth, 50. 

269 Stuffing and force meat, 84. 

. . for veal, roast turkey, fowl, 
&c., 84. 

270 . . goose or duck, 84. 

271 . for turtle, 85. 

272 hare, 85. 

273 .. veal, 85. 

274 . . pike, carp, or haddock, 85. 

275 . . heart, 86. 

276 . . poultry and game, 86. 

277 . . veal cake, 86. 

199 Sturgeon to boil, 69. 

200 . . to roast, 69. 

201 . . stewed, 69. 

468 Suet and fat, to clarify, 128. 
470 Sugar, clarified, 128. 
241 Sweetbread, veal, 77. 
654 Syllabub, whip, 165. 

538 Tarte de moie, 143. 

539 Tart, rhubarb, 144. 

540 . . to prepare cranberries for, 

144. 

541 . . lemon, 144. 

542 Tartlets or puff's, orange, 144. 
260 Teal, to roast, 83. 

217 Terrapins, 72. 

323 Thickenings, 96. 

662 Thick milk, or flour caudle, 

166. 
205 Thornback, to boil, 70. 
184 Tongues, to boil, 65. 
653 Trifle, 164. 
179 Tripe, 63. 

207 Trout, to broil, 70. 

208 . . stewed, 70. 
434 Truffles, 119. 

37 Trussing, 31. 
191 Turbot, to boil, 67. 
186 Turkey, to boil, 65. 
248 . . to roast, 79. 
248 . . poults, to roast, 79. 
417 Turnips, 116. 

97 Turtle soup, green, 48. 

177 Veal, boiled, 63. 

239 . . roasting, 77. 

240 . . fillet of, roasting, 77. 

358 . . hashed or minced, 104. 

359 . . to make an excellent ragout 
of cold. 104. 



360 Veal, olives, 105. g 

361 . . knuckle of, to ragout, 105 
Vegetables, 37. 

62 . . preparing for dressing, 37. 

63 . . asparagus, artichokes, spi 

nach, 37. 

64 . . potatoes and Jerusalem ar- 

tichokes, 37. 

65 . . carrots, parsnips, beetroots 

and turnips, 37. 
. . cooking, 113. 
398 — 499 . . general observations 

on cooking, 113, 114, 115. 
416 Vegetable marrow, 116. 
253 Venison, haunch of, to roast 
81. 
Vinegars, flavoured, 124. 

447 . . for salads, 124. 

448 . . basil, 124. 

449 . . burnet, 125. 

450 . . cress or celery, 125. 

451 . . horse-radish, 125. 

452 . . garlic, onion, or eschalot, 

125. 

453 . . tarragon, 125. 

454 . . elder flower, 125. 

455 . . green mint, 125. 

456 . . camp, 125. 

457 . . capsicum, cayenne, or ohili, 

125. 
734 . . raspberry, 183. 

656 Whey, 165. 
324 White thickening, 97. 
198 Whitings, to fry, 69. 
260 Widgeon, to roast, 83. 
260 Wild ducks, to roast, 83. 

Wines, general directions for 
making, 178. 

716 . . ginger, 178. 

717 .. mead, 179. 
717 . . metheglin, 179. 

717 . . honey, 179. 

718 . . parsnip, 179. 

719 . . malt, or English sherry, 179 

720 . . orange, boiled, 180. 

720 . . lemon, boiled, 180. 

721 . . grape, 180. 

722 . . raisin, 180. 

723 . . raisin with sugar, 181. 

724 . . raisin, in imitation of Fron 

tignac, 181. 



196 



INDEX 



725 Wines, gooseberry, without 
boiling, 181. 

725 . . currant, without boihng, 

181. 

726 . . orange, without boiling, 

181. 
726 . leitlon, without boiling, 181. 



727 Wines, cowslip, or clary, 182 

728 . . birch, 182. 

729 . . elder, 182. 

730 . . damson, or black cherry, 

182. 
261 Woodcocks to roast, 83. 



THE BND. 



r>' 



'% 






CJ^ 






( 




Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2007 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/completecookplaiOOsand 



THE H 

COMPLETE COOK. 

-|-fQ 1 PLAIiN AND PRACTICAL 

^ D I HE C HON 8 

FOR 

CUOKING A^J) HOUSEKEEPING-; 



WITH UPWARDS OF 



SEVEN HUNDRED RECEIPTS: 

CONSISTING OF 

DIRECTIONS FOR THE CHOICE OF MEAT AND POULTRY •, 

PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING, MAKING 
OF BROTHS AND SOUPS; 

B01LIN(,;, ROASTING, BAKING, AND FRYING 
OF MEATS, FISH, & c . 

SEASONINGS, COLOURINGS, COOKING VEGETABLES ; 

PREPARING SALADS, CLARIFYING; 

MAKING OF PASTRY, PUDDIXGS, GRUELS, GRAVIES, GARNISHES, &c. 

AND, WITH 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKL\G WINES. 

WITH ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS, 

BY J. M. SANDERSON, 

Of the Franklin House. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
LEA AND BLANC HARD, 



THE NEW YQM 
PUBLIC LIBRARY 

79894BA 

ASTOR, LENOX AND 

TILDEW FOUNDATIONS 

K 1935 U 



Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1843, by 

LEA AND BLANCHARD, 

in the clerk's ofRce of the district court of the United States in and for 
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



J. FAGAN, STEREOTYFEK. 



J, AND W. KITE, PRINTERS. 



(2) 



i» R E F A C E 

TO 

THE ENGLISH EDITION 



The following work has been written, not only with the view o* 
furnishing a complete Cookery Book, but also for the purpose of in 
Btructing, in a simple manner, inexperienced mistresses and servants, 
in the elementary principles of the culinary science; not losing sight 
of endeavouring to inculcate the relative duties of the employer and 
the employed. Almost the only cookery book in our language, i*i 
which reasons are given for the doctrine laid down, is " The CooTi's 
Oracle,^'' by the late Dr. Kitchiner. The Doctor's work, though ex- 
ceedingly valuable, is a book fitted more for the improvement of the 
initiated, than for the instruction of those who possess no knowledge 
of the subject. There are many other books of cookery to which 
exceptions might be taken, but we have no wish to enhance our own 
work by depreciating the labours of others. We have done our best 
to produce a book, which all who can read may understand, and by 
which all may be instructed. Dr. Kitchiner says, in his " Rudiments," 
and says truly, " I have taken much more pains than any of my pre- 
decessors to teach the young cook how to perform, in the best manner, 
the common business of her profession." In our ^^ rudiments " we 
have endeavoured to teach that which a woman should know before 
she can be called a " young cook," as well as that which a young 
cook has to learn. 

To conclude ; ours is a book intended for the use of persons who 
keep servants, and those vvho keep none. If we give expensive re- 
ceipts, we also show, that good, substantial dishes, and the most deli- 
cate, may be prepared at as little, or even less, expense than the 
ordinary, or common preparations of food. In our receipts, in particu- 
lar, we have written, necessarily written, many things which have 
been written before, but we feel assured that, taken as a whole, our 
work will not be found devoid of originality. 

For the art of baking, and all the little knick-knacks of fancy bread, 
such as biscuits, sweet cakes, &,c., and for confectionary, we refer our 
readers to two little works, by the Editor of " The Cook," called 
"The Baker," and "The Confectioner,"* which form part of the series 
of " Industrial Guides." 

* " The Baker" and " The Confectioner" will shortly be published by Lea &. 
Blanchard, at 25 cents, in one volume. 

1* (3) 



PREFACE 

TO 

THE AMERICAN EDITION 



It is said that " Good wine needs no bush," and according 
to the same rule a good book should require no apology, (as a 
preface generally appears to be). In this instance, as we are 
not the author, we intend to devote the small space allowed us, 
to the praise of this our adopted work ; for, of all the English 
books on this subject, none, according to our ideas, possess 
half the claims to public approval as this one does. The author, 
whoever he is, is certainly a proficient in his business ; and, 
although making no pretensions to a literary character, has 
laid down his rules and precepts in a clear and concise manner. 

Very few additions or alterations have been made in this 
work ; in fact none, excepting where circumstances rendered it 
necessary; it being considered best to send it forth to the Ame- 
rican world with all its beauties untouched ; at the same time 
we wish it to be understood that we do so, not because the 
subject is a barren one ; on the contrary, were we to condense 
all the necessary information we have on this science, we should 
swell our small book to the dignity of a three-volumed work ; 
but, by so doing, we should place it beyond the reach of that 
class to whom its precepts will prove most valuable. We hav 
therefore concluded, after due reflection, to leave such labours 
alone until we have more time and experience. 

The American stomach has too long suffered from the vile 
concoctions inflicted on it by untutored cooks, guided by sense- 
less and impracticable cook-books ; and it is to be hoped, that 

1** (5) 



VI PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 

as this subject is now becoming more important in these days 
of dyspepsia, indigestion, &c., a really good book will be well 
patronised, and not only read, but strictly followed ,* and let it 
not be said hereafter that " the American kitchen is the worst 
in the world." 

As we have made but few alterations or improvements, we 
do not consider it at all necessary to offer to the public any 
apology for our seeming presumption in thus undertaking, at 
our age, to edit a work which we think requires little improve- 
ment, and consequently no great degree of talent on our part. 
Should we ever undertake anything original, we shall then act 
with more humility. All that we ask, in the present case, is 
the wide and extended use of the " Complete Cook." 



THE COMPLETE COOK. 



RELATIVE DUTIES OF MISTRESS AND MAID. 

In this our little work, we more particularly address ourselves to 
Cook Maids in small families, where two maid servants only are kept, 
and where, consequently, all the business of the kitchen falls upon 
the cook, both as regards cleaning- and cooking-. In such families, it 
is true, the mistress in the house will take a part in the business of 
cooking upon herself; a most laudable custom, both as regards eco- 
nomy, and the real interests of the cook maid. To such mistresses, 
particularly the younger portion, it is hoped our little book will not 
be unacceptable. Cooking is neither a mean, nor a simple art. To 
make the best and the most of everything connected with the suste- 
nance of a family, requires not only industry and experience, but also 
considerable mental capacity, or, at any rate, an aptness to learn. 

One of the principal, if not the principal, requisite, in a cook, is 
order — that faculty by which a person is enabled to keep all things in 
their proper places. Without order there can be no cleanliness, an- 
other indispensable requisite in a cook : to be always cleaning, is not 
to be clean. There are some foolish, fussy women, who, with all the 
disposition on earth to be clean, not having order, dirty one thing as 
fast as they clean another. Nor is order an essential requisite, as 
regards the cleanliness of a kitchen, and of kitchen utensils, only; in 
dressing food, without order there can be no good cooking. 

We have said, that the mistress will take a part in a small family 
in the business of cooking. We, perhaps, should have rather said, 
ought to take a part; for we are sorry to say, that there is too much 
reason to believe, that good housewifery is much neglected in the 
educating of young ladies now-a-days. If a mistress be really not 
acquainted with the general principles of cooking, she ought to do 
one of two things — either to make herself acquainted with them as 
an humble learner, or to keep out of the kitchen altogether; for her 
ignorant interference with a good cook maid will do no good, but may 
do a great deal of harm. And while on this subject we must give a 
word of friendly advice to the unfortunate cook, who may happen to 
fall in with an ignorant, irritable mistress. Let her take care to 
refrain from going into a passion with her : if the mistress scolds, let 
the maid be mild ; and above all, let her not scold again, or answer 
in an angry or insulting manner. This is a hard thing to do, we are 
aware, particularly where a servant feels herself injured ; but if she 
can do it, she will not only gain the victory over her mistress, but she 

(13) 



14 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

will also feel a consciousness, a happy consciousness, of having left 
undone those things which she ought not to have done, and of having 
done those things v.'hich she ought to have done. But if the tempers 
and habits of the mistress and maid are incompatible to that good un- 
derstanding which ought always to subsist between the employer and 
the employed, the best course for the servant to do is, to give notice 
and leave. Let not this, however, be done in anger: before giving 
warning, let her consult her pillow. 

It has been well observed, that it behoves every person to be ex- 
tremely careful whom she takes into her service; to be very minute 
in investigating the character she receives, and equally cautious and 
scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, 
many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing 
the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asseited, that the robbery, 
or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a 
servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who 
knowing, or having well-founded suspicions, of such faults, is prevail- 
ed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him, or her, into another 
place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, 
and often refuse to give a character, ht-cause they are displeased that 
a servant leaves their service; but this is unpardonable, and an abso- 
lute robbery ; servants having no inheritance, and depending on their 
fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and 
to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large; 
and such as are honest, frugal and attentive to their duties, should be 
liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire ser- 
vants with zeal to acquit themselves well. 

Servants should always recollect, that everything is provided for 
them, without care and anxiety on their part. They run no risks, 
are subject to no losses, and under these circumstances, honesty, in- 
dustry, civility, and perseverance, are in the end sure to meet with 
their reward. Servants possessing these qualifications, by the bless- 
ing of God, must succeed. Servants should be kind and obliging to 
their fellow-servants; but if they are honest themselves, they will not 
connive at dishonesty in others. They who see crimes committed and 
do not discover them, are themselves legally and morally guilty. At 
the same time, however, well recollect, that tittle-tattling and tale- 
bearing, for the sake of getting in your mistress's good graces, at the 
expense of your fellow-servants, is, to the last degree, detestable. A 
sensible mistress will always discourage such practices. 

We have knovv'n servants imagine, that because their employers 
are kind to them, that because they do not command them to do this 
or that, but rather solicit them, that, therefore, they cannot do with- 
out them, and instead of repaying their good-nature and humanity by 
gratitude and extra attention, give themselves airs, and become idle 
and neglectful. Such conduct cannot be too much condemned, and 
those servants, who practise it, may depend upon it, that, sooner or 
later, they will have cause to repent. Let it be remembered, that vice 
as well as virtue has its reward, though of a very different character. 



DUTIES OF MISTRESS AND MAID. 15 

We shall conclude this our friendly advice to young cooks, by an 
extract from the " Cook's Best Friend,^' by the late Dr. Kitchiner. 
Nothinor can be done in perfection, which must be done in a hurry, 
(except catching of fleas), — " Therefore," says the Doctor, " if you 
wish the diimer to be sent up to please your master and mistress, and 
do credit to yourself, be punctual ; take care, that as soon as the 
clock strikes the dinner bell rings. This shows the establishment is 
orderly, is extremely gratifying to the master and his guests, and is 
most praiseworthy in the attendants. But remember you cannot ob- 
tain this desirable reputation without good management in every 
respect; if you wish to ensure ease and independence in the latter 
part of your life, you must not be unwilling to pay the price for which 
only they can be obtained, and earn them by a diligent and faithful 
performance of the duties of your station in your young days, in which 
if you steadily persevere, you may depend upon ultimately receiving 
tlie reward your services deserve." 

All duties are reciprocal; and if you hope to receive favour, endea- 
vour to deserve it by showing yourself fond of obliging, and grateful 
when obliged. Such behaviour will win regard, and maintain it; 
enforce what is right, and excuse what is wrong. 

Quiet, steady perseverance, is the only spring which you can safely 
depend upon infallibly to promote your progress on the road to inde- 
pendence. 

If your employers do not immediately appear to be sensible of your 
endeavours to contribute your utmost to their comfort and interests, 
be not easily discouraged ; persevere, and do all in your power to 

MAKE YOURSELF USEFUL. 

Endeavour to promote the comfort of every individual in the family; 
let it be manifest that you are desirous to do rather more than is re- 
quired of you, than less than your duty; they merit little who perform 
nothing more than what would be exacted. If you are desired to help 
in any business that may not strictly belong to your department, un- 
dertake it cheerfully, patiently, and conscientiously. 

The foregoing advice has been written with an honest desire to 
augment the comfort of those in the kitchen, who v/ill soon find, that 
the ever-cheering reflection of having done their duly to the utmost 
of their ability, is in itself, with a Christian spirit, a never-failing 
source of comfort in all circumstances and situations, and that 

" Virtue is its own reward." 

Having thus briefly touched upon the relative duties of mistress 
and maid, we shall now proceed to make some general remarks (and 
though general, we think them most important) as respects the busi- 
ness of Cooking as an art, or, more properly speaking, as a science. 



16 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS ON COOKERY— IM 
PORTANCE OF GOOD COOKERY AS REGARDS HEALTH 
AND TEMPERANCE. 

It is an old, and somewhat vulgar saying-, though very expressive, 
that " God sends meat, and the devil cooks." This adage shows, that 
cooking has always been considered of some importance in this coun- 
try, even among the lowest classes of society. A great deal too little 
attention, however, is paid to the art of preparing food for the use of 
those who eat; and we think we may say, without much exaggera- 
tion, that in many families, even to this day, one-half of their meat is 
wasted, and the other half spoilt. But the mere waste arising from 
this system of cooking, or rather want of system, is not the greatest 
evil, though this is an enormous one; the diseases that badly dressed 
food occasions to the stomach are even a greater evil than the one to 
which we have first referred. A bad cook will turn that which was 
intended by the Giver of all good for the nourishment of the body into 
a sort of poison. The functions of the stomach, when loaded with 
crude, undressed, or half-dressed meat, are unable to digest it. Hence 
the stomach is not only injured, but a train of diseases is engendered, 
sufficient to render one's life miserable. From the cause alluded to 
arises acidity, or sourness of the stomach, which gives rise again to 
heart-burns, hiccups, flatulencies, or wind ; which again creates pains 
in the stomach and head, and, indeed, in other parts of the body. 
Then again we have, from the same cause, the various descriptions 
of nightmare, horrid dreams, and restless nights. Country people, 
in agricultural districts in particular, think themselves, when so 
afflicted, bewitched, or possessed by the devil, when, in fact, if pos- 
sessed at all, they are possessed by bad cookery and indigestible diet. 
Instead of resorting to charms, such persons ought to resort to a dose 
of opening medicine, and take care to eat food which is not spoilt by 
dressing. But the greatest of all ills by whicli we can bo afflicted, 
iil-dressed, indigestible food will bring about — intellectual confusion — 
perhaps madness — for be assured, that a deranged stomach is always, 
more or less, accompanied with a deranged head. ■ 

In support of these opinions we might adduce many authorities of 
the highest reputation, but we shall "content ourselves with the fol- 
lowing : — " It cannot be doubted," says Dr. Cheyne, " that the clear, 
ready, and pleasant exercise of the intellectual faculties, and their 
easy and undisturbed application to any subject, is never to be obtain- 
ed but by a free, regular performance of the natural functions, which 
the lightest (most digestible) food can only procure." Again, Dr. 
Cheyne says, " he that would have a clear head must have a clean 
stomach. It is sufficiently manifest how much uncomfortable feelings 
of the bowels affect the nervous system, and how immediately and 
completely the general disorder is relieved by an alvine evacuation." 
Then we have the testimony of Abernethy, who says, " we cannot 
reasonably expect tranquillity of the nervous system, whilst there is 



INTRODUCTORY R E IVI A R K S . 17 

disorder of tlio digestive oru-ans. As we can imbibe no permanent 
source of strength but from the digestion of our food, it; becomes im^ 
portant on this account, that we should attend to its quantity, quality, 
and the periods of taking it, with a view to ensure its proper diges- 
tion." But what says Dr. Kitchiner, who was an able physician, and 
the most K^arned and scientific writer upon the culinary art] "The 
stomach," he asserts, "is the main-spring of our syr^teru ; if it be not 
sufficiently wound up to warm and support the circulation, the whole 
business of life will, in proportion, be ineffectually performed — we can 
neither think with precision — walk with vigour — :^it dow.i with com- 
fort — nor sleep with tranquillity. There would be no difficulty in 
proving, that it influences (much more than people imagine) all our 
actions." 

" One of the greatest, perhaps the greatest, moral writers of our 
age, Dr. Sasnuel Johnson, was a man," says Boswell, "of very nice 
discrimination in the science of cookery." He often remarked, "that 
some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretending not to 
mind, what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly very studiously and 
Vfry carefully, and I look upon it, that he who does not mind his 
bdiy, will hardly mind any thing else." To this, Kitciiiner adds, 
"the Doctor might have said, cannot mind any tiling else." The 
energy of our brains is sadly dependent on the behaviour of our 
bowels. Those who say, 'tis no matter what we eat, or what we 
drink, may as well say, 'tis no matter whether we eat, rr whether we 
drink. 

Again, as to the relative importance of cookery as a science. Mr. 
Sylvester, in his Domestic Econoiny, says, that it is not difficult to 
foresee, that this department of philosophy must become the most 
popular of all others, because every class of human beings is inter- 
ested in its result." Again, the same writer says, " if science can 
really contribute to the happiness of mankind, it must be in this de- 
partment. The real comfort of the majority of men in this country is 
sought for at their own fire-sides: hov; desirable then it becomes to 
give every inducement to be at home, by directing all the means of 
philosophy to increase domestic happiness 1" 

Dr. VVaterhouse, in his Lectures, thus speaks of the stomach: — 
"The faculty the stomach has of communicating the impressions made 
by the various substances that are put into it is such, that it seems 
inore like a nervous expansion from the brain than a mere receptacle 
for food." 

From allusions in the great Milton's writings, it is quite evident, 
that he appreciated the science of cookery highly. Speaking of phi- 
losophy, he says, 

" 'Tis a perjietual feast of nectar'd sweets, 
Wliere no crude surfeit reigns." 
Again, 

" That which is n<it good is not delicious 
To a well-govern'd and wise appetite." 

But we have better evidence than these allusions, of Milton's at- 



18 T H E C O M P L E T E C O O K. 

tachment ta nicely dressed dishes. In his brother'^, the judge's 
testimony, in sujjport of a ouncupative will, which it was alleged he 
made before his death in favour of his third and last wife, a passage 
occurs, to the effect, that, approving- of his dinner on a certain occasion, 
he said, "this will do; get something nice for me to eat, for when I 
am gone it will le all your's." We quote from memory. The cele- 
brated Dr. Parr, the great Grecian and theologian, was much attached 
to good eating himself, and thought it very necessary, both for the 
health of the body and the mind. A few weeks before his death, for 
he was perfectly conscious that he had but a short time to live, he 
made arrangements for his funeral ; and, amongst other things, he 
prepared a bill of fare for his funeral dinner. The dishes were all 
cold. He expressed his regret to a clerical friend of ours, that he 
could not give them a hot dinner, "but that is impossible," he said, 
"for there is not convenience in the house to cook for so large a 
number. I am much afraid," he continued, "lest you parsons should 
get a hot dinner for yourselves, and leave the poor laymen to the cold 
meat; but I should be very angry if I could know it. I always liked 
to take care of my own stomach, and of other people's. If that is 
wrong, nothing can be right." 

There are people who imagine, that it is beneath the dignity of a 
philosopher to trouble himself about eating; such a one was that gay 
fribble of a marquis, who, finding Descartes enjoying himself over a 
good dinner, exclaimed, " Hey ! what, do you philosophers eat dain- 
ties]" "Do you think," replied Descartes, "that God made good 
things only for fools'?" 

There is a point with regard to the importance of good cookery, 
upon which we have not touched, though one of first-rate consequence, 
namely, temperance, from the neglect of which so many, and such 
deadly, evils arise. Let a man load his stomach with crude, indi- 
gestible food, that is, ill-dressed meats or other substances, and what 
is the consequence 1 he feels ill — in fact, he is ill — his mind does not 
possess its proper vigour and elasticity; in one word, the whole man, 
mind and body, is disordered — unhinged. He seeks relief in spirits, 
and he obtains it, perhaps, temporarily. Hence is the beginning of 
dram drinking, and all its concomitant evils; which it would fill a 
volume to enumerate. The members of temperance societies, and 
the promoters of temperance in general, would do well to turn their 
attention to this point, and we think they will agree with us on the 
importance of diffusing the art of cookery — the art of preparing good 
and wholsorne food — as widely as possible among the people. 

In this country we have the best of all descriptions of butcher's meat 
in the world, and, with a few exceptions, the worst cooks. If the 
poor, half-fed meats of France, were dressed as our cooks, for the most 
part, dress our welJ-fed excellent meats, they would be absolutely 
•jneatable. In France, the cooks, both private and public, contrive to 
make most excellent and easily digestible food, out of substances that 
we should throw away, as perfectly incapable of being rendered fit to 
eat, or at lenf^t palatable. 



INTRODUCTORV REMARKS. 19 

It has been proved by Dr. Prout, that sugar, butter, or oil, and 
white of egg, or substances partaking of their nature, form the chief 
alimentary food of man. The saccharine, or sugary principle, in its 
extended sense, is mosily derived from vegetables. A proper know- 
ledge of these principles forms the basis, or foundation, of French 
cookery, or, indeed, every other* good system of cookery. It does not 
follow, however, that it is necessary that a cook should understand 
these things philosophically, so as to be able to give a reason for them. 
It is sufficient for him or her to take for granted the maxims or rules 
that have been deduced from them, and act accordingly. 

In France, most substances intended for food are exposed, by mean3 
of oil or butter, or grease, in a frying-pan, to a heat of 600° Fahren- 
heit, that is, nearly three times hotter than boiling water. This is 
done by frying, or by some other method similar to frying. They are 
then put into a macerating or stewing vessel, with a little water, and 
kept for several hours at a temperature, or heat, below the boiling 
point; that is to say, the liquid is never allowed to bubble up, nor yet 
scarcely to simmer. By these united processes, it. has been clearly 
proved, that the most hard and tough substances, whether vegetable 
or animal, are, more or less, reduced to a state of pulp, fit for the 
action of the stomach, and consequently for easy digestion. 

In this country, the majority of cooks, particularly in small families, 
toss the meat into a large quantity of water, make the water boil as 
speedily as possible, and as fast as possible ; and foolishly imagine, 
that it will be sooner and better done. But what is the consequence'? 
The outside of the meat is rendered so tough, that it will not admit 
the heat to penetrate the inside, which remains undone, and the result 
is, that both the outside and inside meat are spoilt, or at least greatly 
damaged, both as respects flavour and wholesomeness. Here an 
anecdote occurs to us, which, though it has been before related, will 
serve to illustrate our subject. An Irishman was ordered by his 
master to boil him an egg for his breakfast, and was particularly en- 
joined to boil it soft. After waiting for more than ten minutes, the 
master inquired after his egg, which, however, was not forthcoming ; 
the servant was seeing about it. Another five minutes elapsed, when 
the impatient master was coolly told his egg was not done — " Yer 
honour told me to bile it soft, and sure I've biled it a quarter of an hour, 
and it is as hard as ever." 

Our ignorant, and too oflen unteachable, cook maid, would laugh 
at the simplicity of the Irishman — not considering that the very means 
she uses to make meat tender and palatable, that is, fast boiling, are 
just as absurd as those taken by Paddy to boil an egg soft. 

There is no rule, they say, without an exception ; but, generally 
speaking, ill-dressed meats, or even solid food well-dressed, taken in 
large quantities, are indigestible. It is a mistake to imagine, that 
people who take violent exercise in the open air, are always free from 
indigestion, and those numerous diseases to which it gives rise. That 
they are not so liable as those confined to a house, or a workshop is 
true ; and there are some stomachs that appear to be able to digest 



20 THE C O M r L E T E COOK. 

any thing; but these are exceptions to the general rule — they do not 
affect the truth of the rule itself, 

PHILOSOPHICAL COOKERY.— COUNT ROMFORD. 

The first person, perhaps, with any pretensions to learning and 
philosophy, who studied the dressing of meat, for food, as a science, 
was a gentleman of the name of Thompson, who was afterwards 
created Count Romford, by one of the German princes. This excel- 
lent and ingenious individual lived in the last century. He demon- 
strated, by experiments, the principles which in our foregoing remarks 
we have merely asserted. We are about to give an abstract of some 
of his observations and experiments on this subject, which are so 
simply and clearly detailed, that they are perfectly intelligible to 
every common intellect, and we are sure will be read wnth interest 
and advantage, not only by cooks, but also by all classes of persons 
interested in the health and welfare of society at large. 

The process by which food is most commonly prepared for the table 
— BOILING — is so* familiar to every one, and its effects are so uniform, 
and apparently so simple, that few have taken the trouble to inquir'e 
how, or in what 7nanner, these effects are produced ; and whether any 
and what improvements in that branch of cookery are possible. So 
little has this matter been made an object of inquiry, that few, very 
few indeed, it is believed, among the millions of persons vvho for so 
many ages have been daily employed in this process, have ever given 
themselves the trouble to bestow one serious thought on the subject. 

The cook know^s from experience, that if his joint of meat be kept 
a certain time immersed in boiling water it will be done, as it is called 
ir ,ne language of the kitchen ; but if he be asked what is done to it] 
or how, or by what agency, the change it has undergone has been 
effected 1 if he understands the question, it is ten to one but he will 
be embarrassed ; if he does not understand it, he will probably an- 
swer, without hesitation, that"//ie meat is made tender and eatable 
bij being boiled" Ask him if the boiling of the water be essential 
to the success of the process? he will answer, *^ without doubt.'''* 
Push him a little farther, by asking him whether, were it possible to 
keep the water equally hot without boiling, the meat would not be 
cooked as soon and as well, as if the water were made to boil ] Here 
it is probable tliat he will make the first step towards acquiring know- 
ledge, by learning to doubt. 

When you have brought him to see the matter.in its true light, and 
to confess, that in this view of it, the subject is new to him, you may 
venture to tell him (and to prove to him, if you happen to have a ther- 
mometer at hand,) that water which ^*ms^ boils is as hot as it can pos- 
sibly be made in an open vessel. That all the fuel which is used in 
making it boil with violence is wasted, without adding in the smallest 
degree to the heat of the water, or expediting or shortening the pro- 
cess of cooking a single instant: that it is by the heat — its intensity — and 
the lime of its duration, that the food is cooked ; and not by boiling 



PHILOSOPHICAL COOKERY. 21r 

or ebullition or bubbling up of the water, which has no part whatever 
in that operation. 

Should any doubts still remain with respect to the inefficacy and 
inutility of boiling, in culinary processes, where the same degree of 
heat may be had, and be kept up without it, let a piece of meat be 
cooked m a Papin's digester, which, as is well known, is a boiler 
whose cover (which is fastened down with screv.'s) shuts with so 
much nicety that no steam can escape out of it. In such a closed 
vessel, boiling (which is nothing else but the escape of steam in bub- 
bles from the hot liquid) is absolutely impossible; yet, if the heat ap- 
plied to the digester be such as would cause an equal quantity of water 
in an open vessel to boil, the meat will not only be done, but it v/ill 
be found to be dressed in a shorter time, and to be much tenderer, 
than if it had been boiled in an open boiler. By applying a still 
greater degree of heat to the digester, the meat may be so much 
done in a very few minutes as actually to fall to pieces, and even tho 
very bones may be made soft. 

Were it a question of mere idle curiosity, .vhether it be the boiling- 
of water, or simply the degree of heat that exists in boiling water by 
which food is cooked, it would doubtless be folly to throw away time 
in its investigation ; but this is far from being the case, for boiling 
cannot be carried on without a very great expense of fuel ; but any 
boiling hot liquid (by using proper means for confining the heat) may 
be kept boiling hot for any length of time, without any expense of 
fuel at all. 

The waste of fuel in culinary processes, which arises from making 
liquids boil unnecessarily, or when nothing more would be necessary 
than to keep them boiling hot, is enormous ; there is not a doubt but 
that much more than half the fuel used in all the kitchens, public and 
private, Id the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner. 

But the evil does not stop here. This unscientific and slovenly 
manner of cooking renders the process much more laborious and trou- 
blesome than otherwise it would be; and (what by many will be con- 
fiidered of more importance than either the waste of fuel, or the 
increase of labour to '^e cook) the food is rendered less savoury, and 
very probably less nourishing, and certainly less wholesome. 

It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more volatile 
parts of food (those which are best calculated to act on the organs of 
taste) must be carried off with the steam, when the boiling is violent : 
but the fact does not rest on these reasonings: it is proved to a de- 
monstration, not only by the agreeable fragrance of the steam that 
rises from vessels in which meat is boiled, but also from the strong 
flavour and superior quality of soups which are prepared by a long 
process over a very slow, gentle fire. But the volatile parts of food 
are not only delightful to the organs of taste — the Editor has no doubt 
that they are also stimulating and refreshing to the stomach. 

In many countries where soups constitute the principal part of the 
food of the inhabitants, the process of cooking lasts from one meal time 
to another, and is performed almost without either trouble or expense. 
2 



22 THECOMFLETE COOK. 

As soon as the soup is served up, the ingredients for the next meal 
are put into the pot (which is never suffered to cool, and does not re- 
quire scouring;) and this pot, which is of cast iron, or of earthenware, 
being well closed with its thick wooden cover, is placed by the side 
of the Jire, where its contents are kept simmering for many hours, 
but are seldom made to boil, and never but in the gentlest manner 
possible. 

Were the pot put in a close fire-place (which might easily be con- 
structed, even with the rudest materials, with a few bricks or stone, 
or even with sods, like a camp-kitchen,) no arrangement for cooking 
could well be imagined more economical or more convenient. 

Soups prepared in this way are uncommonly savoury, and there is 
little doubt that the true reason why nourishing soups and broths are 
not more in use among the common people in most countries, is 
because they do not know how good they really are, nor how to 
prepare them ; in short because they are not acquainted with them. 
There is another important reason which the Editor must add — the 
common people for the most part cannot spare time from their labout 
to stay at home and attend to them. 

To form a just idea of the enormous waste of fuel that arises from 
making water boil and evaporate unnecessarily in culinary processes, 
we have only to consider how much heat is expended in the forma 
tion of steam. Now it has been proved by the most decisive and un 
exceptionable experiments that have ever been made by experimental 
philosophers, that if it were possible that the heat which actually 
combines with water, in forming steam (and which gives it wings to 
fly up into the atmosphere,) could exist in the water, without changing 
it from a dense liquid to a rare elastic vapour, this water would be 
neated by it to the temperature of red-hot iron. 

Many kinds of food are known to be most delicate and savoury when 
cooked in a degree of heat considerably below that of boiling water; 
and it is more than probable that there are others which would be im- 
proved by being exposed to a heat greater than that of boiling water. 

In many of the seaport towns of our New England States, it 
has been a custom, time immemorial, among people of fashion, to 
dine one day in the week (Saturday) on salt fish, and a long habit 
of preparing the same dish has, as might have been expected, led to 
very considerable improvements in the art of cooking it. We have 
often heard foreigners who have partaken of these dinners, declare 
that they never tasted salt fish dressed in such perfection. The se- 
cret of this cooking is to keep the fish a great many hours in water, 
which is just scalding hot, but which is never made actually to boil. 

The Count being desirous of finding out whether it was possible to 
roast meat with a much gentler heat than that usually employed, put 
a shoulder of mutton in a machine contrived for drying potatoes : the 
result, which we give in the Count's own words, was as follows : 

" After trying the experiment for three hours, and finding it showed 
no signs of being done, it was concluded that the heat was not suffi- 
ciently intense, and, despairing of success, it was abandoned to tbc 
cookmaids. 



PHILOSOPHICAL COOKERY. 23 

«*It beincr late in the evening, and the cookmaids thinking, per- 
haps, that the meat would be as safe in the drying machine as any 
where else, left it there ail night; when they came in the morning 
tu take it away, intending to cook it for their dinner, they were much 
surprised to find it already conked, and not merely eatable, but per- 
fectly done, and most singularly well tasted. This appeared to them 
the more miraculous, as the fire under the machine was quite gone 
out before they left the kitchen in the evening to go to bed, and as 
they had locked up the kitchen when they left it and taken the key. 

This wonderful shoulder of mutton was immediately brought in tri- 
umph, and though v.^e were at no great loss to account for what had 
happened, yet it certainly was unexpected : and when the meat was 
tasted we were much surprised indeed to find it very different, both 
in taste and flavour, from any we had ever tasted. It was perfectly 
tender, but though it was so much done it did not appear to be in the 
least sodden or insipid ; on the contrary, it was uncommonly savoury 
and high-flavoured. It was neither boiled, nor roasted, nor baked. 
Its taste seemed to indicate the manner in which it had been pre- 
pared : that the gentle heat to which it had for so long a time been 
exposed, had by degrees loosened the cohesion of its fibres, and con- 
cocted its juices, without drivingr off" their fine and more volatile parts, 
and without washing away or burning and rendering rancid its oils." 

Having given an abstract of Romford's opinions and experiments 
on boiling water as a medium for the preparation of meat for the food 
of man, we shall now take an opportunity of remarking, that the same 
rule will not apply to the cooking of the greater part of vegetables, 
which must be put into the water boiling hot, and which cannot be 
boiled too quickly. This does not apply, however, to potatoes, which 
cannot be boiled too slowly. These things, however, will be treated 
of more particularly in the receipts, which we shall give for the 
cookingof different kinds of vegetables. 

Seasoning is a very important element in the art of cookery. Ex- 
perience is absolutely necessary to acquire this art, which to be pro- 
perly done, requires great judgment and delicacy of taste. All the 
recommendations of Dr. Kitchiner and others to season by weight and 
measure, as apothecaries serve out drugs, are in the nature of the 
thing impracticable. "What's one man's meat is another man's 
poison," is a homely proverb, but a true one. So in seasoning, what 
one person likes, another may dislike. The writers we have alluded 
to ridicule the idea of directing the cook to use a pinch of that, and a 
dust of the other. M. Ude justly observes, " that where the quantities 
are indefinite, it is impossible to adjust the exact proportions of spice, 
or other condiments, which it will be necessary to add in order to 
give the proper flavour." If these remarks are correct, and who can 
doubt it, the general terms "handful, pinch, and dust," are the best 
that can be applied as directions upon such a subject. 

In the use of salt in cooking, considerable judgment is required. 
The best rule is to employ as little as possible. It is easy to make 
a dish too fresh, salt; but if made too salt, it cannot be made fresh 



24 THECOMPI. ETECOOK. 

again. Sugar may be applied with advantage in various dishes, 
where it is not generally used in this country, and which will be 
enumerated hereafter, but great care must be taken, that in such pre- 
parations it should be employed to enrich, not to sweeten. The taste 
of sugar should not predominate, or even be recognised. We allude 
more particularly to soups and gravies, and in some cases in vegeta- 
bles, such as green peas for instance. Meat intended to be broiled, 
or fried, should be well peppered, but never salted ; salt renders it 
hard. The author of " Domestic Cookery" says, that " salt should 
not be put into the water in which vegetables are boiled." We dis- 
agree with this lady; indeed, she disagrees with herself; for in 
another part of her book she directs salt to be put into the water in 
which potatoes are to be boiled ; and we are quite sure it is very 
necessary in boiling cabbage, savoys, and most other descriptions of 
greens. 

It ought to be well understood, that pepper and all descriptions of 
spice require to be subjected to the action of heat to bring out their 
genuine flavour. Thus it will be seen, that though it is very prac- 
ticable to sweeten or salt things after they are dressed, it is not so as 
respects flavouring them with spice. In the use of spices it is, how- 
ever, very important to take care that the aroma (commonly called 
smell), which they give forth, should not be allowed to evaporate or 
escape. Druggists and medical men always keep their essential oils, 
tinctures, volatile spirits and volatile gums, in ground stopper bottles, 
which are perfectly air-tight. This puts us in mind of a foolish cus- 
tom, which cannot be too much deprecated, of exposing in the open 
air aromatic herbs, such as marjoram, thyme, mint, and several 
others, which are known by the general term of sweet herbs, and 
which are extensively used in seasoning. These herbs ought always 
to be kept as much as possible excluded from the air. This may be 
partially effected by tying the dried herbs in paper bags, but it is 
much better to reduce the leaves to a coarse powder, and confine it 
in well-corked bottles. 



RULES AND MAXIMS OF THE KITCHEN. 

In our foregoing remarks we have endeavoured to explain the 
leading principles upon which the art of cookery is founded— princi- 
ples with which the young cook should become thoroughly acquainted. 
We now proceed to lay down a series of rules or maxims, relative to 
the dressing of meat, and the general management of the kitchen. 
These rules sfiould be well studied, and the most important of them 
committed to memory. By doing this a cook will save a great deal 
of trouble and loss of time, and she will also, by her knowledge of the 
general principles of the art, be enabled to vary, and probably im- 
prove the receipts, which she may have occasion to consult. In short, 
when she knov;s what must be always done, and what must never be 
done, she is, in a great measure, mistress of her art, inasmuch as die 
details will be easily acquired by practice. 



RULES OF THE KITCHEN. 25 

WHAT MUST ALWAYS BE DONE, AND WHAT MUST 
NEVER BE DONE. 

1. Keep yourself clean and tidy; let your hands, in particular, be 
always clean whenever it is practicable. After a dirty job always 
wash then). A cleanly cook must wash her hands many times in the 
course of the day, and will require three or four aprons appropriated 
to the work upon which she is employed. Your hair must never be 
blowsy, nor your cap dirty. 

2. Keep apart things that would injure each other, or destroy their 
flavour. 

3. Keep every cloth, saucepan and all other utensils to their pro- 
per use, and when done with, put them in their proper places. 

4. Keep every copper stewpan and saucepan bright without, and 
perfectly clean within, and take care that they are always well 
tinned. Keep all your dish-covers well dried, and polished ; and to 
effect this, it will be necessary to wash them in scalding water as 
soon as removed from the table, and when these things are done let 
them be hung up in their proper places. 

5. The gridiron, trying-pan, spit, dripping-pan, &c., must be per- 
fectly cleaned of grease and dried before they are put in their proper 
places. 

6. Attention should be paid to things that do not meet the sight in 
the way that tins and copper vessels do. Let, for instance, the pud- 
ding cloth, tlie dish-cloth, and the dish-tub, be always kept perfectly 
clean. To these may be added, the sieve, the cullender, the jelly- 
bag, &ic^ whicli ought always to be washed as soon after they are 
used as may be practicable. 

7. Scour your rolling-pin and paste-board as soon after using as 
possible, but v/ithout soap, or any gritty substance, such as sand or 
brick-dust; put them away perfectly dry. 

8. Scour your piciile and preserve jars after they are emptied ; 
dry them and put them away in a dry place. 

9. Wipe your bread and cheese-pan out daily with a dry cloth, and 
ecald them once a u-eek. Scald your salt-pah when out of use, and 
dry it thoroughly. Scour the lid well by which it is covered when 
in use. 

10. Mind and put all things in their proper places, and then you 
will easily find them when they are wanted. 

11. You must not poke things out of sight instead of cleaning 
ihem, aiid such things as onions, garlick, &.C., must not be cut witli 
the s4Lme knife as is used m cutting meat, bread, butter, &c. Milk 
must not be put in a vessel used for greasy purposes, nor must clear 
liquid-s such as water, &c., be put into'vessels, which have been 
used fi3r milk, snd nut washed ; in shcft, no vessel must be used for 
any purpose for which it is not appropriated. 

12. You must not suffer ariy kind of food to become cold in any 
metal vessel, not even in well-tinned iron saucepans, &c., for they 
will impart a more or less unph-asant flavour to it« Above all things 

2* 



26 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

you must not let liquid food, or indeed any other, remain in brass or 
copper vessels after it is cooked. The rust of copper or brass ia 
absolutely poisonous, and this will be always produced by moisture 
and exposure to the air. The deaths of many persons have been 
occasioned by the cook not attendingf to this rule. 

13. You must not throw away the fat which, when cold, accumu- 
lates on the lop of liquors in which fresh or salt meat has been boiled; 
in short, you ought not to waste fat of any description, or any thing 
else, that may be turned to account; such as marrow-bones, or any 
other clean bones from which food may be extracted in the way of 
soup, broth, or stock, or in any other way: for if such food will not 
suit your table, it will suit the table of the poor. Remember, "Wil- 
ful waste makes woful want." 

14. A very essential requisite in a cook is punctuality; therefore 
rise early, and get your orders from your mistress as early as possible, 
and make your arrangements accordingly. What can be prepared 
before the business of roasting and boiling commences should always 
be prepared. 

15. Do not do your dirty work at a dresser set apart for cleanly 
preparations. Take care to have plenty of kitchen cloths, and mark 
them so as a duster may not be mistaken for a pudding-cloth, or a 
knife-cloth for a towel. 

16. Keep your spit, if you use one, always free from rust and dust, 
and your vertical jack clean. Never draw up your jack with a weight 
upon it. 

17. Never employ, even if permitted to do so, any knives, spoons, 
dishes, cups, or any other articles in the kitchen, which are used in 
the dining room. Spoons are sure to get scratched, and a knife used 
for preparing an onion, takes up its flavour, which two or three 
cleanings will not entirely take away. 

18. Take great care to prevent al. preparations which are delicate 
in their nature, such as custards, blancmange, dressed milks, &c., &c., 
from burning to which they are very liable. The surest way to ef- 
fectually hinder this is to boil them as the carpenter heats his glue, 
that is, by having an outside vessel filled with water. 

19. You ought not to do any thing by halves. What you do, do well. 
If you clean, clean thoroughly, having nothing to do with the " slut's 
wipe," and the "lick and a promise." 

20. And last, tiiough not least, be teachable: be always desirous to 
learn — never be ashamed to ask for information, lest you should ap- 
pear to be ignorant; for be assured, the most ignorant are too fre- 
quently the most self-opinionated and most conceited ; while those 
who are really well informed, think humbly of themselves, and regret 
that they know so Jittle. 

CHOICE AND PURCHASING OF BUTCHERS' MEAT. 

Inferior joints of the best anin'j?x'^*' should always be preferred to the 
prime joints of the ill-fed or diseaspj beasts. Inferior joints of good 



CHOICE OF BUTCHERS MEAT. '4 t 

meat such as etickins^?, legs and shins of beef, shoulders of mullon 
and veal, may, if well dressed, be made as nourishing and palatable 
as the superior joints and may be bought much cheaper ; but no cooking, 
however well executed, will ever make bad meat good. Ill-condi 
tioned beasts, too, are for the most part unhealthy. 

21, Beef. — Ox beef is considered, truly, the best. Bull beef is 
coarse, tough, and has a strong, disagreeable smell and taste. Next 
to ox beef, that of a young heifer (if spayed the better) is preferred. 
Some persons, indeed, think it is the best. It is the most delicate 
and tender of all description of beef. Cow beef, particularly a young 
cow that has not had more than two or three calves, is very good. 
The grain is closer, and the fat Vv'hiter, than ox beef. Good beef has 
a fine, smooth, open grain, interlarded with thin streaks of delicate 
fat; and is of a deep healthy looking red colour. When the fat is of 
a dirty yellow colour, the meat is not good : it indicates its having 
been fed upon artificial food, such as oil cake. Grass-fed meat, or 
that fed upon hay and corn meal, is the best. When beef is old, a 
horny streak runs between the fat and lean; the harder this is, the 
older the meat. The flesh is not good flavoured, and eats tough. 

22. Mutton. — Good mutton is firm in the grain; of a brisrht red 
colour; the lean delicately interlarded with thin streaks of fat; the 
fat itself being of a brighlish white, tinted with a delicate pink. The 
fat of rotten mutton, in which the sheep was afflicted with a liver 
disease, is always of a dead white, and the flesh is of a pale colour. 
Such mutton is both unwholesome and unsavoury. The best way to 
detect this kind of mutton, is to examine the liver before it is re- 
moved from the sheep. If the liver be without bladders, or other 
marks of disease, the mutton is sound. Ewe mutton is not so good aa 
wether mutton; the flesh is generally paler, and the texture finer. 
The best mutton is that which is fed upon the natural grasses. This 
is the reason why the Welsh and mountain Scotch muttons are so 
firm, short, and sweet. The sheep have liberty to choose their own 
food. Mutton fed on rape and turnips does not eat so well, nor near 
so well, as the grass-fed. Ram mutton has a strong, and, in some 
seasons of the year, an exceedingly disagreeable flavour. It is said 
that wether mutton, to be eaten in perfection, should be five years 
old ; but it is scarcely ever kept to that age. In wether mutton there 
is a knob of fat on the part of the leg, where in the ewe you will find 
a part of the udder. 

23. Venison when young has the cleft of the haunch smooth and 
close, and the fat is clear, bright and thick. In old venison, the cleft 
is Vv'ide and tough. If, after running a long, narrov/, sharp knife into 
the lean of venison, it comes out without smelling, the venison is 
sweet. Some persons like it a little gone, and others a good deal. 
This state of putrescency is called by gourmands hant gout, high 
tasted ; we should rather say at once, stinking. Venison requires 
more keeping than any other sort of meat to make it tender, unless it 
be dressed ininiediately it is killed, that is, before it is cold. 

24, Veal. — This meat, to be trulv Sfood, delicate, fine flavoured, and 



S8 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

tender, ought not to be more than live or six weeks old, and, of 
course, fed exclu.'-ively upon the milk of the mother. Writers on 
cookery gravely tell U!=-, that the whiteness of veal is partly caused 
by the calf licking challf. This is nonsense. The chalk is given lo 
prevent calves from scouring, not to make their flesh white. Ilovv'ever, 
whiteness is no proof of veal being good and juicy; it is caused by 
frequent bleeding. The tiesh of the bull calf is said to be the firmest, 
but not so white. The fillet of the cow calf is sometimes preferred 
for the udder. The kidney of good veal is well covered with healthy 
looking fat, thick and firm. The bloody vein in the shoulder should 
look blue ; if it be of any other colour, the meat is stale. Fresh veal 
is dry and white. When it is spotty and clammy it is stale. The 
kidney is gone when the fat or suet upon it is not firm. The kidney 
goes first, 

25. Lamb that is fresh will have the veins bluish in the neck and 
fore-quarter. If there be a faint smell under the kidney it is not 
fresh. When the eyes are sunk in the head, it is a sure sign the lamb 
has been killed too long. Grass lamb, which is the only lamb that is 
in perfection, comes in in April, but it is better in May and June ; that 
is to say, when men with hard hands can afford to eat it, and when 
there are green peas to eat with it. House lamb, for those who can 
afford to pay for it, and like to eat it, may be obtained all the year 
round. 

26. Pork. — The quality of this kind of meat depends in a great 
measure upon its feeding. If grossly fed, it is bad, for the pig will 
eat any thing in the absence of delicate food. Dairy-fed pork we are 
told is the best: it is good, but we think not the best. To our taste, 
that is to be preferred in every respect vi^hich is fed not merely on 
dairy food, but upon good wholesome corn meal, whether of barley, 
oats, peas, or beans. Cookery writers tell us, that "if the rind is 
tough, and cannot easily be itnpressed by the finger, the meat is old ;" 
and they add, that a thin rind is a merit in all pork." These direc- 
tions are no guide whatever to the choice of pork : the rind may be 
made thin by dressinsr, but there are those, and no bad judges either, 
who prefer thick rinds. Moubray, on Poultry, &c., says, *' the west- 
ern pigs from Berks, Oxford, and Bucks, possess a decided superiority 
over the eastern of Essex, Sussex, and Norfolk ; not to forget another 
qualification of the former, at Vv'hich some readers may smile, a thick- 
ness of the skin, whence the crackling of the roasted pig is a fine 
gelatinous substance, v^hich may be easily masticated, whilst the 
crackling of the thin-skinned breeds is roasted into good block tin, 
the reduction of which would almost require teeth of iron." So much 
for thin rinds. When pork is fresh, the flesh will be sm.ooth and dry; 
when stale, clammy. What is called measly pork is to be avoided 
as a poison. It may be known by the fat being full of kernels, and 
by the general unwholesomeness of its appearance. 

27. Bacon is good when the fat is almost transparent and of a de- 
licate transparent pink tinge. The lean should adhere to the bone, 
be of a good colour, and tender. Yellow streaks in bacon show it is 



CHOICE OF POULTRY, EGGS, PISH, &C. '^9 

becoming rusty ; when all is yellow, all is rusty and unfit to eat. 
Bacon and hams are frequently spoilt in the curing-. Taste a littla 
of the lean, and you will be able to judge whether it be too salt or 
not. 

28. Hams are the best part of the pig when properly cured, per- 
fectly sweet, and ni)t too salt. To ascertain whether a ham is tainted, 
run a sharp knife under the bone, and if it comes out with a pleasant 
smell, and clean, the ham is good. 

Summary of Directions. — Choose meat that has a clear red liver, 
free from knots and bladders, with kidneys firm, close, and well sur- 
rounded with firm, hard fat; the skirts which line the ribs should be 
full and fat. Meat possessing these qualifications may be depended 
on as of the first quality; but if the kidney or kernels of an animal 
have spots resembling measles, as is too frequently the case with 
pork, the meat is unwholesome. 

We have said thus much on the choice of meats, but persons who 
keep up what is called an establishment, will do best to trust to their 
butcher, porkman, fishmonger, and poulterer, and not to choose at all, 
excepting tradesmen, taking care to deal only with the most respect- 
able in the neighbourhood. 

CHOICE OF POULTRY, EGGS, AND FISH, AND SEASONS 
OF FISH. 

Poultry of all kinds are preferred of a short thick make, broad and 
plump in the breast and thick in the rump and fat in the back. The 
spurs should be short as indicating youth, and the comb red as indi- 
cating health. The beak, bill, and claws, in a young bird will be 
tender, and the skin of the legs comparatively smooth ; the contrary 
are certain indications of an old bird. But the best test of a fowl, as 
respects its age, is to try the two bones which run by the side of the 
belly to the vent; if these are gristly and easily broken at the end, 
the fowl is young. To judge of the age of geese or ducks, little or 
no dependence is to be placed upon the colour of the legs and bills — 
this varies according to complexion ; but if the bills and feet have 
coarse red streaks, or a tinge of red in them, the bird is old. In young 
geese and ducks the above marks are not to be seen, and the webs 
will be smooth and thin. 

29. Rabbits^ young and in good condition, will be fat about the 
kidneys, and by the side of the belly. The flesh should be white, 
and if young, the legs will break easily. 

30. Fowls are plentiful from August to January; chickens come 
in about April, tame ducks in May, continue through the summer 
months, and go out in October. Young geese may be dressed in the 
latter end of May and through the summer, but a goose is not 
thoroughly ripe till after stubbling, that is, about Michaelmas.^ Tur- 
key poults are in season from May onwards, but turkeys are in high 
season about Christmas. 

31. Rabbits and Pigeons mny be had the year round ; wild rab 



30 T H E C O M P L E T E C O O K. 

bits are best in the winter season ; young pigeons may be had in 
February, and till September ; wood-pigeons in December and 
January. 

32. Game. — Hares, partridges and pheasants from September 
throuijh the wintL-r: the game season closes with February. All 
kinds of water-fowl are most plentiful in keen, dry weather, especially 
'v cold weather, after snow ; also larks, wood-cocks, snipes, &.C. 

83. Eggs. — New eggs have always a rough fresh-looking shell, 
but this appearance may be effected by artificial means, and the 
purchaser be cheated with rotten ones, instead of getting fresh. A 
new-laid egg will sink in water, bad ones are more or less buoyant; 
but this is a tedious way of testincr eggs. The best way is to form a 
sort of tube with the left hand, holding with the right hand the egg, 
close and opposite to this tube, in the light. If the egg is good the 
meat will look clear, and partly transparent; if bad, it will look dark 
with black spots in it. 

34. Fish should be broad and thick of their kind, their eyes bright, 
gills red, and the scales close and shining: fish should feel firm to 
the touch and stitf. Stale fish have always a loose, limber feel, 
especially about the vent; their eyes are sunk and dim, the scales 
loose and flabby, and the whole has a dingy, disagreeable appearance. 
Ijobsters and crabs are to be judged by their weight; if they feel 
light, they have wasted themselves by long keeping. 

35. Seasons of Fish. — There are some kinds of fish absolutely 
poisonous eaten out of season; such are salmon, and skate. The 
following will give some idea of the seasons of fish, but they vary 
according to the weather. Cod comes in about October, and goes out 
about February; it is sometimes good for a short time about August. 
Salmon comes in in February, is in high season during May, June, 
and July, declines in August, and is quite out in September. Pickled 
Balmon is good from May till September. Herrings are in season as 
long as they are full of roe; when shotten, they are worthless. 
Sprats are best in frosty weather. Lobsters and crabs are plentiful 
in the spring and early part of the summer. Haddock, flounders, 
muscles, come in in September or October, and are out about April 
or May. Jacks or pikes, eels, perch, tench, carp, and other fresh 
water fish, become plentiful about April or May, according to the 
weather. Eels are never out of season, but in cold weather are 
hardly to be procured. Hallibut is in season from the beginning of 
May until the end of September. 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 

36. A great deal has to be done before the cook can commence the 
operation of cooking. She has to truss her fowls and prepare her 
fish, butcher's meat, and vegetables, with other things not necessary 
to mention here. Never wash butcher's meat except for the purpose 
of cleansing it of blood, which would otherwise disfigure it whei: 
dressed. Few joints require this operation ; heads, hearts and scrags 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 31 

always require to be well wa.-hed before they are cooked, but if they 
or any thing else are intended for roasiing or frying, they should 
first be rendered perfectly dry, by rubbing with a coarse cloth, or 
otherwise. Salt rubbed in with warm water will speedily remove 
the blood and cleanse the meat. Hares must be always well washed 
"with salt and water, or milk and water. 

37. Trussing is little required in butcher's meat; but loins, boned 
and stuffed, such as those of beef, mutton and pork, must of course 
be trussed. This is done by spreading the stuffing and seasoning 
over them, then rollino; them up as tightly as possible, tying up with 
a tape or string, and securing all by skewers. The long flap of the 
fillet of veal must be filled with stuffing, and then secured as above 
directed, 

38. All kinds of poultry should be killed the first thing in the 
morning, when iheir crops are empty. They should be plucked 
while they are warm ; be sure take out all the flues, and let the hair 
be singed off" with white paper. It is recommended to crop fowls and 
pigeons immediately you have them; but there is a difference of 
opinion as to the time of drawing them ; some say they should be 
drawn as soon as killed, or at least as soon as bought, which prevents 
the disagreeable flavour so often perceived in chickens ; others say, 
and indeed the generality of cooks are of this opinion, that they should 
not be drawn till just before they are dressed, as it is apt to make 
them dry : we are of opinion that poultry should be drawn soon after 
Ihey are killed ; we do not believe that this makes them dry, though 
we are sure that to leave them undrawn will be apt to muke them 
stink. 

39. In drawing poultry, or removing the entrails, a very small slit 
may be made under the vent with a penknife, at which slip in the 
fore-finger, and if there is any internal fat about the vent, draw it out, 
as it is in the way of taking out the entrails, and, if left in, would be 
very strong when roasted. Next get hold of the gizzard, which may 
be known by its being the hardest part of the interior; draw it out 
carefully; it will generally bring the whole of the intestines with it, 
but if the liver should be left, again slip in the finger and take hold 
of the heart, which will bring out with it the liver, which you must 
not touch for fear of bursting the gall-bladder. The heart is generally 
left in by poulterers, but it is much better out, as it is apt to give a 
bloody appearance to the interior of the fowl. Trim round the vent 
with a pair of scissors. 

40. Be careful to take away the gall-bladder from the liver with- 
out breaking it, for if one drop of the gall escapes, the whole liver is 
spoilt. The gizzard consists of two parts, with a stomach or bag in 
the middle, containing gravel and undigested food ; one part of the 
skin by which the two parts of the gizzard are united is rather nar- 
rower than the other; slit this with a knife, and turning the gizzard 
inside out, remove the stomach bag and trim round the gizzard, but 
avoid cutting the skin by which it is joined in the middle. 

41. In trussing poultrv, cut off* the neck about two joints from ita 



32 T H E C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

commencement at the shoulders, but be sure to leave half an inch, or 
more, of the skin longer than the part of the neck remaining-, for the 
purpose of wrapping over on being tied. 

42. The legs of fowls intended to be roasted should be taken off 
about one inch below the first joint ; the feet and legs of young 
chickens are generally left on, but they must be scalded in boiling 
water, and the claws and outside scaly skin taken off. Thrust the 
liver through a slit made in the skinny part of one pinion, and the 
gizzard through the other; then turn the top of the pinion over the 
back, lay the legs close to the sides ; with a wire skewer fix the 
middle joint of the pinion outside of the knee joint of the leg, and so 
through the body to the other knee and pinion ; with a short skewer 
fix the lower joint to the lower part of the body ; then the feet, or 
whatever part of them is left, may turn back over the belly. The 
skewer for this purpose must go through the sidesmen, fixing the 
stumps or feet between thorn. For a fowl that is to be boiled, a slit 
is made on each side of the belly, and the leg-stump tucked in. 

43. To remove the crop and windpipe of those whose heads are left 
on, open the skin a little just in front of the throat; then pull each 
separately gently, first from the beak or bill, then from the stomach. 
Fowls whose heads are taken off" may have the crop removed by 
putting the finger down the throat. The windpipe is easily removed 
in tiie same way. 




[Trussed Foul for roasting.] 

44. Before dressing, a little flour should be dusted over fowls. 
Poulterers, to make the bird look plump, often break the breast bone; 
this is a bad practice — it lets the air into the fowl, and drys the meat ; 
it often breaks the gall-bladder, and, of course, spoils the fowl, and it 
always renders the bone troublesome. The head of capon, we ought 
to observe, is often twisted under the wing in the same way as a 
pheasant's. 

45. Ducks have the feet always left on, but the wings must be 
taken off at the middle joint; in doing this, leave more skin than be- 
longs to the bone. The feet must be scalded, and the skin and clawes 
taken away ; they then must be turned over the back. In placing the 
skewers, keep the thigh joints outside of the pinions, and run the 
skewer through the leg, then through the bit of skin that hangs below 
the pinion, then through the body, the other pinion, skin, and the 



PREPARATIONS FOR COuKING. 



33 



other leg The short skewer must be inserted just above the joint, 
which is twisted to turn back the feet. Tie the skin round the throat; 
put in the seasoning at the vent and turn the rump through a small 
slit in the apron. 



I 



v^^%^. 






'~W 



a 



[Trussed Durk for roasting.] 

46. Geese are trussed exactly in the same way as ducks, except 
the feet are cut off, and dressed with the giblets. The liver is some- 
times dressed separately, and considered by some persons a great 
delicacy. A piece of greased white paper should be laid over the 
breast, and secured with a string, not skewers, before a goose is put 
down to roast. 

47. Turkeys are trussed the same way as fowls, but the sinews of 
the leg must be drawn out before trussing. The gizzard of a turkey 
intended to be roasted should be scored, and both gizzard and liver 
covered with the caul of veal or lamb; but buttered paper does as 
well, and is more generally used : this is to prevent them becoming 
dry. The breast should be secured in the same way, with a piece of 
buttered paper. Nicely clean tb? head, and twist it under the wing. 

48. Pigeons should be cleat^ed with great care. For roasting, 
truss with the feet on ; tie the joints close down the rump, and turn the 
feet over the front (see engraving). Most people season them. For 




[Trussed Pigeon for roasting.] 




[Trussed Pheasant.] 



boiling or stewing, cut off the feet, and truss just as fowls for boiling. 
For broiling, lay them open by cutting them down the back, and lav 
3 



34 



T n E C O M P L E T E COOK, 



ing them flat. As pigeons have no gall, no extra care will be required 
with the liver. 

49. Pheasants, Partridges, and Guinea Fowls, are trussed with 
the head tucked under the wing, and the feet on, which ,are twisted 
and tied to the rump, and turned back over the breast. The liver 
may be used in the stuffing. 

50. Wild Ducks, and all other web-footed wild fowl, should have 
the feet left on, and be cleaned and trussed in the same manner a 
tame ducks. 

51. Woodcocks, Plovers, &c., and all other birds that live by sue 
tion, are not drawn; the feet are left on, the knees twisted round 




[Trussed Woodcock] 

each other, and raised over the breast, by which means each foot 
turns back and falls on the side of the rump. 

52. Hare, trussed for roasting, has the legs turned back without 
disjointing, so that the haunches are thrown up, much in the form 
that a cat is often seen sitting — the end bones of the fore and hind 
legs meet each other, and lie vside by side. Two skewers should be 
inserted, one where the end of the leg meets the fleshy part of the 
shoulder, and the other where the end of the shoulder meets tho 
fleshy part of the leg ; the head is fixed back with a skewer thrust 




[Trussed Hare.] 

into the mouth, through the head, and into the back between the 
shoulders. The belly should be slit no more than is necessary for 
taking out the paunch. To secure its keeping in place, a string i» 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 35 

employed for bracing it; the strincr is laid across the back, twisted 
round the end of both skewers, and brought back across the back and 
tied. In skinning hares and rabbits, particularly hares, the ears and 
tails should be preserved entire, as they improve the appearance of 
these dishes on the table, and are much esteemed. 

53. Rabbits for boiling are opened all the way down the belly; 
joint the legs at the rump so as to admit of their turning along the 
sides; turn the shoulders back to meet them, so that the lower joints 
of each lie straight along, side by side; the head should be skewered 
down to the right shoulder. Rabbits for roasting are trussed like 
hares. 




[Trussed Rabbit for boiling.] 

54. Fawns or Kids are srenerally trussed and dressed in the same 
way as hares. As the flesh is of a dry nature, they should be covered 
with a caul or buttered paper, which should be tied on, not skewered. 
Fawns will not keep above a day or two at the furthest. 

55. Sucking- Pigs, the moment they are killed, should be put into 
cold water for a few minutes. Some persons then rub them over 
with powdered resin : others object to this on account of the flavour 
of the resin, which the pig will retain, if not well washed. Put the 
pig for half a minute into a pail or pan of boiling water, and take it 
out and pull off the hair or bristles as quickly as possible. If any 
should remain, put it again into hot water ; when quite free from hair, 
wash it thoroughly with warm water, and then rinse it several times 
in cold water, that no flavour of the resin may remain. The feet 
should be taken off at the first joint: ihen make a slit down the belly 
and remove the entrails; once more wash the pig inside and out in 
cold water, and wrap it in a wet cloth till you are ready to dress it, 
which should be done as soon as possible. Fill the belly with season- 
ing, and sew it up; skewer back the legs, and the trussing is com- 
pleted. The feet, heart, liver, lights, and melt, are to be dressed 
separately, when well cleaned. This dish is called pig's pettitoes. 

56- Fish, in cleaning, should have every particle of the entrails 
very carefully removed. If the blood has settled down the back-bone, 
or elsewhere, it should be carefully taken away, and care should be 
taken not to break the gallbladder of the liver. Some fish must be 
silt in order to clean them; others may have their entrails drawn out 
at the gills, which should be always done when it is practicable. 
Mackerel, perch, &c. are cleaned in this way. Flat fish may bo tiO 



d6 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

cleaned, but it is usual to make a Klantinsr slit on one side, just below 
the p-ill, in order to put in the finger and remove the clotted blood 
from the back-bone. Fishes with scales should be scraped from the 
tail to the head, till all the scales are removed ; others, such as soles 
and eels, are skinned. The cook ought not to depend upon the clean- 
ing of fish by the fishmonger, but carefully examine them before 
dressing. 

57. Eels are remarkably tenacious of life, and appear to suffer 
after tlvey arc cut into several pieces. In order to take the sense of 
feeling entirely from this fish, it is only necessary, before it is skinned, 
to pierce the spinal marrow, just at the back of the skull, right 
through, when all feeling in the eel will instantly cease, though it 
has the appearance of being alive. Then raise the skin, at the part 
cut or pierced, draw it back over the mouth and head, secure the head 
with a strong fork to a table, or dresser, and draw back the whole 
skin. To prevent the eel from slipping through your hands, rub them 
with salt, and you will then draw off the skin easily. Eels, except 
very small ones, require to be slit all the way from the vent to the 
gills, and the inside of the back-bone should be rubbed with salt. The 
liver, roe or melt, are much esteemed, and should be therefore pre- 
served. 

58. Fish without Scales, cf-c. — Cod, mackerel, whiting, and some 
other fish, being without scales, need nothing doing to them except 
drawing them and washing or wiping. Sprats, for broiling, should 
have a long bird-skewer run through their eyes, or a common knitting- 
needle. Neither sprats nor the silver-stringed herring, which is the 
best, should ever be drawn. They should be wiped dry and clean. 
Fish for fryinp;, should not be washed if it be possible to avoid it. If 
they require washing, it should be done an hour or two before they 
are fried, and wrapped up in a coarse cloth till they are thorough- 
ly dry. 

59. Turhot, Plaice, Flounders, <^c., having been gutted and wiped, 
■fnoukl be sprinkled with salt, and hung up for several hours before 
dressing-. 

60. Cod, having been drawn and washed, will eat firmer if it be 
sprinkled with salt some time» before putting it into the fish-kettle, 
with cold water, where it may remain an hour or two before boiling, 
or it may be hung up like plaice, &c. 

61. Oysters, if fresh from the sea, that is, uncleansed by the fish- 
monger, should, as soon as received, be laid in a pan or tub, witii the 
fiat shell upwards, and the whole fish covered with spring water; t) 
which put a pint of salt to every two gallons of water. In a fow 
hours the fish will have cleansed themselves, and become fit for u'^e. 
If they are required to be kept longer, the water should be taken 
away at night, and renewed in the morning; but they are nevor 
better than after they have been in the water from six to ten hours. 
There are persons wlio recommend that they should always be kept 
imder water, which they say should be renewed every twelve hours. 
Such persons forget that oysters, in their natural state, are not under 



PREPARATIONS FOR COOKING. 37 

water when the tide is out. Some writers recommend fresh water, 
but for what reason we know not, except to spoil the fish. Others 
order them to he sprinkled with flour, or oatmeal, for the purpose 
of making the fish white. We believe it has no such effect — 
much less will it feed them. Clear fresh spring water with a little 
salt. IS the best ; in this they will soon scour themselves, and become 
delicately white. Oysters should be opened very carefully — be 
turned round on the shell — the lower shell preserves the liquor best, 
and then served immediately; but they are better when eaten and 
opened at table. Every moment the oyster is kept after it is opened^ 
injures it in quality and flavour. If served on the flat side of the 
shell, the liquor should be preserved and used for flavouring. — -N. B. 
Oysters when taken fresh from the clean sea, that is, from beds de- 
void of mud, require no cleansing; but, on the contrary, we are as- 
sured on good authority, are much belter without it. The process of 
cleansing deprives the fish of its flavour to a certain extent, and very 
much weakens the delicious liquor in the shell. 

62. Vegetables, particularly green, in preparing for dressing, re- 
quire great attention in point of cleanliness. If vegetables for boiling 
can be gathered perfectly clean, immediately before being put in the 
pot, they preserve their colour much better without washing. But 
this will seldom be the case, particularly with those purchased of the 
greengrocer. When they are a little stale, which is almost always 
the case, if not gathered in your own garden, putting them in water 
for a few hours will refresh them. Salt and water should be used for 
the purpose of bringing out the slugs, or caterpillars, in which sum- 
mer cauliflowers and cabbage very often abound. Every drop of cold 
water, if possible, should be shaken out of them before boiling. Green 
peas, broad beans and French beans, ought not to be washed. Tur- 
nip greens, if quite clean and tVesh, are better not washed ; but if 
otherwise they must be washed through several waters. 

63. Asparagus, Artichokes, Spinach^ d^c. — Scrape the stalks of 
asparagus clean, tie them up with tape, in bundles of twenty-five or 
thirty each; cut off the ends of the stalks to an equal length. If quite 
fresh they need not be washed. Artichokes require thorough wash- 
ing, and should be soaked two hours or so in water before dressing. 
Spinach should be picked leaf by leaf; washed in three or four 
waters, and thoroughly drained. Celery should be well soaked. 

64. Potatoes and Jerusalem Artichokes should be well scrubbed 
with a birch broom, besom, or scrubbing brush, and washed very clean 
just before boiling; but they should never be the least wetted till they 
are about to be dressed. Some persons like them best boiled in the 
skins; they are best peeled before boiling when they are old or 
Bppcky. 

65. Carrots, Parsnips, Beetroots, and Turnips. — Carrots and 
parsnips should be well washed and scrubbed, but not scraped, as it is 
apt to injure the flavour. After boiling, rui) the skins with a coarse 
cloth. For soups, &c., they should be scraped. Beetroots should be 
washed and scrubbed very clean, but if the red sort be ecraped.or cut 

8* 



38 THECOMPLETECOOK» 

with a knife, the colour will escape. When done, carefully rub with 
a rough cloth. Wash and peel turnips. 

Having given directions for the preparations for cooking, we now 
proceed to Cooking itself; and shall begin with 

SOUPS AND BROTHS, &,c. 

In our general directions we have given pretty full instructions on 
the art of making broths, stews, &c., which instructions are of them- 
selves sufficient to enable a young cook, possessed of diligence and 
common sense, to prepare the different varieties of these dishes, with- 
out the assistance of particular receipts. We give, however, the fol- 
lowing. 

66. Clear Gravy Soups. — Cut half a pound of ham into slices, and 
lay them at the bottom of a large stew-pan, or stock pot, with two or 
three pounds of veal and the same weight of lean beef; break the 
bones and lay them on the meat; pare two turnips and skin two large 
onions; wash clean, and cut into pieces two large carrots, two heads 
of celery ; put in a large blade of mace, and three cloves; cover the 
stew-pan close, and set it over a clear fire; when the meat begins to 
stick at the bottom of the stew-pan, turn it, and when there is a nice 
brown glaze at tlie bottom of the stew-pan cover the meat with hot 
water; put in half a pint when it is coming to a boil ; take off the 
scum, and put in half a pint more of cold water; then skim it again, 
and continue to do so till no more scum rises: now set it on one side 
of the fire to boil gently for four hours; strain through a clean tamis 
(do not squeeze it, or the soup will be thick) into a clean stone pan; 
let it remain till it is cold, then remove all the fat; when you bottle 
it, be careful not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the pan. 
The broth should be of a fine amber colour, and very clear. If it is 
not quite as bright as you wish it, put it into a stew-pan ; break two 
whites and the shells of eggs, mix well together and put them into 
the soup, set it on a quick fire, and stir it with a whisk till it boils, 
then set it on one side till it settles; run it through a fine napkin; 
then it is ready. If you skim your broth carefully as directed above, 
it will be clear enough; clarifying it impairs the flavour. — Observe. 
This is the basis of almost all gravy soups, which are called by the 
name of the vegetables that are put into them: carrots, turnips, 
onions, celery, and a few leaves of chervil, make what is called spring 
soup; to this a pint of green peas, or asparagus, or French beans cut 
into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, is an improvement. With ricp, 
Scotch barley, or vermicelli, maccaroni or celery, cut into lengths, it 
will be the soup usually called by those names. Or turnips scc/oped, 
round or young onions, will give you a clear turnip or onion soup. 
The roots and vegetables used must be boiled first, or they will im- 
pregnate the soup with too strong a flavour. Seasoning for those soups 
is the same, viz. salt, and a very little cayenne pepper. 

67. Ox Tail Soup. — Take three or tour ox tails; divide at the 
joints; well wash, and soak them. Put them on the fire; to each 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, &C. 39 

tail allow a quart of water; when they boil, take off all the scum. If 
four tails add tour onion?, and eight or ten corns of allspice and black 
pepper to each tad. Simmer it slowly till the meat on the bones is 
lender. Then take out the tails, scrape off all the moat and cut it 
small; strain the soup throuo-h a sieve. To thicken it, take two 
ounces of butter, and as a}uch flour as it will take up; mix it well 
with the whole, and let it .-imrner another half hour. If not perfectly 
smooth, it must be strained again ; then put in the meat, with a glass 
of wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a little cayenne, and 
salt to taste; simmer it again a few minutes. Or instead of thicken- 
ing the soup, the meat may be returned to the gravy and warmed 
again, with or without the addition of carrots and turnips. 

68. Hotch-potch. — Take lamb or mutton cho}>s, and stew them in 
good gravy, with the addition of almost every kind of vegetable. A 
summer hotch-potch is composed of young onions, carrots, asparagus, 
green peas, lettuce, turnips, spinach, and parsley ; a winter one is com- 
posed of full-grown turnips cut small, old carrots cut small or grated, 
celery and onions sliced, dried peas — the green or blue sort are the best 
colours for this purpose. The peas will take much longer boiling than 
either meat or green vegetables. Put them in the liquor boiling, and 
let them boil an hour before the addition of meat, and the other vege- 
tables. The proportion is four pounds of meat to a gallon of stock, 
and two quarts of vegetables. Boil the meat and vegetables between 
two and three hours, slow boiling, with the lid on. If you add green 
peas or asparagus tops among the vegetables, keep out nearly all of 
them till within half an hour of sending them to table; then let them 
aoil fast till tender. Season with salt and pepper, and serve all to- 
gether. Some people make it of brisket of beef, and add a bunch 
of sweet herbs. The beef will require stewing longer. A leg of 
beef, cut in pieces, and stewed six or seven hours, with carrots and 
the other ingredients, makes very good soup. A little small beer is 
in improvement to all brown soups. 

69. Fish Broth. — Thick-skinned fish, and those which have gluti- 
nous, jplly-like substances, are the best. The liquor which eels have 
jeen boiled in is good enough of itself, as they require but little water. 
The liquor in which turbot or cod has been boiled, boil again, with 
the addition of the bones. If purposely made, small eels, or grigs, 
or flat fish, as flounders, soles, plaice or dabs, or the finny parts of 
cod, will do for the purpose. A pound offish to three pints of water ; 
add peppercorns, a large handful of parsley, and an onion ; and boil 
till reduced to half. A spoonful of catsup, or vinegar, is an improve- 
ment. This broth is very nourishing and easy of digestion ; but for a 
sick person, leave out the catsup or vineo-ar. 

70. Cock-a-leeky Soi/p. — Take a small knuckle of veal, and a large 
fowl, or a scrag of mutton instead of veal. An old fowl will do. Add 
three or four large leeks, cut in pieces of half an inch long. Simmer 
in three quarts of good broth for an hour. Then add as many more 
leeks, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil three-quarters 
of an hour longer, and serve all together. The leeks which are put 



40 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in first, is with the intention of thickening the soup ; and those which 
hre put in last, should retain their form and substance. 

71. Scotch Brose, or Crowdy. — Take half a pint of oatnneal ; put 
it before the fire, and frequently turn it till it is perfectly dry and of a 
light brown. Take a ladle-full of boiling water, in which fat meat 
has been boiled, and stir it briskly to the oatmeal, still adding more 
liquor till it is brought to the thickness desired, which is about that 
of a stiff batter; a little salt and pepper may be added, if the liquor 
with which it was made was not salt. Kale brose is the same thing, 
but with the addition of greens, cut small, and boiled in the liquor. 

72. Pease Soup.- -Put a quart of split peas to three quarts of 
boiling water, not m.ore (Dr. Kitchiner says cold water,) with half a 
pound of bacon, not very fat, or roast beef bones, or four anchovies; 
or, instead of water, the liquor in which beef, mutton, pork or poultry, 
has been boiled ; it will be very much better, but taste the liquor, as it 
must not be loo salt. Wash two heads of celery, cut small (half a 
drachm of celery seed, pounded finp, and put into the soup, a quarter 
of an hour before it is finished, will flavour three quarts,) two onions 
peeled, and a sprig of savoury, or sweet marjoram, or lemon thyme. 
Let it simmer very gently, stirring it every quarter of an hour, to 
keep the peas from sticking to or burning at the bottom of the pot. 
Simmer till the peas are tender, which will be in about three hours. 
Some cooks now slice a head of celery and half an ounce of onions, 
and fry them in a little batter, and put them into the soup, till it is 
lightly browned ; then work the whole through a coarse hair sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve, or through a tamis, v^ith the back of a 
wooden spoon; then put it into a clean stew-pan, with a tea-spoonful 
of ground black pepper; let it boil again for ten minutes, and if any 
fat arises skim it off. Send up on a plate some toasted bread, cut into 
little pieces, an inch square; or cut a slice of bread (that has been 
baked two days) into dice, not more than half an inch f-quare ; put 
half a pound of quite clean dripping, or lard, into an iron frying-pan; 
when it is hot fry the bread ; takp care to turn the bread with a slice, 
that it may be of a delicate brown on both sides; take it up with a 
fish-slice, and lay it on a sheet of paper to drain the fat ; be careful 
that this is done nicely. Send them up in one side dish, and dried 
and powdered mint, or savoury, in another. The most economical 
method of making pease soup, is to save the bones of a joint of roast 
beef, and put them into the liquor in which mutton, or beef, or pork, or 
poultry, has been boiled, and proceed as in the first receipt. A hock 
or shank bone of ham, a ham bone, tlie root of a tongue, or a red or 
pickled herring, are favourite additions with some people ; others send 
up rice or vermicelli with pease soup. Pease soup may be made sa- 
voury and agreeable to the palate, without any meat, by putting two 
ounces of fresh and nicely clarified beef, mutton, or pork dripping, 
with two ounces of oatmeal, and mix this well into a gallon of soup 
prepared with the peas and vegetables, according to the first receipt, 
or in water alone. 

73. Pease Soup and Pickled Pork. — Take two pounds of pickled 



SOUPS /V N D BROTHS, &C. 41 

pork, whicli will make very good brolh for pease soup; if the pork is 
too ealt, put it in water on the over-night. The pork should not be 
in salt more than two day?. Put on the articles, mentioned in the 
first receipt, in three quarts of water ; boil these gently for two hours; 
then put in the pork, and boil gently for an hour and a half, or two 
hours, according to the thickness of the pork ; when done, wash the 
pork clean in some hot water ; send it up in a dish, or cut it into little 
pieces, and put th' m into ihe tureen, with the toasted bread, &c., or 
as in the first receipt. The meat being boiled no longer than to be 
done enough to eat, you can get excellent soup without the expense 
of any other meat. 

74. Plain Pease Soup. — To a quart of split peas, and two heads of 
celery, and a large onion, put three quarts of broth, or soft water; let 
them simmer gently over a slow fire for three hours. Stir them up 
every quarLer of an hour, to prevent the peas sticking at the bottom 
of the pot, and burning. 

75. Spanish Soup. — Take about three pounds of beef, off the log 
or shin, with or without the bone — if with the bone, well crack it — a 
pound of knuckle of ham, or gammon. More than cover them with 
water, and when it boils skim it, and add a tea-spoonful of pepper. 
The ham will probably make it suflSciently salt — if not, add a little. 
Let this simmer by the side of the fire until it is three parts done, 
which will take two hours and a half. And then v.'ell wash some 
cabbage plants, or small summer cabbage ; cut these into small pieces, 
also onions cut small; a tea-cup full of rice, with a bit of eschalot; 
put these in the saucepan, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour or 
twenty minutes, until the rice is boiled enough. Then take it from 
the fire; separate the meat, vegetables, and rice, from the soup, and 
eat the soup before the meat. Separate the meat from the bones, and 
mix it with the vegetables. If the plants are too strong, scald them 
before putting them in the saucepan. In the summer, a few young 
peas make a great improvement. Leeks are better than onions, as 
you can have more in quantity of vegetables. The Spaniards use 
garlic. This will dine a family of seven or eight people. 

76. Chicken Broth. — Chicken bones, and the heads and feet, make 
a basin of good broth, provided the fowls have been boiled, and the 
liquor used instead of water. The heads and feet of four fowls may 
be boiled in a quart of water, with the addition of an onion and a blade 
of mace, a little pepper and salt. Chicken broth may be enriched 
by the addition of a knuckle bone of veal, a bit of beef, or three or 
four shank bones of mutton. 

77. Mutton Broth. — Scrags of mutton, or sheeps' heads, make a 
very good family dinner. Two or three scr;igs of mutton, or two 
sheeps' heads, may be put on in a two-gallon pot; when it boils, skim 
it well, then add six ounces of Scotch or pearl barley, or rice; let it 
boil an hour or more; then add eight or ten turnips, three or four car- 
rots, cut up, and four or five onions. Half an hour before serving, put 
in a few small suet dumplings, a little parsley, and a few marigold 
blossoms. This broth should boil two hours and a half, or three hours. 



42 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

The knuckle of a shoulder of mutton answers very well in this man- 
tier. Serve the meat on a separate dish, and the broth, dumplings, 
and vegetables, all too-ether in a large tureen. 

78. Mutton Chop Broth. — Cut the chops from a neck or loin of 
mutton; cut as mucli as is required into thin chops; put them in a 
stew-pan, Vvilh an dnion or two, a little salt, and cold water enough 
to cover them. Skim well when it boils, and let it stew slowly three- 
quarters of an hour, or an hour. Turnips may be boiled in thisliquor, 
or boiled separately, and mashed. Serve the broth and meat to- 
gether. In broth intended for invalids, the vegetables and spice 
should be left out. 

79. Soup and Bonilli. — For the bouilli, roll five pounds of brisket 
of beef tight with a tape, put it into a stew-pan; four pounds of the 
leg of beef; about seven or eight quarts of water ; boil these up quick ; 
scum it; add one large onion, six or seven cloves, some whole pep- 
per, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, two heads of celery ; 
stew them very gently, closply covered, for six or seven hours; about 
an hour before dinner, strain the soup through a piece of flannel (put 
the rough side upwards,) or a hair sieve; have ready boiled carrots 
and turnips sliced, spinach, a little chervil, and sorrel, two heads of 
endive, one or tv;o of celery, cut in pieces. Put the soup into a tu- 
reen. The carrots and turnips in separate dishes; add a little salt 
and cayenne to the soup. Take the tape from the bouilli very care- 
fully, and serve in a dish. A leg or shin of beef, with a piece of fat 
beef, will answer the purpose. 

80. A Cheap Soup. — Two pounds of lean beef, six onions, six po- 
tatoes (parboiled,) one carrot, one turnip, half a pint of split peas, four 
quarts of water, some whole pepper, a head of celery, a red herring; 
when boiled, rub through a coarse sieve, add spinach and celery 
boiled, dried mint, and fried bread. 

81. Veal Soup. — Cut the meat off in thin slices; put the meat in a 
large jug or jar; put to it a bunch of sweet herbs, half an ounce of 
almonds, blanched, and beat fine ; pour on it four quarts of boiling 
water; cover it close, and let it stand all night by the fire; the next 
day, put it into an earthen vessel; Jet it stew very slowly till it is re- 
duced to two quarts; take off the scum as it ri^es wliilt^ boiling, and 
let it stand to settle; then pour it clear off, and put it into a clean 
saucepan ; mix with three ounces of either boiled rice or vermicelli. 

82. Calf a Head Soup. — Take a calf's head, wash it clean, stew 
it with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, mace, 
pearl barley, and Jamaica pepper; when it is very tender, put to it 
some stewed celery ; season it with pepper ; and serve it with the 
head in the middle. 

83. Giblct Soup. — The most economical way is to take a pound or 
two of beef skirts, or of knuckle of veal; cut it into pieces two or 
three inches square; a set of goose giblets, or four sets of ducks', or 
the head, neck, and feet, of a turkey or two, or of six or eight fowls; 
all of these are good, either separate or together. Clean them well, 
split the heads, cut the gizzards across, crack the pinions and feet 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, & C 43 

bones. Put all together into a stew-pan, with an ounce of butter; the 
red part of two or three carrots cut up, two or three onions sliced, and 
a clove or two of eschalots. Shake it over a clear slow fire a few 
minutes, to draw the gravy, then add water or broth enough to cover 
the whole ; let it simmer two hours or more, then season with salt 
and p'-'pper, and a large spoonful of catsup, and serve all together. It 
may be thickened with rice or barley, which should be added as soon 
as it boils. — A more expensive way : Prepare the giblets as above 
and set them on with good gravy, enough to cover them ; tie in a 
muslin bag an onion or two, a small bundle of sweet herbs, a few 
leaves of sweet basil, and twenty corns of allspice, the san)e of black 
pepper. Let it simmer till the giblets are tender, then take them out 
and cover up close while you thicken the gravy ; remove also the bag 
of spice and herbs. Make some force meat balls as follows: when 
the livers are done enough to chop fine, take them out or part of them, 
pound th^^m fine with half their weight in butter, and the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs; season with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, sage, and 
onions, scalded and chopped very fine, and also a leaf or two of sweet 
basil. Mix with half a tea-cup full of bread crumbs, wet with tho 
yolk of an egg, and make up into little balls with a little flour. Hav- 
ing removed tht giblets, thicken the soup with butter and flour, and 
when it boils add the balls ; let them simmer a quarter of an liour, 
then add a glass of wine, a large table-spoonful of catsup, and the 
juice of half a Seville orange or lemon. Put in the giblets to warm 
through, and it is ready. 

84. Kitchiner^s cheap Soup. — Wash in cold water four ounces 
of Scotch barley, and put into five qjarts of water, with four ounces 
of sliced onions; boil gently one hour, and pour it into a pan; then 
put into a saucepan from one to two ounces of fresh beef or mutton 
dripping. Dripping for this purpose should be taken out of the pan 
as fast as it drips from the meat ; if suffered to remain in the pan it 
is apt to become rancid. If no dripping is at band, melted suet will 
do, or two or three ounces of fat bacon minced fine. When melted 
in the saucepan, stir into it four ounces of oatmeal, and rub them 
together until they become a soft paste. Then add, by degrees, a 
spoonful at a time, the barley broth, stirring it well together till it 
boils. For seasoning, put in a tea-cup or basin a drachm of celery or 
cress seed, or half a drachm of each, and a quarter of a drachm of 
cayenne, finely powdered, or a drachm and a half of black pepper 
finely powdered, or half allspice; mix them smooth with a little of 
the soup; then stir it into the rest; simmer it gently another quarter 
of an hour, season with salt, and it is ready. The flavour may be 
varied by any variety of herbs, or thickening with garlic or eschalot 
instead of celery ; a larger portion of onions, or carrots and turnips, 
or rice, or paste, instead of oatmeal or barley. 

85. Soup Maigre. — Divide two or three heads of celery, two large 
carrots, three or four moderate-sized turnips^ some onions, two young 
lettuces, a handful of spinach leaves, and a little sorrel. Cut the 
Worst half of the vegetables in small pieces, and put them into the 



^4 T II E C O M r L E T E C O O K. 

6tew-pan with three ounces of butter; let them fry till the vegetables 
are brown and the butter absorbed; put a gallon of boil in o- water info 
the pan; when it boils fnst, skim it well, stir in a little flour, and 
add some stale crust of bread ; put in two doz^n of black peppers, and 
the same of allspice, with two or three blades of mace ; let it simmer 
for an hour and a half, then set it aside for a quarter of an hour, then 
strain it off very gently, so as not to disturb the settlings at the bot- 
tom of the stew-pan, Vv'hich clean. When the soup has stood two 
hours, pour it back again, avoiding to disturb any sediment, if any 
should escape from the first draining. Cut up the remainder of the 
vegetables and boil thern in water five minutes, then drain them, and 
when the soup again boils, add tliem to it, and let it simmer till they 
are tender, which will be about three-quarters of an hour ; season 
with salt, cayenne, and a table-spoonful of catsup. If green peas are 
in season, the liquor in which they have been boiled, added to the 
soup, is a great improvement. 

86. Mock Turtle. — Have the head and broth ready for the soup 
the day before it is to be eaten; it will take eight hours to prepare it 
properly. Get the calf's head with the skin on, the fresher the better, 
take out the brains and wash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak in spring water for an hour, then lay it in the stew-pan, 
cover it with cold water, and half a gallon over; as it becomes warm 
a great deal of scutn will rise, which must be immediately removed; 
let it boil gently for one hour, then take it up. When almost cold 
cut the head into pieces about an inch and a half long and an inch 
and a quarter broad ; the tongue into mouthfuls, or rather make a 
side dish of the tongue and brains. When the head is taken out, put 
in about five pounds of knuckle of veal, and as much beef; add to the 
stock all the trimmings and bones of the head; skim it well, then 
cover it close, let it boil five hours; reserve two quarts of this to 
make gravy sauce, then strain it ofi^ Ind let it stand till the next 
morning; then take off" the fat, put a large stew-pan on the fire, with 
half a pound of good fresh butter, twelve ounces of onions sliced, four 
ounces of green sage chopped; let these fry one hour; rub in half a 
pound of flour by degrees, add your broth till it is the thickness of 
cream ; season it with a quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of black pppper, ground very fine, salt to j'our taste, 
add the rind of one lem,/n peeled very thin; let it simmer very gently 
for one hour and a half, then strain it through a hair sieve, do not rub 
your soup to get it through the sieve or it will make it grouty ; if it 
do not run through easily, knock a wooden spoon against the side of 
the sieve; put it into a clean stew-pan with the head, and season by 
adding, to each gallon of soup, half a pint of wine, Madeira, or claret 
if you wish it dark; two table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, the same of 
catsup, one of essence of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, or 
a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, the peel of a lemon pared very thin. 
Let it simmer gently till the meat is tender; this may take from half 
an hour to an hour ; take care that it is not over-done ; stir it fre- 
quently to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the stew-pan ; 



SOUPS AND B 11 O T II S , ^C 45 

K'len the meat is quite done, take out the lemon peel, and the soup 
is ready. Serve with force meat staffing-, or balls. 

87. Carrot Soup. — Wash and scrape >ix large carrots, peel off the 
red outside (which is the only part used for this soup), put it into a 
fjrallon stew-pan, with one head of celery, and an onion cut into thin 
pieces; take two quarts of veal, beef, or mutton broth, put the broth 
to the roots, cover the stew-pan close, and set it on a slow stove for 
two hours and a half, when the carrots will be soft enough ; put in a 
tea-cup full of bread crumbs, boil for two or three minutes, rub it 
through a tamis, or hair sieve, with a wooden spoon, add broth, and 
make it nearly as thick as pease soup; season it with a little salt, and 
send it up with some toasted bread, cut into pieces half an inch 
square. The celery and onions should be sliced and fried in butter, 
or nicely clarified dripping, and then put in the stew-pan and the 
broth added to it. Or thus : Put some beef bones with four quarts of 
liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large 
onions, a turnip, pepper and salt, into a stew-pan, and stew for three 
hours; have ready six large carrots scraped, and cut thin ; strain the 
soup on them, stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve, 
or a coarse cloth ; then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as 
thick as pease soup. Make the soup the day before it is to be used; 
add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yel- 
low. The soup is better made with a shin of beef. 

88. Curry or Midligalawny Soup. — Cut four pounds of a breast 
of veal into pieces about two inches long and one inch broad ; put the 
trimmings into a stew-pan with two quarts of water, with twelve 
corns of black pepper, and the same of allspice; when it boils skim it 
clean, and let it boil an hour and a half; then strain it off; while it 
is boiling, fry of a nice brown in butter the bits of veal, and four 
onions; when they are done put the broth to them, put it on the fire; 
when it boils skim it clean, let it simmer half an hour, then mix two 
spoonfuls of curry, and the same of flour, with a little cold water, and 
a tea-sDoonful of salt; add these to the soup, and simmer it till the 
veal ia quite tender, and it is ready ; or bone a couple of fowls or rab- 
bits, and stew them the same as veal, and you may put in a bruised 
eschalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of black pepper and all- 
spice. The fowls and rabbits should be cut into joints, and fried of a 
nice brown in some batter. 

89. Eel Soup. — To make a tureen full, take two middling sized 
onions, cut them in half, and cross your knife over them two or three 
-.imes; put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan; when it is melted, 
put in the onions, stir them in the pan till they are of a light brown; 
cut into pieces three pounds of un.-kinned eels, put them into your 
stew-pan, and shake them over the fire for five minutes; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and when they boil, take the scum off 
very clean, and then put in a quarter of an ounce of the green leaves 
(not dried) of winter savoury, the same of lemon-thyme, and twice 
the quantity of parsley, two drachms of allspice, the same of black 
pepper ; cover it close, and let it boil gently for two hours, skina it 

4 



46 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

clean and strain it off. To thicken it, put three ounces of butter into 
a clean stew-pan ; when it is melted stir in as much flour as wi/I 
make it of a thick paste, then add the liquid by decrees, let it simmer 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve, then put your soup on m 
a clean stew-pan, and have ready some little square pieces of fried 
fish of nice light brown — either eels, soles, plaice, or skate, win do, 
the fried fish should be added about ten minutes before the soup ia 
served up. Force meat balls are sometimes added. Excellent fish- 
soup may be made of cod's head, or skate, or flounders, boiled in no 
more water than will cover them, and the liquor thickened wim 
oatmeal, &c. 

90. Gourd Soup should be made of full-grown gourds, but not 
those that have hard skins ; slice three or four, and put them into a 
stew-pan with two or three onions and a good bit of butter, set them 
over a slow fire till quite tender, be careful not to let them burn; 
then add two ounces of crust of bread, and two quarts of good con- 
somme, season with salt and cayenne pepper; boil ten minutes or a 
quarter of an hour, skim off all the fat, and pass it through a tamia 
when quite hot. Serve up with fried bread. 

91. Game Soup. — In the game season it is easy to make very good 
soup at a little expense, by taking all the meat off the breasts of any 
cold birds that have been left on the preceding day, and pound it in a 
mortar; beat to pieces the legs and bones, and boil in some broth for 
an hour; boil six turnips, and mash them and strain them through a 
tamis cloth, with the meat that has been pounded in a mortar; strain 
your broth and put a little of it at a time into the tamis to help you 
to strain all of it through. Put your soup kettle near the hre, but ao 
not let it boil. When ready to dish your dinner, have six yolks or 
eggs mixed with half a pint of cream, then strain it through a sieve; 
put your soup on the fire, and as it is coming to boil, put in the eggs, 
and stir it well with a wooden spoon. Do not let it boil, or it will 
curdle. 

92. Turnip and Parsnip Soups are made the same as carrot soup. 

93. Celery Soup — Split six heads of celery into slips about two 
inches long; wash them well, lay them on a hair sieve to drain, and 
put them into three quarts of gravy soup in a gallon soup pot; set it 
by the side of the fire to stew very gently till the celery is tender — 
this will take about an hour; if any scum rises, take it off. Season 
it with a little salt. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm 
of the seed pounded fine may be considered as the essence of celery, 
which may be had very cheap, and can be bought at any season ; put 
this in about a quarter of an hour before the soup is done, and a little 
sugar will give as much flavour to half a gallon of soup as two heads 
of celery — or add a little essence of celery. 

94. Lamb Stew. — Take a lamb's head and lights, and wash them ; 
remove all the bones and skin from the nose, put them in the pot with 
some beef stock made with three quarts of water and two pounds of 
shin of beef, strained ; boil very slowly for an hour, wash and string 
two or three good handfuls of spinach, put it in twenty minutes before 



SOUPS AND BROTHS, <fec. 47 

eerving, add one or two onions and a little parsley a short time before 
it comes off the lire ; season with salt and pepper, and it is ready. 
Serve all together in a tureen. 

95. Hare, Rabbit, or Partridge Soup. — When hares and rabbits 
and other game are too tough to eat (in the ordinary way of cooking,) 
they will make very good soup. Cut off the legs and shoulders of a 
hare, divide the body crossways, and stew very gently in three quarts 
of water, with one carrot, about one ounce of onions, two blades of 
pounded mace, four cloves, twenty-four black peppers, and a bundle 
of sweet herbs; stew it till the hare is tender. Most cooks add to the 
above two slices of ham or bacon, and a bay leaf, but the hare makes 
sufficiently savoury soup without this addition. The time this will 
take depends upon the age and time it has been kept before it is 
dressed ; as a general rule, about three hours. Make a dozen and a 
half of force meat balls, as big as nutmegs. When hare is tender, 
take the meat off the back and upper joints of the legs; cut it into 
mouthfuls, and put on one side ; cut the rest of the meat off the legs, 
shoulders, &c., mince it and pound it in a mortar with an ounce of 
butter, and two or three table-spoonfuls of flour moistened with a little 
sonp ; rub this through a hair sieve, and put it into the soup to thicken 
it; let it simmer for half an hour longer, skim it well, and put it 
through the tamis in the pan again; put the meat in, a glass of port 
or claret wine, with a table-spoonful of currant jelly to each quart of 
soup. Season it with salt ; put in the force meat balls, and when all 
is hot, the soup is ready. 

96. Portable Soup. — The fresher the meat is from which this 
article is made the better. Shins or legs of beef answer very well, 
and you may add trimmings of fresh meat, poultry, or game, and the 
liquor in which a leg of mutton, or a knuckle of veal, has beenboiled. 
No salt, on any account, must be used. If you have a digester, it 
should be used for this article, in preference to a closely covered stew- 
pan, but the latter will do. Just cover the meat with cold liquor, and 
let an hour at least be occupied in coming to boil. Skim it, and 
throw in cold water two or three times, for the purpose of throwing 
up the scum, which must be carefully removed. When thoroughly 
cleared of the scum, close the vessel, and let it boil for eight or ten 
hours. Strain through a hair sieve into an eartiienware pan, and let 
the liquor cool. The meat will do for potting. Every particle of fat 
must be removed from the top, and the gravy put into a well-tinned 
copper stew-pan, taking care that the sediment is separated from it; 
put in two drachms of whole black pepper, and let it boil briskly with 
the lid off over a quick fire. The scum, if any, should of course be 
removed. When it becomes very thick, and is reduced to about a 
quart, put it into a smaller stew-pan, set it over a gentle fire, and let 
it simmer till reduced to the consistence of very thick syrup. It must 
now be watched every moment. Take out a few drops on a cold 
spoon or plate ; if it soon sets into a stiff jelly, it is done enough. If 
not, boil it a little longer till it does. Have ready some small pota 
with lids, such as are used for potting meat : or it mav be poured cut 



48 THE C O M r L E T E COOK. 

on a large flat dish, so as to bo a quarter of an inch deep: when cold, 
turn it out, and, with a paste cutter, divide into squares of half an ounce 
or an ounce each. Or pour it into the round partsof basin? or cups turned 
upside down. Put thern in a warm room, and turn thom frequently 
for eight or ten days, then they will be thoroughly dry and hardened 
like t'-lue. Put them in a til. box, or a glass case, in a dry place, and 
t(.^•y will keep tor years. If ai any time tlie surface appears mouldy, 
wi[)u it off, or the taste will penetrate the mass. The chief use of 
this article is in country places, or at sea, where fresh meat cannot 
be obtained. A basin of broth, soup or gravy of any strength, may be 
had in five minutes, by dissolvmg one or more of these cakes in boil- 
ing water; any flavouring ingredients may be added at pleasure. See 
Flavouring. 

97. Green Turtle Sovp. — This recipe has been collated from the 
best authorities, to wiiich is added our own experience. The day be- 
fore you wish to serve up the soup it will be necessary to cut off the 
head of your turtle, and place it in a positio"- to allow all the blood to 
be drained from it. The next morning open t.' e turtle, being careful to 
do so without breaking the gall. After cutting all around the upper 
and lower shell, drain the water off, divide the meat in small pieces, 
and wash clean and carefully. Then put the shells in a large pot of 
boiling water, where you let them remain until you find they separate 
from the flesh readily; but no longer, as the softer parts must be 
boiled again. Keep the liquor and stew the bones thoroughly; after 
which it is to be used for moistening the broth. The flesh of the in- 
terior parts, and the four legs and head, must be cooked in r!ie follow- 
ing manner. Mask the bottom of a large stew-pan v.'ith slices of ham, 
over which lay two or three knuckles of veal, according to the size 
of the turtle; and over the veal place the inside flesh of the turtle, co- 
vering the whole with the other parts of the turtle. Add to it about 
a gallon of the liquor in which the bones were stewed, and place on 
the fire until thoroughly done, which you must ascertain by sticking 
your knife into the fleshy part of the meat; and if no blood issue 
from it, add another gallon of the liquor. Then throw in a bunch of 
the stalks of sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, bay leaves, savoury, com- 
mon thyme, and sweet basil ; also a handful of parsley and green 
onions, and a large onion stuck wilh cloves, and a few orains of pep- 
per. Let the Vv'hole stew until thoroughly done, say from three to 
four hours. The leaves of the herbs are to be used for making a sauce, 
to be described hereafter. When the larger portions of the turtle are 
done, place them aside to be used when wanted. When the flesh is 
also thoroughly done, drain on a dish, and make a white thickening 
very thin, and add to it through a tamis some portion of the liquor 
of the bones, and place on the fire until it boils ; and, having arrived 
at the proper consistency, neither too thick nor too thin, set the stew- 
lan on the side of the stove, and skim off all the white scum and fat 
that arises to the surface. Then cut the softer parts — green fat and 
white meat-— into dice of about an inch square (without any waste,) 
and add to the sauce, which must be allowed to simmpr gently unli 



BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE, &:C. 49 

sufficiently done, when it must be taken off, at the same time skim- 
fliiug it carefully. Then take the leaves of the sweet basil, sweet 
marjoiaru, lemon thyme, conmion thyme and winter savoury, together 
with a handful ot parfciey, some green onions, a large onion cut in 
four pieces, Vvilh a few leaves of mace ; put the whole in a stew-pan 
with a quarter of a pound of butter. Let this simm.er on a slow fire 
until melted, and add a bottle of Madeira and a small lump of sugar, 
and boil gently for an hour. Then rub it through a tamis, and add 
to your sauce, which you must boil until no white scum arises; then 
with a skimmer drain out all the bits of turtle, and put them into a 
clean stew-pan, and pass the sauce through a tamis into the stew- 
pan containing the turtle, and proceed as follows. Take out the fleshy 
part of a leg of veal, say about one pound, scrape off all the meat 
without leaving any of the fat or sinews in it, and soak in about the 
same quantity (one pound) of crumbs of bread, which, when well 
soaked, squeeze and put into a mortar with the veal, a small quantity 
of calfs udder, a little butter, the yolks of four eggs hard boiled, a lit- 
tle cayenne pepper, salt and spices, and pound the whole very fine. 
Then thicken the mixture with two whole eggs, and the yolk of a 
third ; and, to try its consistency, put it in boiling hot water; if you 
find it too thin, add the yolk of another egg. When it is perfected, 
take one half of it, and add some chopped parsley. Cook it and roll 
into balls the size of the yolk of an egg ; poach them in boiling wa- 
ter with a little salt. Th^ other half must be made also into balls, 
and place the whole on a sieve to drain. Before serving your soup, 
squeeze the juice of two or three lemons, with a little cayenne pep- 
per, and pour it into the soup. The fins maybe served as a side dish, 
with a little turtle sauce. VVhen lemon juice is used, be careful that 
the lemons are good ; a musty lemon will spoil all the turtle, and 
too much will destroy its flavour. 

98. Irish Stew. — Take two pounds of potatoes; peel and slice, and 
parboil, and throw away the water; rather more than two pounds of 
mutton chops, either from the loin or neck; part of the fat should be 
taken off; beef two pounds, six large onions sliced, a slice of ham, or 
lean bacon, a spoonful of pepper, and two of salt. This stew may be 
done in a stew-pan over the fire, or in a baker's oven, or in a close 
covered earthen pot. First put a layer of potatoes, then a layer of 
meat and onions, sprinkle the seasoning, then a layer of potatoes, and 
again the meat and onions and seasoning; the top layer should be po- 
tatoes, and the vessel should be quite full. Then put in half a pin 
of good gravy, and a spoonful of mushroom catsup. Let the whol 
stew for an hour and a half; be very careful it does not burn. 

BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE AND GRAVIES. 

These articles are all nearly allied to each other, differing princi- 
pally in degrees of strength. In extensive establishments, a large 
quantity of stock, both brown and white, is constantly kept. Stocks 
are distinguished by the names of first stock, or long broth, — in the 
4* 



50 IIIECOMPLETE COOK. 

French kitchen, " le ^rand hoxdllori'' — second stock, in French, ^^jus 
de bceuf,'' — and jelly stock, in French, '^consomme.'' In preparing a 
regular dinner, they will all be tbnnd exceedingly useful. The ma- 
terials for the making of stocks will not cost much, if the cook does 
her duty. In such case, she will take great care of all the trimmings 
of meat, and the necks, heads, gizzards, feet, &c., of game and poul- 
try. Boiled and roast meat gravy not used ought to be carefully 
collected and kept. The author of " The Housekeeper'' s Guide,'''* 
says, " We should recommend the cook when she sets away after the 
dinner the meat on clean dishes, to collect in one basin every drop of 
roast meat gravy; in another, every drop of boiled meat gravy ; and 
in anonuT, every little bit of trimming of dressed meat, and pour over 
It some hot liquor, in which meat has been boiled, or i)Ot water. Next 
morning, when she prepares meat for dressing, let her collect all the 
little trimming bits, and boil them with the liquor and bits set by the 
day before. This may be done before the fire is wanted tor other 
pui poses. Thus she will always have gravy in store for every emer- 
gency. Then if she have white sauce to prepare, such as celery or 
oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or caper t-auce, the cold boiled meat 
gravy (which she will most likely find a stiff jelly) will form an ex- 
cellent basis for it, much more rich and relisliing than water. If she 
M'ants good brown gravy for roast meat, or fried, the cold roast meat 
gravy will enrich and colour the stock or store gravy, with the addi- 
tion of any flavouring that may be required. Good managers, who 
attend to this every day, do not know what it is to be distressed for 
gravy, or running to the butcher's for gravy beef." The cook, we 
must add, should be careful to have her broth or stock clear, and 
devoid of fat, which, eaten by itself, that is, unincorporated with 
farinaceous or vegetable substances, is very indigestible, yielding 
little or no nourishment, but when so incorporated, fat becomes very 
nutritious and wholesome — more so indeed, according to some writers, 
than lean meat. 

99. First Stock, or Beef Broth, cfc. — Wash a leg or shin of beef 
very clean ; let the butcher crack the bone in two or three places, 
and take out the marrow; add meat trimmings, and heads, necks, 
gizzards, feet, &c., of game and poultry ; cover them with cold water ; 
watch and stir up well, and the moment the simmering commences 
skim it very clear of all the scum. Then add some cold water, which 
will make the remaining scum rise, and skim it again. No'fat should 
enter into the composition of broth of this description, nor indeed of 
any other, unless incorporated with meal by way of thickening. 
Stock should be quite clear and limpid. When the surface of the 
broth is quite clear, put in carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, accord- 
ing to the quantity. Some persons direct one moderate sized carrot, 
a head of celery, two turnips, and tvv'o onions. But this is a very 
poor criterion as to the quantity which ought to be used of these 
vegetables, which differ so much in size. No taste of sweet herbs, 
spice, &c., should be given to the stock. After the vegetables are 
added, cover it close, and set it by the side of the fire, and let it sim- 



BROTHS OR STOCKS, GLAZE, &, C . 51 

mer very g-ently, not wasting- the broth, for four or five hours, or 
more, according- to the weight of the meat. Strain throuoh a sieve 
into a clean, dry stone pan, and put it in a coid place, for use. This 
is the basis for all sorts of soup and sauce, whether brown or whiter 
The meat n)ay be used for immediate food, or for making potted beef 
— that is, if it be not overdone to rags. 

100. The following method has been adopted in the kitchen of thn 
reviser tor several years past, and is inserted as being more concise 
than the English plan : — Put in a large boiler, of the capacity of six 
or seven gallons, two large skins of beef; a small piece of the rump 
of about five pounds; five gallons of water, and two handsfj of salt; 
place the pot on the fire, and before it commences to boil, and whilst 
boiling, skim it carefully and frequently, adding a little cold water to 
bring up the scum completely. When you find no more scum rising 
to the top, add three large carrots, three turnips, and three onions 
with six cloves stuck in them (that is, two cloves in each onion), and 
let it boil for four or five hours. Before usin^ it, skim all the fat oflf 
tije top, and strain it through a double sieve. If the beef is to be used, 
let it be taken out of the pot when cooked, and pour over it a little of 
the top of the broth, to keep it moist until it may be wanted, when 
you can serve it with such sauce as you may fancy. For a family it 
will be necessary to make the broth about once a week, but great 
care should be taken to keep a portion always on hand. 

101. Second Stock may be made from the meat left after straining 
the fi-rst stock (AY, by covering it with water, and by letting it go on 
boiling for four or five hours. This stock will produce good glaze, or 
portable soup (see ;il6). 

102. Glaze is a strong gravy boiled as quick as possible till it 
/hickens, as directed in braising (see 816). 

103. Beef Gravy, sometimes called second stock, or in French jus 
de bceuf, is thus made : — Take a slice of good lean ham, or lean bacon, 
four or five pounds of gravy beef, cut into eight or ten pieces, a car- 
rot, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, and a head of celery. Cover 
the bottom of a clean well-tinned stew-pan with these things, putting 
in the ham first, and then put a pint of stock, or water; cover close; 
set over a moderate fire till the water is so reduced as to just save 
the ingredients from burning, then turn it all about and letit brown 
slightly and equally all over. You must put in three quarts of boiling 
water just at the moment the meat has obtained its proper colour; 
if it is suffered to burn, the gravy will have a bad taste, and if the 
water is put in too soon the gravy will want flavour. When it boils 
up, skim carefully and clean the sides of the stew-pan with a cloth. 
The gravy ought to be delicately clean and clear. Set it by the side 
of a fire, and stew gently for about four hours; strain through a tamis 
sieve, skim it carefully, and put it in a cold place. If well managed, 
that is, not boiled too fast, it will yield two quarts of good gravy. 

104. Gravy for Roast Meat. — Take the trimmings off the joint 
you are about to cook, which will make half a pint of plain gravy. 
Colour by adding a few drop;? of burnt sugar. If you do not wish to 



52 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

make gravy in this way, about half an hour before the meat is done 
mix a salt-spoonful of salt with a full quarter of a pint of boiling 
water : drop this by degrees on the brown parts of the meat, set a 
dish under to catch it, and set it by ; the meat will soon brown again. 
When the gravy you have made is cold take the fat from the surface, 
and when the meat is done, warm up the gravy and put it in the dish. 
Or you may make good browning for roast meat by saving the brown 
bits of boiling or roast meat : cut them small, put them into a basin 
and cover them with boiling water, and put them away ; next put 
them into a saucepan and boil two or three minutes, then strain it 
through a sieve, and put by for use. When you want gravy for use 
put two table-spoonsful in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, with a 
little salt. If for roasted veal, put three table-spoonsful into half a 
pint of thin melted butter. The gravy which remains in the dish 
after the family has dined should be put by to enrich hashes or little 
made dishes. 

105. Gravy for Boiled Meat is nothing more than a tea-cup full 
of the liquor in which the meat has been boiled, carefully skimmed 
and free from fat. 

106. Gravy for Roast Veal. — Make in the same way as for any 
other roast meat, and make a tea-cup full of thick melted butter, or 
melt the butter in the gravy. The same gravy for target or loin of 
lamb. 

107. Rich brown Gravy for Poultry, Ragout, or Game. — If your 
stock or store gravy is poor, to enrich it add one pound of meat to one 
pint of your store gravy ; cut the meat clear from the bones, chop it 
up as fine as mince meat, chop also one ounce of ham, or gammon, 
unless you have by you the gravy that has settled in the dish from a 
ham. Lay at the bottom of the stew-pan one ounce of butter, an 
onion sliced, and the chopped meat ; cover it close, and set it on a 
clear, slow fire ; move it about to prevent it sticking. When the 
gravy draws, and the meat is rather brown, add by degrees the 
liquor ; when it boils, put in the bones of the meat, chickens' head 
and feet ; and when it boils again carefully skim it. Add a crust of 
bread toasted brown, a sprig of winter savoury, or lemon thyme and 
parsley, a dozen berries of allspice, a strip of lemon peel, and a dozen 
black peppercorns; cover it close and keep it boiling gently till it is 
reduced to half; when cold, take off all the fat and thicken it with 
the following thickening: Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan ; take 
out all the buttermilk that may be at the top, then sprinkle flour into 
it, shaking it all the time : make it a thick paste, and stir this into 
your gravy boiling. 

SAUCES. 

These are a very numerous class of condiments, particularly in 
French cookery. Foreigners say that the English have only one sauce 
(melted butter) for vegetables, fish, flesh, and all other eatables requir- 
ing sauce — and they add, with some truth, that they seldom make 



SAUCES. 53 

it o-ood. It certriinly is a very general sauce, botn m England and 
the United States ; and, therefore, we shall begin our recipes with 

108. Melted Butter cannot be made good with mere flour and 
water. Ur. Kitchiner says, that he has tried every way of making 
this sauco, nnd gives it a.s his opinion that the following, if carefully 
observed, uill be always found to give satisfaction: Cut two ounces 
of butter into little bits, put it into a clean stew-pan, Vv'ith a large tea- 
spoonful (^f flour, arrow-root, or potatoe starch, and add two table- 
spoonsful of milk ; when thoroughly mixed, add six table-spoonsful of 
water, hold it over the fire, and shake it round the same way every 
minute, till it begins to simmer; then let it boil up. This is a good 
recipe for melted butter where it is not intended to be used with acids 
or wine, which will have the effect of curdling the milk. Pure water 
is best when the melted butter is intended for fish and puddings, to 
which any mixture of wine is intended. Clear stock or gravy, instead 
of water, is preferable when it is intended to be eaten with roast meat, 
or for vegetables to be eaten with roast meat. The old-fashioned 
method of mixing is as good as the Doctor's. It is as follows : Break 
up the butter on a trencher, and work the flour into it thoroughly, 
then add it to the cold liquid in the saucepan ; or you may drop the 
flour, a quarter of an hour before it is set on the fire, on the top of 
the liquid, without stirring at all ; when the flour has all s-unk to the 
bottom, shake it round till the flour is well incorporated with the 
liquid ; then add the butter, and melt over a clear brisk tire. Fresh, 
rich cream is sometimes used instead of milk, water, or gravy. You 
should take care that your saucepan for melted butter be always well 
tinned, and kept delicately clean. Some recommend a silver sauce- 
pan ; but this seems to us to be a stupid piece of extravagance. Dr. 
Kitchiner, however, who talks a great deal about economy, gravely 
tells us that a pint silver saucepan will not cost more than four or 
five pounds ! iVIelted butter is frequently spoilt in the making ; for 
ordinary purposes it should be of the thickness of good cream, but 
when intended to be mixed with flavouring, it should be of the thick- 
ness of light batter. If by any chance it become oiled, put a spoonful 
of cold water to it, and stir it with a spoon, or pour it back and for- 
wards till it is right again. By mixing such vegetables as parsley, 
chervil, and others, generally eaten with melted butter, and sending 
them to the table on a little plate, those who like their flavour may 
mix for themselves. In the same way, all descriptions of flavouring 
essences, such as catsup, anchovy, &,c , &.C., may be mixed at table. 
This plan will be found to be a great saving in butter. 

109. Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, white Meat, Fish, or 
Vegetables. — You have no occasion to buy meat for these sauces, as 
their flavour is but small. The liquor that has boiled fowls, veal, or 
rabbit, or a little broth that you may have by you, or the feet and 
necks of chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will do very well. Stew 
with a little water any of these, add to it an onion sliced, a bit of le- 
mon peel, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, some w^hite peppercorns, 
and a bunch of sweet herb^^, until the flavour is good ; then strain it, 



54 THECOMFLETECOOK. 

and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt 
to your taste. A gqueezo of lemon may be added after the sauce is 
taken from the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is frequently used 
in fricassee, but if you have cream it is better, as the egg is apt to 
curdle. 

110. Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. — Boil two eggs hard, rub 
them down in a mortar with an anchovy, two dessert spoonfuls of oil, 
three of vinegar, an eschalot, cayenne (sometime?,) and a tea-spoon- 
fu! of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added; then 
strain it; eschalot vinegar instead of eschalots eats well; if so, omit 
one spoonful of the common vinegar: salt to your taste. 

111. A very rich Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Rabbits. — Pick, 
rub and wash a pint of young mushrooms, and sprinkle with salt to 
take off the skin. Put thein into a saucepan with a little salt, a 
blade of mace, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour: boil them up and stir till dotie, then pour it into the 
dish with the chickens ; garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh 
mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, with a little mushroom pow- 
der with the cream. 

112. Sauce for boiled Carp, or Boiled Turkey. — Make some melted 
butter with a little water and a tea-spoonful of flour, and add a quarter 
of a pint of. cream, half an anchovy not washed, chopped fine; set it 
over the fire, and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of Indian soy: 
if that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more; add a little 
salt, and half a lemon ; stir it well to prevent it curdling. 

113. Green Sauce for green Geese or Ducklings. — A glass of 
white wine, some scalded gooseberries, a pint of sorrel juice, some 
white sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up, and serve in a boat. 

114. Egg Sauce. — Boil the eggs hard, chop them fine, then put 
them into melted butter. 

115. Onion Sauce. — Take the skins off ripe onions, remove the 
rooty fibres and the tops, let them lie in salt and water an hour, then 
put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them till they are 
tender. You should allow them plenty of water. When tender, 
skin them, cut them exceedingly small, or rub them through a colan- 
der ; season them with pepper and salt, and mix with an equal quan- 
tity of thick melted butter. This sauce is usually eaten with shoulder 
or leg of mutton. If you wish it very mild, use the large silvery 
onions, and boil them in several waters. Onion sauce is also eaten 
with rabbits, boiled ducks, tripe, and sometimes with a scrag of mut- 
ton or veal. 

116. Apple Sauce. — Take four or five juicy apples, two table-spoon- 
fuls of cold water or cider; instead of putting the lid on, place the 
parings over the apples, and put them by a gentle fire. When they 
s'r.k they are done; remove the saucepan from the fire, and beat up 
Itie apples; take the parings from the top first, add a bit of butter^ a 
tea-spoonful of fine powdered sugar, and a dust of nutmeg. 

117. Gooseberry Sauce. — Scald half a pint of green gooseberries; 
do them till they are tender, but not broken ; drain them on a sieve ; 



SAUCES. 55 

when the liquor is cold, take half a pint of it, and make a thick batter 
of it, stir in the gooseberries with a little grated ginger and lemon 
peel. This sauce is sometime^; used for mackerel. 

118. Woio mow Sauce, for etewed beef or bouilli. Quarter and 
slice two or three pickled cucumbers or walnuts, or part of each, chop 
fine a handful of parsley, make some melted butter in half a pint of 
broth in which the beef is boiled, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard 
and a tables-spoonful of vinegar, and the same of port wine and mush- 
room catsup: let it simmer till thick, then stir in the parsley and 
pickles to get warm ; pour the whole over the beef, or put in a sauce 
tureen. The flavour may be varied by a tea-spoonful or two of any 
kind of the vinegars. 

119. Curry Sauce is made by putting a little powdered curry into 
Bome melted butter, or curry vinegar. 

120. Paisley and Butter. — Wash and pick leaf by leaf some pars- 
ley ; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil 
the parsley about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, 
and then bruise it to a pulp : put it into a sauce boat, and mix with it 
by degrees about half a pint of melted butter. Never pour parsley 
and butter over boiled things, but send up in a boat. 

121. Fennel and Butter for Mackerel is prepared in the same way 
as parsley and butter. 

122. Plum Pudding Sauce. — A glass of sherry, half a glass of 
brandy, cherry bounce or Cura9oa, or essence of punch, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of pounded lump sugar (a very little grated lemon peel is 
sometimes added,) in a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter : grate 
nutmeg on the top. 

123. Anchovy Sauce. — Pound three anchovies in a mortar with a 
bit of butter; rub it through a double hair sieve with the back of a 
wooden spoon, and stir it into about half a pint of melted butter, or stir 
in a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Many cooks add cayenne 
and lemon juice. 

124. Caper Sauce. — Take a table-spoonful of capers, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar; mince one-third of them very fine, and divide the 
others in half; put them in a quarter of a pint of melted butter, or 
good thickened gravy ; stir the same way as you do melted butter, or 
it will oil. Sometimes half a Seville orange or lemon or parsley, 
chervil, or tarragon, are added. 

125. Mock Caper Sauce. — Take French beans, gherkins, green 
peas, or nasturtiums, all pickled ; cut them into bits the size of capers ; 
put them into half a pint of melted butter; add two tea-spoonfuls of 
lemon juice or vinegar. 

126. Shrimp Sauce. — Shell a pint of shrimps, and stir into half a 
pint of melted butter ; a little cream makes a delicate addition. It is 
used with salmon, turbot, and soles. 

127. Oyster Sauce — Two dozen oysters will make half a pint of 
sauce, not more. Open the oysters, save all the liquor, perfectly free 
from bits of shell, scald the oysters in the liquor till they look plump, 
then take out the fish and add to the liquor two ounces of butter rolled 



56 THE C O BI r L E T E COOK. 

in flour, and two table-spoonfuls of cream ; boil it up. Take off the 
beards or fringy part of the oysters; if they are large, cut them in 
two; stir them in the butter, and set them by the fire for a minute or 
two, but do not let them boil, as it hardens them. 

128. Lobster &auce. — Choose a hen lobster, pick out all the spawn 
and red coral that runs down the back, pound it to a paste with a 
lump of butter, pull the meat of the back and claws to pieces with 
two fork?, stir the lobster into some boiling hot melted butter; keep 
it on the fire till the lobster is warmed through, and well mixed. 
You may add, if liked, catsup, lemon juice, cayenne, anchovy ; but the 
simple flavour of the lobster is best. A little cream is an improve- 
ment. 

129. Liver Sauce. — Sc^ld the liver, clear away all the fibres and 
specky parts, pound it in a mortar, with a bit of butter, then boil it up 
with melted butter ; season it with cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon 
juice. You may add catsup or anchovy. 

130. Bread Suv.ce is either made with gravy or milk. Stew the 
heads, necks, and feet of the poultry tor which it is intended, with an 
onion, a little allspice, and a few peppercorns; when reduced to half 
a pint, strain it and boil up again ; put in a small tea-cup full of bread 
crumbs, let it boil till quite stiff, hold it over the fire and shake it till 
it boils thoroughly, then put it on the hob till time to serve; stir in a 
bit of salt, one ounce of butter, and two ta.ble-«poonfuls of cream. 

131. Sauce for Tripe, Calf's-head, or Cow-heel. — Garlic vinegar 
according to taste, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, mustard and 
black popper a tea-sooonful of each, stirred into oiled melted butter. 
(See 466.) 

132. Celery Sauce. — Take fresh celery ; take off all the outside 
leaves, leave none but what are quite crisp, and which may be known 
by their breaking short without any strings, cut up in pieces about an 
inch long, take liquor that has boiled veal, ciiickens, or lamb, w-hcn 
fast boiling. 

133. Tarragon or Burnet makes rich pleasant sauce, chiefly used 
for steaks; sent to table in a sauce tureen. 

134. Sorrel Sauce for Lamb or Veal, and Sweet-breads. — Two 
quarts of sorrel leaves will not make more than a sauce tureen of 
sauce; pick and wash them clean, put them into a stew-pan with one 
ounce of butter, cover close and set over a slow fire for a quarter of 
an hour ; then rub them through a coarse hair sieve, season them v.'ith 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a small lump of sugar, squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon, and make the whole thoroughly hot. 

135. Poor Man''s Sauce. — A handfiil of young parsley leaves, 
chopped fine, a dozen of young green onions, chopped fine, put to 
them salt and pepper, two table-spoonftils of salad oil, and four of 
vinegar; a little scraped hor.se-radish, pickled French beans, or gher- 
kins, may be added. This sauce is taken with cold meats. 

136. Truffle Sauce. — Truffles are only good while in season, that 
u, in a green state. Add two ounces of butter to eighteen truffles 
sliced, simmer them together till they are tender ; then add as muck 



SAUCES. 57 

good gravy, brown or white, as to bring it to a proper thickness, sea- 
son it. with salt, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. 

137. Sharp Sauce for Venison. — Best white wine vinenrar half a 
pint, loaf sugar pounded a quarter of a pound ; simmer it gently ; skim, 
and -strdin it through a tamis. 

138. Sweet Sauce for Venison. — Currant jelly, either black or red, 
m.'lied and served hot; others like it sent to table as jelly. 

139. Wine Sauce for Venison, Hare, or Haunch of Mutton. — 
Take equal parts of rich mutton gravy, without any flavourings, and 
port wine. Simmer them together to half a pint, add a table-spoonful 
of currant jelly, let it just boil up. 

140. Sauce for a Pig. — Three quarters of a pint of good beef gravy, 
six or eight leaves of sage, chopped very fine, a blade of mace, a tea- 
cup full of bread crumb.?, and eight white peppercorns; let them boil 
six or eight minutes, then stir into the sauce the brains, gravy, and 
whatever sticks about the dish on which you have split the pig, one 
ounce of butter rolled in flour, tvvo table-spoonfuls of cream, and one or 
two of catsup, if liked ; simmer a minute or tvvo, and serve in a sauce 
tureen. 

141. Turtle Sauce. — To a pint of rich beef gravy, thickened, put 
a wine glass of Madeira, six leaves of basil, the juice and peel of half 
a lemon, a few grains of cayenne or curry powder, an eschalot sliced, 
a table spoonful of essence of anchovy; simmer together five minutes, 
then strain, and add a dozen turtle force meat balls. This sauce is 
used for calf s head, or hashed or stewed veal, or for any other rich 
dish in imitation of turtle. 

142. A Sauce for all sorts ofFish.—Hsdfa pint of port or claret, 
half a pint of rich gravy, a little nutmeg, three anchovies, two table- 
spoonfuls of catsup, and salt; simmer all together till the anchovies 
are done, then add three ounces of butter thickened with flour, arrow- 
root, or potatoe mucilage; when it boils, add some scraped horse- 
radish, a dozen or two of oysters, a lobster cut in bits, a few smai. 
mushrooms, and half a pint of picked shrimps or crawfish. This 
sauce is intended to pour over the fish — boiled carp, tench, pike, 
whiting, boiled cod, and haddock. 

lis!' Pudding Sauce. — Half a glass of brandy, one glass of white 
wine, a little grated rind of lemon, half an ounce of grated loaf sup-ar, 
and a little powdered cinnamon, mixed with melted butter. It is a 
good way to keep a bottle of these ingredients to mix with melted 
butter when wanted. In a bottle containing one pint of brandy and 
two pints of sherry, steep the kernels of apricots, nectarines, and 
peaches, with an ounce of shaved lemon rind, half an ounce of mace, 
and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; pour off" clear to mix with but- 
ter. Two table-spoonfuls will flavour a boat of sauce ; the mace and 
lemon peel may be steeped in half a pint of brandy, or a pint of sherry, 
for fourteen days ; strain, and add a quarter of a pint of capillaire. 

144. Custard Sauce. — For rice or other plain puddings, or with 
fruit pies, stir a pint of sweet cream in a double saucepan till it boils; 
beat the yolks of tv/o or three egg^, with a spoonful of cold cream, 
5 



58 T II E C O M P L E T E COOK. 

and an ounce of powdered sugar ; pour the boilinnf cream to theai, and 
pour backwards and forwards two or three limes to prevent cur-ilirtg ; 
then set the inner saucepan over the boiling water, and stir it con- 
tinually one way till it thickens. Serve in a china basin with grated 
nutmeg, or pounded cinnamon strewed over the top. 

145. Roe Sauce. — Boil the soft roes of mackerel, clear away all 
the skin, and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon; beat up 
the yolk of an egs with a little salt and pepper, a little fennel and 
parsley scalded and chopped fine, rub the whole together, and stir 
into melted butter. Some people prefer a spoonful of catsup, essence 
of anchovy, or walnut pickle. 

BOILING. 

As this is the most common mode of preparing food for human 
sustenance, it is therefore the more necessary that its principles 
should be well understood ; for though the operations of boiling may 
appear to be very simple, yet a great deal of skill and judgment is 
required to carry them into effect properly. We repeat, that the 
young cook ought to read attentively our observations upon this sub- 
ject, in the " Introductory Remarks." Instead of using the word 
boiling, we ought rather to have said, the mode of preparing meats 
for food by means of hot water; for we are quite convinced, that all 
meats are more or less injured by being subjected to a boiling heat; 
that is, a heat of 212° of Fahrenheit. We have dressed salt cod fish 
in water never exceeding 145° of heat, and it was much more tender, 
and better flavoured, than when dressed in boiling water: we ought 
to add, that the fish is required to remain in this partially hot water 
four or five hours, in which time it becomes divested of the salt, and 
eats, comparatively speaking, quite fresh. 

146. Take care that your vessel is large enough for the water to 
cover the meat, and to surround it. Do not suffer the steam to escape ; 
and to effect this, see that the lid of the vessel fits it as closely as 
possible ; by this means the water may be kept at a proper heat, that 
is to say, nearly simmering, but not bubbling, whereby fuel will be 
saved, and the meat much better dressed. In short, one of the 
greatest errors that can be committed in boiling meat, is to suffer the 
water to boil violently. It has the efiect of hardening the outside of 
the joints, or, in other words, making it tough, while the inside will 
be raw, or only partially done. 

147. Always prefer soft water to hard, whenever the former is to 
be procured. River, or clean rain water, should be used in preference 
to hard spring water; but your water must always be as pure and as 
bright as possible. 

148. In making up a fire for cooking, regard must be had as to 
whether it is intended for boiling or roasting, or for both. A moderate 
fire is best for boiling, but a brisk and somewhat fierce fire is required 
for roasting. If you are going to roast and boil at the same fire, you 
must take care that your boiling vessels are sufficiently far removed 



BOILING. 69 

from it. With a good kitchen range, or steam cooking apparatus, all 
this may be done without ditiiculty or trouble. 

149. All fresh meats are directed by the generality of culinary 
writers to be put into the pot, or saucepan, when the water is warm, 
not hot; but salt meat, for the most part, should be put in when the 
water is perfectly cold ; by this means the superfluous salt will be 
extracted from it. The pot should not, with fresh meat, be allowed 
to boil, or rather to arrive at the boiling point, under forty or fifty 
minutes; more time should be taken with salt meat. The usual 
direction is, as above, to put fresh meat into warm water — but we 
are convinced, that the better plan is always to use cold. Meat, 
thoroughly cooked, will take twenty minutes boiling to each pound. 
Salt, a little more. 

150. When the scum rises, let it be carefully removed; and if the 
heat of the water is checked with a small portion of cold water, it 
will throw up an additional scum, which must, of course, be also care- 
fully taken away. The scum rises just as the water is beginning to 
boil. The nice clear appearance of the meat, when done, in a great 
measure depends upon attending to the above directions. 

151. When the liquor in your vessel once boils, after all the scum 
has been cleared away, let it continue to simmer till the meat is done. 
From fifteen to twenty minutes is generally directed to be allowed 
for each pound of meat, but twenty is better. Never stick your fork 
into meat, whether boiling or roasting, upon any account; the effect 
will be to let out the gravy. Bacon is an exception. 

152. Meats of any description, just killed, and still warm, whether 
to be roasted or boiied, will do as soon, and eat as tender, as meat 
which has hung the usual time ; but if once suffered to become cold 
after slaughtermof, it will require more dressing, and after all will 
not eat so tenderly, unless hung a proper time. 

153. Meat which has been frozen must be immersed in cold water 
two or three hours, or till the frost is taken out of it, before it is 
dressed, or it will never be Vv'ell done. In cold weather meat requires 
more dressing than in warm. 

154. Salt meat will require more boiling than fresh, and thick 
parts, whether salt or fresh, rather more than thin ones. 

155. In boiling bacon, if very salt, it is a good plan to take away a 
part or the whoh.- of the water, when it is on the point of boiling, and 
filling up the pot with cold water. This process renders it more 
mild. Bacon or ham is done when the skin is easily removed, or the 
fork leaves it readily. 

156. Hams, beef, tongues, and even pork, which have been kept 
long in pickle, should be soaked before they are boiled — if hard, in 
warm water. A ham Vveighing twenty pounds, or upwards, will take 
from five to six hours to dress it well (the water should not boil); 
and a large dry tongue should be boiled, or rather simmered, for four 
hours or more. The following is a good plan to dress a ham : Put a 
certain quantity of suet into the pan which is to be used for the cook- 
ing of the ham; then put in the ham and cover it with paper, over 



60 T H E C O M r L E T E C O O K, 

which lay a cover of coarse paste, or the paper may be used without 
the paste, or the paste without the paper ; place the pan in the oven, 
where let it remain till the ham is done. The gravy coming from the 
meat will be a jelly, which, mixed with fresh stock or broth for gravies, 
&c. will t^reatly improve it. 

157. Meat boiled by steam requires no water unless soup is wanted. 
Meat boiled in the ordinary way should not be permitted to touch the 
bottom of the pot. This object may be effected by placing a fish-drain 
in the pot, or by putting a plate upside down in it, or laying some 
skewers across it a little way from the bottom. 

158. There is a method of boiling meat without allowing it to 
touch or come in contact with the water. This plan, which is little 
followed in America, has been strongly recommended. To effect this 
object, fov^^ls filled with oysters may be boiled in a bladder, or in a 
close jar, by which means they are deliciously stewed, and the flavour 
and animal juices are all preserved. Meat of any description may 
be dressed in a similar manner, that is, by putting it into a close jar 
and immersed in water, which is kept boiling till the meat is done. 
The Scotch dress their haggis in this way, and the custom was fol- 
lowed by the ancient Romans. Similar modes of dressing meat are 
used by savages in different parts of the world. 

159. Any thing that is to be warmed and sent to the table a second 
time, should be put into a basin or jar, placed in hot water, which is 
not permitted to come to the boiling point. If allowed to boil, the 
meat will harden, or the sauce will be reduced and become thick; by 
avoiding these chances the flavour will be preserved, and the viands 
may be warmed up more than once without injury. The steam ap- 
paratus now employed in most kitchens, is admirably adapted to this 
purpose, since the heat can be regulated by the required temperature. 

160. The heads, brains, and so forth, of animals, every thing in 
fact, which in the cleaning process requires soaking, should be soaked 
in warm, not hot water, as the hot will fix the blood, and injure both 
the appearance and flavour of the viand. All cooks must be particu- 
lar in keeping their saucepans well skimmed; nothing will more 
completely spoil a dish of any kind than the neglect of this essential 
point. In order to take off the fat from the braise, or any other gravy, 
plunge the basin containing it into cold water; the fat will inTmedi- 
ately coagulate, and may be removed. 

IGl. It is much better to dress meat immediately after it is killed, 
that i8, while it is warm, than to suffer it to get cold, and not let it 
hang a proper length of time. Indeed, there is no doubt that meat 
dressed while warm is as tender, or nearly as tender, as when it has 
been hung for 8ome days. If, therefore, you cannot procure well- 
hung meat, and can get that v^hich has been just killed, you ouo-ht to 
prefer the latter. "^ 

162. Bacon, ham, and salt beef, may be done, if you want to use 
your fire for vegetables, half an hour before serving, as it will not sustain 
any injury by remaining that time in the hot liquor; but all other 
descriptions of meat would be injured by such a course of proceedino- 



BOILING. B IT T C TI E R • S MEAT, & C . Gl 

163. Potatoes must never be boiled with meat, or indeed with any 
thing else, for the meat is injured by the potatoes and the potatoes by 
the meat. 

164. Yn-'i may boil turnips, carrot?, parsnips, and pease pudding-, 
witii sak meat; by so doin:^- thfse vegetablps will be improved, and 
the meat not injured ; but the liquor Vv'ill not keep so long-, though it 
will be rendered better for some kinds of soup. 

165. Green vegetables, such as savoys, &c., should be always put 
into boiling water with a handful of salt, particularly if they are 
harsh and strong; they are generally kept boilino" till they are done. 
In warm countries, in Italy, for instance, they first boil them in a 
large quantity of water for a considerable time; but as this will 
neither make them sweet nor tender, they are frequently taken out 
of the pot, and well washed in cold spring water ; they are then boiled 
again till they are sweet and tender. Old tough meat may be simi- 
larly treated with like effect. 

166. Old potatoes inast never be put into warm or hot water. On 
the contrary, the water in which this useful vegetable is boiled should 
be perfectly cold when the potatoes are first put in. New potatoes 
are better put in boiling water. 

BOILING.— BUTCHEH'S MEAT AND POULTRY. 

The general directions which we have given for boiling in the pre- 
ceding pages, if they have been well studied by the young cook, as 
we trust they have, render it useless for us to go into the question at 
any length ; we shall, therefore, content ourselves with a few special 
directions relative to the dressing of the different things designated 
at the head of this section. It will not be necessary to give a great 
multiplicity of receipts; for if the general principles of boiling are 
well understood, and we have spared neither time nor space to make 
them so, the cook will find no difficulty in preparino- any particular 
dish without especial directions from us, or any other writer. The 
receipts which follovr are selected according to the best of our judg- 
ment. We do not pretend to say that they are original ; upon such 
a subject it is impossible to be original, with the exception, perhaps, 
of a few instances. Dr. Kitchiner apologises in his " Cook's Oracle," 
for his " receipts differing a little from those in former cookery books." 
Very different is this open and candid proceeding from that of a 
voluminous writer of great pretensions, who claims the follov/ing 
mode of dressing rice, which is as old as the intioduction of that 
article into this country, as original I "Tie some rice in a cloth^ 
leaving plpnly of room fiir it tn swell ; boil it in water for an hour or 
two, and eat it with butter and sugar, or milk." 

167. Boiled Beef. — Fresh boiled beef is called bcefbouiUi by some, 
but in the French kitchen the term means fresh beef dressed, without 
absolutely boiling, it being suffered only to simmer till it is done. 
Ind^eri, it may be laid down as a general rule, that whether you are 
dress, ny beef bouilli, or any other meat, it should never be suffered 



62 THECOMrLETECOOK. 

to go into a boiling gallop, except for a minute or two, for the pur- 
pose of throwing- up the scum. After the scum is all cleared away, 
let it simmer tilT it is done. But you must be careful not to let your 
meat boil too quickly ; for this purpose it should be put over a mo- 
derate fire, and the water made gradually hot, or the meat will be 
hardened, and shrink up as if it were scorched ; but by keeping the 
meat a certain time heating, without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
dilate, and it not only yields the scum more freely, but the meat is 
rendered more tender. The advantage of dressing fresh meat in the 
way practised by the French with regard to fresh beef is twofold. In 
the first place, meat dressed in this manner affords much more 
nourishment than it does cooked in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion, and will yield soup of a most excellent quality. (See Soup and 
Bouilli, and 99.) 

168. Boiled Salt Beef. — A piece of beef of fifteen pounds will take 
three hours, or more, sioimering after it has boiled, and it ousfht to be 
full forty minutes on the fire before it does boil; skim carefully ; put 
a tea-cup full of the liquor, and garnish with sliced carrots. Vegeta- 
bles, carrots, turnips, kale, pnrsnips; sauce, melted butter. Pease 
pudding is sometimes boiled with salt beef, and the liquor, if not too 
salt, wFll make good pease soup. An aitch, or H bone of beef, a 
round, or ribs salted and rolled, and indeed all other beef, are boiled 
in the same way. Briskets and other inferior joints require, perhaps, 
more attention than superior ones; they should in fact rather be 
stewed than boiled, and in a sn)all quantity of water, by which means, 
if good meat, they will be delicious eating. 

169. Mutton. ~ A leg will take from two to three hours boiling. 
Accompaniments — parsley and butter, caper sauce, eschalot, onion, 
turnips, carrots, spinach, &c., and to boiled mutton in general. 

170. IS eck of Mutton. — As the scrag end takes much longer to 
boil, some people cut it off and boil it half or three-quarters of an 
hour before the rest, as it is apt to be bloody, however well washed ; 
you had better skim it well. When it is time to put the best end in, 
add cold water to check the heat, allowing an hour and a half or 
three-quarters, after the second boiling up. Cut off some of the fat 
before dressing, or at least peel off the skin when taken up. For 
accompaniments, sec 169. 

171. Shoulder, boiled. — The whnle is sometimes boiled, and some- 
tunes cut in half, taking the knuckle part, and leaving the oyster for 
roasting ; it v;ill take not less than two hours slow boiling, though it 
may not weigh above five pounds. Boil it either plain or in broth. 
Accompaniment!"-, 169. 

172. Breast, boiled, will require from two and a half, to three 
hours. Accompanitnents, 169. 

173. Sheeps' Heads, plain boiled. — Boil them two hours ; before boil- 
ing, take out the brains, wash them clean and free from all skin ; chop 
about a dozen i^age leaves very small, tie them in a small bag, and let 
them boil half an hour, then hmt them up with pepper and salt, and 



BOILING. butchers' MEAT, &C. G3 

half an ounce of butler ; pour it over the head, or serve in a boat or 
tureen; skin the tongue before s^^rving. Accompaniments, lt:)9. 

174. Leg of Lamb, boiled. — From an hour and a quarter to an hour 
and a halt; Accompaniments — caper sauce, melted butter, turnips, 
spinach, carrot*, &c. 

175. Neck, boiled.— One hour; if very large, an hour and a quar- 
ter. 

176. Lamb's Head and Pluck. — Parboil the lights and a small bit 
of the liver till it will chop fine, and boil the head in the same liquor; 
it will take nearly an hour to boil ; scald the brains, tied up in a small 
bag, with five or six sage leaves, chopped very fine ; they will take 
twenty minutes to do; warm the mince in a little of the liquor, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; thicken with flour, and half an 
ounce of butter, and stir in the brains. Take up the head ; skin the 
tongue; pour over the mince; sippets of toasted bread and slices of 
lemon. The liver, heart, and sweetbread, to be fried, and laid round 
the dish with slices of bacon ; or served in a separate dish, which is 
preferable, as the liver requires a little brown gravy. Vegetables, 
turnips, carrots, &c. 

Browned. — After boilino", wash the head with the yolk of an egg ; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown it in a 
dutch oven, the mince to be poured round it. Some people like the 
flavour of catsup in the mince; others like a little sliced lemon peel, 
and a spoonful or two of cream. 

177. Boiled Veal. — A knuckle, whether of leg or shoulder, will 
take full two hours. A scrag of neck or breast, an hour and three- 
quarters to two hours. Sauce, melted butter, parsley and butter, 
celery, &c. 

178. Calf's Head, boiled.— Let it be cut in half by the butcher, 
and all the inside bones removed ; take out the brains, wash the head 
well in several waters, with a little salt, to draw out the blood ; boil 
it slowly in plenty of water two hours or two hours and a quarter. 
Sauce. Well clean the brains, and boil them in a cloth half an hour, 
with about a dozen sage leaves chopped fine, or parsley, or part of 
each; when done, beat them up in a small saucepan, with a little salt 
and pepper, one ounce of butter, and a little lemon juice ; have them 
ready quite hot to pour over the tongue, when skinned. Some peo- 
ple mix the brains with parsley and butter, and pour over the whole 
head. However it is dressed, it is usually garnished with sliced 
lemon. 

179. Tripe, when raw, will take four or five hours simmering. If 
previously well boiled, twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be in milk, or milk and water, or equal parts of milk and its 
own liquor. Boil with the tripe eight or ten large onions. To keep 
the tripe warm, serve it in the liquor, and beat up the onions with 
pepper, salt, and butter ; or the tripe may be served without liquor, 
and the onion sauce poured over. If onions are not approved, serve 
parsley and butter, or caper sauce. Tripe may be cut in pieces the 
size of a hand, dipped in batter nn<\ fried, with rashers of bacon 



64 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

laid round the dish. — N. B. Mustard is always an accompaniment of 
tripe, and generally vinegar also. 

In ?omeof the English towns, particularly at Birmingham, famous 
for tripe, the belly or paunch of the animal, after being well cleaned, 
(in doing which thoroughly great attention and care mu-t be observed,) 
is sent to the oven in a deep earthenware pot, or jar, closely covered 
over the top, and baked, or rather stewed, in just a sufficient quantity 
of water, for four or five hours, or till it is well done. It is sold while 
yet hot, in the public-houses or tripe shops, at so much a " large or 
small cMi," with a proportionate quantity of "broth," that is, the liquor 
in Vv'hich it has been stewed ; nothing else is eaten with it, except 
mustard and salt. In Birmingham it is usually eaten for supper, and 
of course by candle-liglit, and at no other meal ; a relation of ours, 
however, was so fond of it, that he used to have the dining-room 
darkened, and the candles lit, in order that \\e might partake of it tor 
his dinner, under the same apparent circumstances as at supper. 
We have heard of whist devotees who could not play the same with 
any gusto by daylight, and who resorted to the same expedient to 
imitate night as our tripe gourmand. Tripe cooked in the Birming- 
ham fashion is delicious — far, very far, superior to that gotten in 
London; tliis may be partly accounted for by the fact that all meat is 
greatly deteriorated by being twice subjected to heat. 

180. Cow-heel in the hands of a skilful cook, will furnish several 
good meals; when boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, egg and 
bread-crumb them, and fry them a light brown ; lay them round a 
dish, and put in the middle of it sliced onions fried, or the accompani- 
ments ordered for tripe. 

181. Pifi;''s Pettitoes consist of the feet and internal parts of a suck- 
ing pig. Set on with a quantity of water, or broth ; a button onion or 
two may be added, if approved — also, four or five leaves of sage chop- 
ped small. When the heart, liver, and lights, are tender, take them 
out and chop fine ; let the feet simmer the while ; they will take from 
half to three-quarters of an hour to do. Season the mince with salt, 
nutmeg, and a little pepper, half an ounce of butter, a table -spoonful 
or two of thick cream, and a tea-spoonful of arrow-roof, flour, or pota- 
toe starch; return it to the saucepan, in which the feet are; let it 
boil up, shaking it one way. Split the feet, lay them round in the 
mince. Serve with toasted sippets. Garnish. Mashed potatoes. 

182. Salt Pork requires long boiling, never less than twenty 
minutes to a pound, and a thick jointconsiderabiy more. A leg of ten 
pounds will take four hours simmering, a spring two hours, a porker's 
head the same. Be very careful that it dops not stick to the pot. No 
sauce is required, except a quarter of a pint of the liquor in which it 
was boiled, to draw the gravy, and plenty of g-ood fresh mustard. A 
chine is usually served quite dry. The vegetable accompanimenta 
are pease pudding", ttjrnips, carrots, and parsnips. 

183. Pickled Pork, which is usually bought pickled, requires to be 
well washed before boiling, and must boil very slowly. It is seldom 
eaten alone, but as an accompaniment to fowls, or other wbite meat. 



F 



BOILING. butcher's MEAT, &C. 05 

184. Bacon, Ham, Tongues. — First, well wash and scrape clean. 
If very salt, it may soak in cold water a few hours ; allow plenty of 
water, fresh rain or river water is best ; put it in when the chill is 
off, and let it be a good while coniino- to the boil, then keep it very 
gently simmering. If time allows, throw away nearly or quite all the 
liquor of bicon as soon as it boils up, and renew it with fresh cold 
water ; reckon the time from the second boiling. A pound of streaky 
bacon will require three-quarters of an hour to boil ; a quarter of 
an hour for every additional pound. If good bacon it will swell in 
•boiling, and when done the rind will pull off easily. Take it up on 
a common dish to remove the rind, and sprinkle it over with bread 
raspings, sifted through a flour dredge, or grater. A ham of twelve 
or fourteen pounds will require four or Ave hours simmering, or four 
hours baking in a moderate oven. When done, remove the skin as 
whole as possible, and preserve it to cover over the ham and keep it 
moist. If to be served hot, strew raspings as above ; but if intended for 
eating cold, omit the raspings. It will be much the more juicy for not 
cutting hot. Set it on a baking stand, or some other contrivance, to 
keep it from touching the dish ; this preserves it from swamping in 
the fat that drips from it, keeps the fat nice and white for use, and 
also makes the ham keep the longer from becoming mouldy, by the 
outside being perfectly dry. Whether hot or cold, garnish with 
parsley. A neat's tongue, according to its size, age, and freshness, 
will require from two hours and a half to four hours slow boiling. 
When done, it will stick tender, and the skin will peel off easily. A 
dried chine, or hog's cheek, may be allowed the same boiling as bacon, 
viz. four pounds an hour and a half, and a quarter of an hour for every 
additional pound. 

185. To poach Eggs. — The best vessel for this purpose is a frying 
pan ; but it must be kept for that purpose only, or the grease will ad- 
here to the water, and spoil the delicate appearance of the eggs. A 
wide-mouthed stew-pan will do as well. Both the vessel and water 
must be delicately clean. Break the eggs into separate cups; when 
the water boils, gently slip in the eggs, and set the vessel on the hob 
for a minute or so, till the white has set, then set it over the fire ; let 
it once boil up, and the eggs are done. The white should retain its 
transparency, and the yellow appear brightly through it. Take up 
very carefully with a slice; trim off any rough edges of white, and 
serve on buttered toast, a piece for each egg, a little larger than the 
egg itself; or on a fish drainer. Garnish with sliced bacon or ham, 
sausages, or spinach. 

186. Turkeys, Capons, Chickens, c^c, are all boiled exactly in the 
same manner, only allowing time according to their size. A chicken 
will take about twpnty minutes — a fowl, forty — ■i fine five-toed fowl 
or a C'lpon, about an hour — a small turkey, an hour and a half — a large 
one, two hours or more. Chickens or fowls should be killed at least 
one or two days before they are to be dressed.* Turkeys (espe- 

*If they are dressed immediately after they are killed, before the flesh i3 cold ^11 
poultry eat equally tender. 

6* 



Gt> T II E C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

cially large ones) should not be dressed till they have been killed 
three or four driys at least — in cold weather, six or eight — or they will 
neither look white nor eat tender. Turkeys and large fowls should 
have the strirjjjsor sinews of the tliighs drawn out. Fowls for boiling 
should be chosen as white as possible: those which have black legs 
should be roasted. The best use of the liver is to make sauce. Poul- 
try must be well washed in warm water ; if very dirty from the singe- 
ing, i&c, rub them with a little white soap, but thoroughly rinse it off 
before you put them into the pot. Make a good and clear fire; set 
on a clean pot, with pure and clean water, enough to cover the turkey, 
&c. ; the slower it boils, the whiter and plumper it will be. When 
there rises any scum, remove it; the common method of some (who 
are more nice than wise) is to wrap them up in a cloth, to prevent 
the scum attaching to them; wliich if it do by your neglecting to 
skim the pot, there is no getting it oft' afterwards, and the poulterer 
is blamed for the ftuit of the cook. If there be water enough, and it 
is attentively skimmed, the fowl will both look and eat much better 
this way than when it has been covered up in the cleanest cloth; and 
the colour and flavour of your poultry will be preserved in the most 
delicate perfection. 

FISH. 

187. Sabnon to boil. — The water should be blood- warm : allow 
plenty to cover the fish, with a good handful of salt, and a quarter of 
a pint of vinegar ; this makes the fish boil firm. Remove the scum 
as fast as it rises. Keep it at a very gentle boil from half an hour to 
an hour, according to the thickness of the fish. When the eyes start, 
and the fins draw out easily, it is done. Lay the fish-drainer across 
the kettle a minute or two before shifting the fish. Sauce, lobster, 
shrimp, anchovy, or parsley and butter. Melted butter is the uni- 
versal sauce for fish, whether boiled, fried, or baked. Whatever other 
sauce is served, plain melted butter must never be omitted: we shall 
therefore only refer to the number of other vsauces suitable for parti- 
cular kinds of fish. Observe, also, potatoes, either boiled or mashed, 
are the only vegetables eaten with fish, excepting parsnips with salt 
fish. 

188. Broiled Salmon. — This is a good method of dressing a small 
quantity of salmon for one or two persons. It may be cut in slices 
the whole round of the fish, each taking in two divisions of the bone ; 
or the fish may be split, and the bone removed, and the sides of the 
fish divided into cutlets of three or four inches each: the former 
method is preferable, if done neatly with a sharp knife. Rub it 
thoroughly dry with a clean rough cloth; then do each piece over 
with salad oil or butter. Have a nice clean gridiron over a very clear 
fire, and at some distance from it. When the bars are hot through 
wipe them, and rub with lard or suet to prevent sticking; lay on the 
salmon, and sprinkle with salt. When one side is brown, carefully 
turn and brown the other. They do equally well or better in a tin, 



FISH. 67 

Or flat dish, in an oven, with a little bit of butter, or sweet oil; or 
tuey may be done in buttered paper on the gridiron. Sauce, lobster 
or shrimp. 

189. Baked Salmon. — If a small fish, turn the tail to the mouth, 
and skewer it; force meat may be put in the belly, or, if part of a 
large fish is to be baked, cut it in slices, egg; it over, and dip it in the 
force meat. Stick bits of butter about the salmon (a i'ew oysters laid 
round are an improvement). It will require occasional basting- with 
the butter. When one side bpcotnes brown, let it be carefully turned, 
and when the second side is brown, it is donp. Take it up carefully, 
with all that lies about it in the bakinij dish. For sauce, melted 
butter, with two table-spoonsful of port wine, one of catsup, and the 
juice of a lemon, poured over the fish; or anchovy sauce in a boat. 

190. Pickled Sabnon. — Do not scrape off the scales, but clean the 
fish carefully, and cut into pieces about eight inches long. Make a 
strong brine of salt and water; to two quarts, put two pounds of salt, 
and a quarter of a pint of vinegar; in all, make just enough to cover 
the fish ; boil it slowly, and barely as much as you would for eating 
hot. Drain off all the liquor; and, when cold, lay the pieces in a kit 
or small tub. Pack it as close as possible, and fill up with equal 
parts of best vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Let 
it remain so a day or two, then again fill up. Serve v>7ith a garnish 
of fresh fennel. The same method of pickling vvill apply to sturgeon, 
mackerel, herrings, and sprats. The three latter are sometimes 
baked in vinegar, flavoured with allspice and bay leaves, and eat 
very well ; but will not keep more than a few days. 

191. Turbot, Halibut, and Brill, boiled. — Score the skin across 
the thick part of the back, to prevent its breaking on the breast, 
which it would be liable to do when the fish swells in boiling. Put 
the fish in the kettle in cold water, with a large handful of salt; as 
it comes to boil, skim it well, and set it aside to simmer as slowly as 
possible for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. If it boil fast it 
will break. It may be garnished with fried smelts or gudgeons, laid 
all round like spokes of a wheel. Sauce, lobster or shrimp. 

192. Soles and Dutch Plaice may be boiled exactly in the same 
way as turbot, and with the same garnish and sauce, or with parsley, 
fennel, or chervil sauce. If you have not a turbot kettle, these flat 
fish boil very well in a large frying pan, provided it admits depth of 
water to cover them. 

193. Soles, fried. — Having cleaned, wipe them thoroughly dry, 
and keep them in a coarse cloth an hour or two before using. In 
case any moisture should remain, flour them all over, and again wipe 
it off. They may be fried either with or without bread crumbs or 
oatmeal. If bread crumbs are to be used, beat up an egg very finely ; 
wash over the fish with a paste-brush; then sprinkle over it bread 
crumbs or oatmeal, so that every part may be covered, and one part 
not be thicker than another. Lift up the fish by a fork stuck in the 
head, and shake off any loose crumbs that may adhere. Have plenty 

^of fat in your pan, over a brisk fire, and let it quite boil before you 



68 T II E C O M r L E T E C O O K . 

put the fish in. The fat may be salad oil, butter, lard or dripping. 
If sweet and clean, the least expensive answers as well as the best, j 
but let there be enough to cover the tish. Give the fish a gentle 
shove with a slice, that it may not stick to the pan. In about four or 
five minutes one side will be brown ; turn it carefully, and do the 
other; which, being- already warm, will not take so long. The best \ 
way to turn a large sole, is to stick a fork in the head, and raise the 
tail with a slice, otherwise it is liable to be broken with its own 
weight. If the soles are very large, it is a good way to cut them 
across in four or five pieces, by which means the thick parts can have 
more time allowed them, without overdoing the thin. The very same 
rules will apply to the frying of Dutch plaice, flounders, eels, jack 
perch, roach, and other fresh-water fish. Jack and eels to be cut in 
pieces tliree or four inches long. Sauce, anchovy, parsley and butter, 
or melted butter flavoured with mushroom catsup. Garnish, sprigs 
of parsley or lemon juice. 

194. Soles or Eels, stewed. — They may be first half fried, so as to 
give them a little brownness; then carefully drain them from fat; 
season with pepper and salt, and set them on with as much good beef 
gravy as will cover them. Let them simmer very gently for a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes, according to their thickness, but be 
very careful that they be not overdone. Take up the fish very gently 
with a slice. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter; flavour with 
mushroom catsup and port wine; simmer a minute or two, then 
strain it over the fish. Some people do not like the addition of wine, 
and instead thereof mix the thickening with a tea-cup full of good 
cream, seasoned with cayenne and nutmeg, and with or without the 
addition of a spoonful of catsup. 

195. Cod. — The head and shoulders, comprehending in weight two- 
thirds or three-quarters of the fish, is much better dressed separately; 
the tail being much thinner would be broken to pieces before the 
thicker parts are done. The best way of dressing the tail, is to fry it. 
For boiling cod, allow plenty of room and water, that the fish may be 
perfectly covered. Put it in blood-warm water, with a large handful 
of salt. Watch for its boiling, that it may be set a little aside. A 
small cod will require twenty minutes after it boils; a large one, half 
an hour. When the fins pull easily, and the eyes start, the fish ia 
done. Slip it very carefully on the fish plate, that it may not be 
broken. Take out the roe and liver, which arc much esteemed ; 
Ihey will serve to garnish the dish, together with horse-radish and 
slices of lemon, or fried smelts, or oysters. Sauce, oyster. The sound, 
a fat jelly-like substance, along the inside of the backbone, is the great 
delicacy of the fish. Cod is sometimes boiled in slices. Let them 
be soaked half an hour in salt water ; then set on with cold spring 
water and salt, just enough to cover them. Let it boil up; then 
carefully skim and set aside for ten minutes. Serve with the same 
sauce as above. Slices of cod are much better fried as soles. Slices 
of crimped cod, for boiling, are put in boiling water, and when done 
served on a napkin. 



FISH. 69 

196. Ling is a large fish, somewhat resembling cod, and may be 
dressed in the same way, but is very inferior in quality. 

197. Haddock is but a poor fish, make the best of it. It may be 
boiled, and served with egg sauce, but it is better stuffed, and baked 
or broiled, and served with good gravy, or melted butter, flavoured 
with anchovy or mushroom catsup. 

198. Whitings may be skinned or not. Fasten the tail to the 
mouth ; dip the eggs and bread crumbs, or oatmeal, and fry as soles ; 
or they may be cut in three or four pieces, and fried. They do not 
lake long to fry ; not more than five minutes; but several minutes 
should be allowed to drain the fat from them, as the ^/eauty of them 
is to be perfectly dry. Sauce, anchovy, or parsley and butter. 

199. Sturgeon. — If for boiling take off the skin, which is very rich 
and oily; cut in slices; season with pepper and salt; broil over a 
clear fire ; rub over each slice a bit of butter, and serve with .no other 
iccompaniment than lemon ; or the slices may be dipped in season- 
ing or force meat, twisted in buttered white paper, and so broiled. 
Tor sauce, serve melted butter with catsup. Garnish with sliced 
emon, as the juice is generally used with tlie fish. 

200. Roast Sturgeon. — A piece of sturgeon may be tied securely 
*n a spit, and roasted. Keep it constantly hasted with butter, and 
when nearly done dredge with bread crumbs. When the flakes begin 
to separate, it is done. It will take about half an hour before a brisk 
fire. Serve with good gravy, thickened with butter and flour, and 
enriched with an anchovy, a glass of sherry wine, and the juice of 
half a Seville orange or lemon. 

201. Stewed Sturgeon. — Take enough gravy to cover the fish ; 
set it on with a table-spoonful of salt, a few corns of black pepper, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, an onion or two, scraped horse-radish, and a 
glass of vinegar. Let this boil a few minutes ; then set it aside to 
become pretty cool ; then add the fish ; let it come gradually to boil ; 
aj-id then stew gently till the fish begins to break. Take it off im- 
mediately; keep the fish warm; strain the gravy, and thicken with 
a good piece of butter; add a glass of port or sherry wine, a grate of 
nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. Simmer till it thickens, and then 
pour over the fish. Sauce, anchovy. 

202. Mackerel, boiled. — Put them on with cold water and salt. 
When the kettle boils, set it aside, but watch it closely, and take up 
the moment the eyes begin to start, and the tail to split. Sauce, 
parsley and butter (fennel), or roe sauce, or gooseberry sauce. Gar- 
nish, fennel and slices of lemon. 

203. Broiled Mackerel.— Cut a slit in the back that they may be 
thoroughly done. Lay them on a- clean gridiron (having greased the 
bars), over a clear, but rather slow, fire. Sprinkle pepper and salt 
over them ; when thoroughly done on both sides, take them up on a 
very hot dish without a fish plate. Rub a bit of butter over each fish, 
and put inside each a little fennel and parsley, scalded and chopped, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and a bit of fresh butter. Fennel 
Bauce, parsley and batter. 

G 



7() THE COMPLETE COOS. 

204. Baked or Pickled Macker el—Tuke off the heads ; open the 
fish ; take out the roes, and clean them thoroughly ; rub the inside 
with pepper, salt, and allspice, and replace the roes. Pack the fish 
close in a deep baking pan; cover with equal parts of cold vinegar 
and water, and two bay leaves. Tie over strong white paper doubled, 
or still thicker. Let them bake an hour in a slow oven. They may 
be eaten hot, but will keep ten days or a fortnight. Cold butter, and 
fresh young iennel (unboiled), are eaten with them. Sprats or her- 
rings may be done in the same way. 

205. Skate and Thornbnck. — These fish (like cod) are frequently 
crimped, that is, slashed in slices, by which means the meat contracts, 
and becomes more firm as the watery particles escape. Cut them in 
pieces, and boil in salt and water; serve with anchovy sauce; or 
they may be fried with egg and bread crumbs, as soles ; or stewed as 
Boles, 

206. Smelts, Gudgeons, Sprats, or other small Fish, fried. — 
Clean and dry them thoroughly in a cloth, fry them plain, or beat an 
egg on a plate, dip them in it, and then in very fine bread crumbs, 
that have been rubbed through a sieve : the smaller the fiah, the finer 
should be the bread crumbs — biscuit powder is still better; fry them 
in plenty of clean lard or dripping; as soon as the lard boils and is 
still, put in the fish; when they are delicately browned, they are 
done; this will hardly take two minutes. Drain thorn on a hair sieve, 
placed before the fire, turning them till quite (irv. 

207. Trout is sometimes fried, and served w : i crisp parsley and 
plain melted butler. This answers best for suuill fish. They are 
sometimes broiled, which must be done over a slow fire, or they will 
break. While broiling, sprinkle salt and baste with butter; serve 
with anchovy sauce, to which may be added a few chopped capers 
and a little of the vinegar. The sauce is generally poured over 
the fish. 

208. Slewed Trout. — When the fish has been properly washed, 
lay it in a stew-pan, with half a pint of claret or port wine, and a 
quart of good gravy ; a large onion, a dozen berries of black pepper, 
the same of allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of mace; cover the 
fish-kettle close, and let it stew gently for ten or twenty minutes, 
according to the thickness of the fish ; take the fish up, lay it on a 
hot dish, cover it up, and thicken the liquor it was stewed in with a 
little flour; season it with a little pepper, salt, essence of anchovy, 
mushroom catsup, and a little chili vinegar; when it has boiled ten 
minutes, strain it through a tamis, and pour it over the fish ; if there 
is more sauce than the dish will hold, send the rest up in a boat. 

209. Red Mullets. — These delicate fish are sometimes fried, and 
served with anchovy sauce; but more frequently either stewed or 
baked. 

210. Eels, fried. — Skin and gut them, and wash them in cold 
water; cut them in pieces four inches long; season them with pep- 
per and salt; beat an egg well on a plate, dip them in the egg, and 
then in fine bread crumbs; fry them in fresh clean lard ; drain therr 



N FISH. 71 

well from the fat; garnish with crisp parsley. Sauce, plain, and 
melted butter sharpened with lemon juice, or parsley and butter. 

211. Boiled Eels. — Twist them round and round, and run a wire 
skewer through them. Do tliem slowly in a small quantity of salt 
and water, with a spoonful of vineo-ar, and a handful of parsley. They 
may be put in cold water, and will take very few minutes after they 
boii. Sauce, parsley, or fonnel, and butter. 

212. Pike or Jack. — For either baking or boiling, it is usual to 
stuftthem with pudding. To secure it, bind it round with narrow 
tape. The fish may be dressed at full length, or turned with its tail 
in its mouth. For boiling, use hard water with salt, and a tea-cup 
full of vinegar ; put it in blood-warm, and when it boils set it aside 
that it may simmer slowly. It will take from ten minutes to half an 
hour, according to its size. Sauce, oyster. Garnish, slices of lemon, 
laid alternately with horse-radish. If baked, being stuffed, put it in 
a deep dish, with a tea-cup full of gravy, and some bits of butter stuck 
over it. Serve with rich thickened gravy, and anchovy sauce. 

For frying, the fish is to be cut in pieces, and may be done with 
Bgg and bread crumbs, as soles. The usual sauce is melted butter 
and catsup, but anchovy or lobster sauce is sometimes used. 

213. Carp, fried. — The same as soles; make sauce of the roe, and 
anchovy sauce with lemon juice. 

214. Carp, stewed. — With the addition of preserving the blood, 
which is to be dropped into port or claret wine, well stirring the whole 
time, carp may be stewed in the same manner as sturgeon, the wine 
and blood to be added with the thickening, and the whole poured over 
the fish. Sippet of bread toasted, sliced lemon and barberries. The 
same process for lampreys. 

215. Perch, boiled. — Put them on in as much cold spring water as 
will cover them, with a handful of salt. Let them boil up quickly; 
then set aside to simmer slowly for eight, ten, or fifteen minutes, ac- 
cording to their size. Sauce, parsley and butter, or fennel, or melted 
butter with catsup. 

216. Salt Fish. — It should be soaked a considerable time in soft 
water, changing the water two or three times. The length of time 
required will be according to the hardness or softness of the fish. One 
night will do for that which has been but a fortnight or three weeks 
in salt ; but some require two or even three nights' soaking, and to 
be laid through the intermediate days on a stone floor. Set it on in 
cold or luke-warm water, and let it be a long time coming to boil. It 
should be kept at a slow simmer from half an hour to an hour and a 
half. When done enough, lay the tin fish-drainer across the kettle; 
remove any straggling bones and skin ; pour through a quart of boil- 
ing water to rinse it, and serve with plenty of egg sauce, red beet- 
root, parsnips, and mashed potatoes. Some of the parsnips and beet- 
roots should be served whole, or in slices for garnish, together with 
horse-radish, and a dish also of equal parts of red beet-root and pars- 
nips, mashed together, with pepper, butter, and cream. Salt fish is 
sometimes served with the vegetables. When boiled as above, it is 



12 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

broken in flakes, and stewed a few minutes in good gravy, flavoured 
with onions or eschalots, but not salted, and thickened with flour, but- 
ter, and cream ; then beat up with it either potatoes, or parsnips and 
beet-root, mashed with cream and butter. Sauce, egg. Salt fish, 
whether cod, ling, haddock, or salmon, is often cut in slices, soaked 
in beer, and broiled as red herrings for a breakfast relish. 

217. Terrapins. — This is a favourite dish for suppers and parties ; 
and, when wtll cooked, they are certainly very delicious. Many 
persons in Philadelphia have made themselves famous for cooking this 
article alone. Mrs. Rubicam, who during her lifetime always stood first 
in that way, prepared them as follows. Put the terrapins alive in a pot 
of boiling water, where they must remain until they are quite dead. 
You then divest them of their outer skin and toe-nails; and, after 
washing them in warm water, boil them again until they become quite 
tender, adding a handful of salt to the water. Having satisfied your- 
self of their being perfectly tender, take ofl^ the shells and clean the 
terrapins very carefully, removing the sand-bag and gall without 
breaking them. Then cut the meat and entrails into small pieces, 
and put into a saucepan, adding the juice which has been given out 
in cutting them up, but no water, and season with salt, cayenne, and 
black pepper, to your taste ; adding a quarter of a pound of good but- 
ter to each terrapin, and a handful of flour for thickening. After stir- 
ring a short time, add four or five table-spoonfuls of cream, and a half 
pint of good Madeira to every four terrapins, and serve hot in a deep 
dish. Our own cook has been in the habit of putting in a very little 
mace, a large table-spoonful of mustard, and ten drops of the gall ; 
and, just before serving, adding the yolks of tour h'lrd boiled eggs. 
During the stewing, particular attention must be paid to stirring the 
preparation frequently; and it must be borne in m.ind. that terrapins 
cannot possibly be too hot. 

218. Oysters an gratin. — Take the best oysters you can find, and 
dry them on a napkin; you then place them on a silver shell, made 
expressly for the purpose, or fine, large, deep oyster shells, if handier, 
which should be well cleaned, placing in them four or six oysters, 
according to their f^ize ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, 
mushrooms hashed very fine, a small quantity of bread crumbs, with 
which the surface of the oysters must be covered, placing on top of 
all a small piece of the best butter. Then put them in a hot oven, 
and let them remain until they acquire a golden colour. Serve 
them hot. 

219. Oysters, stewed. — For this purpose the beard or fringe is 
generally taken off. If this is done, set on the beards with the liquor 
of the oysters, and a little white gravy, rich but unseasoned ; naving 
boiled a few minutes, strain off" the beards, put in the oysters, and 
thicken the gravy with flour and butter (an ounce of butter to half a 
pint of stew,) a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, or mace, a spoonful of 
catsup, and three of cream ; some prefer a little essence of anchovy to 
ratsup, others the juice of a lemon, others a glass of white wine; the 
flavour may be varied according to taste. Simmer till the stew is 



ROASTING. 73 

thick, and warmed through, but avoid letting them boil. Lay toasted 
sippets at the bottom of the dish and round the edges. 

220. A more simple, and, as we think, a better method is to put, say two 
hundred oysters in a saucepan with nothing but their own juice; place 
them on a brisk fire, and \v.l them remain, stirring them occasionally, 
until they begin to boil, then remove them, and pass the juice- through 
a tin colander, leaving the oysters to drain. Then mix well together 
three-quarters of a pound of good butter, and a handful of flour. 
When this is done, strain the juice of the oysters through a sieve into 
the saucepan containing the butter and flour, and put it on the fire 
again, and add pepper and salt to your taste, stirring the H^hole fre- 
quently and briskly. When it begins to boil again, add the oysters, 
and the following articles, well beaten together, viz., the yolks of 
three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and the juice of half a lemon; 
whilst adding these, stir the whole briskly, and serve immediately. 

221. Oysters, fried. — Lar^e oysters are the best for this purpose. 
Simmer for a minute or two in their own liquor; drain perfectly dry; 
dip in yolks of eggs, and then in breadcrumbs, seasoned with nutmeg, 
cayenne, and salt ; fry them of a light brown. They are chiefly used 
as garnish for fish, or for rump steaks; but if intended to be eaten 
alone, make a little thick melted butter, moistened with the liquor of 
the oysters, and serve as sauce. 

222. Broiled Oysters. — The oysters should be the largest and finest 
you can get. Prepare your gridiron, which should b'- a double one 
made of wire, by rubbing with butter, and having placed your oysters 
so that they will all receive the heat equally, set tl em over a brisk 
fire, and broil both sides without burning them. Let them be served 
hot, with a small lump of fresh butter, pepper and salt, added to them. 
Some establishments serve them egged and breaded; either way, 
however, they are good. 

ROASTING. 

223. Mind that your spit is clean, and take care that it passes 
through the meat as little as possible. Before it is spitted, see that 
the meat is jointed properly, particularly necks and loins. When on 
the spit it must be evenly balanced, that its motion may be regular, 
and all parts equally done; for this purpose, take care to be provided 
with balancing skewers and cookholds ; a cradle spit is the best. 

224. The bottle or vertical jack is an excellent instrument for 
roasting, better than spits for joints under forty pounds; but if you 
have neither of these things, as is often the case in small families, a 
woollen string twisted round a door key makes a good substitute. In 
this case a strong skewer should be passed through each end of the 
joint, in order that it may be conveniently turned bottom upwards, 
which will insure an equality of roasting and an equal distribution of 
the gravy. A Dutch oven is a convenient utensil for roasting small 
joints; but by far the best and most economical thing of the kind is, 
improperly, called the American oven, by which you may roast me^t 
before a sitting-room fire, without any extra fuel, and without the 

6* 



*74 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

slightest inconvenience to the persons occupying the apartment. 
This contrivance will save, in the course of a year, all the expense, 
and more, of its original cost, in bakings, with this additional consi- 
deration, that meat so dressed will be equal to roasted meat. Meat 
cooked in a common oven, to say nothing of the abstracting of the 
drippmg by the generality of bakers, is greatly inferior, both in flavour 
and tenderness, to that dressed in the American oven, where the air 
is not confined. It is not, however, meat alone that may be dressed 
in the American oven. All sorts of cakes may be made in it, and 
indeed, all the operations of baking and roasting may be performed 
by it, on a limited scale, but sufficiently large tor a "small family in 
contracted circutnstances; in short, with the addition of the recent 
improvement, a sort of oval iron covering, we have baked bread before 
a parlour fire as perfectly as it could be produced by the regular pro- 
cess of baking; in one word, no family, whether in poor or middling 
circumstances, ought to be without the American oven, which may 
be had for a few shillings. 

225. The fire for roasting should be made up in time, but it is 
better not to be very hot at first. The fire should, in point of size, 
be suited to the dinner to be dressed, and a few inches longer at each 
end than the article to be roasted, or the ends will not be done. 

226. Never put meat down to a fierce fire, or one thoroughly 
burnt up, if you can possibly avoid it; but if not, you must take care 
and place it a considerable distance from the grate ; indeed, meat 
should always be done slowly at first; it is impossible to roast a joint 
of very considerable size well under some hours. It is said that 
George III., who lived principally upon plain roasted and boiled joints, 
employed cooks who occupied four, five, or even six hours in roasting 
a single joint; but the result amply repaid the loss of labour and 
time; the meat Vv'as full ot gravy, perfectly tender, and of a delicious 
flavour. 

227. In placing paper over the fat to preserve it, never use pins or 
skewers; they operate as so many taps, to carry off the gravy; be- 
sides, the paper frequently starts from the skewers, and is, conse- 
quently, liable to take fire, to the great injury of both the flavour and 
appearance of the meat. For these reasons, always fasten on your 
paper with tape, twine, or any other suitable string. 

228. The fire should be proportioned to the quantity of the meat 
intended to be roasted, as we have intimated above. For large joints 
make up a good strong fire, equal in every part of the grate, and well 
backed by cinders or small coals. Take care that the fire is bright 
and clear in the front. The larger the joint to be roasted, the farther 
It must he kept from the fire till nearly done — mind that. When 
you have to roast a thin and tender thing, let your fire be little and 
brisk. 

229. When your fire is moderately good, your meat, unless very 
small, ought not to be put down nearer than from ten to fifteen inches 
ofl" the grate; in some instances a greater distance would be prefer- 
able, but it is impossible to lay down any definite rule on this subject. 

230. Slow roasting, like slow boiling, is the best, and the more 



ROASTING, BROILING, &C. 75 

elow, in reason, the better. The time usually directed to be allowed 
for roasting meat, where the fire is good, the meat screen sufficiently 
large, and the meat not fro-ted, is rather more than a quarter of an 
hour to a pound, but we take this to be too short a tinie; however, 
the cook must judge for herself; much v.'ill depend upon the tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere, <fec., and more upon the degree of basting it 
tias undergone. The more the meat is basted the less time it will 
take to do, for the meat is rondpred soft and mellow outside, and con- 
sequently, admits tlie heat to act upon the inside. On the contrary, 
meat rendered hard on the outside by having too hot a fire, or neglect- 
ing to baste, the fire is prevcntpd from operating upon the interior. 
When the meat is half done the fire should be well stirred for brown- 
ing, that is, it must be made to burn brightly and clearly. When 
the steam begins to rise, depend upon it the meat is thoroughly done, 
that is, well saturated with heat, and all that goes otf from the meat 
in evaporation is an absolute waste of its most savoury and nourish- 
ing particles. 

231. A good cook will be particular to place her dripping pan so 
as to catch the dripping, but not the loose hot coals which may chance 
to fall from the fire. Your dripping pan should be large, not less 
than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inches broad, and should 
have a well-covered well on the side from the fire, to collect the drip- 
ping; "this," says Dr. Kitchiner, " will preserve it in the most deli- 
cate state." 

232. Roasting and boilino-, as being the most common operations 
in cooking, are generally considered the most easy ; this is a great 
error: roasting, in particular, requires unremitting attention toper- 
form it well, much more so than stewing, or the preparing many made 
dishes. A celebrated French author, in the Almanack des Gour- 
mnnds, says, that " the art of roasting victuals to the precise degree, 
is one of the most difficult things in this world, and you mayjind half 
a thousand good cooks sooner than one perfect roaster ; five minutes 
on the spit, more or less, decide the goodness of this mode of 
cookery y 

ROASTING, BROILING, AND FRYING. 

Before entering into any detail as to the best method of preparing 
the different dishes under this head, we must recommend the young 
cook to again carefully read our preliminary observations on roasting. 
We may here too be allowed to erter our most decided protest against 
baking meat, generally speaking — whether in the common brick 
oven, or in the iron ovens attached to kitchen ranges, particularly in 
the latter, unless they have a draught of air through them, when they 
will dress, or rather roast meat very well. Meat cannot be subjected 
to the influence of fire without injury, unle.-s it is open to the air, by 
which the exhalations are carried off, and the natural flavour of the 
meat is preserved. Under the idea of saving fuel, persons are induced 
to use stoves in their kitchen instead of ranges. They should con- 



76 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

sider, however, that baking not only injures the meat, but absolutely 
spoils the dripping, which from roasted meat is much more valuable 
than the extra cost of coals. For a small family, we recommend the 
bottle jack— and for large establishments, a kitchen range, a smoke 
jack, and the usual quantity of plating for stewing, or boiling. In 
the following receipts we have generally indicated the time which a 
joint will tale roasting, but a good cook will never wholly depend 
upon time, either in roasting or boiling; she ought to exercise her 
own judgment, as to whether a thing is done or not. When roast 
meat streams towards the fire, it is a sure sign that the meat is nearly 
done. On no account, whatever, should gravy be poured over any 
thing that is roasted. It makes the meat insipid, and washes off the 
frothing, or dredging. 

233. Sirloin of Beef , roasted. — Sirloin or ribs, of about fifteen 
pounds, will require to be before a large sound fire about three and 
a half or four hours; take care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier on one side than the other; put a little clean dripping in the 
dripping pan (tie a piece of paper over it to preserve the fat), baste it 
well as soon as it is put down, and every quarter of an hour all the 
time it is roasting, till the last half hour; then take ofi" the paper, and 
make some gravy for it; stir the fire and make it clear; to brown 
and froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it with butter, and 
dredge it with flour; let it go a few minutes longer, till the froth 
rises; take it up. Garnish it with a hillock of horse-radish, scraped 
as fine as possible with a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire pudding is 
an excellent accompaniment. The inside of the sirloin should never 
be cut hot, but reserved entire for the hash, or a mock hare. 

234. Rump and Round. — Rump and rounds of beef are sometimes 
roasted ; they require thorough doing, and much basting to keep the 
outside from being dry. It should be before the fire from three hours, 
and upwards, according to size. Gravy and garnish as above. 

235. Mock Hare. — The inside lean of a sirloin of beef may be 
dressed so as to resemble hare, and is by many people greatly pre- 
ferred to it. Make a good stuffing. If possible, get the inside meat 
of the whole length of sirloin, or even of two, lay the stuffing on half 
the length, turn the other end over and sew up the two sides with a 
strong twine, that will easily draw out when done ; roast it nicely, 
taking care to baste it well, and serve with sauces and garnishes the 
same as hare; or, it may be partly roasted and then stewed, in rich 
thickened gravy with force meat balls, and sauce. 

236. Ribs of Beef , boned. — Take out the ribs, &c. and roll it as 
round as possible ; bind with tape ; roast with or without veal stuffing, 
laid over before rolling. Thoroughly soak it, and brown it before a 
quick fire. Roast beef accompaniments, and, if liked, wow-wow 
sauce. 

237. Roasting Mutton. — A saddle of mutton of ten or twelve 
pounds will take from two hours and a half to three hours roasting. 
Mutton should be put before a brisk fire; a saddle of mutton requires 
to be protected from the heat by covering it with paper, which should 



ROASTING, BROILING, &C. 77 

be taken off about a quarter of an hour before it is done; when of a 
pale-brown colour, baste it; flour it lightly to froth. The leg of 
mutton, the shoulder, the loin, the neck, the breast, and the haunch, 
require the same treatment as the saddle, with the exception of 
papering, which, however, may be sometimes required. The haunch 
should bo served v/ith plain but rich mutton sauce, and with sweet 
sauce ; of course separately. 

238. Mutton, Ve7iison fashion. — Hang till fit for dressing- a good 
neck of mutton ; two days before dressing it, rub it well twice each 
day with powdered allspice, and black pepper ; roast it in paste, as 
ordered for the haunch of venison. 

239. Roasting Veal. — This meat r'^quires particular care to roast 
it a nice brown ; the fire should be the same as for beef; a sound 
large tiro for a large joint, and a brisker for a smaller: soak tho- 
roughly, and then bring it nearer the fire to brown ; baste on first 
putting down, and occasionally afterwards. When done and dished, 
pour over it melted butter, with or without a little brown gravy. 
Veal joints, not stuffed, may be served with force meat balls, or rolled 
into sausages as garnish to the dish ; or fried pork sausages. Bacon 
or ham, and greens, are generally eaten with veal. 

240. Fillet of Veal of from twelve to sixteen pounds will require 
from four or five hours at a good fire ; make some stuffing or force 
meat, and put it under the flap, that there may be some left to eat 
cold, or to season a hash ; brown it, and pour good melted butter over 
it; garnish with thin slices of lemon and cakes or balls of stuffing. 
A loin is the best part of the calf, and will take about three hours 
roasting ; paper the kidney fat and back. A shoulder from three 
hours to three hours and a half; stuff it with the force meat ordered 
for the fillet of veal, or balls made of 271. Neck, best end, will take 
two hours; same accompaniments as the fillet. The scrag part ia 
best in a pie or broth. Breast from an hour and a half to two hours. 
Let the caul remain till it is almost done, then take it off to brown it; 
baste, flour and froth it. 

241. Veal Sweetbread. — Trim a fine sweetbread (it cannot be too 
fresh), parboil it for five minutes, and throw it into a basin of cold 
water. Roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of an egg, and prepare 
some bread crumbs. VVhen the sweetbread is cold, dry it thoroughly 
in a cloth; run a lark-spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the 
ordinary spit; egg it with a paste-brush ; powder it well with bread 
crumbs, and roast it. For sauce, fried bread crumbs round it, and 
melted butter, with a little mushroom catsup, or serve them on but- 
tered toast, garnished with egg sauce, or with gravy. Instead of 
spitting them, you may put them into a tin dutch oven or fry them. 

242. Roasting Lamb. — To the usual accompaniments of roasted 
meat, lamb requires green mint sauce or salad, or both. Some cooks, 
about five minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a little fresh- 
gathered and finely minced parsley, or crisped parsley. Lamb and 
all young meats ought to be thoroughly done ; therefore, do not take 
cithe- lamb or veal off the spit till you see it drop white gravy. 



8 T JI E COMPLETE COOK. 

When green mint cannot be got, mint vinegar is an acceptable sub- 
stitute for it, and crisp parsley, on a side plate, is an adrairablo 
accompaniment. Hind-quarter of eiglit pounds will take from an 
hour and three-quarters to two hours; baste, and froth it. A quarter 
of a porkling is sometimes skinned, cut, and dressed lamb fashion, and 
sent up as a substitute for it. The leg and the loin of lamb, when 
little, should be roasted together, the former being lean, the latter fat, 
and the gravy is better preserved. Fore-quarter often pounds, about 
two hours. It is a pretty genera! custom, when you take off the 
shoulder from the ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange, or lemon, over 
them, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt ; this may be 
done by the cook before it comes to table. Some people are not 
remarkably expert at dividing these joints nicely. Leg of five 
pounds, from an hour to an hour and a half Shoulder^ with a quick 
fire, an hour. Ribs, almost an hour to an hour and a quarter; joint 
them nicely, crack ihe ribs across, and divide them from the brisket 
after it is roasted. Loin, an hour and a quarter. Neck, an hour. 
Breast three-quarters of an hour. 

243. Roasting Pork. — If this meat be not well done, thoroughly 
well done, it is disgusting to the sight and poisonous to the stomach. 
" In the gravy of pork, if there is the least tint of redness," says Dr. 
Kitchiner, " it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite. Other meats 
under-done are unpleasant, but pork ii absolutely uneatable." A Leg 
of eight pounds will require about three hours; score the skin across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in diamonds) about a quarter of an 
inch apart; stuff the knuckle with sage and onion minced fine, and a 
little grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 
See 252 and 270. Do not put it too near the fire ; rub a little sweet 
oil on the skin with a paste-brush, or a goose- feather ; this makes the 
crackling crisper and browner than basting it with dripping, and it 
will be a better colour than all the art of cookery can make it in any 
other way ; and this is the best way of preventing the skin from 
blistering, which is principally occasioned Ijy its being put too near 
the fire. 

244. Leg of Pork roasted loithout the skin ; or Mock Goose. — 
Parboil a leg of pork, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast ; 
baste it with butter, and make a savoury powder of finely minced or 
dried or powdered sage, ground black pepper, salt, and some bread 
crumbs rubbed together through a colander ; you may add to this a 
little very finely minced onion; sprinkle it, with this when it is almost 
roasted ; put a half pint of made gravy into tlse dish, and goose stuffing 
under the knuckle skin, or garnish the dish with balls of it, fried or 
broiled. 

245. Spare rib: when you put it down to roast, dust on some flour, 
and baste it with a little butter ; dry a dozen sage leaves, rub them 
through a hair sieve, put them into the top of a pepper box, and about 
a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter; dust 
the pulverised sage, or savoury powder, in, or sprinkle it with duck 
stuffing ; some people prefer it plain. 



H OA STI NG. '?9 

246. Loin of Pork, of five pounds, mtist be kept at a g-ood distance 
from the fire, on account of the crackling, and will take about two 
hours — if very fat, half an hour longer: stuff it with duck stuffing 
(252 and 270 ;) scor*-; the skin in stripes about a quarter of an inch 
apart, and rub it with salad oil. You may sprinkle over it some of 
the savoury powder recommended for the mock iroose (244.) 

247. Sucking Pi^ should be about three weeks old, and it ought to 
be dressed as quickly as possible after it is killed; if not quite fresh, 
the craclding can never be made crisp. It requires constant attention 
and great care in roasting. As the ends require more fire than the 
middle, an instrument called the pig-iron has been contrived to hang 
before the latter part. A common flat iron will answer the purpose, 
or the fire may be kept fiercest at the ends. A good stuffing may be 
made as follows : — Take five or six ounces of the crumb of stale bread ; 
crumble and rub through a colander; mince very fine a handful of 
sage, and a large onion ; mix with an egg, pepper, salt, and a piece of 
butter about the size of an egg ; fill the belly, and sew it up ; put it 
to the fire, and baste it with butter lied up in a rag, by applying it to 
the back of the pig, Kitchiner recommends basting it with olive oil 
till it is done. It should never be left. It should be placed before a 
clear brisk fire, at some distance; and great care should be taken 
that the crackling should be nicely crisped, and delicately browned. 
It will require from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the 
size of the pig. When first put to the fire, it should be rubbed all 
over with fresh butter, or salad oil ; ten minutes after this, and when 
the skin looks dry, dredge it well with flour all over. Let this re- 
main on an hour, and then rub it off with a soft cloth. A sucking pig 
being very troublesome to roast, is frequently sent to the oven. A 
clever baker will do it so as to be almost equal to roasted ; he will re- 
quire a quarter of a pound of butter, and should be told to baste it well. 
(See 284.) Before you take the pig from the fire, cut off the head, 
and part that and the body down the middle ; chop the brains very fine 
with some boiled sage leaves, and mix them with good veal or beef 
gravy, or what runs from the pig when you cut the head off. Send 
up a tureen full of gravy besides. Currant sauce is still a favourite 
with some of the old school. Lay your pig back to back in the dish, with 
one half of the head on each side, and the ears at each end, which you 
must take care to make nice and crisp, or you will get scolded, and 
deservedly. When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the skin long, round 
the end of the legs. 

248. Turkey, Turkey Poults, and other Poultry. — A fowl and a 
turkey require the same management at the fire, only the latter will 
take longer time. Let them be carefully picked, break the breast- 
bone (to make them look plump,) and thoroughly singe them with a 
sheet of clean writing paper. Prepare a nice brisk fire for them. 
Make stuffing according to 269; stuff them under the breast where 
the craw was taken out; and make some into balls, and boil or fry 
them, and lay them round the dish; they are handy to help, and you 
can reserve some of the inside stuffing to eat with the cold turkey, ar 



80 THECOMPLETECOOK. 

to enrich a hash. Score the gizzard ; dip it in the yolk of an egg, or 
melted butter, and sprinkle it with salt and a few grains of cayenne; 
put it under one pinion, and the liver under the other ; cover the liver 
with buttered paper, to prevent it getting hardened or burnt. When 
you first put your turkey down to roast, dredge it with flour, then put 
about an ounce of butter into a basting ladle, and as it melts baste the 
bird. Keep it at a distance from the fire for the first half hour that it 
may warm gradually, then put it nearer, and when it is plumped up, 
and the steam draws towards the fire, it is nearly done enough ; then 
dredge it lightly with flour, and put a bit of butter into your basting 
iadle%nd as it melts baste the turkey with it; this will raise a finer 
froth than can be produced by using the fat out of the pan. A very 
large turkey will require about three hours to roast it thoroughly ; a 
middling sized one, of eight or ten pounds, about two hours ; a small 
one may be done in an hour and a half. Turkey poults are of various 
sizes, and will take about an hour and a half. Fried pork sausages 
are a very savouiy accompaniment to either roasted or boiled turkey. 
Sausage meat is sometimes used as a stuffing, instead of the ordinary 
force meat. If you wish a turkey, especially a very large one, to be 
tender, never dress it till at least four or five days (in cold weather, 
eight or ten) after it has been killed, unless it be dressed immediately 
after killing, before the flesh is cold ; be very careful not to let it 
freeze. lien turkeys are preferable to cocks for whiteness and 
tenderness, and the small tender ones, with black legs, are most 
esteemed. Send up with them oyster, egg, and plenty of gravy 
sauce. 

249. Capons or Fowls must be killed a couple of days in moderate, 
and more in cold, weather, before they are dressed, unless dressed 
immediately they are killed, or they will eat tough : a good criterion 
of the ripeness of poultry for the spit, is the ease with which you can 
pull out the leathers; when a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help you 
to ascertain this. They are managed exactly in the same manner, 
and sent up wnth the same sauces, as a turkey, only they require pro- 
portionably less time at the fire — a full-grown five-toed fowl about an 
hour and a quarter; a moderate sized one, an hour; a chicken, from 
thirty to forty minutes. Have also pork sausages fried, as they are in 
general a favourite accompaniment, or turkey stuffing; see Force 
meats, 278 ; put in plenty of it, so as to plump out the fowl, which 
must be tied closely (both at the neck and rump,) to keep in the stuff- 
ing ; some cooks put the liver of the fowl into this force meat, and 
others mince it and pound it, and rub up with flour and melted butter. 
When the bird is stuffed and trussed, score the gizzard nicely ; dip it 
into melted butter ; let it drain, and then season it with cayenne and 
salt ; put it under one pinion, and the liver under the other; to pre- 
vent their getting hardened or scorched, cover them w'ith double pa- 
per buttered. Take care that your roasted poultry be w^ell browned ; 
it is as indispensable that roasted poultry should have a rich brown 
complexion, as that boiled poultry fehould have a delicate white one. 



ROASTING. 81 

For sauces, see 111; or liver and parsley, and those ordered in the 
last receipt. 

250. Goose. — When a goose is well picked, singed and cleaned, 
make the stuffing with about two ounces of onion, and half as much 
green sage; chop them ver}- fine, adding four ounces of stale bread 
crumbs, a bit of butter about as big as a walnut, and a very little pep- 
per and salt (to this some cooks add half the liver, parboiling it first,) 
the yolk of an egg or two, and, incorporating the whole together, stuff 
the goose; do not quite fill it, but leave a little room for the stuffing 
to swell. From an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters will 
roast a fine full-grown goose. Send up gravy and apple sauce with it. 
Geese are called green till they are about four months old. 

251. Cativass Back Ducks, or Red Neck Ducks. — Let your duck 
be young and fat, if possible; having picked it well, draw it and singe 
carefully, without washing it, so as to preserve the blood, and conse- 
quently, all its flavour. You then truss it, leaving its head on for the 
purpose of distinguishing it from common game, and place it on the 
Bpit before a brisk fire, for at least fifteen minutes. Then serve it 
hot, in its own gravy, which is formed by the blood, &c., on a large 
chafing dish. The best birds are found on the Potomac river; they 
have the head purple, and the breast silver colour, and it is considered 
superior in quality and flavour to any other species of wild duck. 
The season is only during the cold weather. 

252. Duck. — Mind your duck is well cleaned, and wiped out witli 
a clean cloth ; for the stuTmg, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green sage ; clup them very fine, and mix them with two 
ounces of bread crumbs, a bit of butter about as big as a walnut, a 
very little black pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egcr to bind it; 
mix these thoroughly together, and put into the duck. From half to 
three-quarters of an hour will be enough to roast it, according to the 
size ; contrive to have the feet delicately crisp, as some people are 
very fond of them; — to do this nicely, you must have a sharp fire. 
Gravy sauce, and sage and onion sauce. To hash or stew ducks, the 
same as goose. If you think the raw onion will make too strong an 
impression upon the palate, parboil it. To insure ducks being ten- 
der, in moderate weather kill them a few days before you dress them. 

253. Haunch of Venison. — To preserve the fat, make a paste of 
flour and water, as much as will cover the haunch ; wipe it with a 
dry cloth in every part ; rub a large sheet of paper all over with but- 
ter, and cover the venison with it; then roll out the paste about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Lay this all over the fat side, cover it with 
three or four sheets of strong ^hite paper, and tie it securely on with 
packthread ; have a strong close fire, and baste your venison as soon 
as you lay it down to roast (to prevent the paper and string from burn- 
ing;) It must be well basted all the time. A buck haunch which ge- 
nerally weighs from twenty to twenty-five pounds, will take about four 
hours and a half roasting in warm, and longer in cold, weather. A 
naunch of from twelve to eighteen pounds will be done in about three 
nours, or three hours and a half. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done, the string must be cut, and the paste carefully taken off; now 



82 THECOMFLETECOOK. 

baste it with butter, dredge it lightly with flour, and when the froth 
rises, and it has got a very iight-brown colour, it is done. Garnish 
the knuckle bone with a ruffle of cut writing paper, and send it up 
with good strong (but unseasoned) gravy in one boat, and currant jelly 
sauce in tlie other, or currant jelly in a side plate (not melted.) See 
for Sauces, 137, 138, 139. Buck venison is in greatest perfection i 
from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and doe from November to January. 
Neck and Shoulder of venison are to be treated the same way as the \ 
haunch, but they will not take so much time, nor do they need the 
paste covering. 

254. .4 Favjn should be dressed as soon after it is killed as pos- 
sible; when very young, it is dressed the same as a hare; but they 
are better eating when the size of the house lamb, or when they are 
large enough to be roasted in quarters. The hind-quarter is consid- 
ered the best. Fawns require a very quick fire. They are so deli- 
cate that they must be constantly basted, or be covered with sheets 
of fat bacon; when nearly done, remove the bacon, baste it with 
butter, and froth it. Serve with venison sauce. 

255. A Kid is very good eating when a suckling, and when the 
dam is in fine condition. Roast, and serve it like a fawn or hare. 

256. Hare when young is easy of digestion, and very nourishing — 
when old, the contrary, unless rendered so by keeping and dressing. 
When you receive a hare, take out the liver— if it be sweet, parboil 
it, and keep it for stuffing. Wipe the hare quite dry; rub the inside 
with pepper, and hang it in a cool place till it is fit to be dressed, that 
is to say, till it comes to the point of putrefaction, but not putrefied. 
Then paunch and skin, wash and lay it in a large pan of cold water 
four or five hours, changing the water two or three times ; lay it in 
a clean cloth; dry it well, and truss. To make the stuffing, see 272. 
Let it be stiff; put it in the belly, and sew it up tightly. The skin 
must be cut to let the blood out of the neck. Some persons baste it 
with skimmed milk, but we decidedly prefer dripping; it ought to be 
constantly basted till it is nearly done; then put a little bit of butter 
into your basting ladle; flour and froth nicely. Serve with good 
gravy and currant jelly. Cold roasl hare, chopped to pieces, and 
stewed in water for a couple of hours, will make excellent soup. 

257. Rabbit. — Put it down to a sharp clear fire ; dredge it lightly 
and carefully with flour; take care to have it frothy an°d of a fine 
light brown; boil the liver with parsley while the rabbit is roasting; 
when tender, chop them together; put half the mixture into melted 
butter, use the other half for garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cut 
off the head, divide it, and lay half on each side the dish. A fine 
well-grown and well-hung warren rabbit, dressed as a hare, will eat 
very much like it. 

258. A Pheasant should have a smart fire, but not a fierce one ; 
baste it, butter and froth it, and prepare sauce for it. Some persons, 
the pheasant being a dry bird, put a piece of beef or rump steak into 
the inside before roasting. It is said that a pheasant should be sus- 
pended by one of the long tail feathers till it falls. It is then ripe 



SEASONINGS. 83 

and ready for the spit, and not before. If a fowl be well kept, and 
dressed as a pheasant, and with a pheasant, few persons will discover 
the pheasant from the fowl. 

259. Guinea Fowls, Partridges, Pea Fowls, Blackcock, Grouse, 
and Moorgame, are dressed in the same way as pheasants. Par- 
tridg-es are sent up w!th rice sauc^^, or bread sauce, and good gravy. 
Blackcock, nu.orgame, and grouse, are sent up with currant jelly and 
fried bread crumbs. 

260. Wild Ducks, Widgeon, and Teal, are dressed before a clear 
fire, and on a hot spit. Wild ducks will require fifteen or twenty 
minutes to do them in the fashinnnble way, but to do them well will 
require a few minutes longer. Widgeon and teal, being .smaller 
birds, of course will require less time. 

261. Woodcocks and Snipes are never drawn; they should be tied 
on a small bird spit, and put to roast at a clear fire; a slice of bread 
is put under each bird, to catch the trail, that is the excrements of the 
intestines; they are considered delightful eating; baste with butter, 
and froth with flour; lay the toa-^t on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toast; pour some good gravy into the dish, and send some up in a 
boat. They are generally roasted from twenty to thirty minutes — 
but some epicures say, that a woodcock should be just introduced to 
the cook, for her to show it the fire, and then send it up to table. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon. Snipes are dressed in the same way, but 
require less time. 

262. Pigeons^ when stuffed, require some green parsley to be 
chopped very fine with the liver and a bit of butter, seasoned with a 
little pepper and salt; or they may be stuffed with the same as a fillet 
of veal. Fill the belly of each bird with either of these compositions. 
They will roast in about twenty or thirty minutes. Serve with 
parsley and butter, with a dish under them, with some in a boat. 
Garnish with crisp parsley, fried bread crumbs, br^ead sauce, or gravy. 

263. Small Birds. — The most delicate of these are larks, which 
are in high season in November and December. When cleaned and 
prepared for roasting, brush them with the yolk of an egg, and roll 
in bread crumbs; spit them on a lark-spit, and tie that on a larger 
spit; ten or fifteen minutes at a quick fire will do thern ; baste them 
with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are 
quite covered, while roasting. Sauce, grated bread fried in butter, 
which set to drain before the fire that it may harden ; serve the 
crumbs under the larks when you dish them, and garnish them with 
slices of lemon. Wheatears are dressed in the same way. 

264. Reed Birds. — Having carefully picked your birds, which 
should he very fat, draw them with the greatest care possible so as 
not to rob them of any fit, and truss then) on a skewer, which you 
fasten to the spit, and cook them before a brisk fire ; a very few 
minutes is requisite. In serving them, place them on buttered toast, 
and pour a small portion of gravy over them. Let them be hot. 
This is generally considered the best manner of serving reed birds, 
although niany persons prefer them breaded and fried, or b.nrbacued. 



84 TIIECOMPLETECOOK. 

When they are very fat it is unnecessary to draw them. The season 
for this delicious bird is from the middle of September to the first or 
ppcnnd week in October. 



SEASONINGS. 

Tho art of making' seasonings!, or stuffinji^s, principally consists in 
so j)roporti()iiin:? the flavours as that none may predominate, or be 
tasted more than another. In stuffing, care must be taken to leave 
room for swr-IJing ; if not, it is apt to be hard and heavy. 

205. Seasoning for Roast Pork, Ducks, or Geese. — Two-thirds 
onion, one-third green sage, chopped fine, bread crumbs equal in 
weight to the sage and onions; season with a little pepper and salt, 
and incorporate it well with the yolk of an egg or two, and a bit of 
butter. Some omit the bread crumbs, and some again do not like the 
onions, while others add to them a clove of garlic. 

266. Seasoning for a Sucking Pig. — A large teacup full of 
grated bread, two ounces of butter, season with nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper; scald two small onions, chop fine, and about thirty leaves of 
young sage, and egg beat fine, and mix altogether, and sew it in the 
belly of the pig. 

267. Seasoning for a Goose. — Scald the liver, chop fine, crumb 
twice its weight in bread, chop fine four small onions, or an equal 
weight of chives, half the weight of green sage, half an ounce of 
butter, the yolk of an egg, and a table spoonful of potato starch; 
season highly with salt and pepper; mix well. 

268. Ckesnut Seasoning for Goose. — Fry or boil chesnuts till the 
outer skin comes off very easily, and the inside will pound or grate ; 
reduce them to powder, scald the liver of the goose, and an onion or 
two, the juice of a lemon, season with pepper, cayenne, salt; mix 
well together. 



STUFFINGS AND FORCE MEATS. 

269. Stuffing for Veal, Roast Turkey, Fowl, <^c. —Mince a 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow (beef suet will do,) the same 
weight of bread crumbs, two drachms of parsley leaves, a drachm 
Hud a half of sweet marjoram (or lemon thyme,) and the same of 
grated lemon peel, an onion, chopped very fine, a little salt and 
j)opper, pound thoroughly together, with the yolk and white of two 
*^gg^, and secure it in the veal with a skew'er, or sew it in with a 
needle and thread. Make some of it into balls or sausages; flour 
and fry or boil them, and send them up as a garnish, or in a side dish, 
with roast poultry, veal, or cutlets, &c. This is sufficient quantity 
for r. turkey poult; a very large turkey will require twice as much; 
an ounce of dressed ham may be added to the above, or use equal 
parts of the above stuffing and pork sausage meat. 

270. Goose or Duck stuffing. — Chop very fine about one ounce of 
green sage leaves, two ounre-s of onion also chopped fine (both un- 



I 



STUFFINGS, &C. S5 

boiled,) a bit of butter about the size of a walnut, four ounces of 
bread crumbs, a little salt and pepper, the yolk and white of an egg; 
eome add to this a little apple. 

271. Force meat balls lor turtle, mock turtle, or made dishes: — 
Pound some veal in a marble mortar, rub it through a sieve with aa 
much of the udder as you have of veal, and about the third of the 
quantity of butter; put some bread crumbs in a stew-pan, moisten 
with milk, add a little chopped eschalot, and a little parsley; rub 
them well together in a mortar till they form a smooth paste; put it 
through a sieve, and when cold, pound and mix all together, with the 
yolk of three eggs boiled hard; season it v.'ith curry powder, or 
cayenne pepper and salt; add the yolks of two unboiled eg^'^^ rub it 
well together, and make small balls; a few minutes before your soup 
is ready, put them in. 

272. Stuji7ig for Hare. — Three ounces of fine bread crumbs, two 
ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, eschalot half a drachm, one drachm 
of parsley, a drachm of lemon thyme, marjoram, winter savoury, a 
drachm of grated lemon peel, and the same of pepper and salt; mix 
these with the white and yolk of an egg ; do not make it thin, for if 
it is not stiff enough, it will be good for nothing ; put it in the hare 
and sew it up. If the liver is quite sound, parboil it, mince it very- 
fine, and put to the stuffing. 

273. Veal Force meat. — Of undressed veal take two ounces, scrape 
it quite fine, and free from skin and sinews, the same quantity of 
beef or veal suet, and the same of bread crumbs; chop fine one 
drachm of lemon peel, two drachms of parsley, the same quantity 
of sweet herbs, and half a drachm of mace or allspice beaten to a 
fine powder ; pound all together in a mortar, break into it the yolk 
and white of an egg, rub it all well together, and season with pepper 
and salt. This may be made more savoury by addin.g cold pickled 
tongue, eschalot, anchovy, cayenne, or curry powder. 

274. Stuffing for Pike, Carp, or Haddock. — A dozen oysters 
bearded and chopped, two yolks of eggs, a small onion, or two cloves 
of eschalot and a few sprigs of parsley chopped fine, season with 
cayenne, mace, allspice, pppper, and salt; add their weight of bread 
crumbs, or biscuit powder, then put two ounces of butter into a stew- 
pan, and eimmer them till they have sucked up the butter ; as they 
begin to bind, sprinkle over them more bread crumbs or biscuit 
powder, till the whole forms into a ball, with which stuff the fish. 
Some people like the addition of ham or tongue scraped, and suet or 
marrow instead of butter. 

Another way. Beef suet, or marrow and fat ba*3on, and fresh 
butter, two ounces of each ; pound them with the meat of a lobster, 
ten or twelve oysters, one or two anchovies; season with thyme, 
par.-^ley, knotted marjoram, savoury, chopped fine and scalded ; add 
salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, a few drops of essence of eschalot ; add 
the yolk of an egg, and bread erumbs. This pudding will be 6uffi- 
ciently done in the belly of the fish, if you do not add the eschalot in 
substance. 

7* 



86 THE C O M P T, F T F. r O O K . 

275. Stuffing for Heart and many other 'purposes.— ThVe half a 
pound of grated bread; chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef or 
lamb suetro.- beef marrow; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; a 
handful of parsley leaves, thyme about a quarter as much, six sprigs 
of marjoram and vervain, winter savoury or knotted marjoram, and 
the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Mix well with two eggs well 
beaten. You may add a dozen of oysters, chopped, and the liquor, 
or two ounces of dressed ham, chopped. This stuffing may be used 
for a turkey, with an equal quantity of sausage meat parboiled ; rub 
them well together, and keep out half a pound, to which add an egg, 
to make up into balls and fry, and lay round the dish as a garnish. 
Turkey is sometimes stuffed with chesnuts (see 267); take basil and 
parsley instead of onions, and add a quarter of a pound of dressed 
ham grated, and a little nutmeg. 

276. A very rich stuffing for Venl, Poultry^ and Game. — Take 
two pounds f)f beef suet, one pound of bread crumbs, a tea spoonful 
of thyme, the eamc quantity of marjoram, a tea-cup full of chopped 
parsley, chopped eschalot a table spoonful, half a lemon grated, half 
a nutmeg, hnlf an ounce each of salt and pepper, and five eggs, well 
mixed. 

277. Veal Cake. — Boil six eggs hard, cut the yolks in two, butter 
a mould ; lay tome of the pieces of egg at the bottom, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley ; then lay thin slices of veal and ham ; 
sprinkle again Vvitli the seasoning, and then eggs, and so on till the 
dish is filled. Then add gravy, till it covers'the top of the meat; 
spread one ounce of butter over the top, tie it over Vv-ith paper, and 
bake one hour ; tljen press it close together with a spoon, and let it 
stand till cold. Another way is to pound the meat instead of slices, 
Lwo-thirds of lean veal and one-third of fat ham. When the cake is 
wanted, set the mould in boiling water for a minute or two, and the 
cake will turn out. 

278. Force vieal for Veal or Fowls. — Take equal parts of cold 
veal, beef snet, ham or gammon, a few parsley leaves, a small onion, 
the rind of lemon a little; chop all together very fine; season with 
pepper, salt, cayenne, mace, or nutmeg; pound the whole in a mortar, 
with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, and add tv^ o eggs to bind it. 
This is a good three meat for patties. 

279. Light force meat balls.— Cold veal or chicken a quarter of a 
pound, chopped, Jialf a pound of suet, chopped, crumbs of bread a tea- 
cup full. Season with sweet herbs, and spice and eschalots, and three 
or four eggs beat separately ; mix these articles with all the yolks and 
as much of the whites as is necessary to bring it to a moist paste, roll 
them in small balls, and fry them in butter, or lard, for garnish to 
roast turkey, fowl, &.c. 

280. Egg halls. — Boil four eggs for ten minutes and put them into 
cold water; when they are cold beat the yolks in a mortar with the 
yolk of a raw egg, sorne chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of flour, a 
pinch or two of salt, and a little black pepper, or cayenne; rub them 
well too-ether, roll them into small balls, and boil them two minutes. 



BAKING MEAT, (fee. 87 

281. Brain balls. — Take a calf's brains, or two or throe lambs', 
scald them for ten minutes, quite free from every bit of vein and 
skin, beat up with seasoning the same as egg balls, adding a tea 
spoonful of chopped sage; rub a tea-cup full of bread crumbs, three 
tea spoonfuls of flour, and a raw ecrg with them. Make them up into 
balls, rub each ball with bread, fry them with butter or lard; serve 
as a garnish to calf's head, or as a separate side dish. 

282. Curry balls. — Take bread crumbs, the yolk of an egg boiled 
hard, and a bit of fresh butter; beat together in a mortar, and season 
with curry powder ; make them into small balls, and boil or fry 
them. 

BAKING MEAT, &c. 

283. As baking is the only means by which the poor inhabitants 
of towns for the most part can enjoy a joint of meat at home,* we 
shall say a word or two upon the subject, particularly with regard to 
those joints which, when they are carefully baked, most resemble 
roasted ones. Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, 
&.C., may be baked with advantage, if the meat be good and tolerably 
fat. Besides the joints here enumerated, there are many others which 
may be baked, providing the meat is not poor or lean. The follow- 
ing are observations on baking meat by a well-experienced baker; 
they are particularly deserving the attention of a careful house- 
keeper. 

284. "A pig when sent to the baker prepared for baking should 
have its ears and tail covered with buttered paper, properly fiistened 
on, and a bit of butter tied up in linen to baste the back with, other- 
wise it will be apt to blister. With a proper share of attention from 
the baker, this way is thought to be equal to a roasted one. 

285. "A goose prepared as for roasting, taking care to have it on 
a stand, and when half done, to turn the other side upwards. A duck 
should be treated in the same v;ay. 

286. " After a buttock of beef has been in salt about a week, well 
wash it, and put it in a brown earthen pan with a pint of water, cover 
the pan quite over and tightly with two or three thicknesses of cap 
or foolscap paper (never use brown paper — it contains tar, &,c.). 
Bake for four or five hours in a moderate heated oven. A ham pro- 
perly soaked may be baked in the same way. 

287. "Bakers are in the habit of baking small cod fish, haddock, 
and mackerel, with a dust of flour and some bits of butter put on 
them. Eels, when large and stuffed. Herrings and sprats in a 
brown pan, with a little vinegar and a little spice, and tied over with 
paper. A hare, prepared the same as for roasting, with a few pieces 
of butter and a little drop of milk put into the dish, and basted several 
times, will be found nearly equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it 
properly, put it into a jvr or pan, and cover it over, and bake it in a 



* We hope, however, in a few years, to see the American oven siipereede the cua- 
tom of flressinj; meat in the public hake-house. 



88 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

moderate oven for about three hours. In the same manner legs and 
shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c., prepared with a seasoning- of onions, 
turnips, &c., may be baked: they will take about four hours; let 
them stand till cold to ekirn off the fat; then warm up altogether, or 
part, as you may want it. 

288. '* The time that each of the above articles should take, depends 
much upon the state of the oven; they should be sent to the baker in 
time, and he must be very neglectful if they are not ready at the time 
they are ordered." 

289. We may be here allowed to remark, that the process of dress- 
ing meat in an oven in a covered pan is more analogous to stewing 
than it is to baking. It is, however, an excellent mode of cookinu-. 
The great objection to baking meat in an open pan, and among many 
other different descriptions of dishes, is the bad flavour which is apt 
to be imparted to it. There is, too, another objection to baked meat, 
which arises from the exclusion of the external air, or for want of a 
draught. The exhalations from the meat in baking, <!tc., not being 
carried off, they have a tendency to sodden it. 

290. Dr. Kitchiner, no mean authority, deprecates the machines 
which the economical grate-makers call roasters, being in fact, as he 
asserts, "in plain English — ovens." The Doctor intimates, that these 
things are all very well for saving fuel, but affirms that tiie rational 
epicure, who has been accustomed to enjoy beef well roasted, will 
soon discover the difference. Notwithstanding this high authority, 
we have no hesitation in stating, that moat cooked in the roaster 
attached to FlavelTs cooking apparatus, is as good as meat roasted 
before the fire. But we ought to observe, that^Mr. Flavell's roaster 
has a current of air passing through it when so employed, but when 
used as an oven the current of air is prevented by the introduction of 
a damper. We can state from the experience of some years, that the 
apparatus alluded to is a most excellent contrivance for cooking 
generally. 

291. " Nothing can be more preposterous," says Mr. Sylvester, in 
his 'Philosophy of Domestic Economy,' "and inappropriate, than the 
prevailing construction and management of a gentleman's kitchen. 
Before the discovery of the stew hearths, all the culinary processes 
were carried on with one immense open grate, burning as much fuel 
in one day as might do the same work for ten. The cook and the 
furniture of the kitchen get a proportion of this heat, the articles to 
be dressed another portion, but by far the greatest quantity goes up 
tiie chimney. 

292. *'The introduction of the stew hearth has in some degree 
reduced the magnitude of these grates; but they are yet disgraceful 
to science and common sense. In the present state (1819) of culinary 
improvement, a kitchen may be fitted up with apparatus, requiring 
much less labour and attention, with much less consumption of fuel; 
rendering the food more wholesome and agreeable, and also prevent- 
ing that offensive smell which has made it so often necessary to 
detach the kitchen from the rest of the house." 



PRYING. 89 

293. The stew liearth is a most useful addition to the ordinary 
kitchen grate, but small families of limited means are seldom possessed 
of one. A stew hearth, indeed, or a substitute for one, which may be 
easily obtained, is indispensable in French, and indeed in good Eng- 
lish cookery. 

V R Y I N G . 

294. Frying, as is properly observed by Dr. Kitchitier, is often a 
convenient mode of cookery; it may be performed by a fir» which 
will not do for roasting or boiling, and by the introduction of the pan 
between the meat and the fire, things get more equally dressed. 

295. Be very particular that your frying pan is perfectly clean be- 
fore using it. Never use any oil, butter, lard, or drippings, which 
are not perfectly free from salt, and p« fectly sweet and fresh. As 
frying is, in fact, boiling in oil fat, it is of the first importance that 
your fat should be clean, or it will spoil the look as well as the 
flavour, and salt will prevent the meat from browning. 

296. Good oil is, perhaps, the best to fry in, but sweet fresh lard, 
or clarified mutton or beef suet, will answer every purpose, nearly, 
if not quite as well as the best oil or butter, and, what is -of greater 
importance, at a much less expense. Nice clean dripping is almost 
as good as any thing. After you have done frying preserve your fat, 
which, if not burnt, will do for three or four fryings; but fat in which 
fish has been fried will do for nothing else. 

297. If your fat is not of a proper heat, your frying cannot be well 
done ; this is, in short, the great secret in frying, which the young 
cook ought and must acquire. The frying pan must be always set 
over a sharp and clear fire, or otherwise the fat is too long before it 
becomes ready. When the fat has done hissing, or bubbling, that is, 
when it is still, you may be pretty sure that it is hot enough. It is a 
good way to try the heat of your fat, by throwing a little bit of bread 
into the pan ; if it fries crisp, the fat is of the right heat — if it burns 
the bread, it is too hot. 

298. When your things are well done, take care and drain all the 
fat from them most thoroughly, particularly those that have been 
fried in bread crumbs, &-c. ; if you do not, your cookery will be marred. 
Fried fish ought to be quite dry. This depends in a great measure 
upon the fat in which they are dressed being of a proper heat. If the 
fish are well done, and are well drained of the fat, they will become 
quite dry and crisp in a few minutes after they have been taken out 
of the pan. If this, however, should not be the ©ase, and the fish on 
the contrary should be damp and wet, lay them on a soft cloth before 
the fire, turning them occasionally till they are dry. They will 
sometimes take ten or fifteen minutes drying. 

299. In preparing bread crunibs in a considerable quantity, in ord"er 
to save unbroken the crust, and preserving it fit for the table, cut 
your loaf into three equal parts, that is, cut off the bottom and top 
crusts, and use the middle part or the crumb for your frying. The 



DO THECOMPLETECOOK. 

bread should be at least two days old. A good and cheap substitute 
for bread is oatmeal, which will cost, comparatively speaking, 
nothing. 

It is scarcely necessary to refer the cook to our general remarks 
upon the above operation. Frying is preferred by many persons to 
broiling; arul our own opinion is, tiiat steaks, chops, &c., may be 
dressed with much more certiinty and regularity by the former, than 
by the latter, method. But plenty of nil, butter, or sweet grease, must 
always be u-^ed, or the frying will be imperfect. 

300. Sleaks. — Cut them rather thinner than for broiling ; put some 
butter, or, what is much cheaper and quite as good, some clarified 
dripping or suet, into an iron frying-pan, and when it is quite hot put 
in the steaks, and keep turnintj them until they are done enough. 
The sauce for steaks, chops, cutlets, &c., is made as follows: — Take 
the chops, steaks or cutlets, out of the frying pan; for a pound of meat, 
keep a table-r-pooufiil of the fat in the pan, or put in an ounce of but- 
ter ; put to it as much flour as will make it a paste; rub it well toge- 
ther over the fire till they are a little brown; then add as much boil- 
ing water as will reduce it to the thickness of good cream, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, or pickle, or browning; 
let it boil, together a few minutes, and pour it through a sieve to the 
steaks, &c. To the above is sometimes added a sliced onion, or a 
minced eschalot, with a table-spoonful of port wine, or a little escha- 
lot wine. Garnish v.'ith scraped horse-radish, or pickled walnut, gher- 
kins, &.C. Some beef-eaters like chopped eschalots in one saucer, and 
horse-radish grated in vinegar in another. Broiled mushrooms are fa- 
vourite relishes to beef-steaks, 

301. Beef-steaks and Onions. — The steaks are fried as directed 
above; the common method is to fry the onions cut small, but the best 
plan perh ips is to use onions prepared as directed in 115. 

302. Sausages. — Sausages are not good unless they are quite 
fresh. Put a bit of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, before it gets 
hot put in the sausages, shake the pan, and ker^p turning them (be 
careful not to break or prick th<^m in so doing) ; fry them over a very 
slow fire till they are nicely browned on all sides; when they are 
done, lay them on a hair sieve, place them before the fire for a couple 
of minutes to drain the fat from them. The secret of fryinu- sausages 
is, to let tliem get hot very gradually — then they will not burst, if 
they are not stale. You may froth them by rubbing them with cold 
fresh butter, and lightly dredge theui with flour, and put them in a 
cheese-toastfT for a minute. The common practice to prevent their 
bursting is to pricl^lhem with a fork ; but this lets out the gravy. 

303. Veal Cutlets should bf about half'an inch thick; trim and flat- 
ten; fry in plenty o^' fresh butter, or good dripping; when the fire is 
very fierce, you must turn them often — but when not so, do them 
brown on one side before you turn them. Make gravy of the trim- 
mings, &c. ; you may add some browning, mushroom or walnut cat- 
sup, or lemon, pickle, &.c. Or you may dress them as follows: Cut 
the veal into pieces about as big as a crown piece ; beat them with a 



FRYING. 91 

cleaver, dip in egg, beat up with a little salt, and then in fine bread 
crumbs; fry them a light brown in boiling lard; serve under them 
pome good gravy or mu?hroom sauce, which n^iay be made in five mi- 
nutes. Garnish with slicps of ham, or rashers of bacon, or pork sau- 
sages. Many persons prefer frying veal cutlets with ham or bacon 
rashers, which will afford sufficient fat- to fry them, but v/iU be done 
much sooner; remove the rashers, and keep them warm. When the 
veal is done, take it out, pour off any fat that may remain, and put into 
the pan a large tea-cup full or more of gravy or broth, and a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. When it boils, add herbs and crumbs of bread, 
pour over the veal, and lay the rashers round the edge of the dish. 
Garnish, sliced lemon, 

304. Sweetbreads should always be got fresh and parboiled imme- 
diately. When cold cut them in pieces about three-quarters of an 
inch thick, dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in fine bread crumbs 
(some add spice, lemon peel, and sweet herbs;) put some clean drip- 
ping into a frying-pan ; when it boils put in the sweetbreads, and fry 
them a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsley ; and for sauce, mush- 
room catsup and melted butter, or anchovy sauce, or bacon, or ham. 
This is called full dressing. They are dressed plain as follows : Par- 
boil and slice them as before, dry them on a clean cloth, flour them, 
and fry them a delicate brown; take care to drain the fat well from 
them, and garnish them with slices of lemon and sprigs of chervil, 
pars'Ky, or crisp parsley. For sauce, mushroom catsup, or force meat 
balls made as 278. 

305. Lamb or Mutton Chops are dressed in the same way as veal 
cutlets, and garnished with crisp parsley, and slices of lemon. If they 
are bread-crumbed, and covered with buttered writing paper, and then 
broiled, they are called '''■ Maintenon cutlets." 

306. Pork Chops. — Take care that they are trimmed very neatly ; 
they should be about half an inch thick; put a frying-pan on the fire, 
with a bit of butter ; as soon as it is hot, put in your chops, turning 
them often till brown all over, and done ; take one upon a plate and 
try it; if done, season it with a little finely minced onion, powdered 
sage, and pepper and salt. Sauce, sage and onions, or Robert sauce. 

307. Fried Eggs. — Well-cleansed dripping, or lard, or fresh but- 
ter, is the best fat for frying eggs. Be sure the frying-pan is quite 
clean; when the fat is hot, break two or three eggs into it; do not 
turn them, but, while they are frying, keep pouring some of the fat 
over them with a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to look white, 
which it will in about a couple of minutes, they are done enough; the 
white must not lose its transparency, but the yolk be seen blushing 
through it. If they are done nicely, they will look as white and de- 
licate as if they had been poached ; take them up with a tin slice, 
drain the fat from them, trim neatly, and send them up with toasted 
bacon round them. For Frying Fish, see section Fish, p. 66, par. 
193, 4-c. 



92 THECOMFLETECOOK. 



BROILING. 



308. Let your gridiron be quite clean, particularly between the 
bars, and keep it bright on the top. Before using it, you should be 
careful to make the bars thoroughly hot, or otherwise that part of the 
meat which is covered by the bars will not be equally done with the 
other parts of the steak or chop. 

309. Chops, steaks, or slices for broiling, should be from half to 
three quarters of an inch in thickness; if too thick, they will be done 
outside before the inside — and if too thin, they will be dry and 
gravyless. 

310. In broiling, a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, and to 
obtain this you should prepare your fire in time, so that it may burn 
clear. It is a good plan to lay over a pretty strong fire a layer of 
cinders, or coke ; some use charcoal, but cinders or coke are equally 
good. If your fire is not bright you cannot give the nice brown ap- 
pearance to the meat, which is not only pleasing to the eye, but is 
relishing to the taste. 

311. The bars of the best gridirons are made concave, terminating 
in a trough to catch the gravy, and keep the fat from falling into the 
fire and making a smoke, which will spoil both the appearance and 
taste of the broil. Before using the gridiron the bars should be 
rubbed with clean mutton suet. The cook should watch the moment 
when the broil is done. Send it to the table immediately on a hot 
dish, from whence it should be transferred to the mouth all hot! — 
smoking hot! ! ! The upright gridiron, which is made of strong wire 
and may be now bought in the streets for a few pence, is, as Dr. 
Kitchiner avers, the best, as it can be used at any fire, without fear 
of smoke, and the trough under it preserves all the gravy. The 
Dutch oven, or bonnet, may be substituted for the gridiron, when the 
fire is not clear. 

312. Steaks and Chops. — Meat to be broiled should be hung till it 
is tender ; the inside of a sirloin of beef, cut into steaks, is greatly 
preferred by most people. But steaks are generally cut from the 
rump (the middle is the btist), about six inches long, four inches wide, 
and half an inch thick. Do not beat them, it makes them dry and 
tasteless. Steaks should be done quickly; for this purpose, take care 
to have a very clear brisk fire, throw a little salt on it, make the 
gridiron hot, and set it slanting to prevent the fat from dropping into 
the fire, and making a smoke. It requires more practice and care 
than is generally supposed to do steaks to a nicety; and for want of 
these little attentions, this very common dish, which every body is 
supposed capable of dressing, seldom comes to table in perfection. 
Some like it under, some thoroughly, done. It is usual to put a 
table-spoonful of catsup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish before 
the fire, while you are broiling ; turn the steak with a pair of steak- 
tongs ; it will be done in about ten or fifteen minutes ; rub a bit of 
butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles and finely scrape*' 
horse-radish. Serve with the usual sauces. 



BRAISING, GLAZING, &C. 93 

313. Kidneys. — Cut them through the lono^ way, score them, 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them, and run a wire skewer 
through them to keep them from curling on the gridiron, so that they 
may be evenly broiled. Broil them over a very clear fire, turning 
them often till they are done ; they will take about ten or twelve 
minutes, if the fire is briak : or, fry them in butter, and make gravy 
from them in the pan (after you have taken out the kidneys), by put- 
ting in a tea spoonful of flour; aw soon as it looks brown, put in as 
much water as will make gravy; they will take five minutes more 
to fry than to broil. Serve with the usual sauce. Some cooks chop 
a few parsley leaves very fine, and mix them with a bit of fresh 
butter and a little pepper and salt, and put a little of this mixture on 
each kidney. 

314. A Fowl or Rabbit. — Pick and truss it the same as for boil- 
ing, cut it open down the back, wipe the inside clean with a cloth, 
season it with a littfe pepper and salt, have a clear fire and set the 
gridiron at a good distance over it, lay the chickr?n on with the inside 
towards the fire (you may Qgg it and strew some grated bread over 
it), and broil it till it is a fine brown ; take care the fleshy side is not 
burnt. Lay it on a hot dish, pickled mushrooms or mushroom sauce 
thiown over it, or parsley and butter, or melted butter flavoured with 
mushroom catsup. Garnish with slices of lemon, and the liver and 
gizzard, slit and notched, seasoned with pepper and salt, and broiled 
nicely brown. 

315. Pigeons. — Clean them well, and pepper and salt them ; broil 
them over a clear slow fire; turn them often, and put a little butter 
on them; when they are done, pour over them either stewed or 
pickled mushrooms, or catsup and melted butter. Garnish with fried 
bread crumbs, or sippets. Or, Vvhen the pigeons are trussed for broil- 
ing, flat them vi^ith a cleaver, taking care not to break the skin of the 
backs or breast; season them with pepper and salt, a little bit of but- 
ter, and a tea spoonful of water, and tie them close at both ends; so, 
when they are brought to table, they bring their sauce with them 
Egg and dredge them well with grated bread (mixed with spice and 
sweet nerbs), lay them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently; if 
your nre is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well but 
tered, to keep them from getting smoked. They are much better 
broiled whole. 



BRAISING, GLAZING, BLANCHING, LARDING, AND 
BONING. 

316. A braiser, or braising pan, is a sort of oblong camp kettle, 
with a bordered lid, on which, and secured by the border, is put small 
burning coal, charcoal, or wood ashes. The lid should fit the pan as 
close as possible. 

317. Braising. To braise your meat, put the meat into the braiser 
(a good stew-pan will answer the purpose, but not so well) ; then 
cover the meat with thick slices of fat bacon ; lay round it six or eight 



94 THECOMPLETE COOK. 

onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some celery, and if it be to brown, 
some thick slices of carrots ; meat trirnming-s, or fresh meat bones, a 
pint and a half of water, or the same quantity of stock, which will 
make it richer than water will; over the meat lay a sheet of white 
paper, season and put the pan, with the lid well fastened down and 
tight, over a moderately hot stove, rather slow. It will require two 
or three hours, according to its size or quality. The meat and gravy 
are then put into a colander to drain, but be sure to keep it quite hot, 
skim the gravy very carefully, and boil it as quick as you can till it 
thickens ; then glaze the meat — and if it has been larded, put it into 
the oven for a few minutes. 

318. Glazing consists in covering meat with a preparation called 
glaze, which is strong gravy boiled as quick as possible till it thickens, 
as directed in braising. The glaze is put on with a brush kept for 
the purpose. Hams, tongues, and stewed beef, may be thus glazed, 
if thought proper. 

319. Blanching is performed by putting the article in cold water 
over the fire, and when it boils up, take it out and plunge it into cold 
water, and let it remain till quite cold. This will make it white and 
plump. Tongues, palates, &c., are said to be blanched, when after 
long boiling the skin can be easily peeled off. 

320. Larding and Forcing. Possess yourself of larding piny of 
different sizes; cut slices of bacon into bits of proper length, quite 
Bmooth ; pierce the skin and a very little of the meat with the larding 
pin, leaving the bacon in ; the two ends should be of equal length 
outwards. Lard in rows the size you think proper. Forcing is 
nothing more than stuffing fowls, &c., with force meat, which is 
generally put in between the skin and the flesh. 

321. Boning. To bone any bird, the cook should begin first to 
take out the breast-bone; she will then have sufficient space to 
remove the back with a sharp small knife, and then she must take 
out the leg bones. The skin must be preserved whole, and the meat 
of the leg be pushed inwards. 



COLOURINGS, THICKENINGS, FLAVOURINGS, SEASON- 
INGS, STOCKS, GRAVIES, SAUCES, STUFFING, FORCE- 
MEAT, AND CLARIFYING, 

Having laid down, as we trust, clearly and fully, under the pre- 
ceding heads, all that is necessary to be known, generally speaking, 
with regard to ordinary dishes, we shall now proceed to treat of those 
preparations which are employed in the compounding of made dishes, 
together with those articles which the prudent, care-taking cook wil. 
always keep by her as stores, ready to be used when wanted. Bv 
* made dishes' we mean not only those commonly so called, but also 
those in the dressing of which other articles are sometimes, or al- 
ways, used by way of stuffing, seasoning, &.c. — such, for instance, a? 
geese, ducks, and roast pork. This done, we shall then give direc- 



COLOURING, OPv BROWNING. 95 

tions for tho choice of meat, fish, and poultry, recipes for cooking 
them, and the best mode of carvinof them, under separate heads. 
Recipes for cooking all other dishes, will also, of course, be given. 



COLOURING, OR BROWNING. 

322. The greater part of the preparations for colouring are very 
unwholesome, or, in other words, very indigestible. They are em- 
ployed to give the appearance of richness, but they are worse than 
useless, bemg used for the silly purpose of pleasing the eye only, 
generally at the expense of the stomach and taste. Most of the pre- 
parations for colouring are a medley of burnt butter, spices, catsup, 
wine, flour, and other things not necessary to mention. A French 
writer says, the generality of cooks calcine bones till they are as 
black as a coal, and throw them hissing hot into the stew-pan, to give 
a brown colour to their broths and soups. These ingredients, under 
the appearance of a nourishing gravy, envelop our food with stimulat- 
ing acid and corrosive poison. Such things as essence of anchovy are 
frequently adulterated with colouring matters containing red lead ! 
The following recipes for colouring are pretty harmless, and, except 
for the purpose of pleasing the eye, as useless as they are innocent. 

Some persons, instead of colouring or browning their soups after 
they are made, brown the meat of which they are intended to be 
made, by putting it into a stew-pan with a little butter, salt, and pep' 
per, birt without water; then covering it close, placing it over a clear 
fire, all the time shaking it to keep it from sticking to the pan, till 
the meat becomes of a light brown, when the liquor of which the soup 
or gravy is to be made is added. 

The best colouring is, perhaps, the following: Haifa pound of 
powdered lump sugar and a table-spoonful of water, put into a clean 
saucepan, or frying-pan, and set over a slow fire and stirred with a 
wooden spoon till it is of a fine brown colour, and begins to smoke ; 
then add an ounce of salt, and dilute by degrees with water, till it is 
of the thickness of soy ; boil, take off the scum, and put it into well- 
corked bottles ; or you may, provided you do not wish to keep the 
above by you, colour your gravies or soups by pounding a tea-spoonful 
of lump sugar, and putting it into an iron spoon, which hold over a 
quick fire till the mixture becomes of a dark-brown colour; mix with 
the soup or gravy while it is hot. Some persons use butter in the 
first mixture instead of water. 

Toasted bread, quite hard and of a deep brown, not burnt, may be 
put into the boiling gravy, without stirring, ard then carefully strain 
off the gravy without any crumbs of bread in it. Vou may also 
colour with flour browned on a flst-iron over the fire, /arious flavour 
ing articles serve also the purpose of colouring. 



yG THE COMPLETE COOK. 

THICKENINGS. 

323. Flour, or some other farinaceous article, is, or ought to be, the 
basis of all thickenings; starch of potatoes, or indeed any other pure 
starch, is a good substirute for flour. We do not recommend pre- 
parations of Carraghan moss, ivory dust, or eg-gs; they are trouble- 
some, and not at all necessary. A table-spoonful of potatoe or any 
other starch, such as arrow-root, mixed in two table-spoonsful of cold 
water, and stirrt d into soup, sauce, or gravy, &,c. and afterwards sim- 
mered, just before serving, will thicken a pint. Flour will also 
answer the same purpose. In large establishments, the following 
thickening is generally kept ready prepared ; the French call it roux ; 
it is thus made: Put some fresh butter, if clarified the better, (or 
some use the skimmings of the pots, clean and not impregnated with 
vegetables,) into a stevw-'-pan over a clear slow fire; when it is melted, 
add fine flour sufficient to make it the thickness of paste; stir well 
together Vv'hen over the fire, for ten or fifteen minutes, till it is quite 
smooth and of a fine "yellow-boy" colour. Do all this gradually and 
patiently, or you will spoil your thickening by getting it burnt, or 
giving to it a burnt flavour, which will spoil your gravy, &c. Pour 
it into an earthen pan for use, it will keep for a fortnight ; and if, 
when cold, it is thick enough to be cut with a knife, a large spoonful 
will be enough to thicken a quart of gravy, &c. Most made dishes, 
such as sauces, soups, and ragouts, are thus thickened. The broth 
or soup, &c., to which the thickening is put, must be added by 
degrees, so as to incorporate them well together. To cleanse or 
finish a sauce, put into a pint two table-spoonsful of broth, or warm 
water, and put it by the side of the fire to raise any fat, &c., which 
must be carefully removed as it comes to the top. 

We would strongly recommend n)istresses of families, particularly 
those residing in the country, where potatoes are cheap, to keep a 
good stock of potatoe starch always by them. If kept dry and from 
•.he air, it will keep almost for any length of time. Damaged po- 
tatoes will yield starch or mucilage, if raw. It may be made from 
the old potatoes, when by germination in the spring they have be- 
come unfit for the table, or from the refuse of a newly gathered crop 
in the autumn. The starch will be found extremely useful, not only 
in a thickening, but also for mixing with wheat flour in making 
bread, &c. Starch may be made, and is made, from various vege- 
table substances, and used as a substitute for corn flour. The follow- 
ing is the mode uf making potatoe starch ; arrow-root starch and all 
other starches are made by a similar process: 

The potatoes must be carefully washed and peeled, and every 
speck removed ; provide yourself with a number of deep dishes, ac- 
cording to the quantity of starch you wish to make ; for every pound 
of potatoes to be prepared in each dish, put a quart of clear water; 
grate them into the water on a bread grater; stir it up well, and then 
pour it through a hair sieve, and leave it ten minutes to settle, or 
till the water is quite clear; then pour off the water, and put to it a 



t" L A V O U HI N G S . 97 

quan of fresh water: stir it up, then let it settle, and repeat this till 
the water is quite clear. You will at last find a fine white powder 
at the bottom of the vessel ; lay this on a piece of paper in a hair 
sieve to dry, either in the sun or before the fire ; v.'hen thoroughly 
dry, it is ready for use. It is perfectly tasteless, and may be used to 
thicken melted butter, instead of flour. A great deal of the arrow-* 
root sold in the shops is neither more nor less than potatoe starch. 
Though we strongly recommend it as effectual and economical for 
the above purpose, for an invalid it is very inferior in strength and 
nutricious qualities to the Indian arrrow-root starch. 

324. White Thickening. — Put half a pound of good butter into a 
sauce-pan, and melt over a slow fire, then drain the butter and take 
out the buttermilk, then add to the butter enough flour to make a 
thin paste, and place it on the fire for fifteen minutes, taking care not 
to let it colour. Pour it into a pan and let it stand until wanted. 



FLAVOURINGS. 

325. Judiciously prepared flavourings are of the first importance 
in the higher branches of cookery, and indeed, they are indispensably 
necessary in all descriptions of made dishes. The principal agents 
employed for flavouring are mushrooms, onions, anchovy, lemon juice 
and peel, vinegar, wine, especially claret, sweet herbs, and savoury 
spices. A good housewife will always take care to have a stock of 
the principal flavourings by her ready for use, as occasion may re- 
quire. They are easily prepared for keeping, and the making of 
essences and flavoured vinegars, &c., from the herbs, is a very agree- 
able employment, and one highly becoming a good wife and mistress 
of a family. We by no means wish to undervalue elegant accom- 
plishments in ladies, but accomplishments after all are but ornaments, 
whereas good housewifery is an essential ; so thought our ancestors 
two hundred years ago, and so continue to think all those who set a 
proper value on the comforts of domestic life. Markham, in his 
English Housewife, 1637, says, " to speak then of the knowledge 
which belongs to our British housewife, I hold the most principal to 
be a perfect skill in cookery. She that is utterly ignorant therein, 
may not, by the lawes of strict justice, challenge the freedom of mar- 
riage, because, indeed, she can performe but half her vow ; she may 
love and obey, but she cannot cherish and keepe her husband." 
Having said enough, we trust, to induce young ladies, particularly in 
the above quotation, to take our advice into their consideration, we 
shall proceed to make a few observations on taste, as intimately con- 
nected with this part of our subject. 

A correct taste is a qualification which every cook ought to possess, 
but few persons naturally do possess it, and therefore, the palate re- 
quires to be cultivated as much in the culinary art, as the eye in the 
art of drawing. But tastes diflfer in different persons, and therefore, 
the cook, in providing a dinner, ought, if possible, to consult the tastea 
of the parties who are to eat it, rather than her own. This subject, 
8* 



98 T II E C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

however, if pursued, will run us out to a much greater extent than 
our limits will allow, and, after all, we should not be able to lay down 
any definite rules of taste. There is one direction which we shall 
give, and which a cook will find it worth her while to attend to, 
namely, whenever she finds the palate become dull by repeatedly 
tasting, one of the best ways of refreshing it is to masticate an apple, 
or to wash her mouth well with milk. 



FLAVOURINGS, ESSENCES, POWDERS, &c. 

326. To prepare sweet Herbs for keeping. — It is highly desirable, 
according to the taste and style of living of the family, that prepara- 
tions of sweet herbs, either in powder, dried bunches (the powder is 
best,) or in the form of essences and tinctures, be always kept at 
hand, ready for use. The following is the best way of preparing 
them : — Gather your herbs, including thyme of the various sorts, 
marjoram and savoury, sage, mint, and balm, hyssop and pennyroyal, 
when they are come to full growth, just before they begin to flower; 
when they must be gathered perfectly free from damp, dust, dirt, and 
insects. Cut off the roots, and tie the herbs in small bundles. Dry 
as quick as possible, either in the sun, in a dutch oven before the fire, 
or in a dry room with a thorough draught. When quite dry, pick off 
the leaves, and rub them till they are reduced to a fine povv'der, when 
bottle close for use. Seeds of parsley, fennel, and celery, should be 
kept for the purpose of flavouring, when the green herb cannot be 
obtained. 

327. Savoury Soup Powder is compounded of parsley, winter sa- 
voury, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme, of each two ounces ; sweet 
basil, one ounce; verbinia leaves and knotted marjoram, of each half 
an ounce ; celery seed and bay leaves (some leave out the bay leaves,) 
of each two drachms. Dry in a Dutch oven, thoroughly, but not to 
scorch ; then rub the leaves to a fine powder. The seeds will be best 
ground, but pounding will do ; sift all through a hair sieve, and bottle 
for use. This is an excellent compound. 

328. Curry Powder may be made almost, if not altogether, as good 
as the Indian, by taking three ounces of coriander seeds; turmeric 
two or three ounces ; black pepper, mustard, and ginger, one ounce 
of each ; allspice and lesser cardamons, half an ounce each, and cumin 
seed, a quarter of an ounce. Put the ingredients in a cool oven for 
the nififht; thoroughly pound and mix together, and close bottle for 
use. Do not use cayenne in a curry powder. 

329. Pov:der for Ragouts. — A good powder for flavouring ragouts 
is compounded of salt, one ounce; mustard, lemon peel, and black 
pepper, ground, of each half an ounce; allspice and ginger, ground, 
nutmeg, grated, and cayenne pepper, of each a quarter of an ounce. 
Dry in a Dutch oven before a gentle fire ; pound in a mortar, and sift 
through a hair sieve. 

330. Powder for Brown made dishes. — Black pepper and Jamaica, 
ground, of each half an ounce; nutmeg, grated, half an ounce; cinna- 



P L A V O U R i N G S , & C . 09 

mon, in powder, a quarter of an ounce ; cloves, one drachm ; dry ; finely 
powder and bottle. 

331. Powder for White made dishes. — White pepper half an 
ounce; nutmeg a quarter of an ounce; mace one drachm; dried le- 
mon peel, graieJ, one drachm. 

332. Preserved Orange and Lemon Peels. — Shave the thin skin, 
witiiout a particle of white, offyour superfluous Seville orange and lemon 
peel ; put m a mortar, with a small lump of dried sugar to each peel ; 
beat them well till the rind and sugar be blended together in a kind 
cf marmalade ; let the mixture be pressed close in a bottle, with a 
tea-spoonful of brandy at top, and secure from the air with a cork or 
bladder. This will be found a better flavouring, and more handy than 
grating dry rinds, 

333. Essences, or Tiuclures of Herbs, &c. — Combine their essen- 
tial oils with good tasteless spirits (which is better than brandy, and 
much cheaper) in the proportion of one dracljin of essential oil to two 
ounces of spirits; or fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the leaves, seeds, 
roots, nr peel, perfectly dry, then pour over them spirits of wine, vine- 
gar, or wine ; keep the mixture steeping in a warm place, not hot, 
tor twelve or fourteen days, when strain and bottle close for use. Bot- 
tles with glass stoppers are best. These essences are very handy, and 
are to be had all the year round. 

334. Essence of Anchovies. — Purchase the best anchovies, that 
have been in pickle about a year. Pound twelve of them in a mortar 
to a pulp, then put them into a well-tinned saucepan, by the side of 
the fire, with two table-spoonfuls of best vinegar sherry, or brandy, or 
mushroom catsup; stir it very often till the fish are melted, then add 
fifteen grains in vyeisht of the best cayenne pepper ; stir it well, then 
rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon ; bottle and cork 
very tight with the best cork. When the bottle is opened, cork it 
well agam w^ith a new cork, as the least air spoils it. That which re- 
mains in the sieve makes a pleasant relish for breakfast or lunch, with 
bread and butter. If a large quantity is made, press it down in small 
jars. Cover it with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. 

335. Anchovy Powder. — Pound the anchovies in a mortar, rub them 
through a sieve, make them into a paste with the finest flour, dried, 
roll It into thin cakes; dry them before a slow fire; when quite crisp, 
pound or grate them to a fine powder, and put into a well-stopped 
bottle. It will keep good for years, and is a savoury relish sprinkled 
on bread and butter. 

336. Oyster Powder. — Open the oysters carefully, so as not to cut 
them, except in dividing the gristle from the shells; put them into a 
mortar ; add about two drachms of salt to a dozen oysters, pound them 
and rub them through the back of a hair sieve, and put then) into a 
mortar again, with as much flour, thoroughly dried, as will make 
them into a paste ; roll it out several times, and lastly, flour it and 
roll it out the thickness of half a crown, and divide it into pieces 
about an inch square ; lay them in a dutch oven before the fire, take 
care they do not burn, turn them every half hour, and when they 



798948 A 



100 THE COMPLETE COOfe. 

begin to dry, crumble them ; they will take about four hours to dry ; 
then pound them fine, sift them, and put them into bottles ; seal them 
over. 

337. Spirit of mixed Herbs. — Take winter savoury, lemon thyme, 
sweet basil, and lemon rind, celery seed one drachm, steep them in a 
pint of spirits of wine. Then drain and bottle the liquor. The herbs, 
after draining, will keep two or three weeks, and may be used for fla- 
vouring. 

338. Tincture of Lemon or Seville Orange Peel. — Half fill a wide- 
mouthed bottle with good spirits; shave the thin rind ofl^ the lemon, 
and put it into the bottle until it is full : it may be either strained off 
into bottles, or suffered to remain on the rind. 

339. Spirits of mixed Spice. — Black pepper one ounce, allspice 
half an ounce, boih finely powdered ; nutmeg quarter of an ounce, 
grated ; infuse in a pint of spirits of wine, strain, and bottle. 

MADE DISHES. 

There is little to be added to our general remarks on this subject, 
under the heads of Stewing, Hashing, Thickening, Flavouring, &c. 
Made dishes are almost innumerable. They are, however, nothing 
more than meat, poultry, or fish, stewed very gently till they are ten- 
der, with a thickening sauce of some kind or other poured over them. 
Their diflference consists in their flavour, which may be so modified 
by an ingenious cook as to make them almost endless. Let our pre- 
liminary remarks on these subjects be well studied. We subjoin a 
few receipts. 

340. Calf's Head. — Take the half of one, with the skin on ; put it 
into a large stew-pan, with as much water as will cover it, a knuckle 
of ham, and the usual accompaniments of onions, herbs, &c., and let 
it simmer till the flesh may be separated from the bone with a spoon ; 
do so, and while still hot cut it into as large a sized square as a piece 
will admit of; the trimming and half the liquor put by in a tureen ; 
to the remaining half add a gill of white wine, and reduce the whole 
of that, by quick boiling, till it is again half consumed, when it should 
be poured over the large square piece, in an earthen vessel, sur- 
rounded with mushrooms, white buttoned onion, small pieces of 
pickled pork, half an inch in breadth, and one and a half in length, and 
the tongue in slices, and simmered till the whole is fit to serve up; 
some brown force meat balls are a pretty addition. After this comes 
from table, the remains should be cut up in small pieces, and mixed up 
with the trimmings and liquor, which (with a little more wine,) pro- 
perly thickened, will make a very good mock turtle soup for a future 
occasion. 

341. Hashed Meat. — Cut the meat into slices about the thickness 
of two shillings, trim off" all the sinews, skin, and gristle, put nothing 
in but what is to be eaten, lay them on a plate ready ; prepare your 
eauce to warm in it, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently till it 



MADE DISHES. 101 

IS thoroughly warm ; do not let it boil, as that will make the meat 
tough and hard. 

342. Hashed Beef or Mutton. — One tea-spoonfnl of Harvey sauce, 
one of Tomata sauce, the same quantity of any other sauce; pepper, 
salt, cayenup, half a wine glass of port wine, and a couple of capsi- 
cums C!jt fi.'ie ; mix with the remains of the gravy of the preceding 
day, of beef or mutton ; if necessary to thicken, add one shake of the 
flour dredger. This is a good hash. 

343. Sandwiches are an elegant and convenient luncheon, if nicely 
prepared ; the bread should be neatly cut with a sharp knife ; what- 
ever is used must be carefully trimmed from every bit of skin, gristle, 
&c., and nothing must be introduced but what you are absolutely cer- 
tain will be acceptable to the mouth. 

344. A good Scotch Haggis. — Make the haggis-bag perfectly 
clean ; parboil the draught, boil the liver very well, so as it will grate, 
dry the meat before the fire, mince the draught and a pretty large 
piece of beef very small; grate about half of the liver, mince plenty 
of suet and some onions small ; mix all these materials very well to- 
gether, with a handful or two of the dried meal ; spread them on the 
table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices; take any 
of the scraps of beef that are left from mincing, and some of the wa- 
ter that boiled the draught, and make about a quart of good stock of 
it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in it; 
then sew up the bag, but be sure to put out all the wind before you 
eew it quite close. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in 
a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two hours boiling. 

345. Mr. Phillips^ s Irish Stew. — Take five thick mutton chops, or 
two pounds oft" the neck or loin ; two pounds of potatoes, peel them, 
and cut them in halves ; six onions, or half a pound of onions, peel 
and slice them also. First, put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of 
your stew-pan, then a couple of chops and some of the onions; then 
again potatoes, and so on, till the pan is quite full ; a small spoonful 
of white pepper, and about one and a half of salt, and three gills of 
broth or gravy, and two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup ; cover all 
very close in, so as to prevent the steam from getting out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a very slow fire. A small slice 
of ham is a great addition to this dish. Great care should be taken 
not to let it burn. 

346. Mutton Chops delicately stewed^ and good Mutton Broth. — 
Put the chops into a stew-pan with cold water enough to cover them, 
and an onion ; vvhen it is coming to the boil, skim it, cover the pan 
close, and set it over a very slow fire till the chops are tender ; if 
they have been kept a proper time, they will take about three-quarters 
of an hour very gentle simmering. Send up turnips with them — they 
may be boiled with the chops; skim well, and then send all up in a 
deep dish, with the broth they were stewed in. 

347. Minced Collops. — Take beef, and chop and m.ince it very 
small, to which add some salt and pepper ; put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When in- 



102 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

tended for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fr}' them. Add a little water to it, and 
then put in the minced meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it 
will be fit to serve up. 

348. Brisket of Beef , stewed. — This is prepared in exactly the 
same way as "soup and bouilli." 

349. Harricot of Beef — A stewed brisket cut in slices, and sent up 
with the same sauce of roots, &c., as we have directed for harricot ot' 
mutton, is a most excellent dish, of very motlerate expense. 

350. Sail Beef baked. — Let a buttock of beef, which has been in 
salt about a week, be well waslied and put into an earthen pan, with 
a pint of water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of 
foolscap paper; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately heated 
oven. 

351. Beef baked like red deer, to be eaten cold. — Cut buttock of 
beef longways, beat it well with a rolling pin, and broil it ; when it is 
cold, lard it, and macerate it in wine vineo-ar, salt, pepper, cloves, 
mace, and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days ; then bake 
it in rye pa^te, let it stand till it is coid, and fill it up with butter; let 
it stand for a fortnight before it is eaten. 

352. Shin or Leg of Beef stewed. — Have the bone sawed in three 
or four pieces, and the marrow either taken out, or stopped with paste. 
Cover with cold water, and having skimmed it clean, add onions, car- 
rot, celery, sweet herbs, and spice. Let the whole stew very gently 
three hours and a half or four hours. Meanwhile, cut up the red part 
of two or three carrots, two or three turnips, peel two dozen button 
onions, boil them, and drain them dry; as the onions and turnips 
should retain their shape, and the carrots require longer to boil, they 
ought to be put in a quarter of an hour earlier. Do not let them be 
over-done. When the meat is quite tender, take it out with a slice, 
and strain the soup. Thicken the soup with a small tea-cup full of 
flour, mixed either with a little butter, or the fat of the soup. Stir 
this well in till it boils, and is perfectly smooth ; if not, it must be 
strained through a tamis, and carefully skimmed, and then returned 
to warm the vegetables. The meat may be served whole, or scraped 
from the bones, and cut in pieces. Season the soup with pepper, salt, 
and a wine glass each of port wine and mushroom catsup, and pour 
over the meat ; or, if necessary, put the meat in a stew-pan to warm. 
Serve all together. Curry may be added, if approved — also, force 
meat balls. 

353. Hare. — Instead of roasting a hare, stew it; if young, plain — 
if an old one, lard it. The shoulders and legs should be taken off, and 
the back cut in three pieces ; thesp, with a bay leaf, half a dozen es- 
chalots, one onion pierced with four cloves, should be laid with as 
much good vinegar as will cover them, for twenty-four hours in a deep 
dish, fn the meantime, the head, the neck, ribs, liver, heart, &c., should 
be browned in frothed butter, well seasoned ; add half a pound of lean 
bacon, cut in small pieces, a large bunch of herbs, a carrot, and a few 
allspice. Simmer these in a quart of water till it is reduced to about 



MADE 31 EATS. 103 

half llie quantity, when it should he strained, and those parts of the 
hare which have been infused in the vinegar, should (with the whole 
contents of the dish) be added to it, and stewed til! quite don^. Those 
who like onions may brown half a dfz-^n, stew them in part of the 
gravy, and di-jh them round the hare. Every rajrout should be dressed 
the day before it is wanted, that any fat which has escaped the skim- 
ming- spoon may with ease be taken off when cold. 

354. Jugged Hare. — Wash it very nicely, cut it up in pieces proper 
to help at table, and put them into a jugging pot, or into a stone jar, 
just sufficif ntly large to hold it well ; put in some sweet herbs, a roll 
or two of rind of a lemon, and a fine large onion with five cloves stuck 
in it ; and if you wish to preserve the flavour of the hare, a quarter of a 
pint of water ; if you are for a ragout, a quarter of a pint of claret or 
port wine, and the juice of a lemon. Tie the jar down closely with a 
bladder, so that no steam can escape ; put a little hay in the bottom of 
the saucepan, in which place the jar; let the water boil for about 
three hours, according to the age and size of the hare (take care it is 
not over-done, which is the general fault in all made dishes,) keep- 
ing it boiling all the time, and fill up the pot as it boils away. When 
quite tender, strain oft' gravy from fat, thicken it with flour, and give 
it a boil up; lay the hare in a soup dish, and pour the gravy to it. 
You may make a pudding the same as for roast hare, and boil it in a 
cloth, and when you dish your hare, cut it in slices, or make force 
meat balls of it for garnish. For sauce, currant jelly. Or a much 
easier and quicker way of proceeding is the following : Prepare the 
hare as for jugging ; put it into a stew-pan with a few sweet herbs, 
half a dozen cloves, the same of allspice and black pepper, two large 
onions, and a roll of lemon peel ; cover it with water ; when it boils, 
skim it clean, and let it simmer gently till tender (about two hours ;) 
then take it up with a slice, set it by a fire to keep hot while you 
thicken the gravy ; take three ounces of butter and some flour, rub 
together, put in the gravy, stir it well, and let it boil about ten mi- 
nutes; strain it through a sieve over the hare, and it is ready. 

3.55. Slewed Rump Steaks. — The steaks must be a little thicker 
;han for broiling ; let them all be the same thickness, or some will be 
done too little, and others too much. Put an ounce of butter into a 
Btew-pan, with two onions; when the butter is melted, lay in tha 
rump steaks, let them stand over a slow fire for five minutes, then 
turn them, and let the other side of them fry five minutes longer. Have 
ready boiled a pint of button onions; they will take from half an hour 
to an hour; put the liquor they were boiled in to the steaks; if there 
is not enough of it to cover them, add broth or boiling water to make 
up enough for that purpose, with a dozen corns of black pepper, and 
a little salt, and let them simmer very gently for about an hour and 
a half, and then strain off" as much of the liquor (about a pint and a 
half,) as you think will make the sauce. Put two ounces of butter in 
a stew-pan; when it is melted, stir in as much flour as will make it 
into a stiS" paste ; some add thereto a table-spoonful of claret or port 
wine, the same of mushroom catsup, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 



104 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

a quarter of a tea-spoonful of ground blaclc pepper; add the liquor by 
degrees, let it boi! np for fifteen minute)?, skim it, and strain it; serve 
up the steaks wiiii the onions round the dish, and pour the gravy 
over it. 

356. Broiled Rump Steaks with Onion Gravy. — Peel and slice 
two large onions, put them into a quart stew-pan, with two table- 
spoonfuls of water ; cover the stew-pan close, set it on a slow fire till 
the water has boiled away, and the onions have got a little browned, 
then add half a pint of good broth, and boil the onions till they arc 
tender; strain the broth from them, and chop them very fine, and sea- 
son with mushroom catsup, pepper, and salt; put the onion into it, 
and let it boil gently for five minutes, pour it into the dish, and lay 
it over a broiled rump steak. If instead of broth you use good beef 
gravy, it will be superlative. Stewed cucumber is another agree- 
able accompaniment to rump steaks. 

357. Bubble and Squeak. — For this, as for a hash, select those parts 
of the joint that have been least done; it is generally made with 
slices of cold boiled salted beef, sprinkled with a little pepper, and 
just lightly browned willi a bit of butter, in a frying-pan ; if it is 
fried too much, it will be hard. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry, 
and chop it small; take the beef out of the frying-pan, and lay the 
cabbage in it; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it; keep the pan 
moving over the fire for a few minutes, lay the cabbage in the middle 
of the dish, and the meat round it. 

358. Bashed or 7ninced Veal. — To make a hash, cut the meat into 
into slices : to prepare minced veal, mince it as fine as possible (do 
not chop it) ; put it into a stew-pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or 
mutton broth, or make some with the bunes and trimmings, as ordered 
for veal cutlets, a little lemon peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream ; thicken with butter and flour, and season it with salt, a table- 
spoonful of lemon pickle or basil wine, or a pinch of cuiry powder. 
If you have no cream, beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs with a 
little milk ; line the dish with sippets of lightly toasted bread. 

359. To make an excellent Ragout of cold Veal. — Either a neck, 
loin, or fillet of veal will furnish this excellent ragout with a very 
little expense or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cutlets; put a 
piece of butter, or clean dripping, into a frying-pan ; as soon as it is 
hot, flour and fry the veal of a light bro.vn; take it out, and if you 
have no gravy ready, put a pint of boiling water into the frying-pan, 
give it a boil up for a minute, and strain it in a basin while you make 
some thickening in the following manner; Put about an ounce of 
butter into a stew-pan ; as soon as it melts, mix it with as much flour 
as will dry it up ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and gradually 
add to it the gravy you made in the frying-pan ; let them simmer 
together for ten minutes; season it with pepper, salt, a little mace, 
and a wine-glassful of mushroom catsup or wine; strain it through a 
tamis to the meat, and stew very gently till the meat is thoroughlj 
warmed. If you have any ready boiled bacon, cut it in slices, ant 
put it to warm with the meat. 



MADE MEATS. 105 

36G Veal Olives.— Cut half a dozen slices ofFa fillet of veal, half 
an inch thick, and as long and square as you can; flat them with a 
chopper, and rub them over with an egg that has been beat on a plate; 
cut some fat bacon as tiiin as possible, the same size as the veal ; lay 
it on the veal, and rub it with a little of the egg; make a little veal 
force meat, and spread it very thin over the bacon; roll up the olives 
tight; rub them with an egg^ and then roll them in fine bread crumbs; 
put them on a lark-spit, and roast them at a brisk fire ; they will take 
three-quarters of an hour. Rump steaks are sometimes dressed this 
way. Mushroom sauce, brown or beef gravy. 

361. Knuckle of Veal to ragout. — Cut the knuckle of veal into 
slices of about half an inch thick ; pepper, salt, and flour them; fry 
them a light brown ; put the trimmings in a stew-pan, with the bone, 
broke in several places; an onion shred, a head of celery, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and two blades of bruised mace; pour in warm water 
enough to cover them about an inch ; cover the pot close, and let it 
stew very gently for a couple of hours; strain it, and then thicken it 
with flour and butter; put in a spoonful of catsup, a glass of wine, 
and juice of half a lemon; give it a boil up, and strain into a clean 
6tevv-pan; put in the meat, make it hot, and serve up. If celery is 
not to be had, use a carrot instead, or flavour it with celery seed. 

362. Scotch CoUops. — The veal must be cut the same as for cut- 
lets, in pieces about as big as a crown piece ; flour them well, and 
fry them of a light brown, in fresh butter; lay them in a stew-pan; 
dredge them over with flour, and then put in as much boiling water 
as will cover the vea , pour this in by degrees, shaking the stew-pan, 
and set it on the fire; when it comes to a boil, take off the scum, put 
in an onion, a blade of mace, and let it simmer very gently for three- 
quarters of an hour; lay them on a dish, and pour the gravy through 
a sieve over them. Lemon juice and peel, wine, catsup, are some- 
times added. Add curry powder, and you have curry collops. 

363. Slices of Ham or Bacon. — Hain or bacon may be fried, or 
broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, or toasted with a fork; take 
care to slice it of the same thickness in every part. If you wish it 
curled, cut it in slices about two inches long (if longer, the outside 
will be done too much befoie the inside is done enough); roll it up, 
and put a little wooden skewer through it; put it in a cheese-toaster, 
or dutch oven, for eight or ten minutes, turning it as it gets crisp. 
This is considered the handsomest way of dressing bacon ; but we 
like it best uncurled, because it is crisper and more equally done. 
Slices of ham or bacon should not bo more than half a quarter of an 
inch thick, and will eat much more mellow if soaked in hot water for 
a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before they are broiled. 
If you have any cold bacon, you may make a very nice dish of it, by 
cutting it into slices of about a quarter of an inch thick ; grate some 
crusts of bread, as directed for ham, and powder them well with it 
on both sides; lay the rashers in a cheese-toaster — they will be brown 
on one side in about three minute:;s — turn them, and do the other. 
These are delicious accompaniaments to poached or fried eggs. The 

9 



106 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

bacon having been boiled first, is tender and mellow. They are an 
excellent garnish round veal cutlets, or sweetbread, or calf's head 
hash, or green peas, or beans, &,c. 

3G4. A Devil. — The gizzard and rump, or legs, &c., of a dressed 
turkey, capon, or goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, peppered, 
salted, and broiled, sent up for a relish, being made very hot, has ob- 
tained the name of a " Devil." 

f365. Marrow Bones. — Saw the bones even, so that they will stand 
steady; put a piece of paste into the ends; set them upright in a 
saucepan, and boil till they are done enough ; a beef marrow bone 
•will require from an hour and a half to two hours; serve fresh toasted 
bread wilh them. 

366. Ragout of Duck, or any other kind of Poultry or Game. — 
Partly roast, then divide into joints, or pieces of a suitable size for 
helping at table. Set it on in a stew-pan, with a pint and a half 
of broth, or, if you have no broth, water, with any little trimmings 
of meat to enrich it; a large onion stuck with cloves, a dozen berries 
each of allspice and black pepper, and the rind of half a lemon shaved 
thin. When it boils skim it very clean, and then let it simmer gently, 
with the lid close, for an hour and a half Then strain off the liquor, 
and take out the limbs, which keep hot in a basin or deep dish. Rinse 
the stew-pan, or use a clean one, in which put two ounces of butter, 
and as much flour or other thickening as will bring it to a stiff paste 
add to it the gravy by deo-rees. Let it boil up, then add a glass of 
port wine, a little lemon juice, and a tea-spoonful of salt; simmer a 
few minutes. Put the meat in a deep dish, strain the gravy over, and 
garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The flavour may be varied at 
pleasure, by adding catsup, curry powder, or any of the flavouring 
tinctures, or vinegar. 



ARTIFICIAL PREPARATIONS OF MEAT, FISH. &c., FOR 
DRESSING, SALTING, DRYING, &lc. 

By the phrase " artificial preparations of meat," we allude to those 
things which, before dressing, have to undergo the processes of salt 
ing, drying, smoking, pickling, &c. Before these meats can be 
cooked they must be prepared, and we, therefore, think it right (if 
for nothing else but the sake of order), to deviate from the line of pro 
ceeding of our predecessors, and to give directions for such prepara- 
tions previous to the recipes for cooking them. It is impossible, fo. 
instance, to dress salt meat before it is salted. 

SALTING. 

367. There are many methods recommended for carrying this 
operation into effect. The following in our opinion are the best :— • 
Before salting, particularly in the summer, all the kernels, pipes, and 
veins, should be taken out of the meat, or all your salting will be in 
vain. The meat will not keep. The salt should be rubbed thorougblv 



SALTING. 107 

jnd equally into every part of the meat, and great care should be 
taken to fill the holes with salt, where the kernels have been taken 
out, and where the butcher's skewers have been stuck. It is also 
necessary, directly meat comes into the house for saltina, to wipe 
away any slime or blood that may appear. In very hot weather meat 
will not hang a single day without being liable to fly-blows; if once 
tainted, it u'lll not take the salt. In winter it is best to let it hang 
for two or three days, but take care that it does not get frost-bitten. 
The salt should be heated in very cold weather before it is applied to 
the meat. 

368. It is a good plan to slightly sprinkle meat with salt a day or 
two before tinally salting; this will draw out the blood. But the first 
brine should be thrown away, as it is apt to injure butcher's meat, 
and always has a tendency to make bacon rusty. The meat should 
be wiped thoroughly clean after the preparatory salting. 

369. Different quantities of salt are recon^.mended ; a pound of salt 
is sufficient for a middling sized joint; for a round of beef of twenty- 
five pounds, a pound and a lialf should be rubbed in all at once, though 
others rub in a little at a time for two or three days ; but at any rate 
it requires to be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. The 
less salt used the better, providing vou use enough to preserve the 
meat. Too much salt extracts the juices of the meat and makes it 
tough. Coarse sugar or treacle and bay salt are used by some in the 
following proportions: Two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of sugar, 
add three-quarters of a pound of common salt. A little saltpetre 
rubbed in will make the meat red, but is apt to harden it. 

370. JVIeat should not be kept in salt any longer than is necessary 
to thoroughly cure it. In the course of four or five days it will be 
ready for dressing; but if intended to be eaten cold, two or three days 
more will make it keep longer and improve its flavour. Some people 
let meat lie in salt for a fortnight, and perhaps this is necessary for 
large hams and thick pieces of beef, but much depends upon the 
quantity of brine. If this be sufficient to cover the one-half of the 
meat, every time it is turned, less time will be required. 

371. Hasty salting is sometimes necessary. When this is the 
case, rub half the quantity of salt to be used into the meat, which 
put in a warm place till the time of dressing. Before putting it into 
the pot, flour a coarse cloth and pack the meat in it; put it into the 
water when boiling. After it has boiled half of the usual time, that 
is, when it is half done, take it up, rub in the remainder of the salt 
and again pack it in a floured cloth : it should boil a little longer 
than when salted in the usual manner. Some persons simply boil it 
in very srdt water, but the above plan is the best. 

372. Flavoured salt meal may be made by pounding some sweet 
herbs, onions, &c., with salt, and it may be rendered still more relish- 
ing by the addition of a little zest, or savoury spice. 

373. Pickling meat IB effected as follows: there are other plans, 
but we prefer the method given in the Encyclopeedia Britannica: — 
Six pounds of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces of saltpetre, 



108 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

boiled in four gallons of water, skimmed and allowed to cool, forms a 
very strong pickle, which will preserve any meat completely im 
merscd in it. To effect this complete immersion, which is essential, 
either a flat stone or heavy board must be laid on the meat. The 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be boiled up occa- 
sionally with additional salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the meat, and by the detection of 
the pickle by the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, the albu- 
men (whici) would cause the pickle to spoil) is coagulated, and rises 
in the form of scum, whicii uiust be carefully removed. Albumen is 
so called because it resembles in appearance the white of an egs, and 
of whose nature it also partakes. It is ^a constituent in all meat. 
Pickled meat gains in weight; salted in the common way, that is, not 
immersed or covered with brine, it loses about one and a half in six- 
teen. 

374. Jerked beef is made by cutting it into thin pieces, or slices, and 
dipping them into sea or salt water, and then drying them quickly in 
the sun. In the West Indies, where they can scarcely cure meat in 
the ordinary way on account of the excessive heat, they adopt the 
above metliod of preserving beef, 

375. Curing bacon is effected by various methods : some use com- 
mon salt only, which answers the purpose very well, but others con- 
sider a mixture of salt and sugar or molasses to be preferable. The 
proportions are, common salt, bay salt, and coarse sugar, or molasses, 
two pounds each, saltpetre six ounces. The quantity used must de- 
pend upon the size of the hog to be cured. The blood should be tho- 
roughly drawn out of the meat by common salt before finally dressed 
for curing, and the dirty brine thrown away. Finely powder and dry 
the salt, and let it be well rubbed in ; the heavier the hand employed, 
the sooner the bacon will be cured. The flitches must be always 
kept with the rind downwards. The top flitch must be put every day 
for a month at the bottom — thus changing them all round. Some use 
bay salt only, others rub in a little saltpetre, for the purpose of red- 
dening the lean of the bacon (see Drying, No. 381.) 

376. Hams. — The modes of curing bams are various in different 
parts of the country, and by different people. We give the follow- 
ing : For three hams about twenty pounds each, take common salt and 
coarse sugar two pounds each, bay salt and saltpetre six ounces each, 
black pepper tour ounces, juniper berries two ounces; mix together, 
and grind or pound, and dry before the fire ; rub this mixture, while 
warm, into the hams, and then add as much common salt as will en- 
tirely cover them. In two or three days pour over the hams a pound 
of molasses; baste them with the pickle every day for a month, put- 
ting each day the top ham to the bottom ; drain and smoke (see Dry- 
ing and Smoking ;) or, take two quarts of water, two pounds of salt, 
four ounces of saltpetre, one pound of bay salt, two pounds of mo- 
lasses ; boil all tog-ether, and when cold pour the mixture over the 
ham, but do not rub them. To give a smoky flavour, some persons 
recommend a pint of tar water to be poured into the brine! This 



DRYING, SMOKING, &G. 109 

pickle is sufficient for two moderately sized bams , they will require 
to be about three weeks in pickle, when they must be drained, and 
sewed up sepaiately in coarse hessens wrapper.--, and hung to dry 
in a kitchen of moderate temperature, or laid upon a bacon rack. 

377. Yorkshire Itwins are completely covered with the following 
pickle, in quantities according to the meat to be cured : Common salt, 
a peck ; bay salt, five pounds; saltpetre and sal prunel, of each two 
ounces, all pounded together. Having thoroughly cleansed your 
hands, rub thoroughly in this mixture, and lay the rest over them ; 
after lying three days, take out the meat and boil the pickle in two 
gallons of water; put in as much common salt as will make the 
pickle bear an egg\ skim and strain: when cold, pour it over the 
meat, and let it lie a fortnight. Yorkshire hams are not smoked. 

378. Tongues, chines, chops, <^c. — The pickle fiist given in 376 
will answer for tongues, &c. A neat's tongue will take a fortnight to 
pickle, a calf's or hog's tongue eight or ten days, a small chine ten 
days, or not more than a fortnight ; a large one, nearly three weeks. 

379. Mutton hams. — The following is a good pickle for mutton hams 
and tongues of all kinds. Take equal parts of common salt, bay salt, 
and coarse sugar ; to every pound of this mixture add of saltpetre and 
sal prunel one ounce each, and of black pepper, allspice, juniper ber- 
ries, and coriander seed, half an ounce each; bruise or grind altoge- 
ther, and dry before the tire; apply this mixture hot. 

380. Hung or Dutch beef, — Hang a fine tender round of beef, or 
the silver i)art only, for three or four days, or as long as the weather 
will allow; then rub it well with the coarsest sugar (about a pound 
will do,) two or three times a day, for three or four days. The sugar 
having thoroughly penetrated the meat, wipe it dry, and apply the 
following mixture : Four ounces each of common salt and bay salt, 
two ounces each of saltpetre and sal prunel, one ounce each of black 
pepper and alls[)ice. Rub them well in every day for a fortnight; then 
roll up the beef tight, and bind or sew it in a coarse cloth, and smoke 
it, (See 381, &c.) Boil a part as it may be wanted, press it with a 
heavy weight till cold, when it may be grated for sandwiches. It 
will keep a long time. 

DRYING, SMOKING, &c. 

381. Drying may be effected by simply draining your salted or 
pickled meat, and hanging it within the warmth of a fire in a dry 
kitchen, but smoked dried meat is preferred by most persons, and cer 
tainly deserves the preference. The fuel employed for this purpose 
must be wood ; sawdust (not deal or fir sawdust) is generally em- 
ployed. Care must be taken not to m.elt or scorch the meat; if diied 
in a common kitchen chimney, it must be hung high enough. The 
fire must be kept in a smothering state, which may be easily done 
with sawdust, and in a place set apart for smoking; it is or ought to 
be kept burning slowly night and day. The best way is to send your 
meat to persons who make a business of smoking — (not tobacco.) Do 

9* 



no T n E C O M P L E T K COOK. 

not dry your meat in a bakehouse, or strew it with bran when drained 
for drying; both will render the meat liable to be infested with those 
voracious little wretches called weevils. Drying- meat by a malthouse 
kiln generally causes it to rust. After smokin?, the wrappers should 
be removed and replaced with clean ones. It is not a bad plan to 
whitewash hams two or three times, when they are required to keep 
a long time. 

382. Dried or kippered salmon is prepared by cleaning (without 
vvasliino-,) and scaling the fish ; split and remove the bone ; pickle for 
two or three days with equal partsof salt and sugar, and a little black 
pepper and saltpetre; keep it well pressed down; when cured, 
stretch each fish with a piece of stick, and dry it either with smoke 
or otherwise. 

383. Herrings, <^c. must be wiped clean ; salted as above ; in 
twenty-four hours take them out of the salt, run a stick through the 
eyes, and hang them in rows over an old cask half filled with dry saw- 
dust, in the midst of which thrust a red-hot iron. 

384. Haddock, cod, and ling, <^c. are usually split down the mid- 
dle for salting let them lie two or three days in equal parts of salt and 
sugar ; then stretch on sticks, and dry in the sun or artificially. 



CURING, &c. WITH PYROLIGNEOUS ACID. 

385. Mr. Lnckelt, according to Dr. Wilkinson, in the Philosophical 
Magazine, 1821, was the first person who applied pyroligneous acid 
in the curing of meat. Mr. S. ascertained, that if a ham had the re- 
duced quantity of salt usually employed for smoke-dried hams, and 
was then exposed, putrefaction soon took place where pyroligneous 
acid was not used ; even one-half of this reduced portion of salt is 
sufficient when it is used, being applied cold, and the ham is then 
effectually cured without any loss of weight, and retaining more ani- 
mal juices. In fact, pyroligneous acid, or acid of burnt wood, commu- 
nicates the same quality to the meat as the process of smoking. 

386. In using tliis acid for curing hams, mix about two table- 
spoonfuls in the pickle for a ham of ten or twelve pounds, and when 
taken out of the pickle, previous to being hung up, paint the ham 
over with the acid by means of a brush ; a little more acid is re- 
quired for neats' tongues. Dried salmons brushed twice with the 
acid, will be more eiTectually cured than by smoking them for two 
months, 

387. This acid will preserve meat for many weeks without salt. 
Mr. Lockett kept some beef-steaks perfectly sweet above six weeks. 
He covered the bottom of the plate with the acid, and turned the 
steaks every day. 

388. Hams and beef cured in this way, require no previous soak- 
ing in water to being boiled, and when boiled, they swell in size and 
are extremely succulent; the flavour is increased, and the meat ren- 
dered more nutritious. Two table-spoonfuls of acid added to the 
pickle for Vv'pir^tpririlia ham is required, and when the ham is removed 



FRESH MEAT. HI 

from the pickle, it must be wel! washed in cold sprinfr water and 
dried, and then some of the acid applied over it by means of a brush, 
and this repeated two or three times at about a week's interval. 

389. To cure herrings, cod, haddock, and other fish, with pyrolig- 
neous acid, salt them a little for a day or two — not more — less may 
do; then dry them well with a coarse cloth, then dip them into the 
acid, and dry in the air; when dry, repeat the process a few times, 
suspending- them like the manufacturer of candles. The red colour 
in dried salmons and herrings is generally attributed to nitre (salt- 
petre;) very frequently tobacco dissolved in' a fluid not very agreeable 
(urine) is employed for the purpose of reddening, in Holland. Pyro- 
ligneous acid will not answer for pickling, being too strong when 
diluted with water it loses its virtue. The vinegar of the shops may 
be advantageously improved by the addition of this acid. 

KEEPING FRESH MEAT. 

390. All kinds of meat should be hung till they are tender, but not 
till they are putrescent ; or, at any rate, not a moment longer than 
when you can perceive a slight degree of putrescency in them. Some 
things, such as venison, hares, &c., require to be hung longer than 
others, and some persons require meat to be high, or partly putrescent, 
before it is dressed, and these we fear must have their palates pleased 
whatever may be the consequence to their stomachs. Dr. Kitchiner 
says, "Although we strongly recomm.end that animal food should be 
himg up in the open air, till its fibres have lost some degree of their 
toughness, yet let us be clearly understood also to warn you, that if 
kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health as 
it is disagreeable to the smell and taste." Meat should be hung in a 
draught of air, and in the shade, particularly in the summer months; 
and it should be dried twice a day to keep it from being rendered 
musty by tlie damp. The time meat should be hung to be tender 
depends upon the dampness or dryness of the air, and the degree of 
heat. In damp warm weather it is exceedingly liable to become 
putrescent; in cold dry weather, not. 

391. If you find that your meat will not keep till it is wanted, it is 
a good plan to slightly roast it, or boil it, which will enable you to 
keep it a day, or even two or three days longer; but we repeat it 
must be very slightly roasted or boiled, or it will eat like meat done 
a second time. 

392. Boerhave says, that the best method of keeping flesh in sum- 
mer, is to steep it in Rhenish wine, with a little sea salt, by which 
means it may be preserved a whole season. 

393. According to Dr. Franklin, as quoted by Dr. Kitchiner, game 
or poultry killed by electricity becomes tender in the twinkling of an 
eye ; and if it be dressed, will be delicately tender. We have no 
doubt, indeed it is an established fact, that if they are killed by the 
operation of cold lead, the twisting of the neck, or any other of the 
ordinary modes of destroying animal life, the same result will take 



112 THE COMPLETE COO K. 

place, provided they are dressed before they are cold, that is, before 
the sinews and muscles have bpcoine set; once set, they must be 
suffered to relax by keepin,'-, before the animal, whether game or 
poultry, or any otlier creature, is fit for dressing. Take a fowl, kill 
It, put it inio an oven, or amon2:st hot ashes, while it is still warm 
Vv'itli life, without picking; off the feathers or takincf out the entrails, 
and it will be delicately tender eating, and perfectly sweet. The 
feathefri will be burnt away, and the entrails are taken out in the 
shape of a ball ; the gypsies understand this mode of cooking. A 
military friend of ours partook of part of a calf roasted alive in the 
burning of the buildings of a farm-yard, in an enemy's country; he 
was not particularly hungry, but he says he never ate meat more deli- 
cious and tender. We mention these things merely to illustrate a 
principle, not as an example to be followed. In this country it is im- 
practicable to dress butcher's meat while still warm with life; in hot 
countries it is nearly always done. 

394. For keeping meat from becoming putrescent, recipes, of 
which the following is the substance, were published some years ago, 
and sold at the enormous price of seven shillings and sixpence: Take 
a quart of the best vinegar, two ounces of lump sugar, two ounces of 
salt ; boil these ingredients together for a few minutes, and when 
cold, anoint with a brush the meat to be preserved. For fish, the 
mixture is directed to be applied inside; for poultry, inside and out. 
Of course both fish and poultry are to be cleansed. 

395. Pyroligneous acid, either with or without the sugar and salt, 
would be much more effectual ; besides, it possesses, to a certain ex- 
tent, the property of not only preventing putrescency, but of curing 
it when commenced. 

ON THE USE OF ACIDS IN DRESSING FOOD. 

On perusing our work previous to going to press, we do not think 
that we have dealt sufficiently on the use of vinegar in dressing food. 
Of pyroligneous acid in the preservation and curing of meats, we 
have treated prelty largely. In all stews, and most made dishes, 
the flavour is much improved, and we think the food rendered more 
digestible, by the moderate use of vinegar: we recommt.-nd, how- 
ever, none but the best vinegar, which ought to b(^ applied to the 
meat previous to its being put in the slew-pan. We will give for 
example the following receipt for 

396. Brazilian Stew. — Take shin or leg of beef; cut it into slices 
or pieces of two or three ounces each ; dip it in good vinegar, and, 
with or without onions, or any other flavouring or vegetable sub- 
stances, put it in a stew-pan, and without water ; let it stand on a 
stew-hearth, or by a slow fire, for two three, or four hours, when it 
will be thoroughly done, will have yielded plenty of gravy, and be as 
"tender as a chicken." Great care must be taken that the heat is 
sufficiently moderate. This is the usual mode of dressing all descrip- 
tions of meat in the Brazils. We have recommended leg or shin of 



COOKING VEGETABLES. 113 

beef, because it in fact makes the richest and most nutritious stew, 
and may be had at a low price ; but any other meat or fish may be so 
dressed. The only objection to it is, tliat it is too rich ; but this may 
be remedied by eating less of it, and a greater quantity of potatoes or 
other vegetables. A pound and a half of leg of beef, witiiout bone, 
so dressed, and plenty of potatoes, will dine four people luxuriously. 

397. AJ.arnode Beef of the shops, which, when well dressed, ia 
very delicious, is made by thickening the gravy of beef that has been 
very slowly stewed as above with vinegar, and flavoure/^' A'ith bay 
leaves, allspice, &c., according to taste. The following process will 
be found a good one: cut your beef, mouse buttock, or sticking pieces, 
or legs (legs are the best), &c., into pieces of two or three <»unces 
each; put into a deep stew-pan some beef dripping, to keep the meat 
from sticking to the bottom ; mince onions, which mix with the beef, 
previously dipped in vinegar, and put the mixture into a deep stew- 
pan. When quite hot, flour the meat with a dredger, and continue 
to do so till you have stirred in enough to thicken it; then cover it 
with boiling water, which should be put in by degrees, stirring it 
together with a wooden spoon. Flavour with black pepper, allspice, 
bay leaves, champignons, truffles, mushrooms, &.C., according to taste ; 
but allspice, black pepper, and salt, will answer every useful purpose. 
Let it stew as slowly as possible for four or five hours. We can 
testify from experience that our Brazilian stew and beef alamode are 
cheap and delicious dishes. 

COOKING VEGETABLES. 

This branch of cookery, though apparently very simple, requires 
the utmost attention, and no little judgment. 

398. You should always boil vegetables in soft water, if you can 
procure it ; if not, put a tea-spoonful or more of carbonate of soda in it 
to render it so. 

399. Take care to wash and cleanse all vegetables from dust and 
other impurities, before putting them into the pot or pan ; they should 
be thoroughly cleansed; for which purpose it will be necessary to 
open the leaves of greens, or otherwise you may send to the table 
some fine, fat, overfed caterpillars, and thus spoil the whole dish. 

400. Upon the whole, it is best to boil vegetables in a saucepan by 
themselves. The quicker they boil, the greener they will be. When 
they sink, they are generally done enough, if the water has been kept 
constantly boiling. When done, take them up immediately, and tho- 
roughly drain. If vegetables are a minute too long over the fire, they 
lose all their beauty and flavour. If not thoroughly boiled tender, they 
are tremendously indigestible ; and much more "troublesome during 
their residence in the stomach, than underdone meats. 

401. Vegetables are in greatest perfection, when in greatest plenty, 
and they are only in greatest plenty when in full season. All vege- 
tables are best when tney are so cheap as to enable the artisan to eat 
them. Very early peas, or very early potatoes— that is, peas or po- 



t 14 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

la toes raised by artificial means — may be valued as great rarities, but 
for nothing' else. We may assert the same thing of nearly all other 
vegetables. Sea kale and early rhubarb are, perhaps, exceptions. 
All vegetables should be ripe; that is, ripe as vegetables; otherwise, 
like fruits, thoy are bad tasted and unwholesome. To eat peas or 
potatoes in perfection, you must eat them not much before Mid- 
summer. 

402. With regard to the quality of vegetables, the middle size are 
to be preferred lo the vrry large. Green vegetables, such as savoys, 
cabbages, cauliflowers, &c., should be eaten fresh, before the life is 
out of them. When once dead, they are good lor nothing but the 
dunghill. This description of vegetables will live a long time after 
they are cut, but the fresher they are the better. Any one may easily 
see if they have been kept too long. There are two ways of sending 
peas to market: the one is, by packing them in sacks, where they fre- 
quently becosne heated, and, of course, in a great measure spoilt. The 
other is, by sending them in sieves, which is by far the best way, but, 
being somewhat more expensive, sieve peas fetch a higher price than 
sack peas. 

403. GreeuLS roots, salads, &c. &c., when they have lost their fresh- 
ness by long keepmg, may be refreshed a little by putting them in 
cold spring water for an hour or two before they are dressed ; but thia 
process will not make them equal to those which are gathered just be- 
fore they are boiled. 

404. The following remarks, by a writer in the Edin. Encyclo. on 
this subject, are very just, and well worth the perusal : — " Most vege- 
tables, being more or less succulent, require their full proportion of 
fluids for retaining that state of crispness and plumpness which they 
have when growing. On being cut or gathered, the exhalation from 
their surface continues, while, from the open vessels of the cut sur- 
face, there is often great exudation or evaporation, and thus their na- 
tural moisture is diminished, the tender leaves become flaccid, and 
the thicker masses, or roots, lose their plumpness. This is not only- 
less pleasant to the eye, but is a real injury to the nutritious powers 
of the vegetable ; foi- in this flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres are 
less divided in chewing, and the water which exists irs vegetable sub- 
stances in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly 
nutritious. The first care, tnereforo, in the preservation of succulent 
vegetables is, to prevent them from losing their natural moisture." 

405. To preserve colour, or give colour, in cookery, many good 
dishes are spoilt. This is a great folly. Taste, nourishment, and 
digestibility, ought to be the only considerations in the dresung of 
food. 

406. When vegetables are quite fresh gathered, they requirr^ much 
less boiling than those that have been kept. Acc(jrding to Xitch- 
iner, fresh vegetables are done in one-third less time than stal ^ 

407. Strong-scented vegetables, we need scarcely say, ougb' to be 
kept apart. If onions, leeks, and celery, are laid amongst sue? f^^V 
cate things as cauliflowers, tiiey will spoil in a very short time 



DRESSING VEGETABLES. 115 

408 Succulent vegetables, such as cabbages, and all sorts of green?, 
are best preserved in a cool, damp, and shady place. Potatof.-, tur- 
nips, carrots, and similar roots, intended to be stored up, should never, 
on any account, be cleaned from the earth adhering to tfiern, till 
they are to be dressed. Never buy washed potatoes, &c. from your 
shopkeeper ; have them with the soil about them, and v.-ash them 
just before they are boiled. 

409. As the action of frost destroys the life of vecretablfs, and 
causes them speedily to rot, and as the air also injures them, all roots 
should be protected by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or 
earth, and covering them with straw or mats. There are, however, 
some sorts of winter greens, such as savoys, &.c., which are made 
much better and more tender by frost, 

PARTICULAR DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING VEGE- 
TABLES. 

410. Cauliflowers. — Take off the outer leaves ; round such as are 
young, leave just one leaf; put them with some salt into boiling wa- 
ter; boil according to size, from fifteen to tVventy minutes; try the 
Btalk with a fork ; when the stalk feels tender, and the fork is easily 
withdrawn, the flower is done ; take up instantly, vvith a wire ladle. 
Both brocoli and cauliflower, unless boiled till they are tender, are 
neither pleasant to the taste, nor wholesome to the body; but over- 
boiling will break and spoil them. Sauce, melted butter. 

411. Brocoli. — Choose close firm heads, nearly of a size. Put 
them into boiling water with salt; allow them plenty of room in boil- 
ing, or they will break ; and boil them fast, or they will lose their co- 
lour. They will take from ten minutes to half an hour, according to 
the size of the beads. When the stalks are tender, which you can 
know by putting a fork up the middle of the stalk, they are done. 
Take them up vvith a wire ladle, that the water may run off without 
bruising the heads. Serve on a buttered toast. Sauce, melted 
butter. 

412. Cabbage. — Large full-grown cabbage and savoys will take 
half an hour or more in boiling. Strip all the outside leaves till you 
come to the white quick grown ones; then shave the stocks of the 
leaves that are left on, and score the stalk a little way up. Drain 
them carefully when boiled, and serve them on a drainer. 

413. Young Coleworts and Sprouts — Do not be too saving in 
trimming sprouts, as harsh or bad leaves will spoil a whole dish. 
They will take from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour in boiling. 
Be careful in draining, so as not to spoil the shape of the heads. 

Cold cabbao-e may be fried and served with fried beef. It will re- 
quire a little bit of butter, a little good gravy, and a little pepper and 
salt. Shake it about well, and let it remain no longer in the pan 
than is necessary to make it hot through. 

414. Red Cabbage. — This is sometimes stewed, for eating with 
bouilli beef. Take a small red firm cabbage ; wash, pick, and cut it 



116 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in slices half an inch thick; then pick it to pieces leaf by leaf. Make 
half a pint of melted butter, in a saucepan large enough to contain 
the whole. Shake the cabbage from the water that hangs about it, 
and put it to the melted butter, with a tea-cup full of good gravy, an 
onion, sliced, and pepper, salt, and cayenne. Let it stew half an hour 
or more, keeping the saucepan close shut. When quite tender, add 
a glass of vinegar; let it just boil up; then serve. 

415. Spinach. — Pick leaf by leaf, wash it in three waters, put a 
little salt in the boiling water, boil it very quickly, and keep it under 
the water; seven or eight minutes will be sufficient lo boil it; strain 
it on the back of a sieve, and press it as dry as possible between two 
plates; spread it on a dish, and score it crossways, in squares of an 
inch and a half, or two inches. Spinach is often served with poached 
eggs and buttered toast, or slices of fried bread. It is sometimes 
Btewed in the following manner: — When it has boiled five minutes, 
strain and press it, and put it in a small stew-pan, the bottom just 
covered with rich boiling gravy; add a bit of butter, a little pepper, 
salt and nutmeg, and two table-spoonsful of cream ; stew it five 
minutes. 

416. Vegetable Marrow or Gourd. — Gather the fruit when the 
size of an egg; put it into boiling water, with a little salt; boil it 
until it is tender, which will be in about half an hour; cut it in slices 
half an inch thick; lay it on buttered toast; sprinkle it with pepper 
and salt; pour melted butter over it. If the fruit has seeds in it, the 
seedy part must be scooped out, but they are not so good in this state. 
The fruit may be cut in slices raw, and fried in butter, and served 
with melted butter and vinegar. 

417. Turnips. — Put them into boiling water, with a little salt; 
when tender, take them up and drain the water from them ; they 
will take from half an hour to an hour boiling. If for mashing, boil 
them a little longer. If they are lumpy or stringy, rub them through 
a colander, then put them into the saucepan, with an ounce of butter, 
a spoonful of cream, a little pepper and salt ; stir them well till the 
butter is melted, and the whole well mixed. 

418. Green Peas. — Peas do not require much water to boil them 
in. Before you put the peas into the boiling water, throw in a lump 
of sugar and a little salt; boil a few tops of mint with them. If they 
are young and fresh, they will not take more than ten minutes to a 
quarter of an hour; if not very young, they will require from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Chop up the mint to garnish ; stir a lump 
of butter with them in the dish, and a little pepper and salt. 

419. To stew Peas. — Young peas are best for this purpose ; but 
stewing is the best way of preparing old ones. To a quart of peas 
allow a quart of gravy ; put them in when the gravy boils, with three 
lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt; stew till the peas are 
quite tender, then thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. They 
may be stewed without gravy ; thus, to a quart of i>tas allow a let- 
tuce, two or three tops of mint, and an onion, cut up and washed ; the 
water that hangs round the lettuce will be sufficient; add pepper, 



DRESSIIVG VEGETABLES. 117 

8hlt, and sugar, as above ; stew very gently for two hours ; then beat 
up an egg, and stir in with an ounce of butter. 

420. Carrots. — Wash them well before you put them into the pot. 
They are best boiled with meat which they do not injure. If they 
are young they will boil in twenty minutes or half an hour; large 
old ones will take two hours to boii them tender; do not quarter car- 
rots to boil — it renders them tasteless. If they are young, leave on a 
little of the top, and rub them Vvilh a coarse cloth; old ones are best 
rubbed after they are boiled ; the skin comes from them more easily. 
Never scrape carrots — if they are rough, brush them. Sauce, melted 
butter. 

421. Windsor Beans. — Young beans are best when the eyes are 
of a green colour; when the eyes are dark, they are old and eat 
strong; young beans will boil from twenty mmutes to half an hour. 
Put them into plenty of boiling water, and a spoonful of salt; if you 
boil them after they become tender, the skins will shrivel; boil a 
large bunch of parsley with them ; chop some for parsley and butter. 
8tir a lump of butter with them, and put a little parsley in the dish 
for garnish. 

422. French or Kidney Beans. — The smooth or dwarf beans come 
in earliest, but the scarlet runners are considered the best ; choose 
them young and nearly of a size, lop and tail them, slit them down 
the middle and cut across. If they are old, take the skin from each 
side; put them in boiling water with some salt; boil ihem fast from 
ten minutes to a quarter of an hour; stir with them a lump of butter. 
Sauce, melted butter. 

423. Harricot Beans are the seeds of French beans, full grown; 
they are sometimes called colly beans. Stew them in gravy, thickened 
with flour and cream, or they may be fried in butter ; stir in a lump 
of butter when in the dish, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, then put 
in some gravy. 

424. Jerusalem Artichokes. — Scrub them clean, and put them into 
the pot with cold water ; throw in a handful of salt, do not let them 
be covered with water, and leave off the lid ; they take about the 
same time boiling as potatoes. When they are tender they are done; 
drain them and peel them. Keep them as hot as possible ; they may 
be kept hot by putting them in a dish over another dish in which is 
hot water. Sauce, melted butter and vinegar, or good thick gravy. 

42.5. Asparagus. — Scrape the stalks clean; tie them in bundles 
with bass, put them in boiling water with a little salt in it ; a tin 
-saucepan is best. If they are fresh, they will be done in ten or 
iwelve minutes; if they are not fre^^h, they will take a little longer. 
Take up the moment they are tender, otherwise the heads will be 
broken, the flavour spoilt, and the colour spoilt; take them up very 
carefully with a slice, cut the bass, just dip som.e toasted bread in the 
liquor in which the asparagus has been boiled, put it on a drainer 
with a little melted butter, and the heads of the asparagus should be 
.aid inwards round the dish; or they may be laid on a buttered toast 

426. Artichokes. — Soak in cold water ; put them into plenty of 
10 



118 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

boiling water, throw in a handful of salt. They require an hour and 
a half or two hours in boiling. Try them by palling a leaf; if it draw 
out easily, they are done ; drain them on a sieve, or serve on a 
vegetable drainer. Sauce, melted butter and vinegar. 

427. Red Beet-root. — Boil them whole, put them in boiling water ; 
they require from an hour and a half to three hours in boiling. If 
for garuLsh, leave them whole till wanted for use, then scrape and cut 
up into slices. If for salads, scrape and cut in slices hot, and pour 
cold vinegar over them. 

For stewing, boil them an hour or more, then skin and slice them ; 
season them with pepper and salt, and stew till tender, with young 
onions, in good gravy : when nearly done, stir in a bit of butter rolled 
in flour and cream : this is a pleasant and nourishing dish. They 
may be baked dry in the same manner as potatoes, and eaten with 
cold butter, salt, and pepper. 

428. White Beet-root. — This useful and wholesome plant affords 
two very pleasing varieties. The leaves stripped from their large 
fibrous stalks resemble spinach. Put in boiling water and boil them 
very fast; they take but a few minutes; drain, and press them very 
dry. Sauce, melted butter. The stalks tie in bundles, dress as 
asparagus. Sauce, melted butter and vinegar. 

429. Herbs to fry to eat with liver, or with rashers and eggs.— 
Clean and drain four handfuls of young spinach, and two of young 
lettuce leaves, two handfuls of parsley and one of young onions 
chopped small ; set them over the fire in a stew-pan ; put one ounce 
of butter and some pepper and salt ; close the pan up and shake it 
well, and when it boils, set it on the hob or stove to simmer slowly 
till the herbs are tender. Serve them on a dish with the liver, or 
rashers and eggs; lay them on the herbs. 

430. Kale, Sea and Scotch. — This last kale is a favourite sort of 
greens for winter and sprinsr; the heads should not be gathered before 
November, These will take a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes 
fast boiling; put them into boiling water. The sprouts, which in 
spring are very abundant, will boil in a few minutes. Sauce, melted 
butter. 

Sea Kale is boiled tied up in bunches, like asparagus. It is eaten 
with rich gravy, or thick melted butter, and may be served on toasted 
bread. 

431. Celery makes an excellent addition to salads; it also gives an 
agreeable flavour to soups and sauce, and is sometimes stewed as an 
accompaniment to boiled or stewed meat. Wash six or eight heads, 
and take off the outer leaves ; cut the heads up in bits three or four 
inches long. Stew them till tender in half a pint of veal broth, or 
white gravy ; then add two spoonsful of cream and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer the 
whole together. The leaves will do to flavour soup that is to be 
strained. 

432. Mushrooms. — The large flap mushrooms are excellent broiled. 
Huve a very clear fire ; make the bars of the gridiron very clean, and 



DRESSING VEGETABLES. 119 

rub them with mutton suet to prevent them from stickino- ; a few 
minutes will broil them. When they steam out, sprinkle tliem with 
pepper and salt ; have ready a very hot dish, and when they are taken 
up, lay a bit or two of butter under and over each. To stew them, 
put them in a small saucepan with pepper and salt, a bit of butter and 
a spoonful or two of gfravy of roast meat or cream ; shake them about, 
and when they boil they are done. 

433. Morels resemble mushrooms in their growth and many other 
respects, and are usually dressed in the same manner. It is not 
possible, however, to make catsup from them, which shows that they 
do not possess the same qualities as mushrooms. For a stew or ragout 
of morels, take off their stalks; split them, if large, into two or three 
pieces; wash them and put them into a basin of warm water, and 
cleanse them from the sand, &c. ; then blanch, drain and put them 
into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some lemon juice. 
Moisten, after a few turns in the stew-pan, with either brown or 
white sauce. There are various other modes of dressing them, but 
as morels are not much eaten in this country, the above may suffice. 
Morels are of a higher and finer flavour in Eastern countries than 
here. 

434. Truffles. — These are a very curious description of vegetables; 
chey grow under ground, no part of the plants ever being seen on the 
surface. It is like the mushroom kind, a species of fungus, and is 
propagated by seed which is nurtured by the decaying of the old 
plant. They are found about ten inches below the surface of the 
earth, dogs being trained to discover them by their scent. The truffle 
has a very rich, tart, and high flavour when fresh and in season, but 
loses it when dried, or out of season. They are not very common in 
America, but they are found in great quantities in France and Italy. 
A writer in Rees's CyclopaBdia informs us, that " truffles are generally 
in seed about August, when they are of a fine high flavour and agree- 
able smell; continue good till the beginning of winter, and sometimes 
as late as March ; but those gathered between March and July are 
small, white, and of a poor flavour. The same authority, in the same 
article, intimates that truffles are tenderest and best in spring, though 
easiest found in autunm ; the wet swelling them and the thunder and 
lightning disposing them to throw out their scents: hence by the 
ancients they were called thunder-roots. Hogs are fond of them ; 
hence the common people call them swine-bread." It is now, the 
editor may observe, a well-established fact, that truffles are not good 
after March, or before August. They require a great deal of wash- 
ing and brushing, in several waters, before they can be applied to culi- 
nary purposes. When fresh and fine they are very rich, and are a 
very delicious addition to some dishes. They may be, and frequently 
are, stewed like mushrooms, and prepared in other ways, and eaten 
by themselves, 

435. Cucumbers may be stewed in the same way as celery, with 
the addition of some sliced onions; or the cucumbers and onions may 



120 T n E C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

be first floiirf^d and fried in butter ; then add the gravy, and stew till 
tender; skim oft* the tat. 

436. Parsnips. — Clean and dress just the same as carrots, they 
require boiling- from one hour to two, accordintj to their size and 
freshness; they should be drained well, and set on the hob in a dry 
saucepan to steam; they are sometimes mashed with butter, pepper, 
salt, and cream, or milk, the same as turnips; they are eaten alone, 
or with salt beef or salt pork. Sauce, melted butter and vinegar. 



P O T A 1' O E S. 

437. In our directions tor dressing vegetables, we speak lastly of 
potatoes — not because the cooking of this every-day food is of the 
least importance, but because, on the contrary, it is of the greatest. 
There are few persons, simple as the process may appear to be, who 
can cook potatoes well with certainty. Potatoes from the same 
ground, and of the same kind, dressed by the same cook, may come 
to table one day palatable and nutritious, and the next the very re- 
verse of these qualities. How does this happen? The cook acts 
upon no principle. By accident the potatoes may be boiled well, and 
by accident they may be boiled bad : in one woid, the boiling of 
potatoes is, with the generality of cooks, all chance work. \ friend 
of ours, Mr. John Barker, the attorney, no mean judge in such mat- 
ters, always averred, that a woman who could boil potatoes and melt 
butter well, was a good cook ; he never requires any other proof of 
the capabilities of a cook. The fact is, those who thorou-ilily under- 
stand the elements of any art or science, find little or no difficulty in 
what are called the higher branches. It is for this reason that we 
have, in our little work, dwelt so much upon elementary principles, 
in preference to filling it up with long receipts, which every body 
may obtain, but which do not teach any principle of the art of cookery. 
Dr. Kitchiner observes, that " the vegetable kingdom affijrds no food 
more wholesome, more easily procured, easily prepared, and less ex- 
pensive, than the potatoe." This is perfectly true, and yet how few 
are there that can boil potatoes properly ! In Ireland, as every body 
knows, potatoes constitute almost entirely the food of the great mass 
of the people ; in Ireland, therefore, necessity must have taught the 
people the best mode of cooking them. Their process is this: the 
potatoes, unpef led, that is with their jackets on, after being washed, 
are put into a cast-iron pot of cold water, which is placed on the fire. 
When the water boils, a small quantity of cold water is put into the 
pot to check the boiling; this is once or twice repeated. When the 
potatoes are done, or nearly done, the water is poured away from the 
potatoes, which are again subjected to the fire to let the steam evapo- 
rate, and make the potatoes mealy. They are then served up in the 
usual way, (we are speaking of the tables of the middling classes,) 
and each person takes as many potatoes as he chooses; he peels them, 
depositing the skins by the side of his plate. In the course of the 



POTATOES. 12] 

di'nner the potatoes on the table will become cold, when a fresh supply 
is ordered, and when furnished, the host calls out to his guest, "a hot 
potatoe. Sir." Before the dinner is finished, you will have two or 
three supplies of hot potatoes, and the last, though all Irom the same 
pot, are to our taste better tlian the first. They are all the time kept 
on the fire; tiie action of the heat conipletely evaporat( s the moisture 
from the potatoes, and those at the boUoni of the iron pot become part 
tially roasted. Such is the Irish mode of dressing potatoes, and if we 
could reconcile ourselves to the " bother'' of peeling them, and to the 
disagreeable appearance of a table-cloth nearly covered with potatoe 
skins, there is no doubt that we should consider the Irish way of 
dressing and serving potatoes the best. The generality of modern 
cookery books recommend the dressing of potatoes with their skins 
on, like the Irish, but direct that they should be peeled before sent to 
the table; this mode spoils the potatoes by cooling them; when so 
dressed, they should be eaten hot. We recommend that potatoes, ex- 
cepting when young, for the table, should be always pared, carefully 
pared, before they are boiled: that they should be put into cold water 
with salt, and boiled quickly, till they are nearly done; that then the 
water should be poured ofi', and the potatoes again subjected to the 
fire, covered with a close lid, till they are quite done, when the lid 
ought to be removed, and the moisture evaporated. They may be 
then mashed, or served whole. The cook should take care to have 
potatoes pretty much of an equal size, or, if this be not practicable, 
she should divide the large ones. We ought, however, to add, with 
regard to peeling potatoes, that most people very fond of this loot 
insist upon it, that you do not get the true flavour if you do not dress 
it with the skin on. Let it be always remembered, that potatoes differ 
very much in quality, and that no cook can dress a bad potatoe into a 
good one. 

This brings us to the choice of potatoes. We can lay down no 
rule, notwithstanding what former writers have said, for the choice 
of potatoes. As it is with pudding, so it is with potatoes — the proof 
is in the eating. The dealers in nuts say, "Crack and try before you 
buy," and we say as regards potatoes. Boil and try before you buy ; 
the expenditure of one half-penny will enable you to do this. Dr. 
Kitchiner says, that " reddish coloured potatoes are better than the 
white, but the yellowish ones are the best." The colour of a potatoe 
is no criterion of its goodness or badness; there are good of all 
colours, and there are bad of all colours. You should never buy 
washed potatoes; they should never be washed till they are to be 
used, and as little as possible exposed to the open air. When frost- 
bitten, they are good for nothing as regards culinary purposes. There 
are various directions given by writers for dressing potatoes, some of 
which we subjoin. Kitchiner says, that "most boiled things are 
spoiled by having too little water ; but potatoes are often spoiled by 
too much." It is sufficient to just cover them with water. Potatoes 
may be boiled well according to either of the subjoined methods; but 
after trying all, we prefer our own. 
10* 



122 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

438. Potatoes to boil. —To boil, choose them all of a size, that they 
may be all done together; put them on with cold water, and a spoon- 
ful of salt, in a saucepan larger than they require, without the lid, 
and with not quite water enough to cover them. When they boil, 
put in a little cold water; do this twice or three times as they come to 
boil. When a fork will easily go into them, strain off, and put the 
saucepan on the hob for two minutes, for the steam to evaporate. If 
done too soon, fold a coarse cloth and cover them up immediately, to 
keep them hot and mealy ; but they are best served immediately they 
are done. 

Another Method. The best method in the opinion of some, is to 
wash the potatoes quite clean and put them in the saucepan with a 
large table-spoonful of salt, and cover them with water ; but when 
they boil up, pour three parts of the water away, put the lid on the 
saucepan, and set them where they will boil, but not very fast. Ob- 
serve if the skins are cracked; if not, carefully crack them with a 
fork to let the watery matter contained in the potatoe out; this you 
cannot do until they are nearly done. When they are boiled suffi- 
ciently, drain all the water away; take off the lid, and hold them 
over the fire for a minute, giving them a gentle shake. They are 
best served immediately, while they are dry and hot. This method 
is good in a small family, but where there are a great many to dine 
it would be best to pare them, and take out all the eyes with the point 
of your knife; wash them, put them in the saucepan with a large 
table-spoonful of salt, cover them with water, and when they boil, pour 
three parts of the water off", close the saucepan, and let them boil 
gently ; when done, dry them over the fire. As potatoes should be 
always served hot, by this method you lose no time in taking off the 
skins. 

439. Potatoes to steam. — Let the potatoes be washed, and put into 
the steamer, when the water boils in the saucepan beneath ; they 
will take about three-quarters of an hour to steam, and should be 
taken up as soon as done, or thpy become watery. 

440. To roast. — Wash and dry potatoes all of a size ; put them in 
a dutch oven, or cheese toaster, or in the oven by the side of the fire ; 
take care that the heat is not too great, or they will burn before they 
are baked through. They may be parboiled first ; in that case they 
will take less time in baking. 

441. Potatoes ma.<ihe(l. — When the potatoes are thoroughly boiled 
or steamed, drain them dry, pick out every speck, and while hot rub 
them through a colander into a clean saucepan, in which warm them, 
stirring in half an ounce or an ounce of butter, and a table-spoonful 
of milk, with a little pepper and salt; do not make them too wet; 
then put them into the scallop shells, or pudding shells buttered, the 
tops v^ashed over with the yolk of an eg^, and browned in an oven 
by the side of the fire; but best in a dutch oven. Some people con- 
sider a mixture of boiled onions an improvement. 

442. Potatoes roasted under meat. — Parboil large potatoes ; peel 
them, and put them in an earthen dish, or small tin pan, under meat 



SALADS. 123 

that is roasting-. They will partake of the basting', salting, and flour- 
ing, that are put on the naeat; when one side is brown, turn and 
brown the other. They may bo baked in the same manner in an oven. 

443. Potatoes fried or broiled. — Cut cold potatoes into slices a 
quaiter of an inch thick, and fry them brown in a clean dripping-pan. 
Some people like them shaved in litile thin pieces, sprinkled with salt 
and pepper, and stirred about in the frying-pan till hot through. They 
are very good fried whole ; first dip them in egg and roll them in 
bread crumbs; they are likewise very good broiled on a gridiron, after 
being partially boiled. Cold potatoes, which are generally thrown 
away, are very good u^hen broiled. 

444. Potutae Balls. — Mix mashed potatoes with a beaten egg, roll 
them in balls and fry them, either with or without crumbs. 

445. Potatoe Snoio. — Wash very clean some potatoes of a white 
mealy sort ; set therrr*ion in cold water, and boil them according to 
the first direction; when done, strain the water from them, crack the 
skins, put them by the fire until they are quite dry and fall to pieces; 
then rub them through a wire sieve on the dish they are to be served 
on, and do not disturb them. 

SALADS. 

446. Among the principal salad herbs we may reckon lettuce, of 
which the white cos in summer, and in winter the brown Dutch cos 
and brown cos, are the best; endive, of which the curled leaf is pre- 
ferred; corn-salad and v.^ater-cicss, both of which are preferred when 
the leaves have a brownish cast ; mustard and cress, or small salad- 
ing, of which a succession may be kept up through the spring- months ; 
celery, youngs, crisp, and well blanched. All or any of these may be 
united in the composition of a salad. Cucumbers, either sliced by 
themselves, or mixed with other articles. Radishes give a lively 
appearance, by way of garnish, to a salad, but are not themselves 
improved by dressing. Red-beet also is much in request for winter 
salads, especially mixed with endive. Young onions or escalions are 
liked by many people, but much disliked by others; therefore they 
should not be'^mixed in the bowl, hut sent up on a small dish by them- 
selves. Sorrel gives a pleasing acid taste; and pimpernel, or burnet, 
gives a flavour^ resembling that of cucumber. Dandelion, if well 
grown and well blanched with a tile or slate (in the same manner as 
endive), is equally good and wholesome. 

Let the ingredients of the salad be well picked, and washed and 
dried ; but do^not add the dressing till just before eating, as it is apt 
to make the salad flabby. The most simple way of dressing a salad 
is, perhaps, the best; certainly the most wholesome ; merely salt, oil, 
and vinegar, to taste ; one table-spoonful of the best olive oil to three 
of vinega^r, is a good proportion. For those who do not like oil, or 
when i't is not at hand,' the following may be used as a substitute : 
The gravy that has dropped from roasted meat, good sweet thicK 
cream, a bit of fresh butter rubbed up with fine moist sugai, or just 



124 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

melted, without either flour or water; great care must be taken in 
thus melting the butter, or it will be apt to oil or curdle; it must be 
shaken one way only, and kept near the fire no longer than is neces- 
sary to dissolve the lumps — on no account suffered to boil. Eggs 
boiled for salads require ten or twelve minutes boiling, and should 
immediately be plunged into cold water. 

In the more complicated preparation of a salad, great care must be 
taken that every additional ingredient is thoroughly well blended be- 
fore proceeding to add another. 

Prepare the dressings in the bowl, and add the herbs ; after stirring 
them in, take care that all the various colours are displayed. The 
coral of a lobster or a crab makes a beautiful variety with a lettuce, 
onion, radish, beet, and white of egg. The following are the ordinary 
proportions, but various tastes will suggest variety : The yolks of two 
eggs rubbed very smooth with a very rich cream ; if perfectly rubbed 
and quite cold, they will form a smooth paste without straining; a 
tea-spoonful each of thick mustard, salt, and powdered loaf-sugar, or 
a little cayenne instead of mustard, less than half of the mustard ; 
when these are well rubbed in, add two table-spoonfuls of oil (or 
whichever of its substitutes is adopted), and then four spoonfuls of the 
best white wine vinegar; then lay the herbs lightly on. 

Cucumbers are only to be pared and sliced, with slices of onion, 
which correct their crudity, and render them less unwholesome; the 
pickle for them consists of pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. 



VINEGARS FLAVOURED. 

Vinegar is employed in extracting flavours as well as spirits and 
wine. But such extracts are principally used with salads, or as 
relishes to cold meats, and in a few instances to flavour sauces and 
soups ; but, in English cookery, flavours extracted by sherry wine are 
preferred for soup. 

447. Vinegar for Salads. — Take three ounces each of tarragon, 
chives, eschalots, savoury, a handful of the tops of balm and mint, all 
dry and pounded ; put these into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon 
of the best vinegar, cork it close and set it in the sun, and in a fort- 
night strain it off, and press the herbs to get out all the juice; let it 
stand a day to settle, and then strain it through a filtering bag. 

448. Basil Vinegar or Wine. — Sweet basil is in perfection about 
ihe middle of August; gather the fresh green leaves, quite free from 
stalk, and before it flowers ; fill a wide-mouthed bottle with them, fill 
it with vinegar or wine, and steep them ten days ; if you want a very 
strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let 
them steep fourteen days more ; strain it and bottle, cork it close ; it 
is a very agreeable addition to cold meat, soups, sauces, and to the 
mixture generally made for salads. A table-spoonful, when the soup 
is ready, impregnates a tureen-full with the basil and acid flavours at 
a very little expense, when fresh basil and lemons are very dear. 



CATSUPS. I2r> 

The flavour of other sweet or savoury herbs may be preserved in the 
same manner, by infusing; them in wine or vinegar. 

449. Burnet Vinegar is made exactly in the same way as the 
above, and imparls the flavour of cucumbers so exactly, when steeped 
in vine^r^r, tliat the nicest palate could nut distinguish it from the 
fruit itself. This is a nice relish to cold meat, salads, &e. Burnet is 
best in season from Midsummer to Micliaelmas. 

450. Creas or Celery Vinegar. — Pour over a quart of the best 
vinegar to an ounce of celery or cress seeds, when dried and pounded ; 
let them steep ten days, shake it every day, then strain and bottle in 
small bottles. 

451. Horse-radish Vinegar. — Pour a quart of best vinegar on 
three ounces of scraped horse-radish, one drachm of cayenne, and an 
ounce of shred eschalot; let it stand a week. This is very cheap, 
and you have an excellent relish for cold beef, salads, &c. Horse- 
radish is in perfection in November. 

452. Garlic, Onion, or Eschalot Vinegar. — Put and chop two 
ounces of the root, pour over them a quart of the best vinegar, in a 
Dottle, shake it well every day for ten days ; then pour off" the clear 
liquor into half-pint bottles. A few drops of the garlic will flavour a 
pint of gravy, as it is very powerful. 

453. Tarragon Vinegar. — Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh 
gathered tarragon leaves. They should be gathered on a dry day, 
just before it flowers, between Midsummer and Michaelmas. Pick 
the leaves off" the stalks, and dry them a little before the fire; cover 
them with the best vinegar, and let them steep fourteen days; then 
strain them through a flannel jelly-bag till it is fine, then pour it into 
half-pint bottles, cork them tight, and keep them in a dry place. 

454. Elder Flower Vinegar is prepared in the same manner as 
above, and other herbs also. 

455. Green Mint Vinegar is made exactly the same way, and the 
same proportions, as basil vinegar. In housed lamb season, green mint 
is sometim.es not to be got, it is then a welcome substitute. 

456. Camp Vinegar. — Take four table-spoonfuls of soy, a quarter 
of an ounce of cayenne pepper, six anchovies, bruised and chopped, 
walnut pickle a quarter of a pint, a clove of garlic shred fine ; steep 
the whole for a month in a quart of the best vinegar, shake it four or 
five times a week, strain it through a tamis, and put it in half-pint 
bottles, close corked and sealed, or dipped in bottle cement. 

457. Capsicum, Cayenne, or Chili Vinegar. — Pound fifty fresh 
red chilies, or capsicums, or a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper; 
steep in a pint of the best vinegar for a fortnight. 

CATSUPS. 

These rank high, and deservedly so, amongst the lists of fla our- 
mgs, particularly mushroom catsup, with the directions for the making 
of which we have been at considerable pains. You cannot be certain 
of having it good, unless you make it yourself, for no article is 



12C> THE COMPLETE COOK. 

more adulterated and diluted than this mo?t delicious and useful 
fiavoiirer. 

458. Walnut Catsup. — Take three half sieves of walnut shells, 
put them into a tub, mix them up well with common salt, about a 
pound and a half Let them stand six days, frequently beating- and 
washing them; by this time the shells become soft and pulpy; then 
by bankinor them up on one side of the tub, raising- the tub on the 
same side, the liquor will run clear off to the other; then take that 
liquor out. The mashing and banking may be repeated as lon^ as 
any liquor runs. The quantity will be about three quarts. Simmer 
it in an iron pot as long as any scum rises; then add two ounces of 
allspice, two ounces of ginger, bruised, one ounce of long pepper, one 
ounce of cloves, with the above articles; let it boil slowly for half an 
hour; when bottled, take care that an equal quantity of spice goes 
into each bottle; let the bottles be quite filled up, cork them tight, 
and seal them over. Put them into a cool and dry place, for one year 
before they are used. 

459. Oyster Catsup. — Take fine large fresh oysters, open them 
carefully, and wash them in their own liquor, to take any particle of 
shell that may remain, strain the liquor after. Pound the oysters in a 
mortar, add the liquor, and to every pint put a pint of sherry, boil it 
up and skim, then add two anchovies, pounded, an ounce of common 
salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one of cayenne. Let it boil 
up, skim it, and rub it through a sieve. Bottle it when cold, and seal 
it. What remains in the sieve will do for oyster sauce. 

460. Cockle and Muscle Catsup. — The same way as oyster catsup. 

461. Mushroom Catsup. — The juice of mushrooms approaches the 
nature and flavour of gravy meat more than other vegetable juices. 
Dr. Kitchiner sets a high value, and not without reason, upon good 
mushroom catsup, "a couple of quarts of which," he says, " will save 
some score pounds of meat, besides a vast deal of time and trouble.'* 
The best method of extracting the essence of mushrooms, is that 
which leaves behind the least quantity of water. In all essences, it 
is quality, not quantity, to vvliich we ought to look. An excess of 
aqueous fluid in essences renders them less capable of keeping; while 
in flavouring sauces, &c. a small quantity is sufficient, so that by this 
means you do not interfere with the thickness or consistency of the 
thing flavoured. Mushrooms, that is, field mushrooms, begin to come 
in about September. There are several varieties of these fungi, and 
they differ very much, both in their wholesomeness and flavour. The 
best and finest flavoured mushrooms are those which grow spontane- 
ously upon rich, dry, old pasture land. The following is the mode of 
making good mushroom catsup, or, as Dr. Kitchiner calls it, " double 
catsup." 

Take mushrooms of the right sort, fresh g-athered and full grown, 
but not maggoty or putrescent ; put a layer of these at the bottom of 
a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle theui with salt; then put another 
layer of mushrooms, sprinkle more salt on them, and so on alternately, 
mushroo!!- and salt. Let them remain two or three hours, by which 



CLARIFYING. 127 

time the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and have made 
them easy to break ; then pound them in a mortar, or break them well 
vi'ith your hands; then let them remain in this state for two days, not 
more, mashing- them well once or twice a day ; then pour them into a 
stone jar, and to each quart add an ounce and a half of whole black 
pepper, and half an ounce of allspice; stop the jar very close, and set 
it in a saucepan or stew-pan of boiling' water, and keep it boiling- for 
two hours at least. Take out the jar, and pour the juice clear from 
the settlings, through a hair sieve into a clean stew-pan. Let it boil 
very gently for half an hour ; but to make good or double catsup, it 
should boil gently till the mushroom juice is reduced to half the quan- 
tity, or, in other words, till the more aqueous part is evaporated ; then 
skim it well, and pour it into a clean dry jar or jug; cover it close, 
and let it stand in a cool place till next day, then pour it off as gently 
as possible (so as not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the jug,) 
through a tamis, or thick flannel bag, till it is perfectly clear; add a 
table-spoonful of good unflavoured spirits (brandy is dear and not a 
whit better than common spirits of wine of equal strength) to each 
pint of catsup, and let it stand as before. A fresh sediment will be 
deposited, from which the catsup is to be poured ofi' gently, and bot- 
tled in half pints, washed with spirit. Small bottles are best, as they 
are sooner used, and the catsup, if uncorked often, is apt to spoil. The 
cork of each bottle ought to be sealed or dipped in bottle cement. 
Keep it in a dry cool place ; it will soon spoil if kept damp. If any 
pellicle or skin should appear upon it when in the bottle, boil it up 
again with a few peppercorns. It is a question with us, whether it 
would not be best to dispense with the spice altogether, and give ^n 
addition of spirits. When a number of articles are added to the cat- 
sup, such as different spices, garlic, eschalot, anchovy, &c. &c., the 
flavour of the mushroom is overpowered, and it ceases to be, properly- 
speaking, mushroom catsup. 

462. Mushroom Catsup without Spice is made thus : — Sprinkle a 
little salt over your mushrooms. Three hours after, mash them; next 
day, strain off the liquor, and boil it till it is reduced to half. It will 
not keep long, but an artificial mushroom bed will supply sufficient 
for this, the very best of mushroom catsup, all the year round. 

463. Mushroom Powder may be made of the refuse of the mush- 
rooms, after they have been squeezed, by drying them well in a dutch 
oven, or otherwise, and then reducing them to powder. If the mush- 
rooms themselves are dried and pounded, the powder will be much 
stronger. Tincture or essence of mushrooms, we apprehend, might 
be made, by steeping dried mushrooms in spirits. 

CLARIFYING. 

464. Clarified Butter. — Put the butter in a clean saucepan over a 
very clear, slow fire, and when it is melted, carefully skim off the but- 
ter-milk, which will swim on the top; let it stand for a minute or two 
for the impurities to sink to the bottom, then pour the clear butter 



128 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

through a sieve into a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the 
pan. 

465. Burnt Butter. — Put two ounces of fresh butter into a frying- 
pan ; when it becomes a dark brown colour, add a table-spoonful and 
a half of good vinegar and a little salt and pepper. This is used for 
sauce to boiled fish or poached eggs. 

466. Oiled Butter. — Put two ounces of fresh butter into a sauce- 
pan, melt it gradually till it comes to an oil, and pour it otf' quietly 
from the dregs. This will supply the place of olive oil. 

467. To clarify Drijyping. — Be careful that no cinders or ashes 
fall into the drippmg-p.in, and empty the well before the meat is salted 
or floured, as the dripping will be more valuable. The Nottingham 
ware are the best vessels for keeping dripping in ; where much drip- 
ping is made, however, keep one general receiving pot ; do not put in 
seasoned dripping, or dripping of game and poultry; this should be 
kept by itself; it answers very well to baste similar articles again, or 
it makes very good common crust for meat pies, or for frying; it is 
not fit for delicate pastry. The cook will find at the bottom of the re- 
ceiving pot, after it has stood a few days, some gravy which may be 
useful to make gravy, and if not removed will spoil the colour of the 
dripping ; then put the dripping into a saucepan over a clear slow fire, 
at a good distance ; when it is nearly boilmg skim it well, then let it 
boil, and immediately put it aside ; when cool, and a little settled, 
pour it steadily through a sieve into the pan; this is very nice drip- 
ping for pastry. What remains may be put into the receptacle of 
seasoned dripping, or kept by itself, and will do for basting meat. 

In this manner the fat that settles on the top of stews and boils and 
soups may be clarified and turned to use. Remove the fat before you 
add the vegetables or seasoning. Nothing makes a lighter piecrust 
than this sort of fat. It should be used soon, as the moisture hanging 
about it will turn it sour. 

463. To clarify Suet and Fat. — Take away whatever fat or suet 
that is not likely to be used off a loin of mutton, loin of veal, or sirloin 
of beef. An inch thickness of fat may be taken from a loin or neck 
of mutton, and a good deal of fat from the kidney ; then shave it into 
very thin slices, or chop it up as suet; pick out all veins and skin, 
then put it into a stone j ir or saucepan, and set it in a slow oven, or 
over a stove till it is melted ; then strain it through a hair sieve into 
jars or pots; when quite cold, tie over the jars. Be careful not to put 
this or dripping into a warm place. 

469. Hog''s Lard. — The inside fat or leaf of a pig should be beaten 
with a lard-beater, or rolling-pin ; then put it into a jar or earthen 
pot, in a large kettle of boiling water, 4ill it is melted ; add a little 
salt and a little rosemary — the last may be left out if not preferred. 
When melted, pour it into jars or bladders, nicely cleaned. The bits 
of skins that are left are called crittens, and chopped up with apples 
or currants to make fritters, or a pie. Lard is frequently melted in a 
brass kettle over a slow fire. It is better to surround it with water. 

470. Clarified Sugar is merely brought to a syrup in the following 



PICKLES. 121) 

manner: — Break up the sugar in large lumps, and allow a pint of 
water to every two pounds of sugar : but whatever quantity is em- 
ployed, keep out a quarter of a pint cold. Put the sugar and water 
in the preserving pan, with the white of one egg well beaten, to every 
two pounds of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, set it on the fire, 
and when it boils fast, throw in the quarter of a pint of cold water; 
this is intended to throw up the scum. When it boils again, take the 
vessel from the fire and let it stand to settle; then remove all scum, 
and place it in a hair sieve; what runs through may be returned to 
the rest: give it another boil, and again settle and skim. It should 
not be stirred after the sugar is dissolved and syrup begins to warm. 
In this manner sugar is clarified for jelly which is to be put in glasses! 

PICKLES. 
Like Dr. Kitchiner, we are not fond of pickles. They are, indeed, 

for the most part, mere vehicles for taking up vinegar and spice and 

very unwholesome, indigestible vehicles tbey are. By pounding them, 
as they do in India, they are rendered less indigestible. Those who 
are fond of relishes, and who are wise enough not to gratify their 
tastes at the expense of their stomachs, will find the various flavoured 
vinegars, mixed to each individual's liking, an excellent substitute for 
pickles. 

471. There are three methods of pickling ; the most simple is, 
merely to put the articles into cold vinegar. "The strongest pickling 
vinegar of white wine should always be used for pickles; and for 
such as are wanted for white pickles, use distilled vinegar, which is 
as white as water. This method we recommend for all such vege- 
tables as, being hot themselves, do not require the addition of spice, 
and such as do not require to be softened by heat, such as capsicums, 
chili, nasturtiums, button onions, radish-pods, horse-radish, garlic, and 
eschalots. Half fill the jars with best vinegar, fill them up with the 
vegetables, and tie down immediately with bladder and leather. One 
advantage of this plan is, that those who grow nasturtiums, radish- 
pods, and so forth, in their own gardens, may gather them from day 
to day when they are exactly of the proper growth. They are very 
much better if pickled quite fresh, and all of a size, v.hich can 
scarcely be obtained if they be pickled all at one time. The onions 
should be dropped in the vinegar as fast as peeled ; this secures their 
colour. The horse-radish should be scraped a little outside, and cut 
up in rounds half an inch deep. Barbaries for garnish ;jfj|j»ther fine 
full bunches before they are quite ripe ; pick av/ay all bits of stalk 
and leaf and injured berries, and drop them in cold vinegar ; they 
may be kept in salt and water, changing the brine whenever it begins 
lo ferment : but the vinegar is best. 

472. The second method of pickling is that of heating vinegar and 
spice, and pouring them hot over the vegetables to be pickled, which 
are previously prepared by sprinkling with salt, or immersing in brine. 
It is better not to boil the vinegar, by which process its strength is 

11 



130 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

evaporated. Put the vinegar and spice into a jar, bung it down 
tightly, tie a bladder over, and let it stand on the hob, or on a trivet 
by the side of the fire, tor three or four days, well shaken three or four 
times a day; tins method may be applied to gherkins, French beans, 
cabbage, brocoli, cauliflowers, onions, and so forth. 

473. The third method of pickling is when the vegetables are in a 
greater or less degree done over the fire. Walnuts, artichokes, arti- 
choke bottoms, and beet-roots, are done thus, and sometimes onions 
and cauliflowers. 

474. Gherkins or young Cucumbers should be the size of a finger; 
if smaller they have not attained their flavour, if much larger they 
are apt to be seedy; put them in unglazed stone jars; cover them 
with brine, composed of a quarter of a pound of salt dissolved in a 
quart of boiling water, and left to become cold ; cover down the jars 
and put them on the hearth before the fire for two or three days, till 
they become yellow; then pour off" the brine, drain the cucumbers, 
scald and dry the jars, return the cucumbers and cover them with 
vinegar : set them again before the fire and let them remain until 
they become green, which will be in eight or ten days; then pour off' 
the vinegar, and put to them a pickle of fresh vinegar (prepared for 
gherkins, French beans, and so forth, as directed.) To each quart, 
black pepper two ounces, ginger one ounce, salt one ounce, cayenne 
half a drachm, mustard-seed one ounce. 

The vinegar in which the cucumbers were greened should be bot- 
tled: it will make good sauce for cold meat or salads. Cucumbers 
are often steeped in vinegar on purpose to give it a flavour. 

475. French Beans. — The best sort for this purpose are white- 
runners. They are very large long beans, but should be gathered 
quite young, before they are half grown ; they may be done in the 
same way as gherkins, but will not require so long a lime, and the 
first vinegar is not so nice as that from cucumbers. 

476. Onions. — Onions should be chosen about the size of marbles, 
the silver-skinned sort are the best. Prepare a brine and put them 
into it hot; let them remain one or two days, then drain them, and, 
when quite dry, put them into clean dry jars, and cover them with 
hot pickle, in every quart of which has been steeped one ounce each 
of horse-radish sliced, black pepper, allspice, and salt, with or with- 
out mustard-seed. In all pickles the vinegar should always be two 
inches or more above the vegetables, as it is sure to shrink, and if the 
vegetables are not thoroughly immersed in pickle they will not keep. 

477. Red Cabbage. — Choose fine firm cabbages : the largest are 
not the best ; trim off" the outside leaves ; quarter the cabbage, take 
out the large stalk, slice the quarters into a colander, and sprinkle a 
little salt between the layers; put but a little salt, too much will 
spoil the colour; let it remain in the colander till next day, shake it 
well that all the brine may run off"; put it in jars, cover it with a hot 
pickle composed of black pepper and allspice, of each an ounce; 
ginger pounded, horse-radish sliced, and salt, of each half an ounce 



PICKLES. 131 

to every quart of vinegar (steeped as above dirocted) ; two capsicums 

may be added to a quart, or one drachm of cayenne. 

478. Garlic and Eschalots. — Garlic and eschalots may be pickled 
in ihf same way as onions. 

479. Melons, Mangoes, arid long Cucumbers, may all be done in 
the same manner. P>Ielons should not be much more than half grown; 
cucumbers full grown, but not overgrown. Cut off the top, but leave 
it hanging by a bit of rind, which is to serve as a hinge to a box-lid ; 
with a marrow-spoon scoop out all the seeds, and filf the fruit with 
equal parts of mustard-seed, ground pepper, and ginger, or flour of 
mustard instead df the seeds, and two or three cloves of garlic. The 
lid which encloses the spice may be sewed down or tied, by running 
a white thread through the cucumber, and through the lid, and then, 
tying it together, cut off the ends. The pickle mliy be prepared with 
the spices directed for cucumbers, or with the following, which bears 
a nearer resemblance to India. To each quart of vinegar put salt, 
flour of mustard, curry powder, bruised gmger, turmeric, half an 
ounce of each, cayenne pepper one drachm, all rubbed together with 
a large glassful of salad oil ; eschalots two ounces, and garlic half 
an ounce, sliced ; steep the spice in the vinegar as before directed, 
and put the vegetables into it hot. 

480. Drocoli or Cauliflowers. — Choose such as are firm, yet of 
their full size; cut away all the leaves, and pare the stalk; pull away 
the flowers by bunches, steep in brine two days, then drain them; 
wipe them dry and put them into hot pickle; or merely infuse for 
three days three ounces of curry powder in every quart of vinegar. 

481. Walnuts. — Be particular in obtaining them exactly at the 
proper season ; if they go beyond the middle of July, there is danger 
of their becoming hard and woody. Steep them a week in brine. If 
they are wanted to be soon ready for use, prick them with a pin, or 
run a larding pin several times through them ; but if they are not 
wanted in haste, this method had better be let alone. Put them into 
a kettle of brine, and give them a gentle simmer, then drain them on 
a sieve and lay them on fijsh drainers in an airy place, until they be- 
come black, which may be two days; then add hot pickle of vinegar 
in which has been steeped, in the proportion of a quart, black pepper 
one ounce, ginger, eschalots, salt, and mustard-seed, one ounce each. 
Most pickle vinegar, when the vegetables are used, may be turned to 
use, walnut pickle in particular; boil it up, allowing to each quart 
four or six anchovies chopped small, and a large table-spoonful of 
eschalots, also chopped. Let it stand a few days, till it is quite clear, 
then pour ofi" and bottle. It is an excellent store sauce for hashes, 
fish, and various other purposes, 

482. Beet-roots. — Boil or bake gently until they are nearly done; 
according to the size of the roots they will require from an hour 
and a half to two hours; drain them, and when they begin to cool 
peel and cut in slices half an inch thick, then put them into a pickle 
composed of black pepper and allspice, of each one ounce, ginger 
pounded, horse-radish sliced, and salt, of each half an ounce to tvery 



a32 the complete cook. 

quart of vinegar, steeped. Two capsicums may be added to a quart, 
or one drachm of cayenne. 

483. Cmdiflowers or Brocoli. — Choose firm full-grown cauliflowers 
and brocoli, cut away all the leaves and pare the stalk, and instead of 
steeping in cold brine, set them over the fire in cold brine, and let it 
heat gradually. Just before it comes to boil, take them up in a wire 
ladle, and spread them on a cloth before the fire; when quite dry, put 
them into gla^s or jars, and add cold pickle, according to the second 
method of making pickle (472). 

484. Artichokes. — Gather young artichokes as soon as formed ; 
throw them into boiling brine, and let them boil two minutes ; drain 
them; when cold and dry put them in jars, and cover with vinegar, 
prepared as method the third, but the only spices employed should be 
ginger, mace and nutmeg. 

485. Artichoke Bottoms. — Get full-grown artichokes and boil them, 
but not so much as for eating, but just until the leaves can be pulled ; 
remove them and the choke ; in taking off the stalk, be careful not to 
break it off so as to bring away any of the bottom ; it would be better 
to pare them with a silver knife, and leave half an inch of tender stalk 
coming to a point ; when cold, add vinegar and spice, the same as for 
artichokes. 

486. Mushrooms. — Choose small white mushrooms ; they should 
be but one night's growth. Cut off the roots, and rub the mushrooms 
clean with a bit of flannel and salt ; put them in a jar, allowing to 
every quart of mushrooms one ounce each of salt and ginger, half an 
ounce of whole pepper, eight blades of mace, a bay leaf, a strip of le- 
mon rind, and a wine-glassful of sherry ; cover the jar close, and let it 
stand on the hob or on a stove, so as to be thoroughly heated, and on 
the point of boiling; so let it remain a day or two, till the liquor is ab- 
sorbed by the mushrooms and spices; then cover them with hot vine- 
gar, close them again, and stand till it just comes to a boil ; then take 
them away from the fire. When they are quite cold divide the mush- 
rooms and spice into wide-mouthed bottles, fill them up with the vine- 
gar, and tie them over. In a week's time, if the vinegar has shrunk 
so as not entirply to cover the mushrooms, add cold vinegar. At the 
top of each bottle put a tea-spoonful of salad or almond oil ; cork close, 
and dip in bottle resin. 

487. Samphire. — On the sea-coast this is merely preserved in wa- 
ter, or equal parts of sea-water and vinegar ; but as it is sometimes 
gent fresh as a present to inland parts, the best way of managing it 
under such circumstances, is to steep it two days in brine, then drain 
and put it in a stone jar covered with vinegar, and having a lid, over 
which put thick paste of flour and water, and set it in a very cool oven 
all night, or in a warmer oven till it nearly, but not quite boils. Then 
let it stand on a v^'arm hob for half an hour, and let it become quite cold 
before the paste is removed ; then add cold vinegar, if any more is re- 
quired, and secure as other pickles. 

488. Indian Pickle. — The vegetables to be employed for this fa- 
vourite pickle, are small hard knots of white cabbage sliced, cauli- 



PICKLES. 133 

flowers or brocoli in flakes, long carrots not larger than a finger, or 
large carrots sliced (the former are far preferable,) gherkins, French 
beans, small bottom onions, white turnip radishes half grown, radish- 
pods, eschalots, young hard apples, green peaches when the trees are 
thinned before the stones begm to form, vegetable marrow not larger 
than a hen's egg, small green melons, celery, shoots of green elder, 
horse-radish, nasturtiums, capsicums, and garlic. As all these vege- 
tables do not come in season together, the best method of doinc this 
is to prepare a large jar of pickle at such time of the year as most of 
the things may be obtained, and add the others as they come in sea- 
son. Thus the pickle will be nearly a year in making, and ought to 
Ktand another year before using, when, if properly managed, it will 
be excellent, but will keep and continue to improve for years. For 
preparing the several vegetables, the same directions may be observed 
as for pickling them separately, only take this general rule — that, if 
possible, boiling is to be avoided, and soaking in brine to be preferred ; 
be very particular that every ingredient is perfectly dry before put- 
ting into the jar, and that the jar is very closely tied down every time 
that it is opened for the addition of fresh vegetables. Neither mush- 
rooms, walnuts, nor red cabbage, are to be admitted. 

For the pickle. To a gallon of the best wine vinegar add salt 
three ounces, flour of mustard half a pound, turmeric two ounces, 
white ginger sliced three ounces, cloves one ounce, mace, black pep- 
per, long pepper, white pepper, half an ounce each, cayenne two 
drachms, eschalots peeled four ounces, garlic peeled two ounces; 
steep the spice in vinegar on the hob or triv^et for tvvo or three days. 
The mustard and turmeric must be rubbed smooth with a little cold 
vinegar, and stirred into the rest when as near boiling as possible. 
Such vegetables as are ready may be put in; when cayenne, nastur 
tiums, or any other vegetables mentioned in the first method of pick- 
ling, come in season, put them in the pickle as they are ; any in the 
second method, a small quantity of hot vinegar without spice ; when 
cold pour it oft^ and put the vegetables into the gfeneral jar. If the 
vegetables are greened in vinegar, as French beans and gherkins, 
this will not be so necessary, but will be an improvement to all. 
Onions had better not be wet at all ; but if it be desired not to have the 
full flavour, both onions, eschalots, and garlic, may be sprinkled with 
salt in a colander, to draw ofi^all the strong juice ; let them lie tvvo or 
three hours. 

The elder apples, peaches, and so forth, to be greened as gherkins. 
See method the second (472.) 

Th.e roots, radishes, carrots, celery, are only soaked in brine and 
dried. Haifa pint of salad oil, or of mustard oil, is sometimes added. 
It should be rubbed with the flour of mustard and turmeric. It is not 
essential to Indian pickle to have every variety of vegetable here men- 
tioned ; but all these are admissible, and the greater variety the more 
approved. 
11* 



134 THR COMPLETE COOK. 

PASTRY.— GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

We are no friends to pastry, particularly what is called the rich 
flaky pastry. It is decidedly indigestible, and consequently unwhole- 
some. A crisp, short paste, however, we consider nutritious; the but- 
ter, lard, &c. being' thoroughly incorporated with the flour in the pro- 
cess of making it. Oleaginous substances, such as lard, become not 
only perfectly innocuous, when well mixed with farina, and well 
baked or boiled, but very nourishing and wholesome ; and this we 
take to be the best way of preparing such things for human food. 

In making pastry, the cook, as indeed she ought to be on all occa- 
sions, should be particularly clean and neat. Her utensils should be 
kept in " apple-pie order," and when they aie done with, they should 
be carefully cleaned and put in their places. Her paste-board and 
rolling-pin, let it be remembered, should, after using, be well scoured 
with hot water alone. She should not use soap, sand, or stone dust 
of any kind. A marble slab is preferable to a board for rolling paste. 
Both are generally made too small to be convenient. Three feet long 
by two feet wide is a good size. In making a paste, a good cook will 
have no waste of any kind, and particularly she will not make more 
at one time than she wants, under the idea that she can keep it in 
flour till the next time of making ; for it is ten to one but that the old 
paste will spoil the new. No flour except the very best can be used 
for fine descriptions of pastry, and in damp weather it should be dried 
before the fire, but not scorched. Clarified dripping, good lard, mar- 
row, salt butter well washed, may be used for ordinary pastry ; indeed, 
if they arc pure and sweet they will form good pastry, with good flour 
and good management. In wealthy families, however, where economy 
is not an object, and every thing for the table is required to be of the 
first quality, the safest plan is to use the best fresh butter. The fat 
that settles on stews, and on the broth in which meat has been boiled, 
may bo used for pastry, that is, provided it is tasteless. Suet is some- 
times used for meat pies, but though it makes a light crust, when hot, 
it does not eat well when cold. 

A most wholesome crust is made without butter or any other oily 
matter. For this purpose take half a quartern of dough, work in an 
eggy and cover your pie. This will be sufficient for a large one. A 
great deal more butter, or fat of some kind or other, was formerly 
directed to be used in making pastry than at present. For ordinary 
purposes, half the weight of lard, or butter, is sufficient, but in the 
richest crusts the quantity should never exceed the weight of flour. 
Eggs may be added to enrich the crust; use no more water or other 
liquid in making paste than is absolutely necessary, or, in other words, 
take care not to " put out the miller's eye," that is, to make the paste 
too moist. The great thing is to incorporate the flour well with the 
fat, which you cannot do if you allow too much water or milk in the 
first instance. 

The under or side crust, which should be thin, should not be made 
so rich as the top crust, as otherwise it will make the gravy or i^yrup 



PASTRY. 135 

greasy. All dishes in which pies are to be baked should be buttered 
or greased round the edaes to prevent the crust from sticking, and if 
there be an under crust, all over the inside : — the same must be 
done with tins or saucers. 

There is a number of other little things to be attended to in mak- 
ing pastry, wliich we will enumerate in as few words as we can. 
Fruit pies or large tarts should have a hole made in the middle of the 
crust, and it is a good plan in a family pie to place a small tea-cup in 
the middle of the pie; this will form a receptacle for the syrup, and 
prevent its boiling over. For the same reason meat pies should have 
holes round their edges, but they do not require a tea-cup. The 
thickness of the crust must be regulated by the judgment of the cook 
with reference to the nature of the pie, and the circumstances of the 
party by whom it is to be eaten. Top crusts vary in thickness from 
half an inch to an inch or more. Of course a meat pie will require a 
longer time to bake than a fruit one, and some descriptions of fruit 
again longer than others. Tlie edges of pies are sometimes crimped 
or jagged, and some persons further ornament them with leaves, or 
stars cut out of paste, and laid on the top of the crust. Pigeon and 
game pies, &lc. are generally washed over with finely beaten yolk of 
eggs, simply to give them a nice appearance, but they are just as 
nice without it. We ought to add, that where the paste is wanted 
to adhere, as in the upper and under crusts of a pie, it is a good plan 
to touch the parts with the white of an egg', a little water will do, 
but not so well. 

489. Flaky and Short Crusts. — In making a Jlaky crust a part of 
the fat should be worked with the hand to a cream, and then the 
whole of ihe flour well rubbed into it before any water or milk is 
added. The remaining fat must be stuck on the paste and be rolled 
out. For crisp crust, by far the most wholesome, the whole of the 
fat should be rubbed in and thoroughly incorporated with the flour. 
Water or milk must be added when this is done, and the dough, or 
rather paste, made up. The pie-board and rolling-pin should be well 
dusted with flour, and the dough should be well beaten with the pin 
to thoroughly mix it, and render it light. Mind, in rolling out paste 
do not drive the pin backwards and forwards, but always keep rolling 
from you. In making flaky crusts the paste must be rolled out thin, 
and the fat or butter laid ail over it; then roll it up and beat it till it 
puflfs up in little bladders : it should be then finally rolled out, and 
put in the oven as quickly as possible. 

490. Raised Crust. — Put two pounds and a half of flour on the 
paste-board, and put on the fire in a saucepan three-quarters of a pint 
of water, and half a pound of good lard; when the water boils, make 
a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in the water and lard by degrees, 
gently mix it with a spoon, and when it is well mixed, then knead it 
with your hands till it becomes stifl'; dredge a little flour to prevent 
it sticking to the board, or you cannot make it smooth ; then set it 
aside for an hour, and keep it cool : do not roll it with your roPing- 
pin, hut roll it with your hands, about the thickness of a quart pot; 



126 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

cut it into six pieces^ leaving a little for the covers; put the left hand, 
clenched, in the middle of one of the pieces, and with the other on 
the outside work it up against the back of the left to a round or oval 
shape. It is now ready for tlie meat, which must be cut into small 
pieces with some fat, and pressed into the pie ; tiien cover it with the 
paste previously rolled out to a proper thickness, and of the size of 
the pie; put this lid on the pie and press it tog'ether with your thumb 
and finger, cut it all round with a pair of scissors, and bake for an 
hour and a half. Our good old country housewives pride themselves 
very much upon being able to raise a large and high pork pie. This 
crust will answer for many meat and other pies baked in dishes 
or tins. 

491. Piiff Paste. — This paste is nearly the same as what we have 
called (489) flaky crust, and, of course, made upon the same princi- 
ples. If egga are desired, allow three yolks to a pound of butter or 
lard. Rub a fourth part of the fat to a cream, then mix the eggs 
with it, and afterwards the flour. A very little water will suffice to 
wet it. Beat it with the pin to make it flaky; roll it out thin three 
times, puttinof in a portion of the fat each time, and roll it from you : 
after each rolling, beat it well. 

492. Sweet Paste. — This is suitable to fruit tarts generally, apples 
perhaps excepted, for which we recommend a puff" paste. To three- 
quarters of a pound of butter put a pound and a half of flour, three or 
four ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint 
of new milk. Bake it in a moderate oven ; if required to be iced, 
Bee 500, 

493. Crust for Savoury Pies. — To two pounds of flour, one and a 
half of butter, or lard, and the yolks of three eggs; rub part of the 
fat to a cream with the esrgs, then rub in the flour ; wet with cold 
water, and roll out with the remainder of the butter. This crust is 
•suitable for pigeon, rabbit, hare, and other savoury pies. 

494. A rich Short Crust. — Rub to a cream a quarter of a pound 
of butter; add one pound of well-dried and very fine flour, and two 
ounces or more of pounded loaf-sugar; rub together till they are tho- 
roughly incorporated ; then add the yolks of two good-sized eggs, and 
as much boiling hot cream as will bring it to a proper consistence. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

495. Biscuit Paste. — Take six yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of loaf-sugar, a pound of flour, and a tea-cup full of milk. Rub these 
ingredients into a stifle piste. This paste is only fit for light preserved 
fruits that require scarcely any bakino-. It is sometimes cut out in 
rounds, a bit of jam or jelly placed on each, and baked in tins. 

49G. Crust for Venison Pasty. — Raised crust (490) will do, but if 
a richer be required, increase the quantity of butter, and add eggs. 
Let the top crust be substantial, and line the sides of the dish, but not 
the bottom. 

497. Stringing Paste m jst be made more tenacious than the other 
descriptions. A quarter of a pound of flour to one ounce of butter, 



PIES, TARTS, AND PUFFS. 137 

with a very little water, will make paste which may be drawn nut in 
fine string:?, and laid across the tartlets. 

498. Polatoe Paste. — Boil your potatoes; rub through a colander, 
and while quite hot add butter and an egg. Use plenty of flour on 
the pie-b('ard and rolling-pin; cover your pie, and put it into the oven 
while quite warm. 

499. Rice Paste. — Simmer the rice in water or milk till quite soft 
and pulpy ; drain it well off; stir in yolks of eggs, one to a quarter 
of a pound of rice, and a little butter, if you like. Roll out the paste 
with a dust of flour. Cover your pie and bake without suffering to 
cool. This paste will do for either savoury or sweet pies. 

500. Icing Pastry. — When nearly baked enough, take the pastry 
out of the oven and sift fine powdered sugar over it. Replace it in 
the oven and hold over it, till the sugar is melted, a hot salamander 
or shovel. The above method is preferred for pastry to be eaten hot: 
for cold, beat up the white of two eggs well, wash over the tops of 
the pies with a brush, and sift over this a good coating of sugar; 
cause it to adhere to the egg and pie crust ; trundle over it a clean 
brush dipped in water till the sugar is all moistened. Bake again for 
about ten minutes. 



PIES, TARTS, AND PUFFS. 

501. Perigord Pie. — Make a force meat chiefly of truffles, a small 
quantity of basil, thyme, parsley, knotted marjoram, the liver of any 
kind of game (if of woodcocks, that and the entrails, except the little 
bag), a small quantity of fat bacon, a few crumbs, the flesh of wild or 
tame fowls, pepper, and salt. Lard the breasts of pheasants, par- 
tridges, woodcocks, moor-game, or whatever game you have, with 
bacon of different sizes ; cut the legs and wings from the backs, and 
divide the backs ; season them all with white pepper, a little Jamaica 
pepper, mace, and salt; make a thick raised crust to receive the 
above articles; it is thought better than a dish, but either will do. 
Line it closely with slices of fine fat bacon, then cover it with stuff- 
ing, and put the different parts of the game lightly on it, with whole 
green truffles, and pieces of stuffing among and over it, observing not 
to crowd the articles, so as to cause them to be underbaked. Over 
the whole lay slices of fat bacon, and then a cover of thick common 
crust. Bake it slowly, according to the size of the pie, which will 
require a long time. 

Some are made with a pheasant in the middle whole, and the other 
game cut up and put round it. 

502. Sole Pie. — Split the soles from the bone, and cut the fins 
close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers with oysters. They eat ex- 
cellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred 
of oysters; put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls 
of broth, and some butter. When the pie is baked, pour in a cupful 
of thick cream boiled up with a tea-spoonful of flour. 



lo8 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

503. Eel Pie.' -Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, 
after skinning them ; season with pepper and salt, and place in the 
dish with some bits of butter and a little water, and cover it with 
paste. Middle-sized eels do best. 

504. Oyster Pie. — Open the oysters and strain the liquor from 
then) ; pdrbuil ihem after taking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, 
cut tliecn in slices, lay tliein and the oysters in layers, season them 
Vt ry lightly with salt, pepper, and mace, then put half a tea-cup full 
of liquor, and the same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven, and before 
you serve, put a tea-cup full of cream, a little more of oyster liquor, 
and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. 

505. Pilchard Pie. — Clean and skin the white part of large leeks ; 
scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a disli, and, be- 
tween the layers, two or three salted pilchards which have been 
soaked for two or tliree hours the day before. Cover the whole with 
a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up 
the side crust with a knife and empty out all the liquor; then pour 
in half a pint of scalded cream. 

506. A remarkably Jine Fish Pie. — Boil two pounds of small eels; 
having cut the tins quite close, pick the flesh off and throw the bones 
into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion, 
and boil till rich, and strain it; make force meat of the flesh, an 
anchovy, parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four 
ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take 
the ^e^h of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay it on the force 
meat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper ; pour the gravy over, 
and bake. Observe to take off the skins and fins, if cod or soles. 

507. Beefsteak Pie. — Take beef-steaks that have been well hung, 
beat them gently with a circular steak-beater, season them with 
pepper, salt, and a little eschalot minced very fine. Roll each steak 
with a good piece of fat, and fill your dish. Put some crust on the 
edge an inch below it, and a cup of water or broth in the dish. Cover 
with rather a thick crust, and set in a moderate oven. 

508. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. — Prepare the steaks as above, 
without rolling, aiid put layers of them and of oysters. Stew the 
liquor and beards of the latter, with a bit of lemon peel, mace, and a 
sprig of parsley. When the pie is baked, boil with above three 
spoonfuls, and an ounce of butter rolled with flour. »Strain it, and 
put it into the dish. 

509. Veal^ Chicken and Parsley Pie. — Cut some slices from the 
neck or leg of veal ; if from the leg, about the knuckle; season them 
with salt, scald some parsley that is picki^d from the stems and press 
it dry; cut iL a little and lay it at the bottom of the dish, then put the 
meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with milk, but not so high 
as the crust: cover it with crust, and when baked, pour out a little of 
the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chickens 
may be cut up and cooked in the same way. 

510. Veal Olive Pie. — Make the olives in the following manner; 
Cut long thin slices of ve-il, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat 



PIES, TARTS AND PUFFS. 139 

bacon, and over them a layer offeree meat, seasoned high with shred 
eschalot and cayenne. Roll them light, about the size of two fingers, 
but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with 
a small skewer, rub egg over them. Put them rormd and round the 
dish, making the middle highest; fill it up almost with water, and 
cover it. Add gravy, cream, flour, and mushroom powder, when 
baked. 

511. Veal Pie. — Take some of the middle or scrag of a small neck ; 
.Beason it with pepper and salt, and either put to it, or not, a few slices 

of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, 
cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper, and also force meat and 
eggs, and if you choose add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads 
cut into small bits, and cocks'-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich 
gravy to pour in after baking ; it will be very good without any of the 
latter additions. 

512. A rich Veal Pie. — Cut steaks from the neck or breast of veal; 
season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and a very little clove in 
powder. Slice two sweatbreads, and season them in the same man- 
ner. Lay a pufF paste on the edge of the dish ; then put the meat, 
yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the lop 
of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and 
fill up the dish with water; cover, and when it is taken out of the 
oven pour in at the top, through a funnel, some veal gravy and rich 
cream, warmed together. Lay a paper over the crust, that it may 
not be too brown. 

513. CaiPs Head Pie. — Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating» 
with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
blade of mace, and a few peppercorns, in three pints of water. Keep 
the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and 
let the other be eaten ; butter, simmer the bones in the broth till it is 
very good. Half boil the head, and cut it into square bits; put a 
layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat, then 
lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish is 
full ; and take care not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too 
solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be 
first pretty well seasoned with salt, pepper, and a scrape or two of 
nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover 
it with a tolerably thick crust ; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, 
pour in as much gravy as it will hold, and do not cut it till perfectly 
cold, in doing which observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut 
out a large piece, going down to the bottom of the dish, and when cut 
thus, thinner slices can be cut. The different colours and the jelly 
have a beautiful marble appearance. A small pie may be made to 
eat hot, which, with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, and 
morels, has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many 
days; slices make a pretty side dish. Instead of isinglass, use a 
calf's foot or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. 
The pickled tongues of calves' heads may be cut instead of, or in ad- 
dition to, ham. 



140 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

514. Excellent Pork Pies to eat cold. — Cut the trimmings off a 
liog when cut up, and if yon hnv ■ not sufficient, take the meat oif f 
Bweet-bone. Beat it well with your rolling-pin; season with salt ana 
keep the lean and fat separate. Raise common crust either in a 
round or oval form ; put a layer of lean and then a layer of fat, or 
mix your fat and lean, and so on till you have filled the pie to the 
top; lay on the lid, cut the edge smoothly round, and pinch it close. 
Bake in a slow oven, as the meat is very solid. Do not put any 
water or bone into pork pies. The outside pieces will be hard unless 
they are cut small and pressed close. See raised crust, 490. 

515. Lamb Pie. — Make it of the breast, neck, or loin; it should 
not be seasoned much with salt and pepper; the bone taken out, but 
not the gristles ; a small quantity of jelly gravy should be put in hot; 
put two spoonfuls of water before baking. This pie should not be 
cut until cold. House lamb is one of the most delicate things that 
can be eaten. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either 
be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with 
only pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and 
as much gravy when taken out of the oven. JVleat pies being fat, it 
is best to pour out the liquor on one side, take the fat off, and put it 
in again and a little more to it (by means of a funnel), at the top. 

516. Mutton Pie. — Take steaks from the loin or neck of mutton 
that has been kept some time hanging ; beat them and cut off some 
of the fat; add pepper, salt, and a small onion; put a little water at 
the bottom of the dish, and paste on the edge, put in the steaks, and 
cover it over with rather a thick crust, tf you make raised small 
pies, break the bones in two; season and cover them over, pinch the 
edges. When baked, pour into each a little gravy made of mutton, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and a small bit of onion. 

517. Chicken Pie. — Take two young fowls, cut them up and season 
them with salt, a little mace, nutmeg, and white pepper very finely 
powdered ; add a small bit of cayenne. Put the chickens, force meat 
balls, slices of ham or gammon, and hard eggs, in turn by layers. If 
they are to be made into raised pies, add no water ; if in a dish, put 
a little at the bottom. Make gravy of the scrag or a knuckle of veal, 
with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with mace, white pepper, 
an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. Add morels, 
truffles, mushrooms, and so forth, if eaten hot; but not, if eaten cold. 
Should you make this pie in a dish, put as much gravy as it will hold; 
but if in a raised crust the gravy must be strained, and then put in 
cold, as jelly. Make the jelly clear by boiling with it the whites of 
two eggs well beaten; take away the meat previous to adding the 
whites; strain it through a muslin sieve. 

Young Rabbits are prepared in the same way ; their legs should 
be cut short, and the breast-bones must not be put in ; they will help 
to make the gravy. 

519. Giblet Pie. — Nicely clean goose or duck giblets; stew them 
in a little water with a bunch of sweet herbs, black pepper, onion, a 
little salt, till nearly done ; let them stand till cold. If you have not 



PIES, TARTS, AND PU^FS. 141 

enoug^h to fill the dish, put a veal or beef-steak, or two or three mut- 
ton chops, at the bottom. Put the liquor that yuu have stewed your 
giblets in into the dish ; put in the giblets, and when baked, pour into 
it a tea-cup full of cream. 

520. Green Goose Pie. — Pluck and singe two young green geese 
of a good size; bone them and wash; season them well with allspice, 
mace, pepper, and salt. Put one inside the other and press them as 
close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Butter them well, and 
bake either with or without crust. If made a pie of, the cover must 
fit the dish close, to keep the steam in. It will keep many days. 
Gravy-jelly may be put in when served. 

521. Staffordshire Goose Pies. — Bone, wash, and season the birds 
with allspice, mace, pepper, and salt. Put rather a small turkey in- 
side a goose, duck, fowl, and then less birds, tongue or force meat. 
Force meat may fill up the spaces between the crust and fowls, and 
be omitted within. Ornament the crust, and put a knob or flower at 
the top by which to lift it, as it must not be cut, but kept to cover the 
pie. A less expensive and smaller pie may be made by omitting the 
goose and turkey. All pies made of white meats or fowls are im- 
proved by a layer of fine sausage meat. 

522. Hare Pie to cut cold — Cut up the hare ; season it; and bake 
it with force meat and egg, in a raised crust or dish. When served, 
cut oft" the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy. 

523. Partridge Pie. — Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the 
legs at the knees; season them with chopped parsley, thyme, mush- 
rooms, pepper, and salt. Put a slice of ham and a veal cutlet at the bot- 
tom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. 
Put puff paste on the edge of the dish; cover it; brush it over with 
eggs ; and bake an hour. 

524. A French Pie. — Lay a puft" paste on the edge of a dish ; put 
into it either chickens jointed, veal in slices, or rabbits, with force 
meat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, a few trufiies, and artichoke 
bottoms. 

525. Pigeon Pie. — Rub the pigeons with salt and pepper, inside 
and out ; put a bit of butter inside, and, if approved, some parsley chop- 
ped fine, with the livers, salt, and pepper. Lay a beef-steak at the 
bottom of the dish, and place the birds on it. Between every two a 
hard egg. Lay a bit of ham on each pigeon ; put a cup of water at 
the bottom of the dish. When ham is cut for pies or gravy, take the 
under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards and two joints 
of the wings, and place them in the middle of the pie ; and over them, 
in a hole made in the crust, three feet, nicely cleaned, to show what 
pie it is. 

526. Squab Pie. — Cut apples, and lay them in rows, with mutton 
chops, a little sugar, and an onion ; cut fine, and put among them. 

527. Duck Pie. — Bone a fowl and a full-grown duck ; wash them, 
eeason with a small quantity of mace and allspice, in the finest pow- 
der, with salt and pepper. Put the fowl within the duck. Put a 
calf's tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and skinned, into the 

12 



1 4*2 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

fowl; press the whole close. The skins of the legs should be drawn 
inwards, that the body of the fowl may be quite smooth. The space 
between the sides of the crust and fowl may be filled with a fine force 
meat, if approved. 

Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or dish, with a thick 
crust ornamented. 

528. Rabbit Pie. — Cut up two young- rabbits ; take a pound of fat 
pork, that has been in pickle a week ; cut it into small bits; season it 
with salt and pepper, and put into a dish. Parboil the livers and 
brains, and beat them in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fat 
bacon or ham ; add mace, salt, pepper and sweet herbs, chopped fine. 
Make this into small balls, and distribute in the dish, with artichoke 
bottoms, cut in dice. Grate half a small nutmeg over, and add half a 
pint of port, and the same quantity of water. Cover with a tolerably 
thick crust, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. 

529. Vegetable Pie. — Cut young carrots, artichoke bottoms, let- 
tuces, mushiooms, turnips, broad beans, scalded and blanched, onions, 
celery, parsley, and add peas. Or use any of them you may chance 
to have. Make Ihein into a stew, with some good veal gravy; sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Bake a crust over a dish, with some paste 
over the edge, and a cup turned bottom upwards, to prevent its sink- 
ing when baked. Pour the stew into the dish, and lay the crust over 
it. Winter vegetables may be used in the same way, i.\ cup of cream 
is a great improvement. 

530. An Herb Pie. — Take one handful of spinach, two handfuls of 
parsley, from the stems, some mustard and cress, two lettuces, a few 
leaves of borage, and white beat leaves. Wash and boil them a little, 
and then drain out all the water; cut them small; mix, and lay in a 
dish ; sprinkle with some salt ; mix a batter with two eggs well beaten, 
a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, as much flour as will bring it 
to a paste not very thick, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good 
crust, and bake. 

531. To prepare Venison for Pasty. — Take the bones out; season 
and beat the meat ; lay it in a stone jar in large pieces ; pour upon it 
some plain drawn beef gravy, rather "weak." Put the bones on the 
top ; then set the jar in a saucepan over the fire ; simmer between 
three and four hours. Put it in a cold place until next day. Then 
remove the cake of fat. Lay the meat in handsome pieces on a dish. 
Put some of the gravy in, and keep the remainder for the time of 
serving. Venison thus prepared will require less time in baking, and 
a thinner crust. 

532. Ve7iison Pasty. — A boned and skinned shoulder makes a good 
])asty. It must be beaten and seasoned. Add the fat of a loin of 
mutton, well hung, as the shoulder is lean. Steep twenty-four hours 
in equal parts of vinegar and port. Rub the shoulder well with sugar 
for two or three days, as it is sinewy. Wipe it clean from the sugar 
and wine when it is used. Either in the shoulder or side the meat 
must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be pro- 
portioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to find it. 



TASTRY. 14;j 

Dust some salt and pepper at the bottom of the dish, put a bit of but 
ter ; then the meat, nicely packed, so as not to he hollow. Bake be- 
tween three and four hours in a slow oven. Take some fine old mutton, 
and boil with the bones of the venison to make gravy : season it with 
salt, pepper, and a little mace ; put half a pint of this gravy, cold, into 
the dish ; butter the venison; line the sides of the dish with a thick 
paste ; lay a thick crust over the top. Put the remainder of the 
gravy, hot (when it is baked,) into it, with a funnel, through the hole 
at the top. 

533. To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well as Veni- 
son. — Bone a sirloin, or a small rump of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, 
after hanging several days; beat it well with a rolling-pin; then rub 
ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar ; then pour over it a 
glass of vinegar, and a glass of port wine. Let it lie live days and 
then wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very hign with 
salt, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, &c. To ten pounds of meat, one nound, 
or nearly, of butter ; spread it over the meat. Lay it in the dish. Put 
a crust round the edges, rather tiiick, and cover. It must be baked ia 
a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more wa- 
ter than will cover them, and one glass of port wine, a little salt and 
pepper, in order that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the 
pasty when baked. Put it in the pie, through a funnel, at the top of 
the pasty. Sugar gives shortness and better flavour to meat than 
salt (too great a quantity of salt hardens it,) and is quite as good a 
preservative, except from flies. 

534. Apple Pie. — Wipe the outside of some apples, pare, and core 
them ; boiJ the parings and cores in a little water till it tastes well ; 
strain, and put a bit of bruised lemon, a little sugar and cinnamon, 
and simmer again. Put a paste round the edge of the dish ; place the 
apples in it; when one layer is made, sprinkle half the sugar, shred 
lemon peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider. Put in the 
liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. Add butter when cut, 
if hot. To flavour the pie you may add quince, marmalade, orange 
paste, or cloves, to flavour. 

535. Ckerry Pie should have a mixture of currants or raspberries, 
or both. 

536. Currant Pie. — With or without raspberries. 

537. Mince Pies. — Of scraped beef or tongue, free from skin and 
Btring, tvv'o pounds, four pounds of beef suet chopped fine, two pounds 
of jar raisins stoned and chopped, six pounds of currants nicely 
cleaned, perfectly dry, of chopped apples three pounds, the peel and 
juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a quarter of a pint of brand}^ 
a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, the same 
of pimento, in fine powders. Press the whole into a deep pan when 
well mixed, and keep it covered in a cool place. Have orange, and 
lemon peel, and citron, ready, and put some of each in the pies when 
made. Half, or a quarter of the quantity may be made, unless for a 
very large family. 

5i38. Tarte de Moie, — Put a light paste into a dish, then layers of 



1 44 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

all kinds of sweetmeats, biscuits, marrow, and butter. Add a mode- 
rately rich custard, not very sweet, and seasoned with orange flower 
water ; give it a scald, and pour over the whole. It will take half 
an hour to bake. Turn it out. It is good hot or cold. 

539. Rhubarb Tart. — Take the skin off the rhubarb, and cut the 
stalks in lengths of four or five inches. Make a syrup for a quart 
basin. Take a pound of couimon lump sugar; boil it in nearly half a 
pint of water to a thin syrup; skim it, and put in the rhubarb, and as 
it simmers shake the pan over the fire. It will turn yellow at first, 
but keep it very o-ently .simmering till it arreens, and then take it off. 
When cold, put in a tarl dish, with as much syrup as will make it 
very moist. Put a light crust over, and when that is done, the tart 
will be sufiiciently baked. Quarter the crust, and fill the dish with 
custard or cream. 

540. To prejmre Cranberries for Tarts. — Simmer them in moist 
sugar, without breaking, twenty minutes; and let them become cold 
before used ; a pint will rt-quire nearly three ounces of sugar. The 
Russian and American sorts are larger and better flavoured than those 
of England. The juice, when pressed from the baked fruit and 
sweetened, makes a fine drink in fevers. Stewed with sugar, they 
eat exceedingly nice with bread. 

541. Lemon Tart. — Take the rind of four lemons, pared rather 
thick, boil it in water till tender, and beat fine. Add to it four ounces 
of lump sugar, four ounces of blanched almonds cut thin, the juice of 
the lemon, and a little grated peel. Simmer to a syrup ; when cold 
turn it into a shallow tin, lined with a thin rich puff paste, and lay 
bars of the same over. As soon as the paste is baked, take it out. 

542. Orange Tartlets or Puffs. — Line patty-pans ; when baked, 
put in orange marmalade made with apple jelly. 

543. Fried Patties. — Mince a bit of cold veal and six oysters with 
a few crumbs of bread, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a small bit of lemon 
peel; add the liquor of the oysters; warm all in the to.sser, but do 
not boil it; let it get cold. Make a good puft' paste, roll thin, and 
cut it in round or square bits ; put the meat between two of them, 
pinch the edge to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. 
This is a very good thing — and baked, is a fashionable dish. Wash 
all patties over with e^^ before baking. 

544. Oyster Patties. — Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans; 
put a bit of bread in each, and cover with paste ; bake them ; and in 
'he mean time make ready the oysters. Talce off the beards of the 
'ysters ; cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, 
with a grate of nutmeg, a little white pepper and salt, a bit of lemon 
'.hopped very fine, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; 
.ake the bread out of the patties, and fill them, after simmering them 
I. few minutes. Observe to put a bit of bread into all the patties, to 
^eep them hollow while baking. 

545. Beef Patties. — Cut very fine some underdone beef with a 
ittle fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little onion or eschalot. 

Make plain paste, thin, in an oval shape; fill it with mince, pinch 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 145 

the edges, and fry them of a fine brown. The paste should be made 
with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. 

546. A good Mince for Patties. — Two ounces of ham, four of 
chicken or veal, one egg boiled hard, a blade of mace, salt, and pep- 
per, three cloves in powder. Just before you serve, warm it with 
four spoonfuls of rich gravy, four spoonfuls of cream, and an ounce 
of butter: fill as usual. 

547. Apple Puffs. — Pare and core the fruit, and either stew them 
in a stone jar, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple 
with sugar and lemon peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple 
juice as you can. Bake them in a thin paste, in a quick oven ; a 
quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince mar- 
nialade is a great improvement; cinnamon pounded, or orange flower 
water, in change. 

548. Lemon Puffs. — Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double 
refined sugar, grate the rind of two large lemons and mix it with the 
Bugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a long time, add 
them to the sugar and peel, and beat them for an hour. Make it up 
in any shape you please, and bake them on ■paper ; put on tin plates, 
in a moderate oven. Do not remove the paper till cold. Oiling the 
paper will make it come off' with ease. 

549. Excellent light Puffs. — Mix two spoonfuls of flour, half a 
spoonful of brandy, one egg, a little grated lemon peel, a little loaf- 
sugar, some nutmeg; then fry, but not browm ; beat it in a mortar 
with five eggs ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite 
hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown 
Serve them immediately with sweet sauce. 

550. Cheese Puffs. — Strain cheese curd from the whey, and beat 
half a pint of it fine in a mortar, with three eg^s, a spoonful and a 
half of flour, only one white of the eggs, a quarter of a nutmeg, orange 
flower water, and sugar to make it sweet. Put a little of this paste 
in very small round cakes on a tin plate. A quarter of an hour will 
bake them, if the oven is hot. Serve with pudding sauce. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &c. 

The first thing to be learnt, with regard to making puddings, is 
the composition of the batter. Without good batter, you cannot have 
good pudding; and without good eggs, flour, and milk, you cannot 
have either. For all kinds of puddings and pastry, it is of great im- 
portance that your flour should be of the very best quality. Your 
milk too should be good. The goodness or badness of milk depends 
much on the kind of food upon which the cow is fed; but cows fed 
upon the same food do not yield milk of the same quality. A cow 
that gives a large quantity of milk does not always produce a propor- 
tionate quantity of cream, and of course poor milk will not make so 
good a pudding as rich. Flour is not the better for being fresh 
ground, as Dr. Kitchiner intimates, but on the contrary. It should, 
however, be perfectly sweet. The goodness of well-manufactured 
12* 



146 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

flour depends upon the quality of the wheat from which it is made. 
Without good wheat you can have no good flour. In one word, to 
ensure a good puddino-, your eggs must be new laid, your butter 
rich and fresh, your flour of the first quality, and all your ingredients 
of the same character. In the making of a pudding — a good pudding 
— the cook must observe the utmost cleanliness, both as respects her- 
self and the utensils which sho uses. The eggs directed to be used 
in the following receipts are full-sized hen eggs; if pullet eggs are 
used, two will be required for one hen eg^j;. There is no substitute, 
that we know of, for eggs in pudding making. We have heard 7nale 
a.nd female old women talk about using, as substitutes for eggs, snow 
and small beer. Dr. Kitchiner says, truly, " that they will no more 
answer this purpose than as substitutes for sugar or brandy." Batter 
puddmgs in all their varieties are composed of milk, eggs, and flour. 
As has been properly observed, " the proportions may vary, and other 
articles may be added, by which the name is changed, but the great 
matter is to know how to mix eggs, flour, and milk, and then you 
may easily adopt any variety that is directed." In using eggs, you 
should always break them, one by one, into separate cups, or at any 
rate take care not to spoil all your eggs by the admission of one that 
is bad into the mass. Let the eggs be well beaten, and then add the 
flour, with a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg, and mix the eggs and 
flour thoroughly before any milk is added ; then by degrees put in as 
much milk as will bring the batter to the consistency you wish. It 
ought, indeed it must be, well stirred immediately before being put 
into the basin or dish. 

The vessel in which a batter'pudding is to be dressed must be well 
buttered. Dripping, or lard, will answer as well for a baked pud- 
ding. The cloth tied over the basin must be buttered, or dipped in 
boiling water, wrung out, and dredged with flour, but buttering 
is best. 

The pudding wmU break in boiling, if the batter do not exactly fill 
the vessel. In baking, the pudding is sure to swell considerably, and 
therefore the batter should not fill the vessel by about an inch. Be- 
fore putting the pudding into the pot, take care that the water boils 
rapidly, and afterwards make the water boil as soon as possible, which 
must be kept up till the pudding is done. Just after putting the pud- 
ding into the pot, it should be shook two or three times to prevent it 
settling. 

The length of time that a pudding requires to be boiled depends 
upon its size, and, in some degree, upon the material of which it is 
made. The less flour, the shorter time is required for boiling. A 
one-egg pudding, not exceeding three parts of half a pint in quantity, 
in a tea-cup, will require about twenty or twenty-five minutes boiling; 
or with three eggs about half an hour; and so on in proportion. But 
the best way of ascertaining when a pudding is done, is to run your 
fork into the middle of it, and if the fork comes out clear, the pudding 
is done. 

551. To make Pudding Paste. — Beat one egg, mix it with half & 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES , &C. 147 

pound or fiuet, well chopped, add one pound of flour; well mix, then 
add as much cold water as is requisite to bring it to a stiff paste ; 
flour the pie-board and rolling-pin, and beat the paste till it puffs up; 
roll it out to the size desired, and put in the truit. If boiled in a 
basin, it should be well buttered, and the cloth well floured before 
tying it over. This paste is used for all kind of fresh fruit. A very 
small quantity of sugar should be put in with the fruit to draw the 
juice, but not much, or it will become to juicy as to burst the crust. 
A fruit pudding is lighter boiled in a cloth, but it should be well 
secured to prevent the juice from escaping. An hour and a half will 
boil a pudding of this size, if boiled in a cloth; if in a basin, allow 
another quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The same paste will 
do for a roll pudding and moat puddings. 

552. Plum Pudding. — To mal^e a rich plum pudding take a pound 
of marrow, or suet, well chopped, a pound of fine flour dried, eight or 
ten eggs beaten "vvell ; half a nutmeg grated ; as much mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, all powdered very fine; a pinch of salt; mix these well 
tOi^ether, and beat up into a batter; then add one pound of currants, one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped a little; the currants should be 
rubbed in a cloth, and well picked, or vvell wash and dry them ; two 
ounces of candied citron peel, or part lemon, and orange, cut small ; and 
two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and cut up in bits; two ounces 
of loaf-sugar grated ; then add these to the batter, and put in a wine- 
glass of brandy ; well mix them together. It may be boiled in a but- 
tered basin or mould ; if the batter should be too stiff, put a glass of 
white wine in it. It will take tour or five hours boiling. Strew over 
it powdered loat-sugar; garnish with sliced lemon. Sauce, contain- 
iuff half a glass of best brandy, a glass of white wine, a little rind of 
lemon grated, and a little powdered cinnamon, half an ounce of grated 
loaf-sugar, mixed with an rqual quantity of very thick melted butter. 
It is a good plan to make and kh'ep by you a little of this sauce, and 
then it is ready at any time. In a bottle containing a pint of sherry, 
and half a pint of best brandy, add two ounces of loaf-sugar, a quarter 
of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of shaved lemon rind, with kernels 
of apricots, peaches, and nectarines, and steep in a little v;hite wine; 
when steeped, pour it off clear, and put to the wine and brandy ; and 
add half a quarter of a pint of capillaire. Two table-spoonfuls of this 
sauce will flavour a boat-full of thick melted butter. 

553. A plain family Plum Pudding.— Beal up three eggs, six 
ounces of suet chopped, a pound of flour, a third part of a pound of 
raisins, and the same weight of currants; one ounce of candied orange 
or lemon peel, cut small, half a tea-spoonful of ground allspice, a little 
salt, two ounces of brown sugar: make a stifl" batter with water, and 
mix the fruit and spice well in. If boiled in a basin, allow three hours 
and a half; if in a cloth, three hours. 

554. A common Plum or Currant Pudding is nothing more than 
a suet pudding, with the addition of plums, or currants, and allspice. 

555. Very^light Plum Pudding.— Mix grated bread, suet, and 
stoned raisins, {bur ounces each, with two well-beaten eggs three or 



148 THE C0 3IPLETE COOK. 

four spoonfuls of milk, and a little salt: boil four hours. Saued, a 
spoonful of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, in melted butter. 

556. National Plum Pudding. — Mix suet, jar raisins, and cur- 
rants, one pound each, four ounces of crumbs of bread, two table- 
epoonfuls of sug-ar, one table-spoonful of grated lemon peel, half a 
nutmeg, a small blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of ginger, and six well- 
beaten eggs. Boil it five hours. — IS. B. If you want to keep plum 
puddings good for a long time, say some months, hang them in a cold 
place in the cloth in which they were boiled. When v>?anted to be 
used, take them out of the cloth, cover them with a clean one, and 
warm them through with hot water; they will then be fit for the 
table. 

557. Potatoe Pudding. — Boil mealy potatoes in their skins, accord- 
ing to the rule laid down, skin and mash them with a little milk, pep- 
per, and salt : this will make a good pudding to bake under roast meat. 
With the addition of a bit of butter, an egg, milk, pepper, and salt, 
it makes an excellent batter for a meat pudding baked. Grease a 
baking dish ; put a layer of potatoes, then a layer of meat cut in bits, 
and seasoned with pepper, salt, a little allspice, either with or with- 
out chopped onions; a little gravy of roast meat is a great improve- 
ment: then put another layer of potatoes, then meat, and cover with 
potatoes. Put a buttered paper over the top to prevent it from being 
burnt, and bake it an hour or an hour and a half. 

558. Cottage Potatoe Pudding. — Two pounds of mashed potatoes 
rubbed through a colander, two or three eggs well beaten, two ounces 
of moist sugar, three-quarters of a pint of milk, a little nutmeg and 
salt, three ounces of raisins, or currants. It is very good without the 
fruit, and will take three-quarters of an hour to bake. Omitting the 
milk and adding three ounces of butter, it makes a very nice cake. 

559. For a rich sweet Potatoe Pudding. — Rub a pound of potatoe 
meal through a colander ; add half a pint of cream, nutmeg, cinna- 
xTion, and from two to four ounces of loaf-sugar, from two to four 
ounces of fresh butter or marrow, from three to six eggs, two ounces 
of sweet almonds, blanched and cut, one ounce of candied citron, cut 
email, a few dried currants, a spoonful of ratafia or brandy: put a 
crust round the edge of the dish and entirely line the dish : if baked, 
put in the batter, bake, and when it is brown, it is done. Only 
substituting potatoe for flour, a very good family plum pudding may 
be made, but it should be baked. 

560. Carrot Pudding. — Grate a raw red carrot; mix with double 
the weight of bread crumbs, or Naples biscuit, or part of each; to a 
Dound and a half put half a pint of new milk or cream. 

561. A Black-cap Pudding. — Rub three table-spoonfuls of flour 
smooth by degrees into a pint of milk, strain it, and simmer it over 
the fire until it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter ; when cold, 
add the yolks of four eggs well beaten and strained, and half a pound 
of currants rubbed and picked ; put the latter into a cloth well but- 
tered, tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water ; keep it in motion 
for five minutes, that it may be well mixed. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 149 

562. Sago Pudding. — Boil a pint and a half of new nnilk with 
four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinna 
mon, nutnneg; sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs; put a pasta 
round the dish, an(i bake slowly. 

563. A very good Pudding. — Mix one pound and a half of suet, 
cut small, and free from skin, with two pounds of flour, a pound of 
currants picked and rubbed in a coarse cloth, six eggs well beaten, a 
table-spoonful of infusion of saffron, a glass of brandy, a little grated 
ginger, a pinch of salt, and a pint of milk; put it into a basin that 
will just hold it, tie a floured cloth tight over it, and put it into a pot 
of boiling water. Boil it four hours. 

564. Bread and Butter Pudding. — Slice bread, and butter it, and 
lay it in a dish with currants between each layer, and sliced citron, 
orange, or lemon peel ; pour over an unboiled custard of milk, two or 
three eggs beaten, a little grated nutmeg, a little ratafia ; two hours 
at least before it is baked, to soak the bread. 

565. Almond Pudding. — Beat half a pound of sweet and a few 
bitter almonds with a spoonful of water, then mix four eggs, four 
ounces of butter, two spoonfuls of cream put warm to the butter, one 
spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg and sugar to taste. Butter some 
cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with pudding sauce. — 
Or, beat fine, four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter almonds, with 
a little wine, yolks of six eggs beaten, peel of two lemons grated, six 
ounces of melted butter, nearly a quart of cream, and juice of one 
lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round 
the dish. 

566. Kitchm€r''s Pudding. — Beat up three eggs, strain them 
through a sieve, and gradually add to them a quarter of a pint of new 
milk; stir them well together; rub together in a mortar two ounces 
of moist sugar, and as much nutmeg as will lie on a sixpence ; stir 
these to the eggs and milk, then add four ounces of flour, and beat it 
to a smooth batter (the only way of doing this is, by adding a little 
of the milk, &c., and mixing that to a smooth paste, then gradually 
thinning it). Stir to it by degrees seven ounces of suet chopped fine, 
and three ounces of bread crumbs ; mix the whole half an hour or 
more before boiling; well butter a mould or basin, tie over a pudding 
cloth very tight, and boil it three hours. Half a pound of muscatel 
raisins, cut in half, and a little grated lemon peel, will make the above 
a good plum pudding: or without the plums, by adding half a pint 
more milk, it bakes well under meat as a Yorkshire pudding; or it 
may be baked in saucers or tin patty-pans, and served with wine 
sauce. An hour will bake it the size of a saucer. — Or, simmer for 
ten minutes half a pint of milk with a roll of lemon peel, and two 
blades of mace,; strain it into a basin, and put it away to cool; beat 
three eggs with three ounces of loaf-sugar, the third part of a nut- 
meg, and three ounces of flour; mix well with the eggs, add the 
milk by degrees; then three ounces of butter broken in bits, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of currants rubbed and picked, 
three ounces of raisins stoned and chopped; mix all well together 



150 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

butter b. mould, tie a cloth tightly over and boil it two hours and a 
halt'. Serve with melted butter, two tabie-spoont'uls of brandy, and a 
little loaf-sugar. 

567. A Dutch Ricp. Pudding. — Soak four ounces of rice in warm 
water half an hour, then drain the water from it, and throw the rice 
into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, 
and simmer till tender; when cold, put four whole ego;^s, well beaten, 
two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cup full of cream (or milk where 
cream is scarce or dear), and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of 
a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon peel. Put a light puff paste in 
a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

568. Rice Puddings. — It will be well to make a few observations 
on rice before we enter upon rice puddings. Large long corn which 
is quite white and clear is the best ; though this may cost a little 
more money, it will be found the cheapest. Bad rice has a dingy red 
and yellow appearance, and is dusty; in this state it is almost sure 
to turn the milk with which it is used. The best rice takes less 
sugar to sweeten it, and the flavour of it is much superior to the 
inferior sort. Good rice will soon become tender and swell, and 
when this is the case it is done. Inferior rice may be used for broths 
or stews, as thickeners, but it is not so wholesome as the best. Rice 
should be kept in a vessel closely shut, and in a dry place. It does 
not keep well after grinding ; it is almost sure to become sour. It 
should be ground as it is wanted. 

569. A Rice Pudding. — Take two parts of a pound of rice, put it 
in a cloth or bag that would hold three times the quantity ; put it into 
boiling water, and let it boil an hour. Take it up, and beat two egg3 
and add to it; mix and beat with the rice a little sugar, nutmeg, and 
one ounce of suet, or butter, with or without currants ; flour a cloth 
and tie it tight in it, and let it boil half an hour. Sauce, boiled milk 
with a little sugar and nutmeg, or wine sauce. 

570. A baked Rice Pudding. — The above may be used, enriched 
by slices of bread and butter laid at the top, with a little sugar and 
nutmeg strewed over. — Or, scald the rice in a small quantity of 
water; when all the water is ab-o-rbed by the rice, add a quart of new 
milk, and let it boil up, with a stick of cinnamon tor flavour;* beat 
three or four eggs with fine moi-t sugar, stir to them gradually the 
boiling milk and rice ; add one ounce of beef suet or butter ; when it 
is in the pan, or dish, vviiich should be buttered before putting in, 
grate nutmeg over the top; put it in the oven as soon as made, and 
bake an hour. 

571. Ground Rice Pudding. — Put on the fire a quart of new 
milk ; put into it five or six young laurel leaves, a stick of cinnamon, 
a pinch of salt ; when it boils, stir into it a quarter of a pound of ground 
rice, which has been previously wetted with a little cold water; stir 

* Laurel leaves are usually directed ; but they are decidedly poisonous, and ws 
strongly disapprove of the use of them. 



PUDDINGS, CIIEESECAK ES , &:r. 151 

till it boils and thickens. As it is apt to burn, a double saucepan i3 
the best for this purpose. Take the flavourings out, and stir into it 
three or four egg-s, well beaten, with an ounce of sugar, and a little 
grated nutmeg : three-quarters of an hour will bake it. This pudding 
(if desired) can be very much enriched by adding one or two more 
eggs, two ounces of fresh butter or marrow, a tea-cup full of cream, 
and a large spoonful of brandy, ratafia, or noyeau. 

572. Rice Snow Balls. — Pick and wash half a pound of the best 
rice, boil it in water for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, drain it 
quite dry; there should be more water than the rice will take up: 
after it is well drained through a sieve, divide it into six parcels; 
take apples as for dumplings, surround each with rice; tie them in a 
cloth separately, and rather loosely; boil one hour. Sauce, sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

573. Plain Rice Pudding. — If you wish to boil it, take half a 
pound of ground rice, put it into a bag that would hold three times as 
much, put it into the saucepan containing boiling water ; let it boil 
an hour and a quarter. For baking, take a third part of a pound of 
rice, put it into a deep dish with two quarts of skim milk ; it will take 
an hour and a half baking. Sauce, cold butter, and sugar and nut- 
meg, or preserved fruit. 

574. Rice Bignets. — In a pint of new milk simmer three ounces 
of rice till it becomes a stitf paste; add half a tea-cup full of thick 
cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, two ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
a little powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, and two eggs well 
beaten ; grate a small tea-cup full of bread crumbs; when the rice is 
cold, cut it into bits and roll it into small balls, dip each in the egg, 
roll in the bread crumbs, and fry them quickly. Sauce, wine sauce. 

575. Vermicelli, Sago, Tapioca, and Russian Seed Puddings. — 
These are all made in the same way as rice puddings. Arrow-root 
pudding is made as ground rice pudding. It is generally baked in a 
dish lined with paste, and turned out. 

576. Yeast Dumplings. — Procure half a quarter of dough from the 
baker's. Keep it covered over by the fire till it is wanted. Should 
it be wished to make the dough at home, set half a quarter, or rather 
less, of the best flour, with a wine glass full of fresh yeast, stirred 
into half a tea-cup full of milk, just warm. Let it rise, in a warm 
place, for about an hour. Then make your dumplings, and boil. Each 
dumpling should be about the size of an egg. Put them in a large 
saucepan of boiling water, or in a steamer, which is much better ; 
they should boil or steam twenty minutes. Stick in a fork; if done, 
the fork will come out clean. Take them up, and they should be 
eaten directly, as they become hard in their own steam. Tear them 
apart with your fork ; if cut with your knife it will make them close. 
French baker's dough is always very light, and is much better for 
dumplings. Sauce, cold butter and sugar, or wine sauce. 

577. Suet Pudding.— Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound 
and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it. Boil it four hours. It eats well the 



152 THE CO:\lPLETE COOK. 

next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins and 
necks of mutton, finely shred or chopped, makes a more delicate pud- 
ding than suet; and both are far better for the purpose than butter, 
which causes the pudding to be heavy or close. 

578. Hunter's Pudding. — Mix a pound of suet, a pound of flour, a 
pound of currants, a pound of raisins, stoned and a little cut, the rind 
of half a lemon, shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers, in fine 
powder, four ejrgs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk 
as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a flannel cloth, or a 
melon mould, eight or nine hours. Sweet sauce. Add sometimes a 
spoonful of peach water, for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, 
after it is boiled, six months, if tied up in the same cloth, and hung 
up, folded in a sheet of cap paper, to preserve it from dust, being first 
cold. When used, it must first be boiled a full hour. 

579. Marlborough Pudding. — Cover the dish with a thin puff 
paste ; then take candied cilion, orange, and lemon peel, each one 
ounce; slice these sweetmeats very thin, and lay them all over the 
bottom of the dish ; dissolve six ounces of butter, without water, and 
six ounces of powdered sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; 
stir them over the fiio until the mixture boils, then pour it on the 
sweetmeats, and bake the pudding three-quarters of an hour in a mo- 
derate oven. 

580. Custard Pudding. — Boil a quart of milk until it is reduced 
to a pint ; take from it a few spoonfuls, and let it cool, mixing with 
it, very perfectly, one spoonful of flour, which add to the boiling milk, 
and stir until it is quite cool. Beat four yolks and two whites of 
eggs, strain them, and stir them into the milk, two ounces of sifted 
sugar, two or three spoonfuls of wine, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over it, and boil it half an hour ; untie 
tfee cloth, cool the basin a little, lay a dish upon the top'of it, and turn 
it out. 

581. Custard. — B;)il half a pint of new milk, with a piece of lemon 
peel, and two peach leaves, and eight lumps of white sugar. Should 
cream be used instead of milk, there will be no occasion to skim.it; 
beat the yolks and whites of three eggs, strain the milk through 
coarse muslin, or a hair sieve; then mix the eggs and milk very 
gradually together, simmer it gently on the fire, and siir it till it 
thickens. 

582. Almond Custard. — Boil in a pint of milk or cream two or 
three bitter almonds, and cinnamon, and a piece of lemon peel, pared 
thin, with eight or ten lumps of sugar; let it simmer to extract the 
flavour, then strain it, and stir it till cool. Beat the yolks of six aa^as, 
mix them with the milk, and stir the whole over a slow fire, until of 
a proper thickness, adding one ounce of sweet almonds, beaten fiuf^ 
in rose water. 

583. Rice Custard. — Take a cup of whole Carolina rice, and seven 
cups of milk ; boil it, by placing the pan in water, which must never 
be allowed to go off the boil until it thickens; then sweeten it, and 
add an ounce of sweet almonds pounded. 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 153 

584. Baked Vermicelli Pudding. — Simmer four ounces of vermi- 
celli in a pint of new milk ten minutes; then put into it half a pint 
of cream, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, four ounces of butter 
warm, the same of white sugar, and yolks of four eggs, well beaten. 
Bake it in a dish without a lining. 

585. Marrow Pudding.— Four ounces of marrow, four of biscuits, 
or French biscuits, tliree of jar raisins, stoned, candied orange peel, 
sugar and nutmeg to the taste. Place these articles in layers in a 
dish surrounded by paste; then beat up four eggs, leave out the whites 
of two, in half a pint of cream, or good milk, and pour it over the 
other ingredients. It will take an hour and a half to bake. 

586. The Conservative Pudding. — Take four sponge biscuits, a 
quarter of a pound of ratafia and niacaroone cakes, mixed, the yolks 
of eight eggs, a glass of brandy, half a pint of cream, well beaten 
together, the cakes being soaked in the brandy and cream. Butter a 
quart mould, place dried cherries or stoned raisins in a pattern over 
it, pour in the mixture, and place the mould in a stew-pan, surrounded 
by water, and let it simmer an hour and a half over charcoal. 

587. Economical Pudding. — In families where there are loose 
pieces of bread, they can be made into a pudding instead of throwing 
them on one side. Boil as much .milk as the size of your dish will 
require, put in a bit of lemon peel, and two or three of young laurel 
leaves; cut up the bread crust too in thin slices. When the milk 
boils, take out the flavourings, put in the bread, cover it up, and set 
it by the fire to swell ; then beat it up fine, and stir to it two or three 
eggs well beaten, with a little moist sugar and ground allspice, a bit 
of butter or suet, chopped fine, or a bit of good beef dripping. A few 
currants or not ; currants are apt to turn the milk wheyey. Three- 
quarters of an hour will bake it. It is a very wholesome pudding for 
children. 

588. A delicate Bread Pudding.— Take fine bread, grated fine, 
and rich new milk. When the milk boils, put in the bread crumbs; 
for every table-spoonful of bread, allow one egg, well beaten; 
sweeten it with loaf-sugar to your taste, and grate in a little nutmeg. 
Put it into a buttered basin, and boil it from twenty minutes to fifty, 
according to the size of the pudding. If baked, rather less time will 
do it. It only requires to be a light brown. 

589. Barley Pudding.— Tdke a quarter of a pound of Scotch or 
pearl barley. Wash, and simmer it in a small quantity of water ; 
pour ofl" the water, and add milk and flavourings as for ric^; puddings. 
Beat up with sugar and nutmeg, and mix to the milk and barley in 
the same way. It may be more or less rich of eggs ; and with or 
without the addition of butter, cream, or marrow. Put it into a but- 
tered deep dish, leaving room for six or eight ounces of currants, and 
an ounce of candied peel, cut up fine, with a few apples cut in small 
pieces. An hour will bake it. 

590. Hard Dumplings.— Mix flour and water, with a bit of salt, to 
the consistency of dough. Make it into dumplings, and boil them half 
an hour. Serve them with butter and salt. Skimmer cakes are madf? 

13 



154 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

in the same way, and flatted to the thickness of half an inch, and 
boiled on the skimmer, which should be previously buttered ; when 
done, it will slip off the skimmer. They are eaten with sugar and 
butter. 

591. Newmarket Pudding. — A pint of new milk, half a lemon 
rind, a little cinnamon, and a bay leaf; simmer a few minutes, sweeten 
with loaf-sugar, and strain by degrees to five well-beaten eggs (leav- 
ing out two whites;) pour this over thin slices of bread and butter 
strewed v;ith currants. Bake half an hour. 

592. A light Pudding — Take a pint of new milk, eight eggs^ and 
half a pint of cream, to two spoonfuls of flour. Beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs separately ; beat up the batter without the whites, 
but, just before putting it in the pot, or oven, stir in the whites, with 
one ounce of fine loaf-sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, or nutmeg, 
and half a glass of brandy or ratafia. Butter the basin or mould which 
it will exactly fill. Put it into the water fast boiling, and keep it 
shaking about several minutes, lest the eggs should settle on one side. 
Half an hour will boil it. When turned out, giate over the top fine 
sugar and nutmeg, with melted butter, or wine sauce, round it; or 
stick bits of raspberry jam, or red currant jelly, at top. If baked, it 
will not require more than twenty minutes. A rich puff* paste, put 
round the edge of any baked pudding, greatly improves the appear- 
ance. 

593. A Yorkshire Pudding. — Beat up four eggs, and mix with 
them, by degrees, four spoonfuls of flour; beat it to a smooth paste, 
and add a pint of new milk and a pinch of salt. Put it into a shallow 
square tin, under roast meat. It should not be put down until the 
meat is warmed through, and begins to drip; or till the fire is become 
clear and fierce, so that the batter shall soon boil. The tin should be 
very hot when the pudding is put in, to keep the floury part from 
settling. 

594. A nice Suet Pudding. — Take two or three eggs, well beaten, 
with half a pound of suet, chopped fine, a pound of flour, a pinch of 
salt, and some grated ginger and nutmeg. Beat these up very smooth 
with cold water to rather a thick batter. A few currants may be 
added. Two hours will boil it. White wine sauce. 

595. Mother Eve's Pudding. — Take equal weights of suet, plums, 
currants, sugar, apples chopped up, bread crumbs, and flour, with an 
egg to an ounce of the ingredient, candied peel, spice, and salt. Boil 
six hours. 

596. Newcastle Pudding. — Butter half a melon mould, or quart 
basin, and stick all round with dried cherries, or fine raisins, fill up 
with bread and butter — and steam it half an hour. 

597. Hasty Pudding. — Boil a quart of new milk, cinnamon or bay 
leaves. While boiling, shake in from a flour dredger two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir it until it thickens. Then pour it into a 
deep dish, stir in an ounce of butter, the same of moist sugar, and 
grate nutmeg over the top. 

598. Arrow-root Pudding. — Arrow-root pudding is made in the 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, 6l C . 155 

BRme way as hasty pudding, with the exception of shaking tho arrow- 
root in, which should be stirred into a little cold milk, and then stirred 
into tl)e boiling milk, 

599. A Friar's Omelet. — Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir in 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of white sugar; when 
cold, add four eggs, well beaten; put it into a baking dish thickly 
strewed over with crumbs of bread, so as to stick to the bottom and 
sides; then put in the apple-mixture; strew crumbs of bread over the 
top ; when baked, turn it out, and grate loaf-sugar over it. 

600. A Swiss Pudding. — Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced 
apples, with sugar between, until the dish be as full as it will hold ; 
let the crumbs be the uppermost layer ; then pour milk over it, and 
bake. 

601. Oxford Puddings. — Take a quarter of a pound of grated bis- 
cuit, the same quantity of currants, the same of suet, finely chopped, a 
spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg; mix them well together. 
Take the yolks of three eggs, and make up the puddings into balls. 
Fry them a light colour in fresh butter, and serve with white wine 
sauce. 

602. Muffin or Cabinet Pudding. — Cut three or four muffins in 
two, pour over them boiling milk sufficient to cover them, cover them 
up until they are tender. Make a rich custard with eight eggs (only 
four whites,) a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, an 
ounce of almonds, blanched and cut, lemon peel and nutmeg grated, 
and a glass of ratafia or brandy. Butter a tin mould for boiling — for 
baking, a dish. Put a layer of dried cherries, greengages, apricots, 
or French plums; cover with custard, add more fruit, then custard, 
until the mould or dish is quite full. Boil an hour and a half, and 
serve with wine sauce. It should not float in the water, but stand in 
a stew-pan, and only water enough to reach halfway up the mould. 
If for baking, it will not take so long. Lay a pufF paste round the 
edges of the dish. 

Stale muffins are very good boiled in milk and eaten with wine 
sauce. 

603. French and Italian Puddings. — These puddings are com- 
posed of sliced French rolls, eggs, and cream. Five or six eggs to a 
pint of cream, and as much roll as will thicken it; sweeten it with 
loaf-sugar ; a pound of suet, chopped fine, may be added or omitted. 
Line the dish with puff paste; lay at the bottom six or eight apples, 
cut up, a pound of raisins stoned, a few dates sliced, or a few French 
plums, some candied orange peel, sugar, and spice. Pour the pud- 
dino- over this, grate nutmeg at top, and bake of a fine pale brown. 

604. A Cheese Pudding. — Half a pound of cheese grated, butter 
two ounces, four eggs, a little cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a dish, 
and bake twenty minutes. 

605. A very rich Pudding of p-ime ripe Fruit. — This is made 
sometimes by pressing the fruit through a sieve, if apricots, green- 
gages or peaches; sweet juicy apples, or rich mellow pears, may be 
grated ; or the fruit may be scalded a few minutes in v/hite wine ; 



156 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

then the skins and stones removed, and beaten in a mortar. W^ei; 
cold mix with rich custard, cream, eggs, and bread crumbs, or Na- 
ples biscuit, with loaf-sugar fo taste; the kernels blanched, and a glass 
of brandy or Madeira wine. Then bake in a dish edged with puff 
paste, and call it according to the fruit employed — apricot pudding, 
peach pudding, and so forth. If the cook is ordered to make such a 
pudding, it i.s fit she should know how to do it; but it is a great pity 
to spoil goad things by such incongruous mixtures; the batter alone 
would make a much better pudding; and the fruit and wine might be 
saved for des.sert. For these rich delicate puddin:^, 'no tinctures are 
preferable to the spice in substance. 

606. Chesnut Pudding. — Roast chesnuts, or boil them a quarter 
of an hour ; blanch, peel, and grate, or pound in a mortar, with a little 
white wine. To a dozen chesnuts, add six eggs, well beaten, a pint 
and a half of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; mix it well 
together; sweeten to taste; add a little salt and nutmeg; simmer 
over the fire till it thickens, stirring it well. Then bake it in a dish, 
edged and lined with puff paste. 

607. Rusk Pudding is exactly the same thing as bread and butter 
pudding, except that the butter is spread on rusks instead of bread. 
The richness may be varied at pleasure. Let it steep two hours or 
more before putting in the oven. 

608. Portugal Pudding. — Rub up four table-spoonfuls of ground 
rice, or semilina, with three ounces of butter, and stir in it a pint of 
cream ; stir it till it boils and is quite thick. Then stir in two whole 
eggs, and the yolks of three more, well beaten, with a quarter of a 
pound of loaf-sugar, a little salt and nutmeg. Butter a dish, and bake 
it an hour. When it is done, have ready another dish of the same 
Bize, or a very little deeper; on the bottom of this spread a layer of 
raspberry jam, then the pudding, and then a layer of apricot jam. 
This pudding is very delicate without the mixture of fruit, with wine 
or lemon sauce instead. 

609. Tansey Pudding. — Make a rich batter with Na pie-biscuits, 
eggs, cream, and a little sugar ; chop up a very few tansey leaves, 
and a few of spinach ; enough to give the whole a green colour. Set 
it in a double saucepan, over boiling water, till it becomes quite thick; 
then pour it into a buttered basin or mould ; tie it up securely ; and 
let it boil three-quarters of an hour. Let it stand a few minutes after 
taken up; then turn out, and serve with wine sauce. 

610. To tnake Curd for Cheesecakes, and other purposes. — Milk 
is turned to curds and whey by means of rennet, which is the stomach 
of a calf, taken out as soon as it is killed, well cleansed from its con- 
tents, then scoured inside and out with salt, and when thoroughly 
salted stretched on a stick to dry. A bit of this is to be soaked in 
boiling water for several hours, and the liquor put in milk warm from 
the cow, or made that warmth. Use alone can prescribe the exact 
quantity. Never use more than enough to turn it, as it hardens the 
curd. The gizzard skin of fowls and turkeys may be prepared in 



PUDDINGS, CHEESECAKES, &C. 157 

the same way, and answer the same purpose; or the curd for cheese- 
cakes may be bought of the regular dairy people. 

611. Cheesecakes. — The basis of cheesecakes is professedly the 
curd of milk as turned for cheese; but many are made entirely with- 
out it. The following: recipe is much approved: Take the curd of 
eight quarts of new milk; rub the curd in a coarse cloth till quite free 
from whey ; then work into it three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
three biscuits, and an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a little salt, 
and such spices as you choose, finely powdered. Beat ten eggs (half 
the whites) with three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf-sugar^ a wine- 
glass full of brandy or ratafia, and a pint of rich cream. Having well 
mixed all these ingredients, rub them with the hand through a coarse 
hair sieve; then add a pound of currants, rubbed in a coarse cloth, 
end picked, and an ounce of candied citron, cut as small as possible. 
Line tin patty-pans with rich pufF paste, put in the mixture, and either 
entirely cover with paste, or put on only bars or leaves. They will 
take about twenty minutes to bake in rather a quick oven. By sub- 
stituting half a pound of sweet almonds tor currants, and half an 
ounce of bitter, blanched, and beaten to a paste, almond cheesecakes 
may be made ; or lemon orange cheesecakes, by substituting for the 
currants two or three candied lemons or oranges, pounded in a 
mortar. 

612. Polaloe Cheesecakes. — Take half a pound of mashed potatoes, 
rubbed through a colander, or a quarter of a pound of mucilage, or 
potatoe starch; mix with a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-cup 
full of creaui, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and two eggs, finely 
beaten, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, either chopped fine or 
beaten in a mortar, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon ; well mix these 
ingredients. Put in patty-pans, or saucers, lined with paste. Do not 
more than half fill, as the substance will swell. Sift over fine sugar, 
and bake in a quick oven a quarter of an hour. Four or six ounces 
of currants may be substituted for part or all of the candied peel, or 
the grated rind and juice of a lemon or Seville orange may be added; 
also a little brandy cr ratafia: but do not make the mixture too moist. 

613. A plain Cheesecake. — Turn three quarts of milk to curds; 
break it, and drain the whey; when dry, break it in a pan, with two 
ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth; put to it a pint and a half of 
thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three 
ounces of currants. 

614. Bread Cheesecakes. — Pour a pint of boiling cream on a penny 
loaf; let it stand two hours; mix half a pound of butter, warm, with 
eight eggs, and a grated nutmeg; beat the whole in a mortar; then 
add half a pound of currants rubbed and picked, two ounces of sugar, 
a spoonful of wiup, and the same of brandy. 

615. Common Pancakes. — Make a light batter of f ggs, flour, and 
milk; fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard; a little salt, nut- 
meg, and ginger, n)ay be added. Sugar and lemon should be served 
(o eat with them. — Or, when eggs arc scarce, make the batter with 

13* 



158 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

small beer, ginger, and so forth ; or water, with flour, and a very little 
milk, will serve, but not nearly so well as eggs and all milk. 

616. Pancakes of Rice. — Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a 
small quantity of water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, 
eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg ; stir in eight ounces of butter, 
just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick 
enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. 

617. Cream Pancakes. — Mix the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, 
with a pint of cream, two ounces of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg, cin- 
namon, and mace. Rub the pan with a bit of butter, and fry the pan- 
cakes thin. 

618. Fritters. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer 
sort, and put pared apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, and fry 
some of it in each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, 
make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served 
on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be made into fritters. 

6.19. Oyster Fritters. — Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs; 
season a very little with nutmeg. Beard the oysters, and put as many 
as you think proper in each fritter. 

620. Potatoe Fritters. — Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine, 
beat four yolks and three whites of egga, and add to the above one 
large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter well half an hour. It will be 
extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard into a stew-pan, 
and drop a spootiful at a time of the batter into it. Fry them; and 
serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one 
dessert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar, 
warmed together ; not to be served in the dish. 

BAKING. 

621. Bread.— -Put a quartern of flour into a large basin, or small 
pan, with two tea-spoonfuls of salt; make a hole in the middle, then 
out in a basin four table-spoonfuls of good yeast, stir in a pint of milk 

ukewarm ; put it in the hole of the flour, stir just to make it of a thin 
Datter, and then strew a little flour over the top; then set it on one 
side of the fire, cover it over with a cloth, let it stand till the next 
morning; add half a pint more of warm milk, and make it into dough, 
knead it for ten minutes, then set it in a warm place by the fire for 
one hour and a half, then knead it again, and it is ready for either 
loaves or bricks. 

622. Salli/ Lunn Tea Cake. — Take a quarter of a pint of thick 
small-beer yeast, and one pint of warm milk, and put into a pan with 
flour sufficient to make it of a thick batter ; let it stand by the fire till 
it has risen as high as it will, about two hours. Two ounces of 
lump sugar, dissolved in a pint of new milk, a quarter of a pound of 
Dutter rubbed in the flour very fine ; then make your dough ; let it 



COOKING INDIAN CORN,&C. 159 

Btand half an hour, then make your cakes and put them on tjns; 
when they have stood to rise, put them in a quick oven. When eggs 
are plentiful you may put four eggs instead of milk — they will make 
it much lighter. 

French rolls are made much in the same way ; instead of usinaf all 
milk put half water, and use only butter and a little salt. 

623. A Plum Cake — A quartern of dough, half a pound of moist 
Bugar, half a pound of butter, a tea-cup full of crt'-im and two eggs, a 
pound of currants (add raisins if you please) a te-i-snoonful of allspice, 
two ounces of candied orange peel cut small, and an ounce of carra- 
vvay seeds. Roll the dough out several times, and spread over the 
several ingredients; flour the pan well, and set it on one side the fir(! 
to rise; bake an hour and a half. A richer cake may be made by 
adding more sweetmeats, butter, eggs, and almonds, and so forth. 
The dough made as bread ; when risen, melt the butter in warm 
milk and put to it with the other ingredients, and put to rise. 

624. A plain Pound Cake. — One pound each of butter, loaf-sugar, 
and flour, and nine eggs; work the butter to a cream, pound the su- 
gar, and add then the eggs; beat all together twenty minutes, then 
lightly add the flour; mix, put in a tin or hoop lined with buttered 
paper. Bake an hour in a moderate oven.* 

AMERICAN MODE OF COOKING INDIAN CORN, PUMP- 
KINS, vScc. 

Maize or Indian corn has never been extensively used in Great 
Britain, and the editor has every reason to believe that this has arisen 
from the almost total ignorance of the English people as to the mode 
of preparing it for human food. It is, perhaps, the most productive 
crop that can be grown, and its nutritious qualities, when properly 
prepared, are equal to its productiveness. \Ve are satisfied that it 
may be grown in that country, or, at any rate, in the south and east- 
ern parts of it, with great advantage ; indeed, the experiment has 
been tried, and with decided success. The late Mr. Cobbett grew an 
average crop of the dwarf kind on Barn Elms farm, Surrey, for three 
or four years, as the editor can testify from his own personal inspec- 
tion, and he himself has succeeded in rearing the large sort to perfec- 
tion, the cobs or ears, when quite ripe, averaging eight or nine 
inches; this, however, was effected upon a small scale, and in a gar- 
den. 

625. Indian Cake, or Bannock.— This, as prepared in our own 
country, is cheap and very nice food. Take one quart of Indian meal, 
dressed or sifted, two table-spoonfuls of treacle or molasses, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, a bit of "shortening" (butter or lard) half as big as 
a hen's egg, stirred together ; make it pretty moist with scalding 
water, put it into a well-greased pan, smooth over the surface with a 

* Full directions for these and all other similar preparations are gives in " The 
Baker," by the same Editor. 



IBO THE COMPLETE COOK. 

g}X)on, and bake it brown on both sides before a quick fire. A little 
stewed pumpkin, scalded with the meal, improves the cake. Bannock 
split and dipped in butter, makes very nice toast. 

626. Green Indian Corn. — This is a most delicious vegetable. 
"When ueed as a vegetable the cobs^ or ears, are plucked about the 
time that the corn has arrived at a milky state, or just before it as- 
sumes a solid substance. A part of the leaves or filaments by which 
the cob, or ear, is surrounded, is taken away, and the cobs boiled froni 
twenty to forty minutes, *' according to its age." When it is done, it 
is served with cold or melted butter, and eaten (after being stripped 
of its remaining leaves) by taking the two ends of the cob in the 
hands, and biting off the corn. The editor can bear testimony to its 
delicious quality from having grown it in his own garden and par- 
taken of it. 

627. Indian Corn, or Maize Pudding, baked. — Scald a quart of 
milk (skimmed milk will do,) and stir in seven table-spoonfuls of sifted 
Indian meal, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-cup full of molasses or trea- 
cle, or coarse moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of powdered ginger or 
sifted cinnamon ; bake three or four hours. If whey is wanted, pour 
in a little cold milk after it is all mixed. 

628. Bailed Maize Pudding. — Stir Indian meal and warm milk 
together " pretty stiff;" a little salt and two or three " great spoon, 
fuls" of molasses added ; also a spoonful of ginger, or any other spice 
that may be preferred. Boil it in a tight-covered pan, or in a very 
thick cloth ; if the water gets in, it will ruin it. Leave plenty of room, 
for Indian meal swells very much. The milk with which it is mixed 
should be merely warmed; if it be scalding hot, the pudding will 
break to pieces. Some chop suet very fine, and warm in the milk; 
others warm thin slices of apple to be stirred into the pudding. Water 
will answer instead of milk. 

629. Pumpkin and !Squash Pie. — The usual way of dressing 
pumpkins in England in a pie is to cut them into slices, mixed with 
apples, and bake them with a top crust like ordinary pies. A quite 
different process is pursued in America, and the editor can testify to 
the immense superiority of the Yankee method. In England, the 
pumpkin is grown for show rather than for use ; nevertheless, when 
properly dressed, it is a very delicious vegetable, and a universal 
favourite with our New England neighbours. 

The following is the American method of making a pumpkin pie: 
Take out the seeds, and pare the pumpkin or squash; but in taking 
■)ut the seeds do not scrape the inside of tlie pumpkin ; the part nearest 
.he seed is the sweetest; then stew the pumpkin, and strain it through 
a sieve or colander. To a quart of milk for a family pie, three eggs 
are sufficient. Stir in the stewed pumpkin with your milk and 
beaten-up eggs till it is as thick as you can stir round rapidly and 
easily. If the pie is wanted richer make it thinner, and add another 
egg or two; but even one egg to a quart of milk makes " very decent 
pies." Sweeten with molasses or sugar; add two tea-spoonfuls of 
salt, two table-spoonfuls of sifted cinnamon, and one of powdered 



COOKING INDIAN CORN, (fcc. 161 

ginger ; but allspice may be used, or any other spice that may be pre- 
ferred. The peel of a lemon crated in gives it a pleasant flavour. 
The more ecrgs, says our American authority, the better the pie. 
Some put one egg to a gill of milk. Bake about an hour in deep 
plates, or shallow dishes, without an upper crust, in a warm oven. 

There is another method of making this pie, which, we know from 
experience, produces an excellent dish: Take out the seeds, and grate 
the pumpkin till you come to the outside skin.- Sweeten the pulp; 
add a little ground allspice, lemon peel, and lemon juice; in short, 
flavour it to your taste. Bake without an upper crust. 

630. Carrot Pies. — These pies are made like pumpkin pies. The 
carrots should be boiled very tender, skinned, and sifted. 

631. American Custard Puddings, sufficiently good for common 
use, may be made by taking five eggs beaten up and mixed with a 
quart of milk, sweetened with sugar and spiced with cinnamon, all- 
spice, or nutmeg. It is well to boil your milk first, and ]et it get 
cold before using it. " Boiling milk enriches it so much, that boiled 
skim milk is about as good as new." (We doubt this assertion ; at 
any rate, it can only be improved by the evaporation of the water.) 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

632. American Plum Pudding. — Pound six hard fine biscuits 
(crackers), soak them for some hours in milk sufficient to cover the 
mass; add three pints of milk, beat up six eggs, and mix; flavour 
with lemon brandy, and a whole nutmeg grated ; add three-quarters 
of a pound of stoned raisins, rubbed in flour. Bake not quite two 
hours. 

633. Rennet Pudding or Custard. — A pudding may be made ot 
this description in five minutes. Take a wine-glass full of wine, in 
which a small portion of calf's rennet has been kept soaking ; put it 
into a quart of cold new milk, and a sort of custard will be the result. 
This sweetened with loaf-sugar and spiced with nutmeg is very good. 
It should be eaten immediately, for in a 'ievf hours it begins to 
curdle. 

634. American Apple Puddings. — Take your apples, and bore out 
the core vi^ithout cutting them in two. Fill up the holes with washed 
rice. Tie up each apple very tight, and separately in the corners of 
a pudding bag. Boil an hour, or an hour and a half. 

635. Bird's Nest Pudding. — If you wish to make what is called a 
bird's nest pudding, prepare your custard ; take eight or ten pleasant 
apples, prepare thern and take out the core, but leave them whole; 
set them in a pudding-dish, pour your custard over them, and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

636. American Souse. — Take pigs' feet, ears, &c. well cleaned, 
and boil or rather simmer them for four or five hours, until they are 
loo tender to be taken out with a fork. When taken trom the boiling 
water it should be put into cold water. After it is packed down tight, 
boil the jelly-like liquor in which it was cooked with an equal quantity 
of vinegar; salt as you think fit, and cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, 



1G2 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

at the rate of a quarter of a pound to a hundred weight, must be mixed 
with it when scalding hot. 

037. Americon dry Bread. — As far as possible, have bits of bread 
eaten up before thf-y become hard. Spread tiiose that are not eaten, 
and let them dry, to be pounded for puddings, or soaked for brewis. 
Brewis is made of crusts and dry pieces of bread, soaked a good 
while in hot milk, mashed up, and salted, and buttered like toast. 

638. Another sort <][ Brewis. — The author of Domestic Cookery 
observes, that a wry good meal may be bestowed on poor people in a 
thing called br( uis, which is thus made: Cut a very thick upper 
crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling, and 
nearly rt:ady ; it will attach some of the fat, and when swelled out, 
will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. 

639. iSall Fish. — The New England mode of dressing salt fish is 
an excellent one, and ought to be generally adopted. Keep the fish 
many hours (at leat-t seven or eight) in scalding hot water, which 
must never be suffered to boil. 

640. To preserve Cheese. — Cover the cheese carefully with paper, 
fastened on with paste?, so as totally to exclude the air. In this way 
cheese may be kept for years. 

641. American Mince Meat. — Take the good bits of vegetables, 
and the cold meat left after dinner. Mash your vegetables fine, and 
chop your meat very fine. Warm it with what remains of gravy, or 
roast meat dripping. Two or three apples, sliced and fried to mix 
with it, are considered an improvement. Some like a little sifted 
sage sprinkled in it. After it is warmed, lay it upon a large slice of 
toasted bread. Potatoes should not be used in the preparation of 
American mince meat 



GRUELS, CREAMS, SYLLABUBS, JELLIES, &c., &c. 

642. Common Flummery is merely water gruel flavoured, and 
eaten cold. Soak in cold water a pint of very fine white oatmeal; 
when it has steeped a day and a night, pour off' the water quite clear. 
Then put upon the oatmeal three pints of fresh water, and let that 
stand also a day and a night; then strain it through a hair sieve, and 
boil it till it is as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time; 
sweeten it with loaf-sugar, and put a spoonful of ratafia or noyeau, or 
a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour it into saucers or shallow 
dishes. It is eaten with sugar and cream, or wine, or cider. 

643. Rixe Flummery is ground rice thickened with milk, the same 
as for good rice pudding. In a pmt of new milk, simmer three ounces 
of ground rice till it is become a very thick paste, sweeten it with 
loaf-sugar, flavour with ratafia or peach water, put it in a bason or a 
mould; when it is cold, turn it out. Sauce; half a pint of new 
milk, a glass of white wine, a large tea-cup full of cream, the juice 
of a small lemon, sweetened with loaf-sugar. Or you may pour 
round it cream or custard. 

644. French Flummery. — Take two ounces of isinglass to a quart 



GRUELS, CREAMS, ^C. Id?, 

of cream; simmer them a quarter of an hour; sweeten with ]oaf 
sugar; flavour with rose water; strain it into a mould; when cold, 
turn it out, and put round it baked or dried pears. 

645. Dutch JFtummery is composed of isinglass boiled in water, 
enriched with lemon, eggs, and wine. Take t\vo ounces of isinglas,^ , 
boil it half an hour in a pint and a half of water, and grate oif with 
loaf-sugar the yellow rind of two lemons ; sweeten with loaf-sugar, 
a pint of white wine, and the juice of three lemons. Beat up seven 
eggs, and strain the above to them, stirring all the time. Put it into 
the saucepan a minute or two to scald — by no means let it boil. Then 
pour it into a basin, and stir it till nearly cold, and then let it stand a 
few minutes to settle, and put it into a tin mould previously dipped in 
cold water. 

646. Blancmange. — If for a sick person, boil an ounce of the best 
isinglass, with a stick of cinnamon, in half a pint of water. The 
isinglass will become a very thick jelly in half an hour's boiling. 
Then mix to it a pint of new milk, and sugar to taste. Let it boil 
up once, and strain through a tamis, or swan-skin jelly-bag, into a 
bason. Pour it into a mould, or custard cups, when nearTy cold; 
pour it very steadily, and keep back any sediment. When turned 
out, raise it all round the edges with a silver knife ; turn the mould 
on a dish, shake it once or twice. If properly prepared, it will turn 
out a beautiful white jelly, like marble; garnish with flowers or with 
sweetmeats, or sliced lemon. 

647. A richer Blancmange. — Simmer an ounce or little more of fine 
isinglass in a pint and a half of new milk; add the rind of half a 
lemon, shred' very fine a blade or two of mace, a stick of cinnamon, 
and sweeten with two ounces and a half of loaf-sugar. Blanch and 
pound, with a spoonful of rose water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, 
and eight or ten bitter; put to the milk, and mix. When the isin- 
glass is quite dissolved, strain through a linen flannel, to half a pint 
of rich cream, and stir together well. When it has stood an hour, 
pour it ofl" into another bason, leaving the sediments at the bottom, 
and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly glasses, or custard 
cups. Two table-spoonfuls of noyeau will answer the purpose of the 
almonds. And the isinglass may be dissolved in a pint of water and 
half a pint of milk. 

648. Arrow-root Blancmange.— Put two tea-cups full of arrow- 
root to a quart of milk. Flavour it with an ounce of sweet almonds, 
and fifteen or sixteen bitter, blanched and pounded ; or with noyeau. 
Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold milk, and pour to it the boil- 
ing milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the saucepan, and boil 
it a minute or two, still stirring. Dip the moulds in cold water. Turn 
it out when cold. 

649. Italian Cream. — Rub on a lump of sugar the rind of a lemon, 
and scrape it off with a knife into a deep dish or china bowl ; add two 
ounces and a half of sifted sugar, a gill of brandy, the juice of a 
lemon, and a pint of double cream ; then beat it up well with a whisk ; 
boil an ounce of isinglass in a gill of water till quite dissolved; strain 



164 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

it to the other ingredients; beat some time, and fill the mould; and 
when cold and set well, turn it out on a dish. The above may be 
flavoured with any kind of liquor; strawberry, raspberry, or any kind 
of fruit ; coloured with prepared cochineal, and named to correspond 
with the flavour given. 

650. Clouted or Clotted Cream. — The milk which is put into the 
pan one morning stands till the next ; then set the pan on a hot 
hearth, half full of water; put this over a stove from ten to twenty 
minutes, according to the quantity of the milk; it will be done 
enough when bladders rise on its surface; this denotes that it is 
nearly boihng, which it must by no means do, but must be instantly 
removed from the fire, and placed in a cool place till the next morn- 
ing, when the cream is thrown up, and is ready for the table, or for 
butter, into which it may be converted by stirring it with the hand, 
but not very readily. This is sometimes called Devonshire cream, 
and it is imagined by those who do not know better, to be much richer 
than the common cream. The artificial process employed in raising 
this cream causes the milk to yield a greater quantity, but the quality 
and flavour are inferior to cream raised naturally, and so is the butter 
made from it. 

651. Cream for Fruit Pies. — There are many ways of preparing 
cream. For fruit pies, simmer a pint of new milk, rind of Seville 
orange or lemon, cinnamon, either, or all, as you may choose. Whisk 
up the yolks of three eggs, with half a spoonful of flour, and one or 
two of cream ; gradually add the boiling milk, set it over the fire, 
and whisk till it is of the consistence of a thick cream. When it is 
removed from the fire, and rather cool, add a table- spoonful of rose or 
orange water, or a tea-spoonful of syrup of clove gilly flowers. 
When quite cold, take off" the top of the pie and pour in the cream ; 
return the cover, either whole or cut in quarters. If eggs are dear, 
one whole &gg will whisk up with a spoonful of rice flour or arrow- 
root, and will answer for thickening. Richer cream may be prepared 
with an equal quantity of cream and milk, flavoured with almond, 
lemon, sack, ratafia, or brandy, and called by the name of the article 
by which it is flavoured principally. Be careful not to let your creams 
boil, or they will curdle. Creams may be prepared with fresh or pre- 
served fruits. Luscious fruits are improved by the addition of lemon 
juice. 

652. Birch's Receipt for Mock Cream. — Mix half a spoonful of 
flour with a pint of new milk ; let it simmer five minutes to take off" 
the rawness of the flour; then beat up the yolk of one es.g-, stir it 
into the milk while boiling, and run it throug-h a fine sieve. A tea- 
spoonful of arrow-root would do better than flour. 

653. Trifle. — Mix in a large bowl a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar, a bit of lemon peel grated fine, and the juice of a whole 
lemon, half a gill of Lisbon or sweet wine, the same of brandy, and 
a pint and a half of good cream. Whisk the whole well, and take 
off the froth as it rises with a skimmer, and put it on a sieve ; con- 
tinue to whisk it till you have enough of the whip ; set it in a cold 



GRUELS, CREAMS, & C . 165 

place to drain three or four hours. Then put in a dish six or eight 
eponge biscuits, two ounces of ahnonds, blanched and split, a quarter 
of a pound of ratafia, some grated nutmeg and lemon peel, currant 
jelly and raspberry jam, half a pint of sweet wine, and a little 
brandy ; when the cakes have absorbed the liquor, pour over about a 
pint of custard, made rather thicker than for apple pie ; and, when 
wanted, lay on plenty of the whip, and throw over a few nonpariel 
comfits. 

654. Whip Syllabub. — Makr a whip as in the last receipt; mix 
wnth a pint of cream half a pint of sweet wine, the juice of a lemon 
a glass of brandy, six ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, grated nutmeg ; 
nearly fill the custard cups with the mixture, and pnt on with a spoon 
some of the whip. 

655. Gooseberry or Apple Fool. — Stew green gooseberries or 
apples, peeled or cored ; add to them a little moist sugar, enough to 
draw the juice, to two quarts of fruit a quarter of a pound of sugar. 
When quite tender, pulp through a coarse sieve; add what more 
sugar is necessary to your taste, and a quart of new milk warm from 
the cow ; if not from the cow, warm it by the fire ; a tea-cup full of 
cream; mix with it an egg, or two yolks, well beaten. Let it thicken 
in the milk; be careful it does not boil. When cold, mix the fruit, 
and stir all togeth :r till well united. A little grated ginger is an im- 
provement, nutmeg and lemon rind also, and half a glass of brandy. 

655. Calves'' Feet Jelly. — Take ibur calves' feet, not from the tripe 
shop, which have been boiled till sdmost all the gelatine is extracted, 
but buy them at the butcher's. Slit them in two, take away the fat 
from between the claws, wash them well in lukewarm water, put 
thern in a large saucepan or stew-pan, cover them v.ith water; when 
the liquor boils, skim it well, and let ihem boil gently six or seven 
hours, that it may be reduced to about two quarts. Then strain it 
through a sieve, and put it by till next day. Then take off all the 
oily part which is at the top, with pieces of kitchen paper applied to 
it; by so doing you may remove every particle of the oily substance, 
without wasting any of the jelly. Put the jelly in the stew-pan to 
melt; add a pound of lump sugar to it, the juice of lemons, the peel 
of two, six whites and shells beat well together, and a bottle of Sherrji 
or Madeira; whisk the whole together until it is on the boil; then put 
it by the side of the stove, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour. 
Then strain it through a jelly-bag; what is strained first must bo put 
into the bag, and repeated until it is quite bright and clear. Then 
put the jelly in moulds till it is cold and firm. Put it in a cold place. 
If you wish to have it very stiff, add half an ounce of isinglass, when 
the wine is put in. It may be flavoured by the juice of various fruits 
and spices, &c., and coloured with cochineal, saffron, spinach juice, red 
beet-root juice or claret. It is sometimes made with cherry brandy, 
noyeau rouge, or essence of punch, instead of wine. Ten shank mut- 
ton bones, which may be bought for a trifle, will give as much jelly aa 
B calf s foot. 

6d6. Whey. — ^Boil a pint of milk, put to it a glass or two of white 
14 



166 THE COMPLETE COOIC. 

wine ; put it on the fire till it boils again ; then pour it on one sidcj 
till it has settled. Pour off the clear whey, and sweeten as you like. 
Cider is often used instead of wine, or half the quantity. When there 
is no fire in the sick room, it may be put hot into a bottle, and laid 
between the bed and maitrass. It will keep warm several hours. 

657. Arrow-root. — A dessert spoonful will thicken half a pint. It 
may be made with milk, and flavoured at pleasure, and according to 
circumstances, if for the sick. The method of mixing is, to moisten 
the arrow-root with a very little liquid, and stir it into a smooth paste; 
then pour the rest of the milk to it in a boiling state, stirring it one 
way all the time, and a minute or two afterwards. If it is not thick, 
return it to the saucepan, but that wastes it. If you pour it carefully, 
it will be thick by mixing the milk, and quite smooth. 

658. Gruel is made of Scotch oatmeal, or cracked groats, or com- 
mon oatmeal. The Embden, or cracked groats, or Scotch oatmeal, 
is preferable to the common, both for flavour and nutriment, but can- 
not be made so quickly. A block-tin saucepan, or a brass skillet, is 
the best for preserving the colour of the crruel ; and a hair sieve to 
strain. Set on the groats in cold water, half a pint to three quarts of 
water. Let it boil three quarters of an hour. In that time it will be 
reduced to two quarts. Then strain it. The groats may be boiled up 
again, and will make another quart of gruel, but they must be boiled 
longer than at first. Scotch oatmeal may be made a mess at a time. 
To a pint of water two ounces of oatmeal ; mix it with a little cold 
water, and stir it into the rest while boiling. This may be strained 
or not. Let it boil ten minutes. 

659. Robinson s prepared Groats are prepared in the same way, 
but do not require so much boiling; a large spoonful of this will make 
a pint of gruel. A bit of butter and salt are generally stirred in gruel ; 
or sugar and nutmeg, according to taste. 

660. Rice Gruel. — This is principally used for bowel complaints, 
but is not so good as arrow-root. A table-spoonful of ground rice will 
thicken a pint of milk or water. Mix it in the same manner as oat- 
meal gruel ; boil in a bit of dried orange or lemon peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon. Let it boil about ten minutes, sweeten with loaf-sugar, 
and add two glasses of port, or one of brandy, as may be required. 

66L Barley Gruel. — This also is used to give to a person in a state 
of great debility. Either Scotch or pearl barley may be used ; it re- 
quires a great deal of washing. If time allows, it should be boiled in 
a small quantity of cold water; when it boils up, pour ofi"; add fresh 
boiling water for the gruel. To a quart of water put two ounces of 
barley ; boil till reduced one half, then strain it off! Put to it half as 
much port wine, and sugar to taste; simmer it together two or three 
minutes. Rewarm it from time to time as wanted. The barley will 
do to put in broth. 

662. Thick Milk, or Flour Caudle, is used for the same purpose. 
A large table-spoonful of flour will thicken a pint. It may be fla- 
voured with cinnamon, or dried orange or lemon peel. Great care 



GRUELS, CREAMS, &C. 167 

must be taken that it does not burn. A double saucepan is best for 
the purpose, or a brass kettle. Half water may be used. 

663. Barley Water. — Scotch or pearl barley may be used. Wash, 
or boil up, as tor barley gruel ; to a quart of water, barley two ounces. 
Simmer till of an agreeable thickness, and strain. Boil the barley 
up again, and it will make a pint more. This is a very cooling drink. 
It also is a pleasant thing to take medicine in. Lemon juice and peel, 
raisins, figs, liquorice root, sugar, honey, and gum arable, with these 
additions it is often used either tor complaints of the chest, confined 
bowels, or stranguary ; or powdered nitre a drachm to a quart, is 
often found good for fever. (Merely for a drink, put sugar and lemon 
peel.) Rub up the nitre with honey or sugar, mix it with a little 
barley water, and then pour it on the whole quantity in a boiling state. 
Stir it well together. 

665. Beef Tea. — Take a pound of fleshy beef, cut in slices (without 
the least bit of fat;) boil it up in a quart of water, and skim it well ; 
then put it on one side to simmer twenty minutes. Season if approved, 
but generally only salt. 

666. Shank Jelly. — Soak twelve shanks of mutton some hours. 
Brush and scour them well. Put them in a saucepan, put three quarts 
of water to them, add a bunch of sweet herbs, thirty or forty black 
peppers, twenty Jamaica, three blades of mace, an onion, and a crust 
of bread toasted brown, and put them on a hot hearth, closely covered. 
Let them simmer five hours very gently; then strain it ofi", and put it 
in a cool place. It may have the addition of a pound of beef, if ap- 
proved, for flavour. This is a very good thing for people who are 
weakly. 

667. Tapioca Jelly. — Choose the largest sort. Pour cold water 
on, and wash it two or three times ; then soak it in fresh water five 
or six hours, and simmer it until it becomes quite clear. Add wine, 
lemon juice, and sugar. Boil the peel of the lemon in it. It thickens 
very much. 

667. Posset. — This is more potent than whey, and in which the 
curd is not separated. Either ale or wine will turn it. Put on the 
fire, in a kettle, a quart of new milk, with a stick of cinnamon; cut a 
slice of bread ; as the milk boils, lay it at the top, and let it boil a mi- 
nute or two ; then put it aside to soften. Put a pint of very strong 
ale, with sugar and nutmeg, or white wine. Boil up the milk again, 
take the bread out with a slice, and lay on the ale or wine; then very 
gently pour over the boiling milk, and let it stand until the head rises 
like that of a syllabub. Then serve. A richer posset may be made 
by substituting Naples biscuits for bread. A brandy posset is a quart 
of rich custard poured over a glass and a half of brandy. 

668. Orgeat. — Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon. 
Put to it two ounces of loaf-sugar, and let it cool. Blanch and beat 
to a paste, with a little rose water, three ounces of sweet almonds, 
and two dozen bitter. Stir them to the milk; boil it up again, and 
continue stirring till cold. Then add half a glass of brandy. 

669. Orange Marmalade. — Seville oranges are in perfection about 



168 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

the end of March and beginning of April, at which time marmalade 
should be made. Allow Two ponnds of sug-ar to each pound of Seville 
oranges; grate the oranges lightly, and slice them down with a very 
sharp knife, as thin as possible, and straight through. Nothing must 
be kept out but tiie seeds. Clarify the sugar, put the fruit in, and 
boil it slowly for at least an hour, until the chips are perfectly tender 
and clear, and it will jelly ; a little of the grate may be put in, if 
approved; the rest is good seasoning for puddings. 

670. Fruit Jelly. — Put tfie fruit, carefully picked, into a stone jar; 
cover close; set it in a kettle of cold water, which reaches not more 
than three parts the height of the jar. Let it boil half an hour (more 
or less, according to the nature of the fruit; black currants are much 
longer running to juice than either red currants or raspberries). 
Strain through a jelly-bag or lawn strainer; or the juice may be 
strained more quickly, by setting on the fruit in a preservino- pan, and 
carefully stirring round the sides as it begins to heat, that it may not 
burn ; strain through a jelly-bag or lawn strainer. To every pint of 
juice allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Set on the juice over a clear fire; 
when it boils, put in the sugar. When it has boiled some time, and 
the scum thickens and gathers together, skim it on to a sieve, and 
continue to do so while the scum rises; what runs from it may be 
returned to the rest. When it has boiled forty minutes, try a few 
drops, by putting on a plate in a cool place. If this become stiff 
almost immediately, the jelly is done enough. If not, it must be 
boiled till it will. The jelly may then be strained through a hair 
sieve, but if it have been properly skimmed this is not nect\-=sary, and 
it is a great waste. The best way is to pour it into a spouttd jug that 
will contain the whole, and then into small jelly pots or glasses. Be 
very careful not to pour aside, or smear the edges, as an accident of 
this sort, however carefully wiped away, renders the jelly apt to turn 
mouldy. White currant jelly should be strained through a muslin or 
lawn sieve. 



PRESERVES. 

671. Jams. — In making jam of very ripe juicy fruit, a portion of 
jelly may be taken from it which will improve the jam, taking care 
to have sufficient syrup to jelly round the fruit. Each quart of fruit 
and two pounds of sugar will admit the removal of half a pint of jelly 
without injury. 

Strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, and currants: put an 
equal weight of loaf-sugar and fruit; put the fruit in a preserving 
pan ; bruise it a little and put it on the stove ; stir it carefully to keep 
it from sticking to the bottom and sides of the pan. Let it boil before 
adding the sugar, and if there is plenty of juice from the fruit, so that 
there is no danger of it burning, let it boil a quarter of an hour before 
adding the sugar; it must boil half an hour afterwards. Skim on to 
a sieve, and add that which runs through to it. Try the stiffness of 
the jelly by putting a little on a plate and setting it in a cool place ; 



PRESERVES. 169 

if it becomes stiff when quite cold, it has boiled sufficiently; if not 
stiff, boil it until it is. 

The scarlet or mulberry strawberries are the best for preservino-; 
they must be quite ripe and dry : to three pints of strawberries allmv 
halfapintof red currant jelly. For gooseberry jam, take the small 
dark hairy sort named Crystal, or a large bright hairy sort called the 
Warrington. Smooth gooseberries do not do well in preserving-. 

Lisbon sugar answers very well when the jam is wanted for im- 
mediate use, and in large families where it is much used. Put six 
pounds of Lisbon sugar to seven of fruit. Gooseberries and black 
currants should be boiled an hour; if not stiff in that time, boil it 
longer, 

672. Cherries. — To preserve cherries without boiling, take fine 
ripe Morello cherries; cut the stalks an inch from the fruit, and put 
them into wide-mouthed bottles; when full, put powdered loaf-sugar 
over the top, and pour in a little brandy. Cork and cement, or tie 
over with leather and bladder. They will keep all the winter 
through, and do very well for desserts. 

673. To bottle Damsons or Gooseberries. — Damsons should have 
attained their dark colour, but not be ripe. Be careful not to bruise 
them. Fill wide-mouthed bottles: shake them down so that you may 
get as many in as possible. To each bottle put a wine g-lass of good 
home-made wine, either ginger or raisin ; no other sort is good. Tie 
them over with bladders, and put them to stand in a large pot with 
cold water to reach the necks of the bottles; put a fire under the pot, 
and let the water boil ; when the bladders begin to rise and puff, prick 
them with a pin. As soon as the water boils remove the fire, and let 
the bottles remain there until they are quite cold. Next day remove 
the bladders, and put over the top a thick layer of powdered loaf- 
sug-ar and a spoonful of brandy; then cork them tight, and seal or 
cement them. 

674. Gooseberries. — The same rules do for gooseberries, but they 
should be full grown, and gathered when green. 

675. Currants. — Currants full grown, but not turned, may be pre- 
served in the same way ; cut the stalks off' with scissors. 

676. To keep Codlins several months. — Gather codlins at Midsum- 
mer of a middling- size; put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling 
water over, and cover the pan with cabbage leaves; keep them by 
the fire till they would peel, but do not peel them ; then pour the 
water off till both are quite cold. Place the codlins in a stone jar 
with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scalded them. 
Cover the pot with bladder, and tie very close, and then cover it with 
coarse paper again. It is best to keep them in sm-all pots, such as 
will be used at once when opened. 

677. To preserve Apricots in jelly. — Pare the fruit very thin and 
stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder and strew 
over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear; move them 
into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the 
liquor to a quart of codlin liquor made by boiling and straining, nnd a 

14* 



1 70 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit 
into it, and give one boil ; skirn well and put into small pots. 

678. Avery nice preserve of Apricots. — Choose the finest apricots 
when quite ripe; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them; lay 
them in halves on dishes, with the hollow parts upwards; have an 
equal weight of good loaf-suo-ar finely pounded, and strew it over 
them; break the stones, and blanch the kernels; when the fruit has 
lain twelve hours, put it with the sugar and juice, also the kernels, 
into a preserving pan ; let it simmer very gently till clear, then take 
out the pieces of apricots singly ; put them into small pots, and pour 
the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off" as it 
rises. Cover with brandy paper. 

Greengages and egg-plums may be preserved in the same way. 

679. Dried Apricots. — Proceed as above, but instead of pouring 
the syrup over them after the last boil, drain them close, strew over 
sifted sugar to cover them, and dry them on a wire sieve on a stove, 
or in a slow oven ; they must be turned several times, but ought not 
to be cold till quite dry. 

689. Apricots or Peaches in brandy. — Wipe and weigh the fruit, 
and take a quarter of the weight of fine powdered sugar; put the fruit 
into an ice-pot that shuts very close, throw the sugar over it, and 
then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the 
pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of 
water till the brandy be as hot as ynu can possibly bear to put your 
finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the 
brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. 

631. Apricot Jam. — Divide fine apricots that have become yellow, 
but are not over ripe; lay the hollow part uppermost on china dishes, 
and strew over twelve ounces of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit; 
let it lie until it becomes moist, then boil it twenty minutes, stirring 
it well. Blanch the kernels, and boil with the jam. 

682. To preserve Ginger. — If your ginger can be had green, it is 
best. Pare it nicely with a sharp knife, and throw it into cold water 
as you pare it, to preserve the whiteness. If fresh ginger cannot be 
procured, have the finest large white races of Jamaica ginger. Boil 
it several times in water till tender, then pare and proceed as above; 
set on the ginger in cold water and boil it. Pour off the liquor, and 
put cold water; then boil it up again. Do this a third time, till the 
ginger is tender, then throw it into cold water; when quite cold, 
drain the ginger and put into a china bowl. Clarify sugar for pre- 
serving it, in the proportion of eight pounds of sugar to seven of gin- 
ger. Let the suirar become cold, then pour over the ginger enough 
to cover it. Let it stand two days, then strain the syrup from the 
ginger and boil it with the remainder of the sugar; let them boil 
together twenty minutes or half an hour. When cold, again pour it 
over the ginger, and let it stand three or four days; by this time the 
ginger will have finely swollen. Then strain the syrup, boil it up, 
and pour it hot over the ginger. If the ginger is well swollen, and 
the syrup quite rich, nothing more is necessary; but if not, boil it 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 171 

again at the interval of three or four days. Wide-mouthed bottles 
are best for keeping it. Divide the syrup to each; cork and seal, or 
dip in bottle cement. 

693. Cherries in brandy. — Weit^h the finest Morellos, having- cut 
off half the stalk; prick them with a new needle, and drop them into 
a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three-quarters of the weight of 
sugar or white candy; strev^, fill up wiih brandy, and tie a bladder 
over them. 

634. Damson Cheese. — It is sometimes made with the whole skins 
and pulp of the fruit, sometimes with the pulp only. In either case 
the fruit is first to be baked or boiled in a stone jar till it is tender, 
and the stones will separate. If the skins are to be used, merely take 
out the stones with a spoon, then measure it into the preserving pan. 
If the skins are objected to, rub it through a very coarse sieve, that 
so they may be retained with the stones. Having measured the fruit, 
set it over a clear brisk fire, and let it boil Ojuick till the liquid has 
evaporated and the fruit becomes quite dry; then add loaf-sugar 
powdered, in the proportion of half a pound to a quart of fruit, and let 
it go on boiling till tlie jam candies to the sides of the pan. The 
stones should be cracked, and the kernels skinned and boiled in the 
jam; this o-ives it a very pretty appearance, but some people object 
to it. It should be put out in shallow vessels, such as potting jars, 
saucers, and so forth, and turned out when brought to table. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

In preparing meat for the table, and in laying out the table, refer- 
ence ought to be had to the carving department — a very onerous one 
to all, and to many a very disagreeable one. The carving knife of 
course ought to bo sharp, and if to be used by a lady, in particular, 
light and handy; dexterity and address in the manner of using it 
being more required than strength, either in the knife or the carver. 
When a lady presides, a seat sufficiently high for her to have a com- 
plete command over the joints should be provided, and the dish should 
be sufficiently deep and capacious, so as not to endanger the splash- 
ing of the gravy. It should also be placed as near to the carver as 
possible, leaving room for his or lier plate. A knife with a long 
blade is required for a large fleshy joint; for ham or bacon a middling 
sized, sharp-pointed one is preferable, and for poultry or game a short 
knife and sharp-pointed is best. Some like this knife a little curved. 
We do not presume to give any directions as respects the serving of 
the guests; no one it is presumed would take the head of the table 
not acquainted with the common rules of politeness, which principally 
consist in endeavouring to please everybody. 

685. Fish. — As fish is the first thing to be carved, or served, we 
shall first speak of it. In helping fivsh, take care not to break the flakes, 
which in cod and fine fresh salmon, and some other sorts, are large. 
A fish trowel is necessary, not to say indispensable, in serving many 
kinds of fish, particularly the larger sort. 



]72 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

686. Turbot, <^c. — The trowel is to be carried flatways from the 
middle of the fish, and the carver should bring out as much meat as 
will lie upon it. The thick part is the best, and of course most es- 
teemed. When one side is cleared, the bones ought to be taken 
away — which done, serve the under part. The meat on the fins is 
considered by some a great delicacy. Halibuts, plaice, and other 
large fish, are served in a similar way. 

687. A Cod's Head and Shoulders, perhaps, require more atten 
tiou in serving than any other. It is, too, considered a handsome 
dish. In carving, introduce the trowel along the back, and take off a 
piece quite down to the bone, taking care not to break the flakes. Put 
in a spoon and take out the sound, a jelly-like substance, which lies 
inside the back-bone. A part of this should be served with every 
slice offish. The bones and glutinous parts of a cod's head are much 
liked by most people, and are very nourishing. 

688. Salmon — Cut slices along the back-bone, and also along the 
flank. The flank or thin part is the best and richest, and is preferred 
by all accomplished gourmands. The back is the most solid and thick. 
The tail of salmon is not so fine as the other parts. The head is 
seldom used. The liver, melt, and roe, are generally served, but 
seldom eaten. 

689. Soles are easily carved. You have only to cut through the 
middle part of the fish, bone and all, and subdivide and serve accord- 
ing to the size of fish. The thick parts are best ; the roes when well 
done are very nice. 

690. Mackerel. — The trowel should be carried under the meat, 
horizontally over the back-bone, so as to raise one side of the meat 
from the bone. Remove the bone, and serve the other side of the fish. 
When fresh, well cleaned, and well done, the upper end is considered 
the best. The roes are much liked. 

691. Eels, Whiting Jack, <^c., when intended to be fried, are pre- 
viously cut in pieces of a suitable size for serving. When they are 
boiled, cut through them in the same way as soles. Large jacks will 
admit of slices being taken ofi" with a trowel without the bones. Small 
fish are served whole. 

692. Aitch Bone of Beef.— Cut a slice an inch thick all through. 
Put this by, and serve in slices from the remainder. Some persons, 
however, like outside, and others take off" a thinner slice before serv- 
ing, for the sake of economy. The rich, delicious, soft fat, which re- 
sembles marrow, lies at the back of the bone : the firm fat is cut in 
horizontal slices at the edge of the meat. Some prefer one and some 
the other. The skewer used to keep the meat together when boiling, 
should be taken out before coming to the table, and, if necessary, be 
replaced by a silver one. 

693. A Round, or Buttock, and thick Flank of Beef, are carved 
in horizontal slices, that is, in slices from the top. Pare and neatly 
cut all round. Some prefer the silver side. 

694. A Brishet of Beef is cut lengthways, right down to the bone. 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 178 

The soft mellow fat is found underneath. The upper part is firm, but 
gristly; if well done, they are equally good to our taste. 

.695. Sirloin of Beef, the glory of the dinner-table, may be com- 
menced carving, either by beginning at the end, and cutting slices 
along the bones, or across the middle ; but this latter mode wi 
drain the gravy from the remainder. The inside is very juicy and 
tender, but the outside is frequently preferred. The inside fat is rich 
and marrowy, and is considered too much so by many. The inside 
of a sirloin is frequently dressed (in various ways) separately. 

696. Fillet of Veal is the corresponding part to the round in an ox, 
and is cut in the same way. If the outside brown be not desired, 
serve the next slice. Cut deep into the stuffing, and help a thin slice, 
as likewise of fat. A fillet of veal should be cut very smooth and 
thin. 

697. Breast of Veal answers to the brisket of an ox. It should be 
cracked lengthways, across the middle of the bones, to divide the 
thick gristly part from the ribs. There is a great difference in these 
parts ; and as some prefer the one, and some the other, the best way 
is to ask to which the preference is to be given. The burr, or sweet- 
meat, is much liked, and a part should be served with each slice. 

698. Necks and Loins of all sorts of meat, if properly jointed by 
the butcher, require only to be cut through ; but when the joints are 
too thick for one, cut a slice between each, that is, cut one slice with- 
out bone, and another with. Some prefer one, and some the other. 

699. Calf's Head affords a great variety of excellent meat, differ- 
ing in texture and flavour, and therefore requires a judicious and 
skilful carver properly to divide it. Cut slices longways under the 
eye, taking care that the knife goes close to the bone. The throat 
sweetbread, or kernel, lies in the fleshy part, at the neck end, which 
you should help a slice of with the other part. The eyes are con- 
sidered great delicacies by some. They should be taken out with 
the point of your knife, and each cut into two. A piece of the palate 
(which lies under the head), a slice of the tongue, with a portion o^ 
the brains, should be given to each guest. On drawing out the jaw- 
bone, some delicious lean will be found. The heads of oxen, sheep, 
lambs, &c., are cut in the same way as those of calves. 

700. A Leg of Mutton, cf-c— Begin to cut in the midway, between 
the knuckle and farther end. The slices should be thin and deep. If 
the outside is not fat enough, cut some from the fat on the broad end, 
in slices. Many prefer the knuckle, or venison bit, to the middle 
part; the latter is the most juicy — the former, iri good, well-done 
mutton, is gelatinous and delicately tender. There is some good meat 
on the back of the leg, or aitch bone ; this should be cut lengthways. 
It is, however, seldom carved when hot. To cut out the cramp bone, 
take hold of the shank in your left hand, and steadily cut down to the 
thigh bone; then pass the knife under the cramp bone. Legs of 
lamb and poik are cut in the same way, 

701. A Saddle, or Collar of Mutton, sometimes called the chine, 
should be cut lengthways, in long slices, beginning close to the back- 



174 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

bone, and thus leaving the ribs bare. The fat is taken from the outer 
ends. The inside of the loin is very tender, and in the opinion of 
some gourmands is preferred to the upper part. It is best, perhaps, 
to cut the inside lengthways. 

702. Shoulder of Mutton. — To carve this joint (which when pro- 
perly dressed is very fine eating) economically for a very small family, 
the best way is to cut away the underneath part when hot, and if any 
more is required, to take it from the knuckle. This plan leaves all 
the gravy in the upper part, which is very nice when cold. The 
usual way, however, of carving a shoulder of mutton, is to cut slices 
deep to the bone, in the hollow part. The prime part of the fat lies 
on the outer edge, and is to be cut in thin slices. Some good delicate 
slices of lean may be taken from each side of the ridge of the blade- 
bone. No slices can be cat across the edge of the blade-bone. 

703. Haunch of Venison or Mutton. — Cut down to the bone in 
circular slices at the narrow end, to let out the gravy. You may 
then turn the broad end of the haunch towards you ; insert the knife 
in the middle of the cut, and cut thin deep slices lengthways to the 
broad end of the haunch. The fat of venison is much esteemed ; 
those who help should take care properly to apportion both the fat 
and gravy. 

704. Fore-quarter of Lamb. — Separate the shoulder from the 
scovel, or breast and ribs, by passing the knife under it (the shoulder). 
The shoulder of grass lamb, which is generally pretty large, should 
have a little lemon or Seville orange juice, squeezed over it, and be 
sprinkled with a little pepper and salt, and then placed upon another 
dish. If the lamb be small, it is usual to replace the shoulder. The 
breast and ribs should be cracked across by the butcher, and be 
divided. Help either from that, the ribs, or shoulder, according to 
choice. 

705. Ham. — The most economical way of cutting a ham, which is 
seldom or never eaten at one meal, is to begin to cut at the knuckle 
end, and proceed onwards. The usual way, however, is to begin at 
the middle, and cut in long slices through the thick fat. By this 
means you come at once to the prime, but you let out the gravy. 
Another plan is to cut a small hole on the top of the ham, and with 
a very sharp knife enlarge the hole, by cutting thin cirmlar slices. 
In this latter way you preserve the gravy, and of course keep the 
meat moist to be eaten when cold, 

706. Tongue. — This much-esteemed relish, which oftpn supplies 
the place of ham, should be cut in thin slices across, beginning at the 
thick middle part. Serve slices of fat and kernel from the root. 

707. A Sucking Pig is generally slit down the middle in the 
kitchen, and the cook garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. 
Separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then do the 
same thing with the leg. Divide the ribs, which are frequently con- 
sidered the most choice part, into two or three helpings, presenting 
an ear or jaw with them as far as they will go, and plenty of sauce. 
Some persons prefer the leg, because not so rich and luscious as the 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 175 

ribs. The neck end between the shoulders is also sometimes pre- 
ferred. The joints may be divided into two each, or pieces may be 
cut from them. 

708. A Fowl. — The legs of a boiled fowl are always bent inwards, 
and tucked into the belly, but before it is put upon the table, the 
skewers by which they are secured ought to be removed. The fowl 
should be laid on the carver's plate, and the joints as they are cut off 
placed on the dish. In taking off the wing, the joint only must be 
divided with the knife, for, by lifting up the pinion of the wing with 
the fork, and then drawing it towards the legs, the muscles will se- 
parate in a much better form than you can effect by cutting with a 
knife. Next place the knife between the leg and body, and cut to 
the bone ; turn the leg back with the fork, and the joint will give way, 
if the fowl be young and well done. The merrythought is taken 
out when the legs and wings are all removed ; the neck-bones are 
taken off by putting in the knife, and pressing it under the long broad 
part of the bone, then lift the neck-bone up and break it off from the 
part that sticks to the breast. The breast itself has now to be 
divided from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close 
to the breast, quite down to the tail ; then lay the back upw^ards, 
put your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to the rump, 
and on raising the lower end it will readily separate. The last 
tning to be done is to turn the rump from you, and neatly to take off 
the two sidesmen. Each part should be neatly arranged on the dish, 
but it is almost impossible to give effectual written descriptions for 
carving fowls; the best plan is to observe carefully a good carver, and 
th'-fl, by a little practice, you will become perfect. The breast and 
the wings are considered the best parts. 

709. A Pheasant. — Take out the skewers; fix your fork in the 
centre of the breast, slice it down; remove the leg by cutting in the 
sideway direction, then take off the wing, taking care to miss the neck- 
bone. When the legs and wings are all taken off, cut off slices of 
the breast. The merrythought is separated by passing the knife 
under it towards the neck; the other parts are cut as before directed 
in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the favourites, 
particularly the former, but the leg has a higher flavour. 

710. Partridges and Pigeons. — Partridges are carved like fowls, 
but the breast and wings are not often divided, the bird being small. 
The wing is the primelait, particularly the tip; the other choice parts 
are the breast and merrythought. Pigeons may be cut in two, either 
from one end to the other of the bird, or across. 

711. Goose or Duck.— Cui off the apron of the goose and pour into 
the body a large spoonful of gravy, which should be mixed with the 
stuffing. Some persons put, instead of the gravy, a glass of port wine, 
in which a large tea-spoonful of mustard has been previously stirred. 
Cut as many slices from the breast as possible, and serve with a por- 
tion of the apron to each plate. When the breast is all served, and 
not till then, cut off the joints ; but observe, the joints of water-fowl 
are wider spread and go farther back than those of land-fowl. 



1 76 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

712. A Turkey should not be divided till the breast is disposed of; 
but if it be thought proper to divide, the same process must be fol- 
lowed as directed in a fowl. The following is the best mode of serving 
this delicious bird : Beg'in cutting- close to the breast-bone, scooping 
round so as to leave the mere pinions. Each slice should carry with 
it a portion of the pudding, or force meat, with which the craw is 
stuffed. 

713. Hnre. — Put the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut 
all the wa\' down to the rump, on the side of the back-bone. By doing 
the same on the other side, the hare will be divided into three parts. 
The back should be cut into four parts: the shoulder must be taken 
otf in a circular line. The pieces as they are cut should be neatly 
placed on ihe dish ; in helping, some pudding and gravy should be 
given to each person. The above mode of carving is only applicable 
to a young hare; when the hare is old, it is not practicable to divide 
it down, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a lit- 
tle turn inwards at the joints, which you must endeavour to hit, and 
then cut, and with the fork turn it completely back. When both legs 
are taken off, you will find a fine collop on each side of the back, 
which back you may divide into as many pieces as are necessary. 
Take off the shoulders, which some persons are very fond of, and 
which are called the sportsman's pieces; but the legs and back 
are considered the prime. When all the guests are served, it is usual 
to take off the head, and by putting the knife between the upper and 
lower jaw, you may divide them; then lay the upper flat upon your 
plate, put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into 
two; you will thus get at the brains, which may be served with the 
ears and tail to those who like them. Some persons direct the carver 
to serve with slices, as much as possible, off the sides of the back-bone, 
from the shoulder to the rump. 

714. Rabbits are generally cut up in the same way as hares. The 
back and legs are considered the best parts. The back should be cut 
into two pieces. 

GARNISHES. 

Parsley is the most universal garnish to all kinds of cold meat, 
poultry, fish, butter, cheese, and so forth. Horse-radish is the garnish 
for roast beef, and for fish in general ; for the latter, slices of lemon 
are sometimes laid alternately with heaps of horse-radish. 

Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, turkey, and fish, and for roast veal 
and calfs head. 

Carrot in slices for boiled beef, hot or cold. 

Barberries fresh or preserved for game. 

Red beet-root sliced for cold meat, boiled beef, and salt fish. 

Fried smelts as garnish for turbot. 

Fried sausages or force meat balls round roast turkey, capon, or 
fowl. 

Lobster coral and parsley round boiled fish. 



SETTING OUT A TABLE. 177 

Fennel for mackerel and salmon, either fresh or pickled. 

Currant jelly for game, also for custard or bread pudding. 

Seville orange in slices for wild ducks, widgeons, teal and so forth. 

Mint, either with or without parsley, for roast lamb, either hot or 
cold. 

Pickled gherkins, capers, or onions, for some k\iids of boiled meat 
and stews. 

SETTING OUT A TABLE. 

A prudent housekeeper, in providing for a family, or for company, 
will endeavour to secure variety, and avoid extravagance, taking care 
not to have two dishes alike, or nearly alike, such as ducks and pork, 
veal and fowls ; and avoiding, when several sorts are required, to have 
such things as cannot be eaten cold, or cannot be warmed or re-cooked. 
There is a great waste occasioned if these principles are overlooked 
in providing for a party. When a table is to be set out, it is usual 
to place nearly the whole provisions at once ; but if comfort is the 
f bject, it is better to have each dish and its accompanying sauces and 
vegetables sent in separately, hot from the kitchen. 

For plain family dinners, soup or pudding is placed at the head of 
the table, and meat at the lower end ; vegetables on each side of the 
middle, and sauce boats in the middle. Boiled meat at the top; roast 
meat at bottom ; soup in the middle; then the vegetables and sauce 
boats at cross corners of the middle dish. Poultry or mutton at bot- 
tom ; boiled poultry at top; roast poultry, or game, at bottom ; vege- 
tables and sauces so disposed as to give the appearance of the whole 
table being covered without being crowded. 

When there are several courses, the first consists of soups, stews, 
boiled fish, fricassees; poultry with ham, bacon, tongue, or chine; 
and roast or boiled meat. 

For second courses, birds and game of all sorts, fish fried, pickled, 
or potted ; pigeon pies, patties, brawn, omelets, oysters stewed or 
scolloped, and lobsters or crabs. Tarts, cheesecakes, and sweet dishes 
of all kinds, are sometimes placed with the second course, but more 
frequently form separate courses by themselves. 

The dessert is usually served in another room, which is a great ac- 
commodation both to the servants, who can prepare it at leisure, and 
to the guests in quitting the smell of a hot dinner. A d'oyley, a 
finger glass, two wine glasses, a china dessert plate, and silver knife 
and fork, and spoon, to each person. Every variety of fruit, fresh and 
preserved, is admissible ; and biscuits, and pound-cake, with an 
epergne or stand of jellies in the middle. Varieties of wine are 
generally placed at each end. 

The modern practice of dining late has added importance to the 
luncheon, and almost annihilated the supper meal. The following 
are suitable for either: soups, sandwiches of ham, tongue, dried 
sausage, or beef; anchovy, toast or husks; potted beef, lobster, or 
cheese; dried salmon, lobsters, crayfish or oysters, poached eggs; 
15 



178 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

patties; pigeon pies; sausages; toast with marrow (served on a 
water plate), ciieesecakes; puffs, mashed or scolloped potatoes, brocoli; 
asparagus, sea-kale with toast, creams, jellies, preserved or dried 
fruits, salad, radishes, &c. If a more substantial supper is required, 
it may consist of fish, poultry, game; slices of cold meat, pies of 
chickens, pigeons, or game ; lamb or mutton chops, cold poultry, 
broiled with high seasoning, or fricasseed; rations or toasted cheese. 

MADE WINES, &c.— GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING 

715. The best method of making these wines is to boil the ingre- 
dients, and ferment with yeast. Boiling makes the wine more soft 
and mellow. Some, however, mix the juice, or juice and fruit, with 
sugar and water unboiled, and leave the ingredients to ferment spon- 
taneously. Your fruit should always be prime, and gathered dry, and 
picked clean from stalks, &,c. The lees of wine are valuable for dis- 
tillation, or making vinegar. When wine is put in the cask the fer- 
mentation will be renewed. Clear away the yeast as it rises, and fill 
up with wine, for which purpose a small quantity should be reserved. 
If brandy is to be added, it must be when the fermentation has nearly 
subsided, that is, when no more yeast is thrown up at the bung-hole, 
and when the hissing noise within is not very perceptible: then mix a 
quart of brandy with a pound of honey ; pour into the cask, and paste 
stiff brown paper over the bung-hole. Allow no hole for a vent peg, 
lest it should once be forgotten, and the whole cask of wine be spoiled. 
If the wine wants vent, it will be sure to burst the paper; if not, the 
paper will sufficiently exclude all air. Once a week or so, it must 
be looked to ; if the paper is burst renew it, and continue to do so till 
it remains clear and dry. A great difference of opinion prevails as to 
racking the wine, or suffering it to remain on the lees. Those who 
adopt the former plan do it at the end of six months; draw off the 
wine perfectly clear, and put it into a fresh cask, in which it is to re- 
main six months, and then be bottled. If this plan is adopted, it may 
be better, instead of putting the brandy and honey in the first cask, 
to put it in that in which the wine is to be racked ; but on the whole 
it is, perhaps, preferable to leave the wine a year in the first cask, 
and then bottle it at once. All domestic wines improve more in the 
cask than in the bottle. Have very nice clear and dry bottles; do 
not fill them too high. Good soft corks, made supple by soaking in a 
little of the wine ; press them in, but do not knock. Keep the bottles 
lying in saw-dust. This plan will apply equally well to raspberries, 
cherries, mulberries, and all kinds of ripe summer fruits, 

716. Ginger Wi7ie. — To make eighteen gallons of wine — twenty 
gallons of water, fifty pounds of loaf-sugar, two and a half pounds of 
bruised ginger, hops a quarter of a pound, the shaved rinds of eighteen 
lemons or Seville oranges; let these boil together for two hours, care- 
fully skimming. Pour it, without straining, on to seven pounds of 
raisins: when cool put in the juice of the lemons or oranges; rmse 
the pulp in a pint or two of the wine, and strain it to the rest. Fer 



MADE WINES, &C. 179 

rnenl it with yeast; mix a quarter of a pint of solid yeast with a pint 
or two of the wine, and with that work the rest; next day tun it, 
raisins, hops, ging-er and all together, and fill it up for a fortnight 
either with wine or with good new beer; then dissolve three ounces 
of isinglass in a little of the wine, and return it to the rest to fine it: 
a few days afterwards bung it close. This wine will be in full per- 
fection in six months. It may be bottled, but is apt to fly ; and if 
made exactly by the above directions, and drawn from the cask, it 
will sparkle like champaign. 

717. Mead, Metheglin, or Honey Wtne. — Boil honey in water for 
an hour: the proportion is from three to four [rounds to each gallon : 
half an ounce of hops will both refine and preserve it, but is not com- 
monly added: skim carefully, draining the skimmings through a hair 
sieve, and return what runs through. When a proper coolness, stir 
in yeast; a tea-cup full of solid yeast will serve for nine gallons. Tun 
it, and let it work over, filling it up till the fermentation subsides. 
Paste over brown paper, and watch it (see No. 725). Rich mead 
will keep seven years, and afford a brisk, nourishing, and pleasant 
drink. Some people like to add the thinly shaved rind of a lemon to 
each gallon while boiling, and put the fruit, free from pith, into the 
tub. Others flavour it with spices and sweet herbs, and mix it with 
new beer or sweet wort : it is then called Welsh Braggart. 

718. Parsnip Wine. — To make a kilderkin: Set on double the 
quantity of water, and for every gallon of water allow four pounds of 
parsnips cleaned and sliced. When the water boils, put in the par- 
snips, and boil till they are perfectly tender ; drain through a sieve or 
colander without pressing; immediately return it to the copper with 
fifty-six pounds of loaf-sugar ; it will soon boil, being already hot, and 
what drips from the sieve may be added afterwards ; six ounces of 
hops, and boil it two hours. Ferment with yeast ; let it stand four 
days to work in a warm place; then tun and paste paper over. It is 
most likely it will work up and burst the paper, which must be re- 
newed. It may be cleared with isinglass, but will not require any 
brandy. 

719. Malt Wine, or English Sherry. — For an eighteen-gallon 
cask allow fifty-six pounds of good moist sugar, and sixteen gallons 
of water; boil them together two hours, carefully skimming. When 
the scum is all removed, and the liquor looks clear, add a quarter of a 
pound of hops, which should boil a quarter of an hour or twenty 
minutes. W^hen the liquor is quite cool add to it five gallons of 
strong beer in the height of working : cover up, and let it work forty- 
eight hours; then skim and tun. If none remains for filling up, use 
new beer for that purpose. This method may be adopted with all 
boiled wines, and will be found to improve their strength, and promote 
their keeping. In a fortnight or three weeks, when the head begins 
to sink, add raisins (free from stalks) ten pounds, sugar-candy and 
bitter almonds of each half a pound, and a pint of the best brandy: 
brown paper as in former articles. It may be bottled in one year 



180 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

lut if left three years in the wood, and then bottled, it will be found 
equal in strength and flavour to foreign wine. 

720. Orange or Lemon Wine, boiled. — (For quantity of fruit, see 
No. 726.) To make eighteen gallons, twenty gallons of water, fifty- 
six pounds of loaf-sugar, the whites and shells of a dozen eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of hops; boil together the sugar, water, and eggs; 
when it has boiled an hour, and become quite clear, add the hops and 
the thinly shaved rinds of two or three dozen of the fruit — more or 
less, according as the bitter flavour is desired. Let it boil, in all, two 
hours: meanwhile, remove all the peel and white pith of the fruit, 
and squeeze the juice. Pour a gallon or two of the hot liquor on the 
pulp; stir it well about, and, when cool, strain to the rest, and add 
the juice. (N. B. Some people strain off the hops, rind, and eggs ; 
others prefer their remaining: it is by no means important which 
mode is adopted.) Work it with yeast, as the foregoing article, and 
refine with isinglass dissolved in a quart of brandy. This wine should 
be one year in wood, and one in bottles, when it will be found ex- 
cellent. 

721. Grape Wine. — The larger the proportion of juice, and the 
less of water, the nearer it will approach to the strength and richness 
of foreign wine. There ought not to be less than one-third of pure 
juice. Squeeze the grapes in a hair sieve, bruising them with the 
hand rather than any heavier press, as it is better not to crush the 
stones. Soak the pulp in water until a sufficient quantity is obtained 
to fill up the cask. As loaf-sugar is to be used for this wine, and it is 
not easily dissolved in cold liquid, the best plan is to pour over the 
sugar (three pounds in every gallon required) as much boiling water 
as will dissolve it, and stir till it is dissolved. When cold put it in 
the cask with the juice, fill up from water in which the pulp has been 
steeped. To each gallon of wine put half an ounce of bitter almonds, 
not blanched, but cut small. The fermentation will not be very great. 
When it subsides, proceed with the brandy and papering as 726. 

722. Raisin Wine. — There are various modes of preparing this 
wine, which is, perhaps, when well made, the best of our domestic 
wines. The following receipts are considered good: — For raisin 
wine, without sugar, put to every gallon of soft water eight pounds 
of fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins : let them steep a month, stirring 
every day; then drain the liquor and put it into the cask, filling up as 
it works over: this it will do for two months. When the hissing has 
in a grea? measure subsided, add brandy and honey, and paper as the 
former articles. This wine should remain three years untouched ; it 
may then be drunk from the cask, or bottled, and will be found excel- 
lent. Raisin wine is sometimes made in large quantities, by merely 
putting the raisins in the cask, and filling it up with water: the pro- 
portion as above: carefully pick out all stalks. In six months rack 
the wine into fresh casks, and put to each the proportion of brandy 
and honey. In cider countries, and plentiful apple years, a most ex- 
cellent raisin wine is made by employing cider instead of water, and 



MADE WINES, &C. 181 

Bleeping in it the raisins. Proceed in every respect as in the last, 
article. 

723. Raisin Wine with Sugar. — To every gallon of soft water 
four pounds of fresh raisins; put them in a large tub; stir frequently, 
and keep it covered with a sack or blanket. In about a fortnight the 
fermentation will begin to subside: this may be known by the raisins 
remaining still. Then press the fruit and strain the liquor. Have 
ready a wine cask, perfectly dry and Vv'arm, allowing for each gallon 
one pound or one pound and a half Lisbon sugar; put this into the 
cask with the strained liquor: u'hen half full, stir well the sugar and 
liquor, and put in half a pint of thick yeast; then fill up with the 
liquor, and continue to do so while the fermentation lasts, which will 
be a month or more. Proceed with brandy, &c., as in the foregoing 
articles. 

724. Raisin Wine, in imitation of Frontignac. — For every gallon 
of wine required, allow two pounds of raisins; boil them one hour in 
water; strain the boiling liquor on loaf-sugar, two pounds for every 
gallon; stir it well together: when cool put it in the cask with a 
moderate quantity of yeast (as last article). When the fermentation 
subsides, suspend in the cask a muslin bag containing elder flowers, 
in the proportion of a quart to three gallons of wine. When per- 
fectly clear, draw off the wine into bottles. 

725. Currant or Gooseberry Wine without boiling. — Suppose the 
cask to be filled is a kilderkin, to make it rich you should have fifty 
quarts of fruit, bruise it, and add to it half that quantity of water. Stir 
it well together, and let it stand twelve hours; then strain it through a 
coarse canvass bag or hair sieve to fifty-six pounds of good Lisbon su- 
gar, and stir it well. Put the pulp of the fruit into a gallon more wa- 
ter ; stir it about, and let it stand twelve hours. Then strain to the 
above, again stirring it; cover the tub with a sack. In a day or two 
the wine will begin to ferment. When the whole surface is covered 
with a thick yeasty froth, begin to skim it on to a sieve. What runs 
through may be returned to the wine. Do this from time to time for 
several days, till no more yeast forms. Then put it into the cask, 

726. Orange or Lemon Wine without boiling. — For an eighteen- 
gallon cask, half a chest of Seville oranges; they are most juicy in 
March. Shave the rinds of a dozen or two (more or less according as 
the bitter flavour is desired, or otherwise.) Pour over this a quart or 
two of boiling water: cover up, and let it stand twelve hours, then 
strain to the rest. Put into the cask fifty-six pounds of good Lisbon 
sugar. Clear ofl" all the peel and white pith from the oranges, and 
squeeze through a hair -sieve. Put the juice into the cask to the 
sugar. Wash the sieve and pulp with cold water, and let the pulp 
soak in the water twenty-four hours. Strain, and add to the last, con- 
tinually stirring it ; add more water to the pulp, let it soak, then strain 
and add. Continue to do so till the cask is full, often stirring it with 
a stick until all the sugar is dissolved. Then leave it to ferment. 
The fermentation will not be nearly so great as that of currant wine, 
but the hissing noise will be heard for some weeks ; when this sub- 

15* 



182 THE COMPLETE COOK. 

sides, add honey and brandy, and paste over with brown paper. This 
wine should remain in ihe cask a year before bottling. 

727. Cowslip or Clary Wine.— The best method of making these 
wines is to put in the pips dry, when the fermentation of the wine 
has subsided. This method is preferred for two reasons; first, 
it may be performed at any time of the year when lemons are cheap- 
est, and when other wine is making; secondly, ail waste of the pips 
is avoided ; being light they are sure to work over if put in the cask 
while the wine is in a state of fermentation. For a kilderkin boil fifty- 
six pounds of good moist sugar, with twenty gallons of water, and a 
quarter of a pound of hops ; shave thin the rinds of three dozen le- 
mons or Seville oranges, or part of each; they may be put in the boil 
the last quarter of a"n hour, or the boiling liquor poured over them ; 
squeeze the juice to be added when cool, and rinse the pulp in the 
hot liquor. Work with yeast as in the foregoing articles. In two 
days tun the liquor, and keep it filled up either with wine or new 
beer, as long as it works over; then paste brown paper, and leave it 
for four, sixror eight months. The quantity of flowers is one quart to 
each gallon of wine. Let them be gathered on a fine dry day, and 
carefully picked from every bit of stalk and green. Spread them 
thinly on trays, sheets, or papers, and turn them often. When tho- 
roughly dry, put them in paper bags until the wine is ready to receive 
them. Put them in at the bung-hole ; stir them down two or three 
times a day, till all the cowslips have sunk; at the same time add 
isinglass. Then paste over again with paper. In six months the 
wine will be fit to bottle, but will be improved by keeping longer in 
the cask; the pips shrink into a very small compass in drying; the 
quantity allowed is of fresh-gathered flowers. Observe also, that 
wine well boiled, and refined with hops and isinglass, is just as good 
used from the cask, as if bottled, which is a great saving of time and 
hazard. Wine made on the above principles has been often praised 
by connoisseurs, and supposed to have been bottled at least a year, 
which, in fact, had not been bottled half a day. 

728. Birch Wine. — The liquor of the birch tree is to be obtained 
in the month of March, when the sap begins to ascend. One foot 
from the ground bore a hole in each tree, large enough to admit a 
faucet, and set a vessel under; the liquor will run for two or three 
days without injuring the tree. Having obtained a sufficient quan- 
tity, stop the holes with pegs. To each gallon of liquor add a quart 
of honey, or two and a half pounds of sugar; boil together an hour, 
stirring it well ; a few cloves may bo added for flavour, or the rind of 
a lemon or two; and, by all means, two ounces of hops to nine gal- 
lons of wine. Work it with yeast; tun, and proceed as in former re- 
cipes : refine with isinglass. Two months after making, it may be 
drawn off" and bottled ; and in two months more will be fit for use, but 
will improve by keeping. 

729. Elder Wine. — The quantity of fruit required is one gallon of 
ripe elder-berries, and one quart of damsons or sloes, for every two 
gallons of wine to be protluced ; boil them in water till the damsons 



MADE WINES, <k C . 183 

burst, frequently breaking them with a flat stick ; then strain and re- 
turn the liquor to the copper. The quantity of liquor required for 
eighteen gallons of wine, will be twenty gallons: whatever, there- 
fore, the first liquor proves short of this, add water to the pulp; rub it 
about and strain to the rest: boil two hours with fifty-six pounds of 
coarse moist sugar; a pound and a half of ginger bruised, a pound of 
allspice, and two ounces of cinnamon, loosely tied in a muslin bag, 
and four or six ounces of hops. VVMien quite cool work on the fore- 
going plan, tun in two days, drop in the spice and suspend the bag by 
a string not long enough to let it touch the bottom of the cask : fill it up 
for a fortnight, then paste over stiff brown paper: it w-ill be fit to 
tap in two months; will keep for years, but does not improve by age 
like many other wines ; it is never better than in the first year of its 
age. 

730. Damson or Black Cherry Wine — may be made in the same 
manner, excepting the addition of spice, and that the sugar should be 
finer. If kept in an open vessel four days, these wines will ferment 
of themselves ; but it is better to forward the process by the use of a 
little yeast, as in former recipes : they will be fit for use in about eight 
months. As there is a flatness belonging to both these wines if bot- 
tled, a tea-spoonful of rice, a lump or two of sugar, or four or five rai- 
sins, will tend to enliven it. 

731. Cherry Brandy. — For this purpose use either morello cherries 
or small black cherries; pick them from the stalks; fill the bottles 
nearly up to the necks, then fill up with brandy (some people use 
whiskey, gin, or spirit distilled from the lees of wine.) In three 
weeks or a month strain off the spirit; to each quart add one pound 
of loaf-sugar clarified, and flavour with tincture of cinnamon or 
cloves. 

732. Raspberry Brandy. — Scald the fruit in a stone jar set in a 
kettle of water, or on a hot hearth. When the juice will run freely, 
strain it without pressing : to every quart of juice allow one pound of 
loaf-sugar; boil it up and skim ; when quite clear pour out; and when 
cold, add an equal quantity of brandy. Shake them well together and 
bottle. 

733. Sherbet. — In a quart of w^ater boil six or eight sticks of rhu- 
barb ten minutes: strain the boiling liquor on the thin shaved rind 
of a lemon. Two ounces of clarified sugar, with a wine-glassful 
of brandy, stir to the above, and let it stand five or six hours before 
using. 

734. Raspberry Vinegar may be made either by boiling down the 
juice with an equal weight of sugar, the same as for jelly, and then 
mixing it with an equal quantity of distilled vinegar, to be bottled 
with a glass of brandy in each bottle; or in a china bowl or stone jar 
(free from metallic glaze) steep a quart of fresh-gathered raspber- 
ries in two quarts of the best white wine vinegar. Next day strain 
the liquor on an equal quantity of fresh fruit, and the next day do the 
same. After the third steeping of fruit, dip a jelly bag in plain vine- 
gar to prevent waste, and strain the flavoured vinegar through it into 



184 THE C O M P L E T E C O O K . 

a stone jar. Allow to each pint of vinegar a pound of loaf-sugar pow- 
dered. Stir in the sugar with a silver spoon, and, when dissolved, 
cover up the jar and set it in a kettle of water. Keep it at boiling 
heat one hour; remove the scum. When cold, add to each pint a 
glass of brandy, and bottle it. This is a pleasant and useful drink in 
hot weather, or in sickness : one pint of the vinegar to eight of cold 
water. 

735. Lemonade. — For a quart of water six lemons, and two ounces 
of loat-sugar. Shave half the lemons, or rub the sugar over them. 
Squeeze the juice of the lemons to the sugar, and pour the water 
boiling hot. Weil mix the whole, and run it through a jelly-bag pre- 
viously wrung out of scalding water. Lemonade may be obtained, 
when the fruit is not in season, by using the syrup oi' lemons; (sim- 
mer each pint of juice with three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar; 
strain and bottle :) or the citric acid — two drachms of citric acid, 
twenty drops of essence of lemon, a pint of clarified syrup or capil- 
laire. This may be reduced at pleasure with boiling water. 

736. Pop, or Ginger Beer. — The principal difference between 
ginger pop and ginger beer, is, that the former is bottled immediately, 
the other is first put in a barrel for a few days. It is also usual to 
boil the ingredients tor ginger beer, which is not done for pop. Both 
are to be bottled in stone bottles, and the corks tied or wired down. 
If properly done, the corks and strings will serve many times in 
•uccession ; the moment the string is untied the cork will fly out 
uninjured. The bottles as soon as empty should be soaked a few 
hours in cold w'ater, shaken about and turned down, and scalded 
immediately before using. The corks also must be scalded. On 
one pound of coarse loaf or fine moist sugar, two ounces of cream 
of tartar, and one ounce of bruised ginger, pour a gallon of boiling 
water: stir it well and cover up to cool, as the flavour of the 
ginger is apt to evaporate. It is a good way to do thus for the 
last thing at night; then it is just fit to set working the first thing 
in the morning. Two large table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir to it a 
tea-cup full of the liquor; let it stand a few minutes in a warmish 
place, then pour it to the rest; stir it well, and cover up for eight 
hours. Be particular as to time. If done earlier, the bottles are 
apt to fly — if later, the beer soon becomes vapid. Skim, strain, bot- 
tle, cork, and tie down. The cork should not touch the beer. It 
will be fit for use next day. Lemon rind and juice may be added, but 
are not necessary. 

737. Giyiger Beer. — The proportions of this may vary. Loaf-su- 
gar is preferable to moist; some say a pound to a gallon, others a 
p*)undand a half; some allow but half an ounce of ginger (sliced or 
bruised) to a gallon, others an ounce; a lemon to a gallon is the usual 
proportion, to which some add a quarter of an ounce or half an ounce 
o/" cream of tartar; the white of an egg to each gallon is useful for clari- 
fying, but not absolutely necessary. Some people put a quarter of a pint 
of brandy to four gallons of beer by way of keeping it : half an ounce 
of iiops boiled in it would answer the same purpose. Boil the sugar, 



MADE WINES, &C. 185 

water, and whites of eggs well beaten; skim carefully. Then add 
the ging-er, and shaved rind of lemons; let it boil half an hour ; clear 
the lemons of the white pith and put them in the wine. When cool, 
stir in the yeast (two table-spoonfuls to a gallon,) put it in the bar- 
rel without straining, and bung close. In a fortnight draw off and 
bottle. It will be ready for use in another fortnight, and will keep 
longer than ginger pop. If cream of tartar is used, pour tlia boiling 
liquor over it, but do not boil it. 



INDEX 



The Jigures at the beginning of the lines refer to the numbers of the para- 
graphs ; those at the end, to the pages. 



Advice to Cooks (Dr. Kitchi- 
ner's) 15. 

American mode of cooking In- 
dian corn, pumpkins,&c,,159. 
625 . . Indian cake, or bannock, 
159. 

334 Anchovy, essence of, 99. 

335 . . powder of, 99. 
123 . . sauce, 55. 

677 Apricots, to preserve in jelly, 

169. 

678 . . a very nice preserve for, 

170. 

679 .. dried, 170. 

680 . . or peaches in brandy, 170. 

681 . . jam, 170. 
657 Arrow-root, 166. 
426 Artichokes, 117. 

424 . . Jerusalem, 117. 
Artificial preparation of meat, 

fish, &c., for dressing, salt- 
ing, drying, Slc, 106. 

425 Asparagus, 117. 

784 Bacon, to boil, 65. 

621 Baking, bread, 158. 

622 . . Sally Lunn tea cake, 458. 

623 . . plum cake, 159. 

624 . . a plain pound cake, 159. 
Baking meat, &,c., 87. 

283 . . general remarks on, 87. 

284 Baking a pig, 87 

285 . . a goose, 87. 

286 . . buttock of beef, 87. 

287 . . fish, 87. 

288 . . time for, 88. 

289 . . objection to, 88. 

290 . . Kitchiner (Dr.) on, 88. 
663 Barley Water, 167. 

448 Basil vinegar, or wine, 124. 

421 Beans, Windsor, 117. 

422 . . French, 117. 

423 .. harricot, 117. 



397 Beef alamode, 113. 

167 . . boiled, 61. 

168 . . boiled salt, 62. 
342 • • hashed, 101. 

349 . . harricot of, 102. 

350 . . salt, baked, 102. 

351 . . baked like red deer, to be 

eaten cold, 102. 

233 . . sirloin of, roasted, 76. 

234 . . rump and round, roasted, 

76. 
236 . . ribs of, roasted, 76. 
665 . . tea, 167. 
736 Beer, ginger, 184. 

427 Beer-root, red, 118. 

428 . . white, 118. 

259 Blackcock, roasted, 83. 
319 Blanching, 94. 

646 Blancmange, 163. 

647 . . a richer, 163. 

648 .. arrow-root, 163. 

628 Boiled maize pudding, 160. 
Boiling, 20. 
. . general directions for, 58. 

146 . . vessels for, 58. 

147 . . water for, 58. 

148 . . fire for, 58. 

149 . . directions for putting in tho 

pot, 59. 

150 . . to scum, 59. 

151 . . how long to do, 59. 

152 . . meats just killed, 59. 

153 . . frozen meat, 59. 

154 . . salt meat, 59. 

155 . . bacon, 59. 

156 . . ham, beef, tongues, pork, 

59. 

157 . . by steam, 60. 

158 . . without coming in contact 

with water, 60. 

159 . . warming up, 60. 

160 . . soaking before, 60. 

161 . . meat just killed, 60. 

(187) 



188 INDEX 


162 Boiling: what meats may re- 


340 


main in the hot liquor, GO. 


249 


163 . . potatoes notto be boiled with 


186 


meat, 61. 


213 


164 . . what vegetables may be, 61. 


214 


165 .. vegetables, 61. 


420 


166 .. old pot:-<oes, 61. 




. . butcher's meat, poultry, and 


685 


general remarks on, 61. 


686 


321 Boning, 94. 


687 


281 Brain balls, 87. 




316 Braising, glazing, blanching. 


688 


larding, and boning, general 


689 


remarks on, 93. 


690 


317 Braising, 93. 


691 


732 Brandy, cherry, 183. 


692 


731 . . raspberry, 183. 


693 


638 Brewis, American, 162. 




191 Brill, to boil, 267. 


694 


411 Brocoli,115. 


695 


356 Broiled rump steaks with onion 


696 


gravy, 104. 


697 


Broiling, 92. 


698 


308 . . sfridiron for, 92. 


699 


309 . . thickness of chops for, 92. 


700 


310 .. fire for, 92. 


701 


311 . . when done, 92. 


702 


. . general remarks on, 75, 92. 


703 


312 . . steaks, 92. 


704 


312 . . chops, 92. 


705 


313 . . kidneys, 93. 


706 


314 .. fowl, 93. 


707 


314 .. rabbit, 93. 


708 


315 . . pigeons, 93. 


709 


Broth or stock, and gravies, 


710 


49. 


711 


99 Broth, beef or stock, 50. 


712 


69 .. fish, 39. 


713 


76 . . chicken, 41. 


714 


77 . . mutton, 41. 




78 . . mutton chop, 42. 


458 


322 Browning, 95. 


459 


357 Bubble and squeak, 104. 


460 


108 Butter, melted, 53. 


461 


464 . . clarified, 127. 


462 


465 .. burnt, 128. 




466 . . oiled, 128. 


463 




410 


Cabbage, 115. 


431 


412 . . cold, 115. 


640 


414 . . red, 115. 


684 


178 Calfs head, boiled, 63. 


611 



Calf's head, to hash, 100. 
Capons, to roast, 80. 
. . to boil, 65. 
Carp, fried, 71. 

stewed, 71. 
Carrots, 117. 

Carving, directions for, 171. 
. . fish, 171. 
. . turbot, &c., 172. 
. . cod's head and shoulders, 

172. 
. . salmon, 172. 
. . soles, 172. 
Carving mackerel, 172. 
. . eels, whiting, jack, «Scc., 1 72. 
. . aitcli-bone of beef, 172. 
. . round, and flank of beef, 

172. 
.. brisket of beef, 172. 
. . sirloin of beef, 173. 
.. fillet of veal, 173. 
. . breast of veal, 173. 
. . necks and loins, 173. 
. . calf's head, 173. 
. . leg of mutton, 173. 
. . saddle of mutton, 173. 
. . shoulder of mutton, 174. 
. . haunch of venison, 174. 
. . fore-quarter of lamb, 174. 
. . ham, 174. 
. . tongue, 174 
. . sucking pig, 174. 
. . fowl, 175. 
. . a pheasant, 175. 
. . partridges and pigeons, 1 75 
. . goose or duck, 175. 
. . turkey, 176. 
. . hare, 176. 
. . rabbits, 176. 
Catsups, 125. 
. . walnut, 126. 
. . oyster, 126. 
. . cockle and muscle, 126. 
. . mushroom, 126. 
. . mushroom, without spioe, 

127. 
. . mushroom powder, 127. 
Cauliflowers, 115. 
Celery, 118. 

Cheese, to preserve, 162. 
. . damson, 171. 
Cheesecakes, 157. 



INDEX. 



189 



610 Cheesecakes, to make curd for, 
15G. 

612 . . potatoe, 157. 

613 . . a plain, 157. 

614 . . bread, 157. 
672 . . Cherries, 169. 
683 . . in brandy, 171. 
186 Chickens to boil, 65. 

Choice and purchasing of 
butcher's meat, 26. 
. . general remarks on, 26 — 
27. 

21 .. beef, 27. 

22 .. mutton, 27. 

23 . . venison, 27. 

24 .. veal, 28. 

25 .. lamb, 28. 

26 .. pork, 28. 

27 . . bacon. 28. 

28 .. hams, 29. 

. . summary of directions, 29. 
Choice of poultry, eggs, and 

fish, and seasons offish, 29 
.. poultry of all kinds, 29. 

29 .. rabbits, 29. 

30 .. fowls, 29. 

31 . . rabbits and pigeons, 30, 

32 . . game, 30. 

33 . . eggs, 30. 

34 . . fish, 30. 

35 . seasons of fish, 30. 
Clarifying, 127. 

195 Cod to broil, 68. 

676 Codlins, to keep for several 

months, 169. 
413 Coleworts, young, 115. 
347 Collops, minced, 101. 
232 Colouring, 95. 

Colourings, thickenings, fla- 
vourings, seasonings, stocks, 
gravies, sauces, stuffings, 
force meats, and clarifying, 
remarks on, 94. 
Cookery, general remarks on, 

16. 
. . importance of good, as re- 
gards health, «&c,, 16. 
. . Johnson (Dr.), his observa- 

tions on, 17. 
. . Sylvester (Mr.) on, 17. 
. . Waterhouse (Dr.) on, 17. 
. Milton's writings on, 17. 
16 



Cookery, Parr (Dr.) on, 18. 

, . Prout (Dr) on, 19. 

. . Philosophical, — Count 

Romford, 20. 
Cooking, preparations for, 29. 
180 Cow-heel, 64. 

649 Cream, Italian, 163. 

650 . . clouted or clotted, 164. 

651 . . for fruit pies, 164. 

652 . . Birch's receipt for mock, 

164. 

489 Crusts, flaky, short. 135. 

490 . . raised, 135. 

493 for savoury pies, 136. 

494 .. a rich short, 136. 
Cucumbers, 124. 

435 . . stewed, 119. 

Curing, &c., with pyroligneoua 
acid, 110. 

385 . . general remarks on, 110. 

386 hams for, 110. 

. . salmon for, 110. 

387 . . time it will keep, 110. 

388 . . hams and beef require no 

previous soaking, 110. 

389 .. herrings, cod, haddock, 111. 
375 . . bacon, 108. 

675 Currants, 169. 

581 Custard, 152. 

582 . . almond, 152. 

583 .. rice, 152. 

673 Damsons or gooseberries, to 

bottle, 169. 
364 Devil, 106. 

382 Dried or kippered salmon, 110. 

383 . . herrings, 110. 

384 . . haddock, cod, ling, <fcc., 

110. 
467 Dripping, to clarify, 128. 
Drying, smoking, «fcc., 109. 
. . general remarks on, 109 
252 Duck, to roast, 81. 

. . canvas back or red-neck 
81. 
576 Dumplings, yeast, 151. 
590 . . hard, 153. 
192 Dutch plaice, to boil, 67. 

Duties, relative, of mistress and 
maid, 13. 

194 Eels, stewed, 68. 



190 



N D E X . 



210 Eels, fried, 70, 

211 .. boiled, 71. 
280 Egg balls, 86. 

. . plums, to preserve, 170. 
185 . . Eggs, to poach, 75. 



253 
216 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
639 

372 

325 

642 
643 
644 
645 

278 

279 
320 

278 
363 

618 
619 
620 

294 
295 
296 

297 
298 
299 



300 
301 
302 
303 
304 
305 
305 
306 
307 



Fawns to roast, 82. 
Fish, salt, to boil, 71. 
. . cleaning, 35. 
. . eels, 36. 

.. without scales, 37= 
. . turbot, plaice, flonnd'Crs, 37. 
.. cod, 37. 
. . oysters, 37. 
Fish, salt, American mode of 

dressing, 162. 
Flavoured salt meat, to make, 

107. 
Flavourings, 97. 
. . essences, powders, &c., 98. 
Flummery, common, 162. 
. . rice, 162. 
. . French, 162. 
.. Dutch, 163. 
Force meat, for veo' or fowls, 

86. 
. . light, 86. 
Forcing, 94. 
Fowls, to roast, 86. 
Fried slices of ham or bacon, 

105. 
Fritters, 158. 
. . oyster, 158. 
. . potatoe, 158. 
Frying, 89. 

. . Kitchiner (Dr.) on, 89. 
. . what to use for, 89. 
. . dripping for, 89. 
. . the great secret in, 90. 
. . to know vv'hen done, 90. 
. . bread crumbs for, 90. 
Frying, general remarks on, 

75, 89. 
. . steaks, 90. 

. . beefsteaks and onions, 90. 
. . sausages, 90. 
. . veal cutlets, 90. 
. . sweetbreads, 91. 
. . lamb chops, 91. 
. . mutton chops, 91. 
. . pork chops, 91, 
.. eggs, 91. 



61 - . oysters, 36. 
216 . . salt fish, to boil, 71. 
Fuel, waste of, 21. 

Garnishes, 176. 
682 Ginger, to preserve, 170. 

102 Glaze, 51. 
318 Glazing, 94. 

250 Goose, to roast, 81. 

244 . . mock, 78. 

674 Gooseberries, 169. 

655 Gooseberry, or apple fool, 165. 

103 Gravy beef, 51. 

104 . . for roast meat, 51. 

105 . . for boiled meat, 52. 

106 . . for roast veal, 52. 

107 . . rich brown for poultry, ra 

gout, or game, 52. 
97 Green turtle soup, 48. 

Greengages, to preserve, 170. 

659 Groats, Robinson's prepared, 

166. 
259 Grouse, to roast, 83. 

Gruels, creams, syllabubs, jel- 
lies, &c., &c., 62. 
658 Gruel, 166. 

660 . . rice, 166. 

661 . . barley, 166. 
206 Gudgeons, 70. 

259 Guinea fov/1, to roast, 83, 

197 Haddock, to boil, 69. 

344 Haggis, a good Scotch, 101 

191 Halibut, to boil, 67. 

376 Hams, curing, 108. 

377 .. Yorkshire, 109. 

379 . . mutton, 109. 
184 . . to boil, 65. 
235 Hare, mock, 76. 
256 . . to roast, 82. 

353 . . stewed, 102. 

354 . . jugged, 103. 

341 Hashed meat, remarks on, 100 

326 Herbs, sweet, to prepare for 

keeping, 98, 

337 . . spirit of, mixed, 100. 

333 . . essence, or tinctures of, 99. 

429 .. to fry, 118. 

68 Hotch-potch, 39. 

380 Hung or Dutch beef, 109. 

625 Indian cake, or bannock, 159 



INDEX. 



19] 



626 Indian corn, green, 160. 

627 .. corn pudding, 160. 

671 Jams, 168. 

635 Jelly, calves' feet, 165. 

666 . . shank, 167. 

667 . . tapioca, 167. 
670 .. fruit, 168. 
374 Jerked beef, 108. 

430 Kale, sea and Scotch, 118. 
Keeping fresh meat. 111. 

390 . . general remarks on, 111. 

391 . . slightly roasted for, 111, 

392 .. best method for, HI. 

393 . . Franklin (Dr.) on, 111. 
393 .. to kill ibwl for, 111. 
394,395 recipes for, 112. 

255 Kid, to roast, 82. 

Kitchen, rules and maxims of, 

24. 
. . what must always be done, 
and what must never be 
done, 25. 
290 . . grates, 88. 

174 Lamb, a leg, boiled, 63. 

175 . . neck of, boiled, 63. 
242 . . roasting, 77. 

176 Lamb's head and pluck, 63. 
. . browned, 63. 

469 Lard, hog's, to clarify, 128. 
320 Larding, 94. 
735 Lemonade, 184. 
196 Ling, to boil, 69, 

202 Mackerel, boiled, 69. 

203 . . broiled, 69. 

204 . . baked, or pickled, 70. 
Made dishes, remarks on, 100. 

365 Marrov/ bones, 106. 

641 Mince meat, American, 162. 

259 Moor game, to roast, 83. 

433 Morels, 119. 

209 Mullets, red, 70. 

432 Mushrooms, 118. 

169 Mutton, a leg, boiled, 62. 

170 . . neck of boiled, 62. 

171 . . shoulder, boiled, 62. 

172 . . breast, boiled, 62, 

237 . . roasted, 76. 

238 . . venison fashion, 77. 



I 342 Mutton, hashed, 101. 
346 . . chops delicately stewed,101 
! 346 . . broth, good, 101. 

! 599 Omelet, friar's, 155. 
; 338 Orange or lemon pee! tinclure 
of, 100. 

332 . . preserved, 99, 
' 669 . , marmalade, 167. 

668 Orgeat, 167. 

219 Oysters, stewed, 72, 
I 221 , , ti-ied, 73, 

218 . , au gratin, 72. 
I 222 . . broiled, 73. 

I 615 Pancakes, common, 157. 
i 616 . . rice, 158. 

617 ., cream, 158, 

120 Parsley and butter, 55, 

436 Parsnips, 120, 
I 259 Partridges, to roast, 83. 
i 491 Paste, puff, 136, 
j 492 . , sweet, 136. 
' 495 . , biscuit, 138, 
'497 ,. stringing, 136. 
' 498 . . potatos, 137. 
U99 .. rice, 137. 

I Pastry, general observations 

I on, 134, 

500 , . icing, 137. 

496 Pastry, crust for venison, 136. 

531 . . to prepare venison for, 142. 

533 . . of beef or mutton, to eat as 
well as venison, 143. 

543 Patties, fried, 144. 

544 . . oyster, 144. 

545 ., beef, 144, 

516 . . a good mince for, 145, 
I 259 Pea fowl, to roast, 83. 
j418 Peas, green, 116, 
! 419 ,, to stew, 116, 
I 215 Perch, to boil, 71, 
' 258 Plieasant, to roast, 82. 

Pickles, general remarks on, 19. 

471 Pickling, first method of, 129. 
i 472 , . second method of, 129. 
: 473 , , third method of, 130. 
I 474 . , gherkins, 130, 
i 475 , . French beans, 130. 
I 476 . . onions, 130. 
I 477 . . red cabbage, 130. 
I 478 . . garlic and eschalots, 131. 



192 



^' D E X . 



480 
481 
482 
483 

484 
485 
48fi 
487 
488 



479 Pickling, melons, mangoes, and 
long cucumbers, 131. 

brocoli or cauliflowers, 131. 

walnuts, 131. 

beet-roots, 131. 

cauliflowers and brocoli, 
132. 

artichokes, 132. 

artichoke bottoms, 132. 

mushrooms, 132. 

samphire, 132. 

Indian, 132. 
373 Pickling meat, 107. 
378 . . tongues, 109. 
378 . . chines, 109. 
378 . . chops, 109. 

501 Pie, perigord, 137. 

502 . . sole, 137. 

503 . . eel, 138. 
oyster, 138. 
pilchard, 138. 

a remarkable fine fish, 138. 
beef-steak, 138. 
beef-steak and oyster, 138. 
veal, cliicken, and parsley, 

138. 

veal olive, 138. 

veal, 139. 

a rich veal, 139. 

calf's head, 139. 

excellent pork to eat cold, 
140. 

lamb, 140. 

516 Pie, mutton, 140. 

517 . . chicken, 140. 
young rabbits, 140. 
giblet, 140. 
green goose, 1 40. 
Staffordshire goose, 141. 
hare to eat cold, 141. 
partridge, 141. 
a French, 141. 
pigeon, 141. 
squab, 141. 
duck, 141. 
rabbit, 142. 
vegetable, 142. 
an herb, 142. 
apple, 143. 
cherry, 143. 
currant, 143. 
mince, 143. , 



504 
505 
506 
507 
508 
509 

510 
511 
512 
513 
514 

515 



519 
520 
521 
522 
523 
524 
525 
526 
527 
528 
529 
530 
534 
535 
536 
537 



629 Pie, pumpkin, 160. 

630 .. carrot, 161. 

Pies, tarts, and puffs, 137. 

247 Pig, sucking, roasted, 79. 

181 Pig's Pettitoes, boiled, 64. 
262 Pigeons, to roast, 83. 
212 Pike, 71. 

736 Pop, 184. 
243 Pork, roasting, 78. 
j 244 . . leg of, roasted without th« 
skin, 78. 

245 . . spare rib of, 78. 

246 . . loin of, roasted, 79. 

182 . . salt, boiled, 64. 

183 . . pickled, boiled, 64. 
667 Posset, 167. 

437 Potatoes, 120. 

438 . . to boil, 122. 

439 . . to steam, 122. 

440 . . to roast, 122. 

441 . . mashed, 122. 

442 . . roasted under meat, 122. 

443 . . fried or broiled, 123. 

444 . . balls, 123. 

445 . . snow, 123. 

248 Poultry to roast, 79. 

38 .. time of killing, 31. ,- -^ 

39 . . drawing, 31. ^t 
41-42 Poultry, trussing, 31. ■ r-. 

45 . . ducks, 32. 

46 . . geese, 33. 

47 . . turkeys, 33. 

48 . . pigeons, 33. 

49 . . pheasants, partridges, and 

guinea fowls, 34. 

50 . . wild ducks, 34. 

51 . . woodcocks, plovers, &c., 34. 

52 .. hare, 34. 

53 . . rabbits, 35. 

54 . . fawns or kids, 35. 

55 . . sucking pigs, 35. 

327 Powder, savoury soup, 98. 

328 . . curry, 98. 

329 . . for ragouts, 98. 

331 . • for white-made dishes, 99. 

330 .. for brown-made dishes, 98. 

335 . . anchovy, 99. 

336 . . oyster, 99. 

461 . . mushroom, 126. 
Preserves, 168. 

Puddings, cheesecakes, &.C., 
145. 



INDKX 



193 



551 Pudding, to make paste, 146. 

552 . . plum, 147. 

553 . . a plain family plum, 147. 

554 . . a common plum, 147. 

555 . . a very light plum, 147. 

556 . . national plum, 148. 

557 . . potatoe, 148. 

558 . . cottage potatoe, 148. 

559 . . rich sweet potatoe, 148. 

560 . . carrot, 148. 

561 . . black cap, 148. 

562 . . sago, 149. 

563 . . a very good, 149. 

564 . . bread and butter, 149 

565 . . almond, 149. 

566 . . Kitchiner's, 149. 

567 . . Dutch rice, 150. 

568 .. rice, 150. 

569 . . another rice, 150 

570 . . baked rice, 150. 

571 . . ground rice, 150. 

572 . . rice snow balls, 151. 

573 . . plain rice, 151. 
575 . . vermicelli, 151. 
575 . . tapioca, 151. 
575 . . sago, 151. 

575 . . Russian seed, 151. 

577 . . suet, 151. 

578 . . Hunter's, 152. 

579 . . Marlborough, 152. 

580 . . custard, 152. 

584 . . baked vermicelli, 153. 

585 . . marrow, 153. 

586 . . conservative, 153. 

587 . . economical, 153. 

588 . . delicate bread, 153. 

589 . . barley, 153. 

591 . . Newmarket, 154. 

592 .. a light, 154. 

593 . . Yorkshire, 154. 

594 . . a nice suet, 154. 

595 . . mother Eve's, 154. 

596 . . Newcastle, 154. 

597 . . hasty, 154. 

598 . . arrow-root, 154. 

600 .. a Swiss, 155. 

601 . . Oxford, 155. 

602 . . muffin, or cabinet, 155 

603 . . French and Italian, 155. 

604 . . a cheese, 155. 

605 . . a very rich, 155. 

606 . . chesnut, 156. 

16* 



607 Pudding, rusk, 156. 

608 . . Portugal, 156. 

609 . . tansey, 156. 

628 . . boiled maze, 160. 

631 . . American custard, 161 

632 . . American plum, 161. 

633 .. rennet, 161. 

634 . . American apple, 161. 

635 . . bird's nest, 161. 

636 . . American souse, 161. 

637 . . American dry bread, 162. 

547 Puffs, apple, 145. 

548 . . lemon, 145. 

549 . . excellent light, 145. 

550 . . cheese, 145. 

257 Rabbit, to roast, 82. 

366 Ragout of duck, or any other 

kind of poultry or game, 106. 
264 Reed birds, 83. 
574 Rice bignets, 151. 
Roasting, 73. 

223 . . spitting before, 73. 

224 . . best kind of spits for, 73. 

225 . . fire for, 74. 

226 . . time for, 74. 

227 . . to preserve the fat white, 

74. 

228 . . how to make a fire for, 74. 

229 . . distance from fire for, 74. 

230 . . slow, 75. 

231 . . dripping-pan for, 75. 

232 . . attention to, 75. 

. . general remarks on, 75. 

Salads, 123. 
446 . . general remarks on, 123. 

187 Salmon to boil, 66. 

188 . . broiled, 66. 

189 .. baked, 67. 

190 . . pickled, 67. 
Salting, 106. 

367 . . general remarks on, 106. 
363 . . meat, 107. 

369 . . quantities for, 107. 

370 . . time for, 107. 

371 . . hasty, 107. 
343 Sandwiches, 101. 

Sauces, 52. 
109 . . for fricassee of fowls, rab- 
j bits, white meat, fish, or vew 

i getables, 53. 



li)i 



INDEX. 



110 Sauces, for cold fowl or par- 


268 




tridge, 54. 




Ill 


. very rich mushroom for fowls 
or rabbits, 54. 




112 


. for boiled carp, or boiled 


733 




turkey, 64. 


205 


113 


. . green, for green geese, or 


263 




ducklings, 54. 


206 


114 


• egg, 54. 


261 


115 


. . onion, .54. 


192 


136 


. . apple, 54. 


193 


117 


. gooseberry, 54. 


194 


118 


. wow-wow, 55. 




119 


. . curry, 55. 


66 


120 


. . parsley and butter, 55. 


67 


121 


. . fennel and butter for mack- 


70 




erel, 55. 


72 


122 


. . plum pudding, 55. 


73 


123 


. . anchovy, 55. 


74 


124 


. . caper, 55. 


75 


125 


. . mock caper, 55. 


79 


126 


. . shrimp, 55. 


80 


127 


. . ovster, 55. 


81 


128 


. . lobster, 56. 


82 


129 


. . liver, 56. 


83 


130 


. . bread, 56. 


84 


131 


. . for tripe, calf's head, or 


85 




cow-heel, 56. 


86 


132 


. . celery, 56. 


87 


133 


. . tarragon, or burnet, 56. 


88 


134 


. . sonc], for lamb or veal, and 


89 




sv.-eetbreads, 56. 


90 


J 35 


. . poor man's, 5Q 


91 


136 


.. truftle, 56. 


92 


137 


. . sharp for venison, 5J. 


93 


138 


. . sweet for venison, 57. 


95 


139 


. . wine for venison, hare, or 






haunch of mutton, 57. 


96 


140 


. . for a pisT, 57. 


339 


141 


.. turtle, 57. 


415 


142 


. . for all sorts of fish, 57. 


206 


143 


. . pudding, 57. 


413 


144 


. . custard, 57. 


629 


145 


. . roe, 58. 


291 


71 


Scotch brosc, 40. 


292 


362 


. . collops, 105. 


;)4 




Seasonings, general observa- 


98 




tions on, 84. 


345 


265 


. . roast pork, ducks, or geese. 


348 




84. 


352 


266 


. . sucking pig, 84. 




267 


. . goose, 84. 


355 



Seasonings, chesnut for goose, 

84. 
Setting out a table, 177. 
Sheep's heads, boiled, 62. 
Sherbet, 183. 
Skate, to boil, 70. 
Small birds, to roast, S3. 
Smelts, to fry, 70. 
Snipes, to roast, 83. 
Soles, to boil, 67. 
. . fried, 67. 
. . stewed, 68. 
Soups, broths, &c., 38. 
Soup, clear gravy, 38. 
. . ox tail, 38. 
. . cock-a-leeky, 39. 
. . pease, 40. 

. . pease and pickled pork, 40 
. . plain pease, 41. 
. . Spanish, 41. 
. . and bouilli, 42. 
. . a cheap, 42. 
.. veal, 42. 
. . calf's head, 42. 
.. giblet, 42. 
. . Kitchiner's cheap, 43. 
. . maigre, 43. 
. . mock turtle, 44. 
. . carrot, 45. 

. . mulligatawny, or curry, 45, 
. . eel, 45. 
. . gourd, 46. 
. . game, 46. 

. . turnip and parsley, 46. 
. . celery, 46. 
. . liare, rabbit, or partridge, 

. . portable, 47. 

Spice, spirit of, mixed, 100 

Spinach, 116. 

Sprats, to fry, 70. 

Sprouts, young, 115. 

Squash pie, 160. 

Stew, hearth, 88. 

. . hearth, usefiilness of, 89. 

. . lamb, 46. 

.. Irish, 49. 

.. Mr. Phillips's Irish, 1 01. 

. . brisket of beef, 102. 

Stewed shin or leg of beefj 

102. 
. . rump steaks, 103. 



INDEX 



195 



99 Stock, first, or beef broth, 50. i 

269 Stuffing and force meat, 84. 

• . for veal, roast turkey, fowl, 
&-C., 84. 

270 . . g-oosc or duck, 84. 

271 . Ibr turtle, 85. 

272 hare, 85. 

273 . . veal, 85. 

274 . . pike, carp, or haddock, 85. 

275 . . heart, 86. 

276 . . poultry and game, 86. 

277 . . veal cake, 86. 

199 Sturgeon to boil, 69. 

200 . . to roast, 69. 

201 . . stewed, 69. 

468 Suet and fat, to clarify, 128. 
470 Sugar, clarified, 128. 
241 Sweetbread, veal, 77. 
654 Syllabub, whip, 165. 

538 Tarte de moie, 143, 

539 Tart, rhubarb, 144. 

540 . . to prepare cranberries for, 

144. 

541 . . lemon, 144. 

542 Tartlets or puffs, orange, 144. 
260 Teal, to roast, 83. 

217 Terrapins, 72. 

323 Thickenings, 96. 

662 Thick milk, or flour caudle, 

166. 
205 Thornback, to boil, 70. 
184 Tongues, to boil, 65. 
653 Trifle, 164. 
179 Tripe, 63. 

207 Trout, to broil, 70. 

208 . . stewed, 70. 
434 Truffles, 119. 

37 Trussing, 31. 
191 Turbot, to boil, 67. 
186 Turkey, to boil, 65. 
248 . . to roast, 79. 
248 . . poults, to roast, 79. 
417 Turnips, 116. 

97 Turtle soup, green, 48. 

177 Veal, boiled, 63. 

239 . . roasting, 77. 

240 . . fillet of, roasting, 77. 

358 . . hashed or minced, 104. 

359 . . to make an excellent ragout 

of cold, 104. 



360 Veal, olives, 105. 

361 . . knuckle of, to ragout, 105 
Vegetables, 37. 

62 . . preparing for dressing, 37. 

63 . . asparagus, artichokes, spi 

nach, 37. 

64 . . potatoes and Jerusalem ar- 

tichokes, 37. 

65 . . carrots, parsnips, beetroots, 

and turnips, 37. 
. . cooking, 113. 
398 — 499 . . general observations 

on cooking, 113, 114, 115. 
416 Vegetable marrow, 116. 
253 Venison, haunch of, to roast 
81. 
Vinegars, flavoured, 124. 

447 . . for salads, 124. 

448 . . basil, 124. 

449 . . burnct, 125. 

450 . . cress or celei-y, 125. 

451 . . horse-radish, 125. 

452 . . garlic, onion, or eschalot, 

125. 

453 . . tarragon, 125. 

454 . . elder flower, 125. 

455 . . green mint, 125. 

456 . . camp, 125. 

457 . . capsicum, cayenne, or chili, 

125. 
734 . . raspberry, 183. 



656 
324 

198 
260 
260 



716 
717 
717 
717 
718 
719 
720 
720 
721 
722 
723 
724 



Whey, 165. 
White thickening, 97. 
Whitings, to fry, 69. 
Widgeon, to roast, 83. 
Wild ducks, to roast, 83. 
Wines, general directions for 

making, 178. 
. . ginger, 178. 
. . mead, 1 79. 
. . metheglin, 179. 
. . honey, 179. 
. . parsnip, 179. 
. . malt, or English sherry, 179 
. . orange, boiled, 180. 
. . lemon, boiled, 180. 
. . grape, 180. 
. . raisin, 180. 
. . raisin with sugar, 181. 
. . raisin, in imitation of Fron 

tignac, 181. 



Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1844, by 

LEA AND BL AN CHARD, 

m the clerk's office of the district court of the United States in and for 

the eastern district of Pennsylvania. 



J. Pagan, Stereot3rper. 
J, & W. Kite. Printers. 



,o^3J£i PREFACE 

TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 



Almost every foreigner who visits this country re- 
marks with astonishment the almost universal neglect 
of that art upon which, more than any thing else, de- 
pends the health and comfort of a people ; and by many 
scientific men have most of the prevalent diseases of 
this country, especially the dyspepsia, been ascribed to 
the hurried, crude and unwholesome manner in which 
our food is prepared ; of latter years, more attention has 
been paid to cooking ; but the handmaiden of that pa- 
rent art, confectionary, is still neglected and unknown, 
yet it is of little less importance than the graver branch 
referred to. Confectionary is the poetry of epicurism ; 
it throws over the heavy enjoyments of the table the 
relief of a milder indulgence, and dispenses the delights 
of a lighter and more harmless gratification of the ap- 
petite. The dessert, properly prepared, contributes 
equally to health and comfort ; but ** got up" as con- 
fectionary too often is, it is not only distasteful to a 
correct palate, but is deleterious and often actually poi- 
sonous. 

In introducing to the American public the modes by 
which the table of hospitality may be enriched and 

(3) 



iV PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 

adorned, we have consulted every authority, French or 
English, within our reach ; but the basis of our little 
work is to be found in Read's Confectioner, a late Lon- 
don publication. 

Having for many years been connected with the old- 
est, most extensive and successful confectionary estab- 
lishment in the country, we have been enabled to make 
from our own experience many important modifications 
and to introduce many additional receipts, particularly 
in relation to the various articles of luxury which the 
bounty of our soil and climate render almost exclusively 
American. 

The volume has thus been increased in size, and we 
trust improved in value. 

Trusting that our efforts to advance the popular 
knowledge of the art which has for many years engaged 
our attention, may meet with approbation, we present 
the result of our labours to a candid and indulgent 
public. 

Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, 
Dae. 1843. 



PREFACE 
TO THE ENGLISH EDITION. 



Much as there has been written in Cookery Books on the art of 
Confectionary, there are few, very few works on the subject now 
extant which are practically written, and these are difficult to be 
obtained, even at high prices; and, having been published some years 
since, they do not contain any of the modern improvements, or arti- 
cles which have been introduced within these few years. The object 
of the present Treatise is to supply this deficiency, and to convey in- 
struction in as plain and concise a manner as possible to the inexperi- 
enced, or young apprentices, that they may be enabled to learn their bu- 
siness more efficiently than many masters can or will instruct them in it. 

The style and character of the present work will be found quite 
different from anything which has preceded it. In the part relating 
to Sugar-boiling I have endeavoured to show the causes of the effects 
which take place at the different stages, with the uses to which each 
of the processes is applied. The deficiency on Hard Confectionary 
which occurs in all other works will be found amply supplied in this. 
In the proportions for medicated lozenges I have preferred those 
which are ordered by the different Colleges of Surgeons in their 
pharmacopoeias to those used by the trade, as being more likely to 
contain the true quantities of the different drugs which should com- 
pose them. It is from this source that they were originally derived, 
as at one time they formed no inconsiderable part of pharmacy ; but 
they are now only made by confectioners. 

The Section on Ices I have endeavoured to render as plain and 
intelligible as possible, and although I have given general as well as 
definite rules for the mixture of each sort, yet the last cannot at all 
times be implicitly followed, but must be modified or altered with 
respect to the flavouring matter so as to suit the taste of the em- 
ployer or the parties for whom they are intended ; this should always 
be most scrupulously attended to, if it is wished to give satisfaction, 
as no fixed rules can be given which will admit of their being made 
to please all persons. 

The business of confectionary is divided into several branches, 
some of them being quite distinct and separate from each other. 
The branch known as Hard Confectionary is literally the whole of 
the business, according to the strict meaning of the word, which is 
derived from the French words confitures — comfits, things crusted 

1* (V) 



VI PREFACE TO THE ENGLISH EDITION. 

over with dry sugar ; and confiturier — confectioner, a maker or seller 
of comfits or other sweetmeats. The other branches are the Orna- 
mental and Soft Confectionary. The latter relates to everything 
connected with the oven, or all sorts of cakes and soft biscuits, and 
more particularly to the preservation of fruits; the other, as the 
name implies, to every description of ornaments necessary for the 
decoration of the table. Hard Confectionary still remains a distinct 
branch or trade of itself; in fact, many persons' sole occupation is 
the making of lozenges and comfits, termed pan-work. Some also 
combine with these the different articles connected with sugar-boiling 
and preserving. The latter are in general blended together, and 
mostly practised by cooks and pastry-cooks; but the chief business 
of a confectioner is alone connected with the ornamental department, 
and everything necessary for the dessert. 

1 have thought it requisite to mention this specifically, so as to 
prevent the occurrence of errors which parents and guardians of 
families often fall into respecting the nature of the business, and also 
with regard to the capacity of the child which they intend should be 
brought up to it. I have heard many say, " Never mind ; he is a 
stupid fool, and may do very well to make cakes." If making cakes 
were the sole object he would have to accomplish, perhaps he might 
do very well ; but even this requires more ingenuity than is generally 
considered ; and if the welfare of the child is studied, so as to enable 
him to obtain his livelihood in a respectable manner, they must find 
some means of enabling him to acquire a considerable deal more 
knowledge than is general with a common-place education, to enable 
him to compete with the talent at present in the labour-market. The 
person adapted for this business should be neat and cleanly in his 
habits, of a lively and ingenious mind, have a quick conception of 
design, a delicate taste, with a general knowledge of architecture, 
mythology, and the fine arts ; for they are as requisite in the con- 
struction of a Piece Montee, or an allegorical subject to embellish 
the table, as to an architect or sculptor m the construction of an ex- 
pensive building or monument. 1 do not mean to infer that his in- 
formation must be so extensive, or that he will be required to make 
the tour of Italy, Rome, and Greece, to study the original masters ; 
but let him take Nature for his guide ; and if he possess the rudi- 
ments or principles of the art of design, he cannot fail, with a little 
attention and perseverance, to become an adept in the higher or orna- 
mental branches of his business^ 



CONTENTS. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 



Sect. I.; — Confectionary. 

Ckrificatiou of Raw Sugar. .. 

To clarify Loaf Sugar 

Degrees of boiling Sugar 

Syrup 

Small Thread 

Large Thread 

Little Pearl 

Lara-e Pearl 



Chrystallization 

To ascertain the degree of 
the blow 

The Featlier 

Candy 

The Ball 

The Crack 

Caramel 

Sect. II. — Syrups. 

General Rules and Observa- 
tions 

Inllisions 

DL;coctions 

Raspberry Syrup 

Pine-apple Syrup 

R:;spbcrry Vinegar Syrup .... 

Strawberry Syrup 

Currant Syrup 

Morello Ciierry Syrup 

Mulberry Syrup 

Gooseberry Syrup 

Lemon S\Tup 

Orange Syrup 

Orans-c-Flower Syrup 

Sirop de Capillaire. — Syrup of 
Maidenhair 

Syrup of Liquorice 

Syrup of Violets 

Syrup of Pinks 

Syrup of Roses 

Syrup of Wormwood 

Syrup of Marshmallows 

Syrup of Sarsaparilla 

Syrup of Coltsfoot 



L3 
14 
14 

15 
15 
15 

15 
15 
15 

Ifi 
16 
16 
17 
17 
17 



18 
18 
19 
20 
20 
20 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 

21 
22 
22 
22 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 



Syrup of Ginger 23 

Syrup of Almonds 24 

Sirop de Pistache 24 

Syrup of Coffee 24 

Syrup of Rum Punch 24 

Brandy and V/ine Syrups .... 24 

Section III. — Crystallized Su. 
gar, and articles crystallized, 
commonly called Candies. 

Crystallized or Candied Sugar. . 25 

Fruits to Crystallize 25 

Crystallized Chocolate 26 

Liqueur Rings, Drops and other 

Devices 26 

To form a Chain with Liqueur 

Rings 27 

Sect. IV. — Candy — Bonbon — 
Conserve. 

Ginger Candy 27 

Peppermint, Lemon and Rose 

•Candy. 27 

Coltsfoot or Horehound Candy 27 

Artiticial Fruit, Eggs, >Scc 27 

Bui-nt Almonds 28 

Burnt Almonds— Red 28 

Filberts and Pistachios 28 

Common Burnt Almonds 28 

Orange Prav,'lings 29 

Lemon Prawlings 29 

I Sect. V. — Crack and Caramel. 

i Barley Sugar 29 

i Barley Sugar Drops 29 

i Barley Sugar Tablets or Kisses 29 

i Acid Drops and Sticks 30 

I To extract the Acid from Can- 

' died Drops, ccc 30 

' Raspberry Candy 31 

i Clove, Ginger, or Peppermint 

j Candy 31 

! Brandy Balls, ^fcc 31 

I Nogat 32 

I Almond Rock 32 

! Almond Hardbake 32 

(vii) 



Vlll 



CONTENTS. 



On Sugar-Spinning. 

To make a Silver Web 33 

To make a Gold Web 33 

Chantilly Baskets 33 

Grape, Orange, or Cherry Bas- 

kets 34 

Almond Baskets 34 

Spanish Candy 34 

Vases or Baskets, &-C., in Span- 

ish Candy 34 

Sect. VI. — Chocolate. 

Cacao Nuts 35 

Roasting 35 

The Making of Chocolate 36 

Vanilla Chocolate 36 

Cinnamon, Mace or Clove Cho- 
colate 37 

Stomachic Chocolate 37 

Chocolate Harlequin Pistachios 37 
Chocolate Drops, with Nonpa- 
reils 37 

Sect. VII. — Lozenges. 

Peppermint, No. 1 38 

Peppermint, No. 2 38 

Peppermint, Nos. 3 and 4 38 

Transparent Mint, No. 5. .... . 38 

Superfine Transparent MintLo. 

zenges 39 

Rose Lozenges 39 

Cinnamon Lozenges 39 

Clove Lozenges 39 

Lavender Lozenges 39 

Ginger Lozenges 39 

Nutmeg Lozenges 39 

Rhubarb Lozenges 39 

Sulphur Lozenges 39 

Tolu Lozenges 39 

Ipecacuanha Lozenges 39 

Saffron Lozenges 40 

Yellow Pectoral Lozenges ... 40 

Lozenges for the Heartburn ... 40 

Steel Lozenges 40 

Magnesia Lozenges 40 

Nitre Lozenges 40 

Marshmallow Lozenges 40 

Vanilla Lozenges . •. 40 

Catechu Lozenges 40 

Catechu h I'Ambergris 40 

Catechu with Musk 40 

Catechu with Orange-flowers. . 40 



Catechu with Violets 40 

Ching's Yellow Worm Lozenges 40 

Ching's Brown Worm Lozenges 41 

Bath Pipe 41 

Peppermint or other Pipes .... 41 

Brilliants 41 

Refined Liquorice 41 

Section VIII. — Pastile Drops. 

Chocolate Drops 42 

Coffee Drops 42 

Cinnamon Drops 43 

Clove Drops 43 

Vanilla Drops 43 

Violet Drops 43 

Catechu Drops 43 

Ginger Drops 43 

Lemon Drops 43 

Rose Drops 43 

Peppermint Drops 43 

Orange-flower Drops 43 

Orgeat Drops 43 

Raspberry Drops 43 

Sect. IX. — Comfits. 

Scotch Caraway Comfits 44 

Bath Caraways 45 

Common Caraways 45 

Cinnamon Comfits 45 

Coriander Comfits 46 

Celery Comfits 46 

Caraway Comfits, pearled 46 

Almond Comfits 46 

Cardamom Comfits 46 

Barberry Comfits 46 

Cherry Comfits 47 

Comfits flavoured with Liqueurs 47 

Orange Comfits 47 

Lemon Peel or Angelica 47 

Nonpareils 47 

To colour Nonpareils or Comfits 47 

Comfits in Gum Paste. 

Raspberry Comfits 47 

Ginger Comfits 47 

Clove Comfits 48 

To colour Loaf-sugar Dust ... 48 

Sect. X. — Fruit Jellies. 

Apple Jelly 48 

Quince Jelly 48 

Red Currant Jelly 48 

White and Black Currant Jelly 49 



CONTEXTS. 



IX 



Violet-coloured Currant Jelly . . 49 

Cherry Jelly 4S) 

Barberry Jelly 49 

Raspberry Jelly 49 

Gooseberry Jelly 49 

Blackberry Jelly 49 

Sect. XI. — Marmalades or Jams. 

Apple Marmalade 50 

Quince Marmalade 50 

Apricot Marmalade or Jam ... 50 

Cherry Marmalade or Jam ... 50 

Orange Marmalade 50 

Grape Marmalade 50 

Sect. XII. — Of Fruit and other 
Pastes. 

Fruit Pastes and Cakes 51 

Apple or Pippin Paste 51 

Apple Cheese 51 

Apricot Paste 51 

Green Apricot Paste 52 

Currant Paste 52 

Black Currant Paste 52 

Raspberry Paste 52 

Cherry Paste 52 

Peach Paste 52 

Plum Paste 52 

Damson Cheese 52 

Quince Paste 53 

Orange Paste 53 

Lemon Paste 53 

Raspberry Cakes 53 

Clear Cakes, or Jelly Cakes . . 53 

Marshmallow Paste 54 

Arabic Paste 54 

Date Paste 55 

Jujube Paste 55 

Senegal Paste 55 

White Liquorice Paste 55 

Black Liquorice Paste 55 

Jujube Gum 55 

Gomme des Dattes 56 

Gum of Violets 56 

Almond Paste — Orgeat Paste. . 56 

Sect. XIII. — Fruits Preserved 
with Sugar. 

Wet Fruits 56 

Green Apricots, wet 57 

Green Apricots, pared wet .... 58 

Ripe Apricots, wet 58 

Ripe Peaches, whole, wet 58 



Ripe Nectarines, wet 58 

Figs, wet 58 

Greengages, wet 58 

Mogul Plums 59 

Damsons, wet 59 

Green Gooseberries, wet 59 

Green Gooseberries in the form 

of Hops, wet 59 

Cucumbers or Glierkins, wet. . 59 

Green Melons 60 

Ripe Melons, w et 60 

Lemons, whole, wet 60 

Oranges, whole, wet 60 

Whole Orange Peels 60 

Orange or Lemon Peels, wet. . 60 

Orange or Lemon Chips 61 

Angelica, wet 61 

Eringo Root 61 

Pine Apple, whole, wet 61 

Pine Apple Chips or Slices ... 61 

Clierries, wet or dry 62 

Whole Clierries 62 

Grapes in Bunches 62 

Currants in Bunches, wet .... 62 

Barberries in Bunches, wet. . . 63 

Raspberries, whole, wet 63 

Pears, whole, wet 63 

Pears, Red, wet 63 

Quinces, Red or White, wet.. . 64 

Ginger, wet 64 

Candied Fruit 64 

Dried Fruit 64 

Sect. XIV. — Compotes. 

Green Apricot Compote 65 

Ripe Apricot Compote 65 

Compote of Apples, with Jelly. 65 

Apple Compote 65 

Grape Compote 65 

Currant Compote 65 

Raspberry Compote 66 

Strawberry Compote 66 

Macedoine of Fruits 6Q 

Cherry Compote 66 

Sect. XV. — Brandy Fruits,. . . 66 
Sect. XVI. — On Bottled Fruits, 

or Fruits Preserved without 

Sugar 07 

Sect. XVIL— 0/ Cooling Drinks 

for Balls and Routs. 
Gooseberry, Currant, Raspberry 

and Strawberry Waters .... 68 



CONTENTS. 



Cherry Water G9 

Apricot and Peach Water .... 69 

Orgeat Water 69 

Lemonade 69 

Orangeade 69 

Sect. XVIII.— /ces. 

To freeze Ices 70 

Cream Ices 72 

Raspberry, fresh fruit and Jam 72 

Strawberry 73 

Currant, fresh &, preserved fruit 73 

Barberry Ice 73 

Apricot, fresh Fruit, and Jam.. 73 

Peach Ice 73 

Pine Apple, fresh & preserved ft. 73 

Ginger Ice 73 

Brahma Ice 73 

Orange Ice Cream 73 

China Orange Ice Cream 74 

Cherry Ice Cream 74 

Harlequin lee 74 

Lemon Ice Cream 74 

Mille Fruit Cream Ice 74 

Custard Ices 74 

Custard for Ices 74 

Plombiere Ice, or Swiss Pudding 74 

The Sauce 75 

Almond or Orgeat Ice Cream. 75 

Pistachio Ice Cream. 75 

Filbert Ice Cream 75 

Chestnut Ice 75 

Burnt Filbert Ice Cream 75 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream .... 75 

Coffee Ice Cream 75 

Chocolate Ice 76 

Tea Ice 76 

Vanilla Ice 76 

Noyau Cream Ice 76 

Maraschino Cream Ice 76 

Water Ices 77 

Currant Water Ice 77 

Cherry Water Ice 77 

Gooseberry Water Ice 77 

Raspberry Water Ice 77 

Apricot Water Ice 77 

Peach Water Ice 77 

Damson Ice 77 

Pine- Apple Water Ice 78 

Fresh Pine-Apple Water Ice. . 78 

Apple-water Ice 78 

Pear. Water Ice 78 



Orange-Water Ice 78 

Lemon-Water Ice . 78 

Maraschino-Water Ice 78 

Punch-Water Ice 78 

Roman Punch Ice 79 

Mille Fruit Water Ice 79 

Sect. XIX.- Jellies. 

Calves' Feet Jellies 79 

Coffee Jelly 79 

Tea Jelly, Green or Black. ... 79 

Fruit Jellies. 

Strawberry Jelly 80 

Pine- Apple Jelly 80 

Jelly of Apricots 80 

Orange Jelly 80 

Blanc Mange 80 

Sect. XX. — Essetices. 

licmon, Orange, and Bergamot. 81 

Essence de Cedrat 81 

Allspice, Cloves, Cinnamon, or 

Nutmegs, &.c 82 

Ginger, Peppermint, Vanilla, 

and Almonds 82 

Sect. XXI. — Meringues, Icing. 

Dry, in the form of Eggs .... 82 

Kisses 83 

Italian Meringues 83 

Musiirooms .- . 83 

Icing for Wedding or Twelfth 

Cakes, &c 84 

On piping Cakes, Bon-bons, &.c. 84 

Sect. XXAI.—Gvin Paste. 

For Ornaments 85 

For Gilding on 86 

Papier Machse 86 

To gild Gum Paste, &,c 86 

To Bronze Gum Paste 87 

On tlic Construction of Assiettes 

and Pieces Montees 87 

Of Pieces Montees . 88 

Biscuit Paste to imitate Marble 

Rocks, &c 88 

Confectioners' Paste . 89 

Assiettes Montes, or Dressed 

Plates 89 

On Modelling 90 

Modelling Tools 92 

Modelling Wax , 92 



CONTENTS. 



XX 



Sect. XXIII.— On Colours. 

T'o Prepare Cochineal 92 

Caruiine, Yellow, Prussian Blue. 

Sap Green, tfc Spinach Green 93 

Vermiliiju ond Cinnabar 94 

Eole Ammoniac, Umber, Bistre, 

and El ck 94 

The Shades produced by a Mix- 
ture OF Colours. 
Purple, Lil ; c, Orange, Gold, Le- 
mon, and Green 94 

Sect. XXIV. — Distillation. 

On Essential Oils 95 

Distilled Waters. 
Orange-Flower, & Rose Water 96 
Cinnamon, Peppermint, Lemon- 
Peel, & Black-Cherry Water 97 
Spirits for Liqueurs. 
Distilled Spirituous Waters for 

Liqueurs 98 

Hungary Water 



Maraschino de Zara 
Kirchenwasser 



Eau Divine 99 

Eau de Cologne. 99 

Curasao 99 

Eau de Melisse des Carmes. . . 99 

The English Mclliod 99 

Spirit of Coffee, and Almonds . 99 
Spirit of Tea, and Usquebaugh. 100 

Liqueurs 100 

Ratafias. 

Ratafia de Cafe 100 

Ratafia de Cacao 100 

Ratafia des Noyaux 100 

Ratafia of Cherries 101 

Ratafia des Cassis 101 

Ratafia of Raspberries 101 

Ratafia des Fleurs des Oranges 101 

Ratafia d'CEillets 101 

Ratafia d'Angelique 101 

Vespetro ... 101 

Chreme de Barbade 101 

Chreme d'Orange 101 

Ratafia d'Anis 101 

Ratafia de Brout des Noix .... 102 
Sect. XXY.— The Stove or Hot 
Closet 102 



THE PASTUY-GOOK. 



Introduction 103 

Blanched Almonds, Icing, Pre- 
pared Treacle, & Rennet.. 104 

Fancy Biscuits. 

Abernethy, American, Brighton, 
Buttered, Captains, Drop, Fil- 
bert, Lemon, and Naples ... 105 

Queens, Rout, Savoy, Seedy, 
Wine, York, and Powder. . . 106 

Drops, and Cracknels 107 

Sect. I.— The Oven. 

Cakes 107 

Savoy Cakes 108 

Cold Mixtures 108 

Almond Savoy Cakes and Al- 
mond Hearts 109 

Venice Cake 109 

Savoy, to represent a Melon . . 109 
Savoy, to imitate a Hedgehog.. 109 
Bordeaux or Parisian Cakes . . 110 



Italian Bread 110 

Rice Pound Cake 110 

Wafers 110 

Cakes. 

Almond Cakes 110 

Almond Savoy Ill 

Bride, Bath, and Banbury 111 

Breakfast 112 

Cinnamon, Currant, Caraway, 
Common Cheese, Curd Cheese, 
and Almond Cheese 112 

Lemon Cheese, Derby, Diet 
Bread, Ginger, Lord Mayors, 
and Lunch 113 

Moss, Macaroon, Plum, Pound, 
and Prussian 114 

Queens, Queen's Drops, Rout, 
Raspberry, and Ratafias. ... 115 

Savoy, Sponge, Seed, Shrews- 
bury, Tea, Twelfth, and York- 
shire 116 



Xll 



CONTENTS. 



York Drops, Anne Page's, York 
Cakes, Jumbles, Cinnamon 
Biscuit, Hazlenut Kisses, and 
Vanilla Biscuit 117 

IVifle, Cocoanut, Sans Soucies, 
Cocoa Biscuit, Lady Cake, 
and Lady Fingers 118 

Spoon Biscuit, Small Biscuits 
with Almonds, Biscuits with 
Cream, Biscuits glazed with 
Chocolate 119 

Biscuits glazed with Orange. • 120 

Fancy Bread, Ginger-Bread, 
Buns, Rolls, Muffins, Crum- 
pets, &.C. 

Almond Bread, Colchester, and 
Diet 120 

French Rolls, Short Bread, 



Queen's Ginger-Bread, Spice 
Ginger-Bread, Thick Ginger- 
Bread, and Sweetmeat Nuts.. 121 

Spice Nuts, Muffins, Wheat 
Muffins, Rice Muffins, Rice 
Cakes, and Buckwheat Cakes 122 

Flannel Cakes, Indian Slappers, 
Johnny-Cake, Corn Bread, 
Crumpets, and Rusks 123 

Sweet Rusks, Tops &, Bottoms 124 

Of Pastes in general — Preli- 
minary Remarks 124 

To MAKE Puff Paste. 

Ingredients, &,c 125 

PutF, Short, and Tart Pastes . . 126 

Apricot Tart , 12G 

Covered and Raspberry Tarts. 127 
Mince Pirs, and Raised Pie. . . 127 



THE BAKE R, 



Introduction 128 

General Remarks ON Baking.. 129 

Family Loaf-Bread 132 

Brown or Diet Bread 134 

Bread not liable to become Bit- 
ter 134 

Artificial Yeasts. 

Yeast to Preserve 135 

Potatoe Yeast 135 

Dr. Lettsom's Method 135 

Artificial Yeast 135 

Patent Yeast 136 

Alum, Potatoes, &,c 137 

Method of making Bakers' 
Bread. 

The Old Method 141 

Modern Method 142 

Substitute for Wheat-Flour 
Bread. 

Bread Corn 143 

Rice 145 

Potatoes 145 

Bread made of Roots 147 



Ragwort 147 

Turnip Bread 147 

Apple Bread 148 

McsHn Bread 148 

Salep Bread 148 

Oat and Barley Bread 148 

Debretzen Bread 148 

Millet Bread 149 

Maize Bread 149 

Homminy Cake 149 

Bean Flour Bread 149 

Buckwheat Bread 149 

Acorn Bread 150 

Oatmeal Cakes 150 

Oatmeal and Pease Bread .... 150 

Chestnut Bread 150 

Potatoe Bread 150 

Rye Bread— Barley Bread. ... 150 

TJie Bread Tree 151 

Bread Fruit Bread 152 

Sago Bread 152 

Casava Bread 153 

Plantain Bread 153 

Banana Bread 153 

Moss Bread 154 

Dried Fish Bread 1 54 

Earth Bread J 64 



THE CONFECTIONEE. 



SECTION I. CONFECTIONARY. 

As SUGAR is the basis or ground-work of the confectioner's art, it is 
essentially necessary that the practitioner should carefully study and 
observe the difference in its qualities, the changes which it undergoes 
or effects when combined with other articles in the process of manu- 
facture, and also the different forms which it assumes by itself at va- 
rious stages. Without this knowledge, a man will never become a 
thorough and efficient workman, and it can only be acquired by prac- 
tice find experience. 

The first process which it undergoes in the hands of the confec- 
tioner, is that of clarification. It is conducted on the same principle 
as the refining of sugar, although not carried out in every particular. 

Clarification of Raw Sugar. — For every six pounds of sugar re- 
quired to be clarified, take one quart of water, the white of an egcr^ 
and about half a teacupful of bullock's blood. Less than a pint will 
be sufficient for 112 pounds; but if a very fine, transparent, and 
colourless syrup is required, use either charcoal, finely powdered, or 
ivory black, instead of the blood. Put the white of the e^g in the 
water and whisk it to a froth, then add either of the other articles 
mentioned, and the sugar, place the pan containing the ingredients 
on the stove-fire, and stir them well with a spatuki, until the sugar is 
dissolved, and is nearly boiling. When the ebullition commences, 
throw in a little cold water to check it; this causes the coarser parts 
to separate more freely, by which means the Vv'hole of the impurities 
attach themselves to the clarifying matter used ; continue this for 
about five minutes, using about one pint of water to every six pounds 
of sugar, or more, until you consider the whole of the dross is dis- 
charged, and there remains a fine clear syrup. Then place it by the 
side of the stove, and carefully remove with a skimmer the scum 
which has formed on the top: it may also be taken off as it rises, but 
I find the best method is to let it remain a short time aft^r it is clari 
fied before it is removed, otherwise, if you take it off as it rises, part 
of the syrup is also taken with it. When either charcoal or black is 
used, it must be passed through a filtering-bag made of thick flmnel, 
in the shape of a cone, having a hoop fastened round the top to ken,) 
it extended, and to which strings are sewn that it may be tied or sus- 
pended in any convenient manner: wl^at runs out at first will he 



14 THE CONFECTIOiN'EE. 

quite black; return tliis again into the bag-, and continue doing so . 
until it runs fine and clear. 

If a little iime, about a spoonful, or any other alkali is added to the 
sugar wilh the water, &c., it will neutralize the acid which all raw 
sugars contain, and they will be found to stand much better after they 
have been inanufactured, by not taking the damp so soon. This is 
not generally done by the trade, but it will be found beneficial if 
practised. 

To clarifi/ Loaf Sugar. — This is clarified by mixing the whites ot 
eggs with water, without any other assistance, for having been pre- 
viously refined, it does not require those auxiliaries again to separate 
the coarser parts, unless it is of an inferior quality, or an extra fine 
syrup, as for bon-bons and other fancy articles, is required. When it 
is necessary to have a very fine sparkling grain, in that case break 
your lump into small pieces and put it in a preserving-pan, with a 
sufficient quantity of water to dissolve it, in which has been mix< d 
the white of an egg and powdered charcoal * as for raw sugar, fol- 
lowing those instructions already given. After the sugar has been 
drained from the bag, pass some water through to take off any which 
may be left in the charcoal, which you use for dissolving more sugar. 

The scum should always be reserved, when charcoal or black is not 
used, to mix with the articles of an inferior quality. 

The best refined loaf sugar should be white, dry, fine, of a brilliant 
sparkling appearance when broken, and as close in texture as pos- . 
sible. The best sort of brown has a bright, sparkling, and gravelly 
look. East India sugars appear finer, but do not contain so much sac- 
charine matter, yet they are much used for manufacturing the best 
sort of common sweetmeats, when clarified, instead of loaf sugar. 

Degrees of boiling Sugar. — This is the principal point to which the 
confectioner has to direct his attention ; for if he is not expert in this 
particular, all his other labour and knowledge will be useless: it is 

* Charcoal varies in its qualities, according to the wood from which 
it is prepared. That made from porous woods, such as the willow, 
alder, &c., is the best for clarifying liquids ; animal charcoal, or bone 
black, is also equally good, on account of its light and porous nature ; 
that made from hard woods is only fit for fuel, as it docs not possess the 
clarifying and decolouring properties like that made from the more soft 
and porous woods. When newly prepared, or if it has been kept free from 
air, it has the property of absorbing all putrid gases ; " it is also capable 
of destroying the smell and taste of a variety of animal and vegetable 
substances, especially of mucilages, oils, and of matter in which extra e. 
tive abounds ; and some articles are said to be even deprived of their 
characteristic odour, by remaining in contact with it, as valerian, galba- 
num, balsam of Peru, and musk. The use of charring the interior of 
water-casks, and of wrapping charcoal in cloths that have acquired a bad 
smell, depend upon this property. None of the fluid menstrua with vv'hieh 
we are acquainted have any action whatever, as solvents, upon carbon." — 
Paris^s Pharmacolocrln. 



THE CONFECTIONEE. 15 

the foundation on which he must build to acquire succe&s in his under' 
Lakinufs. 

There are seven essential points or degrees in boiling- sugar; some 
authors give thirteen, but many of these are useless, and servo only 
ti) bliovv a critical precision in the art, without its being required in 
practice; however, for exactness, we will admit of nine, viz :- -1. 
^'l!la]l thread. 2. Large thread. 3. Little pearl. 4. Larsfe pearl. 
7) Tile blow. 6. The feather. 7. Ball. 8. Crack. 9. Caramel, 
'i'his last degree derives its name from "a Count Albufage Caramel, 
of Nis;nes, who discovered this method of boiling sugar." — Guniej^s 
Cunftctirmer. 

h\ describing the process, I shall proceed in a different manner to 
otiier writers on the subject, by classing it under different heads, ac- 
cording to the uses to which it is applied. 

SYRUP. 

Under this head are comprised the degrees from the small thread 
to the large pearl ; for at these points the sugar is kept in a divided 
state, and remains a fluid of an oily consistency. A bottle which 
holds three ounces of water will contain four ounces of syrup. The 
method of ascertaining those degrees, according to the usages of the 
trade, is as follows: — 

Snudl Thread. — Having placed the clarified syrup on the fire, let 
it boil a little, then dip the top of your finger in the boiling syrup, 
and on taking it out apply it to the top of your thumb, when, if it has 
attained the degree, on separating them a small ring will be drawn 
out a little distance, about as fine as a hair, which will break and re- 
solve itself into a drop on the thumb and finger. 

Large Thread. — Continue the boiling a little longer, repeat the 
same operation as before, and a larger string will be drawn. 

Little Pearl. — To ascertain this degree, separate the finger from 
the thumb as before, and a large string may be drawn, which will 
extend to nearly the distance the fingers may be opened. 

Large Pearl. — The finger may now be separated from the thumb 
to the greatest extent before the thread will break. 

CRYSTALLIZATION. 

This takes the degrees of the blow and feather. The particles of 
the sugar being now brought together within the sphere of their 
activity, the attraction of cohesion commences, whereby they attach 
then)selves together and form quadrilateral pyramids with oblong and 
rectangular bases. This is generally, but improperly, termed candy, 
thereby confounding it with the degrees at wiiich it grains, also 
termed candy. This certainly seems "confusion worse confounded;" 
but if things are called by their proper names, many of those seem- 
incj difficulties and technicalities may be avoided which tend only to 
confuse and embarrass the young practitioner, without gaining any 



IH THE CONFECTIONER. 

(losirod end or purpose. Tf it were generally classed into the degrees 
of cryptal.'ization, the trne meaning and use would at once be ex- 
plnined and tniderstood by the greatest novice. 

The nature and principle of tiiis operation are these. First, as in the 
case of syrnp (the first four degrees), when the water has absorbed as 
much sugar as it is capable of containing in a cold state, by continu- 
ing (he boiling, a further portion of the solvent (water) is evaporated, 
and sugar lomains in excess, which, when exposed to a less degree 
of heat, separates itself, and forms crystals on the surface and sides 
of the vessel in which it is contained, and also on anything placed or 
suspended \n it. But if it is exposed too suddenly to the cold, or dis- 
turbed in its action by being shaken, or if the boiling has been con- 
tinued too long, the crystals will form irregularly by the particles 
being brought in too close contact, and run too hastily together, form- 
ing a mass or lump. 

To obtain this part in perfection, the boiling should be gradual, and 
continued no longer than till a few drops let fall on a cold surface 
show a crystalline appearance, or after being removed from the fire 
a thin skin will form on the surface. It should then be taken from 
the fire and placed in a less hot but not cold place, and covered or 
put into a stove or hot closet to prevent the access of cold air. A 
few drops of spirits of wine, added when the sugar has attained the 
proper degree, will conduce to a more perfect crystalline form, scarcely 
attainable by any other means, as it has a great affinity with the water, 
thereby causing the sugar to separate itself more freely. It must be 
used with caution, as too much will cause it to grain. 

To ascertain the Degree of the Blow. — Continue the boiling of 
the sugar, dip a skimmer in it and shake it over the pan, then blow 
through the holes, and if small bubbles or air-bladders are seen on 
the other side, it has acquired this degree. 

The Feather. — Dip the skimmer again into the sugar, and blow 
through the holes as before, and the bubbles will appear larger and 
stronger. Or if you give the skimmer a sudden jerk, so as to throw 
the sugar from you, when it has acquired the degree, it will appear 
hanging from the skimmer in fine long strings. 

CANDY. 

Sugar, after it has passed the degree of the feather, is of itself 
naturally inclined to grain, that is to candy, and will form a powder 
if agitated or stirred : for as the boiling is continued, so is the water 
evaporated until there is nothing left to hold it in solution : therefore 
that body being destroyed by heat, which first cTianged its original 
form to those we have already enumerated, as this no longer exists 
with it, it naturally returns to the same state as it was before the 
solvent was added, which is that of minute crystals or grains* being 
held together by the attraction of cohesion, unless, as before stated, 
they are separated by stirring, &-c. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 17 

The sugar bL-iiig evaporated by boiling' from the last degree, leaves 
a tiv.n crust of crystals round the sides of the pan, which shows it has 
attained the candy height; and this crust must be carefully removed, 
as it tbrms, with a damp cloth or sponge, or the whole mass will 
candy if sufl\?red to remain. To prevent this is the chief deside- 
ratum, all further proceedings for which specific rules will be given 
ill tiieir proper places. 

The remaining degrees can be ascertained after the following man- 
ner : — 

The Ball. — Provide a jug of clean cold water, and a piece of 
round stick. First dip in the water, then in the sugar, and again in 
the v.-ater ;* take off the sugar which has adhered to it, and endea- 
vour to roll it into a ball between the finger and thumb in the water: 
vvh(;n tliis can be done, it has attained the desired degree. If it forms 
a I'irge hard ball which will bite hard and adhere to the teeth when 
efiten, it is then termed the large ball, et contra. 

The Crack. — Follow the directions given for the ball. Slip the 
su^ar off from the stick, still holding it in the water, then press it 
bH-twecn the finger and thumb; if it breaks short and crisp, with a 
slio-ht noise, it is at the crack. 

Caramel. — To obtain this degree it requires care and attention, 
and also to be frequently tried, as it passes speedily from the crack to 
the caramel. Try it as before directed, and let the water be quite 
cold, or you will be deceived. If on taking it off the stick it snaps 
like glass, with a loud noise, it has attained the proper degree; it will 
also, when it arrives at this point, assume a beautiful yellow colour; 
after this it will speedily burn, taking all the hues from a brown to a 
black; therefore, to prevent this, dip the bottom of the pan into a 
pail of cold water as soon as it comes to caramel, as the heat which 
is contained in the pan and sugar is sufficient to advance it one de- 
gree; also be careful that the flame of the fire does not ascend round 
the sides of the pan, which will burn it. 

In boiling sugar, keep the top of the pan partially cov<Ted from the 
time it commences boiling until it has attained the ball or crack: the 
steam which rises, bein;^ again thrown on the sides, prevents the 
formation of the crust or crystals. 

To prevent its graining, add a little of any sort of acid when it is 
at tlie crack — a table-spoonful of common vinegar, four or five drops 
of lemon-juice, or two or three drops of pyroligneous acid : any of 
these will have the desired effect; this is termed greasing it: but 
remember that too much acid will also grain it, neither can it be 
boiled to caramel if there is too much. A little butter added when 
it first commences boiling will keep it from rising over the pan, and 
also prevent its graining. Ab(jut as much cream of tartar as may be 
laid on a sixpence, and added to seven pounds of sugar with the water, 
or equal quantities of cream of tartar and alum in [)owder, added when 

* This should be performed as speedily as possible. 



18 THE CONFi:CTIONEE. 

it boilp, will also keep it from candying. If sugar is poured on a 
slab that is too hot it is very apt to grain ; this is frequently the case 
after several casts have been worked off in rotation; therefore, when 
you find it inclined to turn, remove it to a cooler spot, if possible, and 
not handle it any more than is necessary. 

Sugar that has been often boiled or warmed is soon acted upon by 
the atmospiiere, whereby it becomes clammy and soon runs, as it is 
weakened by the action of the fire. Acid causes the same effect. 

If it has passed the degree you intended to boil it at, add a little 
water, and give it another boil. 



SECTION ir. SYRUPS. 

The.se are either the juices of fruits, or a decoction or infusion of 
the leaves, flowers, or roots of vegetables, impregnated with a suffi- 
cient quantity of sugar for their preservation and retaining them in a 
liquid state. 

A great portion of this class comes more under the notice of the 
apothecary than the confectioner; but it may now be considered, with 
lozenges, as a branch of pharmacy in the hands of the latter, the 
most agreeable of which are now manufactured by him to supply the 
place of fresh fruits, &c., when out of season, for the making of cool- 
ing drinks, ices, &c., for balls and routs. 

General Rules and Observations. — Two things are essentially 
necessary to be observed, which are: — the proper methods of making 
decoctions and infusions. These require some knowledge of the 
nature and properties of vegetable matter. 

The virtues of most plants are extracted by infusion, and this is 
generally the case with aromatic plants, and those whose proper- 
ties depend on an essential oil; for, in boiling, the whole of the 
aroma of the plant is dispersed, and the syrup loses that delicate 
flavour for which it is prized. 

Aromatic herbs, and the leaves of plants in general, yield their 
virtues most perfectly when moderately dried. Cold water extracts 
from these in a few hours, the lighter, more fragrant and agreeable 
parts, and then begins to take up the more ungrateful and grosser. 
By pouring the same liquor on fresh parcels of the herb, it becomes 
stronger, richer, thicker, and balsamic. 

Those only should be decocted whose principles consist of muci- 
lage, gum, or resin, and require boiling to extract them. 

The compact resinous woods, roots and barks, yield their virtues 
most freely while fresh. Dry, they yield little to cold or moderately 
warm water, and require it to be boiling. By this process the grosser, 
more fixed saline and mucilaginous parts are dissolved, the resinous 
melted out, and the volatile dissipated. 

Infusions. — " These are watery solutions of vegetable matter, 
obtained by maceration, either in hot or cold water, with the assist- 



THE CONFECTIONER. 



19 



ance of ebullition. In selecting and conducting the operation, the 
following general rules should be observed : — 

"1st. Infusion should always be preferred before decoction, where 
the virtues of the vegetable substance reside in volatile oil, or in 
principles which are easily soluble ; whereas, if they depend upon 
resino-niucilaginous particles, decoction is an indispenaible operation. 
" 2nd. The teniperature employed must be varied according to the 
circumstances of each case, and infusion made with cold is in general 
more grateful but less active than one made with heat. 

" 3rd. The duration of the process must likewise be regulated by 
the nature of the substances ; for the infusion will differ according to 
the time in which the water has been digested on the materials ; thus 
the aroma of the plaut is first taken up, then in succession the colour- 
ing, astringent, and gummy parts. 

Decoctions. — " These are solutions of the active principles of vege- 
tables, obtained by boiling them in water. 

" 1st. Those principles only should be decocted whose virtues're- 
side in principles which are soluble in Vv-'ater. 

" 2nd. If the active principle be volatile, decoction must be an in- 
jurious process; and if it consists of extractive matter, long boiling, 
by favouring its oxidizement, will render it insipid, insoluble, and 
inert. 

"3rd. The substances to be decocted should be previously bruised 
or sliced, so as to expose an extended surface to the action of the 
water. 

" 4th. The substances should be completely covered with water, 
and the vessel slightly closed, in order to prevent as much as possi- 
ble the access of air; the boiling should be continued without inter- 
ruption, and gently. 

"5th. In compound decoctions, it is sometimes convenient not to 
put in all the ingredients from the beginning, but in succession, ac- 
cording to their hardness, and the difficulty with which their virtues 
are extracted; and if any aromatic or other substances containing 
volatile principles, or oxidizable matter, enter into the composition, 
the boiling decoction should be simply poured upon them, and covered 
up until cold. 

" 6th. The relative proportions of different vegetable substances 
to the water must be regulated by their nature. The following 
general rule may be admitted. Of roots, barks, or dried woods, from 
two drachms to six to every pint of water: of herbs, or flowers, half 
that quantity will suffice. 

" 7th. The decoction ought to be filtered through linen while hot, 
as important portions of the dissolved matter are frequently deposited 
on cooling ; care must also be taken that the filter is not too fine, for 
it fVequently happens that the virtues of a decoction depend upon the 
presence of particles in a miuutely divided state." — Paris's Phar- 
macologia. 

All acid syrups ought to have their full quantity of sugar, so as to 



20 THE CO^'FEGTIO^iER. 

bring Ihem lo a consistence without boiling, because the very action 
of much heat destroys their acidity, and makes them liable lo candy; 
and this more particularly holds good where the infusion or juice, &c., 
has any frajrrancy in flavour, because the volatile oil is dissipated !iy 
boilino. The same observation is also applicable to those infusions 
oi flowers which give out their colour, and which is necessary to be 
rt'tained, such as violets, pinks, &:c., as boiling injures them. 

Those syrups wiiich are made from decoctions, and do not take a 
sufficient quantity of sugar to bring them to a due corisistence with- 
out boiling, require to be clarified so as to render them transparent ; 
but this is often an injury, as the whites of eggs take off some of their 
chief properties with the scum ; therefore, the decoction should first 
be rendered clear by settling or filtering, and the sugar should bo 
clarified and boiled lo the height of the feather or ball before the 
decoction is added, when it must be reduced to the proper degree. 

The best and most general method of making syrups is to add a 
sufhcient quantity of the finest loaf-sugar, in powder, with the juice 
or infusion, &c., stirring it well until a small portion settles at Hie 
bottom, then place the pan in a larger one containing water ; this is 
termed the l)ain-rnarie ; put it on the fire, and the heat of the water 
as it boils will dissolve the sugar; when this has been thoroughly 
effected, take it off and let it cool ; if more sugar is added than the 
quantity above named, it will separate in crystals, and not leave suffi- 
cient remaining in the syrup for its preservation. (See observations 
on Sugar-boiling). When cold, put it into small bottles, fill them, 
cork closely, and keep in a dry cool place. Be particularly careful 
that no tinned articles are used in the making of syrups from the juice 
of red fruits, as it will act on the tin and change the colotir to a dead 
blue. 

Raspberry Syrup. — One pint of juice, two pounds of sugar. 
Choose the fruit either red or white, mash it in a pan, and put it in a 
warm place for two or three days, or until the fermentation has com- 
menced. All mucilaginous fruits require this, or else it would jelly 
after it is bottled. Filter the juice through a flannel bag, add the 
sugar in powder, place in the bain-marie, and stir it until dissolved ; 
take it off, let it get cold, take off the scum, and bottle it. 

[^Pine-apple Syrup. — Take one and a half pints of syrup boiled to 
the ball, add to this, one pint of the juice of the best Ilavanna pine- 
apples; let it then come to a boil, remove the scum, and bottle 
when cool.] 

Raspberry Vinegar Syrup. — One pint of juice, two pints of apple 
vinegar, four pounds and a half of sugar. Prepare the juice as before, 
adding the vinegar with it, using white vinegar with white rasp- 
berries; strain the juice and boil to the pearl. 

Three pounds of raspberries, two pints of vinegar, three poimds of 
sugar. Put the raspberries into the vinegar without mashing then), 
cover the pan close, and let it remain in a cellar for seven or eight 
days : then filter the infusion, add the sugar in powder, and finish in 



THE CONFECTIO^KK. 21 

the bain-marie. This is superior to the first, as the beautiful aroma 
ot tlje fruit is lo^st in the boiling, as may be well known by its scenting 
the place where it i.^ done, or even the whole house ; the fruit may 
also be ailer wards used with more for raspberry cakes. 

I'Strawbtrry Syrup. — Make as pine-apple ; taking care to strain 
carefully at least twice, through a tine flannel bag, so as to remove 
entirely ail sediment, and the small seed of the fruit.] 

Currant Syrup. — One pint of juice, two pounds of sugar. Mix 
together three pounds of currants, half white and half red, one pound 
of raspberries, and one pound of cherries, without the stones; mash 
the fruit and let it stand in a warm place for three or four days, 
keeping it covered with a coarse cloth, or piece of paper with holes 
pricked in it to keep out any dust or dirt. Filter the juice, add the 
sugar in powder, finish in the bain-marie, and skim it. When cold, 
put it inU) bottles, fill them, and cork well. 

Alorello Cherry Syrup. — Take the stones out of the cherries, mash 
them, and press out the juice in an earthen pan ; let it stand in a cool 
place for two days, then filter; add two pounds of sugar to one pint 
of juice, finish in the bain-marie, or stir it well on the fire, and give 
it one or two boils. 

Mulberry Syrup. — One pint of juice, one pound twelve ounces of 
sugar. Press out the juice and finish as cherry syrup. 

Gooseberry Syrup. — One pint of juice^ one pound twelve ounces 
of sugar. To twelve pounds of ripe gooseberries add two pounds of 
cherries without stones, squeeze out the juice, and finish as others. 

Lemon Syrup. — One pint and a quarter of juice, two pounds of 
sugar. Let the juice stand in a cool place to settle. When a thin 
skin is formed on the top, pour it off and filter, add the sugar, and 
finish in the bain-marie. If the flavour of the peel is preferred with 
it, grate off the yellow rind of the lemons and mix it with the juice 
to infuse, or rub it off on part of the sugar and add it with the re- 
mainder when you finish it. 

Orange Syrup. — As lemon syrup. 

Orange-Flower Syrup. — Picked orange flowers one pound, sugar 
three pounds. Take one half of the sugar and make a syrup, which 
boil to the large pearl, put the flowers in a basin or jar, and pour the 
eyiup on them boiling hot, cover the jar or basin quite close and let 
them infuse in it for five or six hours, then drain off the syrup, boil 
the remaining portion of sugar, and pour over them as before ; when 
cold, strain and bottle. 

Strop de CapiUaire. — Syrup of Maidenhair. — There are several 
sorts of Maidenhair, but the best is that of Canada, which has a 
pleasant smell joined to its pectoral qualities. The true Maiden- 
hair — Capillus Veneris — is a native of Italy and of the southern 
parts of France. It has an agreeable but very weak smell. Common 
or English Maidenhair — Trichomanes — is usually substituted for the 
true, and occasionally for the Canadian. Its leaves consist of small 
round divisions, growing as it were in pairs. It grows on rocks, old 



22 THE CONFECTIOIMEK. 

wall?, and shady banks, and should be gathered in September. 
Black Maidenhair — Adiantlmm Nigrum. — has smooth and shining 
leaves, the mi'ldle rib being bhick, and the seeds are all spread on the 
hack of the leaf. It orcus on shady banks, and on the roots of trees. 
White Maidenhair — Wall Rue — Tent Wort — Ruta Murana Salvia 
VitcB. — The leaves of this are shaped something like rue, and covered 
fill over the back with a small seed-like dust. Golden Maidenhair — 
Mv.sc>!,s ('fi]}illfjris — grows in moist places, and the pedicle arises 
fniu! tfi" top of the stalk. I have given these particulars, because I 
find they are often substituted one for the other by persot)s who are 
Mit aware that there is any difference. Although ail of them have 
fiearly the sntne qualities, only two have a volatile oil, but they are 
ail mucilaginous. 

Canada capillaire two ounces, sugar two pounds. Chop the 
capillaire into sma!! bits, and make as orange-flower syrup. By this 
method the oil is not allowed to escape, which being exceedingly 
odoriferous and volatile, is soon dissipated if boiled ; or make a cold 
int'usiori (8ee Infusions) of the plant by putting one quart of water to 
lour ounces of capillaire, add four pounds of sugar, and finish in the 
bain-marie, adding one ounce of orange-flower water.* [This is a 
fashionable and delicate syrup, but is rarely obtained genuine.] 

Simple syrup, flavoured with orange-flower water, is usually sub- 
stituted tor it. 

Syrx'.p of Liquorice. — Liquorice-root two ounces, white maidenhair 
one ourtce, hyssop half an ounce, boiling water three pints; slice the 
root and cut the herbs small, infuse in the water ibr twenty-four 
hours, strain and add sufficient sugar, or part sugar and honey, to 
make a syrup; boil to the large pearl. An excellent pectoral. 

Syrrrp of Violets. — One pound of violet flowers, one quart of water, 
four pounds of sugar. Put the flowers cleared from their t^talks and 
calx, into a glazed earthen pan ; pour on the water boiling hot, and 
stop the pan quite close; let it remain in a warm place for a day, 
then strain oft' the infusion through a thin cloth; add the sugar, and 
place in the bain-marie: stir it well and heat it until you can scarcely 
bear yonr finger in it; then take it off, and when cold, bottle. A 
laxative. This syrup is often adulterated by beincr made with th(i 
flowers of hearts-ease, or columbine scented wiiii ornce-.'-oot, and 
coloured. 

Syrvp of Pinks. — Clove pinks, one pound eight ounces, water 
two pints and a half, suofar, three pounds. Let the flowers be fresh 
gathered, cut off the white points of the petals and weigh them. 
Finish as syrup of violets. This syrup may be made with a cold in- 



^-The pectoral quality of this s3Mup — for it is often sold for such pur- 
poses in shops — would be much improved if made witi) the addition of 
liquorice-root, as ordered by the PJiarmacopoeias — " Five ounces of ca- 
pillaire, two ounces of liquorice-root, six pints of water ; white sugar a 
sufficient quantity ; two ounces of orange-flower water." 



THE CONFECTIONER. 23 

fusion of ih'-i flowfr?, first pounding them with a little water in a 
marble mortar, Fini^-h as before. If the flowers of the cltjve piuk 
cannot be obtained, use other pinks, adding a few cloves to infuse 
with theui, si) as to give the flavour. 

Syrvjj of Roses.-^The dried leaves of Provence roses eioht 
ounces, double rose leaves six ounces, water one quart, sugar four 
pounds. Pour the water on the leaves when nearly boiling, into a 
glazed earthen vessel, cover it quite close, and let it remain in a 
warm place for a day ; then strain and finish as violets. The leaves 
of the damask rose are purgative. 

Syrup of Wormwood. — There are three sorts of wormwood most 
generally known, — the common, sea, and Roman. The first may be 
distinguished by its broad leaves which are divided into roundish 
segments, of a dull green colour above, and whitish underneath; its 
taste is an intense and disagreeable bitter. The sea wormwood has 
smaller leaves und hoary both above and underneath; it grows in 
salt marshes, and about the sea coasts; the smell and taste are not 
so strong and disagreeable as the common. The Roman differs from 
the others by the plant being smaller in all its parts ; the leaves are 
divided mto fine filaments and hoary all over, the stalk being either 
entirely or in part of a purple colour. lis smell is pleasant, and the 
bitterness not disagreeable: it is cultivated in gardens. The sea 
wormwood is generally substituted for it. 

The tops of Roman wormwood two ounces, water one pint, suijar 
two pounds. Make an infusion of the leaves in warm wate>r, strain, 
add the sugar to the infusion, and boil to the pearl. If the common 
wormwood only can be obtained, put the tops into three times the 
above quantity of water, and boil it over a strong fire until reduced 
to a pint. This will deprive it of pnrt of its bitterness and disagree- 
able smell. 

Syrup of Marshmallows — Sirop de Guimauve. — Fresh mallow 
roots eight ounces, water one quart, suga! three pounds. Cleanse 
the roots, and slice them; make a decoction (See Decoctions), boiling 
it a quarter of an hour, so as to obtain the mucilage of the root; 
strain, and finish as wormwood. One ounce of liquorice-root aiKi one 
ounce of white maidenhair, with a few stoned raisins, may be added. 

[Syrup of Sarsaparilla. — Haifa pound of bruised sarsaparilla rout, 
two ounces of ground orange peel, one ounce liquorice-root, sassrifras 
bark bruised, two ounces, one gallon of water; boil to half a ijallon, 
Ftrain; to each pint of liquor add one pound of sugar; put on the fire 
till it boils, and take off the scum which arises,] 

Syrup of Coltsfoot. — Fresh Coltsfoot flowers one pound eight 
ounces, water one quart, sugar three pounds. Pick the flowers about 
February, and make an infusion of them with hot water; strain, and 
finish as wormwood syrup. Two or three handfuls of the leaves may 
be pounded and infused instead of the flowers. 

Syrup of Ginger. — Ginger two ounces, water one pint, sugar two 
pounds. 



24 THE CONFECTIOXER. 

Sllco the root if fresh, or bruise it if dried; pour the water on it 
boilin^r, and let it macerate in a warm place for a day, then strain, 
and boil to the pearl. 

[A?iolher. — A better flavoured and a richer ginger syrup is made 
in the following manner. — Take any quantity of scraped, white, Ja- 
maica ginger and infuse for several days in good spirits of wine; 
decant the clear liquor when sufficiently saturated with the ginger, 
and add to the hot sugar, previously boiled to the ball or feather, a 
stifficient quantity of the liquor to impart to the syrup the agreeable 
aroma of the ginger root. 

The spirit will be rapidly driven off when it is poured into the 
boiling syrup, and a bland and beautiful syrup will be the result ; let 
it cool, and bottle immediately.] 

Syrvp of Almonds — Strop de Orgeat. — One pound of sweet 
almond.s, four ounces of bitter ones, one pint and a half of water, sugar 
three pounds, orange-flower water two ounces. 

Blanch the almonds, and as they are blanched throw them into cold 
water; when they are finished, take them out and pound them in a 
marble mnrtar, sprinkling them with a little orange-flower water to 
prevent their oiling, or use water with the juice of a lemon; add 
sufficient in the pounding to reduce them to a paste, and when quite 
fine add half a pint more water; mix, and strain through a tamis 
cloth twisted tight by two persons: receive the milk which comes 
from the almonds into a basin; what is left in the cloth must be 
pounded again with some of the water, and strained. Continue this 
until the whole of the milk is obtained, and the water, is consumed ; 
then clarify, and boil the sugar to the crack; add the milk ot 
almonds, and reduce it to the pearl; then strain it again, add tho 
orange-flower water, and stir it well until nearly cold ; when cold, 
bottle; shake the bottles well for several succeeding days, if you see 
it at all inclined to separate, which will prevent it. 

Sirop de Pistache is made in the same manner, colouring it green 
with a little spinach. 

Syrup of Coffee. — Fresh roasted Mocha coffee two pounds, watei 
one quart, sugar three pounds eight ounces. Grind the coffee in 
mill, and make a cold infusion with the water in a close vessel ; let 
it stand for a day, then filter it through blotting paper; add the sugar, 
and finish in the bain-marie. 

Syrup rf Bum Punch. — Jamaica rum one quart, the juice of twelve 
or fourteen lemons, sugar four pounds. Rub off the yel!ovv rind of half 
of the lemons on a piece of the sugar, and scrape it off with a knife- 
into a basin as it imbibes the oil; clarify and boil the remaining por- 
tion to the crack ; strain the juice into the rum, and add to i4 the 
sugar with that on which the peels were rubbed ; mix together, and 
give it one boil. The yellow rind of the peels may be cut off very 
thin, and infused in the spirit for some days before the syrup is made 

Brandy and Wine Syrups may be made in the same manner. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 25 

SECTION III. CRYSTALLIZED SUGAR, AND ARTICLES ORYSTAL- 

.i LIZEDj COMMONLY CALLED CANDIES. 

Crystallized or Candied Sugar. — Provide a round mould, smaller at 
the bottom than the top, of any size you may think proper, made 
either of tin or copper, with holes pierced round the sides about three 
inches asunder, so as to fasten strings across in regular rows from the 
top to the bottom, leaving sufficient room for the sugar to crystallize 
on each string without touchmg, or it will form a complete mass ; 
paste paper round the outside to prevent the syrup from running 
through the hoks. Have the mould prepared, and let it be clean and 
dry ; take sufficient clarified syrup to fill the mould, and boil it to the 
degree of crystallization or the feather, and add a little spirit of wine ; 
remove it from the fire, and let it rest until a thin skin is formed on 
the surface, which you must carefully remove with a skimmer; then 
pour it into the mould, and place it in the hot closet, where you let it 
remain undisturbed tor eight or nine days, at 90 degrees of heat, or 
half that time at 100; then make a hole, and drain off the super- 
fluous sugar into a pan placed below to receive it; let it drain quite 
dry, which will take about twelve hours; then wash off the paper 
from the mould with warm water, place it near the fire, and keep 
turning it to warm it equally all round ; then turn it up and strike 
the mould rather hard upon the table, when the sugar will relieve 
itself and C(jme out: put it on a stand or sieve in the closet, raise the 
heat to 120 degrees, and let it remain until perfectly dry; Particular 
attention should be paid to the heat of the closet, which must be kept 
regular and constant, and this can easily be accomplished at a small 
expense with many of the patent stoves which are now in general 
use, and also without causing any dust. A Fahrenheit's or xleaumui's 
thermometer should be so placed that the heat may at all times be 
ascertained. 

This may be coloured with prepared cochineal, or other liquid 
colour, or by grinding any particular colour with the spirits of wine, 
and adding it to the syrup before it comes to the feather. 

Fruils to Crystallize. — Have a square or round tin box, smaller at 
the bottom than the top, with wire gratings made to fit at convenient 
distances, and having a hole with a tube or pipe to admit a cork, and 
drain off the syrup. Take any of the preserved fruits v.-et (which 
see), drain from them the syrup, and dip them in lukewarm water to 
take off any syrup which may adhere to them ; dry them in the 
closet ; when dried, place them in layers on the gratings, side by 
side, so as not to touch each other; continue in this manner v.-ith any 
Bort of fruit until the box is full ; then fix the whole with a w'eight, 
to keep it steady. Boil a sufficiency of clarified sugar to fill the box 
to the degree of crystallization or the blow, add a little spirit of wine, 
and remove it from the fire. When a thin skin has formed on the top, 
remove it carefully with a skimmer, and pour the sugar into tlu> 
3 



26 THE €ONFEf;TTOx\ER. 

mould ; place it in the closet at 90 degrees of heat, and let it remain 
for twelve hours, then drain off the syrup into a pan from the tube at 
bottom, and let it remain in the closet until quite dry; then turn 
them out by striking the box hard upon the table, separate them care- 
fully, and put them in boxes with paper between each layer. When 
different fruits, paste, knots, &c,, are mixed together indiscriminately, 
it is termed mille-fruit candy. Any sort of fruit or gum pastes, when 
thoroughly dried, may be crystallized in the same manner. When 
the syrup is drained off, if you find the size of the crystals is not large 
enough, another lot of syrup may be prepared and poured over it ; 
let it remain in the closet for seven or eight hours, then drain and 
finish as before. 

If small pieces of stick are pushed down at each corner, or in any 
other vacancy, when you fill the mould, one of these may be with- 
drawn at any time yon may wish to ascertain the size of the crystals, 
which will save the trouble of giving a second charge of sugar. 

Crystallized Chocolate. — Prepare some sugar, as in the preceding 
articles, and pour it into the box. W^hen a thin crust is formed on the 
top, make a hole on one side, and push the articles previously shaped 
with chocolate, as for drops, gently under with your finger ; put them 
in the stove to crystallize, as other articles. After the syrup ia 
drained off, and the articles dried, they must remain until quite cold 
before being turned out, as the chocolate continues soft for some 
time. 

Liqueur Rings, Drops, and other Devices. — These are all made 
after the same manner. A square box is necessary, which you fill 
with very dry starch powder. Sugar, powdered very fine and dried, 
will answer the same purpose. The depth of the box should be 
suited to the articles intended to be made. Shake the box, or pass a 
knife repeatedly through the powder, that it may be solid ; smooth 
the surface with a straight piece of wood; have a thin piece of flat 
board, on which is fastened a number of little devices, about an inch 
asunder, and to suit the width of the box; these may be made eithei 
of lead, plaster, or wood, in the form of rings, diamonds, stars, bot- 
tles, scissors, harps, shoes, or any other form your fancy may suggest; 
make the impressions in the powder in regular rows, until the box is 
full ; then prepare some sugar as for the preceding articles, boiling it 
to the blow, and flavouring it with any sort of spirit or liqueur, such 
as brandy, rum, noyau. Maraschino, cinnamon, rosolis, &c., colouring 
the syrup accordingly. It should be prepared in a pan with a lip to 
it. When a thin skin has formed on the top, place a cork in the lip 
of the pan, but not to close it, allowing a space for the sujar to run 
out, the cork being merely to keep back the skin ; then fill the im- 
pressions you made in the powder and place them in the stove at 90 
degrees; let them remain a day, then take them out, and their sur- 
faces will be found quite hard and solid ; brush the powder from them 
with a light brush, when they may either be painted, crystallized, or 
piped. Many of these bon-bons are beautifully piped and coloured to 



THE CONFECTIONER. 27 

FoprGsent dog-p, horses, costumes, and theatrical characters ; the fur 
on th^ robes is imitated with white or coloured sugar in coarse grains, 
and lacp-vvork is done by means of a pin. 

Uqaeur drops are mide with the impression of half a ball to any 
required size, or other forms. If the flat parts of two are moistened, 
put together, and dried in the stove, they will form drops perfectly 
r.)und. 

To farm a Chain with Liqueur Rings. — Have some moulds to form 
t!i(' impressions in powder, as in the preceding, in the shape of the 
links of a chain; fill them with syrup at the blow, as before, and put 
them in the stove for a day ; when they are hard and fit to be taken 
out, place them on their ends in the powder; have another mould of 
a link m two halves, and with this f^rm the impression between each 
of the others so as to make it complete; tlien fill them, and finish as 
before. 

SECTION IV. CANDY BONBON CONSERVE. 

The articles that come under this head are made by the sugar 
being brought to the ball, when it is grained by rubbing it against the 
sides of the pan. From this all fancy articles are made, such as fruit, 
eggs, cups, vases, &c. 

Ginger Candy. — Take clarified syrup and boil it to the ball; flavour 
it either with the essence of ginger or the root in powder ; then with 
a spoon or spatula rub some of it against the side of the pan until you 
perceive it turn white ; pour it into small square tins with edges, or 
paper cases, which have been oiled or buttered, and put it in a warm 
place, or on a hot stone, that it may become dappled. The syrup 
should be coloured yellow, while boiling, with a little saffron. 

Peppermint., Lemon and Rose Candy are made after the same 
manner, colouring the lemon with saffron, and the rose with 
cochineal. 

Coltsfoot or Horehound Candy. — Make a strong infusion of the 
herbs, (See Infusions under the head of Syrups,) and use it for dis- 
solving the sugar, instead of taking syrup; raw sugar is mostly used 
for those candies. Boil it to the ball, grain it and finish as ginger 
candy. 

Artificial Fruit, Eggs, <^c. — Prepare moulds with plaster of Paris 
from the natural objects you wish to represent; make them in two, 
three, or more pieces, so as to relieve freely, and have a hole at one 
end into which the sugar may be poured ; let them be made so as 
each part may be fitted together exactly ; and for this purpose make 
two or three round or square indentions on the edge of one part, so 
that the corresponding piece when cast, will form the counterpart, 
which may at all times be fitted with precision. Let the object you 
would take the cast from be placed in a frame made either of wood 
or of stiff* paper, embed a part of it in fine sand, soft pipe-clay, or 



28 THE CONFECTIONER. 

modelling wax, leaving as much of the mould exposed as you wish to 
ionn at one lime, and oil it with sweet oil ; mix some of the prepared 
plaster with water, to the consistency of thick cream, and pour over 
it; when tiiis is set, proceed with the other portions in the same 
manner until it is complete. Lei them dry and harden for use. 

Take a sufficient quantity of syrup, (clarified with charcoal or 
animal black) to fill the mould, and boil it to the small bail; rub 
some of it against the side to grain it; when it turns white, pour it 
into the moulds: take them out when set, and put them into the 
stove at a moderate heat to dry. The moulds must be soaked for an 
hour or two in cold water previously to their being used, which will 
be found bettor than oiling them, as it keeps the sugar delicately 
white, whioli oil does not. Colour your articles according to nature 
with liquid colours (see Colours) and camel's-hair pencils, or the usual 
pigments s(;ld in boxes may be used. If a gloss is required, the 
colours should be mixed with a strong solution of gum Arabic or 
isinglass, to the desired tint. Eggs and fruit may be made as lisfht 
and apparently as perfect as nature, by having moulds to open in two, 
without any orifice for filling them. Fill one half with the grained 
sugar, innnediately close the mould, and turn it round briskly that it 
may be covered all over equally. To accomplish this, it is necessary 
to have an assistant that it may be done as speedily as possible. 

Burnt Almonds. — Take some fine Valencia or Jordan almonds, and 
sift all the flust from them ; put a pint of clarified syrup into the pan for 
each pound of almonds, and place it with the almonds on the fire; boil to 
the ball, then take it off and stir the mixture well with a spatula that 
the sugar m;iy grain and become almost a powder, whilst each almond 
has a coating. Put them into a coarse wire or cane sieve, and sift all the 
loose sugar from them, and also separate those which stick together. 
When cold, boil some more clarified syrup to the feather, put in the 
almonds, give them two or three boils in it, take them from the fire, and 
stir them with the spatula as before, until the sugar grains; sift and 
separate them, and keep them in glasses or boxes. A third coat may be 
given them in the same manner as the second, if they are required 
large. 

Burnt Almonds — Red. — The same as the last, using prepared cochi- 
neal to colour the syrup whilst it is boiling. 

Filberts and Pistachios. — These are done the same as burnt almonds, 
but they are usually denominated prawlinDfs, the nuts being only put 
into the sugar for two or three minutes before it is taken from the 
fire, and stirred. 

Common Burnt Almonds. — These are made with raw sugar and 
skimmings, if you have any. Put some water with the sugar to dis- 
solve it; when it is near boiling, add the almonds, and let them boil 
in it until it comes to the small ball ; or when the almonds crack, take 
them from the fire, and stir them with a spatula until the sugar grains 
and becomes nearly a powder ; put them into a sieve, and separate 
the lumps. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 29 

Orange Prawlings. — Take four or five Havanna oranges, and cut 
off the peel in quarters, or small lengths; take off all the pith or 
white part of the peel, leaving only the yellow rinds, and cut in small 
pieces, about an inch long, and the size of pins. Have about a pint 
of clarified sugar boiling on the fire; when it comes to the blow, put 
in the pieces of peel, and let them boil until the sugar attains the 
small ball; take them off, and stir them with the spatula until the 
sugar grains and hangs about them; sift off the loose sugar; when 
cold, separate and keep them in a dry place. 

Lemon Prawlings. — As orange. 



SECTION V. CRACK AND CARAMEL. 

These comprehend all articles in sugar-boiling which eat short and 
crisp. They are used for all sorts of ornamental sugar- work. The 
rules and observations already laid down under this head must be par- 
ticularly noted, especially those for greasing the sugar so as to prevent 
ils graining. 

Barley Sugar. — Boil some clarified loaf sugar to the crack or cara- 
mel degree, using a little acid to prevent its graining: pour it out on 
a marble slab, which has been previously oiled or buttered. Four 
pieces of iron, or small square bars, are usually employed to form a 
sort of bay to prevent the sugar running off the stone, which is neces- 
sary in large casts. When the edges get set a little, remove the 
bars, and turn them over into the centre. This is occasionally fla- 
voured with lemons. When it is required, pour a few drops of the 
essential oil of lemons in the centre, before the edges are folded over, 
then cut it into narrow strips with a large pair of scissors or sheep- 
shears. When nearly cold, twist them, put them into glasses or tin 
boxes, and keep them closed to prevent the access of air. It is sel- 
dom boiled higher than the crack, and saffron is used to make it the 
colour of caramel. 

This derives the name of barley sugar from its being origmally 
made with a decoction of barley, as a demulcent in coughs, for which 
it is now most generally used. 

Barley Sugar Drops. — Boil some sugar as for the preceding. Spread 
some finely powdered and sifted loaf sugar on a table or tea-tray, 
with a piece of stick, round at the end similar to the half of a ball ; 
make several holes, into which you run the sugar from a lipped pan, 
or it may be dropped on an oiled marble slab with a funnel, letting 
only one drop fall at a time; or from the lip pan, separating each 
drop with a small knife, or a straight piece of small wire; take them 
off the stone with a knife, mix them with powdered loaf sugar, sift 
them from it, and keep in glasses or tin boxes. 

Barley Sugar Tablets or Kisses. — Spread some sugar, as for the 
last; have a piece of wood about an inch and a half thick, with the 
.3^ 



30 THE CONFECTIONER. 

surface divided into small squares, each being about an inch, and half 
an inch in depth ; with this form the impressions in the sugar, and 
fill them with sugar boiled as for drops, flavouring it with essence of 
lemon ; or instead of this it may be poured out in a sheet on an oiled 
marble slab, as for barley sugar, and when nearly cold divide it into 
pieces with a tin frame, having small square divisions, when the whole 
sheet may be divided at once by pressing hard on it so as to cut it 
nearly through. When cold, separate them and mix them with 
powdered sugar, take them out and fold them separately in fancy or 
coloured papers, with a motto on each. They are al?o occasionally 
made into balls thus; — First cast the sugar in a sheet on an oiled 
marble slab; when the edges are set, fold them in the n)iddle, then 
oil a small ?quare tin with edges to it, put the sugar in this, and 
place it under the fire-place of the stove so as to keep warm ; cut off 
a piece and roll it into a pipe, then cut it into small pieces with a pair 
of shears, and let your assistant roll it into small balls under his hand 
on a sand-stone; marble is too smooth for this purpose. Many lads 
who are used to it can turn eight or ten under each hand at one time. 
When tliey are finished, put them into powdered sugar, wrap them 
in fancy papers, fringed at the ends, put a motto in each, and fasten 
them with sinall bands of gold paper. Sometimes a cracker is folded 
up in each, which is made with two narrow strips of stiif paper, a 
small piece of sand or glass paper is pasted on the end of each, and 
these are placed over each other with a little fulminating powder be- 
tween, a piece of thin paper is bound round it, and pasted to keep 
them together; wlien these are pulled asunder, the two rough sur- 
faces meeting cause the powder to explode, and out flies the ball of 
sugar with the motto. This innocent amusement often causes much 
mirth in a company. 

Acid Drops and Sticks. — Boil clarified sugar to the crack, and 
pour it on an oiled marble stone: pound some tartaric or citric acid 
to a fine powder, and strew over it about a half or three quarters 
of an ounce of the former, according to its quality, and less of the 
latter, to seven pounds of sugar ; turn the edges over into the mid- 
dle, and mix the acid by folding it over, or by working it in a similar 
manner as dough is moulded, but do not pull it ; put ii in a tin rubbed 
over with oil or butter, and place it under the stove to keep warm; 
then cut oif a small piece at a time, and roll it into a round pipe ; 
cut them off in small pieces the size of drops, with shears, and let 
your assistant roll them round under his hand, and flatten them. Mix 
them with powdered sugar, sift them from it, and keep them in boxes 
or glasses. 

When flavoured with lemon, they are called lemon-acid drops, — 
with otto of roses, rose-acid drops. The sticks are made in the 
same manner as the drops, without being cut into small pieces. 

To extract the Acid from Candied Drops, <^c. — All the articles 
which have acid mixed with them are extremely liable to grain, when 
they are useless for any purpose whatever, except to ^p\\ for broken 



THE CONFECTIONER. 3] 

pieces, as they cannot be boiled again unless the acid is extracted 
The method of doing this is at present not generally known in the 
trade, and it is kept by many that are in possession of it as a great 
secret. A sovereign is often paid for this recipe alone. However 
great the secret may be considered, it is only returning to the firpt 
principle in the manufacture of sugar. When the juice is expressed 
from the canes, it contains a considerable quantity of oxalic acid, 
which must be destroyed before it will granulate into sugar: for this 
purpose lime is employed, which has the desired effect; so will it also 
m this case, but chalk or whitening is most generally used. First 
dissolve your acid sugar in water ; when this is thoroughly accomplish- 
ed, mix in a sufficient quantity of either of these alkalies in powder 
to cause a strong effervescence ; after it has subsided, pass it through 
a flannel bag, according to the directions for clarifying sugar. The 
filtered syrup will be fit to use for any purpose, and may be boiled 
again to the crack or caramel degrees as well as if no acid had ever 
been mixed with it. Let the pan it is dissolved in be capable of con- 
taining as much again as there' is in it, or the effervescence will flow 
over. 

Raspberry Candy. — This may either be made from raw or refined 
sugar. Boil it to the crack, and colour it with cochineal ; pour it on 
a stone rubbed over with a little oil or butter, cut off a small piece, 
and keep it warm to stripe or case the other part, when finished; to 
the remainder add a little tartaric acid (not so much as for drops), 
and some raspberry-paste, sufficient to flavour it. The residue of 
raspberries used for making vinegar, and preserved with an equal 
quantity of sugar, or even less, as for raspberry cakes, does very well 
for this purpose. Fold the edges over into the centre, and attach it 
to a hook fixed against the wall : pull it towards you, throwing it on 
the hook each time after having pulled it out; continue doing this 
until it gets rather white and shining, then make it into a compact 
long roll, and either stripe it with the piece you cut off, or roll it out 
in a sheet with a rolling-pin, and wrap it round it so as to form a ?ort 
of case; then pull it into long narrow sticks, and cut them the required 
length. 

Clove^ Ginger^ or Peppermint Candy. — These are all made in the 
same way as raspberry, using the essential oil of each for flavour. 
For clove, the mixture, whilst boiling, is coloured with cochmeai ; 
ginger with saffron ; but the peppermint must be kept perfectly 
white, except the stripes, which is done by cutting of!" as many pieces 
from the bulk as you have colours, which should be in powder; put a 
sufficiency in each piece to give the desired tint, and keep them 
warm. When the remaining portion of the sugar is pulled, lay them 
over the surface in narrow stripes, double the roll together, and the 
face each way will be alike. Pull them out into long sticks, and 
twist them; make them round by rolling them under the hand, or 
they may be cut into small pieces with a pair of shears or scissors. 

Brandy Balls, <^c. — These are made from loaf pugar, boiled to .he 



32 THE CONFECTIONEK. 

crack, and coloured either with cochineal or saffron, and finished in 
the same way as acidulated drops, without being flattened. 

Nogat. — l\vo pounds of sweet almonds, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of water. Blanch the almonds, and cut them in slices, dry 
them at the mouth of a cool oven, and if slightly browned the better; 
powder the sugar, and put it into a stewpan, with the water; place 
it on the fire to melt, stirring it with a spatula until it becomes a fine 
brown, then mix in the almonds, and let them be well covered with 
the sugar; pour it out on an oiled marble stone. It may be made 
into a thick or thin sheet, and cut with a knife into small pieces, such 
as dice, diamonds, &c. The surface may be strewed with currants, 
fillets of pistachios, or coarse sugar, and cut into different forms with 
tin cutters. It may also be formed into baskets, vases, &c. Oil the 
interior of a mould, and spread the nogat over it, whilst warm, as 
thin and even as possible. To save the fingers from being burnt, it 
may be spread with a lemon. Detach it from the mould when warm, 
and let it remain until cold that it may retain its shape perfectly, then 
fasten the different parts together with caramel sugar. For baskets, 
a handle of spun sugar may be placed over it, or ornamented with it 
according to fancy. These may be filled with whipped or other 
creams when requited to be served. 

Almond Rock. — This is a similar production to nogat, and is made 
with raw sugar, which is boiled to the crack. Pour it on an oiled 
stone, and fill it with sweet almonds, either blanched or not; the 
almonds are mixed with the sugar by working them into it with the 
hands, in a similar manner as you would mix anything into a piece 
of dough. If they were stirred into the sugar in the pan it would 
grain, which is the reason why it is melted for nogat. Form the rock 
into a ball or roll, and make it into a sheet, about two inches thick, 
by rolling it with a rolling-pin. The top may be divided into diamonds 
or squares by means of a long knife or piece of iron : when it is 
nearly cold cut it into long- narrow pieces with a strong knife and 
hammer. 

JImond Hardbake. — Oil a square or round tin with lovv' edges; 
split some almonds in half, put them in rows over the bottom, with 
the split side downward, until the surface is covered ; boil some raw 
sugar to the crack, and pour it over them so as to cover the whole 
with a thin sheet of sugar. Cocoa nut, cut in thin slices, currant, 
and other similar candies, are made as the hardbake, except that the 
sugar is grained before it is poured over. 

ON SUGAR-SPINNING. 

To attain proficiency in this part, it requires much practice, and 
also a good taste for design, and to be expert in the boiling of sugar, 
taking particular care to avoid its graining. Baskets, temples, vases, 
fountains, &c., are made by these means. It may almost be termed 
the climax of the art. The moulds for this purpose may be made 



TUE CONFECTIONER. '33 

either of copper or tin, so as to deliver well. Let them be slightly 
rubbed all over, on the part you intend to spin the sugar, with butter 
or oil. 

Boil clarified syrup to the degree of caramel, taking care to keep 
the sides of the pad free from sugar. The moment it is at the crack, 
add a little acid to grease it (see Sugar Boiling). When it has at- 
tained the required degree, dip the bottom of the pan into cold water, 
take it out, and let it cool a little; then take a common table-spoon, 
dip it in the sugar, holding the mould in your left hand, and from the 
spoon run the sugar over the mould, either inside or out, with the 
threads which flow from it, which may be either fine or coarse, ac- 
cording to the state of the sugar; if they are required very coarse, 
pass the hand over them two or three times; for when it is hot it 
flows in finer strings than it will when cooler; form it on the mould 
into a sort of trellis-work; loosen it from the mould carefully, and let 
it remain until quite cold before it is taken off", that it may retain its 
shape. When the sugar gets too cold to flow from the spoon, place 
it by the side of the stove or fire to melt. Young beginners had bet- 
ter draw their designs for handles of baskets, &c., on a stone with a 
pencil before it is oiled, and then spin the sugar over them. 

To make a Silver Weh. — Boil clarified syrup to the crack, using the 
same precautions as before observed, giving it a few boils after the 
acid is added ; dip the bottom of the pan in water and let the sugar 
cool a little; then take the handle of a spoon, or two forks tied to- 
gether, dip it into the sugar, and form it either on the inside or out- 
side of a mould, with very fine strings, by passing the liand quickly 
backwards and forwards, taking care that it does not fall in drops, 
which would spoil the appearance of the work. With this may be 
represented the hair of a helmet, the water of a fountain, &c. Take 
a fork, or an iron skewer, and hold it in your left hand as high as you 
can, dip the spoon in the sugar, and with the right hand throw it over 
the skewer, when it will hang from it in very fine threads of con- 
siderable length. 

To make a Gold Weh. — Boil syrup to caramel height, colouring it 
with saffron, and form it as directed for the last. It can be %lded up 
to form bands or rings, &c. Fasten it to the other decorations with 
caramel. 

If any of the strings or threads of sugar should pass over those 
parts where they are not required, so as to spoil the other decorations 
in the making of baskets or other ornaments, it may be removed with 
a hot knife without breaking or injuring the piece. 

Chantilly Baskets. — Prepare some ratafias, let them be rather small, 
and as near of a size as possible; boil some sugar to the caramel de- 
gree, rub over the inside of a mould slightly with oil, dtp the edsfo 
of the ratafias in sugar, and stick them toffetber, the face of the rata- 
fias being towards the mould, except the last two rows on the top, 
which should be reversed, remembering always to place their faces 



31 THE CONFECTIOJS'EK. 

to meet the eye when the su^ar is cold ; take it out, and join the bot- 
tom and top tog-ether with the same sugar; make a handle of spun 
suffar, and plnce over it. Some sugfar may be span over the inside 
of the basket, to strenorthen it, as directed for webs. Line the inside 
with pieces of Savoy or sponjj^e cakes, and fill it wilh custard or whip- 
ped cretini, or the slices of cake may be spread with raspberry jam. 
Half fill it with boiled custard, then put in a few Savoy or almond 
cakes, soiiked in wine, and cover the top with whipped cream; or it 
may be filled with fancy pastry, or meringues. All sorts of fancy 
cakes may be made into baskets or ratafias, 

Grape^ Orajige, or Cherry Baskets. — These are made similar to the 
last; thn orangfs are carefully peeled and divided into small pieces, 
taking off thr pith. Insert a small piece of stick or whisk in the end 
of each, dip them in caramel, and form them on the inside of an oiled 
mould. Cliorrics and grapes may be used either fresh, or preserved 
wet, aj»d dried. Dip them in caramel, and form them as oranges. 
Each of these, or any other fruit, after being dipped in caramel, may 
be laid on an oilerj marble slab separately, and served on plates in a 
pyramid, with fancy papers, flowers, &c. The baskets are finished 
as ChaiUilly with spun sugar. 

Mmond Baskeh. — Blanch some fine Jordan almonds, and cut them 
into thin slices, and colour them in a small copper pan over the fire 
with prepared liquid colour (see Colours). Put them into the pan, 
and pour in colour sufficient to give the desired tint; rub them about 
in the pan v/ith your hand until they are quite dry: form them as for 
u Chant illy basket, or else form them on an oiled marble slab, and 
spin suirar over them, on each side. Afterwards arrange them in 
a mould, or build them to any design, first having a pattern cut out 
in paper, and form them on the stone from if. 

Spanish Candy. — Oil a quart of clarified syrup to the crack. Have 
some icinir previously prepared as for cakes, or mix some fine pow- 
dered loaf sugar with the white of an egg to a thick consistency as 
for icino-; take the sugar from the fire, and as soon as the boiling has 
gone down stir in a spoonful of this or the icing, which must be done 
very quickly, without stopping. Let it rise once and fall : the second 
time it rises, pour it out in a mould or paper cas»-', and rover it with 
the pan to prevent its falling. Some }>ersons pour it oni the first lime 
it rises, and immediately cover it as before. It may be n)ade good 
both ways. If it is required coloured, add the colouring- to the syrnp 
whilst it is boiling, or with the icing, adding more suL'"ar to give it the 
same stiffness as before. 

Vases or Baskets, ^c, in Spanish Candy. — Prepare some plaster 
moulds, as for grained sugar; soak them in water before you use 
them; prepare some sugar as for the last, and fill the moulds. When 
finished they may be ornamented with gum-paste, pipino-, or gold- 
paper borders. Fill them with flowers, meringues, fancy pastry, 
caramel, fruits, &c. They may also be made in copper or tin moulds, 
by first oil mg them before they are filled. 



THE COIVrECTTOiVER. 35 



SECTION VI. CHOCOLATE. 



Cacao Nuts. — The cocoa or cacao nut, of which chocolate is made, 
is the seed of the fruit of a tree common in South America and the 
West Indips. The seeds of the nuts, which are nearly of the shape 
of an almond, are found to the number of from thirty to forty in a 
pod. The pods are oval, resembling a cucumber in shape. The dif- 
ferent sorts are distinguished by name, according to the places which 
produce them, thus, — the cacao of Cayenne, Caraccas, Berbice, and 
the islands of St. Magdalen and Domingo, These all differ in the 
size of their almonds or seed, quality and taste. The most esteemed 
is the large Caraccas, the almond of which, though somewhat tiat, 
resembles the shape of a large bean. The next are those of St. Mag- 
dalen and Berbice. The seeds of these are less flat than those of the 
Caraccas kind, and the skin is covered with a fine ash-coloured liust. 
The others are very crude and oily, and only fit to make the butter 
of cacao. The kernels, when fresh, are bitter, and are deprived of 
this by being buried in the ground for thirty or forty days. Good nuts 
should have a thin brittle skin, of a dark black colour; and the ker- 
nel, when the skin is taken off, should appear full and shining, of a 
dusky colour, with a reddish shade. Choose the freshest, not worm- 
eaten, or mouldy on the inside, which it is subject to be. 

Equal parts of the cacao of Caraccas, St. Magdalen, and Berbice, 
mixed together, make a chocolate of first-rate quality ; and these pro- 
portions give to it that rich and oily taste which it ought to have. 
That made from the cacao of Caraccas only is too dry, and that from 
the islands too fat and crude. 

Roasting. — Take a sufficient quantity of nuts to cover the bottom 
of an iron pot two or three inches deep, place them on the fire to 
roast, stirring them constantly with the spatula that the hfat may be 
imparted to them equally. A coffee-roasting machine would answer 
for this purpose admirably, taking care not to torrefy them too much, 
as the oil of the nut suffers thereby, and it becomes a dark brown or 
black, grows bitter, and spoils the colour of the chocolate. Musty or 
mouldy nuts must be roasted more than the others, so as to deprive 
them of their bad taste and smell. It is only necessary to heat them 
until the skin will separate from the kernel on being pressed between 
the fingers. Remove them from the fire, and separate the skins. If 
you have a large quantity, this may be accomplished by putting them 
in a sieve which has the holes rather large, but not so much as to 
allow the nuts to pass through ; then squeeze or press them in your 
hands, and the skins will pass through the meshes of the sieve ; or, 
after being separated from the nuts, they may be got rid of by win- 
nowing or fanning them in a similar manner to corn. "When they 
are separated, put them again in the fire, as before directed, stirring 
them constantly until warmed through, without browning. You may 
know when they are heated enough by the outside appearing shiny ; 



30 THE CONFECTIONER. 

again v.'innovv, to t-eparate any burnt skin which may have escaped 
the first time. 

The Making of Chuculule. — An iron pestle and mortar is requisite 
for this purpose, also a stone of the closest grain and texture which 
can be procured, and a rolling-pin made of the same material, or of 
iron. The stone must be fixed in such a manner that it may be 
heated from below with a pot of burning charcoal, or something 
similar. 

Warm the mortar and pestle by placing them on a stove, or by 
means of charcoal, until they are so hot that you can scarcely bear 
your hand agains?t them. Wipe the mortar out clean, and put any 
convenient quantity of your prepared nuts in it, which you pound 
until they are reduced to an oily paste into which the pestle will sink 
by its own weight. If it is required sweet, add about one-half, or 
two-thirds of its weight of loaf sugar in powder; again pound it so 
as to mix it well together, then put it in a pan, and place it in the 
stove to keep warm. Take a portion of it and roll or grind it well on 
the slab with the roller (both being previously heated like the mor- 
tar) until It is reduced to a smooth impalpable paste, which will melt 
in the mouth like butter. When this is accomplished, put it in another 
pan, and keep it warm until the whole is similarly disposed of; then 
place it again on the stone, which must not be quite so warm as pre- 
viously, work it over again, and divide it into pieces of two, four, 
eight, or sixteen ounces each, which you put in moulds. Give it a 
shake, and the chocolate will become flat. When cold it will easily 
turn out. 

The moulds for chocolate may either be made of tin or copper, and 
of different devices, such as men, animals, fish, culinary or other uten- 
sils, &c. ; also some square ones for half-pound cakes, having divi- 
visions on the bottom which are relievoed. These cause the hollow 
impressions on the cakes. 

The Bayonne or Spanish chocolate is in general the most esteemed. 
The reason of its superior quality is attributed by some to the hard- 
ness of the Pyrenean stone which they employ in making it, which 
does not absorb the oil from the nuts. They do not use any pestle 
and mortar, but levigate their nuts on the stone, which is fixed on a 
slope; and in the second pounding or rolling the paste is pressed 
closely on the stone, so as to extract the oil, which runs into a pan 
containing the quantity of sugar intended to be used, and is placed 
underneath to receive it ; the oil of the cacao and sugar a re then well 
mixed together with a spatula, again mixed with the paste on the 
stone, and finished. 

Vanilla Chocolate. — Ten pounds of prepared nuts, ten pounds of 
sugar, vanilla two ounces and a half, cinnamon one ounce, one drachm 
of mace, and two drachms of cloves, or the vanilla may be used 
solely. 

Prepare your nuts according to the directions already given. Cut 



THE CONFECTIONER. 2^ 

the vanilla in small bits, pound it fine with part of the sugar, and 
mix it with the paste; boil about one-half of the sugar to the blow 
before you mix it to the chocolate, otherwise it will eat hard. Pro- 
ceed as before, and either pat it in small moulds or divide it in 
tablets, which you wrap in tinfoil. This is in general termed eatable 
chocolate. 

Cinnamon, Mace or Clove Chocolate. — These are made in the same 
manner as the last, using about an ounce and a half or two ounces 
of either sort of spice, in powder, to that quantity, or add a suffi- 
ciency of either of these essential oils to flavour. 

Stomachic Chocolate. — Four ounces of chocolate prepared without 
sugar, vanilla one ounce, cinnamon in powder one ounce, ambergris 
forty-eight grains', sugar three ounces; warm your paste by pounding 
in the heated mortar, or on the stone, add your aromatics in powder 
to the sugar, and mix it well with the paste; keep it close in tin 
boxes. About a dozen grains of this is to be put into the chocolate 
pot when it is made, which gives it an agreeable and delightful fla- 
vour, and renders it highly stomachic. It may also be used for flavour- 
ing the chocolate tablets. 

Chocolate Harlequin Pistachios. — Warm some sweet chocolate by 
pounding it in a hot mortar; when it is reduced to a malleable pasto, 
take a little of it and wrap round a blanched pistachio nut, roll it in 
the hand to form it as neat as you can, throve it in some nonpareils of 
various colours; let it be covered all over. Dispose of the whole in 
liie same manner; fold th?m in coloured or fancy papers, with mot- 
toes; the ends should be cut like fringe. Almonds may be -\one the 
bame way, using vanilla chocolate, if preferred. 

Chocolate Drops, with Nonpareils. Have some warm chocolate, as 
for pistachios; some add a little butter or oil to it to make it work 
more free ; make it into balls about the size of a sniail marble, by 
rolling a little in the hand, or else put some of the paste on a flat 
piece of >vuod, on which you form, and take them off" with a knife. 
Place them on sheets of white paper about an inch apart. When the 
sheet is covered, take it by the corners and lift it up and down, let- 
ting it touch the table each time, which will flatten them. Cover 
the surface entirely with white nonpareils, and shake off" the surplus 
cues. When the drops are cold they can be taken otf the paper 
easily. The bottom of the drops should be about as broad ns a six- 
pence. Some of them may be left quite plain. 

Good chocolate should be of a clear red brown. As the colour is 
paler or darker, so is the article the more or less good. The surface 
should be smooth and shining, if this gloss comes off" by touching, 
it indicates an inferior quality, and is probably adulterated. When 
broken, it ought to be compact and close, and not appear crumbly. 
It should melt gently in the mouth when oaten, leaving no roughness 
or astringency, but rather a cooling sensation on the tongue. The 
latter is a certain sign of its being genuine. 



SB THE CONFECTIONEK. 



SECTION vri. LOZENGES. 

These are composed of loaf sugar in fine powder, and other sub- 
stances, either liquid or in powder, which are mixed together and 
made into a paste with dissolved gum, rolled out into thin sheets, and 
formed with tin cutters into little cakes, either oval, square, or round, 
and dried. 

One ounce of gum tragacanth, and one pint of water. Let it 
soak in a warm place twenty-four hours; put it in a coarse towel or 
cloth, and let two persons continue twisting it until the whole of the 
gum is fqucpzed through the interstices of t!ie cloth. One ounce of 
this dissolved gum is sufficient for four or live pounds of sugar; one 
ounce of dissolved gum Arabic to twelve ounces of sugar. 

Either of these gums may be used separately, or in the proportion 
of one ounce of gum dragon to three ounces of Arabic mixed to- 
gether. These are generally used for medicated lozenges; but guni 
Arabic alone is considered to make the best peppermint. 

Ftpperinint Lozenges, No. 1. — Take double-refined loaf sugar, 
pound and sift it tlirough a lawn sieve; make a bay with the sugar 
on a marble slab, into which pour some dissolved gum, and mix it 
into a paste as you would dough, flavouring the mass with oil of 
peppermint. One ounce of this is sufficient for forty pounds of loz- 
enges. Some persons prefer mixing their gum and sugar together 
at first in a mortar; but as it is indifferent which way is pursued, that 
may be followed which is most convenient. Roil out the paste on a 
marble slab until it is about the eighth of an inch in thicknes=, using 
etarch powder to dust it with, to prevent its sticking to the slab and 
pin. Before cutting them out, strew or dust over the surface with 
powder mixed with lawned sugar, and rub it over with the heel of 
your hand, which gives it a smooth face. This operation is termed 
"facing up." Brush this off*, and again dust the surface with starch 
powder, cut them out, and place in wooden trays. Put them in the 
hot closet to dry. Note. — All lozenges are finished in the same 
manner. 

Peppermint Lozenges, No. 2. — These are made as No. 1, adding a 
little starch-powder or prepared plaster as for gum paste to the paste, 
instead of using all sugar. 

Peppermint Lozenges, Nos. 3 and 4. — Proceed in the same manner 
as for No. 2, using for each, more starch powder in proportion. Use 
smaller cutters, and let the paste be rolled thicker. 

Transparent Mint Lozenges, No. 5. — These are made from loaf 
sugar in coarse powder, the finest having been taken out by sifting it 
through a lawn sieve. Mix it into a paste with dissolved gum Arabic 
and a little lemon juice. Flavour with oil of peppermint. Finish a? 
for No. 1. 



THE CONFECTIONEK. 39 

Superfine Transparent Mint Lozenges* — The sugar for these must 
be in coarser grains. Pass the sugar through a coarse hair sieve. 
Separate the finest by sifting it through a moderately fine hair sieve. 
Mix and flavour as the others. 

Note. — The coarser the grains of sugar, the more transparent the 
lozenges. The finer particles of sugar being mixed with it, destroy 
their transparency. The solution of gum should be thicker in pro- 
portion as the sugar is coarse. 

Rose Lozenges. — Make your paste as No. 1, using the essential oil 
or otto of roses to flavour them; or the gum rnay be dissolved in rose 
water, and a little essential oil may be added to give additional fla- 
vour, if required. Colour the paste with carmine or rose pink. 

Cinnamon Lozenges. — Gum tragacanth, dissolved, two ounces, 
lawned sugar eiglit pounds, cinnamon in powder one ounce, essential 
oil ten drops. 

Mix into a paste, and colour with bole ammoniac. A stomachic. 

Clove Lozenges. — Sugar eight pounds, cloves three ounces, gum 
tragacanth two ounces. 

Each lozenge should contain two grains of cloves. A restorative 
and stomachic. 

Lavender Lozenges. — Make as rose lozenges, using the oil of laven- 
der instead of rose. 

Ginger Lozenges. — Eight pounds of sugar and eight ounces of the 
best ground ginger. Mix into a paste with dissolved gum. Essence 
may be used instead of the powder, colouring it with safiron. A 
stimulant and stomachic. 

Nuiineg Lozenges. — Sugar eight pounds, oil of nutmegs one ounce, 
dissolved gum sufficient to mix into a paste. A stimulant and stoma- 
chic. 

Rhubarb Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, best Turkey rhubarb, in 
powder, ten ounces. 

Sulphur Lozenges. — Four pounds of sugar, eight ounces of sub- 
limed sulphur, gum sufficient to make a paste. For asthma and the 
piles. 

Tolu Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, balsam of tolu three drachms, 
or the tincture of the balsam one fluid ounce, cream of tartar six 
ounces, or tartaric acid one drachm, dissolved gum sufficient to make 
a paste. These may also be flavoured by adding a quarter of an ounce 
of vanilla, and sixty drops of the essence of amber. The articles 
must be reduced to a fine powder with the sugar. A pectoral and 
balsamic. 

Ipecacuanha Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, ipecacuanha one ounce, 
apothecaries' weight, dissolved gum sufficient to make a paste. Make 
960 lozenges, each containing half a grain of ipecacuanha. An ex- 
pectorant and stomachic, used in coughs. 



40 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Saffron Lozenges. — Saffron dried and powdered, four ounces, suga 
four pounds, dissolved gum sufficient. An anodyne, pectoral, em- 
menagogue. 

Velloiu Pectoral Lozenges. — Sugar one pound, Florence orris-root 
powder twelve drachms, liquorice-root, six drachms, almonds one 
ounce, saffron in powder four scruples, dissolved gum sufficient to 
make a paste. Make a decoction of the liquorice to moisten the gum 
with. 

Lozenges for the Heartburn. — Prepared chalk four ounces, crab's 
eyes prepared two ounces, bole ammoniac one ounce, nutnieg one 
scruple, or cinnamon half an ounce. Make into a paste with dis- 
solved gum Arabic. 

Steel Lozenges. — Pure iron filings or rust of iron one pound, cinna- 
mon in powder, four ounces, fine sugar seven pounds, dissolved gum 
a sufficient quantity to make a paste. A stomachic and tonic. 

Magnesia Lozenges. — Calcined magnesia eight ounces, sugar four 
ounces, ginger in powder two scruples, dissolved gum Arabic suffi- 
cient to form a paste. 

Magnesia two ounces, sugar eight ounces, sufficient gum Arabic 
to make a paste, dissolved in orange-flower water. 

Nitre Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, sal-nitre one pound, dissolved 
gum tragacanlh, sufficient to make a paste. A diuretic internally; 
held in the mouth it removes incipient sore throats. 

Marshmalloiv Lozenges. — Marshmallow roots in powder one pound, 
or slice the root and make a strong decoction, in which yuu dissolve 
the gum, fine sugar four pounds. Mix into a paste. If six drops of 
laudanum be added, with two ounces of liquorice, the pectoral quality 
of these lozenges will be improved. Good for obstinate coughs. 

Vanilla Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, vanilla in powder, six 
ounces, or sufficient to give a strong flavour. Make into a paste 
with dissolved gum. 

Catechu Lozenges. — Sugar four pounds, catechu twelve ounces. 
Make into a paste with dissolved gum. 

Catechu a l\imhergris. — To the paste for catechu lozenges add 
sixteen grains of ambergris. 

Catechu luiih Musk. — The same as for catechu, adding sixteen 
grains of musk. 

Catechu with Orange-flowers. — As before, adding twelve drops of 
essence of neroli. 

Catechu with Violets As before, adding Florence orris-root in 

powder, three drachms. These are all used to fasten the teeth, and 
disguise an offensive breath. 

Ching's Yellow Worm Lozenges. — Fine sugar twenty-eight pounds, 
calomel washed in spirits of wine one pound, saffron four drachms, 
dissolved gum tragacanth sufficient to make a paste. Make a decoc- 



THE CONFECTIONER. 4$^ 

tion of the saffron in one pint of water, strain, and mix with ii. 
Each lozenge should contain one grain of mercury. 

Ching\ Brown Worm Lozenges.— Calomel washed in spirits of 
wine (termed while panacea of mercury'), seven ounces, resin of jalap 
three pounds eight ounces, fine sugar nine pounds, dissolved gum 
sufficient quantity to make a paste. Each lozenge should contain 
half a grain of mercury. 

Panacea, one ounce, resin of jalap two ounces, sugar two pounds. 
Dissolve a sufficient quantity of gum in rose-water to make a paste. 
Make 2520 lozenges, weighing eight grains each, and containing a 
quarter of a grain of calomel and half a grain of jalap. 

These lozenges should be kept very dry after they are finished, as 
the damp, acting on the sugar and mercury, generates an acid in them, 

JVute. — In mixing Ihese, as well as all other medicated lozenges, the 
diti'erent powders should be well mixed with the sugar, in order that 
each lozenge may have its due portion. If this is^not attended to, 
the perfect distribution of the component parts cannot be depended on, 
and one lozenge may contain double or treble the quantity of medi- 
cated matter it ought to have, whilst others contam comparatively 
none ; therefore those that have the greatest portion may often prove 
injurious by acting contrary to what was intended. 

Batk Pipe. — Eight pounds of sugar, twelve ounces of liquorice. 
Warm the liquorice and cut it in thin slices, dissolve it in one quart 
of boiling water, stir it well to assist the solution ; let it settle, when 
dissolved, to allow any impurities or bits of copper which are often 
found in it to fall down ; pour it off free from the sediment; dissolve 
the gum in the clear part, and mix into a paste as for lozenges. Roll 
out a piece with your hand in a round form ; finish rolling it with a 
long flat piece of wood, until it is about the size of the largest end of 
the stem of a tobacco-pipe. Dry them in the stove as lozenges. 
These may be also flavoured with anise-seed by adding a few drops 
of the 0)1, or v.'ith catechu or violets by adding the powders of orris- 
root or catechu. 

Peppermint or other Pipes. — Any of the pastes for lozenges may be 
formed into pipes by rolling it out as directed for Bath pipes. They 
are occasionally striped with blue green, and yellow, by making 
strips with liquid colour on the paste and twisting before you roll it 
out with the board. 

Brilliants, — Take cither of the pastes for peppermint lozenges 
from No. 1 to 4, and cut it into small fancy devices, such as hearts, 
diamonds, spades, triangles, squares, &c. 

Refined Liquorice. — Four pounds of the best Spanish juice, and two 
pounds of gum Arabic. Dissolve the gum in warm water, as for 
Bath pipe. Strain and dissolve the gum in the solution of liquorice. 
Place it over a gentle fire, in a broad pan, and let it boil gradually, 
stirring it continually (or it will burn) until it is reduced to a paste. 
Roll it into pipes or cylinders of convenient lengths, and polish by 
4* 



42 THE CONFECTIONER. 

putting them in a box and rolling them together, or by rubbing them 
with the hand, or a cloth. This is often adulterated by using glue 
instead of gum, and by dipping the pipes in a thin solution, which 
gives them a beautiful gloss when dry. In establishments where 
this is manufactured on a large scale, the liquorice is dissolved in a 
large bain-marie, and stirred with spatulas which are worked by a 
steam-engine. 



SECTION VIII. PASTILE DROPS. 

Choose the best treble-refined sugar with a good grain, pound it, and 
pass it through a coarse hair sieve; sift again in a lawn sieve to take 
out the finest part, as the sugar, when it is too fine, makes the drops 
heavy and compact, and destroys their brilliancy and shining appear- 
ance. 

Put some of the coarse grains of sugar into a small drop pan (these 
are made with a lip on the right side, so that when it is held in the 
left hand the drops can be detached with the right), moisten it with 
any aromatic spirit you intend to use, and a sufficient quantity of 
water to make it of a consistence just to drop off the spoon or spatula 
without sticking to it. Colour with prrpared cochineal, or any other 
colour, ground fine and moistened with a little water. Let the tint 
which you give be as light and delicate as possible. Place the pan 
on the stove fire, on a ring of the sam.e size. Stir it occasionally 
until it makes a noise, when it is near boiling, hut do not Id it boil f 
then take it from the fire, and stir it well with the spatula until it is 
of the consistence that when dropped it will not spread too much, 
but retain a round form on the surface. If it should be too thin, add 
a little coarse sugar, which should be reserved for the purpose, and 
make it of the thickness required. Have some very smooth and even 
plates, made either of tin or copper; let them be quite clean, and 
drop them on these, separating the sugar from the lip of the pan with 
a piece of straight wire, as regularly as possible. About two liours 
afterwards they may be taken off with a thin knife. If you have not 
the convenience of tin or copper plates, they may be dropped on 
smooth cartridge paper. Wet the back of the paper when you want 
to take them off. Cover the bottom of a sieve with paper, lay them 
on it, and put them in the stove for a few hours. If they remain 
too long, it will destroy their fragrancy. 

Chocolate Drops. — One pound of sugar, one ounce of chocolate. 
Scrape the chocolate to a powder, and mix it with the sugar in coarse 
grains, moisten it with clean water, and proceed according to the 
instructions already given, but do not mix more than can be dropped 
out whilst warm at one time. If any remains in the pot, it will grease 
the next which you mix, and will not attain the consistence required. 

Coffee Drops. — One ounce of coffee, one pound of sugar. Make a 



THE CONFECTIONER. 43 

strong and clear infusion of coffee, as directed for coffee ice, and use 
it to moisten the sugar. Make the drops as above. 

Cinnamon Draps. — One ounce of cinnamon, one pound of sugar. 
Pulverize the cmnamon, and sift it through a lawn sieve. Mix it 
with the sugar, and add two -or three drops of the essential oil. If 
the flavour is not strong enough, moisten it with the water and pro- 
ceed as before. The flavour may be given with the essential oil only, 
colouring them with bole ammoniac. 

Clnve Drops. — Make as cinnamon. 

Vanilla Drops — Make as cinnamon, using a little sugar to pound 
the vanilla. Use sufficient to give a good flavour ; or it may be 
moistened with the essence of vanilla; but this greases it as choco- 
late. 

Violet Drops, — One pound of sugar, one ounce of orris-powder. 
Moisten with water, and colour violet. 

Catechu Drops. — One pound of sugar, three ounces of catechu. 
Make as violet. These may also have the addition of a little musk 
or ambergris — about fifteen grains. 

Ginger Drops. — Mix a sufficient quantity of the best powdered 
ginger to give it the desired taste, or flavour it with the essence of 
ginger, and colour it with saffron. Moisten with water, and make as 
others. 

Lemon Drops. — Rub off the yellow rind of some lemons on a piece 
of rough sutrar, scrape it off, and inix it with the coarse sugar. Use 
sufficient to give a good flavour, and colour with saffron a light yel- 
low ; moisten with water, as others. 

Rose Drops. — Moisten the sugar with rose water, and colour it with 
cochineal. 

Peppermint Drops. — Moisten the sugar with peppermint water, or 
flavour it with the essence of peppermint, and moisten it with water. 

Orange-jiuwer Drops. — Use orange-flower water to moisten the 
suiJfar, or flavour it with the essence of neroli and moisten with 
water. 

OrgfM Drops — Make milk of almonds, as directed under the head 
of Orgeat Syrup, using a little orange-flower water; moisten the 
i^ugar with it. 

Raspberry Drops. — Press out the juice of some ripe raspberries 
throusrh a piece of flannel or cloth, and moisten the sugar with it. 
All fruit drops are made in the same way, — that is, with the expressed 
juice. — except pine-apple. When you first rub oft' the rind of the 
fruit on sugar, pound the pulp of the fruit, and pass through a hair 
sieve. Scrape off the sugar on which the rind was rubbed, and mix 
it with a sufficient quantity of the pulp to give the desired flavour to 
the coarse grains, and moisten it with water. The whole of these 



44 - THE CONFECTlONElt. 

grease the sugar, and require the same precautions as chocolate 
drops. 



SECTION IX. COMFITS. 

A corPER comfit-pan is requisite for this purpose. A bar, having 
chains at each end, with a hook and swivel in the centre, is attached 
to it, by which it is suspended from the ceiling or a beam, so as to 
hang about as high as the breast over a stove or charcoal fire, that the 
pan may be kept at a moderate heat and at such a distance as to 
allow it to be swung backwards and forwards without touching the 
fire or stove. A preserving-pan, containing clarified syrup, must be 
placed by the side of the stove, or over another fire, that it may be 
kept hot, but not boiling; also a ladle for throwing the syrup into the 
pan, and a pearling cot. This last somewhat resembles a funnel, 
without the pipe or tube, and having a small hole in the centre with 
a pointed piece of stick or spigot fitted into it, which, being drawn 
out a little, allows the syrup when placed in it to run out in a small 
stream. A piece of string tied several times across the centre of the 
top of the cot, and twisted with the spigot, allows it to be drawn out 
and regulated at pleasure. 

Scotch Caraway Comfits. — Sift two pounds of seeds in a hair sieve 
to free them from dust, put them into the comfit-pan, and rub them 
well about the bottom with your hand until they are quite warm ; have 
some clarified loaf sugar in syrup and boiled to the small thread ; give 
them a charge by pouring over them about two table-spoonfuls to com- 
Inence with ; rub and shake them well about the pan, that they may 
take the sugar equally, until they are quite dry. Be careful in not 
making them too wet in the first charges by using too much syrup, 
or they will lie of a lump and get doubled, and you will have diffi- 
culty in parting them. It will prevent their sticking together if the 
hand is passed through them between every swing of the pan, and 
also add to their smoothness. Do not let the heat under the pan be 
too strong, or it will spoil their whiteness. Give them four or five 
charges, increasing the quantity of syrup a little each time, and let 
each charge be well dried before another is given, dusting them at 
the last charge with flour. Sift them in a hair sieve, and clean the 
pan. Put them in again, and give them four or five charges more, 
with a dust of flour at the last; then sift them and clean the pan. 
Proceed in this manner until they are one-third of the required size. 
Put them into the stove or sun to dry until the next day, then clarify 
and boil some sugar to the large thread, keep it warm as before, divide 
the comfits, and put part of them in the pan, so as not to have too 
many at one time, for as they increase in size you must divide them 
into convenient portions, so that you may be enabled to work them 
properly without encumbering the pan. Give them four or five 
charges of syrup, proceeding in the same manner as before, until they 



THE co:nfectioner, 45 

are two-thirds or more of the required size, and stove them until the 
next day. Continue in this manner with each portion alternately, 
until they are all done. On the third day, boil the syrup to the small 
pearl, and give eight or ten charges as before, without using flour, so 
as to finish them, lessening- the quantity of syrup each time. Swing 
the pan gently, and dry each charge well. Put them in the stove 
for half an hour or an hour after each charge, and proceed alternately 
with each portion until they are finished, when they should be about 
the size of peas. Put them in the stove for a day, then smooth them 
with the whitest loaf sugar in syrup, boiled to the small thread ; add 
two or three table-spoonfuls of dissolved gum Arabic with it to give 
them a gloss. Give three or four charges with a very gentle heat, 
the syrup being cold and the pan scarcely warm. Work and dry 
each charge well before another is added : when finished, dry them 
in a moderate heat. It is the best way, if possible, to dry comfits in 
the sun, as it bleaches them. If the stove is at a greater heat than 
the sun in a moderately warm day, which is from 70 to 80 degrees of 
Fahrenheit, it will spoil their whiteness. 

Bath Caraways, — These are made in the same way, but only half 
the size. 

Common Caraways. — Sift the seeds, and warm them in the pan, as 
for Scotch caraways. Have some gum Arabic dissolved, throw in a 
ladleful, and rub them well about the pan with the hand until dry, 
dusting them with flour. Give them three or four coatings in this 
manner, and then a charge of sugar, until they are about one half the 
required size. Dry them for a day, give them two or three coatings 
of gum and flour, finish them by giving three or four charges of sugar, 
and dry them. These are made about the size of Bath caraways. 
Colour parts of them different colours, leaving the greatest portion 
white. 

Cinnamon Comfits. — Cinnamon is the bark of a tree, of which there 
are two sorts. The inferior quality is that usually sold for cinnamon, 
and is otherwise known as cassia, or cassia lignea. This breaks short, 
and has a slimy mucilaginous taste, is thicker, and of a darker colour 
than the cinnamon, which is the inner bark. This breaks shivery, 
and has a warm aromatic taste, and is of a reddish colour. 

Take one pound of cinnamon bark, and steep it in water for a few 
hours to soften it; cut it into small pieces about half an inch long, 
and the size of a large needle. Dry it in the stove. Put your pieces, 
when dry, into the comfit-pan, and pour on them a little syrup, as for 
Scotch caraways, proceeding in the same way until they are one- 
third the required size. You must not use your hand for these as 
you would for caraways, as they are liable to break in two. Dry 
them in the stove, then suspend the pearling pot or cot from the bar 
of the pan or ceiling, so as to hang over the centre of the pan ; boil 
eome clarified loaf sugar to the large pearl, and fill the cot; put some 
of the prepared comfits in the pan, but not too many at a time, as it 



46 THE CONFECTIONER. 

is difficult to get them to pearl alike. Keep the syrup at the boiling 
point: open the spigot of the cot so as to allow it to run in a very 
small stream, or more like a continued dropping; swing the pan 
backwards and forwards gently, and keep a stronger fire under the 
pan than otherwise. Be careful that the syrup does not run too fast, 
and wet them too much, but so that it dries as soon as dropped, which 
causes them to appear rough. If one cot full of sugar is not enough, 
put in more until they are the required size. When one lot is 
finished put in sieves to dry, and proceed to another; but do not let 
them lie in the pan after you have finished shaking them. They 
will be whiter and better if partly pearled one day and finished the 
next. Use the best clarified sugar to finish them. 

Coriander Comps. — Proceed with these as for Scotch caraways, 
working them up to about the same size. The next day pearl them 
to a good size, as for cinnamon. 

(-e}ery Comfits. — Put one pound of celery seed into the pan, and 
proceed as for Scotch caraway comfits, working them up to the size 
of a large pin's luad. Dry and pearl them as cinnamon. 

Caraway Comfits, pearled. — When the comfits are about the size 
of Bath caraways, dry and pearl them as cinnamon. 

Almond Comfits. — Sift some Valencia almonds in a cane or wicker 
sieve, pick out any pieces of shell which may be amongst them, and 
also any of the almonds which are either very small or very large, 
using those which are as near of a size as possible; take about four 
pounds, put them in the comfit-pan, and proceed in precisely the same 
way as for Scotch caraways; or, they may first have a coating of 
dissolved gum Arabic; rub them well about the pan with the hand, 
and give them a dust of flour; then pour on a little syrup at the 
small thread, work and dry them w^ell, then give them three or four 
more charges, and a charge of gum with a dust of flour. Proceed in 
this way until they are one-third the required size, then dry them 
for a day, and proceed and finish as for caraway comfits. For the 
cheaper or more common comfits, more gum and flour are used in 
making- them. 

Cardamom Comfits. — The seeds should be kept in their husks until 
they are required to be used, as they lose much of their flavour and 
virtues when deprived of them. They are often mixed with grains 
of paradise, but these have not the aromatic taste of the cardamom, 
and are more hot and spicy. Break the husks of the cardamoms by 
rolling them with a pin ; separate the skins from the seeds, put two 
pounds into the comfit-pan, and proceed as for Scotch caraways. 
Make them a good size, and quite smooth. 

Barberry Comfits. — Pick the barberries from the stalks, and dry 
them in a hot stove on sieves ; when dry, put about two pounds into 
the comfit-pan, and proceed as for almond comfits, giving them first a 
charge of gum and tlour, and finish as others. Make them of a good 
size and quite smooth ; finish with very white loaf sugar with syrup. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 47 

Cherry Comfits. — These are made from preserved cherries, dried. . 
Roll them in your hand to make them quite round, dust them with" 
powdered loaf sugar, and dry them again; then proceed as for bar- ' 
berry comfits. Any other preserved fruits may be made into comfits 
after the same manner. 

Comfits Jlavoured with Liqueurs. — Blanch some bitter almonds, or 
the kernels of apricots or peaches; let them soak in hot water for an 
hour, then drain them, and put them into any sort of liqueur or spirit 
you may desire. Lower the strength of the spirit water, that the ker- 
nels tnay imbibe it the better, cork the jug or bottle close, and let 
them mftise in it until the spirit has fully penetrated them, which will 
be about fourteen or fifteen days ; then take them out, drain and dry 
them in a moderate heat ; when dry, proceed as for almond comfits. 

Orange Comfits. — Take some preserved orange-peel, and cut it into 
small thin strips; dry them in the stove, and make as cinnamon 
comfits. 

Lemon Peel or Jngelica may be made into comfits after the same 
manner. Let the strips of peel be about the size of the pieces of 
cinnamon, and thoroughly dried before working them in the pan. 

Nonpareils. — Pound some loaf sugar, and sift it through a fine wire 
sieve ; sift what has passed through again in a lawn sieve, to take 
out the finest particles, so that you have only the fine grain of sugar 
left without dust. Put about two pounds of this into the comfit-pan, 
and proceed as for Scotch caraways, working them well with the 
hand until they are about the size of pins' heads. 

To colour Nonpareils or Comfits. — Put some of your comfits or non- 
pareils into the comfit-pan, shake or rub them about until warm, then 
add a sufficient quantity of prepared liquid colour (see Colours) to 
give the desired tint; be careful not to make them too wet, nor of 
too dark a colour, but rather light than otherwise; shake or rub them 
well about, that they may be coloured equally; dry them a little over 
the fire, then put them in sieves, and finish drying them in the stove. 
Clean the pan for every separate colour. 



COMFITS IN GUM PASTE. 

Raspberry Comfits. — Prepare some gum paste made with sugar, or 
the scrapings of the comfit-pan pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve. It may be flavoured with raspberry jam, by mixing some with 
the paste. Colour it with prepared cochineal ; mould it into the 
form of raspberries, and dry them in the stove ; when they are per- 
fectly dry and hard, pearl them as for cinnamon comfits, working 
them until the size of natural raspberries. Colour them when dry 
with cochineal, as comfits. 

Ginger Comfits. — Flavour gum paste with powdered ginger, make it 



48 THP. CONFECTIONER. 

mlo small balls about the size of coriander seeds, or peas; dry, and 
proceed as for Scotch caraways. Colour them yellow when finished. 

Clove Comfits. — Flavour sugar gum paste with the oil of cloves, and 
mould it in the form of cloves. Dry and finish as others. 

Any flavour may be given to this sort of comfits, and they are 
moulded to form the article of which it bears the name, or cut into 
any device with small cutters. Dried, and finished as other comfits. 

To colour Lodf-Sugar Di/s/.— Pound some sugar, and sift it through 
a coarse hair sieve; sift this again through a lawn sieve, to take out 
the finer portions. Put the coarse grains into a preserving pan, and 
warm them over the stove fire, stirring it continually with the hand ; 
pour in some liquid colour to give the desired tint, and continue to 
work it about the pan until it is dry. 



SECTION X. FRUIT JELLIES. 

These are the juices of mucilaginous fruits, rendered clear by fil- 
tering them through a flannel bag, and adding an equal weight of 
sugar; boil to the consistence of a jelly. If the boiling is continued 
too long they will become ropy, or more like treacle. 

^pple Jelly. — Take either russet pippins, or any good baking apples ; 
pare and core them, cut them in slices into a preserving pan contain- 
ing sufficient water to cover them ; then put them on the fire, and 
boil them until they are reduced to a mash. Put it into a hair sieve, 
that the water may drain oft', which you receive in a basin or pan ; 
then filter it through a flannel bag. To every pint of filtered juice 
add one pound of loaf sugar, clarify, and boil it to the ball. Mix the 
juice with it, and boil until it jellies; stir it with a spatula or wooden 
spoon, from the bottom, to prevent burning. When it is boiled enough, 
if you try it with your finger and thumb, as directed in sugar-boiling, 
a string may be drawn similar to the small pearl : it uiay also be 
known by its adhering to the spatula or spoon, or a little may be 
dropped on a cold plate; if it soon sets, it is done. Take oft' the scum 
which rises on the top. This is in general used for pouring over pre- 
served wet fruits. This jelly may be coloured red with prepared 
cochineal. 

Quince Jelly. — This is made as apple jelly. The seed of the quince 
is very mucilaginous. An ounce of bruised seed will make three 
pints of water as thick as the white of an Qgg. 

Red Currant Jelly. — Take three quarts of fine ripe red currants, 
and four of white; put them into a jar, tie paper over the top, and 
put them into a cool oven for three or four hours, or else into a pan 
of boiling water; when they are done, pour them into a jelly bag; 
what runs out at first put back again; do this until it runs fine and 
clear. To each pint of filtered juice add one pound of loaf sugar 
clarified and boiled to the ball: mix the filtered juice with it, and 



THE CONFECTIONER. 49 

reduce it to a jelly, stirring it well from the bottom with a spatula. 
What scum forms on the top take off with a skimmer, put it into pots 
or glasses, and when cold cut some pieces of paper to the size of the 
top.=, steep it in brandy, and put over it ; then wet some pieces of 
bladder, put it over the top of the pot or glass, and tie it down. 

White and Black Currant Jelly. — These are made in the same way, 
using part red currants with the black ones. 

Violet-coloured Currant Jelly. — This is made as red currant jelly, 
mixing two pounds of black currants with ten of red. 

Cherry Jelly, — Pick off the stalks and take out the stones of some 
fine ripe Morello cherries, and to every four pounds of cherries add 
one pound of red currants; proceed as for currant jelly. 

Barberry Jelly. — Take some very ripe barberries, pick them from 
their stalks, and weigh them. To every pound of fruit take three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, add sufficient water to make it into 
a syrup, put in the barberries, and boil them until the syrup comes to 
the pearl, taking off any scum which may rise. Then throw them 
into a fine hair or lawn sieve, and press the berries with a spoon to 
extract as much juice as possible from them. Receive the syrup and 
juice in a pan, put it again on the fire, and finish as apple jelly. 

Any of these jellies may be made without fire on the same principle 
as clear cakes. Get the fruit ripe and fresh gathered, obtain the juice 
by expression, and filter it through a flannel bag; add an equal weight 
of sugar to that of filtered juice, stir it well together until the sugar 
is dissolved, and place it in a warm place or the sun for a few day?, 
when it will be a fine jelly. Those made in this manner retain the 
natural flavour of the fruit 

Raspberry Jelly. — Take one and a half gallons of ripe raspberries 
and a half gallon of ripe currants, press out the juice and filter it; to 
a pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar, and finish as other jellies. 

Gooseberry Jelly. — Make as currant jelly ; or it may be made of 
green gooseberries, as apple jelly. 

{Blackberry Jelly. — Make as currant jelly — using half a gallon of 
raspberries to one gallon of black currants; finish as usual.] 

SECTION XI. MARMALADES OR JAMS. 

Marmalade is generally a term applied to a preserve made cither 
of oranges, lemons, apples, pears, quinces, or plums; but I know no 
difference between marmalades and jams, as they are each of them 
the pulp of fruits reduced to a consistence, with sugar, by being boiled. 
If it contains too much sugar it will crystallize, or what is termed 
candy. The top and sides of the vessel which contains it will be 
covered with a thin coating of sugar; and if there is not enough in it, 
or it is not sufficiently boiled, it will soon ferment. Keep them in a 
cool dry place. 
5 



50 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Apple Marmalade. — Pare and core some good apples; cut them in 
pieces into a preserving pan, with sufficient water to cover them ; put 
them on the fire, and boil until they are reduced to a mash, then pasg 
the whole through a colander; to each pound of pulp add twelve 
ounces of ?ugar; put it on the fire, and boil it until it will jelly; trj 
it as directed for apple jelly; put it into pots when cold, and covei 
the top with paper dipped in brandy, or pour over it melted mutton 
suet, and tie it over with paper or bladder. 

Quince Marmalade. — Make as apple, colouring it with preparea 
cochineal, if required red; let the fruit be quite ripe. 

Green Jlpricot Marmalade or Jam. — Prepare the fruit by blanching 
and greening (as for green apricots, wet). When they are ^reen, 
pulp them by rubbing Ihem through a coarse hair sieve or colander; 
for each pound of pulp clarify and boil to the blow one pound of loaf 
sugar; mix it with the pulp and boil it until it will jelly ; take ofFany 
scum which may arise with a skimmer. This jam is of an excellent 
green colour, and is very useful for ornamenting and piping almond 
bread, &-c. 

Cherry Marmalade or Jam. — Take out the stones and stalks from 
some fine cherries and pulp them through a cane sieve ; to every three 
pounds of pulp add half a pint of currant juice, and three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ; mix together and boil until it 
will jelly. Put it into pots or glasses. 

Currants, raspberries, plums, and gooseberries are all made in the 
eame manner. Pulp the fruit through a cane sieve, the meshes of 
which are not large enough to admit a currant to pass through 
whole. To each pound of pulp add one pound of loaf sugar, broken 
small, and boil to the consistence of a jelly. 

Orange Marmalade — Take the same weight of sugar as of oranges ; 
cut the oranges in half, squeeze out the juice, and strain it ; boil the 
peel in water until they are quite tender, and a strong straw may be 
passed through them; then drain them from the water, scoop out the 
pulp, leaving the rind rather thin; cut it into thin fillets; boil the 
juice of the oranges with the sugar, and skim it when it is nearly 
done ; add the peels, and finish as others. Part of the peels may be 
pounded and mixed with the marmalade, instead of the whole being 
cut in fillets; but then it is not so clear, and is a practice which is 
now almost abandoned, except by a few private persons. Lemon 
marmalade is made in the same way. 

[Grape Marmalade. — Put green grapes into a preserving pan, with 
sufficient water to cover them. Put them on the fire and boil until 
reduced to a mash ; put the pulp through a sieve the meshes of which 
are not sufficiently large to admit the seed to pass through ; to each 
pound of pulp add two pounds of the best loaf sugar and boil to the 
consistence of a jelly.] 



THE CONFECTIONER. 51 



SECTION XII. OF FRUIT AND OTHER PASTES. 

Fruit Pastes and Cakes. — These are the pulp of fruits, reduced by 
heat to a kind of marmalade, with the addition of from half a pound 
to a pound, and in some cases, double the weight of sugar to each 
pound of pulp, which is evaporated to the required consistence. They 
can be formed into rings, knots, &c., and either crystallized or 
candied. 

Apple or Pippi7i Paste. — Take any quantity of good dressing apples, 
p;ire, core and put ihem into a preserving pan with a little water, or 
ju.~t sufficient to cover them. Boil until they are reduced to a mar- 
m:il;i(ie, starring them to prevent burning. To every pound of 
refiuced pulp add half or three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, clari- 
fied and boiled to the blow ; pass the pulp through a hair sieve before 
yon mix the sugar with it ; put it on the fire and let it boil for three 
or four minutes, keeping it constantly stirred from the bottom, when 
it will be sufficiently evaporated. If it be required coloured, add 
liquid colour sufficient to give the desired tint when you mix the 
sugar. Spread the paste on small tin or pewter sheets (these should 
be about a foot wide, by a foot and a-half long, and perfectly level) 
with a thin knife, about the eighth of an inch in thickness; put them 
in the stove for a day; take them out, and cut the paste into long 
narrow strips, about a quarter of an inch in width; if the paste is 
dry enough, the strips can be easily pulled off; form them into rings 
or knots, or cut into diamonds to form leaves, or any other device your 
fancy may sugirest. Put them in boxes with a sheet of paper between 
each layer. This paste is occasionaly flavoured with lemon, and is 
principally used for ornamenting the tops of twelfth cakes. 

Apple Cheese. — Pare, quarter, and core your apples as for paste; 
put them into a jar, and cover the top with the parings ; tie paper 
over the top, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are quite 
done; take off the parings, and pass the apples through a hair-sieve 
into a preserving pan. To each pound of pulp add half a pound of 
loaf sugar clarified and boiled to the blow; place it over a slow fire, 
stirring it constantly from the bottom until reduced to a stiff paste, 
which will not stick to the hand; put it into small moulds, hoops, or 
glas^^es. Dry in a moderately warm stove for a few days; take them 
out of the moulds, turn them, and place them again in the stove to 
finish drying. Keep in boxes as paste-knots, or cover the glasses 
with brandy papers. 

Apricot Paste.— Take ripe apricots, put them in a preserving pan 
with as much water as will cover them; let them simmer on the fire 
for two or three minutes, or scald until they are tender; drain the 
water from them, and pass the pulp through a hair sieve ; to each 
pound of pulp take three-quarters of a pound of sugar, which you 
clarify and boil to the blow; put the apricots on the fire, and let 



52 THE CONFECTIONER. 

them simmer, stirring them constantly until reduced to a thick mar- 
malade; then add the sugar; mix it well with the paste, and let it 
boil a minute or two longer ; take it from the fire, and put into 
moulds, pott;, or crimped paper cases ; or it may be spread on small 
plates, as tor apple paste, and formed into rings or knots. Place in 
the stove until dry. If put in paper cases, the paper must be wetted 
to get out the paste. Take it out of the moulds, turn it, and put it 
again into the stove to finish drying. 

Green Jpricot Paste. — Take apricots before they are ripe, scald as 
the last, and green them. (See Greening Fruit.) Pass the pulp 
through a sieve, and reduce it; to each pound of reduced pulp add 
one pound of loaf sugar clarified and boiled to the blow. Finwh as 
ripe apricot paste. 

Currmit Pante. — Put any quantity of ripe currants, either red or 
white, or a part of each mixed, into a hair sieve, press out their juice 
into a preserving pan; put it on the fire, and keep it constantly stir- 
red until evaporated to a thick consistence. To each pound of re- 
luced pulp add three-quarters of a pound or a pound of loaf sugar 
clarified and boiled to the blow. Let it boil a minute or two, and 
finish as othere. 

Black Currant Paste is niade the same as the last. These currants, 
not being so juicy as the others, may be put into a jar, tied over, and 
baked in a moderate oven, or put into a kettle of boiling water for a 
few hours, to extract the juice from them. 

Raspherry Paste. — As currant paste. 

Cherry Paste. — Take ripe cherries, deprive them of their stalks 
and stones, put them in a preserving pan, and boil them a little ; then 
pass them through a hair sieve, reduce the pulp, and weigh it. To 
each pound add a pound of loaf sugar; add it to the paste, and finish 
as apricot. 

Peach Paste. — Choose some very fine and ripe peaches, take off the 
skin, and cut them in small pieces into a preserving pan; put them 
on the fire, and reduce to a thick consistence, stirring it continually. 
For each pound of reduced pulp take half or three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar; clarify and boil it to the blow ; add it to the pulp; 
put it again on the fire, and let it boil a few minutes. Finish as 
other pastes. 

Plum Paste. — Plums of any kind are preserved in the same man- 
ner, whether green-gages, magnum-bonums, Orleans, damsons, &c. 
Take out their stones, and boil the fruit in a little water, as for apri- 
cot paste; pass them through a sieve, and for each pound of reduced 
pulp take a pound of sugar; clarify and boil it to the blow; mix it 
with the paste, and evaporate to the required consistence. 

Damson Cheese. — Pick the stalks from the damsons, put them in a 
ja.»-, tie it over, and bake in a cool oven; when done, pass them 
through a sieve into a preserving pan; put it on the fire to reduce. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 53 

For each pound of pulp take half a pound of sugar, boiled to the 

blow ; mix with the paste, and finish as for apple cheese. This, as 
well as all the pastes, may be evaporated to the required consistence 
by means of a water bath, which is done by placing- the pan in which 
it is contained in another with water, which is kept boiling; this pre- 
vents the possibility of its being burnt, but it occupies more time. 
The kernels of the fruit may be blanched and added to it just before 
it is taken from the fire. Put it into moulds or hoop_s; dry them in 
the stove, first on one side and then on the other. All plums are 
done in the same manner. 

Quince Paste. — Proceed as for apple paste. 

Orange Paste. — Squeeze the juice from Seville or sw-eet oranges, 
ind boil the peels in three or four waters to take off part of their bit- 
terness. In the first put a little salt. When they are quite tender 
remove the white pith or pulp, and pound them quite fine in a mortar, 
with part of the juice, using sufficient to make them into a paste; 
then pass it and the remaining portion of the juice through a sieve 
into a preserving pan ; put it on the fire, and reduce to a marmalade; 
weigh it, and for each pound take three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar ; clarify and boil to the blow ; mix it with the paste, evaporate 
over a gentle fire to a good consistence, and finish as apple. The 
rinds of the oranges may be pared off before they are squeezed, which, 
if boiled in one water, will be sufficient, as the pith of the peel is 
extremely bitter and indigestible, and the flavour or essential oil is 
contained only in the yellow porous part. 

Lemon Paste. — Make as orange paste, using part of the juice and 
double the weight of sugar ; or it may be made by using only the 
pounded peel with the same weight of sugar. 

Raspberry Cakes. — Take ripe raspberries, press the juice from half 
of them, an^d put the pulp back with the others ; reduce them on the 
fire. To each pound of pulp add two pounds of loaf sugar in pow- 
der; put it again on the fire, stirring it constantly until it is evapo- 
rated to a very thick paste. Have a tin ring, with a handle by the 
side, about the size of an old penny piece, and twice the thickness; 
wet the ring, and place it on your small pewter or tin plates, fill it 
with the paste, smoothing over the top with a knife; then remove the 
ring, and the cake will remain. Lay them off in rows, and make 
three or four marks on the top with the handle of a table spoon ; put 
them in the stove to dry, turn them with a thin knife, and put them 
again in the stove to dry perfectly. Place them in boxes, with paper 
between each layer. 

Tiie residue from the making of raspberry vinegar may be employ- 
ed for this purpose, or they may be made by adding a pound of fine 
powdered sugar to a pound of jam. Any of the fruit pastes may be 
formed into cakes like these, or into drops, by forcing them out on 
paper with a small pipe and bladder attached to it. 

Clear Cakes, or Jelly Cakes. — Take the filtered juice of fruits, aa 
5* 



5 . THE CONFECTION EK. 

for jelly (see Jellies); to each pint of juice add one pound of loaf 
BUgar, dissolve it in the juice thoroughly, place it on the fire and heat 
It, but it must not boil; put it into small pots, moulds, or glasses, so 
as to form cakes about half an inch thick ; place them on the stove, 
which must not be too hot, or they will melt instead of forming a 
jelly; about seventy-five or eighty degrees Fahrenheit is quite hot 
enough. When a crust has formed on the top, take out the cakes by 
carefully turning the knife round the sides of the pot, place them on 
small plates of tin or pewter, and dry on the other side. When dry 
they can be cut into diamonds, squares, or any shape you please. 
These are certainly some of the most delicate and beautiful cf this 
class vi'hich were ever invented, fit even to gratify the palate of the 
most fastidious. The fruit from which they are made should be 
gathered as fresh as it possibly can, except apples, as the mucilage 
is injured by keeping, and if the fruit has fermented it is entirely 
destroyed. 

Pastes fcrnied iviih Gum — Pate de Guimauve — Marsh- Mallow 
Paste. — Gum Arabic three pounds, roots of fresh marsh-mallows 
eight ounces, one dozen of rennet apples, loaf sugar three pounds. 
Peel, core, and cut the apples in pieces. Cleanse the roots, and 
slice them lengthways in an oblique direction; add this to seven 
pints of water; soft or river water is the best when filtered; put it 
on the fire and boil for a quarter of an hour, or until reduced to six 
pints ; pound and sift the gum through a hair sieve ; strain the de- 
coction into a pan with the gum ; put it on a moderate fire, or into a 
bain-marie, stirring it until the gum is perfectly dissolved; then 
strain it through a coarse towel or tamis cloth, the ends being twisted 
by two persons; add it to the sugar, which has been previously cla- 
rified and boiled to the feather; dry it well over the fire, keeping it 
constantly stirred from the bottom. When it has acquired a thick 
consistence, take the whites of eighteen egg^, and whip them to a 
strong froth ; add them to the paste, and dry until it does not stick to 
the hand when it is applied to it ; add a little essence of neroli, or a 
large glassful of double orange-flower water, and evaporate again lo 
the same consistence. Pour it on a marble slab well dusted with 
starch -powder, flatten it with the hand ; the next day cut it into strips, 
powder each strip, and put them in boxes. Powder the bottom that 
they may not stick. 

Pate de Gomme Jrabique — Arabic Paste. — Very white gum Archie 
two pounds, sugar two pounds, orange-flower water four ounces, the 
whites of twelve egg?. Pound and sift the gum, add it to the water, 
dissolve and evaporate it over a slow fire, or in the bain-marie, stir- 
ring it constantly until it is reduced to the consistence of honey with 
the sugar in syrup. Whip the whites to a strong snow ; add it to the 
paste with the orange-flower water, gradually; stir and finish as 
marsh-mallow paste, for which this is mostly substituted, and much 
used for coughs. It should be very white, lififht. and spongy. 



Tirr. CnNFEOTIONFR. 55 

Pdte des Batleti — Date Paste. — Dates one pound, gum Senegal 
three pounds, loaf sugar in syrup two pounds and a half, orange- 
flower water four ounces. Make as marsh-mallow paste, using rather 
more water to dissolve the gum. 

Pdte des Jujubes — Jujube Paste. — Jujubes four ounces, currants 
washed and picked four ounces, raisins stoned one pound, sugar two 
pounds, very white gum Arabic two pounds and a half. Open the 
jujubes, and boil them with the currants and raisins in two quarts of 
water until reduced to three pints , strain the decoction through a 
tamis cloth, twisted by two persons; add the sugar in syrup with the 
gum, which has been previously pounded and dissolved in a sufficient 
quantity of water; evaporate it by a moderate heat, as pate de gui- 
mauve; pour it into tin moulds slightly oiled, having edges about a 
quarter of an inch deep; dry in the stove, take it out of the tins, and 
cut it with a pair of scissors into small diamonds. 

Pdtede Gomme Senegal — Senegal Paste. — Gum Senegal two pounds, 
sugar one pound. Dissolve the gum in orange-flower water and 
common water; or dissolve it in common water, and flavour with 
essence of neroli ; add the sugar, when clarified and boiled to the 
blow ; evaporate, and finish as pate de jujubf'. This is usually sold 
for jujube paste, or else picked gum Arabic made into a paste as 
Senegal, and coloured with prepared cochineal or saff'ron. 

Pdte de blanche Reglissa — White Liquorice Paste. — This is made 
the same as marsh-mallow paste, using liquorice-root instead of mal- 
low. It may be made without the egg:?, and finished as jujubes. 

Pdte de Reglisse noir — Black Liquorice Paste. — The best refined 
liquorice one pound, gum Arabic four pounds, loaf sugar two pounds, 
Florence orris-root one ounce. Dissolve the gum and liquorice in 
seven pints of water, keeping it stirred over a slow fire ; add the 
sugar in syrup with the orris-root, evaporate to a paste, and finish as 
jujubes. 

Gomme des Jujubes — Jujube Gum. — Jujubes one pound, very white 
and picked gum Arabic two pounds, powdered sugar two ounces. 
Pound the jujubes in a marble mortar with five pints of water, put 
the whole into a pan and boil until reduced to three; strain the decoc- 
tion through a cloth, beat up the white of an egg with a glass of 
water, and mix part of it with the decoction as it boils; throw in a 
little at a time of the remaining part, to check the ebullition. When 
it is all used, take off" the scum, put it again on the fire to evaporate 
the water, adding at the same time the gum and sugar, powdered and 
passed through a horse-hair sieve. Stir it with the spatula until dis- 
solved. When it is of the consistence of honey, place it in the bain- 
marie, and neither stir nor touch it, that it may be clear. When it 
has acquired body enough, so as not to stick to the back of the hand 
when applied to it, pour it into moulds previously oiled with good 
olive oil, as for jujubes ; place in the stove to finish drying ; when 
dry take it out, and cut in small pieces. 



56 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Pate de jujube and white liquorice may be done in the same man- 
ner, using only half the quantity of sugar. 

Gumme des Dattes. — One pound of dates, two pounds of very white 
picked gum Arabic, sugar two ounces. Make as jujubes. 

Gum of Violets. — Violet flowers one pound, picked gum two pounds, 
sugar tour ounces in syrup. Pour three pints of water at the boiling 
point on the flowers in an earthen jar; stop it perfectly close, and keep 
it in a warm place for ten or twelve hours; strain the infusion by ex- 
pression into a fiat pan or dish, place it on an inclination, and let it 
rest for an hour that the fsBces may subside; pour off" the clear gently 
from the bottom or settling, and add to it six grains of turnsole 
bruised, and six grains of carmine, as this clear infusion is not sufii- 
ciently coloured to give it the beautiful tint of the violet. Mix in the 
powdered gum and sugar, stir it over a moderate fire until dissolved, 
pass it through a sieve, and finish in the bain-marie as jujubes. 

Any of these gums, when dry, may be crystallized. 

Almond Paste — Orgeat Paste. — One pound of sweet almonds, a 
quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, two pounds of sugar. Blanch 
the almonds, and throw them into clean cold water as they are done, 
to preserve their whiteness; let them soak for a day, then dry them 
in a cloth, and pound them quite fine in a mortar, sprinkling them 
with orange-flower water or lemon juice to prevent their oiling; 
then with a spatula rub them through a fine wire sieve; what will 
not pass through, pound again until they are quite fine; clarify the 
sugar and boil it to the ball; mix the almonds with it, and stir it well 
over the fire with the spatula until it comes together; then lake it 
from the fire, and put it into an earthen pan to cool ; when cold, 
pound it ajjain, make it into sticks or tablets, dusting the board or 
stone with powdered sugar; or put into pots, and tie bladder over it, 
to be used as wanted. 

SECTION XIII. FRUITS PRESERVED WITH SUGAR. 

Wet Fruits. — Most of the fruits are first prepared by being 
blanched, that is, boiled in water; they are then drained and put into 
boiling syrup, where they remain for a day. The syrup being now 
weakened with the juice of the fruit, it is poured off, more sugar is 
added, and it is reduced again to syrup by boiling, and poured hot 
over the fruit: this is continued until it is fully saturated with suorar, 
which may be known by the syrup being no longer weakened with 
the juice of the fruit. Keep them in a dry but not warm place, as 
too much heat will cause them to ferment, more especially if they 
are not fully incorporated with sugar; nor in a damp place, or they 
will become mouldy. 

All green fruits require to be greened, so as to bring them to their 
original colour, for in blanching they assume a yellowish cast: this is 
probably occasioned by a portion of the alkali being extracted in the 



THE CONFKCTIONEK. 57 

boiling". Tlie green colour of fruits and leaves depends upon an 
excess of alkali ; and in proportion as acid or alkali prevails in them, 
so are they coloured from red to vif)let, blue, and green ; therefore if 
alkali is added to the water, the colour is retained. This is exempli- 
fied in the everyday domestic duties of the cook, who uses soda, pot- 
ash, or muriate of soda (common salt), in boiling her greens or cab- 
bages. I have here stated the principle on which their colour depends, 
to show tliat there is no necessity for green fruits being kept for some 
time in brass or copper pans, whereby they take up a portion of ver- 
digris, which often proves injurious. 

Prick your fruit several times with a fork or large needle, to allow 
the sugar to penetrate the more freely. As you do them, throw them 
into a pan of cold water, which prevents their turning black at the 
places where they are pricked ; add a little soda or potash, and set the 
pan by the side of the stove to heat gradually, but not to boil, or at 
the most only to simmer; when the fruit swims, take it out with a 
skimmer and put it into cold water; if they are not green enough, 
drain them and put them again into the water they were first boiled 
in, or else into a weak syrup; place them by the side of the stove to 
heat gradually as before, stirring them occasionally. They may be 
covered with vine leaves, or a handful of spinach ; if salt is used in 
greening them, they will require to be soaked for a few hours in clean 
cold water, to again extract that portion which they have absorbed, 
or it will spoil their flavour. It is best to blanch fruits which are 
very juicy in hard or pump water, or with the addition of a little alum 
to river water. 

Green Jpricots, wet. — Get the apricots before the stone is formed in 
them, when they can be pierced through with a pin or needle; put 
them into a bag with plenty of salt, and shake them about in it to take 
off the down and silkiness of the skin ; take them out and put them in 
cold water. Or this may be done by making a strong ley with wood 
ashes; strain it through a cloth ; let it be quite clear; make it boiling 
hot and throw in your apricots; let them remain about a minute, take 
them out, and put them into cold water ; then take off the fur when 
they are cool by either rubbing them with your hands in the water, 
or drain, and rub them in a towel or coarse cloth. Put them into 
another pan of cold water, and place them over a slow fire to heat 
gradually and scald. When they are quite soft and can be crushed 
between the finger and thumb, take them out and throw them into 
cold water; drain them quite dry in sieves; make a thin syrup, that 
is, at the small thread ; boil it in a fiat preserving pan, put in the 
apricots, give them a few boils, and take off any scum that rises; 
have sufficient syrup in the pan that the fruit may fioat; pour them 
with the syrup into an earthen pan, and keep them covered until the 
next day ; then drain off the syrup, add more syrup or sugar to it, and 
boil to the large thread ; put in the fruit, and let the syrup boil over 
them four or five times: repeat these operations for five days, increas- 



53 THE CONFECTIOJfER. 

mg the synip si degree each day until it has attained the large pearl, 
taking off the scum each time : it must not exceed this, or it will 
crystallize; put them in dry pans covered with syrup, for use ; or, 
when cold, drain them from the syrup, and put them into small glasses 
by themselves, or mixed with other fruits preserved in the same man- 
ner; fill the vacancies with apple jelly, wet a piece of bladder and 
tie it over the top. 

Green Apricnts, pared wet. — Pare off the skin with a small knife, 
and throw them into cold water as you do them ; green, and finish as 
the former. 

Ripe Apricots^ ivet. — Have the fruit not too ripe, make an '"ncision 
in the side to take out the stone, or they may be cut in halves, and 
peeled or preserved with the skin on ; have a preserving pan on the 
fire with water boiling, throw them in, and as they rise to the top 
take them out and put them into cold water. If they are blanched 
too much they will break, therefore it is better to have two pans of 
cold water to throw them in, so as those may be separated which are 
broken ; drain them from the water, and put them in a thin syrup 
\\hich is boiling on the fire; do not put in too many at a time; put 
in the hardest first, and give them about a dozen boils; take them 
out carefully and put them in an earthen pan ; give the soft ones only 
two or three boils; cover them with the syrup and let them remain 
until the next day ; drain the syrup from them, add more sugar to it, 
and boil and skim it until it has acquired the degree of the large 
thread ; give the apricots two or three boils in it; the soft ones only 
require to have the syrup poured on them boiling hot ; repeat this for 
four or five successive days, and on the last day boil the syrup to the 
large pearl. If you find, after they are finished, that the syrup has 
been boiled too high, mix a little powdered alum with a spoonful of 
water, and add to it. 

Ripe Peaches, whole, wet. — Get the finest peaches, without any 
green spots on the skin; prick them all over with a large needle to 
the stone, throw them into cold water, blanch, and finish as ripe 
apricots. 

Ripe Nectarines, wet. — Preserve as peaches. 

Figs, ivet, — Get the figs nearly ripe, prick them four or five times 
with the point of a knife, throw them into cold water, put them on the 
fire and boil until they are tender ; finish as ripe apricots. 

Greengages, wet — Let the fruit be not quite ripe but sound, prick 
them with a fork or needle, and throw them into cold water ; scald 
and green them ; when they are of a fine green, increase the heat ; 
take them out with a skimmer when they swim, and throw th^m into 
cold water; drain them on sieves; put them in syrup that is boiling; 
give them two or three boils in it; pour them into an earthen pan ; 
drain the syrup from them the next day, add more sugar and boil to 
the thread, taking off any scum which may arise ; pour the syrup 



THE CONFECTION EH. 59 

over them boiling hot; repeat this for five or six days, and finish as 
for green aprico's. 

Mogul Plums. — Take the largest Mogrul plums, with clear skins, 
not quite ripe, prick them all over with a fork and throw them into 
cold sprinuf water; scald them until tender, taking care not to have 
too many in the pan at a time, nor blanch them too much, as they 
will soon break in pieces; take them out and throw them into cold 
water, drain, and put in just sufficient fruit to cover the bottom of the 
pan ; cover with boiling syrup, and let them have a dozen boils in it; 
finish as ripe apricots. 

It would be a needless repetition, to give separate directions fi)r 
preserving every sort of plum, as the instructions already given will 
enable any person of ordinary discernment to manage any other sort 
not mentioned, 

Z)amsons, wet. — Prick the damsons and throw them into boiling 
syrup, and let them boil in it until the skins burst, skimming it as 
they boil; do not put in any more than will swim; let them remain 
until the next day ; drain the syrup, and add more sugar to brino" it 
to the proper degree; give them a few boils in it, and repeat the same 
on the next day ; finish as other plums. 

Green Gooseberries, ivet. — Get some fine large gooseberries, prick 
them three or four times with a large needle, and throw them inio 
cold water; put them on the fire to blanch; when they rise tsik^! 
them out and throw them into cold water, green them, and preserve 
as green apricots. 

Green Gooseberries in fheform of Hops, ivet. — Take the finest green 
gooseberries for this purpose, slit each gooseberry in four or six slits, 
but so as not to come asunder, and take out the seeds. Take a needle 
and white thread, make a knot at the end, and pass the needle through 
the stalk end of the gooseberry that is split; take another and do the 
same, making the end of one go partly into the other; continue this 
until you have six or eight on the thread, which will resemble a hop; 
fasten the end of the thread, and dispose of all of them in the same 
manner, throwing them into cold water as they are finished: blanch 
them, and let them lie in the water they were blanched in all night; 
the next day green them, and finish as for green gooseberries, wet. 

Cucumbers or Gherkins, wet. — Let them be clear, free from all 
spots, and of a good green; prick them all over with a fork, throw 
them into a pan of water mixed with a handful of salt, let them lie in 
this for a day or two, then take them out, put them into fresh water 
and blanch them until tender ; the next day drain and green them in 
a weak syrup: increase the degree of the syrup each day, giving 
them a few boils in it each time; if the cucumbers are large, you can 
cut them in two and take out the seeds. After the second boiling in 
the syrup, let them remain in it for two or three days before it is 
boiled again : finish as green apricots ; a few pieces of ginger may be 
added. 



60 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Green Melons. — Proceed as for cucumbers. They may be preserved 
either whole or in slices. When dried and candied, it imitates green 
citron. 

Ripe Melons^ wet. — Cut the melons in slices, and pare off' the out- 
side skin ; let them lie in salt and water for two or three days, take 
them out, drain and blanch in fresh water until tender ; throw them 
into cold water; when cold, drain them on sieves; give them a 
boil in thin syrup the next day, increase the degree of the syrup, and 
pour it boiling hot over them. A little lemon-juice, vinegar, or a 
handful of bruised ginger may be added to the syrup, which will much 
improve the flavour; boil the syrup, increasing it a degree for three 
or four days, as for other fruits. 

Lemons whole^ "wel. — Choose some fine large lemons with clear 
skins, carve the rind with a small penknife, into flowers, stars, diamonds, 
or any design your fancy may suggest, taking care not to cut deeper 
than the white pith of the peel ; throw them into a pan of cold water, 
put them on the fire and let them boil gently until a strong straw or 
the head of a pin will penetrate the rind ; throw them into cold water; 
when cold, drain them dry, and put them into a thin syrup when boil- 
ing ; give them five or six boils in it, and put them in an earthen pan; 
the next day drain the syrup from them, and add more sugar or syrup 
to increase it a degree ; boil it and when it boils, pour it over the 
lemons: repeat this for two days; on the third day let the lemons boil 
in the syrup for four or five minutes; the next day boil the syrup and 
pour it over them ; when you find the syrup has penetrated the 
lemons, and they look clear, drain the syrup from them, adding more 
if necessary, so as to have sufficient to keep them well covered ; put 
them in glasses, and pour the syrup over them. When cold, cut a 
piece of bladder to the size of the glass, wet it, and tie it down. 

Oranges whole, wet. — These are preserved the same as lemons. 

Whole Orange Peels. — Choose your oranges of a fine clear skin ; 
make a hole at the stalk end, large enough to admit the end of a 
spoon, with which you take out the pulp; throw them in salt and 
water, and let them remain for three or four days or a week ; drain 
them from this, and put them into a pan of fresh water, and let them 
boil until the end of a straw may be pushed through the peel ; throw 
them into cold water; with the end of a spoon clear out any part of 
the pulp which may have adhered to them ; drain off* the water ; put 
them in a tub or pan, and pour boiling syrup over th(^m ; let them 
remain in this for three or four days; take them from the syrup and 
boil it again, adding more as the peels imbibe it, so as to keep them 
well covered ; boil the syrup once every four or five days, and pour 
it hot over them ; do this until it has fully penetrated them. 

Orange or Lemon Peels, wet. — Cut the fruit in half; express the 
juice, and throw the peels into salt and w'ater, as for whole orange 
peels, preserving them in the same way. If you have any quantity, 
put them one in the other, and pack them in ro<vs round the bottom 



THE CJONFECTIONEK, * 61 

of a largo tub or cask ; proceed in this manner, putting them in lay- 
ers until it is half or three parts full ; have a hole near the bottom, 
with a cork fitted into it. When the syrup requires boiling, draw it 
of^' at the hole. 

Orange or Lemon Chips. — Cut the thickest peels into long thin 
pieces, turning them off so as to make but one or two chips from a 
peel, in a similar manner as you would pare off the rind of an apple, 
only, instead of holding the knife in an oblique direction, so as to 
take off the surface, it is held more parallel, so as to cut the whole 
substance of the peel. Let them be as near as possible of the same 
thicknes?, or the peel may be sliced across, so as to form rings; pre- 
serve them as for whole orange peels. If they are wanted in a hur- 
ry, they may be blanched without being put into salt and water. Boil 
Ihem until they can be crushed between the finger and thumb; drain 
them from the water, and pour boiling syrup over theui as for others. 

Angelica, luet. — Cut some stalks of fine tender angelica into pieces 
about six inches long, or any other suitable length. Put them into a 
pan of uater on the fire until they are soft, then put them into cold 
water; draw off the skin and strings with a knife, and put them into 
cold water again ; next boil them until they look whitish ; let them 
cool; drain them from the water, and put them in an earthen pan; 
pour boiling syrup over them until they float. The next day drain it 
off, without disturbing the angelica; boil with more sugar, if re- 
quired, taking off any scum which may rise; pour it over the stalks 
whilst it is hot; repeat this for seven or eight days, boiling the syrup 
the last time to the large pearl. 

Eringo Root. — Choose your roots without knots; wash them clean, 
and boil in water until they are tender; peel off the outside skin, slit 
them, take out the pith, and throw them into cold water ; drain, put 
them into a thin syrup, and give them a few boils; afterwards finish 
as angelica. 

Pine Apple whole, wet. — Take off the top and stem of the pine ; 
prick the apple with a pointed knife in six or eight places, or more, to 
the centre ; put the pine in a pan with plenty of water, and boil it 
until tender ; take it out and throw it into cold water ; when cold, 
drain it quite dry, and pour over it, boiling hot, some syrup at the 
small thread. In two days pour off the syrup and boil it to a degree 
higher, adding more sugar if necessary; repeat this every third day, 
until the pine is sufficiently impregnated with the sugar; the last 
time the sugar must be at the large pearl. The tup of the pine is 
greened and preserved as other green fruits, putting it in its proper 
place when finished. Carefully skim the sugar each time, that the 
pine may be quite clear. 

Pine Apple Chips or Slices. — Take off the top and stalk, and pare 
the outside of the pine; cut it into slices half an inch thick; strew 
over the bottom of a pan with powdered sugar ; cover it with slices 
6 



62 THE CONFECTIOINER. 

of pine-apple, then a layer of supfar, and ngain of pine, and so alter- 
nately until the whole is disposed of, covering- the top with a layer 
of suijar ; place it in a warm place or stove for three or four days; 
then boil it with the juice of two or three lemons for ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour, taking off any scum which rises. If the syrup 
is too thick, add a little water; continue this boiling for three or four 
days, when it will be fit for use. 

Cherries, wei or dry. — Take the best Kentish or May Duke cher- 
ries; cut a quill as if you were going to make a pen, only, instead of 
its being sharp, it must be round at the end ; hold the cherry in your 
left hnnd, and with the other push the quill into it by the side of the 
stalk, as far as the top of the stone ; then take hold of the stalk, and 
w^ith the aid of the quill pull the stone out with the stalk, without 
breaking the fruit in pieces, which would be the case otherwise. Put 
sufficient clarified sugar into a preserving pan for the cherries to 
swim; boil it to the blow, and throw in the prepared fruit; let them 
boil in it for five or ten minutes, keeping them under the syrup by 
pushing them down with a flat piece of wood having a handle at the 
back. The next day drain off the syrup; reduce it by boiling; put 
in the cherries and boil them again for five minutes; repeat this for 
four days, giving the cherries a few boils in the syrup each day. If 
they are required dry, drain the syrup from them, spread them on 
sieves, and dry in the stove at a good heat, turning them every day. 
Put only sufficient on the sieves so as just to cover the bottom. Keep 
them in boxes prepared, or in glasses. 

Whole Cherries. — Shorten the stalks of some fine cherries ; put 
them into an earthen pan, with a layer of powdered sugar and a layer 
of cherries, covering the top w'ith sugar ; let them stand for two or 
three days ; put them on the fire in a preserving pan, and let them 
boil in the syrup for three or four minutes; repeat this for four days. 
Keep them in syrup, or dry, when they are wanted, as the preceding ; 
they may also be tied together to form bunches, and preserved in the 
same manner. 

Grapes in Bunches. — Get some bunches of fine grapes, before they 
are perfectly ripe ; take out the stones with a large pin or needle ; put 
them in a preserving pan, with plenty of water and a little salt ; let them 
simmer on the fire about a quarter of an hour; cover the pan, and let 
them stand in this water until the next day ; pour this ofl", and add 
fresh ; in a few hours drain them dry, and put them into a thin syrup, 
which must be boiling on the fire ; give them a few boils in it, or the 
grapes may be put into the syrup when cold, and heat it gradually 
until it boils; put them in an earthen pan; the next day drain off the 
syrup, reduce it to the small pearl, adding more sugar if necessary, 
and skimming it; pour it boiling over the grapes; repeat this four or 
five times, finishing with syrup at the large pearl, and keep them 
well covered in it. 

Currants in Bunches, wet. — Take the finest currants you can get, 



THE CONFECTIONER. 68 

either red or while; stone them with a pin or the nib of a pen, tak- 
ing care not to cut them more than is necessary; tie six or eight 
bunches togetber with a piece of thread, or they may be tied to a 
small piece of stick. Take as much clarified sugar as will allow the 
currants to float; or put one pound of sugar to each pound of cur 
rants; clarify and boil it to the blow ; put in your fruit, and let them 
hive five or six boils ; take the scum off with paper ; repeat the boil- 
ing next day when they are finished. If you boil them again, the 
syrup will become a jelly, when you can put them in glasses. 

Barberries in Bunches, wet. — Proceed as for currants. 

Raspberries, whole, wet. — Take the finest and driest raspberries you 
can get, but not over-ripo. Take the same quantity of sugar in 
weight as you have of raspberries; clarify and boil it to the blow; 
put in the fruit, and give them a dozen boils, taking off the scum 
with paper; drain off the syrup, and put them into pots that are very 
dry ; cover them with apple jelly, or make a jelly with the syrup the 
raspberries were boiled in, with the addition of a little currant or 
cherry juice when cold. Tie them over with brandy papers and 
bladder. 

Pears, whole, wet. — Take some fine large pears, either eating or 
baking, but those for eating must not be too ripe; they are fit for this 
purpose when the pips are black. Throw them into a pan of water, 
with two ounces of alum ; put them on the fire, and scald them until 
tender; lake them out, and throw them into cold water; pare off the 
rind very thin and even ; prick them several times with a fork or pin 
to the core, and scald them again until they are quite soft, or until 
the head of a pin or straw will pass through them ; a little lemon 
juice may be added to the water in the second boiling, or with the 
syrup; v;hen they are finished blanching, throw them into cold water; 
when cold drain them from this, and put them into a thin syrup at 
the small thread ; give them two or three boils in this; skim, and put 
them in an earthen pan ; the next day drain off the syrup, and add 
more sugar, and reduce it another degree ; boil your pears in it, as 
before, and repeat the process for four days, finishing with the syrup 
at the large pearl. Keep them in covered pans for use. 

Fears, Red, wet. — Take some good baking or other pears; pare 
and cut them in half, and take out the cores with a little scoop for the 
purpose; if they are first blanched a little, they can be pared easier 
and better. Boil them in water, with sugar sufficient to make it only 
just sweet, a little lemon juice, and a few allspice or clove~:. Put a 
piece of pewter, or a pewter spoon, in the bottom of the pan, and 
boil them until they are quite tender and of a fine red ; or prepared 
cochineal may be added instead, using sufficient to give the desired 
tint; take out the fruit, and add enough sugar to the water they were 
boiled in to make a syrup; boil to the large thread; put in the pears, 
and give them two or three boils in it ; skim, and put them in an 
earthen pan; boil the syrup twice more, and pour it on them, raising 
it to the degree of the large pearl. Keep them in dry pans for use. 



Ol THE CONFECTIONER. 

Quinces, Bed or White, wet. — Preserve as pears. 

For these preserves il is a good plan to have flat pieces of wood, 
like covero, to put on the fruit, so as to keep it under the syrup. 

Ginger, wet. — This article is mostly imported from India and China, 
in jars or pots. Divide the largest races or roots from the smaller 
ones; lake largest for preserving, as the smaller ones will serve for 
planting; clean and cut the roots into neat pieces, and throw them 
into cold water as you do them. Boil them three times in fresh water, 
throwing them into cold each time, or soak them in vi^ater for four or 
five days; drain, and boil in fresh water till tender; take them out, 
and throw them into cold water, in which has been mixed a little 
lemon juice or vinegar; peel them, and throw them into the water 
again as they are done, to keep them white ; let the roots remain in 
this a few hours, then drain them dry on sieves; put them in an 
earthen pan; pour over them, when cold, a thin syrup, at the small 
thread; let them be well covered with the syrup; in two or three 
days drain off the syrup; add more sugar, and boil to the large thread ; 
when cold pour it over the ginger. After three or four days boil the 
sugar a degree higher, and pour it in hot; continue this until your 
roots look clear and are fully impregnated with sugar ; finish with the 
syrup at the large pearl. 

Candied Fruit. — Any fruit or peel which has been first preserved 
in syrup may be candied. 

Take the fruit out of the syrup and let it drain on sieves; then dip 
the sieve with the fruit into lukewarm water, to wash off the syrup 
from the surface ; take it out, let it drain, and dry it in the stove. 
Boil some fresh syrup to the blow; put in the fruit and give it a boil 
in it. The fruit when it is put in will reduce the sugar, it must there- 
fore be boiled to the same degree again. With a spoon or spatula 
rub the sugar against the side of the pan, to grain it; when it begins 
to whiten put the fruit in the white part separately : v/ith two forks 
take it out and lay it on sieves or wire frames, for the sugar to drain 
from it. 

Dried Fruit. — Any of those fruits which are preserved with syrup 
may be dried: they are also better when fresh dried. Warm the 
fruit in the syrup; take it out and drain ; spread it on sieves or wires ; 
put them in the stove to dry, turning them frequently until perfectly 
dried. When the fruit is drained from the syrup, it may be dusted 
with loaf-sugar when you put it in the stove, and for two or three 
times when you turn it. Too much heat will blacken the fruit, 
therefore let the heat of the stove be about 100° or 110° of Fahren- 
heit's thermometer. 

SECTION XIV. COMPOTES. 

These are prepared in the same way as wet fruits, and served in 
compotiers, which are deep glass dishes belonging to the dessert 
service. 



THE CONFECTIONEE* 65 

In summer, ripe fruits are simply blanched and boiled up in a thin 
syrup, a little lemon-juice is added, and served; these are only for 
present use. In winter, take those fruits which are preserved in 
syrup, drain, dip tliem in luke-warm water, and serve in a thin syrup, 
with the juice of a lemon. 

Green .Bpricot Compote. — Prepare your fruit as for green apricots, 
wet; throw them into syrup that is boiling; take them off the fire, 
and let them remain for four or five hours; drain oS the syrup, and 
boil to the thread ; pour it over the fruit; when cold, serve. 

Ripe Jlpricot Compote. — Cut the apricots in half, and peel them; 
blanch them in water that is just sweetened; drain them from this; 
add sugar to the water, and boil to the thread ; pour it over the apri- 
cots ; let them remain in it for two or three hours; then drain and 
boil the syrup again to the large thread ; pour it over the apricots; 
add the juice of a lemon, with some of the kernels blanched ; when 
cold, serve. 

Peaches, nectarines, and green-gages are done as these* 

Compote of Jlpples, with Jelly. — Pare some fine pippins very neat- 
ly ; core them with an apple corer; put them into syrup, and boil 
gently; put only just sufficient syrup to cover them, that it may be 
reduced to a jelly ; if it has not body enough, cut a few in pieces and 
put with it ; when the apples look clear and are tender, take them 
out; add to the apples, while boiling, the juice and yellow rind of a 
lemon, with a few cloves. Strain the syrup, and reduce it to a jelly ; 
pour part into the compotier, and when cold dress the apples taste- 
fully on it. The hole where the core was taken out may be filled 
with any sort of marmalade or jelly. Cut the remaining part of the 
jelly in pieces or croutons, and place round or over them ; orna- 
ment them with red currant or other jelly, in any way that your 
fancy may dictate. 

Apple Compote. — Take some fine apples ; peel and cut them in 
halves, quarters, or thick slices, and take out the cores; blanch them 
in a very thin syrup until tender; take them out, and add more sugar 
to that which they were boiled in, with the yellow peel and juice of a 
lemon and a i^"^ cloves; reduce it to the small pearl; put in the 
apples, and give them a few boils in it; let them remain until cold; 
take oft" the scum, if any; strain the syrup, and serve. 

Pears and quinces are done as these, or coloured as for pears wet, 
which see. 

Grape Compote. — Pick and stone some fine ripe grapes; put them 
in boilmg syrup at the large pearl; give them three or four boils in 
it; let them cool, take off" the scum, and serve. 

Currant Compote. — Take the largest currants you can get, either 
red or white; pick out the seeds, and throw them into boiling syrup 
at the large pearl ; give them two or three boils, and let them stand 
in the syrup; take oflf the scum, and serve when cold. 
6* 



P6 THE COTs^PECTIONEB. 

Raspberry Compote. — Choose some very fine and dry raspberries; 
boil some syrup to the blow, take it from the fire, and throw in the 
raspberries; let them stand for four or five hours; stir them gently; 
put them on the fire, and let the syrup just boil; take off" the scum, 
and when cold serve. 

Strawberry Compote. — Take off* the stalks, and throw them into 
syrup at the small thread ; when it is near boiling, take them ofi', let 
them cool, and serve ; or they may be prepared by putting them in 
the compotier, and covering them with white currant jelly warmed. 

Macedoinc of Fruits. — Put some of all sorts of fruits, prepared for 
compotes, together, and serve in the same glass, With syrup and a 
little lemon-juice. 

Cherry Compote. — Cut off the stalks of some fine cherries about 
half way ; wash them in cold water, and let them drain quite dry ; 
boil some syrup to the large pearl; throw in the cherries, and let 
them boil quickly for five or six boils ; take them off, and let them 
remain until cold ; take off the scum, if any, and dress them in the 
compotier, with their stalks upwards; pour in the syrup, and serve, 
adding the juice of lemon. 

Damsons, mulberries, Orlean plums, and barberries are done the 
same way, taking out the stones of the plums and barberries; the 
cherries may be also stoned. 



SECTION XV. BRANDY FRUITS. 

All fruits may be preserved with brandy; but only the best sort 
of plums, such as apricots, magnum-bonums, peaches, green-gages, 
mirabeiles, &c., with cherries and pears, are those usually done. 

The fruit should be gathered before it is perfectly ripe, when it ia 
prepared by blanching, &c., precisely the same as if it were intended 
for wet fruits; those preserved in this manner are often taken from 
their syrup and put in brandy ; when the fruits are blanched put them 
for a day or two in a thin syrup, then take them out and arrange them 
in glasses; cover them with white brandy, into which you have 
mixed five ounces of pov/dered white sugar candy, and tie them over 
with bladder. Cherries are an exception to this rule. Take some 
fine Morello cherries, and cut off half the stalk ; put them into brandy, 
and stop them close for a month ; drain off the brandy, and to each 
quart add eight ounces of powdered loaf sugar or v^'hite sugar candy ; 
dissolve and pour it over the cherries. Keep them well covered with 
spirit. 



THE' CONFECTIONER. 6T 

SECTION XVr. ON BOTTLED FRUITS, OR FRUITS PRESERVED 

WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Choose wide-mouthed bottles, which are made for this purpose; 
let them be clean and perfectly dry; gather the fruit during- dry 
weather, and fill the bottles if possible on the same day; shake the 
fruit well down by knocking the bottom edge of the bottle on the 
table; prepare some corks or bungs (which are made for fruit bottles 
by being cut the contrary way of the grain); pour \y iling water over 
them, which will deprive them of any smell or di/t ; repeat this a 
second time, if necessary, letting them remain in the water each 
time until it is cold ; cork the bottles well, and tie them over with 
wire or string. M. Appert recommends that they should be luted 
with a mixture made of fresh slaked lime and soft cheese ; this is to 
be spread on rags and tied over the mouth of the bottle; they are 
then placed in a boiler and cold water as far as their mouths; a cover 
is put on with a piece of linen round it to prevent evaporati .»n, the 
water is then heated to boiling, and is kept at this point uncil it ia 
considered that the fruit is boiled in their own water or juice ; the 
fire is then withdrawn, and they are suffered to remain in the water 
for an hour, when it may be drawn off. The method which I in 
general pursue is to raise the water to the boiling point, and keep it at 
this heat for about an hour, according to the nature of the fruit; they 
are then suffered to remain in the water until it is cold. I find this 
way generally successful. When they are taken out, cover the 
mouth of the bottle with melted rosin or bottle wax. 

This method is much superior to that of preparing them with water, 
which renders the fruit flat, dead, and insipid, the whole of the fla- 
vour of the fruit being imparted to the water, except when bottled 
very green, when it does not lose it so much. 

A method I have tried with pretty good success, is to obtain the 
fruit before it is ripe, bottle it, and fill the bottles with cold spring 
water, in which are dissolved some oxymuriate of potass, cork them 
close, and cover the mouths v/ith rosin. Plums done in this way had 
the natural bloom on them. I found these were better than those 
done in a similar manner by heat. A few bottles of them fermented. 
After the ferinentation was over I corked them close, and in six 
months I opened some, when they had a smell like wine, and were 
not so flat as those which were well preserved by heat, and filled 
with water ; these certainly look well to the eye, but they are only 
fit to be used for large pies, when the water should be made into a 
syrup with sugar, and put in with it. 

The first method, which is the same as Appert's, or nearly so, is 
decidedly the best; it retains the natural flavour, and may be used 
for any purpose it is required, it being as good as fresh fruit. 



6P THE COlN'J'ECTrOl^ER. 

The pulp or juice of fruits may also be preserved in the same way ; 
if the fruit is not ripe enough to pulp, put it into a jar, and stop it 
close, place it in a kettle of cold water, heat it until it boils, and let 
it continue at this point for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; take 
it out and pass the pulp through a hair-sieve ; bottle, and finish as 
before. 

This method of M. Appert's is not altogether original, but was an- 
ticipated by the experiments of Mr. Boyle. A system somewhat on 
the same principle has been practised by many in the trade for years, 
which is this. The fruit is bottled and carefully corked, the bottles 
are then placed on the top of the oven, where they are suffered to 
remain for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, according to the tempera- 
ture, which is generally from 120^ to 140° Fahrenheit's thermometer. 
Atone place I ascertained the heat during the process, and it averaged 
130°. Another system practised is that of heating the bottles in a 
cool oven. 

The principle endeavoured to be accomplished is to destroy the 
small portion of oxygen contained in the bottle after being corked, by 
converting it into carbonic acid gas; but some other unknown agent 
must be produced, as this may be done without heat, which the fer- 
mentation of the fruit would cause by itself; for, according to the 
experiments of Hildebrand, had the oxygen of the atmosphere 
remained unaltered, it would have caused putrefaction ; for he found 
that oxygen mixed with a small quantity of azote, promoted putrefac- 
tion more than pure oxygen. He found that hydrogen gas was the 
greatest preservative, nitrous next, and after this carbonic. These 
experiments were tried on meat, but they may be equally applicable 
in respect to fruit, when the auxiliary produced by heat is not 
definitely known. 

Fruit should always be bottled and boiled on the same day it is 
gathered ; for the longer the fruit lies together the more it sweats ; 
fermentation commences, which is accelerated in the bottles by heat, 
and there is great danger of their bursting. 

All decayed or bruised fruit should be carefully excluded, and that 
should be preferred which is not quite ripe. 

When finished, the bottle should be kept in a cool dry place. 

SECTION XVII. OF COOLING DRINKS FOR BALLS AND ROUTS. 

These may be made either with fresh fruit, jam, or syrups. The 
last merely requires the addition of water and lemon-juice to make 
them palatable. 

Gooseberry, Currant, Raspberry, and Strawberry Waters. — Mash 
either of these fruits when ripe, and press out the juice through a 
hair-sieve, add a little water to it, and give it a boil ; then filter it 
through a flannel bag, some syrup, a little lemon-juice and water, to 
make it palatable, but rich, although not too sweet, which is often the 
fault with these and compotes ; ice them the same as wine, and serve. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 69 

Cherry Water. — Pound the cherries with the stones to obtain the 
flavour of the kernel, and make as above. 

j^pricot and Peach Wafer as cherry water : or, if made from jam, 
add a fi^v bitter almonds pounded quite fine, using- a little water and 
lemon-juice to pound them with; add them to the jam with water 
and lemon-juice to palate; strain it through a lawn sieve, ice, and 
serve. 

Orgeat Water. — Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and one 
ounce of biiter; pound them very fine in a mortar, usmg- water to 
prevent their oiiin^j ; use one quart of water and a glass of orange- 
flower water, and make as directed for orgeat syrup; add sugar to 
palate, stram it through a lawn sieve, ice, and serve. 

Lemonade. — Rub off the yellow rinds of six lemons on sugar; 
squeeze out their juice, and add to it a pint and a half of water, and 
half a pint of syrup, the white of an egg, with the sugar which has 
imbibed the oil from the rind ; mix them well together ; if not to 
your palate, alter it ; strain through a flannel bag, ice, and serve. 

Orangeade is made as lemonade, using China oranges instead of the 
lemons. 



SECTION XVIII. ICES. 

[There is no article of the dessert kind that deserves a more ele- 
vated position than well-made ices, as well for their intrinsic merit 
as for the agreeable gout which they impart to a well-got-up enter- 
tainment. 

Philadelphia has for a long time enjoyed a pre-eminent reputation 
in the manufacture of these delicious compounds ; the rage however 
for cheap articles, without a due regard to their merits, has made sad 
inroads into the business; and, in order to accommodate this spirit of 
retrenchment, ignorant pretenders have consented to the base prac- 
tice of making inferior articles, which they palm oflf on the unwary 
under the specious guise of economy. With the?e persons it is a 
custom to use three-fourths milk and only one-fourth of the legiti- 
mate article, cream, and, in order to procure a sufficient body, to in- 
termix boiled flour, arrowroot, or potatoe flour; also to flavour with 
tartaric acid instead of fresh lemons, tonquin bean instead of vanilla, 
and inferior fruits when the best only should be used. 

We mention these facts in order to caution young beginners against 
any such fatal mistakes. The best ingredients should always be 
used. Obtam your cream invariably fresh from a dairyman who is 
tenacious of his reputation, and who is known to produce a pure rich 
article ; it cannot he too good, and if not used immediately should be 
kept in ice until wanted. Good cream cannot be had (even where 
large quantities are used) for a less price than twenty cents per 
quart. Use cream entirely, and on no account mingle the slightest 



70 THE CONFECTIONER. 

quantity of milk, which detracts materially from the richness and 
smoothness of the ices. Always use the finest flavoured to he ob- 
tained, and follow implicitly the following very copious directions, 
and you will be certain to be rewarded by a fine article, of which 
you may well be proud :] 

Utensils requisite for making. — 1st. Pewter pots of various sizes, 
suitable to the quantity of mixture intended to be frozen. Tin or 
zinc will not answer the purpose, as it congeals the mixture too 
quickly without allowing it a sufficient time to become properly in- 
corporated, and forms it in lumps like hailstones. 

2d. Half pint, pint, pint and a half, and quart moulds, and some in 
the form of fruits made to open in the centre with a hinge : these 
also require to be made of the same material. 

3d. Ice pails. These should be adapted to the size of the pots, 
about the same depth, and eiffht or ten inches more in diameter; if 
even sreater, it is immaterial, the depth being the principal consider- 
ation, for the deeper it is the greater caution is required to prevent 
the salt from entering the mixture; for as the ice dissolves, the pot 
descends, and the water runs under the cover, which, being salt, 
spoils the contents; neither have you a sufficient basis whereon the 
pot rests so as to mix your creams, &c., with the spatula; conse- 
quently, half your exertions are lost by its constant sinking when you 
apply the least effort to scrape it from the sides. There should be a 
hole near the bottom, with a cork fitted into it, so as to be drawn at 
pleasure, that the water may be allowed to run off when there is too 
much. 

4th. The spatula. This is an instrument somewhat resembling a 
gardener's spade ; it should be made of stout copper and tinned, the 
blade being about four inches long by three in width, round at the 
end, and having a socket to receive a wooden handle ; this is for 
scraping the cream, &c., from the sides of the pot as it freezes, and 
for mixing it. 

5th. Either a large mortar and pestle, or a strong box and mallet 
for pounding the ice. 

6ih. A spade wherewith to mix the ice and salt together, fixing 
your pails, &c. 

7th. A tin case or box, with a kind of drawer fitted to it so as to 
be drawn out at pleasure, and having shelves or divisions ; this is for 
keeping the ices in the form of fruits, after they are finished, until 
required for the table. 

To freeze Ices. — This is accomplished through the medium of ice. 
Of itself it does not contain sufficient frigorific power to congeal u 
liquid body to the required consistence without an auxiliary; the 
usual one employed is that of salt. As a general rule, take about 
two pounds to every six pounds of ice, which I think will be nearly 
the quantity required. I cannot state precisely, as it is the custom 
to mix it by guess ; but note, the freezing quality depends on the 



THE CONFECTIONER. 71 

quantity of salt which is used, consequently, the more there is mixed 
with the ice the quicker are the creams, &c., frozen. 

Pound a sufficient quantity of ice small, and let some salt be well 
mixed with it; place the pot containing the mixture in a pail, which 
you fill (the latter) with pounded ice and salt as far as the lid ; strew 
a handful of salt on the top of the ice, let it remain a few minutes until 
you have similarly disposed of others, as three or four may be done at 
a time if required, then whirl them round briskly by means of the 
handles for five minutes, take off the lids one at a time, and with the 
spatula stir or carry the unfrozen part well round the sides, turning 
the pot also with the left hand ; continue this for two or three minutes, 
which serves to soften what has already frozen, as well as helps to 
freeze the remaining portion; then scrape it from the sides, put on 
the lids, whirl round again briskly, as before directed, repeating the 
same operations every four or five minutes. As it forms into con- 
sistence, do not spare your labour in well working or mixing it 
together when you scrape it down, so as to make it perfectly smooth 
and free from lumps, for the smoothness of your ice depends on this 
operation ; continue to freeze until the whole is well set. Ice when 
well frozen should be about the consistence of butter, tough to the 
feel, of a good colour, and without any lumps in it. Those which 
contain too much syrup cannot be frozen to the degree required, and 
those which have too little freeze hard, and feel short and crisp, like 
compressed or frozen snow, which arises from having too many watery 
particles in it, by the excess of either water or milk according to the 
nature of your ice. In either case it may be ascertained when you 
commence freezing, by the first coat which is formed round the sides. 
It should then be altered by either adding more cream or water, with 
juice, or pulp of fruit, or other flavouring matter in proportion, as the 
case may be, if too rich, and vice versa, by the addition of more syrup, 
&c., when poor; but at all times the necessity of altering them should 
be avoided, as the component parts cannot be so perfectly blended 
too:ether, without considerable extra labour, as if they were properly 
mixed at the commencement. 

During the time of freezing, or after the creams, &c., are moulded 
and set up, if there is too much water in the pail, the frigorific power 
is lessened ; a little increases it, as at first it is only a solution of the 
salt ; but as the ice dissolves and mixes with it, it decreases; there- 
fore, when it comes to the top drain it ofl^, and fill up with fresh salt 
and ice. 

When the ices are properly frozen, take out the pots, drain off the 
water, empty the pail, again replace them and fill them with fresh 
salt and ice, as before ; then spread the creams over the sides of the 
pot, when they are ready for use, if they are intended to be served in 
a shop or by glassfulls. Should it be required for moulds, line the 
bottom with a piece of paper, before you put it on ; if there is no im- 
pression or figure on the top, you may cover that also with paper ; in 
filling them press it well in, so as to fill every part; leave a little pro- 



72 THE CONFECTIONER. 

jecting above the surface to form the top, which you put on ; pack 
the moulds in a pail, and fill the vacancies with pounded ice well 
mixed wiih plenty of salt, strew a handful also on the top. 

Ices should be moulded from half an hour to an hour before they 
are requited to be served. 

When you want to turn them out, wash the mould well in cold 
water that no salt may remain on it; take off the bottom and top, and 
the ice will come out easily. 

For fruit moulds, fill each with either cream or water ice of the 
same kind as that which you would represent, and for the belter rp- 
semblance to nature, preserve the stone with the stalk and leaves of 
each, which put in their proper places, allowing the leaves to pr-^ject 
outside; close the mould, wrap it in paper, and place it in ice as 
others; when you want to turn them out, wash the shape in luke- 
warm water to take off the paper, and be careful that you do not 
injure the leaves, as they will often be found frozen to it ; dip it ao-ain 
in water, open it and take out the ice, which you colour to nature 
with camel's-hair pencils and liquid colour (see Colours); the down 
or bloom is represented by dusting it with dry colour in powder, tied 
in a small thin muslin bag, or by means of a dry camel's-hair pencil ; 
line the shelves of the case with paper or vine leaves, and put in 
the fruit as it is finished ; let the case be surrounded wiih pounded ice 
and salt, as for moulds. 

Ices may be divided into three classes, viz: cream, custard, and 
water. These derive their names from the basis of which they are 
composed, the flavouring matter mixed with it giving the other defi- 
nition : thus we say, raspberry cream and raspberry water; but cus- 
tard ices are not so particularly defined as the others by the basis, and 
fiither only receives the name of the flavour given to it, or as that of 
cream. 

Cream Ices. — These are composed entirely of pure fresh cream, 
with the juice or pulp of fruit either fresh or preserved, and syrup or 
sugar so blended together as the taste of one may not predominate 
over that of another ; but if either is in excess it should be that of 
the fruit. 

Raspberry of fresh fruit. — One quart of raspberries, one quart of 
cream, three-quarters of a pound or a pound of sugar, a fev.' ripe 
currants and gooseberries, or currants and ripe cherries may be added, 
instead of all raspberries, which is much approved by some, and the 
juice of two lemons; * mash the fruit, and pass it through a sieve to 
take out the skins and seeds; mix it with the other articles; add .-i 
little prepared cochineal to heighten the colour; p-.'t it in the pot and 
freeze. 

* The quantity of fruit required for these ices will depend, in a g^reat 
measure, on the quality of the fruit and the seasons in which it is pro- 
duced ; a pint and a half will be found sufficient when it is good in fii^e 
seasons ; the quantity stated in each weight is the greatest required. 



THE COISFECTIONER. 73 

Note.— AW ices made with red fruit require this addition of cochi- 
neal. 

Raspberry, from Jam. — One pound of jam, one quart of cream, 
about t^ix ounces of sugar or syrup, to palate, and the juice of two 
lemons. Mix as before. 

Strawberry. — As raspberry. 

Currant Ice from fresh Fruit. — One pint and a half of ripe currantg, 
half a pint of raspberries, one quart of cream, the juice of two 
lemons, and twelve ounces of sugar. Mix as raspberry. 

Currant Ice. — Preserved Fruit. — The same proportions as raspberry, 
using either jam or jelly. 

Barberry Ice. — Use the sameproportions as before. For fresh barber- 
ties, first soften them by either boiling them in the syrup you intend 
to use, or put them in a stew-pan, and stir them over the fire until 
tender ; pass them through a sieve, mix, and freeze as raspberry. The 
barberries, having much acid, do not require any lemon-juice to be 
mixed with tiiern. 

.Spricot. — Fresh Fruit. — Twenty-four fine ripe apricots, one quart of 
cream, twelve ounces of sugar, the juice of two lemons, with a few 
of the kernels blanched; mash the apricots, rub them through a sieve, 
mix, and freeze. 

Apricot, from Jam. — Twelve ounces of jam, one quart of cream, 
the juice of two lemons, eight ounces of sugar, a few kernels or bit- 
ter almonds blanched and pounded fine ; rub the whole through a 
sieve, and freeze. 

Peach Ice. — The same proportions as apricot 

Pine Apple — Fresh Fruit. — One pound of fresh pine apple, half a 
pint of syrup in which a pine has been preserved, two or three slices 
of pine apple cut in small dice, and the juice of three lemons ; pound 
or grate the apple, pass it through a sieve, mix, and freeze. 

Pine Apple — Preserved Fruit. — Eight ounces of preserved pine, four 
slices cut in small dice, one quart of cream, the juice of three lemons, 
and sufficient syrup from the pine to sweeten it; pound the preserved 
pine, mix lemons with the cream, &.c., and freeze. 

Ginger Ice. — Six ounces of preserved ginger, one quart of creamj 
half a pint of the syrup from the ginger, sugar sufficient to sweeten 
it with, and the juice of two lemons; pound the ginger in a mortar, 
add the cream, &,c., and freeze. 

[Brahma Ice. — One quart of cream, the whites of ten eggt,, one 
and a half pounds of powdered sugar of the best quality ; mix the 
whole in a tip ^saucepan ; put it on 'the fire, stirring constantly, until 
It boils oncfe^ , then add two wine-glasses of Curaroa, half a ijlass of 
orange-flower water ; put it into the pot, and freeze.] 

Orange Ice Cream.— Six oranges, three lemons, one quart of cream, 
7 >• 



74 THE CONFECTIO^-ER. 

and twelve ounces of sugar or of syrup, to palate; rub off the yel- 
low rind of two or three of the oranges on part of the sugar, scrape 
it off with a knife, squeeze out the juice of the oranges and lemons, 
and strain it; mix it with the cream and the sugar on which the rind 
was rubbod, tuM the other part of the sugar, dissolve and freeze. 

China Orange Ice Cream. — Eight oranges, two lemons, one quart 
of cream, twelve ounces of sugar ; rub off the rind of four or five of 
the oranges and one lemon on sugar, squeeze, and strain the juice; 
add the ciearn, <fe.c., mix, and freeze. 

Cherry Ice Cream. — Two pounds of cherries, one quart of cream, 
and twelve ounces of sugar or syrup; pound the cherries, wi^h the 
stones, in a mortar, adding a few ripe gooseberries or currants if ap- 
proved of; pass the pulp through a sieve, add the cream and sugar 
with the juice of two lemons and a little cochineal, mix, and freeze. 
With preserved fruit it is made the same way, adding a little 
noyau, or a few bitter almonds pounded for the flavour of the kernel. 
[Harlequin Ice. — This is formed by putting a small quantity of each 
kind of ice into the same mould, taking care to have as great a va- 
riety of colours as possible placed so as to produce a contrast; cover 
the mould witii ir^alt and ice as before directed, and let it remain half 
an hour, when it will be fit to turn out. When the colours are tastily 
disposed of, it produces a good effect for the table, but is not much ad- 
mired on account of the jumble of flavours.] 

Lemon Ice Cream. — Six large lemons, one quart of cream, and 
twelve ounces of sugar or half pint of syrup ; grate off the peels of 
three of the lemons into a basin, squeeze the juice to it, let it stand 
for two or three hours, strain, add the cream and syrup, and freeze or 
mix as Seville orange ice. 

Mille Fruit Cream Ice. — Make a lemon cream ice, and flavour it 
with elder flowers, mix in some preserved dried fruits and peels cut 
in small pieces. Before it is moulded, sprinkle it with prepared co- 
chineal, and mix it a little, so as it may appear in veins or marbled. 

Custard Ices. — These are similarly composed to the cream ices, 
with the addition of six eggs to each quart of cream. All kinds of 
nuts, liqueurs, essences, infusions, or biscuits, are principally mixed 
with it. 

Ctistardfor Ices. — One quart of cream, six eggs, and twelve ounces 
of powdered loaf sugar; break the eggs into a stew-pan, and whisk 
ihem together ; add the cream and sugar ; when well mixed, place 
it on the fire, and continue stirring it from the bottom with the whisk, 
to prevent burning; until it gets thick; take it from the fire, con- 
tinue to stir it for a few minutes, and pass it through a sieve. If the 
custard be suffered to boil, it will curdle. 

Plomhiere Ice^ cr Swiss Pudding. — Take one pint and a half of 
cream and half a pint of milk, and make them into a custard witl 
seven yolks of eggs; flavour it either with Cura^oa, Maraschino, or 



THE CONFECTIONER. iO 

rum ; freeze the custard, and add about a quarter of a pound of dried 
cherries, orange, lemon, and citron peel, and currants; mix these in 
ihe iced custard. The Cura^oa, or rum, &c., may be pouted over the 
fruit when you commence freezing, or before, which I consider pre- 
ferable to flavouring the custard. Prepare the mould, which is round, 
and something in the shape of a melon, made to open in the centre 
vviUi a iiinge. Strew over the inside with some clean currants, fill 
the mould, and close it; immerse it in some fresh ice mixea with 
sa!r. Before it is required to be turned out, prepare a dish as 
follows : — 

The Sauce. — Make a little custard, and flavour it with brandy; 
dissolve some isinglass in water or milk, and when it is nearly cold 
add siiflncient to the custard to set it ; pour it into the dish you intend 
to serve it on. As soon as it is set, turn out the pudding on it and 
serve. 

Almond or Orgeat Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, eight ounces 
of sweet almonds, two ounces of bitter almonds, tv*'elve ounces of 
sugar, and two ounces of orange-flower water; blanch the almonds, 
and pound them quite fine in a mortar, using the orange-flower water 
in pounding, to prevent their oiling: rub them through a sieve, and 
pound again the remaining portion which has not passed through, 
until they are fine enough; then mix them with the cream, and make 
it into a custard with eggs, as the preceding; strain, and when cold, 
freeze. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, eight ounces of pis- 
tachios, and twelve ounces of sugar; blanch and pound the pistachios 
with a little of the cream ; mix and finish as orgeat ice, flavouring it 
with a little essence of cedrat, or the rind of a fresh citron rubbed on 
sugar ; or the custard may be flavoured by boiling in it a little cinna- 
mon and mace and the rind of of a lemon. 

Filbert Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, one pound of nuts, and 
twelve ounces of sugar or one pint of syrup; break the nuts, and roast 
the kernels in the oven; when done, pound them with a little cream, 
make a custard, and finish as almond ice. 

Chestnut Ice. — As the preceding, taking ofiTthe husks and skin. 

Burnt Filbert Ice Cream. — Use the same proportions as in filbert 
ice; put the kernels into the syrup, and boil till it comes to the 
blow; stir the sugar with a spatula, that it may grain and adhere to 
the nuts; when cold, pound them with the su^ar quite fine; make 
a custard, and mix them with it, allowing for the sugar that is used 
for the nuts; mix, and freeze as the others. 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream. — Make as burnt filbert ice. 

Coffee Ice Cream. — One quart of cream, five ounces of Mocha coffee, 
and twelve ounces of sugar ; roast the coffee in a coarse iron or other 
stew-pan, keeping it constantly stirred until it is a good brown colour; 



"6 THE rONFECTIONEK. 

throw it into the custard cream whilst it is quite hot, and cover it 
closely ; let it infuse for an hour or two, then strain and freeze. 

The cream may be made with an infusion of coffee, thus: take the 
quantity of coffee, fresh roasted and ground to a fine powder ; put this 
into a common glass bottle or decanter, and pour on it sufficient cold 
river water to moisten the powder and make an infusion; stop the 
Iwttle close, and let it remain all night; the next day filter the infu- 
sion by passing it through some fine lawn or blotting paper placed in 
a glass funnel ; by this process a very strong and superior infusion is 
obTained, which contains the whole of the aroma of the coffee. Dr. 
Ratier observes, — "I have tried this process with boiling and with 
cold water; and I have assured myself, by comparison, that the pow- 
der drained by the cold water, and treated then with boiling water, 
gave nothino- but a water slightly tinted with yellow, and devoid of 
odour and flavour. It is, besides, proper to pass an equal quantity of 
water to the first, over the grounds, in order that the second water 
may serve for new powder." Use this for flavouring the custard, 
and freeze. 

Chocolate Ice. — One quart of cream, six ounces of chocolate, and 
ten ounces of sugar; dissolve the chocolate in a little water, or make 
the sugar into a syrup, and dissolve it by putting it on the side of the 
.stove, or over the fire ; add the cream and eggs, and make it into a 
custard as before ; when cold, freeze. 

Tea Ice. — One quart of cream, two ounces of the best green tea, 
and twelve ounces of sugar ; put the tea into a cup, and pour on it a 
little cold river water in which has been dissolved a small portion of 
carbonate of soda, about as much as may be placed on a fourpenny 
piece ; let it remain for an hour or two, then add a little boiling 
water, sufficient in the whole to make a very strong infusion ; or the 
boiling water may be dispensed with, adding more cold water in pro- 
portion, and letting it soak longer, when a superior infusion will be 
obtained; strain it, and add to the cream and eggs. Finish as the 
others. 

Vanilla Ice. — One quart of cream, half an ounce of vanilla, twelve 
ounces of sugar; cut the vanilla into small pieces, and pound it with 
the sugar until it is quite fine, add it to the cream and eggs, make it 
into a custard, strain, and when coid freeze, or it may be flavoured 
with the essence of vanilla. (See Essences). 

Noyau Cream Ice. — Make a custard cream, and flavour it with 
noyau ; finish as almond ice. 

Maraschino Cream Ice. — Make as noyau, flavouring it with Mara- 
schino de Zara. All liqueur ices are made the same way, using the 
diflferent liqueurs with which each is named, or they may be made in 
this way : — Take a quart of cream, put it into the ice-pot with six 
ounces of sugar, which you place in the ice; work or whisk it well 
about the sides with a whisk tor five minutes; add a glassful of 



THE CONFECTIONER. 77 

liqueur, work this well together, then whisk the whites of two eggs 
to a strong froth, add two ounces of sugar to them, mix this well with 
the cream, and freeze to the required consistence. This produces a 
very beautiful, soft, and mellow cream. 

Water Ices. — These are the pulp or juice of fruits mixed with 
8yrup, lemon juice, and a little water, so as to bring theei to a good 
flavour and consistence when frozen. 

Currant Water Ice. — Two pounds of ripe currants, eight ounces of 
raspberries and ripe cherries, one pint of syrup, and one pint of water. 

Pick and n)ash the fruit, and strain it through a sieve, add the 
syrup and water, put it in the ice-pot and freeze. 

Cherry Water Ice. — Cherries two pounds, either Kentish or May 
Duke, ripe gooseberries four ounces, one pint of syrup, half a pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons; pound the cherries with the 
stones in a mortar, pass the juice of the fruit through a sieve, mix 
the syrup and water with it, and freeze ; if it should not freeze suffi- 
ciently, add a little more water. 

Gooseberry Water Ice. — Ripe gooseberries two pounds, the red hairy 
Fort is the best, one pound of cherries, one pint of syrup, one pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons; mash the fruit and pass it through 
a sieve, mix it with the syrup and water, and freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. — One quart of ripe raspberries, four ounces 
of ripe cherries and currants, half a pint of syrup, half a pint of water, 
and the juice of two lemons. Mash the fruit and pdss the juice 
through a sieve, mix the syrup water and lemon with it, and freeze. 

Raspberry Water Ice. — Two pottles of the best scarlet pines, one 
pint of syrup, half a pint of water, and the juice of two lemons. 

Mix as currant. All red fruits require the addition of a little pre- 
pared cochineal to heighten the colour. 

Apricot Water Ice. — Eighteen or twenty fine ripe apricots, accord- 
ing to their size, half a pint of syrup, half a pint of v;ater, the juice 
of two lemons. 

Mash the apricots and pass them through a sieve, mix the pulp 
with the syrup water and lemon-juice, break the stones, blanch the 
kernels, and pound them fine with a little water, pass them throusrh 
a sieve, add it to the mixture, and freeze. 

Peach Water Ice. — One pound of the pulp of Fipe peaches, half a 
pint of syrup, half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons. Mix as 
apricot. If the fruit is not ripe enough to pulp, open them and take 
out the stones, put them in a stew-pan v.'ith the syrup and water, boil 
until tender, and pass them through a sieve; mix in the pounded 
kernels; when cold, freeze. 

Damson Ice. — One quart of damsons, one pint of syrup, half a pint 
of water. Mix as peach ice. Magnum-bonums, Orleans, green- 
gages, or any other plum may be done in the same way. 
7 * 



78 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Pine-apple Water Ice. — Half a pint of pine syrup, one pint of water, 
the juice of two lemons, and three or four slices of preserved pine 
cut into small dice; mix and freeze. 

Fresh Pine-apple Water Ice. — One pound of pine-apple, one pint 
of syrup, half a pint of water, and the juice of two lemons. Cut the 
pine in pieces, and put it into a stew-pan with the syrup and water, 
and boil until tender ; pass it through a sieve, add the lemon-juice, 
with two or three slices of the pine cut in small dice, mix and freeze 
when cold. The pine may be pounded instead of being boiled, and 
mixed with the syrup, &c. 

The whole of these ices may be made with preserved fruit instead 
of fre.^h. 

One pound of jam or jelly, one pint of water, the juice of two lem- 
ons, and syrup sufficient to make it palatable. 

Apple-Water Ice. — Pare and core some fine apples, cut them in 
pieces into a preserving pan with sufficient water for them to float, 
boil until they are reduced to a marmalade, then strain: to a pint of 
apple-water add half a pint of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a little 
water ; when cold, freeze. 

P ear-Water Ice. — Prepare as apple ice. 

Orange-Water Ice. — One pint of China orange-juice, one pint of 
syrup, half a pint of water, the juice of four large lemons. 

Rub off the yellow rind of six oranges and two lemons on sugar, 
Bcrapeit off and mix with the strained juice, syrup and water. 

Lcmnn-Water Ice. — Haifa pint of lemon juice, half a pint of water, 
one pint of syrup, the peels of six lemons rubbed off on sugar, or the 
yellow rind may be pared or grated off, and the juice squeezed to it 
in a basin ; let it remain for an hour or two, then strain, mix, and 
freeze; whip up the whites of three eggs to a strong froth, with a 
little sugar, as for meringues; when the ice is beginning to set, work 
this well in it, which will make it eat beautifully soft and delicious; 
freeze to the required consistence ; if the ice is to be served in glasses, 
the meringue may be added after it has been frozen. Orange- water 
ice may be done the same. 

Maraschino Water Ice — Make a lemon ice as the above, using less 
water, and making up the deficiency with Maraschino; but be careful 
the taste of the lemon docs not prevail too much ; add more water and 
syrup to correct it if it does. Noyau and all other liqueur ices are 
made the same way, using that to flavour the lemon ice which it bears 
the name of. Champagne and wine ices the same. 

Punch-Water Ice.— -Make either a good lemon ice, or use some 
orange-juiee with the lemons, in the proportion of one orange to two 
lemons; either rub (jff the yellow rind of the lemons on sugar, or part^ 
it very tiiin, and soak it in the spirit for a few hours; when the ice 
is beginning to set, work in the whites of three eggs to each quail, 
beaten to a strong froth, and mixed with sugar 3h for itierino-up, or 



THE CONFErTIONER. 79 

add the whites without whisking them ; when it is nearly frozen, take 
out the pot from the ice, and mix well with it a glass each of rum 
and brandy, or sufficient to make it a good flavour; some like the 
taste of the rum to predominate, but in this case of course you will be 
guided by the wish of your employer. In general the prevailing fla- 
vour distinguishes it by name, as rum-punch or brandy-punch ice ; 
after the spirit is well mixed, replace the pot and finish freezing. If 
champagne, arrack, or tea is added, it is then termed champagne- 
punch ice, arrack-punch ice, &c. 

Punch a la Rumaine — Roman Punch Ice. — Make a quart of lemon 
ice, and flavour it with a glass or two of each, of rum, brandy, cham- 
pagne, and Maraschino; when it is frozen, to each quart take the 
whites of five eggs and whip them to a very strong froth ; boil half a 
pound of sugar to the ball, and rub it with a spoon or spatula against 
the sides to grain it ; when it turns white, mix it quickly with the 
whites of eggs, stir it lightly together, and add it to the ice; when 
cold, mix it well together, and serve it in glasses; less sugar must be 
used in the ice, so as to allow for that which is used in making the 
meringue. 

Milk Fruit Water Ice. — Make a good lemon ice, with a pint of 
syrup, half a pint of water, and as much strained lemon-juice as will 
give it the desired flavour, with some elder flowers infused in syrup; 
when the ice is frozen, mix it in some preserved green fruits and 
peels cut in small dice ; if any large fruits are used, such as apricots, 
peaches, pine-apples, &c,, they must be also cut in dice like the peels; 
sprinkle it with prepared cochineal, and mix it a little so as it may 
appear in veins. 



SECTION XIX. JELLIESo 

[Calves' Feet Jellies. — Boil down one set of calves' feet in tour 
quarts of water till it is reduced to one half, then strain through a 
sieve, in order to remove the bones; when settled and cold take off" 
the grease on the surface, then boil, with the following additions: — 
twelve eggs, three pints of good Madeira wine, and two pounds of 
loaf sugar, the juice of four lemons; stir the mixture well with a 
whisk or spatula, and filter through a fine flannel ba?. Jellies of 
Champagne and other wines are made in the same manner. 

Cdffee Jelly is made the same as preceding, usins:, instead of Ma- 
deira wine, a decoction of coffee, prepared as follows: — infuse half a 
pound of roasted Mocha coffee, pulverised or ground, in one quart of 
water, strain off" the decoction, and add to it a little brandy. 

Tea Jelly — Green or Black. — Treat in the same way, using an in- 
fusion of half an ounce of tea to one quart of water. 



80 THE CONFECTIONEK. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 

Sfrawberrt/ Jelly.- — One poulnd of picked strawberries, press them 
Lg-hliy, and put them in four ounces of clear syrup; cover the infu- 
sion, and let them stand all night; strain through a bag on the fol- 
lowing morning: in the mean time clarify half a pound of sugar ; 
when nearly clarified add to it a few drops of prepared cochineal, to 
give it a fine red colour ; after which, strain it through a sieve, and 
add to it an ounce of clarified isinglass, the juice of two sound lemons, 
and afterwards the fruit; stir the jelly gently, and put it in a mould 
placed in ice. 

N. B. — To clarify isinglass, take one ounce of the best Russia, cut 
it in small pieces, wash it several times in clear warm water, put it on 
the fire in a small pan with one pint of soft water, let it boil suffi- 
ciently, taking care to skim it well; when it is reduced to one-half, 
strain through a napkin into a clean vessel. The sugar and ismglass 
should be only lukewarm when you mix them. These remarks apply 
to all jellies of this kind. 

Pine Jlpple Jelly. — Take a fine ripe pine apple, cut it small, and 
strain the juice through a hair sieve, then throw it into the boiling 
syrup, let it boil up, and when nearly cold strain it through a silk 
sieve, add a little caramel to give the jelly a fine yellow tinge ; 
then the juice of two fine lemons, and an ounce of clarified isinglass. 
Proceed as before. 

Jelly of Jlpricots. — Take the stones out of one dozen and a half of 
fine ripe apricots and boil them in the syrup, which, in this case, 
should be as light coloured as possible; when boiled sufficiently to 
extract the flavour, strain through a napkin, add the necessary quan- 
tity of isinglass, and finish as usual. 

Orange Jelly. — Squeeze the juice out of twelve Havanna oranges 
and one lemon, strain through a fine linen cloth, then mix with the 
syrup boiled to the ball ; add the clarified isinglass, filter through a 
fine flannel bag, and finish as before. 

The foregoing will suflice for all fruit jellies. 



BLANC MANGE. 

Take four ounces of sweet almonds blanched, half an ounce of 
bitter almonds, pound them in a clean mortar, moisten them gra- 
dually with orange-flower water, mix this with one quart of fresh 
cream and one ounce of clarified isinglass, put into a saucepan, con- 
stantly stirring till it boils, then pass through a fine sieve, and form 
into a mould, and put on ice. 

Blanc Mange may be flavoured with vanilla, Mocha coffee, maris- 
chino, pistachios, and strawberries; in which case the bitter almonds 
should be left out,] 



THE CONFECTIOXER. 81 



SECTION XX. ON ESSENCES. 



The essences or essential oils sold for general use are or ought to 
be obtained by distillation ; but for inany purposes they may be ob- 
tained equally as good, and, in some cases, superior, without. As 
these are often adulterated with olive or nut oils, or with spirits of 
wine, the fixed oils may be detected by pouring some of the suspected 
essence on a piece of clean writing paper, and holding it before the 
fire ; the quantity of fixed oil it contains will remain, leaving a greasy 
mark, whereas the pure essential oil will evaporate without leaving 
any appearance ; if spirits of wine be added, pour a little water or oil 
of turpentine into the adulterated sample, and it will turn milky, as 
the two will not unite without producing this effect. It is often 
sophisticated with the oil of turpentine, which is the lightest of all 
essential oils; in this case, rub a drop over the hand and hold it by 
the fire, when it may be recognized by the smell, or if burnt it will 
give out a dense black smoke. 

Rectified spirits of wine dissolve the volatile oil and resin of vege- 
tables (their taste and smell most frequently reside in these), whilst 
water acts on the saline and mucilaginous parts. Proof spirit, which 
is a mixture of both these, extracts all their virtues, and through this 
we are enabled to obtain the essence or tincture of any vegetable, of 
superior quality to that generally sold, and at considerably less ex- 
pense. The essential oil of lemons or oranges is obtained by rubbing 
off the yellow rind on the rough surface of a piece of loaf sugar, which 
is much superior for flavour to that produced by any other means. 
Scrape off the sugar after it has imbibed the oil, and dry it in a gentle 
heat, put it into small glazed pots, and tie them over with bladder; it 
will keep any length of time unimpaired. The same observation 
holds good as regards all fruit whose flavour or essential oil resides in 
its peel. 

Essence of Lemon. — Eight ounces of lemon peel, ten ounces of rec- 
tified spirits of wine. Pare or grate off the yellow rind of the lemon 
very thin and weigh it, put it into a bottle and pour the spirit on it, 
stop it close, and let it steep for fourteen days, when it is fit for use. 
Proof gin or white rum will serve equally well, but not such as is 
generally sold at the gin-shops; this is excellent for ices, creams, 
lemonade, &c. In many establishments, where quantities of peel are 
thrown away, the cost of this would be comparatively trifling, com- 
pared with the price of the inferior oil generally sold. 

Essence of Orange. — Make as lemon, using only four ounces of the 
yellow rind. 

Essence of Bergamot. — From the peel of the bergamot lemon. 

Essence de Cedrat. — From the yellow part of the fresh citron peel ; 
it may also be obtained by pressing the yellow part of the peel be- 
tween two glass plates, and by the distillation of the flowers of the 
cilron-tree. 



82 THE CONFECTIONEK. 

Allspice, Cloves, Cinnamon, or Nutmegs, ^c. — Two ounces of spice, 
one pint of proof spirit. Bruise the spice, put it into a bottle, stop it 
close, let it remain fourteen days, and filter for use. 

The oil from nutmegs is often extracted from them by decoction, 
before they are brought to the market, and their orifices closed again 
with powdered sassafras; this may be ascertained by the lightness of 
the nut; if it is punctured with a pin, the oil will be pressed from it 
when good. These oils may be obtained by expression or distillation ; 
they hold resin in solution, and consequently sink in water. The 
essences usually sold are made by adding half an ounce of the pure 
oil to one pint of spirits of wine. 

Essence of Ginger. — The best Jamaica or China ginger two ources, 
proof spirit one pint. Powder the ginger, mix it with the spirit, stop 
close, and let it steep for twelve or fourteen days. 

This is the same as is sold for " Oxley's concentrated essence of 
Jamaica ginger," — a mere solution of ginger in rectified spirit — 
Paris'^s Pharmacologia. 

Essence of Peppermint. — "A spirituous solution of the essential oil, 
coloured green by spinach leaves." Ihid. This essential oil is ob- 
tained by distillation. Four pounds of dried leaves yield one ounce. 

Essence of Vanilla. — Vanilla two ounces, water ten ounces, rectified 
spirit three-quarters of an ounce. Cut the vanilla in small pieces, 
and pound it fine in a marble mortar, with loaf sugar (about a pound), 
adding the white of an e^g and the spirit. Put it into a glazed pot, 
tie a piece of writing paper over it, and make a hole in it with a pin ; 
stand the pot in warm water, keeping it at that heat for twenty-four 
hours, then strain for use. 

One drachm of this is equal to an ounce of vanilla, and is excellent 
for flavouring ices, creams, liqueurs, &.c. 

Essence of Bitter Almonds. — This is obtained by distilling the cake 
or residue of the almonds after the oil has been expressed from them. 
It is a deadly poison, containing prussic acid, like all other nuts or 
leaves, which possess the bitter principle. Flies drop dead when 
passing over the still when it is in operation. The essence usually 
sold is one ounce of oil to seven ounces of rectified spirit. 



SECTION XXI. MERINGUES AND ICING. 

Dry Meringues in the form of Eggs. — Ten whites of eggs, twelve 
ounces of sugar. 

Obtain the newest hid eggs, and separate the white from the yolk 
very carefully; put the whites into a pan, which must be quite free 
from grease; whisk them to a very strong froth so as it will support 
an egg, or even a greater weight; have the sugar pounded and sifted 
through a lawn sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible; spread some 
pieces of board about an inch thick, then with a table or dessert spoon 



THE CONFECTIONER. 83 

drop them on the paper about two inches asunder, dust them with fine 
powdered lo;if sugar, blow off all that does not adhere, and put them 
into a co^ oven to bake until they are a nice light brown ; if the oven 
should be too warm, when the surface gets dry or hardened cover 
Ihem with puper ; as soon as they are done take them off with a knife, 
press the inside or soft part down with the top or the back of a sptwn, 
place them on sieves, and put them into the stove to dry ; when they 
are required to be served fill them with any kind of preserved fruit or 
cream, if it is rather acid the better, and put two together. 

The quality of the meringues will depend on the eggs being well 
whipped to a very strong froth, and also on the quantity of sugar, for 
if there is not enough they will eat tough. 

[Kisses. — Twelve ounces of sugar powdered very fine and passed 
through a silk sieve, the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiong froth; 
mix and lay out on paper, as for dry meringues: when baked, place 
two together. The size should be about thai; of a pigeon's egg.] 

Italian Meringues. — One pound of sugar, the whites of six eg^;B. 
Clarify the sugar and boil it to the blow ; in thp, mean time whip up 
the whites as for the last, take the sugar from the fire and rub it a 
little against the sides of the pan to grain it; as soon as it beo-ins to 
turn white, mix in the whipped eggs, stirring the sugar well from 
the bottom and sides of the pan with the whisk or spatula; lay them 
off, and bake as dry meringues; these may be coloured by adding the 
liquid colour to the syrup so as to give the desired tint; and either 
of them may be flavoured by rubbing off the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or cedrats on sugar, and scraping it off as it imbibps the oil ; or it 
may be flavoured with vanilla, by cutting it in small pieces and pound- 
ing it with some sugar, or with any liqueur by adding a spoonful or 
two when you mix the eggs or sugar. They may also be varied in 
form, and baked on tin or iron plates instead of wood, that the bottoms 
may be quite firm. The tops may be covered with almonds or pis- 
tachios, blanched and cut small or in fillets, or with currants, or 
coloured sugars; the whole depending on the taste and ingenuity of 
the artist. 

Mushrooms. — To make these, take either of the pastes for merin- 
gues or light icing, as for cakes ; put some into a bag in the shape of 
a cone, with a tin pipe at the end, the same as used for Savoy bis- 
cuits; lay them off in drops the size you wish them to be, on iron 
plates rubbed quite clean and dry, bake them as you would merin- 
gues, make also a smaller drop to form the stalk ; when they are 
baked, take them off the tin and scoop out a little with your finger 
from the bottom near the edge, to form the hollow rough surface 
underneath; then dry them in the stove; scrape some chocolate and 
dissolve it in a little warm water, and rub a little over the rough part 
underneath ; then place the stalk in the centre, fixing it with a little 
icing, and let the flat part which was on the tin be placed outermost 
to represent where it was cut. 



84 THE COrVFECTIOKEK. 

Icing for Wedding or Twelfih Cakes, ^c. — Pound, and sift eome 
treble-relined sugar through a lawn sieve, and put it into an earthen 
pan, which must be quite free from grease ; to each pound of sifted 
sugar add the whites of three eggs, or sufficient to make it into a 
paste of a moderate consistence, then with a wooden spoon or 
spatula beat it well, using a little lemon-juice occasionally, and more 
white of egg if you find that it will bear it without making it too thin, 
until you have a nice light icing, which will hang to the sides of the 
pan and spoon ; or, if it is dropped from the spoon, it shouM remain 
on the top without speedily losing the form it assumed. A pan of 
icing, when well beat and finished, should contain as much again in 
bulk as it was at the commencement: use sufficient lemon-juice to 
give the icing a slight acid, or it will scale off the cake in large pieces 
when it is cut. Many prefer the pjroligncous acid to the lemon- 
juice, but the flavour is not so delicate, and it always retains a smell 
of the acid ; neither did I ever find, as some assert, that it improves 
the quality and appearance of the icing; the only advantage derived 
from it is that of economy. 

On piping Cakes, Bon-bons, ^c. — This is a method of ornamenting 
wedding, twelfth-cakes, and other articles with icing, by means of 
small pipes or tubes; these are most generally made with writing- 
paper folded in the form of a cone, in the same manner as a grocer 
makes up his papers for small lots of sugar, tea, &c. The tube is 
filled with icing, made as for cakes, the base of the cone, or the place 
where it was filled, is turned down to prevent the sides opening, and 
the escape of the icing; the point is then cut off with a sharp knife 
or scissors, so as to make a hole sufficiently large to form the icing, 
when squeezed or pressed out, in a thread of the required size, and 
which will either be fine or coarse according to the length of the 
point which is cut off. If the hole at the point of the cone is not per- 
fectly straight when the icing is pressed out, it will form a spiral 
thread, which is very inconvenient to work with. Stars, borders, 
flowers, and different devices, are formed on cakes after they are iced, 
the execution of which depends on the ability and ingenuity of the 
artist. Baskets, Chinese and other temples, &c., are formed on moulds 
by these means, first giving them a coating of white wax, which is 
brushed over them after it is melted, and when cold, the icing is 
formed on it like trellis-work; when finished, the mould is warmed, 
and the icing easily comes off. Some of the pipes which are used 
cannot be formed with paper, as the tape and star-pipc^^ which are 
made of tin, having a bag fastened to them in a similar manner to 
that generally used for dropping out Savoy biscuits, nmcaroon?, &c., 
only much smaller, the point of the tin tube of the one being fluted to 
form a star, and in the other it is flat, so that when the icing is forced 
or squeezed through, it comes out in a broad thin sheet, like a piece 
of tape. I employ a set of pipes made of tin, with small bags fastened 
to them ; these are of different dimensions ; the orifice of the round 
ones commences at the size of a common pin, and the tape pipes from 



THE CONFECTIONER. 85 

a quarter to half an inch in width. I find these much better than 
paper ones, as the trouble and time which is lost in constantly making 
new ones is amply repaid by the others, as they are not very expen- 
sive and are always ready for use. These pipes should be in the 
hands of the confectioner what the pencil or brush is to the painter, 
— capable of performing wonders with men of genius. Some of the 
bon-bons, which may be seen in the shops, are proofs of what I assert; 
and many things are so cleverly done, that many persons would be- 
lieve that they were either formed in a mould or modelled. I have 
not space to enlarge further on this subject, but much more might be 
given in explanation; therefore the artist must be guided by his own 
geniud and fancy.* 



SECTION XXII. GUM TASTE. 

Take one ounce of picked gum-tragacanth ; wash it in water, to 
take off any dust or dirt ; put it into a clean pot, and pour on it rather 
more than half a pint of water, or sufficient to cover the gum about 
an inch; stir it frequently, to accelerate the solution; it will take 
twenty-four hours to dissolve; then squeeze it out through a coarse 
cloth, as directed for lozenges, taking care that everything employed 
in the making is very clean, or it vviFl spoil the colour; put it into a 
mortar, adding gradually six or eight ounces of treble-refined sugar, 
sifted through a lawn sieve; work it well with the pestle, until it is 
incorporated and becomes a very white smooth paste; put it into a 
glazed pot, cover the paste with a damp cloth, and turn the pot upside- 
down on an even surface, to exclude the air. When it is wanted, 
take a little of it and put it on a clean marble, and work some more 
sugar into it (which has been sifted through a lawn sieve) with the 
fingers, until it is a firm pastp, which will break when pulled ; if it is 
not stiff enough, it will roll up under the knife when you cut it from 
the impressions in your paste-boards; if it is too stiff, work in a little 
of your prepared paste with it, to soften it. When your paste works 
harsh and cracks, it has too much gum in it ; in tiiis case, use a little 
water to work it down ; and if the gum is too thin it will crack, and 
dry too soon from the excess of sugar, therefore add some more 
strained gum that has not been mixed with sugar. The same obser 
vation also holds good with respect to lozenges. If it is required 
coloured, add a little prepared cochineal, or any other colour in fine 
powder; mix it on the stone. If they are to be flavoured with any 
eosence, add it at the same time. This paste is fit to be eaten, and is 
the foundation of gum-paste comfits, dragees, &c. 

Gum Paste for Ornaments. — Take some of the prepared paste, as 



• An excellent work for the use of the ornamental confectioner is Page's 
Acanthus," which may be obLaiiied of any bookseller. 
8 



86 THE CONFECTIONER. 

for the last, and work into it on the stone some very fine starch pow- 
der, using equal quantities of starch and sugar. This nnay also be 
made with rice flour, instead of starch. These are chiefly used for 
pieces montees. It may be moulded or modelled into any form, or 
cut out from figures or borders carved in wood, called gum-paste 
boards, using a little starch-powder to prevent its sticking whilst 
working it ; a little tied up in a small muslin bag i^ the handiest for 
use. When you want to get the paste from the impressions in the 
boards, take a small piece of paste and press it at each end ; if it does 
not come out very readily, moisten the piece, and touch that in the 
impression at three or four places, which, being damp, adheres to it 
and draws it out. 

Paste fnr gilding on. — Take some dissolved gum, as before, and 
make it into a paste with a little starch-powder to finish it; or it may 
be made with some of the prepared sugar gum-paste, finishing it with 
starch-powder. 

Papier Mdchee. — Take the cuttings of either white or brown paper, 
and boil them in water until reduced to a paste; press the water 
from it when cold enough, and pound it well in a mortar; put it into 
a pan or glazed pipkin, with a little gum Arabic, Senegal, or com- 
mon glue, made into rather a thick mucilage with water; this is to 
give it tenacity; place it on the fire and stir it until well incorpo- 
rated ; if it is not stifl" enough when cold, flour may be added to make 
it of the proper consistence ; it should be about the same substance as 
gum paste. This may be used for forming the rocks of a piece mon- 
tee, or for vases, cassolettes, &c. ; in fact anything you desire may be 
made with it, as with gum paste; it is very durable, not being easily 
broken, and is very light; it is now much used, instead of compo- 
sition, for the decorations of rooms and articles of furniture. It is 
fiom this that paper trays, snuff' boxes, &c., are nianufactiired, and it 
is much used in France for making various beautiful little ornaments 
for containing bon-bons, &c. It may be moulded or modelled into any 
form, or cut from impressions in wood or plaster, &c. When the 
object is dry, give it a coating of composition, made with parchment 
size, and whitening or lamp-black, mixed to the consistence of oil 
paint, according to the colour it is required. Smooth it with glass 
paper, and paint or gild as wood, or japan it.* 

To gild Gum Paste, ^c. — Those articles which are gilt are seldom 
intended to be eaten, therefore first give them a coating of parchment 
size and whitening, as the papier machee, or paint them with oil 
colour. When this is dry, brush over a coat of gold size, and let it 
remain until nearly dry, or so as it will stick to the fingers a little : 
then take a small dry brush, termed by gilders a tip, rub a little 

* For further particulars, and for the method of taking the impressions 
of moulds with composition, see the ' Guide to Trade — The Carver and 
Gilder,' Knight & Co., p. 53. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 87 

grease over the back of your hand, and pass the brush over it gently ; 
apply it to the gold leaf, which it will take up, and place it on tJie 
part you intend to gild ; blow on it to make it smooth ; the gold leaf 
may first be divided into small pieces with a knife on a leather pad or 
cushion, to suit the size of your work ; rub it over gently with a piece 
of wool, to make it appear glossy. Those parts which have not taken 
the gold, just breathe on, then apply a small piece of the leaf, and rub 
again with the wool. If your piece is intended to be eaten, let the 
paste be perfectly dry and smooth ; then prepare some mucilage of 
gutn Arabic, strain it, and grind it well with an equal portion of white 
sugar candy ; lay it over the part you intend to gild with a stiff 
brush ; when dry, breathe on it, so as to moisten it, and gild as 
before. 

To Bronze Gum Paste. — Prepare your object, if not to be eaten, as 
for gilding, giving it a coat of invisible green, prepared with turpen- 
tine, a little japan gold size, and a small portion of oil ; when it is 
nearly dry, dip a fitch pencil in some bronze powder, shake off the 
loose pieces which hang about the brush, and apply it to the parts you 
wish to assume the appearance of copper, which are in general the 
most prominent. 

Another method. — Smooth your finger with sand-paper, and give it 
a coat of isinglass dissolved, or parchment size; when this is dry, 
give it a coat of colour made as follows : — Take a suflicient quantity 
of prepared indigo, with verditer blue, and a little spruce ochre or 
saffron, in such proportions as to make a deep green ; grind them to- 
gether with white of egg and powdered sugar-candy, or with parch- 
ment size; give it a coat of this, and when nearly dry apply the 
bronze as before. 

On the Construction of dssiettes and Pieces Monties. — To be a profi- 
cient in this part requires a general knowledge of the fine arts, par- 
ticularly the principles of architecture ; for without this, however well 
your piece may be finished with regard to workmanship, it still re- 
mains a dull, heavy, unmeaning mass, having no proportion nor a 
particle of true design in it. I have seen many pieces, and some in 
the principal shops, with these defects, although otherwise well exe- 
cuted. My limits will not allow me to enter into the details neces- 
sary to illustrate this part, therefore the artist must refer to books on 
the subject; but in the absence of these it is best to work from some 
correct drawing, which, with the few notes I shall subjoin, may serve 
for general purposes. 

There are many prevailing styles or orders of architecture, as the 
Egyptian, Grecian, Roman, Saxon, Norman, Gothic, &c. The Gothic 
is the most beautiful, being pointed, and is generally used for cathe- 
drals and churches. The Norman is plain and simple, with semi- 
circular arches. The Saxon is after the same style, into which are 
introduced some ornamental workings. The Egyptian is more flat 
and square, embellished with hieroglyphics. In the Grecian and 



S8 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Roman architecture there are five orders, viz., Tuscan, Doric, Tonic, 
Corinthian, and Composite ; and a building may be denominated Ionic, 
Corinthian, &c., merely from its ornaments. The number of columns, 
vvmdovvs, &c., may be the same in either order, but varied in their pro- 
portions. The height of the columns in each is, — for the Tuscan, 
seven times its diameter; Doric, eight; Ionic, nine; Corinthian, ten; 
Composite, ten. The Tuscan is quite plain, without any ornament 
whatever; the Doric is distinguished by the channels and projecting 
intervals in the frieze, called tryglyphs; the Ionic by the ornaments 
of its capital, which are spiral, and called volutes ; the Corinthian by 
the superior height of its capital, and its being ornamented with 
leaves, which support very small volutes; the Composite has also a 
tall capital, with leaves, but is distinguished from the Corinthian by 
having the large volutes of the Ionic capital. The Grecian and 
Roman orders differ in some respects as to the style of each, but for 
particulars refer to works on the subject. These orders are adopted 
for buildings, with various modifications, in most parts of the world. 

The Chinese have a peculiar kind of style, which needs no descrip- 
tion, as it is generally represented in this country on our delft ware, 
&c. The Swiss style, which is something of the Gothic, is very well 
adapted for pieces montees, as well as the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian 
orders, they being more light and elegant. 

Of Pieces Monices. — These are in general made to represent build- 
ings of all debcriptions, fountains, trophies, vases, cups, helmets, the 
last being generally mounted on pedestals and filled wi'h flowers, 
fruit, &c. ; also rocks, bridges, fortifications, &,c. &c., the building, &.c., 
being generally made with gum-paste, confectioners' or almond pastes. 
The bodies of rocks may be formed with pieces of rock sugar, cakes, 
biscuits, &c., of all descriptions, being fixed together with caramel 
sugar; those not intended to be eaten may be made with papier m^- 
chee and common gum-paste ; the rocks or bottoms of these are often 
formed with pieces of cork, flocks, and paper, the surface being 
afterwards covered with a coating of very thin icing, which is applied 
with a brush. 

To construct your pieces with accuracy, first cut out your intended 
design in stout paper, in suitable parts to be put together; then roll 
out the paste thin on a marble stone; lay your pattern on it, and cut 
your paste to it with a small sharp-pointed knife; let it dry, and fix 
it together with some dissolved gum, or a little gum-paste made rather 
thin with water. Cut your ornaments or decorations from paste- 
boards; let thejn dry a few minutes, and fix them in their proper 
places. Water may be represented with a piece of looking-glass, and 
falling water with silver web or spun glass. 

Biscuit Paste to imitate Marble Rocks, ^c, for Pieces Monties. — 
Prepare some paste as for Savoy cakes (see p. 94); take one-third 
of the mixture, and add to it some dissolved chocolate; stir the whole 
well together, and divide into two equal portions; to one part add 
some more of the mixture, when you will have a light and dark 



THE CONFECTIONER. 89 

brnwn ; mix together some prepared cochineal or carmine and Infu • 
sion of saffron, to make a dark orange, and stir this into another por- 
tion of paste; divide it, and add to one part some more of the paste, 
which will g-ive a light and dark orange; butter or paper a square 
tin, and put in a spoonful of each coloured paste in rotation, spread- 
ing it with the spoon so as it may appear in layers, beginning with 
the dark colours, and so alternately until the whole is used; or one- 
half of each may be put into another tin, and mixed all together, so 
that it may appear in veins ; bake it in a moderate oven, and when 
cold cut it into pieces as it is required, to represent pieces of rock, 
marble, &c. For variety, the paste may be coloured with spinach 
green, infusion of saffron, red, and blue, and either put in layers or 
mixed together as before. 

Pate dWffice, or Confectioners' Paste. — Take one pound and a 
quarter of fine flour, and ten ounces of loaf sugar sifted through a 
fine sieve; make a bay, and put in it a sufficient quantity of the yolks 
or whites of eggs, or whole eggs, to make it into a moderate stiff 
paste; work it well, and make it quite smooth; let it remain covered 
over for a short time, that it may get mellow. If this paste is re- 
quired white and delicate, use the whites only of the eggs. This is 
used for the frame-work or building of the pieces montees, or for the 
bottom or foundation on which you build your biscuits, sugar, &c. 
Roll it out on an even board or marble slab until it is about one-sixth 
of an inch in thickness, or more, according to the weight it has to 
bear. Dust your sheet, and roll it on the pin ; then lay or roll it over 
a baking-plate slightly buttered; press out any air-bladders which 
may be underneath, and prick it with the point of a sharp-pointed 
knife' in a few places ; lay on your patterns, cut it out to the desired 
form, and bake in a moderate oven ; or it may be cut out when the 
paste is half baked, and finish baking it afterwards ; or it may be 
dried in the stove instead of being baked. If it should be blistered 
when it is taken from the oven, put it immediately on an even board, 
and place another on it ; remove it when it is cold, and it will be 
quite straight. 

This paste may be made with the addition of half an ounce of dis- 
solved gum-dragon, pounding it well in a mortar, and using less pgg^s. 
Each of these may be coloured to any desired tint, when it should be 
dried in a stove instead of being baked. Fix the parts together, when 
finished, with some of the same paste made thin with dissolved gum, 
or with caramel sugar; ornament it with spun sugar, or with coloured 
sugar-sands. (See Coloured Sugar). 

From this paste, or almond paste, may be made cottages, temples, 
fountains, pyramids, castles, bridges, hermits'-cells, vases, or any 
other required forms, which are to be made in different pieces and put 
losrether afterwards, or formed in moulds, and either baked or dried 
in the stove. 

Jlssiettes Montees^ or dressed plates. — These are composed of pieces 
8* 



90 THE CONFFrTIONER. 

of wire of (JiflPorent sizes to suit the dimensions of the piece, which 
is bound round with silver or tissue paper, and fastened with paste. 
These wires, after they are fashioned to the desired figure, are fixed 
with binding wire, and the whole is finished with stout Bristol-board 
or card paper, ornamented gold borders and papers, and decorated 
with gum paste. They are placed in the centre of the table, with 
bon-bons, &c. 

On MudeUing. — This art is most important to the confectioner. It 
is not so difficult to accomplish as is generally supposed ; it only re- 
quires patience and perseverance, with a close attention to the pro- 
portions and orders of nature. A few modelling tools, and facility in 
handling the paste, is all that is requisite to become an expert model- 
ler. The form of the body must first be made with the fingers, the 
more minute parts with the tools and a pair of scissors; the last is 
very useful for dividing the fingers on the hands and the toes of a 
human figure. The proportions necessary to form it are these : — the 
whole length of a human being is six times the length of his feet, 
eight times of his head (that is, from the crown to the chin), ten 
limes of his face, or the distance from the crown to the mouth; the 
thumb is as long as the nose or the biggest joint of the middle finger; 
the fore finger is shorter than the third, and the little finger is shorter 
than the third by one joint ; the width of the wrist is as long as the 
thumb, end about a quarter; this varies; the ear is also the length 
of the nose, its breadth half its length ; the arm is three times the 
length of the head, or four faces; the leg, from the knee-joint to the 
bottom of the foot, measures two heads and a-half ; the foot, which is 
one-sixth of the hum.an stature, if divided into three parts, will con- 
tain first the toes from the top of the large one to the lowest joint of 
the little one ; next the middle of the foot, and lastly the heel and 
instep. There is also a slight difference between the proportions of a 
male and female. In infancy and very early youth the form is very 
much alike in both sexes. The head is oval, very much extended 
backwards, with the forehead and top of the head comparatively flat; 
the jaw-bones are short and have little depth ; the bones of the nose 
are short and fiat ; in the male subject, the elevation of the frontal 
sinuses at the eyebrows, which characterizes the male head, is want- 
ing ; and the neck is very small in proportion to the head. In old age 
the cheeks and mouth fall in, because of the wasting of the teeth; 
the nose and chin approach each other ; the fat is absorbed, and the 
muscles shrink, which covers the surface with wrinkles ; and in time, 
the bones too are wasted, and the figure bends beneath its own 
weight. With these directions proceed to model the human figure, 
referring to anatomical plates for the position of the muscles^ &c. 
When the figure is complete, proceed to dress it in any style or cos- 
tume you may fancy, making it from the same pat:te, and colouring 
it, giving the figure any attitude you may think proper, but always 
prefer the graceful, avoiding the stiff' and awkward. The modelling 
of animals and birds is on the same principle, the wings of the latter 



THE COKFFCTIONEK. 



m 



being pushed or cut in moulds or pasteboards. Flowers are mostly 
done with cutters in the form of the leaf of the flowers you would 
wish to represent ; form the calyx in a mould, and fasten it on a piece 
of wire ; fix the leaves on the calyx to imitate nature, and colour 
tliem accordingly. 



f 

m 



Jl 



92 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Modelling Tools. — No. 1 is termed the rose-stick, the thin flat end 
being used for forming the leaves of roses out of modelling wax by 
flattening a piece of it on a table until it is of the required form and 
size ; the other end is used for fluting and making borders. 

No. 2 is by some termed a foot tool, being used for forming the 
edges and borders to wax baskets, the circular end being necessary 
for working underneath any part, or circular mouldings, and also for 
ihe paws of animals. 

No. 3. The curved thin end is used as a cutting tool, and for the 
formation of leaves; and the opposite end for fluting. 

No. 4 serves as a gouge, and is used in the formation of leaves for 
flowers. 

The curves of each tool are also requisite for different purposes in 
modelling, and for forming the raised and depressed parts in the 
human figure, animals, &c. They should be made of beech, as it 
relieves better when used about fat or modelling wax. There are 
many others, but these will be found quite sufficient for most purposes, 
with the dotting or pointing tool, which a common skewer, or piece 
of round pointed stick will supply its place. The tool usually made 
for this purpose has a concave or semicircular hollow at the thick end, 
for making beading, or else with a flat round end, similar to a tam- 
bour needle; the last being used for working up the leaves of roses, 
&c., in the hollow of the hand, when they are made of gum-paste. 

Modelling Wax. — This is made of white wax, which is melted and 
mixed with lard to make it malleable. In working it, the tools and 
the board or stone are moistened with water to prevent its adhering; 
it may be coloured to any desired tint with dry colour. 



SECTION XXII. ON COLOURS. 

Many of the colours prepared for use in this art come more pro- 
perly under the denomination of dyes, alum and cream of tartar 
being used as a mordant ; and many of them are prepared in the 
same manner as for dyeing. One of the principal colours requisite 
for the confectioner's use is coccinella, or cochineal. The sorts gene- 
rally sold are the black, silver, foxy, and the granille. The insect is 
of two species, the fine and the wild cochineal; the fine differs from 
the wild in size, and is also covered with a white mealy powder. The 
best is of a deep mulberry colour, with a white powder between the 
wrinkles, and a bright red vv'ithin. A great deal of adulteration is 
practised \\'\\h this article, both at home and abroad ; it is on this 
account that persons prefer the silver grain, because it cannot be so 
well sophisticated. Good cochineal should be heavy, dry, and more 
or less of a silvery colour, and without smell. 

To prepare Cochineal — Pound an ounce of cochineal quite fine, 
and put it into a pint of river water with a little potash or soda, and 



THE CONFECTIONER. 93 

lei il boil; then add about a quarter of an ounce powdered alum, the 
same of cream of tartar, and boil for ten minutes; if it is required for 
keeping, add two or three ounces of powdered loafsug-ar. 

Carmine. — Reduce one ounce of cochineal to a fine pow<ler, add to 
it six quarts of clear rain or filtered water, as for cochineal. Put this 
into a large tin saucepan, or a copper one tinned, and let it boil for 
three miiiutes, then 'add iwenty-five grains of alum, and let it boil 
two minutes longer; take it ofiT the fire to cool; when it is blood 
warm pour off the clear liquor into shallow vessels, and put them by 
to settle f(jr two days, covering them with paper to keep out the dust. 
In case the carmine has not separated properly, add a few drops of a 
solution of tin, or a solution of green vitriol, which is tin dissolved in 
muriatic acid, or the following may be substituted: — one ounce and a 
half of spirit of nitre, tJiree scruples of sal-ammoniac, three scruples 
of tin dissolved in a bottle, and use a few drops as required. When 
the carmine has settled, decant ofi' the clear which is liquid rouge. 
The first sediment is Florence lake, which remove, and dry the 
carmine for use. This preparation is by far superior to the first, for 
in this the same colour is obtained as before, which is the liquid rouge, 
the other and more expensive parts being invariably thrown away. 
The carmine can be obtained by "ihe first process, as can be seen if 
the whole is poured into a cleai oottle and allowed to settle, when 
the carmine will be deposited in a layer of bright red near the 
bottom. It produces about half an ounce of carmine. 

Yellow. — Infuse saffron in warm water, and use it for colouring 
any thing that is eatable. The English hay-saffron is the best ; it is 
taken from the tops of the pistils of the crocus flower ; it is fre- 
quently adulterated with the flowers of marygolds or safflower, which 
is known as the bastard saffron, and is pressed into thin cakes with 
oil. Good saffron has a strong agreeable odour, and an aromatic taste. 
Gum paste and other articles which are not eaten may be coloured 
with gamboge dissolved in warm water. 

Prussian Blue may be used instead of indigo, if preferred, but must 
be used sparingly. 

Sap Green. — This is prepared from the fruit of the buckthorn, and 
is purgative. 

Spinach Green. — This is perfectly harmless and will answer most 
purposes. Wash and drain a sufficient quantity of spinach, pound it 
well in a mortar, and squeeze the pounded leaves in a coarse cloth to 
extract all the juice; put it in a pan and set it on a good fire, and stir 
it occasionally until it curdles, which will be when it is at the boiling 
point; then take it off and strain off the water with a fine sieve; the 
residue left is the green; dry it and rub it through a lawn sieve. 
This is only fit for opaque bodies, such as ices, creams, or syrups. 

Another green is made with a mixture of saffron or gamboge, and 
prepared indigo; the lighter the green the more yellow must be used. 



94 THE CONFECTIONER. 

Vermilion and Cinnabar are preparations of mercury, and should 
never be used ; they are of a lively red colour, but carmine will 
answer most purposes instead. 

Bole Ammoniac. — There is also the French and German bole. These 
earths are of a pale red, and possess alexipharmic qualities; they are 
frequently used in confectionary for painting and gilding. 

Uinher. — This is of a blackish brown colour; it is an earth found 
near Cologne. 

Bistre. — This is an excellent light brown colour prepared from wood 
soot. 

These browns are harmless, but sugar may be substituted for them 
to any shade required by continuing the boiling after it has passed the 
degree of caramel until it is burnt, when it gives a black-brown, but 
water may be mixed wiih it so as to lessen the shades. Dissolved 
chocolate may also be substituted in some cases for the brown colours. 

Black. — Blue-black is powdered charcoal, or ivory black, v;hich is 
obtained from the smoke of burnt ivory; but bone black is generally 
substituted instead ; either of these may be used, but are only required 
for painting gum paste, when not intended to be eaten. 

Obtain any of these colours in fine powder, and mix them with 
some dissolved gum Arabic, a little water, and a pinch of powdered 
sugar candy; mix them to the required consistence for painting. For 
sugars they must be used in a liquid state, and be added before it has 
attained the proper degree; it may also be used in the same manner 
for ices, creams, &c., and for icings it can be used either way. 

THE SHADES PRODUCED BY A MIXTURE OF COLOURS. 

Purple. — Mix carmine or cochineal, and a small portion of indigo. 

Lilac. — The same, making the blue predominate. 

Orange. — Yellow, with a portion of red. 

Gold. — The same, but the yellow must be more in excess. 

Lemon. — Use a solution of saffron. 

Green. — Blue and yellow. 



SECTION XXIII. DISTILLATION. 

This art is of great importance to a confectioner, as it enables him 
to make his own oils, waters, and spirits for liqueurs and ratafias, 
mstead of purchasing at a high rate those vile adulterations which 
are often sold. 

The still or apparatus for distilling consists of a cucurbit, which is 
a copper pot or boiler, and contains the wash, dregs, or infusions to 
be distilled. A cover, with a large tapering neck or pipe in the cen 
tre, is fixed on, and a continuation of small pipe, made either of tin 



THE CONFECTIONER. 95 

or pewter, of several feet in length, is bent into a spiral form, and 
termed the worm. This is placed in a tub containing water, which 
is fastened on to the end of the neck. The joints or crevices are 
luted, to prevent evaporation, with a paste made of linseed meal, or 
equal portions of slacked lime or whitening, flour and salt, moistened 
with water, and spread on rags or pieces of bladder, when it is applied 
to the joints and crevices. The water in the tub where the worm is 
should be kept quite cold, except in distilling oil of anise-seeds ; and 
for this purpose a tap or cock should be placed about half-way down 
the tub, that the top of the water may be drawn off when it is warm. 
Again fill it with cold water, and keep coarse cloths dipped in cold 
water to put round the alembic or still in case it should boil too fast. 
It is by these means that the steam or vapour which rises with the 
heat is condensed, and runs out at the end of the pipe in a small stream. 
If the operation is well conducted, it should never exceed this. When 
the phlegm arises, which is a watery insipid liquor, the receiver must 
be withdrawn, for if a drop of it should run in, it must be cohobated, 
that is, re-distilled, as it will thicken the spirit and spoil the taste. 

The still should not be filled above three parts full, to prevent it 
rising over the neck, should it happen to boil violently, as in this case 
it would spoil what is already drawn, which must be re-distilled. 



ON ESSENTIAL OILS. 

To obtain these from plants or peels, the articles should be infused 
for two or three days, or even longer, in a sufficient quantity of cold 
water, until it has fully penetrated the pores of the materials. Foi 
this purpose roots should be cut into thin slices, barks reduced to a 
coarse powder, and seeds slightly bruised ; those of soft and loose 
texture require to be infused two or three days, the harder and more 
compact a week or two, whilst some tender herbs and plants require 
to be distilled directly. After the solvent has fully penetrated, distil 
it with an open fire ; that is, a fire under the still like a common 
washing copper, w-hich immediately strikes the bottom. Regulate 
the fire so as to make it boil as speedily as possible, and that the oil 
may continue to distil freely during the whole process; for the longer 
it is submitted to an unnecessary heat without boiling, a greater por- 
tion of the oil is mixed with the water than there would otherwise be. 
The oil comes over the water, and either sinks to the bottom or 
swims on the top, according as it is lighter or heavier than that fluid. 
What comes over at first is more fragrant than that towards the end, 
which is thicker, and should be re-distilled by a gentle heat, when it 
leaves a resinous matter behind. 

All essential oils, after they are distilled, should be suffered to stand 
some days in open bottles or vessels, loosely covered with paper to 
keep out the dust, until they have lost their disagreeable fiery odour, 
and become quite limpid : put them into small bottles, and keep them 



96 THE CONFECTIONEK. 

quite full in a cold place. The light oils pass over the swan neck of 
the common still, but the heavier ones will not so readily, therefore a 
large low head is preferable ; the heavier oils are those from cloves, 
allspice, cinnamon, &c., or such as contain a portion of resin. 

Some plants yield three times as much oil, if gathered when the 
flowers begin to fall off,— as lavender; others when young, before 
they have sent forth any flowers,— as sage \ and others when the 
flowers begin to appear, — as thyme. 

All fragrant herbs yield a large portion of oil when produced m 
drv soils "and warm summers. Herbs and flowers give out a larger 
(jimntity of oil after they have been partly dried in a dry shady place. 
Four pounds of the leaves of the dried mint yield one ounce of oil, 
but six pounds of fresh leaves only three drachms and a-half. This 
oil is more line and bright when rectified— that is, re-dislilled. 

After the distillation of one oil, the worm should be carefully 
cleansed, by passing a little spirit of wine through it, before another 
is proceeded with. 

A great quantity of oil is wasted by confectioners when they pre- 
serve their lemon and orange peels by boiling them in open vessels 
instead of a still ; what is saved by this means alone would soon repay 
the expense of the apparatus. 



DISTILLED WATERS. 

These are obtained in a similar manner to the oils, with a high 
narrow-necked still, and differ from them by the oil being retained or 
united with the water. Plants for this purpose should be gathered 
fresh on a dry day, as the water drawn from them in this state is 
more aromatic when they are dry ; for the oil is mixed with an aque- 
ous fluid in the plant, which concretes and separates in drying. 

Herbs should be bruised and steeped for a day in about three times 
their quantity of water when green, but considerably more when dry ; 
but at all times sufficient water should be added that some may bo 
left to prevent the herbs or flowers being burnt to the bottom of the 
still. After all the water is drawn, the distillation should continue 
60 long as any taste or srnell of the ingredients comes over ; and the 
fire should be so regulated that the water may run in a small con- 
tinued stream. 

If a superior article is required, it must be re-distilled by a gentle 
heat, with the addition of a little pure spirit (about one-twentieth 
part) which has not got any bad smell. 

Orange-Flower Water. — The leaves of orange flowers three pounds, 
water three pints. 

Rose Water. As orange flower, using either the damask or pale 

single rose. Neither the purgative quality of the damask, nor the 
astringent quality of red roses, rises in distillation, but is contained in 
the water left in the still. 



THE CONFECTIONER. 97 

Cinnamun JVa>er. — Cinnamon one pound, water two gallons. 
Bruise or break the spice, and infuse it in water for two days. Some 
consider it sufficient to simmer the spice in the still for half an hour, 
putiincr back what comes over, and filtering the whole when cold 
through a flannel bag or blotting paper. 

Peppermint Water, — Dried herb one pound and a half, or green 
herb ihree pounds, to a gallon of water. 

Lemon-Feel Water. — Two pounds of fresh peel to the gallon. 

Black-Cherry Water. — Twelve pounds of ripe fruit to a gallon of 
water. Bruise the fruit in a mortar so as to break the stones, that 
the flavour of the kernel may be obtained. 

Angelica, star, anise-seed, caraway, lavender, rosemary, myrtle, 
vanilla, raspberry, strawberry, and all other waters, are made in the 
same manner; the first half of the water which comes over is the best 
and strongest. 

SPIRITS FOR LIQUEURS. 

Spirits and alcohol are obtained by the distillation of fermented 
articles. The peculiar taste of each depends on the essential oil of 
the article from which it is prepared being held in solution : there- 
fore, by knowing the nature of its oil, alcohol may be made to imitate 
any desired spirit, A few drops of nitric ether added to malt spirit 
will impart to it the flavour of cognac brandy; and two scruples of 
benzoic acid, mixed with one quart of rum, will give it the taste of 
arrack. Brandy is generally recommended for the use of the confec- 
tioner in making spirits for liqueurs, but a superior article may be 
made with less expense from rectified spirits of wine, or pure spirit 
which has neither taste nor smell, as the spirit afterwards drawn will 
only have the flavour of the articles with which it is required to be 
impregnated. Rectified spirits may be obtained from the dregs of 
beer, cider, ale or wine, suitable for any purpose, as well as from 
brandy. 

Spirits rise in the still with less heat than watery infusions, there- 
fore It is best to distil by means of the bain-marie, that is, by the still 
being placed in another vessel containing water. This method is 
more safe, as it prevents accidents, and the articles from beinar burnt. 

Common spirits may be deprived of their impurities by mixing them 
with an equal quantity of water, and distilling them by a gentle heat, 
or in a water-bath. Continue the operation until the phlegm arises, 
which will appear milky and is of a nauseous taste. A great quan- 
tity of the oil which it retained will remain in the v/ater. If the 
spirit was very impure, a second rectification may be nt^cessary, a.s 
before. A very pure and tasteless spirit may be obtained by mixing 
with the spirit, after rectification, one-fourth of its weight of pure dry 
salt of wormwood or tartar. Let it stand a little time in a gentle heat, 
and distil in the bain-marie, A small portion of alum being added, 
9 



^ 



98 THE CONFECTIONER. 

prevents any of the salt being brought over with the spirit. The 
result is pure alcohol. It may be reduced to proof spirit by mixing 
twenty ounces of alcohol with seventeen of water, by weight. 

Distilled Spiriiuous Waters fur Liqueurs. — Orange, rose, pink, jes- 
samine, and all other flowers, are made by adding eight pounds of 
the leaves or petals of the flowers to a gallon of pure proof spirit. 
Put them in a cold cellar or ice-house to infuse for a week. Distil in 
the bain-n)arie to dryness. If they are distilled on an open gentle 
tire, water siiould be added to the articles when they are put on tht 
fire, so as to prevent their being burnt. 

Lavender, mint, rosemary, angelica, the yellow rind of lemon and 
orange peels, and bergamot, lemon, vanilla, ginger, and orris-root for 
violel, and other herbs, are made by adding two pounds of the plant, 
&.C., partly dried, to a gallon of pure proof spirit. Let it steep in a 
jar close covered for twelve or fourteen days in a cool place, and dis- 
til in the bain-m.arie. Myrtle and hdAm-melissae, one pound to the gal- 
lon. If any of the waters appear rather turbid when they are first 
drawn, they Vvill become clear and bright by standing a few days. 
Filter them throuirh blotting paper-placed in a glass or earthenware 
funnel over a bottle to receive them. 

Strawberries, raspberries, &c., sixteen pounds to the gallon. 

Cinnamon, coriander, caraways, cloves, &c., are made by adding 
one pound of the bruised seed or spice to the gallon of proof spirit. 
Cardamoms four ounces, nutmegs and mace three ounces to the gallon. 

Hungary JVater^ or Aqua Reginse. — Fresh gathered rosemary flow, 
ers in full bloom, four pounds to the gallon of pure proof spirit. It 
may also be made with the addition of one pound of each of marjo- 
ram and lavender flowers, and two quarts more of spirit. Distil im- 
mediately. Half a pound of sage leaves, and two ounces of ginger, 
are recommended as an excellent addition by foreign writers. 

Maraschinv de Zara. — Morello cherries nine pounds, black wild 
cherries seven pounds, or sixteen pounds of Morello cherries,* one 
pint and a-quarter of Kirchenwasser, spirit of roses one ounce and 
a-half, spirit of orange flowers one ounce and a-half, of jessamine a 
quarter of an ounce, peach or cherry leaves one pound and a-quarter; 
pick the stalks from the cherries and press out their juice, pound the 
Ktones and skins with the leaves in a mortar, and steep all together 
for a fortnight, — some only filter the infusion, — and add to it four 
pounds and a-half of treble-refined sugar; dissolve and strain through 
a jelly-bag ; but a superior spirit may be obtained by the addition of 
four quarts of rectified proof spirit; distil with the bain-marie, and 
rectify. 

* Genuine Maraschino is the spirit of Morello cherries, as Kirchen. 
vvasser is of black cherries, Maraschino may also be made from goose- 
berries. Ripe gooseberries 102 pounds; black cherry leaves bruised, 12 
pounds ; ferment as Kirchenwasser ; distil and rectifr it. 



^•^ 



THE (;ONFECTIO^'ER. 99 

Kirchemvasser. — Get some small black cherries and a few Morello 
cherries quite ripe, take off their stalks and put them in a cask with 
the head off, cover the top or surface of the cherries with mortar or 
wood ashes' mixed to a consistence with water, let them stand for six 
weeks or two months, durinrr which time they will ferment, then 
take off the covering and distil them. 

Eau Divine. — Essence of bergamont and lemon, of each one 
drachm, rectified spirit one gallon, fresh balm leaves two ounces; 
distil with the bain-marie; add orange-flower water five ounces. The 
hquor is made by adding to this four pounds of treble refined sugar 
dissolved in two gallons of water. 

Eau de Cologne. — Spirit of rosemary two quarts, essence of berga- 
rnot four ounces, balm water two quarts, essence of cedrats and citrons 
four ounces, neroli two drachms, rosemary two ounces, spirits of wine 
ten quarts; draw fourteen quarts. 

Balm water two pints and a-quarter, spirit of rosemary three pounds 
and a-half, oil of rosemary one drachm, essence of lemon three 
drachms, of cedrats two drachms, of neroli two drachms and a-half, 
of bergamot three dnichms, rectified spirit twelve pounds, distil in 
the bain-marie, and keep in a cool place for some time. 

Curagao. — This is a species of wild or bitter orange ; the dried 
peel may be obtained from the chemists ; the yellow peel of Seville 
oranges, dried and powdered, will answer as well ; use one pound to 
the gallon of rum or rectified spirit, and distil as the others. 

Eau de Melisse des Carmes. — Spirit of balm eight pints, spirit of 
lemon and citron four pints; spirit of nutmegs, musk, and coriander, 
of each two pints, spirit of thyme, cinnamon, anise-seed, marjoram, 
hyssop, green-verdigris, or the vitriol of iron, sage, angelica-root, and 
cloves, of each one pint; distil, and keep in an ice-house for twelve 
months. Supposed to be the original recipe of the barefooted Car- 
melites, now in possession of the Company of Apothecaries of Paris. 

T/ie English Method. — Fresh balm leaves four ounces, fresh lemon- 
peel two ounces (the yellow rind), coriander seeds and nutmegs, of 
each one ounce, angelica-root, cinnamon, and cloves, of each half an 
ounce, rectified spirit two pounds, brandy two pounds, powder the dry 
ingredients, and steep the whole in a close vessel with the spirit for 
four or five days. Two pints of rectified spirit and one pint of balm- 
water may be used instead of the spirit and brandy; distil in the 
bain-marie nearly to dryness; re-distil and keep it for some time in a 
cold cellar or ice-house. This is an elegant and beautiful cordial. 

Spirit iif Coffee. — One pound of the best Mocha coffee, fresh roasted 
and ground, add to it one gallon of rectified proof spirit, let it infuse 
for a week, and distil in the bain-marie. 

Spirit of bitter Jlmonds. — One pound of blanched almonds, one 
gallon of proof spirit ; pound the almonds quite fine with a little 
water, to prevent their oiling, add thcni to the spirit with an ouiice 



100 THE CONFECTIONER. 

of bruised angelica-root, steep for a week, and distil in the bain- 
marie. 

Spirit of Tea. — Four ounces of the best tea to a gallon of rectified 
proof spirit, pour a little cold water on the tea and let it infuse for 
three or four' hours, add it to the spirit, and distil it in a week. 

Escubac — Usquebaugh. — Saffron one ounce, catechu three ounces, 
ambergris half a grain, dates without their kernels, and raisins, each 
three ounces^, jujubes six ounces, anise-seed, cloves, mace, and cori 
ander seed one drachm, cinnamon two drachms, proof spirit six quarts, 
pound the ingredients, infuse for a week and distil. The whole of 
these spirituous distilled waters are for making liquors and for fla- 
vouring ices, liqueurs, bon-bons, drops, &c., or anything in which 
liquors are introduced. 

LIQUEURS. 

These are made by mixing equal proportions of any of the spirits, 
water, and sugar together, that is, one pint of spirit, one pint of 
water, one pound of the treble-refined sugar; dissolve the sugar in 
the water, add it to the spirit, and filter through blotting-paper; being 
perfectly clear and colourless when drawn, they require to be coloured 
of the same tint as the articles from which they were extracted, and 
for this purpose none but those which are perfectly harmless should 
be employed, as prepared cochineal, infusion of saffron, burnt sugars 
or indigo. 

RATAFIAS. 

These are liqueurs made by the infusion of the ingredients in spi- 
rits, and are similarly composed to the spirituous wafers, but instead 
of being distilled they are simply filtered, and sugar is added to them. 

Ratafia de Ca/e.— Fresh roasted Mocha coffee ground, one pound, 
proof spirit one gallon, loaf sugar one pound and a half; infuse for a 
week, string it every other day, filter, bottle, and cork close. 

Raiajla de Cacao. — Cacao of Caracca one pound. West India cocoa 
nuts eight ounces, proof spirit one gallon, roast the nuts and bruise 
them, add them to the spirit and infuse for fourteen days, stirring 
them occasionally, filter and add thirty drops of essence of vanilla 
and two pounds of sugar. 

Ratafia des Noyaux. — Haifa pound of bitter almonds, half a pound 
of sweet almonds, proof spirit one gallon, (peach or apricot kernels 
may be used instead of the bitter almonds), three pounds of loaf sugar; 
beat the almonds fine with part of the sugar, steep the whole together 
for twelve or fourteen days, and filter; this liqueur will be much im- 
proved if rectified spirit is reduced to proof with the juice of apricota 
or peaches. 



THi: CO^FECTIO^TEK. 101 

Ratafia nf Cherries. — Moreilo cherries eight poundc--, black cherries 
eight pounds, raspberries and red or white currants of each two 
pounds, coriander-seeds three ounces, cinnamon half an ounce, mace 
halt' an ounce, proof spirit one gallon; press out the juice from the 
fruit, take one-half of the stones of the cherries and pound them with 
the spices, and add two pounds and a half of sugar, steep for a month 
and filter. 

Ratajia des Cassis. — Ripe black currants six pounds, cloves half a 
drachm, cinnamon one drachm, black currant leaves one pound and a 
half, Men llo cherries two pounds, sugar five pounds, proof spirit eight 
quarts; bruise the spice, infuse a fortnight, filter, and bottle. 

Rntnfia of Raspberries. — Raspberries quite ripe eight pounds, proof 
spirit one gallon, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon and cloves, steep 
for fourteen days, stirring it occasionally. Currants and strawberries 
are made the same. 

Ratnfia des FJeurs des Oranges. — Fresh orange-flowers two pounds, 
proof spirit one gallon, sugar two pounds; infuse for eiglit or ten 
hours. 

Ratajia d'CEilkts. — The petals of clove pinks, with the white parts 
palled off, four pounds, cinnamon and cloves twenty-five grains, proof 
spirit one gallon, sugar three pounds. Infuse for a month, filter, and 
bottle. 

Ratajia d\llngelique. — Angelica seeds one ounce, angelica stalks 
four ounces, bitter almonds four ounces, one drachm each of cinnamon 
and cloves, proof spirit six quarts, loaf sugar four pound.--. Blanch 
and pound the almonds with some of the sugar, or a little water; 
pound the other ingredients a little, and bruise the stalks. Infuse for 
a month, stirring it occasionally. Filter and bottle. 

Vespetro, — Coriander seed one ounce, angelica seed two ounces, 
fennel and anise-seed of each two drachms, two lemons, two oranges, 
the zest of two citrons, two quarts of rectified spirit and two pounds 
of sugar, caraway seeds four grains. Bruise the ingredients, pare 
off the yellow rind of the lemons and oranges, and squeeze the juice. 
Dissolve the sugar in a pint of water. Infuse the whole together for 
fourteen days. Strain, filter, and bottle. 

Chreme de Barbade. — The yellow rind of three oranges and three 
lemons, cinnamon four ounces, mace two drachms, cloves one drachm, 
rum nine quarts, fresh balm leaves six ounces. Infuse and distil in 
the bain-marie, or strain; add an equal quantity of sugar with water 

Chreme d' Orange. — Thirty-six sweet oranges, sliced, tincture of 
saffron one ounce^^and four drachms, orange-flower wat.-r four pinta, 
rectified spirits two gallons, water eighteen quarts, loaf ^ugar eigh- 
teen pounds. Dissolve the sugar in the water: mix the other articles 
and infuse for a fortnight. Filter and bottle. 

Ratajia (i'.'Jms.— Star anise-seed four ounce?, proof spirit one gal- 
9* 



102 THE CONFECTIOIVEK. 

Ion. InfusG for a fortnight ; add two pounds of sugar, or a pint and 
a-ha)t of syrup, and a little essence of vanilla. 

Ratafia de Brouf des Noix. — Young walnuts, when the shells are 
not formed, number eighty, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, of each half 
a drachm, proof spirit one gallon. Pound the nuts in a mortar, add 
them and the spice to the spirit, with two pounds of sugar. Infuse 
for two months, stirring it occasionally ; press out the liquor through 
a cloth. Filter and bottle. 



SECTION XXV. THE STOVE OR HOT CLOSET. 

This is a useful and indispensable appendage in confectionary; it 
is generally constructed like a cupboard in the recess of a wall. The 
wails or sides should be composed of bricks, or wood lined with tin 
or sheet iron, to retain the heat, with pieces of wood nailed or fastened 
in the sides, about four inches asunder, to form a groove for trays or 
boards to rest on, which is necessary for the drying of lozenges, com- 
fits, bon-bon8, &c. ; there should also be a few strong shifting shelves 
made either of small bars of round iron or wood, like a grating, on 
which candy pots or sieves may be placed ; the grooves for these 
should be so constructed as to be capable of inclination so as to drain 
off the syrup from the candy pots without taking them from the 
shelves ; the door should be made to shut close, with a small door at 
the top to let out any excess of heat I have before remarked that it 
may be heated by means of many of the modern stoves. At places 
where the oven is heated with wood, furze, &c., a common iron pot 
or crock with three legs is filled with the live embers, or it may be 
filled with burning charcoal and covered with wood ashes, which is 
replenished night and morning, which gives the heat required. 



THE PASTRY-COOK 



INTRODUCTION. 



We now come to a very important, because a very difficult, branch 
of the art of baking, whether exercised as a profession, or by private 
individuals, namely the manufacturing of what are technically called 
'■'•fancy goods." The reader scarcely need be informed, that this 
term includes all those varieties of baked manufactured eatables, in 
which such ingredients as sugar, eggs, spice, and butter, are used, 
with many other not necessary to enumerate here. 

It ought to be observed, that the following directions for making 
the kind of goods alluded to, have been all tested^ and found to be so 
exceedingly accurate as to proportions, that a deviation in a quantity 
so small as an &gg'> or even half an e^g, will deteriorate the quality 
of the article. These directions are not generally known in the trade, 
and out of the trade they are entirely, we believe, unknown. They 
will be found, therefore, a valuable acquisition to those ladies who 
manage their own domestic affairs, and who are in the habit of mak- 
ing little knick-knacks for their children, or their dessert tables. 

Previous to giving the directions in question, it will bo necessary 
for our readers to be made acquainted with the mode of preparing 
certain articles, which are more or less employed in the manufactur- 
ing fancy goods. We are aware that there are many private indi- 
viduals who would object to use the preparation called " honey-wa= 
ter," as well as that called " prepared treacle," on the ground of their 
consisting chiefly of drugs. As regards, however, the use of carbo- 
nate of ammonia (honey-water), it may be safely affirmed, that there 
is, in small quantities, nothing unhealthy in it, but on the contrary. 
The truth however is, the carbonate of ammonia used in biscuits, 
<fcc., is volatilized by the heat of baking, and of course it all escapes. 
Its operation is therefore mechanical, and the only effect it has upon 
the biscuit is to make it light. 

With regard to the article called prepared treacle, which consists 
of treacle, alum, and pearlash, we have to observe, that alum taken 
in considerable quantities is decidedly unwholesome, it being of a 
powerfully astringent nature; but in the very small quantity here 

103 



10 4 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

prescribed, and considering that treacle is an asperient, and will con- 
t^pqucntly counteract the effects of the alum, we should say, that 
there can bo no harm in using it. Pearlash, being an alkali, we 
should consider rather beneficial than otherwise, as it would prevent 
the treacle of the ginger-bread turning acid on the stomach. 

Having made these preliminary observations, we shall at once 
proceed to give directions for making those preparations used in 
pastry and fancy goods. The break alluded to in making fancy bis- 
cuits, is an instrument similar to that used in manufacturing ship- 
biscuits, but of course of much smaller dimensions. 



BLANCHED ALMONDS, ICING, PREPARED TREACLE, AND 
RENNET, 

Blanched Mmonds. — Cover your almonds with water, in a stew- 
pan ; set the pan on the fire, and strain them off as soon as the water 
begins to boil, by which means the skins will peel off easily ; put 
them under the oven for a night, in a sieve, and they will be dry and 
fit for use. 

Icing for a Cake. — Take one pound of double-refined sugar, 
pound it fine, and sift it through a lawn sieve ; then beat the whiles 
of three eggs in a very clean pan, with a whisk, till they are a strong 
froth, and hang round the pan, leaving the bottom clear; then, with 
a wooden spoon, beat in your sugar, a little at a time, with about a 
tea-spoonful of lemon-juice — beat it till it becomes a nice thick smooth 
batter, and will hang round the pan to any thickness you may choose 
to spread it. Then, when your cake is nearly cold, spread your 
icing nicely over the top, and round the sides, with a pallet-knife; let 
it stand in a warm place, where it will be safe from hurt, and it will 
soon dry. 

Prepared Treacle. — Dissolve two ounces of alum in a quarter of a 
pint of boiling water, and stir it into seven pounds of treacle; then 
dissolve four ounces of American pearlash in a quarter of a pint of 
cold water, and well incorporate it with the treacle by stirring. 

Rennet.— MWk is turned into curds and whey by means of rennet, 
which is the stomach of a calf taken out as soon as it is killed, well 
cleansed from its contents, then scoured inside and rubbed with salt ; 
when thoroughly salted, it is stretched on a stick to dry. A bit of 
this is to be soaked in boiling water for several hours, and the liquid 
put in milk-warm from the cow, or made of that warmth. Use alone 
can prescribe the exact quantity : never use more than enough to turn 
it, as it hardens the curd. The gizzard skin of fowls and turkey may 
be prepared in the same way, and answer the same purpose. 



THE PASTKY-COOK. 105 



FA?yCY BISCUITS. 



Aberntthy Biscuits. — (See Seed Biscuits.) 

American. — Rub half a pound of butter into four pounds of flour , 
add a full pint of milk, or water; well wet them up; break your 
dough well, and bake them in a hot oven. 

Brighion. — Take one pound and a quarter of good moist sugar, and 
roll itlil! il is fine ; then pass it through a sieve with two pounds and 
a half of flour; rub in two ounces of butter; make a hole in the mid- 
dle; strew in a few caraway seeds; pour in half a pint of honey- 
water, and a quarter Cif a pint of milk; beat it well with your hand 
till about half the flour is incorporated; then mix it together; roll it 
out in thin sheets; cut them out, and place them on your buttered 
tins about two inches apart; wash with a little beer; and bake them 
in a good steady heat. 

Buttered. — Rub one pound of butter into seven pounds of flour ; wet 
up with one quart of warm water, and half a pint of good yeast; break 
down smooth ; prove your dough well ; and bake in a strong heat. 

Captains. — Rub four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour; 
wet up with a quart of water; break your dough smooth ; and bake in 
a good strong heat. 

Drop. — Warm your pan ; then put in one pound of powdered loaf 
sugar and eight eggs ; beat it with a whisk till it becomes milk- warm ; 
then beat it till it is cold ; stir in a pound of sugar, two ounces of fine 
sifted flour, with about half an ounce of caraway seeds ; put your bat- 
ter into the bladder, and drop it through the pipe, in quantities about 
the size of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper ; sift sugar over the top, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Filbert. — Rub a pound of butter into three pounds and a half of 
flour; make a hole, and put in ten ounces of powdered loaf sugar; 
wet up with four table-spoonsful of honey water, one of orange-flower 
water, and three-quarters of a pint of milk ; break your dough smooth ; 
mould them as large as a nutmeg, and as round as you can ; cut th^-m 
twice across the top each way, about half through, with a sharp knife ; 
place them on your tin ; and bake them in a steady heat. 

Lemon. — Prepare your dough as for filbert biscuits, only leave out 
the orange-flower water, and use about six drops of the essence of 
lemon ; cut them out, and dock them with a lemon docker; bake them 
in a good steady heat. 

Naples. — Take six ounces of good moist sugar, and six ounces of 
loaf; a quarter of a pint of water; and proceed the same as for diet 
cake, with six eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of flour ; have your 
tins papered; fill them nearly full of the batter: sugar over the tops; 
and bake them in rather a brisk oven. These biscuits are, in fact, 
nothing more than diet-bread batter, fancifully dropped into tm, 



106 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

papered with white paper, and baked in a warm oven, with a little 
sugar sifted over the top. 

Queens. — Rub one pound of butter into two pounds of flour; mix 
one pound of powdered sugar with it; then make a hole and pour in 
a quarter of a pint of milk, to mix it up with ; you may add a few 
caraways, if you choose ; roll the paste in sheets of the thickness of a 
halfpenny; cut them with an oval to about the size of an egg; place 
them on clean tins, but see that they do not quite touch, prick them 
with a fork, and bake them in a slow oven till they begin to change 
colour; when they are cold, they will be crisp. 

R(nit. — Powder one pound of loaf sugar, and soak it in three parts 
of half a pint of milk; let it stand two hours; then add two table- 
spoonsful of honey water, and one egsr; rub half a pound of butter into 
two pounds of flour ; make a hole in it, and mix it up with your sugar 
and milk. Or you may rub half a pound of butter into two pounds 
of flour, make a hole and put one pound of powdered sugar in the 
middle; then pour in three parts of half a pint of milk, and two table- 
(spoonsful of honey water ; mix it up together; let it lie ten minutes; 
cut it out, and place them in buttered tins, see they do not touch; 
wash with milk, and bake auickly. 

Savoy. — Powder and sift one pound of loaf sugar; sift one pound 
of flour; warm a pan, and put in the sugar; break one pound of egg 
upon it; beat both together with a whisk till it becomes warm — beat 
till it is cold, and then stir in your flour; have a bladder and pipe 
ready ; put your batter into the bladder, and force it through on sheets 
of paper; sift sugar over them and bake in a quick oven; when cold 
turn them up, and with a washing brush wet the bottom of the paper; 
turn them back again, and in five minutes they will come off easily. 

Seedy. — Rub one pound of butter into seven pounds of flour; roll 
one pound of moist sugar fine, and put into the middle with two 
ounces of caraway seeds; wet up with one pint and a half of milk, 
and one pint of honey water; bake in a hot oven. 

Wine. — Take two pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, and four 
ounces of sifted loaf sugar ; rub the sugar and the b\itter into the flour, 
and make it into a stiff paste with milk ; pound it in a mortar; roll it 
out thin, and cut it into sizes and shapes to your fancy; lay them on 
buttered paper, in a warm oven, or iron plates brushed with a little 
milk. When done, you can give them a glaze by brushing them over 
with a brush dipped in eggs. A few caraway seeds may be added 
if thought proper. 

York. — Prepare your mixture as for filbert biscuits ; dock them with 
the Duchess of York, or any other docker — they are best baked in a 
hot oven, and not washed over. 

Powder. — Di'y your biscuits in a slow oven ; roll them and grind 
them with a rolling-pin on a clean board till the powder is fine; sift 
it through a fine hair-sieve, and it is fit for use. 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 107 

Drops. — Take half a tea-cup of water, six es'g'--', anJ one pound of 
sifted loaf sug-ar — whisk them together till thick; then add a few 
caraway seed?, and eighteen ounces of flour — mix it lightly together, 
and drop the mixture on wafer-paper, about the size of a small wal- 
nut; sift sugar over them, and bake in a hot oven. 

Cracknels. — Rub six ounces of butter into three pounds and a half 
of flour — make a hole, and put in six ounces of powdered loaf sugar — 
wet up with eight eggs and a quaner of a pint of v»'ater — break your 
dough smooth — make them and dock them like a captain's biscuit — 
form them on your reel ; drop them into a stew-pan of water boiling 
over the fire — when they swim take them out with a skimmer, and 
put them into a pailful of cold water; let them remain full two hours 
before you bake them — you may drain them in a cloth or in a sieve — • 
bake them on clean tins in a brisk oven, or on the bottom of the oven. 



SECTION I. THE OVEN. 

Cakes. — Rich pound-cake; twelfth, or bride-cakes: butter two 
pounds twelve ounces, sugar one pound twelve ounces, currants five 
pounds, citron one pound and a-half, almonds six ourtces, nutmegs, 
mace, and cinnamon, of equal parts, in powder, two ounces; eggs 
twenty, brandy half a pint — these proportions allow for the cake 
being iced. If more sugar is preferred, the quantity must be the 
same, as the butter; but less is used in this instance, that the cake 
may be light, and also to allow for the fruit, which would make it 
too sweet. Double the quantity of almonds may be used if required, 
as some persons prefer more. 

Warm a smooth pan, large enough for the mixture; put in the 
butter, and reduce it to a fine cream, by working it about the pan 
with your hand. In summer the pan need not be warmed, as it can 
be reduced to a cream without; but in the winter keep the mixture 
as warm as possible, without oiling the butter. Add the sugar and 
mix it well with the butter, until it becomes white and feels light in 
the hand. Break in two or three eggs at a time, and work the mix- 
ture well, before any more is added. Continue doing this until they 
are all used and it becomes light ; then add the spirit, currants, peel, 
spice, and almonds, some or most of these being previously cut in 
thin slices, the peel having also been cut into small thin strips and 
bits. When these are incorporated, mix in the flour lightly : put it 
in a hoop with paper over the bottom and round the sides, and placed 
on a baking-plate. Large cakes require three or four pieces of stiff 
paper round the sides ; and if the cake is very large, a pipe or funnel, 
made either of stiff paper or tin, and well buttered, should be put in 
the centre, and the mixture placed round it ; this is to allow the mid- 
dle of the cake to be well baked, otherwise the edge would be burnt 
two or three inches deep before it could be properly done. Place the 
tin plates containing the cake on another, the surface of which is 



108 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

covered an inch or two thick with sawdust or fine ashes to protect 
the bottom. Bake it in an oven at a moderate heat. The time re- 
qnired to bake it will depend on the state of the oven and the size of 
the cake. When the cake is cold, proceed to ice it. (See Icings for 
Cakes.) Wedding-cakes have generally, first, a coating on the top 
of almond icing ; when this is dry, the sides and top are covered 
\\ iih royal or white icing. Fix on any gum paste or other orna- 
ments whilst it is wet; and when dry, ornament it with piping, 
orange-blossoms, ribbon, &c. ; the surface and sides are often covered 
with small knobs of white sugar candy whilst the icing is wet. 

Twelfth-cakes are iced with white or coloured icing, and deco- 
rated with gum paste, plaster ornaments, piping-paste, rings, knots, 
and fancy papers, &c., and piped. 

Savoy Cakes (hot mixture). — One pound of loaf sugar powdered, 
one pint of good eggs, and fourteen ounces of flour. Warm a pan, 
free from grease, with the sugar in it in the oven until you can 
scarcely bear your hand against it; then take it out and pour in the 
eggs: whisk the whole together with a birch or wire whisk until it 
is quite light and cold, when it will be white and thick. If it should 
not whisk up well, warm it again and beat it as before ; or it may be 
beat over the stove fire until it is of the warmth of new milk. When 
it is finished, sift the flour and stir it in lightly with a spoon, adding 
a few drops of essence of lemon to flavour it. Butter some tin or 
copper moulds regularly, so that there is not more on one place than 
another, nor too thick either, with rather less on the top of the mould 
than the sides. Dust it with loaf sugar sifted through a lawn sieve. 
Knock out all that does not adhere, and again dust it with fine flour ; 
turn it out, and knock the mould on the board as before. Tie or pin 
a piece of buttered paper round the mould, so as to come two or three 
inches above the bottom. Fix the mould in a stand and nearly fill it. 
Bake in a moderate oven. When done, the top should be firm and 
dry. Try it by pushing in a small piece of stick or whisk, and if it 
comes out dry, it is done. The surface of the cake should be quite 
smooth. There is as much art in buttering the mould properly as in 
preparing the mixture, if not more. 

Cold Mixtures. — Separate the yolks from the whites when you 
break the eggs. Put the yolks into a clean pan with the sugar, and 
the whites in another by themselves. Let the pans be quite free 
from grease. If they are rubbed round with a little flour, it will 
take off any which may be left about them. Wipe them out with a 
clean cloth. Beat up the yolks and sugar by themselves, with a 
wooden spoon, and afterwards whip up the whites to a very strong 
froth. If they should happen to be rather weak, a bit of powdered 
alum may be added. When the w^hites are whisked up firm, stir in 
the yolks and sugar. Sift the flour and mix it in lightly with the 
spatula, adding a little essence of lemon to flavour it. Fill the 
moulds and bake as before. When cakes are made in this way, the 



TFIE PASTRY-COOK. 109 

eggs should be quite fresh and good, otherwise the whites cannot be 
whipped up. When weak, pickled eggs are used. 1 find a good 
method is to beat the eggs first by themselves, over a fire, until they 
are warm ; then add the sugar, and whip it over the fire until it is 
again warm, or make as for hot mixtures, and heat it twice. 

Mrnond Savoy Cakes and Almond Hearts. — One pound of blanched 
sweet almonds (four ounces of them may be bitter), two pounds of 
sugar, one pint of the yolks of eggs, half a pint of Vv'hole eggs, one 
pound of flour, and the whites of twelve eggs beat to a firm froth. 

Pound the almonds with the sugar in a mortar, and sift them through 
a wire sieve, or erind them in a mill, and mix them with the sugar 
in the mortar. First mix the whole eggs well with the almonds and 
sugar, then add the yolks by degrees, stirring the whole until quite 
light ; then mix in the whites, and afterwards the flour, lightly ; pre- 
pare some moulds as for Savoy cakes ; but some only butter them. 
Fill the moulds three parts full and bake them in a moderate oven. 
For almond hearts, butter some tins in the shape of a heart, but with- 
out bottoms; cover a baking-plate with paper; place the tins on it, 
and fill them nearly three parts full with the mixture: dust a little 
eugar on the top, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

Venice Cake. — Take a Savoy cake and cut it in slices, half or 
three-quarters of an inch thick, in a parallel direction from the bot- 
tom to the top; spread over each slice with raspberiy or apricot jam, 
or some of each alternately, or any other sort of preserve. Replace 
each piece in its original form ; when completed, make an icing as 
directed for cakes, with four whites of the eggs to a pound of sugar, 
which will make it rather thin. It may be coloured with cochineal, 
&c. ; spread it over the cake, which, being thin, will run into the 
flutes and mouldings of the cake, when it will appear of the same 
form as before. Let it dry in the mouth of the oven, but be careful 
it does not get discoloured. When it is dry, ornament it with piping. 
Savoy cakes are often done in the same manner, without being cut in 
slices, to ornament them ; or they may be done without icing, and 
either piped or ornamented with gum paste borders, &c., which are 
fixed on with dissolved gum Arabic. Volutes or high and projecting 
figures are supported with small wire. 

Savoy Cake to represent a Melon. — Bake a cake in a melon-mould ; 
when cold, cover it with icing as for a Venice cake. Whilst it is 
wet, stick on some pieces of loaf sugar, to imitate the surface of the 
melon. Strew over it some yellow and green sugar-sands ; or paint 
it when dry to imitate nature. Form the stalk, leaves, &c., out of 
gum-paste, and fix them in the centre, on the top. 

Savoy Cake to imitate a Hedgehog.— B&ke a cake in a mould of that 
tbrm ; blanch some Valentia or Jordan almonds ; cut them into small 
fillets and stick them over the surface, to form the quills or prickles 
of the hog. Put in two currants for the eyes. 
10 



110 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

Bordeaux or Parisian Cakes. — Make a mixture as for pound-cake?, 
leaving out the fruit, peel, spices, &c. ; bake it in a round or oval 
hoop. When baked and cold, cut it into slices, half an inch thick; 
spread each slice over with jam or marmalade. The outside of the 
cake may be cut round, or fluted to iorm a star ; and the centre of 
the cake is occasionally cut out to about an inch and a half from the 
edge, leaving the bottom slice whole : this may be filled with pre- 
served wet or dry fruits, creams, or a trifle. The top is ornamented 
with piping, wet or dry fruits, and peels, or piped with jam and 
icing. 

Italian Bread. — One pound of butter, one pound of powdered loaf 
pugar, one pound two ounces of flour, twelve eggs, half a pound of 
citron, and lemon-peel. Mix as fur pound-cake. If the mixture 
begins to curdle, which it is most likely to do from the quantity of 
eggs, add a little of the flour. When the eggs are all used, and it is 
light, stir in the remainder of the flour lightly. Bake it in long, nar- 
row tins, either papered or buttered: first put in a layer of the mix- 
ture, and cover it with the peel cut in large thin slices; proceed iu 
this vi'ay until it is three parts full, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

Rice Pound-Cake. — One pound of butter, one pound of powdered 
loaf sugar, twelve ouncos of flour, half a pound of ground rice, and 
twelve eggs. Mix as Italian bread, and bake it in a papered hoop. 
If it is required with fruit, put two pounds of currants, three-quartera 
of a pound of peel, one nutmeg, grated, and a little pounded mace. 

Wafers. — Four ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, eight ounces 
of flour, the yolk or white of one pgg, and half a tea-cupful of milk or 
water. Melt the butter in the water; mix the i^g^^ sugar and flour 
together, adding, by degrees, the melted butter and water ; or, instead 
of the butter, it may be made into a thin batter with cream, and a 
little orange-flower water, or any other essence, to flavour it. The 
mixture may be coloured. Make the wafer-tongs hot over the hole 
of a stove or clear fire. Rub the inside surfaces with butter or oil, 
put in a spoonful of the batter, and close the tongs immediately ; put 
them on the fire, turning them occasionally until the wafer is done, 
which a little practice will soon enable you to ascertain; roll the 
wafers on a small round stick, stand them on their ends in a sieve, 
and put them in the stove to dry ; serve them with ices. 

CAKES. 

Jlmond Cakes. — Take one pound of sweet Valentia, or Province 
almonds — cover them with boiling water in a saucepan ; let them just 
boil up, then strain them out of the water, and rub them out of their 
skins; cut about two ounces of them into thin slices; put the rest into 
a mortar, with one pound and a half of loaf sugar, the whites of six 
eggs, and one table-spoonful of orange-flower water; pound it fine; 
lay your wafer-paper on the tin, and drop your almond cakes 3n it 



THE PASTKY-COOK. Ill 

about the size of a walnut — then drop a few of your cut almonds on 
each of them, and bake them in a slow oven. 

Jtlmond Savoy. — Take one ounce of bitter and three ounces of sweet 
almonds; boil and skin thetn ; put them into a mortar, with the yolks 
of six eggs, and half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded very fine ; then 
whisk up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and mix it as lightly 
as you can with the rest; then stir in four ounces of flour as lightly 
as you can ; bake it in a slow oven, if in a hoop you must paper it, 
and sugar your cake over the top; but if in a shape, you must butter 
the shape ; then shake fine sugar over into it before you put in the 
batter. 

Bride. — Wash and pick one pound and a half of currants very 
clean ; dry them in a cloth — stone four ounces of Muscatel raisins — 
add a quarter of an ouncn of mace, and half as much cinnamon ; pound 
it fine in a mortar; boil four ounces of Jordan almonds in a little 
water; strain the water off", skin them and pound them fine; take 
two ounces of citron, two ounces of candied orange, and two ounces 
of candied lemon peel; cut them into thin slices; break eight good 
new eggs into a basin ; take one pound and a quarter of fine flour, and 
sift in one pound of loaf sugar powdered fine * v/arm a pan, and beat 
one pound of best butter with your hand, till it comes to a very fine 
cream ; put in your sugar, and beat it together till it is fine and white 
— then put in a fifth part of your flour ; give it a stir, and put in 
nearly half your eggs; continue to beat it; add a little more flour, 
and the rest of your eggs; beat it again ; stir in the rest of your flour 
and currants — then add your almonds, raisins, candied peel, spice, 
and half a gill of the best brandy — mix all well together; paper your 
hoop with double paper round the side and bottom; put in your cake, 
and b^ke in a very slow oven. 

Bath. — Take one pound and a quarter of good moist sugar; roll it 
fine — put in a pan with three-quarters of a pint of water; let it stand 
all night; rub three ounces of butter into four pounds and a half of 
flour; make a hole and pour in your sugar with half a pint of honey 
water — rub it out thin — cut out, and place them on buttered tins — 
wash with water, and bake in a quick oven. 

Banbury. — Take one pound and a half of flour, and one pound of 
butter; roll your butter and part of the flour out in sheets; wet up 
the rest of your flour with one or two table-spoonsful of good yeast, 
and about a quarter of a pint of water; roll out your paste in a large 
sheet; double it up and roil it out again; do the same five times; cut 
it up in square pieces, not more than one ounce and a half — have a 
few currants mixed with a little candied peel chopped fine, a little 
moist sugar, and a little brandy — piit two tea-spoonsful on each piece; 
bring the two corners together over the middle, and close them up in 
an oval shape ; turn the closings downwards ; shake a little powdered 
sugar over the lops — put them on a cold tin; let them stand awhile 
in the cold to prove them, and bake them in a steady oven. 



112 THE PASTKY-COOK. 

There is another method, which is as follows : — 

Take two pounds of currants, half an ounce each of ground allspice 
and powdered cinnamon ; four ounces each of candied orange and 
lemon peel ; eight ounces of butter, one pound of moist sugar, and 
twelve ounces of flour ; mix the whole well together; roll out a piece 
of pufF paste; cut it into oval shapes; put a small quantity of your 
composition into each, and double them up in the shape of a puff; put 
the whole on a board, flatten them down with a rolling-pin, and sift 
powdered sugar over them — do not put them too close together ; bake 
them on iron plates in a hot oven. 

Breahfast. — Put a tea-spoonful of good yeast into tv^o pounds of 
flour ; mix the yeast and a little of your flour with a half pint of warm 
milk, about the consistence of batter. When your paste has risen 
well, take a little milk, — melt three ounces of butter in it; put a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs into the flour and yeast, 
and with the milk and butter mix it well into dough. Be careful that 
neither your butter nor milk is so hot as to scald the flour or yeast, 
and also that your dough is not too soft. Make your paste into cakes 
about two inches thick ; pnt them into buttered hoops : lay the hoops 
on iron plates, and when they are lightly risen, bake them in a warm 
oven. When done, cut them into slices half an inch thick, and butter 
each slice as you would a roll ; then cut them into pieces, and serve 
up for breakfast or tea. 

Cinnamon, Currant,, and Caraway. — Rub one pound of butter into 
three pounds and a half of flour; make a hole, and put in one pound 
of powdered loaf sugar; then wet it up with half a pint of honey 
water, and half a pint of milk. Divide your dough into three parts; 
add to one part a little powdered cinnamon ; to another a few cur- 
rants: to the other a few caraway seeds. Roll them in sheets to the 
thickness of the currants; cut them about the size of a penny-piece; 
wash with a little milk, and bake in a good steady heat 

Common Cheese. — Take four ounces of butter ; heat it with a wooden 
spoon in a warm pan, till it comes to a fine cream. Then add four 
ounces of powdered sugar; beat it well; add the yolk of one egg'., 
beat again — then add one whole egg\ beat all well together, and mix 
in four ounces of clean currants. Lay your puff paste in the patties; 
fill them half full ; shake a little sugar over, and bake them in a good 
heat. 

Curd Cheese. — Warm one pint of new milk ; stir in a bit of rennet; 
keep it warm till a nice curd appears ; break it to pieces, and strain 
the whey through a hair-sieve. Then, having your mixture prepared 
as for common cheese-cakes, but without any currants, put it into the 
sieve with the curd, and rub it all through together. Then mix in 
your currants; fill them out, and bake them in a good heat. 

Almond Cheese. — Take three or four bitter, and one ounce of sweet 
almonds; boil and skin them ; put them into a mortar, with two ounces 
of loaf sugar, and the yolks of two eggs; pound them fine. Then rub 



THE PASTKY-COOK. 113 

two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix all together. Pnt puff paste 
in the patties; fill them three-parts full with the batter; lay a few cut 
almonds over the top; sugar over, and bake them in a steady oven. 

Lemon CV/eese.— Prepare your mixture as for common cheese-cakes, 
and grate the rind of a nice fresh lemon, and mix with it. The cur- 
rants may be left out or not. 

Derby. — Rub one pound of butter in two pounds and a half of flour; 
make a hole, and put in one pound of powdered loaf sugar; beat two 
eggs with three table-spoonsful of honey water, and as much milk as 
will make up half a pint. Add half a pound of currants; mix all up 
together; make them what size you please, and bake them in a steady 
oven. 

Diet Bread. — Whisk the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs 
together, so as just to break them. Put a quarter of a pint of water 
into a saucepan, or small stew-pan ; add a pound of loaf sugar, and put 
it on the fire. Take it off just before it boils ; put in the eggs, and 
stir it well together till cold ; then stir in lightly one pound of flour, 
and put your mixture into square tins prepared. Sift sugar over the 
tops, and bake in a warm oven, till they are dry and firm on the tops. 
A fevv^ currants or caraway seeds may be occasionally used to vary 
them. 

Ginger. — Prepare your dough as for Bath cakes, but add as much 
ground ginger as will give them a pleasant taste ; cut them about 
the thickness of a shilling, and full as large as a penny-piece ; wash 
them with water, and bake quick. 

Lord Mayors. — Put one pound of sifted loaf sugar and eight eggs 
into an earthen pan ; whisk them well for about five minutes, until 
quite thick. Then add a few caraway seeds, and a pound of flour ; 
mix it all up lightly with a spoon, and drop them on paper, about the 
size of a small tea-cup; place them on iron plates; sift sugar or car- 
away seeds on the top, and bake in a hot oven. When done, take 
them off the papers, and stick two together. 

Lunch, or School. — Rub half a pound of moist sugar into two 
pounds of flour ; make a hole in the middle of it, and put in a table- 
spoonful of good thick yeast (not bitter) ; warm half a pint of milk 
rather more than blood-warm, but not hot enough to scald the yeast ; 
mix it with the yeast and a little of the flour, about one-third part. 
When it has risen, which will be in about three quarters of an hour, 
if the yeast is good, melt half a pound of butter in a little mor^ 
milk ; — be careful it is not hot enough to scald the yeast. Add on 
pound and a-half of currants, a little candied peel, and grated rind 
of lemon, and a tea-spoonful of powdered allspice, — mix all together ; 
butter your hoop, or tin, put it in, and set it in a warm place to rise. 
When it has risen, bake it in a warm oven. When you think it is 
done, stick in a small twig of your whisk, and if it comes out dry it 
is done ; but if it is sticky, it is not sufficiently baked. The cake 
10* 



114 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

should be mixed up rather softer than bread dough. A few yolks of 
eggs mixed up with it will make it eat much better. 

Moss. — Rub a little rout cake paste through a fine sieve, and it will 
look like moss. Gently squeeze a little together, about the size of 
half-a-crown, and bake them on wafer paper of a light colour. After 
they are done, touch the tops with cochineal. If they are made up 
round, the finger pressed in the middle, and two or three caraway 
comfits put in, they will resemble birds' nests, with eggs in them ; 
and to make the resemblance more complete, just touch the tops 
with a green colour. 

Macaroon. — Prepare your mixture as for almond cakes (but do not 
cut your almonds), and add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; 
lay them out on the wafer-paper, in an oval shape; sift sugar over 
them, and bake them in rather a brisk oven ; when lightly coloured 
over, they are done. 

Plum. — Set a sponge with one pound of flour, half a pint of warm 
milk, and about three table-spoonfuls of good yeast. Then take four 
ounces of butter, four ounces of powdered sugar, two eggs, and four 
ounces of flour. Proceed to beat it up the same as for pound cake ; 
then put in your sponge, and beat all well together ; aftet which, add 
one pound of currants, nicely cleaned. Paper your hoop to put it in ; 
bake it without proving, and in a slow oven. 

Pound. — Take one pound of butter, beat it with your hand in a 
warm pan till it comes to a fine cream ; put in one pound of powder- 
ed loaf sugar — beat it together to a nice cream. Previously, have 
one pound and a quarter of flour, sifted ; put in a little, and give it a 
stir ; put in four eggs, and well beat it ; then take a little more flour, 
and four more eggs, as before, and beat it well again ; then stir in 
the remainder of your flour. If you bake them in small cakes, but- 
ter your tins; if in large cakes, paper your tins. Sugar over the top, 
and bake them in a moderate heat. Some persons use this method : — 
Sift one pound of loaf sugar, and add to it one pound of fresh butter, 
melted a little, and worked with the hand to the consistency of 
cream ; beat them together, and while doing so, add ten eggs ; keep 
beating the whole till well incorporated. Take four ounces of can- 
died orange or lemon peel, shred or cut small, a few currants, and 
one pound of flour; mix the whole well together, and put in a hoop ; 
sift som.e sugar on the top, and then bake in a warm oven. 

Prussian. — Rub four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour; 
wet up with one quart of milk, warm, one pint of warm water, four 
yolks of eggs, and half a pint of good thick yeast; but if you are 
obliged to take more yeast, leave out some of the water, or you will 
make them too poor : let your dough lie about ten or twenty minutes ; 
mould them up round, about half or three quarters of a pound each ; 
place them on your tins, about two inches from each other, and 
put them in a warm place, and prove them well. Bake in a good 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 115 

Steady heat, and melt a little butter to wash them with when they 
are done. 

Queens. — Melt one pound of butter a little, in a preserving pan, 
and then work it with the hands to the thickness of cream ; put to it 
one pound of tine loaf sugar, well sifted, and beat it up for a minute 
or two; add eight egg;'', and two spoonfuls of water ; beat it up for 
two minutes, and add twenty ounces of flour, and a handful of cur- 
rants ; n)ix it well together ; put them in small round tins, bake 
them in a hot oven, and in about five minutes give the tins a smart 
tap, and the cakes will fall out. 

Queeii's Drops. — Prepare your mixture the same as for pound- 
cakes, but add about two ounces more of flour, one pound and a-half 
of currants; drop them on whited-brown paper, in drops about the 
size of a large nutmeg, about two inches from each other ; put your 
sheets on tins, and bake them in a steady oven. 

Rout. — Take one pound of sweet almonds, boil them and skin them ; 
then take one pound of loaf sugar, — pound both in a mortar, and get 
as much as you can through a sieve ; put the rest into a mortar 
again, with four yolks of eggs, and the rind of a nice lemon ; pound 
it very fine, and put in what has passed through your sieve, and mix 
it all together ; cut them in block.«, or make them in any shape you 
please. Sprinkle them lightly with a little water ; sift sugar over 
them, and put them on tins that have been rubbed with a bit of but- 
ter. See that they have room, so as not to touch each other ; bake 
them in a rather brisk oven till they are lightly coloured over. If 
you see them coloured too deep at the bottom, put cold tins over 
them. 

Raspberry. — To one pound of raspberry jam put one pound of loaf 
sugar, powdered, and sifted fine; mix it well together, and have a 
ring made of tin, with a handle on the side of ir, about the size of a 
penny-piece ; place the ring on a sheet of paper ; fill it with ihe jam, 
and move your ring, and the cake will remain ; do the same till the 
whole is done. Make the tops smooth with your knife as you fill 
them ; then put them in a warm place to dry, till they get a little 
set ; then take the crooked end of the handle of a spoon, and make 
five or six marks on the top of each cake. Set them to dry again, 
till they are fit to be removed ; then take them off with the point of 
a knife; have a box prepared to put them in, and lay slips of paper 
between every layer of cakes. 

Ratafias. — Take four ounces of bitter, and four ounces of sweet 
almonds — boil and skim them ; put them into a mortar, with one 
pound of loaf sugar, and the whites of four eggs ; pound it together 
very fine, and drop them out upon white-brown paper. See that they 
are all about the size of a nutmeg, and full an inch apart; shake 
sifted sugar over them, and bake them in tins, in a slow oven: when 
they are all of a colour they are done ; when cold they will come off' 
the paper. 



116 THE PASTRV-COOK. 

Savoy. — Take care that the shape in which it is to be baked is 
clean and dry ; butter it, and sift sugar into it, but turn out all the 
sugar that does not stick to the butter ; then have half a pound of 
sifted sugar, and six ounces of sifted flour; warm your pan, put in 
your sugar, break in four whole eggs, and then one yolk; whisk it 
till it is first warm, and then cold ; then stir in your flour, and turn 
your butter into the shape, and bake it in a slow oven ; it will take 
about one hour. When done, turn it out bottom uppermost : — it will 
look very handsome for the middle of the table. 

Sponge. — To three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, break 
three-quarters of a pound of eggs into a warm pan — whisk it till it is 
cold, and stir in half a pound of flour — have your tins ready buttered 
ftnd sugared ; put about three parts of a table-spoonful into each of 
them, sift sugar over them, and bake them in a brisk oven. 

Seed. — Proceed as directed for pound-cakes, but instead of currants 
and candied lemon-peel, substitute a few caraway seeds — omit the 
sugar on the top. 

Shrewsbury. — Powder three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and 
mix it with one pound and a quarter of flour — chop three-quarters of 
butter into pieces amongst it, with the scraper — then add'one white 
and three yolks of eggs — mix it together to a smooth paste; roll it 
into thin sheets, and cut out your cakes about the size of half a crown 
— place them on clean tins not to touch — bake them in a slow oven 
till they begin to change colour. 

Teor.— Beat eight eggs into a pan with a whisk till they come to a 
good head — then add one pound of loaf sugar powdered — beat both 
together till it becomes thick and whitish — then stir in one pound of 
sifted flour, but do not beat it again — take a spoon in your left hand 
and a knife in your other — lay a sheet of paper on your tin; take up 
a spoonful of batter, and with your knife strike as much out of the 
spoon as will make a cake the size you like — see that they are about 
an inch apart, and make them as round as you can — bake them in 
a rather brisk oven till they are nicely coloured over; if they do not 
come off the paper easily, when cold, damp the bottom as directed in 
Savoy biscuits. You may vary these cakes by dropping caraway 
seeds, sugar, or currants, on the top, before you bake them. 

Twelfth.— Vre^djce your mixture as for pound-cake, plum-cake, or 
bride-cake, which you please — if you prepare it for pound-cake, take 
two pounds of currants, four ounces of candied orange and lemon peel, 
to every pound of sugar — make them of any size you please— when 
done, ice them over, as directed in page 104, and lay on your orna- 
ments while the icing is wet. You may get the ornaments from the 
wholesale confectioners. 

YorMdre.—Rwh four ounces of butter into seven pounds of flour, 
wet up with one quart of warm milk, one pint of warm water, and 
half or three-quarters of a pint of good yeast, let it prove about twenty 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 117 

minutos, make it into cakes and put them on warm tins — sec that they 
have room so as not to touch — when well proved, make a hole in the 
middle, the size of a larg'e thimble — bake them in a hot oven — when 
done, wash them with a little melted butter. 

York Drops. — Bruise eight ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar, 
having bleached and dried them as directed — add the whites of three 
eggs^ and rub them with the pestle till quite fine — then add the 
whites of four more eggs, and one pound of sifted loaf sugar — mix all 
well together, and lay it out on paper the size of large peas; bake ia 
a warm oven, or on iron plates, and when done and cold, take them 
off the paper. 

[Jnne Page's. — One pound of butter, two pounds of flour, one pound 
of the best loaf sugar, two ounces of caraway seed, half a pint of 
good rose-water. Rub the sugar into the butter, and then mix care- 
fully in the sifted flour and caraway seed with the rose-water. Roll 
the mass thus formed into sheets to about the thickness of a dollar, 
and shape with small tin cutter ; lay them on baking-dishes, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

These are commonly called A. P.'s. 

York Cakes. — Rub into six ounces of butter one pound of sifted 
flour ; then mix together half a pound of pulverized loaf sugar, four 
ounces currants, well washed and dried, and half an ounce of pow- 
dered cloves ; rub in with the butter and flour half a pint of warm 
milk ; roll- out the paste into thin sheets, and cut with a round cutter, 
and bake at a moderate heat. 

Jumbles. — Half a pound of butter, half a pound of the best loaf 
sugar, pulverized, half a pound of finely-sifted flour ; rub intimately 
together with three eggs and half a wineglass of rose-water, add 
half an ounce of ground cinnamon and one grated nutmeg ; bake in 
a moderate heat on waxed tins. 

Cinnamon Biscuit. — Grind in a clean mortar a quarter of a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanched; to which add, gradually, the whites of 
three eggs, and then three-quarters of a pound of the best pulverized 
loaf sugar, and two ounces of ground cinnamon ; form into a paste, 
which should be laid out on greased tins, in diamond or other shapes; 
ice with cold water, to produce a gloss, and bake. 

Hazlenut Kisses. — Beat one pound of pulverized white sugar with 
the whites of eight eggs over a slow fire until they are light, then 
add four ounces of blanched filberts, cut fine ; lay them, out on paper, 
and bake in a slow oven. 

Vanilla Biscuit. — Beat with a whisk the whites of ten eggs to a 
very strong froth, add three-quarters of a pound of finely-pulverized 
loaf sugar, ten ounces of sifted flour, three cloves of vanilla pulve- 
rized with three ounces of loaf sugar. Stir all these ingredients to- 
gether for one minute, and put the batter into paper bag or cornet ; 
fay out on waxed tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 



lly THE PASTRY-COOK. 

Trijle. — Place several alternate layers of Savoy biscuit and bitter 
almond maccaroons in a handsome glass bowl, or dish, and saturate 
them with the best Madeira wine ; cover the surface of the top layer 
with any kind of jelly, jam, or marmalade (red currant jelly is gene- 
rally preferred) ; then take the whites of four eggs, half a pound of 
pulverized loaf sugar, the juice of one sound lemon, a little rose-wa- 
ter, and one pint of cream ; whisk all to a froth, and put lightly into 
the bowl, in the shape of a cone ; and ornament according to fancy, 
with coloured sugars. 

Cocoaimt Cakes. — One pound of blanched sweet almonds, the whites 
of twelve eggs, three pounds of the best pulverized loaf sugar, three 
large cocoanuts, finely grated. 

Pound the almonds in a clean mortar, with the whites of the twelve 
eggs, until the mixture is perfectly smooth, then add the pulverized 
sugar and the grated cocoanut, and work the whole in the mortar into 
a tolerably stift' paste; form the cakes about the size of a walnut, and 
lay out on baking-plates previously well waxed. 

Sans Sondes. — One pound of blanched sweet almonds, the whites 
of three eggs, two pounds of pulverized loaf sugar. 

Pound the almonds with the Vv'hitps of the eggs until reduced to a 
smooth paste, and then gradually mix in the sugar. Roll a portion 
of the mass thus formed in powdered sugar, and cut them into pieces 
about an inch long, and form them into the letter S, and bake on wax 
plates. 

Cocoa Biscuit. — Three-quarters of a pound of blanched sweet 
almonds, half an ounce of good Caracas cocoa, previously roasted, 
two eggs, three pounds of pulverized loaf sugar. 

Incorporate in a clean mortar the almonds, cocoa, and the eggs, 
until the mass becomes perfectly smooth, then add the sugar, with a 
small portion of vanilla, in powder. Form the biscuit with a tin cut- 
ter of fancy shape ; lay on waxed plates, glaze the surface of the 
cakes with cold water, and bake in a tolerably quick oven. 

Lady Cake. — Two pounds of powdered loaf sugar, half a pound of 
fresh butter, seven ounces of blanched sweet almonds, and one 
ounce of blanched bitter almonds. 

Beat in a clean mortar the almonds till reduced to a smooth paste, 
adding occasionally a little rose-vvater, to prevent them from oiling ; 
add the sugar and butter ; then add the whites of thirty fresh eggs, 
previously whisked to a very strong froth ; then mix in, very lightly, 
two pounds of finely-sifted flour, and bake in tin pans about twelve 
inches long, eight broad, and t\vo inches deep. This cake requires 
a quick oven — thirty to thirty-five minutes will be sufficient time. 
When cool, ice as before directed, and score with a sharp knife. 

Lachj Fingers. — Put the yolks of four eggs in a sm.all basin with 
four ounces of pounded sugar, on which you have grated the peel of 
one good fresh lemon ; work this well with a spatula for five minutes ; 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 119 

after which, beat up the whites of the four egg?, and when they are 
very stiff, pour a fourth part of them on the yolks, which you after- 
wards mix with the remainder of the whites, with the addition of 
two ounces of sifted flour, stirring continually, to make the whole 
very smooth. 

Then form your biscuits on half sheets of white paper, folded in 
such a manner that they are only three inches in length, and no 
larger than your finger. As soon as one sheet is full, cover your bis- 
cuits with fine sugar, and place on a baking-plate, which you put in 
the oven as soon as the surface of the biscuits become glossy by the 
melting of the sugar. Bake in a moderate oven, and when they have 
acquired a fine colour take them out ; when sufficiently cool, remove 
from the paper by moistening the opposite side, or with the blade of 
a very thin knife. Place them afterwards two and two, with their 
backs to each other, in order not to injure the glossy sides. 

Biscuit a la Cuiliiere {Spoon Biscuif). — Mix the yolks of three eggs 
with four ounces of fine sugar and half a clove of vanilla, powdered 
and passed through a silk sieve; after working these ingredients for 
five minutes, add a whole egg^ then work them again for five minutes; 
after which add another whole egg, and continue to work them for 
five minutes longer; then beat up the whites of the first three eggs 
to a very stiff froth, and mix them, together with two ounces of dried 
and finely-sifted flour, to the former ingredients : when the batter is 
quite sleek, lay out on paper, and bake as Lady-fingers. 

Small Biscuits with Almonds. — Prepare three yolks as usual ; work 
them ten minutes with four ounces of sugar and an ounce of pounded 
bitter almonds; add a whole egg, and work together full five minutes 
longer; then beat up the whites very stiffi and mix them with the 
yolks, together with one ounce and a half of wheat flour dried in the 
nven and passed throug-h a fine sieve: work this batter till it is quite 
sleek, and then pour it in small copper moulds formed like small 
melons, carefully buttered and covered twice with sugar. Mask the 
biscuit with fine sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Biscuits ivith Cream. — After mixing the yolks of three eggs with 
four ounces of fine sugar, (on which half the peel of a small lemon 
has been grated), work the mixture for ten minutes; then beat up 
the three whites as usual ; mix them gradually with the yolks, toge- 
ther with one ounce and a half of dried sifted flour, and four spoonsful 
of whipped cream, well drained : the whole being lightly mixed toge- 
ther and very sleek, put it in moulds or cases, covering the tops of 
the biscuits with fine sugar ; when the sugar is melted, put the bis- 
cuits in a gentle oven, and let them bake twenty or twenty-five 
minutes. When taken out of the oven, be careful to put them on 
their sides to prevent their sinking. 

Biscuits glazed with Chocolate. — Prepare the same ingredients as 
th-e last, but flavour them with half a clove of vanilla pounded and 
passed through a silk sieve; then put them in a case ten inches in 



12Q THE PASTRY-fOOK. 

length by seven in width, v.'hich you put in a gentle oven. In forty 
or fifty minutes after, see if your biscuit feels tolerably firm ; if it does, 
take it out of the oven, and as soon as it is quite cold, turn the case 
and take out the biscuit, which you cut into small squares, lozenges, 
&;c. : then mix the white of an egg with an ounce of finely-powdered 
white sugar and three ounces of chocolate, which, after being grated, 
you have dissolved for a few minutes in the mouth of the oven : work 
the whole with a silver spoon for five minutes, adding a little white 
of egg to make it rather thick and glossy, and then cover the top of 
the biscuit thickly with it, smoothing it with a spatula ; after which 
put the biscuit for five or six minutes in the oven, and then let cool. 

Biscuits glazed iviih Orange. — Rub the peel of a fine orange on a 
piece of sugar, then scrape off all the coloured parts, and, after bruis- 
ing them with a rolling-pin, mix them with three ounces of fine sugar 
and the white of an egg; beat the whole for five or six minutes, then 
glaze the biscuit (prepared like the last, except you omit the vanilla) 
with it. Flavour the biscuit with either the half of an orange peel, 
lemon or citron, or with coffee. If you wish to glaze them d la rose^ 
colour the glazing with vegetable red, and add one drop of essence 
of roses to it.] 



FANCY BREAD, GINGER-BREAD, BUNS, ROLLS, MUFFINS, 
CRUMPETS, &C. 

jJlmond Bread. — Having bleached and dried eight ounces of sweet, 
and once oimce of bitter almonds, bruise them in a mortar; add one 
^gg, and with the pestle rub it all very fine. If you find it getting 
oily before it becomes fine, increase the quantity of ego'. When fine, 
grate into it the rind of one lemon; and add one pound two ounces of 
sifted loaf sugar. Mix with yolks of eggs, until it becomes a soft 
batter; now add to the rest two ounces of ilour, and mix all well toge- 
ther ; then pour your batter into square flat buttered tins, vvitli the 
sides and ends turned up about two inches high; bake in a warm 
oven, and when cold, ice it over with the icing (see article to ice, 
bride, and other cakes, p. 104), and sprinkle some nonpariel sugar- 
pluins on the top. You may cut it in any shape or form, and mix 
it with your rout cakes. 

Colchester. — Prepare your dough as for Bath cakes; cut it with n 
Colchester cutter to about the thickness of a penny-piece, wash it 
with milk, bake it quick, wash it with egg and milk, while hot; when 
baked and cold, cut them apart. 

Diet. — Put three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, 
with a quarter of a pint of water; put it over a steady fire and stir it 
till it is dissolved; beat six eggs with a whisk in a pan; when the 
sugar boils, pour it gently on the eggs, keeping it well beat till cold ; 
then stir into it three-quarters of a pound of fine sifted flour; have 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 121 

your frames papered, fill them three parts full with the batter, sift 
gugar over them, and bake them in a steady oven. 

French Rolls. — Set a sponge with a quart of warm water, and half 
or three-quarters of a pint of good yeast ; let your sponge rise and 
drop, then melt one ounce of butter in a pint of warm milk, and one 
oimce of salt, to wet up with; it will take about seven pounds of flour 
altogether; let it lie about half an hour, ihen put them on warm tins; 
prove them well, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Short Bread. — Rub one pound of butter into three pounds of flour; 
make a hole and put in one pound of powdered sugar; then wet up 
with a quarter of a pint of honey water, a quarter of a pint of milk, 
and two eggs; break them in round pieces about as big as a walnut; 
roll them round or oval, to the size of a tea-saucer; pinch round the 
edge; place them at the distance of one inch from each other on clean 
tins, not buttered ; cut half a pound of candied orange or lemon peel 
into pieces, and lay them on the top of your cakes; bake them in a 
good steady oven. 

Queen's Ginger-Bread. — Take two pounds of honey, one pound and 
three-quarters of the best moist sugar, three pounds of flour, half a 
pound of sweet almonds blanched and cut thin, half a pound of candied 
orange; peel the rinds of two lemont-, grated, and an ounce of pow- 
dered cinnamon, half an ounce of nutmeg, cloves, mace, and cardi- 
moms, mixed and powdered, and a wine-glassful of water; put your 
honey and water into a pan over the fire, and make it quite hot; mix 
the other ingredients into the flour, and pour in your honey, sugar, 
and water, and mix all well together; let it stand till next day : make 
it into cakes and bake it; rub a little clarified sugar until it will blow 
in bubbles through a skimmer, and with a paste-brush rub over your 
ginger-bread when baked. 

Spice Ginger-Bread. — Take three pounds of flour, one pound of 
moist sugar, four ounces of candied lemon or orange peel, cut small, 
one ounce of powdered ginger, two ounces of powdered allspice, half 
an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a handful of caraway seeds, and 
three pounds of treacle ; rub the butter with your hand into the flour; 
then add the other ingredients, and mix it in the dough with the trea- 
cle; make it into cakes or nuts, and bake them in a warm oven. 

Thick Ginger-Bread. — Prepare seven pounds of treacle, rub three- 
quarters of a pound of butter into twelve pounds of flour; mix three 
ounces of caraway, two ounces of ground coriander seeds, and two 
ounces of ground allspice, with your flour and treacle; mould it well 
together, make it into cakes, point them, butter the sideb, and place 
them close together on buttered tins; put up-sets round them, wash 
with milk, and bake in a steady heat; when they are done, wash with 
egg and milk. 

Sweetmeat Nuts. — Prepare seven pounds of treacle ; mix four ounces 
of ground ginger, six ounces of ground allspice, eight ounces of can- 
11 



122 THE PASTEl-COOK. 

died lemon and orange, cut small, with nine pounds of flour; wet it 
up with your treacle, then beat into your dough four pounds of butter, 
and nve pounds of good moist sugar; lay them off on buttered tins, 
about the size of walnuts, flat them down, wash them with water, and 
bake them in a slow oven. 

Spice iVz//s.— Prepare seven pounds of treacle; rub half a pound of 
butter into nine pounds of flour; mix four ounces of ground allspice, 
four ounces of ground ginger, two ounces each of caraway and cori- 
ander seeds povv'dered with your butter, flour, and treacle; roll half a 
pound of moist sugar, and strew it over the top, so that you take a 
little in every piece you cut from it ; roll them out in long rolls about 
the size of your finger; cut them in pieces the size of a nutmeg; 
place them on buttered tins, but not to touch ; v^^ash with water or 
small beer, and bake in a good steady oven. 

Muffins. — Muffins are baked on a hot iron plate, and not in an oven. 
To a quarter of a peck of flour add three-quarters of a pint of yeast, 
four ounces of salt, and as much water (or milk) slightly warmed, as 
is sufficient to form a dough of rather a sotli consistency. Small por- 
tions of the dough are then put into holes, previously made in a layer 
of flour about tvv^o inches thick, placed on a board, and the whole is 
covered up in a blanket, and suffered to stand near a fire, to cause 
the dough to rise ; when this is effected, they will each exhibit a 
semi-globular shape; they are then placed on a heated iron plate, and 
baked; when the bottoms of the muffins begin to acquire a brownish 
colour, they are turned, and baked on the opposite side. 

[Wheat Muffins. — Melt a small piece of butter into a quart of milk, 
and set it aside until cold — beat four eggs very light, and make a 
batter by adding alternately and very gradually a little milk and a 
little flour, until the batter is of the proper consistence, which is quite 
thin — then add a large spoonful of yeast, if you do not use the pow- 
ders as directed in the note on page 123. Bake them in muffin-rings 
on a griddle, and butter them before serving, — they must be torn 
asunder to butter, as cutting them open renders them heavy. 

Rice Muffins. — Rice muffins are made in the same manner exactly 
as rice cakes, except that the batter of the former is thinner — that is, 
to a quart of milk and three eggs, you put less rice and less flour. 

Rice Cakes.— ^o\\ half a pint of rice until quite soft, setting it aside 
until perfectly cool ; beat three eggs very light and put them with a 
pint of wheat flour to the rice, making it into a batter with a quart 
of milk ; beat it well, and set it to rise with a spoonful of yeast, or use 
the yeast powders as directed above. Bake on a griddle, and butter 
them before sending tliern to table. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — To a quart of buckwheat meal put a little Indian 
meal (say a table-spoonful) and a little salt; make them into a batter 
with cold water, taking care to beat it very well, as the excellence 
of buckwheat cakes depends very much on their being well beaten ; 



THE PASTRY-rOOK. 1'23 

then put in a large spoonful of good yeast,* and set to rise; when 
sufficiently risen, bake them a clear brown on a griddle. They are 
usually buttered before being sent to table. 

Flannel Cakes. — Melt a table-spoonful of butter in a quart of milk, 
and after stirring it well, set it away to cool; then heat four eggs 
very light, and stir them into the milk in turn v/ith half a pound of 
sifted flour ; put in a spoonful of yeast, and set it aside. These are 
baked on a griddle like buckwheat cakes, and are always buttered 
before being sent to table. 

• Lidian S/appers. — To a pint of Indian meal, add a handful of wheat 
flour and a little salt; beat three eggs very light and stir them, in turn 
with the meal, into a quart of milk. These cakes require no yeast, 
and should be baked as soon as mixed. They are baked on a griddle, 
and buttered before serving. 

Johnny-Cake. — To a quart of sifted Indian meal (for this cake 
coarse meal should always be used) add a pint of warm water, and a 
tea-spoonful of salt ; mix the meal gradually into the water, and 
when mixed beat it very haid, until quite light, then spread it out 
smoothly and evenly upon a board. Let this board be then placed 
before the fire, having something to support it behind ; when done, 
cut it in squares, and send it to table, without butter. 

Corn- Meal Bread. — To a pint of sifted corn-meal (not too fine) add 
a small piece of butter and two eggs, well beaten ; make it into a 
batter with new milk, and put in a spoonful of yeast. It will require 
an hour to rise. This bread is best baked, in small tin pans.] 

Crumpets. — Crumpets are made of batter composed of flour, water 
(or milk), and a small quantity of yeast. To one pound of the best 
wheaten flour you may add three table-spoonfuls of yeast. A portion 
of the liquid paste, not too thin (after being suffered to rise), is 
poured on the heated iron plate, and baked, like pancakes in a pan. 

Rusks. — Rub six ounces of butter into four pounds of flour ; set a 
sponge with a pint and a-half of warm milk, and a half pint of yeast; 
when the sponge rises, add four ounces of good moist sugar, mix it 
up together, let it prove a little, then roll it out about the size of a 
rolling-pin ; flat it down with your hand, and place the cakes at a 

* Many persons now make use of the yeast powders, and give them a 
decided preference. They certainly possess tlie advantage of requiring 
less time, and thereby enabling you to make muffins, buckwheat cakes, 
&c. — which, set with yeast, require soine hours in the preparation — at 
a quarter of an hour's notice. The ingredients are the super-carbc- 
nate of soda and tartaric acid, to be used in the following manner : — 
A spoonful o{ soda, and a spoon two-thirds full of tart-iric acid, are to be 
dissolved separately in a little water. The soda is to be put into the bat- 
ter when it is partly beaten, taking care th-at it is perfectly dissolved; and 
the acid is to be added when the cook is ready to begin baking, as they 
must not be allov.^ed to stand after the effervescence takes place. 



124 THE rASTRY-roOK. 

distance from each other, so as not to touch ; prove them well, and 
bake tliem in a moderately heated oven ; when cold, cut them in 
slices ; place them to touch on the tins, and brown them off in a 
brisk oven. 

Sweet Rus/cs. — Cut a diet bread cake into thin long slices; lay 
them on iron plates and brown them quickly, in a very hot oven ; 
turn them when of a light-brown colour; and when of a similar 
colour on the other side, they are done. 

Tops and BoUojjis. — Prepare your mixture as for rusks, make it 
into small balls about the size of a large walnut, place them on your 
tins in straight rows just to touch ; prove them well ; bake them in 
a moderate heat : when cold, draw a sharp knife between every row ; 
to cut your bails out square, turn them on their side, and cut them 
through the middle one at a time : place them on the tin as close as 
you can, with the cut part upwards ; put them in a brisk oven ; 
watch them till they are nicely browned over ; then they are done. 



OF PASTES IN GENERAL PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 

[The first grand object for our consideration is the proper method 
of making paste ,• for upon our skill in that important branch of 
the pastry-cook's art, will the success of our future operations mainly 
depend. Whenever the paste happens to be ill made, its bad ef- 
fects will invariably appear in the baking; and if even by chance 
the colour should turn out tolerably well, it will be still highly unsatis- 
factory to competent judges ; in short, paste thus made will always be 
heavy, have an unpleasant flavour, and, above all, be very indi- 
gestible ; and, indeed, it is owing to the general ignorance that pre- 
vails respecting its proper amalgamation, that good pastry is so rarely 
made ; and that the number of good family pastry-cooks is so small. 

It is much more easy to hake pastry than to make it. The oven 
requires care, constant attention, and practice, it is true ; but the art 
of making pastry is quite another thing — an art that admits of no 
mediocrity — a good memory, taste practice, and dexterity, being ab- 
solutely necessary in that branch of the business; for it is really 
from the mannex of mixing the various ingredients of which it is 
composed that it acquires its good or bad quality. 

An indispensable requisite is cleanliness in those who have to pre- 
pare elegant viands, and the most scrupulous attention must be paid 
to delicate management and order. In a pastry-cook these requi- 
sitions are absolutely indispensable. 



TO MAKE PUFF PASTE. 

I shall now endeavour to give directions for the composition of this 
delicate and elegant kind of paste. 



•THE PASTRY-COOK. 125 

Ingredients. — Twelve ounces of fine-sifted flour, twelve ounces of 
butter, two drachms of fine salt, and the yolks of two eg-g-y. 

Manner of Wurking. — Having- placed the twelve ounces of flour 
on the board, make a small hole in the middle ; in which, put the 
tv^o drachms of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and nearly a glass of 
water ; and with the ends of the fingers of your right-hand gradually 
mix in the surrounding flour, adding a little water where necessary, 
till the paste is of a proper consistence, rather firm than otherwise ; 
then prove it by leaning your hand on the board, and working it for 
some minutes, when the paste will become soft tu the touch, and 
glossy in appearance. 

It is of importance to observe, that this paste should be neither too 
BtiflTnor too soft, but of a proper medium', yet it will be better when 
it is a little too soft than when too stiflf. 

The same process must be attended to in summer as in v;inter; 
though many persons pretend that this kind of paste should be made 
stiffer in sufumer than in winter, on account of the difference in the 
two seasons. As far as regards the hardness of the butter, this mode 
of reasoning has certainly some truth in it; for, inasmuch as the 
winter is favourable to the work, so does the heat of summer render 
our operations troublesome and difficult, and prevent them sometimea 
from having the desired effect, particularly in the making of puff* 
paste. 

The reason why summer paste should not be made softer than that 
made in winter, is this: — if, when the paste is soft, it be buttered, 
and afterwards placed on ice, as is practised in summer, the butter, 
which is a greasy substance, will become quickly congealed by the 
coldness of the ice ; while the paste, which is only a ujoist body, will 
scarcely be affected by it ; and, consequently, the butter being fro- 
zen, and the paste soft, it will follow that, in Vv-orking it, the butter 
not being held by the paste sufficiently firm to unite with it, will 
break into small pieces ; and after having received the two first turns, 
will appear in small lumps, like large peas. On rolling it again, and 
placing on the ice, the cold acts with greater force on the small par- 
ticles of buttery which quickly become like so many icicles, and the 
paste, in consequence, will be completely spoiled ; for, in baking, 
these particles of butter melt, and, separating themselves from the 
paste, render it incapable of uniting with them. 

When the paste has been made as above, take three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, in pieces, which for twenty minutes has been in a 
pail of spring water, thoroughly imbued with a few pounds of pounded 
ice previously well washed; then squeeze and work well in a napkin 
i:i order to separate the water from it, and at the same time to render 
it soft, and above all, of an equal consistence; then as quickly as pos- 
sible roll the paste on a marble slab, into a square, and placing the 
huiter in the middle, cover Vv-ith an equal thickness of paste, by rais- 
'h\T the paste over it. After rolling it out two or three feet in length, 
11* 



126 THE PASTRY-COOK. 

fold it into three parts by doubling one part over the other; after 
which roll it out again, and fold it once more into three equal parts — 
now roll it to a greater length, envelope it with a clean linen cloth 
which has been dusted with sonne sifted flour — lay this on some finely 
pounded ice, taking care to have several folds of cloth between the 
paste and the ice, to prevent the moisture striking through — place on 
the top of the paste a dish containing some pounded ice — this serves 
to keep the surface of the paste cool, and also to prevent it becoming 
soft by the action of the air. After three or four minutes, remove 
the dish, and turn the paste upside down, instantly covering it as 
before. This operation should be performed three times in the same 
manner, and with the same precautions. 

Lastly, roll it out two or three times according to what you intend 
to make of it, and use it as expeditiously as possible, lest the heat of 
the season should render it too soft to handle, or prevent its having 
the desired effect in baking. 

Thus, in less than half an hour, it is possible to make very fine puff 
paste, having previously everything ready — the ice pounded, the but- 
ter frozen, and the oven quite hot, otherwise it cannot be done. This 
is important, as it is sometimes an hour before the oven can be made 
hot ; and therefore the paste should not be begun to be made till the 
oven is half heated. The following is another method.] 

Puff Fastc. — Take one pound of flour, and one pound of good firm 
butter; cut your butter into slices; roll it in thin sheets on some of 
your flour; wet up the rest with about a quarter of a pint of water; 
see that it is about as stiff as your batter ; roll it to a thin sheet; cover 
it with your sheets of butter ; double it in a three double ; do the same 
five times; then double it up; lay it in the cold to use when you want 
it, keeping the air from it: you ought to make it before the sun rises, 
unless you have a cold place to make it in. The following is another 
method : — Take one pound of flour, and eight ounces of butter; rub 
the butter into the flour with your hand, and make it into a paste with 
water, to the consistence of very thick batter; roll out your paste 
thin; break eight ounces more butter into pieces of the size of a shil- 
ling, and put them in all parts of your paste ; fold it up ; and after stand- 
ing a short time, roll it out again ; when it has been rolled out three 
times, it is fit for use. 

Short Paste. — Rub one pound of butter into one pound and a quar- 
ter of flour; wet it up stiff with cold water; work it smooth, and it is 
fit for use. 

Tart Paste. — Eight ounces of butter rubbbed into a pound of flour 
with your hand, and made into a stiff paste with water, is an excel- 
lent paste for tarts. 

Jiprlcot Tart. — Lay your puft' paste in patties; put your jam in the 
middle, and bake them in a brisk oven; or you may bake your puff 
paste first with a bit of bread in the middle; then take out the bread 
— fill the holp with jam; it will look very handsom.p. 



THE PASTRY-COOK. 12? 

Covered Tart. — Take your short paste ; cut it into pieces to the size 
of your patties; roll them out thin ; lay in the bottoms; put your fruit 
as high as you can ; put a pinch of sugar on the top; close your tart; 
sprinkle water over it; put a pinch of powdered loaf sugar on the 
top; and bake them in a good steady heat. 

Raspberry Turt. — Take your short paste; cut it into pieces of 
nearly the size of your patties; about the thickness of a penny-piece; 
then with your thumb drive it thin in the middle; leave it thick at 
the edge ; cut it round close to the patty, and notch it with the back 
of your knife; thin your raspberry-jam with a little water, and fill 
the tart three parts full ; bake them in a brisk oven. Or you may 
made them with puff paste, in the same manner as apricot tarts, if 
you choose. 

Mince Pies. — Stew three pounds of lean beef till it is tender; chop 
it fine with one pound and a half of beef suet, one dozen of apples, 
and one pound of stoned raisins; mix all together, with three pounds 
of currants, washed and picked clean, half a pound of citron, half 
an ounce, together, of cloves, cinnamon, and mace, pounded fine, a 
little allspice, a pint of brandy, and three half pints of cider, and 
one pound and a half of good moist sugar ; squeeze it close down 
in a glazed pan, and it will be fit for use ; then roll your puff paste 
in sheets, about the thi(;kness of a penny-piece ; cut out the tops to 
the size of your pies; put your cuttings for bottoms; fill them to 
your fancy ; cover and close them ; and bake them in a steady oven. 

Raised Pie — Take seven pounds of flour; then take one pound of 
mutton suet, clarified down ; put it into a saucepan with one pint and 
a half of water, and set it over the fire till it boils; make a hole in 
the middle of your flour, and pour in your liquor boiling hot; then 
mix in your flour with a spoon till you can bear to put your hand in ; 
mix it till it becomes a nice smooth piece of dough; cover it over 
with a cloth; and raise your pies with as much of it as will make the 
size you want ; when filled and nicely closed, wash with eo^g, and 
lay on your ornament. Your oven must be brisk, if for small pies: 
but if for large ones, a more steady heat will be best. 



THE BAKER 



INTRODUCTION. 

Baking, or the art of making bread, is amongst the earliest modes 
resorted to by the more advanced portions of mankind for the prepa- 
ration of food. In the early ages, however, loaf or leavened bread 
was unknown, as it is amongst uncivilized nations to this day. The 
North American Indians contrive, by pounding their maize, or Indian 
corn, to make a sort of cake, which they bake by means of hot cin- 
ders. This serves them, and, indeed, occasionally the Anglo-Ameri- 
cans, as a substitute for loaf or leavened bread, and may be called 
unleavened bread. But in some parts of the world bread is not 
known; in others it may be known, but is not used — as amongst the 
people inhabiting the vast Pampas on the Rio de la Plata, where 
scarcely anything is eaten but beef. 

Bread may be thus defined ; — A nutritive substance made of corn, 
generally wheat, or other farinaceous or mealy vegetables, ground or 
reduced into flour or meal, that is, a powder more or less fine, and 
kneaded or mixed with water, and baked in an oven, upon hot ashes 
or other grise. This process makes unleavened bread, or, in other 
words, unfermented bread, or what is now called biscuits. To lea- 
vened or fermented bread, that is, the bread generally used in our 
houses, there must be an addition, yeast, or some other substance 
which has the property of promoting fermentation. 

The origin or etymology of the word bread is not without interest. 
Home Tooke says, bread is brayed grain, from the verb to bray or 
pound in a mortar, the ancient way in which flour was made. The 
meaning of bread, therefore, is something brayed — brayed wheat, or 
wheat bread — pease brayed, or bread — oats brayed, or bread, &c. 
The word bread was spelt differently in different ages; thus we have 
brede, breed, &c. Dough, Home Tooke says, comes from the Anglo- 
Saxon word deaw-ian, to wet, lo moisten. Dough, or dow^ means 
wetted. The bread, that is, brayed corn or grain, by being wetted 
becomes dough. 

Loaf comes from the Anglo-Saxon word hlif-ian, to raise, to lift up. 

(12«) 



THE BAKER. 129 

Thus, after the bread or brayed corn has been wetted, by which it 
becomes dough, then follows the leaven, by which it becomes loaJ\ 
that is, raised. Leaven is derived from the French word lever, to 
raise. 

Bread, in some countries, is not made entirely of meal, much less 
of wheaten flour. In many parts of Sweden, the bread is composed 
partly of the bark of trees, particularly durmg winter. 

In Westphalia, a kind of very coarse black bread is made, of which 
the peasants bake one large loaf for the whole week. This is divided 
for use with a saw. It is called pumpernickel, and is sometimes 
exported. In many parts of Germany, bread is made of grain nearly 
entire, or but just bruised, which is very coarse, and frequently forms 
part of the food of horses. 

The Romans, before they had acquired the art of baking, were 
called, either by way of distinction or reproach, the pulse-eating peo- 
ple. According to some authorities, indeed, the earlier nations knew 
no other use of their meal than to make of it a kind of porridge. 
Such was the food of the Roman soldiers for several centuries, or at 
most their skill extended no farther than to knead unleavened dough 
into cakes or biscuits. Even at present, as has been before intimated, 
there are many countries where the luxury of bread is unknown. 

Loaf-bread is seldom used in the northern parts of Europe and Asia, 
except by the higher classes of inhabitants. You never see loaves in 
Sweden, though in the towns rolls are common enough. Gottenburg 
is a considerable town, containing between twenty and thirty thou- 
sand inhabitants. In the year 1812 it was crowded with merchants 
from all parts of Europe, being at that time the great connecting link 
between Great Britain and the Continent. Towards the end of that 
year only, the captain of an English packet ordered a Gottenburg 
baker to bake for him a quantity of bread, amounting altogether to 
the value of one pound sterling. The baker was astonished, and in 
fact confounded, at so great an order, and refused to comply till the 
captain gave him security that he would carry off and pay for the 
loaves, declaring that he could never dispose of so great a quantity 
of bread in Gottenburg, if it were left on his hands. In the country 
parts of Sweden, nothing in the character of bread is to be met with, 
excepting rye cakes, which are represented as nearly as hard as flint, 
and which are only baked twice a year. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON BAKING. 

Baking, as a business or profession, was never confined to the baking 
of common bread alone, that is to say, bread in every-day use. A 
baker we take to mean a person who bakes and prepares any farina- 
ceous substance intended for human food. If this definition be cor- 
rect, then it will follow that not only loaf bread baking, biscuit-baking, 
fancy-bread bakmg, belong to the business of the baker, but also pas= 



180 THE BAKER. 

try making and confectionery. We know, indeed, that all these 
branches are frequently tc a certain extent practised by the sam.e 
individual, and therefore, in a work of this kind, they ought all to be 
treated of, which we intend to do under separate heads. 

The ancients had a great variety of spice bread and sweetmeats, 
and these, there is every reason to believe, were produced by the 
persons called bakers ; pastry-cooks and confectioners being unknown 
as separate professions. The Asiatics were exceedingly fond of 
sweetmeats, and there can be little or no doubt that a similar taste 
was introduced by them among the Romans, when they were carried 
to Rome to practise their calling there. The Rhodians, we are told, 
had a particular kind of bread sweetened with honey, so exquisitely 
pleasant, that it was eaten with other delicacies after dinner by way 
of dessert. 

The French, who are excellent bakers, have a great variety of 
breads, and these for the most part have been long introduced into 
Great Britain. The common bread of that country, or bread for gen- 
eral use, may be divided into three classes: — wheaten bread, made 
of the finest flour, sometimes called firsts; second, or household 
bread, made of flour somewhat coarser, called seconds; and brown 
bread, made of flour called thirds, and sometimes of flour of various 
degrees coarser than thirds. The coarseness or fineness of flour 
(supposing the wheat of the same quality) depends upon the dressing, 
or the separating of the flour from the husks of the wheat, after it 
has been reduced to a powder. The finest flour is entirely separated 
from the bran or husks — the other description not entirely so, but the 
broad bran is removed from the coarsest flour. The writers in many 
of our celebrated Encyclopaedias say, that " our household bread is 
made of the whole substance of the grain, without the separation of 
either the finest flour or the coarsest bran." This is a mistake 
altogether. 

In making pure wheaten loaf bread, no other ingredients should 
be employed but flour, water, yeast, or some other innocent ferment- 
ing matter. Various other ingredients are used, principally by those 
engaged in making bread for sale. The London bakers employ alum, 
for the purpose of making the bread whiter, &c. Home-baked bread 
is never so white, even when made from the same flour, as that pro- 
duced by the public baker ; but of this we shall speak when we comf' 
to describe the methods of bread-making used by public bakers; 
present we shall confine ourselves to bread as made in families for 
daily use. 

The goodness of bread, whether baked at home or abroad, will de- 
pend, firstly, upon the quality of the flour employed ; secondly, upon 
the quality of the yeast; and, thirdly, upon the skill and care of the 
baker. The process of baking, though simple enough, requires some 
experience on the part of him or her who may undertake to perform 
it. We need scarcely say, that experience is only to be acquired in 
one way, and that way is too obvious to need pointing out. To judge 



THE EAKEK. 131 

of flour, experience is also necessary; but any one may form a pretty 
accurate idea whether it is good or bad, by .attending to the follow- 
ing directions : — If flour is of a fine white colour, it may be pro- 
nounced good, so far as colour is concerned ; but if it be brown, it 
shows that either it was made from bad wheat, or that it has been 
coarsely dressed — that is, particles of bran, more or less fine, have 
been left in it. Brown flour, however, may be of a good, sound qual- 
ity, and fine white flour not so. To judge of flour, take a portion in 
your hand and press it firmly between your thumb and fore-finger, at 
the same time rubbing it gently, for the purpose of making a level 
surface upon the flour. By this means you will be able to ascertain 
the colour, by observing the pressed and smooth surface ; and the act 
of pressing and smoothing it, will enable you to ascertain these facts. 
If it feel loose and lively in the hand, it is of good quality ; if on the 
contrary it feels dead or damp, or in other words clammy, it is de- 
cidedly bad. 

Flour ought to be a few weeks old before it is used; but it will 
keep good much longer, if kept in a dry place covered over. But it 
is, perhaps, better to trust to your miller or mealman, who, if you are 
a good and constant customer, will take care to serve you with good 
flour for his own sake ; for if he employs any tricks, he is sure to be 
discovered when the bread comes out of the oven. 

It has been found by analysis, that wheat flour consists of three 
principal substances, namely, starch, gluten, and sugar, and a very 
small portion of albumen ; of these, the starch is the most nourish- 
ing as food. The gluten resembles animal glue in its tenacious qua- 
lities ; and its smell, when subjected to a strong heat, is foetid, like 
burning horn or feathers. It will not ferment in warm water and 
yeast, but like a piece of flesh will become putrid. Mr. Edlin says, 
that " this substance is totally different from vegetable matter, but 
rather resembling animal." The gluten in wheat-flour is the cause 
of its forming an adhesive paste with water, and of its rising in 
leaven. 

Starch forms the most considerable part of wheat-flour, and there 
is reason to believe, from so many persons subsisting on potatoes, 
which contain much starch and no gluten, that it is the most nutri- 
tious ; but starch cannot be made into bread, because it wants the 
mucilaginous gluten to give it tenacity, and the saccharine matter, 
or sugar, to induce fermentation. 

From experiments made by Mr. Edlin, it appears that a pound of 
wheat contains three ounces of bran, ten ounces of starch, six drachms 
of gluten, and two drachms of sugar ; which, with the loss of two 
ounces in grinding and reducing the flour to starch, make one pound, 
or sixteen ounces. From this it appears that he did not discover the 
albumen, which M. Seguin considers the fermenting principle. 

Mr. Edlin also ascertained by experiment, that starch, isinglass, 
and sugar, mixed in proper quantities, and fermented with yeast, will 
make a light and porous bread. 



132 THE BAKER. 

Flour-paste may be considered as merely a viscid and elastic tis- 
sue, the interstices of which are filled with starch, albumen, and 
sugar. We know that it is from the gluten that the dough derives 
its property of rising on the admixture of leaven ; the leaven acting 
on the sweet principle of the wheat, gives rise in succession to the 
vinous and acetous fermentation, and of consequence to alcohol, 
acetic, and carbonic acids. The latter gas tends to fly off, but the 
gluten resists its disengagement, expands like a membrane — forms a 
multitude of little cavities, which give lightness and sponginess to 
the bread. 

To judge of good yeast, no positive directions can be given. Yeast 
f-hould always be fresh, and if made from table ale it is better, because 
less bitter than that made from very strong ale. Jf the yeast is sour, 
the dough will not rise. Originally what is called leaven was uni- 
formly employed, and it is now sometimes used as a substitute for 
yeast. Those who use it, keep a pound or more dough from baking 
to baking. It is kept in a wooden barrel, or bowl, covered with flour. 
Before it is fit to use, it must be both stale and sour. Bread made in 
this way is said to be more digestible, but it is not so pleasant to the 
taste. Leaven is now only used at sea. 

A good oven is necessary for the production of good bread. If the 
oven be heated, as in country places, by dry wood, furze, or fern, 
burnt in the oven itself, it ought to be built round, not long, as there 
will be in the former case a greater equality of heat. The roof 
should be from twenty inches to two feet high in the centre ; the 
mouth no larger than will be sufficient to admit the bread. But many 
people who make their own bread send it to be baked at the baker's. 
We have seen good ovens attached to a stove, and heated by the 
kitchen fire. These are not sufficiently capacious to contain loaves 
enough for the consumption of a large family, but they answer the 
purpose of a small family very well. To save room, it will be neces- 
sary, in stove ovens, to bake in tins. Bread thus baked is much more 
smooth and neat than when baked in the ordinary way; but the plea- 
sant crispness of the crust is wanting. 

The ovens used in London and some other large towns are, for the 
most part, heated by a furnace placed on one side. The heat in these 
ovens is very equable, and the baker is enabled to keep it up at all 
times with very little trouble, and with less expense than by the old 
method. 



FAMILY LOAF-BREAD. 

Under this head we shall give directions for making bread of wheat 
flour only. The manufacturing of barley flour, rye flour, and a mix- 
ture of different kinds of flours, with or without the addition of vari- 
ous other nutritive substances, &c., into bread, will be treated oi 
hereafter. 

Family or Home-Baked Bread. — An expeditious and simple method 



THE BAKEK, 133 

of making bread for a small family is as follows: — Take Haifa bushel 
of flour; put all this fiour excepting about four pounds into a tub or 
pan, and in winter place it before the fire to warm. Mix six ounces 
or half a pound of powdered salt with the flour — but it would be bet- 
ter to work the salt in with the dough. Then take a pint of good 
fresh yeast, and well mix it with a sufficient quantity of blood-warm 
water. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour ; — pour the water 
and yeast gradually into the hole of the flour, mixing the water and 
fiour with your hands till both become well incorporated. Cover this 
mixture up, and place it near the fire till it has well risen, that is to 
say, fermented. Then work the other flour into it with your fist=, 
till it becomes a nice, smooth, tough dough. Make this dough into 
loaves, and bake in an oven properly heated : if too hot, your bread 
will be burnt outside, and not done inside. It will take frotn an hour 
and a half to two hours in baking, but the bread should always remain 
in the oven half an hour after it has become brown; or, as it is tech- 
nically called, it will not be toaked through. This is a method we 
have known to be used with success in many families, though not 
aware that it ever has been published before. 

For large bakings, the following method is best : — 
The common way is to put the flour into a trough, tub, or pan, suf- 
ficiently large to permit its swelling to three times the size it at pre- 
sent occupies. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour. For 
half a burihel of flour take a pint of thick fresh yeast — that is, yeast 
not frothy — mix it with about a pint of soft water made blood-warm. 
The water must not be hot. Then gently mix with the yeast and 
water as much flour as will bring it to the consistence of a thick or 
stiff" batter — pour this mixture into the hole in the flour, and cover it 
by sprinkling it over with flour — lay over it a flannel or sack, and in 
cold weather place it near, not too near, the fire. This is called lay- 
ing the sponge. When the sponge — or this mixture of water, yeast, 
and flour — has risen enough to crack the dry flour by which it was 
covered, sprinkle over the top six ounces of salt — (more or less to 
suit the taste) : mind, the tiine when the salt is applied is of great 
importance. We have seen directions in which we are told to mix 
the salt with the water and yeast. The effect of this would bo 
to prevent fermentation, or, in other words, to prevent the sponge 
from rising. Afifr the salt is sprinkled over the sponge, work it 
with the rest of the flour, and add from time to time warm water 
(not hot) till the whole is sufficiently moistened ; that is, scarcely as 
moist as pie-crust. The degree of moistness, however, which the 
mixture ought to possess can only be taught by experience— when 
the water is mixed with the composition, then work it well by push- 
ing your fists into it — then rolling it out with your hands — folding it 
up again — kneading it again with your fists, till it is completely 
mixed, and formed into a stiff", tough, smooth substance, which i.*^ 
called dough — great care must be taken, that your dough be not too 
moisi on the one hand, and on the other that every particle of flour 
12 



134 THE BAKEE. 

be thoroughly incorporated. Form your dough into a lump like n 
large dumpling, again cover it up, and keep it warm to rise or fer- 
ment. After it has been rising about twenty minutes, or half an 
hour, make the dough into loaves, first having shaken a little flour 
over the board to prevent sticking. The loaves may be made up in 
tin moulds, or if it be desired to make it into loaves to be baked with- 
out the use of moulds, divide the dough into equal parts, according 
to the size you wish to have your loaves — make each part into the 
form of a dumpling, and lay one dumpling, if we may so speak, upon 
another — then, the oven being properly heated, by means of an in- 
strument called a peel, a sort of wooden shovel, put in your loaves, 
and immediately shut the door as close as possible. A good deal of 
nicety is required in properly placing the loaves in the oven — they 
must be put pretty closely together. The bread will take from an 
hour and a-half to two hours to bake properly. 

Brown or Diet Bread is made of flour from which the coarsest flake 
bran only is removed. This bread is made as in the preceding direc- 
tions. By boiling a pound and a-quarter of bran in a gallon of the 
water in which the bread is made, and then straining it, there will 
be an increase of one-sixth more than if mixed with plain water. 

Bread not liable to become hitter. — This process is an invention of a 
Mr. Stone. He took a tea-spoonful of yeast and mixed it with three 
quarters of a pint of warm water. He then took a bushel or fifty- 
six pounds of flour, and having put it into the kneading trough, and 
made a hole in the middle of it large enough to contain two gallons 
of water, he poured in his small quantity, and took a stick and stir- 
red it until it was as thick as a batter pudding — having covered this 
sponge with a sprinkling of flour, it was left to ferment for an hour, 
at the end of which time he took a quart more of warm water and 
poured in, and repeated the operation of stirring it in with more flour, 
and again sprinkling it with flour, when it was again left for two 
hours, when it will be found to have risen and broken through the 
flour — then add three quarts or a gallon of water, and stir in flour to 
the consistence of butter, and again cover it with dry flour — and in 
about three or four more he mixed up his dough ; which done, he 
covered it up warm and let it stand to prove four or five hours more, 
when he made up his loaves and baked them. The bread was as 
light and as porous as if one pint of yeast had been made. 

Having, as we trust, explained the process of baking as it is prac- 
tised by those who adhere to its simple principles, and who employ 
no other ingredients than those necessary to produce good bread, we 
shall now proceed to describe the methods pursued by the public 
baker; and, at the same time, give a description of a public bake- 
house, and the duties of the persons employed therein. 



THE BAKER. 135 



ARTIFICIAL YEASTS. 



Previous to entering^ upon the subject of public baking, by which 
BO large a portion of the people are supplied with their daily bread, it 
will be necessary to lay before our readers some of the various me- 
thods by which yeast is compounded. Of brewers' yeast, or the yeast 
of ale and beer, we have already spoken, and therefore it will be 
necessary again to revert to it. Several of the following directions 
for the preparations of yeast have been long before the public, and 
some of them the writer has not had an opportunity of testing by 
experience, but there is no reason to doubt of their efficiency; of the 
patent yeast, however, now pretty generally iisea by the public 
bakers, he can speak with confidence, having witnessed the whole 
process of making it, and experienced its perfect applicability to the 
manufacturing of bread. We shall first, however, treat of the mode 
of preserving brewers' yeast. 

Teast to Preserve. — Take a quantity and work it well with a whisk, 
till it becomes thin; then procure a wooden dish or platter, clean and 
dry, and with a soft brush lay a thin layer of yeast on the dish, and 
turn the lop downwards to keep out the dust, but not the air, which 
is to dry it. When the first coat is dry, lay on another, and let that 
dry, and so continue till the quantity is sufficient ; by this means, it 
may soon be made two or three inches thick, when it may be pre- 
served perfectly good, in dry tin canisters, for a long time. When 
you use it for baking, cut a piece and lay it in warm water till it is 
dissolved, when it is fit for use. 

Poiatoe Yeast is made of mealy potatoes boiled thoroughly soft — 
they are then skinned and mashed as smooth as possible, when as 
much hot water should be put on them as will make a mash of the 
consistency of good beer yeast. Add to every pound of potatoes two 
ounces of treacle, and when just warm stir in for every pound of 
potatoes two large spoonsful of yeast. Keep it warm till it has done 
fermenting, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use. A pound 
of potatoes will make nearly a quart of yeast, and it is said to be 
equally as good as brewers' yeast. 

The following are Br, Lettsnni's directions for making another Pre- 
pared Yeast. — Thicken two quarts of water with four ounces of flour, 
boil it for half an hour, then sweeten it with three of brown sugar ; 
when almost cold, pour it along with four spoonfuls of bakers' yeast 
into an earthen jug, deep enough for the fermentation to go on with- 
out running over ; place it a day near the fire ; then pour off the thin 
liquor from the top, shake the remainder, and close it up for use, first 
straining it through a sieve. To preserve it sweet, set it in a cool 
cellar, or hang it some depth in a well. Always keep some of this 
yeast to make the next quantity that is wanted. 

Jlrtifeial Yeast. — Take two ounces of flour, boil it in a quart of 



130 THE BAKER. 

water, till it comes to the consistence of a thin jelly, pour it into a 
machine for impregnating water with fixed air ; then put into the 
lower vessel some coarse powdered marble, and pour on it some sul- 
phuric acid diluted with water. The apparatus is now to be adjust- 
ed, and the upper vessel put in its place, and nearly stopped. The 
fixed air now passes through the valve, and ascends into the middle 
and upper part of the machine, where the gas is absorbed by the 
flour jelly in considerable quantity ; and in the course of a few hours 
the matter will be found so strongly impregnated, as to be in a state 
of fermentation. This artificial yeast may now be put into a bottle 
for use. The great advantage of this yeast is, that it may be made 
in situations where it is impossible to procure brewers' yeast. The 
foregoing operation need not be performed but once by the same in- 
dividual, as the process may be carried on by mixing this artificial 
yeast, which was invented by the late Mr. Henry, with the preced- 
ing preparation recommended by Dr. Lettsom, which it will cause to 
ferment the same as brewers' yeast. 

Another artificial yeast is made as follows : — Take half a pound 
of fine flour, the same qrantity of coarse brown sugar, and a quarter 
of a peck of bruised malt ; boil these over the fire for a quarter of 
an hour, in half a gallon of water, then strain the liquor through a 
sieve into an upright jug, and when cooled to 80 degrees of heat, add 
one pint of the artificial Seltzer water, or, if procurable, Seltzer wa- 
ter itself, or water impregnated with fixed air — the mixture will 
soon begin to ferment: it should then be set before the fire, and 
when ebullition ceases, the yeast will sink to the bottom. Pour oflf 
the clear liquor, and the yeast will be fit for use. 

Patent Yeast, which is extensively used by the London bakers, and 
which is, perhaps, preferable to all other yeasts, is made as follows : 
— Take half a pound of hops and two pailfuls of water, mix and boil 
in the oven till the liquid is reduced to one pailful ; strain the decoc- 
tion into the seasoning tub, and when it is sufficiently cool put in half 
a peck of malt. In the mean time, put the hops, strained off", again 
into two pailfuls of water, and boil as before till they are reduced to 
one; strain the liquid while hot into the seasoning tub. The heat 
will not injuriously affect malt, previously mixed with tepid water. 
Boil the hops again as before, and strain off" as before into the season- 
ing tub. When the liquor has cooled down to about blood-heat, strain 
off the malt, and add to the liquor two quarts of patent yeast set 
apart from the previous making. It ought to be observed, that brew- 
ers' yeast will not answer the purpose.* To the malt and hops some 
add a little flour, but the patent yeast is quite as good without the 
flour, which in summer is apt to make the yeast go sour. By the 

* If this be the case, it may be fairly asked, by what moans the first 
patent yeast was generated? The answer is, by a chemical process si- 
milar to that invented by Mr. Henry, and which w< nave given under 
the head of ArttficialYeast. 



THF BAKER. 137 

ab-jve process five gallons of very good yeast may be made, which 
will be ready for use the day after it is made. It occupies in manu 
facturing from about seven o'clock in the morning till two or three in 
the afternoon ; but it gives very little trouble to the baker. 



ALim, POTATOES, &C. 

These ingredients are now considered indispensable by the London 
Dakers in the manufacturing of second or household bread, that is, 
the bread in daily use in the metropolis. The effects of alum upon 
bread are not well understood: but it is generally said to bleach and 
act as an astringent. Accum says, that " the theory of the bleaching 
property of alum, as manifested in the panification (making into bread) 
of an inferior kind of flour, is by no means well understood ; and 
indeed it is really surprising, that the effect should be produced by so 
small a quantity of that substance, two or three ounces of alum being 
sufficient for a sack of flour. From experiments in which I have 
been employed, with the assistance of skilful bakers, I am authorized 
to state, that without the addition of alum, it does not appear possible 
to make white, light, and porous bread, such as is used in this me- 
tropolis, unless the flour be of the very best quality." 

Mr. A. Booth, the lecturer on Chemistry, asserts, that "alum 
bleaches from the attraction of alumina, one of its constituent parts, 
to the colouring matter of the flour, and also acts as an astringent on 
the bread." 

If these opinions are to be relied upon, of course the question is 
settled, as to the indispensability of alurn in making London bread. 
Accum asserts, that he, in conjunction with skilful bakers, has tested 
the thing by experiments, which prove that alum cannot be dispensed 
with. For our part, we are inclined to think, that the whiteness of 
the London bread is owing, in some degree, to the process of baking, 
a process widely differing from that followed by women in making 
home-baked bread; which, as we have elsewhere asserted, is never 
so white or so porous, though made of the same flour, as bakers' bread. 
Accum, whatever talent he might possess as a chemist, was a fraudu- 
lent writer, and therefore his assertions are not to be relied on, as to 
the experiments which he alleges he had made. We agree with 
him, however, in his observation, that "the theory of the bleaching 
property of alum, &c., is by no means well understood." 

The quantity of alum used in baking is much less than the public 
generally imagine, even by the most fraudulent of cheap-bread bakers, 
and indeed much smaller than many of the bakers themselves ima- 
gine. This may appear a strange assertion, and it is probaiily one 
never made before in print; but a little explanation will make the 
point quite clear. It is well known that the bakers are liable to a 
heavy fine if alum is found on their premises. To avoid this liability 
as much as possible, they have long been in the habit of buying the 
12* 



138 THE BAKER. 

alum ready powdered at the drug-g-ists, under the appellation of stujj'. 
The druggists keep this stuffs which the bakers imagine is unadul- 
terated ground or powdered alun), but which is, in fact, a compound, 
consisting of one part alum, and three parts of muriate of soda, that 
is, common table salt. This compound is made by pounding the salt 
with the alum in a mortar, and is kept by the druggists in pound 
packages, which they sell at twopence each. For this statement we 
liave the authority of several druggists, and the evidence of our own 
eyes. It may appear extraordinary that the bakers should suffer 
themselves to be so cheated; but be this as it may, we believe it to be 
the fact. It should be recollected, that few bakers are readers, par- 
ticularly of scientific or medical works. In the fourth edition of 
Gray's supplement to the PharmacopoBia and Treatise on Pharma- 
cology, under the head o( stuff, this term is thus defined : — " Alum, in 
small crystals, one pound, common salt three pounds, to mix with 
flour for baking." We have the evidence of our own senses for know- 
ing, that the respectable bakers of home or household bread do not put 
more than half a pound or eight ounces of stuff to a sack of flour; and 
this stuff", as we have shown on the authority of Gray, only contains 
one-fourlh part, or two ounces, of alum, the remainder being common 
salt. Some persons, however, will ask for powdered alum, but the 
druggist, knowing from the quantity required and the appearance of 
his customer that it is wanted for baking, uniformly serves him with 
the before-described mixture of salt and alum. This we have fre- 
quently seen done. The object of the druggist is profit. It would 
be scarcely worth his while to sell powdered alum for twopence a 
pound. Gray, in his book, puts it down at one shilling and sixpence 
a pound. This is ridiculously too high to sell by the pound, but it is 
generally charged a penny an ounce. The writer, giving this infor- 
mation to his baker, he exclaimed, " You don't say soi — the infamous 
rogues — why the rascally druggists cheat us before we can cheat our 
customers ! !" 

Such being the case, it seems almost inconceivable, that so small 
a quantity as two ounces of alum in two hundred and eighty pounds 
of flour, the weight of a sack, should have any effect in bleaching it ; 
especially when we consider that one hundred parts of alum contain 
but a fraction more than ten parts of alumina, the only constituent in 
alum, as we are informed, that possesses the property of bleaching. 
Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that alum, though perhaps not 
by itself, yet in conjunction with other ingredients, has the effect of 
whitening the bread. A circumstance occurred, which we have from 
indisputable authority, of a baker leaving out of his dough, by acci- 
dent, his usual quantity of stuff , containing not more than two ounces 
of alum. The consequence was a batch of brown bread, which he 
was obliged to sell at half price. 

Alum, it is true, is used in small quantities — for the most part in 
quantities too small to affect the health, perhaps, materially ; but still, 
as it only whitens the bread, and makes it otherwise more pleasing 



fut fiAKEi?. 139 

to the eyo, while it deteriorates its wholesomeness, and injures its 
flavour, one would suppose that the great majority of people would 
prefer home-baked bread, as it is called, or bread without alum. 
This, however, they do not do ; and there is little probability that 
they ever will. The Londoners in particular do not like home-baked 
bread. There have been many instances of persons beino- induced 
for the sake of their health to eat it for a time, but they always re- 
turn to the alumed bread ; and we question whether there is a single 
baker in the metropolis who sells sufficient home-baked bread to sup- 
port himself and his family. 

Formerly every baker was his own mealman or miller. This is 
.he case now in Glasgow, and in other parts of Scotland. The ba- 
kers buy their own wheat, and manufacture it into flour at their own 
mills, which are held by them as joint-stock proprietors. 

It seems to be generally agreed, that alum in bread is detrimental 
to the health of those who consume it. The fact, however, is, that 
the bakers eat the same bread as their customers; and it appears 
very improbable, that there should be a set of men who knowingly 
poison themselves. The following is Dr. Ure's opinion upon the ef- 
fects of alum eaten in bread :— 

"The habitual and daily introduction of a portion of alum into the 
human stomach," says Dr. Ure, in his Dictionary of Chemistry, 
" however small, must be prejudicial to the exercise of its functions, 
and particularly to persons of a bilious and costive habit. And, be- 
sides, as the best sweet flour never stands in need of alum, the pre- 
sence of this salt indicates an inferior and highly acescent food, which 
cannot fail to agaravate dyspepsia, and which may generate a calcu- 
lus diathesis in the urinary organs." 

To ascertain whether alum is present in bread, crumble a portion 
when somewhat stale into cold distilled water; then squeeze the 
mass through a piece of cloth, and pass the liquid through a paper 
filter. A limpid infusion will thus be obtained. A dilute solution 
of muriate of baryta, dropped into the filtered infusion, will indicate 
by a white cloud, more or less heavy, the presence and quantity 
of alum. 

It is said, that to counteract the costive quality of alum, when 
consumed in large quantities, the bakers frequently use jalap in the 
composition of their bread. This we do not believe. Dr. Darwin 
says, that when much alum is used, it may be distinguished by the 
eye in the place where two loaves have stuck together in the oven : 
they break from each other with a much smoother surface than those 
which do not contain alum. We believe this to be correct ; — indeed 
the bakers say, that this is one of their reasons for using alum. 

When the statute was enacted by king John for regulating the 
price of bread, and during many of the subsequent statutes of assize, 
the baker was his own manufacturer, purchasing his own corn, and 
having it ground and separated into flour, pollard, and bran. Accord- 
ing to Pownall's work on the assize of bread, which we have no 



140 THE BAKER. 

doubt is correct, this flour, or the flour from which the bran and pol- 
lard only are separated, was found, from an unvaried series of experi- 
ments made from age to age, through the course of many hundred 
years, to be three-fourths in weight of the whole grain of wheat, 
taking all sorts of wheats together ; and the bread made from this 
flour has always been decreed the standard of the food of bread corn. 
But, by insensible degrees, the manufacture of bread became separated 
into two distinct employments. To this cause Mr. Edlin attributes 
the custom — the pernicious custom, as he considers it — of making 
bread from other flour than that we have described, which many per- 
sons assert is more wholesome and more nutritious than that made of 
the finest flour. The miller not considering himself liable to the 
assize laws, made different kinds of flour, some of which was ex- 
tremely fine and white. The bread made of this flour was so very 
white, and pleasing to the eye and palate, that in the course of a few 
years it got into general use, and the people, particularly the Lon- 
doners, refused to buy the bread made of the whole of the grain, 
except the husks, or coarse and fine bran. 

To this circumstance, perhaps, may be attributed the almost uni- 
versal use of alum in bakers' bread not made of the finest flour; and 
very little of it is so made, for it is impossible from a second flour, 
which is the flour generally used, to make bread white without the 
employment of the bleaching properties of this ingredient. 

The assize of bread has been for some time abolished, and the baker 
is entitled to sell his bread for as much as anybody is willing to give 
for it. There is very properly still a heavy penalty attached to sell- 
ing bread short of weight. 

Potatoes, called by the bakers fruity are used by them for the pur- 
pose of aiding the fermentation, and, as they say, for the purpose of 
improving the appearance of the bread, and not for saving flour. 
Indeed, in the small quantities in which we have seen them used, not 
more than seven or eight pounds to two hundred and eighty pounds 
of flour, there can be little or nothing gained by them. Potatoes, 
however, as well as damaged rice, are no doubt used in large quan- 
tities by cheap, fraudulent bakers. We utterly disbelieve the stories 
about bakers using ground bones to adulterate bread, for this reason — 
namely, that the expense of making them fit for such a purpose would 
be much greater than the cost of flour itself. 

There are instances on record of convictions having been obtained 
against bakers for using gypsum, chalk, and pipe-clay, in the manu- 
facture of bread. 

Carbonate of ammonia, which is sometimes used by bakers in pro- 
ducing light and porous bread from sour or damaged flour, does not 
appear to be liable to the same objections as those urged against 
alum; as the action of the former upon the bread is merely mechani- 
cal, no part of this salt remaining in bread after it is baked. During 
the operation of baking, it causes the dough to swell up into air bub- 
bles, which carry before them stiff" dough, and thus it renders the 



THE T5AKER. 141 

dough porous; the salt itself is at the same time totally volatilized, 
and not a particle remains in the bread. Caibonato of ammonia, 
however, has not, like alum, the property of bleaching the bread. 

It is said, that the carbonate of magnesia of the shops, when well 
mixed with flour in the proportion of twenty to forty grains to a pound 
of flour, materially improves it for the purpose of making bread. It 
is recommended to be employed when the flour is new, or of a bad 
quality. Mr. Davy, professor of Chemistry, says, that this substance 
must be most intimately mixed with the flour, previous to laying the 
sponge; and gives it as his decided opinion, that not the slightest 
danger can be apprehended from the use of so innocent a substance, 
in such small quantities as he recommends. 



Having briefly described the utensils of a bakehouse, and having 
descanted at some length (but not longer, it is hoped, than the im- 
portance of the subject requires) upon the ingredients used by public 
bakers in the manufacture of bread, we shall proceed at once to show 
the methods they generally employ. We must observe, however, 
that the first method described was witnessed by Mr. Edlin nearly 
forty years ago; and the second, which is the mode now generally 
followed, has been witnessed by the writer himself in all its details. 

The Old Method. — To make a sack of flour into bread, the baker 
bakes that quantity of flour, and empties it into the kneading trough 
— it is then carefully sifted through a wire sieve, which makes it lie 
lighter and reduces any lumps that may have been formed in it. The 
next process is lo dissolve two ounces of alum, technically stuff, or 
some call it rocky, in a little water placed over the fire. This is 
then poured into the seasoning tub, and four or five pounds of salt are 
added to it, with a pailful of water pretty hot, but not too much so. 
When this mixture, technically liquor, has cooled to the temperature 
of about 84^, from three to four pints of yeast are mixed in it, and the 
whole having been strained through the seasoning sieve, is emptied 
into a hole made in the mass of the flour, and mixed up with a portion 
of it to the consistence of thick batter. Dry flour is then sprinkled 
over the top. This is called the quarter sponge, and the operation is 
denominated setting. The sponge must then be covered up with 
sacks or woollen cloths to keep it warm, if the weather be cold. 

In this situation it is left three or four hours, when it gradually 
swells and breaks through the dry flour laid upon its surface. 
Another pailful of water, impregnated with alum and salt, is now 
added and well stirred in, and the mass sprinkled with flour and 
covered up as before. This is called setting half sponge. 

The whole is then well kneaded, v*'ith about two pailsful of more 
water, for about an hour, when the dough is cut into pieces with a 
knife; and to prevent it spreading, pinned or kept at one end of the 



142 THE BAKER. 

trough by a pin board. In this state it is left to prove, as the bakera 
call it, for about four hours. After the proving process is over, the 
dough is again v^^ell kneaded for about half an hour. It is then 
removed from the inside of the trough to its lid, where it is cut into 
pieces, and weighed into the quanties suitable for each loaf. 

The operation of moulding the dough can be learnt only by prac- 
tice. It consists in cutting the masses of weighed dough, each into 
two equal parts. They are then kneaded either round or long, and 
one placed in a hollow made in the other; and the union is completed 
by a turn of the knuckles on the centre of the upper piece. The 
loaves are left in the oven from one hour and a half to two hours. 
They are then taken out, and, to prevent their splitting, are turned 
their bottom side upwards. They are afterwards covered up with a 
blanket to prevent as much as possible evaporation, by which weight 
is lost, and the bread becomes dry and unpalatable. 

Mr. Edlin has made one mistake in the above account; namely, as 
regards the time when the salt and alum are incorporated with the 
flour. These ingredients ought never to be put into the sponge. If 
tho.y were, the salt would retard the fermentation, and this Mr. Accum 
as a chemist ought to have known, and not, like many others, have 
copied and adopted Mr. Edlin's error. 

With the exception just alluded to, the foregoing mode of making 
bread was pursued by the bakers some years ago, and is still practised 
by some of them ; but the following is the process now pursued. 

Modern Method. — Take a peck of potatoes (about eight pounds) and 
boil them with their skins on — then mash them in the seasoning tub, 
add two or three quarts of water, about the same quantity of patent 
yeast (as directed to be prepared, page 136), and three or four pounds 
of flour; stir together well, and cover the mixture up close with a 
sack, and let it stand from six to twelve hours, when it will have 
become what is called ferment. Then empty a sack of second flour 
into the trough — some sift it in — and take a little less than one quar- 
ter of the sack of flour, and pin or block it up to one end of the trough 
with the pin-board. Then bring the seasoning tub with Ihe ferment 
in it to the trough, pour in a sufficient quantity of warm water — in 
summer, cold — stir up the mixture with the hands, and mash any 
lumps of potatoes (fruit) that may be in — next, strain it through a 
sieve for the purpose of separating the skins of the potatoes; then 
pour the mixture liquor into the flour Vv'hich had been previously 
pinned or blocked up at one end of the trough, and mix it well into 
the flour with the hands — sprinkle a little flour over the top, and let 
it stand five or six hours, during which time the sponge will have 
risen twice. The first rising is suffered to break and go down. In 
about an hour or so, according to the heat of the bakehouse, the sponge 
rises a second time, and just as it is about again to break, or when 
the air escapes by the bursting of the bubbles, a sufficient quantity 
of water (about three pailsful) to make up the batch is poured into the 
sponge from the seasoning tub, the water having dissolved in it pre- 



THE BAKER. 143 

vionsly about four pounds of salt and eight ounces of what is called 
stuff — (some use more than a pound or sixteen ounces of stuff). 
The liquor ought to be well mixed with the sponge; which being 
done, the pin-board is taken away, and the whole of the flour is well 
worked up into one mass, which is blocked up by the pin-board to one 
end, and left about an hour in summer, and two hours in winter, to 
prove ; the vacant part of the trough is then sprinkled with flour to 
prevent the dough from sticking, the pin-board is knocked out, and 
the dough is pitched out of the trough on to the lid of the opposite 
trough, when it is cut into masses and weighed — technically scaled 
off. These masses are then moulded into shape and put aside in a 
regular manner, to be finally moulded into loaves, taking care to 
mould those first which were first scaled off. Previous to the mould- 
ing, the oven must be well swabbed out, or cleaned with the swabber 
or scuttle, and the up-sets chalked to prevent the bread sticking to 
them. They are then placed at the back and on each side of the 
oven by means of the peel ; the long loaves, or the quartern and half- 
quartern bricks, are put into the oven, packed together as close as 
possible — the common round bread is also packed close — but the cot- 
tage bread must be placed separately, each loaf by itself, or it will 
not be crusted all round. After placing the loaves in the oven, or, as 
the bakers say, setting the batch, which requires a good hand to do 
properly, an up-set is placed in front of it. The potatoes for the next 
ferment are put into a tin or iron kettle, generally round, but some- 
times in the form of a fish-kettle, and placed in the oven to boil. 
When the potatoes are done, and while they are hot, the ferment for 
the next batch must be mixed. Twenty-four hours elapse from the 
mixing the ferment to the time when the bread is taken out of the 
oven. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR WHEAT-FLOUR BREAD. 

Under this head we intend to treat of the various substitutes which 
have been used at different times, and in different countries, for bread 
made of wheat flour. We allude to bread made of rye, barley, oats, 
peas, beans, buckwheat, maize, farinaceous roots, and of mixed sub- 
stances, &c. This subject is not without interest, independent of 
utility, and a work of this kind would scarcely be complete if it were 
not introduced. We shall enter upon it with few general remarks. 

Bread Corn — properly so called, of which bread is made in this 
country, and other civilized nations, comprehends the seeds of all 
cerealiuy or farinaceous grass-like plants, for they all contain a farina- 
ceous or mpaly substance of a like nature ; and which substance is 
chiefly composed of starch. The seeds or grain in common use are, 
first and principally, wheat; second, rye; and third, barley. 

Wheat is the only grain from which really good, porous, or light 
bread can be made ; but rye and barley are occasionally used, as well 



144 THK BAKEK. 

as other grain. The bread, however, is of an inferior quality. A 
sort of bread is also made from oats, maize, rice, millet, &c. 

Rice is said, and no doubt truly, to nourish more human beings 
than all the other seeds together used as food ; and it is by many con- 
sidered the most nutritive of all kinds of grain. Accum, in the Art 
of maJiinsr, Bread, says, that " it has been ascertained, that one part 
of rice contains as much food and useful nourishment as six of wheat ;" 
an assertion by the way which we are much inclined to disbelieve. 
But be this a? it may, there is no doubt that rice makes a very nou- 
rishins: and healthy food, notwithstanding the prejudices that prevailed 
against it, on the unfounded allegation that it caused diseases in the 
eye. Rice is the principal food of most of the eastern nations, a fact 
which shows that it is not unhealthy. Rico is not, however, often 
made into bread without the addition of flour, and when ifis, it forms 
a loaf of very inferior quality. 

Maize is frequently employed as bread-corn in America, but it will 
not by itself make good loaf-bread ; but unleavened cakes are made 
of it, very nutritive and palatable. 

Oatmeal is seldom used for making loaf-bread, but is extensively 
used in the north of Great Britain in making unleavened bread, com- 
monly called oat-cakes. It may be observed here, that the objection 
to biscuits, oat-cakes, maize-cakes, and other unleavened bread, on 
the ground of their being unhealthy, and of course not nutritive, ap- 
pears to be without foundation. There can be no doubt, however, 
that they are inferior as food to good wheaten loaf-bread. 

The seeds of leguminous plants, such as pease and beans, are some- 
times used as substitutes for bread-corn. They yield a great deal of 
meal, which is of a sweetish taste, but it forms a coarse bread, and is 
generally considered neither palatable nor digestible. Dr. Cullen 
says, that "on certain farms in his country, upon which the legumi- 
nous seeds are produced in great abundance, the labouring servants 
are much fed upon this kind of grain ; but if such servants are removed 
to a farm upon which the leguminous seeds are not in such plenty, 
and they are, therefore, fed v^'ith the cereaUa (wheat, barley, &c.), 
they soon find a decay of strength ; and it is common for servants, in 
making such removals, to insist on their being provided daily, or 
weekly, with a certain quantity of the leguminous meal." It does 
not, however, follow, that pease or bean-flower bread would be found 
generally so nutritive or digestible as wheat-flour bread. A great 
deal may be attributed to habit, and the laborious employment of 
farmers' servants in the open air. 

All the vegetable substances from which bread is made, contain 
more or less of starch, or what is otherwise called amylaceous fecula, 
and this is the most valuable and nutritive part of all such substances, 
whether they consist of grain, or roots, &c. 

We scarcely need observe, that the potatoe, amongst roots, is the 
most extensively used as a substitute for bread. In many countries, 



THE BAKER. 145 

particularly Ireland, it is almost the exclusive food of the poor. The 
potatoe contains a great deal of starch. 

Rice, notwithstanding its rough and dry qualities, as a farinaceous 
vegetable, is capable of being converted into bread, without the addi 
lion of any other substance. The Americans, however, make bread 
of rice by washing it in water till perfectly clean. They then, after 
the rice has been sufficiently drained, put it into a mortar, and reduce 
it while damp into a sort of powder ; it is then completely dried, and 
passed through a hair-sieve. The flour thus obtained, it is said, is 
then generally mixed with a little Indian corn-meal, and boiled into 
a thickish consistence, which is sometimes mixed with boiled pota 
toes, and fermented and baked in tins, or pans, in the usual manner. 
The bread, we are told, made in this way, is light and wholesome — 
" pleasing to the eye, and agreeable to the taste." 

But a sort of bread may be made from rice, without the addition of 
any other kind of meal. Let a sufficient quantity of rice-flour be put 
into a kneading trough, and at the same time let a due proportion of 
flour be boiled, into which throw a few handsful of rice in the grain, 
and boil it till it is broken. This compound will form a thick and 
viscous substance, which is poured upon the flour, and the whole is 
kneaded with a mixture of salt and yeast, or other fermenting matter. 
The dough is then covered with flannel or other cloths to keep it 
warm, and left to rise. This dough, though firm at first, in the course 
of fermentation becomes as liquid as soup, and is quite incapable of 
being worked into loaves, in the usual manner, by the hand. The 
following is the mode by which this difficulty is surmounted: — The 
oven is heated while the dough is rising ; and it being sufficiently hot, 
the dough is put into a tin pan, which is covered with a paper, or 
large leaves. The tin is then placed in the oven, and immediately 
reversed or turned upside down ; the heat prevents the dough from 
spreading, and, in fact, fixes it in that shape given it by the stewpan 
or box. This bread is said to be " both beautiful and good ;" but 
when it gets stale, it becomes very much deteriorated — as indeed 
does all bread in which there is rice. 

Potatoes, mixed in various proportions with meal, are frequently 
employed in the making of bread. The London bakers all use them 
in greater or less quantities — not, as they say, to save flour, but to 
assist fermentation. There are various ways in which potatoes may 
be used with meal in the production of bread, — potatoes alone will 
not make good bread ; the potatoe is not of an adhesive quality, and 
the bread is not only brown and heavy, but crumbles to pieces. 
M. Parmentier, to render it more adhesive, mixed with the potatoe- 
meal a decoction of bran, and sometimes honey and water ; either of 
which, he says, much improved it, by rendering it lighter, better 
coloured, well tasted, and sufficiently consistent. 

He obtained also, he adds, well-fermented bread, of a good colour 
and taste, by mixing some potatoe pulp with meal of wheat, or pota- 
13 



^46 tht: baker. 

toe-meal, with the addition of yeast and salt. After repeated trials, 
he recommends, in times of scarcity, a mixture of potatoes with the 
meal of wheat, in preference to the meal of any other grain. Where 
no flour or grain can be obtained, Parmentier recommends the use of 
bread made from the amylaceous (partaking of starch) powder of 
potatoes, — potatoe pulp, mixed and fermented, with the addition of 
honey. Potatoe-meal, when mixed with water, acquires a gluey 
consistence, but bread made from this and the flour of wheat is never 
of a good colour. That, however, which is made of a mixture of the 
pulp with the flour of wheat, is much whiter. Parmentier, we are 
informed, made bread very much resembling that of wheat, by mixing 
four ounces of amylaceous powder of potatoes, one drachm of muci- 
lage, extracted from barley, one drachm of the bran of rye, and one 
drachm of glutinous matter, dried and pounded into powder. 

A German writer upon country affairs, of the name of Khyogg, 
who has obtained the name of the Rustic Socrates, recommends, that 
potatoes well boiled and carefully peeled should be put into a knead- 
mg-trough, covered with boiling water, and beaten or bruised till they 
are converted into a kind of soup, throughout of one consistence. 
This soup may be mixed with the flour of wheat in the proportion of 
one-fourth, one-third, and even one-half; and if the flour be of good 
quality, the bread will be found pleasant, nourishing, and wholesome. 
This is the principal food of the peasantry in German Lorraine, and 
the people of that country are remarkable for their healthy, robust, 
and vigorous constitutions ; the young men are tall and handsome, 
and the country is thickly populated. 

In Vogstand and in Saxony, potatoes are prepared for bread by 
peeling them, grating them very fine, and by putting the pulp into a 
milk-pail, or some other suitable vessel. It is then mixed with cold 
water, which is allowed to remain upon the pulp twenty-four hours. 
The water is then drawn off", and other water added, and again drawn 
till the water comes off" quite pure. The potatoe pulp is then drained 
through a clean cloth, and then spread upon a plate, or some other 
surface, till dry. After this, it is reduced to a fine powder, mixed 
with an equal portion of wheat flour, and made into bread by the 
usual process. 

We have thought it right to lay before our readers the various 
ways in which it has been recommended to employ potatoes in mak- 
ing bread in times of scarcity ; but after all, our own opinion is, that 
the best and most economical mode of using potatoes is simply to boil 
them as they do in Ireland, where, it is much to be regretted, they 
stand instead of all other food to the mass of the population. 

Many other substances have been employed in making bread other 
than those of the flour of farinaceous vegetables, such as wheat, bar- 
ley, rye, Indian-corn, oats, &c. The latter grain makes an excellent 
unleavened bread, and is much eaten in Scotland, Lancashire, and 
several of the northern English counties. It is called oat-cake, and 
is preferred by many persons to wheaten bread. 



THE BAKER. 147 

Bread made of Routs. — M. Parmentier, late chief Apothecary in the 
Hotel des Invalides, whose authority we have before quoted, has pub- 
lished numerous and very curious experiments on the vegetables, 
which in times of scarcity might be used in the subsistence of ani- 
mals, as substitutes for those usually employed for that purpose. The 
result of these experiments in the mind of M. Parmentier was, that 
starch is the nutritive part of farinaceous vegetables, and that the 
farina of plants was identical with the starch of wheat. The plants 
from which he extracted this farina are the bryony, the iris, gladiolus, 
ranunculus, fumaria, arum, dracunculus, mandragora, colchicum, fili- 
pendula, helleborus, and the roots of the gramen caninum arvense, or 
dog grass of the fields. 

The mode employed by M. Parmentier to extract the starch, or 
farina, from these vegetables, was merely bruising and boiling. The 
roots were cleansed and scraped, then reduced to a pulp, which being 
soaked in a considerable quantity of water, a white sediment is de- 
posited, which when properly washed and dried will be found to be 
pure starch, M. Parmentier converted this starch into bread by 
mingling it with an equal quantity of potatoes reduced to a pulp, and 
employing the usual quantity of yeast or other leaven. The bread, 
we are informed, had no bad taste, and was of excellent quality. 

From these experiments of M. Parmentier, it appears, that it is 
chiefly the amylaceous matter or starch of grain that is nutritious; 
and, that the nutritive quality of other vegetable substances depends 
in a great measure on the quantity of that matter which they contain. 
Starch formed into a jelly, and diffused in water, will keep a long 
time without change. 

Ragwort. — Bread has been made in times of scarcity from the roots 
of this plant. When ragwort root is first taken out of the ground, it 
is sofe and viscous, but becomes hard in a short time, and may be pre- 
served in that state for years without being at all deteriorated, pro- 
viding it be kept in a dry, airy place. When this root is ground and 
reduced to flour, which it may easily be, it has an agreeable nut-like 
taste. It is said to be easily digested when made into bread, and to 
be more nutritive and "exhilarating," than wheaten bread. The 
same properties and effects are attributed to radishes, but we appre- 
hend not truly. 

Turnip Bread — is made of turnips mixed with equal quantities of 
wheat flour. The turnips must be first washed clean, then pared and 
boiled. Mash them and press the water out of them — at least the 
greater part. Mix with an equal quantity in weight of coarse meal 
flour — make the dough in the usual manner, and when risen, form it 
into loaves, and bake it rather more than ordinary bread ; when taken 
from the oven it will be light and sweet, with a little taste of the 
turnip. " After it has been allowed to stand," says our authority, 
•' twelve hours, the taste of the turnips is scarcely perceptible, and 
the smell is quite gone. After an interval of twenty-four hours, it 

i9 



148 THE BAKEK. 

cannot be known that it has turnips in its composition, although it 
has still a peculiar sweetish taste: it appears to be rather superior to 
bread made only of wheat flour, is fresher and moister, and even after 
a week continues very good." We are of opinion, however, that it 
cannot be so good as wheat bread ; for, independent of other consi- 
derations, turnips do not contain so much starch or nutritive matter 
as wheat. 

^pple Bread. — A bread said to be very superior to potatoe bread 
has been made from the use of common apples with meal. Boil one- 
third of peeled apples ; while quite warm, bruise them into two-thirda 
of flour, including the proper quantity of leaven, or yeast; knead 
without water, the juice of the fruit being quite sufficient. When 
this mixture has acquired the consistency of paste, put it into a ves- 
sel to rise for about twelve hours. By this process may be obtained 
a very sweet bread, full of eyes and extremely light. 

Meslin Bread. — A good bread is made in many parts of England 
from what is called meslin, which is a mixture of rye and wheat. 
This is raised on one and the same ground at the same time, and 
passes through the processes of reaping, thrashing, grinding, and 
dressing, in the mixed state. 

Sahp Bread. — Dr. Percival recommends the employment of orchis 
root in powder, or, as it is called, salep. He says, that an ounce of 
ealep, dissolved in a quart of water, and mixed with two pounds of 
flour, two ounces of yeast, and eighty grains of salt, produced a 
remarkably good loaf, weighing three pounds two ounces ; while a 
loaf made of an equal quantity of the other ingredients, without the 
ealep, or powdered orchis root, weighed but two pounds twelve ounces. 
If the salep be in too large quantities, its peculiar taste will be dis- 
tinguishable in the bread. 

Oat and Barley Bread. — The Norwegians, we are informed, make 
bread of barley and oatmeal baked between two stones. This bread, 
it is added, improves by age, and may be kept thirty or forty years ! ! 
At their great festivals, they use their oldest bread; and it is not 
unusual, at the baptism of a child, to have bread that was baked at 
the baptism of the grandfather. 

Dehreizen Bread. — In some parts of Hungary, Debretzen for in- 
stance, they have a peculiar mode of fermenting bread without yeast, 
by means of a leaven made in the following manner. Two large 
handsful of hops are boiled in four quarts of water; this decoction is 
poured upon as much wheaten bran as it will moisten, and to this are 
added four or five pounds of leaven. When the mass is warm, the 
ingredients are well worked together, so as to be thoroughly mixed. 
It is then deposited in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and after- 
wards divided into small pieces, about the size of hens' eggs, which 
are dried by being placed upon a board and exposed to dry air, but 
not to the sun ; when dry, they are laid up for use, and may be kept 
for six months. 



THE BAKER. 149 

The following is g-iven as the mode by which bread is made from 
the above-described ferment. For baking six large loaves, six good 
handst'ul of these balls are dissolved in seven or eight quarts of warm 
water — this mixture is poured through a sieve atone end of the 
bread-trough, and after !t three quarts of warm water, the remaining 
mass being well pressed out. The liquor is mixed up with flour su^ 
ficient to form one large loaf; they then strew this mass over with 
flour, the sieve with its contents is put upon it, and the whole is 
covered up and kept warm and left to rise, or till the flour upon it 
begins to crack. Fifteen quarts of warm water, in which six hands- 
ful of salt have been dissolved, are then poured upon it through the 
sieve; the necessary quantity of flour is added, and the whole is well 
kneaded together. The dough is then covered up and kept warm for 
half an hour. It is then formed into loaves which are kept for another 
half hour in a warm room ; and after that they are put into an oven, 
where they remain for two or three hours according to their size. 

There is certainly an advantage in this kind of ferment — which is, 
its capability of keeping for a long time, and of being made in large 
quantities. On this account it would be convenient on board of ships, 
or in the camp of an army. 

Millet Bread. — Bread made of millet, if eaten when warm, is pretty 
palatable, but when cold, it becomes dry and crumbly. Besides, 
though nutritive when boiled, it is not so in bread, but becomes a 
very powerful astringent. According to Pliny, however, it would 
appear, that millet was in very general use as food in Italy among 
the peasantry. " There is no grain," he says, " more heavy, or which 
swells more in baking." Probably the Italians had some method for 
counteracting its astringent properties. It is said to be an excellent 
leaven, and has been recommended for malting. 

Maize Bread — is made of maize, or Indian-corn flour, which is in 
common and extensive use in nearly all parts of North and South 
America. Knead the flour with a little salt and water into a stiff 
mass — roll out into thin cakes, and bake on a hot iron. A hoe is 
frequently used in America. Another kind of maize bread is called 

Homminy Cake. — To make this the Indian-corn, freed from the 
husks, is boiled with a small portion of French beans, until the whole 
becomes a pulp; this is made into cakes, and baked over hot embers, 
or it may be eaten in the pulp, which is frequently the case. 

Bean Flour Bread. — Take a quarter of a peck of bean flour and one 
ounce of salt; mix it into a thick batter with water — pour a sufficient 
quantity of this batter to make a cake in an iron kettle ; and bake 
over the fire; it will require frequent turning. 

Buckwheat Bread — is thus directed to be made by the Board of 

Agriculture : Take a gallon of water, set it over a fire, and when it 

boils, let a peck of buckwheat flour be mixed with it, little by little, 

and keep the mixture constantly stirred, to prevent any lumps being 

13* 



160 fHE BAKER, 

formed, till a thick batter is made. Then add two or three ounces 
of salt, set it over the fire again, and allow it to boil an hour and a 
half; pour the proper proportion tor a cake into an iron kettle, and 
bake it. 

Morn Bread — is made of ripe acorns deprived of their husks or 
skins, and beaten into a paste. To extract the astringent quality of 
the acorns, put the paste into water for a night, and then press the 
water from the paste. The mass when dried and powdered must be 
kneaded up into a dough with water, and raked out into thin cakes, 
which may be baked over embers. This bread is said not to be dis= 
agreeable, and no doubt was considered a great luxury by our British 
ancestors in the time of the oak-worshipping Druids. 

Oatmeal Cakes are thus made : — To a peck of oatmeal add a few 
table-spoonsful of salt; knead into a stiff paste with warm water; roll 
the paste into thin cakes, and bake it in an oven, over a hot iron plate, 
or on embers. Sometimes oat-cake is fermented a little, which makes 
the cakes light and porous. 

Oatmeal and Pease Bread. — To a peck of pease flour, and a like 
quantity of oatmeal, previously well mixed, by passing the two flours 
through a sieve, add three or four ounces of salt; knead into a stiff 
mass with warm water ; roll out into thin cakes ; and bake in an oven. 
In some parts of Lancashire and Scotland, this kind of bread is made 
into flattened rolls, and they are usually baked in an iron pot. 

Chestnut Bread — is made from horse-chestnuts, which are seldom 
or never used for food in this country, though their nutritious quali- 
ties are well known to the people in the southern parts of Europe, 
particularly in some districts of Italy, and in the island of Corsica, 
where it is the chief and almost the whole of the food of the peasantry. 
To make this bread, take a peck of horse-chestnuts ; peel the skins 
off them ; let them be bruised into a paste ; dilute the mass with water, 
which destroys their astrmgency, and then strain them through a 
sieve ; a milky liquor is thus separated, which on standing deposits a 
fine white powder; this, on being dried and ground into flour, is found 
to be without smell or flavour. It is then made up, sometimes by 
itself, and not unfrequently with an equal portion of wheat flour, into 
a paste, with warm milk and a little salt, and when baked makes a 
very eatable bread. 

Potatoe Bread. — Boil the potatoes, and rub them through a cullen- 
der or sieve, and, while hot, rub them in with the flour, which ought 
to be previously dried. The potatoes should be in proportion to the 
flour of one-third or one-halfl Milk and water is sonetimes used for 
making potatoe bread. 

Rye Bread — Barley Bread — and bread made of equal parts of rye 
flour and wheat flour, or of equal parts of barley flour, rye flour, and 
wheat flour — are made in the same way as already described. Milk, 
or milk and water, is preferred, in making rye bread, to pure water. 



THE BAKEK. 151 

The Bread Tree. — Various subetances have been employed in dif- 
ferent parts of the world as substitutes for making bread, in the 
absence of farinaceous or flour-yielding vegetables. The bread tree, 
or rather the fruit of this tree, ranks first among the substances alluded 
to. The bread tree is common in many parts of the east. It is very 
abundant at Surinam, where extensive avenues may be seen of it, 
loaded with luxuriant crops of fruit. As a brief account of this extra- 
ordinary tree cannot fail to be interesting to our readers (previous to 
giving a description of the mode of preparing the fruit for food), we 
beg to lay before them the following remarks and extracts. > 

All the species of the bread fruit tree, of which there are eight, are 
natives of the South Sea islands. More than one hundred and fifty 
years ago, this tree had ex:cited great interest amongst Europeans, 
and particularly amongst the people of Great Britain. Dampier, who 
performed his voyage round the world in 16S8, thus describes it: — 

"The bread fruit as we call it, grows on a large tree as big and 
high as our largest apple trees ; it hath a spreading head, full of 
branches and dark leaves. Tne fruit grows on the boughs like 
apples; it is as big as a penny loaf when wheat is at five shillings the 
bushel ; it is of a round shape, and hath a thick tough rind. When 
the fruit is ripe it is yellow and soft, and the taste is sweet and plea- 
sant The natives of Guam use it for bread. They gather it when 
it is full grown, while it is green and hard ; then they bake it in an 
oven, which scorcheth the rind and maketh it black; but they scrape 
off" the black crust, and there remains a tender thin crust ; and the 
inside is soft, tender, and white, like the crumb of a penny loaf. 
There is neither core nor stone in the inside, but all is of a pure sub- 
stance like bread. It must be eaten new, for if kept more than twen- 
ty-four hours, it becomes hard and choaky ; but it is very pleasant 
before it is too stale. This fruit lasts in season eight months in the 
year; during which the natives eat no other sort of bread kind. I 
did never see this fruit anywhere but fiere. The natives told U6 
there was plenty of this fruit growing on the rest of the Ladrons 
islands; and I did never hear of it anywhere else." 

So much for Dampier's account, which, however, does not appear 
to be quite correct. The great circumnavigator. Cook, thus describes 
the fruit in question: — " It grows on a tree about the size of a mid- 
dling oak. Its leaves are frequently a foot and a half long, of an 
oblong shape, deeply sinuated like those of the fig-tree, which they 
resemble in consistence and colour, and in the exndinof of a white 
milky juice upon being broken. The fruit is about the size and shape 
of a child's head, and the surface is reticulated, not much unlike a 
trufile. It is covered with a thin skin, and hath a core about as big 
us the handle of a small knife. The eatable part lies between the 
skin and the core. It is as white as snow, and somewhat of the con- 
sistence of ne\v bread. It must be roasted before it is eaten ; being 
divided mto three or four parts. Us ta&le is insipid, with a slight 



152 THE BAKEft. 

sourness, somewhat resembling that of the crumb of wheaten brcad» 
mixed with a Jerusalem artichoke." 

The above is the sober and satisfactory account of the bread tree 
and its fruit, as given by the illustrious Cook. Dr. Hawkesworth's 
description of its advantages is amusing, but extravagant. He says, 
"if a man plants ten bread fruit trees in his lifetime, which he may 
do in about an hour, he will as completely fulfil his duty to his own 
and future generations, as the natives of our less temperate climate 
can by ploughing in the cold winter, and reaping in the summer's 
heat, as often as those seasons return. Even if, after he has procured 
bread for his present household, he should convert the surplus into 
money, and lay it up for his children." 

The bread fruit tree has been planted in some of the West India 
colonies, but with little success as to any advantages to be derived 
from it. Indeed, its fruit appears to us to have been greatly exag- 
gerated with respect to its beneficial application as food for the use 
of man. It has been observed, however, that " even in those colonies 
into which the bread fruit has not been generally introduced as an 
article of food, it is used as a delicacy ; or whether employed as bread, 
or in the form of pudding, it is considered as highly palatable by the 
European inhabitants." 

Bread Fruit Bread. — To prepare the fruit for use instead of bread, 
it must be roasted, either whole, or cut into three or four pieces. It 
is also cooked in an oven, which renders it soft, and something like 
a boiled potatoe ; not quite so mealy as a good one, but more so than 
those of an inferior description. The Otaheitans make three dishes 
of it, by putting either milk or the milk of cocoa-nut to it, then beat- 
ing it to a paste with a stone pestle, and afterwards mixing it with 
ripe plantains, bananas, or mahie. 

This mahie is a preparation of the ripe bread fruit, for which it is 
substituted during the season, just before gathering a fresh crop. It 
is made thus: — The fruit is gathered just before it is perfectly ripe, 
and being laid in heaps, is closely covered with leaves; in this state 
it undergoes a fermentation, and becomes disagreeably sweet. The 
core is then taken out entire, by gently pulling the stalk, and the 
fruit is thrown into a hole which is dug for that purpose, generally in 
the houses, and neatly lined in the bottom and sides with grass; the 
whole is then covered with leaves, and heavy stones laid upon them. 
In this state it undergoes a second fermentation, and becomes sour; 
after which it undergoes no change for many months. It is taken out 
of the hole as it is wanted for use, and being made into balls, it is 
wrapped up in leaves, and roasted or baked. After it is baked, it will 
keep five or six weeks. It is eaten both cold and hot, and the natives 
seldom make a meal without it. To Europeans, however, the taste 
is said to be as disagreeable as that of a pickled olive generally is the 
first time it is eaten. 

Sago Bread — is made from the wood of the sago tree, in the follow 



THE BAKER. lo3 

\ng manner: — The natives of the islands of Banda and Amboyna saw 
the body of the tree into small pieces, and, after bruising' and beating 
them in a mortar, pour water upon the fragments. This is left for 
some hours undisturbed, to let the pithy farinaceous matter subside. 
The water is then poured off, and the meal, being properly dried, ia 
formed into cakes, or fermented and made into bread, which, it is 
said, is nearly as palatable as wheaten bread. The Hottentots make 
a kind of bread from another species of sago tree. The pith of this 
tree is collected, and tied up in dressed calf, or sheep-skin, and then 
buried in the ground for several weeks, which renders it mellow and 
tender. It is then made into cakes, which are baked under hot em- 
bers. Others roast the sago tree pith, and make it into a kind of 
porridge. 

The sago of commerce is made from the pith of this tree, but it is 
granulated by passing it through a sieve. It acquires its brown 
colour from drying it on hot stones. 

Casava Bread — is made in the Caribbee Islands, from a very poi» 
sonous root called Jatropa Maniat, rendered wholesome by the extrac- 
tion of its acrid juice, which the Indians use for poisoning their 
arrows. So powerfully poisonous is this juice, that a tea-spoonful ia 
sufficient to take away the life of a man. The root of the mamaiy 
after being washed, scraped clean, and grated in a tub, is enclosed in 
a sack made of rushes, of very loose texture. This sack is suspended 
^pon a stick placed upon two wooden forks. A heavy vessel is sus- 
pended to the bottom of the sack, and is so contrived as to press the 
juice out of the roots. When the juice is all taken from the roots, 
.hey become a sort of starch, which is exposed to smoke in order to 
dry it; when well dried, it is passed through a sieve: it is now called 
casava. It is baked into cakes by laying it on hot plates of iron, or 
on hot earth. The article called tapioca is the finest part of casava, 
collected and formed into small tears, by straining the mass, while it 
is still moist, so as to make it into small irregular lumps. 

Plantain Bread — is made from the fruit of the plantain tree. This 
fruit is about a foot long, and from an inch and a half to two inches 
in diameter, and has a tough skin, within which there is a soft pulp, 
of a sweet flavour. The fruit is generally cut when green ; the skin 
is taken off, and the heart is roasted in a clear cold fire for a few 
minutes: it is then scraped, and served up as bread. This tree is a 
native of the East Indies, and other parts of the Asiatic continent, but 
is cultivated on an extensive scale in Jamaica. It is said,- that with- 
out this fruit the West India islands would be scarcely inhabitable, as 
no species of provisions could supply its place. Wheaten bread flour 
is not so agreeable to the negroes, and they greatly prefer it to the 
fruit of the bread tree. 

Banana Bread— is made of the fruit of the banana tree. This fruit 
is about four or five inches long, of the shape of a cucumber, and of a 
highly grateful flavour. They grow in bunches that weigh twelve 



154 THE BAKEli. 

Sounds and upwards. The pulp of the banana tree is softer than that 
of the plantain tree, and of a nnore luscious taste. When ripe it is a 
very pleasant food, either undressed, or fried in slices like fritters. 
All classes of people in the West Indies are very fond of it. When 
preparing for a voyage, they take the ripe fruit and squeeze it through 
a sieve; then form the mass into loaves, which are dried in the sun, 
or baked on hot ashes, having been previously wrapped up in leaves. 

Moss Bread, or bread made of moss, is prepared from a species of 
the tribe lichen, called rein-deer moss, which contains a considerable 
quantity of starch. The Icelanders form the lichen islandicus into 
bread, and it is said to be very nutritive. The moss is collected in 
the summer, dried, and ground into powder — of which bread gruel 
and pottage are made. It is also boiled in milk or whey, till it cornea 
to a jelly. It should be previously steeped some hours in warm water, 
in order to extract the bitter matter with which it is impregnated, 
which is not only disagreeable as to taste, but is also a purgative. 

Dried Fish Bread. — We have shown that a great variety of sub- 
stances are used as substitutes for Hour bread. We now come to 
dried fish, which appears to be an odd thing to make bread of. In 
Iceland, Lapland, Crim Tartary, and other parts of the north, a kind 
of bread is made of dried fish, beaten first into powder, sometimes 
with the inner bark of trees, and then made up into cakes. 

Earth Bread. — But the strangest substitute for corn bread that has 
ever been employed, is a kind of white earth found in Upper Lusatia, 
of which the poor in times of scarcity have frequently made bread. 
This bread earth, if we may so designate it, is dug out of a hill where 
tsalt-petre had formerly been worked. When heated by the sun it 
cracks, and small globules proceed from it like meal, which ferment 
when mixed with flour. It is said on good authority, that on thia 
earth, made into bread, many persons have subsisted for a considera- 
ble time. An earth very similar is found in Catalonia. 



THE END. 



PARKINSON'S CONFECTIONARY 

irO. 180 CHESTITUT STRXiET, 

philadelphia. 

Public and Private Balls, Pic-Nics, Soirees 
AND Wedding Entertainments, supplied with every 
delicacy ; an entirely new style of Ornamental 
Pyramids, Cottage, Ratifie and Chantilly Bas- 
kets, for Table Decoration furnished at shortest 
notice. 

. THE SPACIOUS AND MAGNIFICENT SALOONS 

attached to this establishment are open during 
the day and evening for the reception of visitors. 
Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Ices, and every variety 
of Refreshment served at a few moments' notice. 

ORDERS 

FROM ANY FART OF THE UNITED STATES, 

for all kinds of Preserved Fruits, Jellies, Jams, 
French, Italian and Martinique Liqueurs, Syrups 
(prepared from the choicest fruits), Bon-bons, 
Christmas Goods, Dragees and every variety of 
Fancy Confectionary, attended to with Prompt- 
ness and Punctualitv. 

155 



JUL 9 - 1956 



