
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



a. 





=i.r-i P.""l3ey i :'.■'•'-■ 



: • ^ 



i i 



'■'. I--. 1 ■..» .-.vr 



I-'- iii 



..I. ' / • 



'fk 



n 




1^ 



THE MODERN COOK, 

A 

PRACTICAL GUIDE TO THE CULINARY ART 
IN ALL ITS BRANCHES, 



ADAPTED AS WELL FOR THE LARGEST ESTABLISHMENTS, AS 
FOR THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. 



BT 



CHARLES ELM^ FRANCATELLI, 

PUPIL OP THK CBLKORATBn CARBMB, 
AND LATE MaItRB D^OTBL AND CHIBP COOK TO HBR MAJB8TT THB QUBBN. 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS. 




LONDON: 
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, 
9vib\Uf)n in (SvUinaxg to l^er :flKa|ffitp. 
1846. 



^sk 



LONDON: 

Printed bjr S. 9i J. Bemtlby, Wilsom, and Klft, 

Kangor House. Shoe Lane. 



TO 

THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ERROL. 



My Lord, 

The honour conferred upon me in being permitted to de- 
dicate the following pages to your Lordship presents an oppor- 
tunity, of which I gladly avail myself, to express publicly my 
grateful acknowledgments for the liberal encouragement and 
uniform kindness I have ever experienced, since I had the 
good fortune to come under your Lordship's notice. 

If my anxious endeavour to produce a useful treatise on 
the art I profess, worthy of public favour and of the distin- 
guished patronage I have received, shall be successful, the 
satisfaction this will give me will ever be associated with a 
grateful recollection of the many facilities afforded me for ac- 
quiring additional practical knowledge and experience, while 
in Her Majesty's service as Chief Cook and Maitrc d'Hotel, 
in which office I had the advantage to act under the liberal 
and judicious directions of your Lordship, when Lord Steward 
of the Household. 

I have the hdliour to be, 
Mv Lord, 
With the greatest respect. 
Your Lordship's most obedient and very humble servant, 

Charles Elm6 Francatelli. 

London : 
2 1 St Februart/, 1846. 



PREFACE. 



In his presait undertaking, the Author's object has been to pro- 
duce a treatise which may be useful not only to cooks themselves but 
also to those who employ them. He has accordingly been as sparing as 
possible of the use of technical terms, and has endeavoured at the same 
time to be concise as well as explicit in his directions. 

Judicious economy being at all times a great desideratum^ the Author 
has studied to apply its practice in the composition of every recipe con- 
tained in his book. Many dishes are obviously expensive, and can only 
be indulged in by the wealthy epicure ; — but even here, the cost may be 
reduced by avoiding waste, and by turning to account ingredients care- 
fully reserved for the purpose by the aid of foresight and economical 
habits. In large establishments, when properly conducted, there is 
indeed less relative waste than in the kitchen of a small private &mily, 
under the management of an ordinary cook. 

It is necessary to remark, that throughout this work the Author has 
supposed the various dishes and preparations are required to be made for 
a large number of guests, with the usual resources at hand in a well-ap- 
pointed kitchen: perfection and economy can only be fully attained 
under such circumstances. The variety and quantity of the ingredients 
recommended to be used will probably oflen appear lavish, therefore, to 
those whose culinary practice is limited, and who are, nevertheless, de- 
sirous of combining comparative success with moderate means. 

For persons so situated, when desirous of indulging occasionally in 
dishes of a sumptuous character, no written directions would probably 
suffice, the only sure method in such cases is to resort to professional 
aid. But, in the majority, of instances, the Author's instructions will 
be found generally practicable ; common sense, aided by some experience, 
will suggest the employment of available substitutes, when costly 
sauces and other reeherchS preparations are directed to be used. 

Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts ; 
the Author, therefore, particularly cautions the inexperienced practitioner 
from attempting too much. Excess in the quantity and variety of 



VI PREFACE. 

spices and condiments — the banc of English cookery — is especially to bo 
guarded against. Nothing vitiates the palate more than a super- 
abundant use of such stimulants. In the preparation of soups and 
sauces^ this rule must be constantly borne in mind. 

In a treatise professing to treat of cookery as an art by which refined 
taste is to be gratified rather than a coarse appetite satisfied, it would be 
out of place to attempt to translate its rules into the hackneyed terms 
employed in '* Ouides " and '* Oracles " for economical makeshifts. 

Such attempts, too frequently made by English Avriters on gastronomy, 
at once betray their origin. The greater part of these authorities are 
persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor practised the art 
to any extent, take upon themselves to instruct the public, not from the 
fulness of their knowledge, but either as a pecuniary resource, or to 
gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, while we possess in 
England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, generally of far better 
quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our cookery in theory and 
practice has become a by-word of ridicule, and that we should be 
compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant for the most part of 
our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts ? *< They manage these 
things better in France :*' cookery is there considered as an important 
art, and its successful endeavours are regarded with a due appreciation. 
In Paris its great professors have achieved an almost historical celebrity, 
and their school of cookery has become preeminent. This can only be 
attributed to their assiduous study of its elementary principles, which, 
when properly understood, will be found to conjoin the highest enjoy- 
ment with due attention to the preservation of health. 

The palate is as capable and nearly as worthy of education as the eye 
and the ear. 

A large proportion of the dishes contained in this work are quite new 
to the public, not merely as regards* their names, but as respects their 
composition. This will be found to be the case particularly with tlie 
Soups, dressed Fish, Removes, Entr6es, Hors-d'oeuvres, and dressed 
Vegetables. The second course, moreover, is treated at greater length, 
and with more care than has hitherto been the case in English Cookery 
Books. 

A copious and varied collection of Bills of Fare, adapted to every season 
of the year, has been added as an essential accompaniment to the work. 
In connection with thb subject, the Author ventures to offer a few 
suggestions for the consideration of Epicures. 

In the first place, the English custom of dividing a grand dinner into 
several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense and con- 
venience. It is a needless complication that necessarily leads to useless 
profusion, and nmch additional trouble. Our neighbours across tlio 



PREFACE. VU 

Channel — the best authorities in all gastronomic questions — allow of 
two courses only in the laigest dinners. With them, Fish and Hors- 
d'oeuvres, — such as patties, croquettes, &c., form part of the First- 
course, and not a distinct coiu'se, as they are considered east of Temple 
Bar. The French, too, regard the dessert as a mere ddassemerU after 
dinner, int^ded rather to propitiate than to thwart digestion. 

The great and increasing intercourse between this country and the 
Continent, as well as the probable relaxation of the duty on foreign wines 
will tend naturally to extend our use of many kinds especially appropri- 
ate to the dinner-table. On this head, the Author, without pretending to 
give any elaborate or detailed instructions respecting the service of wines 
at dinner, cannot refrain from alluding to an injudicious habit, fre- 
quently adopted at English tables — that of introducing 9weet Champagne 
in the First Course. This wine from its sweetness naturally counteracts 
the flavour of savoury dishes — ^there is a mutual repulsion between them. 
Madeira, Sherry, and Bui^gundy are better suited to the First Course ; 
their stimulating and generous qualities tending considerably to assist 
digestion. In France, sweet Champagne is not introduced until the 
latter part of the Second Course ; by that time, the palate has become 
more fit to appreciate the delicate bouquet of this delicious and exhilirat- 
ing beverage. 

The Author begs further to add, that the ordinary practice in London 
of serving Turtle and Venison indiscriminately, as mere accessories to 
recherchi dinners, is, in his opinion, most injudicious. Turtle and Venbon 
being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, it follows that 
when they form part of a dinner, the Removes and Entrtes are com- 
paratively neglected. Very light Entries should only be served with 
these ; and on such occasions^ indeed, it would be preferable to arrange 
the dinner in the Russian fashion — ^placing the dessert upon the table at 
first, while the whole of the dinner is served firom the side tables. By 
this means, two advantages are gained: a less number of dishes is 
required — especially in the First Course ; and the dinner has a better 
chance of being served hot — an indispensable requisite to its due enjoy- 
ment. In pursuance of this reconunendation, a series of Bills of Fare, 
after the Russian mode, has been included with the others, 

A copious Index, together with a Glossary of French terms, will, it is 
hoped, augment the utility of the work. 

The Author hopes he shall be excused for alluding to himself, and his 
pretensions for writing a book of this kind. Although bearing a foreign 
name, he is happy in being an Englishman. He received his professional 
education in Paris, and acquired a knowledge of his art in some of the 
most celebrated aimnes of that capital, and was so fortunate as to 
become a pupil of the renowned Careme. Qualified under such favour- 



viii , PREFACE. 

able auspices, he has subsequently served — ^he hopes with satisfaction to his 
patrons — some of the most distinguished bons vivants among the British 
aristocracy and gentry. He has had the good fortune to be Chef-de- 
cuigine to the Earl of Chesterfield ; Lord Kinnaird; and to Sir W. Massey 
Stanley, Bart, and Rowland Errington, Esq., at Melton Mowbray ; and 
he shall ever consider it the greatest honour to which he could aspire, 
to have served as Chief Cook, and Maitre d'Hotel, to her Most Gracious 
Majesty the Queen. 



London : 
2\a February, 184G. 



CONTENTS. 



Glossary. 

Common Stock, and Stock Saucks. 

Grand Saucbs : Espagnolc, Velout^, Bechamel, and Allemandc. 

Special Sauces. 

Cold Sauces. 

Purees of Vegetables for garnishing. 

Vegetable Garnishes. 

Essences, Gravies, and prepared Savoury Butters for finishing Sauces. 

Ragouts and Garnishes in general. 

Broths and Consommes. 

Medicinal, Do. 

Braizes, Poeles, Mirepoix, Marinades, and Roux. 

Quenelle Forcemeats. 

Clear Consomme Soups. 

Purees or Vegetables for Soups. 

Soups made with Rice or Pearl-barley. 

Bisques of Crayfish, and other Shellfish Soups. 

Fish Soups and Water-souchets. 

English Soups. 

Foreign National Soups. 

Italian Soups. 

Panadas and light Soups for Infants, &c. 

Dressed Fish. 

Removes — Beef. Veal. Lamb. Calf's-heads. Oz-cheek. Pork and Suck- 
ing-pig. Braized Hams. Venison, Red-deer, &c. Turkeys and Capons. 
Chickens, Goose, and Cygnets. Pheasants. Partridges. Meat-pies. 
Meat-puddings. Black Game and Grouse. 

Entrees — Pat^ chauds, or raised pies. Vol-au-vents and Tourtes. Timbales. 
Maccaroni and Casseroles. Ornamental borders of Potato-paste. Char- 
treoses of Vegetables. Forcemeat Chartreuses. Ornamental croustades. 
Tnrbahs and Mazarines. Beef. Ox-cheek dressed. Ox-palates. Ox- 
piths. Ox-tongues. Mutton. Mutton Cutlets. Scollops. Carbonades. 
Fillets. Sheeps Tongues. Sheeps Heads and Kidneys. Veal. Frican- 
deaux, Noix, &c. Heart and throat Sweetbreads. CalTs-ears, feet, 
liver, and brains. Lamb. LambVhead, ears, and feet. Pork. Venison, 
Roebuck, and Poultry. Quenelle forcemeat of Fowl. Pigeons and Duck- 
lings. Quails. Larks. Rabbits. Hares. Pheasants. Partridges. Bou- 
dins. Quenelles, and SouiR^es of Partridges. Woodcocks and Snip<^s. 
Wild-fowl. Ortolans and Wheatears. Dressed fish. 

h 



X CONTENTS. 

Srcond Coursk Roasts, — Qame, Poultry, Wild-fowl, &c. 

Vegktables for Entremets. 

Entremets of Eooa, Maccaroni, drc. 

Cold Entrees for Ball Suppers, &c. 

Cold Raised Pies and Preserved Game. 

Different kinds of Paste. 

VOL-AU-VENT and ToURTR CaSES. 

Croustade and Timoale Cases. 

Cakes in general. 

Small Pastry. 

Fritter*. 

Iord Puddings and Ornamented Entremets. 

Timdales and Cakes of Maooaroni, Nouillks, &c. 

Souffles. 

Puddings. 

Jellies. 

Creams. 

Mincemeats. 

Bills or Pari. 

Index. 



GLOSSARY. 



Allemande. Reduced, or conccDtrated white vdotUi Sauce, thickened with 
cream and yolks of ^gs, and seasoned with nutmeg andC lemon-juice. 

Baba, a kind of very light plum cake. 

Bechamel is veioute Sauce boiled down with cream in equal parts. This 
Sauce takes its name from a celebrated cook. 

BisguE. A Soup generally made with shell-fish. 

Bo V DIN. A delicate kind of entree, prepared with quenelle force-meat or mince. 

Braize, mirepoix, marinade, poele, blanc, are various kinds of compounds 
used for imparting flavour to braized meats ; and also for keeping Calfs- 
Heads, Poultry, &c white, while they are being braized. 

Braizing signifies a slow process of simmering, or stewing over a smothered 
charcoal-nre. 

Briocue. a species of light spongy cake, resembling Bath-buns. 

Caramel. Burnt-sugar, occasionally used as a make-shift for colouring. 

Charlotte consists generally of very thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified 
butter, and placed in symmetrical order in a plain mould, garnished with 
fruit or preserve. 

Chartreuse of vegetables. A mixed preparation, consisting of vegetables 
symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould, the interior of which 
is garnished with either game, .quails, pigeons, larks, fillets, scollops, ten- 
dons, &c. 

Chartreuse a la Parisiennr, &c. An ornamental entree, or side dish, com- 
posed chiefly of quenelle force-meat ; the interior being garnished with 
ragout*, scollops, &c. 

Compote generally means confectioned fruits, preserved in syrup, or apple 
and any other kind of fruit jelly ; this word is also used to designate certain 
savoury dishes, prepared with pigeons, quails, or larks, mixed with peas, or 
mushrooms, &c. 

Consomme. Clear strong broth, much used in the preparation of Soups, 
Sauces, &c. 

CoNTisE. When small scollops of truffles, red tongue, &c., are inlaid, as orna- 
ments by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be contish, 

Cro<)uett£s and Rissoles. A preparation of mince, with a bread-crumbed 
coating. These words both signify something crisp. 

Croqu ANTES. A brittle mixtmre of nruit and boiled sugar. 

CaousTADEs, Pates-chauds, Tourtes, Timbales, Casseroles of Rice. Vari- 
ous ornamental pie-cases, made either of paste or prepared rice. 

Crovtons. Sippets of bread of various sizes and shapes, fried in clarified 
butter, and lised to garnish salmis, fricassees, dressed vegetables, &c. ; they 
are also served with certain Soups, chiefly with purees. 

Cold Entrees, These consist o{ jricassees, salmis, cutlets, ham, tongue, fillets 
of game, poultry, and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish, or shell-fish ; Boars- 
heads, potted meats, &c. They are appropriate for ball suppers, public 
breakfasts, and upon all occasions where a cold collation is served. 

Entrees. A conventional term for Side-Dishes, comprising cutlets,^*ca«ie«i, 
Jricandeaus, fillets, scollops, salmis^ boudins, sweetbreads, pdtU-chauds, char- 
trcuses, 4rc. 

Entremets, or second course side-dishes, consist of four distinct sorts, namely : 
cold entrees ; dressed vegetables ; scolloped shell-fish and dressed eggs ; and 
lastly, of the infinitely varied class of sweets, consisting of puddings, gateaux, 
timbales, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, creams, frit- 
ters, &c. 



XU GLOSSARY. 

EsPAONOLB, AND VsLouTE. Thc two main Sauces from which all others are 
made ; the first is hrown, and the other white. 

Fanchonnettes AND FLORENTINES. Varieties of Small pastry mcringued ovcr. 

Farce. Is a coarse kind of forcemeat, used for raised pies and gratins. 

Flans, Darioles and Mirlitons. Varieties of Frencti cheese-cakes. 

Fricandeau and orenadins, consist of the primest parts of veal, or fillets of 
poultry, &c. smoothly trimmed, larded, and brightly glazed with a concen- 
tration of their own liquor ; they are ser\'ed as side-dishes. 

Fricassee, consists of chickens cut in pieces, and prepared in a white sauce, 
with truflles, mushrooms, cocks* comlis, &c., as accessories. 

Gavffres. a light spongy sort of biscuit. 

Qlace. Anything iced. This word is also sometimes used figuratively by 
French cooks, to signify a smooth glossy surface. 

Qratins. a term applied to consolidated soups and sauces ; also to certain 
dislies of high character, consisting of game, poultry, fish, vegetables, or mac- 
caroni, &c. improved by great care and finish, through the use of concen- 
trated sauces or gravies. 

Hor8-d*(EUvres, (Hot). A species of very light entrees, such aii patties of all 
kinds, rissoles, croquettes, scolloped fish, shell-fish, maccaroni, poultry, game, 
sweetbreads, brains, ox-piths, horli^s of fish, jwultry, or game, &c. 

Hors-d'(euvres, (Cold.) These should be eaten immediately after thc soup 
and fisli ; they are considered as appetisers, or whets to the aj)petitc, and con- 
sist of sardines, anchovie.*?, tunny, Dutch herrings, savoury butters, oysters, 
oiled salads of shell-fish, radishes, various kinds of pickles, &c. 

Jardiniere. A mixed preparation of vegetables, stewed down in tlieir own 
glaze. 

Macedoine of vegetables is a jardiniere, with the addition of some kind of white 
sauce. 

Macedoine of fruit. A kind of jelly. 

Madeleine. Resembling qucen-catc. 

Matelotte, a dish of mixed fresh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, as 
Eels. 

Meringues. A kind of light trifle. 

Nouoat. a mixture of almonds and sugar. 

NouTLLES. A kind of vermicelli. 

Profitrolles. a light kind of pastry, creamed inside. 

Puree. A kind of pulpy maceration of roasted meats, and of vegetables or 
fruits, finished by being passed through a tammy or sieve. 

Quenelle. A delicate sort of forcemeat, used in the preparation of entrees, &c. 

Ragout. A rich compound, consisting of quenelies, mushrooms, truffles, fnt 
livers, &c., mixed in a rich sauce, and used for garnishing highly finished 
removes and entries. 

Releves or Removes. Tlie top and bottom dishes (as they are designated in 
England) served to replace the soup and fish on ordinary tables. These 
usually consist of roast joints, turkeys, capons, highly or plain-dressed fillets, 
or rolls, &c., of beef, ealves'-heads, &c. 

Roux. A mixture of fresh butter and flour, which, after being baked, is used 
for thickening sauces. 

Salmis. A highly-finished hash, made with game or wild -fowl, cut up and 
prepared in either a rich gravy or sauce. 

Souffles. The word souffle means strictly something puffed up, and is gene- 
rally applied to a light kind of pudding, served as a remove to second course 
roasts ; it is made with any kind of farinaceous substance, and may be fla- 
voured either with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. 

Turbans and Mazarines. Ornamental entrees, made of forcemeats, and fillets 
of either game, poultry, or fish. 

Vol-au-vent. a figurative expression applied to puff-paste of the lightest 
kind. 



THE MODERN COOK. 



COMMON STOCK AND STOCK SAUCES. 



1. COMMON STOCK, OR GRAND STOCK FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. 

When about to prepare for the reception of company, it is advisable 
to begin, if there be sufficient time, two days beforehand in summer, or 
thjee days in winter, by getting ready the grand stock, — an article so 
essential to all the after preparations, that it may be looked upon as the 
basis of operations. 

The meat required for this purpose should be sent in the over night 
if possible. The quantity to be ordered must, of course, depend upon 
the extent of the dinner party, and the number o^ entrees. For a dinner 
of twelve entries^ two legs of white veal (about forty pounds weigljt), the 
same quantity of gravy beef, and forty pounds of leg of beef and knuckles 
of veal, would be required. 

First, take the legs of veal in hand, and cut out the noix oifricandeau 
pieces^ which is that part adhering to the udder; set these pieces apart to 
be used either {or fricandeauxj grenadins^ or tiou:, for removes or entrees, 
as the case may be. Cut all the meat away from th« bones, keeping the 
veal separate from the -beef. Break up the bones, and put them, to- 
gether with the inferior pieces of beef, into a large stock-pot half full ; 
fill this up with cold water, set it on the fire to boil ; skim it well, gar- 
nish it with carrots, turnips, celery, and leeks ; avoid the use of spices or 
herb«, and use salt sparingly. When the broth has boiled gently for 
seven hours, strain it through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins 
to cool, and place them in the larder for the next day's use. 

In connection with this subject I will now describe the preparation 
of the two grand stock sauces, espagriole and vehvie, as these being 
the basis of the various special sauces used in modem cookery, should, 
together with the grand stock, be first attended to. 

2. STOCK SAUCES, BROWN AND WHITE.* 

The first thing to be attended to on the following moniing is to " mark 
off," or prepare the stock sauces, viz., the espagnoU or brown sauce, and 
the velouU or white sauce, in the following manner : — 

Take two large stewpans, well tinned and thoroughly clean ; spread 
the bottom of each with fresh butter, over which lay about one pound of 

* Although grent care and watchful attention are requisite in every branch of the culi- 
nary art, th« exercise of thete qualities is most essential in the preparation of the grand 
stock sauces. If the first process which theBO\ undergo be not successfully effected, no 
subsequent care will remedy the misvhief. 



2 STOCK SAUCES. 

lean ham cut in slices ; then add the finest pieces of the veal in equal 
proportion to each stewpan. In that intended to be used for the brown 
sauce put two or three whole wild rabbits (or the mere carcasses may 
suffice) ; put into the stewpan marked for the white sauce two old 
hens, or carcasses of fowls. Pour into each pan a sufficient quantity 
of grand stock to reach the upper surface of the veal ; place the pans 
with their covers on, on brisk fires, and let them boil sharply till the 
broth is nearly reduced to a glaze ; then take them off the fire immedi- 
ately, and slaken the stoves, by putting on some charcoal ashes to 
decrease their heat ; afler which, replace the pans on the fire, adding to 
the brown sauce one pound of glaze, to be reduced together with the 
stock, by which it will acquire a redder hue ; it will also accelerate its 
progress, — a point of great importance, for if sauces or broths remain too 
long on the fire, the delicacy of their flavour is sure to be impared. 

As soon as the broth of the white sauce is reduced to the consistency 
of pale glaze, fill it up with some grand stock : garnish it with a good 
sized carrot, one onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a garnished 
faggot or bouquet, made of parsley, green onions, a bayleaf, and thyme, 
tied together neatly. Set it on the stove to boil ; skim it well, and then 
place it to simmer gently at the side of the stove. Pay strict attention 
to the brown sauce, in order to prevent the possibility of its being caught 
by the fire in the least degree. Such an accident always tends to lessen 
its unctuousness. Ascertain when the brown sauce is sufficiently glazed, 
by dipping the end of a knife into it, twirling the handle round in 
the hjind, so as to take up a quantity of glaze on the point of the 
blade ; if you can then roll it into a ball without its sticking to the 
fingers, and it is of a beautiful brown red colour, you may proceed 
to fill it up in exactly the same manner as described for the white 
sauce. 

About two hours after the above-mentioned operations have been 
attended to, pass the broths through napkins into large kitchen basins. 
Then pour the roux or thickening into the large stewpans to be used 
for mixing each of these sauces ; take off all the fat, and pour the brown 
broth upon the brown roux, and tlie white broth upon the white i-oujt. 
While the sauces are being mixed they should be well stirred. When 
thoroughly mixed, they must be kept sufficiently liquid to enable them 
(afler boiling on the stove-fire, and while they are sinmiering on the side) 
to throw up the whole of the butter with which the roux was made, 
together with the skum, by which means they assume a velvety ap- 
pearance, firom which the white sauce takes its name veloute. 

Finally, add a large ladleful of white chicken broth to the white sauce, 
and the same quantity of consomme to the brown sauce; let them clarify 
for about twenty minutes longer ; and then, if sufficiently reduced, pass 
them through the tammy cloths into white basins, and put them away 
in the larder for future use. 



SAUCES IN GENERAL. 



GRAND SAUCES, 

COMPRISING 

Espa^noUy* or Brown Sauce, Cream Bechamel, 

VeUmtl^ or Whito Sauce. Allemamle Sauce. 

Bickamd Sauce. 

3. ESPAGNOLE, OR BROWN SAUCE. 

Let the stock espagnole (No. 2) bo turned out into a large stew- 
pan; add thereto some essence of mushrooms, and sufficient hlorul of 
veal to enable the sauce to clarify itself; stir it over the fire till it boils, 
and then set it down by the side to continue boiling gently. When the 
sauce has thoroughly cleared itself, by gentle ebullition, and assumes a 
bright velvety smoothness, reduce it over a brisk fire to the desired con- 
sistency, and then pass it through a tanrniy for use. 

i. WHITE VELOITTE SAUCE. 
To finish this sauce, proceed in every respect the same as for the 
fspaf^noU, substituting white comomme of veal or fowls, for the blond 
of veal, in order to clarify it ; and the essence of mushrooms must be 
white, in order to prevent the sauce from taking a dark hue, contrary to 
its special character. 

6. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Divide the veloutc sauce (according to the quantity required) into three 
parts ; put one third into a stewpan, and having reduced it, add thereto 
a quart (more or less) of boiling cream : — afler allowing the sauce to 
boil a few minutes longer, stirring it the whole time, pass it through the 
tammy into a basin, or ba\n'marie,\ for use. 

6. CREA^f BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put six ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan ; add four 
ounces of sifted flour, some nutmeg, a few pepper corns, and a little salt ; 
knead the whole well together ; then cut one carrot and one onion into 
Teiy thin slices, throw them into the stewpan, and also a bouquet of 
parsley, thyme, and half a bay-leaf, tied together ; next moisten these 
with a quart of white broth and a pint of cream ; and having stirred the 
sauce over the stove fire for about half an hour, pass it through the 
tammy into a basin for use. 

This sauce is not expensive, neither does it require much time or 
trouble to make. It is very useful as a substitute for vdouU, or other 
white sauces, as also for many other purposes, as will be shown hereafter. 

* Thete two grand nuoes differ from the stock cspagnoU and vdtmti^ in being worked 
or finiHhed SMoea. 

t This is a French term for a square pan, with a lining contriTed to hold a number of 
ttewpans, containing the special sanoen 



4 



SAUCES. 



7. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Rbducb the quantity of white veloutk sauce intended for the aUe- 
mandef over a brisk stove fire, adding a little essence of mushrooms or 
some mushroom trimmings ; when the sauce is sufficiently reduced, take 
it off the stove, and incorporate with it a leason* of yolks of eggs (in the 
proportion of four yolks to a pint), a little nutmeg, cream, a pat of 
butter, and a little lemon-juice ; set the leason in the sauce, by stirring 
it over the fire until it simmers ; it must then be quickly stirred to keep 
the sauce from boiling, as, in that case, the yolks of eggs would be liable 
to curdle, which would considerably deteriorate from its quality. When 
the leason is set, pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin, or bain- 
marie, for use. 

This sauce is in much request, as the foundation of many others, 
especially fish sauces. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 



COMPRISINO 



Financiire Sauce. 
Turtle Sauce. 
Salmis Sauce. 
Do. h Vandenne, 
Hrown Italian Sauce. 
White Italian, do. 
Fine Herbs, do. 
Patcaline^ do. 
D^UxeUes^ do. 
Poor-roan *B, do. 
Piquante^ do. 
Gherkin, do. 
White raviffotte, do. 
Orcen, do. do. 
Tomata, do. 
PirigMetuPy do. 
Lyonnaue^ do. 
Proren^e^ do. 
Vcnitian, do. 
BrCtonne, do. 
BourgutgnoUe^ do. 
Poivrade^ do. 
Gemn$ey do. 
AfaldotUy do. 
Nonnan maUlotU, do. 
Bigmrade^do, 
Aromatic, do. 
Russian, do. 
AideUydo, 
Polish, do. 
Butter, do. 
Sanee frr asparagus. 

Plain lob^, do. 
Shrimp, do. 
6^pri£iM,do. 
Do. of Game. 



Aurora Sauce. 

Dutch, do. 

Maiire (Thotd Sauce. 

Do. cold. 

Princess Sauce. 

Albert, do. 

Indian cuny, do. 

Cardinal, do. 

Regency, do. 

White oyster, do. 

Brown oyster, do. 

Muscle, do. 

Shrimp, do. 

Crayfish, do. 

Lobster, do. 

Sturgeon, do. 

Bordelaitey do. 

GuKonne^ do. 

RieheiieUy do. 

Bobert, do. 

Claremont, do. 

Portngveae, do. 

Sicilian, do. 

Gennan sweet, do. 

Cherry, do. 

NapolUam, do. 

Cherry, do. €L h Vidoria. 

Red corrant jelly Sauce for Venison. 

Black currant jelly Sauce for Venison. 

Fennel Sauces. 

Parsley, do. 

Ravigotlty do. 

Plain Dutch, do. 

Bread, do. 

Fried bread, do. 

Brown gmvy Sauce for roost Teal. 

Cmm auieo for roast neck of do. 



* From the Frendi ttowoii, which here 



a binding or thickening. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 5 

ParUian Sauce. Egg Sauce 

Mustard do. Caper« do. for fiah. 

Plain currj, do. Do. for boiled mutton. 

Wastre/Uche, do. Cream Sauce for salt fish. 
Flemish, do. 

8. FINANCIERE SAUCE. 
Put two glasses of sherry or madeira into a stewpan with some essence 
of truffles and a little cayenne ; reduce these to half their original 
quantity, then add a ladleful of finished espagmh sauce ; let it boil for 
five minutes longer, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a hain- 
marie for use. 

9. TURTLE SAUCE, FOR CALF'S HEAD. 
Put two glasses of madeira into a stewpan with a large spoonful of 
red tomata sauce, and a little cayenne ; reduce these to half their quan- 
tity, then add a ladleful of esjxignoU or brown sauce, and some essence 
of mushrooms ; having stirred this over the fire until it boils, set it by 
the side to clarify ; — skim it thoroughly and reduce it to a proper con- 
sistency ; pass it through a tamm^ into a hain-marie ; and just before 
using this sauce, mix in two anchovies ( that have been pounded with a 
very small piece of fresh butter, and passed through a tammy) with a 
little lemon juice. 

10. SALMIS SAUCE. 
Placb the trimmings of the birds of which the salmU is to be made, 
in a stewpan with a table spoonful of salad oil, four shalots, one bay 
leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; pass these on the stove-fire for five minutes ; 
add two glasses of any sort of good white wine ; reduce this to half its 
quantity, add a ladleful of espagnole and some mushroom trimmings or 
essence ; set the sauce to boil, and then put it by the side of the stove 
to clarify. Having well skimmed it, pass the sauce through a tammy 
into a baiii-marie, pouring a small portion of the sauce on the members 
of the birds to keep them moist, and to warm them in. 

11. SALMIS SAUCE A L'ANCIEN^^E. 
Chop the trimmings of the birds that have been roasted off for an 
etUree, — (woodcocks or snipes are generally chosen for this purpose,) 
place the trimmings in a stewpan, with six shalots, a little thyme, a bay- 
lea( and half a bottle of red wine (claret is preferable) ; simmer these over 
the fire for ten minutes, add a ladleful of essence of game, and a gravy 
spoonful of reduced espagnole sauce ; stir this on the fire imtil it boils, 
and then place it by the side to clear itself; ten minutes after, skim it 
thoroughly, and having reduced it to the consistency of a thin glaze, pass 
it through a tammy on to the members of the birds. Just before dishing 
up, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 

12. BROWN ITALIAN SAUCE. 
Chop four shalots very fine, place them in a comer of a dean napkin 
— securing them tightly, and inunerse them in cold water to extract their 
acrid taste ; squeeze out the water and put them into a stewpan with a 
handful of white mushrooms chopped very fine, some thyme, a bay-leaf, 
and a table-spoonful of salad oil : pass these on the fire for five minutes. 



6 SAUCES. 

add two glasses of white wiiie — when reduced to half its quantity, and 
then add a small ladleful of finished espagnolf and a little blond of veal ; 
set the sauce to boil ; and having fipeed it from the oil, take out the thyme 
and bay-leaf; reduce it to the consistency of other sauces, and pour it 
into a bain-marie, to be kept for use. 

I a WHITE ITALIAN SAUCE. 
Thb preparation of this sauce differs from the preceding only in sub- 
stituting veloute sauce for espagnole. 

14. FINE HERBS SAUCE. 
Chop, separately, a large gravy spoonful of prepared white mushrooms, 
six shalots, and a handfiU of parsley ; place these in a stewpan with an 
ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of minionette pepper, a little grated 
nutmeg, and salt ; pass the whole on the fire for five minutes, add a 
small ladleful of finished espagnole or vthmti sauce (according to the 
colour required) ; boil it qiuckly, finish with a little lemon juice, and pour 
it into a bain-mari^ for use. 

16. PASCALINE SAIXE. 
Chop a handful of white mushrooms very fine, and place them in a 
small stewpan with a small piece of butter ; pass them on the fire for 
three minutes ; add a glass of French white wine, and afler allowing these 
to simmer on the fire a little while, add a small ladleful of white sauce 
and a little essence of fowl ; reduce the sauce quickly, and then take 
it off the stove and mix in a leason of three yolks of eggs, and a small 
pat of butter ; set the leason in the sauce over the fire, and then pour it 
into a bain-marie for use. Just before using the sauce, add to it a table- 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 

10. D'L'XELLES SAUCE. 

Chop, separately, half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, six 
shalots, and two ounces of trufiies ; place these in a stewpan with two 
ounces of fat bacon scraped into a kind of pulp, a pat of butter, some 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; then pass the whole on the fire for 
five minutes ; — add two glasses of French white wine, reduced by boil- 
ing to half the quantity ; and then a small ladleful of white sauce ; re- 
duce tlie whole quickly on the fire, and mix in a leason of six yolks of 
eggs ; finish with the juice of a lemon. Set the leason in the sauce by 
stirring it again on the fire; place the sauce in a small basin, and keep it 
for the purpose of covering all those entries denominated a la U Uxelles, 
previously to breadcrumbing them. 

17. POOR man's sauce. 

Chop an onion very fine, put it into a stewpan with a small piece of 
butter, and gently fry the onion on the fire until it assumes a light brown 
colour; then add a table-spoonful of white wine vinegar, and a pinch 
of minionette pepper ; allow these to simmer for three minutes, and 
then add a small ladleful of blond of veal ; lot the whole be reduced to 
half the original quantity ; and just before using the sauce, throw in a 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 

18. PIQUANTE sauce. 
Chop, separately, six shalots, as many green gherkins, and a table- 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 7 

spoonful of French capers ; place these in a small stewpan with a gill of 
French vinegar, some thyme and a bay-leaf, and a good pinch of.minio- 
nette pepper ; set the whole to boil on the fire till the vinegar is reduced 
to a third of its original quantity ; then add a small ladleful of 
finished espngnde sauce, and a little hloiid of veal : let the sauce boil 
gently on the side of the stove fire to clear itself; skim it well, take 
out the thyme and bay-leaf, and pour it into a small bain-marie for 
use. 

10. GHERKIN SAUCE. " 
Take a dozen green gherkins ; cut them into very thin slices ; place 
them in a small stewpan, with a little French vinegar and minionette 
pepper ; allow these to simmer quickly for a few minutes on the fire, then 
add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little hlo)id of veal ; stir the 
sauce on the stove till it boils, then set it by the side to clear itself; skim 
it, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. 

20. WHITE RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan two tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, the 
same quantity of tarragon vinegar, and of Harvey sauce ; reduce these, by 
boiling, to half the quantity ; then add a small ladleful of good bec/uimel 
sauce, or, if not at hand, the same quantity of white sauce ; finish by 
mixing in two pats of fresh butter, and, just before using the sauce^ throw 
in a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 

When white sauce is used instead of bechamel, a little cream must be 
added. 

21. GREEN RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Wash and blanch some chervil, parsley, tarragon, and chives, (of each 
a smaU handful,) and also a little burnet ; cool these in fresh water as 
soon as they are blanched, and thoroughly extract the water by pressing 
them in a napkin ; pound the herbs thus prepared in a mortar, with two 
pats of butter ; after which, rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden 
spoon, and place the residue in a small basin, to be kept on ice. 

About five minutes before requiring the sauce for use, put into a small 
stewpan a ladleful of alkmande, and, when thoroughly warmed, mix in 
with it the prepared ravigoUe, in sufficient quantity to give a bright 
green colour to the sauce; add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and 
the same quantity of Chili vinegar and of Harvey sauce, previously 
reduced by boiling to half the quantity. 

This sauce is very generally used for fillets of fish. 

22. TOMATA, OR LOVE-APPLE SAUCE. 
Pbocubb a dozen fine ripe tomatas, and, having first picked off the 
stalks, extract the seeds and watery parts, by squeezing them separately 
in the hand ; then place them in a stewpan, containing four ounces of 
raw ham cut into dice, a few shalots, a bayleaf, and thyme, fried in 
a little butter until they become brown ; put the tomatas with these 
on the fire until they are melted, then, after having passed them through 
the tammy into a jmree, mix the produce with a little velovti sauce, 
a small piece of glaze, and a little consomme ; stir the sauce on the fire 
till it boils, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue boiling 
gently, that it may clear itself; skim it thoroughly, and pour it into a 
^aiiMwarif for use. 



8 SAUCES. 

It 18, perhaps, needless to observe, that, when the ready-prepared 
tomata sauce, as sold by oilmen, is used, as must be the case when 
tomatas are not in season, it will be necessary only to attend to the latter 
part of the foregoing directions. 

23. PERIGUEUX SAUCE. 

Chop six or eight truffles extremely fine, put them into a stewpan with 
two glasses of white wine, a little lean ham, some thyme, and a bayleaf; 
set these to boil gently on the stove-fire for a few minutes, then add a 
ladleful of brown sauce and a little consommS ; stir the sauce on the fire 
till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it well, take 
out the ham, the bayleaf, and thyme, and, after reducing it to a pro- 
per consistency, pour it into a bain-marie for use. 

Just before dinner-time, add a small piece of butter, to soflen the fla- 
vour. 

24. LYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Pbkl four Portugal onions, cut them in halves, trim off the ends, so as to 
leave the onions an inch and a half thick ; slice them across, that the pieces 
may separate at the junction of the several folds, or layers, of the onion ; 
fry them in a deep sautapan, in half a pint of salad oil : as soon as they 
assume a fine light colour, drain them on a hair- sieve, and afterwards lay 
them on a napkin, in order to extract all the oil ; after which, put them 
into a small stewpan, with a good pinch of minionette pepper, a very 
small ladleful of reduced brown sauce, and a piece of glaze ,* set the sauce 
to boil gently for a quarter of an hour, and finish by adding a little lemon 
juice. 

26. PROVEx\CALE SAUCE. 

Cut two ounces of the lean part of a ham into very small dice, place 
them in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, four cloves 
of garlic, some thyme, a bayleaf, a spoonful of capers, the pulp of a lemon 
cut into slices, a good pinch of minionette pepper, and a few parsley 
stalks ; stir these on the stove-fire for five minutes, then add a small 
ladleful of reduced brown sauce and a piece of glaze. Boil the sauce on a 
quick fire for a few minutes longer, and then pass it through a tammy as- 
you would & puree ; remove it into a stewpan, add a little conscmime, and 
set it to boil gently by the side of the stove for a few minutes, skim it, 
and pour it into a bain-marie; finish by adding a little anchovy 
butter. 

20. VENITIAN SAUCE. 

Pbeparb a sufficient quantity of all^mande sauce for the purpose re- 
quired, and, just before dinner-time, add a good spoonful of tarragon 
leaves, cut into diamond shapes and blanched green, a pat of butter, 
a little nutmeg, and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

27. BRETONNE SAUCE. 
Cut two large onions into thin slices ; fry them of a light brown colour, 
in a little butter ; then add sufficient brown sauce, according to the quan- 
tity required, a little amsommi^ and a pinch of pepper ; boil the sauce 
gently for a quarter of an hour, and then pass it, as you would a purtc^ 
through the tammy, and put it into a bain-^marie for use. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 9 

28. BOURGUIGNOTTE SAUCE. 

Put four ahalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, thyme, and bayleaf, to- 
gether with three glasses of red wine and some mushroom-trimmings, into 
a stewpan, on the fire, there to boil for five minutes ; add a small ladle- 
ful of brown sauce and a little consommi; stir the sauce on the fire till it 
boils, and then set it on the side to clear itself ; skim it, reduce it to its 
proper consistency, and then pass it through the tammy into a lam- 
marie, 

29. POIVRADE SAUCE. 
Takb a carrot, an onion, and a head of celery ; cut them into very small 
dice, and place them in a stewpan, with two ounces of raw lean of ham 
cut similarly, some thyme, and a bayleaf, a blade of mace, a few pepper 
corns, and some parsley ; fry these with a little butter, of a light brown 
colour ; moisten with two glasses of sherry and one of French vinegar ; 
reduce the above to one half its quantity, and then add a small ladleful of 
brown sauce and a little canwmmS ; stir the sauce till it boils, and then 
set it by the side to clear itself; skim it, and pass it through a tammy 
into a bain-^marie for use. 

30. GENOISE SAUCE. 
Cut some ham, carrot, celery, onion, parsley roots, and mushrooms, 
into very thin slices ; place these in a stewpan with a little butter, 
some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves, and fry 
them on the stove for a few minutes ; moisten with half a bottle of 
red wine (claret suits best). Boil the whole for five minutes ; add a 
small ladleful of brown sauce, and a little consommS; stir the sauce on 
the fire till it boils, and then set it to clarify by the side of the stove 
fire ; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 
Just before dinner time, add a piece of anchovy butter, a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and lemon- 
juice. 

31. MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

Take the wine in which the fish has been stewed, and add to it a 
ladleful of brown sauce, and some trimmings or essence of mushrooms ; 
stir this on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear 
itself; skim and reduce it, and then pass it into a bain-marie ; finish 
by adding a little anchovy butter, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of 
sugar. 

32. NORMAN MATELOTTE SAUCE. 
Reducb some white veloiUe sauce with some essence of mushrooms, 
three glasses of French white wine, and the liquor from the muscles and 
oysters used for the matelotte ; add a leason of four yolks of eggs, a pat 
of butter, some nutmeg, and lemon-Juice ; and pass the sauce through a 
tammy into a bain-marie, Jiist beK>re using the sauce, add a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley. 

33. BIGARRADE SAUCE. 
With the carcasses of two or more roasted ducks, make an essence ; 
clarify it, and reduce it to half glaze. To this add a small ra^oiU-s^poon- 
ful of worked etpagnoU^ the juice of one orange, and the rind of two 



10 SAUCES. 

others entirely free from any portion of tlie white pith ; and having cut 
the rind into diamond shapes, blanch these pieces for three minutes in 
boiling water, and then put them into the sauce, which, after boiling 
for five minutes, pour into a bdin-marie for use. 

34. AROMATIC SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan a few sprigs of winter-savory, of sweet 
basil, and lemon thyme ; six leaves of sage, and two bay-leaves, two 
shalots, some nutmeg, and pepper, and a ladleful of good consoninte ; boil 
this quickly on the fire for ten minutes ; pass it through a sieve into a 
stewpan, and reduce it with an equal proportion of white sauce ; add a 
leason of four yolks of eggs, and pass the sauce into a bain-nuirie^ con- 
taining two dozen stewed morels. Just before using this sauce, add a 
pat of butter, some lemon -juice, and a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
tan-agon and chervil. 

36. RUSSIAN SAUCE. 

Having chopped and blanched some tarragon, chervil, and parsley, 
in equal proportions, put these into some reduced veluute sauce thickened 
with two yolks of eggs. Just before using the sauce, add a little grated 
horseradish, a pinch of sugar, some pepper, lemon-juice, and a little mus- 
tard. 

This sauce is eaten with braized beef. 

36. ATELETS SAUCE. 

Cut two ounces of raw lean of ham into very small mince meat ; put 
it into a small stewpan with half a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, one shalot 
chopped, a little nutmeg, and minionette pepper ; moisten with a few 
spoonfuls of consomme, and set the whole to simmer on the fire for ten 
minutes ; after which, add a small ladleful of white sauce, and having 
reduced it to a proper consistency, mix in a leason of six yolks of eggs, 
and a pat of butter ; finish with a little lemon-juice, and pass the sauce 
through a tammy into a basin. 

This sauce is used for covering all preparations for those enircts 
denominated a la Villeroi, or d la Daup/iine, previously to their being 
dipped in the beaten egg for the purpose of being bread-crumbed. 

37. POLISH SAUCE. 

Scrape a stick of horse-radish, and put it into some allemancU sauce 
with a dessert spoonful of pounded sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, 
nutmeg, pepper, lemon-juice, a piece of glaze, and a little salt. Pre- 
viously to using the sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley and fennel. 

This sauce is eaten with roast veal. 

38. SUPREME SAUCE. 

Thbrb are two methods by which this sauce may be made with equal 
success : that most generally adopted is, to use reduced veloute sauce 
which has been worked with some essence of mushrooms and white 
cons&nime of fowls, and finished by adding a little boiling cream at the 
last stage of reduction ; the sauce should be then passed through a 
tammy into & bain-niarie, and just before using it, a small piece of chicken 
glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon-juice must be added. 

The other method, and which I prefer to the former, is to put a 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 11 

sufficient quantity of allemande sauce into a bain-marie, and finish it for 
the purpose, by mixing in a piece of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, 
and a little lemon-juice ; care must be taken that the suprime sauce be 
not thick. 

39. SUPREME OF GAME. 

This is made like the previous sauce, except that according to the first 
method, some essence of game must be used instead of the chicken con* 
»ftnme, and in the second recipe, the allemande sauce used for the purpose 
should be worked with an essence of game, (pheasant or partridge) and 
also finished with a piece of game glaze. 

40. PARISIAN SAUCE. 

Put some allenumde sauce into a haiji-marie, add thereto a spoon- 
ful of essence of trufHes, a piece of game or chicken glaze, according to 
the purpose for which the sauce may be required, whether for an entree 
made of game or poultry ; add some crayfish butter in sufficient quantity 
to colour it of a pinkey tint, a little cayenne and lemon juice ; when 
these ingredients are well mixed in the aHemande^ add two dozen 
small truffles cut in the shape of small olives. 

41. AURORA SAUCE. 

Put some bechamel sauce into a baiii-niurie, and just before the sauce 
is required for use, mix in a small j^iece of lobster butter, a leason of three 
yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little cayenne. 

42. DUTCH SAUCE. 

Put the yolks of six eggs, a small piece of glaze, six ounces of fresh 
butter, a spoonful of white sauce, some nutmeg, minionette pepper, and 
salt, into a small stewpan ; stir these quickly with a wooden spoon, over a 
slow fire, or else immerse the bottom of the stewpan into a deep sauta- 
pan half full of boiling water, which must be kept over a slow fire, while 
the sauce is worked : as soon as the sauce assumes a smooth compact 
body, take it away from the fire, work it smartly, and then pass it through 
a tammy into a bain-niane for use. If the sauce should appear to curdle 
or decompose, add a spoonful of any white sauce nearest at hand, which 
will set it right again. 

Dutch sauce may be flavoured with various sorts of vinegar, horse ra- 
dish, or lemon juice, according to fancy, or as the case may require. 

43. MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Put some bechamel sauce into a stewpan, make it boil, and incorporate 
with it, six ounces of fresh butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, 
pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

44. COLD MAITRE d'hOTEL SAUCE. 

Put about six ounces of fresh butter on a plate, knead it together with 
some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

This butter is chiefly used for French beefsteaks, for broiled mackerel, 
and other sorts of broiled fish, as will be shown hereafter. 

46. PRINCESS SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan the rind of one lemon, and half a stick of 
horse-nuUflh, both grated ; a little nutmeg, pepper, and two table-spoon- 



12 SAUCES. 

fuls of French vinegar ; simmer these on a slow fire for a few minutes, and 
then add a small ladleful of allemande sauce : stir the whole on the fire 
till it boils^ then pass it through a tammy into a hairirmarie. Just before 
using the sauce, add a pat of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley. This sauce will prove an excellent accessory, to be 
served with any entree of poultry or game, when dressed d la Daupkine, 
OT dla ViUerai ; as also for fillets of dressed fish, bread-crumbed, and 
denominated a la Frincesse; in which case, a little anchovy butter 
may be added. 

46. ALBERT SAUCE. 

Gratb three large sticks of horse-radish, put them into a stewpan 
with a pint of good broth; let this simmer gently on a moderate 
fire for half an hour, then add a little white sauce and half a pint of 
cream ; reduce the whole over a brisk fire, and pass the sauce through a 
tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a hain-rruirie. Just before 
using the sauce, make it hot, and mix, in a little French vinegar, a des- 
sert spoonful of mixed mustard, some salt, a table-spoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley, and two yolks of eggs. 

This sauce is well adapted to be eaten with braized fillet of beef, gar- 
nished with potatoes cut into the shape of olives, and fried in butter. 

47. INDIAN CURRY SAUCE. 

Take two large onions, one carrot, and one head of celery, and slice 
them very thin ; place these with two ounces of fresh butter in a stew- 
pan, and fry them over a slow fire till the onions are nearly melted, but 
without becoming brown ; add three blades of mace, some thyme, and 
a bayleaf, a bouquet of parsley, and two table-spoonfuls of Cook*s meat 
currie paste, and as much roux or flour as may be required to thicken the 
quantity of sauce needed ; moisten with some good broth or conwmvie and 
stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then set it by the side to clear it- 
self of the butter, &c. Having skimmed and reduced the sauce to a 
proper consistency, pass it through a tammy (extracting the parsley), as for 
a purvey and take it up into a haitirmariey or add it to whatever kind of 
meat is prepared for the ciurie ; observing that the broth thereof should 
be used for making the sauce. 

48. CARDINAL SAUCE. 

Put some reduced veloute sauce into a stewpan, add some essence of 
mushrooms, lobster butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon-juice, and 
cayenne ; work these well together, and pass the sauce through a tammy 
into a bain-marie for use. 

Observe : that for whatever kind of meat or fish this sauce may be in- 
tended, the essence or liquor of the meat or fish should be first reduced to 
glaze, and then incorporated into the sauce, in order to give it a character- 
istic flavour. 

49. REGENCY SAUCE. 
Cut an eel of a pound weight, into thin slices, and place them in a stew- 
pan with six cloves, two blades of mace, some thyme, a bay leaf, sweet basil, 
a carrot, mushrooms, an onion, and a little salt ; moisten with three parts of 
a bottle of good claret, and put the whole to boil gently on tlie fire for half 
an hour : after which pass the essence thus obtained through the tammy 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 13 

with pressure, so as to extract every particle. Then mix the produce with 
a ladleful of reduced espagnoU sauce, and having boiled, skimmed, and 
reduced it, finish by working into* it, some essence of trufBes, anchovy 
butter, nutmeg, lemon juice and a small pinch of sugar. 

This sauce is peculiarly well adapted for every sort of colouied fish, 
dther fresh water or salt. 

M. WHITE OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put the oysters into a stewpan, and set them to boil for ten minutes 
on the stove fire, drain them on a sieve, (saving their liquor in a basin) 
wash and beard them, taking care to cut off the tendons as that part when 
eaten is troublesome to the teeth, and put them into a bain-marie — ^reserv- 
ing only the fat part ; then put four ounces of butter (more or less accord- 
ing to the quantity of sauce) into a stewpan with two ounces of flour, 
cayenne pepper, and salt ; knead these well together, and moisten with 
the oyster liquor, some cream, and a piece of glaze ; stir the sauce on the 
fire, keeping it boiling for ten minutes ; then pass it through a tammy 
upon the oysters. Just before sending to table, add a little lemon juice. 

61. BROWN OYSTER S^UCE. 
Prepare this precisely as the last sauce, but instead of the cream, use 
an equal quantity of brown gravy. Brown oyster sauce is a very desirable 
accessory to beefsteaks, beef pudding, beefsteak pie, broiled slices of Cod- 
fish, and various other plain dressed dishes. 

62. MUSCLE SAUCE. 

Cleanse, wash, beard, and blanch or stew, two quarts of muscles ; 
take all the white fat muscles out of the shells, and place them in a bain- 
marie, reserving their liquor in a basin. Then knead four ounces of butter 
with two ounces of flour, some nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; add the liquor 
from the muscles, a piece of glaze, and half a pint of cream ; stir the whole 
on the stove fire till it boils, and keep it boiling for ten minutes : •>— add a 
leason of four yolks of eggs, and pass it through a tammy on to the mus- 
des. Just before sending the sauce to table, throw in a table-spoonful of 
chopped and blanched parsley, and a little lemon juice. 

This sauce is well adapted for broiled whitings, turbot, cod, haddock, 
and gurnet. 

53. SHRIMP SAUCE. 

To about half a pint of melted butter, add a little lobster coral, cay- 
enne, some picked shrimps, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. 

64. CRAYFISH SAUCE. 
Boil thirty crayfish in the usual manner, trim the tails, and with the 
bodies and shells make some crayfish butter, (No. 184) which incorporate 
into about half a pint of reduced velotUe sauce ; add a little essence 
of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass this sauce through a 
tammy on to the crayfish tails. 

66. LOBSTER SAUJp. 
Cut the fleshy part of a lobster into small square pieces ; reserve the 
spawn and coral, and pound it with two ounces of butter, and pass 
it through a sieve. Then^ put about half a pint of melted butter, or the 



14 SAUCES. 

same quantity of reduced velovU sauce into a stewpan, incorporate there- 
with the lobster butter, a small piece of glaze, cayenne, and lemon juice, 
add the pieces of lobster, and send to table. 

56. STURGEON SAUCE. 

Takb some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braized, and 
having reduced it to one-third of its quantity, add half a bottle of claret 
or port, a ladleful of worked espagnok sauce, and some essence or trim- 
mings of mushrooms : allow the sauce to clear itself by boiling gently on 
the side of the stove fire, skim it, reduce it, and then pass it through a 
tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce, mix in a pat of 
butter, some nutmeg, cayenne, essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. 

67. BORDELAISE SAUCE. 

Mince two ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan with two 
cloves of garlic, a few pepper-corns, a blade of mace, some thyme, and a 
bayleaf, some sprigs of tarragon, and half a pint of claret ; set these to 
simmer gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add a piece 
of glaze about the size of a walnut, a small gravy-spoonful of worked 
€»pagnoh sauce, and a little hlond of veal ; having allowed the sauce to 
boil gently by the side of the stove fire to clear itself, pass it with pres- 
sure through a tammy into a hain-marle for use. This sauce must be 
kept rather thin, and to be perfect, should be bright and wholly firee from 
grease ; it is especially adapted, by its flavour and character, for being 
served with broiled meats and fishes generally. When this sauce is 
served with broiled fish, add to it, just before sending to table, a little 
essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice. 

68. CLAREMONT SAUCE. 

Cut two or more large onions into halves, pare off the ends, cut them 
into thin slices, and fry them in a stewpan with some butter, of a fine 
yellow colour ; drain off the butter, add a pinch of minionette pepper, 
with a little brown sauce and consonune ; set this to boil gently by the 
side of the stove fire, skim it, and then — when sufficiently reduced, pour 
it into a bain-marie for use. This sauce, as well as sauce () la bretonn^, 
is well calculated for making an excellent hash, either with beef, veal, or 
mutton. 

69. PORTUGUESE SAUCE. 

Grate the rind of a lemon, and put it into a small stewpan with a few 
bruised pepper-corns, some mace, six cloves, thyme, and a bayleaf, with 
half a pint of sherry ; simmer the whole on a slow fire for ten minutes, 
then add a small ladleful of worked brown sauce, and a little con- 
somme ; set this to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire, skim it, 
reduce it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 

This sauce is used for a braized fillet of beef, or minced fillet of beef au 
gratin d la Portuguaise. 

60. SICILIAN SAUCE. 
Chop two truffles, four shalots, a dozen mushrooms, and some parsley, 
separately ; put them into m small stewpan with thyme, and a bayleaf, 
one clove of garlic, and a little cayenne ; moisten with two glasses of 
sherry, set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes ; 
add a sufficient quantity of all^mande sauce for the purpose required, 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 15 

reduce it to its proper consistency, and then put it into a hain'Tnarif 
for use. 

Just before using this sauce add a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley, the rind of two oranges — pared extremely thin, cut into fine 
shreds, and blanched, — some lemon juice, and a little pounded sugar. 

61. GERMAN SWEET SAUCE. 

Stbw six ounces of dried cherries in a pint of red wine, together with 
some bruised cinnamon, cloves, and lemon peel, for twenty minutes on a 
slow fire ; pass the whole through a tammy into a pur^e, and put it into 
a stewpan with a little reduced brown sauce and six ounces of stewed 
prunes. 

This sauce is in great request for German dishes ; it improves the 
flavour of braized venison in its varied forms of preparation, and is pre- 
ferred by many for that pui-pose to poivrade or piqiAante sauce. 

62. CUERRY SAUCE. 

Put a pot of black currant jelly into a stewpan, together with six 
ounces of dried cherries, a small stick of cinnamon, and a dozen cloves tied 
up in a piece of muslin ; moisten with a pint of red wine, and set the 
whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes ; then take out 
the cinnamon and cloves^ and send to table. 

This kind of sauce is well adapted for roast hare or venison. 

63. NEAPOLITAN SAUCE. 

Sc&APE a stick of horse-raddish quite clean, grate it, and place this 
in a small stewpan with two ounces of glaze, a pot of currant jelly, 
half a pint of red wine, and a spoonful of worked brown sauce ; Iwil 
the whole gently on a stove-fire for twenty minutes, then pass the sauce 
through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a hain-marU 
for use. 

This kind of sauce is generally used with larded fillets of beef. It 
may also be served with entrees of venison. 

64. CHERRY SAUCE A LA VICTORIA. 
Put a pot of red currant jelly into a stewpan, together with a dozen 
cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of two oranges, a piece of glaze, and 
a large gravy spoonful of reduced brown sauce ; moisten with a pint of 
^ Burgundy wine, boil gently on the fire for twenty minutes; pass the 
sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, add the juice of the two oranges, 
and just before sending to table boil the sauce. 

This sauce is especially appropriate with red deer or roebuck, when 
prepared in a marinade and larded. 

65. RED CURRANT JELLY SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Bruise one stick of cinnamon and twelve cloves, and put them into a 
nmall stewpan with two ounces of sugar, and the peel of one lemon pared 
off very thin, and perfectly free from any portion of white pulp ; moisten 
with three glasses of port wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on 
the fire for a quarter of an hour ; then strain it through a sieve into a 
small stewpan containing a pot of red currant jelly. Just before sending 
the sauce to table set it on the fire to boil, in order to melt the currant 
jelly, 80 that it may mix with the essence of spice, &c. 



16 SAUCES. 

ee. BLACK CURRANT JELLY SAUCE FOR VENISOX. 
This sauce is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing — sub- 
stituting black currant jelly for red ; it is preferred by many to the other, 
as it possesses more flavour. 

67. SAUCE A LA ROBERT. 

Pbbl two large onions and cut them in halves, pare off the ends, and 
cut them into very small dice in the following manner : — hold the half 
onion in the lefl hand, set it firmly on the table with the cut side down- 
wards, then, with a knife held in the right hand horizontally, apply the 
edge of the point, and cut the onion into slices parallel with the sur&ce 
of the table without drawing the knife quite through ; then turn the 
piece of onion half round, and cut it nearly through in a vertical 
direction ; this will form the whole into small dice-like pieces. Next, 
put these into a small stewpan with about an ounce of fresh butter, and 
fry them of a light yellow colour ; then drain the butter, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of French vinegar; set this on the fire to simmer, and 
when the vinegar is nearly reduced add a small ladleful of espagnde 
sauce, and half that quantity of consomm^ ; stir this on the fire till it 
boils, then set it on the side to continue gently boiling that it may clear 
itself; skim it thoroughly, and having reduced it to a proper consistency, 
pour it into a bam-marie, and finish it by mixing in two teaspoonfuls of 
French mustard and a little minionette pepper. 

This sauce is peculiarly adapted, from its piquante, full, yet delicate 
flavour, for entries of broiled pork. 

68. SAUCE A LA GASCONNE. 
Take a small spoonful of French capers, with about an ounce of truf- 
fles, and chop each separately, very fine ; put these into a small stew- 
pan, together with one clove of garlic, a tablespoonful of salad oil, some 
pepper, and nutmeg ; fly them lightly on the stove-fire for two or three 
minutes ; moisten with a glass of French white wine, set the whole to 
boil on the stove-fire for three minutes ; then add a small ladleful of 
whit^ veloute sauce, a bayleaf and a sprig of thyme ; stir the sauce 
on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue boiling 
gently ; skim it well, and afler having added another glass of wine, 
reduce the sauce and thicken it with a leason of three yolks ; pour the 
sauce into a bain-marie, and just before using it mix in a spoonful of 
chopped and blanched chives, parsley, and tarragon, a pat of anchovy 
butter, and some lemon juice. 

69. CHEVREUIL OR PIQUANTE SAUCE FOR ROEBUCK. 
Chop four ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a good 
pinch of minionette pepper, some thyme, and a bayleaf, a few green 
onions, and some sprigs of parsley; moisten with a gill of French 
vinegar, boil the whole on the fire till reduced to half its original 
quantity, and then add a small ladleful of brown sauce, a small tumbler- 
fiil of red wine, and a little consomme ; stir this on the fire till it boils, 
and afler having cleared and skimmed it in the usual manner, reduce it 
to a proper consistency, and finish by adding a spoonful of red currant 
jelly and the juice of an orange. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 17 



70. BUTTER SAUCE. 

BuTTEB sauce, or, as it is more oflen absurdly called, melted butter, is the 
foundation of the whole of the following sauces, and requires very great 
care in its preparation. Though simple, it is nevertheless a very useful 
and agreeable sauce when properly made ; so far from this being usually 
the case, it is too generally left to assistants to prepare as an insignificant 
matter ; the result is therefore seldom satisfactory. 

When a large quantity of butter sauce is required, put four ounces of 
fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan, with some grated nutmeg and 
minionette pepper ; to these add four ounces of sifled flour ; knead the 
whole well together, and moisten with half a pint of cold spring water ; 
stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and afler having kept it gently 
boiling for twenty minutes, (observing that it be not thicker than 
the consistence of common white sauce), proceed to mix in one pound and 
a half of sweet fresh butter, taking care to stir the sauce quickly the 
whole time of the operation. Should it appear to turn oily, add now 
and then a spoonful of cold spring water ; finish with the juice of half a 
lemon, and salt to palate ; then pass the sauce through a tammy into a 
large haiiv^marie for use. 

^Vofe. — This kind of sauce should not be made above twenty 
minutes before it is wanted, as from its particular delicacy, when 
exposed much longer to heat of any kind, it is liable to be decomposed ; 
should this occur, it may be remedied by simply adding a little cold 
spring water in winter, or a small piece of clean ice in summer ; and 
then working the sauce briskly together with a spoon. This method is 
efficacious in restoring any sort of butter sauce, when turned or become 
oily, to its original smoothness. 

71. BUTTER SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS. 
Pbbparb some sauce as directed in the foregoing recipe, and add 
a little double cream, with a tea-spoonful of French \'inegar. 

This sauce is also served with cauliflower, brocoli, seakale, salsifis, 

72. ANCHOVY SAUCE. 
Pbrparb some butter sauce, add a sufficient quantity of essence of 
anchovies to give flavour, and a little lemon-juice. 

73. PLAIN LOBSTER SAUCE. 
Cut all the fleshy part of the lobster into small square dice, place 
them in a bain-marie with sufficient butter sauce, a little cayenne, and 
lemon-juice, and also some lobster coral forced through a hair sieve : 
stir the sauce with a spoon on the fire till it boils, and send to table. 
The coral may also be pounded with a little butter, and after being 
rubbed through a sieve or tammy, worked into the sauce. Either 
method may be adopted, but the latter is generally preferred. 

74. PLAIN SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Takk half a pint of picked shrimps, half a pint of butter sauce, a little 
essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; stir these together in a 
snail stewpan over the fire, and serve. 



18 SAUCES. 

76. FENNEL SAUCE. 
Chop and blanch sufficient fennel to colour the sauce of a bright green, 
and put it into a hain-Tnarie, containing half a pint of butter sauce ; add a 
little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 

76. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Let a piiit of green young gooseberries be well picked, throw them 
into an untinncd sugar-boiler, containing sufficient boiling water to 
blanch them in ; boil them quickly on the stove-fire for ten minntes 
(more or less), but observe that the gooseberries be thoroughly done; 
drain them on a sieve, remove them into a small stewpan, and bruise 
them with a wooden spoon. The gooseberries after being boiled may 
be rubbed through a sieve or tammy into a purhy which has the effect 
of giving a smoother appearance to the sauce. This sauce is served with 
plain boiled mackerel. 

77. PARSLEY SAUCE, USUALLY CALLED PARSLEY AND BUTTER. 
Put a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley into half a pint 
of good butter sauce ; and just before sending to table add a very little 
lemon-juice. 

78. PLAIN RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Take one tablespoonful each of tarragon vinegar, chili ditto, and 
Harvey's sauce ; put this into a small stewpan, and set it to boil down 
to half the quantity ; then add about half a pint of good butter sauce, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon, with chervil, 
chives, bumet, and parsley, in sufficient quantity to give a bright colour 
to the sauce ; stir the whole well together and serve. 

This sauce is proper for boiled fowls or chickens, dressed fillets of 
various sorts of fish, when a plain dinner is served. If a small piece of 
glaze be added it will tend much to improve the quality of all plain 
sauces. 

79. PLAIN DUTCH SAUCE. 
Pour a large gravy-spoonful of melted butter into a small stewpan, 
add four raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, some minionette 
pepper, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt; stir the sauce 
briskly on the fire in order to set the yolks in it, and then pass it 
through a tammy into a bain-marie ; previously to using it add a little 
tarragon vinegar or lemon-juice. 

80. BREAD SAUCE. 
Put half a pint of cream and a little milk into a small stewpan with a 
large gravy-spoonful of bread-crumbs, a small onion, some peppercorns, 
and a little salt ; stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled ten minutes, 
then take out the onion, work in a pat of fresh butter, and serve. 

81. FRIED BREAD SAUCE. 
Mince a little lean ham and put it into a small stewpan with one 
chopped shalot, some grated nutmeg, minionette pepper, and half a 
pint of good gravy ; simmer the whole on the stove-fire till reduced to 
half, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into another small 
stewpan, containing four tablespoonfuls of fried bread-crumbs of a light- 



SPECUL SAUCES. 19 

brown colour, and some chopped parsley ; add a little essence of chicken 
and the juice of half a lemon ; stir the sauce till it boils, and serve. 

This kind of sauce is appropriate for all small birds, such as wheat- 
ears, ortolans, ruffs and reeves, &c. &c. 

82. BROWN GRAVY FOR ROAST VEAL. 

Placb four ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, and knead it with a 
good tablespoonful of flour ; add a ladleful of good brown gravy, some 
essence of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, and minionette pepper ; 
stir the sauce on the stove, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes. 
If it becomes too thick add a little more gravy, so as to keep it of the 
same consistency as any other sauce ; finish with a little lemon-juice. 

If there is no gravy or essence of mushrooms at hand, use, in their 
stead, a ladleful of water, a piece of glaze, some mushroom ketchup, and 
a little Indian soy ; these will answer nearly the same purpose. 

83. CREAM SAUCE FOR ROAST NECK OF VEAL. 
Knead four ounces of fresh butter with two ounces of sifted flour ; 
add half a pint of good cream and a small ladleful of white consom-nie^ a 
little nutmeg and minionette pepper, some essence of mushrooms, and 
a garnished parsley faggot ; stir the sauce till it boils, and keep it gently 
boiling for twenty minutes ; then extract the onion and faggot, and pass 
the sauce through a tammy into a hain-niarie for use. 

84. EGG SAUCE. 
Boil some eggs hard ; when cold, break and pick off their shells, and 
then cut them up into square, dice-like pieces, and put them into some 
good melted butter, with a little pepper and salt ; stir gently on the fire 
till the sauce is hot, and then serve. 

85. EGG SAUCE, ANOTHER METHOD. 

Boil four eggs hard, take the yolks out, and cut the whites into small 
shreds and put them into a stewpan ; place a wire sieve over a clean 
plate, and rub the yolks through it on to the plate, keeping the vermicelli- 
like substance which this operation will produce as whole as possible ; 
pour some good butter sauce on to the shred whites of eggs, adding 
thereto a teaspoonful of English mustard, a little pepper and salt, and 
lemon-juice ; just before serving, warm the sauce, and mix in lightly the 
vermicellied yolks of eggs, and serve. 

86. SAUCE MOUTARDE, OR MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Into about half a pint of good butter sauce, mix two tablespoonfuls of 
prepared English mustard and one of French (fltto ; make the sauce hot, 
and serve. 

This sauce is seldom used for any other dish than broiled herrings. 

87. PLAIN CURRIE SAUCE. 
Put two ounces of firesh butter into a stewpan, together with rather 
more than an ounce of flour and a good tablespoonful of currie paste or 
powder ; knead these well together, then add a little shred carrot, celery, 
and onions ; moisten with about a pint of good strong consomm^ ; stir the 
tauoe on the fire until it boils, and, after having kept it boiling for about 
twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy, as for a 'pv,r6e ; then 

c 2 



20 SAUCES. 

remove the sauce into a haih-marie or stewpan, to be used when 
required. 

This economical method of making currie sauce should only be resorted 
to in cases of emergency or necessity^ otherwise it is desirable to follow 
the directions contained in No. 47- 

88. Vastrefish sauce, for boiled fresh-watfjr fish. 

Cut into small shreds the rind of an orange, the red part of a carroty a 
handful of parsley stalks, and an equal proportion of parsley roots ; blanch 
these, and, having drained them on a sieve or napkin, place them in a 
small stewpan, containing about half a pint of Dutch sauce, with the 
addition of two spoonfuls of reduced essence of fish, a little cayenne, and 
lemon-juice ; stir the sauce on the fire without allowing it to boil, and 
Berve it with perch, or, indeed, with any other sort of plain boiled fresh- 
water fish, for which purpose the ingredients it contains render it pecu- 
liarly fitted. 

89. FLEMISH SAUCE. 

Knrad two ounces of fresh butter with an equal quantity of flour, to 
which add an onion, some sprigs of parsley, a little shred carrot, and a 
sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a little minionette pepper ; moisten 
with half a pint of cream and the same proportion of good consommS. 
Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and, afler having kept it boiling 
for twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy into a bain-marie, con- 
taining the red part of a carrot, some parsley stalks and roots, and some 
horseradish, the whole of which should be previously cut into small dia- 
monds and blanched ; finish by mixing in a small spoonful of tarragon 
vinegar and three or four green Indian gherkins cut into shreds ; make 
the sauce hot, and serve. 

90. CAPER SAUCE, FOR FISH. 

Knbad two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce of flour, a very little 
grated nutmeg and minionette pepper ; to these add a tablespoonful of 
chopped capers, a piece of glaze, and a little essence of anchovies ; moisten 
with about half a pint of good consommi ; stir the sauce on the fire until 
it begins to simmer, then take it off; add a little lemon-juice, and serve. 

This kind of sauce is peculiarly adapted for broiled salmon. 

91. CAPER SAUCE, FOR BOILED MUTTON. 

To about half a pint of good butter sauce, add a tablespoonful of 
chopped capers, with a little pepper and salt. 

92. CREAM SAUCE, OR BECHAMEL, FOR SALT-FISH. 

Place four ounces of sifled flour in a stewpan, with an equal quantity 
of fresh butter ; knead them together well with a wooden spoon ; add an 
onion, a carrot, a head of celery — ^the whole cut up thin — some branches of 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, and half a bayleaf, two cloves, a blade of mace, 
and a few peppercorns ; moisten with about a pint of good white can- 
iomnU and half a pint of cream, adding a little salt ; stir the sauce on the 
fire until it boils ; let it continue to boil for twenty minutes, stirring 
it the whole time, then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, to be 
kept for use. 



COLD SAUCES. 21 

93. BEURRE NOIR, OR BLACK BUTTER SHARP SAUCE. 
Place about six ounces of good fresh butter in a small stewpan, put 
it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fritter, so as to acquire a light 
brown colour ; then take it off the stove, skim it, and quickly pass it 
through a sieve, into a stewpan containing four tablespoonfuls of French 
vinegar, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce ; boil the 
whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or broiled mackerel. 
With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley forms an 
indispensable adjunct. 



COLD SAUCES, 



COMPRISINO: 



Cambridge nnce. MayonncUte sauce of sayory jelly. 

Rewujmladey do. Proveufole sauce. 

Tartar, do. Cold Poivrade, do. 

Mayonmttimf do. Wild Boar's Head, do. 

Green, do. do. Brawn, do. 
Red, or Coral, do. do. 

94. CAMBRIDGE SAUCE. 

Takb 4he yolks of six eggs boiled hard, the fillets of four anchovies, 
cleaned, and put them into a mortar with a tablespoonful of French 
capersy some tarragon, chervil, chives, and a little bumet, blanched; 
pound these well together with a teaspoonful of English mustard, the 
same quantity of French and some pepper and salt ; moisten with good 
salad oil, and a little tarragon vinegar, taking care that the sauce be 
kept rather thick. Having sufficiently moistened the sauce, take it out of 
the mortar into the tammy, placed over a dish for that purpose, and 
proceed to rub the sauce through the tammy in the same manner as a 
purie; pass the back part of a knife along the under part of the 
tammy, in order to detach therefrom any adhesive particles ; take the 
sauce up into a small basin, to be kept on the ice till wanted for use, 
and just before sending to table, add some chopped parsley. Observe, 
that this sauce be kept about the same degree of thickness as reduced 
vdoute sauce ; salt must be used in moderation, owing to the presence of 
anchovies in the composition. 

95. REMOULADE SAUCE. 
Blanch some tarragon, chervil, chives, bumet, and parsley ; extract 
the water and pound these herbs together, with four yolks of hard eggs ; 
moisten with a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
and season with pepper and salt. Pass the sauce through a tammy as 
for a purie, and then take it up into a small basin ; keep it on the ice 
till it is required for use. 

96. TARTAR SAUCE. 

Plack a round bottomed basin in a deep sauta pan containing some 
poonded ioe^ put two raw yolks of eggs into the basin with a little pepper 
and salt, and with a wooden spoon, proceed, with the back part of the 
bowly to work the yolks of eggs, dropping in at intervals very small 



22 PUREES OF 

quantities of salad oil, and a little tarragon vinegar, until a sufficient 
quantity of sauce is produced ; bearing in mind, that the relative quan- 
tity of oil to be used in proportion to the vinegar, is as five to one. 
When the sauce is finished, add some chopped tarragon and chervil, and 
half a shalot. 

In making this sauce, should it decompose through inattention, it may 
instantly be restored to its proper consistency, by mixing in it a good 
spoonful of cold white sauce. 

97. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Place two raw yolks of eggs in a round bottomed basin, and set this 
in a deep sauta pan containing some pounded ice ; add a little pepper 
and salt to the yolks, and proceed to work them quickly with the back 
part of the bowl of a wooden spoon ; moistening at intervals with salad 
oil and French vinegar, which must, however, be sparingly used at first, 
and gradually increased as you proceed, until by this means, the quantity 
of sauce desired is produced ; add a little lemon juice to make the sauce 
white. Previous to using the sauce, add a little aspic jelly (No. 1218) 
which must be just barely melted before incorporating it with the may- 
onnaisey as in the case of its being made warm it might have the effect 
of turning and decomposing the sauce. 

98. GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Blanch some tarragon, chervil, a little bumet, and some paisley ; ex- 
tract the water therefrom ; pass the ravigotte thus produced through a 
sieve and proceed to incorporate it with some maycninaise prepared accord- 
ing to the foregoing instructions. 

This sauce is usually coloured with spinach green (No. 286). 

99. RED OR CORAL MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Pound some lobster coral, pass it through a sieve and mix it in with 
some viayonnaist sauce ; add a little cayenne papper and a spoonful of 
mustard. 

This sauce should be used exclusively for lobster and fish salads. 

100. MAYONNAISE SAUCE OF SAVORY JELLY. 

Set a round bottomed basin in some pounded ice, place therein half a 
pint of light- coloured aspic jelly, a little pepper and salt, a gravy spoon- 
ful of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; whip this mix- 
ture quickly with a whisk, adding, from time to time, some oil and 
vir.ogar in the same proportions as heretofore directed; by whipping 
briskly, you will find the sauce assume a white smooth appearance ; add 
a little lemon juice, to whiten it, and some chopped tarragon and chervil; 
or, if preferred, this sauce may be used without the latter. This kind 
of mayonnam sauce is considered as being the most delicate, and is par- 
ticularly adapted for aspics of fillets of fowls, or any sort of white fish. 

This sauce may also be coloured, by using for that purpose, either 
some pounded lobster coral, or extract of spinach (No. 286). 

101. PROVEN^ALE SAUCE. 
Pound four yolks of hard boiled eggs, together with four anchovies, a 
spoonful of capers, some tarragon, chervil, bumet, parsley, a clove of garlic, 
pepper and salt, a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES. 23 

gar ; rub the whole through a tammy with a wooden spoon as for a 
puree; add a little lemon juice and serve. 

This kind of sauce is well adapted to be served with boiled eels or 
fowls, and more especially with fish salads ; in which case, a spoonful of 
chopped parsley should be added. 

102. COLD POIVRADE SAUCE. 

Put a good spoonful of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin, add 
thereto four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of chili vinegar, a little tarra- 
gon vinegar, pepper and salt ; work the whole well together with a 
whisk, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a little shalot. 

This sauce is good with plain boiled artichokes and also for brawn, by 
adding a little sugar. 

103. boar's head sauce. 

Grate a stick of horse-radish, and place it in a basin with four 
ounces of red currant jelly, a spoonful of mixed mustard » the grated rind 
of an orange and lemon, together with the juice of both ; two ounces of 
pounded sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls 
of salad oil; mix these ingredients thoroughly together, and serve. 

104. ANOTHER METHOD FOR MAKING BOARDS HEAD SAUCE. 

Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, free from any of the white 
pith, cut it into fine shreds, parboil this and drain it on a sieve ; 
then put it into a small stewpan containing the juice of the two oranges, 
together with one pound of red currant jelly, half a pint of port wine, 
and half a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder ; simmer the whole together 
in a stewpan, and serve when cold. 

105. BRAWN SAUCE. 
Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, 
three of salad oil, a teaspoonfid of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, 
and serve. 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING.* 

COMPRISING : 

Purie of Peaft. Puree of Artichokes. 

^ of Windsor Beans. „ of Aspomgaa. 

„ of Carrots. m of Onions, a la Soubiac, 

„ ofTuniips. „ ofTomatas. 

„ of Celery. ^ of Truffles. 

M of Cauliflowers. «, of Mushrooms. 

„ of Spinach. *, of Brussels sprouts. 

^ ofSorreL n of Cucuniliers. 

« of EndiYe. n of French Beans. 

„ of Chestnuts. „ of Jerusalem Artichokes. 

„ of Sea Kale. „ of Sea Kale. 

„ of Potatoes. 

106. PUREE OF PEAS. 

Boil a quart of marrowfat or Prussian-blue peas, in the usual manner, 

with some mint, a few green onions, and a handful of parsley ; strain off 

* All the ^rrrv here described being intended (or entrees, should be kept firm, that 
th«y my Hand up well when placed in the centre of an entree. 



24 PUREES OF 

the water, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar ; then take this 
up into a stewpan, and afler adding a little sugar, a gravy-spoonful of 
good white sauce, make it hot, and pass it through a tammy as 
usual ; put the puree into a small stewpan, in which it must be warmed 
before using it, mix in a small piece of glaze, and a pat of fresh butter. 

107. PUREE OF WINDSOR BEANS. 

Procure a quart of young Windsor beans, and boil them with a hand- 
ful of parsley, a few green onions, and a little winter savory ; drain them 
and pound the whole together in a moitar ; take them up into a stewpan, 
add a gravy- spoonful of good white sauce, and make the puree warm. 
Rub it through the tammy with a wooden spoon ; then take it up into a 
stewpan, and just before using it make it sufficiently hot; mix in 
a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a little sugar, and some spinach 
green. 

108. PUREE OF YOUNG CARROTS. 

Clean a bunch of young carrots, slice them up thin, wash and drain 
them through a sieve ; then place them in a stewpan, with two ounces of 
fresh butter, a little salt, grated nutmeg and sugar ; sweat them on a 
slow fire, turning them over now and then. When the carrots begin to get 
coloured, moisten with a ladleful of good broth, and set them on the fire ; 
allow them to boil down gently to a glaze, then pound them in the mor- 
tar, and rub them through the tammy into a puree ; put this puree into 
a small stewpan, and when required for use, add a spoonful of thick aJUe-^ 
mande sauce. 

109. PUREE OF TURNIPS A LA CREME. 

Peel and wash a dozen good turnips, cut them into small square pieces, 
or slices ; first blanch, and then drain them on a napkin, and aflerwai*ds 
place them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little sugar, 
and salt ; let them stew gently on a slow fire to extract the moisture, 
turning them occasionally, and taking care that they do not become at all 
coloured. When the turnips are nearly melted, add a small ladleful of 
velouie or bechamel sauce ; stir the puree with a wooden spoon on the fire, 
in order to reduce it to the consistency of a soft paste ; then add half a 
pint of double cream ; reduce the puree still further, then rub it through 
a tammy, next remove it into a small stewpan, and previously to using 
it, make it sufficiently hot, mixing in a pat of fresh butter^ and a little 
grated nutmeg, and serve. 

110. PUREE OF CELERY. 
Cut the white part of six or eight heads of celery into half-inch 
lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, plunge them in fresh water, 
and drain the celery in a napkin ; then place them in a stewpan with 
two ounces of butter, some white broth, a little sugar and grated nutmeg ; 
cover the celery thus prepared with a round of buttered paper, place the 
lid on the stewpan and set it on a slow fire to extract the moisture and 
melt the celery, taking care that in the course of the process, it does not 
colour ; when the celery is melted or softened, moisten with a ladleful of 
white sauce, and half a pint of cream ; reduce quickly on the fire, stir- 
ring the puree the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the puree 
is reduced to its proper consistency, proceed immediately to rub it through 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 25 

the tammy, after which take it up into a small stewpan ; previously to 
using it, make the puree hot, and mix with it a little double cream, and a 
pinch of pounded sugar. 

111. PUREE OF CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut two or more heads of white fresh cauliflowers into small pieces, 
and after trimming these, boil them in some boiling water with a little 
salt, minionette pepper, and a pat of butter ; when done, drain them 
on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a deep sautapan, with a large 
gravy spoonful of reduced aUemande or white sauce, stir the puree on the 
fire with a wooden spoon, and keep it boiling until reduced to the consis- 
tency of a soft paste, then instantly rub it through a tammy ; remove the 
puree into a small stewpan, and previously to using it, make it hot, and 
mix in a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, and a little double cream 
to whiten it, and make it more delicate. 

112. PUREE OF SPINACH. 
Pick, wash, and boil a small dish of spinach, refresh it in cold water, 
squeeze it thoroughly free from water, examine it carefully by separating 
it with the point of a knife on the chopping board, so as to remove any 
straws, &c., left in it ; next pound it well in the mortar, and then take it 
up in a deep sautapan, add a small ladleful of good white sauce, a little 
grated nutmeg, salt, and a pinch of sugar; reduce ihe puree over a brisk 
fire to preserve its colour ; rub it through a tammy, and remove it into 
a small stewpan ; just before using it make it warm, and add two pats of 
fresh butter, and a small piece of glaze. 

113. PUREE OF SORREL. 
Pick, and well wash the sorrel in several waters ; drain off the water, 
and place the sorrel in a large stewpan on the fire, stirring it the whole 
time with a wooden spoon ; as soon as the sorrel is melted, and has boiled 
a few minutes, turn it out on to a large hair-sieve, there to remain- until 
the water has run off. Next, cut two large onions into thin slices, 
place these in a stewpan, with two ounces of fresh butter, and put them 
to fry of a light colour on the stove fire; after which, add a good 
tablespoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sugar, some 
minionette pepper and salt ; moisten with a gravy-spoonful of sauce, 
either white or brown, then add the sorrel, prepared as above directed, 
and reduce the puree over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a 
wooden spoon ; wj^en the sorrel is sufficiently reduced, rub it instantly 
through a tammy, and place it in a small stewpan. Previously to using 
the purity make it hot ; add a pat of butter, and a piece of glaze. 

114. PUREE OF ENDIVE. 
Thim off all the outside leaves of a dozen full white-h6art endives ; 
wash them thoroughly, and carefully remove all insects, &c., throw the 
endives into a stewpan of boiling water, and after allowing them to re- 
main boiling for the space of twenty minutes, immerse them in cold water. 
When thus cooled, squeeze each endive separately, entirely extracting 
the water ; then cut off the root end firom each endive, and after first 
chopping the leafy portion, place them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of fiivsh butter, nutmeg, sugar, and salt; stir the whole over a stove 
fire with a wooden spoon for five minutes, moisten with a ladleful of 



26 PUKEE8 OF 

white broth, then cover with a round of buttered paper, place the lid on 
the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to continue very gently simmering 
for half an hour ; next add a small ladleful of white sauce and half a pint of 
cream, and reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire; as soon as it is reduced 
to its proper consistency, instantly remove it into a small stewpan for use. 
This kind of puree is usually rubbed through a coarse hair sieve in 
preference to a tammy. 

116. PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts and place them in a stewpan with a 
piece of butter ; put the lid on the stewpan and set it on a slow fire, 
taking care, now and then to toss up the chestnuts so that they may get 
an equal degree of heat; in about twenty minutes the husks will easily 
peel off, and should then be removed. Put the chestnuts into a clean stew* 
pan with a ladleful of good cansamme, and place the lid thereon ; set them 
to simmer gently on the comer of the stove ; when they are done, pound 
them in a mortar, take them up into a deep sautapan, add a little sugar, 
nutmeg, and half a pint of cream ; reduce the puree and rub it through a 
tammy on to a dish, remove it into a small stewpan; and just before using 
it, make it hot, mix in a small pat of butter, and a piece of glaze. 

116. PUREE OF POTATOES. 
Peel and wash eight potatoes, cut them into slices, and place them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, some minionette pepper, salt, and 
a little nutmeg ; moisten with a pint of white broth, put the lid on the 
stewpan and set it to boil on the fire. By the time the broth is reduced, 
the potatoes will be done ; then add half a pint of cream, and with 
a wooden spoon reduce the puree on the fire to the usual consistency 
of mashed potatoes ; rub the puree through the tammy on to a dish, and 
then remove it into a small stewpan ; previously to using it, add a pat 
of butter. 

117. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

FiEST, pick off the outer leaves of six young full-grown artichokes, 
then turn, or pare off with a knife, the whole of the outer green part of 
the bottom of the artichokes, so as to leave it white ; when this is finish- 
ed, rub each artichoke thus turned with a piece of lemon, and put them 
directly into a pan of water with a little vinegar in it. Then place the 
artichokes in a stewpan with boiling water, a little butter, lemon juice, 
salt and minionette pepper ; afler three-quarters of an hour's gentle 
boiling, take the artichokes up, extract the fibrous interior from each, and 
place them in a deep sautapan with a ladleful of white sauce, half a pint 
of cream, nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; reduce the 
puree quickly over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden 
spoon, and then rub it through a tammy ; after which remove it into a 
small stewpan ; finish with a pat of butter, and a small piece of glaze. 

110. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS. 
Break off the tender portion of a bundle of sprue asparagus, wash 
them in a lai^ pan, with a good handful of green onions, and double that 
quantity of picked parsley ; set these on the fire to boil in an untinned pan 
half full of boiling water, and throw in a spoonful of salt ; as soon as the 
asparagus are done, drain them in a sieve, and remove all the water. Put 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 27 

the asparaguBy parsley, and green onions, altogether into a deep sautapan, 
with a small ladleful of white sauce, the crumb of a French roll (that 
has previously been soaked in water, and afterwards pressed in a napkin 
to remove the moisture), some grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; reduce the puree quickly on the fire, rub it through a 
tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stewpan, 
and keep it in the cool until wanted for use. Finish by adding a pat 
of firesh butter, a piece of glaze, and some spinach green, if required, to 
give it a bright green colour. 

119. PUREE OF ONIONS, A LA SOUBISE. 

Pebl and cut into slices eight large onions, parboil them in water for 
five minutes, drain them on a sieve, immerse them in cold water, and 
press them in a napkin to extract the water ; place them in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter, nutmeg, minionette pepper, a little salt, 
and a spoonful of white broth ; put a round of buttered paper on them, 
and cover the stewpan with its lid ; and set it on a very slow fire, 
to simmer gently for half an hour. Then turn the onions out into a deep 
sautapan, moisten with a small ladleful of good white sauce, and half a 
pint of cream, reduce the purSe quickly on a sharp fire, rub it through a 
tammy on to a dish, and take it up into a small stewpan. Just before 
using it, add a pinch of sugar. 

When this puree is required to be made very firm and thick, it is 
necessary to increase the quantity of onions used for the purpose, and to 
add a couple of hot mealy potatoes. 

120. PUREE OF TOMATAS. 

Cot fovx ounces of raw ham into small pieces, and place them in a 
stewpan with two shalots, a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, two cloves, a 
blade of mace, and a few peppercorns ; add a small piece of butter, and 
fry these ingredients on the fire of a light colour ; to this add either a 
dozen squeezed ripe tomatas, or a sufficient quantity of preserve of 
tomatas, and a small ladleful of velotUe sauce ; reduce the pur^e thus 
prepared on a quick fire ; then rub it through a tammy, and place it in a 
small stewpan for use. Finish by adding a little glaze and a small piece of 
firesh butter, just before sending to table. 

121. PUREE OF TRUFFLES. 

Flrst peel, and then pound ten ounces of truffles ; put them into a 
stewpan with a pat of butter, half a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, some 
grat^ nutmeg, and a very small clove of garlic ; set these on the stove 
to simmer for a few minutes, then add a small ladleful of brown sauce 
and a small piece of glaze ; reduce the puree quickly, and rub it through 
the tammy on to a dish ; remove it from thence into a small bain-jnarie 
for use. 

Omit the garlic should its flavour be objectionable. 

122. PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. 
Clean a pottle of white button mushrooms, chop them up, adding 
meanwhile the juice of half a lemon to prevent them from turning black ; 
when chopped fine, place them in a deep sautapan with a pat of butter, 
and with a wooden spoon stir them on the fire for five minutes ; moisten 
with a ladleful of good white sauce, reduce the puree quickly, and then add 



28 PUREES. 

half a pint of double cream ; stir the purde on the fire for five minutes 
longer, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remeve it 
into a small stewpan for use. 

123. PUREE OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 
Boil a good plateful of Brussels sprouts^ place them in a deep sautapan 
with a ladleful of good white sauce, nutmeg, minionette pepper, a little 
salt, and a pinch of sugar ; reduce the whole on a brisk fire, stirring all 
the time with a wooden spoon ; rub the puree through a tammy in the 
usual manner, and afterwards put it into a small stewpan ; previously to 
using the pur^e add a little spinach green, a pat of butter, and a piece of 
glaze. 

124. PUREE OF CUCUMBERS. 
Mince two ounces of lean ham, place it in a small stewpan with a pat 
of butter, a little nutmeg, and a few peppercorns; to these add four 
cucumbers, trimmed and cut up for the purpose ; set the stewpan on a 
slow fire there to simmer for twenty minutes, at the expiration of which 
time, add a small ladleful of white sauce ; reduce the puree quickly on a 
brisk stove, and when it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, pour in 
half a pint of good sweet double cream, and a teaspoon ful of sugar ; 
reduce the puree for five minutes longer on the fire, and then rub it 
through the tammy in the usual manner, and take it up into a small 
stewpan for use. 

125. PUREE OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Shred a good plateful of French beans, boil them quickly of a green 
colour, taking care to boil with them a handful of picked parsley and a 
few green onions ; when they are done, drain the whole on a sieve, and 
afterwards place them in a deep sautapan with a gravy-spoonful of good 
white sauce, a piece of glaze, and a little sugar ; reduce the puree on the 
fire, and then rub it through a tammy, take it up into a small stewpan, 
and just before using it mix in a small pat of butter^ and a little spinach 
green. 

126. PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

This purde is made exactly in the same manner as the pur^ of pota- 
toes, merely substituting Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes. 

127. PUREE OF SEAKALE. 
Boil a punnet of good white seakale, and drain it on a napkin ; cut it 
into half-inch lengths, and place it in a stewpan with two ounces of 
fresh butter, some minionette pepper, nutmeg, salt, a little sugar, and 
some white broth ; place thereon a round of buttered paper, and cover 
the stewpan with its lid ; set it on a moderate fire to simmer for twenty 
minutes, then add a small ladleful of good white sauce ; reduce the puree 
quickly to the condition of a soft paste, and then add half a pint of 
cream ; after reducing it five minutes longer, rub the pur6e through the 
tammy, and take it up into a small stewpan for use. 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 

comprising:- 

Garnish of Trofflef in Olaze. Garnish of Asparagus-heads, 

y, dla Parmame* „ of Asparagus Peas. 

y, in Supreme* ^ of Button Onions, for maielotie, 

„ of whole Truffles. „ of White Button Onions. 

« Mushrooms ^ VAUewumde* n ^ Windsor Beans. 

^ do. in Espa^noU, y, of French Beans. 

„ of young Carrots. „ of Artichoke bottoms, 

w of Carrots in Olives. » of glazed Onions. 

M of Turnips. » of Brocoli, or Cauliflower. 

M of Carrots and Turnips h la Ni- „ of Brussels Sprouts. 

ffenaise, „ of Chestnuts for roast Turkey. 

M of Cucumbers in Scollops. „ of Jerusalem Artichokes. 

M of Cucumbers/arcM. ^ of Cloves of Garlic. 

y, of Celery a la crime, ^ of White Haricot Beans. 

„ of Celery ei VEtpaginole, ^ of ^^ Haricot Beans, 

y, of young Carrots a la Flamande. ^ of Braized Cabbage Lettuces. 

^ of White il/aoacfoftM of vegetables. „ of Braized Cabbages. 

^ of Brown, do. ^ of stewed Red Cabbages. 

M of Green Peas. », of Sauerkraut. 

9 of Stewed Peas. „ of Sauerkraut d ^ Fran^aite, 

128. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES IN GLAZE.* 

Cut about one pound of truffles in various fancy shapes^ such as small 
round balls, olives, or like quarters of orange, small pillars, and circular 
scollops ; place them in a small stewpan, with a little fresh butter, a pinch 
of salt, and a piece of glaze ; put on the lid of the stewpan, and set it on 
a slow fire to simmer for five or ten minutes ; toss the truffles thus pre- 
pared in their glaze, and use them to garnish the centre of an erUr^, or 
for any other appropriate purpose. 

129. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES A LA PARISIENNE. 
Prepare the truffles as directed in the foregoing case, and, having 
bmled them down in their glaze, add a good ragout spoonful of Parisian 
sauce (No. 40). 

130. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES WITH SUPREME SAUCE. 
Prepare the truffles in fancy shapes, simmer them with a small quan- 
tity of butter and glaze, and boil them down in their glaze ; then add a 
spoonful of supreme sauce. This garnish may be served with all entries 
fillets of poultry or game. 

131. GARNISH OF WHOLE TRUFFLES. 
Bausd and dean any quantity required of fine fresh truffles, boil 
them in a wine mirepoix, (for making which see No. 256), one hour's 
gentle boiling will suffice ; just before using them, take the truffles out 
of the mirepoix^ glaze them, and dispose them round or about the erUrie 
or remove, in a circle or in groups. 

* Tlufl is the foundation of all garnishes of truffles and mushrooms ; an infinite variety 
BMqr be made by adding to the truffles prepared as above some special sauce, the addition 
•f which will then give its name to the ganiish. 



so GARNISHES 

132. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS IN ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 
Clean and turn a pottle of mushrooms, put them into a small stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and about 
two tablespoonfuls of water ; boil them quickly on the fire for five 
minutes, drain the mushrooms and put them into a bain-marie containing 
a large ragout spoonful of aUemande sauce ; reduce the liquor the mush- 
rooms were boUed in, and add it to the mushrooms. This garnish is 
proper for all white entries^ and especially for entries of game or fowl a la 
Dauphine or a la VilleroL 

133. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS IN ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 
pRBPARB the mushrooms as directed in the foregoing recipe, drain them 
on a napkin, and place them in a stewpan or bain-marie, with sufficient 
finished espagnole sauce, according to the quantity required, adding the 
essence of the mushrooms, cleared from the butter, and reduced. This 
sauce is appropriate for every kind of brown etUrie. 

134. GARNISH OF YOUNG CARROTS. 
Turn a bunch of young carrots, keeping them in their own shape, as 
far as may be consistent with uniformity of size ; boil them in water for 
three minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a stewpan, with an 
ounce of sugar, a pat of butter, and a little salt ; moisten with a pint of 
broth or consomniiy and set them to boil on the stove-fire ; when they 
are done, boil them down quickly to a glaze, roll the carrots in this glaze, 
and use them to garnish the intended dish. 

135. GARNISH OF CARROTS IN OLIVES, ETC. 
Scrape and wash four good carrots, cut the red part, either with a 
small root-knife, vegetable scoop, or cutter, into various fancy shapes, as 
olives, small round balls, pillars, half-moons, diamonds, or fiuted shapes ; 
parboil, drain, and prepare them as directed above ; finish them in the 
same manner, and, having run them down in their own glaze, either use 
them as they are, or else add a ragout-spoonful of aUemande^ bechamel, 
stijyreme, or, indeed, any other kind of sauce that may be appropriate for 
the dish they are meant to garnish. 

136. GARNISH OF TURNIPS. 

Peel four turnips, cut or turn them into fancy shapes, as directed in 
the preceding article, boil them for three minutes, drain them on a 
napkin, place them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, salt, and a small 
pat of butter ; moisten with some white broth, put them on the stove, 
and, when they are nearly done, boil them down quickly in their glaze, 
without aUowing them to acquire much colour. These turnips may be 
used for a garnish, merely rolled in their own glaze, or a spoonful 
of either aUemxxnde, bechamel, supreme, or finished espagnole sauce may 
be added. 

137. GARNISH OF CARROTS AND TURNIPS A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Cut or turn the red part of three carrots into the shape of small olives 
or round balls, place these in a small sautapan, with a little clarified 
butter and a teaspoonfid of pounded sugar ; fry them on the stove-fire, so 
as to give them a light colour, then place Uiem on a sieve to drain off the 
butter, and put them into a smaU stewpan, with a piece of fresh butter. 



OF VEGETABLES. 31 

a little sugar^ and salt ; moisten them with some consommij and set 
them to boil gradually until nearly done, when they must boil rapidly to 
glaze. Having thus disposed of the carrots, prepare an equal quantity of 
turnips, cut in a similar shape, and boil them down to a glaze, similarly 
to the carrots, and when both are done, mix them together, and use them 
for entries of braised mutton, beef, or any sort of cutlets. 

138. GARNISH OF CUCUMBERS IN SCOLLOPS. 

Cut three cucumbers into inch lengths, divide each piece, lengthwise, 
into two or more pieces, according to the size of the cucumber, so that, 
when trimmed, they should be rather larger in size than a shilling ; in 
trimming them, first scoop out the seedy part with a small root knife, 
then peel off the green rind and pare away the angles slightly, so as to 
give them a somewhat rounded appearance. Next, place them in a 
basin, with two spoonfuls of French vinegar and one of salt, and allow 
them to remain in this pickle, or marinade, for about a couple of hours, 
then drain them on a sieve, and place them in a stewpan, with a pat of 
butter, a lump of sugar, and a ragout spoonful of white consommS ; set 
them on a slow fire to simmer gently for half an hour, when they will be 
nearly done ; boil them down quickly to a glaze, and keep them separately, 
until they are wanted for immediate use ; then set them on the fire to 
boil, in order to absorb any moisture they may have thrown out, previ- 
ously to adding a ragout spoonful of aUemandey hechamdy suprSme, or 
brown sauce, as the case may require. 

139. GARNISH OF CUCUMBERS FARCIS. > 

Cut three or more cucumbers into two-inch lengths, with a vegetable- 
cutter, scoop out the seeds and peel off the green rind, pare away the 
sharp angles at the ends, and then parboil them in water for three mi- 
nutes, plunge them in cold water, and put them to drain on a napkin ; 
then fifl up the cavities with some quenelle force-meat of fowls. Next 
garnish the bottom of a deep sautapan with some thin layers of fat 
bacon ; place therein the cucumbers thus prepared — and in the centre, put 
a faggot of parsley and green onions ; cover the whole with layers of fat 
bacon, and moisten with some white consomme of chicken. Let them 
simmer very gently on a slow fire for about an hour, and just before the 
cucumbers are wanted for use, drain them on a napkin and then put them 
into another sautapan veith their own liquor — ^freed from all grease, and 
afterwards reduced to a demi-glaze ; just roll the cucumbers lightly in 
this glaze over a sharp fire, so as to cause the glaze to adhere to them, 
and Uius give them a bright appearance. 

This kmd of garnish of cucumbers is frequently used for whole entrees 
and removes, such as larded entrees of sweetbreads, frkandeaiuc, fillet of 
beef, carbonades, fowls, &c. &c. 

140. GARNISH OF CELERY A LA CREME. 
Tbim and well wash six heads of full sized white celery, cut them into 
half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, drain them on a 
tiere, and immerse them in cold water ; then place them on a napkin. 
Next, put the celery in a stewpan with a lump of sugar, a pat of butter, 
a little salt, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a ladleful of white con- 
mmmSf and set it to boil gently on a stove fire for about an hour ; as soon 



32 GARNISHES. 

as the celery is well done, boil it down in its glaze, and then add a spoon- 
ful of good reduced bechamel sauce. 

When this garnish is required as a sauce for fowls^ &c. it will be 
necessary to increase the quantity of bechamel sauce^ and also to add a 
little cream. 

141. GARNISH OF CELERY A L'ESPAGNOLE. 
Prepare the celery as directed in the foregoing article, and when it is 
thoroughly done, add a ragout spoonful of finished espagnole sauce, and a 
small piece of glaze. 

142. GARNISH OF YOUNG CARROTS A LA FLAMANDE. 

Turn a bunch of young carrots into the shape of small pears, boil 
them in water for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, and then 
place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, one ounce of sugar, a little 
salt, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a ladleful of consomme, and set 
them to boil gently on a stove fire for half an hour ; as soon as they are 
done, boil them down to a glaze, and then add a ragout spoonful of good 
allemande sauce, and a spoonful of blanched parsley leaves. This kind 
of garnish is very appropriate for braized beef, lamb, and hams. 

143. WHITE MACEDOINE OF VEGETABLES. 
Prepare some carrots and turnips in fancy shapes of small size, let 
each sort be separately boiled down to a glaze in a little broth, vnth the 
addition of a little sugar and salt, and a very small piece of butter; 
when done, put the whole together in a small sautapan ; to these add a 
cucumber cut up and prepared for the purpose in scollops, a spoonful of 
boiled green peas ; a spoonful of French beans cut in the shape of dia- 
monds ; a spoonful of asparagus heads boiled green,, and also some very 
small fiowrets of boiled caulifiower ; add a gravy- spoonful of allemande^ 
bechamel, or supreme sauce, a little nutmeg and sugar ; shake the whole 
lightly together over the stove fire, and use this garnish for the entree 
intended. 

144. GARNISH OF BROWN MACEDOINE. 

Prepare the vegetables for the Macedoine according to the directions 
given in the preceding recipe ; when nearly ready, use some finished «pa- 
gnole sauce, instead of the other sauces there mentioned. 

145. GARNISH OF GREEN PEAS. 
Boil about a pint of young peas, drain them, and place them in 
a sautapan^ then add a spoonful of becham^d sauce, a pinch of sugar, a 
little chopped and blanched mint, some nutmeg, a pat of butter, and a 
piece of glaze ; shake the whole up well together over the fire, and serve 
them in the centre of an entree* 

146. GARNISH OF STEWED PEAS. 
Put a quart of young peas into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh 
butter, on these pour a quart of cold spring water, and commence knead- 
ing the peas and butter together, with the hand in the water ; as soon as 
all the butter adheres to the peas, pour the water off, and then add a des- 
sert-spoonful of sugar, a little salt, an onion, and a faggot of parsley, and 
green onions ; set the peas to stew on a moderate fire, when they are 
done set them on a brisk fire to boil quickly, in order that they may 



OF VEGETABLES. 33 

by thb meanSy absorb all their moisture; then add a spoonful of 
Uekamd sauoe^ with a pat of butter, and dish them up in the centre 
of an entrie, 

147. GARNISH OP ASPARAGUS HEADS. 
Trim and cut the heads of as many asparagus as may be required, boil 
them green^ and dram them on a napkin, then place them in a sautapan 
with a spoonful of aUemande sauce, a little sugar, nutmeg, and a piece of 
glaze ; toss them gently over the fire, and serve. 

148. GARNISH OP ASPARAGUS PEAS. 

Cut a bundle of sprue asparagus into peas, boil them green, and follow 
the directions contained in the foregoing article. 

149. GARNISH OP BUTTON ONIONS FOR MATELOTTE. 

Prbl a pint of small button onions, boil them in water for five 
imnuteSy drain them on a napkin, and afterwards place them in a small 
stewpan with some clarified butter and a little pounded sugar; then 
pkce the stewpan on a slow fire, and fry the onions of a light brown 
colour, taking care to toss them up now and then that they may be 
equally coloured : when sufficiently coloured they will be nearly done. 
Then place them on a sieve to allow the butter to drain, and put them 
in a small stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little consomme ; lastly, 
set them on the fire and boil them down to a glaze. 

160. GARNISH OF WHITE BUTTON ONIONS. 
Pesl and blanch a pint of small button onions, put them into a stew- 
pan with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, a little salt, and a ladleful of 
white broth ; set them on the fire to boil gently for half an hour, then 
boil them down quickly to a glaze, and finish by adding a spoonful of 
aUemande sauce. 

161. GARNISH OF WINDSOR BEANS. 

Boil a quart of young Windsor beans, peel off their husks, and place 
them in a sautapan with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a pat of 
butter, and a spoonful of bechamel sauce ; throw in a spoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley, and a httle winter savory ; shake the whole well 
together over the fire, and place them in the centre of an entree, 

162. GARNISH OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Gut a platefiil of French beans into the shape of diamonds, boil them 
pe&OL, drain them on a napkin, and then put them into a sautapan with 
a pat of butter, a little pepper and salt, a spoonful of white sauce, and a 
little lemon-juice ; toss them well together on the fire, and serve. 

163. GARNISH OF ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 

Remove the outer leaves from four artichokes, pare off with a knife the 
green surface from the bottom of the artichokes, so as to render them 
smooth and white ; rub over each artichoke as it is finished with lemon- 
juiee, and instantly throw it into a basin of water in which a little vine- 
gar has been mixed ; then boil them in a stewpan containing hot water, 
a piece of butter, minionette pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. 
Whod they are done, take them out, and after aUowing them to cool, extract 
the hay <v inside fibres ; trim them, and divide eadii artichoke into six 

T) 



34 GARNISH£S 

pieces. Then place them in a sautapan with a spoonful of svprhne 
sauce^ a pat of butter, a little cream, glaze^ nutmeg, and sugar ; toss 
them gently on the fire, and when the whole is well mixed, serve. 

154. GARNISH OF GLAZED ONIONS. 
Pbbl eighteen onions of a similar size with a small vegetable cutter, 
scoop out the heads of their roots — perforating the onions through — and 
extracting the centre from each ; boil them from three to five minutes in 
water, drain them on a napkin, and then place them in a sautapan well 
buttered, add a little su^, and sufficient broth to cover the onions ; set 
them on the stove to boil, and afterwards remove them to a slow fire, or 
place them in the oven, to simmer gently down to a glaze. Take care 
to turn the onions over in theur glaze occasionally, so that they may 
become equally coloured. 

166. GARNISH OP BROCOLI OR CAULIFLOWERS. 
Cut one or more heads of cauliflower or brocoli into small buds, trim 
these, and boil them in a stewpan with some butter, salt, and a little 
minionette pepper, in the water ; when they are done, drain them on a 
sieve, put them into a stewpan with a little aUemande or hwhamd sauce, 
and serve. 

166. GARNISH OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 
Boil a platefid of Brussels sprouts, drwn them well, and put them 
into a stewpan with a spoonful of white sauce, two pats of butter, salt, 
nutmeg, minionette pepper, and lemon-juice ; toss the whole well toge- 
ther over the fire, and serve. 

167. GARNISH OF CHESTNUTS FOR ROAST TURKEY. 
Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with 
a little clarified butter, fry them on a slow fire until the husks easily 
peel off from the chestnuts ; clean them thoroughly, and place them in a 
stewpan with two lumps of sugar, a little salt, a pat of butter, and a 
ladleful of good consomme ; set them to boil, and then place them by the 
side of the fire to continue boiling gently until they are nearly done ; then 
boil them down to a glaze ; occasionally tossing them over, so as to cover 
them with their own glaze, and give them a bright shiny appearance. 

168. GARNISH OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 
Pbel a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, and then turn or cut them into 
the shape of olives, small pillars, cloves of garlic, half-moons, round balls, 
quarters of orange or diamonds ; first wash them, place them in a stew- 
pan with a little siigar, salt, a pat of butter, and a ladleful of white 
broth ; set them to boil on the fire for about twenty minutes, when they are 
nearly done, boil them down in their glaze, add a little aUemande o)r 
bechamel sauce, toss them together over the fire, and serve. 

169. GARNISH OF CLOVES OF GARLIC. 
Pbbl as many heads of garlic as will produce a pint of cloves,* boil 
these for ten minutes in plenty of water, drain them on to a sieve, and then 
place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, some minionette pepper, a 

* A head of garlic contains within ita outer husk, or ikin, a number of triangular seeds, 
usually called clores of garik. 



OF VEGETABLES. 35 

little lalt^ and a ladlefiil of consomme ; boil them gently until they are 
nearly done» th^i let them boil down quickly to a glaze ; add a spoonful 
of aUemande or espagnole sauce (according to the colour of the entrie), 
and a little lemon-juice, toss them up over a stove fire, and serve. 

160. GARNISH OP WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Fresh white haricdt beans, in their proper season, form a very excellent 
change among the more ordinary vegetables. Its cultivation is, how- 
ever, much neglected by gardeners in England. 

When firesh haricdt beans are not procurable, get a pint of dried 
karicdt beans, and steep them in cold water for twelve hours ; let them 
be washed and placed in a stewpan with a pat of butter, minionette 
pepper, salt, and two quarts of cold water ; set them to boil gently by 
the side of a stove for about an hour ; when done drain them on to a 
neve, place them in a clean stewpan with a pat of butter, a gravy-spoon- 
ful of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and a spoonful of 
chopped and blanched parsley ; shake them well together over the fire, 
and serve. 

161. GARNISH OF RED HARICOT BEANS. 

These should be prepared exactly in the same manner as the white 
beans. There is, also, a species of small brown peas, called lentils— to be 
had of all oilmen, which may be prepared after the same method as 
the karicdt beans. They are useful in the winter season, when there is 
a scarcity of fresh vegetables. 

162. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and thoroughly cleanse, four good savoy cabbages, cut 
them in halves, and boil them in water for a quarter of an hour ; refresh 
them in cold water, drain them, and place them on a napkin ; cut the 
•talks away, season them with salt and minionette pepper, tie them 
up with a string — joining two halves together ; cover the bottom of a 
stewpan with thm layers of fat bacon, place the cabbages in it ; add a 
carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a faggot of parsley, thyme, 
and bay- leaf ; moisten with sufficient broth to cover the cabbages, and 
spread a buttered round of paper over the whole ; then, set them on 
the fire to boil, place the lid on the stewpan and allow it to remain 
gently boiling on a very slow fire for about an hour, when they will be 
done. Then drain the cabbage on to a sieve — remove the strings, press 
it in a napkin so as to be able, afterwards, to cut it into square, oblong, 
round, or oval shapes, according to taste; and therewith garnish the 
entr^ or remove it is intended for. 

163. GARNISH OF STEWED RED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and quarter a couple of red cabbages, shred them as you 
would if about to niake pickled cabbage ; then put about four ounces of 
butter at the bottom of a stewpan, and place the shred cabbages in it ; 
season with minionette pepper and salt, and half a gill of French vine- 
gar, cover the stewpan with its lid, and set it on a moderate fire to stew 
gently ; take care to stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When 
the cabbage has, by melting, been reduced to half its original quantity, 
moisten with a large sized ladleful of topping from the boiling stockpot, to 
nouriah the cabbage ; allow it to simmer gently on a slow fire for an 

D 2 



36 6ARNISH£S. 

hour longer ; then drain the cabbage on a sieye, afterwards press it in a 
napkin to extract the butter, &c., and use it for the purpose of garnishing 
the entree or remove for which it has been prepared. 

164. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGE LETTUCES. 
Trim, wash, and blanch, a dozen full white-heart cabbage lettuces ; 
drain them on a napkin, cut and spread them open, season with pepper 
and salt, tie them up with string, and place them in a stewpan on thin 
layers of fat bacon ; add a carrot, a faggot of parsley and green onions, 
and an onion stuck with two cloves ; cover with a buttered round of 
paper, and moisten with the toppings of white stock. Allow them to boil 
gently by the side of the fire for an hour, drain them on a sieve, remove 
the strings, press them neatly in a napkin, and open each lettuce with a 
knife — then smooth the inner part, and with the knife turn the ends of 
the leaves under so as to give to the lettuce a smooth rounded end ; 
cut off the stalk neatly, and place each lettuce successively in a clean 
sautapan ; next pass their liquor through a sieve into a stewpan, 
remove every particle of grease, and boil it down to the consistency of 
half glaze ; add it to the lettuces, cover them with a buttered paper, 
and a quarter of an hour previously to their being required for use, set 
them in the oven to get. warm. 

166. SAUER-KRAUT. 

Procubb two pounds of fresh imported sauer-kraut, wash it thoroughly 
in several waters, and then drain it in a colander. Next, put it into a 
stewpan with one pound of parboiled streaky bacon, one pound of Ger- 
man sausage, two carrots, two onions stuck with two cloves each, and a 
garnished faggot of parsley ; cover with a round of buttered paper, and 
moisten with a quart of stock-jpot toppings. Braize the sauer-kraut for 
about three hours over a slow fire ; and when done, drain it in a colan- 
der, remove the bacon and German sausage, throw away the carrot, 
onion, and faggot ; then put the sauer-kraut into a stewpan with a gravy 
spoonfiil ofpoivrade sauce, toss it over the fire^ and use it to garnish the 
intended dish. 

166. FRENCH SAUER-KRAUT. 

Split four white-heart cabbages into quarters, remove the cores, and 
shred them up fine ; wash them thoroughly in several waters, then dredn 
them in a colander. Next, place the shred cabbages in a large earthen 
pan, throw in a good handful of salt, and one pint of vinegar ; toss the 
cabbage in this, and allow it to steep for three hours ; then wash and 
drain it, and put it into a large stewpan, season with half a pound of 
butter, some minionette pepper, a little salt and a gill of French 
vinegar ; place on the top one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound of 
German sausage, moisten with a quart of good stock, cover the whole 
with buttered paper, and then set the sauer-kraut to braize very gently 
over a slow fire for two hours ; and when it is done, proceed in the 
same manner as directed in the previous article. 



37 



ESSENCES, GRAVIES, AND PREPARED SAVORY BUTTERS, 
FOE FINISHING SAUCES, &c. 

COMPRISING 

Ettenoe of Shalota. Essence of sage and onions for oeese and 

Truffles. ducks. 

„ Mushrooms. ^ Onions for broiled pork. 

„ Fine Herbs for broiled meats. ^ Anchovy butter. 

« Orange for wild fowl. „ /?aw^o«e butter. 

„ Aspic jelly. „ Proven^aU, do. 

„ Woodcocks. „ Lobster, do. 

w Game for broiled partridges, &c. „ Montpeliier, do. 

n Qarlic for broiled fowls, &c „ Crayfish, do. 

„ Anchories for broiled steaks, „ Green ravigoUey do. 

&c „ Epicurean, do. 

167. ESSENCE OF SHALOTS. 

Pbsl a dozen shalots, cut them into thin slices, and place them in a 
small stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar ; set them to 
simmer gently on the fire until the vinegar is nearly boiled down ; then 
moisten with a pint of consomme^ set the essence on the fire to boil, and 
when it is reduced to half its original quantity, strain it with pressure 
through a napkin into a bainrmarie, and keep it hot till wanted. 

168. ESSENCE OF TRUFFLES. 

Chop or pound four ounces of truffles — or, if you have any trimmings, 
use them instead ; place them in a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, and a very small quantity of bruised garlic ; moisten 
with a glass of French white wine, and allow the whole to simmer on 
the fire till the wine is nearly boiled down ; add half a pint of good 
amtcnnmi ; set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for ten 
minutes, and then pass it with pressure through a napkin or tammy into 
a small basin or stewpan. 

This essence will be found extremely useful for flavouring sauces and 
ragoutB, in which the flavour of truffles should predominate. 

169. ESSENCE OF MUSUROOMS. 

Chop any quantity of mushrooms, place these in a stewpan with a 
little lemon juice and a small piece of butter, simmer them on the fire 
fi)r two or three minutes, and then moisten with a ladleful of white 
bfoth ; set the essence to boil gently on the stove for ten minutes, and 
then pass it with pressure through a sieve into a basin for use. 

This essence is usefiil for flavouring sauces. 

170. ESSENCE OF FINE HERBS FOR BROILED MEATS, ETC. 

Chop six shalots, a handful of mushrooms, and the same quantity of 
parsley, each separately; place these in a smdl stewpan with a sprig of 
thyme, half a bay leaf, and a small piece of butter ; put the whole on 
the fire to simmer gently for two or three minutes, stirring the ingredients 
with a wooden spoon ; moisten with the juice of half a lemon and a 
ladleful of strong consomnU; add a little minionette pepper, and then 



38 ESSENCES AND GRAVIES 

set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire till it is reduced to 
half its original quantity ; then pass it with pressure through a sieve, 
and use it as a gravy for plain broiled breadcrumbed entrees, 

171. ESSENCE OP ORANGE FOR WILD FOWL. 
Chop two shalots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind of 
an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of 
raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with two glasses of port wine 
and a little strong gravy ; set the essence to simmer gently on the fire 
for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon 
juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. 

172. ESSENCE OF ASPIC JELLY. 

Put the following ingredients into a small stewpan : a few branches of 
green tarragon, a little chervil, a handful of chives, a bay-leaf, and sprig of 
thyme, minionette pepper, a blade of mace, and a little chopped raw 
lean of ham ; moisten with a large ladleful of good consomme ; set the 
essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes. 
Next, take it off the stove, proceed to clarify by mixing with it half the 
white of an egg whipped up with a spoonfiu of water ; add a spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar and place it on the fire to boil, whipping it with a wire 
whisk the while ; as soon as it boils up, remove it on the side, to con- 
tinue boiling gently in order to set the egg ; then strain it through a 
napkin, and use it for braized fowls or chickens d Vestragon or d VIvcire, 

173. ESSENCE OF WOODCOCKS. 

Chop up any carcasses of woodcocks or snipes, that may be left 
from the previous day's dinner, place them in a small stewpan with 
four shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, minionette pepper, a 
little mace, and a small piece of butter ; fry the whole on the stove-fire 
till the ingredients become lightly coloured ; moisten with a small glass 
of white wine ; and, after allowing it to boil down to a glaze, add a 
ladleful of good consomme, and set the essence to boil gently on the side 
of the fire for half an hour ; skim and strain it through a silk sieve, and 
finish by adding a little lemon juice. 

This essence or gravy should be sent to table with roasted woodcocks 
or snipes ; it will also be found useful for making a light hash of rem- 
nants of woodcocks or snipes, for breakfast. 

174. ESSENCE OF GAME FOR BROILED PARTRIDGES, ETC. 
This essence is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, sub- 
stituting the remnants or carcasses of pheasants or partridges, for wood- 
cocks. 

175. ESSENCE OF GARLIC FOR BROILED FOWL. 

Chop a little raw lean of ham, some parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf; 
place these in a small stewpan with a blade of mace, two pounded ancho- 
vies, and six cloves of garlic ; moisten with two teaspoonfuls of French 
vinegar, and set the whole on the fire to simmer gently for five minutes ; 
add a small piece of glaze, and a ladleful of good blond of veal, and allow 
the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour ; 
reduce it to half its original quantity, and then strain it through a tanmiy 
into a snudl stewpan ; finish by adding a little lemon juice sand cayenne 
pepper. 



FOR FINISHING SAUC£S. 39 

176. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES FOR STEAKS, ETC. 
Wash and clean six anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a table- 
^)oonful of capers, and two shalots ; place these in a small stewpan with 
thyme and a bay-leaf^ mace, minionette pepper, and two tablespoon fuls 
of mushroom catsup ; set these ingredients on the fire to sinmier gently 
fer five minutes, and then moisten with a ladleful of good consomme ; 
boil the whole till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it 
with pressure through a tammy into a small stewpan ; finish by adding 
a snudl piece of glaze and a little lemon juice. 

177. ESSENCE OF SAGE AND ONIONS FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 
Chop two laige onions and a dozen sage leaves separately, put them into 
a small stewpan with a pat of butter, some pepper and salt, and fry them 
on a slow fire ; as soon as the onion begins to get lightly coloured, mois- 
ten with a ladleful of Wmd of veal, and allow the essence to boil on the 
fire till reduced to half the quantity ; strain it through a tammy into a 
imall stewpan for use. 

This gravy may also be used for bread-crumbled enirka of broiled pork. 

178. ESSENCE OF ONIONS FOR BROILED PORK. 

Cut three onions into slices, and fry them in a small stewpan with a 
little butter, pepper, and salt ; when they are of a light colour, moisten 
with a ladleful * of hlomd of veal ; reduce the essence by boiling, to half 
its quantity, and strain it into a hain-Tnarie for use. 
179. ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Wash and vnpe dry six anchovies, separate the fillets from the bones, 
and pound them in a mortar with two pats of butter, and a little cayenne 
pepper ; rub this mixture through a hair sieve, gather this up and keep 
it m a small basin for use^ in a cool place. 

180. RAVIGOTTE BUTTER. 

Wash and wipe four anchovies, blanch a good handful of green tarra- 
gon, chervil, bumet, chives, and parsley ; press these in a napkin to ex- 
punge the water ; and put the anchovies, herbs, two pats of butter, a 
spoonful of capers, a little cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt, into a 
mortar and pound them well together ; then rub the mixture through a 
hair sieve, gather it up and keep it in a small basin on the ice for use. 

181. PROVENQALE BUTTER. 
This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, adding how- 
ever four cloves of garlic to the other ingredients. 

182. LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Procure some lobster spawn or coral, and pound it with twice as much 
butter, one anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper ; rub it through a hair 
sieve, collect it into a small basin, and keep it in a cool place till 
wanted for uso. 

183. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Blanch some tarragon, chervil, bumet, chives, and parsley, a handful 
of each ; expunge the water, and pound them with the yolks of six boiled 

* Whenever the teim ladleful occun iu the ooune of thie work it refcn to a bowl- 
of holding about a pint. 



40 



ESSENCES AND GRAVIES. 



eggs, six cleaned anchovies, two table-spoonfuls of French capers^ and 
half a dozen green gherkins ; when these ingredients are thoroughly 
pounded together, mix in six ounces of fresh butter, then add, by degrees, 
two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and six of salad oil ; season with 
pepper and salt; rub the butter thus prepared through a sieve, or tammy, 
colour it with some spinach-green, and keep it in a basin on the ice till 
wanted for use. 

184. CRAYFISH BUTTER. 

Removb the shells from three or four dozen crayfish, place them on a 
baking-sheet in the oven to dry ; let the shells cool, and then pound them 
in a mortar with a little lobster coral, and four ounces of fresh butter ; 
thoroughly bruise the whole well together, so as to form them into a kind 
of paste, put this into a stewpan, and then set it on the stove fire to sim- 
mer for about five minutes ; then rub it through a tammy, with consi- 
derable pressure into a basin containing some cold water, with a piece of 
ice in it ; as soon as the coloured crayfish butter is become set, through 
the coldness of the water, take it out, and put it into a small basin in a 
cool place till wanted for use. 

186. GREEN RAVIGOTTE BUTTER. 

Blanch a handful of tarragon, chervil, bumet, chives, and parsley ; 
press them in a napkin, and pound them with four ounces of fresh butter, 
cayenne pepper and salt ; rub the butter through a hair sieve, and keep 
it on the ice in a small basin for use* 

186. EPICUREAN BUTTER FOR THE TABLE. 

Pound four cleaned anchovies, a few chives, a good teaspoonful of 
green tarragon leaves, four green West India gherkins, two boiled yolks 
of eggs, three ounces of butter, and a good teaspoonful of French mus- 
tard ; mix thoroughly, season with little salt, and rub the butter through 
a hair sieve ; gather it up into a small basin, make it sufficiently firm by 
keeping it on the ice, and mould it into pats for the purpose of being sent 
to table to be served with the cheese. 



RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL. 



COMPRISING. 



Toulouse ragout 

FinoHciire^ do. 

CalTs head, do. a la Tortue, 

Chipolata^ do. 

Stratbcurg^ do. of fat liven. 

PMffueuxy do. 

MatdcUe^ do. 

Do. Normande, do. 

BourguignoUey do. 

CrayfiBh, do. 

Rou^naite^ do. 

Ragout of scollops of sweetbreads. 



Ragout of soft roes of mackeieL 

Cardinal ragout. 

Ragout of scollops of solea. 

Do. of salmon or trout 

Parisian ragout. 

Ragout of scollops of game, &c. 

Do. of larks. 

Do. of cock^s kernels, ^ la Soubise, 

Richelieu ragout. 

Ragout of chicken^s wings. 

Do. of ox palates. 

Do. of sheep's tongaes h t^carlate. 



Regent's ragout, 

187. TOULOUSE RAGOUT. 
Prepare some fine large white cocks' combs and kernels, button 
mushrooms, small scoUops of sweetbreads, and a proportionate quantity 



RAGOUTS, ETC. 41 

rf truffles turned in the shape of scollops or olives ; place these in a small 
stewpan, and add thereto a small ladleful of aUemande or supreme sauce, 
toss the whole together over the fire a few minutes, it will be then ready 
for use. 

188. FINANCIERE RAGOUT. 
Place in a stewpan a similar ragout to the foregoing, with an equal 
portion of small quenelles^ and add a small ladleful of well finished /raan- 
dire sauce ; allow the whole to boil slightly on the fire. Use thb ragout 
for garnishing the remove or entree, as the case may be. 

189. calf's head ragout A LA TORTUE. 

Put a large gravy-spoonful of fine white cocks* combs into a bain-marie^ 
or stewpan^ a similar quantity of cocks' kernels, small truffles, button 
mushrooms, quenelles, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives ; 
to these add a sufficient quantity of turtle sauce, (No. 9) for the 
purpose, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a minute or two, and 
serve. 

190. CHIPOLATA RAGOUT. 

Twist one pound of pork sausages into small round balls, separate these, 
fry them, and when they are cold, trim and put them into a bain-marie, 
containing a proportionate quantity of cocks' combs and kernels, button 
mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, carrots, and turnips turned in the shape of 
olives, and boiled down in their own glaze, also some small round balls of 
braized streaky bacon, and an equal proportion of chestnuts, pealed, and 
boiled in consomme; add a ladleful of financih-e sauce (No. 8) a little 
essence of truffles and mushrooms ; then set the ragout on the fire to 
boil for two minutes, and serve. 

Note. — The above is the simplest mode for preparing this ragout ; it is 
&r better, however, that the whole of the ingredients of which this very 
rich and popular ragout is composed should be kept separately in small 
stewpans, and be placed alternately in groups about the dish they are 
meant to garnish and ornament ; then the boiling sauce should be poured 
over the turkey, capon, or poulards, when ready to serve. 

191. STRASBOURG RAGOUT OF FAT LIVERS. 
Braizb a fat liver in some mirepoix Qi^o, 236), take it out to cool, cut it 
into scollops, and trim them neatly ; put them into a small stewpan with 
some of the mirepoix freed from every particle of fat, add a proportionate 
quantity of scolloped truffles, and just before using these, set them on the 
stove and boil them down to a glaze ; add a sufficient quantity of Jinan- 
cUre sauce, and serve. 

192. PERIGUEUX RAGOUT. 

Pbbpabb some scollops of fat livers and truffles, as for the foregoing 
ragout ; to these add some small quenelles^ cocks' combs and kernels, and 
some button mushrooms ; then add a ladleful ofperigueux sauce (No. 2d) 
and boil the whole together for two or three minutes. 

193. MATELOTTE RAGOUT. 

P£SL and blanch half a pint of button onions, fry them of alight brown 
colour over a slow fire; when done, drain them on to a sieve, in 
Older to free them firom the butter, and place them in a bain-marie with 
an equal quantity of white button muslurooms, cray-fish tails and small 



42 RAGOUTS. 

qwneUes of whiting ; to these add a ladleful of McUeloUe sauce (No. SI) 
and afler allowing the ragout to boil for two or three minutes, use it for 
garnishing the nuUelotte, or any other dressed coloured fish it is intended for. 

194. MATELOTTE NORMANDE RAGOUT. 

Pbbparb thirty cray-fish tails, and place them in a stewpan with about 
half a pint of muscles, three dozen of parboiled oysters, and an equal pro- 
portion of white button mushrooms ; to these add a ladleful of MateloUe 
Normande sauce (No. 32) allow the whole to boil up a minute or two on 
the stove, and use the ragout to garnish soles, or other fish for which it is 
prepared. 

196. BOURGUIGNOTTB RAGOUT. 

PsBL and blanch half a pint of small button onions, put them into a 
stewpan with a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter, 
moisten with half a pint of good broth, and set the onions to stew gently 
on a moderate fire ; when nearly done, boil them down to a glaze, and 
add them to an equal quantity of white button mushrooms and very small 
queneUeB; to these put sufficient bourguignoUe sauce (No.J?8)for the 
purpose required ; allow the ragout to boil up on the stove fire for a 
minute or two, and use it to garnish the entrie it may be intended for. 

196. CRAY- FISH RAGOUT. 

Take out and trim the tails of thirty cray-fish ; with the bodies and 
shells make some cray-fish butter (No. 184) to be used in colouring some 
quenelles of whitings, afterwards moulded with teaspoons, poached and 
placed with the cray-fish ; to these add some aUemande or mpreme saucfe, 
with which mix in a little of the butter made with the shells of the cray- 
fish, and serve the ragout with the dish it is meant for. 

197. ROUENAISE RAGOUT. 

Prbparb an equal proportion of the following shell fish: — oysters, 
muscles and shrimps, to these add some button mushrooms and quendles 
of lobster, and moisten the ragout with a sauce made in the following man- 
ner : reduce some of the liquor of the muscles, oysters and mushrooms, with 
two glasses of French white wine, and the addition of a small ladleful of 
veloiU6 sauce, finish by mixing in four yolks of eggs, a pat of butter and 
a little cream : stir the sauce on the stove fire till it boils, and then pass 
it through a tammy on to the ragout. Before sending to table, add a 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 

About a dozen smelts trussed in the same manner as whitings for 
frying, and boiled in a little salt and water, and afterwards skinned and 
glazed, should be prepared to garnish round the fish with which the 
rounaise ragout is served. 

198. RAGOUT OP SCOLLOPS OP SWEETBREADS 

First blanch, and then braize, in a little white broth, three or more 
throat sweetbreads, for about twenty minutes ; then take them up on a 
plate, and allow them to cool ; cut them into neat scollops and place them 
in a small stewpan with a small ladleful of any sort of sauce appropriate 
to the entrU which this ragovi is intended to garnish. 

A similar kind of ragout may be prepared with lambs' sweetbreads, 
calfs, sheep's, or lamb's brains. 



RAGOUTS. 48 

199. RAGOUT OP SOFT ROES OF MACKEREL OR OTHER FISH. 

Parboil the soft roes of six mackerel or carp^ in a little boiling water 
mixed with two spoonfuls of French vinegar and a little salt ; drain 
them on a napkin, and put them into a sautapan containing some alU' 
mande or supreme sauce ; add some chopped and blanched parsley, and a 
little nutmeg and lemon-juice ; toss the whole gently together over the 
fire, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, and place them in the 
centre of the fiUets of fish prepared to receive them. 

200. CARDINAL RAGOUT. 

Prepare two dozen small quenelles of lobster, which place in a stew- 
pan, with thirty picked and trimmed prawns* tails, two dozen button 
mushrooms, and a nmilar quantity of small round truffles ; to these add 
a sufficient quantity of cardinal sauce for the remove or entree ; then boil 
the ragout for three minutes on the fire, when it will be ready for use. 

201. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SOLES, ETC. 

Fillet two pairs of soles, or a proportionate quantity of any other 
sort of fish, place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, pepper, 
■alt, and lemon-juice ; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set 
them in the oven for about ten minutes ; when they are done, drain them 
on a niq)kin, and afterwards place them on a dish to be put in the larder 
to cool : next cut them into neatly trimmed scollops, and put these into a 
ttewpan ; add either some aUemand'ey bechamel, supreme, or Dutch sauce, 
whichever is most suitable for the kind of fish these scollops are intended 
to garnish. 

202. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SALMON, OR TROUT. 
These scollops should be prepared in every respect, in the same 
manner as the foregoing, except that, previously to adding the sauce, a 
little lobster butter, cayenne and lemon-juice should be mixed in. 

203. PARISIAN RAGOUT. 

An equal quantity of trimmed crayfish tails, button mushrooms, small 
round truffles, and cocks* kernels should be put into a stewpan containing 
tome Parisian sauce, (No. 40) ; make the ragcnU hot previously to 
using it« 

204. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF POULTRY OR GAME. 
Fillet one or more heads of poultry or game, according to the quan- 
tity c£rag<mi required ; trim, and pkce them in a sautapan with a little 
dwified firesh butter, season with a little salt, cover them with a buttered 
paper, and set them over a moderate fire to sinuner ; as soon as they 
become firm and white on the under side, turn them over that they may 
be effectually done through, taking care that they do not become brown ; 
then drain them on a napkin, and cut them on the slant into scollops, 
trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan with some aUemande, 
bechamelf or guprime sauce, previously reduced with either an essence of 
fowl or game, as the case may be, according to the nature of the scollops, 
whether of poultry or game. 

205. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF LARKS. 
Cut outy trim, and slightly simmer, in a little butter, the fillets of two 



44 RAGOUTS. 

dozen larks ; drain them on a napkin, and place them in a small stewpan, 
with a sauce made as follows : Fry the carcasses of the larks in a stew- 
pan^ with a pat of butter, one shalot, half a bayleaf^ and a sprig of 
thyme, a little salt and grated nutmeg ; when they are of a light brown 
colour, moisten with three glasses of French white wine; allow the 
carcasses to stew gently on a moderate fire for half an hour ; pound the 
whole thoroughly, and rub it through a tammy into a purie ; take this 
up into a small stewpan, add a little reduced brown sauce, and pour it on 
to the scollops ; warm them with care, for if they be allowed to boil, it 
will spoil the look of the purie and render it rough. 

206. RAGOUT OF COCKS* KERNELS A LA SOUBISE. 

Put about half a pound of cocks' kernels, with cold water, into a stew- 
pan, let it stand by the side of a slow fire to remove the little blood they 
contain, taking care that the water does not become too warm ; as soon 
as they whiten, drain them on a sieve, and put them into a small stew- 
pan, with a pat of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt, toss them 
over the fire for two or three minutes, moisten with a little white 
chicken broth, and set them to simmer gently on a slow fire for about ten 
minutes longer; they will be then done. Drain them on a napkin, 
put them into a small stewpan, with a ragout spoonful of soubise sauce 
and a little aUemande sauce, toss them gently over the fire till they are 
hot, and place them in the centre of an erUree of fillets of fowl d la mare" 
chaU, d la D* Uxellea, 

207. RICHELIEU RAGOUT. 

pRBPARB some quenelle forcemeat of chicken, and, before moulding the 
quenelles, incorporate with it two spoonfuls of brown purSe of onions, (of 
which there must be prepared a sufficient quantity for the sauce of the 
ragotU) ; mould two dozen small quenelles, poach them, and, afler drain- 
ing them on a napkin, put them into a small stewpan, with a dozen 
white cocks' combs and a few scollops of fat livers ; to these add the 
remainder of the brown puree of onions, which must be no thicker than 
sauce. 

This ragout may be used for garnishing bottdins d la JOchelieu, or any 
entries of poultry or game that are bread-crumbed and broiled, 

208. RAGOUT OF CHICKENS* WINGS. 

This ragout is only to be recommended when it happens that a num- 
ber of fowls or chickens have to be cut up for other purposes ; in such 
case, save the wings, which cut off close to the breast, bone them neatly, 
without tearing or cutting the skin, and fill up the cavity occasioned by 
taking the bone out with some queneUe forcemeat of fowl ; shape them 
neatly and parboil them, immerse them in cold water, then drain 
and trim them. Line a stewpan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the 
wings therein with a faggot of parsley, thyme, a bayleaf, and an 
onion ; moisten with white broth, cover them with a round of buttered 
paper, and set them to boil gently by the side of the stove for about 
twenty minutes, when, if the fowls are young, the wings will be done. 
Then drain the wings on a napkin, and, when trimmed, put them into a 
small stewpan with some aUemande sauce. 

This ragout is more generally made use of for filling vol-au-venU, casse- 



RAGOUTS. 45 

raUa of rice, and chartreuses ; it is also useful, as an accessory, for gar- 
nishing large removes. 

209. RAGOUT OF OX PALATES. 
Stsxp six ox palates in water for several hours, keeping the vessel that 
contains them near the stove-fire, so that the water may become gradu- 
ally tepid, which materially helps to cleanse them ; then scald and 
scrape them clean, trim, wash, and set them to braize in some hUmo or 
poe/€, (No. 230) ; about four hours will suffice. When the palates are 
done, drain and put them in press between two dishes ; when cold, 
shape them out with a round cutter an inch in diameter, and place them 
in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of either of the following sauces : 
(Ulemande, hechanul, supreme, italienrUy finanaire, poivrade, or tomata. 
This ragout is strictly appropriate only for garnishing paies-chauds and 
vol-aU'VentSy but it may, in cases of emergency, be served as an entree, 
garnished round with croquettes of potatoes oifieurons of pastry. 

210. RAGOUT OF SHEEP's TONGUES A l'eCARLATE. 

Boil and press eight sheep's tongues that have been cured with salt- 
petre ; trim and cut them into round scollops, and then put these scollops 
into a small stewpan, with any kind of sauce that may be suitable for 
the entree they are meant to garnish. 

211. regent's ragout. 

Fillet an eel, cut it into scollops, and simmer these in a stewpan 
with a little butter, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt ; when 
done, drain the scollops on a napkin, and then put them into a ste^vpan 
containing an equal proportion of white button mushrooms, cocks* combs, 
small round trdSes,. and small quenelles of whiting coloiu^ with lobster 
eoml; to these add a small ladleful of regency sauce, (No. 49) then 
allow the ragout to boil-up on the stove-fire, and use it for garnishing the 
dressed fish it is intended for. 



BROTHS AND CONSOMMES IN GENERAL, FOR SOUPS, &c. 



COMPRISINO 



NiitritiTe Soup. WHte Contommi of fowls. 
£iMp(Ai^,orCbfiK>f»miforMnipsingeneniL „ ^ pheaaants or par- 

Brown OomMmml of fowls. tiidges. 

«, „ pheasants or par- Brown extract of larks, &c 

tridges. „ M lu^'e or rabbit. 

„ « rabbits. Common giayy. 

BUmd of Teal, or veal gravy. 

212. NUTRITIVE SOUP. 
Irto a three-gallon stockpot, put a knuckle of veal, six pounds of the 
shoulder port of beef, (commonly called the gravy-piece,) and a bone of 
roast beef or mutton. Fill the stockpot with cold water to within two 
indies of the brim, and set it upon a stove fire to boil, taking care not to 
hurry its ebullition, but, allow it to take place gently, so that it may 
have time to throw up its skum ; this should be removed, as it rises to 



46 BROTHS. 

the surface, and a little cold water should be thrown in occasionally to 
effect that purpose. 

When the stock has thrown off all its skum, which will easily be per- 
ceived by the water becoming clear again, lift it off the stove, and put it 
by the side. Then proceed to garnish it with four leeks and two heads 
of celery, trimmed and tied together, two good sized carrots, two turnips, 
and two onions, into each of which two cloves have been inserted ; add 
one good tablespoonful of salt, and let the whole boil gently for about 
three-quarters of an hour. During this time, an old hen and a partridge 
should be partially roasted, and then put into the stock ; this should con- 
tinue to boil during five hours unremittingly : care being taken that the 
stockpot be kept fulL 

Previously to the soup being served, take off every particle of fat that 
appears on the sur&ce, with a ladle ; take out the vegetables — carefully 
placing them on a napkin, then remove the fowl and the partridge from 
the stock : these operations should be so managed as not to disturb the 
brightness of the broth. Cut the fillets of the fowl and the partridge into 
slices, and place them in the soup tureen, and upon these put some of the 
vegetables (which have been drained on the napkin) neatly cut with a ve- 
getable cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter ; then pour in the broth, 
to which add, a little brown consomme of veal to give it colour. Let it 
be sufficiently seasoned with salt, and a few grains of minionette pepper, 
then serve. 

213. EMFOTAGE, OB CONSOMME FOR SOUPS IN GENERAL. 

When preparing for company, take about thirty pounds of gravy hee£, 
and a similar quantity of knuckles of veal, together with four wild rab- 
bits, and put the whole into a laige stockpot which has been previously 
spread with butter, add common broth in sufficient quantity so as 
nearly to cover the meat. Put the stockpot on the stove fire to boil until 
the broth is reduced to a light coloured glaze ; then fill it up with the re- 
mainder of the grand stock, and after it has boiled and been skinmied, gar- 
nish it with carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery ; add also two 
blades of mace and six doves. In all cases be sparing of salt, especially 
in the first stages of preparation. Allow the broth to boil gently on 
the side of the stove for six hours, and then pass it into kitchen pans for 
further use. 

In connection with this subject, I may here point out that, if it be con- 
templated to have as one of the removes a piece of beef braized, a saving 
of provision may be effected, by using in the first instance, instead of about 
thirty pounds of stock beef, only ten pounds of that quality in pre- 
paring the grand stock; the deficiency being made up by twenty 
poun^ of sirloin. This latter must be boned, and the fillet taken out, 
either to be used to ornament the remove or for an erUreCt as occasion 
may require ; the meat must then be rolled up tightly and strung round 
in Uie manner of Hambro beef. This will thus answer the double pur- 
pose of giving strength to the consommS, and of serving afterwards as a 
remove. 

When the beef thus prepared has boiled gently in the stockpot for 
about five hours, take it out and put it in press between two dishes till 
wanted ; it must be then trimmed, and plac^ in a long braizing pan with 
a little good stock to warm it in ; glaze it nicely, and luiving dielied it up, 
garnish the remove with such vegetables as have been prepared for the 
purpose. 



AND CONSOMMES. 47 

214. CONSOMME OF FOWLS FOR SOUPS. 

Tak£ two or more fowls, according to the quantity of broth required; 
roast them before a brisk fire until half done ; and then put them into a 
small well tinned stockpot, nearly filled up with water, and place this on 
the fire to boil : sldm the ooMomnU^ and then add one good sized carrot, 
two turnips, one onion, one head of celery, two cloves, a small piece of 
mace, and a little salt. Set the stock on the side of the stove to boil 
gently for about two hours, and then strain it off for use. 

Tlui kind of ooruommS is admirably adapted for persons of delicate 
health as a restorative. It is also very serviceable in imparting delicacy 
of flavour to all dear soups. 

215. BROWN CONSOMME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. 

Roast off two pheasants, after having taken out the fillets for the pur- 
pose of making them into an erUrie, or four partridges may be used (re- 
moving the fillets in the same way) ; put them into a stockpot with a small 
knuckle of veal, and about one pound of lean of ham ; fill up with water, 
then set it to boil on the stove fire. Meanwhile slice up a carrot, an onion, 
two turnips, a head of celery, and a leek ; firy these roots in a stewpan, 
with a small piece of butter, till they become slightly browned, then 
throw them into the consomme^ after having previously well skinmied it 
Add three cloves, a piece of mace, and a Httle salt ; let it boil gently 
about three hours, and then strain it off for use. 

This preparation will serve for all kinds of clear cansommi soups, such as 
au ckaueur or d la dUdigTiaCy &c 

216. BROWN CONSOMME OF RABBITS. 

Takx three or four wild rabbits, cut them up in pieces, and put them 
into a small stockpot with five pounds of knuckle of veal which has been 
roasted enough to colour it ; fill up with light broth or water, then set it on 
the stove to boil, skim it well, and garnish with carrot, onion, and celenr, 
two doves, a piece of mace, and a little salt Let this boil gently for 
three hours, and then strain it off for use. 

This coTUommi is very essential in clarifying etpagnole or brown sauce, 
and is also serviceable for all soups in which quenelles of game are 
served. 

217. WHITE CONSOMME OF FOWLS. 

TAKBtwo or more old hens or fowls, or in their stead, the carcasses of 
fowls, or any other sort of poultry you may have. Let them steep in cold 
water to deanse them from any blood they may contain ; then drain and 
put them into an appropriate sized stockpot or stewpan, and fill it up with 
eommon broth or water ; garnish with celery, onions, turnips, carrots, and 
k^i. Set it to boil gentiy bv the fire for two hours, if made with car- 
casses, but if old hens are used, it will require at least an hour longer. 
When done, skim off the fat and pass the consammS through a napkin 
into a basin for use. 

This ecmsommi may be considered as the proper basis of all white 
soups, and is most useful in clarifying and flavouring all white sauces. 

218. WHITE CONSOMME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. 
Th8 same process is to be followed in making this conwmme, as the 
foregoing, substituting, of course, game for poultry. 



48 BROTHS. 

This consomme, after being partially reduced to glaze, is used for the 
purpose of imparting the flavour of game to any white sauce, such as : 
guprime, allernandey becham>el,* veloiUe, or white Italian sauce. It is 
also useful for mixing white purees of game. 

219. BROWN EXTRACT OF LARKS OR QUAILS. 

Apteb having filleted the larks or quails, and removed the gizzards 
from the trail of the larks, put a stewpan on the fire with an ounce of 
fresh butter in it ; when the butter begins to fritter, put the bones or 
carcasses of larks or quails into the stewpan and fry them brown. 
Then add half a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, two shalots and two 
glasses of Sherry or Madeira. Let these simmer gently for five minutes, 
after which, add one quart of common broth. Allow the extract to boil 
slowly by the side of the fire for three quarters of an hour, pass it through 
a lawn sieve into a basin, and reserve it for working the sauces intended 
for gratins of qusais or larks, and also ioxfum^ sauces for pdtes-chauds of 
either of the forementioned small birds. 

Extract of woodcocks or snipes is obtcdned in a similar manner. 

2*20. EXTRACT OF HARE OR RABBIT. 
This is made by putting the bones or carcasses of either, into a stew- 
pan with two or three glasses of any sort of white wine, a bayleaf, 
a sprig of thyme, and two shalots ; and then submitting it to the action of 
a rather slow fire, until the liquid becomes reduced to a glaze ; when, a 
quart to three pints of common broth should be added. Put it on a brisk 
fire to boil, skim it well, and then put it by the side of the stove to sim- 
mer gently for an hour and a half; after which time, pass it through a 
napkin into a basin, and keep it for use as occasion may require. 

221. COMMON GRAVY. 

Spread the bottom of a middle-sized stewpan with butter, and cover it 
with thin slices of beef suet ; place some slices of onions over this, and 
then add six pounds of gravy beef cut into thick slices, and any trim- 
mings of meat there may be to spare ; moisten with a quart of common 
broth, and set the stewpan over a brisk stove fire to boil. When the 
broth is reduced to glaze, slacken the heat of the stove, by partially smo- 
thering it with ashes, and allow the gravy to acquire a deep red brown 
colour ; then, fill the stewpan up with common broth or water, garnish 
with two carrots, two heads of celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, and 
a few pepper-corns, and, if the gravy has been filled up with water, add 
a spoonful of salt. Put the gravy to boil on the stove fire, skim it 
thoroughly, then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for 
about three hours; next, strain it through a broth-cloth into another 
stewpan, and proceed immediately to clarify it in the following manner : 
whisk up three whites of eggs with a little spring water, and after hav- 
ing removed all the grease from the surface of the gravy, incorporate the 
whites of eggs in with it ; whisk it over the stove fire until it is nearly 
boiling, and then set it to simmer by the side for a quarter of an hour, and 
strain it through a broth-cloth into a basin for use. 

* So called after the celebrated cook Bechamel, who lived in the reign of Louis XV. 



MEDICINAL BROTHS, ETC. 49 

222. BLOND DE VEAU, OR VEAL GRAVY. 

Having first well buttered a large stewpan, lay therein one pound of 
the lean of a York hain cut in slices, a knuckle of veal, and the under 
part of a leg of veal ; to these add an old hen, and a couple of wild rab- 
bits. Pour three pints of common broth over the meat, &c., and after 
putting the cover on the stewpan, place it on the stove fire to boil down 
to a glaze ; then slacken the heat so that it may gradually become 
browned. When the glaze darkens to a deep red tinge, fill it up with com- 
mon broth or water, and set it on the stove ; as soon as it boils, skim 
it thoroughly, garnish with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, three cloves, 
and a blade of mace ; and afler it has boiled gently by the side of the 
stove fire for three hours, strain it off through a napkin into basins for use. 

This caruomnU is used for clearing and working the grand etpagnole 
■auce ; for colouring clear soups, and also for finishuig some of the special 
sauces. 



MEDICIlTAL BROTHS AND CONSOMMES FOR INVALIDS. 

COMPRISINO 

Plun chicken broth. Crayfiah broth. 

Pectonl, do. do. Decoction of mailB. 

Matton do. MuciUagenoot chicken broth. 
Beef tea. 

223. PLAIN CHICKEN BROTH. 
Cut a young fowl or chicken into four parts, wash these well in cold 
water, and put the pieces into a stewpan with one quart of spring water, 
and a very little salt ; set it to boil on the stove fire, skim it well, aiid 
then add the heart of a white cabbage lettuce, and a handful of chervil ; 
boil the broth for about an hour, and then strain it through a napkin 
into a basin. 

224. PECTORAL CHICKEN BROTH. 
Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put them into a stewpan 
with three pints of spring water ; set it on the stove fire to boil ; skim it 
well, and add a little Mtlt. Take two table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, 
wash it in several waters, and add it to the broth — together with one 
ounce of marsh-mallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose of better ex- 
tractii^ its healing properties. The broth should then boil one hour, and 
be pasMd through a napkin into a basin, to be kept ready for use. 

225. MUTTON BROTH. 
Taki three pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of very fresh mutton, 
cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water, and put them into a 
stewpan with two quarts of cold spring water ; place the stewpan on the 
file to boil, skim it well, and then add a couple of turnips cut into slices, 
a few branches of parsley, a sprig of green thyme, and a little salt. When 
it hat b<nled gently by the side of the stove for an hour and a half, skim 
off the fat firom the surface, and then let it be strained through a lawn 
sieve into a baan, and kept for use. 

E 



50 MEDICINAL BROTHS. 

226. BEEF TEA. 
Take two pounds of the lean part of the gravy piece of beef, and 
carefully pare away every portion of fat, skin, or sinew; cut this 
into small square pieces the size of a nut ; put the beef into a stewpan 
capable of containing two quarts, and pour three pints of boiling water 
upon it ; add a little salt, put it on the stove fire, and as soon as it boils 
skim it, and then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue boiling 
gently for an hour, after which the beef tea should be strained through a 
napkui for use. 

227. CRAYFISH BROTH, FOR PURIFYING THE BLOOD. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of very white veal, cut it into small 
pieces, and pound it well in a mortar ; to this add three dozen crayfish 
and a handful of green chervil, and pound these together so as to tho- 
roughly bruise the crayfish. Then, remove the whole into a stewpan, 
and pour upon it three pints of cold spring water ; add a little salt, and 
place the stewpan on the stove to boil ; after which set it by the 
side of the stove fire, and keep it gently simmering for three quarters of 
an hour ; it may then be strained through a napkin for use. 

This kind of broth, in order to promote the desired effect, should be 
taken by the convalescent upon an empty stomach. 

228. DECOCTION OF SNAILS FOR INVETERATE COUGHS. 

Take two dozen garden snails, add to these, the hind quarters only 
of two dozen stream frogs, previously skinned ; bruise them together in 
a mortar, after which put them into a stewpan with a couple of turnips 
chopped small, a little salt, a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, and 
three pints of spring water. Stir these on the fire until the broth begins to 
boil, then skim it well, and set it by the side of the fire to simmer for 
half an hour ; after which, it should be strained by pressure through 
a tammy-cloth into a basin for use. 

This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts successfully, 
the straining effects of a severe cough, and alleviates more than any 
other culinary preparation the sufferings of the consumptive. 

229. MUCILAGINOUS BROTH FOR PERSONS IN DELICATE HEALTH. 

Take a young fowl, cut it into several parts, and wash them thoroughly ; 
put these into a stewpan capable of containing three quarts of water, add 
thereto three pounds of the lean of very white veal, a couple of turnips, 
one carrot, and one head of celery — the whole to be cut into small pieces ; 
fill up the stewpan with spring water, and put it on the stove to boil, 
taking care to remove the skum as it rises to the surface. After the 
broth has thrown off the albumen of the meat in the shape of skum, 
add to it two ounces of Previte's preparation of Ceylon moss, taking 
special care to well mix the preparation with the broth. Keep the 
pan gently boiling by the side of the stove-fire ibr one hour and a 
quarter ; then pass the broth through a napkin into an earthen vessel, 
and put it by for use. 

This broth is nutritious and cooling, and its use in cases of sore throats 
will often prove beneficial. 



BRAIZES, ETC. 51 



BRAIZES, POELES. MIREPOIX, &c. 

C0MPRI8INQ 

Bnize for genera] pnrpoiei. Cold Marinade. 

White poele for poultry. Blanc^ or White Braize for dreMing calves' heads. 

Flying batter for fillets of fish, Ac Mirepoisf^ or Braize for truffles. 

Do. for fruit fritters. White rewx for thickening sauces. 

Boiled Marinade, or pickle. Brown roux for do. 

230. BRAIZE FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. 

Takb two pounds of fillet of veal, one pound of fat Vorkshire ham, two 
beads of celery and the same number of onions and carrots ; cut all these 
into small square pieces, add a bayleaf, thyme, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
two blades of mace, and a dozen cloves ; throw these ingredients into a 
middle sized stewpan in which has been melted down a pound of 
fresh butter; put the stewpan on the stove-fire, stirring its contents fre- 
qoently with a wooden spoon while the vegetables, &c. are frying. 
When this mixture becomes slightly browned, pour into the pan half a 
pint of Cognac brandy, allow it to simmer for five minutes, and then 
add three quarts of common broth. Keep the braize gently boiling for 
an hour and a hal( then strain it off through a tanmiy cloth (using con- 
siderable pressure) into a kitchen pan, and put it away in the larder, 
to be used for purposes that will be hereafter explained. 

231. WHITE POELE FOR POULTRY. 

Cut into dice-shaped pieces, two pounds of beef suet, an equal quantity 
of veal, and the same kind of vegetables, &c., as described in the above 
mentioned braize; to these add the pulp of two, lemons, removing 
the pips ; put these ingredients into a middle-sized stewpan with half a 
pound of butter, and stir them on a slow fire until the suet is quite melted ; 
then add three quarts of common broth, and keep the poele gently boiling 
for an hour; it should then be passed through a sieve into an earthen 
pan, and reserved for the purpose of braizing poultry in. 

Note, — The two foregoing preparations, suthough very desirable in im- 
parting a rich succulent flavour to poultry, game, &c-, are nevertheless 
to be regarded rather as luxurious than essential. Good white or brown 
stock, as the case may require, can be used as economical substitutes. 

232. FRYING BATTER FOR FILLETS OF FISH, POULTRY, GAME, ETC., 
A LA HORLY, OR A LA ROYALE. 
Pitt into a two-quart basin three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, a 
little salt, two yolks of eggs, and two ounces of fresh butter previously 
melted in a small stewpan ; to these add gradually, about half a pint of 
tepid water, and stir the whole together with a wooden spoon until the 
batter has acquired the consistency and appearance of rich looking double 
cream ; it may then be put aside in the larder until within half an hour 
of its being wanted, when the whites of two eggs well whisked into a 
snowlike froth, should be incorporated vrith it. 

■ 2 



52 BRAIZES, POELES. 

233. FRYING BATTER, FOR ALL SORTS OF FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Put into a basin three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, three ounces 
of fresh butter (melted), one wine glassful of Cura9oay and a very little 
salt ; mix these gently together with a wooden spoon, gradually pouring 
into the basin about half a pint of bitter ale. When the batter be- 
comes mixed to the thickness of double cream, set it aside while you 
whisk the whites of three eggs into a substantial froth, and instantly in- 
corporate this with it. 

Many prefer such fritters as pine apple, peach, apricot or plum, fried 
with a plainer kind of batter, in making which water is substituted for ale. 

234. BOILED MARINADE. 

Cut into slices, and put into a stewpan, four carrots, the same number 
of onions, and two heads of celery, to which add parsley, four bay-leaves, 
thyme and sweet basil, a dozen cloves, a few blades of mace, two 
cloves of garlic, and one pound of raw ham, (cut into small square pieces,) 
a tablespoonful of pepper corns, and half a pound of butter. Stir these 
ingredients together over the fire until they become lightly browned ; then 
pour over them a quart of French white wine vinegar, and let the mart- 
nade boil quickly for Ave minutes, then add two quarts of common stock ; 
allow the whole to boil gently for one hour; strain it off through a 
tammy cloth, (using considerable pressure,) into a kitchen pan, and 
reserve it for use. 

This marinade is used for the purpose of preserving larded beef, 
mutton, venison, or roebuck ; as well as to braize either of these in, when 
it is wished to dress them d, la chevreuU or roebuck fiishion. 

236. COLD MARINADE, OR PICKLE. 

Take a large earthen vessel capable of containing whatever joint is 
intended to be marinaded or pickled ; then cut into very thin slices or 
shreads, four carrots' and as many onions ; add to these, cloves, mace, pepper 
corns, thyme, bayleaves and basil, and a handful of salt ; after having 
mixed all these together, pour in, according to the quantity of marinade 
that may be required, cold spring water and vinegar in the proportion of 
two-thiids of the former to one-third of the latter ; keep the pan (contain- 
ing the marinade) covered with its lid in a cool place, for the purpose 
of pickling therein, joints of red deer, roebuck, mountain hares, fillets of 
mutton, or beef, &c. 

In Scotland, this sort of marinade will prove very serviceable, especially 
if cooking for a shooting party, and when the larders are well supplied 
with moor and Highland game. 

236. BLANC OR WHITE BRAIZE FOR CALVES* HEADS OR EARS, AND 

ALSO FOR LAMBS' FEET OR EARS. 

Chop one pound (more or less, as occasion may require,) of beef suet, 

and the same quantity of fat bacon ; put these into a stewpan together 

with a garnished* faggot of parsley, a couple of carrots and onions, in- 

* A garniahed fiiggot of puiley, ooniitto of a handfnl of panley, half a down neen 
onions, and a bayloaf and sprig of thjme tied together neatly with twine. 



MIREPOIX, MARINADES, ETC. 53 

serting four doves into one of the latter ; add the pulp of two lemons, a 
tea-spoonful of whole pepper^ and a little salt, place the stewpan on the 
stove fire for about ten minutes, carefully stirring the ingredients the 
whole time, in order to prevent them from acquiring a brown colour ; then 
pour in a sufficient proportion of water to produce the quantity of blanc 
required. Allow the Mane to boil one hour, then strain it through a hair 
sieve, and use it for the purpose intended. 

237. HIREPOIX FOR BRAIZING LARDED FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, ETC. 
Take two pounds of veal, one pound of fat bacon, and one pound of 
lean ham, four carrots, four onions, a pottle of mushrooms, six shalots, a 
clove of garlic, two bayleaves, some sprigs of thyme, six cloves, two blades 
of mace, and a tea-spoonful of pepper corns ; cut these ingredients up into 
small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of 
butter, and fry them brown ; then add a bottle of Madeira or sherry, and 
a quart of good broth ; boil the mirepoix by the side of a stove-fire for 
about an hour and a half, and then strain it through a tammy (with con- 
siderable pressure, to extract all the goodness) into a basin, to be kept for 
such purposes as will be hereafter directed. 

238. WHITE ROUX, OR THICKENING FOR SAUCES. 

TjiKS some fresh butter, — say one pound, put it into a stewpan on a 
moderate fire to clarify ; skim it, and then pour it off into a thick-bottom- 
ed stewpan, care being taken that none of the milk be allowed to mix 
with the butter. Fill the butter up with sifted flour in sufficient quan- 
tity to form a paste requiring some strength to work it with a wooden 
spoon ; the roux should then be placed on a moderate fire, and continu- 
ally stirred with the spoon until it becomes somewhat softer ; then take 
the spoon out, wipe the sides of the stewpan, put the lid on it, and place 
it in a moderately heated oven, and there let it remain for about three 
quarters of an hour — taking care to stir it every ten minutes, and to 
watch it closely, in order to prevent the possibility of its getting burnt or 
coloured^ an accident which would render it useless for white sauce. At 
the expiration of the time above-named^ or before^ if the roux be suffici- 
ently done, (which may be easily ascertained by its becoming thinner) 
it should be taken out of the oven, and put aside until wanted for use. 

This roux is used for thickening vdaute or white sauce. 

239. BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING FOR BROWN SAUCE. 

This is made exactly in the same way as the white rouxy with the 
excepti(m that it should remain longer in the oven, to allow it to acquire 
a fawn or buff colour, before it is taken out. When the rattx is con- 
sidered to be done, three or four shalots should be thrown in, in order to 
diminish the action of the heat of the copper stewpan on its contents, 
and for the purpose of imparting flavour to it. 

This roux is used to thicken espagnole or brown sauce. 



54 QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 



QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL, AND FORCE- 
MEATS FOR GRATINS ; 

COMPRISING 

Bread Panada for quenelle*. QueneUe of Hare. 

P&te d chmue Panada. Do. of Ral>bit. 

Preparation of Calfs Udder. Do. of small Birds. 

QuAulle of Chicken or Fowl. Do. of Fish or Lobsters. 
Do. of Pheasant or Partridge. 

240. BREAD PANADA FOR QUENELLES. 
Takb the crumb of two new French rolls, and steep it in tepid water 
for ten minutes, then put it into a napkin and wring it tightly, in order to 
remove the water from the bread. Put the crumb into a stewpan with 
two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, and two spoonfuls of white broth. 
Put these on the stove-fire, continuing to stir the panada the whole time 
with a wooden spoon until it assumes the appearance of paste, and no 
longer adheres to the bottom of the stewpan, then add three yolks of eggs, 
and turn it out on a plate, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a 
knife, and having covered it with a round piece of buttered paper, place it 
in the larder until required for use. 

241. PATE A CHOUX PANADA.* 

To half a pint of white chicken broth add four ounces of fresh butter, 
and a little salt ; put the stewpan containing these on the fire ; as soon 
as it begins to simmer, mix in with the forementioned ingredients five 
ounces of sifted fiour, and by continuing to stir this batter on the fire 
for five minutes, it will become a delicately firm paste, which must be 
worked over the fire until it freely leaves the sides of the pan. Then 
take three yolks of eggs and quickly mix them into the batter ; put it 
on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, and keep it in Uie cool 
till wanted for use. 

This kind of panada is preferred by some cooks to bread panada ; being 
considered by them more delicate and less liable to produce fermentation 
in warm weather ; however, bread panada has the advantage of not col- 
lapsing, as is the case with the pdu d choux panada, if prepared some 
time before the quenelle in which it is used be eaten. 

242. PREPARATION OF CALF's UDDER. 

Thb udder is an elongated piece of &t-looking substance, in the inner 
part of a leg of veal. It is easily separated from the meat by a knife, and 
should then be bound round with twine in the shape of a sausage, so as 
to prevent it from falling to pieces on taking it out of the stock-pot; 
the udder so tied up is then put into the stock-pot to boil. Having 
allowed the dressed udder time to cool and get firm, either on the ice 
or otherwise, pare ofif the outside with a knife, cut it into small pieces, 
and pound it in a mortar; then rub it through a wire sieve with a 
wooden spoon, and put it on a plate lipon the ice to cool, in order that it 
may be quite firm when required for use. 

• Anglicd, " petty shoes." 



QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 55 

Note, — The two foregoing preparations being the basis of a great variety 
of force-meats, it is essential that they should be well understood before 
attempting the following more complicated amalgamations. 

It should also be ol^rved that all meat and fish intended for qw' 
luUesy must be forced through a wire sieve by rubbing it vigorously with 
the back of a wooden spoon, and then be kept on ice till used. 

243. QUENELLE OF FOWL. 

Take, of panada and prepared udder or fresh butter, half a pound of 
each, to these add ten ounces of prepared fillets of chicken, as directed 
above and pound all three together in a mortar ; when they are well 
mixed, add salt, and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a sixpence, a 
little pepper, and one egg ; pound the whole together till thoroughly mixed, 
then add another whole egg and two yolks, and a table-spoonful of hicka- 
md or suprhne sauce. Pound the whole thoroughly and quickly, and after 
having taken the force-meat out of the mortar and put it into a kitchen 
basin, keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. 

Previously to taking the quenelle up out of the mortar, its consistency 
should be thus ascertamed. Take a piece of the force-meat the size of a 
large nut, roll it with a little flour into the form of a round ball, put it into 
a small stewpan half full of boiling water; place it by the side of the fire to 
simmer for three minutes, afler which take it out and cut it in halves ; 
taste it in order to ascertain if it be correctly seasoned, and see that when 
cut asunder, the inner part presents a smooth, light, compact surface. 

244. QUENELLE OF FILLETS OP GROUSE, PHEASANT, OR PARTRIDGE ; 
QUENELLE OF RABBIT, OR HARE. 
Thb process for making these, is precisely similar to the foregoing, 
substituting, of course, the respective sort of game required, for fowl. It 
requires, however, the addition of a table-spoonful of strong essence of 
game and mushrooms, and a little allemande sauce ; which not only im- 
parts a richer flavour to the queneUe, but also renders it smoother. 

246. QUENELLE OP FILLETS OF SMALL BIRDS. 
Take the fillets of such a number of small birds (as quails, snipes, 
larks, plovers, and dottrel) as are likely to weigh about three quarters of a 
pound. Prepare them just as directed in the process for making quenelle 
of fowl — adding a little glaze, made firom their carcasses and reduced 
with a small quantity of allemande sauce. 

246. QUENELLE OF WHITING. 

Fillet four large whitings, after having previously skinned them ; 
pound them in a mortar, and force the produce through a wire sieve with 
a wooden spoon. To this substance add equal proportions of bread panada 
and fiesh butter ; pound these effectually, so as to mix them well toge- 
ther ; add two whole eggs, and the yolks of two others gradually: sea- 
son with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix well by pounding the 
quenelle vigorously, and then take it up into a basin for use as required. 

QuenelU of every sort of delicate fish is prepared in a similar manner 
to the above. 



56 QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 

247. QUENELLES OF LOBSTERS. 
Take the meat of two or more hen lobsters, cut this into thin slices and 
pound it thoroughly with two ounces of fresh butter ; force it through a 
wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and add two-thirds of its quantity of pa- 
nada> and a similar proportion of fresh butter. Pound these well toge- 
ther^ adding by intervals three whole eggs and a spoonful of aUemande 
sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg : mix well toge- 
ther by pounding, and then take the qnmelU up into a basin for use. 

248. FORCE-MEAT OF LIVER AND HAM, FOR RAISED PIES. 

Take the whole or part of a light-coloured calf's liver, or several &t 
livers of any kind of poultry, if to be obtained. If calf's liver be used, 
cut it into rather small square pieces, and, if time permit, steep them in 
cold spring water in order to extract the blood, so that the force- 
meat may be whiter. Take the pieces of liver out of the water, and 
place them upon a clean rubber to drain the water from them. Mean- 
while, cut some &t ham or bacon (in equal proportion to the liver) 
into square pieces, put them into a sautapan on a brisk fire to fry, after 
which add the pieces of liver, and fry the whole of a light brown colour : 
season with cayenne pepper and salt, and a little prepared aromatic spice, 
(No. 1 250) some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and three shalots. After 
this, take the pieces of liver and ham out of the pan, lay them on a chop- 
ping-board, and chop them fine ; then put them into a mortar with the 
remaining contents of the pan ; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it 
through a wire sieve on to an earthen dish. 

This kind of force-meat, or farce^ is an excellent ingredient in making 
raised pies. 

249. FORCEMEAT, OR FARCE, FOR PRESERVING GAME IN. 

To six pounds of boned game, of the kind intended to be preserved, 
add four pounds of fat bacon or ham, and two pounds of &t livers, (or 
failing these, calf's liver) ; cut the whole into small square pieces, and 
proceed as follows. First fry the pieces of bacon in a large sauta- 
pan, and when they become slightly browned, throw in the game and 
livers ; season with pepper and salt, aromatic spices, chopped mush- 
rooms, and three or four shalots ; fry the whole till the game is tho- 
roughly done. Then chop and pound all these ingredients together; and 
afterwards rub them through a wire sieve ; aAer which put the farce 
into a clean pan, and keep it covered over with buttered paper. It 
should be used the same day that it is made, for the sooner pre- 
serves are out of hand the better. 

The use of i\nB farce, will be shown in its proper place. 

Note, — ^When about to preserve game in earthen pans for the spring or 
summer season, great care should be taken in selecting fresh game for 
that purpose, as when preserves are made with stale game, the prepara- 
tion will most likely not bear keeping so as to be eatable when opened 
for use. 

250. FARCE OF FAT LIVERS FOR GRATINS. 
If the farce be required for turbans of fillets of fowls or rabbits, or 
paUs-chauds of game, or small birds ; it should be made of fat livers or 
1^ of veali and prepared in exactly the same maimer as directed for 



FORCE-MEATS FOR GRATINS. 57 

making /aroe of livers for game pies ; — excepting that, to finish it for use, 
it is necessary to add one-third the quantity of well made bread panada, 
and an equal proportion of raw eggs to bind it, and give it body. 

In order to ascertain whether this farce is perfect, roll a small quantity 
in a little flour on a plate, then put it on a small baking sheet in the oven 
for five minutes ; when done through, cut it asunder, and if it preserves its 
shape and remains firm to the touch, it may be used with safety ; but if 
it appears to shrink or melt in the oven, then, a little more panada and > 
another egg must be added, which will render it more compact. 

251. GODIVEAUX IX GEXEKAL. 

To one pound of either veal, fillets of fowls, pheasants, partridges, &c. 
chopped exceedingly fine and smooth to the touch, add one pound of beef 
suet, two whole eggs, the crumb of one French roll soaked in water 
and well wrung in a napkin, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Chop 
these ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then pound them in a mortar 
until the whole presents the appearance of a compact body. Then 
place the substance upon a plate, cover it with buttered paper, and set 
it upon ice to cool for a couple of hours. 

After the godiveau has been cooled, put it in the mortar again and 
pound it with considerable force, taking care to mix in with it by de- 
grees about three quarters of a pound of clean washed rough ice. This 
last process will cause it to resemble somewhat the queneUe of fowl. 
Put it away in a basin in a cool place till wanted for use. 

Godiveau of any kind, when well made, is very delicious eating, and is 
not so expensive to make as quenelle. It is used for garnishing voUavr- 
tents, patSs'chaudSj touties d la dboulette, and also for stuffing calves' 
beadsy as a substitute for quenelle force-meat. 



58 



CLEAR CONSOMME SOUPS IN GENERAL. 

COMPBISINO 

Spring Soap. Scotch Broth. 

Do. a la VeriprS. Hodge-podge. 

Julienne Soup. Knuckle of Teal and rice Soup. 

Jardimirt Soup. Brunoite Soup. 

ChiJIbnade Soup. Lettuce and whole pea Sonp. 

Nivemaise Soup. Hemifth Soup. 

Xavier Soup. Sportsman^s Soup, clear. 

DaupMne Soup. Soup h la DeacUffnac 

Barley do. d la Prineaae, Partridge Soup, d la cka*9eur, 

Quenellei of fowl in eomommi, Paysaume Soup. 

Vermicelli, dear Soup. Tendons of Teal a la JardinUre, 

Macaroni, clear Soup. Do. with peas and lettuces. 

Italian Paste Soup. Ox-tail Soup. 

Lasagnes ^np. Soup of gratinated crusts d ^ Z)*Or/^iaM. 

Clear rice Soup. Do. H la Frinceste. 

Do. with asparagus points. Do. with lettuces. 

Chicken and rice Soup. Do. u la Regenoe. 

Cocky Leeky Broth. Do. a la Paytanne. 

262. SPRING SOUP. 

Takb four carrots and as many turnips scraped and washed, scoop 
them out into the form of small olives or peas, with a vegetable 
scoop of either shape ; add the white part of two heads of celery, 
twenty -four small onions (without the green stalk), and one head of 
firm white cauliflower cut into small flowrets. Blanch or parboil the fore- 
going in boiling water for three minutes, strain them on a sieve, and 
then throw them into three quarts of bright consomme of fowl ; let 
the whole boil gently for half an hour by the side of the stove-fire ; 
then add the white leaves of two cabbage-lettuces (previously stamp- 
ed out with a round cutter the size of a shilling), a handful of 
sorrel-leaves, snipped or cut like the lettuces, a few leaves of tar- 
ragon and chervU, and a small piece of sugar ; let these continue to 
boil gently imtil done. When about to send the soup to table, put 
into the tureen half a pint of young green peas, an equal quantity of 
asparagus-heads boiled green, and a handful of small croutotis d la 
duchesse, prepared in the following manner: — Cut the crust off a 
rasped French roll into strips ; stamp or cut out these, with a round tin 
or steel cutter, into small pellets about the size of a shilling, and dry 
them in the oven to be ready for use. 

Before sending the soup to table, taste it to ascertain whether it be 
sufficiently seasoned. 

253. SPRING SOUP A LA VERTPRE. 
This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing,^-except that 
the croutons d la duchesse are omitted, and in their stead a purie of 
green spinach, in sufficient quanity to thicken and colour the soup, 
should be added. 



CLEAK CONSOMME SOUPS IN GENERAL. 59 

254. JARDINIERE SOUP. 
Prrparb the same v^tables as for spring soup^ boil them in a strong 
consommif and just berore sending the soup to table add to it a pint of 
puree of green peas. 

255. JULIENNE SOUP. 
Til KB three red carrots of a large size, as many sound turnips, and the 
white parts of the same number of leeks, beads of celery and onions. 
Cut all these vegetables into fine shreds an inch long. Put them into a 
convenient-sized stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, 
and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Simmer these vegetables on a slow 
stove-fire, taking care they do not bum ; when they become slightly 
brown, add three quarts of blond de veau, or light- coloured consommi ; 
let the soup libil, skim all the butter off as it rises to the surface^ and 
when the vegetables are done, throw in the leaves of two cabbage-let- 
tuces and a handfiil of sorrel, shred like the carrots, &c., add a few 
leaves of tarragon and chervil ; boil the whole for ten minutes longer, 
taste the soup in order to ascertain whether the seasoning is correct, 
and serve. 

256. CHIFFONADE SOUP. 

Truss two spring chickens, and boil them in some good white eon^ 
tomme. When done and cooled, cut them into small members, paring 
off the skin ; put these into a well-tinned stewpan, together with 
the stock they were boiled in, which should be clarified, if it be not 
sufficiently bright. Set the stewpan on the stove-fire to boil, and then 
add the white leaves of four cabbage-lettuces, a small handful of sorrel, a 
, little tarragon and chervil, and one head of celery shred fine. See that 
the soup be perfectly seasoned, and of delicate flavour, and send to table. 

257. NIVERNAISE SOUP. 

Takb four turnips, cut them into the form of small cloves of garlic, 
fry them in a little butter and sugar in a stewpan over the fire to give 
them a light brown colour, then drain them upon a sieve and put them 
into a soup-pot. Scoop out the red part of two large-sized red car- 
rots, blanch or parboil these for ten minutes, and, when strained, add 
them to the turnips; then pour upon the vegetables three quarts of 
strmg bright consomm^, and set the soup to boil gently by the side of 
the stove-fire until the vegetables are thoroughly done, taking care to 
ikim off the butter as it rises to the surface. Ten minutes before dinner- 
time, throw into the soup, while boiling, some very small Brussels sprouts 
that have been previously parboiled ; and just before sending this soup 
to table, add to it about two or three dozen very small queneiks of 
pheasant. 

258. XAVIER SOUP. 

Mix with six ounces of siAed flour, half a pint of double cream, four 
ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little 
minionette pepper, salt and grated nutmeg. When these ingredients 
have been thoroughly mixed together with a wooden spoon, put the 
stewpan containing them on the fire — stirring it quickly and continually, 
until it b^ns to Uiicken, when it should be well worked with the spoon 
lor about five minutet. By this time the batter will have assumed the 
appeaianoa of a fiim compact paste ; two whole ^s and two yolks> 



60 CLEAR CONSOMME 

should then be worked into it ; then add a tablespoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley. 

When this paste is so far ready^ make up two half sheets of paper 
in the shape of a funnel, with a hole at the point, a quarter of an inch in 
diameter, and fasten them with a pin. Into each of these papers or 
forcers put as much of the paste as will nearly fill it ; close the laige 
end in the same way as you would a paper of brown sugar ; and with 
gentle pressure force the paste out at the pointed extremity on to a 
large stewpan cover (previously buttered) in the shape of large peas : 
this is done with a sudden jerk of the wrist. When the stewpan lid is 
covered with these fragments of paste — which, however, must not be 
close enough to touch each other — prepare some boiling consomme in a 
stewpan over the fire, and shake off the peas into it (which will be easily 
effected by just passing the lid containing the fragments of paste over the 
fire), in order to detach them, and thus facilitate their slipping into the 
broth. Let these boil very gently for five minutes ; strain them on a 
sieve, and then throw them into three quarts of strong bright consomme 
of fowl or game prepared for the purpose ; allow them to boil again 
gently for five minutes ; add a pliuJie of tarragon and chervil, and let 
these boil a short time previously to serving up tlie soup. 

Send some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round 
simultaneously with this soup. 

269. DAUPHINE SOUP. 
Takb a pint of strong consomme of fowl, and pour it gradually into a 
stewpan containing eight yolks of eggs beaten up with a little salt, nut- 
meg, and pepper ; when the egg is well mixed with the consomm^^ strain 
it through a sieve into a round plain mould, which should be previously 
buttered carefully for that purpose. Put the mould, holding the prepara- 
tion, into a larger stewpan containing water to the depth of about an 
inch, and cover the stewpan with the Hd ; let the water in it simmer — 
or gently boil — on the comer of the stove -fire, so as to produce sufficient 
steam to set the custard. When this is done, take it out of the water ; 
and afler having allowed it time to cool, cut it into shapes resembling 
thick wafers, which put into two quarts of strong consommi of fowl, 
together with a pint of green asparagus heads, previously boiled for that 
purpose, a small piece of sugar and a few tarragon leaves. « Allow the 
soup to boil very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about three 
minutes, and then send to table. 

260. BARLEY SOUP, A LA PRINCESSE. 

Takb half a pound of Frankfort pearl barley, wash and blanch it ; 
and put it to boil in one quart of bright consommi of fowl. When 
the barley is sufficiently done, put it into the soup tureen with the 
members of two spring chickens (previously roasted and cut up for the 
purpose) ; to these add a sufficient quantity of consommi of fowl ; and 
after having tested the seasoning of the soup, send to table. 

261. QUENELLES OF FOWL IN CONSOMME. 
Mould three or four dozen of very small queneUes of fowl in 
the following manner: — Take up a spoonful of chicken forcemeat, 
smooth it over with the blade of a small knife, which must be occasion- 
ally dipped in hot water, in order to prevent the quisndU from sticking 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 61 

to it ; and with another teaspoon dipped in hot water, scoop out the 
quenelle from the filled teaspoon, and drop it gently on the bottom of a 
buttered sautapan. When this part of the operation is completed, 
a 8te¥rpan cover is held with the left hand in a slanting direction 
towards the inner part of the edge of the sautapan, — with the other 
hand sufficient boiling water should be poured in to poach the quenelles : 
then set the sautapan by the side of the fire to simmer for about ten 
minutes, when the quenelles will be done. Take them out and lay them 
upon a clean cloth to drain ; after which place them in the soup tureen, 
and having poured thereon two quarts of bright consommi of fowl, send 
to table. 

262. CLEAR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Takb half a pound of vermicelli, break it small and blanch it — by 
allowing it to boil three minutes in water ; drain it on a sieve, and then 
put it into a stewpan with two quarts of strong bright consommS of fowl 
or game, or blond of veal, according to taste or circumstances. After 
allowing the soup thus prepared to boil up on the stove- fire, skim the 
froth from the surface, and set it to continue boiling gently on the comer 
of the stove till the vermicelli be sufficiently done. Then pour the soup 
into the tureen, and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on 
a plate, separately, to be handed round to the guests simultaneously 
with the soup. This should be observed as a general rule, in serving 
up all soups containing Italian pastes in any form. 

263. MACARONI CLEAR SOUP. 
Boil one pobnd of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, an ounce 
of fireah butter, a little stdt and minionette pepper. When the maca- 
roni is done, which will take about half an hour; drain it on a 
sieve, wash it in clear water, and then drain it upon a napkin, that it 
may be cut into pieces an inch long. Then put it into a soup-pot with 
two quarts of bhnd of veal, or consommi of fowl or of game, according to 
einnunstances ; let it boil ten minutes longer and serve. 

264. ITALIAN PASTE SOUP. 

Take half a pound of Italian paste, blanch or parboil it first, and 
afterwards boil it in two quarts of bright strong consomme^ as directed for 
vermicelli soup, and send to table. 

265. LASAGNES SOUP. 
La8aonb8 are a kind of Italian paste resembling ribbons, and must 
be treated in exactly the same way as when using macaroni for soup, 
exciting that they do not require so much boiling. 

266. CLEAR CONSOMME WITH RICE. 

Take half a pound of Carolina rice well-picked and washed, blanch 
or parboil it for five minutes, drain the water off; and after adding two 
quarts of good clear consommS^ boil it gently by the side of the stove- fire 
till the grains of the rice begin to feather or separate, when it will be 
ready to send to table. 

Observe, that broths and consommes should be always stronger, when 
used for aoups containing Italian pastes of any kind, rice or l^ley ; as 



62 CLEAR CONSOMME 

these &rinaceou8 substances decrease the flavour and apparent strength 
of soups, and render them less acceptable to the palate of the epicure — 
unless counteracted by increasing the strength of the consomme. 

267. CLEAR RICE SOUP WITH ASPARAGUS POINTS. 
This soup is prepared in the same way as the foregoing — with the 
addition of one pint of asparagus points boUd green and thrown into the 
soup just before sending to table. 

268. CHICKEN AND RICE SOUP. 
Truss, boil, and cut into small members, two spring chickens ; the 
skin should be removed, and the pieces neatly trimmed and placed in the 
soup tureen, together with two quarts of clear rice soup, which should be 
made with chicken broth or consomme, of a light colour. The seasoning 
of this soup must be light. 

269. COCKY-LEEKY SOUP. 

Take two fowls, which truss, boil, and cut up as for the foregoing 
soup. To the broth they have been boiled in add two quarts of blond 
of veal, and in this boil (afler having first parboiled them in water) the 
white part of a dozen leeks cut into lengths of about an inch, and these 
again cut lengthways into four. When the leeks have been boiled tho- 
roughly soil in the broth, add the pieces of fowl ; and after allowing 
the whole to boil ten minutes longer, send to table. 

Note, — This kind of soup is objected to by many who dislike the 
odour of leeks ; it is considered, however, to be a fine restorative, 
and is especially recommended to the notice of sportsmen, after a hard 
day's riding with the hounds, or fagging over the moors. 

270. SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take a neck of fresh mutton, trim it the same as for cutlets ; take 
the scrag and trimmings, with two carrots, three turnips, two heads 
of celery, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and 
with these make some mutton broth — filling up with either broth from the 
common stock-pot, or with water. While the mutton broth is boiling, 
cut up the neck of mutton, previously trimmed for the purpose, into 
chops, which should have the superfluous skin and fat pared away, and 
place them in a three«quart stewpan, together with the red or outer part 
of two carrots, three turnips, two leeks, one onion, and two heads of 
celery — the whole of these to be cut in the form of very small dice ; add 
six ounces of Scotch barley previously washed and parboiled, and then 
pour on to the whole the broth made from the scrag, &c, when strained and 
the fat removed. Allow the soup thus far prepared to boil gently until 
the chops and the vegetables be thoroughly done. Five minutes before 
sending the soup to table throw into it a tablespoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley. Be sparing in the use of salt, so as not to overpower 
the simple but sweet flavour which characterises this broth. 

271. HODGE-PODGE.* 

Make the mutton broth as shown in the preceding directions, and in 
addition to its contents add a pint and a half of green peas (either marrow- 
fats or Prussian-blues). Allow the soup to boil gently until the ingre- 

* From the French, HcohM-p6i, 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 63 

dienU be thoroughly done, then mix in with them one pint of purie of 
green spinach and panley : taste to ascertain that the seasoning be correct, 
and serve. 

272. KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND RICE SOUP. 

Take a good sized knuckle of fresh veal, cut it into four pieces— sawing 
the bones through. Place the pieces in a small stockpot with two calf 's- 
feet, a partridge (an old one will do) that has been roasted for a quarter of 
an hour ; to these add three quarts of common broth or water. Put the 
soup on the stove fire to boil, skim it well, garnish it with one carrot, one 
turnip, an onion in which has been inserted four cloves, and one head of 
celery ; also a little salt and a few pepper-corns. Having allowed the 
soup to boil gently by the side of the stove fire for about three hours, 
proceed with care to take up the partridge, the calf's-feet, and also, 
the glutinous pieces of veal, which place on a dish to cool in the larder. 
Then pass the broth through a naplan into a stewpan, and after having 
taken off every particle of fat, add to it half a pound of Carolina rice, 
which must be blanched or parboiled for the purpose. Allow the rice to 
boil gently in the broth till it is nearly done, then cut the fillets of par- 
tridge into pieces about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch wide, 
take the glutinous pieces of the veal and the inner tendons of the calf 's- 
feet, and cut these also in pieces in a similar manner to the partridge ; put 
the whole into the broth with the rice, and after boiling them together for 
five minutes send to table. 

This kind of soup may be also finished with the addition of a pint of 
green-peasf which must be boiled a few minutes before serving up the 
soup, and placed in the tureen previously to pouring in the soup. 

Asparagus points may be used for the same purpose. 

273. BRUNOISE SOUP. 
Takb carrots, turnips, heads of celery, leeks and onions, of each a 
couple ; cut them into small dice and fry them in a stewpan, over a slow 
fire, with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pounded sugar, and a sprinkling 
of salt. When the vegetables have acquired a light brown colour, pour 
into them three quarts of good strong bright consommS, or blond of veal, 
tnd put the soup on the stove to boil ; skim it well, and then remove it to 
the side, there to continue gently boiling until the vegetables are tho- 
roughly done. Add half a pint of green-peas, a handful of French-beans 
(cut into the form of diamonds), and half a pint of asparagus points (the 
whole having been previously boiled green for the purpose), also a few 
duchess' crusts ; and having tested the flavour and seasoning of the soup, 
send to table. 

274. LETTUCE AND WHOLE-PEA SOUP. 
Pick, wash, and blanch, a dozen white heart cabbage lettuces ; cut 
them open, and spread them on a clean napkin ; season them with mi- 
nionette pepper and salt ; then put two together, face to face, and proceed to 
tie them up with twine. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin layers 
of fiit bacon, and place the lettuces thereon ; pour upon them some broth 
from the boiling stockpot, over which lay a round of buttered paper; 
place the lid on the stewpan, start them to boil on the fire, and then place 
them on a slackened stove, to simmer gently for about an hour ; afler 
which, drain the lettuces on a clean naplan, untie them, and after having 



64! CLEAR CONSOMME 

cut them into inch lengths^ lay them in the soup tureen, together with a 
pint of young green-peas boiled for the purpose, and a small pinch of 
minionette pepper. Take every particle of fat off the broth in which 
the lettuces have been braised^ and add it to the lettuces and peas already 
in the tureen, over which pour two quarts of bright strong consomme of 
fowl ; ascertain that the soup be palatable, and having thrown in a hand- 
ful of duchess' crusts, send to table. 

275. FLEMISH SOUP. 

Take carrots, turnips, and cucumbers, of each two, and with a vege- 
table scoop cut them out into the shape of olives or pears. To the fore- 
going add the white parts of two heads of celery and three leeks, which 
must be cut into thick shreds half an inch long. Blanch or parboil these 
for five minutes ; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a 
small soup pot capable of containing three quarts ; add rather better than 
two quarts of good coruomm^e, and set the soup on the stove fire to boil, 
skim it, and place it by the side to boil gently until the vegetables are 
sufficiently done. While the soup is boiling, blanch the following vege- 
tables, which, when done, put into the soup with the others : a handful of 
Brussels sprouts, half a pmt of young peas, a few French beans cut small, 
and a handful of asparagus heads. Add a pinch of minionette pepper; 
allow the soup to boil three mmutes longer, and having placed some 
duchess' crusts in the tureen, pour the soup upon them, and serve. 

276. sportsman's CLEAR SOUP. 

With two teaspoons mould about four dozen very small quendUi 
of any sort of game ; poach these in broth, and then drain them on a 
clean napkin, and afterwards put them into a stewpan containing two 
quarts of strong bright consommS of game ; place the soup on the fire, 
and allow it to boil very gently by the side for a few minutes ; ascer- 
tain that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. 

This soup takes its special title firom the species of game of which it 
may chance to be made. As, for instance. Sportsman's Clear Soup of 
Pheasanty of Partridge, of Hare, &c &c. 

277. DESCLIGNAC, OR IMPERIAL SOUP. 
Put eight yolks of eggs into a basin, with a little grated nutmeg and 
salt : beat them together, mixing therewith a pint of strong consommi of 
fowl or game : strain this preparation through a hair sieve into a plain 
mould, which has been buttered for the purpose. Steam this in the same 
way as you would any other custard ; and, when done, put it to cool in 
the larder. Cut the custard thus prepared into &nciful shapes, and 
having placed them in the tureen, pour on gently two quarts of boiling, 
strong, bright coruommiy of the same kind that is used to mix the custa^ 
with, 

278. PAYSANNE SOUP. 

This is to be prepared in exactly the same manner as the Flemish soup, 
except that instead of the Brussels sprouts, the following must be used : 
the leaves of two summer cabbages cut into pieces the size and shape of 
a shiliinff, the hearts of four lettuces slit into thick shreds, a few 
leaves of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil. After these have been boiled 
with the other vegetables ten minutes, add to them two dozen scollops 
of braized beef; season with a little minionette pef^r, and serve. 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 65 

279. SOUP OP GRATINATED CRUSTS, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Fob a dinner of sixteen covers, order a dozen small rolls to be made 
of the size and shape of an egg ; rasp them, and take the crumb out 
carefully without disturbing the shape of the rolls. When the crumb is 
taken out^ put the rolls or hollow crusts on a baking sheet in the oven, 
for the purpose of making them crisp, as well as to give them a light 
brown colour. 

An hour before dinner, put the crusts thus prepared into a deep silver 
dish, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of consomme of fowl, to 
cover them. Place the dish containing the crusts on a trevet over a stove 
fire of moderate heat, and there allow the crusts to become gratinated^ 
that is to say, to acquire, by means of boiling down, a concentration of 
flavour, and that appearance of crispness which is as alluring to the eye as 
it b savoury to the palate. When the consomme is perfectly absorbed by 
the crusts, put them in the oven in order to increase their crispness ; but 
be extremely careful that they do not bum. Just before sending to table, 
pour on to ^e crusts thus prepared, & jardiniire, composed of small pipe- 
like pieces of carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, a few small button onions, 
green-peas, French-beans, asparagus heads, and also a few flowerets of 
white cauliflower. Only a small quantity of consomme should be put with 
the crusts and jardiniire^* as it is usual to serve up a tureen of clear 
eansammS separately, from which the guests are served ; a small ladleful 
of the gratinated crusts, &c., should be first put into the soup-plate, and 
some of the consomm^S added aflerwards. 

200. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS, A LA PRINCESSE. 

Prepare the same number of rolls according to the preceding in- 
structions. 

A few minutes before dinner, add to the crusts three dozen small 
quenelles of chicken rolled into the shape of pieces of macaroni, an inch 
long, half a pint of asparagus heads, and a little boiling consomme. Send 
up two quarts of consomme in a soup tureen, and serve as described in 
the last mentioned soup. 

281. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS, A LA ROYALE. 
Prepare the crusts as before stated, adding four ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese and a little minionette. Just before dinner-time, lay 
upon the crusts (gratinated in the usual way,) some shapes of chicken 
custard, described in the preparation of Desclignae soup ; and serve 
up according to the preceding detail 

282. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS, A LA FERNEUSE. 
Prepare the crusts as before described, cut three large sound turnips 
into small fancy shapes, fry them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, 
a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt, over a slow fire 
until they have gradually acquired a light brown colour ; then add a 
pmt of oonwmnUf and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove fire 
until thorou^y done. When about to send the soup to table, pour the 
tinmips thus prepared on to the gratinated crusts, and to them add a pint 

* This obierration it applicable to all gratinated lOupB. 



66 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES 



of young peas boiled green, and a few white button onions boiled in 
broth. Serve as before stated. 

283. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS, A LA BEAUJON. 
Prepare the crusts as before, and when they are gratinated, add a 
pint of reduced puree of young carrots, put these into the oven for ten 
minutes, and just before sending to table, pour over the crusts thus pre- 
pared, half a pint of large heads of asparagus and some shreds of celery 
kept ready boiled in broth for the purpose, and serve with the consomme 
in a tureen separately. 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES IN GENERAL FOR SOUPS, 



COMPRISINO 



Purie of Peas, h VAnglaise, 

Do. of Green Split-Peas. 

Do. of Red Haricot beans, a la Condt, 

Do. of White Haricot Beans. 

Do. of Lentils, a la Heine, 

Do. of Lentils, d la Soulfise. 

Do. of Lentils, H la Brunoise, 

Do. of Green-peas. 

Do. of Roots, d, la Crois^. 

Puree of Carrots, a la Crtcy, 

Brown puri« of Turnips, 

White puree of Turnips. 

Palestine Soup. 

Puree of Artichokes. 

Do. of Endive. 

Brown Puree of Chestnuts. 

White do. of Chestnuts. 



Puree of Spinach, a la Beauvaux, 

Do. of Peas, d la Faubonne, 

Do. a la Femetf, 

Do. ^ la Fabert. 

Do. of Spring Herbs. 

Do. cL la Victoria, 

Do. d la Princesae. 

Do. of young Carrots, h la Stanley. 

Cre^ Soup with whole Rice. 

Do. of Potatoes, d la cretne. 

Do. of Potatoes, a la Victoria. 

Quenellt's of Potatoes. 

Do. of Asparagus, a la Conde. 

Do. a la Si. (ieorge. 

Bonne Femme Soup. 

Soup, a la HoUandnise. 



284. PUREE OF PEAS, A L'ANGLAISE. 
Take a quart of yellow split-peas, wash them several tunes in water, 
drain them, and put them into a small stockpot with half a pound of raw 
ham, two heads of celery, one carrot and an onion with four cloves stuck in 
it, add three quarts of common broth, let the soup boil, skim it well, and 
then set it by the side of the stove fire to boil gently for about three hours. 
The peas having then become entirely dissolved, pass them through a 
tammy cloth with the aid of two wooden spoons, to be used in the follow- 
ing manner : spread the tammy cloth over a large dish, pour the purfe, 
or part thereof, into the hollow thus formed ; then let two persons take 
hold firmly of each end of the tammy cloth with the left hand, so as care- 
fully to secure the pwie against flowing over ; then, with the right hand, 
they should work the edge of the spoon, the bowls being back to back, in 
the cloth, in regular time and with some force until the whole of the puree 
is rubbed through : it will be, however, necessary to scrape off with the 
back of a large knife any portion that may adhere to the cloth. When 
this is done, hasten to remove the ptiree from the dish into a soup pot of 
adequate size ; add a large ladleful of consommS, carefully stirring the 
puree on the stove-fire until it begins to boil, then remove it to the side of 
the stove, to continue gently boiling until it has clarified itself by throwing 
up all the froth, which should be removed as it rises to the surface. 
Ascertain whether the seasoning be palatable, and send to table with some 
dried and sifted mint in a plate ; and in another plate serve some amcfe 
cnists, prepared as follows: — 



FOR SOUPS. 67 

Take a piece of stale bread, pare away the crust, and then cut the 
crumb into very small square dice, fry these in fresh butter till they be- 
come slightly browned, then drain them on a sieve, and aflerwards place 
them on a sheet of paper, moving them about for a short time that the butter 
may be absorbed. Keep these croutons in a dry place until wanted. Just 
before dinner time, they should be put inside the oven for a few minutes. 

286. PUREE OF GREEN SPLIT-PEAS. 
Follow the foregoing instructions, taking care, however, to substitute 
green split-peas for yellow. When the puree is ready, in order to give it 
as much as possible the appearance of having been made with green-peas, 
mix in with it some extract of spinach,* adding two small pats of butter 
and a little sugar. Serve separately some mint in powder, and conde 
crusts on plates. 

286. PUREE OF RED HARICOT BEANS. 

Take one quart of red haricdt beans, and having put them to soak the 
over night, drain off the water on the following morning ; put the beans 
into a small stock-pot, with carrots, celery, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, and a knuckle of raw ham ; add three quarts of good stock, and 
set the whole on the stove fire to simmer gently for about four hours. 
Then remove the carrot, celery, onion and the ham ; drain off the broth 
from the beans, and pound them in a mortar, after which, place them in 
a stewpan, add the broth, and then pass the puree through the tammy 
cloth in the usual manner ; it should then be poured into a soup pot, and 
if too thick to clarify, a little broth should be added ; stir it over the stove 
fire until it boils, and then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue 
gently boiling until it becomes bright : of course all the skum must be 
carefully removed while boiling. Finish the soup by adding two small 
pats of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. Coiide crusts should be 
handed round with this soup. 

287. PUREE OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS 

Is made like the preceding, except that white Iiaiicdt beans must be 
substituted for red ; moreover, in finishing this puree, in addition to the 
butter and sugar, half a pint of boiling cream should be poured in. 

Serve with cancU crusts on a plate. 

288. PUREE OP LENTILS, A LA REINE. 

Takb one quart of reddish-brown lentils, prepare them exactly as de- 
scribed for the treatment of red haricdt beans in making that puree ; finish 
also in a similar manner, and serve with conde crusts. 

289. PUREE OF LENTILS, A LA SOUBISE. 
This is made like the foregoing, but there must be added a puree 

* Extract of tpinach ia thas prepared : Wash and pound in a mortar a Bufficicnt 
qmntitj of spinaai for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy appearance, turn it out upon 
a stroDg kitchen rubber, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up and held in the 
left hsmi by two persons, who must take care to fold the extremity of the cloth firmly 
nand the handle of a wooden spoon, which wiU give them a strong purchase, acting as a 
windkuM, and will enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to express all the moisture 
of the spinach. To receire this extract, a stewpan should be pkiced ready ; it should 
be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and must be put upon a hair sieve 
to drain off any remaining watery particles. Work the spinach green through the 
sieve with a ilKKm, and thu will form the extract. 

F 2 



68 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

of four large onions, prepared in the following manner : — slice up the 
onions, fry them brown in a little butter, adding to them a little broth ; 
having allowed them to simmer gently on the fire until done, pass them 
in the usual way through a tammy, and mix the puree thus obtained with 
the soup ; and when it has cleared itself by boiling, taste it to ascertain 
its seasoning, and send to table with conde crusts separately. 

290. PUREE OF LENTILS, A LA BRUNOISE. 

This soup is recommended to be served when there happens to be in 
the larder any remaining stock of puree of lentils, or hrunoise soup, 
which can be mixed for this purpose. The conde crusts should be omitted. 

291. GREEN-PEAS SOUP. 

Take two quarts of green-peas, a double handful of parsley, four stalks 
of green mint, and a good handful of green onions. Having put two 
quarts of common broth on the stove fire, throw in the above ingredients 
as soon as it begins to boil ; when the peas are thoroughly done, drain 
them and the other vegetables in a colander, then pound them well to- 
gether ; the puree thus far prepared should be put into a stewpan together 
with its own liquor, warm it until it becomes sufficiently dissolved, and 
then rub it through a tammy cloth in the usual manner. Just before 
sending to table, warm the soup on a brisk stove fire, adding two pats of 
fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. 

Serve conde crusts on a plate.* 

292. PUREE OF ROOTS, A LA CROISSY. 

Cut into thin shavings six large carrots, and slice very small the same 
number of turnips, three onions, and three heads of celery ; add a handful 
of sorrel, and a little chervil and tarragon ; put these into a stewpan with 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter on a slow fire, and let it remain there 
until the vegetables are steamed sufficiently to reduce their quantity to 
one half; then add two quarts of broth, and put the pan on the fire to 
boil ; skim it, and remove it to the side to boil gently for about an hour 
and a half; after which, proceed to drain the roots from the broth in a 
colander, pound them in a mortar, and having mixed them with the liquor, 
warm the puree thus obtained, and rub it through the tammy cloth in the 
usual way. Then put the puree into a soup pot (with more broth if 
needed,) and allow it to boil on the stove fire; after this, place it by the 
side to clarify itself by gentle ebullition ; and when it ceases to throw up 
any froth or skum, finish the soup by adding one pat of fresh butter, and 
a little pounded sugar, and send to table. 

293. PUREE OF CARROTS, A LA CRECY. 
Shave off the red part of about twelve large carrots, add one head of 
celery and one onion ; blanch these in boiling water on the fire for ten 
minutes ; drain them in a colander, and aflerwards put them into a 
small stock-pot with two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce of lump sugar, 
and a little salt. Set the carrots thus prepared on a slow fire to steam, 
and when they have become considerably reduced in quantity (without 

* In order to avoid unneoeatary repetition, it skoold be observed, that eomdS cnuti 
mutt be served with the succeeding jmrSet of vegetiU»lei^ except when otherwiae directed. 



FOR- SOUPS. 69 

burning or acquiring any colour) add to them two quarts of good broth, 
and let the carrots boil gently for an hour ; then drain them — pound and 
nib them through a tammy in the usual way, and clarify the purU in 
the same manner as directed in the preceding article. Finish this 
soup by incorporating with it one pat of fresh butter and a little pounded 
sugar. 

294. BROWN PUREE OF TURNIPS. 

Slicb up about eight large sound turnips, put them into a stewpan, 
into which a quarter of a pound of fresh butter has been previously 
melted, and add a tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Fry the turnips thus 
prepared over a rather brisk fire, in order to give them a light brown 
colour ; when this is effected, add two quarts of good stock, allow the 
aoup to boil gently by the side of the stove- fire for about three-quarters 
of an hour; then drain, pass, and proceed to clarify the puree in the 
usual manner. 

Observe, that this kind of puree should not be thick. 

295. WHITE PUREE OF TURNIPS. 

SucB up a dozen large sound turnips, put them into a stewpan with 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, 
and a little grated nutmeg. Put these to simmer on a slow fire, with- 
out allowing them to acquire any colour. When the turnips begin to 
melt, add two quarts of white consommi of fowl ; and having set the 
whole to boil gently on the comer of the stove for about three quarters 
of an hour ; proceed to drain, pass, and pound the turnips — reserving 
the broth they have been boiled in to clarify the puree with ; after 
it has boiled, skim off all the firoth, and finish the soup by adding (just 
before sending to table) a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter, 
which must be thoroughly incorporated with the soup. 

296. PALESTINE SOUP. 

Clbansb, peel, wash, and slice up half a peck of Jerusalem artichokes; 
put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, and allow 
them to simmer gently on a slow fire, until they are reduced in quantity 
and partially melted — ^taking care that they do not get coloured in the 
process. Then add two quarts of strong white consonime of fowl, and 
after allowing it to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, proceed to 
mb the whole through a tammy cloth in the usual way, and clarify the 
puree. Just before sending to table, add a pint of boiling cream, a small 
piece of glaze, and a little pounded sugar. 

297. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 
Turn or peel the bottoms of a dozen fine artichokes, and, after taking 
out the fibrous part inside, cut each into four pieces ; put them into a 
large stewpan previously well buttered, and strewn with a little pounded 
ii^ar, — placing the pieces of artichokes closely beside each other, and 
then set them on a slow fire to stew very gently, that they may ac- 
quire a light brown colour. Then proceed in every respect to finish 
this soup in the same manner as directed for Palestine soup. 

298. PUREE OF ENDIVE. 
This aoup should be made only when endives are plentiful and 



70 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

of good quality, as in tlie autumn season, when they are full, 
and white. Having trimmed away all the green and outer leaves 
of about three dozen endives, — which should be thoroughly washed and 
examined in order to pick out any insects, blanch them in boiling 
water and a little salt for ten minutes ; then take them out and throw 
them into cold water ; drain them in a colander, and with both hands 
press all the water from them. Having so far prepared the endives, 
cut off the roots and put them into a stewpan with four ounces 
of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a little sugar. With a 
wooden spoon, stir the endives over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; 
then add a ladleful of good white consomme of fowl ; allow this to con- 
tinue gently simmering on a very slow fire, or in the oven, for an hour : 
and then pass the endives through a tammy as usual. To the puree 
thus obtained, add one quart of white consomme of fowl ; clarify it 
according to custom, and just before sending the soup to table, mix with 
it a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter, and serve. 
This soup is recommended for its lightness and cooling effect. 

299. BROWN PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Take a hundred chestnuts (Spanish or Lyons Chestnuts are the 
best) cut off the points or slit them across to prevent them from bursting 
and flying about ; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh 
butter, and fry them on a moderate fire until they shed their husks 
readily ; then peal them clean, and put them into a stewpan with a 
quart of veal gravy, and set them by the side of the stove to boil gently 
until they become quite sofl to the touch ; drain them from the liquor, 
and, afler having first pounded, and afterwards rubbed them through the 
tammy, (pouring in the liquor reserved for the purpose to enable the 
puree to pass quicker) add another quart of veai gravy to clarify the 
pureCf — this, after being set to boil on the stove, must be then re- 
moved to the side, there to continue gently boiling that it may throw 
up the butter to the surface, which must be removed with a spoon as it 
rises. Finish by mixing in with the puree a small pat of butter, a little 
sugar, and a smdl piece of glaze, and serve up. 

300. WHITE PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Prepare a hundred large chestnuts as for the preceding soup, except 
that white consominS of fowls or rabbits must be used to boil them in, 
as well as to finish the puree with. When the puree has been clarified 
as directed above, just before serving it up add a pint of boiling cream, 
a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. 

301. PUREE OF SPINACH, A LA BEAUVAUX. 

Pick, wash, and boil a large dish of spinach ; chop it well and pound 
it into a sofl paste, and then put it into a stewpan with four ounces of 
fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir it on a stove-fire for 
about ten, minutes; then add a large soup ladleful of veloute sauce and 
about a quart of white consommi of fowl, or any other strong white 
broth at hand; warm the puree on the stove-fire, and rub it through the 
tammy. 

Observe, that as this puree must not be clarified, it should be kept in 
the coolest part of the lurder until twenty minutes before sending it to 
table ; it must then be made hot by stirring it on the stove-fire^ and 



FOR SOUPS. 71 

when just on the point of boiling, mix with it a pat of butter, a small 
piece of glaze, and a little pounded sugar. 

302. SOUP A LA FAUBONNE. 

This soup consists of a puree of green-peas, made in the usual 
way, in which must be mixed, previously to serving it up, a pint of 
young peas boiled green, six cabbage lettuces braized, and cut into pieces 
an inch long, and two cucumbers cut up as for sauce and afterwards 
boiled in cojisomme. 

There need not be any crusts sent to table with this soup, nor indeed 
is it customary to serve croutons or crusts of any sort for purees that 
contain a garnish of any kind. 

303. SOUP A LA FERNEY. 

This excellent soup, is thus made : prepare twelve very small cus- 
tards (made with consomme) in darwU moulds; cut three turnips 
into very small fancy shapes, and fry them in a little fresh butter and 
sugar until they become of a light brown colour ; a little consonime should 
then be added, and they must be allowed to finish simmering on a very 
slow fire, and when done, must be set to drain upon a clean napkin, 
and afterwards put into a soup tureen with the small custards ; to 
these add two cucumbers — cut into scollops and boiled in consomme for 
the purpose ; and lastly, pour some boiling puree of green-peas on the 
above, and serve. 

The purSe in this and similar cases, should be kept rather thinner 
than when intended to be served without a garnish. 

304. SOUP A LA FABERT. 

Takb six quails, draw, singe, and cut them into quarters — making 
two fillets with the pinions left on as for a fricassee, and bone the legs 
— leaving only sufficient length of the thigh-bone to give it the shape of 
a cutlet, — rolling the skin round so as to give it a cushion-like appear- 
ance. Place these in a stewpan, the bottom of which has been covered 
with thin layers of fat bacon ; take care to preserve the shape of the 
birds, and braize them in a light wine mirepoix (No. 236). 

Having thus prepared the quails, when done, drain and trim them, 
and afterwards place them in the soup tureen together with their own 
stocky which when freed from every particle of fat must then be cla- 
rified, and also a proportionate quantity of julienne vegetables — pre- 
pared as for the soup bearing that name ; and then, over these, pour a 
pur^e of green-peas nearly boiling, and send to table. 

305. PUREE OF SPRING HERBS. 
Takb a double handful of sorrel, three cabbage lettuces, a handful of 
chervil, the same proportion of dandylion, and a little balm and burrage. 
Wash these thoroughly and place them in a stewpan with two ounces of 
fresh butter, and set the whole on the stove fire to simmer, quickly stir- 
ring them the whole time ; then add three pints of good consomme of veal 
or fowl ; allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for half an 
hour ; and just before sending to table, finish the soup by mixing in it 
gradually^ a leason * of six yolks of eggs and half a pint of cream, a pat 

* From the French, liaihim^ a connection or binding. 



72 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

of butter, a little grated nutmeg and pounded sugar. Put some duchess 
crusts in the soup-tureen, pour the soup thereon and serve up. 

Be careful that the soup be not allowed to boil, as, in that case, the eggs 
would curdle, and thereby render the soup unsightly, if not unpalatable. 

306. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS, A LA VICTORIA. 
Just before dinner-time, roast off two plump spring chickens ; as soon 
as they are taken off the spit, cut the breasts and legs into small mem- 
bers, put them into the soup-tureen with two dozen small quenelles of 
fowl, and then pour on the whole a puree of green-peas, nearly boiling 
and prepared in the usual manner, and send to table. 

307. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS, A LA PRINCESSE. 
Prbpahe a steamed custard in the manner following. Take one pint of 
cream of rice (No. 317), mix gradually therewith six, yolks of eggs, pass 
this preparation through a tammy, into a plain round mould — previously 
buttered for the purpose — and after having steamed it in the same way 
as you would any other custard, allow it to get cold, turn it out of the 
mould, and then cut it into small pillar-like shapes an inch long : put 
these into the soup-tureen with a little consomme^ to prevent them from 
being clogged together, pour a boiling puree of green-peas on them, and 
send to table. 

308. PUREE OF CARROTS, A LA STANLEY. 

Having prepared about two quarts of puree of young carrots, when 
ready to serve up, pour it boiling into the soup-tureen containing a pint of 
young peas boiled green, and three dozen very small quenelles of 
fowl 

309. CRECY SOUP WITH WHOLE RICE. 

Wash, blanch and boil in consommi, half a pound of Carolina rice ; 
add this to a sufficient quantity of Crecy or carrot soup, either prepared 
for the occasion, or reserved from the previous day's dinner. Mix these 
together gently, and take care not to break the grains of rice, nor to serve 
it too thick. 

iVote. — This may be varied by substituting macaroni, vermicelli, or 
any other kind of Italian paste for the rice. This rule is applicable to 
purees of vegetable in general. 

310. POTATO SOUP, A LA CREME. 

Cleanse, peel, wash, and slice up, about twenty large sized York 
potatoes. Put them into a stewpan with one large onion, and one head 
of celery-:— also sliced up ; add four ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, 
salt, and grated nutmeg: set them to simmer on a slow fire, stirring 
them occasionally, until they are nearly dissolved into a kind ^f purle. 
Then add to them three pints of good white cofisomme, and after having 
allowed the potatoes to boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for ha& 
an hour, pass them through the tammy, and having removed the pureS 
into a soup pot, add, if requisite, a little more consomme, and set the 
puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to cla- 
rify it in the usual manner required for other purees of vegetables. Just 
before sending to table, add a pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, 
and a little pounded sugar. 

Serve the fried crusts with this soup. 



POR SOUPS. 73 

311. POTATO SOUP, A LA VICTORIA. 

Prbpari a puree of potatoes as directed above^ and finish it in the 
tame manner. When about to send to table^ place three dozen of small 
quenelles of potatoes (No. 3 1 2), in the soup-tureen, with half a pint of large 
heads of asparagus boiled green, and the same proportion of French-beans 
cut into duumond shapes and boiled^ and then pour the boiling puree 
thereon, and serve. 

312. QUENELLES OF POTATOES. 

Bakb six York potatoes, cut them into halves, scoop them out on 
to a wire sieve, and rub them through it, on to a dish, with a wooden 
spoon ; then put the potato thus obtained into a stewpan with four 
ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of double cream, a little grated nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt. Stir these on a rather brisk fire until the paste 
ceases to adhere to the spoon ; then remove the potatoes from off the 
fire, and mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, and also two whites 
of egg which have been whipped to a froth, observing that this prepa- 
ration must be kept of the same consistency as any other quenelki. 
Then mould the quenelles according to the size and shape required, and 
poach them in boiling water with a little salt in it. 

313. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS, A LA CONDE. 
Order two quarts of very young and green asparagus peas, or two 
large bundles of good sprue asparagus ; bre^ off the heads so far down to 
the foot of the stalks that they will readily snap off without re- 
sistance, which will prove them to be young and tender ; throw these 
into a large pan of cold water, together with a handful of spinach, the 
same quantity of parsley, and of green onions. Having got these ready, 
set a large stewpan on the fire half filled with boiling water, with a 
handful of salt in it. First drain the asparagus, &c. into a colander, and 
then put the whole into the stewpan on the fire to boil fast ; when they 
are done drain them again in a colander, let some cold water run over them 
(or the purpose of retaining their greenness ; and being well drained of the 
water, put them into a middle-sized stewpan, with a quart of good veloute 
sauce (No. 4), a table spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little grated 
nutmeg, and salt. Stir the whole on a brisk fire until it has boiled 
about three minutes, when it must be passed through a tammy cloth on 
to a large dish, and after being removed into a soup pot should be placed 
on the ice in the larder to keep cool, in order that it may the better 
retain its green colour and delicate flavour. Ten minutes before serving 
up the soup to table, stir it on a brisk fire until it is nearly boiling, remove 
it from the stove, and having mixed in with it a pat of butter, and a 
small piece of light coloured glaze, send ta table with a plate of 
croutons, 

314. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS, A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Phbparb a puree similar to the foregoing, place in the soup-tureen 
about three dozen very small quenelles of fowl, and about half a pint of 
small fillets or shreds of red tongue, cut in the same lengths and thickness 
as vegetables for Julienne soup ; then with a silver spoon stir the above 
about gently in the tureen, so as to mix the ingredients with the puree 
(which must be poured on to them quite hot), and send to table. 



74 SOUPS MADE WITH RICE, 

316. BONNE FEMME SOUP. 

Trim and wash six -cabbage lettuces, and having also well washed a 
double handful of sorrel, shred these as you would do if they were in- 
tended for jtdieniie soup. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and 
having melted it on the fire, add the lettuces and sorrel, and with a 
wooden spoon stir them over the stove until they are stewed, which will 
require about ten minutes ; then add two quarts of good strong chicken 
consomme, and having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the 
stove fire for about half an hour, take it off in order that it may cool a 
little, and mix in with it a leason or binding of eight yolks of eggs, 
half a pint of cream, a small pat of firesh butter, and a little pounded sugar 
to rectify the acidity of the sorrel. Stir the soup quickly on the fire in 
order to set the leason in it, taking cai-e that it does not curdle ; add a 
small piece of glaze, pour the soup into the tureen upon some duchess* 
crusts, and serve. 

316. SOUP A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

J'esl three carrots, and an equal number of turnips and cucumbers ; 
scoop these out into the shape of small olives, and, after blanching them, 
boil them in two quarts of good strong blond of veal ; when the vege- 
tables are done, remove the soup from the fire, and mix in with it a leason 
of eight yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, and a little 
sugar ; set the leason by stirring the soup over the fire, and then pour it 
into the soup-tureen, containing about. half a pint of young peas boiled 
green, and an equal proportion of French-beans cut into diamonds, and 
serve. 



SOUPS MADE WITH RICE OR PEARL-BARLEY, 

COMPRUINO 

Cream of Rice, a la JRoj/ale. Cream of Pearl-barley, d la Reine, 

Do. h la Victoria. Do. ^ la PrintanUre, 

Do.' a la Cardinal, Do. a la Eoyale, 

Do. a la Juvenal, Do. ^ la Prinoeste Aleaandrina, 

Do. ^ la Chasseur, Do. d la Duchesse, 

Cream of Pearl-barley, a la Victoria. 

317. CREAM OF RICE, A LA ROYALE. 

Wash and blanch one pound of Carolina rice, drain it from the water, 
and put it into a stewpan with about three quarts of white consommi of 
fowls ; set it to boil on the stove and skim it well, after which remove it 
to the side of the fire to boil gently until the grains of rice are thoroughly 
done. Then rub the whole through a tammy — moistening with more 
broth if necessary. When this is done, put the puree into a small soup- 
pot to be clarified by ebullition in the same manner as a sauce, and just 
on the point of sending it to table, add half a pint of boiling cream, and 
then poiu" the soup into the tureen containing a dozen small custards 
of chicken, made thus : — 

Roast a young fowl, firom which take the whole of the breast and all 
the white part of the legs y chop and pound them with a lai^ spoonful of 
white sauce, then pass this through a tammy with the wooden Bpoonsi put 



OE PEARL-BARLEY. 75 

the puree thus obtained into a quart basin, together with eight raw yolks of 
eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt ; having well stirred these together, 
mix with them half a pint of consonime of fowls^ and then pour this pre- 
paration into twelve small dariole moulds, previously buttered for the 
purpose ; set them carefully in a fricandeau pan, containing sufficient 
boiling water to reach half way up the moulds, put the lid on the pan 
and place it either on a very moderate fire, or in the oven — observing that 
in the former case some live embers of charcoal must be put on the lid. 
About ten minutes will suffice to poach the custards ; when they must be 
turned out of the moulds on to a napkin, and afterwards placed in the 
soup-tureen, previously to pouring the puree upon them. 

318. CREAM OF RICE, A LA VICTORIA. 

Pbbparb the cream of rice as above directed, and twenty minutes be- 
fore sending to table, add to it about a quarter of a pound of whole rice, 
well boiled in white consomme of fowls ; this rice must be boiled in the 
puree for twenty minutes ; and just before serving the soup, mix in with 
it a pint of boiling cream, and a pat of fresh butter. 

319. CREAM OF RICE, A LA CARDINAL. 

Prspabe a cream of rice in the usual way, and pour it into a soup- 
tureen containing fifly tails of crayfish, and three dozen very small 
quenelks of fowl. A good tablespoonful of crayfish or lobster butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon should be mixed in with the soup previously to 
pouring it upon the crayfish tails, &c. 

320. CREAM OF RICE, A LA JUVENAL. 

To a cream of rice prepared according to the instructions for making 
the cream of rice d la Royale^ there must be added, with a leason of six 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, and two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; having thoroughly incorporated these, while stirring the soup over 
the fire (taking care that it does not boil), add the juice of half a lemon, 
and pour the soup into a tureen containing three dozen very small que' 
neHe$ of fowl, coloured with a little spinach green (No. 285). 

321. PUREE OF RICE, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and afler draining all 
the water from it, put it on to boil with a quart of consomme of pheasant 
or partridge. When the rice is sufficiently done, rub it through the 
tammy, and having clarified it in the usual way, by adding some of the 
same sort of consomm^d the rice is boiled in, about five minutes before 
lending the soup to table, mix in with the cream of rice the puree of one 
pheasant or two partridges (as the case may be). 

Be careful not to allow the soup to get too hot after adding the purSe of 
game to it, as it would be sure to decompose, and become rough and 
unsightly. Should this accident, however, occur, it may be remedied by 
taking the soup away from the fire, putting a little cmiaomm^ to it, and 
quickly rubbing it through the tammy again ; by these means it will re- 
sume its proper smoothness. 

This remedy will be found effectual for rectifying similar accidents, 
should they occur, with meat puries in general 



76 SOUPS MADE WITH RICE. 

322. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY, A LA VICTORIA. 

Wash a pound of pearl-barley in several waters, blanch, and drain it 
upon a sieve, and having allowed some cold water to run over it for a few 
minutes, put it into a stewpan with two quarts of white consomme of 
fowls, and set it to boil by the side of a slow fire for four hours. When 
the barley is sufficiently done to admit of its being bruised easily, set one 
third of it aside in a small soup pot, and immediately proceed to rub the re- 
mainder through a tammy ; then mix the cream of barley thus obtained 
with the whole barley which has been set aside. Ten minutes before 
serving up this soup, add to it half a pint of boiling cream. 

323. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY, A LA REINE. 

Thb process for making this soup, is exactly the same as that used for 
making the cream of rice d la chasseur, barley being substituted for 
rice, and poultry for game : see No. 32 1 . 

324. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY, A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Having prepared a cream of pearl-barley as above directed, just before 
sending it to table, pour it into a soup-tureen containing three dozen small 
quenelles of fowl, and half a pint of large heads of asparagus boiled green, 
and serve. 

325. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY, A LA ROYALE. 

The purie of barley being prepared as described in the foregoing direc- 
tions, and finished in the same manner, pour it into a soup-tureen con- 
taining two spring chickens, roasted for this purpose just before dinner- 
time, and cut into small members neatly trimmed. 

326. CREAM OF BARLEY, A LA PRIXCESSE ALEXANDRIXA. 
To make this soup, white consomme of game should be used to prepare 
the cream of barley ; the puree being finished according to the method 
observed in former cases ; when about to send the soup to table, pour it 
into a tureen containing scollops of the fillets of three young red-legged par- 
tridges^ roasted a few minutes previously for the purpose. 

327. CREAM OF BARLEY, A LA DUCHESSE. 
Having prepared a steamed custard of fowl, as directed in the prepara- 
tion for making Dauphine soup (No. 258), cut the custard thus made, 
(allowing it time to become cold and firm) into small pillars an inch 
long, then place them carefully in the soup- tureen with a little con- 
sommS ; proceed to pour on them a cream of barley prepared and finished 
in the usual way, and to which has been added a tablespoonfiil of lob- 
ster butter, the juice of half a lemon and a little cayenne pepper. 



BISQUES OF CRAYFISH AND SHELLFISH SOUPS IN 
GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 



Bisque of QcuuIb, ^ la PrJMoe JlberL Bisqae of Crayfiali, ^ la Malmedmry, 
„ Rabbiti, a» vdouU, „ Crab, a la FUxhardmpe. 

M Snipes, ^ la Bonne bomd^, „ Lobsters, ^ la SkmUj^, 

n Cnijrfish, ^ PAnmmm, „ Piawns, d la Cerito, 



SHELLFISH SOUPS. 77 

328. BISQUE OF QUAILS, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 

Fillet a dozen fat quails, half of which must be made into force-meat 
quenelle, and kept in a cool place until wanted for use ; reserve the re- 
mainder of the fillets to be lightly simmered in fresh butter, seasoned 
with a little salt, and eventually cut into scollops. 

Take the larger bones out of the carcasses of the quails, and having 
roughly chopped the latter, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of 
fresh butter^ a small bayleaf, a sprig of thyme> three shalots, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of minionette pepper ; set these on a brisk 
fire, and pass or fry them brown, then add half a pottle of chopped 
mushrooms and a bottle of Sauteme wine. Allow this to boil quickly for 
ten minutes, and then add about half a pound of rice, which has been 
partly boiled in broth, and a quart of blond of veal ; after the fore-men- 
tioned ingredients have been gently boiling for about an hour, drain them 
into a sieve, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar ; then replace 
them in the stewpan, add the broth they were boiled in, stir the jmree 
on the fire to warm it a little, and rub it through the tammy in the usual 
way. When this is done, place the puree in a well-tinned soup pot, in 
a cool place. Just before dinner time, warm the puree of quails, care- 
fully observing that it does not get too hot ; finish seasoning it by mix- 
ing in a little crayfish butter, a tablespoonful of partridge glaze, and a 
little salt if needed ; pour the soup into a soup-tureen containing the fillets 
of quails cut into neatly-trimmed scollops, as well as three dozen very 
small quenelles made with the fillets kept in reserve for the purpose^ 
and send to table. 

329. BISQUE OP RABBITS, AU VELOUTE. 

FiLLBT four young rabbits, make half the fillets into force-meat for 
quenelleg ; pare off edl the meat firom the rabbits, and with the carcasses 
prepare a brown consomme in the usual manner. Put the remainder of 
the fillets and all the meat that has been cut from the rabbits into a 
stewpan, with two ounces of fi^sh butter, three shalots, bayleaf, thyme, 
parsley, nutmeg, minionette pepper and salt, and fry them brown. Then 
add two glasses of sherry ; and after allowing the whole to boil briskly 
for about three minutes, pour in the consomme made from the carcasses. 
Let the stock thus far prepared boil gently by the side of a stove fire for 
about an hour, then drain the contents of the stewpan into a sieve, 
pound them thoroughly, and after having mixed the produce with their 
own stock, rub the puree thus obtained through a tammy, together with 
I laige ladledd of good velouti sauce. The puree should then be put 
into a soup pot, and kept in a cool place until within ten minutes of 
dinner time, when it must be stirred over the fire to make it sufficiently 
hot ; and after ascertaining that its seasoning is correct, pour the bisque 
into a Boup-tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of rabbit, made 
with the fillets which have been reserved for that purpose, and serve. 

330. BISQUE OF SNIPES, A LA BONNE BOUCHE. 
Procube twelve &t snipes, perfectly fresh and not fishy ; fillet them, 
and follow the instructions given for making the bisque of quails d la 
Prince Albert (No. 328), but omitting the crayfish butter. Warm the 
pttr& of snipes just before it is wanted for table, pour it into a soup- 
tureen contaimng the scollops made firom half the fillets, and three dozen 
•inaU quenellei made firom the remainder. 



78 SHELLFISH SOUPS. 

Send up with this soup, to be handed round, some crotitons of fried 
bread cut in small circular pieces about the eighth of an inch thick ; a 
circular incision having been made on one side of the bread before it is 
fried, the inner part is afterwards easily taken out, and in its place should 
be put a /arcc, made with the trail of half the snipes (the remainder 
should be used in the puree). This/aw^ is to be prepared thus : — 

Put the trail into a small stewpan with a little fresh butter, pepper 
and salt, and afler frying it lightly on the fire for a minute or two, add 
a tablespoonful of good brown sauce, and then rub it through a hair sieve 
with a wooden spoon. Fill the croutons with this farce, smoothing the 
surface with a small knife ; and previously to serving them, put them on 
a sautapan in the oven for five minutes to warm them ; serve them on a 
plate to be handed round with the soup. 

Take care not to throw the croutons into the soup, as that would 
destroy their crispness. 

331. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH, A l'ANCIENNE. 

To make soup enough for sixteen persons, procure a hundred crayfish, 
from which remove the gut containing the gall, in the following manner. 
Take a firm hold of the crayfish with the lefl hand, so as to avoid being 
pinched by its claws ; with the thumb and fore finger of the right-hand, 
pinch the extreme end of the central fin of its tail ; and with a sudden 
jerk, the gut will be withdrawn. Then mince or cut into small dice, a 
carrot, an onion, one head of celery, and a few parsley roots ; to these 
add a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, a little minionette pepper^ and two 
ounces of butter. Put these ingredients into a stewpan, and fry them on 
the fire for ten minutes ; then throw in the crayfish and pour on them a 
bottle of French white wine. Allow this to boil, and then add a quart of 
strong consomme, and let them continue gently boiling for half an hour. 
Then pick out the crayfish, and strain the broth through a napkin by 
pressure into a basin, in order to extract all the essence from the vegetables. 
Pick the shell off fifty of the crayfish tails, trim them neatly, and set 
them aside until wanted. Reserve some of the spawn, and also half the 
body shells, with which to make the crayfish butter (No. 1 84) to finish the 
soup. Take all that remains and add thereto six anchovies washed 
for the purpose, and also a plate of crusts of French rolls fried of a 
light brown colour in butter. Pound all these thoroughly, and then 
put them into a stewpan with the broth that has b^n reserved in 
a basin, and having warmed the bisqu£ thus prepared, rub it through a 
tammy into a puree. Then take the puree up into a soup pot ; finish 
by incorporating therewith the crayfish butter, season with a little 
cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the bisqu^e quite 
hot into the soup-tureen containing the crayfish tails, and send to table. 

332. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH, A LA MALMESBURY. 

Cleanse thoroughly two quarts of muscles, steam them in a well 
covered stewpan, and then pick out all the white muscles firom the shells, 
and put them into a stewpan with some of their own liquor. To these 
add forty tails of crayfish, and three dozen very smaU quenelles of whiting 
which have been mixed with sufficient chopped and blanched parsley to 
give them a green colour. Just before dinner time, warm the muscles, &e,, 
in a little cansammS, put them into the soup-tureen, and then pour the 
bisque of crayfish quite hot on to them. Let the bisque be prepared in 



SHELLFISH SOUPS. 79 

the same way as described in the bisque of crayfish d Fandenne, When 
there is not sufficient time for thickening the puree by the addi- 
tion of the fried crusts of the French rolls, a little well-boiled rice, some 
reduced tfelauU sauce, or even the crumb of two French rolls soaked in 
hot broth and pounded with the crayfish, may be used, but the fried 
crusts are to be preferred. 

333. BISQUE OF CRAB, A LA FITZUARDINGE. 

Pbocubb two large boiled crabs, pick the white meat from the claws 
into shreds, and put it away between two plates, in a cool place until 
wanted. Scoop out all the pulpy part of the crab, as well as all the 
white meat to be found in the shell, and pound these well, with about 
half the quantity of rice boiled in broth ; dilute the whole with a quart 
of good consomme^ and then rub it through a tammy into a purky put it 
into a soup pot, and keep it in a cool place. 

Just before sending to table, stir the puree over the fire with a wooden 
spoon, taking care that it does not get too hot, as that would cause the 
soup to curdle. Finish seasoning the soup by mixing with the puree a 
pint of boiling cream, and a little cayenne pepper ; then pour the soup 
into the tureen containing the shredded meat taken out of the claws, 
previously made warm in a small quantity of cosomme, and send to table. 

334. BISQUE OF LOBSTERS, A LA STANLEY. 

Take all the meat out of four hen lobsters, reserving the pith, coral, and 
spawn, separately. Cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and put 
them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, one head of celery, 
and a carrot, cut into small shreds, a small piece of mace, thyme, pepper, 
and a little salt ; fry these over the fire for five minutes, and then, having 
moistened them with about a pint of Rhenish white wine, allow the 
whole to boil smartly on the fire for about twenty minutes. Drain the 
lobster, &c. into a sieve, then pound this thoroughly in a mortar, and 
put it again into the stewpan with the pith or inside part reserved 
for the purpose, and also the broth, adding thereto about a quart of cla- 
rified and reduced velaute sauce, and a pint of strong consonimS, then rub 
the purSe through the tammy ; and after having taken it up into a soup 
pot, place it in the cool until wanted. 

Ten minutes before dinner time, put the hisque to warm, stirring it 
the whole of the time, taking care to prevent its curdling. Finish 
seasoning it with some lobster butter, a little soluble cayenne pepper, 
the juice of half a lemon, and a piece of light-coloured glaze, the size 
of a walnut. Pour the soup into the tureen containing fifty tails of 
prawns, with three dozen small quenelles of whiting, and serve. 

335. BISQUE OF PRAWI^TS, A LA CERITO. 
Pbocurb two pounds of firesh prawns, pick and trim fifty of the largest 
of them, which when done, put into a small stewpan, to remain in the 
larder until wanted. Then cut into small shreds or dice, six young car- 
rots, a little celery, and a few parsley roots ; and having put these into a 
stenrpan with two ounces of butter, a sprig of thyme, some minionette 
pepper, and a little salt, set the whole on the fire to be fried of a light 
• colour. Next, throw in the remainder of the prawns, as well as the 
bodies of those from which the tails have been taken ; and then add a 
pint of Bouieme wine : allow these ingredients to boil for ten minutes, 



80 FISH SOUPS. 

and then add a quarter of a pound of rice previously boiled in broth, and 
also a quart of strong white consomme of veal. Having allowed this to 
boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for half an hour^ strain the whole 
into a sieve, — reserving the broth in a basin. Then pound the prawns, 
rice, and vegetables all together in a mortar, dilute with the broth which 
has been reserved, and rub the whole through a tammy in the usual 
manner ; put the puree into a soup pot, and keep it in a cool place until 
dinner time, when, having made it sufficiently hot without allowing it 
to boil, finish it by mixing in with it some lobster coral butter, a little 
soluble cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon Pour the soup 
into the tureen containing the fifty prawns' tails, with three dozen small 
quenelles of trout, and serve. 



FISH SOUPS AND WATER-SOUCHETS IN GENERAL. 

COMPRISING 

Oyster Soup, ^ la Plesty. Sturgeon Soup, h rindiemte. 

Soup of fillets of Solet, d, la Bagratum. Water souchet of Crimped Salmon. 

Paiage of Eels, b la Richmond, Do. of Plain Salmon. 

Do. of filleto of Flounders, a VAnglmte, Do. of fillets of Perch. 

Sturgeon Soup, a VAmirioaine, Do. of fillets of Soles. 
Do. a rAnglaise, 

336. OYSTER SOUP, A LA PLESSY. 
Four dozen of oysters will suffice for eight persons. Blanch or scald 
these, by boiling them for a few minutes on the fire, drain them and 
save the liquor ; wash the oysters, and pull off the beards and tendons, 
leaving only the delicate fat part of the oysters, which put into a basin 
with their liquor. Next, prepare some quenelles from the fillets of three 
whitings ; put their bones and trimmings into a small stewpan with six 
flounders, an eel cut into pieces, some parsley roots, a carrot, one head of 
celery, a sprig of thyme, two blades of mace, and a few pepper corns. To 
these add a pint of French white wine, and the liquor of the oysters ; set 
the whole to boil briskly for ten minutes, then add six whole anchovies, 
(washed for the purpose) and three pints of white consommL Allow the 
stock thus prepared to boil gently for three quarters of an hour ; then 
strain it off through a sieve into a stewpan, and thicken it with some 
white roux^ and as soon as it has boiled, set it by the side of the stove 
to clarify itself in the usual way. When the body of the soup thus far 
prepared has been rubbed through a tammy, finish it for table just before 
dinner time, by mixing in w^ith it a leason of six yolks of ecgs, a gill of 
cream, a little soluble cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon ; 
then pour the soup into the tureen containing the oysters reserved for that 
purpose, with about three dozen quenelles of whiting, and serve* 

337. SOUP OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA BAGRATION. 
FiLLBT three lai^ soles and place the fillets lengthwise in a sautapan 
with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with a little pepper and 
salt, and some lemon- juice, cover them with a round of buttered paper, 
and set them in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for ten minutes, when they 
will be done. Take the fillets up, and set them in press between two 
dishes, and when cold, with a round tin cutter, stamp them out into 



FISH SOUPS. 81 

small scollops, and place them in a small stewpan in the larder until 
wanted. Make some gttendle of the fillets of one large sole, colour it 
with some lobster coral^ and mould it with two teaspoons into very 
small qtiejieUeSy which, when poached^ place with the scollops of soles ; 
to these add about three dozen blanched muscles. Mix with these 
ingredients about two quarts of the same kind of soup sauce as used 
for the preceding soup, and when about serving it up for table, place the 
scollops of soles, the muscles, and the red qiumeUes (first warmed in 
a small quantity of the soup) into the tureen, and then mix in with the 
soup a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pour it on to the 
scollops, &c., and serve. 

338. EEL SOUP, A LA RICHMOND. 

Fillet three Thames eels, and cut the fillets into small scollops ; 
place these, in circular order, in a large sautapan containing about four 
ounces of clarified butter ; season with cayenne pepper, salt, lemon-juice, 
and chopped parsley; set the covered sautapan on the stove-fire to simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes, then add two glasses of Sherry, after 
which let it boil sharply for a few minutes longer. Put the scollops of 
eels thus prepared into the soup-tureen, with three dozen tails of crayfish, 
and instantly pour over these a soup sauce, previously prepared according 
to the following directions : 

Cut into shreds or dice, carrot, celery, parsley roots, one shalot, and 
half a pottle of mushrooms. Put these into a stewpan with a sprig of 
thyme, a small bayleaf, a little sweet basil, a few peppercorns and one 
blade of mace. Fry these ingredients with four ounces of butter until 
they begin to be of a light brown colour ; then throw in the bones and 
trinunings of the eels, three dozen bruised crayfish, and a pint of Chablis 
wine. Allow this to boil briskly on the fire for five minutes, then add 
three pints of bhnd of veal, and after it has boiled gently by the side of 
the stove-fire for three-quarters of an hour, strain the stock through a 
tammy cloth with considerable pressure, in order to extract all the good- 
ness from the vegetables, &c. 

Put the broth thus prepared into a stewpan, and having thickened it 
with some white roux to the consistency of a thin sauce, work it accord- 
ing to the method observed for all sauces. Observe, that as this sauce is 
ibr soup, it should be lighter in substance. Finish with a leason of 
eight yolks of egg and season accordingly, and mix in with it a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley. 

339. soup op fillets of thames flounders, a 
l'anglaise. 

Fillet ten Thames Flounders, simmer the fillets in a little fresh but- 
ter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. When done, place them 
in the soup-tureen with three dozen quenelles of Spey trout, and pour on 
them a soup made according to the following directions : 

Put the bones and the trimmings of the Sounders and the trout, from 
which the small queneUes are to be made, into a stewpan with carrot, 
celery, parsley roots, a sprig of thyme, and a few peppercorns. To these 
add three pints of oommon broth from the boiling stockpot (if possible), 
and a couple of dasses of Sauteme. When it has boiled for three-quarters 
of an hour, sbrain off the broth into a small soup-pot, and make it into 
a smooth white tdcvU sauce; just before pouring it into the soup- tureen 



82 Fisn SOUPS. 

(containing the fillets of flounders, and the small r/ueneHesof trout, already 
mentioned) finish it hy mixing in with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, a 
gill of cream, and a dessert spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a 
little lemon juice and cayenne pepper. 

340. STURGEOX SOUP, A l'aMERICAIXE. 

Procure six pounds of fresh sturgeon, one-third of which must be 
trimmed and tied so as to preserve it from fidling' to pieces while being 
braized, tlien put it in a stewpan and cover it with some mirepoirt 
(No. 236) or wine braize prepared as directed. Let it boil, and then set 
it in the oven for about an hour and a half, more or less, according to 
the size of the fish. When this portion of the sturgeon is done, let it be 
put away in the larder to get cold, in order that it may be aflerwards 
cut into scollops to be put into the soup. 

Wliile the above is in course of preparation, make a brown sauce 
with the remainder of the sturgeon as follows : 

Butter a large stew^^n, then cut two onions in slices and strew them 
over the bottom, on these place the sturgeon cut in thick slices, also two 
old hens partly roasted, and well coloured, a carrot, one head of celery, 
some parsley roots, thyme, liayleaf, six cloves, two blades of nruLce, and a 
dozen peppercorns ; then add a large ladleful of good stock and put the 
whole to boil briskly on the fire until the broth is nearly reduced; 
slacken the stove to prevent the glaze thus obtained from being burnt, 
by which the unctuousncss would be lost. Then proceed with this 
sauce, exactly as shown for the treatment of brown sauce or e^fxzgmole. 
Having thus produced a bright, thin, brown sauce, finish the soup by 
mixing in a ragout-spoonful of puree of turtle herbs, a piece of an- 
chovy butter, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, lemon juice and 
a glass of Madeira. Let the scollops boil a few minutes in the soup pre- 
viously to adding the butter, &c. When about to serve up the 80up» 
pour it into a tureen containing three dozen small gt^^n^^ of lobster, 
and send to table. 

341. STURGEON SOUP, A L'aXGLAISE. 
Prepare the sturgeon for this soup in the same way as for the pre- 
ceding, with the exception that the sauce must be white. Having 
made a thin white veioitfe sauce, in sufficient quantity for the pur- 
pose, and seasoned it with the same ingredients as before-named, add 
a ragout-spoonful of essence of turtle herbs, two glasses of sherry, a lea- 
son or binding of six yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a little cayenne pep- 
per, and lemon juice. When about to send the soup to table, pour 
it into the tureen containing the scollops of sturgeon cut into square 
pieces, three dozen small round pellets of yolks of eggs, (prepared as for 
mock-turtle), and all the cartilaginous pails of the sturg^n cut into scol* 
lops also. 

The pellets of yolks of eggs here alluded to are thus prepared : 
Take the yolks of six eggs boiled hard, pound them in the mortar with 
a pat of fresh butter, a piece of bread-crumb twice the size of an egg, 
soaked in milk, and afterwards squeezed in a napkin to extract all the 
moisture from it ; to these add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and 
one whole egg. Mix the whole well together by pounding, and then pro- 
ceed to mould this paste into small round balls or pellets, the nse of a 
nut, and poach them as you would any other queneUa. 



WATEE SOUGHETS. 83 

342 STURGEON SOUP, A l'iNDIENNE. 

PRBPARB the stui^eon consommS as for the preceding soups, bearing in 
mind that it should have no more colour than it acquires from the 
roasted hens. Having strained the stock when done into a laige basin^ 
and preserved all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon, get a carrot, 
one head of celery and two onions, cut these into thin slices, and 
put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half 
a pound of raw ham cut into small square pieces ; fry the whole of a 
light brown colour over a slow fire. When this is done, add to the fore- 
luuned ingredients some sifted flour, in sufficient quantity to thicken the 
•cup, and stir it on the fire a few minutes longer : then take the stew- 
pan off the stove and mix the sturgeon broth in carefully, so as to keep 
the sauce smooth. Add two table-spoonfuls of Cook's hidian cwrry 
pade^ and after allowing it to boil, lift it off the fire and set it by the side 
of the stove, there to throw up all the butter it contains, and to clarify 
itself in the usual way. When this is effected, rub the soup sauce, 
including the vegetables, &c., through a tammy into a puree, which 
put into a 80up*pot with the scollops and the cartilaginous parts of 
the ftuigeon ; after boiling the whole together for a quarter of an 
hour* skim the surface, and finish by adding a teaspoonful of essence of 
andioviesy and the juice of a lemon. Send to table with a plate of plain 
boiled Ptttna rice, to be handed round with the soup. 

343. WATER SOUCHET OF CRIMPED SALMON. 

PxRFBCTTON in the preparation of this dish can only be attained by 
using the fish a few hours after it is caught. Moreover, those engaged in 
catching the fish should be instructed to cut it into slices half an inch 
thick, and to keep it in cold spring water for a couple of hours or so ; 
when, as is well known, the salmon will acquire that degree of firmness 
peculiar to all crimped fish. 

Place the slices of salmon in a stew-pan with some shred parsley roots 
previously boiled for the purpose, and also the water they have been 
boiled in, some picked parsley leaves, minionette pepper, and sufficient 
salt to season it ; moisten with some essence of fish, which should be 
nuuie, either from the inferior pieces of the salmon, or else with half 
a dozen flounders, or slips. Let the water souchet thus far pre- 
pared boil briakly until the salmon be done, which will require about 
nx minutes. It should be served quickly, but just before sending to 
table, you may add a little bright consommS. Many, however, prefer 
the latter omitted, considering that it diminishes the sweetness of the 
criap creamy salmon. 

With all water soucheta send plates of brown bread and butter. 

344. WATER SOUCHET OF PLAIN SALMON. 

Trim and fillet the required quantity of plain salmon ; place the fillets 
neatly lide by side in a stewpan, and put them by till dinner time. 

Meanwhile prepare the water souchet broth as follows: — Put the 
trimmings of the salmon into a stewpan, with carrot, celery, and 
peaky loota, the whole sliced up. Add a little minionette pepper and salt, 
and about two glasses of French white wine ; fill up with water or weak 
bnCh, allow it to boil^ and then set it by the side of the stove to continue 
gently boiling for half an hour ; then strain the souchet off through a nap- 

o 2 



84 WATER SOUCHETS. 

kin on to the fillets of salmon, set them to boil briskly on the fire for 
about five minutes, add the shred parsley roots and picked parsley 
leaves ; and when the whole has boiled together for three minutes, serve 
the water souchet in a deep silver dish, or small soup-tureen. 

345. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF PERCH. 

Procure four good sized perch, clean and fillet them. Place the fillets 
neatly in a deep sautapan, and put them in the larder until wanted. 
Meanwhile, with the bones and trimmings prepare the souchet broth ac- 
cording to the directions given for making the preceding souchet, and 
finish in precisely the same manner. 

346. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF SOLES. 

Having filleted the soles and trimmed the fillets, take hold of each 
and fold one end over the other ; batter the ends together with the handle 
of a knife, pear off any rough fragments that may remain about them, 
and place them in circular order in a stewpan ; then pour over them 
the souchet prepared in the usual manner with the bones and trimmings, 
&c. Let the fillets thus arranged boil for five or six minutes ; ascertain 
that they are done, and serve them in a water souchet dish, with parsley 
roots and leaves, previously prepared for that purpose. 

Water souchets of fillets of trout, char, and indeed of almost every 
species of the more delicate kinds of fresh- water fish, are made according 
to the foregoing directions. 



ENGLISH SOUPS, 



COMPRISING 



Turtle Soap. Calves' feet Soup, a la Windtor, 

Do. clear. Hare Soup, a rAnffUdae, 

Mock Turtle Soup. Do. iilaSt. George, 

Do. clear. Leveret Soup, d, la Home. 

Mulligatawney, do. Ox-cheek Soup. 

Giblet soup, ^ rAnglaiee^ DeerVhead Soup. 

Do. a Vlrkmdaiee, Grouse Soup, ^ la Monkignarde, 

Ox-tail Soup. 

347. TURTLE SOUP. 

Procure a fine lively fat turtle, weighing about ISOlbs.: fish of this 
weight being considered the best, as their fat is not liable to be impreg- 
nated with that disagreeable strong savour objected to in fish of larger 
size. On the other hand, turtle of very small size seldom possess suffi- 
cient fat or substance to make them worth dressing. 

When time permits, kill the turtle over night, that it may be left to 
bleed in a cool place till the next morning, when, at an early hour, it 
should be cut up for scalding-— that being the first part of the operation. 
If, however, the turtle is required for inuneduite use, to save time, the fish 
may be scalded as soon as it is killed. 

The turtle being ready for cutting up, lay it on its back, and with 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 85 

a large kitchen knife separate the flat or belly shell from the back, by 
making an incision all round the inner edge of the shell; when all 
the fleshy parts adhering to the shell have been carefully cut away, it 
may be set aside. Then detach the intestines by running the sharp edge 
of a knife closely along the spine of the fish, and remove them instantly 
in a pail, to be thrown away. Cut off the fins and separate the fle^^hy 
parts, which place on a dish by themselves till wanted. Take particular 
care of every particle of the green fat, which lies chiefly at the sockets of 
the fore-fins, and more or less all around the interior of the fish, if in good 
condition. Let this fat^ which when in a healthy state is elastic, and of 
a bluish colour while raw, be steeped for several hours in cold spring 
water, in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed of all impurities. 

Then, with a meat-saw, divide the upper and under shells into pieces 
of convenient size to handle; and, having put them with the fins and 
head into a large vessel containing boiling water, proceed quickly to scald 
them ; by this means they will be separated firom the homy substance 
which covers them, which will then be easily removed. They must 
then be put into a larger stock-pot nearly filled with firesh hot water, and 
left to continue boiling by the side of the stove-fire until the glutinous 
substance separates easily firom the bones. Place the pieces of turtle 
carefully upon clean dishes, and put them in the larder to get cold ; 
they should then be cut up into pieces about an inch and a half square, 
which pieces are to be finally put into the soup when it is nearly 
finished. Put the bones back into the broth to boil an hour longer, 
for the double purpose of extracting all their savour and to effect the re- 
duction of the turtle broth, which is to be used for filling up the turtle 
stock-pot hereafter. 

In order to save time, while the above is in operation, the turtle stock 
or consomnU, should be prepared as follows : 

With four ounces of fresh butter, spread the bottom of an eighteen gal- 
lon stock-pot ; then, place in it three pounds of raw ham cut in slices, — 
over these put forty pounds of leg and knuckles of veal, four old hens, 
(after having removed their fillets, which are to be kept for making the 
quenelles for the soup) to these add, all the fleshy pieces of the turtle, 
(excepting those pieces intended for entrees) and then place on the top, 
the head and fins of the turtle ; moisten the whole with a bottle of Ma- 
deira and four quarts of good stock ; add a pottle of mushrooms, twelve 
cloves, four blades of mace, a handful of parsley roots, and a good sized 
bouquet of parsley tied up with two bayleaves, thyme, gieen onions, and 
shalots. Set the (xmsammi thus prepared on a brisk stove fire to boil 
sharply, and when the liquid has become reduced to a glaze, fill the 
stock-pot up instantly, and as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, gar- 
nish with the usual complement of vegetables, and remove it to the side 
of the stove to boil gently for six hours. Remember to probe the head 
and fins after they have been boiled an hour, and as soon as they are 
done, drain them on a dish, cover them with a wet napkin well saturated 
with water to prevent it firom sticking to them, and put them away in 
a cool place with the remainder of the glutinous parts of the turtle, 
already spoken of. The stock-pot should now be filled up with the 
turtle broth reserved for that purpose, as directed above. When the 
turtle stock is done, strain it off into an appropriate sized stock-pot, 
remove every particle of &t from the surface, and then proceed to thicken 
it with a proportionate quantity of white iviuc to the consistency of 



86 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

thin sauce. Work this exactly in the same manner as practised for eq>a^ 
nole or brown sauce^ in order to extract all the butter and skum, so as to 
give it a brilliant appearance. 

Two bottles of old Madeira must now be added, together with a purie 
of herbs of the following kinds, to be made as here directed : 

Sweet basil must form one-third proportion of the whole quantity of 
herbs intended to be used ; winter savory, marjoram, and lemon thyme, 
in equal quantities, making up the other two-thirds : add to these a 
double handful of parsley, half a bunch of green onions, a handful of green 
shalots, and some trimmings of mushrooms ; moisten with a quart of 
broth, and having stewed these herbs for about an hour, rub the whole 
through the tammy into a puree. This purie being added to the soup, 
a little crystallized soluble cayenne pepper should then be introduced. 
The pieces of turtle, as well as the fins which have been also cut into 
small pieces and the larger bones taken out, should now be allowed to 
boil in the soup for a quarter of an hour, after which carefully remove 
the whole of the skum as it rises to the surface. The degree of season- 
ing must be ascertained that it may be corrected if faulty. 

To excel in dressing turtle, it is necessary to be very accurate in the 
proportions of the numerous ingredients used for seasoning this soup. 
Nothing should predominate, but the whole should be harmoniously 
blended. 

Put the turtle away in four-quart sized basins, dividing the fat (after 
it has been scalded and boiled in some of the sauce) in equal quantities 
into each basin ; as also some small queiielles, which are to be made with 
the fillets of hens reserved for that purpose, and in which, in addition to 
the usual ingredients in ordinary cases, put six yolks of eggs boiled 
hard. Mould these quenelles into small round balls to imitate turtles' 
eggs, roll them with the hand on a marble slab or table, with the aid of 
a little fiour, and poach them in the usual way. 

When the turtle soup is wanted for use, warm it, and just before send- 
ing it to table, add a small glass of Sherry or Madeira, and the juice of 
one lemon to every four quarts of turtle. 

The second stock of the turtle consomme should be strained off after it 
has boiled for two hours, and immediately boiled down into a glaze very 
quickly, and mixed in with the turtle soup previously to putting it away 
in the basins ; or else it should be kept in reserve for the purpose of add- 
ing proportionate quantities in each tureen of turtle as it is served. 

348. CLEAR TURTLE SOUP. 

Prockbd in the preparation of the turtle stock, in every respect accord- 
ing to the preceding instructions. 

The glutinous parts of the turtle having been cut into squares, select 
the dark coloured pieces proceeding from the back shell, and keep them 
for the clear turtle. When the turtle stock has boiled six hours, strain it 
off and divide it into two equal parts ; the one to be finished in the usual 
manner, the other to be first freed from every particle of grease, and after- 
wards clarified in the usual manner, with two whites of eggs whipped up 
with a little spring water, and the addition of a glass of French white 
wine, or the juice of a lemon ; add a proportionate quantity of turtle 
herbs, to ^ve the requisite flavour, and set it to boil on the stove-fire, 
whiskuig it the whole time. As soon as the egg begins to separate 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 87 

in the stock, remove it to the side of the stove, pour in half a bottle 
of Madeira, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the egg be 
thoroughly set. Then proceed to strain it through a napkin into a large 
stewpan^ in which afterwards put the pieces of turtle selected for the 
purpose ; boil them in it until they are sufficiently done, and then add 
a little crystallized soluble cayenne pepper, and serve. 

If considered desirable, a little lemon juice and a few quenelles of fowl 
may be added ; as also some of the finest pieces of the green fat. 

Clear turtle soup is preferred by some epicures to that which is dress- 
ed in the usual way, from its being free from the additional compounds 
used in the full-dressed turtle : it is in consequence much lighter, more de- 
licate and pure, and is unquestionably easier of digestion. 

349. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

Pbocure a scalded calfs head, or, as they are sometimes called, a turtle 
head ; bone it in the following manner : — place the calfs head on the 
table with the front part of the head facing you ; draw the sharp point of 
a knife from the back part of the head right down to the nose, making.an 
incision down to the bone of the skull ; then with the knife, clear the 
scalp and cheeks from the bones right and left, always keeping the point of 
the knife close to the bone. Having boned the head, put it into a* large 
stewpan of cold water on the fire ; as soon as it boils skim it well, and let 
it continue to boil for ten minutes ; take the calf's head out and put it into 
a pan full of cold water. Then get a proper sized stock-pot, and after 
having buttered the bottom thereof, place in it four slices of raw ham, two 
large knuckles of veal, and an old hen partially roasted, moisten with two 
quarts of broth, and put the stock-pot on the stove-fire to boil until the 
broth is reduced to a glaze ; when instantly slacken the heat by covering 
the fire with ashes, and then leave the soup to colour itself gradually. 
Allow the glaze at the bottom of the stewpan to be reduced to the same 
consistency as for brown sauce, and fill up the stock-pot with water, 
leaving room for the calfs head, which separate into two halves, and 
pare off all the rough cuticle about the inner parts of the mouth, then 
place it in the stock, and after setting it to boil, and thoroughly skimming 
it, garnish with the usual complement of vegetables, six cloves, two blades 
ofmace, half a pottle of mushrooms, four shalots, and a good bunch of 
parsley, green onions, thyme and bayleaf tied together, and a little salt. 
Set it by the fire to boil gently till the calf's head is done ; then, take 
the pieces of head out, and place them on a dish to cool, afterwards to 
be cut into squares, and put into a basin till required for adding them to 
the soup. Strain the stock through a broth cloth, and thicken it with some 
light coloured roux, to the consistency of thin brown sauce ; let it boil, and 
allow it to throw up all the butter, and clarify itself thoroughly ; then, 
add half a bottle of Sherry, about half a pint of pwree of turtle 
herbs (No. 347) in which six anchovies have been mixed, a little crystal- 
lized soluble cayenne pepper, and the calfs head cut into squares, as also 
the tongue braized with it. Let these boil together for about ten minutes, 
then add three or four dozen small roimd qiuyielles and a little lemon 
juice, and send to table. 

360. CLEAR MOCK-TITITLE SOUP. 
To make this soup, follow the instructions laid down for making clear 
turtle, merely substitutuig calfs head for turtle. 



88 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

351. MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. 
Cut up two or more chickens as for fricassee, place them neatly in a 
stewpan, in which previously put carrot, onion, celery, parsley, thyme, 
bayleaf, cloves and mace ; fill up with good veal broth, and when the 
members of chicken are nearly done, strain them off into a sieve, saving 
their broth in a basin. Cool the pieces of chicken in spring water, and 
then take thein up on a clean napkin, trim them neatly, and place them 
in a soup pot, to be put into the soup afterwards. Then cut four large 
onions in halves, taking out the head or root part, and again cut these 
into slices ; place them in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, a carrot 
and two heads of celery cut small, and fry these over a slow fire until the 
onion is nearly melted, and become of a fine light brown colour ; then 
throw in as much flour as will suffice to thicken the quantity of soup you 
wish to make ; stir this on the fire two or three minutes, and after adding 
a good tablespoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of curry 
paste, proceed gradually to mix in with these, first the broth the chickens 
were boiled in, and afterwards as much more consomme of veal as may be 
found requisite to produce the quantity of soup desired. Place this on the 
stove-fire, stirring it the whole time, and as soon as it boils, put it by the 
side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way ; then rub it through 
the tammy into a puree, and pour it upon the pieces of chicken. Half 
an hour before dinner time, place the soup on the stove-fire, stir it till it 
boils, place it by the side to continue boiling gently for ten minutes : by 
which time the chickens will be done ; skim the soup, ascertain that the 
seasoning be correct, and send to table with two plates of plain boiled 
Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. 

362. GIBLET SOUP, A L'AXGLAISE. 
Take four sets of giblets properly cleaned and trimmed, put them into a 
stewpan full of boiling water to blanch for five minutes ; drain them in a 
colander, immerse them in cold water, and then place them on a napkin 
to drain. Singe the necks and wings over the flame of a charcoal fire, and 
carefully pick out all the stubble feathers, cut the giblets up into inch and 
a half lengths, place these in a stewpan with two heads of celery, carrots, 
onions, turnips, in equal proportions ; also, four cloves, two blades of mace, 
and a bunch of parsley, with a moderate quantity of basil, winter savory, 
lemon thyme, and green onions, a sprig of common thyme and one bay- 
leaf. Fill the stewpan with four quarts of blond of veal, and after allow- 
ing these to boil gently by the side of the stove fire till they are done, 
(which will be seen when the pieces of gizzard are become tender) imme- 
diately drain them in a large sieve, pouring their broth into a basin. 
Immerse the giblets in cold water, then pick them out free from any 
particles of herbs or vegetables that may adhere to them ; place them on a 
napkin, and when neatly trimmed, put them by in the soup pot. Next 
pour the giblet broth into an adequate sized stewpan, and having thick- 
ened it in the usual manner with a sufficient quantity of roux, to the 
consistency of thin sauce, set it to boil on the stove-fire, and af^rwards 
place it by the side to clarify itself. When the sauce has been cleared of 
the butter, &c., add half a bottle of Sherry, and a little cayenne, and then 
pass the sauce on to the giblets, and put the soup in the larder till dinner 
time; when, having allowed the giblets to boil in the sauce a few 
minutes, add a little lemon juice and send to table. 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 89 

353. CLEAR QIBLET SOUP, A l'IRLANDAISE. 

Prepare the giblet broth in every respect as directed for making the 
foregoing soup, trim and put the giblets away in a soup pot, skim off 
every particle of fat from the surface of the broth, and clarify it by 
incorporating therewith the whites of three eggs whipped up with a little 
cold water ; set the consomme thus prepared on the stove to boil, then, 
add to it half a bottle of Sherry, and as soon as it boils up again^ place 
it by the side of the stove, there gently to simmer for twenty minutes, 
in order to set the eggs. Then strain the consommi through a napkin 
on to the giblets, reserving one quart of it in a stewpan, in which boil 
the white parts of three heads of celery, and four large leeks, cut into 
inch lengths, and shred as for julienne soup, adding this to the giblets ; 
ascertain that the seasoning be palatable, and send up to table. 

354. OX-TAIL SOUP, 

Procure two fresh ox-tails, cut them into inch lengths with a small 
meat saw, steep them in water for two hours, and then place them 
in a stewpan with three carrots, three turnips, three onions, and two 
heads of celery, four cloves and a blade of mace. Fill up the stewpan 
with broth from the boiling stock-pot ; boil this by the side of the stove- 
fire till done, drain the pieces of ox- tail on a large sieve^ allow them 
to cool, trim them neatly, and place them in a soup pot. Clarify the 
broth the ox-tails were boiled in, strain it through a napkin into a 
basin, and then pour it into the soup pot containing the trimmed pieces 
of ox-tails, and also some small olive shaped pieces of carrot and turnip 
that have been boiled in a little of the broth, and a small lump of 
sugar ; add a pinch of minionette pepper, and previously to sending the 
wup to table let it boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for a few 
minutes. 

This soup may be served also in various other ways, by adding thereto 
8 pturee of any sort of vegetables ; such for instance, as a puree of peas, 
carrots, turnips, celery, or lentils. 

355. calf's feet SOUP, A LA WINDSOR. 

Place in a two gallon stock-pot a knuckle of veal, a pound of raw lean 
ham, four calfs feet, and an old hen minus the fillets ; which reserve for 
making quenelles with, for further use. To these add two carrots, two 
onions stuck with four cloves, celery, a bouquet of parsley, green onions, 
sweet basil, and lemon thyme, tied neatly together, moisten with half 
a bottle of light French white wine, and put the stock-pot on a mode- 
rate fire to boil for ten minutes or so ; then fill it up from the common 
stock, or any white broth you may have ready, set it to boil on the stove, 
skim it well, and afler four hours gentle ebullition, take the calfs feet out 
and put them in water to clean them ; then take all the bones out, and 
lay them on a dish to cool, to be trimmed afterwards so as to leave the 
mner pert of the feet only, all the outer skin being thinly paired off, 
that the feet may have a more transparent appearance ; cut them into inch 
lengths, by half an inch in width, and put them by in a small soup 
pot till required. Strain the consomme throuirh a napkin, thicken it 
moderately with a little white roiucy (going through the regular process 
for making white velauiS,) then add thereto a little essence of mushrooms, 
and finish by incorporating with the sauce thus prepared, a leason of six 



90 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

yolks of eggs mixed with a little grated Parmesan^ and half a pint of cream ; 
squeeze the juice of half a lemon into it, and season with a little crys- 
tallized soluble cayenne. Pour the soup into the tureen containing two 
dozen very small quejieUeSy (made with the fillets of the old hen,) some 
boiled macaroni cut into inch lengths, and the tendons of the calf *s feet, 
previously wanned in a little consomme, with the addition of half a glass 
of white wine. Stir the soup gently in the tureen to mix these ingredients 
together, and send to table. 

356. HARE SOUP, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Skin and paunch a hare, and cut it up as follows : — first take off the 
legs close to the loins, and divide them into three pieces, slip the shoulders 
off and cut them into two parts, cut the back into six pieces, and divide 
the head in halves. Next place a stewpan on the stove-fire, containing 
four ounces of butter, a carrot, two onions, a head of celery cut into small 
slices, and fry these of a light colour ; then add the pieces of hare, over 
which, when also fried brown, shake a good handful of flour, and mois- 
ten with half a bottle of port wine, at the same time adding a garnished 
bouquet, three cloves, a blade of mace, and two quarts of blond of veal ; 
stir the whole on the fire until it boils, then take it off and set it by the 
side to boil gently for an hour and a quarter, taking care in the meantime 
to skim off the butter &c., as it rises to the surface. Take out the pieces 
of hare when done from the sauce, and place them on a dish ; select the 
finest pieces of meat, remove the bones, and set these pieces aside in a 
soup pot ; clear the remainder of the meat firom the bones, and pound it 
thoroughly with the vegetables from the sauce ; when these are pounded, 
mix them again with the sauce, and pass the whole through a tammy into 
a purecy and pour it on to the pieces of hare reserved in the soup pot. 

Observe, that this soup must not be thick, consequently it may be 
necessary afler passing it through the tammy, to add a little blond of veal 
to thin it. 

Just before sending to table, make the soup hot, but be careful that 
it does not boil ; ascertain that its seasoning be palatable, and serve. 

367. HARE SOUP, A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Get two good-sized leverets and fillet them. Place the fillets in a 
small sautapan with a little fresh butter, pepper and salt ; cover them 
with a round of buttered paper, and put them in the larder till dinner- 
time. Reserve a sufficient quantity of the meat from the leveret's 
hind-quarters, in order to msJ^e some quenelle ; cut the remainder into 
small pieces, and fry them exactly in the same manner as directed in the 
preceding soup ; shake into them a sufficient quantity of flour to thicken 
the sauce of the soup, moisten with a bottle of Claret, and two quarts of 
lAmid of veal ; add a garnished bouquet made with basil, marjoram, 
parsley, bayleaf, and thyme , four cloves, mace and four shalots. Let 
the sauce boil, skim it well, and when the hare is thoroughly done, pass 
the sauce through a tammy into a soup-pot ; put this on the fire to throw 
off any remaining roughness, and that it may be reduced if necessary ; 
and then pour it into the soup-tureen, which should contain three dozen 
small quenelles made with the meat reserved for that purpose, as before- 
mentioned ; also the scollops of hare prepared by lightly frying the fillets 
in the sautapan, and which must be aflerwards scolloped. Ascertain 
that the seasoning be correct, and send to table. 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 91 

368. LEVERET SOUP, A LA ROSSIE. 

Gbt a good sized leveret, cut it into pieces^ and fry these in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter ; as soon as they are coloured, moisten with 
half a bottle of Sherry, allow the wine to boil, then add two quarts of 
consomme or hl<nid of veal, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, mace, cloves, 
and pepper-corns, a bouquet of bayleaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, and 
winter savory ; let these herbs be used in small quantities, in order that 
they may give flavour, without predominating. When the soup has 
boiled three quarters of an hour, let the pieces of hare be drained on 
a sieve, and at the same time pass the broth into a basin ; afterwards 
place the pieces of hare on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed, put 
them into a soup-pot. 

Next, clarify the consomme in the usual manner, and strain it through 
a napkin on to the pieces of leveret ; and, just before sending to table, 
add to the soup three dozen very small quenelles of partridge, and some 
white celery cut into shreds and boiled in a small quantity of the soup. 

359. OX-CHEEK SOUP. 
Pbocurb a fresh ox cheek, and put it to braize in a small stock-pot 
with a knuckle of veal and some roast-beef bones, fill the pot up from the 
boiling stock-pot, or with water; garnish with the same complement of 
stock vegetables used for ox*tail soup (No. 354), adding six cloves, a 
blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns. As soon as the ox-cheek is 
done, take the meat off the cheek bone, and put it in press between two 
dishes. Strain off the broth, adding to it a ladleful of gravy to colour 
it, and proceed to clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs. While the 
consommS is clarifying, trim the ox-cheek and cut it into neat scollops an 
mch square and half an inch thick ; put these into a small soup-pot and 
add to them some small carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and boiled 
in a little broth, a lump of sugar, and also a dozen and a half very 
small white button onions. Strain* the clarified consomme thus prepared 
into the soup-pot, and having allowed the soup to boil a few minutes 
by the side of the stove-fire, just before serving, add two dozen blanched 
Brussels sprouts, and a pinch of minionette pepper, and send to table. 

360. deer's head soup, a la chasseur.* 

Proourb a young deer's head, perfectly fresh, scald it and cleanse it 
thoroughly ; proceed then to prepare the soup in exactly the same manner 
as for mock-turtle ; just before sending to table, add two dozen small 
quenelles made with deer's flesh, together with some small scollops of 
deer simmered in a little fresh butter and fine herbs. 

Take care that the soup does not boil after the scollops are added to it. 

361. GROUSE SOUP, A LA MOXTAGNARDE. 
Roast off three brace of young grouse, take the whole of the meat from 
the bones, carefully cutting out the lower part of their backs, which being 
bitter, must be rejected. Set aside four of the fillets, cut them into 
scollops to be put in the soup afterwards. Put the carcasses and bones of 
the grouse into a stewpan with half a bottle of Sherry, a carrot, onion, cele- 
ry, a few cloves, a couple of shalots, and a blade of mace ; set these to 

* Thii will be found a very OBcfiil soup in those parts of the country where deer 
abofond. 



92 PUREES OF POULTRY. 

simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes^ afler 'which add two quarts of 
good stock, and having allowed it to boil an hour and a half, strain it 
off into a basin. Pound the whole of the meat yielded by the grouse, 
excepting the four fillets before named, mixing with it a little rice 
boiled in broth ; moisten with the grouse essence, and pass it through 
the tammy into a puree, and put it into a small soup-pot. Just before 
dinner time, warm the purecy taking the usual precaution to prevent it 
from curdling, pour it into the soup-tureen containing the scollops of the 
fillets of grouse, and three dozen very small quenelles of the same. 



PUREES OF POULTRY AND GAME, 

COMPRISINO 

Pmrie of Fowl, a la Heine, Puree of Pheasants, ^ la Daupkine, 

^ yt ala l*rinianiire, „ ^ a CArtjflaite. 

„ ^ ala I*rinoeiae. ^ Partridges, a la Beaufort, 

„ M ^ to Cilcaine. „ n ^ /a Baizac, 

„ Red-legged Partridges, a la „ Hare, a la Conti. 

Conti, ft Rabbits, it la maitre cThotel, 

„ of Pheasants, iL la Rot/ale, „ v> a la CbanUUy, 

362. PUREE OP FOWL, A LA REINE, 
Roast off two good sized young fowls, clear all the meat from the 
bones, chop and pound it thoroughly with half a pound of boiled rice ; 
dilute it with three pints of chicken broth, made with the skins and car- 
casses of the two fowls used for the puree ^ and rub it through a tammy 
with the aid of two wooden spoons into a large dish. Take the puree up 
into a soup-pot, and put it away in the larder till dinner time ; then, 
warm it, with the usual precaution to prevent its curdling ; mix with 
it a pint of boiling cream, and having ascertained that the seasoning be 
correct, send to table. 

363. PUREE OF FOWL, A LA PRIJTTANIERE. 

Prbparb the puree of fowls as for the preceding soup ; just before send- 
ing it to table, add the boiling cream, and then pour the purU into the 
soup-tureen containing a pint of asparagus heads boiled green. 

Send a plate of fried croutons to be handed round to the guests. 

364. PUREE OF FOWL, A LA PRINCESSE. 
Prbparb the puree of fowl in the usual manner, and havin^hiixed the 
boiling cream in it, pour it into the tureen containing three dozen very 
small quenelles of fowl, and four ounces of Frankfort pearl-barley, well 
blanched and boiled for two hours in some white chicken broth. Ascei^ 
tain that the seasoning be delicate, and send to table. 

366. PUREE OF FOWL, A LA CELESTI^^E. 
Roast off two fowls ; as soon as they are cold, pound the meat there- 
of in a mortar, together with six ounces of bleached Jordan almonds, and 
eight yolks of eggs, beginning with the almonds, then adding the yolks of 
eggs, and lastly the fowl. Dilute yiiih the chicken broth made with the 



PUREES OF GAME. 93 

carcaBses of the fowls ; rub the puree through the tammy, and put it 
into a soup-pot, to be kept in the cool till dinner time : when, after hav- 
ing wanned it, add a pint of boiling cream, and send to table. 

A plate of duchess* crusts should be sent to table with this soup, to be 
handed round. 

366. PUREE OF RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES, A LA CONTI. 

Roast off two brace of red-legged partridges ; take the meat from 
them, make a consomme with their carcasses, pound the meat thoroughly, 
mixing therewith half a pound of barley boiled for the purpose ; dilute 
with the consomme, rub it through the tammy, and having made the 
puree sufficiently hot (taking care that it be not too thick), send to 
table with a plate of Conde croutons, to be handed round. 

367. PUREE OF PHEASANTS, A LA ROYALE. 

Roast off a brace of pheasants, take out the fillets and white part of 
the legs ; make a co7}somm€ with the remainder. Pound the fillets, &c. 
with a proportionate quantity of boiled rice, dilute with the consomm>e, 
and rub the puree through the tammy; finish with a small piece of 
game glaze or essence, and serve. 

The croutons to be sent in a plate as usual. 

368. PUREE OF PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Prkparb a jmree of pheasants as in the preceding case ; when about 
to send the soup to table, pour it into a tureen containing four dozen 
small potato quenelles, and serve. 

The potato quenelles should be prepared as follows: — Bake four 
large York potatoes and rub the pulp through a wire sieve, put this 
into a Btewpan with two ounces of butter, half a pint of cream, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg. Stir these on the fire imtil the mixture forms a com- 
pact paste ; then, take the stewpan off the stove, and proceed to incor- 
porate with the paste, three yolks and one white of egg; and then 
mould the small quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them as you would 
any others, in water or broth. 

369. PUREE OP PHEASANTS, A l'aNGLAISE. 
Prbpabb a puree of pheasant in the usual manner, and having finish- 
ed it as in the foregoing article, pour it into a tureen containing the fil- 
lets of one pheasant cut into scollops, and serve. 

370. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES, A LA BEAUFORT. 
Pbeparb a purie of partridges in the manner described for making the 
puree of red-legged partridges; warm and finish the pur^e in the 
same manner, and just before sending to table, pour it into the tureen 
containing three dozen small quenelles of partridges, the tails of three 
dozen crayfish, and half a pound of cocks' kernels (previously simmered 
in a little white broth, with butter, lemon juice, and salt), and serve. 

371. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES, A Lk BALZAC. 
Pbepabb a purSe of partridges in the usual manner, and finish by 
incorporating with it two ounces of crayfish butter and a piece of game 
glaze ; then pour the hot puree into a tureen containing three dozen cray- 
fish tails, and three dozen quenelles of partridges — ^in the preparation 



94 PUREES OF GAME. 

of which two table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles have been mixed, pre- 
viously to moulding the quenelles ; and send to table. 

372. PUREE OF HARE, A LA CONTI. 

Skin, paunch, and cut up a hare into pieces. Put two ounces of but- 
ter into a stewpan with two shalots, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, 
and half a bayleaf. When the butter has been made hot on the stove- 
fire, put the pieces of hare into the stewpan, and having fried these of a 
brown colour, moisten them with a bottle of Sauteme wine ; when the 
vnne has boiled ten minutes, add three pints of good consomme; and 
then, after allowing the hare to boil gently on the side of the stove-fire 
for about an hour and a quarter, strain the pieces of hare into a sieve, 
reserving the broth in a basin, and after having separated the meat from 
the bones, &c., pound it thoroughly with a little boiled rice ; dilute it 
with the stock it was boiled in, and pass it through the tammy into a 
purie. Just before sending to table, make the purie sufficiently hot, 
and having tested its degree of seasoning, serve with a plate of fiied 
croutons, to be handed round to the guests. 

373. PUREE OF RABBITS, A LA MAITRE d'hOTEL. 
Roast off three good-sized young rabbits ; and, while they are before 
the fire, season them with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and baste 
with half a pint of cream mixed with two ounces of fresh butter and two 
ounces of flour. This batter should not be used until the rabbits have 
been roasted ten minutes, and care should be taken to make it adhere to 
the rabbits while they continue roasting ; when they are done, clear off 
all the meat, and pound it in a mortar with four ounces of barley previ- 
ously boiled for the purpose ; dilute with the consomme made m>m the 
carcasses, rub the whole through the tammy, and put this puree into 
a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time make it hot, and incorporate 
therewith half a pint of cream and a pat of fresh butter ; then pour it 
into a tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of rabbit, in prepar- 
ing which a little grated Parmesan cheese, minionette pepper, and a 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, must be added. 

374, PUREE OF RABBITS, A LA CHA^TTILLT. 

Peepabb a puree of rabbits as for the preceding soup, finish it by 
adding a pint of cream and a piece of glaze ; then pour the hot soup into 
a tureen containing twelve small custards previously prepared for the 
purpose, in manner following : Pass eight yolks of eggs through a tammy 
into a stewpan, to these add a table-spoonful of spinach green, (No. 285), 
a little grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, some essence 
of game, and half a pint of cream ; beat the whole well together, and pass 
this mixture through a tammy into a basin, and then pour it into twelve 
small dariole moulds (previously buttered), place them in a stew-pan 
containing hot water to the depth of an inch, and set them to steam 
by the side of the stove-fire ; taking care that the stewpan has the lid 
on, and some live embers of burning charcoal placed upon it. A quarter 
of an hour will suffice to steam these custards; when done, turn them out 
of the moulds with care, and place them instantly in the soup-tuieen 
88 directed. 



95 



NATIONAL SOUPS, 



tX>MPRI8IN6 

Raviolis, a la Sapolitaiw, Barsch, or Polish Soup. 

Rice, a la Florentine. Ouka, or liustian Soup. 

Soup, a la Piedmontaim, Ol/a Podrida, or Spanish national Soup. 

Soap, a la Beamaise. Turkish Pilajf, or Pilau. 

BomillaUiiste, a la Provent^, 

375. RAVIOLIS A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Pripabb a consomme gravy soup, in the following manner : — ^Butter 
the bottom of a small stockpot, and place in it some slices of raw ham, 
three pounds of gravy beef, a small knuckle of veal, and either an old 
hen, or two partridges. To these add two heads of celery, the same 
number of leeks and carrots, sprigs of thyme and winter savory tied 
into a feggot with some parsley, cloves, mace, and pepper corns ; moisten 
with a large ladleful of broth, and put the gravy thus marked on a 
•tove fire to boil down to a glaze, taking the usual precautionary measures 
to pi^vent it from burning. As soon as the glaze is sufficiently coloured, 
fill the stockpot up with good broth ; when it boils skim it, and set 
it down by the side of the stove-fire to boil gently for three hours ; then, 
strain off the consomme, clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs, and 
pan it through a napkin into a soup-pot, to be used as follows : — 

Mix half a pound of sifted flour with four yolks of eggs, a little salt, 
and half a pat of butter ; let these ingredients be placed on a paste slab, 
putting the yolks of eggs, &c., in the centre of the flour ; then knead 
them into a firm, smooth, compact paste ; and after allowing it to rest 
in a damp cloth for half an hour, spread it out with the rolling pin until 
it becomes nearly as thin as a sheet of paper. Place the paste thus rolled 
out, lengthwise, on the slab, then with a paste-brush dipped in water, 
moisten its whole surface, and lay thereon, about two inches apart firom 
each other, some small round balls of raviolis farce of the size of a cob- 
nut, in rows. This farce is prepared as follows : Put the white parts of a 
boiled or roasted fowl, pheasant, or partridge, into a mortar, pound the 
meat thoroughly and add thereto about four ounces of fresh made curd, 
two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two spoonsfuls of blanched spi- 
nach, pepper, i»lt, and nutmeg ; moisten with four yolks of raw eggs, 
and mix the whole well together into a smooth compact body, ready 
for use. 

Wrap the outer part of the paste, when the raviolis farce has been 
laid on it, over the outer row of balls, cover them as if for making puffs, 
finish them by fastening down the paste with the thumb, and then cut 
them out with a small round fluted cutter into half-moons : and as they 
are cut out, place them on a large dish, there to be left for some time, in 
order to dry the surface, so that it may more resemble Italian paste. 
Having repeated this operation until you have made five or six dozen 
mffioliSf after they have been dried in the larder, proceed to blanch 
them ; this is done by throwing them into a large stewpan containing 
some bofling broth, and allowing them to continue boiling therein for a 
qcuuter of an hoar ; then, drain the raviolis on to a napkin. 



96 NATIONAL SOUPS. 

Next, take the lining of a soup-tureen, butter it, place therein a layer 
of raviolis and a layer of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and so on alter- 
nately, until the silver tureen-lining be filled ; shake some grated cheese 
on the top, and moisten with two glasses of old Madeira, and a ladle- 
ful of the gravy made for the purpose, and then put the lining into the 
oven, or on a slow stove-fire, there to reduce the gravy and to gratinale. 
Brown the top over with the heated salamander, and send to table with 
the remainder of the clear consomme in the soup-tureen. 

This soup should be thus served : With a gravy-spoon help a part of 
the gratinojted raviolis, in a soup-plate, and add to these a ladleful of the 
consomme, 

376. RICE, A LA FLORENTINE. 
Prepare a thin puree of rice, and moisten it with consomme of fowls ; 
finish by adding two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a leason of six 
yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, and a little mini- 
onette pepper : then pour the soup thus prepared into the soup-tureen, 
and send to table with two plates of very small croquettes of rice, which 
are to be handed round with the soup. 

The croquettes of rice, here alluded to, are thus made : — 
Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and boil it in a 
little broth with two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of minionette pep- 
per, and a little salt ; when done, add two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and four yolks of eggs ; work the whole on the stove-fire for five 
minutes, spread it on a plate — and when this paste is sufficiently cold, 
mould it into very small round balls. Just before dinner-time, dip these 
in some beaten egg and roll them in flour ; then put them into a large 
sized parsley frier, and immerse them in a quantity of hot clean lard ; 
fry them of a fine deep yellow colour, and send to table in two hot 
plates, on napkins, to be handed round with the soup as before stated. 

377. SOUP, A LA PIEDMONTAISE. 
Prepare a brown puree of turnips (No. 29i), in which mix a laige 
gravy-spoonful of tomatas ; just before sending to table, incorporate with 
the soup a paste composed of four anchovies washed, filletted, and 
pounded, with a clove of garlic and a pat of butter, all passed through 
a fine hair sieve ; and pour the soup into a tureen containing fbur dozen 
very small quenelles of potatoes (No. 310), and a pluche of chervil and 
tarragon, (that is to say, the leaves of chervil and tarragon picked 
and parboiled green), and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese 
on a plate, to be handed round with the soup. 

378. SOUP, A LA BEARNAISB. 

Let a quart of garban^^as, or large yellow Spanish-peas, be put in soak 
the overnight, place them in a small stock-pot with a piece of raw ham, 
and having filled up with common broth, set the stock-pot on the stove 
fire to boil ; skim it well, and put it by the side to boil gently for four 
hours. Meanwhile, cut three large onions, one carrot, and two heads of 
celery, into small dice, put these into a stewpan with two ounces of finesh 
butter and two cloves of garlic ; fry them of a very light brown colour, 
and after adding half a dozen fresh tomatas, mix the whole in with the 
garhan^as. As soon as the garbanfos are done, pound and rub than 
through the tammy — diluting with good consomnU; take the purSe up 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 97 

in a small soup-pot, and clarify it in the usual manner, by aUowing it to 
throw up its roughness while boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire ; 
remember that this purSe must be kept rather thin. During this 
process^ cut a white -heart cabbage into quarters, removing the core, shred 
them as fine as possible, place them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter on a moderate stove-fire, and fry them as you would vege- 
tables for jtUiennt soup. When they are considerably reduced in 
quantity, and become of a yellowish colour, moisten them with a little 
broth ; keep them gently simmering until they are thoroughly done ; add 
them to the puree, together with a pinch of minionette pepper, and 
about half a pint of whole garhan^as — reserved for this purpose, and 
from which take off the hulls previously to putting them into the soup. 
When the cabbage has boiled a few minutes in the purie, pour the 
soup into the tureen, and send to table with an accompanying plate of 
grated Parmesan cheese, to be handed round with the soup. 

379. BOUILLABAISSE, OR PROVENQALE SOUP. 

Cut four laige Portugal onions into slices, and fry them in a gill of 
Lucca oil, when they b^n to assume a light brown colour, add thereto 
a sprig of thyme and two cloves of garlic, and shake in a good handful of 
flour ; stir tliis on the stove-fire for a few minutes, moisten with half a 
bottle of Sauteme wine, and add three pints of good consammS ; sth: 
this sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to conti- 
nue gently simmering for half an hour, and rub it through the tammy 
like any other purie ; then take it up and pour it into a small soup- 
pot. Just before dinner time, make the soup hot, and finish by incor- 
porating with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, a little cayenne^ the juice 
of a lemon, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; pour the soup 
into the tureen containing a plateful of scollops of any sort of 
fish, (crimped cod or whiting is the best for the purpose) prepared as 
follows : cut two slices of crimped cod into small scollops, and put them 
into a deep sautapan with a little Lucca oil, minionette pepper, and a 
little salt, some chopped tarragon and chervil, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; firy these on the fire, put them into the soup-tureen, and when 
the soup is poured on them, throw in a small plateful of duchess' crusts 
firied in Lucca oil, and send to table. 

380. BARSCH, OR POLISH SOUP. 

Placb in a good-sized stock-pot a large knuckle of veal, an old hen, 
partially roast^ and coloured, a couple of marrow bones, one pound 
of streaky lean bacon, (trimmed and parboiled for the purpose) two 
carrots, two heads of celery, and two onions stuck with six cloves ; also, 
a laige &ggot of parsley and green onions tied together with a little 
thyme, sweet basil, bayleaf, and mace ; then add a tea-spoonful of white 
peppercorns. Fill the stockpot up with prepared juice of beet-root,* set it 

* The beet-TDOt juice to be used in the baneh is thus made : — Procure two dozen 
fine beet-roota, temped and washed, bruise them in a mortar, and place them in a large- 
loed c«th«i pan, into which throw in a pailful of water, and two pounds of breadcrumb. 
Cftr the pan with the lid, carefully cementing it down with a paste of flower and 
water, is order to exclude the air ; and set the pan in a moderately warm place, so as to 
accelente the fermentation. Ten days will suffice to produce the desired result : on 
tiie pan it will be found to contain a bright red, acidulated, liquor. 

H 



98 NATIONAL SOUPS. 

upon the stove fire to boil, and after being skimmed, let it boil gently by 
the side of the fire for an hour ; then add, a fowl, a duck, a partridge, 
(trussed for boiling) and six pork sausages. Observe, that the foregoing 
articles be not overdone, and be careful to take them up directly they are 
sufficiently biaized ; then place them on a dish and set them in the larder 
to get cold. 

While the stock is in preparation, peel two raw beet-roots, and shred 
them, also two onions, and an equal quantity of the white part of two 
heads of celery, as if for julieiim soup ; fry these vegetables in a HttJe 
butter, of a light colour, moisten with a quart of broth from the boiling 
stock, and having gently boiled them down to the consistency of a demi- 
glaze, set them by in a soup-pot in the larder. Then chop four ounces of 
fillet of beef with the same quantity of beef suet, add a little pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs ; pound this force-meat thorough- 
ly, and use half of it to make thirty small round gueneUa, by rolling 
them with a little flour on the table ; poach these in a little broth, and 
having drained them upon a napkin, add them to the shred vegetables 
put by in the soup- pot. With the remahider of the force-meat, make 
the same number of very small oval quendles, which after being rolled 
with' flour set in a small sautapan to be fried of a light colour, just be- 
fore dinner-time. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in halves, lengthwise ; 
take the yolks out and pound them with two raw yolks of eggs, a little 
grated horse radish, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; fill the 
eggs again with this/arce, and having replaced the halves together, dip 
them in beaten egg, and then roll them in bread-crumb, and set them 
aside to be fried at the same time as the small quetieUes, before mention- 
ed. After five hours boiling, strain off the stock-pot ; when every particle 
of fat is removed, clarify it in the usual way, and then keep the am- 
tomvic boiling, in order to reduce it to the quantity required for the soup. 

In the mean time, trim the meat off the fowl, duck, and pheasant, 
into neat scollops ; cut the bacon and sausages into small round balls, 
and carefully place all these ingredients in the silver luiing of a soup 
tureen, keeping the shredded vegetables and braized beef quenelles on 
the top ; put them in the hot closet until dinner-time. Then grate or 
pound a couple of beet- roots, place this in a stewpan on the fire, and boil 
it up for a few minutes, extract the juice by strong pressure through the 
tammy-cloth, and use it to colour the consomme so as to give it the ap- 
pearance of claret. Just before sending to table, pour the boiling con- 
sommS to the ingredients contained in the soup tureen, adding a pinch of 
minionette pepper; send up the fried eggs cut in halves, and also the 
firied quenelles, in a plate to be handed round with the barsch, 

301. OUKA, OR RUSSIAN SOUP. 

Place in a stock-pot a large knuckle of veal, about a pound of raw 
ham, and two old hens roasted for the purpose; fill up with com- 
mon broth, set it to boil, and having skimmed it, garnish with the usual 
vegetables, adding thereto either a handful of parsley roots, or a couple 
of parsnips. After five hours boiling, strain off the consommS and clarify it 
in the usual manner ; strain it again through a napkin into a soup-potj^ to 
be set aside until wanted to finish the soup. While the stock is boiling, 
take two pounds of crimped salmon, two large live perch, a Thames eel, 
and two fine mullets ; fillet and cut these into scoilops, placing them 
neatly in a deep sautapan ; season with a pluche of picked parsley, 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 99 

chervil, and tarragon leaves, (the latter in a small proportion) some 
boiled shred parsley roots, minionette pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, 
and the fourth part of a bottle of Chablis or Sauteme : having first allow- 
ed these scollops to boil on the stove for five minutes, moisten with a 
quart of essence of fish, (made with the carcasses and trimmings of the 
fiih used for the scollops,) let them boil quickly for ten minutes longei*, 
and then pour the consomme to them, after they have boiled together two 
or three minutes, pour the soup into the tureen containing three dozen 
small quendUs of whiting, in which some lobster coral and puree of mush- 
rooms have been mixed. Ascertain that the seasoning is appropriate, 
and send to table. 

This soup is a species of souchet, and may be varied by using different 
kinds of fish. It is much esteemed by those who are fond of fish. 

382. OLLA PODRIDA, OR SPANISH NATIONAL SOUP. 

Placb some slices of raw ham at the bottom of a stock-pot, add five 
pounds of gravy beef cut in slices, and a roasted old hen ; garnish with 
the usual vegetables, two cloves and mace ; moisten with a quart of 
brothy set the stock-pot on the fire, and let the broth be reduced to a 
glaze ; fill it up with water as soon as it boils, skim it, and then set the 
stock to boil gently by the side of the stove. When the oonsommi has 
boiled two hours, throw in a large fowl and two partridges trussed for 
boiling, six pork sausages, and two Spanish savaloys, (which are to be 
had at all the first-rate Italian warehouses), watch the braizing of these, 
to prevent their being overdone ; take them out when they are suffi- 
ciently braizedy place them upon a dish to get cool, then, divide the 
fowl and partridges into small members, trimming them neatly, and cut 
the lauBages and savaloys also into small round balls, and place all these 
in a loup-pot, together with three carrots and as many turnips cut into 
the form of rather large-sized olives, and some shred celery and leeks, 
previously boiled in consomme with a small lump of sugar ; to these must 
also be added, some boiled yellow Spanish pease (garban^sj free from their 
hulls. After four hours boiling, strain the stock off, clarify it, and strain 
it again through a napkin ; add it to the forenamed ingredients with a 
pinch of minionette pepper ; boil the whole for ten minutes, and send 
to table. 

383. TURKISH PILAFF, OR PILAU. 

Placb a knuckle of veal on some slices of raw ham in a stock-pot, 
also a roasted shoulder of lamb and a large fowl trussed for boiling; fill 
up with common broth or water, and having skimmed the broth, garnish 
with the usual vegetables. As soon as the fowl and lamb are done, take 
them up, and when cold cut the meat off the shoulder of lamb into small 
cutlet-like pieces, and the fowl into neatly trimmed members. Place 
these in a small soup-pot with half a pound of Carolina rice, boiled 
m tome of the consomtne, after it has been clarified and seasoned with 
in infusion of rather less than a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, and 
cayenne ; and then having reduced the consomme to two-thirds of its ori- 
gbal quantity, pour it upon the foregoing ingredients, adding six ounces 
of dri^ cherries or Sultana raisins ; boil these together for a quarter of 
in hour, and send to table. 

This kind of soup is very nutritious, and from the cayenne and saffron 
c(mtained in it, is calculated to give tone to the stomach. 



100 



ITALIAN SOUPS, 

COMPRISING 

Macaroni Soop, d la, Royale, Semolina Soup, a hi Palermo. 

^ kia Medicis. „ a la Vinitietme. 

„ k la Sl» Pierre. „ it la Pitane* 

384. MACARONI SOUP A LA ROyALE. 

Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, with 
two ounces of fresh butter, a little minionette pepper and salt. Wlien 
the macaroni has boiled three quarters of an hour, drain it off upon a 
sieve^ cut it mto half-inch lengths, and boil it in two quarts of good 
chicken or game consommi for ten minutes ; take it off the stove and mix 
with it a leason of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream, two ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, a little minionette pepper, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; set the leason in the soup by stirring it on the stoTe-fire for 
three minutes, and send to table. 

Vermicelli or any other Italian paste may be substituted for the maca- 
roni. This soup is sometimes designated ** d Vltalienne" 

386, MACARONI SOUP, A LA MEDICIS. 

Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni, and cut it into inch lengths ; at 
the same time, trim the tails of fifty cray-fish, and the same number of 
quenelles of fowl, coloured with cray-fish butter ; place these in the silver 
lining of a soup tureen according to the following directions : — 

Butter the bottom of the lining and spread thereon a layer of macaroni, 
then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, after which place a layer of 
cray-fish tails ; repeat the layer of grated cheese, and place on that a 
layer of small queruUes : and thus proceed until the sev^al articles pre- 
pared for the purpose are disposed of. Then add a pint of strong cofMomm^, 
and cover the top with grated cheese ; melt a small pat of firesh butter 
over the fire, and sprinkle it on the top of the whole preparation ; then set 
the tureen lining thus filled to gratinate in the oven, which will require 
about three quarters of an hour. Lastly, place the lining on a dish to be 
served from the side table, while the bright clear cmisominU is to be sent 
up in another tureen. 

In helping the soup at table, first put a small ladleful of the preparation 
of macaroni, &c., on a soup plate, and add to it a ladleful of the con- 
sojnme. 

386. MACARONI SOUP, A LA ST. PIERRE. 

Cut some macaroni, that has been boiled, into inch lengths, place them 
in a stewpan with four ounces of lobster coral butter and a little cayenne, 
simmer it gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then place a fourth part 
in a silver soup lining ; on this sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese, 
then put a layer of blanched soil roes of mackerel, over which place some 
grated cheese, again cover this with some prepared scollops of salmon : and 
thus repeat the foregoing instructions until the ingredients are all used 
up, finishing this part of the operation by sprinkling over the whole some 



ITALIAN SOUPS. 101 

grated cheese, and adding a pint of good consomme ; lastly, place the 
lining in the oven to gratinat^, which must be carefully attended to. 
Send the soup to table with another tureen of clear bright consomm^, to 
be served to the guests in the same manner as described in the preceding 
article. 

387. SEMOLINA SOUP, A LA PALERMO. 
Mix four ounces of wheaten flour with the same quantity of Turkish 
wheat flour, place these on the paste-board or slab, and having made a 
hoUow in the centre, place in it four yolks of eggs, a little cream, pepper, 
salt and nutmeg ; proceed to work these into a flrmly kneaded paste. 
Spread this out very thin with the aid of a rolling-pin, and having cut it 
into bands an inch wide, shred these so as to resemble vermicelli. Strew 
these shreds on a large baking sheet covered with paper, and put them to 
dry for four hours in the hot closet. A quarter of an hour before dinner- 
time, throw the shreds thus prepared into two quarts of boiling game 
c(nuomme ; skim this, and place the stewpan containing the soup by 
the side of the stove-fire, to continue gently boiling until the time for 
serving ; then, afler adding a pinch of minionette pepper, send to table 
with some gra^ Parmesan cheese on a plate to be handed round with 
the soup. 

388. SEMOLINA SOUP, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Throw six ounces of semolina into two quarts of boiling consomme of 
game : after boiling gently by the side of the stove-flre for a quarter of an 
hour, add a glass of Madeira, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, half 
a pint of cream mixed with four yolks of eggs, a little crystallized solu- 
ble cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. Set this preparation on the 
itove-fire — taking care not to let it curdle — then pour the soup into a 
tureen containing the flllets of two dozen larks which have been simmered 
with fine herbs. Stir the soup gently into the tureen, in order to mix the 
scollops with the semolina. In Italy, the fillets of a small delicious bird 
called Becca-ficas are used instead of larks. 

389. SEMOLINA SOUP, A LA PISANE. 

BoNB and braize two calfs feet, and having pressed them between two 
dishes, cut them out into round pieces the size of a shilling, with a tin 
cutter ; place these in a stewpan together with three dozen very small 
ipundU$ d la Xavier (No. 257) and a glass of Madeira ; allow them to 
simmer on the fire for five minutes, and add them to a similar quantity 
and description of soup as directed in the preceding article, but omitting 
the fillets of larks, — and send to table. 



Note, — The foregoing soups may be prepared with equal success, by 
using any of the numerous sorts of Italian pastes, instead of keeping to 
those described for the purpose. The soups may also be infinitely varied 
by changing their garnishes. ' 



102 



PANADAS AND LIGHT SOUPS FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, 

COMPRISING 

Chicken Panada, NutritiouB liquid castards of chicken. 
Pheasant or partridge Panada, m «9 game. 

Chicken or game custards. Ceylon moss gelatinous chicken broth. 
Venison Panada, 

390. CHICKEN PANADA. 

Roast oflF a young fowl, take all the white parts and pound them with 
the crumb of a French roll soaked in broth ; dilute these with a little 
chicken broth (made from the remains of the roasted fowl) to the consis- 
tency of a sod batter or creamy substance ; pass it through a tammy as 
in preparing any other purSe. Previous to serving this panada it should 
be moderately warmed, and put into custard cups. In the composition of 
every sort of dietetic preparation for the use of infants and invalids, it is 
strictly necessary to avoid the use of herbs, vegetables and spices : even 
salt should be used sparingly. 

391. PHEASANT OR PARTRIDGE PANADA. 
Pheasant or Partridge panada is prepared in the same manner as 
described for making the chicken panada : game being substituted for 
poultry. 

302. CHICKEN OR GAME CUSTARDS. 

Cut a young fowl into quarters, take the lungs away from the back bone, 
wash the fowl^ and then place it in a stewpan with a little parsley, 
chervil, half a head of celery, and a turnip. Fill the stewpan with three 
pints of cold water, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils, skim it 
thoroughly, and set it by the side of the fire to remain boiling for an 
hour ; after which, strain the broth into a basin through a napkin, and 
use it in the following manner : — 

According^to the number of custard-cups required to be filled, place so 
many yolks of eggs in a basin ; to these, add the same number of custard- 
cupfuls of prepared chicken broth, and with a spoon or fork, beat these 
together, in order to mix them thoroughly ; then pass them, by pressure, 
through the tammy, fill the custard-cups, steam them in the usual man- 
ner, and send them up quickly. 

These custards should be eaten very soon after being made, as they 
become heavy when warmed a second time. 

393. VENISON PANADA. 
Take a pound (more or less) of the lean part of either a roasted 
haunch or neck of venison, mince it, and then pound it with the crumb 
of a French roll which has been soaked in good broth; dilute with a little 
consomnU, and pass the panada through a tammy as usuaL Just before 
sending this panada up, warm it carefdly, so as not to allow it to get too 
hot, as it would then be liable to become somewhat decomposed and 
rough, and rather indigestible for a delicate stomach. 



PANADAS AND LIGHT SOUPS. 103 

304. NUTRITIOUS LIQUID CUSTARD OF CHICKEN. 

Prrparb the chicken broth as directed for making chicken custards, 
take half a pint of this, and mix it thoroughly with two yolks of new- 
laid eggs; stir it over the stove- fire, or if practicable, over the heat of 
steam, until the mixture becomes somewhat thickened, assuming a soft, 
creamy appearance ; pour it into a broth basin or caudle cup, and let it 
be instantly served. 

306. NUTRITIOUS LIQUID CUSTARD OF GAAfE. 
This sort of custard is prepared similarly to the foregoing, substituting 
pheasant or partridge for poultry. 

396. CEYLON MOSS GELATINOUS CHICKEN BROTH. 
Cut a fowl into four parts, take out the lungs, and wash it tho- 
roughly, place it in a stewpan with four ounces of prepared Ceylon moss, 
adding three pints of water and a little salt ; having boiled the broth for 
three quarters of an hour, by the side of a stove-fire, pass it through a 
napkin, and serve it in a caudle-cup to the invalid. 



104 



DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 



TURBOT AND BRILL, 



COMPRIBINO 



Turbot, plain boiled. Turbot a fa Marichale, 

„ a /a Parisienne, Fillets of Turbot, a Vlndifmie. 

„ broiled, a/a /'rtwfnfvi/.^. „ „ kla HarigotU, 

„ hla Careme, ^ ^ a la V^rtpri, or grem 

„ a /a VaUfl. fUvigottA. 

„ a to crefiw! au gratin, „ „ a Vltalienne., 

„ tn Matelotte Normande. ^ ^ d to Cardinal* 

„ a to Bechamel, BrUl, — John Dory. 

397. PLAIN BOILED TURBOT, OR A L'aNGLAISE. 
Procure if possible a turbot conveyed by land carriage, of moderate 
size : the larger fish are never delicate : choose it thick and plump, open 
it to ascertain that the back bone is free from, colour, as when it has a 
reddish appearance, although perfectly fresh, it is sure to boil of a 
bad colour. Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, and rub it over with the 
juice of a lemon, and a little salt; put it into a fit sized turbot-kettle, add 
a sufficient quantity of spring water to cover the fish, then throw in a good 
handful of salt, and set the turbot on the stove to boil ; as soon as the 
water begins to simmer, skim it thoroughly, and lift the kettle firom the 
fire down by the side, there to remain gently boiling for half an hour, 
more or less, according to the size of the fish. When the turbot is 
done, lift it out of the water with the drainer ; slip it carefully on 
to a dish prepared to receive it, and send it to table with two sauce- 
boats filled with lobster and Dutch sauces. (Nos. 55 and 42.) 

398. TURBOT, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Choosb a turbot weighing about 4lbs., trim the fins off close, make an 
incision in the back from head to tail, and inserting the knife on either 
side, detach the fish from the bone right up to the fins ; then cut the 
back bone through, close to the head and tail, and carefully separate the 
under part of the fish from the bone, so as not to run the knife through : 
bone the turbot in this manner, wipe it with a clean cloth, season it 
inside with a little pepper and salt, and spread a layer of quenelh force- 
meat of whitings, mixed with a spoonful of chopped fine herbs inside. 
Then butter a large baking-sheet, and place the turbot upon it, with the 
white side uppermost; moisten with a bottle of French white wine, some 
essence of mushrooms, and oyster liquor, season with a little pepper and 
salt, place a buttered paper over the whole, and set the fish to boil on 
the stove; next put it in the oven to simmer gently for about three quar- 
ters of an hour, taking care to baste the turbot with its liquor every 



TURBOT AND BRILL. 105 

five minutes, so that it may thus be made to absorb the greater portion 
while stewing. When the turbot is done, drain it from its liquor on to 
a large earthen dish^ and put it to cool in the larder, reserving the liquor 
m which it has been stewed to be reduced and mixed with a sufficient 
quantity of Parisian sauce (No. 40), to be used for garnishing the turbot 
when dished up. When the turbot is cold, place it on a buttered baking- 
sheet, and spread it over with a thin layer of reduced allem/mde sauce, 
over which shake some very finely-sifted bread-crumbs^ fried of a light 
colour ; moisten the fish with a little con^onimS and wine, and put it in 
the oven about twenty minutes before sending it to table, that it may 
get thoroughly warm through ; when about to dish it up, slide it gently 
off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and sauce it round with part of the 
Parisian sauce prepared for the purpose ; garnish it round with groups of 
Cray- fish tails, muscles, oysters, button- mushrooms, and small round 
truffles, tossed in a little glaze to give them a bright appearance. Send 
up the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 

399. BROILED 'TURBOT, A LA PR0VEy9ALE. 

Pbocurb a small plump turbot, make an incision in the back, and, 
with a strong knife, cut away an inch of the spine, trim the fins close, 
acore it rather deep qp the back, and then place it on an earthen dish to 
steep for four hours in a marinade made of the following ingredients : — 
Sliced carrot, onion, sprigs of parsley, bay-leaf and thyme, three cloves 
of gariic, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon and a gill of salad-oil. 
Let the turbot be firequently rubbed and turned in this marinade, that it 
may be thoroughly impregnated with its flavour. About three quarters 
of an hour before dinner, remove every particle of vegetable from the « 
turbot, place it, with the white side under, on a gridiron, (previously 
rubbed with chalk or whitening) and set it to broil on a clear fire, of 
moderate heat : twenty minutes will suffice to broil it on one side : it 
must then be carefully removed on to a deep baking-sheet, upon its back, 
first placing the whole of the Ttuxrinade in the baking-sheet or dish ; 
moisten with half a bottle of light white wine, and then put the turbot 
m the oven to bake ; observing that it must be basted every five minutes 
with its liquor. When the turbot is done, lift it carefiilly on to its dish, 
put the whole of the marinade in which it has been baked into a stew- 
pan with the remaining half bottle of vrine, boil the whole together for 
five minutes, strmn it with pressure through a tammy into a stewpan, 
and reduce it with some allemande sauce ; add a pat of anchovy butter, 
lome chopped and blanched parsley, a spoonful of capers, and a little 
cayenne; garnish the turbot round with this sauce, adding groups of 
muscles fried in batter, and some lobster cut into neat scollops and tossed 
in lobster-coral to give them a scarlet hue. Send some of the sauce to 
table in a boat. 

400. TURBOT, A LA CAREME. 

Pbiparb a turbot according to the foregoing directions, omitting the 
garlic ; when it is done, reduce the liquor and incorporate it in a suffi- 
cient quantity of Dutch-sauce, having suprime sauce for its foundation ; 
add some lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon -juice; work the sauce 
well together over the fire, and pour it round the turbot ; glaze the fish 
lightly, garnish it with groups of fine lai^e cray-fish and quenelles of 
whiting coloured with some green ravigotte (No. 185). Serve the remain- 
der of the sauce in a boat. 



106 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

400*. TURBOT, A LA VATEL. 
Prepabb and dress a turbot according to the directions giTen for 
Turbot /} la Parisxenne (No. 398) ; when done, drain and place it on a 
dish, reduce the liquor in which it has been baked, and incorporate 
it with some suprime sauce, finished with green ravigoUe butter 
(No. 185) ; add two dozen oysters, some button mushrooms, and thirty 
crayfish tails, lemon juice and cayenne. Cover the turbot with this sauce, 
and garnish it round with fried smelts — trussed with their tails in their 
mouths, (and previously boned and stuffed) with an inner row of small 
fillets of soles, which have been contises, one half with truffles, and the 
other with thin scollops of the red part of the tail of a lobster turned 
round, and simmered in a little butter in a sautapan* Serve as usual 
some of the sauce in a boat. 

401. TURBOT, A LA CREME AU GRATIN. 
Boil a turbot, drain it on a dish, and while it cools prepare some cream 
hecluimel sauce (No. 5) ; reduce it, add the yolks of four eggs, 4 oz. 
of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, a little minionette pepper, grated nut- 
meg and lemon juice. With a spoon cut the turbot into flakes, and put 
them in the sauce, taking care to waste none of the delicate meaty part 
of the fins, the cheeks and glutinous membranes of the fish. Stir Uie 
whole lightly together, and pile it neatly in the shape of a dome on the 
dish ; cover it thoroughly and smoothly with some finely-sifted bread- 
crumbs fried and mixed with a fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese; 
garnish round with fried croquettes of potatoes ; and twenty minutes 
before sending to table, put the turbot thus prepared in the oven to ^m»- 
thicUe ; pass the red-hot salamander over it — to melt the chee8e,---and 
pour round the inner circle of the croquettes some bichamd sauce made 
with good rich cream. Send up some of the sauoe in a boat. 

402. TURBOT, AS MATELOTTE NORMANDE. 
Prepare a small plump turbot — in every respect according to the direc- 
tions given for dressing a turbot a la Parisienne (l^o, 398) ; when done, 
drain and place it on a dish ; reduce the liquor, add to it some allemande 
sauce, in which mix two pats of butter, some chopped and blanched 
parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; work the sauce well 
together on the fire, and then add two dozen button-mushrooms, the 
same quantity of blanched oysters or muscles, and an equal proportion of 
very small quenelles of whiting ; cover the turbot with the sauce, and 
garnish it roimd with some trimmed laige crayfish and glazed cnmUms of 
med bread. 

403. TURBOT, A LA BECHAMEL. 

Prepare some good rich cream bechamel sauce (No. 6), put the flakes of 
some boiled turbot in it, toss them lightly together on the fire, serve 
the turbot piled up on the dish in the form of a dome, and garnish it 
round with potato croquettes^ fieurons of puff" paste, or croutons of 
bread. 

This method of dressing turbot, as well as the turbot d la crime au 
gratvn, is generally had recourse to for the purpose of tummg the 
previous day's fish to a good account ; nevertheless the sauces, in both 
cases, really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express 
purpose. 



TURBOT AND BRILL. 107 

404. TURBOT, A LA MARECHALE. 

Preparb a turbot as for matelotU Normande (No. 402), drain it, and 
set it on a dish to cool ; then spread it over on both sides with some 
reduced cUlemande sauce ; shake some fine breadcrumbs over this, and 
after dipping it in some eggs seasoned with a little salt, and whip- 
ped up in a dish for the purpose, breadcrumb it over again thoroughly. 
About twenty minutes before dinner, place the turbot on a wire receiver, 
and fry it in a convenient sized pan, containing some clean hog*s lard, 
heated to a proper degree. As soon as the coating on the turbot is 
coloured of a very light brown colour, take the fish out of the fat on to a 
cloth, press it lightly with a clean napkin, in order to absorb any 
grease there may be on it, and placing it on a baking sheet, keep it in 
the hot closet till required to be dished up ; put the turbot then on a 
dish, and pour round the following sauce : — 

Reduce the liquor in which the turbot has been baked, and add to it 
some alUmande sauce, and mix in a pat of anchovy butter, some green 
ravigotUy lemon juice, and cayenne. Next, garnish round with quenelles 
of whiting shaped with two dessert-spoons, one half of which must 
be coloured with lobster coral, and the other with some black trufHes 
chopped very fine, and mixed in the quenelle forcemeat previously to 
their being shaped. Send to table some of the sauce as usual in a boat. 

405. FILLETS OF TURBOT, A l'IXDIENNE 

Cut a small turbot into neatly-trimmed fillets, or scollops, set them 
carefully in a deep sautapan with a little fresh butter, and two spoonfuls 
of Cook's excellent fish-curry paste ; put the lid on the sautapan, and 
place it on a slow fire, or in the oven, to simmer gently for twenty 
minutes ; then take it out, and add thereto some veloute sauce (No. 2), 
and set the whole to boil together a few minutes on the stove ; then dish 
up the fillets, one overlaying the other — in a circle ; pass the sauce 
through a tammy, make it hot, and mix in a pat of butter ; mask the 
fillets with the sauce, and serve. 

406. FILLETS OF TURBOT, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Prbpabb the fillets of turbot as directed in No. 405, place them 
in a sautapan with some fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and 
lemon juice ; ten minutes before dinner, set them on a moderate fire, and 
when sufficiently sinmiered on one side, turn them carefully on the other, 
80 as not to break them ; when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and 
dish them up, overlaying each other — so as to form a dose circle ; sauce 
them with some white ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 

407. FILLETS OF TURBOT, A LA VERTPRE. 
Pbbparb the fillets as for the previous entree^ and dish them up in a 
nmilar manner; fill the centre with thirty crayfish tails; pour sotne 
lauoe d la ravigotte (No. 21), over the fillets, and serve. 

408. FILLETS OF TURBOT, A l'ITALIE5NE. 
Prbpabb, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as in the previous case, 
and sauce the entree with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), in which 
inoorpoiate a pat of anchovy butter, and a tea-spoonful of chopped capers. 



108 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

409. FILLETS OF TURBOT, A LA CARDINAL. 

Cut, dress, and dish up the fillets of turfoot as directed in former 
cases ; sauce them with some cardinal sauce (No. 48), and gwnish the 
centre of the entree with prawns or crayfish tails, small queneUeB of 
whiting or lobster, and a few small button-mushrooms. 

Fillets of turbot may be dressed in a variety of ways, according to the 
sauce or garnish used, from which accordingly the fillets derive their 
denomination : as, for instance, d la tnattre cTkotelf a la Muce kamard^ 
or lobster sauce, d la sauce aux huitres, or oyster sauce, &c. &c. &c 

410. BRILL. 

This species of fish bearing a great resemblance to turbot, may be 
dressed in every variety of form in which turbot is capable of being sent 
to table ; it may also be served plain boiled, with either lobster, shrimp, 
crayfish, anchovy, caper, Dutch, oyster, muscle, or ravigotU sauce. 

411. JOHN DORY. 
This kind of fish, although a great favourite with many, is very 
seldom sent to table in any other shape than as a plain boiled fish, either 
with lobster or Dutch sauce ; it may however be broiled with Champagne 
sauce, for which see turbot dressed in that manner (No. 398). 



SALMON, 



COMPRISING 



Salmon, ^ la Chamhord. Salmon, d la Afaredaie. 

„ a fa Rfgmce. „ iL la Amflaise, 

M a fa GeHoi». ^ a rEeossaise, 

„ a la Cardinal. Slices of Salmon, a la Tartart, 

d, la Vidoria, MaUlotU of Salmon. 

„ iila Vemiiiemne, 

412. SALMON, A LA CHAMBORD. 

Take a whole salmon, and when properly cleansed, truss it in the 
shape of the letter S, which is effected in the following maimer: — 
Thread a trussing needle with some twine, pass this through the eyes 
of the fish, and festen the jowl by tieing the string under the jaw ; then 
pass the needle through the centre part of the body of the salmon, 
draw the string tight, and fasten it round the extremity of the tail : the 
fish will then assume the desired form. 

Boil the salmon in salt and water ; when done, drain it on a diih, 
and immediately take off the whole of the skin, and put the fish to cod 
in the larder. In the meantime, prepare some quenelle forcemeat of 
whitings, part of which should be coloured with some pounded lobster 
coral, and as soon as the salmon is cold, spread a layer of this over the 
whole surface of the fish, taking care to smooth it with the Uade of a 
large knife dipped in hot water ; this part of the process being completed, 
ornament the salmon by laying some fillets of soles whidi have beoi con- 



SALMON. 



109 



tUes with truffles in a slanting position across the back, fastening the ends 
under the belly of the salmon by means of the forcemeat ; mark out the 
head and eyes of the fish with fillets of black truffles. Then place the 
salmon on a buttered drainer of a fish-kettle, and cover the fish with thin 
layers of fat bacon ; moisten with a bottle of dry Champagne^ garnish with 
A fisggot of parsley, thyme and bay leaf, sliced carrot and onion ; place a 
buttered paper over the whole : and put the lid on. Next, make it boil 
on the stoYe-five, and then put it in the oven or on a slow fire to simmer 
gently for three quarters of an hour : drain the salmon, and place it on a 
dish, and put it in the hot closet till wanted for table. 

Meanwhile, strain the liquor in which the salmon has been braized, 
reduce it to a glaze, add some finished espagnole or brown sauce, essence 
of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, a pat of anchovy butter, and 
lemon-juice ; and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-mat^. 

Just before sending to table, remove the layers of bacon^ and arrange 
groups of quenelles of whiting, mushrooms, truffles, large cray-fish, and 
soft roes of mackerel, round the salmon: sauce the fish round in the inner 
circle with the hot sauce, and serve. Let there be some of the sauce, 
with truffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles of whiting in it, sent to 
table in a boat. 




• 413. SALMON, A LA REGENCE. 

Boil a whole sahnon, remove the skin, and mask it over with strong 
glaie, mixed with some pounded lobster-coral ; place the salmon on 
an oval croustade of fried bread, about three inches high, on the dish ; pour 
iDond it tome Regent's sauce, finished with some anchovy butter and 
femon-juioe ; and garnish it with alternate groups of quenelles of sal- 
■loo^ (mixed with some finely-chopped truffles), some large cray-fish, 
buitoD-mushroomSy and small fillets of soles decorated with green 
l^ieridm, rolled in a spiral shape, and simmered in a little butter and 
lemon-juke. Form a decoration on the back and head of the fish, with 
amamented fillets of soles ; send up some of the sauce in a boat. 



110 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

414. SALMON, A LA GENOISE. 
Boil a salmon, skin it, and place it on a dish ; mask it with Qimm 
sauce (No. 30), and garnish it round with lobster quenelles^ button- 
mushroom?, some glazed tails of very small lobsters, quenelles of whiting, 
half of which must be coloured with extract of spinach, or raoigoUe 
herbs, and the remainder with chopped truffles. All these garnishes, 
are appropriate in ornamenting this dish but it is desirable not to use 
too many sorts of garnishes in the preparation of one dish, so as not 
to produce an unseemly species of medley. Send up some G^noiae sauce 
in a boat. 

416. SALMON, A LA CARDINAL. 

BoTL and skin a salmon that has been previously trussed, as directed in 
the first article of this chapter ; cover it with a thin smooth coating of lob- 
ster quenelle ; ornament it with a representation of the scales of the fish, 
by placing alternate rows of half-moons of truffle on its surface, mark- 
ing out the eyes and gills, also with ffllets of truffles. Cover the sal- 
mon with very thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with half a bottle of 
white wine, and a ladleful of good broth ; cover with a buttered paper, 
place the lid on the fish-kettle containing the salmon, and set it 
to simmer on a moderate fire for three-quarters of an hour. Then, 
drain the salmon, place it in a dish, on a croustwUi and keep it in the 
hot closet till wanted. Meanwhile, reduce the liquor in which the sal- 
mon has been braized with the remaining half-bottle of wine, and mix 
with it some cardinal sauce (No. 4S) ; remove the layers of bacon, 
glaze the fish lightly and sauce it. Garnish it round with groups of 
truffles, mushrooms, cray-fish-tails, and quenelles of lobster. 

As usual, send up some of the sauce in a boat. 

416. SALMON, A LA VICTORIA. 

Braizb a salmon in a mirepoix (No. 9^36), made with claret, when 
the fish is done, skin it, and place it on a low crotutade, on a dish. 
Then after divesting the mirepoix in which the fish has been done of all 
grease, put one-third of it into a stewpan, boil it down to a demi-glaze, 
and work it in with some brown sauce ; add a pat of anchovy butter, 
and a good piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; mix the 
whole well together, and pour the sauce over the salmon. Gkunish it 
round with groups of cray-fish-tails, fried fillets of smelts, and small 
quenelles of whiting. 

Send some of the sauce up to table in a boat, and put some thin 
scollops of lobster in it. 

417. SALMON, A LA MARECHALE. 
Truss a salmon in the shape of the letter S, boil it in salt and water, 
skin and cover it with a coating of reduced alUmande sauce, and set it to 
cool in the larder; then, shake some very fine bread-crumbs over it, 
and afler fixing them on the sauce by gentle pressure with the blade 
of a knife, egg the salmon over with a paste-brush dipped in three 
whole eggs beaten up with a little nutmeg, pepper and salt; again 
shake some bread-crumbs over it, smoothing them on the salmon with the 
blade of a knife ; place the fish on a deep baking-dish, previously but- 
tered for the purpose, moisten with a little white wine and am&ommS, 



SALMON. Ill 

or some mirepoia. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time, 
put the sohnon in the oven^ and bake it of a deep yellow or very light 
brown colour ; then place the salmon carefully on a dish, sauce it round 
with cray-fiish or supreme Dutch sauce, in which has been added an infu- 
sion of horse-radish, and garnish round with a border of quenelles of 
gurnets, and fried smelts trussed as whitings are for frying. 

418. SALMON, A L'aNGLAISE. 

Boil the salmon either whole or in slices, in salt and water ; when 
done, dish it up on a silver drainer, without a napkin. Plain boiled fish 
should never be sent to table on napkins, nor garnished round with cold 
wet parsley, neither is it advisable to garnish with fHed small fish, the 
latter thereby generally becoming soddened and spoilt : the mixed vapour 
arising from both kinds of fish when thus covered up, is detrimental to the 
flavour of each. 

Dish up the sahnon, and send it to table with either of the following 
sauces: — Lobster, shrimp, cray-fish, Dutch, parsley and butter, or muscle 
sauce. 

419. SALMON, A L'ECOSSAISE. 

To dress salmon or trout in perfection in this style, it is quite necessary 
that the fish be dressed a short time afler being caught : sportsmen well 
know that it is only while this kind of fish is yet almost alive, that it 
retains that white creamy substance which appears between the flakes of 
the boiled fish, and which makes it so truly delicious: this is little known 
to the London epicure. If it be practicable to procure what is termed a 
live talman, take out the gills, draw it, wash the fish and crimp it on 
either side, by making deep incisions with a sliarp knife, and then throw 
it into a large vessel, containing clean, cold spring water, fresh from the 
pump — to remain there about two hours. In crimping any sort of fish, 
the colder the water is, the better ; the coldness of the water, petrifying 
the fish to a certain degree, gives it the firmness so much desired. As 
soon as the salmon or trout is crimped, put it into the fish-kettle con- 
taining boiling water in sufficient quantity to cover the fish, at the same 
time throwing in a good handful of salt ; let the fish boil on the side of 
the fire, remembering that crimped fish require considerably less time in 
boiling than when plain. As soon as the fish is done, take it out of the 
water immediately : leaving fish of any kind in the water afler it is 
done, detracts from its flavour and firmness. When the salmon is dished 
up, tend it to table with lobster sauce, parsley and butter, or the follow- 
ing sauce : — Put half a pound of fresh-churned butter into a clean stew- 
pan, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nut- 
meg, a pinch of minionette pepper, some salt, and juice of lemon ; set 
the stewpan in a bath of hot water, and keep stirring the butter quickly 
at it melts, with a wooden spoon ; when the whole of the butter is 
melted, work the sauce well together, and send to table. With crimped 
salmon or trout, thb kind of melted butter will be found to sui*pass all 
other sauces. 

420. SLICES OP SALMON, A LA TARTARE. 
Steep some slices of salmon in a dish with a little salad-oil, pepper, and 
salt, and a fi^ sprigs of parsley ; about half an hour before dinner, place 



112 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

the slices of salmon on a clean gridiron rubbed over with whitening, and 
broil them on a clear fire ; when done on one side, turn than on the 
other : both sides should be of a fine light brown ; dish them up, and aoid 
to table with either some Tartare, Cambridge or Eemoulade sauce in 
a boat (Nos. 94, 95, 96.) 

421. MATELOTTE OF SALMON. 
BoiLy and take the skin off one or more slices of salmon, mask them 
with some glaze mixed with pounded lobster-coral ; place them on a dish, 
and garnish with a rich MatdoUe ragout (No. 193). 

422. SLICES OF SALMON, A LA VENITIENNE. 
Boil, trim, and glaze the slices of salmon^ as in the forcing case, 
and sauce them round with a sauce (i la Veniiienne (No. 26). Garnish 
with a border of croquettes of fillets of soles. . 



TROUT, 

COMPRISING 

Trout, d ritalienne. Trout, d Caurore, 
„ a la Gaxonne. „ a la Periyuetu. 

„ a la Chevaliere, ,, in paper cases with fine herbs. 

„ a la Vertpre. „ d la RoyaJe, 

„ au yratin, „ broiled, with Dutch sauce. 

423. TROUT, A l'iTALIENNE. 
Boil the trout in salt and water, divest it of the sldn^ glaze and place 
it on a dish ; then mask it with some Italian sauce in which has been 
mixed a pat of anchovy butter^ a very little nutmeg and lemon-juiee. 
Garnish with cray-fish and quenelles of whiting. 

424. TROUT, A LA GASCONNE. 
Boil and dish up the trout as directed in the foregoing instance, and 
pour round it some of the sauce denominated a la Gasconne, (Na 68.) 
Garnish with fillets of soles prepared as paupiettes, (for which see No. 
1131,) and between each paupCsttCy place a group of cray-fish tails that 
have been tossed in a little glaze, and some pounded lobster-ooraL 

425. TROUT, A LA CHEVALIERE. 

Boil, skin, and trim one or more trout, and cover them all over with 
some D*uxelles or papillotte sauce, when the sauce, by getting cold, has 
become set on the trout, roll them in very fine bread-crumbs, and after- 
wards egg them over and roll them again in the bread-crumbs, in whidi 
Parmesan cheese has been mixed in the proportion of one-third ; place the 
trout (m a buttered baking-sheet, and about half an hour before diniier, 



TROUT. 113 

first sprinkle them over with a little melted fresh butter^ and then put 
them in the oven to be baked of a fine light brown colour. Dish them up 
and sauce round with the following ragout: — Reduce half a bottle of dry 
Champagne or Sauteme, with some essence of mushrooms, down to one- 
fourth part, then add a ladleful of cUlemande sauce, incorporate with it a 
pat of anchovy butter, a little lobster-coral, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon- 
juice ; sauce the trout round, and garnish with a border of small fillets 
of soles that have been cantises, one-half with truffles, and the remainder 
with tongue, and then turned round in the shape of half moons, and 
simmered in a little butter, salt, and lemon-juice. In the inner circle, 
place small groups of prawns* tails tossed in lobster-coral and glaze, sofl 
roes of mackerel tossed in a spoonful of sauce, coloured with some green 
ravigott^, and between the trout a row of large cray-fish trimmed and 
glazed. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. 

426. TROUT, AU GRATIN. 

Parboil the trout sufficiently to remove the skin, and when trimmed, 
place them on a buttered sautapan ; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle 
over them a good spoonful of chopped parsley, three times that quantity 
of chopped mushrooms, and two chopped shalots ; add a small ladleful of 
finished brown sauce, and two or three glasses of sherry. In half an hour, 
more or less, according to the size of the fish, put the trout thus pre- 
pared, into the oven to bake, taking care to baste it every five mi- 
nutes; when done, put the trout on a dish, reduce the sauce, if 
necessary, incorporate in it a pat of anchovy butter, add the juice of half 
a lemon, and pour the sauce over the trout ; then shake some baked 
bread-crumbs bruised fine, over the whole, replace the fish in the oven 
for five minutes, and then send them to table after placing round them a 
border of lobster croqueUes, 

427. TROUT, A L'AURORE. 

Boil and trim one or more trout, mask them over with some reduced 
olUmande sauce, put them on a silver dish, and then place a wire sieve 
over the trout ; rub the yolks of six or more eggs boiled hard through the 
neve with a wooden spoon, on the fish, taking care that the curling 
shreds which fall through the sieve cover the surface of the trout 
equally. About half an hour before dinner, put the trout in the oven to 
get coloured of a fine amber hue ; pour round them some Aurora sauce 
(No. 41), and garnish them with a border of muscles fried in batter. 

428. TROUT IN CASES, WITH FINE HERBS. 
Pbocubi as many small trout as may suffice for a dish, clean, parboil, 
trim, and place them each in a separate paper case previously oiled, and 
then baked for five minutes, for the purpose of hardening the paper to 
enable it to contain the sauce ; add to each trout a moderate quantity of 
fine-herbe sauce (Na 14); put them in the oven twenty minutes before 
dinner*time to bake, and when done, dish them up and send to table 
with tome of the sauce in a boat. 

429. TROUT, A LA ROYALE. 

Clian and draw a fine trout, stuff it with some quenelle force-meat 
of whitings, stew it with a bottle of Chablis wine, a few mushrooms, 
parsley, green onions, thyme, and a bay-leaf, pepper-corns, and a blade 

I 



lU DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

of mace : when done, remote the skin, glaze and put it on its cUih in the 
hot closet till required for dishing up. Then strain the liquor in which 
the trout has been stewed, reduce it to half glaze, add it to some 
mprhne sauce, work in a pat of anchovy butter, a littie cayenne-pepper 
and lemon-juice, and then pour the sauce into a stewpan containing 
some small queneUes of smelts, button-mushrooms, and prawns-tails. 
Allow the whole to boil together for a few minutes, sauce the trout, and 
garnish them round with a border of croustades of quenelle of whiting, 
poached, bread-crumbed and fried ; the interior should be removed and 
filled with soft roes of mackerel tossed in a little of the sauce. 

430. BROILED TROUT, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. 
Split a trout at the back, oil it over, season with pepper and salt ; 
just before dinner-time, broil it, and send it to table with some Dutch- 
sauce in a boat separately. 

In addition to the different methods given here for dressing trout, this 
kind of fish may be prepared in every variety of form and style in 
which salmon is sent to table. 



STURGEON, 



COMPRISINO 



Sturgeon, d. la Beaufort. Sturgeon, a la Bourguignotte* 
„ a la Cardinal, n ^ Vlndienne, 

^ a la Qhnoim. ^ au gratin with fine herbs. 

„ a la Dauphine, „ a la Rime, 

^ a la Pirigord, „ a PJitglaise, 

431. STURGEON, A LA BEAUFORT. 
Choose a small sturgeon, draw, skin and truss it in the shape of the 
letter S; braize it in a mirepoix moistened with Sherry, or with common 
broth, and a little brandy. When the fish is done, drain it and put it 
in the larder to cool ; then mask it all over with a coating of quenelle 
force-meat of whitings ; observing that the form of the head should be 
restored by covering that part of the sturgeon with some of the force- 
meat mixed with some lobster-coral. Form the eyes, mouth, and gills, 
with some black truffles cut into strips for the purpose. Place some 
fillets of soles previously contises with truffles, crosswise along the back 
of the sturgeon, allowing the space of an inch to intervene between 
each fillet of sole, which spaces are to be filled up by the insertion of cray- 
fish-tails, trimmed and secured by being stuck into the force-meat in close 
rows : then cover the fish with very thin layers of hi bacon, place it on 
a drainer and put it in the brazier with a little of the mirepoix in which 
it has been braized. About an hour before dinner-time, put it in the 
oven or on a slow fire, with live embers upon the lid, and after the fish 
has simmered gently, without boiling dunng the time allotted, take it 
out of the braize upon the drainer, and after divesting it of the layers of 
bacon, slide it off the drainer on to its dish : sauce it round with a rich 
MateloUe sauce made with Sauteme wine, add also some of the liquor in 
which the sturaeon has been braized; garnish round with alternate 
groups of the soft roes of mackerel (cut in halves, blandied, and fined in 
batter) and some dessert-spoon quenelles of lobster. 



STURGEON. 



115 



432. STURGEON, A LA CARDINAL. 
PaocuBB a prime cut of sturgeon, weighing about 1 2lb8 ; remove its 
skin in the following manner: — place the piece of sturgeon on the kitchen 
table, lengthwise before you, so as to have a command on either side ; 
then take a long thin-bladed knife, insert its point immediately between 
the flesh and skin, nm the knife right up, keeping close to the back fin, and 
minding that the edge of the knife be kept to the left, press with the 
palm of the left hand on the skin of the fish, drawing the knife to and 
fro, io as to sever the skin firom the flesh ; and after effecting this on 
one ride, repeat it on the other. Replace the skin over the stuigeon, 
and &8ten it on with string, in order to preserve the colour of the fish ; 
at the same time taking care to give shape and appearance to the stur- 
geon. Then put it int9 a fish-kettle, or bndzing-pan on the drainer be- 
bmging to it, moisten with a good wine mirepoix and set it to braize 
wiUi &re under and over. If the quality of the sturgeon be good, about 
four hours gentle boiling will suffice to braize it ; the fish must be well 
basted with its liquor every now and then. When the stuigeon is done, 
take it up, remove the skin, drain, and afterwards mask it with 
•ome stiff glaze, in which has been mixed some pounded lobster- coral in 
sufficient quantity to give the stuigeon a bright scarlet colour; form on its 
centre a palm or star, with some contisSs fillets of soles. The orna- 
mental skewers that appear in the wood-cut must, if used — which is not 
strictly essential — all he garnished with a large truffle, crayfish, mush- 
room, quenelU, and truffle. Pour some cardinal sauce (No. 48) round it, 
garnish with a border of tails of very small lobsters, and alternate 
groups of small quenelles of whiting, button mushrooms, and truflies. 




433. STURGEON, A LA GENOISE. 
PsiPABS the sturgeon as in either of the foregoing instances, and after 
having f^aaed and dished it up, pour some OSnoise sauce (No. 30) round 
il; gamiih with a border of large cray-fish, and serve. 

I A 



116 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 



434. STURGEON, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Pare off the whole of the skin of a prime cut of stui^geon, weighing 
about 8lbs. ; garnish the inside to its full extent with some queneUe 
forcemeat of whiting, mixed with some chopped i^d simmered fine-herbs ; 
wrap the sturgeon in thin layers of bacon — secured on with string : set 
the sturgeon to braize in some wine mirepoix ; when done, drain it and 
put it to cool in the larder, after which cover it well over — first divesting 
it of the bacon » &c., with a coating of stiffly-reduced aUemande sauce, 
and when the sauce has cooled upon the fish, bread-crumb it in the usual 
manner, drop a little clarified butter over it through a straining-spoon, 
put it on a drainer into a deep baking dish, and set it in the oven to be 
baked of a light colour. Then place it on a dish, sauce with sturgeon 
sauce (No. 56), garnish with an outer row of quenelles of gurnets, mixed 
with some chopped and blanched parsley, and garnish the inner circle 
with alternate groups of thin scollops of lobster, (tossed in a little lobster 
coral butter, to render them of a bright scarlet colour,) and some button- 
mushrooms and scollops of gurnets tossed in a spoonful of bickamd sauce. 
Stick on four ornamental atelets, or silver skewers, garnished each with a 
large truffle, quenelle, crayfish, and mushroom. 

435. STURGEON, A LA PERIGORD. 

Prepare the sturgeon as in the preceding case, but, instead of bread- 
crumbing it, glaze and dish it up ; sauce it with a good FMffueux sauce 
(No. 23), in which has been mixed some of its own liquor boiled down 
to glaze, a pat of anchovy butter and a little lemon-juice ; garnish with 
a border of truffle cr<ntst<ides made as follows : — 

Choose a dozen or eighteen large truffles of equal size, boil them in 
some wine mirepoix^ cut a piece fit)m the top, of the thickness of a penny 
piece, scoop out the inside of the truffles, and cut the produce into thin 
scollops, which after mixing with a little of the sauce, replace in the 
truffles ; cover them with some small fillets of soles contisSs with some 
red tongue, and turned round in the shape and size of half-a-crown 
piece, and simmered in a little butter. Send up some of the sauce to 
table in a boat. 

436, STURGEON, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Stuff and braize the sturgeon according to the foregoing directions, 
trim, glaze, and dish it up ; then pour some Bourguignatte sauce (No. %%) 
round it, garnish with groups of mushrooms, glazed button-onions, 
small quenelles and crayfish tails. 

Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. 

437. STURGEON, A l'iNDIENNE. 
Braize the sturgeon in some wine mirepoix, take about a pint of the 
liquor, reduce and mix it in some Indian curry sauce (No. 47) prepared 
for the purpose, add a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice, sauce 
the stuigeon, and garnish it round with a border of rice croustadeSy filled 
with curried prawns or shrimps; ornament it with four o^e^eto-— each 
garnished with a large crayfish, a cofntisi fiUet of sole, and a fine smelt, 
fried : the smelt here alluded to must be trussed, previously to ita being 



STURGEON. 117 

fried, and the point of a skewer run through its tail and eyes, and 
again through the centre of the body, also through the fillet of scije, and 
the large crayfish. Send up, as usual in such cases, some of the sauce 
in a boat. 

438. STURGEON AU GRATIN, WITH FINE HERBS. 

This method of dressing sturgeon should be resorted to only when it 
happens that a sufficient remnant is left from the previous day's dinner. 
In iuch a case, cut the sturgeon into neatly-trimmed scollops, and toss 
these in some reduced aUemand^ sauce, incorporated with some of the 
essence of the sturgeon — previously boiled down to glaze ; add some fine- 
herbs, lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pat of anchovy 
butter ; mix the whole well together ; put the scollops on a silver dish, 
piled up in the form of a dome ; cover them with some fried bread- 
crumbs, mixed with one-third part of grated fresh Parmesan cheese. 
About twenty minutes before dinner-time, place the dish in the oven to 
gtxUinate the scollops ; pass the red- hot salamander over them, to melt 
the cheese ; pour round some of the sauce reserved for the purpose ; 
garnish wiUi some croquettes of sturgeon, lobster, or potatoes, and send 
to table. 

439. STURGEON, A LA RUSSE. 

Braizb the sturgeon as usual, either in some wine mirepaix, or 
merely in vinegar and water, — when economy is an object. When the 
sturgeon is done, take off the skin, trim, and mask it with some stiff 
g^aze, mixed with some pounded lobster coral ; ornament it on the centre 
with some small fillets of gurnets contUes with green gherkins, — pre- 
viously placed in a buttered sautapan, in the shape of half-moons, and 
simmered in a little butter ; at each end place a row of turned olives ; 
pour round it some rich Ginoise sauce (No. SO) — ^finished with a good 
piece of lobster-butter, cayenne, and lemon- juice, a spoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley, two spoonfuls of capers, some turned olives, two 
dozen crayfish tails, and about the same quantity of small quenelles of 
anchovies. Garnish round the inner edge of the dish with some fried 
smelts trussed in the same way as whitings, and fried. 

440. STURGEON, A L'aNGLAISE. 
Trim and skin a fine piece of sturgeon — or a small whole fish ; line 
the inside with some well-seasoned ordinary veal-stuffing ; replace the 
skin, and secure it with string ; put the sturgeon on a drainer in the fish- 
kettle ; garnish with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, and bayleaf, mace, 
peppercorns, and six cloves, a handful of trimmings of mushrooms, and a 
little salt ; moisten with port wine ; cover with a well-buttered paper, 
md set it on the fire to boil. Then place it on a slow fire to stew 
gently till it is done ; next drain, trim, and glaze it ; place it on a dish, 
ind put it in the hot-closet until dinner-time. Meanwhile, take some of 
the liquor'in which the sturgeon has been stewed, with three glasses of 
Sood port wine, and boil the whole down to half-glaze, and add it to 
tome finished espag^nole, or brown sauce ; work in a pat of anchovy- 
imtter, and two .pats of fresh butter, a little cayenne, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice; pour the sauce into a stewpan containing some button- 
nushrooms, scollops of lobster, and small quenelles of whiting, coloured 
nitb tome very fine chopped and blanched parsley ; allow the whole to 



118 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

boil up for a minute on the stove ; sauce the stuTgeon o^er with this 
ragout ; garnish it round with a border of large cra^^ah, and serre. 



Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of preparation, may be 
dressed similariy to salmon, in all its yarieties. 



COD FISH, 



COMPIU8INO 



Cod and Oyster miiee. Crin^ ilicet of Cod, h la ffoBamdaitr. 
Ditto, staffed and baked. „ » r, ^ la CoiberL 

Ditto, a la crime am pratin. „ ^ n in MaJ t i ot k Ncr- 

Crimped slices of Cod, and Oyster sance. 



alaSMlU. ScoUops of Cod, a fa i 

FiUeU o^ a rimdietme. Slices of crimped Cod, a la iMulrv d'iM. 

Baked Cod'k head. 

441. COD, AND OYSTER SAUCE. 

Boil the cod, whether it be crimped or plain, in boiling spring water, 
into which throw a handful of salt ; as soon as the fish is done, drain it 
instantly, and place it on a dish, with a clean wet napkin over it, to keep 
it moist : just before dinner, take oiT the napkin, and send the cod to 
table with a sauce-boat full of white oyster-sauce (No. 50). 

Cod-fish is rarely dressed whole, as, in addition to its unwieldy nse, 
the length of time required to boil so laige a fish, deprives it materially 
of its peculiar attraction, which is never so effectually obtained as when 
the fish is crimped, and cut into slices — ^previously to its being boiled. 

442. COD STITFFED AND BAKED. 

Clean, trim, and stuff a cod with some well-seasoned veal stuffing ; 
secure this by sewing up the belly ; then truss the fish in the shape of 
the letter S ; make several deep incisions on either side, and plaee it in a 
deep baking dish previously well spread with fresh butter ; season with 
chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt ; moisten with half a 
bottle of Sherry, and the liquor of two dozen oysters ; then set the fish 
in the oven to bake ; and every ten minutes— ^r ofiener, baste it with 
its own liquor ; when it is nearly done, sprinkle it over with some fine 
raspings of br^, and again put it in the oven for ten minutes longer. 
When the cod is baked, draw the strings out of it ; place it on its dishy 
then pour two glasses of Sherry into the dish in whidi the cod has been 
baked, and also a little ooti$omm^ — to detach the glaze firam round the 
pan ; pass the whole through a tammy into a stewpan ; add some brown 
sauce ; reduce the whole to a proper consistency, work in a pat of 
anchovy-butter, a little cayenne, and lemon-juice, beard the oysters, 
and add them to the sauce ; pour it round the cod, and send to table. 

443. COD, A LA CBEME AU GRATUV. 

Is prepared in a similar manner to Turbot ^ la crime <m ^rarfm (for 
which see No. 401). 



COD FISH. 119 

444. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD, AND OYSTER SAUCE. 
Pqt crimped slices of cod in boiling spring water containing a handful 
of salt, as before directed ; as soon as it boils up again, set the fish-kettle 
by the side of the stove to continue boiling for about a quarter of an 
hour ; when done, drain and dish up the fish with some pieces of liver 
and charlton* — which should be boiled apart from the fish, so that the 
oil contained in the liver may not spoil the colour or flavour of the cod. 
Send up to table with a boat of oyster-sauce (No. 50). 

445. SLICES OF COD, A LA SEVILLE. 
Wash and dry half a pound of Carolina rice ; fry it in salad-oil, 
drain it on a sieve, and afterwards put it into a large fricandeau pan ; 
then cut some pieces of crimped cod, about four inches square, and fry 
them of a fine colour in some salad oil, afler which, drain and place 
them on the rice. Next cut a Spanish onion into very thin slices, and 
fry these in some of the oil used for the fish ; drain off the oil — and add 
six large ripe tomatas — ^from which the seeds have been squeezed ; sim- 
mer the tomatas and onion together on the fire for five minutes, and pour 
the whole on the fish and rice ; season with a little cayenne, salt, and 
lemon-juice ; moisten with a pint of good broth ; place a buttered paper 
on the top, cover with the lid of the pan, and put the whole to bake in 
the oven. In about half an hour the fish and rice will be done ; when 
take the pieces of cod out of the rice, place them on an earthen 
dish, and with a wooden spoon stir the rice over the fire, in order to mix 
it with the seasoning; after which put the rice on a silver dish, and 
place the pieces of cod-fish on it ; sauce it round with some muscle-sauce 
(No. 52), and send to table. This is a favourite dish in Spain. 

446. COD, A L'mDIENNE. 

TaiM some pieces of cod in the shape of fillets ; keep them rather 
thick ; place them neatly in a deep sautapan — previously buttered ; then 
moisten them with some Indian curry-sauce (No. 47) prepared for the 
puxpose ; cover with a stewpan-lid, and set the fillets on a sharp fire to 
simmer ; about twenty minutes will suffice to stew them : then dish up 
the fillets — the one overlaying the other — in the form of a circle ; pass 
the sauce through a tammy, pour it over them, and send to table. 

447. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD, A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

In order to produce this dish in perfection, it is advisable to bespeak 
some very thin slices of crimped cod — not more than half an inch thick, 
of the fishmonger, a-day or two before-hand. About an hour or two 
before dinner, sprinkle the slices of cod with salt ; and ten minutes before 
sending to table, boil them quickly ; as soon as done, dish them up, 
and send them to be eaten immediately, with some delicately-prepared 
IXntdi sauce (No. 42). 

This method of preparing crimped fish is a favourite one in Holland ; 
whore, however, plain butter is taken with it, prepared as follows : — 

Put the butter in a small stewpan, with a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
Hid lemon-juioe ; then keep stirring it over a slow fire till the butter is 
tuffkiftntly melted, taking care that it doe mot become oily. 

* A toft whitish tubfltaoce in curlin JdUband inside codfish. 



120 DR£SS£D FISH IN GENERAL. 

448. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD, A LA COLBERT. 

pRocuRB some very thin Blices of crimped cod ; breadcrumb and fry 
them ; dish them up with some cold mattre cC hotel butter (No. 44) under 
tiiem ; then sauce them round with an essence prepared for the purpose, 
as follows : — 

Put the trimmings of the fish with a sole, or two or three flounders cut 
into pieces, into a small stewpan, with carrot, parsley roots, thyme, 
mace, and peppercorns; moisten with two glasses of white wine, and 
allow the whole to boil down to half; add a small ladleful of good con- 
soniTTi^ ; set the essence to boil gently for half an hour ; strain and 
reduce it down to one-third, to which add a spoonful of bechamel or 
aUemaiide sauce, and use it as directed above. 

449. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD, IN MATELOTTE NORMANDE. 
Place some thin slices of cod on a silver dish, previously spread with 
butter ; season with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle some chopped 
parsley over them ; moisten with two glasses of French white wine, and 
some oyster liquor ; cover with a buttered paper, and half an hour before 
dinner put them in the oven to bake, taking care to baste them occasion- 
ally. When the fish is done, pour the liquor there may be in the dish into 
a ragout prepared for the purpose, in the usual manner (No. 194), and 
wipe the edges of the dish with a wet napkin ; sauce the slices of cod 
over with the ragout, and garnish round with a border of fried smelts 
and large crayfisli ; place some glazed oval croutons round the inner 
circle, and send to table. 

460. SCOLLOPS OF COD, A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut and trim some crimped cod into neat scollops ; simmer them in a 
sautapan with a little fresh butter and salt ; when done, drain them on 
a napkin, and afterwards toss them gently in a stewpan, with some 
good cream bechamel sauce (No. 6) ; dish them up, pyramidally, in the 
erUr^e dish, and garnish round with a border of potato croquettes. 

To save time — or indeed as a variety — these scollops may also be pre- 
pared in the following manner : — 

Boil the slices, or piece of cod, drain it, and then break it gently 
into large flakes, which toss in some bScJuzmel sauce; dish up and 
garnish as directed above. 

461. SLICES OF CRIMPED COD, A LA MAJTRE d'HOTEL. 
Steep some thin slices of crimped cod in a little oil, pepper, and salt ; 
broil them on a gridiron rubbed with whitening, and when done, glaze 
them over very l^htly ; dish them up, and sauce them undef and round 
with a well-seasoned maitre cThdtel sauce (No. 48), and send to table. 

462. cod's head BAKED. 
Fill the hollow of the gills with some veal stuffing; put the head 
into a deep baking dish— ^season with pepper and salt, a little chopped 
shalot, and a spoonful of chopped parsley ; moisten with two glasses of 
Sherry, and a little mushroom catsup ; put two pats of butter on the fish, 
and place it in the oven to bake, remembering that it must be frequently 
basted with its liquor, — adding, if necessary, a little conaommi for the 
purpose. After the cod*s head has been in the oven ten minutes, sprinkle 
it over with some bruised raspings of bread, and when its baking is com- 



HADDOCKS, AND COD'S SOUNDS. 121 

pleted, place it on its dish ; then add a spoonful of brown sauce and half 
a glass of wine to the liquor in which the head has been baked, and 
allow the whole to boil down to the consistency of sauce ; add a pat of 
butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice ; work the whole 
together, pour the sauce round the cod's head, and send to table. 



HADDOCKS, AND COD'S SOUNDS, 

OOMPRISINO 

Haddocks, ^ la FojfaU. Fillets of Haddocks, a la Mareckale, 

„ stuffed and baked. ^ ^ a Vltcdienne. 

^ a la Belle wte, Cod^s sounds and Egg sauce. 

y, broiled, with Dutch sauce. „ „ d la Havi^fotle, 

„ boiled, with Egg sauce. ^ 99^^ Gasconne, 

Fillets of Haddocks, a la Hoyale. „ „ iila Roffale, 

463. HADDOCKS, A LA ROYALE. 

BoNB and stuff two haddocks with some quenelle forcemeat of 
whiting ; place them head to tail on a baking-sheet ; then season them 
with a little pepper and salt, and bake them. After allowing the had- 
docks to cool, cover them with a thin layer of quenelle forcemeat of 
whitings, and place thereon some contUis fillets of soles, in a slanting 
direction ; mask the heads with a little of the forcemeat, mixed with 
some pounded lobster coral, and form the eyes and mouth with trufHes ; 
cover the haddocks with very thin layers of bacon,— placing over all, a 
buttered paper. About three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the 
haddocks in the oven to finish baking; just before serving, take off 
the paper, and remove the layers of bacon, and with a clean napkin 
absorb all the grease and moisture there may be upon them ; then care- 
fully remove the haddocks on to their dish, sauce them round with some 
P^unsian sauce (No. 40), and garnish them with some guenelles of lobster 
— ^with a large scollop of truffle intervening between each quenelle^ and 
send to table. 

464. HADDOCKS STUFFED AKD BAKED, 

Are prepared in the same manner as cods* heads baked, previously 
described. 

Haddocks, after being baked, may also be served with jmvrade, 
piquanU, tomata, Italian, oyster, muscle, or caper sauces. 

455. HADDOCKS, A LA BELLE YUE. 

Skin two haddocks ; truss them as you would whitings for frying, 
and put them into a baking dish ; cover them with a layer of 
quenelle forcemeat of whitings — coloured with lobster coral ; then place 
across their backs some fillets of soles contises with green gherkins, 
taking care to leave the space of an inch between each fillet, — so as to 
insert some small truffles cut in the shape of olives ; cover them with 
thin layers of fat bacon, and over all place a buttered paper ; moisten 
with three glasses of white wine, and put the haddocks in the oven to 



122 DRESSED FISH IN GEKERAL. . 

hake for about half, an hour. Then remove the paper and baicon, and 
slip them with great care on to their dish ; sauce them round with a 
ravigotte sauce (No. %0), and garnish with a border of quendlM of 
whiting in which has been mixed a sufficient quantity (^ veiy fine 
chopped parsley^ to colour them, and send to table. 

456. HADDOCKS BROILED, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. 

To broil haddocks in perfection, it is necessary first, to wipe them 
well over, and then to score them with a sharp kmfe ; next to steep them 
in a little salad oil, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before dinner, 
place the haddocks on a gridiron which has been rubbed with whitening 
and broil them ; when done on both sides, dish them up on a ni^kin, 
and send some Dutch sauce (No. 42) to table in a boat 

467. HADDOCKS BOILED, WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Boil the haddocks in salt and water ; when done, drain and dish them 
up, and send them to table with egg sauce (No. 84) in a boat. 

This fish, when plain boiled, may be sent to table with almost every 
kind of fish sauce. 

458. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA ROYALE. 

Fillet one or more haddocks, remove the skin by passing the knife 
under the fillet, so as to detach the tul end of the skm from the fish, 
then take a firm hold of the piece of detached sldn, and inserting the 
knife, with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw the sldn towards 
you and keep moving the knife to and fro, at the same time pressing the 
blade firmly on the skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut eadi 
fillet into two or more smaller fillets, trim them neatly, by paring off 
the rough edges ; place them in a basin with two sliced shalots, some 
sprigs of parsley, oil, and lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt 
About ten minutes before dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and aftei^ 
wards dip each fillet separately in some light batter, and firy them of 
a fine colour in some hogs-lard, heated for the purpose; when done, 
drain them on a napkin to absorb the grease ; dish the fillets in the fonn 
of a wreath, lying shoulder to shoulder, pour in the centre some white 
ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 

459. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA MARECHALE. 
Prbpabb these in the same manner as fillets of turbot d la MarichaU 
(see No. 404). 

460. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A L^ITALIENinS. 

Fillet one or more haddocks, remove the skins, cut and trim them 
into smaller fillets ; place these neatly in a sautapan with some clarified 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, squeeze a little lemon-juice over 
them, sprinkle some chopped parsley ; over all place a round of buttered 
paper, and put them in the oven, or on a moderate fire, to simmer for 
about ten minutes ; then drain the fiUets on a ni^kin, and aflenmuds 
dish them up in the form of a wreath, one fillet resting on the other, and 
pour some Italian sauce mixed with a pat of butt^, a little anchovy and 
lemon-juice over them, and send to taUe. 

By varying the sauce, fillets of haddocks prepared in the above maii^ 



SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. 123 

ner, are named according to the sauce employed ; as for instance, d la 
rwigoUe, d la matre d'kdtdf d la HoUandaise, &c. 

461. cod's SOUNDS, AND EGO SAUCK 
Pbbpabatory to boiling cod's sounds, it is quite necessary that they 
should be wnked in milk and water for at least six hours, and then 
washed and put to boil in a stewpan containing fresh milk and water, 
then continue gently boiling till they are done— about an hour will 
suffice for this. When done, drain them on a napkin, cut them into 
pieces about an inch and a half square, and put them into a stewpan 
with a sufficient quantity of egg sauce (No. 84) ; toss the whole together 
over the fire, pile them up on a dish in a pyramidal form, garnish them 
round with neatly cut boiled parsnips, and send to table. 

462. cod's sounds, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 
Prspabb and cut the sounds into pieces, as directed in the preceding 
article ; toss them in some ravigoUe sauce, (No. 20), dish them up, gar- 
-' ^ round with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table. 



463. cod's sounds, A LA GASCONNE. 

Prbparb the sounds as usual, steep them in oil, vinegar, shalot, and 
parsley, season with a little minionette pepper ; just before dinner, fry 
the sounds in batter, dish them up in the form of a wreath, pour under 
them some Gcueanne sauce (No. 68), and send to table. 

464. cod's SOUNDS, A LA ROYALE. 

Thb sounds should be prepared and fried as in the preceding case ; 
and afterwards dished up similarly, with white ravigoUe sauce (No. 29) 
poured under them, and sent to table. 

Cod's sounds may also be dressed d la poulette, d VIndxenne, d la 
hMamely d la nuutre d^hStely in the same manner, of course substi- 
tuting any of the above sauces for the ravigoUe. 



DRESSED SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL, 

OOMPIU81NO 

SoIm fried, with Shrimp aaoce. Ournets stufied and baked. 
„ boiled. n a la Damphine, 

^ kla OolberL ^ ^ la Of noise. 

» «• graim. Mackerel boiled. 
„ wi&fine-liflriw. „ hioHed^ a la maUreiTkoieL 

^ iila Pan$iame. ^ broiled with nut-brown butter. 

^ ^la MariehaU. Fillets of Mackerel, a la tAattre cTkoid. 
« bi Maielolie Normande. 
, kimPksi,. 

466. FRIED SOLES WITH SHRIMP SAUCE. 
MoMRAn sized soles are preferable for frying, as when large, from 
their aiie and thickiiess, they must necessarily remain a considerable 



124 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL^ 

time in the frying-fat, and will thereby contract a strong flavour, as well 
as imbibe a greater portion of the fat: they are also less likely to appear 
crisp, 80 essential a requisite in all fried fish. Clean the soles thoroughly, 
pull oif the brown skin, cut off the head transversely, and with a pair 
of large scissors trim away the fins close up to the fillets ; then wash 
and wipe the soles dry, and roll them in a little flour ; dip Uiem first in 
some beaten egg, and then in fine breadcrumbs, and place the fish on a 
dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time ; then 
fry them in some hot lard ; when done, drain them on a napkin, and dish 
them up with some fried parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat full of 
shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, or lobster sauce. 

466. BOILED SOLES. 
For boiling, crimped soles are preferable ; but when these are not to 
be obtained, choose large and thick fish, such, for instance, as Torbay 
soles. Trim the soles, and rub them over with lemon juice; sprinkle 
over some salt, and put them on in boiling water ; when done, dish them 
up, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with Dutch, lobster, 
shrimp, anchovy, or French caper sauce. 

467. SOLES, A LA COLBERT. 
Clean and trim the soles, wash and wipe them dry with a dean 
cloth ; then flour them over and fry them, after which cut them open at 
the back, and carefully take out the back bone ; fill the inside with some 
cold maitre (Tkdtel butter (No. 44) ; turn the soles on their backs in a 
dish, pour round them an essence of fish, or of anchovies (No. 176), and 
serve them quite hot. 

468. SOLES AU GRATIN. 

Spread some fresh butter on a silver dish, and place the soles, head 
and tail, on it; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle some chopped 
parsley over them, and moisten with two glasses of white wine ; half an 
hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake ; when they have been 
in twenty minutes take them out, and after saucing them all over with 
some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), shake some fine raspings of bread 
over the whole, and put the soles back in the oven to gratinate for a few 
minutes ; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander over 
them, and serve. 

460. SOLES WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Trim the soles close up to the fillets ; put them on a buttered sautapan ; 
sprinkle over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot ; 
season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with two 
glasses of white wine: cover them with a buttered paper, and set 
them in the oven to bake. When done, drain their liquor into a small 
stewpan containing some allemande sauce ; add a spoonful of diopped 
and blanched parsley, a pat of fresh butter, and lemon juice ; work the 
whole well together on the fire ; wipe the edges of the dish with a clean 
napkin dipped in hot water, and sauce the soles over ; place round them 
a border of glazed thin craiUons, and send them to table. 

470. SOLES, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Trim a pair of fine laige soles, slit them down the back, and take the 
bone out ; line the soles with some quenelle forcemeat of wlutingi mixed 



SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. 125 

with some chopped fine-herbs ; put them on a buttered sautapan, season 
with pepper and salt, moisten with two glasses of white wine, cover with 
a buttePMl paper, and put them in the oven to bake. When done, put 
them in press between two earthen dishes, and set them in the larder to 
cooL In the mean time prepare some stiffly-reduced allemande sauce, 
with which, after neatly trimming the soles, cover them all over ; and 
when the sauce, by getting cold, has set firmly upon them, cover them 
with egg and breadcrumbs ; fry them of a fine light colour, dish them up, 
and garnish with a Parisian ragout (No. 208), place round them a 
bolder of large cray-fish and glazed croutons, and send to table. 

471. SOLES, A LA MARECHALE. 
BoNX a pair of soles, line them vrith quenelle forcemeat of whiting, 
breadcrumb with allemande sauce, and then fry the fish ; drain them on 
a napkin, dish them up, and sauce them round with some Venetian 
sauce (No. 26), and serve. 

472. MATELOTTE NORMANDE OF SOLES. 

BoNB two fine soles ; line them with quenelle forcemeat of whitings 
mixed with some chopped fine-herbs ; place them on a buttered sautapan, 
season with pepper and salt, moisten with half a bottle of French white 
wine, some oyster liquor, and white essence of mushrooms ; put them in 
the oven to hake, and when done, remove the soles carefully on to their 
dish. Reduce the liquor, incorporate it in a rich Matehtte Normande 
ragout (No. 194), with which sauce the soles all over, and garnish 
round with a border of large cray-fish, and some oval croutons, made with 
the crust of French rolls filed in butter, and glazed, then serve. 

47a MATELOTTE OF SOLES, A LA PLESSY. 
BoNB, stuff and bake a pair of large soles, as described in the preceding 
directions, and when done, put them in press between two earthenware 
dishes ; as soon as they have cooled, wash them over with some fish 
quenelle forcemeat, coloured with lobster coral ; smooth them over with 
the blade of a large knife, dipped in hot water ; then place the soles 
carefully on a silver dish buttered for the purpose, and after ornamenting 
the centre of each sole with a bold decoration,— composed of truffles, — 
cover them with some very thin layers of fat bacon : moisten with a 
glats of French white wine, and put them in the oven for about a quarter 
of an hour, in which time they will be done. Remove the bacon, glaze 
them slightly, and garnish them round with a Parisian sauce (No. 40), 
with the adoption of some fine white muscles ; place round the maielotte 
a border of fried smelts, previously boned and stufied with forcemeat, 
and serve. 

474. GURNETS STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Cut off the fins and head from two or more gurnets, stuff them with 
veal stuffing, sew them up, and score them with a sharp knife on both 
aides ; then place the gurnets in a buttered baking-^lish, season them 
with pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and two pats of butter ; 
moisten with two glasses of Sherry, some essence of mushrooms, and a 
little coHdommS, and put them in the oven to bake,~taking care to 
baste them every five minutes until they are done. Then remove the 
gurnets on to their dish, and detach the glaze from the bottom and sides 



126 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

of the dish in which they have been baked, with a glass of Sherry ; 
reduce the essence to a demi-glaze, and incorporate it into one of Uie 
following sauces^ with a pat of butter and a little essence of ancfaoyies ; 
pour the sauce over the gurnets, and send to table. Either piqwxnte, 
ItaUenngy Gascanne, provetifole, paivrade, Ghioite, or tomata saaoe, 
will suit this fish, when prepared in the above manner. 

475. GURNETS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Cut oiT the heads and fins from two gurnets, boil them in water with 
a little salt and vinegar ; when done, diun and skin them, then cover 
them with some stifRy-reduced allemande sauce (No. 7), and when this 
has cooled upon them, egg them over and cover with breadcrumbs, and 
place them on a buttered baking-sheet ; half an hour before dinner put 
them in the oven to bake, and as soon as they have acquired a fine 
colour, dish them up, and garnish round with some ravigoUe sauce — 
containing some cray-fish-tails, and send to table. 

476. GURNETS, A LA GENOISE. 

Boil or bake one or more gurnets in some mirepoix (No. 2d6) ; drain, 
skim, glaze, and place them on their dish, and sauce them with GSnoUe 
sauce (No. 80) ; garnish round with large crayfish, or quenelles of whiting, 
or gurnet 

Gurnets, either boiled or baked, may be sent to table with any kind of 
fish-sauce ; but, as they do not possess any decided flavour of their own, 
sharp or jnquante sauce should be used in preference. 

Note, — Fillets of gurnets may be dressed in every variety of fiwm, 
and served with any kind of sauce, similar to soles. 

477. BOILED MACKEREL. 

Boil the mackerel in salt and water, dish it up, and send to table, 
either with fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. 

478. BROILED MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and 
oil it over ; then place it on a gridiron, over a moderate fire ; when the 
mackerel is done on one side, turn it over on the other ; and as soon as it 
is done through, take it up on a dish and put some cold maUre dkoUi 
butter (No. 44) inside it, and pour a well-finished fMutre d*hatel sauce 
(No. 48) round it, and send to table. 

479. BROILED MACKEREL, WITH NUT-BROWN BUTTER. 

Bboil the mackerel as directed in the last article, dish it up, garnish 
it round with firied parsley, and pour over it some nut-brown butter 
(No. 98). 

480. FILLETS OF MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE d'hOTEL. 

FiLLBT the mackerel thus : — 

Place the fish on the table with its back towards you, then run the 
knife in just below the gills, turn the edge of the blade ui^er, press with 
the fingers of the left lu^d full on the upper end oi the fillet, and bearing 
with the blade of the knife upon the aide of the back-booe, diaw Uie 
knife gently down to the tail, thou turn the mackeiel over and take the 
fillet m the other side : when this is done» cut eadi fillet into two^ trim 



MULLETS. 127 

the ends neatly^ and place them side by side on a buttered sautapan, 
leason with pepper and salt, and chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon OYer them, and then pour a little oiled butter upon each, 
and cover with a round of buttered paper. About twenty minutes before 
dinnery either put them in the oven, or on a stove-fire to simmer, and when 
done, drain the fillets upon a napkin, dish them up in the form of a 
wreath, the fillets resting upon each other ; sauce them over with some 
maUre cthdtel sauce (No. 43), and send to table. 

The soft roes, if any, in the mackerel, should be parboiled in boiling 
water containing a little vinegar and salt ; then drain them on a napkin, 
and place them in the centre of the fillets when dished up. 

Fillets of mackerel prepared as described in the first part of the above 
directions^ may be sent to table with either of the following sauces : — 
9eriprSf ravigotte, Italienne, or Ginoise, 



DRESSED MULLETS, &c 

COMPRISING 



IfnUeU in caMS, with fine herbfl. Fillets of Whiting, h la maitre tThoiel, 

„ d rHalieiine, „ ^ aia Horly, 

„ kla O4noi»e. m m ^ ^ Alarichafe, 

^ an ragomi Cardinal. „ „ h la Royale, 

^ a la Chuterfidd. Whitings boiled. 

Oimy Mnllets, Gnylings, &c. ^ fri«d- 

„ broiled, &c. 

481. MULLETS IN CASES, WITH FIXE HERBS. 

ScALB and trim the muUets, place them in a sautapan spread with fresh 
butter for the purpose ; season with a little pepper and salt^ cover them 
with some fine-heAw sauce (No. 14), moisten with two glasses of Sherry 
or white wine. About half an hour before dinner (the exact time depend- 
ing cfD the size of the fish), put the mullets in the oven to l^dce ; 
seeasionally basting them with their own liquor. When done, put each 
«f them separately in an oblong paper case saturated with oil, and then 
li|^tly coloured in the oven ; add a glass of wine to the sauce remaining 
m the sautapan, shake it about to detach the glaze from the sides, and 
then mix the whole with the remainder of the fine-herbs sauce reserved 
ht the purpose ; reduce the whole, mix in a little essence of anchovy, 
snd the juice of half a lemon ; add a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley, sauce the mullets over in their cases, dish them up, and send to 
taUe. 

MoUets may be dressed with fine-herbs also, in the following man- 
ner : — Trim and place the mullets on a buttered sautapan, season with 
pepper and salt, strew over them chopped mushrooms, shalot, and parsley; 
mmsten with two glasses of Sherry and a lai^ spoonful of brown sauce ; 
bdce and finish them exactly in the same manner as previously directed. 

482. MULLETS, A l'ITALIENNE. 

Whbt the mullets are trinuned, put them in a buttered sautapan, 
season with pepper and salt, and moisten with three glasses of French 
white wine, and some essence of mushrooms ; bake the fish, taking care 



128 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

to baste them frequently while in the oven ; when done, dish them up, 
and mask them oYer with some glaze mixed with some finely-bruised 
lobster-coral ; sauce them round with some Italian sauce (No. If), incor- 
porated with the liquor in which the mullets have been baked, after it 
has been reduced, also a little essence of anchovy butter and lemon- 
juice, and send to table. 

483. MULLETS, A LA GENOISE. 
Prepare the mullets in a sautapan, as before mentioned, moisten with 
two glasses of Claret, and some essence of mushrooms ; when the mullets 
are baked, glaze them with some lobster coloured glaze, and dish them 
up. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets were Imked, and incor- 
porate it with some Giiioise sauce (No. 80), together with a pat of 
anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice ; sauce the mullets round, garnish 
with a border of large cray-fish and quenelles of whiting, and send to 
table. 

484. MULLETS, AU RAGOUT CARDINAL 

Prepare the mullets as d Vltalienne^ dish them up after being 
glazed of a fine scarlet hue ; garnish them round with a rich cardinal 
ragotU (No. 200) ; finish by placing a border of laige cray-fish and deco- 
rated quenelles of whiting round them, and send to table. 

486. MULLETS, A LA CHESTERFIELD ; GRAY MULLETS ; GRAYLINGS ; 
AND WHITING POULT. 

When the mullets are trimmed, put them into a buttered sautapan 
with half a bottle of dry Champagne, some essence of mushrooms, and a 
little pepper and salt ; bake them in the oven, taking care to baste them 
frequently ; when done, glaze and dish them up, reduce their liquor, and 
add it to some bisque of cray-fish sauce, previously prepared as follows: — 

Thoroughly wash and draw the gall from two dozen cray-fish, put 
them into a stewpan with a small quantity of carrot and celery cut 
fine, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley; 
moisten with the remaining half bottle of Champagne ; boil the cray-fidi, 
and when done, remove the sheUs firom the claws and tails, reserving 
the shells for the purpose of making cray-fish butter afterwards (No. 
1 84). Next, pound the bodies, tails, and claws in the mortar, take the 
produce up into a stewpan, moisten with a large ragout spoonful of good 
aUemande sauce, and afler wanning the purU over the fire, rub it 
through a tammy in the usual manner; remembering that it must be 
kept sufficiently thick to be able to mask the fish with it Then, reduce 
the liquor in which the mullets and cray-fish have been dressed to half 
glaze, and incorporate a sufficient quantity of it with the bisque^ to give 
it flavour; add a pat of lobster or cray-fish butter, made with the sheUs 
reserved for this purpose, a little essence of anchovies and lemon-juice ; 
pour the sauce over the muUets, and garnish them round with a border of 
quenelles of whiting, coloured with chopped and blanched parsley, and 
some small fillets of soles contisSs with truffles : place these alternately 
overlapping each other. The fillets of soles afler being cantisis with 
truffles should be turned round and placed in a sautapan with some finesh 
butter, previously to being simmered. 

y^oie. — Mullets should never be drawn ; it is suffident to take out the 



MULLETS.— WHITINGS. 1 29 

gills only, as the liver and trail are considered the hest parta of this fish. 
According to Yarrell's History of British Fishes, there are two distinct 
species of red mullets : the one is called the striped red, the other the 
plain red mullet, the former being the sort generally exposed for sale 
by the London fishmongers. Mr. Yarrell also informs us, that the generic 
term mtUltis, from which their name is derived, is said to have reference 
to the scarlet colour of the sandal or shoe worn by the Roman Consuls, 
and in later times, by the Emperors — which was called mtdletu. It 
would seem that in those days, the almost incredible price of 240/. was 
given for three mullets of large size. 

Gret Mullets should be dressed in the same manner as red mul- 
lets ; they are sometimes plain boiled or broiled, and sent to table with 
any of the various fish sauces in use : but this fish, from its want of 
flavour, especially requires the assistance of the most skilful cookery. 

The Grayling is seldom seen in the London market, although, 
from its claims to the notice of epicures, it certainly deserves to be better 
known ; when dressed in the manner described for the preparation of 
mullets or whitings, it will be found deserving a higher estimation than 
has hitherto been accorded to it. This fish is in season in the months 
of October and November. 

Whiting Poult, which in shape somewhat resembles perch, and in 
colour is like the whiting, having when fresh much of its silvery hue, 
is found to be in best condition during the months of November and De- 
cember, although they are sometimes taken in the spring of the year. 
Partaking in a great measure of the same character as the grayling, 
it should, like that fish, be prepared for table in a similar manner to red 
mullets. The same method is also to be used in dressing gwynniad, a 
species of lake fish, commonly found in Wales, Cumberland, and some 
parts of Ireland and Scotland. 

486. FILLETS OP WHITINGS, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Fillet the number of whitings required, cut each fillet in two, trim 
the ends neatly round, and place the fillets side by side in a buttered sau- 
tapan; season with pepper and salt, strew over them some chopped 
parsley, cover the fillets with a little melted fine^ butter, and squeeze the 
juice of half a lemon over them ; cover with a buttered round of paper, 
and set them in the oven, or on the stove-fire — firom five to seven minutes 
will suffice to do them ; then, take the fillets up carefully on to a nap- 
kin to drain, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a close circle, 
pour some maStre cChoUl sauce (No. 48) over them, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of whitings thus prepared may be sent to table with 
any of the following sauces : — Italian, ravigoUey shrimp, fine-herbs, cray- 
fish, Dutch sauce, mprime, with scollops of lobster, or oyster sauces: the 
diih IB named accordUng to the sauce used for the fillets. 

487. FILLETS OP WHITINGS, A LA HORLY. 

FiLLST the whitings, and remove the skin from each, by first placing 
the fillet on the table, with the skin downwards, then inserting the point 
of the knife between the skin and the flesh, bearing lightly with the left 
buid on the fillet, gradually draw the knife under, so as to separate the 

K 



130 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

skin from the fish without wasting its flesh : having thus trimnied the 
fillets, next put them into a basin with pepper and salt, thyme and 
bayleaf, three shalots cut into slices, and some sprigs of parsley ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of oil and one of French vinegar, and after the fil- 
lets have been steeped for about a couple of hours, drain them on a nap- 
kin, dip them thoroughly in flour, and fry them of a fine light colour ; dish 
them up in a pyramidal form, with some parsley fried of a green colour, 
and serve up with the fish a sauce-boat of either of the following sauces : — 
white or brown Italian, tomata, poivrad^, Dutch, ravigotUy or Gasconne. 

488. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA MARECHALE. 
Trim the fillets of any number of whitings, as in the previous instance; 
cut each in two, trim the pieces neatly, and place them separately on a 
large earthen dish. Then mask each fillet with a thin coating of reduced 
allemande sauce, first seasoning the fillets with pepper and salt ; when 
the spuce has stiffened on them, dip each fillet in some very fine bread- 
crumbs, afterwards in beaten eggs, and then in bread-crumbs again; 
smooth and shape the fillets with the blade of a knife, and as each is 
finished off place it with care in a sautapan containing some clarified but- 
ter. Twenty minutes before dinner, set the fillets on a brisk stove-fire to 
fry ; as soon as they have acquired a light colour on the under side, turn 
them carefully over with a knife, and when the fillets are nicely coloured 
on both sides, remove them on to a napkin, in order to absorb the butter 
that may remain about them ; then dish them up in the form of a 
wreath, and sauce them in the centre with some Dutch sauce — with the 
addition of an infusion of horseradish in French vinegar — some shrimps, 
oysters, muscles, prawns, cray-fish or merely some chopped and blanched 
parsley, according to taste or convenience. 

489. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA ROYALE. 

Trim and marinade the fillets of whitings in the manner directed for 
preparing whitings d la Ilorly (No. 487). About twenty minutes before 
dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and then dip each fillet separately 
in some light-made frying batter, and throw them one after another 
into some frying fat heated for the purpose ; as soon as they are done, 
and have acquired a light brown colour, take the fillets out of the fat on 
to a cloth, with the comers of which touch them lightly to absorb any 
grease they may retain ; then dish the fillets up either in a pyramidal 
form, or else in a circle, and pour some white ravigatU^ white Italian, 
Venetian, or Dutch sauce, under and round them, and send to table. 

400. WHITINGS, BOILED. 
When the whitings are trimmed, boil them in spring water with a 
little salt — about seven minutes wiU suffice to do them ; take the fish 
out of the water as soon as done, dish them up on a fish-plate covered 
with a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following 
gauces : — anchovy, shrimp, plain butter, or Dutch. 

491. WHITINGS, PRIED. 

To prepare whitings for firying, it is necessary first to skin them as 
follows : — 

With a cloth in the left hand, take a firm hold of the whiting at the 
back part of the head, just below the gills, then loosen the skin on each 



CHAR. 131 

tide of the fish, just at the commencement of the upper dorsal fin, by 
inserting the point of a small knife, and with the right hand pull the skin 
off sharply, first on one side and then on the other. When the fish is 
skinned and trimmed, turn the tail round into its mouth, and fcisten the 
ends together with a short peg of wood ; dip each fish into some beaten 
egffs, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs. A quarter of an hour 
before dinner, firy them of a fine colour in some fat heated for the 
purpose, dish them on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to table with 
a boatful of either of the following sauces: — anchovy, Dutch, shrimp, or 
plain butter. 

402. WHITINGS, BROILED. 
Trim and score the whitings on both sides, rub them over with oil, and 
broil them on a gridiron, previously rubbed with whitening; when broiled 
on one side, turn them over on the other, taking care to keep them of a 
fine colour; when done, dish them on a napkin, and send to table 
with a boatful of either of the following sauces : — Dutch, white ratri- 
ffoUe, Venitian, brown, oyster sauce, or maUre cCkdtd. 

Note, — Whitings in cases with fine herbs, stuffed and baked ^ la 
Villeroi, d la cardinal^ &c.| are dressed in the same manner as mullets. 



FRESH-WATER FISH. 

SECTION I. 
COMPRISING 

C3iar, a la Genoim, Lunprev, a la Beauehamp. 

„ in Afatelotfe. Smelts uied. 
n ^ia HoUandaiae, „ in Matdotie, 

„ ikt Beamfort, „ in caaei, with fine-herbe, 

Limprey in Maidotte. ^ dla RcnfoU, 

^ a la Foley 

Char is in season from July till October, and forms a most deli- 
dous variety for tlie table in the summer season. When perfectly 
fresh, it makes perhaps the best water aoucket of any fish.* 

403. CHAR, A LA GENOISE. 

Boil the fish in salt and water, and when done, skin and glaze them; 
dish them up, sauce with some GinoUe sauce (No. dO), garnish with a 
bolder of small quendlea of whiting, and cray-fish-tails, and send to table. 

494. CHAR, IN MATELOTTE. 

Trim the char intended to be dressed, place them in an oval stewpan 
with an onion and carrot cut in thin slices, also a bayleaf and a sprig of 
thyme, a bouquet of parsley and green onions, a blade of mace, a few 
pepper-cornSy some parings of mushrooms, and a little salt ; moisten with 

* Walfir aouchet of char is deacribed among the wmler mutekett. 

K 2 



132 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

a bottle of claret, and set the whole to stew gently on a stOTe-fire for 
about twenty minutes or half an hour^ according to the nze of the fish. 
As soon as the fish are done, drain them on a wet napkin ; remove their 
skin with a knife, and place them neatly on the dish. Then, reduce 
the liquor in which the char have been stewed (after first being strained 
and skimmed), with a sufficient quantity of brown sauce for the pur- 
pose ; when the sauce is reduced, add a little nutmeg, a pat of butter, 
and some lemon-juice, and pass it through a tammy into a stewpan con- 
taining some prepared button-mushrooms, button-onions, and Tery small 
queneUes of whiting ; warm the ragout^ pour it over and about the char, 
garnish the mateloUe with a border of large cray-fish, and some crotUonSf 
and serve. 

496. CHAR, A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Boil the char in salt and water, dish them up on a napkin, and send 
to table with a boatful of Dutch-sauce. 

Char, thus plain boiled, may also be sent to table with parsley and 
butter, green ravigotUy or cray-fish sauce. 

496. CHAR, A LA BEAUFORT. 
Place the char when trimmed in an oval stewpan, with sliced carrot 
and onion, a faggot of parsley and green onions, mace, mushrooms, pepper- 
corns, thyme, bay-leaf, and salt ; moisten with French white wine, and 
set the fish to stew gently on the stove-fire. When done, drain them on 
to a napkin, skin and mask them witli some glaze mixed with some 
bruised coral of lobster, place them on their dish, and sauce them round 
with a Parisian ragovt (No. 203) mixed with the liquor in which the 
char have been stewed, after this Uquor has been reduced to glaze ; gar- 
nish round with a border of lobster croquettes, 

497. LAMPREY MATELOTTE. 
To cleanse lampreys,* it is necessary to put them into a large earthen 
vessel, with plenty of salt, with which they should be well scoured, and 
afterwards thoroughly waited in several waters : by this means they are 
freed firom the slimy mucus which adheres to this kind of fish. The 
lamprey should then be trimmed and cut into pieces about three inches 
long, or it may be left whole, according to taste ; it should be placed in 
a stewpan with sliced carrot and opion, mace, peppercorns, thyme,and bay- 
leaf, parsley, mushrooms, and salt ; moisten it with port wine, and set 
the whole to stew gently on the stove-fire. When done, take half the 
liquor in which the lampreys have been stewed, and reduce it with some 
brown sauce ; add a glass of port wine, and as soon as the sauce is 
reduced to a proper consistency, incorporate with it a pat of butter, a little 
essence of anchovies, and lemon juice, and pass it through a tammy into 
a bai^ir^narie, containing some button*mushrooms, stew^ small button- 

* Of this kind of fish there are two different sorts in general ose for the table ; one 
being tho sea or marine lamprey, which is abundant at Gloucester, and Woroesto', where it 
is dressed and preserved for the porpose of being given as presents. The other sort, the 
hunpera, is mooi smaller ; this is to be foond in the Thames, and may eaaOj be obtained 
at any of the London fishmongers, from the month of October tm Match, at which 
period they are in season. The Lamprey is considered to be in best oondition during the 
months of April and May, when it ascends the SeTem firam the sea, for the puipose of 
depositing its spawn. 



LAMPREY.— SMELTS. 1 33 

onions, and some small quendles of perdu Drain the lampreys, place 
them on a dish, sauce them over with the rctgotU, garnish round with 
cray-fish, and send to table. 

498. LAMPREY, A LA FOLEY, 

Takb two fine lampreys, thoroughly cleansed, form each into a circular 
ihape, and &8ten them with string ; then stew them in claret, with the 
addition of vegetables, &c., as in the foregoing cases ; as soon as the 
lampreys are done, reduce two-thirds of their liquor with an equal pro- 
portion of brown sauce, and some essence of mushrooms — when suffi- 
ciently reduced, incorporate with this some cray-fish butter, and a little 
essence of anchovies, a very little nutmeg, lemon juice, and cayenne, and 
pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing three 
dozen cray-fish-tails, and as many button-mushrooms, — previously pre- 
pared for the purpose. Then drain the lampreys on a napkin, and after- 
wards place them, one resting on the other in the dish, sauce them over 
with the prepared ragotU ; garnish round with a border of glazed crou- 
Urns and fried small fillets of perch. 

499. LAMPREYS, A LA BEAUCHAMP. 

Truss the lampreys as directed in the previous article, stew them in 
old Madeira, and the requisite vegetables, &c, ; add two-thirds of their 
liquor to an equal quantity of good brown sauce, work the whole by 
bmling on the fire, skim and reduce it to its proper consistency, add some 
lobster-butter, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass the sauce through a 
tammy into a bain-marie contdning some small round truffles, lobster 
qtundUg, and tails of cray-fish. Dish up the lampreys as in the last case, 
and sauce them over with the prepared ragout ; garnish round with some 
glazed ^ga8^xy fieurons, and send to table. 

Lampems are treated in the same manner as lampreys, being similar 
m flayour. 

600. SMELTS FRIED, ETC. 

When preparing smelts* for frying, take the gills out carefully, trim 
the fins^ wipe the fish with a clean cloth, dip them first in flour, and 
ifterw^ds in beaten egg, and then in fine breadcrumbs ; firy them m some 
heated hog's lard, of a fine colour ; dish them up on a napkin, and 
^oniah them with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of 
either anchovy, Dutch, shrimp, cray-fish, or lobster sauce. 

Smelts may also be dressed with advantage in Normande mateloUe^ 
in cases, with fine-herbs, it Vltalienne^ d la royale, &c. ; by observing 
the directions given for dressing mullets or whitings in a similar manner. 

* Thii kind offish, which is in general estimation, is in aeaaon from August till March, 
when after depoaiting their qpawn in fireth water, they return to the sea. 



134 



FRESH-WATER FISH. 



SECTION II. 



COMPRISING 



Eck, roitchcocked. Carp, d la Chambord, 

„ pliMn broUed. w a /« Bt^fole. 

^ stewed, a rAnplaine, w ^ ^ BourguignoUe, 

Matdotte of Eela, a la Borddaue, « ^ ^ Piriguetue. 

„ n hh, Parisietme, „ dla ProvemfoU, 

„ „ dlaOinoite, ^ hlaVAlUmande, 

lE/eiB^ ii la Dauphinoise, n ^^ Vtmtienm. 

r, aia VMiietme, Stewed Carp, a CA^fflaim, 

„ a 2a Tartare. Small Carp fried. 

„ a la Poulette, Tench. 
„ a to rindienne, 

601. EELS, SPITCHCOCKED. 

As eels,* when brought into the kitchen^ are frequently alive, it is first 
necessary to kill them : this, firom their tenacity of life, is found by many 
not easy to accomplish : it is, however, merely necessary to insert the 
point of any sharp instrument into the spine, at the back of the head, to 
the depth of an inch, and the eel will become perfectly motionless. Then 
take a firm hold of the eel with a cloth in the left hand, and with the 
right hand proceed to detach the skin just below the ^lls with the 
point of a small knife ; when there is a sufficient quantity of akin 
loosened, so as to gain a purchase, hold the head firmly with the left 
hand, and with a cloth in the right, force the skin to slide off the fish. 
Then cut off the head, make an mcision about two inches in length at 
the vent, and the same at the neck, draw the gut, &c, trim away the 
fins, wash and thoroughly cleanse each fish ; wipe them with a cloth^ and 
then, after sprinkling them with salt, let them lie on a dish for an hour 
or so, previously to dressing them. After having trimmed the eels, lay eadi 
on its back in a straight Ime on the table, and with a knife, open it from 
one extremity to the other ; detach the back-bone, and take it out ; then 
cut the eel into several pieces, about three inches long, season them with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle them over with chopped parsley and shalot; 
dip each piece of eel separately in some beaten egg, and afterwards in 
some fine bread-crumbs. Place the eels thus prepared on a dish in the 
larder, imtil within twenty minutes of dinner-time ; then proceed to fry 
them of a fine colour, and dish them up with fried parsley round them, 
and send to table. Either of the following may be served in a sauce-boat 
with spitchcocked eels : — Dutch, Italienne^ VenUienne, poivrade, pi* 
qnante, Tartare, tomata or Gasconne sauce. 

* There are four distmct torts of eels, the snig^ the broad-nosed, the grig, and the 
sharp-nosed ; the hitter is the kind generally knqwn. The London markets are snpptied 
principaUy from HoUand ; Thames eels are however in high repute, being caught in a 
running stream, their skin is brighter and more silTery ; they are prefieimUe, too, fima 
their greater sweetness, to the Dutch eels. 



EELS. 135 

602. EELS, PLAIN BROILED. 

Bone and cut the eels into three-inch lengths, put them on a dish, 
season with pepper and salt, lemon juice, and two spoonfuls of oil ; 
twenty minutes before dinner, broil them of a light colour, dish them up 
on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to table with either of the 
sauces named in the foregoing article, in a sauce-boat separately. 

603. EELS, STEWED A L'aNGLAISE. 
Thb eels being skinned, trimmed, and cut into pieces about two inches 
long, place them in a stewpan, with some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, 
bayleaf, and thyme, a handful of mushroom trimmings, a few pepper- 
corns, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a little salt ; moisten with half 
a bottle of port wine, cover with a round of buttered paper, replace the 
lid on the stewpan, and set the eels on the stove-fire to stew. When they 
have boiled gently on the comer of the stove for about twenty minutes^ 
they will be done: then drain and trim them, keeping their liquor to 
make the sauce ; place the pieces of eel in a clean stewpan, and then 
proceed to make a sauce for them in the following manner : — Put about 
two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan on the fire, and as soon as it is 
melted, add two table-spoonfuls of flour; with a wooden spoon stir 
them both together over the fire, until the roTiXy or thickening, becomes 
slightly coloured ; then throw in a couple of shalots, and moisten gra- 
dually with the liquor in which the eels have been stewed, adding thereto 
a small ladleful of good stock, and a couple of glasses of port wine. 
Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and set it on the comer of 
the stove, to continue gently throwing up the scum which having 
entirely removed, reduce the sauce, if necessary, to its proper consistency, 
and then pass it through a tammy into the stewpan containing the 
peces of eel ahready mentioned. Just before sending to table, add a few 
prepared button-mushrooms, a pat of fresh butter, some chopped and 
Mandied parsley, lemon juice, and a very small quantity of essence of 
anchovy ; toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed ; 
then dish the eels up in a pyramidal form on their dish, pour the sauce 
over them, garnish round with a dozen orotUons of fried breads and send 
to table. 

604. MATELOTTE OP EELS, A LA BORDELAISE. 
Cut some eels into three-inch lengths, place them in a stewpan with 
iKced carrot, onion, parsley-roots, mushrooms, thyme, and bayleaf, mace, 
ibur cloves, and a few pepper-coms ; season with a little salt, and moisten 
with a bottle of Claret. Set the eels to stew on the fire, and when done, 
drain, trim, and place them in a clean stewpan with a little of their 
liquor to moisten them. Then put the remainder of the liquor into a 
stewpan with a ladleful of brown sauce, some essence of mushrooms and 
two glasses of claret; let this boil, then set it by the side of the stove 
to continue gently boiling, that it may throw up the scum, and become 
bright ; when this is effected, reduce it to its proper consistency, by boil- 
ing it down quickly, stirring the sauce the whole time with a wooden 
spoon to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the stewpan and burning. 
Then pass the sauce through a tanm:iy into a bain-marie, and just before 
using it, make it hot, and incorporate with it the following prepara- 
tion : — mix a pat of butter with three anchovies, a tea-spoonful of 



136 FRESH- WATER FISH. 

capers, a clove of garlic, and a little nutmeg, pound the whole together 
and pass them through a sieve : having well worked this into the sauce, 
pour it over the matelotte, and dish up the latter as follows :— place the 
pieces of eel on the dish, in circular order, — each piece resting on the 
other, with a glazed crotUfm of bread between, — fill the centre with que- 
nelles of perch, place a trimmed and glazed cray-fish across each crouton, 
and garnish round the inner edge of the dish with alternate groups of 
white muscles, button-mushrooms, and stewed button onions. 

505. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA FARISIENNE. 

Cut the eels into four-inch lengths, put them into a stewpan with 
sliced carrot, &c. ; moisten with a bottle of French white wine, some 
essence of mushrooms and the liquor produced by three dozen blanched 
oysters ; stew the eels thus prepared ; drain, trim, and put the 
pieces of eels into a clean stewpan with a little of their own liquor 
to keep them moist and to warm them in. Put the remainder of 
the liquor into a stewpan with a lai^e ladleful of white vdouU sauce, 
and two glasses of white wine; reduce the whole quickly on the fire, 
incorporate therein a leason of four yolks of eggs, a laige pat of cray-fish 
butter, some lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg ; pass the sauce into a bain- 
marie containing the three dozen oysters before alluded to, some button- 
mushrooms, and cray-fish-tails. When about to dish up, first place upon 
the dish an oval piece of bread, about three inches high, cut in flutes all 
round and fried of a light colour ; then set the pieces of eels in a perpen- 
dicular position up against the fried bread, garnish the croustade with a 
group of small queneUes of whitings, sauce with the rcigotU prepared for 
the purpose, garnish round with large cray-fish, and small fluted bread 
croustades filled with soil roes of mackerel or carp, and send to table. 

506. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA GENOISE. 

Either cut the eels into three or four-inch lengths, or truss them in 
an oval or round shape ; prepare them for stewing with the usual v^t- 
ables, &c., moisten with claret or Burgundy wine, and set the eels on the 
fire to stew. When done, drain, trim, and glaze them with some lobster 
coral in the glaze ; pile the eels up in a pyramidal group on a dish, 
sauce with some good Gcnoise sauce, (No. dO), made with the liquor in 
which the eels have been stewed ; garnish round with alternate groups 
of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of caip, and cray-fish-tails, and 
send to table. 

507. EELS, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 
BoNB two large eels, fill them with force-meat of whitings mixed 
with some simmered fine-herbs; then sew the eels up with a large 
worsted needle and some coarse thread ; truss them in a circular form, 
place them in an oval stewpan with some mirepoio! (No. 236), and set 
them to stew on the fire, or in the oven, basting them frequently with 
their own liquor, and taking care that they are not allowed to boil fast, 
as that would cause them to break, and otherwise disfigure them. 
When the eels are done, glaze and dish them up, one resting on the other 
in the dish ; in the centre of one, place a group of quenelles of whiting 
mixed with some chopped truflles, and in the centre of the other, place 
another group of quendles of whitings coloured with lobster coiai ; sauce 
them witli some perigueux sauce (No. 23) in which has been mixed 



EELS. 137 

half the mirepoix the eels have been stewed in, and finish with a pat of 
anchovy butter and lemon-juice. Garnish round with large cray-fish^ 
placing a group of half a dozen of the finest of these in the centre of the 
dish. 

608. EELS, A LA VENITIENNE. 
Cut the eels into pieces four inches long^ stew them in some mirepoix 
of French white wine ; when done, drain, trim and glaze them with some 
lobster coral-coloured glaze, and dish them up in two parallel conical 
groups ; pour round them some Venetian sauce, (No. 26), which has 
been finished with the addition of half the mirepoix in which the eels 
have been stewed, a pat of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon : 
pass this through a tammy into a stewpan containing a pottle of prepared 
button-mushrooms ; some blanched chopped parsley must be added the 
last thing: Garnish round with groups of muscles fried in batter, and 
lerve. 

509. EELS, A LA TARTARE. 

EiTHBB cut the eels into three inch lengths, or truss them whole — in a 
eixcular form ; place them in a stewpan with sliced carrot and onion, 
parsley* bayleaf, and thyme, a few pepper-corns and salt ; moisten with 
a gill of vinegar and some water ; then put them on the fire to boil, and 
as soon as they are done, set them to cool partially in their liquor ; — afler 
which drain, trim, and bread-crumb them with egg, fry them of a fine 
eolour, dish them up with fried parsley, and send to table with some 
tartare sauce, (No. 96), in a sauce-boat . 

Eels d la tartare may also be bread-crumbed as follows. Mix the 
yolks of six eggs and three ounces of fresh butter melted over the fire, 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; with this preparation cover the eels, and 
afterwards bread-crumb them, — causing plenty of bread-crumbs to ad- 
bere; put the eels on a buttered baking-sheet, drop some butter 
through a spoon with holes in it over them, and about half an hour be- 
fore d^ner, place them in the oven to be baked of a fine colour, dish 
them up as in the foregoing case, and send to table with the tartare 
•auce, separately in a sauce-boat. 

610. EELS, A LA POULETTE. 
Strw the eels in the usual manner with white wine, or merely as di- 
rected for d la tartare, then drain, trim, and place them in a clean stew- 
pan, with some of their liquor to keep them moist Just before dinner, 
diah the eels up in a group in the centre of the dish, sauce them with 
•ome good sauce d la poulette mixed with a pat of anchovy butter (and 
if the eels have been stewed in white wine, half their Hquor, reduced 
to a (^aze, should also be added to the sauce) ; place round them alter- 
nate groups of cray-fish-tails tossed in lobster butter to give them a 
brighter colour, and some scollops of perch tossed in some green ravigotte 
lauee ; place in the centre of the eels, just at the top of the group, six 
huge cray-fish, eight glazed croutons of fried bread round the base, and 



511. EELS, A LINDIEJ^NE. 
Stiw the eels as directed in the foregoing cases, dish them up in the 
fcnn of a circle, garnish the centre with plam boiled rice, sauce the eels 
with a good curry (No. 47), and garnish round with some rice croquettes 
to be QUtde as follows : — 



138 FRESH-WATER FISH, 

To four gravy-spoonfuls of boiled rice, add one of good aUemande 
sauce, some nutmeg, and a little grated Parmesan cheese ; stir the whole 
on the fire till it has boiled twe or three minutes, and set it on a plate to 
cool ; then mould the croquettes in the form of corks, pears, or round 
balls, bread-crumb them with egg in the usual way, fry them of a fine 
colour, and use them as directed 

Eels stewed and glazed according to the different modes above de- 
scribed, as well as when bread-crumbed and fried, or baked, may also 
be sent to table with the following sauces: — Bourguignotte, tomata, 
Italian, (white or brown), cardinal, mateloUe, Narmaiule, ravi^ottey 
proven^ale, pdvrade, piqtuinte, aurora, or cray-fish sauce. 

512. CARP, A LA CHAMBORD. 

Choose, if possible, a carp* weighing about six pounds, and after scald- 
ing, drawing, and thoroughly cleansing the fish, stuff it with some 
quenelle force-meat of whitings. Then lay the carp on a buttered sheet 
of paper placed upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, cover the entire 
fish with a coating of force-meat of whitings about half an inch thick, 
keeping the head clear, and with some ^' contish " fillets of soles, form 
thereon a decoration resembling scales, but larger ; in the angles of these, 
place the tail of a cray-fish, trimmed for the purpose ; cover the whole with 
thinlayers of fat bacon, moisten with a white wine mirepoixy and set it 
to braize gently on a moderate fire, carefully preventing it firom boiling 
fast, as that would tend to displace the fillets, &c. with which the carp 
has been decorated. If the fish is of laige size, it will require about an 
hour to braize it ; when done, drain it firom its braize, remove the layers 
of hi bacon, &c. and place it on a large silver dish ; garnish round the 
extremity of the inner edge of the dish with alternate groups of small 
quenelles of whitings d la PeriguettXy button-mushrooms, white muscles, 
and cray-fish-tails ; sauce round the carp, without covering any part of 
it, with some allemande incorporated with part of the liquor in which 
the fish has been braized, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice; 
glaze the head of the carp, and after ornamenting each end of the dish 
with a group of large cray-fish, send to table. 

513. CARP, A LA ROYALE. 
Cleanse a carp of large size, wipe it with a clean cloth, and lay it on 
a buttered paper, place it upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, and 
cover it entirely with quenelle force-meat of whitings coloiuied with 
lobster-coral ; smooth the surface of the force- meat with the blade of a 
knife dipped in whipped white of egg ; place some fillets of soles cofUitis 
with green gherkins crosswise upon the caip, leaving the space of an indi 
between each fillet — ^these spaces are to be filled up by inserting in the 
force-meat some pieces of truffle, cut in the shape of small olives ; cover 

* Thii fifth U held in high estimation on the Continent, eapeciallj thoie canght in the 
Rhino and Motelie. In Enghmd they are aeldom found good, and thii is the case alio 
with tench ; both these fish being found when cooked to taste muddy : this is chiefly 
owing to their being taken from stagnant ponds. Those only can be expected to be firee 
from this disagreeable peculiarity that are caught in ranning streams. 

When about to clean carp for dressing, it is quite necessaiy to extxact an angular sub* 
stance, called the gall-stone, which is to be found at the back of the head ; if iioli»> 
moved, this is sore to impart a bitter taste, and render the best fiah unfit lor table. 



CARP. 139 

the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and braize the carp as in the 
former case, in a white wine mirepoix ; when done, place it on a large 
oval dish, remove the layers of bacon, &c., sauce it round with a GhuMc 
sauce (No. 30), and garnish it with a border of large qttenelles of soles, 
half of which must be coloured with lobster-coral, and the remainder 
with chopped and blanched parsley; within the inner circle of the 
quendUSf place alternate groups of prepared oysters and the tails of 
prawns ; at the extremities, and on the flanks of the dish, place groups of 
cray-fish, and send to table. 

614. CARP, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 
Stbw the carp whole in red wine, when done, drain and place it on 
an oval dish; sauce it with a rich Bourguignotte sauce (No. 28), 
garnish with soft roes and cray-fish, and send to table. 

515. CARP, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Stbw the carp in wine, drain it, and dish it up; sauce it with 
perigueux sauce incorporated with a pat of anchovy butter and some 
lemon-juice ; garnish with a border of lobster quendles, and serve. 

516. CARP, A LA PROVENQALE. 

Stbw the carp in a mirepoix of white wine, when done, drain and 
dish it up; pour some proven^ale sauce over it, garnish it with groups of 
muscles fHed in batter, and scollops of perch, tossed in green ravigotU 
sauce ; place a border of cray-fish round the dish, and send to table. 

617. CARP, A L'ALLEMANDE. 
Glbah one or more carp, cut the fish into slices about two inches thick; 
place the slices in a basin, and season them with a gill of oil, a little tar- 
ragon-vinegar, minionette-pepper, and salt, bayleai^ thyme, and shalot ; 
let the carp steep in this marinade till within about haJf an hour of 
dinner-time ; then drain them on a napkin, and dip each piece separately 
in flour, bread-crumb them in the usual way with egg and bread-crumbs 
mixed with one-fifth of Parmesan cheese ; fry the pieces of carp of a fine 
colour, and dish them up on a napkin, placing the pieces so as to make 
the fish look whole ; surround the carp with a border of fiied parsley, and 
slices of lemon, and send to table with two sauce-boats containing some 
butter sauce, (see No. 70), and some Ginaise sauce (No. 30). 

518. CARP, FRIED A LA VENITIENNE. 

Stbw one or more carp in a white wine mirepoix (No. 2S6); drain 
them on an earthen dish, and after removing the skin, proceed to mask 
them with a coating of stiffly reduced allemande sauce (No. 7)» in which 
has been added some of the liquor the fish have been stewed in. When 
the sauce has cooled upon the carp, first strew over some bread-crumbs, 
then egg them over with a paste-brush, and cover them entirely with 
bread-crumbs mixed with one-third of grated Parmesan cheese: then 
place the carp in a buttered baking-dish or sheet, and half an hour be- 
fore dinner, put them in the oven to bake : they should be of a light 
l»own colour : set the fish on an oval dish, sauce them round with some 
good Yenitian sauce (No. 26), garnish with quenelUa of carp mixed with 
some purie of mushrooms, and send to table. 



140 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

619. CARP, STEWED A l'aNGLAISE. 
Fob dressing carp in this way, see the directions for stewing eels 
a VAnglaise (No. 503). 

620. SMALL CARP^ FRIED. 

Clbansb and scale the carp, split them down the back, open them flat, 
season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour and immediately fry them 
of a fine colour ; dish them on a napkin, garnish round with firied parsley, 
and send to table with either Italian, anchovy, or Dutch sauce, separately 
in a sauce-boat. 

If preferred, the carp may be bread-crumbed for firying in the usual 
way. 

Tench being somewhat similar to carp, may be dressed in the various 
ways in which that fish is prepared for the table, with equal success; both 
these kinds of fish make excellent maUlottes^ and indeed, it is not 
unusual to prepare mateloUes of carp, tench, and eels, all in the same 
dish. Tench may be sent to table either fried or boiled, vrith Dutch sauce. 



FRESH- WATER FISH. 

SECTION III. 
C0MPRI8IN0 



Pike or Jack, stuffed and baked* Perch, h la Stanley. 

„ hla Chambord, j-c. » ^ ^ WaHr^Ud^ 

„ fried in slices, iL la HoUandaise. „ iL la VemHemm, 

„ crimped in slices, a la IloUandaise, FiUeU of Perch, ci VltaUemm^ jfe. 

Fillets of Pike. 

521. PIKE OR JACK, STUFFED AND BAKED. 
Scale, draw the gills, and thoroughly cleanse and wipe the pike with 
a clean cloth ; fill the paunch with well-seasoned veal stufiing ; sew it up 
with a trussing-needle and fine string, and either turn the taU round into 
the mouth, securing them together by means of string, or truss the pike 
into the shape of the letter S ; make several deep incisions in a slanting 
direction on both sides of the fish, and place it in a baking-dish ; season 
with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and mushrooms, and a little 
shalot, and from six to eight ounces of finish butter : — moisten with half 
a bottle of Sherry, and a Httle good stock, or essence of mushrooms ; cover 
with a well-buttered paper, and put the pike thus prepared in the oven 
to bake — observing, that it should be firequently basted with its liquor. 
When done, dish it up ; then with two glasses of Shenpr — detach all the 
glaze and herbs firom the bottom and sides of the dish m which the pike 
has been baked, add this to a small ladleful of good brown sauce, reduce 
the whole to a proper consistency, and mix in two ounces of fireih but- 



PIKE, OB JACK. 141 

ter^ a little essence of anchovies, lemon-juice, and a trifle of cayenne ; 
with this sauce mask the pike, and send to table. 

522. PIKE, A LA CHAMBORD. 

This dish is prepared in a similar manner to carp d la chamhord 
(see No. 5l2). 

This is also the case with pike d la cardinal, ditto d la rot/ale, and 
ditto fried d Vallemande ; in fact pike may be dressed in all respects 
the same as carp. 

623. PIKE, FRIED A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

When the pike is cleaned, cut it into slices an inch thick, and place 
them in an earthen vessel ; season with pepper and salt, oil, lemon-juice, 
chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; turn the slices of pike over 
m Uie seasoning occasionally, in order that they may be well saturated 
with it, and half an hour before dinner time, drain them on a napkin, 
dip each separately in flour, and immediately fry them in hog's lard, 
made sufliciently hot for the purpose ; dish them on a napkin, place round 
them a border of fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of well- 
seasoned Dutch-sauce (No. 42). 

624. CRIMPED SLICES OF PIKE, A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

To produce this dish in perfection, the following instructions must be 
closely attended to in every particular : — 

Scale and clean the pike, immediately on its being taken from the 
^water ; cut the fish into slices nearly an mch thick, and put them into a 
^nful of spring water — afresh from the pump— which, from its coldness, 
lias the power of crimping the comparatively live fish thrown into it. 
About twenty minutes before dinner, boil the slices in hot water with a 
little salt ; as soon as they are done, drain and dish them up on a nap- 
kin, and send to table with either of the following^ in a sauce-boat: — 
Parsley and butter, Dutch sauce, maitre dhotel^ or cray-fish sauce. 

626. FaLETS OF PIKE. 

Mat be dressed in every variety in which salmon, turbot, or soles, are 
oipable of being sent to table ; and the directions given under those 
beads will suflice. It is necessary, however, to describe here the opera- 
tion of filleting pike. 

The smaller sized of this fish are best suited for this purpose ; these 
should be filleted as follows : — 

First lay the fish on the table, with its back placed towards you, 
insert the knife just below the gill, press with the left hand slightly on 
the upper part of the fillet, and then draw the. knife down— close to the 
badc-bone ; when one fillet is removed, repeat the same operation on the 
other nde. Then lay the fillets alternately on the table, with the skin 
downwards, insert the edge of the knife close to the skin, at the extreme 
coAf and by drawing the knife to and firo, keeping the blade closely 
praned to the skin, it will come away from the fillet. Then cut these 
fillets into smaller ones, according to taste or convenience, or into scollops, 
at the case may require. 




143 



F, AND SCOLLOPED SHELL-FISH. 



(JOMFBISINa 



-. rftudin. 



Crimped Skate, h. la Piuealine, 

^ ft dla JioyaU, 

White Bait. 
Scolloped Ojitcn. 
Muscles, Lobsters, Cockles, &c. 




:i*^ of skate, amongst these that generally 

aid b deemed best for the table. Although 

c, ll nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of 

dressed. In ofder to clean this fish, skin it 

it thoroughly ; then lay the skate flat on 

the following manner : First, with a sharp 

I's, the fleshy parts of the fish from the back- 

-t a curving direction; afterwards, cut these 

' ? trips, by cutting ri^t through the cartila- 

N. place these strips in a pan filled with fresh 

I ird*.^r to crimp them. In like manner cut the 

ml also the back-bone itself into three- inch 

ilsu ill the cold water to be crimped. Reserve 

IrL-Bsetl with it The water in which the fish 

I uftei}^ until the crimping be effected. 

KIM TED SKATE, BOILED. 

^kutii round and fasten them with string, boil 
■r.\\ a tmudful of salt in it ; when done, drain and 
ir } lacing the pieces of liver in the centre ; garnish 
bf prcrn parsley and send to table with either of the 
^ii iHiaL I Lobster, cray-fish, shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, 

'.h'r. 

y.n. CKIMFED SKATE, FRIED. 

I kin, absorb all the moisture from the pieces of skate 

I , after which, dip each piece into flour preparatory 

II ilippcd in beaten egg, and then rolled in very fine 

um the pieces of skate round into shape again, and fry 

L^^ht colour, and dish them up on a napkin with a border 

ijid send to table with either of the sauces recommended 



CRmPED SKATEj WITH KUT BROWN BUTTER. 
i fikate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with a 
iif Tnt^d parsley, and pour over it some well-seasoned nut-brown 

53a. SKATEj FRIED A l'iTALIENNE. 
ULEAD-CRITMB and fry the fish as directed for fined skate, when done 
'- It on a dish, pour under it a good brown Italian sauce, (No. 12' 
iia lerre. 



i 



142 FBESH- WATER FISH. 

526. PERCH, A LA STANLEY, 
Thoroughly cleanse two or three fine bright perch, which should 
weigh not less than one pound and a half each ; stew them in Rhenish 
wine, and when done, drain them on a napkin, dish them up, and garnish 
with a Parisian ragovi (No. 20d), omitting the truffles but containing the 
liquor the perch have been stewed in. Garnish round with a border of 
large cray-fish, and send to table. 

627. PERCH, A LA WASTREFISCHE. 

Boil the perch in French white wine, and when done, after removing 
the skin, dish it up, and stick the red fins straight up in a row, down the 
centre of the fish ; on each side of the fins thus placed, decorate the perch 
by laying on its uppermost fillets streaks of carrot and parsley-roots, 
shred exceedingly fine, and boiled ; also in alternate rows with theae^ 
some blanched leaves of green parsley. Pour round the perch the follow- 
ing sauce ; — 

Reduce the liquor in which the perch have been stewed with a pro- 
portionate quantity of white vehute sauce ; add a pat of firesh butter, 
some white essence of mushrooms, a little nutmeg, and lemon juice; 
mix the whole well together, and serve. 

628. PERCH, A LA VE5ITIENNE. 

Boil the perch, skim and dish them up, placing the red fins in a row 
down the centre ; moisten them over with some sauce d la Vcnitienne 
(No. 26), and send to table. 

In addition to the forcing methods for preparing perch for the table, 
this fish may also be dressed in the same way as pike» ca^, and tench, 
in matdoUe, d la Dauphine, water souchet, d raUemande, d la Oinoise^ d 
la HoUandaisef d la maStre dhotd, and also with shrimp, parsley uid 
butter, and plain butter-sauce. 

Note, — Perch should be served in fillets only when it happens that 
they are small, or that they are plentiful ; otherwise it is usual to dress 
this kind of fish whole. 

629. FILLETS OF PERCH, A l'ITALIENNE. 

Follow the directions given for filleting pike, divesting the fillets 
of the skin in like manner; trim them neatly, by rounding them 
at one end, and bring the other end to a point. Then lay the fil- 
lets in a circle in a sautapan, with some clarified fresh butter ; season 
with a little salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Twenty minutes before 
dinner-time, set the fillets on the stove-fire, or in the oven, for about ten 
minutes to simmer ; and when they are thoroughly done, drain them on a 
napkin, and dish them up in the form of a close circle ; sauce them with 
a white or brown Italian sauce, and send to table. 

Fillets of perch, thus prepared, may also be sent to table with either 
of the following sauces, from which the dish will take its name :— ^ la 
ravigotU, d la mattre cThotdf a la cardinal, d la vertpre, d la HoUandaite, 



i 



14:J 



SKATE, WHITEBAIT, AND SCOLLOPED SHELL-FISH. 

COMPRISING 

Crimped Skate, boiled. Crimped Skate, d, la Patealine. 
„ ^ fried. „ « ^ /a RojfaU, 

„ ,, with nut-brown butter. White Bait. 

„ M o r/talienne. Scolloped Oysters. 

„ „ with Hne herbs augratin. Muscles, Lobsters, Cockles, &c. 

There are many varieties of skate, amongst these that generally 
called the blue or grey skate is deemed best for the table. Although 
not held in much repute, it nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of 
the epicure, when properly dressed. In ofder to clean this fish, skin it 
on both sides, draw and wash it thoroughly ; then lay the skate fiat on 
the table, and cut it up in the following manner : First, with a sharp 
knife separate, on both sides, the fleshy parts of the fish from the back- 
bone, drawing the knife in a curving direction; aCterwards, cut these 
wing-like pieces into long strips, by cutting right through the cartila- 
ginous or finny parts ; then, place these strips in a pan filled with fresh 
water from the pump, in order to crimp them. In like manner cut the 
fleshy parts remaining, and ako the back-bone itself into three-inch 
lengUis, and place them also in the cold water to be crimped. Reserve 
the liver of the fish to be dressed with it The water in which the fidh 
is placed should be changed often, until the crimping be effected. 

630. CRIMPED SKATE, BOILED. 

Turn the fin-pieces of skate round and fasten them with string, boil 
the fish in hot water with a handful of salt in it ; when done^ drain and 
dish it up on a napkin, placing the pieces of liver in the centre ; garnish 
round with a row of green parsley and send to table with either of the 
following, in a sauce-boat : Lobster, cray-fish, shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, 
muscle, or oyster sauce. 

631. CRIMPED SKATE, FRIED. 

With a clean napkin, absorb all the moisture from the pieces of skate 
intended to be fried ; after which, dip each piece into flour preparatory 
to its being again dipped in beaten eg^ and then rolled in very fine 
bread-crumbs ; turn the pieces of skate round into shape again, and fry 
them of a fine bright colour, and dish them up on a napkin with a border 
of fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces recommended 
for boiled skate. 

632. CRIMPED SKATE, WITH VuT BROWN BUTTER. 
Boil tlie skate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with a 
border of fried parsley, and pour over it some well-seasoned nut-brown 
butter (No. 93). 

633. SKATE, FRIED A l'iTALIENNE. 
Bread-crumb and fry the fish as directed for fried skate, when done 
place it on a dish, pour under it a good brown Italian sauce, (No. \Z)^ 
and serve. 



1 44 SKATE. — WHITEBAIT. 

534. SKATE WITH PINE-HERBS, AU GRATI5. 
BuTTKB a baking-dish or sautapan, and after first turning the pieces 
of skate round, lay them neatly in the dish, strew over them some chop- 
ped mushrooms, parsley, and a very little shalot ; season with pepper 
and salt, and moisten with two glasses of sherry and a spoonful of can- 
somme ; then shake some fine browned bread-crumbs or raspings over the 
whole, and set it in the oven to bake ; when done, place the pieces of 
skate on the dish, in the same position which they occupied on the baking- 
dish, reduce the liquor they have been baked in, and add it to some espa- 
gnole or hrov^n Italian sauce, mix therewith a small [Mece of butter, a little 
essence of anchovies, and lemon-juice ; pour the sauce round the fish ; shake 
some fresh raspings over the whole, and then set the dish ^if it be silver) 
on the stove to gratinate or consolidate the sauce and fisn for a minute 
or two ; pass the red-hot salamander over it, and send to table. 

536. CRIMPED SKATE, A LA FASCALIKE. 
TuBN the pieces of skate round in the usual manner, boil, drain, and 
dish them up ; then pour over the fish a well-seasoned sauce d la pas^ 
caline (No. 15) made rather piqttante ; garnish round with glazed croutons 
of fried bread, on which should be placed a neatly-trimmei piece of the 
liver, and send to table. 

636. SKATE, A LA ROTALE. 

BoTL the skate till it is half done, dr^n it, and after allowing it to cool, 
cut it into pieces about two inches long, place these in a basin and nutri' 
node them in oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Twenty minutes before 
dinner, drain the pieces of skate on a napkin, and then having first 
dipped each piece separately in some frying batter prepared for the pur- 
pose, fry them of a fine colour in plenty of hog's-lard, heated for the 
purpose ; dish the skate up in a pyramidal form, sauce round with ravi- 
gotte or powrade sauce, garnish the dish with alternate groups of fried 
parsley and pieces of the liver, and serve. 

637. WHITE-BAIT. 
This very delicious fish is in season during the months of June, July, 
and August : it is then eaten in the greatest perfection at Greenwidi 
and Blackwall. Owing to the extreme delicacy of this fish, and its very 
fragile nature, it cannot be conveyed any distance during the season, 
without injuring its quality, neither can it be kept many hours after it 
has been ti^en. 

The foUowing is the best method of preparing white- bait for the table : 
Drain the fish on a clean napkin, thoroughly absorbing all the water; 
then roll them in fiour, and afterwards drop them into some heated frying 
fat : as soon as they become crisp, drain them on a sieve, and after dry- 
ing them for a minute or two before the fire, sprinkle on them a litde 
salt, dish them on a napkin, and send .to table accompanied by plates of 
white and brown bread and butter, and quarters of lemonj — ^to be handed 
round, with cayenne pepper. 

638. SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

Open a sufficient quantity of oysters for the purpose, and pat 
them in a stewpan on Uie fire to blanch or parboil ; after boiling for a 
few minutes, drain them on a sieve, reserving their liquor to mcdce the 



REMOVES OF BEEF. 145 

sauce with : immerse the oysters in cold water so as to wash off any 
skum or surf that may adhere to them ; take away the beard and 
gristly substance^ and place the oysters thus prepared on a plate, while 
the sauce is being made in manner following : Into a small stewpan put 
two ounces of fresh butter, one table- spoonful of flour, a very little nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt ; with a wooden spoon mix the whole thoroughly, 
moisten with the oyster liquor, and half a pint of cream, add a small 
piece of glaze, and then stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; keep 
stirring this for about ten minutes, by which time it will be sufficiently 
reduced to admit of the oysters being added to it ; then squeeze in the 
juice of half a lemon, mix the whole well together, and afler putting the 
oysters in the silver scollop-shells, (or, clean scoured oyster-shells will do) 
cover them with fried bread-crumbs. About ten minutes before serving, 
place them in the oven till they are sufficiently hot to send to table, dish 
them on a napkin, and serve. 

Scolloped muscles, cockles, shrimps, lobster, or crayfish, may be pre- 
pared in like manner ; a little essence of anchovies should however be 
sdded to the sauce for all these — except muscles and cockles ; and for 
lobster, the coral should be added also. 



REMOVES OP BEEF, 

COMPRISING 

^finiiedroaofBee^a^aF/amaiu^e. Brajzcd RoU of Beef; a 2a (TOt/Immx. 

„ „ a la Priniamere 7 „ «* n Milana$se» 

„ „ d 2a Polonatfe, „ n tt Hickelieu, 

^ ft a VAUemande. „ mm Dauphinoise, 

^ f, iila Roj/ale, „ ^ garnished with glased 

^ ft iLla Windsor, roots. 

„ „ a 2a ClaremotU. Braized rump of Bee€ 

530. BRAIZED ROLL OP BEEP, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Takb a piece of sirloin of beef well covered with fat, weighing about 
twenty pounds ; bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the upper part ; 
daube or interlard the fillet in a slanting position, by insertmg with a laige 
daubing needle some pieces of ham or bacon about a quarter of an inch 
square and four inches long ; then roll the beef up close, and fasten it 
round with a string so as to secure its shape. Break up the bones and 
place than with the trimmings at the bottom of a braizing pan ; then place 
the roll of beef on the bones, and garnish with four carrots, four onions, 
with a clove stuck in each, four heads of celery, and a faggot of parsley 
with thyme and a bayleaf, and two blades of mace ; moisten with half a 
bottle of Sherry and two glasses of brandy ; set the whole on the stove to 
nnuner for about ten minutes, then add a sufficient quantity of good 
stock or caruomnUf nearly to cover the beef, place thereon a well-but- 
tered paper, and, after having caused it to boil, set the bnuzing pan to 
continue gently boiling on a smothered stove for about five or six hours : 
the time for this must be regulated by the degree of tenderness of the meat. 



146 



REMOVES OF BEEF. 



When the beef \e done, drain, trim, and put it into a convenient rized pan, 
containing a little of the liquor in which it has been braized ; and with a 
portion of the remaining part, work some brown sauce for the remove ; 
boil the rest down, and with this glaze the beef. Place it on a dish, gar- 
nish round with alternate groups of turned and glazed carrots and turnips, 
glazed onions, and Brussel sprouts; pour the sauce above alluded to round 
the dish, glaze the beef, and send to table. 

540. BRAIZED BEEF, A LA PBINTAKIERE. 




IliSfm^l^i^^r^^^^^^^^^^^^ 




^^^^^''^^^^^^i^f'T^T^ 



Prkpabb and braize a piece of sirloin of beef, according to the foregoing 
directions ; dish it up, and place round it groups of young carrots, (turned 
in their own shape and glazed in the usual manner) a8parBgus4ieadi, 
small buds of caul^owers and French-beans, cut in the shape of diamonds, 
and boiled green ; round the dish place a border of turnips cut in the 
form of deep saucers, and filled with green-peas ; pour some bright Etpag- 
nole sauce (No. 3) round the remove, glaze the beef, and stick on it five 
or seven ornamental silver skewers, all of them garnished with carrots, 
turnips, &c., similar to the centre skewer in the above wood-cut, and send 
to table. 



641. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA POLONAISE. 

Braize the roll of beef as in the previous cases, mask it with some 
glaze in which beetroot-juice has been mixed ; dish the beef up on 
a bed of braized red cabbage (No. 163), garnish round with alternate 
groups of glazed small onions, and thoroughly well-boiled beetroot cut 
into the shape of small pears or half-moons, and glazed; pour Boxnepoi' 
erode sauce (No. 29), round the remove and serve. 

542. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A l'aLLEMAKDE. 
Bbaizb the beef in the usual manner, garnish it round with slewed 
$auer'kratU (No, 165), round which place a border of potatoes cut ip tibe 



BRAIZED ROLLS OF BEEF. 147 

•hape of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in butter ; sauce 
round with poivrade or brown sauce, and send to table. 

643. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEP, A LA ROYALE. 

Prbpabb and braize the roll of beef, as directed for dressing the beef H 
la Flamande ; after trimming and glazing the roll, place it on a dish, and 
lauce it round with a rich ragout d la Jlnanci^re (No. 188) ; garnish 
round with a border of larded lambs' sweet-breads and whole truffles, 
placed alternately round the dish, and ornament the roll of beef by insert- 
ing six silver atelets or skewers garnished as follows: — First run the 
point of the skewer through a large double cock's comb, then a large 
mushroom, a fine truffle, and lastly a fine cray-fish ,* use them as directed 
to ornament the roll of beef, and send to table. 

544. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA WINDSOR. 
BaAizB the roll of beef perfectly tender, trim, glaze and place it on a 
^sh ; garnish round with alternate groups of stewed peas and potatoes, 
turned in the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in butter. 
<31arify and reduce the braize in which the beef has been done, and with 
it lauce the beef round, reserving part to be sent to table in a sauce-boat, 
^ be handed round with the beef 

646. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA CLAREMOXT. 
PnoouBB about eighteen pounds of sirloin of beef, cut square from the 
centre ; bone and trim it, and then proceed to daube the fillet and upper 
part of the beef, with tongue and the fillets of a pheasant, cut into lengths 
of about lour inches, and a quarter of an inch square in thickness; roll 
the beef and secure its shape with string, place it in a braizing pan 
with the bones broken small, and the trimmings, three carrots, four onions, 
celery, a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, four cloves, and 
two blades of mace ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry and two glasses 
of brandy, and set the whole to simmer on the stove-fire for about ten 
minutes ; then add sufficient broth firom the stockpot to nearly cover the 
beef, place a well-buttered paper on it, cover the pan with its lid, and set 
the beef to boil gently on a slow fire for about five hours^taking care that, 
when the liquor has become somewhat reduced in quantity by boiling, the 
beef should be frequently moistened on the exposed surface, by being 
basted with the braize. When the beef is done, drain, trim, glaze, and 
place it on its 4i^ ; pour round it a ragout d la Claremont consisting of a 
brown sauce, mixed with one-fourth part of brown purie of onions and 
tome thin scollops of trufiies, mushrooms and red tongue, the whole to be 
cut out with a round cutter about the size of half-a-crown piece ; orna- 
ment the centre of the surface of the beef with some fillets of rabbits con-- 
tiih with tongue and truffle, turned round into the shape of palm -leaves, 
and simmered in a little fresh butter for the purpose ; at each comer in- 
lert a silver skewer garnished with a large cock's comb, a decorated que- 
nelle, and a thick scollop of red tongue, place a border of decorated que- 
fiellei and laige cray-fish round the edge of the dish, and send to table. 

640. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA d'oRLEANS. 
Prbpabb, braize, and trim the beef as in the foregoing case; thoroughly 
abaorb the oily matter from the surface of the fat, and cover it all over 
with the following preparation : — 

L 2 



148 KEMOVES OF BEEF. 

Take two dozen very green pickled gherkins, chop them very fine and 
put them into a small stewpan ; stir them over a quick fire till their 
moisture be entirely absorbed by the heat, then take the stewpan off the 
fire, and after allowing the contents to cool, add the yolks of three eggs, 
pepper, salt and nutmeg ; mix well together, and use this paste, as direct- 
ed, for the purpose of covering the entire surface of the beef with a coating 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; smooth it over with the blade of a knife 
dipped in hot water ; decorate the centre and ends of the roll of beef with 
carrots and turnips, French beans and asparagus heads, cut and prepared 
for the purpose, in fancy designs : by placing, for instance, young car- 
rots and turnips cut in the shape of a crescent, alternately side by side so 
as to form a circle, and in its centre a group of heads of asparagus boiled 
green, and again round this a border of laige marrow-fat peas boiled 
green ; at each end place a row of small carrots and turnips in the shape 
of small olives, while round the roll of beef thus decorated, pour a well- 
made poivrade sauce (No. 29), garnish round with a border of potato 
croquettes fried of a light colour, (made in the form of pears, with a stalk 
of parsley stuck in the point, to resemble the stalk of a pear) ; glaze the 
decoration of vegetables slightly with a paste-brush dipped in some thin 
glaze, so as not to disturb the order of their arrangement, and send to table. 

647. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA MILANAISE. 

BoNB and trim about twenty pounds of the prime cut from the 
centre of a well-covered sirloin of b^f ; daube the under and upper fillets 
with ham, season with a little chopped green thyme and winter-savory, 
minionette pepper and salt ; roll the beef up tight, and secure its shape 
with string, place it with the trimmings and usual accessories recom- 
mended in the foregoing cases, in a braizing-pan ; moisten with a bottle 
of red wine and two glasses of brandy, and set the whole to sinmier very 
gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes ; then add a sufficient 
quantity of good stock, to reach rather better than half way up the beef; 
place thereon a well-buttered paper, cover with the fid of the pan, and 
set the whole to braize gently for about five hours — taking care frequently 
to baste the beef with its liquor. When the beef is done, drain, trim, 
and glaze it — ^first straining off the braize, and divesting it of every par- 
ticle of grease ; then clarify, and afterwards reduce it to the consistency 
of thin glaze, to which add half a pot of red currant jelly, a glass or two 
of Malaga or fine old Madeira. Dish up the roll of bee^ pour this sauce 
over it, at each end garnish with macaroni dressed with Pai:mesan cheese, 
and at the flanks of the dish place groups of raviolis (No. 975) pre- 
pared for the purpose, and send to table. 

648. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA RICHELIEU. 
Bbaizb the roll of beef in exactly the same manner as directed for 

beef <2 la Flamande (No. 539); when done, drain, trim, glaze, and diih 
it up ; garnish it round with glazed onions, and round the outer cixela 
of the well of the dish, place a border of quenelles of pheasant (pre- 
viously mixed with a little soubise sauce), which, after being fint poached 
in the usual manner, are to be bread-crumbed and fried of a light 
colour ; then sauce lightly with the essence in which the beef has been 
braized (clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half glaze for the 
purpose). Send some of the essence separately in a sauoe-boat, and eenre. 



FILLETS OF BEEF. 149 

649. BRAIZED ROLL OP BEEF, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Fob this purpose, the roll of heef should be braized sufficiently tender 
to enable it to be cut with a spoon ; it should be allowed to cool in its 
own liquor, and when nearly cold, drained out carefully on to a dish, 
trimmed and placed on a deep baking dish, and then covered over entirely 
with a coating of thick soubise sauce, thickened with four yolks of eggs : 
when the sauce has become firmly set on the beef by getting cold, egg it 
oyer, and bread-crumb it twice ; sprinkle a little clarified butter over the 
sor&ce of the beef, and about half an hour before serving the dinner^ set 
the beef thus prepared in a very hot oven, that it may be baked of a 
fine light colour; place it on its dish, sauce it round with a brown 
Italian sauce (No. 12), and garnish it with a border of tomatas prepared 
augraiin (No. 1160), and send to table. 

660. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, GARNISHED WITH GLAZED ROOTS. 

BfiAizBa trim, glaze, and dish the roll of beef up as directed for Beef 
k la Flamande ; garnish it round with young carrots, turnips, and onions, 
turned and stewed in the usual manner, and placed in alternate groups; 
aauce the beef with some Espa^nole or poivrade sauce, and send to table. 

661. BRAIZED RUMP OF BEEF. 

This piece of beef is considered to be the best for braizing, and should 
1)6 chosen of fine quality for this purpose : rich grained, of a deep bright 
^*ed colour, and well covered with a thick coating of delicate-looking fat. 
%one the beef, and after having trinuned it, secure its shape with string, 
^nd fandze it as directed for braized rolls of beef, following those instruc- 
"Vons, according to the manner in which the rump of beef is intended to 
1)6 dre88«d; as, for instance, d la Flamande, a la FrijUaniere, &c. 



BRAIZED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF. 

COBCPRISINO 

TiOetof Bee^ a /aATopo^ttoiM. Fillet of Beef, a 2a MUcumt. 

„ hla Macedcine, „ a VAttglaiae, 

„ ^la Jardinkrt. „ h la Nivemaise, 

„ with CkevreuU sauce. „ & la Boyale. 

^ a VAUemamde, „ hla Parmenne. 

„ oaf Mad^re, „ a la ProvenfaU, 

662. FILLET OF BEEF, A LA NAPOLITAINE- 

Pbocube a whole fillet of beef, and with a thin-bladcd knife pare off the 
sinewy skin which covers it, lard it closely in the usual manner, and 
prepare it for braizing as follows : — First, place the trimmings in a nar- 
row oblong braizing-pan on the drainer, then put the fillet and garnish it 
round with carrot, celery, a couple of onions %vith two cloves stuck in 
each, a &ggot of parsley and green onions garnished with thyme and 
bayleaf, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a bottle of light white 
wine, coyer the whole with a well-buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, 
and let the fillet to boil gently on a slow fire, with live embers on the 



150 



REMOVES OF BEEF. 




g^^-l^.^1^^ 1- t 



lid — basting the fillet frequently with its own liquor while braizing, which 
will require about two hours. Towards the latter part of the time, glaze 
the larding with some thin, light-coloured glaze, and set the fillet in the 
oven to dry the larding, taking care that it does not bum> or get too 
much coloured. In the mean time^ strain off the braize, divest it of 
every particle of grease, and clarify it ; reduce it to one-third of its 
original quantity, and then add a spoonful of good eipagnoU sauce 
(No. 3), two chopped shalots^ half a pot of red-currant jelly, and a 
spoonful of grated horse-radish ; set the whole to boil on the stove-fire 
for five minutes, after which pass the sauce through a tammy into a 
bain-niarie. When about to serve the dinner, place the fillet on a dish, 
and surround it with groups of macaroni dressed with cheese, in the 
usual manner, some raviolis (No. 375), tossed in a little glaze, and some 
sultana raisins stewed for ten minutes in a little white wine ; glaze the 
beef over, pour the sauce round the fillet, on which^ at each end, and at 
the centre, with an ornamental skewer fix a turnip, cut in the shape of a 
cup (parboiled in salt and water coloured with cochineal), and filled with 
grated horse-radish, and send to table ; observing that some of the sauce 
should be sent in a sauce-boat separately. 

553. FILLET OF BEEF, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Trim, lard, and mark a fillet of beef according to the first part of the 
preceding instructions, moisten it with two ladlefuls of good stock, and 
proceed to braize the fillet in exactly the same manner ; when done, g^aze 
and dish it up. Garnish it round with groups of carrots, turnips, French- 
beans, asparagus-heads, and buds of caulifiower — the carrots and turnips 
to be turned or cut into the shape of small olives, or cloves of garlic, the 
French-beans in the shape of diamonds, and observe that eadi kind of 
vegetable should be separately prepared and tossed in a little hechamd or 
AU^tnande sauce, previously to being placed round the fillet of beef. Sauce 
round the fillet with the clarified and reduced braize in which it has 
been done, glaze the fillet and send to table. 



FILLETS OF BEEF. 151 

664. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Bbaizb a larded fillet of beef according to the foregoing instructions, 
and when done, glaze and place it on its dish : garnish it round with 
alternate groups of turned carrots and turnips, to which give the shape 
of olives, round balls, diamonds, small half-moons, or any other suitable 
fancy shape — all which must previously be boiled in broth, with a grain 
of rait, a little sugar, and a small piece of butter; intermixed with 
these, place also some groups of green-peas, French-beans cut in diamonds, 
asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower. Sauce the fillet of beef round 
with bright Etpagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence in which 
the fillet has been braized (previously clarified and reduced for this pur- 
pose), glaze the fillet and send to table. 

655. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, DRESSED AS CHEYREUIL. 
(roebuck.) 
Pbocubb part or a whole fillet of beef, as occasion may require, remove 
the sinewy skin which covers the fat side, trim it neatly, and lard it 
closely ; then lay the fillet for a day or so to steep or pickle in a pan 
containing a sufficient quantity of cold marinade (No. 234), prepared for 
the purpose. Next, when the fillet has become saturated with the 
^narinadey drain it, and prepare it for braizing exactly in the same man- 
ner as in any one of the preceding cases; moisten with a bottle of Sherry, 
«nd braize the fillet of beef in the usutd way ; when it is done, glaze it 
^^ell, and place it on its dish. Garnish it round with potatoes turned in 
%lie shi^ of large olives, and fried of a fine light colour in clarified butter ; 
vauce the fillet round with a well-made Chevreidl sauce (No. 69), with 
the addition of half the essence in which the beef has been braized, and 
"%rhich as usual, has been previously clarified and reduced to half glaze for 
the purpose ; glaze the larding and send to table. 

556. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prbpabb a fillet of beef in every respect according to the foregoing 
directions, when done, glaze and dish it up ; garnish it round with stewed 
^auer-hravi (No. 165), sauce it with poivrade or Espagnole sauce, and 
send to table. 

The fillet of beef d rAUemande may also be garnished with stewed 
prunes, quendles of potatoes (No. 312), and sauce round with German 
sweet sauce (No. 61). 

557. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 
Lard a fillet of beef, prepare it for braizing in the usual manner, 
moisten it with a bottle of good Madeira, and then set the fillet to braize 
gently on a slow fiie ; keep basting it frequently with its own liquor, and 
when done, glaze it and place it on its dish. Garnish it round with a 
Jordint^ (No. 143), a Macidoine ^No. 144), or some nicely firied pota* 
toes ; darify the whole oT the liquor m which the fillet has been brmzed^ 
ledaoe it to the consistency of half glaze, and use it for the purpose of 
saucing the fillet, and send to table. 

558. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA MILAKAISE. 
Bbaizb a larded fillet of beef in an oval braizing pan garnished with 
the usual quantity of vegetables, &c. ; moisten with a bottle of Sherry or 
Malaga; when the beef is done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it round 



152 REMOTES OF BEEF. 

with macaroni prepared as follows : — Boil three-quarters of a pound of 
macaroni, cut it into two-inch lengths, and put it into a stewpan contain- 
ing some scollops of mushrooms^ truifHes, tongue, and the fillets of one 
fowl : to these add a ragout spoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 5), four 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and a pat of butter ; season with a 
little grated nutmeg and minionnette pepper, toss the whole well together 
over the fire until well mixed, and use it as directed. Sauce the fillet 
round with the essence (clarified in the usual manner), and send the re- 
mainder to table in a sauceboat, to be handed round with the fillet of beef. 

669. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a good thick fillet of beef, trim and lard it in the usual man- 
ner, place it in a large earthen dish, strew over it carrot and onion cut 
into thin slices, thyme, bayleaf, and branches of parsley, some thin slices 
of the pulp of a lemon, and a little minionnette pepper ; pour about a gill 
of salad-oil over the whole, and allow the fillet of beef to steep in this 
marinade for several hours— taking care to turn it over occasionally, so 
that it may absorb a portion of the oil impregnated with the flavour of 
the various ingredients contained in this kind of marinade. 

About an hour and a half before dinner, remove every particle of vege- 
table from the fillet of beef, run a strong-made iron skewer through it 
lengthwise, fasten it on the spit by tying it with string at each end, and 
then put it down to the fire to roast — basting it frequently; take 
care that the fire is not too fierce, as in that case the larding will be 
scorched, which would spoil not only its appearance, but also injure the 
flavour. Towards the last five minutes of the fillet's roasting, and be- 
fore it is taken up from the fire, glaze over the larding with some thin 
light-coloured glaze, twice or thrice, take it ofl" the spit^ and dish it up ; 
garnish it round with small turned potatoes, fried in clarified butter, 
placing at each end a hotiquet of scraped horseradish ; pour a bright ^i- 
nandere sauce round it (No. 8), glaze the fillet over afresh, and send to 
table. 

660. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA KIVERNAISE. 

Braize a larded fillet of beef according to the instructions given for 
the fillet of beef d la MacSdoine (No. 553) ; when done, glaze it brightly, 
dish it up and garnish it round with a Niveniaise (l^o. 137), and send 
to table. 

661. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA ROTALE. 

Closblt lard a thick fillet of beef, davhe or interlard it with small 
square fillets of lean ham, fat bacon and truflles ; prepare it for braizing 
with the trimmings and the usual quantity of vegetables, &c., one or two 
carcasses of game, and moisten with a bottle of Madeira. Set the fillet to 
boil gently on a slow fire in the usual way, carefully basting it occasionally 
with its liquor; when done, glaze it brightly, and afterwards dish it up; 
strain off the braize, clarify and reduce it, then add it to a FinanciSre 
ragovt (No .188), with which garnish the fillet of beef ; place round it a 
border of large cray-fish, whole truffles, and large cock's combs, and send 
to table. 

662. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Roast a larded fillet of beef according to directions ^ven for the fillet 
of beef ^ VAngUiiMi^Ki. 559); when done, dish it up, and surround it 



BOILED AND STEWED BBISKETS. 153 

with alternate groups of green-peas, and cray-fish tails (tossed in a little 
glaze and lobster coral butter to make them of a bright scarlet); sauce 
the fillet round with a rich Finandere sauce (No. 8)» finished with 
some cray-fish butter, and a little lemon juice, and send to table. 

663. BOASTED FILLET OP BEEF, A LA PBOVENCALE. 

Stbbp a larded fillet of beef in the maHnade as directed for the fillet of 
beef ^ VAnglaise, adding to the ingredients therein mentioned four cloves 
of garlic and the pulp of an extra lemon ; allow the fillet sufficient time 
to become thoroughly saturated with the marinade ; roast it off, as before 
directed^ glaze and dish it up, garnish it round with tomatas au ffratin 
(No. 1160), and pour round it some sauce d laprovengale (No. 25), for 
making which, use the marinade in which the fillet of beef has been 
pickled. 

NoU. — ^Fillets of beef may also be dressed plain, that is, without being 

larded, as some dislike the mixture of fat bacon with beef. In all other 

IMuliculars, the directions for dressing braized rumps, rolls or larded fillets 

of beef are to be followed, when dressing fillets plain. For purposes 

of economy, the fillet of beef should be thus prepared for braizing: trim 

the fillet as if intended to be larded, and then cover the upper or smooth 

I»art with layers of beef-suet prepared for the purpose, by takmg some 

large pieces of suet and placing them between a wet cloth, and with the 

cutlet-bat flatten them until they do not exceed half an inch in thickness ; 

fasten the layers on the fillet with string, and for braizing the fillet, follow 

^e directions given in the foregoing dishes. 



BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, EDGEBONES, ROUNDS, 
AND RIBS OF BEEF, 



COMPRISING 



Boikd Britket of Beef^ k V Anglais, Ribs of Beef, a la Chasseur 

^ „ ^ VEcarlate, „ a la PiedmorUaise. 

Stewed Briaket of Beef; U la Flamande, „ a la Mode. 

Edgebone of Beef, a VAnglaise, „ a lu Bourgeoise. 

Roond of Beef,tt VAnglaiie, m ^^^ Madere, 

„ ila Ckcu$eur, „ a la Baden, 

564. BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF, A L'aNGLAISE 

Pbocubb a piece of brisket of beef, well covered with fat, and which 
has been in salt about a week or ten days ; wash the beef in cold water 
and then place it on the drainer in a large oval braizing pan ; garnish 
with three carrots, two large onions with two cloves stuck in each, and 
two heads of celery ; pour in sufficient cold water to fill the pan nearly, 
and set it to boil on the fire. As the scum rises to the surface, take it off 
with a spoon, arid when the beef has been thoroughly skimmed, set 
the pan down by the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling for 
about four or five hours — according to the size and weight of the bris- 



154 REMOTES OF BEEF. 

ket ; when the heef is done, take it up on to an earthenware dish, 
trim, glaze, and then dish it up ; garnish it round with plain boiled tur- 
nips and carrots, that have been neatly cut into the shape of pears, 
eggs, or small fluted leaf-like shapes ; at each end place a group of small 
suet dumplings, pour some gravy under the beef, and send to table. 
Some piquarUe sauce (No. 18) lightly seasoned, should be served in a 
sauce-boat, to be handed round with the beef. 

565. BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF, A L'eCARLATE. 

The brisket of beef d VEcarlate^ should be prepared according to the 
foregoing instructions, in every respect — except the salting or curing 
operation, which must be thus effected : 

To six pounds of common salt, add four ounces of saltpetre, half a 
pound of moist sugar, some bruised bay-leaves, thyme, winter-savory, and 
sweet-marjoram, a dozen cloves, and a few blades of mace : wiUi this 
mixture rub the piece of brisket of beef for a few minutes every day— for 
four or five days running ; afler which, merely turn it over in the brine 
once a day^ for the succeeding five days; — altogether making up 
ten days for salting the beef. The brisket of beef is then ready for 
use, — provided it is to be eaten while hot ; but if intended to be eaten 
cold, the beef should remain in the brine at least a fortnight, by which 
time only, it can be expected to have sufficiently absorbed the flavour 
of the herbs and spices. 

The foregoing instructions apply equally to every kind of salted meat. 

566. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Pare ofi* the breast bone and rough parts adhering to a well-covered 
piece of fresh brisket of beef; place it on the drainer of a laige braizing- 
pan, garnish with carrots, onions, celery, faggot of parsley, green onions, 
thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with 
sufficient good broth (from the boiling stock) to cover the beeil Set the 
.pan to boil gently for about five hours ; when done, drain the brisket on 
a dish, trim and place it on a baking sheet, pour a little broth under it, 
glaze it well and put it in the oven to dry, and glaze it again ; then 
place the brisket of beef on its dish, garnish it round with alternate 
groups of turned carrots and turnips, (boiled down with eomommi and 
a little sugar) — Brussels sprouts, and glazed onions ; sauce the beef round 
with a well-finished espagnole or poivrade sauce, and send to table. 

Briskets of beef prepared in the foregoing manner, many also be sent 
to table in every variety of method described for the preparation of rolls 
of beef, as well as rumps and fillets — in their various forms. 

567. EDGEBONE OF BEEF, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a fine edgebone of beef well covered with rich and delicate- 
looking fat ; take out the kernels, and salt it in the usual manner, by 
merely rubbing the salt well into the meat : repeat this operation 
every morning during four days, and then, be careful that the beef is 
turned over in its brine every mombg for seven successive days: by 
this time the edgebone of beef will be ready for use. Next, put it on in 
cold water, with a couple of carrots and tumqw in the pot» aiid set it to 



BOILED AND STEWED BEEF. 155 

boU gently f(Hr about four hours : when done, dram it, trim off the soiled 
parts of the fiit, dish it up, and surround it with alternate groups of well- 
turaed carrots, turnips, summer cabbages, and small suet dumplings ; 
pour gravy under the beef, and send to table. 

668. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF, A L'ANGLAISE.* 

Follow the foregoing directions in every particular — (observing 
that a round of beef should remain ten days in the brine, and that the 
time it will require for boiling must necessarily vary, according to the 
wei|^t of meat) ; in fact,— dress the round of beef according to the old 
En^ish manner, garnishing it with the same sort of vegetables as directed 
to be used for the edgebone, and send it to table with some lightly- 
seasoned piquante sauce, separately m a sauce-boat. 

689. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR, OR "HUNTING 

BEEF.'' 

CuBB a round of beef according to the directions given for the salting 

s brisket d Vecarlaie; it will require a fortnight or three wcelu 

UKNTOUghly to impregnate the beef with the flavour of the herbs, spices, 

9tt. When the round of beef is sufficiently salted, put it on to boil 

in home-brewed ale ; as soon as it is done, dish it up with carrots, tur- 

i^ps, baked Spanish onions, summer cabbages or Brussels sprouts, and 

%snall suet dumplings — the whole of these to be placed in groups round 

"Ihe beef; pour some gravy under it, and send to table. Rounds of beef 

2>repared in the foregoing manner are more frequently sent to table cold, — 

"Sbr break&st and luncheon ; especially at Christmas time, when they are 

^msidered a desirable feature on the side-board. 

570. STEWED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Pbocubb three or four small ribs of beef well-covered with fat, saw off 
the spine-bone close up to the rib bones^ and with the saw shorten the rib 
bones to about ten inches ; then davhe or interlard the lean right through 
with fillets of fat bacon or ham, a quarter of an inch square — season 
with prepared herb seasoning (No. 1250). Next, cure the ribs of beef, 
as described for the preparation of the hunting beef, and when it is ready, 
wash the brine off in cold water, place the ribs of beef in a braizing 
pan on a drainer, garnish with the bruised carcasses of any sort of game, 
four carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, and a well-garnished faggot, 
moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and sufficient broth to cover the 
beef. Set the pan on the fire to continue gently boiling for about four 
hours ; when the beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it, put it in the 
oven to dry the sur&ce, and glaze it again ; then dish it up, garnish 
it round with glazed Spanish onions, and carrots — turned in the shape 
of pears ; sauce the ribs of beef round with a well-finished Madeira sauce. 
No. 8), and send to table. 

It is usual to dress ribs of beef in this manner to be eaten cold ; — for 
this purpose it is necessary to allow them to cool in their own braize, by 
which means they are materially benefited, as they absorb a considerable 
uoportion of the essence — thereby acquiring both flavour and delicacy, 
Whan the ribs of beef are cold, take them out of their braize', trim^ glaze, 



156 REMOTES OF BEEF. 

and dish them up ; surround them with a border of bright aspic jelly, 
(to be made from the liquor in which the meat has been braized) and 
send to table. 

571. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA PIEDMONTAISE. 

Tbim and daube with ham and truffles three small ribs of fresh beef; 
prepare them for braizing with the trimmings, three carrots, three 
onions, two heads of celery, a garnished &ggot of parsley, six cloves, two 
blades of mace, and two cloves of garlic ; moisten with a bottle of Sherry 
and a ladleful of broth ; set the beef to boil very gently on a slow fire — 
with live embers on the lid of the pan — ^for about four hours, taking care to 
baste it frequently with its own liquor ; when the beef is done, drain, 
trim, glaze and keep it in the hot closet for a few minutes ; during this 
time, strain off the liquor in which the beef has been braized, divest it of 
every particle of fat, clarify it, and then add one half to a pound of Naples 
macaroni, previously boiled in water with a little salt and butter, for 
about ten minutes, and then drained on a sieve, cut into three inch 
lengths, and put into a stewpan with a pinch of minionette-pep- 
per ; then stew the macaroni for half an hour longer, by which time it 
will be done ; add a table-spoonful of tomata paste, two pats of ^resh 
butter, and six ounces of fresh grated Parmesan cheese ; toss the whole 
well together over the fire, and place the ribs of beef on their dish ; sur- 
round them with the macaroni thus prepared, glaze the beef afresh, pour 
into a sauce-boat the remaining half of the clarified braize reduced nearly 
to the consistency of half glaze, and send to table. 

672. SMALL RIBS OF BEEF, A LA MODS. 

Prepare the ribs of beef for braizing according to the foregoing instruc- 
tions, moisten with half a bottle of Sherry or Madeira and two wine glass- 
fills of brandy ; then set the pan containing the ribs of beef on the stove- 
fire to simmer for about a quarter of an hour ; after which add, two 
ladlefuls of good consomm6, cover the whole with a buttered paper and the 
lid, and set the pan again on the fire to continue gently boiling for three 
or four hours, — (according to the weight or size of the piece of beef ). When 
' done, drain and trim it, place it in a sautapan with a little of its own 
liquor, put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two — previously to 
glazing it : unless, indeed, it has been already glazed during the latter 
part of the braizing, which is the better method — frequent basting with 
its own liquor imparting additional flavour ; when glazed, dish the ribs 
of beef up, and garnish them round with groups of glazed carrots, turnips, 
and onions ; sauce round with the essence in which the beef has been 
braized, clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half glaze, for 
the purpose, and send to table. 

673. SMALL RIBS OF BEEF, A LA BOURGEOISE. 

Trim three small ribs of beef, ctaule and prepare them fi>r braizing 
with their trimmings and the usual complement of vegetables, &c ; mois- 
ten with two large ladlefuls of good broth, set the beef to boil very gently 
on a slow fire till done, which will require about four hours and a hal^ if 
the piece of beef be small ; taking care to turn it over in its braiie ooca- 



REMOVES OF VEAL. 157 

aionally ; when the rihs are done, drain, trim, and glaze them ; dish them 
up with a border of glazed carrots, onions, turnips, Brussels sprouts or 
•tewed cabbages, round them ; pour the essence on them, and serve. 

674. BRAIZED RIBS OP BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Pbbparb the ribs of beef for braizing in the usual manner, moisten 
with half a bottle of Madeira and a ladleful of good consomme ; braize 
the beef gently for about four or five hours ; when done, trim, glaze, and 
dish it up with alternate groups of firied potatoes in the shape of large 
olires, and any green vegetable the time of year may afford ; use the 
clarified braize, r^uced to an essence, as sauce, and send to table. 

676. BRAIZED RIBS OP BEEP, A LA BADEN. 

Trim and daube three small ribs of beef with some fillets of lean 
bam and fat bacon; place them in an oval braizing-pan, garnish 
with six shalots, a grated stick of horseradish, and a garnished faggot of 
parsley and green onions ; moisten with a bottle of Rhenish wine, and a 
single ladleful gf good strong broth, braize the beef gently on a slow fire, 
with live embers on the lid of the pan, taking care to baste the beef fre- 
quently with its own liquor ; when done, glaze and dish it up ; strain 
the bnuze through a silk sieve into a stewpan, take off all the fat, add a 
imaU pot of red currant-jelly, the grated rind of two oranges, and the 
juice of four ; reduce the whole to the consistency of sauce, pour it roimd 
the beef, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes, (No. 312) glaze 
the beef afresh, and send to table. 

Braized ribs of beef may also be sent to table in a variety of other 
forms; as for instance; d fAn^laise, d la Milanaise, d la MacSdoiney d 
k Eayale, &c., for which see Braized Rolls of Beef. 



REMOVES OF VEAL, 

COMPIUSINO 



Hocui Fillet of Veal, d, VAngUUae. Ciuhion of Veal, d la Jardiniere, 

„ „ a la Afacidoine, Roast Loin of Veal, a la Monylas, 

^ „ i /« Jardiniire, „ „ d la Daupkine, 

Hoatt neck of Veal, a la Creme, „ y, it la Hoyale. 

„ „ dla Montmorency. „ „ d la Finandere, 

^ „ hla Dretut, „ ^ ala Crime, 

„ „ hlaD'UjteUe; Breast of Veal, a r^ii^oMe. 

^ » a CEcariaie. „ ii la Bourgooise, 

„ „ a la Roya/e, „ it la Windsor. 

CathioaorVeal,a2a5V. (T^sor^. n h la FinancUrt, 

^ ,, a la Finaneiere, „ hla Romaine, 

^ a la Maeedoim. „ hla Royale, 

676. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A L'^ANGLAISE. 
Vial, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be procured fresh 
killed, as it does not improve either in flavour or colour by being kept. 



168 REMOVES OF VEAL. 

Take oat the bone from a good fat fillet of veal^ and with the cutlet-bat, 
flatten the udder so as to lengthen it out ; make a deep incision between 
the udder and the fillet with a knife, and fill it with about lib. of well- 
seasoned stuffing (No. 662) ; sew it up with small twine, wrap the 
udder tightly round the fillet, and secure its shape with skewers and 
twine ; split the fillet in the usual manner, cover it well with buttered 
thick white paper, roast it about two hours and a half; just before it 
is done, take off the paper, baste the veal with a little firesh butter, and 
froth it : then dish it up, pour round it some light brown sauce incor- 
porated with 4oz. of fresh butter, some essence of mushrooms, and a 
little lemon juice, or else use No. 8S ; garnish round with potato cro- 
quett€Sy and send to table. 

677. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOINE. 
Roast a fillet of veal according to the foregoing directions, glaze and 
dish it up, garnish it round with a macSdome of such vegetables as the 
season of the year may afford ; sauce round with mprhne or hechamd, 
and send to table. 

678. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Pbeparb the fillet of veal as before described, dish it up, and garnish 
it round with groups of turned carrots and turnips, small heads of cauli- 
flower, French-beans, cut into diamonds, green-peas, and asparagus-heads ; 
sauce with half glaze, or a well-finished espagnoU sauce, and send to 
table. 

679. ROAST NECK OF VEAL, A LA CREME. 

Progubb a neck of white fat veal, saw off the scrag and spine-bones, 
shorten the ribs to four inches in length, run a stout iron skewer through 
the neck of veal, lengthwise, and then secure it on the spit by tying it 
with string at each end ; about an hour and a quarter before dinner, put 
it down to roast, baste it frequently, and about twenty minutes before 
taking the veal off the spit, baste it with some good bechamel sauce, 
made with plenty of cream. As in course of roasting, the sauce 
dries on the veal, keep adding a firesh coating, until a light-coloured 
delicate crust is produced all over the meat ; then take it off the spit with 
great care, in order that the crust may not be disturbed ; dish it up, pour 
a good cream bechamel sauce (No. 6) under it, garnish it round with 
groups of French-beans, cut in diamonds and buds of cauliflower, and 
send to table. 

680. BRAIZED NECK OF VEAL, A LA MONTMORENCY. 

Trim a neck of white veal, according to the directions given in the 
preceding article ; then, with a thin long-bladed knife, pare off the skin 
and sinew which cover the fillet-part of the neck, leaving the ribs 
well covered ; lard the part which has been trimmed as cloeely and 
neatly as possible, and prepare it for braizing, as follows : — 

Strew the bottom of the drainer of an oval braizing-pan, with three 
carrots, three onions, two heads of celery, and a garnished fiiiggot ; cover 
the vegetables with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the neck 
of veal ; lay the trimmings round it, and moisten with two ladl^lt <^ 
good veal stock ; put a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid» 
upon which place live embers of charcoal, and set it to braiie gently on 



NECK OF VEAL. 159 

a slow fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. 
When it is done, which will require about three hours, glaze it brightly^ 
and dish it up ; garnish with a white ragout of small qttenelles, truffles, 
mushrooms, and cockscombs ; then place round the ragotd a border of 
lambs' sweetbreads, larded, and large quenelles of fowl, decorated with 
tongue, and send to table. 

581. NECK OF VEAL, A LA DREUX. 

Trim a neck of veal, daube or interlard it through the fillet with some 
tru£9es, tongue, and fat bacon ; first cut these into three-inch lengths, by 
a quarter of an inch square, and then introduce them into the fillet-part 
of the neck of veal, without showing through the skin which covers it ; 
it dioold then be braized according to the directions in the foregoing 
article, and when done, glazed, and dished up. Garnish with a white 
roffoui of scollops of tongue and mushrooms, and round this place a bor- 
der of large cray-fish, and glazed whole truffles ; glaze the neck of veal, 
and send to table. 

682. NECK OF VEAL, A LA D'uXELLES. 

Pbepabb a neck of veal in every particular the same as described in 

the foregoing article, braize it, and allow it partly to cool in its own 

stock ; drain, trim, and spread a coating of thickly-reduced cT UxeUes 

tauoe (No. 16) over it; when the sauce has become set, proceed to 

bread-crumb the neck of veal in the usual manner with beaten egg and 

bread-crumbs, observing that one-fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese 

%hould be introduced into the bread-crumbs used for the purpose. Place 

the neck of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, and three-quarters of an 

liour before dinner time, put it in the oven, and bake it of a fine bright 

\\^t brown colour : during this part of the process, be careful to sprinkle 

Wiittle clarified fresh butter over the bread-crumbed surface of the veal, 

in Older to prevent it from drying or burning. When the neck of veal 

Ss done, place it on a dish, garnish round with a Toulouse ragout (No. 

187), and send to table. 

683. NECK OF VEAL, A L'ECARLATE. 

Trim and lard a neck of veal in the usual manner, mark it for braiz- 
ing according to the instructions set forth for the preparation of neck 
of veal a la M<mJtrMrtncy, and braize it in a similar manner ; dish it up, 
garnish it round with a border of circular scollops of tongue, that have 
been ^azed ; sauce round with either suprimey AUemande, or bechamel 
sauce, and send to table. 

684. NECK OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. 

Trim and braize a neck of veal, and afterwards let it get partially 
eool in its own braize ; drain it on an earthen dish, and mask it entirely 
with a coating of thick and well-seasoned AUemande sauce ; as soon as 
the nuce has become set upon the neck of veal, bread-crumb it with egg 
and bread-crumbs, in which introduce a fourth part of grated Parmesan 
cheese; place it on a buttered baking-dish, three-quarters of an hour 
btftro ^ner, and put it in the oven to bake. When done, dish it up, 
guniah round with a Toulouse ragaui^ surround the whole with a border 
of quenMft decoiated with truffles, and large cray-fish ; place a heart 



160 REMOVES OF VEAL. 

Bweet-bread (decorated with pieces of the tip of a tongue, cut into 
the shape of large hob-nails, and inserted in circular rows in the sweet- 
breads, previously to their being simmered in a little white braize) at 
each end of the dish, glaze the cray-fish lightly, and send to table. 

Note, — Necks of veal, either braized or roasted plain, or larded and 
braized, may, in addition to the foregoing, be sent to table garnished with 
a macedoine of vegetables, b jardiniere, potato croquettes, mushrooms, or 
tomatas au graiin (in the last two cases, the neck of veal must be sauced 
with Espagnole, poivrade, or brown Italian sauce), d la Milanaise, d 
l<ifinanciire, &c., &c. 

586. NOIX OR CUSHION OF VEAL, A LA ST. GEORGE. 
The noixj or cushion, is that part of a leg of veal to which the udder 
adheres ; in order to separate it from the round, or fillet, the leg should 
be placed on the table, with the knuckle from you, then with the left 
hand, take hold of the upper part of the fillet of veal, and witli the right 
insert the point of a knife into the separation which divides the woiar, or 
cushion, from the under part of the fillet ; cut the noix 2L^2iy, following 
the separation right through, round to the knuckle, terminating at the 
left, under the udder, which must be left adhering to the noix. 

Pare off the sinewy parts firom the noix, trim the udder without 
reducing its size, and then with a sharp-pointed knife, make a very slight 
incision in a circular direction on the surface of the noix, round the inner 
edge of the udder ; next remove the outer part with a knife, trimming it 
smooth and neatly ; lard the trimmed part closely with fat bacon, in 
the usual manner, and prepare the noix for braizmg as follows : — First 
place at the bottom of a large /rican^att or oval stewpan, on the drainer 
thereof, some sliced carrots, a head of celery, two onions, with a dove 
stuck in each, and a gami^ied faggot ; cover the whole with thin layers 
of fat bacon, and then put in the noix of veal ; surround it with the 
trimmings, and moisten with half a bottle of sherry or Madeira, and a 
sufficient quantity of good stock, barely to reach the surface of the veal ; 
cover with a well-buttered white paper, and set it to boil on the stove ; 
place the lid on the pan, and put it on a slow fire, or in the oven, to 
braize gently for about four hours (with live embers on the lid), remem- 
bering to baste the larding frequently with the liquor, in order to moisten 
the veal and glaze it of a bright colour ; the udder should be covered with 
thin layers of fat bacon, to preserve its whiteness during the braizing. 
When the wotir is done, drain and glaze it, remove the layers of bacon, 
and dish it up ; garnish it round with groups of button-mushrooms, 
small quenelles of fowl (coloured with cray-fish butter), cockscombs and 
kernels, and turned truffles tossed in glaze; surround these with a border 
of lambs' sweetbreads, one-half of which should be larded, and the 
others, caniisSs with tongue, placed alternately ; stick four silver skewers* 
each garnished with a laige double cockscomb, a large truffle, mushroom 
and cray-fish, into the noix, sauce with a rich Madeira sauce (No. 8), 
and send to table. 

686. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Pbbparb and braize a noix or cushion of veal in every respect the 
same as the foregoing ; the wine may, however, if thought proper, be 
omitted; when the noix is done, glase and drain it, dish it up, pour a 



NOIX, OR CUSHION OF VEAL. 161 

nth financiere ragout (No, 188) under it, garnish round with a border 
of quendlesy and crayfish, and send to table. 

687. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOINfi. 

Prbpabb the noix of yeal as in the foregoing cases, dish it up, garnish 
it with a macedoine of carrots, turnips, green-peas, asparagus-heads, and 
cauliflower-buds, tossed in some good allemande sauce, with a pinch of 
sugar, and the glaze produced from the small carrots and turnips ; place 
round these a border of small artichoke-bottoms, filled alternately with 
green-peas, small carrots, and turnips ; glaze the larded part of the noix, 
and send to table. 

688. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA JARDINIERE. 

The noiXf or cushion of veal, must be first trimmed, larded and 
braized, according to the directions given for the rioix d l<i financiere ; 
when done, dish it up, and garnish it round with a jardiniere, or garnish 
of small roots and vegetables, composed as follows : — Turn some carrots 
and turnips in the shape of either small olives, diamonds, corks, or cloves of 
garlic, &C., and boil them separately in consomme with a very small 
piece of fresli butter, a pinch of sugar, and a grain of salt, observing 
that the turnips must be kept white, and that the carrots should be 
boiled down and rolled in their glaze : prepare also some small heads of 
cauliflower, green-peas, French-beans cut into diamonds, asparagus-heads, 
and small new potatoes ; place these vegetables round the noix^ in alter- 
nate groups, sauce with an Espagnole sauce, or else with the essence in 
which the noix has been braized, — first clarified, then reduced to 
half glaze, and added to a well-finished Espagnole sauce ; glaze the larded 
part of the noix^ and send to table. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing iioixy or cushions of 
Teal, for the table, they may, afler being first prepared and braized 
(either larded or stuck with circular rows of truffles, cut in the shape of 
huge hob-nails, and inserted in the semicircular lean part of the noix)^ 
be served with a Napolitaine, Milanese^ or chipolaia ragout, with tomatas 
ttu gratin, potato croquettes, and sauced with bechamel sauce, with 
stewed peas, or asparagus-peas, tossed in a little allemande sauce, with a 
pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little nutmeg. 

689. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Order a loin of veal to be cut without the chump end, and with the 
skirt left on ; trim it square, and placing the veal stuffing (No. 662) in 
an incision made in the flap part for that purpose, wrap the flap, 
*or akirt piece, round tight, so as to secure the kidney-fat ; fasten it with 
ikewera and string, cover it with two sheets of buttered paper, 
to be tied on with string, and place the loin of veal in a cradlespit to 
rooat ; or a common spit may be used. If the loin of veal be of the 
uaual tixe, weighing about 12lbs., it will require about two hours to roast 
it ; when nearly done, take off the paper, shake some flower over it with 
a dredger-box, and afterwards froth it over with 4oz. of fresh butter, 
previously put to melt in a spoon, in the dripping-pan, before the fire ; 
aa aoon aa the veal has acquired a fine light colour, and the butter and flour 
have frothed up, take it off the spit and dish it up; pour some brown 
melted butter under it (No. 82), and send to table. 



162 REMOVES OF VEAL. 



690. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA MONGLAS. 

Roast off a loin of veal, according to the foregoing directions ; next, with 
a sharp knife make an incision two inches deep along the sides and ends 
of the loin, and endeavour to cut out the square piece without tear- 
ing the meat, the joint resembling an oblong case. The fillet 
thus taken out should be cut into thin round scollops^ and put into 
a stewpan with an equal quantity of scollops of tongue and mushrooms ; 
to these add, a ro^ou^ spoonful of good bechamel sauce, and with this mixture 
fill the loin of veal, previously put on a buttered baking-sheet ; smooth 
the top over with the blade of a knife, and cover the whole with very 
fine bread-crumbs, fried with butter, of a light colour, and mixed with a 
third part of Parmesan cheese : sprinkle a little melted fresh butter over 
it, and set it in the oven to get hot, salamander it over and dish it up ; 
garnish with a white Tanlouse ragovi (No. 187), and place round a 
border of croquettes of veal, or sweetbreads : at each comer of the loin 
stick an ornamental silver skewer, garnished with a lai^ge cocks- 
comb, mushroom, decorated quenelle, crayfish, and truffle ; glaze the sides 
of veal, and send to table. 

691. LOIN OF VEAL, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Procurb a loin of very white veal, cut square, with the whole of the 
flap, or skirt, lefl on ; bone it entirely, taking care, at the same time, to 
divest it of every portion of sinew ; davhe or interlard the lean part of 
the fillet with small fillets of tongue, or ham; the veal must 
then be laid square on the table, and with some quenelle force-meat of 
chickens (mixed with chopped parsley and mushrooms), spread the 
whole of the inner part, about an inch thick ; the kidney and fat should 
then be replaced in the centre, the loin rolled up tight, and its 
pillow-like shape be secured with small iron skewers, and fastened 
with string. Then put it in a large oval braizing-pan, on the drainer: 
garnish with the trimmings, a couple of carrots, onions, celery, and 
garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, two blades of mace, and 
four cloves ; moisten with two large ladlefuls of good consammey cover 
with an oval of double paper, well-buttered, put the lid on, and then 
set the pan to boil on the stove-fire ; afler which, put it to braize in the 
oven, or on a slow-fire, with live embers on the lid ; baste the veal fre- 
quently with its own liquor, and when it is done, drain, trim, and mask 
it all over with a coating of the following mixture : — To six yolks of 
eggs, add 2oz. of fresh butter, melted, and two tablespoonfuls of becha$nd 
sauce, season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, mix this well together, and 
use it as directed above. Cover the whole with very fine brejad-crumbs, 
mixed with a third proportion of grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkle some 
drops of melted, or oiled butter, over it, and placing the loin of veal on 
a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven to bake of a light brovm 
colour ; when done, dish it up, pour round it a Parisian r<igout (No. 
203), and garnish with a border of quenelles of veal, or fowl, decorated 
with truffles, and send to table. 

692. LOIN OF VEAL, A LA ROYALB. 
Prjbparb and braize a loin of veal, as directed in the preceding article ; 
when done, allow it partially to cool in its own braize, then strain it on 



LOIN Am) BREAST OF VEAL. IGS 

the drainer of the hraizing-pan, and absorb any grease there may be on 
it with a clean napkin ; cover it all over with a quenelle farce of veal, 
mixed with a little lobster coral ; decorate the ends and centre with a 
bold design, using for the purpose some black truffles, in order that 
the decoration may show well on the scarlet surface. Next, place the 
loin of veal in a large oval braizing-pan with just sufficient consofumi 
to bathe it, to the depth of an inch, cover the loin with very thin layers 
of fat bacon, or, in lieu thereof, a well-buttered oval covering of paper ; 
•et it in the oven, or on a moderate stove-fire, with live embers on 
the lid, to boil, or simmer gently for about three quarters of an hour, 
when it will be done. Then drain the veal, and divest it of the bacon 
or paper, used to cover it ; pour round it a ragout of button-mush- 
rooms, small quenelles of fowl, cockscombs and kernels ; garnish with a 
border of large tniffles and crayfish, glaze the loin of veal with thin 
Bght-coloured glaze, and send to table. 

Nole^ — This remove may also be decorated with ornamental skew- 
ers garnished with a piece of red tongue, cut in the shape of a cocks- 
comb^ a laige double white cockscomb, a mushroom, and a red quenelle, 
onuunented with truffle. 

603. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA FIXANCIERE. 

Pbocubb a loin of veal, cut square, without the chump, and with the 
flap, or skirt, left on ; bone it carefully, truss it tightly in the shape of a 
pillow, and afler first laying the fillet bare, by paring off the whole of the 
•kin and sinew which covers it, lard it closely, as you would t^fricand^au 
When the loin is so far prepared, get it ready for braizing in a large oval 
bniizing-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot, two blades of 
mace, and four cloves ; moisten with two ladlefuls of good stock, cover 
with an oval of paper, well-buttered, place the lid on the pan, with live 
embers on it, and then set the veal to braize gently on the fire, 
taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When done, 
drain, glaze, and dish it up ; pour round it a rich brown financiere ragoxU 
(No. 1 88), garnish with a border of plain quenelles, and crayfish, and 
send to table. 

594. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA CREME. 

To prepare this, follow the directions given for dressing neck of veal 
h la crSme (No. 579) ; garnish in the same manner, and send to table; 

596. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A l'ANGLAISE. 

FiRBT take the tendons out of the breast of veal intended to be 
dresied, and reserve them for an entree ; then bone it completely, cut the 
ends sqoare, and trim it; place about lib. of well-seasoned ved stuffing 
(No. 662) along the centre of the inner part, roll the veal up tight, so 
as to secure the stuffing in the middle ; fasten it with string and small 
ikewerB. About an hour and a half 4)efore dinner-time, spit the breast 
of veal, cover it with buttered paper, and put it down to roast ; when 
done, dish it up, pour round it either some brown melted butter (No. 
62), light Etpa^noU sauce, or bechamel, and send to table. 

M 2 



164 REMOVES OF VEAL. 



596. BREAST OF TEAL, A LA BOURGEOISE. 

Bone, trim, and roll a breast of veal, according to the preceding 
instructions ; prepare it in an oval stewpan, with 4oz. of fresh butter, 
and set it to simmer on a moderate fire, until it becomes coloured all 
over ; then add a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, moisten 
with a large ladleful of good stock, and put it to braize gently on the 
stove-fire, or in the oven; half an hour after, add two dozen small 
carrots, nicely turned, and in another half hour, add as many heads of 
middle-sized onions, a pinch of sugar, and a little salt. When the veal 
is done, take it up, and after taking away the strings and skewers, put 
it on a baking-sheet in the oven, and glaze it ; dish it up, garnish 
round with the glazed carrots and onions, and after removing all the fat 
from the surface of the stock, or essence of the veal, and reducing it down 
to the consistency of half glaze, use it to sauce the breast of veal, and 
send to table. 

597. BREAST OF VEAL, A LA WINDSOR. 

BoNB and trim a breast of veal, lay it on the table, and after spread- 
ing the inner part with quenelle force-meat of veal or rabbits, at least an 
inch thick, place some square fillets of boiled tongue lengthwise, and be- 
tween the fillets of tongue put some pieces of black truffles, cut square, 
to match the size of the pieces of tongue ; then roll up the breast of veal 
carefully, secure its shape with the aid of small iron skewers and string, 
and to prevent the force-meat from escaping, cover the ends with layers of 
fat bacon. Put the veal thus prepared, into an oval braizing-pan with 
the trimmings, and the usual complement of roots, &c., moisten with two 
ladlefuls of good stock, and set it to braize gently on a slow fire ; when 
done, drain, glaze, and dish it up, garnish round with French-beans cut 
in diamonds — which, after being boiled green, must be dressed with a 
spoonful of bechamel sauce, a little minionette pepper, nutmeg, salt, firesh 
butter, and lemon juice ; round these place a border of young carrots nicely 
glazed, and send to table. 

The braize in which the breast of veal is done, should be divested of 
grease, and clarified, and after being reduced to half glaze, served sepa- 
rately, in a sauce-boat 

598. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A LA FINANCIERE. 
Trim, stuff, and truss a breast of veal as directed for the preparation 
of a breast of veal d rAngl<i{se, roast it off in the same manner, dish 
it up, and surround it with a rich Jlnaiiciere ragout^ (No. 188) and 
send to table. 

699. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROMAINE. 
Prbparb a breast of veal, as for <i 2a Windsor, and braize it accord- 
ingly ; when done, glaze and dish it up, garnish it with lazagnes (No. 
264) prepared as macaroni, surround the whole with a border of rice 
eroqudtea, made with rice boiled in oonsommi, and to which should be added 
a Httle AUemande sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, and minio- 
nette pepper ; and when«the preparation is cold, mould the croqueUet ac- 
cording to taste, bread-crumb and firy them of a light colour, and um 
them as directed. Send the zemove to tablei acooropanied with a 
sauce-boat containing Sicilian iauce» (No. 60). 



BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 165 



600. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. 

Fob this preparation, follow the directions given for loin of veal d la 
RoydU, 

Note, — In addition to the foregoing methods for preparing breasts of 
rtaX lor the table, they may, after being either roasted or braized, also be 
garnished with a jardiniere or macedoine of vegetables, with stewed 
peas, or with a ragout d la Claremont, 4 la Toulouse, d la chipolata, &c., 
&c ; as convenience or fancy may. suggest. 



REMOVES OF LEGS, LOINS, AND NECKS OF MUTTON, 

COMPRISING 

Boiled Leg of Mnttoo, a VAw^Mte, Necks of Mutton, a VAnylam, 

finused „ with roots. „ it rirlandaise, 

f, f, Ula Provenfole. „ hla Jardiniere. 

ft M ^ ^ SoubiK. „ larded with Poivrade 

f, „ iila Bretonne, sauce. 

« M d ^ Jardiniere, „ d VAllemande, 

Braiwd Saddle of Mutton, a la Maee- „ a la Soubite. 



601. BOILED LEG OP MUTTON, A L'ANGLAISE. 

SiLECT a leg of Southdown mutton, rather fat, and not kept above 
tHiee or four days ; trim it, and put it on to boil in a stockpot or braizing- 
pan, filled up with cold water ; when it boils, remove the skum, and put it 
OD the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for about two hours 
and a half: a handful of salt and a couple of turnips and carrots should 
be put into the pot to boil with the leg. When the mutton is done, 
drain and dish it up, garnish it round with mashed turnips, dressed with 
a little sweet cream, a pat of butter, pepper and salt : mould the 
mashed turnips in the shape of large eggs — with a table-spoon, and 
place these closely round the leg of mutton, introducing between each 
spoonful of mashed turnips, a carrot nicely turned, that has been boiled, 
dther with the mutton, or in some broth separately : pour some gravy 
under it* put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send it to table, accompani^ 
with a saueeboat full of caper sauce (No. 91). 

602. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, GARNISHED WITH ROOTS. 

Tbim a leg of Southdown or Scotch mutton, interlard it with fillets of 
bam or bacon cut a quarter of an inch square and about six inches long, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg and some chopped 
parsley ; pare off the ends of ham, &c., and place the leg of mutton in 
on oval braizing-pan with two carrots, a head of celery, a couple of 
onions, fimr cloves, and two blades of nuice ; moisten with a glass of 
brmdy, and two large ladlefuls of fresh stock, cover with an oval butter- 
ed paper and put on the lid ; then set the braizing-pan on the fire to boil 



166 REMOVES OF MUTTON. 

gently for about four hours, from time to time moistening the mutton with 
its own liquor^ and keeping a continual supply of live embers on the lid 
of the pan. When done, take it up on to a deep baking-sheet, with a 
little of its own liquor, and put it in the hot closet till wanted. In the 
mean time, strain off the braize, divest it of all the fat, clarify it in the 
usual manner, and when strained, reduce it to the consistency of half 
glaze, and set it aside in a small hain-marie. Then glaze the leg of 
mutton nicely, and place it on its dish ; garnish it round with alternate 
groups of young carrots and turnips turned and boiled in broth as usual, 
ibr the purpose, and afterwards boiled down in their own glaze, also some 
glazed young onions ; pour the clarified essence under the leg of mutton, 
put a mfiie on the bone, and send to table. 

603. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Bone a leg of four-year old mutton, commencing at the thigh bone, 
by detaching the meat from around it with a knife, and throwing it 
back right up to the joint of the leg bone ; then cut the sinewy ligatures, 
and remove the thigh bone entirely; saw off the shank and scrape 
the end of the bone remaining in the leg as in preparing a cutlet. Then 
interlard the interior with seasoned lardoans or fillets of ham or fat bacon, 
introduce the proven^al^ stuffing (described below) and sew the hollow 
opening whence the bone has been extracted with small twine ; place 
the leg of mutton in a braizing-pan with carrots, turnips, celery, six 
cloves, two blades of mace, two garnished faggots, and six cloves of gar- 
lic ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and two large ladlefuls of good 
fresh stock, cover with an oval of buttered paper and the lid ; set the 
pan on the stove to boil, and then put it on a small stove-fire, with live 
embers on the lid, and allow it to continue gently boiling for about four 
hours : taking care to moisten it frequently with its own liquor. When 
it is done, take it up on to a baking-sheet with some of its own liquor, 
and set it in the hot closet for a few minutes. Strain the remainder of 
the liquor through a sieve, and remove all the fat, clarify it, strain the 
essence through a napkin, and reduce it to half glaze, and add it to some 
Gasconne sauce (No. 68). Then dish up the mutton, garnish it round 
with tomatas or mushrooms dressed au graiin (No. 1160), pour the 
Gcuconne sauce under the remove, and send to table. — The FrovenfoU 
stuffing for the leg of mutton, is to be made as follows : 

Chop half a pottle of mushrooms very fine, and put them into a amali 
stewpan ; to these add some chopped parsley and shalot, with an equal 
quantity of grated lean and fat ham, and a little grated lemon-peel : aea- 
son with pepper, salt, and nutmeg: set the whole on the fire and stir it 
with a wooden spoon for five minutes, that the watery parts of the 
mushrooms may evaporate ; add the yolks of four eggs, and after setting 
the yolks of eggs in the fine herbs, by stirring the whole on the fire, add 
them to some queridU force-meat made with the fillets of a partridge, 
mix these well together, and use the stuffing as directed above. 

004. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA SOUBISE. 

Bone a leg of mutton and lard it as in the foregoing case, stuff it ?rith 
some qtieneU^ force-meat, made with game, and secure the stuffing with 
twine. Then prepare the leg of mutton for braizing with a couple of 
carrots and onions, a head of celery, and garnished faggot, four cloves, 
and two blades of mace ; moisten with two lai^ ladlefiils of common 



BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON. 167 

•tock^ cover these with buttered paper, then put on the lid, and set it on a 
moderate fire to braize gently for about four hours: taking care to 
moisten it frequently with its liquor. When the mutton is braized 
perfectly tender, take it up tri to a baking-sheet with some of the liquor 
m which it has been braized, and put it in the oven to finish glazing. In 
the mean time, strain off and clarify the remainder of the liquor, and 
keep it in a small hain-marie; and after having glazed the mutton 
bristly, dish it up on a bed of well-made soubise puree of onion (No. 
119), garnish round with potato croqudtea^ and send to table. 

The clarified essence, afler being reduced to a half glaze, should be 
sent to table in a sauceboat to be served with the mutton when carved : if 
poured round the mutton it would mix with the souhise sauce. 

605. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA BRETOKNE. 
Prepare and braize a leg of mutton as directed in the foregoing case ; 
when done, glaze and dish it up on a bed of white Aaru^^-beans dressed 
i la hrHonne (No. 1186) : garnish it round with a border of potatoes cut 
in the shape of large olives, and fried in butter, of a light colour ; orna- 
ment the bone with a paper ruffle, and send to table. 

e06. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. 
Bone and braize a leg of mutton according to the preceding directions; 
and when done, glaze and dish it up ; garnish it round with alternate 
groups of prepared small carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French-beans cut in 
diamonds, small new potatoes, cucumbers, asparagus-heads, and green- 
peas — ^the whole or any part of these, according to the season. Pour 
round the mutton some Espagnoh sauce in which has been incorporated, 
after reduction, the clarified essence in which the mutton has been 
braized ; put on a ruffle, and send to table. 

Note, — In addition to the foregoing garnishes for braized legs of mutton, 
they may also be appropriately served with new potatoes d la mattre 
dkSielf fresh ^rw6^beans, stewed peas, and a border of young carrots 
glazed, artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters, and tossed in allemande sauce, 
or with a macedoine of vegetables (No. 143). 

607. BRAIZED SADDLE OF MUTTON, A LA MACEDOINE. 
Procure a well covered saddle of mutton, and extract the spine-bone 
with the knife, without injuring the fillets, or perforating any part of 
the fet which covers them; trim the tail end quite round, cut the 
flaps square, season the inner part of the saddle with pepper and salt, and 
having rolled up each flap or skirt piece, so as to give it a tight 
and neat appearance, secure its shape by passing some string round 
it several times. Afler this, the mutton should be prepared for 
braising with carrots, onions, celery, garnished feggot, cloves, and mace ; 
moisten with a sufficient quantity of good stock to merely coyer the 
mutton ; place a buttered paper and the lid over all, set the braizing-pan 
on a moderate fire, and after it has boiled, let it continue gently braiz- 
ing for about four hours — carefully basting it frequently with its own 
liquor. When it is done, take it up on to a baking-sheet, and put it in 
the oven to dry the moisture from the surface, preparatory to its being 
l^azed : then dish it up, and garnish it round with prepared small vegeta- 



168 REMOVES OF MUTTON. 

bles, such as carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French-beans, cucumbers, 
asparagus-heads, small new potatoes, and green-peas : each separately 
tossed in a little aUemande sauce (after being first prepared in the 
usual manner, and the carrots and turnips boiled down in their glaze, as 
also the cucumbers), pour some aUemande sauce round the saddle of mut- 
ton, and send to table. 

Note, — Instead of saucing this remove with alleTnande^ espagnole may 
be used if preferred, or even the clarified and reduced essence in which 
the mutton has been braized ; but it is essential that the vegetables in- 
tended to be used for garnishing, should be dressed with ctllemande or 
bechamel sauce. 

Saddles of mutton prepared and braized according to the foregoing 
instructions may also be sent to table in all the varieties described for 
braized legs of mutton. 

608. BOILED NECKS OF MUTTON, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Saw off the scrag of two necks of mutton, and shorten the rib-bones 
to four inches in length ; next, detach the spine-bone from the fleshy 
part of the neck, and afterwards saw off the whole of the spine adhering 
to the base of the ribs ; pare the fat smooth, and about an hour and a 
half before dinner time, put them on to boil in a stewpan with water, a 
little salt, and two or three carrots and turnips. When they are done, 
dish them up so as that the uncovered ends of the rib-bones may fall in 
between each other — ^representing a chevaux-de-frize. Garnish round with 
mashed turnips, and with turned carrots, between each spoonfiil of the 
mashed turnips, or else placed round in a row. 

Send two sauceboats filled with gravy and caper sauce (No. 91). 

609. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A l'iRLANDAISE. 
Trim two necks of mutton as directed in the previous article, put them 
to braize in an oval stewpan with carrot, onion, celery; and garnished 
faggot ; moisten with common stock, and put them to boil on the stove ; 
after which set them by the side of a moderate fire, and while the necks 
of mutton are being braized, turn two or three dozen potatoes in the 
shape of small eggs, and place them in a stewpan with half a dozen 
small onions; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a ladleful of 
broth, and put them on a moderate fire to boil gently : taking care that 
the potatoes are kept as whole as possible, although they must be tho- 
roughly boiled. When the necks of mutton are done, take them up, 
trim them if necessary, and dish them up as directed in the foregoing ar- 
ticle ; strain the broth in which the mutton has been boiled, remove all 
the grease firom its surface, and reduce it to half glaze : add part of it to 
the potatoes, and with these garnish the necks of mutton round neatly, 
pour the essence under, glaze them, and send to table. 

610. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Trim two necks of mutton and prepare them for braizing with carrot, 

onion, celery, faggot, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with 

two ladlefuls of stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper, and the 

lid ; put them to braize gently on a moderate fire for about two houn and 



NECKS OF MUTTON. 169 

a half: when done»,glaze and dish them up, giving them an appearance of 
ekevatuxie-frize; garnish them round with a well prepared jardiniere 
of every variety of small vegetables in season, sauce them with Es- 
pagnole sauce, and send to table. 

61 L BEAIZED NECKS OF MUTTON LARDED— AS ROEBUCK, WITH 
POIVRADE SAUCE. 

Fob the preparation of this remove, it is necessary that the necks of 
mutton be trimmed as directed for braizing, and afterwards, that the 
upper part of the fillet be laid bare without loosening it from the bones : 
they must then be larded closely as a fricandeauy and put to steep in a 
cold marinade (No. 234), for at least twenty four hours. It will be 
readily understood that this must be attended to a day before the necks 
of mutton are required to be used. Trim, lard, and marinade, the necks 
of mutton as directed, and then prepare them for braizing in the 
following manner : — Place the necks of mutton in an oval braizing-pan 
on the drainer, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of 
parsley, &c., four cloves and two blades of mace ; moisten with some 
light wine mirepoix (No. ZZQ)^ or in lieu thereof, use half a pint of 
Sherry or Madeira, and a large ladleful^of stock; cover the necks of mut- 
ton with an oval piece of buttered paper, and set them to boil on the 
itove-fire; after which, put the lid on the pan, and set the braizing- 
pan on a moderate fire with live embers on the lid, to continue gently 
boiling for about an hour and a half: take care to baste the larded 
necks frequently with their own liquor. When done, take them up on to 
a small baking-dish with a little of their own broth, and put them in 
the oven that the larding may dry for a minute or two, then glaze 
and dish them up ; garnish them round with a border of potatoes turned 
in the shape of large olives, corks, or balls, and fried in clarified butter ; 
pour some poivrade sauce (No. 29), under them, and send to table. 

612. NECKS OF MUTTON, LARDED AND BRAIZED, A L'ALLE- 

MANDE. 

Trim, lard, and prepare for braizing, two necks of mutton, as dii-ected 
in the preceding article ; and about an hour and a half before dinner- 
time, set them on the fire to braize in the usual manner. When done, 
glaze and dish them up, surround them with alternate groups of 
quenelles of potatoes, and prunes stewed in red wine ; pour some German 
sweet sauce (No. 6 1 ) under them, and send to table. 

613. NECKS OF MUTTON LARDED, A LA SOUBISE. 

Trim and lard two necks of mutton, prepare them for braizing with 
carrot, onion, celery, garnished faggot of parsley, three cloves, and two 
blades of mace ; moisten with a large ladleful of good stock, cover them 
with an oval piece of buttered paper as well as the lid of the braizier : set 
them on a moderate fire to braize gently for about an hour and a half; 
when done, glaze, and dish them up (having previously poured in the 
dish a rich purie of onions d la sovbise. No, 119), place a border of 
potato croquettes round them, and send to table. 

Note. — Larding may be dispensed with, when considered objectionable, 
vrillioul deteriorating much from the excellence of any of the foregoing 



170 REMOVES OF LAMB. 

methods of dressing necks of mutton. It is, however^ generally regarded 
as a proper characteristic of these dishes. In addition to the above 
methods for garnishing braized necks of mutton, they may also be finished 
by placing round them a garnish of stewed peas, asparagus, glazed 
young carrots and turnips, sauer-kratU, baked tomatas, or Lyonnaise, 
tomatas^ or piquarUe sauce. 



REMOVES OF LAMB, 

COMPRISING 

Baron of Lamb, a la Monimorenqf. Saddle of Lamb, a la Godard, 

„ it la Printaniere, „ a la Finandere, 

„ a la Jardiniere, ^ a la Hoyale, 

„ a la maitre d*HoieL „ a la Macedoine, 

Hind Quarters of Lamb. „ a la MUanaise* 

Saddle of Lamb, h. la Dauphine* 

614. BARON OF LAMB, A LA MONTMORENCY. 

Procure the hind quarters of a fine fat lamb, take off the transpa- 
rent skin which covers the fat of the saddle, and with the point of a 
small knife, make a slight incision m an oval form — all over the surface 
of the upper part of the legs ; and afterwards, with a sharp thin bladed 
knife^ pare off the skin, so as to leave the place bare ; this will give to 
the surface of each leg, the appearance o£fricandeaua prepared for lard- 
ing. Then saw off the shank bones, as well as the projecting part of 
the spine bone ; cut off the tail, and truss the skirts neatly up with 
small skewers. Next, place the baron on the spit for roasting, and be 
careful to cover it with buttered white paper. Two hours and a half 
before dinner, put the lamb doAvn to the fire to roast, and about ten 
minutes before it is done, take off the paper ; and af\«r allowing the 
larding to get lightly coloured, glaze it well over, then take it off 
the spit, and dish it up; garnish it round with groups of button mush- 
rooms, truffles, fine white cock's combs, and scollops of red tongue ; 
round the whole, place a border of spoon quenelles decorated with 
truffles, and a lamb's sweetbread larded between each quenelle ; sauce 
with good allemande sauce, glaze the lamb brightly, and send to table. 

615. BARON OF LAMB LARDED, A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Trim, lard, and roast a baron of lamb according to the directions 
contained in the foregoing article ; dish it up, pour round it some printa- 
niei'e sauce (No. SI), garnish it with groups of small new potatoes 
first, partly boiled, and aflerwards fried of a light colour in clarified 
butter glaze the lamb all over, and send to table. 

616. BARON OF LAMB, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Prbparb and roast the baron of lamb according to the preceding 
directions; and when dished up, garnish it round with a rich and varied 



SADDLE OF LAMB. 171 

Jmrdiniere of such vegetables as are in season ; sauce the lamb round 
ivith EBpagiwle sauce^ and send to table. 

617. BARON OF LAMB, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Prbpabb the baron of lamb as previously directed^ dish it up and 
pour round it a rich Ttiaitre d'h^tel sauce (No. 43) ; garnish it round 
with alternate groups of small buds of cauliflowers, and fried olive-shaped 
potatoes ; glaze the lamb well, and send to table. 

Note. — Hind-quarters of lamb should be dressed in the same manner 
as barons of lamb, and may therefore be garnished with every sort of 
sauce and garnish used for the latter. 

When the larding is dispensed with, the whole of the fat as a 
matter of course shoiJd be retained on the surface of the lamb, to pro- 
tect the meat from losing its juices, and consequently render it unfit for 
table. 

618. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA DAUPUINE. 

Select a moderate sized saddle of lamb, bone it, and having laid it 
on the table, season the inside with pepper and salt, and line it with 
some queTidU forcemeat of veal or fowl,— about an inch in thickness, 
placmg on the forcemeat some fillets of tongue and truffles; afler 
which, fold the skirts of the saddle over — so as to encase the forcemeat 
&€., thereby giving it a plump appearance, and in order to secure its 
shape, bind it in a napkin on which butter has been spread ; when the 
laddle of mutton is rolled up tightly in it, tie the ends with twine. Then 
place the saddle so prepared on the drainer of an oval braizing-pan, 
cover it with the bones and trimmings; garnish with carrot, onion, 
celery, garnished faggot of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; 
moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the lamb, and set it to braize 
gently on a moderate fire for about two hours and a half. When the 
uunb is done* place it on an earthen dish, untie the ends of the napkin, 
and fold the saddle up tightly, and smooth it in again : fasten the ends 
as before, and put it in press between two dishes until it is nearly cold. 
TheOy take the lamb out of the napkin, trim it neatly, and cover it over 
with a coating of well-seasoned reduced AUemande sauce, which must 
be allowed to set, after being egged over, and then be covered with very 
fine breadcrumbs mixed with one-fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese ; 
sprinkle some drops of melted fresh butter with a paste-brush over the 
whole, and put it on a baking sheet in the oven to acquire a light brown 
or fawn colour. The saddle of lamb being ready, dish it up, garnish it 
round with some bouchees of wild rabbits d. la Pompadmir (No. 1010); 
sauce round and under the lamb, with some white Italian sauce (No. 
13), and aend to table. 

619. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA OODARD. 

Bone, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb, according to the preceding 
directions ; when done, put it in press between two dishes till cold. It 
should then be taken out of the napkin, trimmed neatly without re- 
moving any of the fat, or dhninishing its size, and put into a deep 
baking sheet with the broth in which it has been braized — previously 
clarified, and afterwards reduced to half glaze for the purpose ; put a but- 
toed oval piece of white paper on the top, and half an hour before dumer. 



172 REMOVES OF LAMB. 

put it in the oven to be wanned and glazed of a fine light colour. Then 
dish it up, and pour round it a rich ragout d la Godard — composed of 
cock's-combs and kernels, button-mushrooms, small sweetbreads cut into 
scollops, and truffles — the whole to be tossed in some good aUemande 
sauce. Put a border of large quenelles decorated with truffles, and some 
larded lamb's heart sweetbreads — placed alternately round the remove, 
and send to table. 

620. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Prbpabb a saddle of lamb exactly as the foregoing, and when dished 
up, garnish it with a rich Financiere ro^oe^/ (No. 188), glaze the re- 
move, and send to table. 

621. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA ROYALE. 

For the preparation of this remove, follow the directions for loin of 
veal a la Royak (No. 592). 

622. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Bone, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb, as for ^ /ti Godard (No. 
619), warm and glaze it, also, in the same manner; dish it up, garnish 
it round with a rich and well prepared Macedoine of vegetables tossed in 
some AUemande sauce : surround the remove with a border of artichoke 
bottoms, or small turnips cut in the shape of cups - (boiled in white 
broth with a lump of sugar and a little salt) and filled, half with green- 
peas, and the remainder with very small turned or scooped carrots, 
nicely glazed ; glaze the remove, and send to table. 

623. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MILANAISE. 

Prepare and braize a saddle of lamb, as previously directed ; when 
glazed, dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as fol- 
lows : — 

Boil one pound of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, a 
pat of butter, a little salt and minionette pepper ; when done, drain it 
on a sieve, and afterwards on a clean napkin, cut it into pieces two 
inches long, and put this into a stewpan with two pats of butter, six 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small piece of glaze, a ragout, 
spoonful of good white sauce, minionette pepper, and a litttle salt : 
toss the whole well together over a stove fire until quite hot, and then 
use it to place round the remove, as also some truffles, and tongue cut 
into small circular scollops ; these are to be warmed in a table-spoonful of 
half glaze, and placed round the remove in alternate groups with the 
macaroni ; glaze the saddle of lamb first before serving, and send to table 
with it a sauceboat containing some of the clarified and reduced broth, 
in which the lamb has been braized, to be handed round with the remove. 



173 



CALVES'-HEADS AND OX-CHEEKS, &c. 



^ COMPRISING 

CalfVHead, a rjnglai$e. Ox-cheek braized, h la Flamande. 
„ plain, with Piquanie sauce. ,, ii la Pohnaim, 

„ a la Financiere, „ a VAUemande, 

yy a la Beauvause, ^^ ii la Portuguaise, 

^ hla Tortue, m ^ ^ Pompadour, 

yy h la Marigry. 

624. CALF'S-HEAD, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a fine fat white scalded calf's head, bone it in the manner 
described for preparing mock turtle soup (No. 849) ; then put it into a 
large pan full of cold water, in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed, 
after which, put it on the fire in a large stewpan with cold water^ and 
as soon as it boils, skim it well, and allow it to boil for five minutes, 
then take it up and put it into cold water to cool. Next, drain it 
on a napkin, cut the ears out, leaving a sufficient base round them, to 
allow them to stand up; cut the cheeks, &c., into pieces two inches 
square, round the angles, and pare off any rough cuticle there may be 
about them ; this done, proceed to rub each piece of calf's head with 
lemon-juice, then place the whole, including the tongue, in a large 
stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, parsley roots, sweet basil, a garnish- 
ed faggot of parsley, &c. four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten 
with half a bottle of Sherry or Madeira, and two ladlefuls of good white 
stock, and set the whole to braize gently on a moderate fire, for about two 
hours. When the pieces of calf's head are done, drain them upon a nap- 
kin, and dish them up in a close circle round the tongue, (previously 
trimmed, glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish) ; then cut the 
brains into scollops, and place them in the flanks, and at each end place 
the ears, previously trimmed and curled ; pour some parsley and butter 
(No. 77) over the remove, and send to table. 

The calf's ears should be trimmed as follows: — First, drain them 
upon a napkin, then scrape off all the glutinous surface from the thin 
part with the edge of a spoon, leaving the white gristly membrane 
quite clear ; wash them in warm water, put them back upon the napkin, 
and then slit them into narrow stripes, taking care not to run the knife 
through the ends, but merely from the inner part to within half an inch 
of the point, so as that, when the ear is turned down, it may present the 
appearance of a looped frill. 

It is customary to send a piece of boiled, streaky bacon on the side- 
table when calf's head is intended to be eaten plain ; a boatful of sauce 
it la diable, (No. 17) as an accessary to plain calf's-head, is generally 
preferred to parsley and butter, the latter being considered too insipid* 

626. CALFVhEAD PLAIN, WITH PIQUANTE SAUCE. 
Prepare the calf's head as directed in the preceding article ; then put 
about one pound of chopped beef-suet into a large stewpan with carrot, onion, 



174 REMOVES. 

celery, garnished faggot of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; 
stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire until the suet is melted, 
then add the pulp of two lemons and a small handful of flour ; moisten 
with common white broth or water, add a little salt and a few pepper- 
corns, and then set the calf *s-head to boil gently for about two hours. 
When it is done, drain the pieces upon a napkin, and dish them up neatly 
i-ound the tongue trimmed and glazed, and placed in the centre of the 
dish ; place the ears, after trimming them, at each end, and on either side 
of the tongue place half the brains (which should be boild in vinegar and 
water with a little salt and some fat from the stock-pot), make an inci- 
sion lengthwise in each half portion of the brains, then pour a well-made 
piqtiante sauce, (No. 18), over the whole ; garnish round with eight fried 
eggs and some crcnitons, and send to table. 

Calf 's-head prepared according to the foregoing directions, may also 
be served with either Italian, ravigoUe, tomatas, paivrade, or poor man's 
sauce. 

626* CALP'S-HEAD, A LA FINANCIERE. 

BoNB a calf 's-head, blanch it in boiling water for about ten mi- 
nutes on the fire, then put it into cold water for ten minutes ; drain it 
upon a napkin, trim off all the rough parts and cut it into large scollops, 
leaving the tongue and ears whole, as usual ; the brains should be care- 
fully taken out of the head, and boiled separately, as directed in pre- 
vious cases. 

The pieces of calf 's-head after being first rubbed over with lemon - 
juice, should be placed in a braizing-pan with half a bottle of Sherry or 
Madeira, two ladlefuls of good stock, carrot, onion, celery, garnished fag- 
got of parsley, &c. ; four cloves, two blades of mace and a few pepper- 
corns ; cover with a thickly buttered oval piece of strong white paper, 
and put on the lid ; then set it to braize gently for about two hours, with 
live embers on the lid. Twenty minutes before dinner-time, drain the 
pieces of calf *s-head on to a Yiapkin, dish them up, in the form of a 
wreath, round the base of a fried crotatade, (previously stuck on the 
centre of the dish with a little flour and white of egg mixed together,) at 
each end place the ears, on the croustade place the tongue, (separated 
down the centre, and rather spread out) and the brains laid thereon ; 
around these shoidd be stuck in the crottstade six or eight ornamental 
skewers, each furnished with a double cock's-comb, a laige mushroom, a 
truffle, and a crayfish ; pour round the whole, a rich Jinanciere ragout 
(No. 188), and send to table. 

627. CALF'S-HEAD, A LA BEAUVAUX. 
Select a small, well-shaped white calf's-head^ bone it carefully, 
as before directed, keeping the skin as whole as possible. When 
the head has been boned, wash it thoroughly, wipe it with a clean 
cloth, season inside with pepper and salt, and then fill up the entire 
vacant space occasioned by the extraction of the skull and jaws, with a 
well-seasoned queneUe force-meat made of veal, mixed with some chop- 
ped parsley and mushrooms ; when the calf 's-head is thus again plump- 
ed up to its original size, by means of the force-meat, it must be secured, 
by sewing up all the apertures with small twine and a trussing-needle of 
proper size. When this part of the process is completed, roll the calf's- 



CALF'S-HEAD. 175 

head up tightly in a well-buttered napkin saturated with lemon-juice (to 
keep the head white) ; then place the calf 's-head in a braizing-pan with 
one pound of chopped suet, carrot, onion, celery, gambhed faggot, cloves, 
mace, pepper-corns, and a spoonful of salt ; moisten with good common 
white stock, cover with the lid, and set it to boil gently for about three 
hours. 

About half an hour before dinner-time, take the calfs-head up on a 
dish, remove the napkin, trim the ears, shred them and turn them down, 
that they may appear frilled ; then place the calfs-head, perfectly drained 
from any moisture, on the centre of the dish, and remove all the twine 
with which it has been sewn up, and mask it all over, excepting the ears, 
with a preparation of four yolks of eggs, mixed with a pat of melted 
butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg; then 
co7er the whole with fine bread-crumbs, fried in a sai^tapan, with a little 
butter, of a fine bright colour, and place the head in the oven for five 
minutes, that the breadcrumbs may dry on, taking care to cover the 
ears with wet paper, to keep them white, and prevent them from 
cockling up and spoiling their effect. As soon as the bread-crumbs have 
dried on, remove the paper from the ears, sauce round with a ragout^ 
composed of the tongue cut into scollops, as also the brains, some button- 
mushrooms, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives ; allow 
these to boil up for two or three minutes in a well-made poivrade sauce 
(No, 29) ; garnish round with some quenelUs of veal, or chicken, 
coloured with raviijoUCy or spinach-green (No. 285); stick in four orna- 
mental silver skewers, garnished with a crest of red tongue, a lai^ 
truffle, and a decorated quenelle^ and send to table. 

0-28. CALF'S-HEAD, A LA TORTUE. 

Bone, blanch and trim a calfs-head, cut it up into large scollops, 
keep the ears whole, neatly trim the pieces, and toss them in the 
juice of a lemon ; put them into a stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, 
ganiished-faggot, cloves, mace, and a few pepper-corns; moisten with 
half a bottle of Madeira, or Sherry, and two large ladlefuls of good stock ; 
cover with a well-buttered stiff-paper, and put on the lid ; set the whole 
to braize on the stove for about two hours. When the pieces of calfs- 
head are done, drain them on a napkin, and afterwards dish them up, in 
the form of a close wreath, round the base of a fned bread croustade; 
place the ears at the ends, and on the flanks : if the party be large, two 
extra ears should be procured, as the four make the dish look much 
handsomer: next, place the tongue, cut down its centre, and spread 
out on the top of the croustade ; on this put the brains, which must 
be kept whole and white, and round these, on the croudade, should be 
stuck six ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a double cockscomb, 
a large mushroom, a qitaielle, a truffle, and a large cray-fish ; sauce round 
with a well-made sauce d la tortue (No. 9) ; garnish the dish round 
between the spaces of the ears, with four larded and glazed sweetbreads, 
and eight decorated quenelles, and send to table. 

629. CALFVhEAD, A LA MARIGNY. 

Pripabb and braize a calf s head as directed for dressing a calfs-head 
(^ la heauvaux. When done, take it out of the napkin, and drain 



176 REMOVES. 

all the moiflture from it, place the head on a disli, remove the twine used 
to secure its shape, trim the ears, and then sauce it all over (the ears 
excepted) with a well-seasoned ravigoUe sauce; garnish round with a 
border of cray-fish, and green gherkins, and send to table. 

Note- — It is not necessary, in all cases, to garnish each remove as 
richly as heretofore set forth : many of the accessories, on every day occa- 
sions, might be regarded as extravagant. What to omit in such cases, 
must be left to the judgment of the experienced cook acquainted with 
the means and taste of his master. 

630. OX-CHEEK BEAIZED, A LA PLAMANDE. 

?B0CURB two fresh ox-cheeks, bone and trim them, and then place 
them in a large oval braizing-pan on the drainer, garnish with the usual 
complement of vegetables, &c., add the trimmings, moisten with suffi- 
cient broth from the stock-pot to cover the whole, and set them to boil 
very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about five hours. When 
the ox-cheeks are thoroughly braized, and are become quite tender, take 
them up carefully, and put them in press between two dishes, until cold ; 
then trim them neatly, giving them an oval or oblong shape, and put 
them into a deep fricand^au pan with the broth in which they have been 
braized (clarified and reduced to half its original quantity), and set them 
by in the larder, till about three quarters of an hour before dishing up ; 
then put the ox-cheeks in the oven, or on a slow-fire, to get gradually 
warm, and to glaze them brightly, with their own stock. Next place 
them on their dish, the one resting on the other, garnish them round with 
a border of Brussels sprouts boiled green, and tossed over the fire in a 
stewpan, with two pats of butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt ; 
or, when these fail, in their stead use braized cabbages; then add 
a border of alternate groups of well-prepared, and nicely-glazed carrots 
and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and also some small-sized glazed 
onions. Sauce with an Espagnole or poivrade sauce, and send to table. 

631. OX-CHEEK, A LA POLONAISE. 

Bone and trim two ox-cheeks ; prepare them for braizing as directed 
in the foregoing case ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and allow 
them to simmer on the stove-fire for about ten minutes, add sufficient 
stock to cover them, and again set them on the stove to boil ; skim and 
put them by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for five hours. 
When the ox-cheeks are sufficiently braized, and are become quite tender, 
put them in press between two dishes ; when cold, trim, and afterwards 
cut them across the grain, into very thin slices. Then stick a number of 
triangular croutons of fried bread, in an oval form, on the dish, within 
two inches of the edge, and within this coronet, place a layer of the thin 
slices of the ox-cheeks, over which spread some sauce made in the follow- 
ing manner : — 

Shred the rind of two oranges very thin, and perfectly firee from pith, 
boil it in water for five minutes, drain and refresh it in cold water, and 
then add it to a smaU ladleful of good EtpagnoU sauce, half a pound of 
red-currant jelly, four chopped shalots, a little grated nutmeg, and the 
juice of one lemon ; boil the whole togethei, stirring it the while with a 
wooden spoon, and use this preparation as directed above. Having thus 



OX-CHEEKS. 177 

continued alternately, adding layers of ox-cheek and sauce, until the 
whole forms a dome ; mask it oyer with the remainder of the sauce, and 
after smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife, cover it with some 
light-coloured raspings of roll, bruised and sifted for the purpose. About 
three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the dish in the oven, when 
moderately hot, to allow the preparation to get thoroughly warm ; garnish 
with a border of fried eggs and glazed onions, pour some of the same 
sauce round it — this, however, must be thmner than that directed to be 
used for mixing with the ox-cheeks — and serve. 

632. OX-CHEEKS, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Braize the ox-cheeks as directed in the foregoing case ; when done, 
put them in press, and after being trimmed, place them on a but- 
tered baking-sheet, and mask them all over with the following prepara- 
tion : — Bake some pieces of crumb of bread of a light colour, pound and 
sift them ; use this powder to mix into a pahte with port wine, a table- 
spoonful of cinnamon-powder, and 2oz. of pounded sugar ; mix the whole 
well together, and spread it all over the ox-cheeks. Three quarters of 
an hour before dinner-tiiue, put the ox-cheeks in the oven, when mode- 
rately hot, to get warmed through ; then, place them on their dish, garnish 
round with groups of small quendlea of potatoes (No. 312) and stewed 
prunes, sauce them round with German sweet sauce (No. 61), and send 
to table. 

633. OX-CHEEKS, A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Braize the ox-cheeks ; when done put them in press, trim, and place 
them in 2l fricandeau pan, with the clarified and reduced broth in which 
they have been braized ; and having wanned them in this, and glazed 
them^with it, dish them up; garnish round with a border of eggs 
farcis, or stuffed and fried (No. d80), pour some Portuguese sweet sauce 
(No. 59) round the ox-cheeks, and send to table. 

634. OX-CHEEKS, A LA POMPADOUR. 

Braize the ox-cheeks very tender, and after having put them in press, 
and then trimmed them, mask them over with a coating of reduced 
aieiet sauce (No. 36); when the sauce has become set by cooling on the ox- 
cheeks, egg them over and bread-crumb them with very fine bread-crumbs 
mixed with one fourth of grated Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle over a 
little butter, place them on a well buttered baking- sheet, and an 
hour before dinner, put them in the oven to bake of a fine bright colour ; 
dish them up, garnish round with a ragout of ox-palates in a 
brown Italian sauce (No. 209), finish with a border of croquettes of 
ox-palates, and send to table. 

Note, — Besides the foregoing methods of dressing ox-cheeks, they may 
also be served with a jardinHrej Macidoine, tomatas farcis, (No. 11 60) 
braized red cabbage, Soubise, or Britonne purees, stewed peas, or aspa- 
ragus peas. 

Although in the preceding cases, it is directed that two ox-cheeks should 
be used for a remove, it does not follow that in all cases two are requi- 
site : more frequently, one will prove to be quite sufficient for the pur- 
pose. 



178 



REMOVES OF PORK, AND ROASTED SUCKING PIGS: 



COMPRISING 

Boiled Leg of Pork, h VAnglaise. Roast Sucking Pig, h PAn^aue, 

„ „ d VAUemande, w * m a la Perigord. 

Roast Jjeg of Pork. „ „ hla Chipohta, 

Roast Loih of do. „ „ li /a Provencale, 

Roast Neck of do. „ „ hla Napolitaine, 

Roast Griskioiof do. 

635. BOILED LEG OF PORK, A L'aNGLAISE. 

Saw off the shank bone of a salted leg of dairy-fed pork, then put 
it into a large braizing pan or stock-pot, fill this nearly full with cold water, 
and add six carrots, as many turnips, one head of celery, and an onion 
stuck with three cloves. Set the pork to boil gently by the side of the 
stoye fire for about three hours — the exact time depending on its ^ize. 
While the pork is boiling, trim a dozen and a half of small turnips and 
as many young carrots, boil these separately, and reserve them for garn- 
ishing the remove. When the pork is done, drain, trim, and dish it up ; 
place the carrots and turnips alternately round the remove, pour some 
plain gravy under it, put a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 

A peas-pudding is usually served from the side-board, made as follows : 
soak a pint of yellow split peas in cold water for about six hours ; drain 
and tie them rather loosely in a napkin or pudding-cloth, and boil them 
with the pork — ^about three hours will suffice. Take them up, pound 
them in a mortar with two pats of fresh butter, and rub %them 
through a fine wire sieve; then put this puree into a stewpan, add 
the yolks of four eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole well 
together with a wooden spoon, and afler having spread a napkin with 
fresh butter, place the pur6e in the centre, draw the comers up on the 
left hand, and with the right tie up the pudding with string ; then place 
it to boil for an hour, afler which turn it out carefully on to a vegetable 
dishy an4 serve. 

696. BOILED LEG OF PORK, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Pickle a leg of pork with four ounces of saltpetre* ditto of moist 
sugar, half-a-pint of vinegar, cloves, mace, sweet basil, and marjoram, 
thyme, and bay leaf, and the usual quantity of common salt ; boU it as 
directed in the forgoing article. When done dish it up, and after gar- 
nishing it with Muerhratit, (No. 165) surround it with a border of 
glazed carrots, turnips, and onions; pour some poivrade sauce (No. 29) 
over it, and send to table. 

637. ROAST LEG OF PORK, A l'AKGLAISE. 

Procure a leg of fresh dairy- fed pork ; make a large indsion just below 
the knuckle, between the skm and meat, for the purpose of introducing 
the stuffing of sage and onion, which must be secured by sewing it up 
with small twine ; then with a sharp pointed knife score it all over in the 
following manner : with the left hand hold the poric firmly, and with a 



REMOVES OF PORK. 179 

very sharp knife score the skin across in parallel lines a quarter of 
an inch apart ; then spit the joint, and roast it for about two hours and 
a half; when done, dish it up, pour a rich brown gravy under it, and 
send to table with apple sauce. 

The stuffing for the pork should be thus prepared : chop a dozen sage 
leaves and six large onions, boil these in water for three minutes, and 
after having drained them on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with pep- 
per and salt, and a pat of butter ; set the stuffing to simmer gently over 
a very slow fire for ten minutes, and then use it as directed above. 

638. ROAST LOIN OF PORK. 

Trim, score, and separate the bones of the loin of pork with a small 
chopper or meat saw ; make an incision in the upper part of the loin for 
placing the stuffing, sew it up with small twine, and having passed a 
strong iron skewer through it lengthwise, tie it firmly on to a spit at both 
ends. About an hour and a quarter before dinner time, put the pork 
down to the fire to roast, and when done dish it up ; pour some brown 
gravy under it, garnish it round with a border of amall potatoes fried of 
a light colour, and send to table with apple sauce. 

639. ROAST NECK OF PORK. 

Saw the chine bone neatly off, stuff the neck of pork with sage and 
onion, spit, roast, and dish it up as directed for the loin, and serve. 

640. ROAST ORISKIN OF PORK. 

Thb piece called griskin is that part of the pig which is cut from the 
side of a bacon hog, being the lean from the neck and Join : this should 
be lightly sprinkl^ with salt the day before dressing it for table ; it 
must then have a long iron skewer passed through it lengthwise, and 
tied on to a spit. About an hour and a quarter before dinner put it to 
roast, and when the griskin has been down an hour, shake some flower 
over it with a dredger, and afterwards sprinkle some chopped sage and 
onions upon it. When the pork is done, dish it up, pour some brown gravy 
under it, and send to table with two sauceboats containing apple, and sage 
and onion sauce, the latter to be prepared as follows : chop a dozen sage 
leaves and four onions, and after having boiled them two minutes in 
water, drain, and put them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, pepper 
and salt ; set these to simmer on a very slow fire for ten minutes, and 
then add half-a-pint of good brown gravy, boil the whole together for five 
minutes and serve. 

641. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A L'ANGLAISE. 

In selecting a sucking-pig for the table, those of about three weeks old 
are generally preferred, their meat being more delicate than when 
allowed to grow larger. Let the pig be prepared for dressing in the usual 
way, that is, scalded, drawn, &c., pettitoes cut off, and the paunch 
filled with stuffing previously prepared for the purpose as follows : chop 
two laige onions and a dozen sage leaves, boil them in water for- two 
minutes, and after having drained the^ sage and onion on to a sieve, place 
it in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, pepper and salt, and set the whole 
to simmer gently for ten minutes on a very slow fire ; then add a double 

N 2 



180 REMOTES OF PORK, 

handful of breadcnimbs, two pats of butter, and the yolks of two eggs ; 
stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use the stuffing as 
before directed. When the sucking-pig is stuffed, sew the paunch 
up with twine, spit the pig for roasting, carefully &stening it on the spit 
at each end with small iron skewers, which should be run through the 
shoulders and hips to secure it tightly, so that it may on no account 
slip round when down to roast. The pig will require about two hours to 
roast thoroughly, and should be frequently basted with a paste brush 
dipped in salad oil. (Oil is better adapted for this purpose than either 
dripping or butter, giving more crispness to the skin ; when basted with 
oil, the pig will, while roasting, acquire a more even, and a finer colour.) 
When done, take it up from the fire on the spit, and inunediately cut the 
head ofi^ with a sharp knife, and lay it on a plate in the hot closet. Next, 
cut the pig in two, by dividing it first with a sharp knife straight down 
the back to the spine, finishing with a meat saw ; a large dish should be 
held under the pig while it is thus being divided, into which it may fall 
when completely cut through ; place the two sides back to back on the 
dish, without disturbing the stuffing, split the head in two, put the brains in 
a small stew-pan, trim off the snout and jaws, leaving only the cheeks 
and ears, place these one at each end of the dish, surround the remove 
with a border of small potatoes firied of a light colour, in a little clarified 
butter; pour under some rich brown gravy, and send to table with the 
following sauce : to the brains, put into a small stew-pan as before direc- 
ted, add a spoonful of blanched chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, a piece 
of glaze the size of a large walnut, some well-made butter sauce, and 
the juice of a lemon ; stir the whole well together over the fire, and when 
quite hot, send it to table separately in a boat, to be handed round 
with the sucking-pig, 

642. ROAST SUCKUJG-Pia, A LA PERIGORD. 

Procure a plump firesh killed sucking-pig, and fill the paunch with the 
following preparation. Wash and thoroughly clean two pounds of fresh 
truffles, pare them and afterwards cut them into pieces resembling small 
walnuts, but without trimming them much ; pound the parings and 
trimmings in a mortar with about two ounces of butter; then put them 
into a stewpan with the truffles, and add thereto about one pound of 
scraped fat bacon, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme and sweet basil 
chopped fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small clove of garlic, 
and half a pound of &t livers of fowls pounded for the purpose. Set the 
whole over a moderate fire, stirring it the while with a wooden spoon ; 
when the truffles have simmered on the stove for about ten minutes, take 
them ofi^ and allow them to cool, fill the paunch of the sucking-pig with 
the above, sew it up with twine, spit and roast it as directed in the pre- 
ceding article ; when done, dish up in the same manner, taking care to 
send with it all the truffles : pour some pcrigtieux sauce (No. 23) under 
it and send to table. 

643. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Roast sixty chestnuts, peel and then boil them with a quart of 
contommS for twenty minutes ; reserve half in a small stewpan, and mix 
the remainder with one pound of pork sausage-meat^ and use this kind of 
stuffing to fill the paunch of a sucking-pig ; sew it up with a trussing 



AND SUCKING-PIG. 181 

needle and string, spit, and roast it in the usual manner ; and when 
done, dish it up as directed in the foregoing cases ; observing, that the 
stuffing should be kept as whole as possible in the separated sides. Garn- 
ish with a richly varied chipolata ragout (No 190), and again round 
this place eight decorated quetielles; a dozen large cray-fish should also 
be placed up the centre, one over-laying another: glaze the pig and 



644. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Roast sixty large chestnuts, remove their husks while yet hot, and 
afler pounding them in a mortar with four ounces of butter, rub the 
produce through a wire sieve, and put the purie into a stewpan ; add 
thereto, a few chives, sweet basil, parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf well 
chopped, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the yolks of three 
eggs ; mix well together, and use this preparation to fill the paimch of a 
plump sucking-pig, and roast it m the manner already directed. Then, 
cut it up and place it upon the dish, garnish the remove with a border of 
tomatas au g^ratin (No. 1160), pour some Gasconne or proven^aU 
sauce under it, and send to table. 

646. BOAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Take half a pound of polenta,* mix it in a stewpan with a quart of 
good consomme, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same 
quantity of butter ; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt ; stir the vdiole 
on the fire quickly till it boils, and then continue stirring it on the 
fire until it assumes the appearance of a soil paste, when add four ounces 
of picked Sultana raisins and a small pot of orange marmalade ; mix the 
whole lightly together, and with it fill the paunch of the sucking-pig : 
roast it in the usual way, divide and dish it up, garnish with a border of 
polpettes (No. 1062), pour a well made Napolitaine sauce (No. 63), under 
the pig, glaze the remove, and send to table. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing different methods for dressing suck- 
ing-pigs, they may also be served d lafinanci^re, with poivrade, tomata, 
maitre (Thdtel, piquante, or Roheii, hriUmne sauce. 



BRAIZED HAMS: 

COMPRISING 

Braized Ham, with Spinach, &c. Westphalia Ham, roaated, a la Si. 

Westphalia Ham, d VEfsence. Jame*. 

„ baked. „ ata Parisienm. 

Grenada and Beyonne Hams. 

646. BRAIZED HAM, WITH SPINACH, ETC. 

When about to dress a ham, care must be taken after it has been 
trimmed^ and the thigh-bone removed, that it be put to soak in a lai^ 

* A kind of fitfina much uaed in Italy, obtained from Indian com. 



182 REMOVES OF HAM. 

pan filled with cold water ; the length of time it should remain in soak, 
depending partly upon its degree of moisture, partly whether the ham be 
new or seasoned. If the ham readily yields to the pressure of the hand, it 
is no doubt new, and this is the case with most of those sold in London in 
the spring season ; for such as these, a few hours soaking will suffice ; but 
when hams are properly seasoned, they should be soaked for twenty- 
four hours. Foreign hams, however, require to be soaked much longer, 
varying in time from two to four days and nights. The water in which 
thej are soaked should be changed once every twelve hours in winter, 
and twice during that time in summer ; it is necessary to be particular 
also in scraping off the slimy surface from the hams, previously to replacing 
them in the water to finish soaking. 

When the ham has been trimmed and soaked, let it be boiled in water 
for an hour, and then scraped and washed in cold water ; place it in a 
braizing-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, 
garnished faggot, two blades of mace, and four cloves ; moisten with 
sufficient common broth to float the ham, and then set it on the stove 
to braize very gently for about four hours. To obtain tenderness 
and mellowness, so essential in a well dressed ham, it must never be 
allowed to boil, but merely to simmer very gently by a slow fire. This 
rule applies also to the braizing of all salted or cured meats. 

When the ham is done, draw the pan in which it has braized 
away from the fire, and set it to cool in the open air, allowing the ham 
to remain in the braize — by this means it will retain all its moisture — 
for when the ham is taken out of the braize as soon as done, and put 
on a dish to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham 
havmg partially cooled in its braize, should be taken out and trimmed, 
and afterwards placed in a braizing-pan with some of its own stock; 
and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put either in the 
oven or on a slow fire. When warmed through place the ham on a 
baking-dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it, replace it in 
the oven again for about three minutes to dry it, and glaze it again ; by 
that time the ham if properly attended to, will present a bright appear- 
ance. Put it now on its dish, and garnish it with well dressed spinadi 
(No. 1155), placed round the ham in table-spoonfuls, shaped like so many 
eggs ; pour some bright espa^nole sauce round the base, put a ruffle on 
the bone, and serve. 

Not^, — Any of our home-cured hams, dressed according to the forego- 
ing directions, may also be served with a garnish of asparagus-peas, 
young carrots, a jardiniere, macedoine, green-peas, broad-beans, French- 
beans, or Brussels sprouts. 

647. WESTPHALIA HAM, A l'eSSENCE. 

Trim and remove the thigh-bone from a Westphalia ham, and let it 
soak in cold water for two or three days, according to the probable 
length of time it may have been cured ; then boil it in water for an hour, 
and after having washed it in cold water, put it into a large braizing- 
pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, a fa^ot of pars- 
ley and green onions, thyme, sweet basil, and bayleaf, four cloves, and 
two blades of mace ; moisten with two glasses of brandy, half a bottle 
of sherry, and sufficient broth to float the ham. Then set the ham to 



BRAIZED AND BAKED HAMS. 183 

boil, or rather to simmer, very gently on a slow fire, from five to six hours: 
taking care, during the process of braizing, to probe it occasionally after 
the first four hours, in order thereby to ascertain how much longer it may 
be necessary for it to remain on the fire to effect the desired purpose. 

When the ham is braized sufficiently tender, and after it has been 
allowed to remain in its own liquor for an hour or so, drain it on to a 
dish, divest it of the rind to within four inches of the knuckle-bone ; 
this portion of the rind must be cut with a small sharp knife, so as to 
form a neat design in the shape of leaves, palms, or scollops, disposed in 
a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the ham smooth, without removing 
any more of it than is really necessary to give it a neat appearance. Put 
the ham in the oven on a baking-sheet for ten minutes, first absorbing 
every particle of grease from the surface with a clean cloth { then glaze 
it, replace it in the oven again for five minutes ; glaze it once more, 
and place it on its dish ; garnish it round with any of the dressed vege- 
tables indicated for Braized Ham, with spinach, &c (No. 646), sauce 
with bright espagnole sauce, mixed before reduction with a glass of Sherry, 
and about a pint of the liquor in which the ham has been braized ; place 
a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 

648. WESTPHALIA HAM, BAKED. 

Trim, and partially bone, a Westphalia ham, by removing the thigh- 
bone ; soak it, as usual, in cold water, for forty-eight hours, at least, and 
afterwards boil it in water for half an hour ; this part of the operation 
should be executed in time to allow the ham to soak a day and nighty 
previously to its being dressed in some wine mirepoix (No. 236) in a deep 
baking-dish. Cover the ham with two sheets of oiled paper, and over the 
whole lay a covering of paste, such as is used to cover venison with, and 
applied similarly to a pie-crust, taking care to secure it thoroughly 
all round, so as to prevent the escape of the volatile properties of the 
essence of the ham, &c., which by condensation, and subsequent absorp- 
tion, impart to the ham that peculiarly fine flavour which renders this 
method of dressing hams so much esteemed by gastronomes. Having 
prepared the ham in every particular according to the above direc- 
tions, about five hours before dinner-time, let it be put in the oven to 
bake slowly, observing that the heat of the oven should be moderate, in 
order that the moisture be not reduced, so as to render the ham dry, which 
would spoil it entirely. When the ham has been in the oven about four 
hours, take it out of its braize, trim it, and then place it on a baking- 
sheet in the oven, to dry the surface ; glaze it in the usual manner, and 
after having clarified the mirepoix in which the ham has been baked, add 
as much thereof as will suffice to give flavour to some espagnole sauce, 
reduce it to a proper consistency, and use it to pour round the ham, 
when sent to table. Hams dressed according to the foregoing method, 
may be garnished as follows :— ^ la firmnciere, d la phigueux^ d la 
Parisienne, d la Macidoine, d la jardiniire, d la Flamande ; with stewed 
peas, asparagus-peas, yoimg carrots, spinach, broad-beans, &c. 

Note, — If the ham, dressed as above, be intended to be eaten cold, it 
should be allowed to remain in its braize until it becomes set in a jelly, 
it must then be taken out, trimmed, glazed, and d^ed up with some 
aspic jelly, made with the addition of the essence of ham. 



184 BEMOYES OF HAM. 



649. WESTPHALIA HAM, ROASTED A LA ST. JAMES. 

Prepare a Westphalia ham in every respect according to the first part 
of the previous directions, and having allowed it to steep in the mirepoix 
the allotted time, run a large iron skewer through it, and fasten it at each 
end on to the spit with string ; next reduce the mirepoix, vegetables, &c., 
of which it is composed, and cover the under part of the ham therewith ; 
then wrap the whole of the ham up with large sheets of cartridge- 
paper, previously well oiled for the purpose ; over the paper put a cover- 
ing of venison paste, as is usual when about to prepare venison for 
roasting. Cover the said coating of flour and water paste, with greased 
paper, and tie on this with string. About five hours before the ham is 
required for table, put it down to roast before a moderate fire ; when 
it has been down about three hours and a half, take it up, make a hole 
in the paste, and with a funnel, infuse half a pint of brandy, or in pre- 
ference to this, if you have it, as much Malaga wine ; stop the hole up 
with paste, and put the ham down to the fire to roast for twenty minutes 
longer; then take it up, and remove it carefully from the spit, so as 
not to lose any portion of the essence contained within the coating of 
crust that surrounds the ham. Trim the ham, and set it to dry on a 
baking-sheet in the oven, glaze it and dish it up, using the essence 
reserved for the purpose, in order to give flavour to the sauce intended to 
be served with it. 

Westphalia hams, thus dressed, may be served with any of the gar* 
nishes described as appropriate for baked hams. 

650. BRAIZED HAM, A LA PARISIEX.XE. 



Trim, soak, and boil a ham, either Westphalia or home-cured, as the 
case may be ; when it has boiled in water about an hour, take it up and 
put it into cold water, and after having scraped the rind clean, place it 
in an oval braizing-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of 
celery, and garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, and two blades of 
mace ; moisten with a glass of brandy and half a bottle of sherry, and 
sufficient broth to cover the surface of the ham ; put the lid on, and as 
soon as it has boiled, set the pan on a slow fire, to continue gently 
braizing for about five hours and a half. When the ham is done, take it 
up and trim it, leaving, as usual, enough of the rind adhering to the 
knuckle part, and on this cut out (with the point of a shaqp knife) an 
ornament resembling leaves, or scoUops, spread out in a &n-like form ; 



REMOVES OF VENISON. 185 

glaze the ham, and put it on its dish^ raised on an oval croustade^ 
two inches and a half high, formed to the shape of the ham^ cut round 
in flutes, and fried of a light colour ; round the base, place a dozen or 
fifteen small fluted crotutades of fried bread, filled with green-peas^ aspa- 
ragus-heads, carrots and turnips^ scooped out in the form of very small 
olives^ and nicely glazed. Glaze the ham, put the paper ruffle on the 
bone, and serve. 

Send some bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence of 
ham, previous to reduction of the sauce, in a sauce-boat, to be served 
with the ham from the sideboard^ when it is carved. 

Note, — Grenada, Bayonne, and foreign hams in general, are prepared 
for the table, according to the directions given for dressing Westphalia 
hams. 



REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, AND ROEBUCK : 



COMPRISING 



Haunch of Venison, d PAnfffaise, Haunch of Red Deer, d. la Kimnaird, 

„ a VAUemande, Necks of Red Deer, h la Marie Stuart, 

„ iLla St George. „ iL laSL Andrew, 

Haunch of Red Deer roasted, d VEcoseaiee, Fillets of Red Deer, h la Hoyale, 
„ ei la Glengarry, 

661. HAUNCH OP VENISON ROASTED, A l'aNGLAISE. 

Saw off the shank bone, remove the sinew, pare away the dark 
dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried sur&ce of the mider part. 
Then cover the haimch with a large sheet of buttered paper, and over 
that, place a covering of flour and water paste, about half an inch in 
thickness ; envelop the whole with two lai^e sheets of cartridge-paper, 
and having fastened these on with string, place the venison in a cradle- 
spit, or, if that be wanting, the haunch of venison should be first put on 
the conmion spit, preparatory to its being covered as aforesaid. If the 
haunch be a fine one, it should be allowed from four hours to four and a 
half to roast, and about twenty minutes before it is done, the paste and 
paper should be removed, and k little salt sprinkled over it. Then with 
a dredger box shake over some flour to froth and colour it ; baste it with 
four ounces of fresh butter, and about five minutes after, take the 
haunch up from the fire, place it on its dish, pour a rich brown gravy 
under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send to table, with a sauce* 
boat filled with sweet sauce (No. 65). 

652. HAUNCH OF VENISON, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Trim and remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, 
place it in an oval braizing-pan with four carrots, four onions, two 
heads of celery, a garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, and two 
blades of mace ; moisten with a bottle of red wine, and sufficient 
broth to cover the surface of the venison; lay on it a buttered 
paper, and put on the lid, and after having allowed it to boil on a 



186 REMOVES OF VENISOxV. 

brisk stove-fire, place it in the oven or on a moderate fire to continue 
braizing very gently for about firoin five to six hours — taking care to 
mobten the surface frequently with its own braize. When the venison 
is done, take it up on a deep baking-dish, put about a pint of its own 
broth under it, trim it neatly and mask it all over with a thick coating 
of the following preparation : bake some slices of bread of a light-brown 
colour, and afterwards pound and sift them, put one pound of this into a 
basin, and add thereto half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, four ounces 
of fine sugar, and as much port wine as will suffice to moisten the whole 
into a thick paste ; use this to cover the haunch of venison, smooth it 
over with the blade of a knife, and put it in the hot closet to dry the 
surface of the crust. When about to send to table, place the venison on 
a dish, pour some Victoria cherry sauce, (No. 64) round it, garnish with 
alternate groups of prunes stewed in wine, and potato quenelles ; put a 
ruffle on the bone and serve. 

663. HAUNCH OF VENISON, A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Trim a haunch of venison in the usual manner, and with the point of 
a small knife make a circular incision about eight inches in diameter, 
just below the knuckle, on the upper part of the haunch, and with a 
large knife remove the surface of the part so marked out, in order to 
leave the place bare, preparatory to its being thickly and neatly larded 
as for a fricandeau. Then prepare the venison for braizing— in every 
respect following the directions given for that part of the process in 
the preceding article ; having carefully and frequently moistened the 
surface of the venison during the time it is braizing, and kept a sup- 
ply of live embers of charcoal on the lid of the braizing-pan, the venison, 
when done, will present, if properly attended to, a bright appearance. It 
should then be taken up to drain on to a common dish, and after being 
glazed, and dished up with a rich finaivdere ragout, (No. 188) in a 
pcivrade sauce made with port wine, garnish the haunch with eight orna- 
mental silver skewers, each furnished with a large double white cock*s- 
comb, a large black truffle, a cray-fish, and a decorated quenelle ; put a 
handsome ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 

664. HAUNCH OF RED DEER ROASTED, A L'ECOSSAISE. 

Prepare and roast this kind of venison as described for dressing a 
haunch of venison ii VAiigUme ; observing that it is necessary to allow 
it to hang longer than any other sort before dressing it, as it will be found 
to eat tough, if due attention be not paid to the time of keeping it. 

666. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA GLENGARRY. 

Trim and remove the whole of the chine- bone of a haunch of red deer, saw 
off the shank ahd scrape the leg bone so as to show about an inch. Then 
pare off the whole of the surface, (excepting the fat part,) in an oval form, 
and lard it closely like a fricandeau ; place the haunch in a large 
earthen pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaves, and thyme, 
cloves, mace, and bruised pepper-corns, adding to these a gallon of com- 
mon vinegar, a handful of stdt, and half a gallon of water ; let the 
haunch steep in this pickle for three or four days, taking care to turn it 
over twice a-day, and at the expiration of that time, U^ TeniBon will be 
fit for dressing. 



HAUNCH AND NECK OF RED DEER. 187 

After the yeniBon has been marinaded, place it in a large oval braizing- 
pan, and garnish with four carrots, four onions, four heads of celery, two 
garnished faggots of parsley, &c., eight cloves, and four blades of mace; 
moisten with a bottle of Madeira, and three large ladlefuls of good broth : 
cover with a sheet of thick brown paper well buttered, let it boil, and 
then place the lid on with live embers of charcoal upon it, and put the pan 
on a moderate stove-fire to braize gently for seven hours — ^moistening the 
larding of the venison frequently with its own liquor, by which means 
when the venison is done, it will be nicely glazed. It should now be 
taken up on to a baking sheet, and placed in the oven for a few minutes 
to dry the larding ; then glaze and dish it up. Pour a well-made jtwivrcwfe 
sauce (No. 29) under it, garnish it round with quenelles of grouse, bread- 
crumbed and fried, and at each end place groups of venison fry ; put a 
ruffle on the leg-bone, and send to table with sweet sauce, separately in 
a boat. 

666. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA KINNAIRD. 
Prepare and dress a haunch of red deer exactly as the foregoing; when 
done, glazed and dished up, garnish it round with alternate groups of 
fried potatoes (cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in clanfied but- 
ter) and round potato croquettes ; pour a well-made sweet sauce (No. 
66) under it, and send to table. 

667. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA MARIE STUART. 

To make a handsome remove, two necks are required ; from these, 
saw off the chine bones and shorten the ribs to about five inches in 
length ; then remove the whole of the sinewy covering from the meaty 
part of the necks, leaving a perfectly even surface, which must be larded 
closely in the usual manner— observing that when about trimming the 
necks of deer, care must be taken to leave the whole of the fat that covers 
the ribs. When the necks have been larded, marinade them in the 
pickle prescribed for the haunch ; and allow them to steep in this for a 
couple of days and nights, when they will be ready for dressing. Take 
them out and prepare them for braizing in like manner to the haunch, 
proceeding in all respects the same way. When done, take them up on 
to a baking sheet, and put them in the oven to dry the larding for a few 
minutes, glaze them, and place them on their dish in the form of a 
chevaux-de-frise : this is effected by placing the necks on their base, and 
allowing the rib bones to fall over, or between each other, showing the 
larded parts outside. Garnish them with a Parisian ragout (No. 
203), and a border of quenelles of pheasant d la Bichelieu, (No. 1004), 
at each end ; and along the ridge occasioned by the meeting of the rib 
bones, place a line of trinmied cray-fish ; glaze the larding of the venison, 
and serve. 

668. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA ST. ANDREW. 

Prepare and braize two necks of red deer in the manner last mention- 
ed, when done, glaze and dish them up after the same directions ; gar- 
nish with a rich finandere ragout^ (No. 188) with poivrade sauce ; sur- 
round them with a border of quenelles of grouse, decorated with truffles ; 
at each end place a croustade of bread cut in the shape of a vase, and 
fried of a light colour, and fill it with a group of four large truffles ^ and 



188 REMOVES OF RED DEER. 

on the flanks of the dish, put a group of large cray-fish ; glaze the lard- 
ing, and send to table. 

659. FILLETS OF RED DEER, A LA ROYALE. 

Take out the fillets of two necks of red deer, which must be cut with 
part of the loin adhering to them ; trim and lard them all over the up- 
p^ surface, after which steep them in a mariiiade, (No. 233,) for two 
days. Then proceed to dress them in the same manner as directed 
for the haunch d la Glengarry, When the fillets are done, take them 
out of their braize on to a baking sheet and put them in the oven for a 
few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze them nicely, and afterwards 
dish them up, side-by-side, on an oval croustade of fried bread, about two 
inches high, and cut round in flutes ; garnish with a ragout composed as 
follows : braize six pork sausages, and after they have been allowed to 
cool, cut them up and throw the pieces into a large bain-marie; to these 
add, an equal quantity of round balls of streaky bacon (previously braized), 
some button mushrooms and green gherkins. A rich poivrade sauce must 
be poured on the ingredients; let the whole boil on the stove-fire for 
two minutes, pour the ragovjt round the fillets, and place a border of que- 
7ielles of potatoes No. 312 (rolled in fried bread-crumbs) round the edge 
of the dish, and serve. 



189 



REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPONS: 



COMPRISING 



Roast Turkey, h la Perigord. Capon, a la Macidoine. 

„ a la Chipolata, „ <* ^ PritUanire. 

„ a VAngUxiae, „ a Vlvoire^ 

f, a la Financi^re. „ au gros ael. 

Boiled Turkey, with Celery Sauce. „ a rKalragon. 

„ with Oyster Sauce, „ d la Perigord. 

Capon stufied with Trufflei, a la Perigord, „ and Rice. 

„ a la GoJard. „ ikla Milauei$e. 

„ a la Ckipol€Ua. „ with Macaroni. 

„ d PAnglaise. „ with AouiUet. 
yt a la Jardiniire, 

660. ROAST TURKEY, A LA PERIGORD. 

For this purpose, choose a fine young hen turkey^ make an incision at 
the back of the neck, and through it draw out the entrails, &c. ; with a 
knife cut away the vent and close the opening thus made, by sewing it 
up with twine, then singe off the hairs, and by scalding the legs divest 
them of their black skin. The neck should then be cut off close into 
the back, and the crop left entire ; clip the talons and claws, wipe 
the turkey clean, and lay it upon a napkin. With a strong kitchen 
knife break the breast-bone, and after detaching the angular part, remove 
it with the fingers. Previous to this operation some truffles should 
be prepared as follows, to be used in stuffing the turkey : — 

Have about four pounds of truffles thoroughly washed; peel and 
cut them into pieces the size of a small walnut ; place these in a stewpan, 
and after pounding the parings with about two pounds of fat ham or 
bacon, add them to the truffles. Season with minionette pepper and 
salt, grated nutmeg and chopped bay-leaf and thyme, and one clove of 
garlic ; a few fat livers of poultry may also be added, after being 
pounded separately. Set the stewpan containing the foregoing ingredients 
on a slow fire, and allow them to simmer very gently for about half an 
hour, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. They should be 
removed from the stove, and after allowing this preparation time to 
get partially set by cooling, proceed to stuff the turkey with it ; keep 
the crop full, and with a small trussing needle and twine draw the crop 
up in a purse-like form, and fasten the ends of the twine to the back of 
the turkey so as effectually to close up the paunch. The turkey must then 
be placed upon an earthen dish, and put away in the larder till the next 
day, (time permitting,) when it should be trussed in the usual manner 
for roasting. 

The turicey when placed on a spit for roasting should have the breast 
covered with thin layers of fitt bacon, and the entire of the turkey 
should be carefully wrapped round with thick paper well buttered, and 



190 REMOVES OF TURKEY 

securely fastened on to the spit at each end with string. It should 
then be roasted, and care should be taken when about to remove it from 
the spit, that the crop is not torn. Dish up, and glaze it, pour 
under it a rich perigueux sauce (No. 23), garnish with large quenelles 
of fowl, and trufRes, and serve. The qtieneUes and truffles are, however, 
not indispensable to the completion of this remove. 

661. ROAST TURKEY, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Draw and prepare a turkey for stuffing, fill it with well- seasoned veal 
stuffing and chestnuts, or, if preferred, pork sausage-meat may be substi- 
tuted for the veal stuffing. 

The chestnuts are prepared as follows : — Take about sixty chest- 
nuts, and after splitting them across the outer skin, fry them with a little 
butter in a frying-pan until they shed their husks easily ; when peeled, 
boil them in a little good ccnisomme till done : half should then be 
reserved to be put in the sauce, and the remainder used as directed above. 

The turkey being thus prepared, truss and cover it with thin layers 
of fat bacon as directed in the foregoing case, and having roasted it of a 
light colour, dish it up and garnish with alternate groups of the ingredi- 
ents composing the chipoUUa ragoiU (No. 190), pour some of the sauce 
round the remove, and send to table. 

662. ROAST TURKEY, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Stuff a turkey with some well-seasoned veal stuffing, let it be trussed 
in the usual manner, and previously to putting it down to roast, cover it 
with thin layers of fat bacon, which should be secured on with buttered 
paper tied round the turkey, so as entirely to envelop it on the spit ; 
then roast it, and when done, dish it up, garnish with stewed chest- 
nuts, and small pork sausages, nicely fried ; pour a rich poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) round it, glaze the turkey, and send to table. 

663. ROAST TURKEY, A LA FINANCIERS. 

The turkey may be stuffed either with veal stuffing or quenelle 
of fowl ; it should be roasted in the usual manner, and when done, dished 
up and garnished with a rich financiere ragovt (No. 188) ; at each end 
place a larded sweetbread, and at the sides, a sweetbread decorated with 
scollops of truffles inserted in the form of a rose ; between these should be 
placed groups of large truffles and quenelles of fowl ; glaze the turicey, 
and send to table. 

As this is rather a sumptuous kind of garnish, suitable for great 
occasions only, the sweetbreads, large truffles, &c., may be dispensed 
with, and the finaneiere ragout only retained. 

664. BOILED TURKEY, WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Draw a fine young hen turkey, and remove the angular part of the 
breast-bone, stuff it with veal stuffing, and truss it for boiling; wrap 
some buttered paper round it, and place it in an oval bruzing-pan with 
carrot, onion, one head of celery, and a garnished faggot of .pmley ; add 
as much white poele (No. 230), or white stock, as will suffice to cover 
the turkey, then set it on the stove to boil ; it should afler that be 
removed to the side, or placed on a slackened stove to continue gently 



AND CAPONS. 



191 



boiling till done ; then take it up out of the braize, remove all the string, 
&c^ and set it to drain upon a napkin; dish it up, pour over it a well- 
made pttrie of celery (No. 110), place round it some stewed heads of 
celery, and send to table. 

665. BOILED TURKEY, WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

Thb turkey should be boiled as directed in the last article ; when 
done, dish it up, and previously to sending it to table, pour over it 
some well-made oyster sauce (No. 50), and serve. 

666. CAPON STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES, A LA PERIGORD. 

This should be prepared according to the directions given for dressing 
a turkey after the same fashion (No. 600). 

667. CAPON, A LA GODARD. 




Thi capon being drawn and singed, trim the feet and wings ; then re- 
move the angular part of the breast-bone by inserting a strong bladed 
knife, taking care not to tear the breast nor cut the fillets. Next, cut 
the under part of the thighs close up to the bend of the joint, and by intro- 
ducing the finger through the vent, loosen the skin all round the thighs in 
order to facilitate the slipping of the legs inside, so as to show the feet 
only. Then lay the capon flat on its breast, and having turned the skin 
of the breast upon the back, and twisted the pinions round to make them 
lie even with the back, run a trussing needle and string through the 
pinion on the left, pass again through the lower joint of the pinion, and 
from thence through the upper joints of the thighs ; the needle must 
afterwards be brought round and inserted through the other wing in the 
lame manner ; the strings should then be drawn tight, and fasten^. The 
legs must now be secured by running the needle through the upper part, 
leaving the drum^sticks under, and then again the needle should be 



192 REMOVES OF CAPONS. 

drawn through the back, and the strings tightened to secure their 
position; the tail-end must be pushed into the vent, and the string 
passed through it twice, (up and down) and tied : all this giving to the 
capon an appearance of plumpness. It should then be rubbed with half a 
lemon, and wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper (to keep it white), and 
placed in a stewpan with some white poele or stock, to braize ; for which 
purpose it must be first put on the stove-fire, and after it has boiled, 
placed by the side to continue gently simmering for about an hour 
and a quarter. Just before dinner-time, take the capon out of the braize 
and drain it on to a napkin ; remove the strings, ornament the breast 
with some contises fillets of fowls, dish it up, and garnish it with a richly 
composed ragout a la godard (No. 187), and serve. 

When this remove is intended for a large party, it will be necessary to 
serve two capons ; in which case, an ornamental croustade of bread 
should be put in the centre of the dish, and the capons at each end, 
placing at either ends of the dish, a fine larded heart — sweetbread ,* two 
nicely-trimmed calPs ears with a black truffle in each, should also be placed 
on the flanks. Fill up the intervening spaces with groups of quendle$ of 
fi)wl, large truffles, cocks-combs, and mushrooms ; in the centre of the 
crotutade put either a larded sweetbread, or a group of truffles — or these 
may be replaced by inserting six ornamental skewers garnished each with 
a laige double cock's-comb, a mushroom, a truffle, a quenelU^ and a laige 
cray-fish. Sauce the remove with aUemande or beckamd, and serve. 

668. CAPONS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 
Thbsb are dressed in the same way as turkeys d la chipclata (No. 66). 

669. CAPONS, A L'aNGLAISE. 

Truss and boil two plump capons, and when they are done, dish them 
up, placing a neatly-trimmed tongue between them ; garnish round with 
boiled he^ of broccoli or cauliflower, sauce the capons with a rich 
bechamel sauce (No. 5), glaze the tongue, and serve. 

670. CAPONS^ A LA JARDINIERE. 

Thbsb should be boiled and dished up as in the foregoing case. Gramish 
them with alternate groups of prepared vegetables, such as smaU carrots, 
turnips, flowrets of cauliflower, green-peas, asparagus-heads, and French- 
beans cut in the form of diamonds. Sauce the capons with beckamel 
sauce, glaze the tongue and serve. In some cases the tongue may be 
replaced by an ornamental erousiade of bread, fried of a li^t colour, and 
filled with mashed potatoes, in which should be inserted some young 
carrots, and French-beans (cut in the form of pointed olives), and placed 
in alternate rows. 

671. CAPONS, A LA MACEDOINS. 

This method is veiy nmilar to the foregoing, with this exceplioiH that 
the capons when dished up, should be garnished with a wdl-pivpared 
macedoine (No. 143), a border of very small heads of cauUflowen and 
bundles of sprue aspangus about two inches long, should also be pboed 
alternately round the ed^ of the dish ; sauce with alieuumde, and serve. 



BOILED CAPONS. 193 



672. CAPONS, A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Tbu88 and boil two fat capons, and when they are done, dish them up 
with a nicely-trimmed and glazed tongue, in the centre ; sauce them with 
a prmtani^ sauce (No. 81); garnish them round with a border of 
snlall deep cups, cut out of young turnips : these when boiled in white 
broth with a little butter, sugar, and salt, should be drained on a napkin, 
and filled with carrots scooped out in the form of very small peas or 
olives, and also with young green^peas : these cups when disposed alter- 
nately round the dish, will be found to produce a very pretty eflfect 

673. CAPONS, A l'iVOIRE. 

Th£8B must be trussed and braized in the usual manner, and when 
done, the broth in which they have been braized should be strained 
through a sieve, then divested of every particle of grease, and clarified 
with a little white of egg. After this has been strained, it should be 
boiled down to the consistency of half^laze, and when the capons are 
dished up, should be poured over them, and sent to table. It is also 
customary in serving this remove to use a rich suprime sauce (No. 38), 
with smidl quendles of fowl for garnish. 

074. CAPON, AU OROS SEL. 

This is dressed in the manner described in the first part of the fore- 
going article; a little rock salt should, however, be placed upon the 
breast, just before sending it to table. 

675. CAPON, A L'ESTRAGON. 

Bbaisb the capon in the usual way; when done, the broth in 
which it has been braized must be clarified, and a few sprigs of green 
tarragon thrown into it while boiling; the cojisomme should then b^ 
strained through a napkin, and boiled down nearly to the consistency of 
half-glaze, to be poured over the capon when served. Some leaves of 
green tarragon must be boiled for a minute or two in water, and used 
to ornament the breast of the capon. 

676. CAPON AND RICE. 

After the capon has been drawn, wash the inside thoroughly clean, 
and absorb all the moisture with a napkin. Then nearly fill the capon 
with rice, boiled quite soft in white broth, and mixed with a spoonful of 
white sauce ; it ^ould afterwards be trussed for boiling, and placed in 
an oval stewpan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, and a carrot. 
Add as much white broth as will cover the breast of the fowl, over which 
lay an oval piece of buttered paper ; ftace the lid on the stewpan, and 
about an hour before it is wanted, set it to boil gently on a slow fire. 
When done, drain the fowl, and having removed the strincs, place it upon 
its dish, gaxnish it round neatly with rice, previously boiled in white 
broth, to which has been added a large spoonful of white sauce, two 
yolks of eggs, a little minionette pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small 
pat of fteidi butter. Work the rice over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes^ 
and then, with two table-spoons, mould it into the form of laige eggs, 





194 REMOVES OF CAPONS. 

and place these round the capon in a close border ; sauce the capon with 
supTyime or bechamel sauce, and serve. 

If the capon is intended to be served plain, the sauce, &c., must be 
omitted, and instead of masking it with sauce, pour some essence of fowl 
under it ; this may be obtained by clarifying some of the broth in which 
it has boiled, and afterwards boilmg it down to the consbtency of half- 



677. CAPON, A LA MILANAISE. 

Truss and boil a capon in the usual way, and when done, dish ib up, 
and garnish it with a ragoui of macaroni dressed with truffles, red 
tongue, and mushrooms; place a border of rissoles (No. 1020) round the 
dish, and serve. 

678. CAPON WITH MACARONI. 

Boil the capon as directed for the capons d la Grodard; dish it up, 
and garnish it with macaroni, prepared as follows : — Boil half a pound 
of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, with a small pat of butter, a 
little salt and minionette pepper; when it is done, drain it in a col- 
ander, cut the pipes into pieces, two inches long, and put them into a 
stewpan, with 6oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, two pats of butter, a 
little minionette pepper, and a large spoonful of white sauce ; stir the 
macaroni, or rather toss it, over a brisk fire, and when the cheese is incor- 
porated with the sauce, &c., use it as directed ; mask the breast of the 
capon with bechamel, and serve. 

679. CAPON WITH NOUILLES.* 

Braizb the capon as directed in the foregoing article, and when done, 
dish it up» and garnish round with the nouiUes, previously prepared for 
the purpose, in the following manner : — Parboil the nouUUs in water for 
five minutes, throw them on to a sieve to drain the water from them, 
and afterwards replace them in the stewpan ; season with minionette 
pepper, a little grated nutm^, and a pat of butter ; moisten with about 
a quart of good broth, cover with a round of buttennl paper, place the lid 
on the stewpan, and set the nouUles to simmer gently on a slow fire 
for about an hour ; then remove the paper, and add a ra^ot<^ spoonful of 
aUemande sauce and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; toss the 
whole together over the fire until wdl mixed, and then use them as 
before directed; sauce the poulard, or capon, with iuprSme or aUe- 
mande sauce, and serve. 



In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing capons, they may 
also be served with celery-sauce, oyster, green ravigoUe sauce, or with 
cray-fish, or Jinanciire ragouts. 

Poulards are dressed in the sanfe manner as capons. 

* Nouillet are a kind of YenniceUi prepared in the following manner: Place siz 
ounoet of sifted flour upon a marble slab or ptuite-board ; make a well in the centre, bj 
■preading the flour out in the form of a ring, with the back of the hand ; then olace there- 
in a little salt, and add a tea-epoonfol of water to melt it ; after which, add the yolks of 
five eggs, and knead the whole well together, into a firm, smooth, compact paste ; and 
after allowing it to rest for ten minutes, roll it out as thin as paper, and then divide it 
into bands three inches wide, cut these into very fine diredi, aiid ^ifad them upon a 
large sieve to dry. 



REMOVES OF CHICKENS. J 95 



CHICKENS FOR REMOVES OR FLANKS, 
COMPRI8IN0 

Chickeni, d la Heine. Chickens, d la FlormUm, 

M i^r/talienne. „ iila OardmaL 

„ it la Sauce TomaU. „ a VAUemande, 

^ a la Veniiietme. „ d PIndietme. 

„ dla Dauphine, „ h VAfrioaim. 

yt it la Monimoremy, ^ d la Torque, 

„ a la Milamai$t(. ^ a VEtpoffnoU. 

^ a la Ckivryt 

680. CHICKENS, A LA REINE. 
Trubb two small spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with lemon 
juice, and wrap them up separately in a sheet of thickly- buttered paper; 
then place the chickens in a stewpan, with a garnished faggot of parsley, 
a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves ; moisten with some of the 
surface of the boiling stockpot, in sufficient quantity to nearly cover 
the chickens ; set them to boil gently for about forty minutes, when 
they will be done. When about to send to table, drain the chickens 
upon a napkin, and afler having removed the paper and string, dish 
them up side by side, and cover them with 9upr&me sauce, garnish the 
dish with four groups of very small gueneUea of fowl, and serve. 

681. CHICKENS, A L'ITALIEKNE. 
Truss and boil two small chickens according to the foregoing direc- 
tions ; when done, divest them of the paper and dish them up ; sauce 
with a rich brown Italian sauce (No. \%), garnish with a bonier of 
mushrooms ^rcM (No. 1161), and serve. 

682. CHICKENS WITH TOMATA SAUCE. 
Thbsb are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, with 
this exception that, when dished up, they must be sauced with a well- 
finished tomata sauce (No. %%), and a border of tomatas au gratin 
(No. 1 1 60), should be placed round them. 

683. CHICKENS, A LA YENITIENNE. 

Thb chickens when boiled and dished up, must be sauced with a 
Vaiitienne (No. 26), and garnished with a border of raviolis (No. $75). 

684. CHICKENS, A LA DAUFHINE. 

Draw two spring chickens, proceed to bone them as for '' gaJUmtinea^' 
excepting that the legs and wings must be left entire. The void must 
be then filled with quenelle of fowl, in which has been mixed some 
chopped mushrooms and parsley ; the chickens should afterwards be 
tru8»ed, taking care to give them the same shape as they would have 
were the bones not removed ; and afler rubbing them over with lemon 
juice, cover the breasts with thin layers of fat bacon, and secure their 
shape by wrapping them in sheets of buttered paper; then place them in 

02 



196 



REMOTES OF CHICKENS. 



a Btewpan^ with carrot, onion, and a garnished faggot ; moisten with 
some light mirepoix ^No. 236), and set the chickens to simmer very 
gently by the side ot a slow fire for about three quarters of an hour ; 
when done, drain them upon a napkin, remove the string, &c., and dish 
them up ; sauce them with the clarifi^ essence in which they have been 
braized, and serve. 

It is also customary to serve chickens, fowls, capons, or poulards^ when 
prepared in this fashion, with ragovts d la financUre, d la Farisienney 
with macedoines, or jardinikres of vegetables, Italian, poivrade, tomata, 
or tup rime sauces. 

686. CHICKENS, A LA MONTMORENCY. 

Truss two or more chickens (as may be required), and let their breasts 
be entirely covered with close liurding ; next place them in a stew-pan 
containing a wine mirepoix (No. 236) covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon ; add aft much good conaommi as will suffice to reach up to the 
larding, cover the chickens with a round of buttered paper, and set them 
to braize gently on a slow fire— taking care that the lid of the stew-pan 
be covered with live embers of charcoal, to effect the glazing of the lard- 
ing. When the chickens are done, dish them up, garnish them with a 
white ragcful d la financUre (No. 1 87), or a ragout d la Farisienne 
(No 203), and serve. 




Chickens, d la Montmorency/, may alto be dished up with an orna- 
mental croustade in the centre, in which diould be fixed five aUleU, gar- 
nished as shovm in the above wood-cut. 



686. CHICKENS, A LA MILANAISE. 

Thbsb should be trussed and boiled, and when done, dished up with a 
ragout d la Milanaise, see Capon d la Milanaite (No. 677) ; they may 
also be garnished with a border of RiuoleB (No. 1020). 



BOILED CHICKENS. 



197 



687. CHICKENS, A LA CHIVRT. 

Truss the chickens so as to look very plump, boil or braize them in 
some white poele (No. 231) or broth ; and when done, dish them up in 
the following manner: Some small rings of onions about the size of a 
shilling should be first boiled in white broth, then filled with blanched 
ratrigoUe of chives^ tarragon, and chervil, and afterwards used to orna- 
ment the breasts of the chickens. Place these in their dish, pour under 
them a chivry or ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to table. 

688. CHICKENS, A LA FLORENTINE. 
Truss two chickens and lard the breast very closely with bhick 
truffles cut into strips, which must be used inst^ of bacon for this 
purpose ; the chickens should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon (to 
prevent the truffles from drying and breaking off), then braized in white 
broth, and when done, dish^ up with an ornamental eratutade of 
bread fried of a light brown colour and placed in the centre of the dish : 
garnish with alternate groups of small quenelles of fowl coloured with 
lobster spawn, truffles cut in the form of olives, mushrooms, large double 
cock's-combs, and small croquettes of rice mixed with a little grated Par- 
mesan cheese ; sauce the chickens, without masking the breasts, with some 
AUemande sauce in which have been added two table-spoonfuls of iomata 
sauce, and a little Chili vinegar. Fill the croustade with trimmed cray- 
fish tails tossed in a little of the sauce, and serve. If this dish be intend- 
ed for a grand dinner, four ornamental silver skewers garnished with a 
double cock's-comb, truffles, decorated queneUe, and a cray-fish, may be 
inserted in the crotutade. 



689. CHICKENS, A LA CARDINAL. 




Draw^ two chickens, taking care to leave the crop entire, cut off the* 
feet two inches firom the joint of the leg, and make an incision just under 
the thigh ; insert the legs inside, and then put the chickens in a basin of 



198 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. 

cold water to soak for a quarter of an hour ; after which, with the aid of 
the forefinger detach the skin as much as possible firom the breasts and legs 
of the chickens without tearing it ; they must then be placed upon a 
napkin, and all the water absorbed from them ; after which the inter- 
stices between the skm and fillets^ Sec, should be covered with some 
quenelle of fowl coloured of a deep red with lobster spawn. The chickens 
are then to be trussed for boiling in the usual manner, being covered with 
thin layers of fat bacon to protect the skin while braizing ; place them 
in a stew-pan with the customary vegetables, &c., moisten with white 
broth and set them to braize very gently on a slow fire — care must be 
taken to prevent their boiling fast, as in that case the quenelle would burst 
the skins. When done, dish them up with an ornamental fried bread 
erougtade in the centre of the dish ; garnish with small groups of glazed 
truffles, cockVcombs, large quenelles of fowl decorated with truffles, button 
mushrooms and cray-fish tails, and at each end place a larded sweetbread ; 
sauce with some cardinal sauce (No. 48) insert four garnished ornamental 
silver skewers into the croustade, and serve. 

690. CHICKENS, A l'aLLEMANDE. 

Thbsb must be trussed and boiled as usual, and when done, dished up 
with a border of quenelles of potatoes (No. 312), first poached, then 
covered with fried bread-crumbs, and placed round the chickens ; sauce 
them with a rich Allemande sauce (No. 7), and send to table. 

691. CHICKENS, A L'INDIENNE. 

Truss two chickens for boiling, lard the breasts closely, and place them 
in a conveniently sized stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two 
cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley, &c. ; add some good stock in 
sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper over 
the chickens, and having put the lid on the stew-pan, set them to braize 
gently, with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid of the pan : about 
forty minutes will suffice to do them. Then remove the paper, and after 
drying the larding in the oven for a minute or two, glaze the chickens 
nicely, dish them up, garnish them round with a border of rice croquettes 
formed in the shape of an egg, and between each croquette place a minion 
fillet of fowl decorated with tongue, sauce them round with some finan- 
ciire sauce (No. 8), in which have been added two mangoes sliced 
small, and serve. * 

692. CHICKENS, A L'AFRICAINE. 
PasPAtiB the chickens in the same way bs for d la cardinal, and detach 
the skins in the same manner, fill up the interstices between the sldn and 
fillets, with some forcemeat of fowl in which has been mixed sufficient 
purie of truffles (No. 121) to colour it; the chickens must then be 
trussed as fi)r boiling, and after being covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon, should be braized, and when done, dished up side by side. Gkim- 
ish them round with alternate groups of very small quenelles, half of which 
must be coloured with chopp^ truffles and the remainder with lobster 
coral ; sauce with a Jinanclire ragoui"(No. 1 88), in a paivrade sauce 
(No. 29), and serve. 



CHICKENS. 199 

693. CHICKENS, A LA TURQUE. 
Thbsb must be trussed, boiled, and dished up as usual ; they should 
then be garnished with a close border of rice boiled in broth with a little 
saffron and cayenne pepper ; place round the rice alternate groups of 
Smyrna raisins stewed in a little Malaga wine, and tongue cut into smaU 
pipe-like forms about half an inch long ; pour a lightly seasoned curry 
sauce (No. 47) over the chickens^ and serve. 

694. CHICKENS, A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Truss two chickens as for boiling, then take a deep Jricandeaur^n, 
spread it thickly with butter, and lay therein, in drcular order, a dozen 
pieces of raw ham cut in the shape and about twice the thickness of a 
crown piece ; upon these place the chickens, and garnish with carrot, onion, 
faggot of parsley, a clove of garlic, a little grated nutmeg, pepper 
and salt ; cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and then set them upon 
a moderate fire (with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid,) to i^- 
mer for about forty minutes : taking care to turn the chickens occasion- 
ally, in order that they may be equally coloured of a light brown all over. 
This being done, the butter should be drained off from the chickens, and 
the vegetables removed ; then add a glass of Sherry or Madeira, two 
spoonfiUs of tomata sauce, (No. 22) and the same quantity of brown 
sauce, a small piece of glaze, lemon juice and a little cayenne pepper. 
Let the whole simmer together on the fire for five minutes, then draw the 
strings from the chickens and dish them up ; garnish them round with the 
pieces of ham placed alternately with a crouton of the same shape ; round 
these place four groups of Spanish-peas {garhan^<u) boiled and divested of 
the huUs, and some dressed tomatas augratin (No. 1161) ; pour the 
sauce over the chickens and serve. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing chickens for small 
Removes, Flanks, or Entries^ they may also be served with rice, maca- 
roni, nouilleSy oyster sauce, d VAnfflaise, d Vivoire, d VestragoTi^ &c., 
and indeed in every variety of form described for dressing capons. 



200 



REMOVES OF GOOSE, 



COMPRISING 



Goose, ^ PAnglaim. OooK,a la Norwamde. 

„ a VEslouffdde. Wild Goose, a V Aberdeen. 
„ hta fUmamde. „ A rAUemande. 

„ a VAUemamde. Cygneta. 
M « /a Z>atf>Atiu>t«. 

695. GOOSE, A l'aNGLAISE* 

Draw a fine fat gooee, and stuff it with the following seasoning : — 
(%op six large onions and about one«third the quantity of green-sage- 
leaTes ; parboil these in water for three minutes, then drain them upon a 
Steve, and afterwards put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of 
butter* pepper and salt, and allow the whole to simmer gently oyer a slow 
fire for a few minutes, stirring the seasoning the whole of the time with 
a wooden spoon. When the goose is stuffed, truss it for roasting, run the 
spit through it, then'fasten it on by the means of a strong iron skewer Imd 
upon the back of the goose, and secured at each end with string. The 
goose should now be put down to the fire to roast, which will require 
about an hour and a half, according to its size — taking particular care to 
baste it frequently ; when done, take it off the spit, dish it up with 
a rich brown gravy under it, and send to table wiUi a boat of apple 
sauce. 

696. GOOSE, A L'ESTOUFFADE. 

Draw a fine fat young goose, and stuff it in the following manner : — 
Parboil two large onions and chop them fine ; to these add six sage- 
leaves, and a proportionate quantity of green thyme and mugwort : these 
also must first be parboiled and then chopped. Put the onions and the 
herbs into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little grated nut- 
meg, pepper and salt ; and set the whole to stew gently on a very slow 
fire for about ten minutes. Then put the stuffing into the goose, and 
truss it in the usual way ; place it in an oval stewpan with half a pound 
of butter, a garnished faggot of parsley, an onion stuck with four cloves, one 
head of celery, and a carrot cut into slices, and moisten with two glasses 
of Sherry. Put the lid on the stewpan, place it on a slow fire, with some 
live embers of charcoal and ashes on the lid, and allow the goose to sim- 
mer gently for about an hour and a half, taking particular care to turn it, 
80 as to give it an equal colour all over. When done, pour off all the 
fet, add a ragout-spoonful of reduced brown sauce, and a little con- 
9ommi to detach the glaze from the sides of the stewpan, and having 
allowed it to boil quicldy, in order to reduce the sauce to its usual con* 
sistency, the goose should be dished up, and garnished round with a 
border of glaz^ turnips ; then pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

This dish may also be garnished with macaroni, with glazed carrots, 
or onions. 



BEHOVES OF GOOSE. 201 



007. GOOSE, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Truss and braiase a goose, when done, dish it up and garnish it . 
round with alternate groups of glazed carrots, turnips, Brussels sprouts, 
and indeed almost every variety of vegetables in season, previously pre- 
pared for the purpose; glaze the goose, and pour some bright brown 
sauce, (with the addition of some of the braize in which it has been 
done, reduced to a glaze for that purpose) round the vegetables, and 
send to table. 

698. GOOSE, A l'ALLEMANDE. 

Procure a double-handful of mugwort, rub off all the buds, and blandi 
them in boiling water for two minutes ; then drain and put them into a 
small stewpan, with a large onion chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg* 
pepper and salt, and four ounces of butter ; set these to simmer gently 
on the fire, for ten minutes, and having put this stuffing in the goose, 
truss and place it in an oval stewpan with four ounces of butter, and 
set it on a moderate fire, with some live embers on the lid. Care should 
be taken to turn the goose every now and then, so as to give it an equal 
colour all over. When it is done, pour off all the grease, add the juice 
of one lemon and one orange, together with the peel of an orange cut into 
very thin shreds previously parboiled in water; add also a spoonfiil 
of brown sauce and a little comommL Allow these to boil together for 
two or three minutes, dish up the goose, garnish it round with groups of 
potatoes — cut into the shape of large olives and firied in butter — pour the 
sauce over the goose, and send to table. 

609. GOOSE, A LA DAUFHINOISE. 

Stuff a goose with chestnuts prepared as follows : — Slit, scald, and 
peel, about sixty lai^ chestnuts; put them into a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter, a little salt, and a quart of good broth, one shalot 
chopped fine, and a garnished &ggot of parsley ; set the chestnuts to stew 
upon a slow fire, and when they are done, put them in the goose and 
truss it. Then place the goose in a deep earthen dish, moisten with a 
wine mirepaix (No. 236), and cover the dish effectually with some stiff- 
made flour and water paste, so as entirely to prevent the aroma of the 
several ingredients from escaping. Set it in the oven to bake, fw about 
two hours, and when it is done, remove the crust, dish up the goose, 
strain the gravy through a sieve into a stewpan, skim off every particle 
of grease, and then boil it down to the bare quantity required for saucing; 
to this add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, half a pound of 
currant jelly, and some orange peel shred fine ; boil the whole together 
for two minutes, then pour the sauce over the goose, and send to 
Uble. 

700. GOOSE, A LA NORMAIIDE. 

Chop one large onion fine, blanch, and afterwards drain it upon a 
sieve ; then fry it with a little butter of a light brown colour, and mix it 
with mashed potatoes, in sufficient quantity to stuff the goose ; this 
being done, truss it and roast it in the usual manner, and when removed 
from the spit, dish it up ; garnish it round with a border of small round 



202 REMOVES OF GOOSE. 

apples neatly turned, and stewed with a little broth, a small piece of but- 
ter, and two ounces of sugar ; when nearly done, the apples should be 
boiled down quickly, in order to glaze them of a bright light brown 
colour : be careful that they remain whole. Pour a rich gravy round the 
goose, and send to table. 

701. WILD GOOSE, A l'aBERDEEN. 

When the goose is drawn, scald the feet and remove the rough cuticle 
that covers them ; then singe it over the flame of a charcoal-fire, wipe it 
with a clean cloth, and pick out all the stubble, and stuff the goose with 
the following preparation : — 

To one pound of chopped beef-suet, add the same quantity of bread- 
crumbs, half a pound of butter, two whole eggs, a little chopped th3rme, 
sweet Imsil, and maijoram, two shalots, and a handful of parsley ; season 
with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead the whole well together, and 
stuff the goose with it. 

Then truss the goose, and put it on the spit in the same fashion as 
directed for a haunch of venison. It will require about three hours to 
roast ; when done, dish it up with a border of glazed Portugal onions 
(No. 1164), pour some jmvrade sauce (No. 29), under it, and send to 
table. The goose should be frothed with flour and butter in the same 
manner as venison, af^er the crust has been removed. 

702. WILD GOOSE, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Pbbparb the goose at first as directed in No. 698, then place it in a deep 
earthen dish, and strew upon it the following vegetables cut into thin slices : 
two carrots, two onions, one head of celery, a handful of parsley, four 
bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, and sweet basil in small quantities ; also 
four blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a spoonful of Jamaica pepper- 
corns, two lemons peeled and cut into slices, a pint of salad oil, and half 
a pint of French vinegar. Allow the goose to remain in this marinade or 
pickle for a couple of days, taking care to turn it frequently. When about 
to dress the goose, put it on the spit, cover it with stout paper well but- 
tered, lay the whole of the vegetables, &c, on the breast, cover these with 
two sheets of buttered paper, and fasten them on securely with string. 
Put the goose thus prepared down to the fire to roast for about two hours, 
taking care to baste it frequently; when done, take it from the spit, 
glaze and dish it up, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes rolled 
in fried bread-crumbs, and pour under it a sauce, made as follows : — 

Grate a large stick of horseradish; peel and slice up two lemons, 
removing the pips, and put these in a stewpan with four shalots, 
six cloves, two blades of mace, and a tea-spoonfiil of pepper-corns, two 
bay-leaves, a large sprig of thyme, and half a pint of French vinegar; 
set these to boil on the fire until reduced to half the quantity, then add a 
large spoonful of rich gravy, one pound of currant jelly, and the juice of 
two Seville oranges ; allow the whole to boil together for five minutes, 
and then strain the sauce through a tammy with considerable pressure 
into a small stewpan, and make it hot for use. 

Note, — Cygnets may be prepared for the table, according to the direc- 
tions for dressing wild geese. In Norfolk, it is usual to stuff them with 
chopped rump- steaks, highly seasoned with shalots, parsley, thyme, all- 
spice, pepper, and salt. 



203 



REMOVES OF DUCKS, 



COMPRISING 



Docki, ^ la Macedoine. Braized Ducki, with stewed Peas. 

Braized Docks, with Turnips. „ a ia Prorenfole. 

703. DUCKS, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Truss two ducks for boiling, and put them into an oval stewpan with 
a carrot, an onion, two cloves and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten 
with a quart of white broth, cover with an oval piece of well-buttered 
paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on the stove to boil ; then 
put some live embers on the lid, and remove the ducks to the side of the 
stove to braize gently for about an hour. When about to send them to 
table, drain them upon a napkin, remove the string, and dish them up 
with alternate groups of a copious and vaned macedoine of vegetables (No. 
I4d) — such as carrots and turnips, cut in fancy shapes and nicely 
glazed, after being previously boiled in broth, asparagus heads, French- 
beans, green-peas, cauliflower, &c., as they may happen to be in season. 
Sauce the ducks with some allemande, and serve. 

704. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH TURNIPS. 

Thbsb should be trussed in the usual way, and placed in an oval 
stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished 
faggot of parsley ; moisten with sufficient white stock to cover the ducks, 
put a buttered paper over them and set them to boil gently on a slow 
fire for about an hour. While they are being braized, cut some turnips into 
fancy shapes, such as large olives, half-moons, &c., fry them in two ounces 
of butter and a little sugar ; when they are all equally browned, throw 
them into a stewpan, containing about a pint ofespofftiole sauce, with the 
addition of some of the broth the ducks are braized m. Allow the turnips 
to boil very gently by the side of the fire until done ; they must then be 
dndned upon a sieve, their sauce clarified, skimmed, reduced to its pro- 
per consistency and passed through a tammy into a small stewpan con- 
taining the turnips. Dish the ducks up, place the turnips neatly round, 
pour uie sauce over them, and send to table. 

705. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Braize the ducks as directed in the foregoing case, and when done, 
dish them up with stewed peas round them ; sauce with a brown sauce 
in which some of the broth from the ducks has been reduced. They 
may also be prepared as follows : — 

Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan on the fire ; when melted, 
add two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir this over the fire until the roux 
becomes of a fiiwn-colour ; then add a quart of good broth or gravy, care- 
fully workiiig the whole while mixing. Stir this sauce on the fire, and 
when it boili^ put the ducks trussed for boiling into it, and also a quart 



204 REMOVES OF DUCKS. 

of young peas, and a faggot of parsley and green onions. Allow these to 
stew very gently by the side of the stove for about an hour; when the ducks 
are done, take them out of the sauce, skim off all \he grease, remove the 
&ggot of parsley ; and if there is too much sauce, boil it down to its proper 
consistency, pour the peas and sauce over the ducks, previously dished 
up, and serve. 

706. BJAIZED DUCKS, A LA PR0VE5QALE. 

Thbsb should be braized as in the former cases, and when dished up, 
garnished with the following preparation : 

Cut six Isige onions into halves, remove the ends of these^ and slice 
them up. Meanwhile, heat half a pint of salad oil in a deep sautapan 
over the fire; fry the onions in it of a light-brown colour, carefully 
stirring them with the end of an iron skewer to avoid breaking the pieces. 
When the onions are done, drain them upon a sieve, and afterwards put 
them into a small stewpan with the juice of a lemon, a little minio- 
nette pepper and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and set them 
on a slow fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour ; add some 
finished espagnole sauce in sufficient quantity for the purpose, boil the 
whole together, pour it round the ducks and serve. 

This dish is sometimes designated d la Lyonnaise. 

In addition to the foregoing methods for serving braized ducks, they 
may also be garnished with a jardinieres stewed olives, a nivemaisey or 
with sauer-kraiU (No. 1 65) ; for preparing which, see vegetable garnishes. 



REMOVES OF PHEASANTS, 

COM PRISING 



Pheasants, it la Pingmux. Pheasants, a la Jkuiphitiom. 

yt h la Ch^olata, ^ with braised cabbage. 

» a ritalienm, „ ii la Ftamande. 

M hla BeamieMut. „ ^ rjUemamU, 

M ti la FimmcUre. ^ ^ la Regmoe, 

„ with fmrle of celery. „ k PEspeuptole. 

n ^ la SotAite, ^ a PAtpie, 

M a As DaufMne. ^ Ula MoHgUu. 

n ^ la Pajf$anm* 

707. PHEASANTS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Follow m every lesj^ectf the directions for dressing turkeys d la phi- 
gueux (No. 660). 

708. PHBASAFTS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Thbsb are to be trussed and nicely roasted, and when taken from the 
spit, should be dished up and neatly garnished with a ckipoUOa ragout, 
(No. 190). 



REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 205 



709. PHEASANTS, A L ITALIENNB. 

Truss two pheasants as for boiling, and place them on the spit in the 
usual way, then cover the breasts with a reduced wine mirepoixy retain- 
ing the vegetables in it ; wrap them in two laige sheets of well-buttered 
paper, securely fastened at each end with string ; place a long stout made 
iron skewer at the backs of the pheasants, which must be likewise tightly 
secured with string to prevent them from slipping round. Roast the phea- 
sants for an hour, take them up, place them on their dish, garnish with 
a border o^ raviolis (No. 375), pour an Italian sauce (No. 12) over them, 
and serve. 

710. PHEASANTS, A LA BEAUVAUX. 

The pheasants must be boned, except the legs and wings, which should 
be left entire ; stuff them with a farce made with fiit livers of fowls or 
game (No. 249) ; then truss them so as to give them the appearance of 
being whole ; run a strong iron skewer through them, fasten this upon a 
spit with string at each end of the skewer ; cover the breasts with some 
reduced mirepoix (No. ftS6), and wrap them up in two sheets of buttered 
paper, which must also be securely fiutened with strmg. Roast the phea* 
sants an hour and a quarter, and when done, dish them up with a ragout 
of scollops of hi livers and truffles (No. 191) in AjinancUre sauce, and 
serve. 

711. PHEASANTS, A LA PINANCIERE. 

Truss and roast the pheasants, and when done, dish them up with a 
nch JinancHre ragout (No. 188). 

712. PHEASANTS, WITH PUREE OF CELERY. 

Truss the pheasants for boiling, braize them in some good stock,^ var- 
nished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a gamiuied 
&ggot of parsley ; when done drain them upon a napkin, dish them up, 
and pour over them a white purSe of celery (No. 110) ; garnish round 
with a border of potato croquettes, and serve. 

713. PHEASANTS, A LA SOUBISE. 

These should be larded throu^ the breasts, lenffthwise, with strips of 
fat bacon about four inches long and a quarter of an inch square, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt and chopped parsley ; they must be afler^ 
wards trussed for boiling, then braized as in the foregoing case ; when 
done, dish them up with a purie of onions d la soubise (No. 119) 
poured over them, and send to table. 

714. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHINS. 
See Poulards d la Daupkine. (No. 684). 

716. PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSANNE. 

Truss the pheasants as for boiling with the \m tucked inside : then 
put them into an oval stew-pan with four ounces of butter, and a piece of 
glaze the size of an egg, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow 



206 KEMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 

fire. They must be frequently turned^ and care should be taken to pre- 
vent the glaze and butter from burning. When the pheasants are done, 
let the butter and grease be poured off ; add a glass of white wine and 
some good stock in sufficient quantity to serve for the gravy, the juice of 
half a lemon and a little pepper and salt ; boil these together to detach the 
glaase from the sides of the stew-pan, and when the pheasants are dished 
up, pour this gravy over them, garnish them round with groups of pota- 
toes cut into the shape of large olives and fried in butter, and serve. 

716. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Truss the pheasants as for boiling, braize them in a wine mire* 
poix (No. 236), and when done, take them up, draw the strings, and 
allow them to get partially cold ; then cover Uiem entirely with some 
reduced Allemande sauce in- which has been mixed half the mirepaix the 
pheasants have been braized in, (this, previously to its being boiled 
down for the purpose of adding it to the sauce, must be freed of all the 
grease, &c) Thb coating of sauce should be allowed to cool, and then must 
be bread-crumbed over with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with the 
bread-crumbs in equal proportions. The pheasants must now be placed in a 
deep sautapan or pie-dish, previously well buttered, and the remaining half 
oi the braize added to moisten the bottom of the pan. Three quarters of 
an hour before dinner time, sprinkle the pheasants with a little clarified 
butter, and set them in the oven to be baked of a very light &wn colour — 
frequently basting them with clarified butter while baking. When done, 
dish them up side by side, garnish round with a border of quenelles of 
polenta, pour a brown Italian sauce (No. 12) under them, and serve. 
The queneUes of polenta above alluded to should be thus made : 
Put into a small stew-pan six ounces of butter, half-a-pint of water, a 
little minionette pepper and salt ; set these on the fire to boil, and then 
mix in with them six ounces of polenta, (a preparation of Indian com) 
stir this again over the fire until it becomes a smooth compact paste, and 
then work in with it two whole eggs and two yolks, and two ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Shape this composition into queneUea with two 
table-spoons in the usual manner, and poach them in hot water. 

717. PHEASANTS, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. 
Thbsb must be trussed as for boiling, and placed in a rather laige oval 
stew-pan with three white-heart or Savoy cabbages previously cut into 
halves, the cores taken out, and blanched or par-boiled ; afterwards the 
two halves of each cabbage, previously seasoned with minionette pepper 
and salt, must be tied up with string; add two carrots, one head of celery, 
two onions, each stuck with two cloves, one pound of streaky bacon 
from which all the rust has been pared off, and which must also be 
parboiled like the cabbages, one pound of German sausage, and a gar- 
nished faggot of parsley ; moisten ¥rith good stock' in sufficient quantity 
to cover the pheasants, cover with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on 
the stew-pan, and then set the whole on a moderate fire to stew very 
gently for about two hours. Just before sending to table take out the 
pheasants, drain them upon a napkin, remove the strings, and dish them 
up with an ornamental cnmstade of fried bread in the centre ; then put 
the bacon and German sausage upon a plate, and afler having drained the 
cabbages in a colander, roll them In a dean napkin in the fonn of a rolling 



PHEASANTS. 



207 



pm ; cut this into two-inch lengths and place them round the phea* 
sants, trim the bacon, cut it into strips and lay them on the top of the 
circle of the pieces of cabbages in alternate layers with slices of the 
sausage; about the upper part of this dish, place well-formed groups 
of nicely-shaped glazed carrots, turnips and onions, prepared for the 
purpose ; pour an EspagnoU sauce over the whole, glaze the pheasants and 
the rootSy and serve. 

718. PHEASANTS, A LA FLAMANDE. 




Truss and braize the pheasants in common stock, garnished with 
carrot, onion stuck with two cloves, and a faggot of parsley ; when done, 
dish them up side by side, garnished round with alternate groups of carrots 
and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and nicely glazed, and some dressed 
Brussels sprouts and glazed onions; pour an EspagnoU sauce round 
them, glaze the pheasants, and serve. 

719. PHEASANTS, A l'aLLEMANDE. 
Sbb i^cVeDA^VAUemande (No. 690). 



720. PHEASANTS, A LA REGENCE. 

Truss the pheasants with plump breasts as for roasting, lard them 
closely, and about an hour before dinner-time, put them on the spit before 
the fire to roast for about forty minutes ; taking particular care to baste 
them frequently, and glaze them well just before taking them off the 
spit. When done, di^ them up, garnish round with groups of white 
cock's-combs, button mushrooms, small queneUes and truffles ; in each 
flank of the dish, place a laige decorated quendU^ and at the ends put a 



208 REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 

larded sweetbread; sauce the remove neatly round with some AlU* 
mande sauce, so as not to touch the pheasants, glaze the larding» and 
serve. 

721. PHEASANTS, WITH BICE, A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Thbsb mutt be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval stew- 
pan with carrot, celery, two onions stuck with three cloves each, a 
garnished faggot of parsley and a couple of red Spanish sausage ; moisten 
with some red wine mirepaix^ cover them up, and set them to stew very 
gently for about two hours on a slow fire. 

While the pheasants are stewing, prepare some rice in the following 
manner: 

Thoroughly wash ten ounces of Carolina rice, and afterwards boil it for 
three minutes in water, and drain it on a sieve until all the moisture is ab- 
sorbed ; then, put a giU of salad oil into a large sautapan over a brisk fire, 
and, as soon as the oil is quite hot, throw the rice in and fry it until it 
becomes slightly browned, stirring it with a spoon the whole of the time 
it remains on the fire. Then put the rice into a stewpan, moisten it with 
a pint and a half of good coTuomm^f season with a little cayenne pepper 
and a pinch of saffron powder ; set it to simmer very gently on the fire 
for ha]f an hour, and when the pheasants are dished up, work the rice 
with a teaspoonful of tomata sauce and a little glaze, then mould it 
in the shape of ordinary queneUes with a tablespoon, and place these 
closely round the pheasants after they are dished up ; sauce them over 
with poivrade sauce in which part of their broth has been mixed after 
being first boiled down to glaze, and serve. 

722. PHEASANTS, A L^ASPIC. 

BoNB the pheasants and take care to leave the legs and wings entire ; 
then season the inside with pepper and salt, and fill them out with some 
forcemeat of pheasant (No MS) previously mixed with some chopped 
parsley and mushrooms ; truss them so as to give them their original 
shape and size, cover them with thin layers of &i bacon and wrap them 
securely in napkins spread with butter, &stened at each end with 
string. When the pheasants are thus &x prepared, place them in an 
oval stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with three doves, and a 
garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten with good white stock in sufficient 
quantity to cover them, and then set them to braize very gently on 
a slow fire for an hour and a half. When the pheasants are done, take 
them up, remove the napkins and strings, drain all the moisture firom them 
upon a clean napkin, and dish them up ; pour under them some bright 
essence of game made from the carcasses of the pheasants, which, 
previously to its being used, must be clarified and reduced to half-glaze. 

723. PHEASANTS, A LA MONGLAS. 

Roast two pheasants, and as soon as they come off the spit, cut the 
meat firom the breasts by making an incision in the shape of a heart ; 
this meat must then be cut into very small dice and mixed with two 
gravy spoonfuls of reduced beekamdaauce or AUemande^ and two dozen 
mushrooms, a couple of black truffles and a small piece of red tongue 
should be aJao cut into dioeand mixed with the {feasant. With this pre- 



REMOVES OF PARTRIDGES. 209 

paration fill up the breasts of the pheasants, smooth them over with the 
blade of a knife, and then cover them with bread-crumbs fried of a 
light brown colour ; set the pheasants in the oven or hot closet to keep 
warm, and when about to send them to table, place them in their dish 
side by side, pour under them a white ragout of cock's-combs, mushrooms, 
and truffles, and serve. 

Note, — This dish is generally served when there happens to be some 
ready-dressed game left from the previous day's dinner. 



REMOVES OF PARTRIDGES, 

COMPRISING 

Partridges, a la Seville. Partridges, H la Raviyotte. 

R«d-leggcd Partndges, h la Plessy, „ h la Soulim, 

„ „ a Ut Cerito, „ a VEUder, 

724. PARTRIDGES, A LA SEVILLE. 
Truss four or six partridges as for boiling, fry them of a light brown 
colour in four ounces of fresh butter, and then set them aside upon a 
plate ; cut about one pound of raw ham (that has been previously soaked 
and parboiled) into small pieces in the form of olives, and two dozen 
small pieces of the red part of a carrot cut with a round scoop, with the 
same number of small button-onions ; fry these also of a light brown 
colour, withdraw them from the fire, and then put them with the par- 
tridges back into the stewpan ; add a faggot of parsley garnished with 
thyme, bay-leaf, sweet basil, and one clove of garlic ; season with a little 
salt and cayenne-pepper, moisten with two glasses of Madeira or Malaga, 
and a table-spoonful of tomatas ; then set the stewpan (covered with the 
lid containing live embers) on a slow fire, to simmer gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Observe, that the moistening of the partridges should 
be reduced to one half of its original quantity while braizing. When 
done, dish them up in a triangular form, skim off the grease from the 
carrots, &c., add a gravy-spoonful of finished EspagnoU and the juice of 
half a lemon ; boil the whole together for two minutes, place the ham, 
carrots, and onions, in separate groups round the partridges, pass the sauce 
through a tammy, pour it over the partridges and serve. 

In the centre of the partridges, place some garban^as or yellow 
Spanish peas, prepared as follows : — 

Soak a pint of garban^^as in tepid water for twelve hours ; then drain 
and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of ham, a carrot, an 
onion, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a little minionette- pepper ; 
moisten with three pints of broth, and set them to boil gently for three 
hours. 

725. RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES, A LA PLESSY. 

Tubsb are to be trussed as for boiling, braized in a white poeU 
(No. 2d0), and when done, to be dished up in a triangular form, and 



210 



REMOVES OF PARTRIDGES. 



garnished with neat groups of small quenelles of partridge and white but- 
ton-mushrooms ; pour round a suprSme sauce (No. 38), finish with an 
essence of game over the partridges^ and serve. 

726. PARTRIDGES, A LA CERITO. 

Bone three red-legged partridges and fill them out with some quenelle 
force-meat made with the fillets of two partridges, and with which 
should be mixed previously to using it, two black truffles and a small 
piece of red tongue cut into small dice ; when the partridges are filled 
with this preparation, truss them so as to give them their original shape ; 
scald the red legs and insert them on each side of the birds, at the same 
time pushing the ends of the skin of the leg neatly in with each foot. 
Then, wrap each bird in a separate small naplun spread with butter, and 
&sten the ends with string; braize them for about an hour in some white 
poele (No. 2d0), over a slow fire, and take particular care that they do 
not boil fast. When done, take them out of the napkins, remove the 
strings, drain all the unnecessaiy moisture from them, and dish them up: 
garnish them with a border of raviolis (No. 375), pour a provengaU 
sauce (No. 25) over them, and serve. 

727. PARTRIDGES, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

These should be trussed as for boiling, and must be roasted just before 
they are wanted ; when dished up, pour a ravi^oUe or proven^ale sauce 
under them, glaze, and send to table. 

728. PARTRIDGES, A LA SOUBISE. 

Truss the partridges for boiling, braize them, and when done, dish 
them up, pour an onion sauce d la sotibise, finished with a gill of cream 
(No. 119) over them, and send to table. 



729. PARTRIDGES, A L'ELLSLER. 




Truss four red-legged partridges as for boiling, lanL the breasts 
closely, bruze them in a wme mirepoix (No. 236), when done, glaze 



PARTRIDGES. 211 

them nicely and dish them up in a row ; garnish with a group of small 
truffles, cocks-combs and mushrooms, at each end place a heart sweet- 
bread cofUise with black truffles, and on the sides a border of dessert- 
spoon quenelles^ made with game force-meat, in which has been mixed 
some lobster-coral ; pour a Parisian sauce (No. 40) round the partridges^ 
and serve. 

NoU, — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing red-legged 
and common partridges, they may also be treated according to the various 
directions given for dressing pheasants. 



p2 



212 



MEAT PIES FOR REMOVES, 

COMPRISING 

Chicken Pie, a la Reuie. Veal and Ham Pie. 

Pigeon Pie, a VAn^cdte. ' Mutton Pie, a r^t^oMs. 

Grouae Pie, a VEcostaite. Pie of Woodcocks or Snipet, ^ ririandaist. 

Partridge Pie, a la C%tsM(ur Fieldfiire, or Blackbird Pie. 

Giblet Pie, with fine-herba. Lark Pie, a la Melton MoKbray, 

Bee&teak and OjBter Pie.. 

730. CHICKEN PIE, A LA REINE. 
Cut two chickens into small members as for a fricassee; cover the bot- 
tom of the pie-dish with layers of scollops of veal and ham placed 
alternately; season with chopped mushroom and parsley, pepper and salt, 
then add a little white sauce; next^ place in the dish the pieces of chicken 
in neat order, and round these put a plover's egg in each cavity ; repeat 
the seasoning and the sauce, lay a few thin slices of dressed ham neatly 
trinuned on the top ; cover the pie with puff paste, ornament this with 
pieces of the same cut into the form of leaves, Ac, egg the pie over with 
a paste-brush, and bake it for one hour and a half. A very good chicken 
pie may be made by omitting the plover's eggs, mushrooms, ham, and the 
sauce — substituting for these, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped 
parsley, bacon, and a little mushroom-catsup, some common gravy, or 
even water. 

731. PIGEON PIE, A L'aNGLAISE. 

Draw, truss, and singe, six young pigeons ; then, stuff them with the 
chopped livers, mixed with some parsley, a small piece of butter, pepper 
and salt. Next, cover the bottom of the dish with rather large scollops 
of beef, taken either from the fillet or rump; season with chopped parsley 
and mushrooms, pepper and salt ; over these place the pigeons, and be- 
tween each pigeon put the yolk of an egg boiled hard, placing two or 
three in the centre also ; add some white or brown sauce, whichever may 
be at hand, in sufficient quantity to produce sauce enough for the dish, or 
if neither of these be ready, then substitute some gravy or conMnon broth; 
repeat the seasoning, cover the pie with puff paste, bake it for an hour 
and a half, and send to table. 

732. GROUSE PIE, A l'ECOSSAISE. 

When the grouse are picked, cut off the legs and wings, and tuck the 
thighs inside ; then, cut away the lower part of the backs, which if per- 
mitted to remain, would, from their bitter taste, spoil the pie. Cover the 
bottom of the dish with large scollops of beef, seasoned with chopped 
mushrooms, parsley, and shalots, pepper and salt ; over these place the 
grouse, and between each bird put the yolk of an egg boiled hard ; lay 
some small thin slices of streaky bacon or ham upon the top, and then 
mix a pint of good gravy with two table- spoonfuls of '* Ilickson's Mogul 
Sauce, and the same proportion of genuine Uarvey sauce : pour this 



•MEAT PIES. 213 

preparation into the pie, sprinkle some chopped parsley and mushrooms 
on the surface, cover with pufTpaste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, 
and serve. 

733. PARTRIDGE PIE, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Cut the partridges into small members, in the same manner as direct^ 
for cutting up fowls for a fricassee, and set them apart on a plate. Then, 
cover the bottom of the pie-dish with neatly trimmed scollops of veal, 
and thin slices of streaky bicon — first partially boiled to extract the salt ; 
cover these with six spoonfuls of the following preparation: Make 
about half a pint of soubise sauce (No. 119), to this add half that 
quantity of white sauce, a pottle of button-mushrooms, some chopped 
parsley, and a little thyme; season with cayenne-pepper and salt. When 
the veal, &c., is covered with the foregoing, place the members of the 
partridges in neat order upon the whole ; pour the remainder of the 
sauce on these, and smooth over the surface with a knife ; place on the 
top some yolks of eggs boiled hard and cut into halves, and between 
each yolk put a small piece of streaky bacon ; cover the pie with puif 
paste, bake it for one hour and a half, and serve. 

734. GIBLET PIE, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Pbocurb two sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, afterwards 
immerse them in cold water and drain them upon a napkin. Then, cut 
the giblets into pieces about two inches long, trim them neatly and place 
them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four. cloves, a gar- 
nished faggot of parsley, and season with pepper and a little salt ; moisten 
with a quart of good broth and a glass of "Shenfy, and set them to stew 
gently on a slow fire. When done, remove the carrot, onion, and fag- 
got of parsley ; drain the giblets into a sieve, skim off all the grease from 
the broth, and afler having put it back into a small stewpan, thicken it 
with a little roux^ and boil the sauce over a brisk fire for a quarter of an 
hour, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. Reduce the sauce 
by boiling to about a pint, and then remove it from the fire. Next, cover 
the bottom of the dish with scollops of fillet of beef, season with fine- 
herbs, consisting of mushrooms, parsley, a very little sweet basil, and two 
shalots, adding cayenne pepper, and salt ; over these pour half the 
sauce, then fill the dish up with the giblets, which place in neat order ; 
sprinkle some fine-herbs upon them and pour the remainder of the sauce 
over the whole. Cover the pie with puff paste, bake it for an hour and 
a quarter, and send to table. 

736. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIE. 

Cot three pounds of fillet of beef or rump steaks into large scollops, fry 
them quickly over a very brisk fire, so as to brown them before they are 
half done ; then, place them on the bottom of the dish, leaving the cen- 
tre open, in two successive layers ; fill the centre with four dozen oysters 
previously parboiled and bearded, season with pepper and salt, and pour 
the following preparation over the whole ; When the scollops of beef have 
been fried in a sauta or firyingpan, pour nearly all the grease out and 
shake a table-spoonful of flour into it ; stir this over the fire for one mi- 
nute, then add a pint of good gravy or broth^ two table-spoonfuls of muah- 



214 REMOVES OF PIES. 

room catsup, an equal quantity of Harvey sauce and the liquor from the 
oysters ; stir the whole over the fire, and keep it boiling for a quarter of 
an hour. Half an hour afler this sauce has been poured into the pie, 
cover it with puff paste in the usual way, bake it for an hour and a 
half, and serve. 

736. YEAL AND HAH PIE. 

Trim the veal and ham into scollops, and season with pepper and salt in 
moderation. Next chop a handful of mushrooms and some parsley very 
fine, and put them in a small stewpan with a small pat of butter and one 
shalot also chopped fine; fiy these lightly over the fire, then add nearly 
a pint of velaute sauce or good stock ; boil the whole for five minutes and 
pour it into the pie ; place six yolks of eggs boiled hard in the cavities, 
cover with puff paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. 

737, MUTTON PIE, A L'aNGLAISE. 

Pbocurb a neck of mutton, remove the scrag and the spine bone, shorten 
the ribs to about three inches, and use these trimmings to make some 
stock or gravy for the pie. Next cut the mutton into neat chops, pare off 
the superfluous fat, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in 
the dish in circular order, one resting upon another in the same way 
as cutlets are dished up ; fill the centre with small new potatoes, or old 
ones turned into round balls ; boil the mutton stock down to the quantity 
required to nearly fill up the dish, season with pepper and salt, cover 
with puff paste, bake the pie an hour and a half, and send to table. 

738. PIE OF WOODCOCKS OR SNIPES, A L'iRLANDAISE. 

Pick the birds clean, cut off the legs and wings, singe them, and then 
cut each woodcock or snipe into halves ; remove the gizzards, leaving 
the trail, and set them aside on a plate. Then, cover the sides and bot- 
tom of a white glazed earthen oval pan (used for preserving game) with 
very thin layers of fat bacon, place the woodcocks or snipes in the pan in 
close layers, each well-seasoned with ground black pepper and salt, and a 
small proportion of prepared aromatic spices (No. 1250). When this is 
done, fill up the pan with a sufficient quantity of clanfied fresh butter 
to cover the birds, place some layers of fat bacon on the top, cover the pan 
hermetically with a firm flour and water paste; bake the pie in a moderately 
heated oven for about two hours ; when it has become cold, remove the 
crust, wash the edges and sides of the pan, and run a little fresh clarified 
butter on the top ; when cold, ornament with a neat border of picked 
double parsley, set the pie on a folded napkin, laid on its dish, and 
serve. 

This is perhaps the best method for making pies of woodcocks or snipes, 
as firom the simplicity of the ingredients used, the birds retain thdir fla- 
vour : an important consideration with amateurs of this kind of game. 

739. FIELDFARE OR BLACKBIRD PIE. 

These birds are only fit for table during the months of November, De- 
cember, and January, and are in the greatest perfection during severe 
frosty weather. Procure a dozen fieldfiires or blackbirds — which should be 
fat and finesh killed; pick them very clean, draw and singe them: 
next, cut the legs and wings off and tuck the t^gh bones inside the birdsy 
and stuff them with the foUowing preparation : 



MEAT PUDDINGS. 215 

Soak the crumb of two French-rolls in a little milk, put them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little grated lemon-peel, a small 
shalot chopped fine, and a handful of parsley fdso chopped ; season with 
pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of aromatic spices 
(No. 1 250); stir this over the Hre until the whole forms a compact paste ; 
then add the yolks of two eggs, and use this stuffing as above directed. 
Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with scollops of beef previously fried 
brown, place the birds in close circular order upon these ; between each 
bird put a slice of streaky bacon, and fill up the centre with stewed 
mushrooms prepared as follows. Clean a plateful of mushrooms, cut 
them up and put them in a stewpan with a small pat of butter, half a 
pint of rich gravy or brown sauce, two table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, 
a little cayenne pepper and salt; stew these over a quick fire for ten mi- 
nutes, and then, if gravy be used for the purpose instead of sauce, thicken 
it by mixing in a small pat of butter kneaded with a table- spoonful of 
flour. The pie must be afterwards covered with puff paste, baked for one 
hour and a half, and then sent to table. 

740. LARK PIE, A LA MELTON MOWBRAY. 

Pick clean four dozen Dunstable larks, singe them over the flame of a 
charcoal fire, cut off the wings and legs, and with the point of a small 
knife remove the gizzards, and then set the larks aside on a dish. Next cut 
two pounds of veal cutlets and a poimd of ham into scollops ; firy these in a 
sautapan with a little fresh butter, a pottle of button mushrooms, some 
parsley and two shalots, half a bay-lea( and a sprig of thyme chopped 
fine ; season with cayenne and salt, and the juice of a lemon. To these 
add half a pint of velotUe or espagnole sauce cCnd the same qilkntity of 
rich gravy ; boil the whole togeUier for three minutes, then place the veal 
and ham scollops, one upon the other in the bottom of the dish ; put the 
larks neatly and close to each other upon these, pour the sauce over them 
and place the mushrooms in the centre ; cover with puff paste^ bake the 
pie for one hour and a quarter, and serve. 



MEAT PUDDINGS, 



COMPRISING 



Beefsteak and Oyster Pudding. Pudding of imal] Biidi, h, la Ckipolata, 

Mutton Pudding. Snipe Pudding H la WOrwig, 

Kidney Pudding. Saotage Pudding. 

741. BEEFSTEAK ADD OTSTER PUDDIKG. 

LiNB a two-quart pudding basin with some beef-suet paste ; fill this 
lining with a preparation similar to that described for makuig beef- 
steak and oyster pie, except that the sauce must be more reduced. 
When the pudding is filled, wet the edges of the paste round the top of 
the basin with a paste-brush dipped in water, cover it with a piece of 
suet-paste rolled out to the sise of the basin, fasten it down by bearing all 
round the edge with the thumb ; and thra with the thumb and fore-fi^[Qr» 



216 MEAT PUDDINGS. 

twist the edges of the paste over and over so as to give it a corded appear- 
ance. This pudding must be either steamed or boiled three hours ; 
when done, turn it out of the basin carefully, pour some rich brown gravy 
under it, and serve. 

742. MUTTON PUDDING. 

Line a basin as in the above case, fill the lining with thick mutton 
cutlets, slightly trimmed, or if preferred, with steaks cut from the leg ; 
season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme and one small 
shalot chopped fine, and between each layer of meat, put some slices of 
potatoes. Cover the pudding as in the foregoing article, steam or boil it 
for three hours, and serve some rich gravy under it when sent to table. 

743. KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Cut two pounds of sheep's or lamb's kidneys into scollops, put them 
into a basin with some chopped parsley, shalot, and a little thyme, and 
season with pepper and salt ; then add a large gravy-spoonful of good sauce 
and the juice of half a lemon : mix these ingredients well together. Line 
a basin with suet paste, and fill the pudding with the foregoing prepara- 
tion ; cover it in the usual way, steam or boil it for two hours and a half, 
and when sent to table, pour under it some rich brown gravy to whictr 
has been added a little Indian soy, and serve. 

744. PUDDING OF SMALL BIRDS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Most kinds of small birds may be used for this purpose, such as larks, 
sparrows^ fieldfares, and wheatears, &c. 

Take two pounds of small birds which have been picked clean, remove 
the gizzards, and fry them over a brisk fire until they are browned ; add 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, season with a little grated nut- 
meg, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and a large gravy-spoonful of brown 
sauce, also two dozen roasted chestnuts previously peeled, and a like 
number of small pieces of parboiled streaky bacon ; boil these ingredients 
for three minutes, then fill the pudding with them, and cover it with 
paste, as usual. This pudding must be steamed on account of its rich- 
ness. When done, turn it out of the basin with care, in order not to 
break it ; pour a rich brown sauce under, and serve. 

This pudding may be made in a plainer manner, by omitting the 
mushrooms, lemon-juice, sauce, and chestnuts — following in all other 
respects the same process. 

745. SNIPE PUDDING, A LA d'oRSAY. 

Pick eight fine lat fresh snipes, singe them over a charcoal flame and 
divide them into halves, remove tha gizzards and reserve the tndl for fur- 
ther use ; season the snipes with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon 
juice, and set them aside on a dish till wanted. Then, peel a Portugal 
onion, cut it into thin slices and firy these in a stewpan with a small piece 
of butter ; when they are slightly browned, throw in a table-spoonful of 
flour and stir them together on the fire for three minutes ; then add a 
handful of chopped mushrooms and parsley, a small bay-lea^ a sprig of 
thyme, a small blade of maoe and a dove of garlic ; moisten ?nth a pint 
of claret ; stir the whole upon the fire, and when tliese have boiled ten 
minutes, add the trail and a piece of good glaze. Set the sauce to boil 



SAUSAGE PUDDING. 217 

for three mmutes longer, and then rub it through a tammy into a puree 
upon the snipes. Next, line a pudding basin with suet paste^ fill it up with 
the foregoing preparation, and when covered with a piece of paste and 
properly fastened round the edges so as to prevent the escape of the vola- 
tile properties of the sauce^ steam it in a covered stewpan for two hours 
and a half. When the pudding is done, turn it out of the basin with 
care, pour a rich brown game gravy under it, and serve. 

746. SAUSAGE PUDDING. 

Fbocurb two pounds of Cambridge sausages, and twist each into three 
round balls ; put these into boiling water, on the stove, merely to parboil 
them for a minute or so, then throw them into cold water and afterwards ' 
remove the skins. Line the pudding basin with suet paste, fill it with 
the sausages, and pour the following preparation upon them : chop one 
onion and three sage leaves, boil these in water for two minutes, drain 
them upon a sieve, and then fry them in a small stewpan with a piece of 
butter ; as soon as they become of a light brown colour, add a table-spoon- 
ful of flour and a teaspoonful of curry paste, season with pepper and salt, 
and moisten with half a pint of good broth ; stir the sauce upon the fire, and 
when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, rub it through a sieve or tammy, 
and use it as above directed. Cover the pudding with paste, steam or bake 
it for two hours, and when turned out of the basin, send to table with 
plain gravy under it 



REMOVES OF BLACK GAME AND GROUSE, 



COMPRISING 



Black Game, ^ la Montagnarde, Black Game, a la Pajf$anne, 

„ ^ ritalienne, „ a la Nortcegiemie, 4fc. 

„ a la Suedoite, 

747. BLACK GAME, A LA MONTAGNARDE. 

Cut off the legs and wings, tuck the thighs inside the birds, and split 
them down the back ; season well with pepper and salt, rub them over 
with a paste brush dipped in clarified butter, and then broil them carefully 
on a gridiron, over a clear fire perfectly free from smoke : or place the 
birds in a baking dish or sautapan with a piece of butter : set them to 
bake in the oven, and baste them frequently. When done, glaze them 
nicely and dish them up with a border of potato croquettes, and then 
pour under them some poivrade sauce (No. 29), finished with a piece 
of anchovy butter and some lemon juice. 

748. BLACK GAME, A L'ITALIENNE. 

Truss the buds as for boiling, put them into an oval stewpan with a 
garnished &ggot of parsley, two carrots, two heads of celery, two onions, 
each stuck with three cloves, a blade of mace, twenty peppercorns and 



218 REMOVES OF BLACK GAME. 

two cloves of garlic ; moisten them with a gill of brandy and a laige 
ladleful of good stock ; place a buttered paper on the top, put the lid on, 
and set them to braize on a very slow fiie, with some live embers on the 
lid. If the birds are young, one hour and a quarter will suffice to braize 
them ; but if old they will require longer time. When the birds are done, 
drain, glaze, and dish them up, garnish with macaroni finished with the 
liquor from the birds, freed from every particle of grease, and boiled down 
with the macaroni ; to this add six ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
a spoonful of tomata sauce (No. 22), and four ounces of fresh butter; 
pour some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) over the birds and round their 
base, and serve. 

749. BLACK GAME, A LA SUEDOISE. 

These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval stew- 
pan with one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound of German sausage, 
a good sized carrot, two heads of celery, two onions stuck with four cloves 
each, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of black pepper- 
corns ; moisten with three pints of fermented juice of beetroot (No. 380) 
and two glasses of brandy, cover with buttered paper and the lid contain- 
ing live embers, and set them to braize slowly on a stove-fire partially 
smothered with ashes. When the birds are done, take them up on a dish 
and keep them covered up in the hot closet until they are dished up. 
Next, strain the liquor through a napkin, skim off all the grease, boil it 
down nearly to half-glaze, then add to it a small ladleful of finished 
Espagriole sauce (No. 3), together with a glass of red wine ; allow this 
sauce to boil by the side of the stove-fire for five minutes ; skim it 
and pass it through a tammy into a small stewpan, and keep it hot. 
Then place the black game on their dish side by side, garnish them round 
with carrots prepared in the Sweedish fashion, and round this place 
another border composed of neatly cut scollops of the streaky bacon and 
German sausage ; pour the sauce over the remove, and serve. 

The carrots above alluded to should be thus prepared ; slit the ' 
outside or red part of a dozen large carrots into thin stripes, cut these 
again into thin shreds of about two inches long. Next, place them in a 
stewpan with four ounces of butter and half a pint of vinegar ; season with 
four ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and a little salt ; set them to 
stew very gently upon a partially smothered charcoal fire, taking care to 
turn them over now and then with a spoon : about an hour will sufRce to 
do them : when, if any moisture remains, it must be boiled down, and 
they will be ready for use. 



760. BLACK GAME, A LA PAYSANNE. 
See pheasants (2 la Paymnne. (No. 715.) 

751. BLACK GAME, A LA NOBWEGIENNE. 

Truss these as for roasting, lard the breasts closely with well furnished 

rows of larding ; set them to braize in an oval stewpan, moist^ed with a 

mirep(nx (No. 236) made with two parts of good stodc and one third of 

French vin^ar ; baste the birds frequently while they are being braized. 



BLACK GAME. 



219 



when done, set them upon a baking sheet in the oven for two minutes to 
dry the larding, then glaze and dish them up ; garnish with a border of 
stewed red cabbage dressed in the same way as French saiier hravt (No. 
165), and round this place a border of small sausages prepared as follows : 

Chop one pound of calfs liver with ten ounces of fat bacon and six 
ounces of brown bread-crumbs, season with black pepper, salt, grated nut- 
meg, and lemon peel, some parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, and some sweet 
basU, all chopped fine ; add the yolks of three eggs, mix the whole tho- 
roughly, and then form this preparation into small flat, round, or oval 
sausages, which must be wrapped up in pig's caul ; fry these of a brown 
colour, and use them as directed above. 

Sauce the remove with a paivrade, (No. 29) mixed with half the 
liquor in which the birds have been braized, previously cleared of ail 
grease and boiled down to half-glaze ; glaze the larding, and serve. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing black game, they may 
also be served d la Sotibise, d la PSrigtieux, d la FinancHre, with & puree 
of celery, Bichelieu sauce, braized cabbages, and a la Daupkinoise ; for the 
preparation of which, see those articles. 

iVofe. — Grouse should be dressed in the same way as black game. 



PATE-CHAUDS, OR RAISED PIES FOR ENTREES, 



COMPRIHINO 



P&ie-Chamd of Young Rabbits with fine 
herbs. 
y, hla Sauce Poivrade, 

„ of Leverets with Truffles, h 

la Peru/ueujc. 
„ of do. d la Financi^re, 

y, of Godiveau a la Cibotdette, 



PaU'Ckaudot Young Partridges, A la 
Chasseur, 
„ of Ox -palates, d Pftalierme, 

„ of Quails, a la Financiere, 

„ of larks boned, d r Essence, 

n of Snipes, d la Borddaise, 




PdiC'Chaud Cases. 



220 RAISED PIES FOR ENTREES. 

762. PATE-CHAUD* OF YOUNG RABBITS, WITH FINE- HERBS. 




Cut up two young rabbits into small members, place these in a deep 
sautapan with two ounces of butter, a handful of chopped mushrooms, 
some parsley and two shalots chopped also ; season with pepper and salt, 
a little grated nutmeg and a garnished faggot. Then set the rabbits on 
a brisk fire, and firy them of a light brown colour ; add a glass of 
French white wine, cover the sautapan with its lid containing some live 
embers of charcoal, and again set them on the fire to stew very gently for 
twenty minutes, when they will be done. Next, add a gravy-spoonful 
of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss 
the whole together over the fire, and allow it to boil sharply for two mi- 
nutes ; then dish up the pieces of rabbit neatly in the pie, pour the sauce 
over them and serve. 

763. PATE-CHAUD OF YOUNG RABBITS, A LA SAUCE POIVRADE. 
Cut the rabbits into small members, and place them in a sautapan 
with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, 
and then set them over a brisk fire to be fried brown ; next, add a glass of 
Madeira, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut ; cover the sautapan 
with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and again place it 
upon a moderate fire, that the rabbits may stew very gently for twenty 
minutes longer; then add some poivrade sauce (No. 29) in sufficient 
quantity for the entries allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, 
garnish ihepoUe-chaud as in the former case, and send to table. 

764. PATE-CHAUD OF LEVERETS, WITH TRUFFLES, A LA 
PERIOUEUX. 
Thb leverets must be cut into small members or joints as follows : — 
First, take off the hind legs and make two pieces of these ; detach 
the shoulders, and cut the loins transversely into pieces about two 
inches long ; split the head into halves, trim the whole neatly without 
waste, and place these members in a sautapan with three ounces of clari- 
fied butter ; season with pepper and salt, and set them on a brisk fire to 
be firied brown. Next, add four ounces of truffles cut into thick scollops, 
and a small piece of glaze, cover with the lid contmning live embers of 
charcoal, and replace the sautapan on a slow fire, to simmer for twenty 
minutes longer. Then add the phigucux sauce (No. 2S), allow the 
whole to boil together fur three minutes, garnish the pdU-chaudy and 
serve. 

766. PATE-CHAUD OF LEVERETS, A LA FINANCIERE 
Prkparb these in the manner directed in the foregoing article, and 

* Genenl directioni for flMking a Ptui-Chamd^ or niwd pie, will be found m that port 
of the work which treat* of Emtriei ^i^tMrf» 



PATE-CHAUDS. 221 

when the memhers of the leverets are ready to receive the sauce, add a 
rich finandere ragout (No. 1 88) ; after the whole has boiled together 
for three minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. 

A border of large white cock's-combs may be placed round the edge of 
the pie, and a larded sweetbread or a large truffle in the centre. 

766. PATE-CHAUD OF GODIVEAU, A LA CIBOULETTE. 
To one pound and a half of sifted flour, add three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, and about a gill 
and a half of cold water, then knead the whole mto a fine smooth paste. 
Take rather more than two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball 
with the palm of the hand, and afterwards roll it out to the size of a 
common dinner-plate ; then with the fingers of both hands, take up the 
edges of the paste to the depth of two inches, and gather it into the 
shape of a round or oval purse (according to the shape of the dish) : 
and having previously buttered a raised pie-mould for the purpose, line it 
with the paste, by first rolling it out and then pushing the paste into the 
mouldings of the case with another piece of paste, used as a cushion 
for the purpose. When the mould is thus lined, fill it with some 
godiveau (No. 251), previously mixed with some chopped chives or 
green onions, parsley, and mushrooms ; smooth the top over with the 
blade of a knife dipped in water, cover the pie with the remainder of the 
paste, and after it has been neatly fastened and trimmed round the edge, 
nip it round with the pastry-pincers ; place upon the top a circular piece 
of puff-paste, egg this over with the paste-brush, and score it with the 
point of a small knife, forming some device or ornament. Make a small 
hole in the centre for the steam to escape, bake the pie for one hour and a 
quarter, and when it is done, remove the top carefully with a knife ; score 
the godiveau to the bottom, in the shape of squares or diamonds ; pour 
9omQ poivradey Italian, or JSipagnole sauce over it, and after replacing the 
cover, send to table. 

757. PATE-CHAUD OF YOUNG PARTRIDGES, A LA CHASSEUR. 

When the partridges have been drawn and singed, cut them into small 
joints, as follows: — Furst, remove the legs and wings; then, cut the 
fillets with the pinion-bone adhering to them, leaving the breast- 
piece entire, as idso the back, afler having detached the thighs. Let 
all these be neatly trimmed without waste, and observe that the skin 
of the thighs must be rolled under to give them an appearance of plump- 
ness. Next, place them in neat order in a deep sautapan with three ounces 
of clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; fry them brown over a brisk fire, after which add a glass of 
Madeira or Sherry, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, four ounces of 
truffles cut into thick scollops, and two dozen button-mushrooms. Cover 
this with the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set the 
sautapan again on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour ; then, remove the lid, add some brown Italian sauce in sufficient 
quantity for the entree, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes 
longer, add the juice of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of chopped 
and blanched parsley ; toss these in with the partridges, &c., garnish the 
pie, keeping back the truffles and mushrooms to place on the top> lastly 
pour the sauce, and serve. 



222 RAISED PIES FOR ENTREES. 

768. PATE-CHAUD OF OX-PALATES, A I'lTALIENNE. 

Procure six fresh ox-palates^ steep them in tepid water for six hours, 
then throw them into a large stewpan of boiling water and scald them for 
about five minutes ; after which immerse the palates in cold water, and 
scrape off all the white cuticle from the sur&ce ; next, wash them in 
•plenty of cold water, and drain them on a napkin. Then place them in 
an oval stewpan, moisten with some blam (No. 235), cover with buttered 
paper, and put on the lid, and set them to braize very gently over a slow 
fire for about four hours. As soon as the palates are done, put them in 
press between two bakin^sheets or earthen dishes, and when they are cold, 
take a circular tin-cutter an inch in diameter, and cut them into scollops 
without wasting any part. Put these into a stewpan with about two 
dozen large button-mushrooms cut into scollops, also two dozen raviolis 
(No. 375), and enough brown Italian sauce for the entree; boil the 
whole together for two minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. 

769. PATE-CHAUD OF QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

For a small entree^ eight fine fat quails will suffice, bone these by 
making an incision in that part of the back nearest the crop, through 
which all the bones, &c., must be drawn out, so as to give them as much 
as possible the appearance of being whole. Next, fill each quail with 
some farce of fat livers (No. 249), and truss them with their legs turned 
back : be careful that the crop is securely &stened in order to prevent the 
stuffing from escaping — a large worsted needle and very fine twine must 
be used for the purpose. Then, place the quails in a small fricandeau 
pan, which has been previously lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; in 
the centre place a garnished faggot of parsley, cover the whole with more 
layers of fat bacon, moisten with a wine mirepoix (No. 2S6), and 
having put a buttered paper over all, set the lid on the pan and place it 
on a stove-fire, or in the oven, to braize very gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour. As soon as the quails are done, drain them on a 
dish, set them to cool, and trim them neatly. Next, line the inside of 
the pie with some of the remainder of the farce of fat livers, to within 
an inch of the top, place the quails in it in circular order, with the 
breasts uppermost, and a thin layer of the force-meat between each ; 
cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, place a double round of 
paper well-buttered on the top, and then set the pie in the oven to bake : 
thu will take about an hour. When done, remove the bacon, drain off 
all the grease carefully, place a decorated small fillet of fowl in between 
each quaiU and on the breast of each, a laige white button-mushroom, round 
the edge a border of large white cocks-combs, and in the centre a larded 
heart sweetbread ; sauce sparingly with a bright /nawoerc (No. 8) mixed 
with some reduced extract of quails made from ihe bones. 

Note. — Observe, that the raised pie for this purpose, must be only half 
baked previously to filling it with the quails; as it has to undeigo another 
baking. This remark refers also to the two succeeding cases. 

760. PATE-CHAUD OF LARKS BONED, A l'eSSENCE. 
Follow the preceding directions, but substituting larks for quails. 

761. PATE-CHAUD OF SNIPES, A LA BOBDELAISE. 
BoN£ eight snipes, and with the tnul and one pound of &t livers, make 



vol'au'vents. 223 

gome force-meat for grcUin (No. 249), and with part of this, fill the 
snipes ; truss them in the same way as directed for Uie quails, and hraize 
them accordingly, after which follow in all respects the second part of the 
directions. When the pie is baked, drain off carefully all the grease; be- 
tween each snipe place a large white cock*s-comb, on the breast of 
each put a small fillet of fowl, decorated with red tongue, and after- 
wards turned round in a circle, with a round ball of black truffle in 
the centre ; these fillets must be placed in a small sautapan between thin 
layers of fkt bacon, and set in the oven for about three minutes ; garnish 
the edge of the pie with a close border of scollops of red tongue cut in 
the form of large cock's- combs, in the centre put a lai^e truffle, bearing a 
double comb, and a border of these round its base; sauce the pie carefidly 
with a rich hordelaise (No. 57), mixed with some reduced extract of 
snipes, made from the bones, and serve. 



VOL'AU'VENTS AND TOURTES, 

COMPRISING 

VoCau'ctnt^ a h Nede, roTauSxia^ of Salt Fith, & CAnylaite. 

„ a la Fmanciirf. Tourte of Whitings, a la DaujJtine, 
„ of Turbot, a la DechameL „ of Godiceuu au Afadere. 

„ of Salmon. H la Havufottgy „ of Ox-palatet, h la Fraft^te. 

„ of Cod, a la Cr^me, „ of Lobsters, b, la CardinaL 

762. VOL'AuVe^'TS, a la NESLE.* 

Clransb one set of calfs-bnuns, and boil them in a stewpan with 
water, a small carrot and an onion both sliced very thin, two cloves, a little 
mace, twelve pepper-corns, and a little salt, for a quarter of an hour ; 
when done, remove them from the fire to get cold. F^pare also a throat 
sweetbread, which must be steeped in tepid water for two hours or 
more, then scalded, cooled in water, and gently simmered on the stove 
in some toppings of wliite conaomme for a quarter of an hour ; when 
done, put the sweetbread on a plate to get cold. Prepare also twelve 
quenelles of fowl, moulded in dessert-spoons, and poached, a like quantity 
of large button-mushrooms, and the same proportion of double cock's- 
combs, and round balls of black truffles. Put these into a middle-sized 
stewpan, add to them the calfs-brains and sweetbread, previously cut into 
neat scolbps, and just before dinner-time, pour over the whole sufficient 
alltmande sauce (No. 7) for the enirSe (previously mixed with a 
small piece of good glaze, and two tea-spoonfuls of chili-vinegar). Toss 
the whole lightly together over the fire, and with this ragout garnish a 
handsome voTau^verU, cut either square, oval, or round, so as to suit the 
shape of the dish. 

The top of this entrSe may be ornamented with very small fillets of 
fowls, decorated with red tongue or black truffle : or a border of small 
quenelles, decorated similarly, may also be placed round the edge of the 
voTau'vent, and a small larded sweetbread in the centre of these. 

* Instructions for making a vol''au*veni case will be found in that part of the work 
treating of puff paste. 



224 VOL'AUVeNTS. 



763. VOL'AuVeNT, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Sbb the directions for a pcU6-chaud d la financiere (No. 759) ; sub- 
stituting a voCan'verU for the shell or crust. 

764. VOL'au'VENT OP TURBOT, A LA BECHAMEL. 

This entree is generally served when there happens to be any turbot 
reserved from a previous day's dinner ; in which case, the fish must be 
pulled, or cut into scollops, warmed in a rich bechamel sauce (Na 5\ 
made with a full proportion of cream ;,let the voTau^vent be filled with 
this, and send to table. 

766. VOL'au'vENT OF SALMON, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Pbocube 2lbs. of fresh salmon, cut it into rather thick round scollops, 
about two inches in diameter ; place these in a sautapan, with Soz. of 
clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and squeeze the juice of a 
lemon over them. When about to send to table, set the sautapan con- 
taining the scollops in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for about five minutes, 
then turn them over in the pan with a fork, taking care not to break 
them ; allow them to remain on the fire five minutes longer, and drain 
them upon a clean napkin. Next, put the scollops into a stewpan, with 
sufficient allematide sauce (No. 7) for the entree, add two tea-spoonfuls 
of tarragon-vinegar, the like quantity of Harvey sauce, a tea-spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little cayenne ; toss the whole 
together lightly over the fire, and with this garnish a handsome 
vci'au'vent, and serve. 

766. VOL'AU'vEXT OF COD, A LA CREME. 

Crimped cod is best for this purpose, although plain cod may be used ; 
but, in either case, the fish must be dressed in boiling water, with plenty 
of salt thrown in at the same time. A few minutes, in most instances, 
will suffice to boil this kind of fish, especially if it be crimped. If allowed 
to remain in the water after it is done, it becomes soft and tasteless. 
When the cod is boiled, drain it upon a napkin, and as soon as all the 
water has been absorbed, put the flakes and the sounds carefully, without 
breaking them up, into a stewpan, containing enough rich cream bechamel 
(No. 6) for the entree, to this add 2oz. of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, 
and the juice of a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire, with care, 
so as to avoid breaking the pieces ; when it is quite hot, gftmish the 
voVauveut, and serve. 

767. VOL'au'vENT of SALT FISH, A L'aKGLAISE. 

Thb whitest and thickest fish are the best for this purpose. About 
2lbs. will suffice, cut from the middle of the fish, and soaked in cold 
water for forty-eight hours previously to its being dressed, the water 
being changed every six hours. Set the fish on in cold water, and when 
it boils remove the scum, and set it by the side of the stove to finish 
boiling. As soon as it is done, drain it on a sieve, or a napkin, and when 
all the water is absorbed from it, remove it in laige flakes into a stewpan, 
containing some scollops of dressed parsnips, in the proportion of one- 



TOURTES. 225 

third to the quantity of the fish^ and a like quantity of slices of eggs, 
boiled hard; to these add enough cream bechamel sauce (No. 6) for 
the erUrSe ; toss the whole gently over a stove-fire, until quite hot, 
then garnish a large voUaiCvent with this ragout, and serve. 

768. TOURTE* OF WHITINGS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Procure four large fresh whitings, fillet them, and set one-half aside 
on a plate in a cool place ; with the remainder prepare some quenelle 
force-meat (No. 245), which, when finished, gather up in a basin, and 
mould with dessert-spoons into qtienelles. Trim the four remaining 
fillets, cut each in two, transversely, and after paring off the angles, 
decorate or cantisez them in manner following: Place the fillet 
lengthwise upon the edge of the kitchen table, then make incisions 
across with a knife, cutting down in a slanting direction, and in 
these openings insert small round thin scollops of red tongue, black 
truffle or green gherkins. Next, place these in a sautapan, with 4oz. of 
clarified butter, season with a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon 
over them ; cover vrith thin layers of fat bacon, or a round of paper but- 
tered, and set them aside in the larder till wanted. While this is going 
on, make an extract, or essence, with the bones and trimmings of the 
whitings, as follows : — Put the bones &c. into a stewpan, with two 
shalots, one bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, eight pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, and a handful of parsley ; moisten with two glasses of white wine 
(French is preferable), and a pint of white broth. Set this to boil gently 
on the stove-fire for half an hour, then strain it through a sieve; boil it 
down nearly to a glaze, and mix it with enough aUemande sauce, or 
bechamel, for the entree, and pass it through a tammy into a stewpan, 
containing the quenelles of whiting before alluded to, with the addi- 
tion of a dozen button-mushrooms, double that quantity of crayfish- 
tails and claws, trimmed, and doz. of truffles, cut into thick slices ; 
toss the whole together gently over the fire, until quite hot, then garnish 
the tourte with this ragout, and with the fillets before-mentioned (pre- 
viously set in the oven for ten minutes, to simmer, and afterwards 
drained on a napkin), make a border round the inner edge of the 
VoTatCvent, or tourte ; place a group of crayfish-tails, previously warmed 
in a small stewpan, with a bit of glaze, and a morsel of lobster-coral 
butter (to colour them), and crown the whole with a lai^e crayfish, 
trimmed, having one prong of each claw stuck into its tail ; sauce neatly 
with the remainder of the sauce, and serve quickly. 

769. TOURTE OF GODIVEAU, AU MADERE. 

Prepare about lib. of godiveau (No. ^50), and make it into small 
quenelles, in the following manner : — Shake a handful of flour over a 
pastry-slab, or kitchen-table ; drop the godiveau thereon with a tea-spoon, 
in small quantities ; then roll each of these with the fingers dipped in 
flour, to the size and form of a common cork ; set them in regular order 
upon a baking-sheet, and put them to bake in the oven for about ten mi- 
nutes ; when done, remove them into a stewpan, containing some Madeira 
sauce (No. 8), in sufficient quantity for the entrSe, and also two arti- 
choke-bottoms, cut into angular piecesy a few scollops of sweetbreads, 

* Directions for making this kind of Tourte, will be foand in that part of the 
work which treats of puff pastr j. ^ 

Q 



226 



TIMBALES OF MACARONI. 



some ox-piths, cut into inch-lengths, and a few large button-mushrooms ; 
set the whole to boil on the stove-fire for three minutes ; garnish the 
Umrtef and on the top of the ragout, place eight trimmed cray-fish, in 
the centre of which put a large truffle, or small sweetbread, larded and 
glazed ; pour in the remainder of the sauce, and serve. 

770. TOURTE OF OX-PALATES, A LA FRANQAISE. 
pRBPARB the ox-palates as directed in the first part of the article treating 
of the Fdte chaud of ox-palates. Put the scollops into a stewpan con- 
taining one fourth part of their quantity of red tongue cut into round 
scollops, and a like proportion of button mushrooms and scollops of truffles; 
to which add enough poivrade sauce (No. 29) for the entree ; boil the 
whole together and garnish the tourte with this ragout^ put the cover on, 
and serve. 

771. TOURTE OF SCOLLOPS OF LOBSTER, A LA CARDINAL. 
Pick the lobster out of the shell and cut it into neat scollops, put 
these into a stewpan containing enough good hechamd sauce (No. 6) 
for the entrtey mixed with about two ounces of lobster coral butter (No. 
182), a little cayenne and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole to- 
gether over the fire until sufficiently hot^ and with it garnish the tourte ; 
put the cover on, and serve. 



TIMBALES OF MACARONI, 



COMPRI8INO 



TimhaU of Macaroni, h la Milanaix, 
„ dla Afazarin, 

„ of Nouilies, d la CS&a»> 

$eur. 



Timbale of Soft Roes of Mackerel, a tAl- 
lemande, 
„ of RavMuy a la Romaute, 




TimMe Cases. 




TIMBALES OF MACARONI. 227 

772. TIMBALE,* OP MACARONI, A LA MILANAISE. 

Thb timbale case should be left in the mould to be mafle hct in the 
oven, and when just on the point of sending it to table, garnish it with 
macaroni dressed with cheese, some bechamd sauce, scollops of fowl, 
truffles, tongue, and mushrooms; turn the timbale out on its dish, 
glaze it, pour some bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. 

773. TIMBALE OF MACARONI, A LA MAZARIN. 

Boil one pound of macaroni in two quarts of water, with a pat 
of butter, eight pepper-corns and a little salt ; when done, and cold, 
put about half of it to drain upon 
a napkin. Butter the inside of a 
plain round oval or square mould, 
according to the shape of the dish ; 
cut the macaroni into half inch 
lengths, and cover the bottom of 
the mould with these, placing them 
on end ; cover this with a thick 
layer of chicken quenelle forcemeat ; 
then line the sides of the mould 
in the same way, and as soon as this is completed, smooth the in- 
side with the back of a spoon dipped in hot water ; fill this cavity with 
a blanqttetie of fowl (No. 204), the sauce of which must be thick, and 
cover the whole with a layer of force-meat, to be applied as follows : — 

Spread some force-meat upon a round of buttered paper to fit the mould ; 
smooth the sur&ce with a knife dipped in hot water, then, take hold of 
the paper with both hands, and turn it upside down upon the timbale : 
the paper is to be left on, as that can be easily removed when the force- 
meat has become set by steaming. About an hour and a half before 
dinner time, place the timbale in a stewpan twice its size upon a trivet 
or ring to prevent it from touching the bottom, so that the water contained 
in the stewpan, which must oiUy reach half way up the mould, may 
circulate fireely under it. The stewpan must be covered with its lid con- 
taining some live embers of charcoal, and placed, afier it has boiled, 
upon a slow fire to sinmier gently but continually, in order to keep up the 
steam during the whole of the time. Just before sending to table, remove 
the piece of paper from the timbale, and take a firm hold of the bottom of 
the mould with the left hand; place the dish upside down upon the 
mould with the right hand ; then, with the left hand uppermost, place the 
dish on the table, and carefully lift the mould off the timbale. Pour 
some supreme sauce (No. 38) over the entries garnish the base with 
white cock's-combs, truffles and mushrooms, and serve. 

* The mode of preparing the Hmbok case, will be foand described under the head of 
Pastry for Entrees. 



Q 2 



228 CASSEROLES, OR BORDERS OF RICE. 

774. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES, A LA CHASSEUR. 
Pbepabb about one pound of rwuUles (No. 679), parboil these in 
water for ten minutes; drain and put them into a stewpan with 
a quart of good consommi, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg 
and a pinch of minionette-pepper ; cover the whole with a round piece of 
buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on a stove-fire to 
boil very gently until the consomme is reduced ; add a gravy-spoonful 
of aUemande sauce, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and two dozen 
very small quenelles of game, previously poached ; toss the whole together 
lightly over the fire until the cheese is well mixed with the other ingre- 
dients ; garnish the HmbdU case, previously prepared for this purpose, 
turn it out of the mould into its dish, glaze it over, pour a little half- 
glaze round the base, and serve. 

775. TIMBALE OARKISnED WITH SOFT ROES OF MACKEREL. 

FiVB minutes before sending to table, garnish the timbdUy which must 
be quite hot, wiCh a ragout o{ soft roes of mackerel (No 199); then turn 
the timbdU out of the mould into the dish, glaze it nicely, pour a 
little supreme or bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. 

776. TIMBALE OF RAVIOLIS, A LA ROMAINE. 

Prbpakb four dozen raviolis (No. S75), and after they have been 
boiled in consommif drain them upon a sieve and put them into a stew- 
pan containing four ounces of truffles cut into scollops, the like quan- 
tity of scollops of red tongue, and about twenty mushrooms ; to these 
add two glasses of Madeira, and one ounce of game-glaze, and set the 
whole to ^il down quickly over a brisk fire ; when the wine is absorbed, 
add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a large gravy-spoonful of 
reduced EspagnoU sauce ; toss these together over the stove-fire until 
quite hot, then garnish the timbale case, turn it out into its dish, glaze it, 
pour a little brown sauce or half-glaze round the base, and serve. 



CASSEROLES, OR BORDERS OF RICE, 

COMPRISINO 

Cauercie of Rice. Cku$eroU of Rice, garaithed with a Purie 

„ dla PoUmaUe, of Game, A la UeUt-xme, 

„ a la Reine, „ garnished with wings of 

fowl, ^ V AUemande. 

111. CASSEROLES, OR BORDERS OF RICE. 
A casserole of rice is justly considered one of the most elegant entries : 
it requires great care throughout its preparation, especially in the treat- 
ment of the rice, that being its basis, and up(m the success of this much of 
the beauty of the casserole depends. If the rice be not sufficiently boiled, 
and effectually worked into a smooth paste, it becomes a difficult matter 



CASSEROLES OF RICE. 



229 



to mould it : and any apparent roughness would spoil the look of the 
casserole. 

For a casserole of ordinary size, wash about a pound and a half of 
Carolina rice in three waters, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a 
stewpan with nearly twice its quantity of water, six ounces of butter, a 
small ladleful of stock-pot toppings and a piece of raw ham ; cover with a 
circular piece of buttered paper and the lid, and set the rice to boil on the 
stove, after which it must be put in the oven, or on a smothered stove-fire, 
to simmer very gently. During the time that the rice remains on the firei 
it should be carefully turned over with a spoon twice or thrice. When all 
the grains become perfectly soil, the rice must be worked into a firm com- 
pact paste with the bowl of a large wooden spoon ; it should next be 
rolled into the form of a ball, and placed on a baking-sheet, previously 
covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, and shaped to the height 
and circumference desired. Next, for the purpose of imprinting upon 
the casserole the ornamental mouldings represented in the annexed 
illustrations, it will be necessary to cut a piece of turnip, carrot, or raw 
potato, in the form of a chisel, to be used for indenting or moulding the 
design. 





When the casserole is moulded, it must be sprinkled over with a paste- 
brush dipped in clarified butter, and afterwards baked of a fine yel- 
low colour; the interior must then be removed with a spoon, leaving 
the walls of the crust about half an inch thick ; smooth the inside of the 
rice with the back of a table-spoon dipped in water, and keep the casserole 
in a dry place till it is wanted for use. 



230 CASSEROLES OF RICE. 



778. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA POLONAISE. 

Prepare a purie of fowls (No. 1009), and when on the point of sending 
to table, stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently hot^ care being taken to 
prevent its becoming rough ; then fill the casserole with the puree^ place 
eight eggs (previously boiled four minutes, and the shells removed), round 
the top of the puree ; between each egg, put a small fillet of fowl deco- 
rated with tongue or truffle, sauce the surface of the puree with some 
suprime (No. 38), and serve. 

779. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA REINE. 
This must be garnished with a purie of fowls in a similar manner to 
the foregoing, and a border of quenelles of fowl placed round the inner 
edge of the surface ; sauce with supi'ime, glaze the casserole with light 
coloured glaze, and serve. 

780. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH A PUREE OF 
GAME, A LA BELLE-VUE. 

Just before dinner-time, warm the puree of game (No. 1090) prepared 
for the purpose, garnish the casserole of rice vrith it, place round the 
inner edge of the surface a border of very small fillets (decorated or 
corUises with truffles or tongues), of the kind of game the pur6e is made 
from, pour a little cdlemande sauce over the centre of the puree, glaze the 
casserole lightly, and serve. 

781. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH WINGS OF FOWLS, 

A l'allemande. 

The casserole of rice must be garnished with a ragout of wings of fowls 
(No. 208), to which may be added some small truffles and mush- 
rooms ; ornament it with a border of lai^ cock*s- combs, and scollops of 
red tongue cut in the form of cock*s-combs, placed alternately round tlie 
inner edge of the casserole, glaze it lightly, and serve. 

yo^^ — Casseroles, or borders of rice, may also be garnished with 
fricassee of chickens, lamb*s-feet, blanqueUes of sweetbreads or fowls, and 
with all kinds of scollops, whether of poultry, game, or fish. 



BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE. 231 



ORNAMENTAL BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE, 

COMPBISING 

Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Scol- 

Scollops of Larks and lops of Sheeps* Tongues, 

Truffles. with fine-herbs. 

„ garnished with Lamb*s „ garnished with Calfs brains, 

feet, d la Pascaline, a la RavigoUe. 

n garnished with Ox-Pa- 

hites, ^ Vlndienne, 

7«2. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 
OF LARKS AND TRUFFLES. 

A BORDER of potato-paste resembles in a great measure a casserole of 
rice, and is prepared as follows : — 

For an ordinary size entree, fifteen large potatoes should be baked, and 
their pulp afterwards rubbed through a fine wire-sieve upon a dish; 
this must be put into a middle-sized stewpan with four ounces of 
butter, the yolks of six eggs, a little grated nutmegs pepper and salt. 
Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture 
becomes a smooth compact paste ; it should then be rolled into a ball, 
placed on a baking-sheet^ and shaped to the height and circumference de« 
signed. The border should now be moulded in the same way as a 
casserole of rice, for which purpose consult the mouldings represented 
in the designs of casseroles of rice (No. 777 ), and are to be exe- 
cuted with a piece of raw carrot or turnip, cut in the form of a chiseL 
When the border is moulded, it should be egged over with a sofl paste- 
brush, and baked in an oven, of a light yellow colour ; when done, 
part of the inside must be removed, and the cavity smoothed over with 
the back of the bowl of a spoon. The border ought to be kept in a dry 
place till wanted for use. Put the border in the screen or hot closet to 
get wann, five minutes before sending to table ; garnish it with a ra^otU 
of scollops of larks and truffles (No. 205), place a border of small qtie- 
ndles of fowl round the edge, lightly glaze the border, pour a little of the 
sauce round the base, and serve. 

783. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH LAMBS' 
FEET, A LA PASCALI^fE. 

Procurb a dozen lambs'-feet ready scalded, remove the shin-bone, par- 
boil them for five minutes, immerse them in cold water, drain them on a 
napkin to absorb the water, then stick them one at a time upon the point 
of an iron skewer, and singe off the hair (if not already removed by scald- 
ing), over the flame of a diarcoal fire. Next, braize them gently in some 
Uanc (No. 236), for about three-quarters of an hour. When the feet 
are done, drain them on a napkin, cut out the black substance to be found 
between the cushions of the hoof, trim them neatly without waste, and 
put them into a stewpan with a little of their own liquor. Five minutes 
before sending to table, pour off the liquor from the feet, previously 



232 BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE. 

warmed, then add half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms, and 
enough Pascaline sauce (No. 15) for the ew^rce ; toss the whole toge- 
ther over the stove-fire for two minutes, and garnish the border of potato- 
paste with this ragout; glaze the border lightly, and serve. 

784. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 

OF OX-PALATES, A L'INDIENNE. 
Prbparb the ox-palates according to the directions contained in 
(No. 209 ), add enough well-reduced Indian curry sauce (No. 47) for 
the entrie, warm the ragout and garnish the border of potato with it, just 
before sending to table. 

Some plain boiled Patna rice must be served in a plate. 

786. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 
OF sheep's TONGUES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Scald eight sheepVtongues effectually, so as to be able to remove the 
outer skin easily ; then trim them, and afterwards put them into a stew- 
pan with a carrot, an' onion stuck with four cloves, a garnished faggot of 
parsley, and a dozen pepper-corns ; moisten with a quart of broth, and 
set them to braize gently for about an hour. When done, draih them on a 
dish, and set them in the larder to get cold, afterwards to be cut into neat 
circular scollops ; put these into a stewpan with half a pottle of prepared 
button- mushrooms, and enough well-reduced fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), 
for the etitree; toss these together over the stove- fire to warm them 
thoroughly, then garnish the border of potato-paste with this ragoiU, 
glaze it roimd, and serve. 

786. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH CALF's- 

BRAINS, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 
Steep two sets of calf*s-brains in tepid water for several hours to 
cleanse them, and as soon as the thin membrane which covers the brains 
becomes loosened, detach it gently with the fingers ; change the water 
frequently, and when the brains have become comparatively white, put 
them into a stewpan with a quart of boiling water, half a gill of vinegar, 
some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, minionette-pepper, 
and salt ; allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for twenty 
minutes, then remove the brains carefully with a laige spoon into another 
stewpan, pass their liquor through a sieve on them, and set them aside 
till within twenty minutes of dinner-time. The brains must then be 
warmed in their liquor, and afterwards cut into thick scollops lengthwise, 
and placed in the border of potato in circular order, overlapping each 
other; pour a ravigotte sauce (No. 21) over the brains, glaze the border, 
and serve. 



233 



CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES, 



COMPRISING 

Ckartn-um of Vogctablct, with Partridgee. Chartrmm of Vegetable)*, with Tendons of 
V „ withQuaili. Veal. 






787. CHARTREUSE OP VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH PAR- 
TRIDGES. 

Scrape eight large carrots, and parboil them in water with a little salt for 
ten minutes ; then put them to boil in some broth with a little sugar and 
salt, and a small pat of butter ; when done, place them on a dish in the larder 
to get cold. In the mean time, eight large turnips should be peeled, and 
boiled in the same way as the carrots, and then put on a dish to cool. 
Next, a plain round mould must be lined with buttered paper, and 
the prepared carrots and turnips cut into appropriate forms or shapes 
for the purpose of arranging them over the bottom and round the in- 
side of the mould, taking care that they fit in with each other, so as to 
represent any of the foregoing designs. Meanwhile parboil three laige 
savoy cabbies in water; then immerse them m cold water, after 
which squeeze the moisture from them ; spread them upon a napkin on 
the table, take out the cores, season with minionette-pepper and salt, 
and tie each up with string. Then, put the cabbages into a large stew- 
pan with three partridges trussed with their legs mside, one pound of 
streaky bacon (previously parboiled), and two large saveloys; season 
with two onions stuck with four cloves, two carrots, and a garnished 
faggot ; moisten with three pints of stock, cover with a buttered paper, 
put on the lid, and set them to braize gently for about two hours, if the 
birds arc young» or three hours if not. When done, drain thft c»3cA»i^ 



234 CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES. 

into a colander, put the partridges, bacon, and saveloys on a dish to 
cool ; squeeze the broth from the cabbage by pressing it tightly in a 
strong kitchen rubber ; then chop it and afterwards put it into a stew- 
pan with a spoonful of brown sauce, and stir it quickly over a brisk fire 
until it resembles a somewhat firm paste. Use this preparation to gar- 
nish the bottom and sides of the chartreuse, about an inch thick. The 
partridges must be cut up neatly into small members, tossed in enough 
brown sauce to moisten them, and then placed in the cavity of the chartreuse 
in close order, so as to give it solidity when turned out of the mould on 
its dish ; a layer of prepared cabbage should be placed over these, and the 
whole covered with a circular piece of buttered paper. An hour before 
dinner, the chartreuse must be placed in a stewpan with sufficient water 
to reach up only one-third the height of the mould ; then set the lid on, and 
put the stewpan near or upon a slow fire to keep the water gently sim- 
mering, BO that the steam may warm the chartreuse through. When 
about to serve, turn the chartreuse up-side-down in the dish, and draw 
the mould off with care, remove the paper, and garnish the base with a 
close border of the bacon and saveloys cut into scollops ; pour some brown 
sauce (worked with essence of vegetables) round the entree^ glaze the 
chartreuse carefully, so as not to disturb the order of the vegetables, and 
serve. 

These directions will serve for the preparation of several kinds of char- 
treuses : pheasant, duckling, pigeons, &c. being substiuted for partridges. 

788. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH QUAILS, ETC. 

Thb preparation of this kind of chartreuse is very similar to the fore- 
going, cabbage-lettuces being substituted for savoys ; the following are the 
only alterations required : the mould required must be either oval or 
round, according to the shape of the dish intended to be used, and should 
be lined with buttered paper, and ornamented with carrots and turnips 
prepared according to the directions given in the first part of the previous 
article, and afterwards cut out, either with a small knife, or proper 
shaped tin cutters, to suit the design intended to be represented, from 
one of the patterns given in the foregoing designs. The cavity lefl in the 
mould, afler it has been decorated with the vegetables, must be filled 
up with the braized cabbage-lettuces warmed in the same manner as 
directed for the last mentioned chartreuse. 

When about to send to table, turn the chaHreuse out on its dish, place 
the quails (prepared as for v^pdU chaud, No.759, and kept warm) upon the 
upper part of the chartreuse, with their breasts outward ; fill the centre of 
the entree with a jardiniere of vegetables (No. 144), garnish the base with 
smaU scollops of the streaky bacon and saveloys, pour some thin bright 
EspagnoU sauce round the entree^ glaze the chartreuse lightly, and serve. 

780. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH TENDONS 
OF VEAL AND STEWED PEAS. 

In this case the chartreuse should be prepared in the same manner 
as described in the foregoing recipe ; and when turned out on its dish 
preparatory to serving it, the top of the hwder must be garnished 
with braized tendons of veal (No. 885), placed in the same way as cut- 
lets are dished up ; the well or centre of the erUrie^ must be filled with 



CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES. 235 

stewed peas, then pour some brown sauce round the base, glaze the 
chartreuse, and serve. 

This kind of chartreuse may be garnished with scollops of pheasants, 
partridges, larks, &c. ; and also with blanquettes of fowls, lambs' sweet- 
breads, &C. The ornamental part of these entries may be much varied, 
by using asparagus-heads, green-peas, French-beans, artichoke-bottoms, 
glazed button-onions, carrots, and turnips turned in fanciful shapes and 
forms. A good effect is produced by arranging a decoration in relief on 
the top of the chartreuse after it has been turned out of the mould on to 
its dish ; its base may also be garnished with alternate groups of vege- 
tables cut in small fanciful shapes and prepared in the usual manner. 



236 



Ckartrevse, a la Paridcnne, 
„ a la Belle Fue. 



FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES, 

COMPRISING 

Ckartreuse, i la CardinaL 




^^-^:^^^^ ^ _^ ^ in — 



700. CHARTREUSE, A LA PARISIENNE, 

First prepare some qtienelle force-meat (No. 242), with the 
fillets of three fowls ; trim the tails of sixty boiled crayfish, trim also 

eight inner or minion fillets of 
fowls, and then simmer these in a 
little clarified butter and lemon 
juice over the fire till they are 
done; then put them on a plate, 
covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon, to keep them moist, until 
they are wanted for further use. 

Next, butter a large sized char- 
lotte-mould, and dispose round the 
inner angle of the bottom a close 
border of crayfish-tails ; while up the 
sides of the mould, some long strips, or pipes of black truffle (cut out with 
a tin vegetable-cutter), must be arranged alternately with the prepared 
fillets of fowls, so as to form a decoration representing the *' Grecian-key 
border ;" ^ound the top of this, which, when the mould is turned up- 
side down, forms the base, place another close border of crayfish-tails ; 
after which, the bottom and sides of the chartreuse must be lined with 
a coating of the prepared quenelle force-meat, thus : — butter a circular 
piece of paper, cut exactly to the size of the mould, and spread thereon 
a layer of the force-meat, an inch thick ; smooth this over with a knife 
dipped in hot water, and then, with great care, take hold of the sides of 
the paper with both hands, and turn it upside down into the mould ; 
pass the bottom of a small bain-marie filled with hot water over the 
paper, that the butter may become melted, by which the paper will be 
easily removed. Next, cut three pieces of paper to fit in with each other, 
so as effectuaUy to line the mould ; butter these, and then spread them 
with force-meat, as directed for the bottom piece, and apply them in the 
same way. Then smooth the cavity with a spoon dipped in hot water, 
and fill it to within an inch of its surfiuse with a thickly-garnished ragout 
d la Toulouse cold (No. 187). Cover in the top with force-meat, leav- 
ing the piece of paper on, and keep the chartreuse in a cool place till 
within two hours of dinner-time. It should then be put to steam in a 
deep stewpan, containing sufficient water to reach nearly half way up 
the mould. The water must be kept continually boiling by the side of 
a slow fire, and the stewpan covered with its lid containing live 
embers of charcoal.- 

When the chatireuse is done, turn it out of the mould carefully into 
its dish ; cover the top with a border of button-mushrooms, placed near 
the cdg^ and in the centre put a star, formed with eight very small 



FORCEMEAT CHARTREUSES. 



237 



fillets of fowl, decorated with black truffles (previously turned in the form 
of a crescent, on a buttered sautapan, covered with very thin layers of fat 
bacon, and gently simmered in the oven for three minutes) ; garnish the 
base of the chartreuse with some thin TotUouse ragout, glaze the sides 
lightly, and serve. 

791, CHARTREUSE, A LA BELLE-VUE. 

BuTTBR smoothly the inside of a plain cylinder mould, and dispose 
round the bottom and sides a bold 
decoration, formed with black truf- 
fles and red tongue; after which 
carefully fill up the interior of the 
mould with some very delicate que- 
neUe force-meat, prepared from the 
fillets of three partridges. About 
an hour before dinner-time, the char- 
treuse must be put on to steam, as 
in the foregoing case ; when done* 
turn it out on to its dish ; fill the 
centre with a ragout of scollops of 
fillets of partridges, with the addi- 
tion of some prepared truffles, cocks- 
combs, and kernels in a rich Madeira sauce 
treuse^ and serve. 




(No. 8) ; glaze the char- 



792. CHARTREUSE, A LA CARDINAL. 

First, trim the fillets of three pairs of soles, and eontisez them 
with scollops of the outside part of lobster-tails. Prepare some lobster 
quenelU force-meat ^No. 246), in 
which mix the fillets of two 
whitings. Then, butter the inside 
of a plain charlotte-mould, and 
dispose therein the prepared fillets 
of soles, as represented in the an- 
nexed illustration ; next, line the 
bottom and sides of the chartreuse 
with some of the lobster force-meat, 
in the same way as directed for 
the chartreuse d la Faritienne ; fill 
the cavity with a Parisian ragout 
(No. 203), the sauce of which must be kept stiff, and used cold for this pur- 
pose ; cover in the top with a layer of force-meat, and steam the char^ 
treuse for one hour and a half; when done, place it upside down on its 
dish, and draw the mould off carefully, in order to avoid disturbing the 
fillets. Garnish the edges of the chartretise with a close border of small 
round truffles, and in the centre arrange a neatly-formed group of trimmed 
crayfish-tails, previously vrarmed in a little glaze and lobster coral but- 
ter ; pour some Parisian ragout (No. 203) round the base, and serve. 




238 



ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OP BREAD, 



COMPRISING 



Ornamental Croustadea, 

Crouttaden of Broad, gamighed with Calves* 

Tailt, a la Poulette, 
n n vi^h Lambs* Brains, 

in MatdoUe Sauce. 



Crotatade of Bread, with Scollops of Fat 

Livers, a VEpicuricnnc, 

n M with Quails, d la Bout' 



703. ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES. 

For a eroustade of ordinary dimensions, a 4lb. loaf of light bread 
should be procured the day before it is wanted for use, as it must 
be stale for this purpose. In order to prevent waste, the loaf should 
be baked in an oval, square, or round tin-case, according to the intended 
form of the eroustade ; and when this is required for a remove or flank 
dish, the loaf must be made of a proportionate size. 

When the crust has been pared ofT the loaf with a sharp knife, it 
must be carved in the form of a fluted or chased vase or cup according to 
the following patterns : 







The eroustade thus carved, must next be fried of a light &wn colour, 
in some clean hogVlard, made quite hot for the purpose, the inside 
crumb carefully taJcen out, and the cavity smoothly covered with a thin 
coating of qumeUe force-meat : the object of which is to prevent the 
escape or absorption of the sauce from the eTUree^ afterwards placed in 
it 2 when this is done, the eroustade must be put in the oven for five 
minutes, to bake the quenelle force-meat, and to be kept hot until 
served. 



BREAD CR0USTADE8. 239 

794. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH CALVES'-TAILS, 

A LA POULETTE. 

Scald two calves-tails with the skin on, in the same way as 
calves-heads ; cut these up in joints, parboil them in water for five 
minutes, and then immerse them in cold water ; after which drain them 
on a napkin, trim and place them in a stewpan with some blanc 
(No. 23.5), or failing this, with a carrot, an onion, garnished faggot of 
parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns; moisten with 
three pints of broth, or water^ in which latter case add some salt ; and set 
them to boil gently for about an hour by the side of the stove-fire. When 
the tails are done, drain them on a napkin, trim them neatly, and place 
them in the crouslade in pyramidal form, pour over them a rich sauce 
d la pouleUe containing two dozen button-mushrooms; garnish the 
inner edge of the croustade with a border of fluted scollops of red 
tongue, glaze a large black truffle, place it on the top, and serve. 

795. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH LAMBS' BRAINS, 

IN MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

The brains must be prepared as directed in No. 786, and when 
they are done, put to drain upon a napkin, preparatory to tlieir being 
cut into scollops, and afterwards placed in circular order in the croiutade. 
Pour a niaidoUe sauce (No. 3 1 )> made in this case of white wine with 
a little cayenne and lemon juice, and containing some small .button- 
onions, previously simmered m butter, Soz. of truffles cut in scollops, a 
dozen small quenelles, a few mushrooms and trimmed crayfish-tails; 
crown the top with six large crayfish, between which place a fiied crouUm 
of bread, cut in the shape of a leaf; in the centre of these, put a large 
truffle, and serve. 

796. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF FAT 
LIVERS, A L'EFICURIENNE. 

Whbn about to send the croiutade to table, garnish it with a ragout 
of fat livers, prepared as follows : — 

Wrap two Strasbourg Uvers in thin layers of fiit bacon, and simmer 
them very gently in a wine nUrepoix (No. 236) for half an hour ; 
then remove the stewpan from the fire, and allow the livers to cool in 
their liquor ; they must now be taken out, cut into scollops without 
waste, and placed in a jBmall deep sautapan, containing 4oz. of black 
Perigord truffles cut into scollops, a dozen small quenelles of game, and a 
few button-mushrooms ; to these add about half the mirepoix, freed from 
every particle of grease, and set the whole to boil briskly over the fire 
until the mobture be reduced to a glaze ; next, pour in some brown fine- 
herbs sauce (No. 14), in sufficient quantity for the enirie, toss the 
whole together over the fire, and use this ragout as directed above. A 
border of large double white cocks-combs may be placed round the edge of 
the croustade, and a fine large Perigord truffle in the centre. 



Hi M'Cll.WS INP MA/XKINE'^. 



» '»» 'I "• Mfit II* i ■•Up. i'>: m-rr? *'-t?mn ^^e 

.. It ..vi-ni-'i »in. .1 iui».l Mr^'nl .'i^iu V-Id dL;:<»*i SCCiZ-JW 

^., ■,•.!. u»I '* •iinix.iH ■" .1 :itiiTiiT!^ ;.»iHiit '.owaris ihe koc. 

v.. ...I I .!» I Ml 'lurj^-jriiii iiIu!(cni::oni. ^Vhtsc tae 

.., •!»,. ii..! •!»! iiui .iMiiii" riiwi \' :v!n«.«ve«i. an-i the 

,..i . ». il ..v*-^'i»*»i • ill iviTs f N-.i. ?49U pre- 

, u >t(if'i>.M.*, .tiMUM utifick-iit :>Hiin ri.T the inserd'Xi 

u ... ■».. Mt.i:'*. I I pMii' 'n.ii la* i-i!! xineJ. ar.J ttII<^J 
. u ■•«" 'MitMii wiii :'ciitiaiiv i^nuze*! : the« must 

. .% .u.k Oil. 1,1 *i;m .uiii** -i 'fK' 'f"f, ..•.jwre-i .?ver with 

»; i.i.i * «ii^ \iiii( i ''uiti'tvi T.niper. secami 

. . ... u . ^. . . " 'ii'kviH i •rtiiii u-'iuirini; more wl»?ar 

., .. va •* iti vioin imiii-i-itiin.', stt the 'nr*}9Ut»vU 

. ».., • -i 'ai*i»i. .■u>i 'viva- jtiidiiijj it to 

.... •.%» .1, ^-.xv'i" »il 'iiv ;n.-i4si* wi[li the •.■omer 

.. ... ..ik . .i.iu.:\ 'n IS iiMi. I ^n the breast of 

. * ■.:ik I <«»M 'i irvuior :bnn, •.■»>#iri« 

^ .. K ,iu. -Ml .iiMiu«.'if«i '!i .1 ;.»utti.'reil iauta- 

, ... v*».% . '..vji. " \\\'\* ■.iiciM wiiitL* ; between 

., * »>% v^-MU', »!l iic .fiiLre vita a B^tur^ 

\ . .> ■ 'ii.vit^ ^K'l i'l- uitittiuii >(' some extract 

^^. . ^^ ,...4.i» *A4mva y .;tttzi*, .lud wr^'e. 

. . n**!* iiav lisu 'Hi ^punished with 

.i . ..*iiK -t-n'/tu'iac, wVi". ; iind with 

..•.■..>*i viiMK'd 'o HJ iisoi tor /.>«V<'< 

..*.... .%. ...»i •\'uHn» •»«i»te, for which see 



* » V \N V N ' ^i ^ \.i: N :•>. 



X|.t. «.■.■* » V ■'.,. .i^-*^ i I : tiM»lKi)MK. 



»!\.\i. i: .JliMl \-.-iii.i^r>s '.ra *«uii :«nic 'uitt . :!^iii ,*ii Ut'cii Mvu -.U^Ue^^ 

:.v..'rriu- r --irvv.- nviM- r-t-ti.-ii '!..•.* ," y,^,^ ^,.^ ^.„^^.^ .-.^^jj 
'■▼i:ii "iiLii dvi'rs 'i" \k-"ii ':!! -^ivruiu. 

\oXT, Til lilt .IL'OUt i.UZ. .« titll .Mlirriiou r^^^^ -^ ^'^^ .^^^ ,j- ^ 

^ewert-.;lati^ .uid oko it :« .i .lack .*cii . m* ^ ■,. ^rvc S.r a foaisda- 



TURBAN OF FOWLS. 



241 




tion to raise the entrie upon. Next, trim the ox -palates, split each 
in two with a sharp knife, in the same way as thin layers of iNEicon are 
cut ; trim eight of these, spread 
the rough side with a thin 
layer of the gratin forcemeat, 
then roll them up; put the 
piece of paste before alluded to 
on a round baking-sheet ; spread 
it with a layer of the force- 
meat, a quarter of an inch thick, 
and after having trimmed the 
rolled ox-palates, to make them 
fit in with each other in cir- 
cular order, place them firmly 
together on the foundation of 
paste prepared to receive them, 

taking care to put a little forcemeat between each, to fill up the fissures, 
and unite them ; upon each fissure, one of the decorated fillets must be 
neatly laid, and turned under to secure it. The remaining eight pieces 
of ox-palates must then be trimmed, garnished with force-meat like the 
former, and afterwards cut to the size of two-thirds of the others, and 
with these smaller rolls of ox-palates, a second tier must be formed 
upon the firat, in similar fashion, and upon each joining, a decorated 
fillet is to be placed likewise. Any roughness occasioned by the force- 
meat must be neatly smoothed over with a knife, dipped in water; 
a thick carrot, or piece of bread, cut in the shape of a pillar, and co- 
vered with fat bacon, should be placed in the centre of the enUrh, to 
support its shape while being baked. The whole of the turban must be 
covered in with thin layers of fat bacon, and these must be secured on by 
means of a thick band of buttered paper, cut in slits round the base 
(to enable it to fit closer), and secured round the entree with string : this 
will serve also to keep the turban in shape. One hour and a half 
before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked ; when done, 
remove the paper, &c., and with the end of a large skimmer, place the 
turban on its dish, fill the centre with a ragout of small truffles, pour 
some perigueux sauce (No. 23) round the base of the entree, lightly 
glaze the palates, without touching the fillets — which must be kept as 
white as possible— and serve. 

799. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PRINCE DE GALLES. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat of fowls (No. 242), or veal ; and with 
part of it fill a plain cylindri- 
cal mouldy measuring about four 
inches high and six in diame- 
ter, previously buttered inside. 
This must be steamed in a covered 
stewpan, with a little water in it ; 
and when done, turned out of the 
mould upon a plate, and allowed to 
cool j it should then be placed upon 
a foundation of baked paste, the 
angles of the quenelle rounded, and 
the whole of it covered with a thin 




242 TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 

coating of force-meat : upon this turban of quenelle^ six larded fillets of 
fowls should be placed, with the point made to turn over the top ; between 
each of these^ insert a decorated minion fillet^ cover the latter with thin 
layers of fat bacon, and secure the entree round with a band of buttered 
paper made fast with string. Three quarters of an hour before dinner*tiine, 
put the turban in the oven to be baked ; when it is done, remove 
the paper and the bacon from the small fillets, glaze the larded fillets 
brightly, garnish the well of the entree with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), 
pour some of the same round the base, and serve. 

800. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Takb out the fillets from four rabbits, trim and lard them closely. 
With the flesh of the legs, prepare some quenelle force-meat, and use 
part of this to make a cylindrical foundation, as in the foregoing case ; 
when cold trim the top of this round, and after it has been spread mth a 
thin coating of the force-meat, lay the larded fillets round its sides in a 
slanting position, with the small end of each turned over at the top, and 
made to reach about an inch down the cylinder; between each fillet of rab- 
bit, a closely-studded row of cock's-kemels must be deeply inserted in the 
coating of quenelle force-meat, and these should be covered with thin strips 
of fat bacon to keep them white. A buttered band of paper must be placed 
round the turban, and secured with string. An hour before dinner-time, 
put the turban in the oven to be baked ; when it is done, remove the 
paper, glaze the larded fillets, and afterwards pick the bacon ofT the 
kernels without disturbing them ; fill the centre of the entrie with a 
Jinan4Here ragotU (No. 188), pour some round the base, and serve. 

801. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF HARES, A LA CONTI. 
Takb out the fillets of three young hares, and by splitting each fillet into 
halves, lengthwise, of equal thickness, twelve fillets will be obtained ; these 
must then be neatly trimmed and contisSs from one end to the other 
with scollops of black truffles. Use the flesh of the legs to prepare some 
queiielle force-meat ; and as in the foregoing cases, a foundation must be 
made with part of this, to raise the turban upon it. When the cylinder 
of force-meat has been poached or steamed, and is cold enough, place it 
upon the foundation of paste, trim the top round, and spread it over with 
a coating of force-meat ; lay the decorated fillets of hare slantin^^y round 
the sides with their tapering points secured inside the cylinder with a little 
force-meat, and cover the turban with thin layers of fat bacon, secured 
round with a band of paper in the usual way. An hour before dinner- 
time, put the turban in the oven to be baked, and when it is done, re- 
move the paper and bacon, dish it up, fill the centre with scollops of 
black truffles and white mushrooms, pour some brown Italian sauce 
(No. 1 %) over and round the entree^ and serve. 

Note, — The two foregoing entrees may be varied in their appearance, 
by larding one half of the fillets, and decorating the remainder with 
truffles or red tongue. 

802. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA XIMSNES. 

Trim the fillets of four middle-sized soles, contitSt half with red 

tongue, and the remainder with thin scollops of green Indian gherkins ; 

prepare some queneUe force-meat with four whitings, with part of which 

make a cylindrical foundation in the manner described for the fillets of 



TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 



243 




fowls d la Prince de Galles. Spread a coating of force-meat over this, 
and then place the fillets of soles 
round it in a slanting position^ alter- 
nating those decorated with tongue 
with the others ; the fillets must be 
neatly turned under the base^ and 
securely fastened inside the cylinder 
with the point of a knife and a little 
force-meat. Cover the turban with 
thin layers of fat bacon, and fasten 
a band of buttered paper round it 
with string. An hour before dinner- 
time, put the turban in the oven to 
be bsJced; when it is done, re- 
move the paper and bacon, place the turban carefully on its dish, gar- 
nish the centre with a ragotU of muscles (No, 1 97), pour some tomata 
sauce (No. 22 ) round the base, and serve. 

803. MAZARINE OF WHITINGS, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of five whitings, and 
mix therewith a large gravy-spoon- 
ful of puree of mushrooms (No. 
1^2), some chopped parsley, two 
ounces of black truffles also chop- 
ped, and two whisked whites of 
eggs. Next, butter a plain round 
mould, line the inside with white 
paper, and then fill it with the 
force-meat. An hour before dinner- 
time, steam the mazarine in the 
usual way, and when done, turn it 
out of the mould on its dish ; place a 
border of contiscs fillets of whitings 
round the top, fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish-tails and muscles, 
pour some Venitian sauce (No. 26), round the sides of the mazarine^ 
and serve. 

804. MAZARINE OF FAT LIVERS, A LA TOULOUSE. 
Procure two fine Strasbouig fat livers, cut therefrom twelve flat scollops 

in the form of flat fingers, and with the trimmmgs make some force- 
meat (No. 249). Next, line a plain round mould with buttered white pa- 
per, and then fill it with the prepared ingredients thus : Spread a layer of 
force-meat half an inch thick at the bottom of the mould, then line the 
sides in a similar manner ; place the scollops of fat livers in a perpendi- 
cular position, fill up the interstices with scollops of French truffles and 
the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the top with buttered paper. 
An hour and a half before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in a deep 
stewpan with a little water, and cover it with its lid containing live em- 
bers of charcoal. Care must be taken to prevent the water from boiling 
over into the mould. When the mazarine is done, turn it out of the 
mould on its dish, place a border of minion fillets of fowls decorated with 
truffles, curled round in rings, and sinmiered in butter, fill the centre 
with a rich TouUmte ragout (No. 187)i pour some Madeira sauce (No. 
8) over the entree, and serve. R 2 




244 



ENTREES OF BEEF, 



COMPRISING 



Plain Romp Steak. Minced Beef, a la Portuguaise. 

Bec£ateak, a la Fi-anfoise. Hashed Beef^ plain. 

„ with Anchovy batter. Hashed Beef, and broiled Bones. 

Fillets of Beef in their own glaze, &c. Braized Beef, a la Claretnont, 

Minced Beef, with poached eggs. Bubble and Squeak. 

806. PLAIN RUMP STEAK. 

The steak should be cut rather thick^ neatly trimmed, seasoned with 
a little pepper and salt, and broiled over a clear fire; when done, 
remove it carefully from the gridiron, in order to preserve the gravy 
which collects on its upper surface. Place the steak on its dish, rub a 
small pat of fresh butter over it, garnish round with grated horse- 
raddish, and send some beef gravy separately in a sauce-boat. Epicures 
however, prefer the gravy which runs out of a juicy steak when well 
broiled to any other addition. 

Small ribs of beef, and especially steaks cut from between the small 
ribs, form an excellent substitute for rump steaks ; both, when nicely 
broiled, may be served with cold rnaitre (Tfidtel butter, anchovy ditto ; 
and also with the following sauces: Brown oyster, muscles, Italian, 
piquante, poor-man's, poivrade, tomata, provetifiUe, fine-herbs, &c. ; for 
making which, see Special Sauces. 

806. BEEFSTEAK, A LA FRANCAISE. 

Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef across the grain of the meat 
into three pieces ; flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and trim them of a 
round or oval form ; then cut and trim three pieces of suet, half the size 
of the former : dip the steaks in^'a little clarified butter, season with pep- 
per and salt, and place them on the gridiron over a clear fire to broil; when 
done, glaze them on both sides, dish them up on two ounces of cold moutre 
d^hStel butter (No. 44), garnish round with fried potatoes, and serve. 

These potatoes must be cut or turned in the form of olives, and fried 
in a little clarified butter. 

807. BEEFSTEAKS WITH ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, but anchovy 
butter must be substituted for maitre cThdtel. 

Note, — French beef-steaks are always cut from the fillet, and may be 
served with any of the savory butters described in this work ; they may 
also be garnished with Indian pickle, water-cresses, turned olives, and 
with all the varieties of common pickles, or with either of the sauces 
named for small rib steaks. 



ENTREES OF BEEF. 245 



808. FILLETS, OR SCOLLOPS, OP BEEF IN THEIR GLAZE. 

Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef into four pieces, flatten and 
trim these round or oval, season with pepper and salt, put them with a 
like number of smaller pieces of beef suet in a sautapan containing two 
ounces of clarified butter. Ten minutes before sending them to table, set 
the sautapan on a brisk stove-fire, and fry the fillets of a brown colour ; 
when they are done on both sides, pour off the grease, add a table-spoon- 
ful of glaze and twice as much brown sauce, twenty mushrooms, with 
some of their liquor, and the juice of half a lemon ; allow the whole to 
boil for one minute on the fire, dish the fillets with a piece of fat on each, 
place the mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce over alL 

Note. — Fillets of beef prepared in this manner may be dressed with 
either oysters, muscles, olives, truflSes, gherkins cut into scollops, fried 
onions, fine-herbs, morels, &c., added to the sauce afler they have been 
fried, instead of the mushrooms, as in the foregoing case. They may also 
be served when finished, with the addition of a piece of glaze and enough 
brown sauce for the entrSe, with every kind of puree of vegetables and 
vegetable garnish described in this work ; as also with any of the sauces 
recommended to be served with broiled steaks. 

In all cases, the garnish of these entries must be placed in the centre 
of the fillets, in a conical form, and the sauce poured round the fillets. 

809. MINCED BEEF WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Pare the fat and skin off one pound of roast beef, cut it into thin 
small slices, and then mince these very fine by chopping them. Put the 
mince into a stewpan with two large gravy-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and 
a small piece of glaze, stir the whole over the fire until quite hot, dish it 
up in a conical form, place six poached eggs round the mince, pour a 
little brown sauce round the base, and serve. 

For those who like high seasoning, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
and cayenne-pepper may be added to the mince. 

810. MINCED BEEF, A LA PORTUGUAISE, 

Trim one pound of roast or braized beef, cut it up in pieces the size of 
a finger, and then with a sharp knife mince these into small shavings, 
and put them into a stewpan. Next put two glasses of port wine into a 
stewpan with one chopped shalot, the rind of an orange cut into small 
shreds, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne-pepper, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; boil these ingredients down to one-third of their original quan- 
tity, add enough Espagnole sauce for the entree, and mix the pre- 
paration with the minced beef; dish this up in a conical form, shake 
some light coloured raspings of bread-crust over it ; place a border round 
the base, consisting of six poached eggs, the same number of oval scollops 
of red tongue, and oval crot^on; fried in butter of a light colour and glazed. 
.Pour some of the sauce reserved for the purpose round the base, and 
serve. 

811. HASHED BEEF, PLAIN. 

Slick the beef up in very thin pieces, season with pepper and salt, and 
shake a little flour over it Next, chop a middle-sized onion, and put it 



246 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of Harvey Sauce, and an equal 
quantity of mushroom- catsup ; boil these together for two minutes, and 
then add half a pint of broth or gravy ; boil this down to half its quan- 
tity, throw in the beef, set the hash to boil on the stove-fire for five 
minutes longer, and then serve with sippets of toasted bread round it 
when dished up. 

812. HASHED BEEF AND BROILED BONES. 
Slick the beef up as in the foregoing case, and set it aside on a plate. 
Cut the bones into pieces about two inches long or square, having a little 
meat left on them ; score them aU over by making deep incisions across 
them, season with plenty of pepper, and a little salt, and put them on a 
plate. Slice two onions and fry them brown, then add enough brown 
sauce for the hash, or if there be none ready, shake a table- spoonful of 
flour over the onions, stir this over the fire for a minute, then add half a 
pint of good broth or gravy and a table-spoonful of mushroom-catsup ; 
stir the whole on the fire until reduced to two-thirds of the original 
quantity, and then rub it through a tammy into a puree ; mix this with 
the sli^ beef, make the hash quite hot, dish it up with the broiled 
bones (glazed) round it, and serve. 

813. SLICES OF BRAIZED BEEF, A LA CLAREMONT. 

This entree with its undermentioned varieties may be served, when it 
happens that any braized beef remains from a previous day's dinner. 

The beef must be cut in rather thin round, or oval slices, placed 
in a sautapan in neat order, and warmed with a gravy-spoonful of good 
stock ; these must then be dished up in a circle — overlapping each other 
closely — ^pour some Claremont sauce (No. 58) over them, and serve. 

Nate. — Slices of braized beef warmed and dished up, as in the foregoing 
case, may be greatly varied by being afterwards garnished with macaroni 
prepared with grated cheese, a little glaze and tomata sauce, also with 
all sharp sauces, with purees of vegetables, and with vegetable garnishes. 

814. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. 

Cut some slices (not too thin) of cold boiled round, or edge-bone, of salt 
beef; trim them neatly, as also an equal number of pieces of the white 
fat of the beef, and set them aside on a plate. Boil two summer or savoy 
cabbages, remove the stalks, chop them fine, and put them into a stew- 
pan with four ounces of fresh butter and one ounce of glaze ; season with 
pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry the slices of beef in a 
sauta or frying-pan, commencing with the pieces of fat ; stir the cabbage 
on the fire imtil quite hot, and then pile it up in the centre of the dish ; 
place the slices of beef and the pieces of fat round it, pour a little thin 
brown sauce over the whole, and serve. 



247 



ENTREES OF OX-CHEEKS, 

COMPRmiNO 

Braized Ox-Cheeks, with Purteoi Green- Braized Ox-Cheekt, h la Proven f<»le. 

Peas. n M ^^h stewed Cabbage. 

M „ ^ 2a Flamande, ,, m ^ ^ Jardimhre, 

n ,y hla BreUmme, 

815. BRAIZED OX-OHEEK, WITH PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS. 

Bone an ox-cheek, and steep it in cold water for two hours ; then par- 
boil it in water for five minutes, immerse it in cold water, drain, and trim 
it, break up the bones, and put them at the bottom of an oval stewpan, 
place the cheek upon them, and garnish with carrot, onion, celery, gar- 
nished faggot of parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve pepper- 
corns ; moisten with two quarts of broth or water (if the latter, add some 
salt) ; set the ox-cheek to braize very gently by the side of a stove-fire 
for about two hours ; when done, take it up carefully, and put it in 
press between two dishes. Half the broth may be used for prepar- 
ing some brown sauce with, and the remainder boiled down to a half 
glaze. Next, cut the ox-cheek up into twelve pieces of equal size, shape 
them, either round, square, oblong, or oval ; trim them neatly, and place 
them in a sautapan with the half glaze. Ten minutes before sending to 
table, put the ox-cheeks, covered with the lid, to simmer gently on the 
stove-fire until they are warmed through, and then set them to boil 
quickly over a brisk fire for three minutes ; roll them in their glaze, and 
afterwards dish them up in a circle, closely overlapping each other ; fill 
the centre of the entreS with some thick pur^e of green-peas (No. 106), 
pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve. 

816. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA FLAMANDE. 

This is prepared, cut and dished up as the foregoing. Between 
each scollop of ox-cheek insert a piece of carrot previously boiled in broth 
and rolled in its own glaze ; fill the centre with a garnish of Brussels 
sprouts, round which place a neat border of prepared turnips cut in 
fancy diapes ; pour a little thin espagnoU saucd round the entrie, and 
serve. 

817. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA BRETONNE. 
Prrparb and dish up the pieces of ox-cheek as directed in the first 

case ; and just before sendmg to table, fill the centre with some purie of 
potatoes (No. 116), pour some Britonne sauce (No. 27) over the pieces 
of ox-cheek, and serve. 

818. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA PROYENCALE. 
This when dished up must be garnished round the base with a border 
of ripe tomatas prepared au gratin (No. 1160) ; fill the centre of the 
ewtree with some Proven^ale sauce (No. 25), and serve. 

819. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. 
Whbn the ox-cheek is prepared for braizing, as directed in No. 815, 



248 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

about one pound of German sausage must be added, also half 
a pound of streaky bacon, and two savoy cabbages, previously cut in 
halves, parboiled in water, the stalks removed, and afterwards tied up 
with string. The whole must be covered with a round of buttered paper^ 
and set to braize gently for about two hours ; as soon as it is done, the ox- 
cheek should be put in press, and when cold cut into scollops and placed in 
a sautapan with some half glaze ; the bacon and sausage must be also 
cut in neat scoUops and kept hot in a sautapan with a little half glaze. 
The cabbage must first be drained in a colander, and then pressed in a 
napkin, and afterwards cut out in cork-shaped pieces. The scollops of ox- 
cheek should be dished up in a close circle, alternately placing a scollop of 
ox-cheek with the bacon and sausage : and so on, until the whole is used 
up. Next, place the cabbage round the base in a neat border, and upon 
each piece of cabbage set a ring of carrot, with a piece of turnip cut in the 
form of a very small pear, in its centre ; fill the well of the entree witk 
a garnish of carrots and turnips, cut in very small fancy shapes, pour some 
espagnoU sauce round the base, and serve. 

The carrots and turnips, above alluded to, must of course be boiled in 
broth, with a little sugar, and afterwards boiled down in their glaze. 

820. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Braize, cut up, and dish the ox-cheek as directed in the first article ; 
then fill the centre of the eriirSe with a garnish of vegetables <} la 
jardiniere, (No. 144) pour some half glaze or thin espagnole sauce round 
the base, and serve. 



DRESSED OX-PALATES, 



CX>MPR18ING 

Camelom of Oz-Palatet. with Poivrade Curry of Ox-Palates. 

„ . "*"**; ^ « , . Ox-Palates in cases, with fine-herbs. 

PoMptettes of Ox-Palates, a la Finaneiere. AUereoM* of Ox-Palates, a la D'UndUt, 
Ox-Palates, <i la Tortue, 



821. CANELONS OF OX-PALATES, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 
Clbansb and braize six ox-palates, and put them in press, as di- 
rected in No. 209, between two dishes until they are cold. The ox-pa- 
lates must then be trimmed and split in halves, lengthwise ; each of these 
must be again divided across in two, crosswise; the twenty-four pieces thus 
produced should be laid upon a laige dish, and covered on one side only 
with some thick cold (TUxelles sauce (No. 16). The canelans must then 
be rolled up in the form of a cartrid^^ and each first dipped in beaten 
egg (seasoned with a little salt) and afterwards bread-crumbed. Just be- 
fore tending to table, the eandans should be fried in some dean hog^s 
lard, made quite hot for the purpose ; they must be plei up in the 



OX-PALATES. 249 

dish, in a pyramidal form, with green fried parsley in the centre, round 
the base, and on the top. Send some poiinmle sauce (No. 29) in a boat. 

yot^, — Instead of bread-crumbing the canelons, if preferred, they may 
be dipped in a light made batter, and then fried. 

822. PAUPIETTES OF OX-PALATES, A LA FINA^CIERE. 

Braize and cut up the ox-palates as in the foregoing case ; then trim the 
twenty-four pieces thus produced into oblong scollops, measuring about 
two inches by three and a half; lay these on an earthen dish, and spread 
upon each a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of veal or poultry, in which 
some fine-herbs have been mixed. The ox-palates should then be rolled 
firmly in the form of cartridges, and six of these, disposed lengthwise in a 
buttered sheet of writing paper, must be rolled up tightly in it, and 
placed in a deep sautapan: the remainder are to be finished in the 
same manner, and kept in the cool until wanted. Half an hour before 
dinner time, set the paupietles on a stove-fire, at the same time adding to 
them about a quart of boiling broth or congommS ; as soon as they be- 
gin to boil, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently by the side of 
the stove-Rre for twenty minutes. The paupiettes must be drained on a 
napkin, the ends of each neatly cut off, then placed in a sautapan with a 
little half glaze, and again set on the fire to be rolled in this as it boils 
down ; afler, they should be dished up in a pyramidal, or a conical form, 
and a financiere ragout (No. 188) poured over the erUrSe, and sent to 
table. 

823. OX-PALATES, A LA TORTUE. 

Braize the ox-palates as before directed, put them in press, and when 
cold, stamp them out in scollops, with a circular tin cutter two inches in 
diameter, and put them in a small deep sautapan with a little of the 
sauce intended for the entrSe, Twenty minutes before sending to table, 
make the scollops quite hot, and place them in neat order in, and round, 
the base of an ornamental crotutade of fried bread, previously prepared 
for the purpose, and made fast on the centre of the dish , with a little 
paste made of flour and white of egg ; dispose the ragout d la tortue, 
omitting the pieces of calf 's-head (No. 189), tastefully about the erUrie, 
and serve. 

824. CURRY OP OX-PALATES. 

Prepare the scollops of ox-palates, as in the foregoing case, and put 
them in a good curry- sauce (No. 47). Just before sending to table, 
make the curry quite hot, and dish it up with boiled rice pressed into a 
border-mould, and then turned out on its dish. 

The above is the simplest manner of serving this erUrSe, but it looks 
much better when dressed with an ornamental rice border, in which 
case some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. 

826. ATTfeREAUX OF OX-PALATES, A LA D'UXELLES. 
Braize four ox-palates ; when done, put them in press between two 
dishes ; as soon as they are cold, trim both sides, cut them into inch 
square scollops, and place these on a large earthen dish, together 
with about half their quantity of square pieces of truffles and mush* 
rooms ; pour some reduced IXUxeUes sauce (No. 16) over the whole, and 



250 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

when the sauce has become set, run the scollops upon twelve small silver 
skewers, intermixing the truffles and mushrooms alternately with the ox- 
palates ; gather the sauce from the dish with a knife, and spread it upon 
the attereaux to give them a square, smooth, form. They must then be 
rolled in bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, and again bread- 
crumbed. Half an hour before sending to table, fry the aUereaiix in 
clean hogVlard^ made hot for the purpose ; dish them up neatly with 
parsley, fried green and crisp, placed in the centre, and serve. 

826. OX-PALATES IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Prepare the ox-palates in small circular scollops, and put them into 
a stewpan, contidning about two-thirds of their quantity of scollops of 
truffles and mushrooms ; to these add sufficient reduced flne-herbs Sauce 
(No 14) for the entrie^ mix the whole, and with this fill twelve small 
square, or pleated circular paper cases, previously oiled and baked in 
the oven for five minutes ; cover them with a layer of raspings of 
bread, or bread-crumbs fried of a light colour, and place them upon a 
baking-sheet covered with clean paper. About half an hour before 
sending to table, put these cases in the oven to be baked, or rather warmed 
through, and then dish them up on a folded napkin, with fried parsley 
round the base of the entree, and serve. 



OX-PITHS, 



COMPRIflXNO 



Ox-pitht, a la RamgotU. CnmMfidea of Oz-pithi. 

M in caaes with fine-herbs. 

027. OX-riTHS,* A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Procure about lib. of ox-piths, steep them in water for a couple of 
hours, wash them thoroughly, and then carefuUy remove the membranous 
covering, and change the water. Next, slice up an onion and a small 
carrot very thin, and put these into a stewpan with a quart of hot water, 
minionette pepper, and salt, a Uttle thyme and bayleaf, three cloves and 
a blade of mace ; set these to boil on the fire, drop in the ox-piths 
and allow them to boil gently for ten minutes ; then set them aside 
to cool. Drain them on a napkin, and cut them in three-inch lengths, 
then place them in a basin, with a few sprigs of parsley, three sliced 
shalots, some minionette pepper, and salt, three table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil, and one of vinegar. The ox-piths must be left to steep in this pickle 
till within about ten minutes of dinner-time, when they must be drained 
upon a napkin, then dipped separately in some light liotter, and fried in 
clean hog*s lard made quite hot for the purpose. Dish them up with 

The pith contitti of the sunal marrow, which is more genenOy liken from tides of 
beef : that taken from veal and mutton is also occasionally used. 



OX-PITHS. 261 

fried parsley, and send some ravigcUe sauce in a boat, to be handed 
round. 

To save trouble, the piths when fried, may be dished up without a 
napkin or fried parsley, and the sauce poured under them. But in this 
case, unless they are eaten as soon as dished up, the vapour arising from 
the sauce destroys much of their crispness. 

Note, — Ox-piths when fried according to the foregoing directions, may 
also be served with any of the following sauces, viz : — piquante, poi- 
vrade, Italian, tomata^ &c» 

828. OX-PITHS IN CASES, WITH PINE-HERBS. 

Prbpabb these, in the first instance, according to the directions con- 
tained in the foregoing article. They must then be drained upon a nap- 
kin, cut into inch- lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with sufficient 
<f Uxdles sauce (No. 16) for the erUrSe ; they should then be gently mixed 
together, and put into about a dozen small square or round paper cases, the 
si^ace of which is to be strewn with raspings, or fried bread-crumbs, and 
then placed upon a clean baking-sheet. About twenty minutes before 
sending to table, put the cases in the oven to get thoroughly warmed ; 
dish them up neatly in a pyramidal form, and serve some fine-herbs, or 
brown Italian sauce, separately in a boat. 

829. CROUSTADES, OR PATTIES OF OX-PITHS. 

In this case, the ox-piths must be prepared according to the first part 
of the directions for dressing them d la ramgoUe ; they must then be cut 
into half-inch lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with about half 
their quantity of prepared mushrooms, and two artichoke-bottoms, pre- 
viously cut into small dice ; to this may be added some finished espagnoU 
sauce (No. 3), a little cayenne and lemon juice; warm the whole 
together on the stove-fire, and garnish the crouOades^ or patties, with it 



OX-TONGUES. 

COMPRISINO 

Ox-Tongues with Spinach. Ox-Tongues, k la Jardiniere, 

„ with BrusaeU Sprouts. „ h rAliemande. 

„ h la Maoedome, „ with Samer-Kraml, 

830. OX-TONGUE, WITH SPINACH. 

Procure a pickled tongue, run an iron skewer through it from the root 
to the pointed end, tie a piece of string on one end of the skewer, and 
fasten it at the other, so as to keep it in shape. The tongue should then 
be put on the fire in cold water, and kept gently boiling for about 
three hours, when it must be taken up, and sAer removing the outer 



252 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

cuticle, should be placed in the larder to cool ; it should then be neatly 
trimmed, wrapped in a piece of buttered paper, and put into an oval 
stewpan, with a little common broth. Three quarters of an hour be- 
fore sending it to table, put the tongue in the oven, or on a slow fire, to 
get warmed through ; then glaze it, and dish it up with some prepared 
spinach (No. 11^) round it, pour a little espagnole sauce, or some half 
glaze round the base^ and serve. 

831. OX-TONGUE, WITH BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, except that 
Brussels sprouts (No. 1 192), must be substituted for spinach. 

832. OX -TONGUE, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Preparb the tongue as in the foregoing cases, and when about to send 
to table, glaze and dish it up with a white macedoine of vegetables 
(No. 143) placed neatly round it^ and serve. 

833. OX-TONGUE, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Thb tongue when dished up, must be garnished round with groups of 
glazed carrots and turnips cut in small fancy shapes^ and boiled in broth 
with a pinch of sugar and a little salt, previously to their being boiled 
down in their own glaze; these must be alternated with similar 
groups of flowrets of cauliflowers, heads of asparagus-peas, or French- 
beans cut in the form of diamonds and boiled green. Pour some half 
glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base, and send to table. 

834. BRAIZED OX-TONGUE, A l'aLLEMANDE. 

Scald a fresh ox-tongue in boiling water upon the fire for about ten 
minutes ; then, immerse it in cold water, remove the root and any super- 
fluous fat. Next, place the tongue in an oval stewpan with a canx)t, an 
onion, one head of celery, a garnished faggot, four cloves, and a blade of 
mace ; add a glass of brandy and sufficient good broth or stock to cover 
the whole, and set it to braize very gently for two hours and a half upon 
a slow fire. When the tongue is done, take it out of the braize, trim and 
put it into a stewpan with its own liquor previously divested of all the 
grease, strained through a sieve, and boiled down to half its quantity. 
About half an hour before sending to table, set the tongue on a very slow 
fire to simmer until it is warmed through ; roll it in its glaze, dish it up 
with some cherry sauce ^ la Victoria (No. 64) under it, garnish it 
round with a border of potato quenelles (No. 312), and serve. 

836. OX-TONGUE, WITH SAUER-KRAUT. 

For this purpose choose a smoked tongue, and let it soak in cold water 
for four and twenty hours previously to its being dressed. The tongue must 
now be parboiled for half an hour, and immersed in cold water ; then re- 
move the root, and truss it with a skewer and some string to keep it in 
shape ; next, place it in an oval stewpan with one pound and a half of 
Mtier-kraut (previously well washed in several waters^ two carrots, two 
onions stuck with six cloves, and a garnished faggot ot parsley ; moisten 
with sufficient stockpot toppings to cover the whole; place a well- 
buttered pi^r on the top, and cover with a lid containing some live 
embers of charcoal ; then set this to braize very gently on a slow fire. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 253 

for about three hours. When the tongue is done, take it up on a dish, 
trim it, and put it in a small oval stewpan with a little good stock, to be 
kept hot by the side of the stove. Meanwhile, remove the carrot, onion, 
and faggot of parsley from the muer-hraut, and afterwards press it in a 
napkin to absorb all the grease. Then, glaze the tongue, and place it in 
its dish, garnish it neatly round with the satier-kraut, and put a border 
of small turned carrots (previously boiled and glazed for the purpose) 
round the base ; pour some poivrade sauce over the whole, and serve. 

^ote, — Rein-deer tongues may be dressed in the same manner as the 
foregoing; they must however, be soaked in cold water for four and 
twenty hours previously to their being dressed. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 



1. Mutton Cutlets, sautbbs. 



COMPRISING 



Mutton Cutlets, plain. Mutton Cutlets, with Pur^ of Endires, 
„ hla Minute, &C. 

^ hla AfaifUenon, „ h la Nwernaiat^ S[c. 

„ a la Bouj-ffuu/notte. „ with New Potatoes, &c 



836. MUTTON CUTLETS, PLAIN. 

Choosb a neck of mutton that has been killed at least four days, saw 
off the scrag end, and as much of the rib-bones as may be necessary in 
order to leave tJie cutlet-bones not more than three inches and a half 
long: the spine-bones must also be removed with the saw, without dam- 
aging the fillet. Next, cut the neck of mutton thus trimmed, into as 
many cutlets as there are bones ; detatch the meat from the upper part 
of each bone, about three-quarters of an inch, then dip them in water 
and flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away the sinewy part, and any 
superfluous fat. The cutlets must then be seasoned with pepper and salt, 
passed over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and nicely 
broiled, over or before a clear fire. When they are done, dish them up 
neatly, and serve with plain brown gravy under them. 

Cutlets prepared in this way may also be served with either of the 
following sauces: Poor-man's, piquatUef Italian, tomata, provengale, 
poivrade^ shalot, gravy. 

837. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MINUTE, 
Trim the cutlets as above, then season with pepper and salt, and 
place them in a sautapan with about two ounces of clarified butter. The 
cutlets must be fried over a rather brisk fire, of a brown colour ; then, 
pour off the grease, and add a large gravy-spoonful of Eipagnole sauce, a 
piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; set the cutlets again on 



254 ENTREE8 OF MUTTON. 

the fire to simmer gently for two minutes, dish them up, and pour their 
sauce over them. 

The centre of this erUrie may be filled with mashed potatoes, mashed 
turnips, spinach, potatoes d la maUre (fhStel, &c. 

838. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MAINTENON. 

Thbsb are prepared in the first instance, according to the former part 
of the directions for cutlets d la minute ; season with pepper and salt, 
add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same quantity of parsley, 
and three shalots also chopped. Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, 
pour off the grease, and add two large spoonfuls of brown sauce, a 
very little grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; allow the whole to 
simmer together on the fire for five minutes, and then set them in 
the larder to cool. Meanwhile, take as many sheets of large sized 
note paper as there are cutlets, cut each somewhat in the form of 
a heart, and then let them be oiled. Next, place a cutlet with an 
equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and with the fore 
finger and thumb of the right hand, twist the edges of the paper tightly 
under into very close folds: and repeat this with the remainder. A 
quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven in 
a sautapan, to get warm through ; then with a heated iron skewer, mark 
the papers so as to make it appear that they have been broiled ; dish them 
up on a napkin with fried parsley in the centre, and send some brown 
Italian or fine-herbs sauce in a boat. 

838. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Trim the cutlets and arrange them in circular order in a sautapan with 
a little clarified butter. Then, fry them quickly on a brisk fire to brown 
them on both sides, and before they are quite done, pour off all the grease ; 
add half a pint of red wine (Port or Claret), about half a pottle of pre- 
pared mushrooms, and the same quantity of small button-onions, (pre- 
viously simmered in a little butter, over a slow fire until nearly done) ; 
season with a pinch of minionette-pepper and a little salt, some grated 
nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar ; set the whole to boil on the 
stove for two minutes, and then add a small ladleful of brown sauce ; 
allow the cutlets (covered) to simmer very gently on a slow fire for twenty 
minutes, by which time they will be done, and the sauce sufiiciently re- 
duced. The cutlets must then be dished up closely, in a circle ; add half 
a glass of red wine and a dozen small g^itenelles to the sauce, boil the 
whole together for a minute, and garnish the centre of the erUrie with the 
mushrooms, &c., pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 

840. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF ENDIVES. 

Thesb are prepared and finished in the same manner as the cutlets 
d la minute ; and when they are dished up, the centre of the eiiirie 
must be filled with tLpurie of endives (No. 114). 

Note. — Cutlets dressed in this way may be served with pUr6es of 
vegetables of all sorts. 



MUTTON CUTLETS BREAD-CBUMBED. 255 



041. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Trim and prepare the cutlets as in the foregoing case, and when they 
have been fried brown, pour off the grease, and add a garnish of 
carrots and turnips d, la nivemaise (No. 137); allow the whole to sim- 
mer gently on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, dish up the cutlets, 
and fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree^ 
and serve. 

842. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Thb cutlets, when fried, may be glazed, then dished up, and the 
garnish (i la nivemaise placed in the centre. The advantage of the first 
method is, that the cutlets partake of the flavour of the* vegetables by 
simmering with them. 

843. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH NEW POTATOES. 

These are prepared in the same way as cutlets d la minute, and when 
dished up, must be garnished with new potatoes d la maitre cThdtel 
(No. 11 88). 

Mutton cutlets prepared in this manner may be garnished with any 
of the following vegetable garnishes, viz.. Jardiniere, macedoine, aspara- 
gus-peas, stewed peas, Brussels sprouts, &c. 



^. Mutton Cutlets brbad-crumbed, 

COMPRI8INO 

Mutton Cutlets Breadcrumbed, and broiled Mutton Cutlets Braadcrumbed, k la Bri- 

with Shalot Grary. totnte, 

„ „ with Purie of Mush- n %* ^^ Macedoine. 

rooms. ,. M hVIndietme, 

„ M with Cucumbers. „ „ with Purfy of Chest- 

„ n d la MUanaiae. nuts. 

844. MUTTON CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED AND BROILED WITH 
SHALOT GRAVY. 

Trim the cutlets in the usual manner, and season them with pepper 
and salt ; then egg them slightly over with a paste-brush dipped in two 
yolks of eggs, beaten up on a plate for the purpose; pass each cutlet 
through some fine bread-crumbs; then dip them separately in some 
clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over once more ; pat them into 
shape with the blade of a knife, and lay them on a gridiron, to be 
broiled over a clear fire, of a light brown colour ; then, glaze and dish 
them up, and serve them with plain or shalot gravy. These cutlets may 
also be served with any of the sauces directed to be used for plain 
broiled cutlets. 

846. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OP MUSHROOMS. 

Bread-crumb the cutlets as in the foregoing case; then, place them 
in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, fry them over a brisk fire, 
of a light colour, and when done, remove them on to a napkin or a sheet 



256 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

of paper, and glaze them ; dish them up, fill the centre with a white 
puree of mushrooms (No. 1 22), pour some half glaze round the entree, 
and serve. 

846. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and garnish them, 
when dished up, with some scollops of cucumbers (No. 138). 

847. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MILANAISE. 

In this case, the bread-crumbs used for the cutlets must be mixed 
with 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese ; in other respects they are to be 
bread-crumbed as before. When about to send to table, the cutlets 
should be fried of a light colour, glazed, and dished up ; and the centre 
garnished with some macaroni, Snished with grated Parmesan cheese, 
and a spoonful of bechamel, or any other white sauce; pour some 
pi'oven^ale sauce (No. 25) round the base of the entree and serve. 

848. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BRETONNE. 

Thbsb are prepared and finished in the same way as cutlets gar* 
nished with a puree of mushrooms, with this exception, that the centre 
must be filled with small potatoes previously cut or scooped in the form 
of olives, and firied in butter, of a yellow colour ; pour some brAonne 
sauce (No. 27) under the cutlets^ and serve. 

840. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and when they are 
dished up, garnish the centre with a macedaine of vegetables (No. 143), 
pour some half glaze round the base of the entree, and serve. 

860. MUTTON CUTLETS, A L'iNDIENNE. 

Bread-crumb, fry, glaze, and dish up the cutlets ; then garnish the 
centre with two dozen small quenelles of anchovies (No. 246), the force- 
meat of which must be mixed with a little strong curry sauce (No. 
47), pour some mangoe sauce under the cutlets, and serve. 

The mangoe sauce here alluded to, is thus made : — Split a fine man- 
goe, and let the inside be reserved in a small stewpan ; then, cut the 
outside part into narrow strips, and again mince these into shreds, 
or thin scollops, and place them in the stewpan ; add a small ladleful 
of espoffnole sauce (No. 3), boil the whole together for five minutes, 
when it will be fit for use. 

861. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

These, when dished up as in the foregoing cases^ should be garnished 
with a purSe of chestnuts (No. 115), and some thin espoffncle poured 
round them, then serve. 

Note. — Bread-crumbed cutlets may be served with every sort of 
vegetable garnish described in this work, and with all the sauces directed 
to be served with plain cutlets. 



257 



BRAIZED MUTTON CUTLETS, 

COMPRISIMG 

Mutton Cutlets, h la Saubue. Mutton Cutlets, i la Pompadour, 
„ hla L^onnaise. y, ^ la Protxngale, 

w with Furie of Artichokes. ,, ^ ^ Russe, 

y, h la Chipolata, 

862. MUTTON CUTLETS, BRAIZED, A LA SOUBISE, 

Trim one or two necks of mutton (according to the size of the entrhe) 
in the way described for plain cutlets ; the neck must then be cut up into 
thick cutlets, and placed on a dish without being further trimmed. 
Next, cut lib. of fat bacon into narrow strips, about the sixth of an 
uich square, and an inch and a half long, and with these the cutlets should 
be larded in the following manner : — Take a middle-sized larding- pin, 
and run it half through the lean of the cutlet ; then, place a strip of 
bacon in the open end, and draw the larding-pin through, leaving the 
bacon in the cutlet : repeat this, until the cutlet has been studded with 
eight strips of bacon, and proceed in the same manner with the remain- 
der. Strew some of the triihmings over the bottom of a large stewpan, 
or fricandeau pan, and place the cutlets upon them in circular order, 
with the bone-end pointing to the centre ; cover them with the remainder 
of the trimmings, and garnish with a couple of sliced carrots, a large 
onion, stuck with four cloves, a garnished faggot of parsley, and one 
head of celery ; season with a dozen pepper-corns and a blade of mace, 
moisten with a glass of brandy, and sufficient fresk broth or stock to 
cover the whole ; place a buttered paper on this, put on the lid, and set 
the cutlets to braize very gently on a slow fire, or in the oven, for about 
one hour and a half; when they are become nearly tender enough, draw 
the pan off the fire, and allow them to get partially cold in their own 
liquor. The cutlets must then be carefully taken out, one at a time, 
with a small slice or skimmer, and placed in rows on a large earthen 
dish : when the whole are thus removed, another dish must be placed 
upon these to press them slightly, in order to give them an even surface. 
As soon as they have become firm by getting quite cold, trim them 
neatly with a sharp knife, by paring off the surface of each cutlet 
(without waste) so as to show the bacon inserted in the lean ; put 
them into a deep sautapan with some half glaze, made with the broth 
they have been braized in, which must be strained, divested of all 
the grease, clarified, and afterwards boiled down for the purpose. A 
quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets on a brisk fire 
to warm, allow them to boil quickly for five minutes, then roll the sauta- 
pan about carefully, so as to glaze them all over, and dish them up in a 
close circle ; fill the centre with some vmbiae sauce, or puree (No. 1 19), 
pour the remainder of the half glaze round the base of the entree, and 
serve. 

853. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA LYONNAISE. 
Phrpare, finish, and dish up the cutlets, as in the foregoing case; 
then fill the centre with some Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24), and serve. 




258 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 



864. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, WITH PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

These are prepared exactly as for souhise, and when dished up, should 
be garnished with a puree of artichokes (No. 117); pour a little hecJianul 
sauce, or some half glaze round their base, and serve. 

866. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Prepare and dish up these in the same manner as the foregoing ; 
garnish them with a chipoUUa ragotU (No. 190), and serve. 

06(5. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA POMPADOUR. 

These must be prepared, in the first instance, nearly in the same 
manner as the souhise cutlets, except that, instead of the larding, 

they must be studded with red 
tongue and black truffles ; when the 
cutlets, after being braized, have 
been trimmed, mask each of them 
with a coating of reduced soubise 
sauce (No. 119); and when this 
has become firmly set, by cooling 
on the cutlets, dip them separately 
in three whole eggs, seasoned with a 
little salt, and beaten up for the pur- 
pose, and afterwards bread-crumb 
them ; flatten the bread-crumbs on smoothly with the blade of a knife, 
put the cutlets carefully away on a dish in a cool place until within 
twenty minutes of dinner-time. The cutlets must then be placed in 
rows, on the wire lining of a deep frying-pan ; when the hog*s-lard is 
sufficiently hot for the purpose, immerse the cutlets in it, and fry them 
of a deep yellow colour ; then, drain them on a napkin, or a sheet of 
paper, in order to absorb all the grease, and dish them up in a close circle 
upon a vegetable border. Fill the centre with a macedoine of vegeta- 
bles (No. 1 43), pour some half glaze round the base, and serve. 

867. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Braize and trim the cutlets as in the foregoing case ; except that 
in the present instance the cutlets must be left plain, omitting alto- 
gether the larding or studding. While the cutlets are being braized, 
set about making the following preparation : — Cut three Portugal onions 
into very small dice, parboil these in water, drain them on a sieve, and 
then place them in a small stewpan with loz. of fresh butter, the same 
quantity of glaze, a little minionette pepper and salt, and some grateil 
nutmeg ; set the lid on the stewpan, and place the onions on a very slow 
fire, to be thoroughly stewed, without acquiring any colour. Next, add a 
gravy-spoonful of white sauce, a little grated garlic on the point of a 
knife, and stir the whole on the fire until reduced to a paste ; then add 
the yolks of three eggs and a little lemon juice, mix well together, and 
use this preparation to cover the surface of one side only of the cut- 
lets; shake a rather thick coating of bread-crumbs and grated Par- 
mesan cheese, in equal proportions, over this, and then place the cutlets 
in a sautapan containing a little half glaze. About twenty minutes 
before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be wanned through ; 
pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a deep yellow colour, 



BKAIZED MUTTON CUTLETS. 259 

mask them with thin glaze, and dish them up ; then pour some pro- 
ve n^ale sauce (No. 25) under them, and serve. 

858. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA RUSSE. 

Cut twelve thick cutlets, as directed in the first article of this section ; 
inseit eight strips of lean ham through the lean part^ in a circular form ; 
prepare them for braizing in the usual way, and in addition to the cus- 
tomary complement of vegetables and seasoning, add two cloves of 
garlic and a couple of capsicums ; moisten with a pint of Madeira, and 
a quart of good stock ; set the cutlets to braize for an hour and a half, 
on a very slow fire, and when nearly done, remove them from the hre, 
that they may partially cool in their own liquor ; and then put them in 
press between two dishes. When the cutlets are cold, trim them neatly, 
and cover one side only with a rather thick coating of the following prepa* 
ration: — Clean two large sticks of horse-radish, and grate them ; put 
this into a small stewpan with a small pat of butter, two table-spoonfuls 
of French vinegar, a pinch of minionette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a tea-spoonful of sugar ; put the lid on, and set the whole to stew 
very gently for twenty minutes on a very slow fire ; then add two gravy- 
spoonfuls of veloiUe sauce, boil the whole well together for ten minutes, 
mix with this sauce the yolks of four eggs, and a small piece of glaze, 
and use this preparation as directed above. 

Next, mask the coated side of the cutlets with a paste-brush dipped 
in some white of egg that has been beaten up, and sprinkle this surface 
over with very fine bread-crumbs, previously fried of a light colour, with 
a little butter ; place the cutlets in neat order in a sautapan, with a little 
half glaze, and a quarter of an hour before sending to table, put them in 
the oven to be warmed through, without allowing them to acquire any 
more colour ; dish them up with a very small paper ruffle on the bone 
of each cutlet, pour some half glaze (made with their own liquor, 
previously strained, divested of all grease, and afterwards boiled down,) 
under them, and serve. 

Note, — Mutton cutlets, when braized according to any of the foregoing 
directions, may be served with all sorts of dressed vegetables, such 
as stewed peas, asparagus-peas, French-beans, broad-beans, macedoine 
of vegetables, jardiniere^ braized lettuces, &c. and also with all kinds 
of purees of vegetables : for making which, see those articles. 



SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, 



COMPRISINO 



Scollops of Mutton, with Fine-herbe. Scollops of Mutton, with Olives/arctef. 

„ a la Claremont, „ with Muthroomt and 

„ with Oysters. Truffles. 

„ a rjndienne. 

869. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH FINE-HERBS. 
BoN£ a loin of mutton, and with a sharp knife pare off the sinewy 

8 2 



260 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

skin which lies beneath the fat of the upper and under or minion fillets. 
Next, cut these fillets into neatly-trimmed scollops, and place them in 
circular order in a sautapan with two ounces of clarified butter ; season 
with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire, until browned 
on both sides ; then pour off the grease, and add sufficient fine-herbs 
sauce (No. 1 4) for the entree ; allow the whole to simmer together over 
the fire for three minutes, and then dish up the scollops, either in a pyra- 
midal form, in a close circle, or else in an ornamental border of potato or 
rice. These scollops may also be garnished with a border of croquettes of 
mutton, mushrooms, potatoes, or rice. 

Note, — The garnishes here alluded to, will serve for mutton scollops 
generally. 

860. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, A LA CLAREMONT. 
Prepare the scollops as in the foregoing case, fry them brown, pour off 
all the grease, and add enough Claremoni sauce (No. 58) for the eiitree, 
set the whole to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, and serve. 

801. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH OYSTERS. 
These are prepared according to the foregoing directions, and when 
the grease has been poured off, add as much brown oyster sauce (No. 51 ) 
as will suffice for the entree, simmer the whole together on the fire for 
three minutes, and serve. 

802. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, A L'INDIENNE. 

Prepare the scollops in the usual manner, fry them brown, pour off 
the grease, add then some curry sauce (No. 47), and a minced mangoe ; 
simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and send to 
table with some plain boiled rice served separately. 

863. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH OLIVES FARCIES.* 
These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, and when 
they have been fried and the grease poured off, add two dozen olives 
farcies, two large gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a 
little cayenne and lemon -juice, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole 
together, allow the scollops to simmer briskly on the stove-fire for 
three minutes, and then serve. 

864. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH MUSHROOMS AND TRUFFLES. 
Sautez or fry the scollops brown, then pour off the fat, and add a 
small glass of Madeira, a dozen button-mushrooms, three ounces of truffles 
cut into scollops, a little cayenne, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the 
whole together over the stove-fire until mixed, and then add enough 
finished Espagnole sauce for the entree, and a little lemon-juice ; set the 
scollops to simmer on the fire for three minutes, and serve. 

• Olivei /arviM, or stuffed oliyes, are sold in tmall bottles, and may be procured at 
most Italian warehouses. 



261 



BRAIZED CARBONNADES OP MUTTON, 

COMP&ISINO 

Carbonnades of Mutton, a la Ifichelieu. Fillets of Mutton, larded, with Chevreuil 

„ it la Dauphinoite, Sauce, or Roebuck fashion, &c. 

„ a la Flamande. Haricot of Mutton, h la Nivemaise, 



865. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA RICHELIEU^ 
Bone two loins of mutton, leaving the small fillets adhering thereto ; 
divest them of all the inside fat, season with pepper and salt, cut off the 
loose ends and flaps, and then roll them up tight, keeping the fillet in the 
centre ; sew each of them up closely with string and a small trussing 
needle, and tie them round with string to preserve their shape. Next, 
strew the trimmings over the bottom of an oval braizing-pan, place the 
carbonnades upon these, garnish with two carrots, two onions stuck with 
four cloves, two heads of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; 
moisten with a glass of brandy and sufficient broth or stock to cover the 
whole. Braize the carbonnades on a gentle fire for about two hours, and 
allow them partially to cool in their own liquor ; they must then be put 
in press between two dishes taking care that the sewn- up part is placed 
undermost. When cold, trim them neatly in the form of oblong cushions, 
remembering that nearly the whole of the fat which covers them must 
be left on : this, however, must be pared smooth. Strain their liquor, re- 
move the grease, clarify it in the usual way, and then boil it down to 
half glaze, half of which is to be put with the carbonnades in a covered 
fricandeau-ipaxi, to warm them in ; the remainder being used to work the 
sauce with. Half an hour before sending to table, put the carbonnades 
in the oven to be warmed through ; then take the lid off, allow their sur- 
face to dry, and baste them frequently with their own glaze, imtil they 
assume a bright shiny surface ; they must then be placed side by side in 
their dish, garnished with potatoes previously cut in the form of olives, 
and fried in clarified butter; pour a richdieu ragotU (No. 210) under 
them, and serve. 

866. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

BoNB two loins of mutton, remove all the inside fat and the small 
fillets ; season with pepper and salt, and spread some highly-seasoned 
veal force-meat on the inside ; they must then be rolled, sewn up 
and afterwards corded round with string to make them retain their shape. 
Braize the carbonnades in the same way as the foregoing, and when 
done, put them in press, and cut each into six pieces in the form of 
a pointed scollop ; trim these neatly, put them on an earthen dish, 
and then cover them over with a thin coating of cf UxelUs sauce (No. 1 6). 
Next remove them to a cold place that the sauce may the sooner be- 
come firmly set; then dip each separately in some beaten egg, and 
bread-crumb them. About twenty minutes before sending to table, 
place the carbonnades upon the wire lining of a frying-pan, immerse 
them in some clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and fry 
them of a light brown colour ; drain them upon a napkin, and disk tV^^&'ccw 



262 ENTUEES OF MUTTON. 

up in a circular form, with tlie pointed ends placed towards the centre, 
80 as to make them fit in with each other. Fill the centre with a group of 
small tomatas " au gratin " (No. 1 1 60), and place also a border of these 
round the base ; pour some provengale (No. 25) under the carhonnades, 
and serve. 

867. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Prepare these as in the first case ; and when they are become suffici- 
ently cold, cut each into six pieces in the form of pointed scollops, trim 
them smoothly and neatly, and then place them in a deep sautapan with 
some half glaze made fi-om their own liquor. Half an hour before send- 
ing to table, put them in the oven to be warmed and glazed, as before di- 
rected ; dish them up as in the preceding case, fill the centre with some 
prepared brussels sprouts (No. 156), over the part where the carhoiinades 
join to each other ; place a crescent of turnip round the base of the 
sprouts, add a neat border of glazed carrots, and garnish the base of the 
entrie with a jardiniere (No. 1 44) ; pour some bright thin espagnoU 
sauce under the entree, and serve. 

Note.'-Carhoiinades prepared and trimmed as directed in Nos. 865 
and 867, may also be served with every sort of vegetable garnish, 
or puree of vegetables, described in this work. 

868. FILLETS OF MUTTON LARDED, WITH CHEVREUIL SAUCE, 

OR ROEBUCK FASHION. 
Remove the fillets from two loins of mutton, pare off all the sinewy 
skin that lies beneath the fat, and divide each fillet, lengtliwise, into 
four, these, together with the smaller fillets thus trimmed also, vnll make 
up ten ; trim these and lard them closely with strips of fat bacon, in 
the usual way. The fillets must then be steeped in a cold niaHnad^ 
(No. 234) for about forty-eight hours ; afler which, drain them upon 
a napkin to absorb any unnecessary moisture. Next, place the fillets in 
a sautapan thickly spread with butter, and turn them round in a semi- 
circular form ; moisten with a little mirepoix (No. 236), or a glass of 
Sherry ; cover them with a buttered paper and set them in the oven to 
simmer for about twenty minutes ; they must then be glazed, trimmed 
neatly round the ends, and dished up in a close circle, overlapping each 
other ; fill the centre with potatoes cut in the form of olives, and fried in 
butter ; pour some poivrade sauce (No. 29) under the fillets, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of mutton prepared as the foregoing, may also be gar- 
nished with quenelles of potatoes, with chevreuil sauce (No. 69), 
Victoria sweet sauce, tomata, piquante, gherkins, or provetifole sauce. 

869. HARICOT OF MUTTON, A LA NIVERNAISE. 
Cut a neck of mutton into untrimmed cutlets, pare off any superfluous 
fat, put them into a large stewpan with four ounces of butter, and 
fry them over a brisk fire until they become brown ; then pour off the 
greater portion of grease, and shake in a good handful of flour, stir the 
whole over the fire for about five minutes, moisten with three pints 
of broth, and stir the haricdi on the fire till it boils. Meanwhile, prepare 
some carrots and turnips, cut in the form of small pears, olives, half- 
moons or any other fancy shape, and throw these into the haricdi ; a 



sheep's tongues. 263 

dozen small onions may also be added : season with a garnished faggot 
of parsley, and some minionette pepper. Keep the haricdt gently boil- 
ing by the side of the fire for about one hour and a half; skim off all the 
grease, remove the feggot of parsley, place the cutlets and vegetables in 
another stewpan, and after having boiled the sauce down (if necessary), 
pass it through a tammy upon the cutlets. When about to send to table, 
wann the haricdt, dish the cutlets in the usual manner, fill the centre 
with the vegetables, pour the sauce over all, and serve. 

Note. — Breasts of mutton with the superfluous fat removed, and cut 
into small square pieces, make a very good karicdty or stew. 

The foregoing may be varied by substituting green-peas, young carrots, 
turnips, or new potatoes for the vegetables directed to be used. 



SHEEFS- TONGUES, 



COMPRISING 



Sheep VTongiics, a rEcarlate, with Spi- Sheep VTongues, a la NapoUtaine, 

nach, &c. „ with Gherkin sauce. 

^ a la Mainlenon 

Sheep's tongues should first be pickled in the manner directed for 
briskets of beef, &c. ; for the preparation of which, see No. 564. 

870. sheep's-tongues, a l'ecarlate, with spinach. 

From six to a dozen tongues suffice for an entree; these must be 
braized in some wine mirepoix (No. 286), or common broth, garnished 
with the usual complement of vegetables, ic. : after about three quarters 
of an hour's gentle boiling, they will be done : they must then be placed 
upon a dish, on their sides, and another dish with a weight in it should 
be laid upon them to press them evenly. When the tongues are cold, trim 
them neatly, and place them in a deep sautapau with some half glaze, and 
about twenty minutes before sending to table, put them in the oven, 
to be warmed through, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, 
to prevent their being dried up ; roll them in their glaze, dish them up 
in the same manner as cutlets, fill the centre with spinach (No. 112), 
mix a spoonful of espagnole with the remainder of their glaze, pour it 
round the tongues, and serve. 

871. SHEEP'S-TONGUES, A LA MAINTENON. 
These must first be braized, and when done, put in press between 
two dishes, and afterwards neatly trinmied. The tongues must then 
be finished in every respect the same as mutton cutlets d la main- 
tenon (No. 838). 

872. SHEEP'S-TONOUES, A LA NAPOLITAINE. 
Braize and trim the tongues as above, cover them all over with a thin 
coating of d'Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firmly 



264 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

set, by cooling, dip each tongue in some beaten egg, and roll it in bread- 
crumbs ; flatten them smoothly with the blade of a knife, and then place 
them on a dish in the larder, until within about twenty minutes of dinner- 
time. The tongues must then be fried of a light brown colour, in clean 
hog*s-lard made hot for the purpose, then drained upon a napkin, 
and dished up in the form of a close circle, the centre of which must 
be filled with macaroni dressed with cheese and a little bechaniel sauce ; 
pour some Napolitaine sauce (No. 63), under them, and serve. 

873 sheep's- TONGUES, WITH GHERKIlf SAUCE. 
pRBPABB, finish, and dish up the tongues according to the directions in 
the first case, pour some gherkin sauce (No. 19) in the centre of the 
entree, and serve. 

Note, — Sheep's-tongues prepared after the foregoing directions, may be 
served with every kind of brown sauce or ragorU ; and also with any of 
the vegetable .garnishes or purSes described in this work. 



SHEEFS-HEAD AND KIDNEYS, 

COMPRISING 

SheepVKidneys, 5 la BrocketU, SheepVKidncys, with fine-herbs. 

„ breadcnunbed, h VEptcu- „ a la CUtremont, 

rienne, SheepVHead, a la GaUimaufri. 

874. SHEEP'S-KIDNEYS, A LA BROCHETTE. 

Slit the kidneys lengthwise, without cutting through the sinew ; re- 
move the thin skin which covers them, and place them in a small dish ; 
season with pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of salad oil, and allow 
them to steep in their seasoning until broiled. They must then be run 
on a small silver or any other kind of skewer, (two or three on each) and 
placed upon a gridiron over a clear fire to be broiled, with the open 
side downwards; when done brown, they must be turned up, as, 
from the heat of the fire, their sides become contracted, which causes 
them to form a sort of cup, to hold the gravy in when the kidneys are done : 
care must be taken not to spill this gravy in dishing them up : fill each 
with a small piece of cold maUre-cC hotel butter (No. 44), pour a little 
half glaze under them, and send to table quite hot. 

Broiled kidneys may also be served with anchovy butter, plain gravy, 
or a pat of fresh butter, and a spoonful of Harvey sauce. 

876 SHEEP'S-KIDlfEYS BREADCRUMBED, A L'EPICURIENNE. 
^ Split the kidneys as before directed, season them with pepper and salt, 
dip them in clarified butter, and roll them in fresh-made bread-crumbs ; 
place them on the skewers, and broil them on both sides : when done 
dish them up with a small piece of epicurean butter (No. 186) in ea^, 
the juice of a lemon and a Httle half-glaze under them, and serve quite 
hot 



SHEEP'S-HEAD, AND KIDNEYS. 265 

876. sheep's- KIDNEYS, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Prepare some^ fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), slit the kidneys lengthwise, 
quite through ; remove the skin, and then slice them into thin scollops. 
Place a sauta or frying-pan, with two ounces of butter in it, on a brisk 
fire ; fry the kidneys brown, then add a glass of Sherry or Madeira ; let 
this boil till reduced, then pour in the sauce prepared for the purpose, 
allow the whole to simmer together on the stove for three minutes, dish 
them up with some pastry /ewroTW round them, and serve. 

877. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Prepare the kidneys in thin scollops, season with pepper and salt, and 
fry them brown in a little butter ; then throw in a table-spoonful of 
chopped mushrooms, the same of parsley, and two shalots, also 
chopped ; after allowing the whole to fry a few minutes longer, shake 
in a table-spoonful of flour, mix together, and moisten with a glass of 
Sherry; let this boil for two minutes, then add a large spoonful of 
brown gravy or broth ; allow the whole to simmer on the fire for five 
minutes, add a little lemon juice, and serve. 

878. SHEEP'S-KIDNEYS, A LA CLAREMONT. 

Scollop and fry the kidneys as directed for those dressed with fine 
herbs ; and when they are browned, add some ClaremorU sauce (No. 58) ; 
simmer the whole together for three minutes, and serve with a border of 
potato croquettes. 

879. SHEEP's-HEAD, A LA GALLIMAUFRE. 

Procure the head and pluck of afresh-killed sheep, split the head into 
halves, remove the brains, steep the whole in water, and wash them 
thoroughly. Next, place the head, heart, and liver in a stewpan, with 
carrot, onion, garnished &ggot of parsley, and green onions, two blades of 
mace, a dozen cloves, and a tea-spoonful of peppercorns ; moisten with a 
glass of brandy, and sufficient broth or water (if the latter be used, salt 
must be added) ; cover the whole with buttered paper, and put the lid 
on ; then set the stewpan on a gentle fire to braize for about one hour and 
a half. When the head, &c., are done, take them up carefully on a dish, 
strain the broth, and after having divested it of all grease, boil down one 
half to thin glaze, and with the remainder make some brown sauce. The 
pieces of the head should be trimmed, seasoned with pepper and salt, 
chopped parsley, and two shalots, then rubbed over with a paste brush 
dipped in beaten egg, well covered with bread-crumbs, and placed on a 
dish in the larder. The liver and heart must be minced up fine, and when 
the sauce has been reduced to the usual consistency, add it to the mince 
together with a spoonful of fine-herbs and a little lemon-juice. When 
about to send to table make the mince quite hot, and turn it out on its 
dish, place the pieces of the head — ^previously broiled on both sides, of a 
bright yellow colour, and afterwards nicely glazed — upon the mince; 
pour some of the thin glaze round the entries and serve. 

Note, — Sheep's or lamb's heads, when braized and bread-crumbed, may 
also be served with any kind of sharp sauce. 



266 



ENTREES OF VEAL, 

COMPRISING 

Fricandeau, with Pur^e of Green- peas. Veal Cutlets, H la Dreux, 

„ a hi Maoedoiney etc. „ a la Perigord. 

Noir of Veal, k la Regeiice. „ a la Zimjara. 

„ a la Toulouse. „ a la Duehesse. 

(wtenadina of Veal, with Spinach, &c. „ in Pajnlloifes. 

Tendons of Veal, with stewed Peas, &c. Dlanquetie of Veal, with Mushrooms, &c. 

„ a la Vilieroiy with Pur^e Ch-ogueites of Veal. 

of Celery, &c Veal and Ham Scollops, with Italian Sauce. 

Veal Kernels, with Puree of Artichokes. Scotch Scollops. 

M k la Talleyrand. Minced Veal, and Poached Eg^. 

Veal Cutlets, d la FinancUre, „ a la Portttguaiae, 

880. FRICANDEAU, WITH PUREE OF GREEx\-PEAS. 
The fricandeau piece consists of that part of the leg of veal gene- 
rally called the cusldoih and is found on the inner side of the leg, lying 
immediately under the udder or fatty covering. This part must be care- 
fully cut out, by making a semicircular incision from one end round to the 
other, following the evident natural indication. Flatten the piece of veal 
slightly with a cutlet -bat, and then pare off the upper and under sinewy 
covering, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. The fricandeau must 
then be closely larded with the strips of fat bacon in the usual manner. 
Next, strew the bottom of a fricandeau pan with sliced carrot, onion, 
and celery, and a well-garnished faggot of parsley and green onions ; 
cover these over with thin layers of fat bacon, and then place the frican- 
deau on the top of all ; moisten with good stock or broth in sufficient 
quantity to reach up to the larding, but not to cover it under ; place a 
round of paper well buttered on the top, and cover with the lid. The 
fricandeau should be allowed to braize very gently for about three hours, 
either in the oven or upon a very slow stove-fire, during which time it 
must be frequently basted with its own liquor; when nearly done, 
the paper and the lid must be altogether removed, in order to enable the 
larding to dry, and it should be frequently basted with its own glaze, 
to give it a bright shiny appearance. Care must be taken to prevent 
the fricandeau from acquiring too much colour during the latter part 
of the process. Put somepttr^eof green-peas (No. 106) in the centre 
of the dish, and with two forks carefully lift up the fricandeau^ and 
place it upon the jmr^e ; pour a little half-glaze round the base, and 
serve. 

Note, — Fricandeatuc prepared as above may also be served with every 
kind of vegetable purSe or garnish described in this work. 

881. FRICANDEAU, A LA MACEDOINE. 
This must be trimmed and larded as in the foregoing case; then an in- 
cision of about three inches in length should be cut through its entire 
thickness, and a round or oval tin cutter placed therein to distend the hol- 
low part, so as to give it the appearance of a circle. Prepare and braize the 
fricandeau as before, and when done place it in its dish upon a base of 



NOIX OF VEAL, 267 

gvenelle force-meat ; fill the centre of \h^ fricandeaa with a well- prepared 
Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), round which place a neatly-arranged 
border of small spring turnips split into halves turned in the shape of 
deep cups, and filled with green-peas ; ornament the base of the 
fricandeau with a border of young spring carrots, nicely glazed ; pour 
some thin Espagnole round the entree^ and serve. 

882. NOIX* OF VEAL, A LA REGENCE. 

In this case the udder must be left adhering to the noix^ or cushion of 
veal ; it must be neatly trimmed, and the udder made to represent the 
form of a half-moon, with the lean part (within the inner semi-circle) 
smoothly pared, and larded ip the same manner as a fiicandeau. This 
should then be placed in an oval stewpan upon a bed of vegetables, covered 
with layers of fat bacon, moistened with half a pint of Sherry or Madeira, 
and about a pint of good stock. The udder must be covered with layers 
of fat bacon, to preserve it white ; then place a thickly -buttered paper over 
all, and cover with the lid. The noix must be very gently braized on a 
slow fire, or in the oven, and frequently basted with its own liquor, 
— care being taken that the larding is nicely glazed; when nearly 
done, the bacon must be removed from the udder, and the w^w: 
placed in its dish ; garnish it round with a Jlnanciere ragout (No. 
188), incorporated with the glaze from the noix; stick three orna- 
mental silver skewers previously garnished with a large truffle, cock's- 
comb, and a crayfish in the udder, glaze the larding, and serve. 

883. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Prepare this as in the foregoing case, and when dished up, garnish 
with a white Toulouse ragout {l^o. 187), using aUemande sauce for the 
pui-pose) : stick in three ornamental sUver skewers, garnished with a 
large cock*s-comb, a truffle, and a decorated quenelle; keep the udder 
white, glaze the larding, and serve. 

Note. — This entree may also be served with a garnish of prepared 
vegetables d la Macedoine (No. 1 43). 

884. GRENADINS OF VEAL, WITH SPINACH, ETC. 
Trim a fricandeau piece of white veal, and cut this into eight or ten 
fillets, beginning at the thick end ; these must be flattened with a cutlet- 
bat dipped in water, and trimmed somewhat in the shape of fillets of 
fowl ; they should then be closely larded with fat bacon, placed in neat 
order in a deep sauta, or fricandeau pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables 
covered over with layers of fat bacon ; moisten with sufficient good stock, 
just to reach up to the larding, place the buttered paper, and cover with 
the lid. The grenadine will require to be braized for about one hour and 
a quarter, during which time they must be frequently basted ; when 
nearly done, remove the paper and glaze them. Next, drain them on a 
napkin, trim them, and dish them on a foundation of force-meat, in close 
order ; fill the centre with some puree of spinach, pour some half glaze 
round the base of the entree (made with the liquor from the grenadine), 
and serve. 

* \ou is the French technical term for that part of a leg of veal generally used fi>r 
/ricandt'auu-: the English term fur which is, euskioHy or moMie-piece. 



268 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

Note. — Grenadim may also be garnished with all kinds of ragovU 
and vegetable garnishes directed to be served with fricandeaux. 

885. TENDONS OF VEAL, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Tendons of veal consist of that part which lies along the breast 
end of the ribs, forming an opaque gristly substance, which in the ox 
becomes bone. To extract these an incision must be made right 
down the extreme edge of the breast of veal, without damaging the 
tendons, which should then be laid quite bare with the knife up to the 
commencement of the ribs, where they must be divided from them. The 
bony part, if any remain, must be pared aw^ay, and the tendons put to 
steep in water for an hour or so. They must then be tied up securely 
with string, and put to boil in the stockpot for about four hours ; or 
else, if there be no stockpot boiling at the time, place them in a 
stewpan, with the usual complement of vegetables and seasoning, co- 
vered over with a buttered paper ; moisten with three quarts of 
fresh broth, or water, set them to braize on a slow fire, for about four 
hours, and when done, put them in press between two dishes, until they 
are cold. The tendons must then be cut slantwise, into rather large 
scollops, measuring about two inches in diameter, and when neatly 
trimmed, should be placed in a sautapan with some half-glaze to warm 
them in. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the tendons in 
the oven, or on the stove-fire, to simmer for ten minutes ; then, allow 
them to boil briskly, so as to reduce the glaze, in which they must be 
gently rolled, to make it adhere to them ; dish them up in a close 
circle upon a base of qiienelle force-meat, fill the centre with stewed 
peas, pour a little thin espagnole sauce into the sautapan, to be 
mixed with the glaze by boiling, use this to put round the erUrie, and 
serve. 

Note. — Tendons of veal, prepared as above, may also be served with 
every other kind of dressed vegetable garnishes, as well as with all sorts 
of purees of vegetables ; for making which see those articles. 

886. TENDONS OF VEAL, A LA VILLEROI, WITH PUREE OF 

CELERY. 

Prbparb, braize, and trim the tendons, as directed in the foregoing 
case ; put them on a large earthen dish, and mask them over with a 
coating of stiffly reduced cUlemande sauce ; when this has become firmly 
set upon the tendons, by cooling, let them be dipped in beaten egg and 
bread-crumbed, and afterwards fried of a light colour in clean hog*s lard, 
made quite hot for the purpose. Let them be dished up in a close 
circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with some puree of celery 
(No. 110), pour some half glaze or a little suprime or beckamd sauce 
round the entrie, and send to table. 

Note. — Tendons prepared in this manner may also be garnished as 
the former. 

887. VEAL KERNELS, WITH PUREE OF ARTICHOKES, 
Veal kernels are an oblong fatty substance, containing a kind of 
small kidney of great delicacy, lying to the left of the blade-bone of the 
shoulder ; these must be steeped in water for about an hour, then par- 



VEAL-KERNELS, AND CUTLETS. 269 

boiled for five minutes, immersed in cold water, diuined upon napkin, 
and put in press between two dishes. From ten to sixteen kernels 
suffice for an eiitree. The kernels must be trimmed without waste, and 
placed in a deep circular /riccrnc^aM pan, upon thin layers of white veal ; 
then moisten with some white wine mirepoix (No. 236), and set them 
on a slow fire to braize very gently for about three quarters of an hour, 
bearing in mind that the heat of the stove is to be so regulated as to cause 
their liquor to be reduced to one-half its original quantity. The kernels 
must then be carefully removed into a sautapan, and their half-glaze, 
when strained and divested of all grease, poured upon them. Place 
them on a brisk fire, and let them boil quickly till their moisture 
is reduced to a glaze, roll them gently in this, causing as much of it as 
possible to adhere to them, to give them a bright appearance. Then, 
dish them up in a close circle upon a base of force-meat of veal, with a 
crouton of fried bread of the same shape, between each kernel ; fill the 
centre with some purSe of artichokes (No. 1 1 7), pour some half-glaze 
round the entree, and serve. 

Note, — Veal kernels prepared and dished up in this manner may be 
garnished with all kinds of dressed vegetables and puries. 

888. VEAL KERNELS, A LA TALLEYRAND. 
Parboil and trim the kernels, then place them in a fi*icandeau pan 
between thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix 
(No. 236), and braize them gently for three quarters of an hour ; when 
done, put them on an earthen dish to cool, and mask each of them all 
over with a coating of stiffly -reduced allemande sauce, mixed with loz. 
of truffles, chopped fine ; when the sauce has become firmly set as it 
cools, dip each in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them carefully. 
About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry them of a bright yellow 
colour, with clarified butter, in a deep sautapan ; drain them upon a nap- 
kin, dish them up in a circle, ganiish the centre with a ragout composed 
of small scollops of fat livers, truffles, mushrooms, and cock's kernels, the 
whole of which must be tossed in good allemande sauce ; pour some thin 
Espagiiole sauce (finished with some of the mirepoix) under the kernels, 
and serve. 

889. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FINANCIERE. 
Procurb a neck of very white veal, saw oflT the chine bone, and the 
upper end of the ribs, leaving the cutlet-bones about three inches and a 
half long ; then, divide it into cutlets ; flatten these with a bat dipped 
in water, trim them neatly, and lard the lean of the cutlets closely with 
bacon, in the usual way. Next, prepare the cutlets for braizing in the 
same manner as directed for ts, fricandeau ; about one hour and a quarter 
will suffice to braize them, when they must be nicely glazed, dished up 
with the larded part of the cutlet uppermost, and the centre of the 
entree filled with a rich financiere ragout (No. 1 88) ; pour some of the 
sauce round the base of the cutlets, and serve. 

890. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA DREUX. 
These should be cut rather thicker than usual, but neither flattened nor 
trinmied ; they must be interlarded or studded through the lean part with 
about a dozen oblong pieces of red tongue, or ham, and black truffles 



270 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

about an inch long and a quarter of an inch in depth and thickness ; 
these must be placed in a braizing-pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables 
covered with thin layers of fat l^on, some mace, four cloves, twelye 
peppercorns and a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions in the 
centre, and the whole again covered with layers of bacon ; moisten with 
two glasses of Sherry and as much good stock as will suffice to cover the 
surface of the cutlets, and set them to braize on a slow fire for about one 
hour and a half, with the lid on ; when done, allow them partially to cool 
in their own liquor. Then, put them in press between two dishes, and when 
cold, let them be trimmed smooth, so as to show the truffle and tongue- 
studding. They should next be placed in a sautapan with some half glaze, 
made from their own liquor, and put away in the larder. Twenty 
minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be warmed 
through, then place them on the stove- fire to glaze ; dish them up in a 
close circle, fill the centre with a white Tovlovae I'agoiU (No. 187), pour 
some tliin Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

891. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA PERIQORD. 

Tbim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, then dip them in 
some whipped white of eggs, and afterwards in some black truffles chopped 
very fine ; flatten this on securely \vith the blade of a knife, and 
place them in clarified butter in a sautapan, in circular order. Twenty 
minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a gentle fire, on both 
sides, until done through — taking care that the chopped truffles do not 
bum : when done, drain them on a piece of paper, glaze, and dish them 
up, fill the centre with scollops of red tongue and truffles ; pour some 
Firigtieux sauce (No. 23) under, and serve. 

892. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA ZINGARA. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place them 
in a sautapan with some clarified butter. In another sautapan, prepare a 
similar number of thin oval scollops of raw ham. When about to send 
to table, fry the cutlets and the ham, glaze both, and dish them up — alter- 
nately placing a cutlet and a piece of ham ; fill the centre with scol- 
loped mushrooms and tmffles, pour some thin espagnole sauce into the 
sautapan the cutlets have been fried in, to this add a little cayenne, and 
lemon juice, simmer these together on the fire, pour the sauce over the 
cutlets, and serve. 

893. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA DUCHESSE. 
Preparb these in the same way as the cutlets, d, la Dreux ; and when 
they have been trimmed, mask them all over with a coating of aUlei 
sauce (No. 36) and breadcrumb them as for a VUleroi. Fry the cutlets 
of a bright yellow colour in clarified butter, dish them up, and fill the 
centre with circular scollops of red tongue and button mushrooms tossed 
in a little thick allemande sauce; pour some tomata sauce (No. 22) round 
the base of the entree, and serve. 

894. VEAL CUTLETS, IN PAPILLOTES. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in 

a little clarified butter ; when they are nearly done, add some mushrooms, 

parsley, and three shalots, the whole chopped fine ; fry these together over 

the fire for five minutes, and then add two gravy-spoonfuls of veloutCf or 



VEAL CROQUETTES, AND SCOLLOPS. 271 

any other white sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon juice, and a small piece of 
glaze ; simmer the whole together over a gentle fire for a few minutes, 
then add a leason of four yolks of eggs, toss the cutlets about to mix the 
leason in with the sauce, and let them become cool. In other respects, 
finish in the same way as diiected for mutton cutlets, d la MaiiUenon 
(No. 838). 

895. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

The veal for this purpose must first be roasted, and when cold, cut 
into round thin scollops about an inch in diameter ; to these add, some 
button -mushrooms also cut into scollops, and enough AUemaiuie sauce 
(No. 7) for the entree. Just before sending it to table, warm the 
blcuiguett^, and dish it up with a border of croquettes of veal, of rice, or 
potatoes. This dish may be varied by substituting scollops of truffles, 
cucumbers, or red tongue, for the mushrooms. 

806. CROQUETTES OF VEAL. 
Cut about lib. of roasted veal into very small dice, or mince it into 
very fine shreds ; add this to about half its quantity of mushrooms, 
truffles or red tongue, cut up in the same manner. Next, reduce 
by boiling, enough Allemande, bechamel, velotUe, or supreme sauce for 
the entree ; and when it has become rather stiff, throw in the mince ; 
season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg ; stir the whole well toge- 
ther, and then spread the preparation on a dish, about an inch thick ; 
smooth it over with the blade of a knife, cover with buttered paper, and 
put it into the larder to cool. It must then be divided into about 
two dozen pieces, and each of these rolled in breadcrumbs in the form 
of a common sized cork or a round ball, or in the shape of a pear, and 
after being dipped in some beaten egg, must again be rolled in bread- 
crumbs, and placed on an eailhen dish till within twenty minutes of din- 
ner time ; the croquettes must now be fried in clean hog's-lard made 
quite hot for the purpose, and when done, drained upon a napkin to 
absorb all the grease, then dished up with fried parsley, and served imme- 
diately. 

Note, — When ci'oquettes are shaped in the fonn of pears, some parsley 
stalks of equal lengths should be stuck in at the pointed ends, before 
they are fried, to imitate the stalk of a pear. 

897. VEAL AND UAM SCOLLOPS, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. 
Pbocurb about lib. of veal, either from the leg, the chump-end of 
the loin, or best end of the neck : cut this into round or oval scollops, 
season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with some 
clarified butter; an equal number of similarly cut scollops of ham 
may either be put with these, or separately. Fry the veal and ham 
scollops nicely brown, pour off the grease, add the brown Italian Sauce 
(No. 12) and some button-mushrooms; simmer the whole together for 
three minutes, dish them up, alternately placing a scollop of veal with 
the ham ; fill the centre with the mushrooms, pour the sauce round the 
entree, and serve. 

898. SCOTCH SCOLLOPS. 
Trim the scollops as in the foregoing case, season with parsley and 
shalots chopped fine, pepper and S£dt ; place the scollops after they have 



272 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

been breadcrumbed in the usual way, in a sautapan with a little clarified 
butter ; mark the scollops of ham separately^ prepare also two dozen 
small round quenelles with some highly seasoned y^ force*meat. When 
about to send to table, fry the scollops of veal and ham of a light 
colour^ glaze them^ and dish them alternately in a close circle — 
first placing a scollop of veal and then one of ham ; fill the centre with 
the quenelles (previously poached), pour a little thickened brown gravy 
with a little glaze in it, or some well finished Espa^noU sauce, round the 
entree, and serve. 

899. MINCED VEAL, AXD POACHED EGGS. 

Pare off the outside part of lib. of veal, and then let it be chopped 
very fine or cut it into thin shreds. Put about half a pint of bechamel 
sauce (No. 5) into a stewpan and reduce it by boiling, until it be- 
comes rather thick, then add the minced veal, and a little cream ; season 
with pepper and salt, and a very little nutmeg ; stir the whole well to- 
gether over the fire until warm, and dish it up in conical form; 
place six poached eggs round it with a circular scollop of glazed red 
tongue or ham between each egg ; pour a little bechamel sauce (No. 
5) round the base of the entree, and serve. 

900. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Put a pat of butter into a stewpan on the fire, and when melted, 
throw in a table-spoonful of flour; stir this with a wooden spoon over 
the fire for two minutes ; then gradually mix in half a pint of broth, put 
the sauce on the fire, stirring it until reduced to the thickness of bedia- 
mel sauce ; then add the minced veal, a gill of cream, a small piece of 
glaze, and a little nutmeg, pepper and salt ; stir this on the fire for three 
minutes, and serve as in the foregoing case. 

Note, — Mushrooms, truffles, tongue or ham, either minced or cut into 
shreds, may be added to the veal, in either of the two foregoing cases. 

901. MINCED VEAL, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 
Sbb the directions for dressing beef in this method (No. 810). 



273 



HEART SWEETBREADS/ 

COMPIU8INO 

Sw^tbreads larded, with Stewed Peas,&c Sweetbreads larded, d la St. Cloud. 
M dla Monarque, ^ it la Parisietme. 

t) ^ la Conii. „ &c. 

902. SWEETBREADS LARDED, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Three heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a dish. They must 
be procured quite fresh, otherwise they are unfit for table, and should 
be steeped in water for several hours, and the water frequently 
changed ; the sweetbreads are then to be scalded in boiling water for 
about three minutes, and immersed in cold water for half an hour ; after 
which they must be drained upon a napkin, trimmed free from any 
sinewy fat, and put between two dishes to be slightly pressed flat, and 
then closely larded with strips of bacon in the usual manner. The 
sweetbreads must next be placed in a deep sautapan on a bed of thinly 
sliced carrot, celery and onions, with a garnished faggot of parsley and 
green onions placed in the centre, and covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon. Moisten with about a pint of good stock, place a round of but- 
tered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and after having put the 
sweetbreads to boil on the stove-fire, remove them to the oven or on a 
moderate fire (in the latter case live embers of charcoal must be placed 
on the lid), and allow them to braize rather briskly for about twenty 
minutes — frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, 
remove the lid and paper covering, and set them again in the oven, to dry 
the surface of the larding; daze them nicely, and dish them up on 
some stewed peas (No. 1175). 

Sweetbreads prepared in this way, may also be served with dressed 
asparagus-peas, French-beans, scollops of cucumbers, braized lettuces, 
celery, macedoine of vegetables, jardiniere, and also with every kind of 
vegetable puree described in this work. 

To raise the sweetbreads above the garnish or sauce served with 
them, it is necessary to place as many foundations as there are sweet- 
breads in the dish ; these may be made, either by boiling some rice in 
broth until it becomes quite soft^ then working it into a paste; 
after this has been spread on a dish about an inch thick, a circular tin 
cutter must be used to stamp it out. They may also be prepared from 
veal force-meat, or even fried croiUons of bread will serve the purpose. 

903. SWEETBREADS, A LA MONARQUE. 
These must be larded and braized as the foregoing ; then cut a kind 
of pillar out of a piece of stale bread, of angular shape, about three inches 
high, each side of the angle, measuring about two inches ; this should 
be fried in hog's lard, of a bright yellow colour, and stuck in a perpendi- 
cular position in the centre of the dish with a little paste made of flour 
and egg. The sweetbreads are to be so arranged as to have one end 
resting up against this croustade, and between each a decorated minion 

* Sweetbreads, or Pancreas, are the two white glands foand in calves : the one being 
placed immediately below the throat, and the other of a rounder form, lying nearer the 
heart : hence they arc designated heart and throat sweetbreads : the former is the most 
delicate, and when in perfection, is white and fiit ; the latter is of an elongated form, not 
so fat as the other, and is only used for secondary purposes. 

T 



274 HEART SWEETBREADS. 

fillet of fowl is to be placed ; crown the top with a row of white double 
cock's-combs, stick in an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a laige 
cock's-comb, a mushroom, a large craj'fish and a truffle ; pour n^nanciSre 
ragout (No. 188) round the entree, and serve. 

904. SWEETBREADS, A LA CONTI. 
Aptek the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed flat, make about 
a dozen incisions round the sides of their upper surface with the point of 
a small knife, in a slanting direction, to the depth of half an inch ; in 
these incisions insert circular scollops of black truffle, and repeat this so 
as to form an inner circle in the same manner. Next, prepare the sweet- 
breads for braizing, placing them upon a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, 
onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of bacon, layers of the same 
being placed also over the sweetbreads ; moisten with good white stock, 
and braize the sweetbreads about twenty minutes. When the sweetbreads 
are done, drain them on a napkin, and glaze them lightly, without diying 
the glaze on ; when about to dish them up, garnish with a ragout com- 
posed of small quenelles of fowl, button mushrooms, cocks-combs and 
kernels, crown the whole with a large truffle, place a crayfish between 
each sweetbread, pour some Phigu/tux sauce (No. 23) under the entrie^ 
and serve. 

Note, — The sweetbreads may be varied by scolloping one-half with 
truffle, and the remainder with red tongue, or mixing the latter with 
green gherkins. 

905. SWEETBREAD, A LA ST. CLOUD. 
Thesb should be scalded and pressed in the usual way, and 
studded over in neat circular order with pieces of black truffle or red 
tongue, cut out in the form of large hob-nails ; then make twelve openings 
with a blunt wooden skewer in each sweetbread, and introduce in these 
the nail-like pieces of tongue perpendicularly. Braize them according 
to the directions for the foregoing, and when done, dish them up with a 
white Toulouse ragout (No. 187); garnish the entree round the base 
with a border of small quenelles decorated with truffles, and place a group 
of trimmed crayfish- tails, previously tossed in a little glaze, coloured with 
lobster-coral ; slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. 

906. SWEETBREADS, A LA PARISIENNE. 
After the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed, let them be 
larded in the following manner : one with shreds of very black truffles, 
another with shreds of the tip of a red tongue, and the third with some 
green stalks of parsley ; braize them between layers of fiit bacon, and 
moisten with a wine mirepoix (No. 236). When they are done, dish 
them up against a triangular croustade garnished with a well-arranged 
Parisian ragout (No. 203) ; stick an ornamental silver skewer, garnished 
with a double comb, a large truffle and a decorated quenelle^ in the 
centre of the croustade, and round the base of the skewer, stud a border 
of crayfish-tails, slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. 

Note. — Sweetbreads may also be served roasted for persons of delicate 
health, being very nutritious, and easy of digestion. In such cases 
they may l» served with a little plain gravy, tuprSme or brown sauce. 



275 



THROAT SWEETBREADS. 

COMPRISING 

Kpigramme of Sweetbreads. Scollops of Sweetbreads, h la Afarichale. 
Scollops of Sweetbreads, with Shalot „ „ aiaSoubise, 

Gravy. „ „ k la Foulette. 

M M ala Dauphine. CroqueUes of Sweetbreads. 

„ „ aiaO'UMlles. 

907. EPIGRAMME OF SWEETBREADS. 
Procure four throat sweetbreads, and steep them in water for several 
hours, changing the water frequently, until they are freed from red- 
ness ; they must then be scalded for five minutes in boiling water, and 
after being immersed in fresh water to cool them, should be put in 
press between two dishes, to flatten. Next, put one of the sweetbreads 
to braize in some white broth ; when done, set it aside to get cool, and 
let it be afterwards cut into small circular scollops, and placed in a small 
stewpan, with an equal quantity of scollops of red tongue and mushrooms. 
Cut the three remaining sweetbreads, in a slanting direction, into oval 
scollops a quarter of an inch thick ; bread-crumb one-half with two coatings 
of bread-crumbs, by dipping them the first time in beaten egg, and the 
second in clarified butter ; place these in a sautapan with a little clarified 
butter, and prepare the other half separately in a similar manner, 
without bread-crumbing them; both must be seasoned with pepper 
and salt. When about to send to table, fry the bread-crumbed 
scollops of a light colour, but the others should be merely simmered 
over a slow fire, in order to keep them as white as possible; glaze 
the former and toss the latter in a little bechamel sauce, dish them 
up, alternately placing a bread-crumbed scollop with a white one ; fill the 
centre with the small scollops of tongue, &c., previously wanned in a 
little bechamel sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 

908. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, WITH SHALOT GRAVY. 

Breadcrumb the whole of the scollops, as directed in the foregoing 
case, firy them of a light colour, drain them on a piece of paper, and glaze ; 
dish them up in a close circle, pour some rich shalot gravy (No. 167) 
under them, and serve. 

009. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Cut the sweetbreads into oval scollops, place them in a sautapan with 
a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg and 
some chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and 
simmer them gently over the fire for ten minutes ; they must then be 
removed into a dish, and when partially cold, covered with a thin coating 
of puree of fowl, mixed with an equal proportion of reduced allemande 
sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip them in 
beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. Twenty minutes before sending to 
table, let them be carefully firied in plenty of hog's lard, made hot for 
the purpose : drain them on a napkin to absorb all the grease, dish them 
up in a close circle, pour some purie of mushrooms (No. 122) in the 
centre, and serve. 



.276 THROAT SWEETBREADS. 

910. SCOLLOPS OP SWEETBREADS, A LA d'UXELLES. 
These are prepared in almost every particular just as the foregoing, 

except that UUxelUi sauce ^No. 16) must be substituted for thepuretf 
to mask the scollop with. After having simmered^ let them be masked 
with the sauce, and afterwards bread-^nrumbed \ then fried, dished up 
and served with either of the following sauces : — Brown or white Italian, 
poivrade, half glaze, scollops of mushrooms or truffles, purSe of truffles, 
plain gravy, or puree of mushrooms. 

911. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA MARECHALE. 
These must be seasoned with a little pepper and salt, masked over 

with a thin coating of reduced allemande sauce, and afterwards bread- 
crumbed upon this ; they should then be placed in circular order in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter, and fried of a bright yellow colour. 
When done, dish them up in close order, and let the centre be filled with 
a Toulouse ragout (No. 187). 

912. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA SOL^ISE. 

Prepare and dish up these, as the foregoing; fill the centre with 
souhise sauce (No. 119), and serve. 

They may also be scored with all kinds of garnishes of dressed 
vegetables, purees of vegetables, or any kind of sauce served with cutlets. 

913. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA POULETTE. 
When the sweetbreads have been scalded in the usual manner, cut 
them into circular scollops, place them in neat order in a sautapan, with 
a little clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley 
and lemon juice; simmer them over a moderate fire for about ten 
minutes, and when done, remove them into a stewpan containing enough 
sauce d la pouleUe for the entrie, add some scollops of mushrooms or 
truffles, toss the whole together gently over the stove-fire until suffi- 
ciently hot, and then dish them up in a pyramidal form, and serve 
with a border of croquettes of potatoes round the' erUrSe. 

iTote.— -Scollops of sweetbreads d la Russcy and d la Proven^alcy are 
prepared in the same manner as veal cutlets under these names. 

914. CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREADS. 

When the sweetbreads have been scalded, put them into a small 
stewpan with two shalots, a little minionette-pepper and salt, half a bay- 
leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; moisten with some stockpot toppings, and 
set them to braize gently for about twenty minutes ; when done, drain 
them on a plate to get cold, after which let them be cut up into very 
small dice, and mix with some stiff reduced allemande sauce ; season with 
a little pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg ; stir the whole gently over 
the stove-fire for two minutes, spread the preparation on a dish about 
an inch thick, and put it in the larder to set cold. The croquettes then 
must be shaped, bread-crumbed and fined m the same manner as directed 
for veal croquettes. 

Note. — Some red tongue, mushrooms or truffles, cut into small dice, 
may also be mixed in with the sweetbreads. 



277 



CALF'S EARS, FEET, LIVER AND BRAINS, 



COMPRISING 

CalTs Bare, a la Tortue. Calf's Liver fried, with Fine-herbs Sauce. 

fried, with Tomata Sauce. CalTs Brains, wiUi MatdoUe tauce, 
CalTs Feet, h la Pasoaline, „ with Nutbrown Butter. 

„ fried, with Italian Sauce. „ fried, d, la Proven^ale. 

CalPs Liver braized, with Vegetables. „ Scolloped. 

915. calf's ears, a LA TORTUE. 

Procure four white calf's ears, (cut with a broad base,) scald them in 
boiling water for five minutes, afler which plunge them in cold water, and 
let them be wiped dry ; then hold them on the point of a skewer over 
the flame of a charcoal fire, to singe off any remaining hairs ; wipe them 
clean, rub them over with lemon juice, and braize them in some blanc 
(No. Z35) for about an hour and a half or two hours. When the ears 
are done, drain them on a wet napkin, and with the back of the blade of 
a small knife scrape off all the soft skin ; trim them neatly, and with 
the point of a knife, cut the white gristle of each into slits, — taking par- 
ticular care not to draw the knife through — so that when the thin 
part of the ears is turned down, the stripes may form themselves into 
loops or curls. When the ears are ready to dish up, fill each with a 
decorated quenelle or a round truffle, garnish with a ragout d la Tortve 
(No. 189), and serve. 

910. calf's ears fried in batter, with tomata sauce. 

Prepare the ears as directed in the foregoing, and when done, let them 
be trimmed ; scrape off the sofl skin from the upper part, and cut each ear 
into four pieces lengthwise; put them to steep in a basin with two 
spoonsful of salad oil, one of vinegar, two sliced shalots, parsley, bay- 
leaf, and thyme, and a little minionette-pepper and salt. About twenty 
minutes before dinner time, drain the pieces of ears on a cloth, dip them 
in some light batter, and fry them in plenty of hog's-lard heated to the 
proper degiee for the purpose. When fried, dish them up in a pyramidal 
form, pour some tmnata sauce (No. 22) under them, and serve. 

Note. — Calf's ears prepared in this manner, may also be served with 
any of the following sauces : piquarUe, poivradey Italian, gherkin, poor- 
man's, proven^ale, or Richelieu, If, however, this kind of fritter is not 
eaten as soon as served, it would be better to send the sauce separately. 

917. calf's feet, a LA PASCALINE. 
Separate each foot into halves, by splitting the hoof with a knife, take 
the bone out, and scald these in boiling water for five minutes ; the feet 
must then be braized in hlanc (No. 235), and when done, drained upon 
a cloth, cut into pieces about two inches square, and put into a stew- 
pan containing some button-mushrooms and />a«ca/tn« sauce (No. 15) ; tos^ 



278 calf's liver, etc. 

them in this over the stove-fire until sufficiently hot, and serve with a 
border of fieuroru or potato croquettes round the entree, 

918. calf's feet fried IN BATTER, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. 
These are prepared in all respects the same as calfs ears fiied, but^ 
substituting Italian sauce (No. 12) for tomata sauce. 

919. calf's liver BRAIZED, WITH VEGETABLES. 
Choose a liver of a bright pinky colour, entirely firee from any whitish 
spots ; wash and wipe it dry, and then lard it throu^ with strips of 
ham and fat bacon, — previously seasoned with chopped parsley, pepper, 
and a very little salt ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with veal or 
other trimmings of meat, place the liver upon them, garnish with two 
carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves each, two heads of celery, and a 
garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten vdth two glasses of Sherry, and a 
quart of strong stock, place a buttered pi^r on the top, cover with the 
lidy and set the liver to braize very gently on a slow fire for about two 
hours and a half: frequently basting it with its own liquor while it is 
being braized. When done, remove the liver into a deep sautapan, with 
part of its liquor, previously reduced to half-glaze ; use the remainder to 
work some brown sauce for the entree ; put the liver in the oven to be 
glazed with its own liquor, and when done, dish it up with groups of 
small carrots, turnips, and glazed onions round its base, pour the sauce 
under it, and serve. 

920. FRIED calf's LIVER, WITH FINE-HERBS SAUCE. 

Gut the liver up into neat scollops about a quarter of an inch thick, 
season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a sautapan with a 
little clarified butter ; when this is done, pour off all the grease, add some 
fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), simmer the whole together on the fire for 
about three minutes, and serve. 

921. calf's brains, WITH MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

Steep three sets of brains in water for several hours, — care being taken 
to change the water frequently — and remove the loose skin that contains 
them ; after being washed, and placed in a stewpan, containing some 
boiling water, and seasoned with a gill of vinegar, some thinly sliced 
carrot and onion, thyme and bay leaf, pepper and salt, let them boil gently 
for about twenty minutes. The brains must then be drained upon a 
cloth, and six croutons cut in the shape of large cock's-combs previously 
stuck on the bottom of an entrSe dish, so as to form as many compart- 
ments ; place a lobe of brains in each of these, make a slight incision in 
each portion of the brains, and insert in it a scolloped circular piece of red 
tongue ; pour a matelotte ragout (No. 193) over the entree, and serve. 

922. calf's brains, WITH NUTBROWN BUTTER. 
Prepare, and dish up the brains as in the foregoing case; pour some 

nutbrown butter (No. 93) over them, place a bouquet of fried parsley in 
the centre, and serve. 

923. calf's brains FRIED IN BATTER, A LA PROVENCALE. 
These must be cleaned, gently bailed in water, vinegar, &c. ; and 
when drained, cut into oval scollops, and steeped in a basin with a little 



£NT&££S OF LAMB. 279 

oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. When about to send to table, fry them in 
batter in the usual way (see directions for calf's ears, No. 916), after which 
dish them up with some provengaU sauce (No. 25) under them, and 
serve. 

Note. — They may also be served with iomaia, Italian, piqiMrUe^ or 
poivrade sauce. 

924. calf's brains SCOLLOPED. 
When the brains have been dressed, cut them into rather small scol- 
lops, and put them into a sautapan with a few scolloped mushrooms and 
truffles, season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, pour in some 
Allemands sauce (No. 7) and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole 
gently together over the fire, and with this preparation fiU as many silver 
scollop shells as will hold it ; cover these over with a coating of fried 
breadcrumbs or raspings, place them for two minutes in a hot oven to 
gratinate, dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 



ENTREES OP LAMB, 

COMPRISING 

Shoulder of Lamb larded, a la Fitiondire, Lamb Cutlets, breadcrumbed, with Aspara- 
Neck of Lamb, a la Rigenot, gus Peas. 

Ejngramme of Lamb, with Mushrooms. ,, hla Ckevreute. 

„ i la Villeroi, with Peas. Braized Carbotmade* of Lamb. 

Breasts of Lamb, d, la MarechaU^ with new Lamb^s Sweetbreads, h la Touloute^ &c. 

Potatoes. Blanquette of Lamb*8 Sweetbreads. 

Lamb Cutlets (plain), with Cucumbers, &c. Lambs* Sweetbreads Scolloped. 

925. SHOULDER OF LAMB LARDED, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Saw off the upper part of the shank bone of a shoulder of Lamb, then 
bone it entirely — with the exception of about three inches of the shank 
or leg bone, which must be left in. Spread the shoulder open, season 
with pepper and salt, garnish it with a thick layer of veal or fowl force- 
meat ; then with a small trussing- needle and some fine string, draw 
the outer edges of the skinny part of the shoulder into a purse-like 
form, and tighten the strings so as to give it the appearance of a cushion ; 
and, after removing the superficial skin in a circular shape, lard it 
closely. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with sliced carrot, onion, 
celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; cover this with thin layers 
of fat bacon, and place the shoulder of lamb upon it ; moisten with suffi- 
cient good stock to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper on the 
top, and cover with the lid ; then set it to braize very gently upon a slow 
fire for about an hour and a half, — with some live embers of charcoal on 
the lid — and take care to baste it frequently. When done, remove it into 
a deep sautapan, and after having strained the liquor, free it from all 
grease, boil it down to half-glaze, pour this on to the lamb, and put it 
in the oven to glaze, repeat^y basting the larding till the moisture 



S>>V iSTtia.* 19 ijja 



"m jiMMu^c Twr >a^j»^. • ir auiiuifiar rf jbu mnc 3ibl i* jmeem 
;«jt. JL.i :* :,rri> x ill lisirrx. 

TxfM 4t A«vir "/ f.Af.' V ^^'^ <scjtu, 2Zii pj&et dffSL ^ a g.'-'-^yaa villi 
v.«M; <£skr;i«t9i Ui^U^r ; Vj»a Icaczik & Inasi ic iKLi^ cnf: ^x^e teDaer, 
ikibi? ii *i^, nts^^tt isji; I^jmm acii pa: it ii. pres tet-res Tm » ^ibes ; 

fr^^4 1/^ r^v^ MiMft a fooali piMe '>f Unt in wf, asd iRaderonit Hani 
*/r^ » <7V4tb^ <<f AUfM/imds nutt, '^p tiiesi in »:aafc bealcn e^ 
i/r*:auU:rwM^ U^nu a^aiixj, ajyi f«aee then: in a aataeaa with c^an^ed Iwl- 
Urr. Wfi^j wy/'it t// wrryl V/ tabk, fnr iIk culkts in bxh a u t a ym ; 
•4 vy/fi M tJ>^ ar^ d'/f-e, giazfe tl*em light! j aod di*h tbtm up — alter- 
fiaUl/ pladi»^ a plai/i cut!«:i and <>ne tLa: ii bn^&icnnclitd : £11 the 
«^itr<r with a i»hiV: T'aU/amm ra(f^¥t (Xo. 187>, pour fc>iEe Ewp^igmUt 
lml(^t(UiZ^ f'AuA i\i^ ^Urie^ and tenre. 

A^>^^ — KjA/jrawTMM <A lamb may also be garnished with a UanquHU, 
witb y/AU/im f/f cucumben, ttewed peas, aspazagus-peas, &c. 

WW, BKEAKT8 OF LAMB, A LA VILLEROI, WITH PEAS. 
hkAizu two breasts erf Lamb, in the stock-pot, or in any kind of white 
l/f'/th ; wh^rf I d^/ne, take them up carefully, remove all the bones, and 
rtsmcrrtf tliese for the purpose of making cutlet bones with ; put the breast 
ill firess }ttiWfAsn two dishes, and when cold cut them into about twelve 
pteoet, in tlie form of an elongated heart, or of a cutlet ; stick a small 
iMUi in at tlie narrow end, and spread a coating of reduced allemande sauce 
over tliem ; when tliis is set firm by cooling, roll them first in bread- 
crumlM and then dip them in beaten egg, and breadcrumb them over again. 
When about to send to .table, fry these cutlets in plenty of hog*s lard 
quite hot, dish them up, garnish them with stewed peas, pour some half- 
ghzo round the base, and serve. 

^oUs, — Breasts of Lamb prepared d la ViUeroi may also be served 
with spinach, endives, cucumbers, asparagus-peas, macedaine^ &c. 

into. HUEAST OF LAMB, A LA MARECUALE, WITU I<£W 
POTATOES. 
TiiiM und prepare these, in the same way as the foregoing, but 

* Mhouhlon of Iviiub prvpnrod in tbv forpgoing nuinner— oalled in French ** IktUot- 
^MTf,**— may situ be wrved with every lund of dreiaed Tegetablet, or pmrU» of 
vit|piUbloi. 



LAMB CUTLETS. 281 

the coating of sauce must be thinner in this case ; breadcrumb them 
twice over the sauce^ first dipped in beaten egg and then in clarified 
butter, over which breadcrumb them the second time ; put them in shape 
with the blade of a knife, and place them in a sautapan with a little cla- 
rified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets of a light colour, 
drain them on a sheet of paper and glaze them lightly; dish them 
up, and serve some white Italian sauce (No. 1 3) under them. They 
may also be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. 

930. LAMB CUTLETS PLAIN, WITH CUCUMBERS. 
In trimming these cutlets, care must be taken not to pare off any more 
of the fat than is positively necessary to give them shape. When 
trimmed, place the cutlets in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with 
pepper and salt, fry them on both sides of a light brown colour, pour off 
the grease, throw in a little glaze, toss them over the fire in this, and 
dish them up ; garnish the centre with prepared scollops of cucumbers (No. 
138), pour a little JSspagnoly or half-glaze round the entree, and serve. 

931. LAMB CUTLETS BREADCRUMBED, WITH ASPARAGUS-PEAS. 

Trim the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, rub them over with 
a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs ; 
then dip them in some clarified butter and breadcrumb them over again ; 
put them in shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in neat order in 
a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, 
fry the cutlets of a light colour, drain them upon a sheet of paper, glaze 
and dish them up ; fill the centre with asparagus-peas (No. 148), pour 
some thin Espagnole or half glaze round them, and serve. 

932. LAMB CUTLETS, A LA CHEVREUSE. 

These must be cut rather thick, allowing two ribs for each, but they 
should not be trimmed ; prepare and braize them in the same manner as 
veal cutlets a la Dreux (No. 890) ; and when done, pressed and trimmed, 
mask them over with a purSe of onions mixed with two ounces of 
grated Pannesan cheese ; when cold they should be dipped in beaten egg 
and afterwards rolled in breadcrumbs ; put them into shape with the 
blade of a knife, and place them in order upon a dish or sautapan, until 
dinner time. Then fry them in heated hog's lard, of a bright yellow 
colour, dish them up, put a small paper fnll on the bone of each cutlet ; 
fill the centre with small circular scollops of truffles, mushrooms, and 
fat livers, tossed in some supi-ime sauce (No. 38), pour some of the 
sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

Note, — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing Lamb cutlets, 
they may also be served in every variety of form in which Veal or Mut- 
ton cutlets are prepared. 

933. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF LAMB. 
Loins of Lamb are used for this, and should be prepared and finished 
according to the directions for carhonnades of Mutton (No. 865). 

934. lamb's SWEETBREADS, A LA TOULOUSE. 
About ten heart sweetbreads are necessary for an entree ; steep these 
in cold water for a couple of hours, and then scald them slightly to set 
them, for the purpose of being afterwards larded ; they must next be 



282 



ENTREES OF LAMB. 




placed in a deep sautapan, covered with thin layers of fat bacon or else 
spread with butter; mobten with sufficient strong coruofntni to reach 

nearly up to the larding ; place a but- 
tered paper upon them, and put them 
to boil briskly on a stove-fire for 
five minutes, then set them in the 
oven, or cover them with a lid con- 
taining live embers of charcoal, and 
place them on a moderate stove-fire 
to simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour, frequently basting them with 
their own liquor. When the sweet- 
breads are nearly done, remove 
the lid and the paper, put them in 
the oven or pass the red hot salamander over them to dry the larding, and 
then glaze them. When dished up, each sweetbread should be placed in 
the dish upon a base, formed of quenelle force-meat made of fowl or veal, 
and shaped to resemble a dariole mould : these of course should be pre- 
viously poached. Fill the centre of the entree with stewed peas, 
pour some EspagnoU sauce round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Lamb's sweetbreads prepared as the foregoing, may also be 
served with asparagus, Macedoine or jardiniire of vegetables; also 
with TouUm^ or Jinanciere ragouts ; and indeed in every form directed 
for other sweetbreads. 

936. BLMQUETTE OF LAMB'S SWEETBREADS. 

Throat sweetbreads will serve for this purpose, about eight being suffi- 
cient for a dish ; steep them in water, scald them, and then braize them 
in a small stewpan with very little moisture : they will be done in about 
a quarter of an hour : put them on a dish to cool, cut them into 
scollops, and put them into a stewpan containing some sauce a lapotdeiie, 
toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the hhnquette in a 
conical form, garnish it round with a border of potato croquettes 
made in the form of pears, and serve. 

Note, — Mushrooms, truffles, cucumbers, or asparagus-peas may be 
added. 



SCOLLOPED LAMB S SWEETBREADS. 
Braize the sweetbreads, when cold cut them into rather thin 
small scollops, and finish these according to the directions for scolloped 
Calf's brains (No. 924). 



283 



LAMBS' HEADS, EARS, AND FEET, 

COMPRISING 

Lamb*8-head, a la Paacaiine. LombVean, fried in batter. 

Liimb's-tiarB, a la Pinanciire. LambVfeet, h la PouleUe* 

M a la Dauphine. „ it la D^CxdUi. 

y, hla Venitienme. „ fried in batter. 

937. LAMB's-HEAD, A LA PASCALINE. 

The lamb's-head must be scalded in the same way as a calfs-head 
for mock-turtle, then boned, and filled up vrith force-meat made of the 
liver, as for a gratin (No. 249) ; sew the head up with a trussing needle 
and small twine, secure it in shape by flEwtening it in a napkin previously 
spread with butter, and set it to braize in a stewpan seasoned with a car- 
rot, an onion, one head of celery, a garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, 
and a blade of mace ; moisten with good stock, and allow it to boil gently 
for about an hour and a half. 

While the above is in preparation, four lamb*s sweetbreads should be 
larded and prepared ready for glazing ; two sets of lambs' bnuns must 
also be cleansed, and boiled in a little vinegar and water, with sliced 
carrot and onion, pepper and salt, afterwards drained, cut, and made 
into croquettes. Four lambs' tongues, after being braized, must be cut 
into scollops, and placed in a stewpan with an equal quantity of scol- 
loped mushrooms, and enough of pascaline sauce (No. 15), for the 
eiitrce. 

When about to send to table, place the head with the ears curled, 
upon its dish, and the larded sweetbreads at the four comers ; between 
these, put the croquettes of brains, previously fried, pour the scollops of 
tongue, mushrooms, and sauce, round the head, glaze it, and serve. 

938. LAMB'S-EARS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Procubb a dozen lamb's ears, scald these, then immerse them in 
cold water ; when cold, wipe them dry, and singe them over the flame of a 
charcoal fire ; they must then be gently braized in some hlanc (No. 235), 
for about three quarters of an hour, and when done, drained upon a nap- 
kin ; the thin part of the ears should be carefully scraped vdth the back 
part of the blade of a knife to remove the skin, leaving the white carti- 
laginous part entire ; this last must then be slit in narrow bands, without 
cutting through the ends, so that when the ears are turned down, these 
bands by curling over should appear like a row of loops ; place the ears 
as they are trimmed in a deep sautapan or stewpan containing some of 
their own liquor, cover them with a buttered paper and the lid, and set 
them aside till dinner time. 

While the ears are braizing, prepare some veal force-meat, and fill a 
plain low cylinder border mould (previously buttered) with the force- 
meat ; poach this in the usual way« and when about to send to table, 
turn it out upon its dish, place the lamb's ears all round the top of it, and 
in each of these put a round ball of black truffle ; fill the centre with a 



284 ENTREES OF LAMBS' HEADS. 

rich Jinarudire ragout (No. 1SS)> pour some of the sauce round the baae^ 
and lerve. 

Note. — This entrie may also be served with a ragout d la tortue (No. 
189). 

939. LAMBVeARS, A LA DAUPHLVE. 

Scald, singe, braize and trim the lamb's-ears as in the foregoing case, 
but they must not be slit. Fill them with force-meat made with the fil- 
lets of a fowl, or some veal, in which has been mixed a spoonful of 
white sauce and some chopped mushrooms ; mask the ears over with a 
coating of reduced aUemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set 
upon them, roll them in breadcrumbs, and dip each separately in 
some beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, then breadcrumb them 
over again, place them upon a dish, and set them aside in the larder. When 
about to send to table, fry the ears in plenty of heated hog*8-lard^ of a 
fine light colour, dish them up in a circular row, or pyramidally, pour some 
iuprime or bechamel sauce, containing a few mushrooms cut into shreds 
or scollops, round and under them, and serve. 

940. lamb's -EARS, A LA VEXITIEXNE. 

Pbeparb these in exactly the same manner as for d la financiere 
(No. 938), dish them up in a circle on the dish, fill the centre with small 
round balls, or croquettes of rice, prepared as follows : Boil four ounces 
of rice m white broth till done quite soft, then season with a pat of but- 
ter, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, cayenne pep- 
per and salt ; mix the whole well together, and form it into small round 
balls the size of marbles, roll these in fiour, and fry them in clarified but- 
ter in a sautapan. Pour some Venitian sauce (No. 26) over the ears, 
and serve. 

941. LAMB'S-EARS, FRIED IN BATTER. 
See Calf's ears so prepared, (No. 916). 

942. LAMB'S-FEET, A LA POULETTE. 

Remove the shank bones from a dozen Lamb's feet, without tearing or 
cutting through the part that covers the bone ; scald them for about five 
minutes in boiling water, and then immerse them in cold water ; wipe 
and singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, rub them over with 
lemon-juice, and braize them in some bi<znc (No. 235) for about an hour ; 
then drain them upon a cloth, trim off the extremities neatly, make an in- 
cision in the hoof, and remove the round tuft of wool ; place the Lamb's 
feet in a stewpan containing some button-mushrooms and enough sauce 
d la poidette for the entree, toss them in this over the stove-fire 
until quite warm ; then dish them up neatly, and serve with a border 
ofJleuroM, or croutons of fried bread. 

943. LAMB's-FEET, A LA D'uXELLES. 

Braize and trim the feet as in the foregoing case, cover them with a 
coating of UUxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become 
firmly set by cooling, breadcrumb them twice over in the usual manner, 
and fry them m hog's-lard ; when done, drain them upon a cloth, dish 



PORK CUTLETS. 285 

them up with fried parsley upon a napkin, and serve some Italian 
sauce (No. 12) separately in a boat. 

944. LAMB'S-FEET, FRIED IN BATTER. 
See Calf 's-feet (No. 918). 



ENTREES OP PORK, 



COMPRISING 



Oriskin, or Spare-rib of Pork, ^ la Son- Pork Cutlets, d Vlndienne, 

bide, PigVfeet, dlaSte, MenehotUd* 

„ „ €ila Lyoftnaite, „ <k /a Perigord, 

n „ hla Ptrigueuae, , cL la Hiehdieu. 

Pork Cutlets, with plain gravy, &c. Black Puddings, h la Franoam, 

„ a la sauce Robert, &c „ ^ PAnglaue. 

„ a PAurore. White Puddings, h la RoyaU, 

945. GRISKIN, OR SPARE-RIB OP PORK, A LA SOUBISE. 

Trim a griskin of pork and lard it closely, then put it in a deep dish 
with sliced onion and carrot, parsley, a gill of salad oil, some slices of 
peeled lemon, and a little minionette-pepper ; allow the griskin to steep 
in this for several hours, or a whole day if possible. When about to dress 
the griskin, twist it round, run a stout iron skewer through, and fasten it 
upon the spit tightly with string ; cover the larding with buttered paper, 
and roast it before the fire for about an hour; as soon as a kind of 
vapour arises and it sputters towards the fire, it is time to take it up. 
When the griskin is placed upon its dish, pour some soubise sauce (No. 
1 1 9) round it, garnish with a border of potatoes fried in clarified butter, 
glaze the griskin, and serve. 

946. GRISKIN OF PORK, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Prbparb and roast this in the same way as the foregoing, and when 
done, dish it up with some Lyonnaite sauce (No. 24) round it ; garnish 
with a border of tomatas au grcEtin (No. 1 1 60), glaze the griskin, and 
serve. 

947. GRISKIN OF PORK, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

This must be prepared and roasted as the foregoing; when done, 
serve with some p6rigueux sauce (No. 28) and a border of mushrooms 
au gratin (No. 1161) round it. 

948. PORK CUTLETS, PLAIN BROILED, WITH GRAVY, ETC. 
Thbsb cutlets must be cut from the neck or loin of dairy-fed pork, not 
too fat, they should be trimmed but very little, the rough part of the chine- 
bone only requiring to be removed ; the skin must be lefl on, and scored 
in six places. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and broil them 
on a gridiron over a clear fire ; coke makes a better fire than coal for broil- 
ing, as it emits no gas, and causes less smoke. Take care that they are tho- 
roughly done and not scorched ; dish them up with any of the following 



286 ENTREES OF PORK. 

graTies or sauces, and serve : Plain sage and onion, shalot, onion, fine-herbs, 
gravies, or essences: piquante, gherkin, tomata, pffivrade, poorman's, 
richelieu and ga^xmne sauces. 

949. PORK CUTLETS, A LA SAUCE ROBERT, ETC. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, observing, however, that nearly half an inch 
of the fat must be left on, to encircle the fillet of the cutlet ; place them 
in an earthen dish with a table-spoonful of salad oil ; season with a 
little salt and pepper, and strew some parsley over them. When about 
to send to table, broil the cutlets nicely with the gravy in them, glaze 
and dish them up ; pour under some sauce d la Robert, (No. 67) and 
serve. 

960. PORK CUTLETS, A l'aURORE.' 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place them 
in a sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before 
sending to table, fry the cutlets over a brisk fire, so as to lightly colour 
them on both sides before they are done, then pour off all the grease, 
leaving the cutlets neatly arranged in the sautapan, and glaze them. 
Next rub the yolks of six eggs, previously boiled hard, equally over all 
the cutlets, and pass the red hot salamander over them to colour the 
yolk of egg a shade darker ; then dish up the cutlets, with some essence 
of anchovies (No. 176) poured under them, and serve. 

951. PORK CUTLETS, A l'IXDIEXXE. 
Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, then pour off all the grease, adding 
about half a pint of Eapagnole sauce, and a table-spoonful of Cook*s 
curry paste ; put the lid on the sautapan, and simmer the cutlets on the 
fire very gently for ten minutes longer ; then add a small piece of glaze, 
toss the whole together, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre 
with rice boiled in plain broth, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and 
serve. 

952. PIGVfEET, a LA STE. MEXEHOULD. 

For this purpose procure the feet of bacon hogs, as the feet of porkers 
are not large enough to be worth dressing for the table. They must first 
be pickled in common salt brine, for about ten days, and then, after be- 
ing washed, should be gently braized in common broth, seasoned with car- 
rot, onion, celery, and garnished faggot of parsley ; if the feet are lai^e, 
they will require about four hours gentle boiling. When done, drain 
them on an earthen dish, cut them into halves, and remove all the large 
bones, press them into shape with the hands, and put them in the larder 
to cool. Next, season the pieces of pig's-feet with pepper and salt, 
rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, then roll 
them in fresh made breadcrumbs and pat these closely on with the 
blade of a knife ; broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire, taking care 
that they are frequently turned until warmed through : they are then to 
be dished up and served with piquante sauce (No. 1 8). 

953. PIG'S-FEET, A LA PERIGORD. 
Thbsb should be braized and the bones taken out, and before they 
become quite cold, filled inside, and partially covered, with some 
force-meat of fat livers in which has been mixed some chopped truflfles ; 



BLACK-PUDDINGS. 287 

and when this is placed on the feet^ some scollops of trufHes must also 
be intermixed with it. The feet must next be wrapped up in appro- 
priate sized pieces of pig*s caul, and then bread crumbed over this. 
When about to send to table, broil the feet upon oiled paper placed upon 
the gridiron, to prevent them from burning or falling to pieces, which, 
from the delicacy of the force-meat (if properly prepared), they are liable 
to. When nicely broiled on both sides, glaze and dish them up, and 
serve with some perigueux sauce (No. 23) under them. 

954. PIGVfEET, a LA RICHELIEU. 
Braize the feet, remove all the bones, and cut each foot in halves, 
lengthwise ; spread them all over with a coating of U Uxelles sauce (No. 
1 6), and when this has become firmly set by cooling, breadcrumb them 
twice over, the first time dipped in egg, and the second in clarified butter : 
place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and fry them over a 
stove-fire of moderate heat, so as to allow them time to warm through 
before they acquire much colour. When done, dish them up, and serve 
with some Richelieu ragout (No. 207) under them. 

956. BLACK-PUDDINGS, A LA FRANCAISE. 
To one pint of pig's-blood, add rather more than half a pint of boiled 
double cream, three quarters of a pound of the fat from the inside of a pig, 
cut into rather small pieces, and four large onions chopped and fried in a 
little butter without becoming coloured; season with a little chopped 
bay-leaf and thyme, nutmeg, pepper and salt ; mix well together, and 
stuflT the linings prepared perfectly clean for the purpose with the above, 
taking care to allow room for tying them into lengths of about six inches. 
Some water must be kept nearly at the boiling-point, and then removed 
from the fire down to the side, and the puddings immersed, and allowed 
to remain in it until they become somewhat firm to the touch ; they must 
not however be kept in the water longer than will suffice to set the pre- 
paration. The puddings when taken out of the water, should be hung 
up in the larder to cool. 

956. BLACK-PUDDINGS, A l'aNGLAISE. 

Thb chief difference firom the foregoing, in making black-puddings ac- 
cording to the English method, lies in the omission of the nutmeg, bay- 
leaf and thyme, and in the addition of boiled Emden grits, or rice ; in 
all other respects, the same directions must be followed. 

When about to dress the black-puddings, they should be scored all 
over to prevent them from bursting while being broiled, and when done, 
are to be dished up with strips of dry toast placed between each piece 
of pudding : the centre of the dish should be filled with mashed potatoes to 
keep them quite hot. 

957. WHITE-PUDDINGS, A LA ROYALE. 

To half a pound of the breast of roast fowl thoroughly pounded and 
passed into a pur4^y add half a pint of boiled double cream, half a pound 
of fresh made and very fine breadcrumbs, one onion chopped fine, and 
boiled down in some white broth, and four ounces of butter and eight 
yolks of eggs ; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg ; mix 
well together, put this preparation into the linings, and finish them in 
the same manner as the black-puddings. When about to send to 



288 ENTREES OF VENISON. 

table, score the puddings before they are broiled, and place them on the 
gridiron upon a sheet of oiled paper ; when nicely broiled, serve them 
dished up with either of the following sauces: Supreme^ Bicheli^u, 
poivrade, essence of shalots, of truffles, or of mushroom. 



ENTREES OF VENISON, 

COMPRISING 

Haricot of Venison. Cutlets of Roebuck, h la Chasmir. 

Civet of Venison. Fillets of Roebuck, ^ la Kimtaird, 
Venison Scollops. ^ n with Poivrade 

Venison Chops. Civet of Roebuck. 
Venison Fry. 

968. HARICOT OF VENISON. 

Trim a neck of venison into cutlets without paring off any of the fat, 
season them with pepper and salt, and fry them quickly brown on both 
sides before they are more than half done ; then pour off all the grease, 
shake a handful of flour over the cutlets and toss them about over the 
fire for three minutes, moisten with a pint of red wine and a quart of 
good stock ; add half a pint of small button onions, and twice that 
quantity of turnips and carrots, cut into small fanciful shapes of the 
size of the onions, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; stir the haric6t 
over the stove-fire with a wooden spoon until it boils, and then remove 
it to the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for about an hour and 
a half; when, if the cutlets are found to be done tender, remove them 
into a deep sautapan ; then add the vegetables with a ragout spoon (with 
holes in it), and afler the sauce has boiled up and skimmed, reduce it if 
necessary to its proper consistency, and pass it through a tammy into a 
sautapan containing the cutlets, &c. ; then add a little salt, if needed, sim- 
mer the whole together on the stove-fire, dish the cutlets in the usual 
way, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree^ 
and serve. 

969. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Fry the cutlets brown, pour off all the grease, add a pint of red wine, 
a pint of EspagnoUy and the same proportion of consommS, season with a 
carrot, an onion, head of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; allow 
the whole to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire until the cutlets 
are tender; they must then be removed into a sautapan, with a little 
of the sauce to warm them in, the lid put on, and kept warm. The 
remainder of the sauce must then be strained through a sieve into a 
smaller stewpan ; and afler it has been clarified, by gently boiling it by 
the side of the stove-fire, and thoroughly skimming, all that rises to the 
surface, reduce it by boiling to its proper consistency, and pass it through 
a tammy into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, dish the cut- 
lets up, fill the centre with some glazed carrots and turnips, previously 
prepared for the purpose ; place some groups of small glazed button-onions 
round the enirect pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 

Some neat frills of paper may be put on the bone of each cutlet. 



SCOLLOPS OF VENISON, ETC. 289 



9C0. CIVET OF VENISON. 

This dish^ although not very choice^ is often served at the tables of 
wealthy epicures ; in general, the inferior parts of venison, — such as the 
shoulder and scrag end of the neck — are used for this purpose. The 
venison must be cut up into pieces, and for its preparation follow the 
directions for making a Civet of hare (No. 1070). 

961. VENISON SCOLLOPS. 

Venison for this purpose ought to be kept until it has become quite ten- 
der : a piece of the end of the neck may be used. Cut the fillet from the 
bones with all the fat adhering to it, remove the outer skin, and then cut 
it into scollops — taking care not to trim off more of the fat than is neces- 
sary ; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper 
and salt, and fry them brown on both sides ; pour off all the grease, add 
some scollops of mushrooms, a piece of glaze, and a glass of port wine ; 
simmer the whole together over the stove-fire for about three minutes, and 
then pour in some poivrade sauce (No. 29) ; toss the scollops in the sauce 
on the fire until quite hot, and then dish them up with a border of que^ 
nelles of potatoes (No 312), and serve. 

These scollops may also be served with Portarlington sweet sauce (No. 
66), in which case the mushrooms must be omitted. 

962. VENISON CHOPS. 

Cut the chops about an inch thick, firom the end of the haunch or 
the best end of the neck, flatten them a little with a cutlet bat, trim them 
without waste, season with pepper and salt, and broil them on a gridiron 
over a clear fire of moderate heat ; turning them over every three minutes 
while on the fire ; when done through with thdr gravy in them, lift them 
carefully off the gridiron without spilling the gravy that may be swim- 
ming on the si^ace, dish them up with a little rich brown gravy 
under them, and serve some currant jelly or venison sweet sauce (No. 
65),separately in a boat. 

963. VENISON FRY. 
Cut the firy into appropriate sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, 
place them in a napkin, and shake them up with a handful of flour, then 
fry them brown and crisp in a sautapan or filing-pan with some butter ; 
when done, dish them up in a pile with fried parsley round, pour either 
of the following sauces under it, and serve quite hot : rich brown gravy, 
essence of anchovies, poivrade, espagnoUf Italian, or piquante sauce. 

964. CUTLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA CHASSEUR. 
Trim the cutlets in the usual way, and place them in a sautapan 
with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and set them in the 
larder. Put the shoulder on the spit, wrap it in buttered paper, and 
roast it before a fire of moderate heat until done ; all the meat must then 
be cut from the bone, chopped fine, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar 
with a spoonful of sauce and a pat of butter, then rubbed through a 
tammy or very fine wire sieve, into a purSe; this must be gathered up into 
a small stewpan and placed with the cutlets. When about to send to 
table, fry the cutlets brown, pour off the grease, add a piece of glaze, 

u 



290 ENTREES OF VENISON. 

two large spoonfuls of espagnole or poivrade sauce (if the former, 
add some lemon juice also) ; allow the cutlets to simmer over the fire 
for a few minutes, and then dish them up ; fill the centre with the 
purie — ^previously warmed with care, and to which a piece of glaze has 
been added — pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

966. FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA KINNAIRD. 
Cut out the fillets from two necks of roebuck, trim these neatly, and 
lard them closely ; steep them for about two days and nights in some cold 
marinade (No. 234), and when about to dress the fillets, dnun them 
upon a cloth, place them in a sautapan spread with butter, and moisten 
with some wine mirepoix (No. 236) in sufficient quantity to reach up 
to the larding ; place a buttered paper on the top, and put them to braize 
in the oven ; baste them frequently with their own liquor, and when done, 
glaze them nicely, and place them on their dish ; garnish with groups of 
quenelles made with roebuck, and small potatoes cut in the form of laige 
olives and fried in clarified butter ; pour some Napolitaine sauce (No. 
63) under the entree, glaze the fillets, and serve. 

966. FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 

These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing ; when done 
and glazed, dish them up with a border of potatoes cut in the form of 
olives, and fried in clarified butter, pour some poivrade sauce (No. 29) 
. imder them, and serve. 

967. CIVET OF ROEBUCK 
Is prepared in the same way as civet of hare (No. 1070). 



291 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, 

COMPRISING 

Fricassee of Chickens, with Mushrooms, &c Chickens, d. la LymnaUe^ 
„. a la St. Lambert, „ ^ la IHable, 

„ eLla Daupkine. „ h la Tartare, 

„ a la Financiire, „ h VAlgirienw, 

„ a la Chcraliire. „ a la Florentine. 

„ d, la Romaine. Curry of ditto, a P/ndienne, 

Chickens, a la Afarengo. Fritot of Chickens Mrith Tomata Sauce, Ac 

y, with Oysters, &c. Capilotade of Chickens, i t/talienne. 

„ with Truffles, &c. Chickens, ^ la Totcane. 

„ ii la Provenfole. Marinade of Chickens fried in batter. 

908. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH MUSHROOMS, ETC. 

Procure two fat plump chickens, and after they have been drawn, 
singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, and then cut up into 
small members or joints, in the following manner : — First, remove the 
wings at the second joint, and the legs at the knotty bend of the first 
joint ; then take hold of the chicken with the left hand, and with a sharp 
knife, make two parallel cuts, lengthwise, on the back, about an inch 
and a half apart, so as partly to detach or at least to mark out where 
the legs and wings are to be removed; the chicken must next be 
placed upon its side on the table, and, after the leg and fillet (with the 
pinion left on the upper side) have been cut, the same must be repeated 
on the other, and the thigh-bones must be removed. Then, separate the 
back and br^Eist, trim these without waste, and cut the back across into 
two pieces ; steep the whole in a pan containing clear tepid water for 
about ten minutes ; frequently squeezing the pieces with the hand to ex- 
tract all the blood. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with thinly 
sliced carrot, onion and a little celery, three cloves, twelve peppercorns, a 
blade of mace, and a garnished fiiggot of parsley ; place the pieces of 
chicken in close and neat order upon the vegetables, &c., moisten with 
about a quart of boiling broth from the stockpot, or failing this, with 
water ; cover vrith the lid, and set the whole to boil gently by the side of 
the stove-fire for about half an hour, when the chickens will be done. 
They must then be strained in a sieve, and their broth reserved in a basin ; 
next, immerse the pieces of chicken in cold water, wash and drain 
them upon a napkin, and afterwards trim them neatly and place them in 
a stewpan in the larder. Then put 2oz. of fresh butter to melt in a stew* 
pan, to this add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir the roux orer 
the fire for three minutes without allowing it to acquire any colour ; 
it should then be removed from the stove, and the chicken broth being 
poured into it, the whole must be thoroughly mixed together into a smooth 
sauce ; throw in some trimmings of mushrooms, and stir the sauce over the 
fire until it boils, then set it by the side to continue gently boiling to 
throw up the butter and skum. When the sauce has boUed half an 
hour, skim it, reduce it by further boiling to its proper consistency, and 
then incorporate with it a leason of four yolks of eggs, mixed with a pat of 

u 2 



292 ENTREES OF POULTRY. 

butter and a little cream ; set the leason in the sauce by stirring it over 
the fire until it nearly boils, then pass it through a tammy into 
the stewpan containing the pieces of chicken^ and add thereto half a 
pottle of prepared button-mushrooms. When about to send to table, 
warm the fricassee without allowing it to boil^ and dish it up as follows : 

First, put the pieces of the back in the centre of the dish, place the 
legs at the angles, the bones pointed inwardly ; next, place the fillets upon 
these, and then set the pieces of breast on the top ; pour the sauce oyer 
the entree^ and place the mushrooms about the fricassee in groups ; 
surround the entree with eight or ten glazed croutons of fried bread cut in 
the form of hearts, and serve. 

Note. — Truffles cut into scollops or shaped in the form of olives ; cray- 
fish tails, button onions, or artichoke bottoms cut into small pointed 
quarters, may also be served with a firicassee of chickens. 

9C9. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA ST. LAMBERT. 
Cut into small dice, the following vegetables, &c. : one carrot, an onion, 
one head of celery, and 4oz, of raw ham ; put these into a stewpan with 
a small piece of butter, half a bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, three cloves, a 
blade of mace, and a few pepper- corns ; stir these over a slow fire for 
about ten minutes, without allowing them to acquire any colour, then 
moisten the whole with a pint of French white wine, and the same 
quantity of common broth ; boil this gently for half an hour, and then 
strain it through a sieve into a basin. Next, cut the chickens up as di- 
rected in the foregoing case ; melt Soz. of butter in a stewpan, throw in 
the pieces of chicken and toss them over the fire until they become set 
and feel firm to the touch, without however acquiring any colour ; then 
shake in two tablespoonfuls of fiour, toss the whole together over iJie fire 
for two minutes, and pour in the broth prepared for the purpose ; stir the 
fricassee over the fire until it boils, and finish it in the same way as the 
foregoing. When about to send to table, warm and dish up the mcassee, 
place about it small groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and French-beans, 
cut into small fanciful shapes ; and garnish the base, by placing a border 
composed of about eight small artichoke bottoms, nicely turned and boiled, 
each filled alternately with glazed carrots, and green-peas; pour the 
sauce round the entricy and serve. 

970. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Fbbparb a firicassee in the same manner as described in No. 968, 
and place the pieces of chicken when trimmed on an earthen dish ; 
after having reduced the sauce to the consistency of allemandey incor- 
porate the leason, &c., and when this is set in the sauce, pass it through a 
tammy into a small basin ; dip each of the pieces of chicken in this, and 
replace them on the dish ; when the sauce has become set upon them 
by cooling, roll them in br^crumbs, let them be dipped in beaten egg, and 
breadcTumbed over again. When about to send to table, place the pieces 
of chicken thus prepared carefully upon the wire lining of a firying-pan, 
immerse them all at once in plenty of clean hog's-lard heated for the 
purpose, fry them of a light coloiur ; and when done, drain them upon a 
cloth, dish them up on a clean napkin with fried parsley, and serve 
some white Italian sauce (No. 19} separately in a boat 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS. 293 

Note, — Thig entree may also be dished up without a napkin, and some 
aliemande or bechamel sauce containing a few scollops of mushrooms or 
truffles^ may be poured under, and round it. 

971. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Prepare this as directed in No. 968, and when it is dished up, garnish 
it with groups of cock's-combs, mushrooms, truffles, and some small 
quenelles of fowl ; place eight liurge crayfish in an upright position round 
the entrie, and a larded sweetbread on the top. 

972. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA CHEVALIERE. 
When the chickens have been drawn and singed, remove the legs 

and wings, and then with the point of a knife, slit the skin of the 
breast, spread it off the fillets and 
remove these with the pinion bone 
left on them; each fillet must be 
trimmed, then closely larded, and 
placed in a small sautapan upon 
thin layers of fat bacon; the 
minion fillets should also be trim- 
med, (the sinew being first extract- 
ed), then decorated or contish 
with black truffle and placed in a sau- 
tapan withbutter; the remainder of 
the chickens must be cut up and 
made into a fricassee in the ordinary 
way. When this is done, the four 1^ 

must be neatly trimmed and set aside in the larder, and the smaller pieces 
placed in a stewpan with a few button-mushrooms, cock*s-combs and ker- 
nels, and truffles ; then, reduce the same by boiling it to the consistency 
of aliemande sauce, incorporate these with a leason of four yolks of eggs, a 
little grated nutmeg, minionette pepper, a small piece of glaze and the 
juice of half a lemon; when this has become set in the sauce by stirring 
it over the fire for two minutes, pass two-thirds of it through a tammy 
on to the fricassee, and reserve the remainder for the purpose of masking 
the legs with it. These must be afterwards breadcrumbed and fried of a 
light colour. The larded fillets should be moistened with a little. half-glaze, 
and put in the oven, or on a slow stove with fire on the lid, to braize or 
simmer for about twenty minutes ; they are then to be glazed. In dishing 
up this entree, first place all the small members of the chicken in the bot- 
tom of the dish in neat and square order ; the legs are next to be added, 
and then the larded fillets must be placed between these with the taper 
end pointing upwards ; the four minion fillets (turned round in the 
form of rings) should be placed so as to rest upon the upper part of each 
of the legs, and the whole surmounted with a large truffle, and a border 
of large crayfish, and white double cock's-combs should be placed round 
the entrSe, add the remainder of the sauce, and serve. 

973. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA ROMAINE. 

When the chickens have been cut up and trimmed in the usual way, 

place the pieces neatly in a sautapan with a gill of salad oil, bayleaf and 

thyme, four shalots, minionette-pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, one 

clove of garlic, and a dozen small pimentos ; fry the chickens over a rather 




294 ENTREES OF POULTRY. 

brisk fire until the pieces become firm to the touch, but without allow- 
ing them to acquire any colour ; shake in two spoonfuls of flour, toss 
the whole over the fire for three minutes, and mobten with a pint of Chablis 
or Savleme wine, and a pint of white oomomnU^ stir the fricassee on the fire 
till it boils^ then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for half an 
hour. Skim off the oil, &c., that has risen to the sur&ce, drain the 
pieces of chicken on a sieve, reserving the sauce in a stewpan to be reduced 
and finished in the ordinary manner ; trim the pieces of chicken neatly, and 
put them into a stewpan with the sauce, some button-mushrooms or morels, 
trimmed crayfish-tails and cock's-kemels. When about to send to table, 
warm the fricassee, and add the juice of half a lemon and a pat of butter, 
previously pounded with six small red pimentos and a piece of lobster 
coral, and [Missed through a sieve. Dish this in the same manner to the 
first, garnish it round with a border of raviolis (No. 375), and serve. 

974. CHICKENS, A LA MARENGO. 
Cut up the chickens or fowls into small joints, as for a fiicassee ; place 
them in a sautapan with half a gill of salad oil, and half a pound of truffles 
cut into the form of olives, a garnished faggot of parsley and green onions, 
a bruised clove of garlic, minionette-pepper, and sdt ; set the sautapan on a 
moderate fire, and put some live embers of charcoal on the lid. Allow 
the chickens to fry rather briskly, so as to acquire a deep yellow or brown 
colour ; about twenty minutes will sufiice to do them. Then pour off 
nearly all the oil, and remove the faggot of parsley ; add half a pottle of 
prepared button-mushrooms, a small ladleful of worked espagnoU sauce, 
(No. 3), and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together on the fire for five 
minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and dish up the trUree in the following 
order. First, place the pieces of the backs and the wings, next the legs, 
the fillets, and lastly the pieces of the breasts ,* then pour the sauce, &c^ 
over the erUrie^ garnish it round with croutatis of bread, and lai^e crayfish, 
and serve. 

976. CHICKENS SAUTES, WITH OYSTER SAUCE, ETC. 
These must be cut up in the ordinary way, and afler being neatly 
trimmed, should be placed in a sautapan widi some clarified butter, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and firied of a bright brown colour. Pour off 
the butter, add three dozen parboiled oysters with their liquor (pre- 
viously reduced in quantity by boiling), and two large gravy-spoonfuls of 
edpagriole sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon; set the 
whole on the fire to simmer for five minutes, and then dish up the entrie 
with fried croutons of bread round it. 

NoU. — This method of dressing chickens or fowls may be varied by 
substituting muscles, cockles, olives, truffles, mushrooms, or morels, for 
the oysters. 

976. CHICKENS WITH TRUFFLES, A LA FINANCIERE. 

PuBPARB these as in the foregoing case, and when they are firied brown, 
pour off the grease ; add a rich /nartci^r^ ragovtt (No. 188), and half a 
pound of truffles cut into scollops or round balls ; simmer the whole to> 
gether on the fire for ^ye minutes, and then dish up the enhrU as directed 
in the foregoing cases; pour the ragout over it, garnish with amUMU and 
cray-fish, and serve. 



GHICK£NS. 295 



977. CHICKENS, A LA PROVEN9ALE. 

Cut four lax^ onions into rings^ put them into a sautapan with a gill 
of salad-oil, and fry them of a light hrown colour ; then add two chickens 
cut up and trimmed as for a fncassee ; season with minionette-pepper 
and salt, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of garlic ; cover with 
the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set the chickens to 
simmer briskly over a moderate fire for about half an hour. Put about 
two dozen morels or mushrooms into a small stewpan with some chopped 
truffles, shalots, mushrooms, and parsley ; moisten with a table-spoonful 
of salad oil, and a glass of Madeira ; stew these on the fire for five min- 
utes, and then boil the whole down to a glaze. When the chickens are 
done, pour off all the greaite, add the morels, &c.,,a piece of glaze and 
some tomata sauce (No. 2Z) ; simmer ^the whole together for five min- 
utes over the fire, then dish up the entree in a conical form, pour the 
ragout over it, and serve. 

978. CHICKENS, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cut these up and fry them in butter, as directed for the chickens with 
oysters ; when they are done, pour off all the grease, add some 
li/onnaise sauce (N04 24), simmer the whole together on the stove-fire 
for ten minutes, and serve. 

979. CHICKENS, A LA DIABLE. 

First draw and singe the chickens, and then twist their legs inside 
neatly through the sides without tearing the skin ; next cut them through 
the breast-bone, lengthwise, into halves ; take out all the bones, season 
with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified 
butter, and broil them on both sides, of a light colour ; when done, dish 
tiiem up and glaze them over, pour some sauce d la diable (No. 17) 
under them, and serve. 

980. CHICKENS, A LA TARTARE. 
BoNB the chickens as in the foregoing case, season with pepper and 
salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, bread- 
crumb them, then spread on some clarified butter, and bread-crumb 
them over again ; pat the bread-crumbs close together with the blade of 
a knife, broil them carefully to prevent their acquiring much colour, and 
when done, glaze them lightly, and serve with some half glaze under 
them. Send some tartare sauce (No. 96) separately in a boat. 

981. CHICKENS, A l'aLGERIENNE. 

Cut these up as for a firicassee, place the pieces in a deep sautapan 
with some clarified butter, and about one pound of raw ham cut into 
neat scollops, season with cayenne, a garnished faggot of parsley and 
green-onions, and a clove of garlic ; fry the chickens over a brisk fire 
until they acquire a fine yellow colour ; then pour off the grease, and add 
a glass of Madeira, a tea-spoonfiil of curry paste, a piece of glaze, two 
gravy-spoonfuls of espagnole sauce, and half a pottle of mushrooms ; 
simmer the whole together over the fire for ten minutes, then add a pat 
of butter and the juice of half a lemon. Dish up the eiUrie, im a 
pyniniidal form, reserving the pieces of breast and the fillets to be placed 



296 ENTREES OF POULTRY. 

uppermost ; garnish with the ham and mushrooms, pour the sauce over 
aU, place twelve crotUons of bread round the base, and serve. 

982. CHICKENS, A LA FLOBEXTIXE. 

Fob this purpose, choose two very small spring chickens, bone them in 
halves, trim them neatly, season with minionette-pepper and salt, and 
place them in a deep sautapan with half a gill of salad-oil, and a 
garnished faggot of parsley and green-onions containing a clove of garlic ; 
then add half a pound of raw ham or streaky bacon, cut up into square 
pieces and parboiled in water for ten minutes, a table-spoonful of the 
powder of sweet red pimento, half a pint of small button-onions, 
also parboiled in water for five minutes, the same quantity of 
small carrots turned in the form of olives, and half a pottle of mush- 
rooms. Set the whole over a moderate fire until the pieces of chicken 
&c. acquire a light colour^ then pour off all the grease, add a glass of 
Malaga wine, and a piece of glaze ; simmer the whole together over a 
brisk fire until the moistening is reduced to a glaze ; toss the pieces 
of chicken, &c. about in this to make it adhere to them, and unmediately 
dish up the eTUree, reserving the mushrooms, &c. to be placed in groups 
about the dish ; next, pour a spoonful of espagnole sauce into the sauta- 
pan, add the juice of half a lemon, allow this sauce to simmer, pour it 
over the entree, and serve. 

983. CURRY OF CHICKENS, A L'INDIEXNE. 

Out these as for a fricassee, trim them neatly, place them in a sautapan 
with some clarified butter, and fry them over a stove-fire until they be- 
come firm to the touch ; then pour off all the grease, add sufficient curry 
sauce (No. 47), for the entree, and set the curry to simmer very gently 
over a slow stove-fire until the pieces of chicken have become perfectly 
tender ; the entrSe may then be dished up, the sauce poured over it, and 
with some plain boiled rice separately. 

984. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Fry the pieces of chicken or fowl in butter, until they are brightly 
browned aU over, and remove them into a stewpan ; then slice up three 
large onions and two heads of celery, and put these into the stewpan 
together with a clove of garlic, a garnished &ggot of parsley, a blade of 
mace, and four cloves. Fry the whole over a slow fire until they acquire 
a Hght brown colour; add a large tablespoonful of Cook'smeat-curry- 
paste, and a similar proportion of Hour ; mix all the above together and 
moisten with a pint of good broth or gravy ; stir the sauce over the fire 
and keep it boiling for about twenty minutes, then rub the whole through 
a hair-sieve or tammy, and afterwards pour it to the pieces of chicken. 
Set the curry to simmer gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken 
become tender, when the enirie may be served as in the former case. 

986. FRITOT OF CHICKENS, WITH TOMATA SAUCE, ETC. 
Thb chickens must be cut up as for a fricassee and the pieces neatly 
trimmed ; then place them in a basin with some slices of onion, parsley, 
bayleaf, and thyme, minionette-pepper and a little salt, three table-spoon- 
fuls of salad-oil, and the juice of a lemon ; steep them in this for several 



MARINADE OF CHICKENS. 297 

hours ; and when about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken 
upon a cloth, shake some flour over them so as to entirely cover the 
pieces with a coating of it, form them into shape, drop them into 
some hog's-lard made hot for the purpose, and fry them of a yellow colour. 
When done, drain the pieces of chicken on a sieve covered with paper, 
lay them upon a sautapan, and glaze theni over slightly ; dish them up 
in a pyramidal form, garnish the erUree round with a border of fried 
eggs and croutons of bread, placed alternately ; pour some tomata or 
poivrade sauce (Nos. 22 & 29) under the/ri^, and serve. 

986. CAPILOTADE OF CHICKENS OR FOWLS, A L*ITALIENNE. 
This entree is mostly served when there happens to be roast fowl 
or poultry of any kind in reserve. This should be cut up into small 
joints neatly trimmed, and placed in a stewpan containing some Italian 
sauce (No. 12), and scollops of mushrooms and truffles; when about 
to send to table, allow the capilotade to simmer gently on a slow fire 
until the pieces of chicken have become thoroughly impregnated with the 
sauce : about ten minutes will suffice for this purpose. The entree may 
then be dished up, and garnished round with croutons of bread ; pour the 
sauce over it, and serve. 

987. CHICKENS, A LA TOSCANE. 
Prepare these in the first instance as for a fritSt^ and after the 
pieces of chicken have been sufficiently steeped, drain them upon a cloth 
to absorb all the moisture from tiie exterior, rub each piece over 
separately with a paste -brush dipped in yolks of eggs, and bread-crumb 
them upon this ; they must then be dipped in, or sprinkled over with 
clarified butter, and again bread-crumbed upon this ; they should next be 
patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in order in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before send- 
ing to table, firy the pieces of chicken of a fine yellow colour, and when 
done, drain them upon a napkm, glaze them over lightly, and dish them 
up; garnish with macaroni dressed with cheese, pour some essence of fowl 
under them, and serve. 

Note, — This dish may also be served without the macaroni, and is 
then called d la Viennoise ; in which case some queneUes of potatoes 
may be added. 

988. MARINADE OF CHICKENS, FRIED IN BATTER. 

Roast one or more chickens or fowls, when done, cut them into 
neatly-trimmed joints and put these to steep for several hours in the 
following preparation : — Cut into thin slices, a large onion, carrot, celery, 
parsley-root, a few green-onions, some parsley, and a clove of garlic, and 
put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a bay-leaf, sprig of 
thyme, blade of mace, and four cloves ; fry all these of a light brown colour, 
moisten with half a pint of Sherry, and an equal proportion of French 
vinegar, add a very little salt, and a pinch of minionette-pepper, and al- 
low the whole to simmer gently until the vegetables are thoroughly done; 
the marinade must then be strained through a tammy with considerable 
pressure, in order to extract the flavour of all the ingredients. When 
about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken on a napkin, and after- 
wards dip them into some light batter, fry them in hog*8-lard of a 



298 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

light colour, made hot for the purpose, dish them up on a napkin with 
fried parsley, and serve with some Italian, piquanUf poivrade, proveii^ale^ 
or tomata sauce ; or some essence of anchovies (No. 1 76), of truffles (No. 
168), of shalots (No. 167), or of fine-herbs (No. 170), in a boat sepa- 
rately. 



ENTREES OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, 

COMPRISINO 

Supreme of filleto of fowls, h VEcarlate. Fillete of Fowls, a Plndienne. 

„ „ a la Toulouse. „ a la Alarechalc 

„ „ with Truffles, „ hla Valenfay. 

&c „ a /<! liojfaU. 

„ „ a la Parisienne. „ d la finandire^ &c. 

„ „ with Cucumbers, „ a la D^UsreUe*. 

a la Bellevue. 
„ „ ^la Perigord. 

It should be observed that the whole of the following entrees are 
expensive ; with good management, however, much of the cost may be 
reduced, by subsequently using the remains of the fowls here required 
in the preparation of a variety of other dishes : such as those comprised 
in the last section of entries of poultry, and also for making galantines, 
ballotines, cutlets, croquettes, pies, &c. 

089. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A L'ECARLATE. 
Takb out the fillets of three or four young fowls, in the following man- 
ner: — First, slit the skin on the centre of the breast in a straight line, so 
that, by folding it down on both sides, the fillets will be left bare. Next, 
draw the point of a knife along the edge of the breast-bone, cut through 
the centre of the merry- thought, and then remove the fillets by dividing 
them from the breast and ribs, carefully running the point of a knife 
close to the bones, while the fillet is held up with the fingers of the left 
hand, so as to prevent the knife from injuring it. The fillets being 
thus removed entire, divide the minion fillets from the large ones, and 
after the sinew which runs along these has been carefully extracted 
without tearing them, they should be trimmed and placed in a small sau- 
tapan with some clarified butter, covered with a round piece of paper and 
placed in the larder; the larger fillets must also be trimmed in the 
following manner; — Place the fillet upon the edge of the table, 
with the pointed end to the right, and the smooth side downwards; 
then bear moderately with the fingers of the left hand upon the pointed 
end of the fillet, and at the same time slip the edge of a sharp knife 
(dipped in water) into that part, and slide the knife under the hand, 
closely bearing towards the skin so as not to waste any more of the fillet 
than is positively necessary for the purpose of removing it ; it must then 
be trimmed neatly round at the thick end, and nearly to a point at 
the thin end. The fillets should now be arranged, all in the same 
direction, in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; then seasoned with 
a little salt, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, and placed 



FILLETS OF FOWLS. 299 

with the others. It is necessary to observe that if the large fillets 
incline from right to left when placed in the sautapan, the minion fillets 
should be curved in the opposite direction : the latter may be decorated, 
or contisea with truffles or tongue ; in which case they must be covered 
with thin layers of fat bacon. When about to send to table, place the 
sautapan containing the large fillets over a stove-fire, and as soon as 
they become set and whitened on one side, turn them over immediately 
on the other, and do not let them acquire any colour ; then, quick- 
ly pour off all the butter, add a large spoonful of tuprime sauce (No. 
38), and having tossed the fillets in it over the fire without allow- 
ing them to boil or simmer, dish them in a close circle with a round 
scollop of red tongue (previously warmed in a little half glaze for the pur- 
pose) between each of them ; fill the centre with scollops of button- 
mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, place the minion fillets in a 
similar row to the others, upon the top of them ; pour some tuprSme 
sauce round the entries and upon each of the fillets, without mask- 
ing the pieces of tongue, and serve. 

990. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA TOULOUSE. 
Preparb the large fillets as in the foregoing case, and when the smaller 

ones have been trimmed, lard them closely, and place them in a sautapan 
upon thin layers of fat bacon, in a curved form. A quarter of an 
hour before sending to table, finish the large fillets as in the foregoing 
case, substituting aUemande for tuprime sauce, and this should be incor- 
porated with some reduced essence of fowls, a pat of butter, a little 
cream, and lemon juice* The larded fillets must be moistened with a 
little half-glaze, placed in the oven for about six minutes, and nicely 
glazed ; then, dish up the large fillets in a close circle with a crouton of 
bread, cut in the form of a deep crescent, fried in butter, and glazed ; 
fill the centre with a ragoitt of cockscombs, truffles, mushrooms, small 
quenelles^ and cockskemels, tossed in some of the sauce; dress the 
larded fillets round the top of the others, pour some of the sauce round 
the entree, and serve. 

991. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, WITH TRUFFLES. 
Prepare this in the same way as in No. 989; decorate the 

small fillets with truffles, finish and dish up the entree as therein 
directed, and fill the centre with scollops of truffles tossed in a 
small stewpan with a little glaze, and a very small piece of fresh 
butter ; pour the suprSme sauce (No. 38) round the base, and on the 
fillets, and serve. 

992. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PARISIEXNE. 
Trim eight or ten large fillets of fowls, and decorate them with black 
truffles, in the following manner : — First spread the bottom of a sautapan 
large enough to contain the fillets, with fresh butter; then place the 
fillets therein, all curved in the same direction, with the smooth side 
uppermost. Next, rub each fillet over slightly with a paste-brush, 
dipped in white of egg slightly beat up; the trufiles afler being 
first cut into thin scollops, and stamped out with tin fancy cutters 
in various forms, should then be stuck upon this prepared surface, 
according to taste ; forming therewith stars, scroUs, palms, mosaics, &c. 
When all the fillets are decorated, run some clarified butter over them. 




300 EXRIXS OF FOWLS. 

in suffkient quantitv to corer their surfim ; |dace a coraii^ of buttered 
paper upon them, and set the sauUpan aside in the larder. The mmion 

fiDets must also be deeorated with 
Aj>^ red tongue, in the same way as the 

^^^^ others. When about to send to 

table, simmer the fillets on both 
sides, carefully preventii^ them 
from beeoming at all coloured; 
when done, diain than upon a nap- 
kin, and dish them up in a close 
circle, placing a fillet of red tongue 
between eadi of the laige fil- 
lets; next place the mini<m fillet 
in a dose border cm the top of the 
inner edge of these, fill the centre 
with a ragout d la Parisienne (So. 203), pour some of the sauce round 
the base of the entree, without in any way masking the decOTation of the 
fillets, and senre. 

99a SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS WITH CCCUMBERS, 
A LA BELLE-TUE. 

In this instance, the fillets must be prepared and finished in exactly 
the same way as stated in (No. 989) ; but when dishing them up, instead of 
the fillet of tongue, place between the fiUets a scollop of cucumber, pre- 
pared as follows : — 

Cut two laige well- shaped cucumbers into slanting scollops of about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness ; trim these neatly in an oval form, 
scooping out the seeds, and after having parboiled these oval rings, or 
links, in salt and water, drain them upon a napkin, and place them 
in order at the bottom of a sautapan previously spread with butter ; 
then proceed to fill up the centre of these with some quenelle force- 
meat of fowl, mixed with some chopped and parboiled parsley, to 
colour it green ; smooth the surfaces over, place a circular piece of 
buttered paper upon them, and poach them by pouring some boiling can- 
sommc in at the side of the sautapan, so as not to disturb the rings. Let 
them simmer gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, 
then be carefully dmned upon a napkin, lightly glazed, and used as di- 
rected above. Fill the centre of the entree with prepared scollops of 
cucumbers (No. 138), previously tossed in some of the sauce ; mask the 
fillets, without covering the links of cucumbers, with some iuprime 
sauce, and serve. 

994. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PERIGOBD. 

Prsparb this according to the directions for mprime d VEcarlaU (No. 
989) ; the minion fillets, however, must be decorated with black truffle. 
When about to send to table, dish up the fillets as usual in a close circle 
round the base of a small ornamental croustade of bread, previously fried 
of a light colour, and stuck In the centre of the dish by means of a little 
flour paste; fill this croustade with some purie of trufiles (No. 121). 
pour some supreme sauce (No. 38) over the plain fillets, and round the 
base of the entree, and serve. 



FILLETS OF FOWLS. 801 



996. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A l'INDIENNE. 

Trim the fillets of three young fowls, and form the minion fillets into 
three large ones, by patting them together ; when trimmed in shape, 
place them and Uie others in a sautapan, with some clarified butter, and 
a similar number of thin slices of raw ham (previously soaked in water) 
cut in the shape and size of the fillets. When about to send to table, 
fry the fillets of fowls and the ham of a light brown colour, pour off all 
the grease, then add a spoonful of glaze, a pat of fresh butter, the 
juice of a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg ; toss the whole together 
gently over the stove-fire until mixed; dish them up, alternately 
placing a fillet, a piece of ham, and then a fried crouton of bread, of the 
same shape. Pour some espagnole sauce (No. 3) and some small scollops 
of mangoes into the sautapan containing the fillets and ham, simmer 
this over the fire for five minutes, then pour it over the erUrie, and 
serve. 

996. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA MARECHALE. 

Trim the fillets of three or four fowls, and with the minion fillets form 
three or four large ones ; make a slight incision down the centre of each 
fillet, so as to hollow it out a little : this must be done on the rough 
side. Then, chop a truffle, one shalot, and a little parsley very fine, and 
simmer these for five minutes in a small stewpan, with a bit of butter, 
pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze, add the yolks 
of two eggs, and with this preparation fill the hollow made in the fillets, 
and then mask them over on both sides with a little stiffly-reduced 
allemande sauce (No. 7) ; when this has become firmly set upon them 
by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets twice over: having once after dipped 
them in beaten eggs, and again after they have been sprinkled over 
with clarified butter ; pat them gently into shape with the blade of a 
knife, and place them upon a dish in the larder. Twenty minutes before 
sending to table, cover the gridiron with a piece of oiled paper, place the 
fillets upon this, and broil them (on both sides) over a clear coke fire, to 
a bright yellow colour ; when they are done, glaze them lightly, and 
dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a white Toulouse 
ragout (No. 187), pour some reduced essence of fowls under them, and 
serve. 

Note, — Fillets of fowls d la MarecJwle, may also be served with 
every kind of delicate vegetable garnish ; with white or brown Italian 
sauce ; with MarechaUy suprime, Venitian, proven^ale, perigueux^ or cray- 
fish 6au«e ; and also with either of the following essences : — Anchovy, 
truffle, fine-herbs, or shalot. 

997. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA VALENgAY. 

Trim eight fillets of fowls, and lay them flat upon an earthen dish. 
Prepare a sufficient quantity oi puree of truffles (No. 121), in which 
incorporate two yolks of eggs, and then spread this over the fillets on 
both sides ; when the coating has become firmly set by cooling, bread- 
crumb the fillets over twice : once with egg, and the second time, after 
being sprinkled over with, clarified butter. Then, place the fillets in neat 
order in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; and when about to send 



302 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

to table^ fry them of a light colour on both Bides^ drain them upon a 
napkin, and then dish them up closely in a circle ; place the minion 
fillets (which should be decorated with truffle, and simmered in butter,) 
in a row upon the top of the inner edge of the others; fill the centre 
with scollops of truffles, previously simmered in a little glaze and a very 
small piece of butter ; pour some supreme sauce (No. 38) under the 
entriey and serve. 

998. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA ROYALE. 
Trim the fillets of four fowls without removing the small ffllets, 
then closely lard one-half of them, and decorate the other four with black 
truffle, in the same way as described for fillets d la Parmenne (No. 
992); place these fillets in separate sautapans, the larded ones upon thin 
layers of fat bacon, and moistened with some half-^laze, and the decorated 
fillets covered with clarified butter. Just before sending to table, put both 
in the oven for about five minutes ; then withdraw the decorated fil- 
lets, glaze the larded ones, put them back for two minutes, and glaze 
them again. Dish them up, placing alternately a larded fillet with a deco- 
rated one ; fill the centre with a ragout of scollops of fat livers and 
truffles tossed in a little aUemande sauce (No. 7) ; pour some of the sauce 
round the entrk, and serve. 

999. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA FDfANCIERE. 

Cut out the fillets of four fowls, with the pinion-bones left adhering 
thereto, trim them in the usual way, and lard the whole of the fillet 
closely ; then place them in order in a sautapan upon thin layers of fat 
bacon ; moisten with some strong comommi, and set them to braize in 
the oven, or else covered with a lid containing some live embers of char- 
coal : about ten minutes will suffice to do them ; they must next be 
glazed, and placed mto the oven to dry the larding, and then glazed a 
second time. The fillets must then be dished up, and arranged in their 
natural order, that is, the right hand fillets to the right, and the left 
hand to the left- Fill the centre with a nch JinancHre ragout (No. 181), 
pour some of the sauce round the entrie, and serve. 

Note, — Fillets of fowls, larded and prepared as the foregoing, may 
also be served with puries of endive, green-peas, asparagus, d la MacS- 
doine ; with stewed peas, scollops of cucumbers, asparagus-peas, &c. 

1000. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA D'uXELLES. 

Trim the fillets of three or four fowls, removing the minion fillets, 
which should be decorated with black truffles as described in No. 
992, and afterwards placed in a sautapan with clarified butter. Ck>ver 
the larger fillets with a coating ofjyUxelles sauce, (No. 16,) over which, 
when it has become firmly set upon the fillets, by cooling, bread-crumb 
them twice ; once after dipping them in beaten eggs, and Uie second time 
after they have been sprmkl^ over with clarified butter. They must 
then be gently patted into shape with the l)lade of a knife, and placed in 
a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry 
the fillets on both sides, of a bright yellow colour ; then drain them 
upon a napkin, glaze lightly and dish them up in a dose circle : place 
the decorated minion fillets in a row on the top of the inner edge 
of these, fill the centre with scollops of button-mushrooms tossed in a 
little aUemande sauce (No. 7)9 pour some half-glaze under the fillets, and ~ 
•erve. 



303 



ENTREES OF QUENELLE-FORCE-MEAT OF FOWL, 

COMPRISING 

QiienfUes of Fowl, a VEstence. Boudins of Fowls, ^ la D'^Artois. 
„ „ a la Toulouse. „ a la Cardinal, 

., „ a la Marichale. „ hla Soubise, 

Boudina of Fowls, h la Richelieu, m ^ ^ Reine, 

„ h la Piriyueux* Bouchees ^ la Pompadour. 

„ ^ /<z Se/ton. 

1001. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A l'ESSENCE. 

Prepare some qttenelle force-meat (No. 242), with the fillets of two 
fowls, in which should be incorporated a spoonful of reduced aUemande 
sauce (No. 7) j this should then be moulded into quenelles in the following 
manner : First, take up as much of the force-meat as will fill a silver table- 
spoon, then smooth it over the top in a dome-like form with the blade of a 
knife dipped in hot water ; next, with another spoon of the same size and 
shape, which must be dipped in hot water, scoop the quenelle out of the 
spoon, and lay it upon the under side at the bottom of a deep sautapan, 
previously spread with butter for the purpose ; repeat this until the whole 
of the force-meat that is meant for the entrie be used up, and then place a 
covering of buttered paper over them, and pour sufficient boiling consommS 
in at the side of the sautapan to float the quenelles. About ten minutes 
gentle simmering by the side of the stove-fire, will suffice to do them ; 
they must then be drained with care upon a napkin, dished up in a close 
circle ; pour some bright consommi of fowl (boiled down to nearly the con- 
sistency of half-glaze) under them, and send to table. 

Note.^QueneUes of fowl prepared in this manner, may also be served 
with the following sauces : SuprSme, italtenne, pSrigueuXf aUemand^y 
bechamel, and rkhelieu. 

1002. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A LA TOULOUSE. 

For this entrie it will be necessary, when about to mould the quenelles, 
first to shake some flour over a slab or table, and then to take up six 
spoonfuls of the force-meat and drop them separately upon the slab ; next, 
shake a little flour over them, and proceed to roll each into the form of 
an egg ; these must then be placed in rows in a deep sautapan, (previous- 
ly spread with butter) at about two inches distance from each other, and 
flattened to a quarter of an inch in thickness, by gently pressing them 
down with the Angers ; a.ter which, pour in some boiling broth, and set 
them by the side of the Are to poach. When the quenelles are done, 
drain them upon a napkin, trim them neatly, still retaining their 
oval shape, and place one half of them in a sautapan with a little white 
consomme ; bread-crumb the remainder, first masking them over with a 
coating of allemande sauce. When about to send to table fry the bread- 
crumbed quenelles of a Ught colour, in hog*B-lard heated for the purpose, and 
having warmed the plain ones, and drained them upon a napkin, di^ up 
the entree, alternately placing one of each sort of quenelle ; fill the centre 



304 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

with a white Totdouse roffout (No. 187), pour some of the sauce round 
the base, and serve. 

1003. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A LA MARECHALE. 
Pbbparb the quenelles as in the foregoing case ; shape them in the 
form of cutlets, oval, oblong, circular, or like a heart ; taking care 
not to make them more than a quarter of an inch thick. When they 
have been poached and trimmed, place them upon a dish, and mask them 
oyer with some cUlemande sauce ; when this has become firmly set upon 
the quenelles by cooling, bread-crumb them over twice in the usual way : 
once with egg, and the second time after they have been sprinkled over, 
with clarified butter. They must then be broiled upon oiled paper, and 
when done of a light colour on the one side, great care must be used in 
turning them over, to be equaUy broiled on the other. When done, dish 
them up in a close circle, fill the centre, either with scollops of truffles^ 
mushrooms, fat livers, cockscombs, and kernels ; with aUemande or suprime 
sauce, or with essence of fowl, and serve. 

1004. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Pbspabb some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of two fowls, in 
the usual manner (No. 242), form this into a dozen flat oblong quendles, 
and poach them delicately in broth as directed in the foregoing cases ; 
when this is done, drain them upon a napkin, and after making an opening 
on the surface, to the extent of two inches long^ by one inch wide, and 
then carefully scooping out the inside of the quenelles to the depth of two- 
thirds of their thickness, fill this cavity with the following preparation : 
cut a large onion into very small dice, and fiy these in a small stewpan 
with a little butter, of a light yellow colour; then add an equal proportion 
of truffles, also cut into very small dice, and some mushrooms in the same 
manner ; next, add a spoonful of aUemande sauce (No. 7), a little nutmeg, 
minionette-pepper, and a small piece of glaze ; stir the whole over the fire 
for five minutes, and then use it as directed above. When the preparation 
with which the quenelles have been filled up has cooled, spread a layer 
of force-meat over the entire surface of each ; then place them in a sauta- 
pan previously spread with butter to receive them, rub them over care- 
fully with a paste-brush dipped in white of egg, and decorate them 
with truffle and tongue. When about to send to table, poach the 
houdins, by pouring some boiling consamm^ on them, taking care not 
to disturb the decoration ; when they have been allowed to simmer 
gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, drain them upon 
a napkin, glaze them lightly, and dish them up in a close circle ; pour 
some Richdieu ragout (No. 207) under them, and serve. 

Note, — This entrie may also be served with a purSe of mushrooms, 
truffles, or with scollops of fiit livers. 

1006. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA PERIGUEUX. 
Thbsb must be prepared in the first instance, in the same manner 
as the foregoing ; after the centre has been scooped out, the cavity of 
these should be filled up with some purh of truffles (No. 121) ; then, 
the houdins must be closed-in with a thin coating of the force-meat, and 
after being rubbed over with a paste- brush, and dipped in some beaten white 
of egg, should be sprinkled over with black truffles chopped very fine, and 



BOUDINS OF FOWLS. 305 

must be poached and afterwards dished up in a close circle. Pour 
some peru/iieux sauce (No. 23) under then), and serve. 

1000. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SEFTOxV. 

Prepare the forcemeat in the usual way^ and before using it^ incorpo- 
rate therewith about two table-spoonfuls of puree of mushrooms (No. 
122); then divide the force-meat into three equal parts, roll these, with 
the aid of a little flour shaken over them, into square oblong shapes,* 
measuring about six inches in length ; place these in a deep sautapan, 
previously spread with butter to receive them, and poach them as direct- 
ed in former cases ; when done, drain them upon a napkin, dish them 
up in the form of an angle, or in a row, side by side ; place two minion 
fillets that have been larded and glazed, across the ends of each, garnish 
with a vfhiie Jlnanciere ragotU (No. 188) and serve. 

1007. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA d'ARTOIS. 
Prepare about twelve small oval or oblong flat quenelles of force-meat 

of fowls, and when they have been poached, drained, trimmed and then 
scooped out as directed for the quenelles d la marechale, fill the cavities 
with a salpicani composed of truffles, mushrooms, and red tongue mixed 
with a little reduced allemande sauce ; spread a thin layer of force-meat 
over the surface, bread-crumb the boudins carefully and place them with 
this side uppermost in a sautapan with clarified butter. When about 
to send to table, fry the boudim of a light colour, on both sides, 
drain them upon a sheet of paper and glaze them lightly, and then dish 
them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a financiire ragout (No. 
188) in some Madeira sauce (No. 8), pour some of the sauce round 
the base, and serve. 

1008. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SOUBISE. 

First, prepare some force-meat with the fillets of two fowls (No. 
242), and in finishing this, instead of sauce, add two table-spoonfuls of 
puree of onions (No. 119); form this force-meat into about sixteen 
small oblong quenelles, by rolling them upon the table or slab with a 
little flour ; then cut each of these in two, lengthwise, spread out the sides 
of these halves a little with the point of a small knife, and then insert 
between them a small portion of salpicon, prepared as for the boudins d 
la d*Artois ; this, after being spread out to the thickness of rather 
less than a quarter of an inch, and allowed to become cold and 
firm, must then be cut up into small strips, or bands, for the purpose of 
being inserted in between two halves of the quenelles or boudin ; the 
sides of these should then be securely closed in, and patted smooth all over 
with the blade of a knife dipped in flour, and are then to be placed in a 
sautapan, previously spread with butter to receive them. Pour some 

* There are fi[incy copper, or tin, moulds made for this purpose, and may be had at 
all brazier*8 shops. Preriously to filing the moulds with the force-meat, they must be 
carefully and thinly spread with butter. These must be merely steamed in water, in 
the same manner as a pudding, and when done, turned out of the moulds, and finished 
as directed for the others. 

t fialpicon means literally anything sayoury, such as truffles, tongue, mushrooms, 
sweetbreads, poultry, or game, that has undergone the process of mincing, preparatory to 
being mixed with some blchamd, allemande^ or egpagnoU sauce ; to bo afterwards 
used for such purposes as the above, and also for garnishing patties with. 

X 



306 BOUCHEES OF FOWL. 

boiling broth to the houdins, and poach them in the usual way : then 
drain, trim, and bread-crumb them, with beaten egg, and place them 
carefully in a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to send 
to table, fry the houdiru of a light colour, glaze them lightly, dish them 
up in a close circle, fill the centre with some soubise sauce (No. 1 1 9), 
pour some half-glaze, or essence of fowls, under the entree, and serve. 

1009. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA REINE. 
Roast two fowls, remove all the brown skin, cut off all the meat 
from the bones, and use the latter to make some essence with. Chop the 
meat fine, and then pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter, and a 
large spoonful of reduced bechamel sauce ; season with a little pepper and 
salt, and grated nutmeg, and rub the whole through a very fine wire- 
sieve, or tammy-cloth; then put this puree into a small stevrpan, 
and after adding thereto half a gill of scalded double-cream, and a 
piece of glaze as big as a walnut, stir it over the fire until the whole 
is mixed, and spread this preparation on a dish, in a square form, 
about two inches in thickness, and set it in the larder to become cold. 
Then, cut the square into two oblong pieces, and divide these again, each 
into about eight small oblong slices, about three inches long by two in 
width, and a quarter of an inch thick. Spread each of these over with 
a thin coating of some very delicate force-meat of fowl ; flour them 
over, then dip them separately in some beaten egg, bread-crumb them, 
and set them on a dish in the larder until dinner-time. The boudint 
must then be placed upon the wire drainer of a firying-pan, and immersed 
in some clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and fried of a 
light fawn colour; they should be drained, and dished up in a close 
circle, with some bechamel or suprime sauce poured under them, and then 
sent to table. 

1010. BOUCHEES OF FOWL, A LA POMPADOUR. 

Pbbparb some very delicate force-meat with the fillets of two fowls ; 
when finished, incorporate therewith two spoonfuls of purie of mush- 
rooms, made with double cream (No. 122). Form this into about six- 
teen small oval, or circular flat qiienelles, or boudins, about a third of 
an inch in thickness; place them in a buttered sautapan, and poach 
them delicately : that is, let them be only two parts done ; drain them 
upon a napkin, then place them on a <£sh, covered over with a sheet 
of buttered paper, and put them in the larder until dinner-time. The 
bottchies should then be dipped in some very light batter, mixed with 
whipped cream, instead of water, and fried in plenty of clean hog's- 
lard, made hot for the purpose ; they must then be duhed up in circu- 
lar order, and the centre fill^ either with stewed peas, asparagus* 
peas, or purie, a macSdaiTie of summer vegetables, paivrade, or tomata 
sauce. If garnished with dressed vegetables, some essence of fowl should 
be poured round the base of the erUrie, 



307 



ENTREES OF FOWLS OR CHICKENS, 

C0MPBI8IN0 

Bal/otines of legs of Fowls, d la Financiire, Minced Fowl, with Rice. 

„ „ iila Jardinilre. Scollops of do. au gratin. 

Minced and OriUed Fowl. Kronieskys of Fowl, d, la Russe, 

Minced Chicken, and Poached Eggs. Croquettes of Fowl, with Mushrooms, &c 

Minced Fowl with Maccaroni Mince, or Salpieouy for patties. 

1011. BALLOTINES * OF LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA FINANCIERE. 
The legs must be carved from the carcasses of the fowls with the 
whole of the skin from the back left adhering thereto ; then bone these 
entirely without dividing the leg, or, as it is commonly called, the drum- 
stick part. The feet should be cut with part of the leg bones left on, 
scalded, and the outer skin carefully removed, without tearing them ; 
trim these neatly, leaving only part of the claws in, and stick them 
into the small aperture of the legs, whence the drum-stick bones have 
been removed : when properly done, this gives them a neat and plump 
appearance. They must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and about a dessert-spoonful of force-meat, in 
which has been mixed some fine-herbs, placed in the centre; a lai^ 
needle and some coarse thread should be used to draw the skinny part of 
the legs up into a purse, and must then be fastened to secure them in 
shape. The ballotines must next be larded closely on the plump 
part of the thigh, in the same manner as a sweetbread, and then 
placed in a deep sautapan, the bottom of which should be strewn with 
sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and 
covered with some thin layers of fat bacon, upon which the haUotines 
are to be placed. Moisten with sufficient consomm^ or broth, to reach 
nearly up to the larding ; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with 
the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set them to braize 
gently for about half an hour over a moderate stove-fire, or else in the 
oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When they are 
done, remove the lid and the paper, and put them in the oven for a couple 
of minutes to dry the larding ; then glaze them nicely, drain them upon 
a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle similarly to cutlets ; fill the 
centre with sl JinancHre ragout (No. 188), pour some of the sauce round 
the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Ballotines dressed in this manner, may also be served with 
endive, sorrel, purSe of green-peas or asparagus, stewed peas or ^ ^ 
macSdoine. 

1012. BALLOTINES OF LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA JARDINIERE. 

In this case, the legs of the fowls should be entirely laid open with the 
knife, and all the bones removed ; they must then be spread out upon 
the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of force- 
meat, mixed with fine-herbs, placed in the centre of each ; then lew 

* Ballotine, from ballot, which signifies something round and plomp. 

x2 



tlOH ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

them up in an oblong or oval form, and place tliem in a stewpan on a 
bed of sliced carrot, onion and celery, covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon, and braized as directed in the foregoing case. When the W- 
lotlnes are done, put them in press between two dishes, until they 
become cold ; they should then be trimmed and placed in a sautapan 
with a litttle consomme covered with a buttered paper. When alK)ut 
to send to table, put the hallotines in the oven to simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour ; then glaze and dish them up in a close circle, with 
a braized lettuce, nicely trimmed (No. 164), placed in between each ; 
fill the centre with a jardiniire (No. 144), pour some half-glaze or 
ettpagnole sauce round the base of the entree^ and serve. 

1013. MINCED AND GRILLED FOWL. 
Cut off the legs of a roast fowl, trim and score them over on both 
sides, and season them with pepper and salt ; then cut the meat of the 
breast, &c., into fine shreds, and put this into a small stewpan, with a 
little bechamel sauce (No. 5). When about to send to table, broil the 
legs of fowl over a clear fire, glaze them, and having previously warmed 
the mince, pour it out into the centre of the dish, place the legs upon it, 
and serve. 

1014. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Trim the legs and cut up the mince as in the foregoing case. Next, 
put an ounce of fresh butter into a small stewpan over the fire to melt, 
incorporate therewith a spoonful of flour, and stir these together for two 
minutes ; then add about a gill of broth, and the same proportion of 
cream ; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and a small piece of 
glaze ; stir this sauce on the stove, keep it boiling for ten minutes, 
and then add it to the minced chicken. In all other respects, serve this 
entree in the same way as the foregoing. 

1015. MINCED CHICKEN, AND POACHED EGGS. 
Cut up all the white meat of a roast or boiled fowl into mince or shreds, 
and put these into a small stewpan with a gravy spoonful of good htchamfl 
sauce ; when about to send to table, warm the mince, dish it up and 
place the poached eggs round it with a scollop of glazed tongue or of ham, 
and a fried crouton of bread in between each egg ; pour a little white 
sauce round the entree^ and serve. 

1016. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH MACCARONL 
In this case prepare the chicken or fowl in small thin scollops and add 
to them some bechamel : when about to dish them up, first place some 
maccaroni (dressed with grated Parmesan cheese and a spoonful of bechamel 
sauce) round the bottom of the dish in the form of a border, and 
put the mince in the centre piled up like a cone, pour a little white sauce 
round the entree, and serve. 

1017. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH RICE. 
Prrparr the mince as directed in the foregoing instance. Put six 
ounces of Carolina rice, after it has been well washed, into a stewpan with 
a pat of butter and a pint of broth, a little salt and minionette-pepper ; 
set the lid on and place it over a slow fire to boil very gently until the 
grains are become quite sofl, and all the moisture is absorbed; then add 



KROMESKYS OF FOWL. 309 

the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of sauce ; work the rice with a wooden 
spoon, then fill a circular border mould (previously buttered inside) with 
it and turn it out upon its dish : fill the centre of this with the mince, 
and serve. 

1018. MINCE, OR SCOLLOPS, OF FOWL AU GRATIN. 

Cut the meat off the breast and other white parts of a roast or boiled 
fowl, either into shreds or scollops ; put these into a small stewpan with 
some allenmnde sauce (No. 12) about a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small piece of glaze and half a gill 
of cream ; toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then 
place the scollops in the dish, piled up in a dome ; cover this entirely with 
a coating of fried breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, in 
the proportion of two-thirds of the former with one-third of the latter ; 
sprinkle a very little clarified butter over the surface, place round the 
entree a border of neatly cut fancy croutons of bread, of fieurons, of 
croquettes of rice, or of potatoes (previously firied), and then put it into the 
oven for about ten minutes, taking care that it does not get burnt. Next, 
pour some bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1019. KROMESKYS, A LA RUSSE. 

Cut the fillets of a roast fowl into very small neat dice, and put them 
on a plate with half their quantity of mushrooms and truffles, also cut 
into small dice. Stir the bechamel or aUevnande sauce over the fire until 
stiffly reduced, and then throw in the minced chicken, &c., mix the 
whole well together, to spread it out upon a dish about an inch thick, 
and put it to cool in the larder. Next, cut this preparation into small 
pieces somewhat in the form of a common cork, and place them on an 
earthen dish. A calfs udder, previously braized for the purpose, must 
be cut when cold into very thin layers, just large enough to wrap one of 
the Kromeskys round with ; they must then be dipped in some light 
batter, and fried crisp in plenty of hog's-lard made hot for the pur- 
pose. Dish them up with fried parsley in the centre and round the 
base, and serve them the moment they are done. 

1020. CROQUETTES OF FOWL AXD MUSHROOMS. 

The mince for these is prepared in the same way as for Kromeskys, 
and when it has become cold, must be cut up in pieces about the size 
of a plover's egg, and rolled with a little breadcrumb, either in the form of 
corks, pears, or very small cutlets ; they must next be dipped in beaten 
eggs and breadcrumbed a second time ; roll them smooth, and if they have 
been shaped like pears, a stalk of green parsley should be stuck into each 
to imitate the stalks of pears. Just before sending to table, fry the crO' 
quettes of a light colour in hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose, dish 
them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve. 

1021. ML^CE, OR SALPICON, FOR PATTIES. 
Cut the fillets of a roast fowl into small dice, then take two dozen 
mushrooms, one truffle, and a small piece of red tongue and cut these 
also in a similar way ; mix all these with the fowl, add enough sauce, 
either bechamely alletnatide, or espagnoU, and use this for garnishing pat- 
ties, or croustadt'i. 



310 



ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKLINGS, 



COMPRISING 

Pigeons, ^ la GaiOhier. Fillets of Pigeons, ^ la Borgkue, 

„ hla Orapaudim, „ d la BourguignoUe, 

„ a la Dueheste. m o, VAUemande. 

„ a /a SerilU, Ducklings, ^ la Rouennaiae, 
„ au gnUin in a case. ^ stewed with Olives. 

„ ^la Mainienon, „ with stewed Peas. 

Compote of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. Fillets of Ducklings, d. la Bigarade. 
„ with Peas. „ „ hla Maccdome, 

Fillets of Pigeons, a la Villeroi. Salmis of fillets of Ducklings. 

1022. PIGEONS, A LA GAUTHIER. 
Procube four young fat pigeons, draw, singe, and truss them with their 
legs thrust inside. Next put a half-pound of fresh butter into a small 
stewpan with the juice of a lemon, a little ininionette-pepper and salt ; 
place this over a stove-fire and when it is melted, put the pigeons with a 
garnished faggot of parsley in it, cover the whole with thin layers of fat 
bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and set them to simmer 
very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes, when they will be 
done. The pigeons must then be drained upon a napkin, and after all the 
greasy moisture has been absorbed, place them in the dish in the form of 
a square, with a large gruendle of fowl (decorated with truffles) in between 
leach pigeon; fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish tails, (No. 196,) 
pour some of the sauce over and round the pigeons, and serve. 

1023. PIGEONS, A LA CRAPAUDINE. 

After the pigeons have been cut in halves, lengthwise through 
the breast, flatten each of these with a cutlet bat, and then remove 
the bones from the breasts and legs; season vnth pepper and salt, 
and simmer them in a sautapan with some clarified butter over the fire 
until they become partly set ; they must then be put in press between 
two dishes, and when they have become cold, should be breadcrumbed 
tv^ce : first after being dipped in the beaten egg, and the second time in 
clarified butter. When about to send to table, broil the pigeons of a light 
colour over a clear fire ; then glaze them lightly and dish them up, pour 
some poivrade sauce (No. 29), to which must be added some chopped 
and parboiled shalots and parsley, and serve. 

1024. PIGEONS, A LA DUCHESSK 
Remove the bones entirely from six very young pigeons ; stuff them 
with some quenelle force* meat of veal mixed with a spoonful of sauce and 
some chopped mushrooms ; sew them up neatly so as to give them an ap- 
pearance of plumpness ; put them in a stewpan with some white poele 
(No. 230), and braize them very gently over a slow fire for about twenty 
minutes ; the pigeons must next be removed on to a dish and allowed to 
become partially cold ; they should then be covered all over with a thin 
coating of reduced alieniande sauce (No. 7), and when this is become 



PIGEONS, ETC. 311 

set upon them by cooling, roll them first in breadcrumbs, then dip them in 
beaten egg and breadcrumb them over again, and place them on a dish in the 
larder. About twenty minutes before dinner time, place the pigeons care- 
fully upon the wire lining of a fiyingpan, and immerse them in plenty of 
clean hog's-lard, made quite hot for the purpose ; as soon as they have 
acquired a light brown colour, remove them from the fryingpan on to a 
napkin to absorb any grease. Then, pile up some macidome of vegeta- 
bles (No. 143) in the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round this in 
circular order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish ; put a 
decorated fillet of chicken in between each pigeon, surmount the e7Uree 
with a group of nicely turned small vegetables, pour some aUemande or 
bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, And serve. 

1025. PIGEONS, A LA SEVILLE. 

These are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the 
foregoing, excepting that they must be braized in some wine mirepoix (No. 
236), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat bacon and 
only moistened half their depth ; braize them gently for about twenty 
minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the 
pigeons are done, drain them upon a napkin,, remove the strings and dish 
them up with their backs resting up against a small croustade of fried bread, 
previously made fast on the bottom of the dish ; garnish with a Spanish 
ragout,* place a large crayfish between 6ach pigeon, and a decorated minion 
fillet of fowl upon their breasts^ surmount the whole with a small larded 
sweetbread, and serve. 

1026. PIGEONS, AU GRATIN, IN A CASE. 

Remove all the bones from six young pigeons, then make some force- 
meat of fat livers (No. 249) and stuff the pigeons with this ; they must 
next be trussed and gently braized for about a quarter of an hour in a 
small quantity of moistening, after this removed on to a dish and placed in 
the larder to become cold. Make a circular case of stout paper, oil it 
over and place it in the oven for a few minutes to make it firm : line this 
case with some of the force-meat, and place the pigeons in it in neat 
order ; fill up the cavities with the remainder of the force-meat, cover them 
over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and then set the case in the oven 
to be baked for about half an hour. The bacon must then be removed, 
and all the grease absorbed by gently pressing a clean napkin upon it, and 
put on its dish. Place some scollops of mushrooms and truffles, 
simmered with a spoonful of fine-herbs on the top, pour some brown 
Italian sauce (No. 12) over the entree, and serve. 

1027. PIGEONS, A LA MAINTENON. 
Split four young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and then 

* The roffout aboTe alluded to consiBts of small truflHet, carrots, pieces of ham, mash- 
rooms, aud a few boiled fforbanoas, or yellow peas ; these must be first slightly fried in a 
little oil, and a spoonful of tomata sauce, a glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of the 
powder of the sweet red Pimento, and a pitce of glaze added ; simmer the whole together 
oyer a slow fiie until the carrots are done ; then skim off all the grease, add a small 
ladleful of finished espagnoU sauce (No. 3), and two doren cIotcs of garlic, previously 
boiled in water ; the roffout must be allowed to boil gently by the tide of the store for 
five minates longer; then, after it has been tkinuned, add the juice of half a lemon, 
and use it as directed. 



312 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 

season with pepper and salt ; fry them in a sautapan with a little butter, 
some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when this is done, 
add a large spoonful of allemande sauce, a little essence of mushrooms, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon juice ; simmer the whole together for five 
minutes, and allow them partially to cool. Next, trim off the comers 
from as many sheets of note paper as there are pieces of pigeon, and after 
the paper has been oiled over with a paste-brush, place the pigeons in 
them— dividing the sauce equally ; twist the edges of the paper neatly 
and firmly so as to secure the sauce from oozing out, and broil them over a 
very moderate fire ; dish them up in close circular order upon a napkin, 
and send to table with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), separately in 
a boat. 

1028. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Truss and then braize four pigeons, with three quarters of a pound of 
streaky bacon. Peel half a pint of button onions, and after they have 
been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over a very 
slow fire without allowing them to acquire any colour; they must 
then be drained upon a sieve, and afterwards placed in a small stew- 
pan with half a pottle of mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in 
square dice. With the broth from the pigeons, make enough brown 
sauce for the entree, and as soon as it has been sufHciently worked, add 
this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, 8ic^ and set the whole 
to boil very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes : then 
skim off the grease, and place this ragotU in a stewpan with the pigeons. 
When about to send to table, make the conipdte of pigeons hot, dish up 
the pigeons with a cronton of fried bread between each, put the pieces of 
bacon in the cavities formed between the pigeons, group the mushrooms 
and onions in the centre, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1029. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH PEAS. 

Truss the pigeons as for boiling. Parboil three quarters of a pound of 
streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into ra- 
ther large dice shaped pieces ; put these into a middle-sized stewpan and 
fry them of a light colour over a stove-fire, remove these on to a plate, 
and then throw in the pigeons and fry them also, until they acquire a 
light brown colour, and place them with the bacon. Next, add two 
table-spoonfuls of flour to the fat in the stewpan, and stir this ronx 
over the fire until it acquires a light colour, then gradually mix in 
with it a quart of broth ; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, 
add the pigeons, bacon, a quart of green-peas, a faggot of parsley and 
green onions, and a little minionette-pepper, and keep the compdte gently 
boiling by the side of a stove-fire for about three quarters of an hour ; 
then skim off all the grease, and remove the faggot, and if the sauce is 
not sufficiently reduced, place the pigeons in another stewpan, and vrith a 
colander-spoon remove the peas and bacon also; allow the sauce to 
boil briskly on the fire, stirring it the while, until reduced to its proper 
consistency, and then pour it to the compdte. When about to send to 
table, make the compdte quite hot, and dish it up in the same way as 
the foregoing. 

1030. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Bbaizb the pigeons together with a piece of streaky bacon (after it has 



FILLETS OF PIGEONS. 313 

been parboiled); when Uiese are done, prepare a quart of young 
peas for stewing in the usual way, to which add about half a pint of 
the liquor from the pigeons to moisten and flavour them with, and when 
these have been stewed, and all their moisture boiled down to a glaze^ 
thicken them by adding two ounces of fresh butter kneaded with a 
dessert-spoonful of flour; cut the bacon into fluted oval scollops, 
dish up the pigeons, first placing some of the peas in the centre of Uie 
dish to support them upright, then place the scollops of bacon in rows 
between the pigeons, or round them, pile the peas up in the centre ; pour 
some bright espagnok sauce, worked with some of the liquor from the 
pigeons, round the entree, glaze the pigeons and the bacon, and serve. 

1031. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA VILLEROI. 
Fillet six pigeons, remove the thin skin from them, and also the 
sinew from the under fillet, which must however be left adhering to the 
upper ; flatten them slightly with a small bat, or the handle of a knife, 
dipped in water, and trim them : they must then be covered en- 
tirely with a coating of d' Uxelles sauce (No. 16) and when this has be- 
come firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bread-crumbed 
twice ; once, after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after being dip- 
ped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imitate the bones 
of cutlets ; and place the fillets carefully in a sautapan lined with 
clarified butter. Just before sending to table fry the fillets of a light co- 
lour on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze them lightly and dish them 
up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a ntacidoiiie of vegetables, aspa- 
ragus-peas, French-beans or stewed peas ; pour some bright half-glaze 
(made firom the carcasses of the pigeons), round the entree^ and 



1032. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BORGHESE. 
Trim the fillets, insert the cutlet bone in each, as in the foregoing case, 
and put them on an earthen dish ; next, bone the carcasses of the pigeons 
and remove the skin and sinews from the flesh, and with this make some 
quenelle force-meat (No. 244). Season the fillets of pigeons with a little 
pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with a coating of the 
force-meat, thus increasmg their size about one-half; cover the bottom of 
a sautapan with some clarified butter, about one-eighth of an inch thick, 
and having allowed this to become quite cold, put in the fillets thus pre- 
pared in ciicular rows, and cover them with some clarified butter, which 
however should not be poured over them until it has become nearly cold. 
About a quarter of an hour before sending to table, place the sautapan 
containing the fillets upon a rather brisk fire, and allow them to simmer 
quickly ; when they are done on both sides, drain them upon a nap- 
kin, and glaze them brightly ; dish them up in close circular order, in 
the same way as cutlets, fill the centre with scollops of truffles, previ- 
ously tossed over the fire with a small piece of glaze, half a pat of fresh 
butter, and a spoonful of sauce ; pour some Madeira sauce (No. 8), 
round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1033. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 
Preparb these in the same way as the foregoing, and when about to 
send to table, simmer them briskly over a stove-fire, and when done, 



314 OTEEE0 OF PIGEOXS. 

drain, 0az^ tn4 dUh them up in a dote circle ; fill the centre with a 
ra^AU ^ la Unir^i^nMe (Ifo. 195)* pour tome of the sauce round the 
erUrie, and lenre, 

1034. nLLETS OF PIGEOyS, A l'aLLEMAXDE. 
PaiPAai these in all respects according to the foregoing directions, and 
when tlie fillets hare briskly simmered oyer a sharp fire, so as to be- 
come firmly set before they are more than half done, they must be imme- 
diately remored from the sautapan on an earthen dish^ and after being 
separately dipped in some light-nuide batter mixed with good cream, should 
be fried crisp in plenty of clean hogVlard made quite hot for the pur- 
pose; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close 
circle ; fill the centre with a pui4e of green-peas, artichokes, or asparagus, 
with either a jardmiire, or macidoine, stewed peas or dressed young 
Windsor-beans ; pour some bright half-glaze (made firom the carcasses) 
under the attr^e, and serve. 

1036. DUCKLINGS, A LA ROUENNAISE. 
Tiiuss two fat ducklings for boiling, put them in a stewpan, with about 
three quarters of a pound of streaky bacon ^previously parboiled), a car- 
rot, an onion, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and cover them with thin 
layers of fut liacon and a round of buttered paper ; moisten with a quart 
of white broth, and then set them to braize gently for about three quar- 
ters of an hour. Cut a bunch of young turnips into the shape of 
largo olives, or half-moons, and fry these in a stewpan with two ounces 
of clurifioii butter, and a dessert- spoonful of pounded sugar, over the fire, 
until they ucciuiro a deep yellow colour ; then strain off the butter, and 
put the turnips into a smaller stewpan containing sufficient bright espag- 
noh sauce (No. S) for the etUr^e ; add a little of the liquor from the ducks 
to flavour them, and sot them to boil gently by the side of a stove-fire until 
they are done, at tlio same time attending to the reduction of the sauce 
to Us pn)per consistency. When about to send to table, the ducks may 
otthor Ih) served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed ; 

Ikilu thoso in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fillets and 
>reaBtB for the top ; garnish the mtree with the turnips, place a border 
of scollops of streaky bacon round the base, pour the sauce over the 
ducks^ and servo. 

1030. DUCKLINGS, STBWKD WITH OLIVES. 

PaxrAiii those as in the (brewing case, and when done, cut each up 
into neatly trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs, and two fillets 
with the pinions left on tliem ; then cut the breast into two pieces, and 
also the Wk ; clarify the liquor, and after it has been reduc^ by boil- 
inft to half-glaae« warm the pieces of ducklings in it, and dish them up 
as befon> dinn'tod ; garnish the fntiit with a mpoui of olives, place the 
seollo)VK of str\>aky bacon round the cn/rrc, pour the sauce over the dudc- 
ing»» and »erY«» 

1037. DVCKLIXGS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 
rmtrARi these as directed in the Rm^go^ng cases. Stew a quart of 
young |^<HM (Nv\ 146), and finish them with a little of the ^aae 
iivide mMU tlU I^uor in whkh the ducklings have been bniaed: the 
Hiemhen M' sumU joints of the duddines must also be waimed in sosne 
WT Ike Moii^ ^M^ and ^Balled up in a poe iqfNtt Mi^ 



FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. 315 

garnish the base of the entree with the remainder ; place a row of scol- 
lops of the streaky bacon upon these, pour some bright e^pagnole sauce 
(No. 3) over the entree, and serve. 

1038. FILLETS OP DUCKLINGS, A LA BIGARADE. 

Draw and singe these, and pick out any remaining stubble-feathers on 
the ducklings; then separate the breasts from the legs and backs, by run- 
ning the knife in just above the thighs and cutting through the upper part 
of the back under the wings; roast the backs and use them for making the 
Ugarade sauce with (No. 33). Place the breasts in a deep earthen dish, 
season with a little minionette-pepper, salt, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, three 
table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of a lemon, and allow them to 
steep in this for several hours ; about three quarters of an hour before 
dinner, run a large iron skewer through the breasts of the ducklings 
and tie them on a spit, then place the whole of the seasoning upon them, 
wrap them up with a large sheet of oiled paper, and set them before 'the 
fire for about twenty minutes ; at the end of that time, remove the pa- 
per and seasoning, and allow the ducklings to acquire a bright colour ; 
then remove them from the spit, observing that they should be done 
with the gravy in them. The fillets must then be taken out, slightly 
trimmed and scored, and placed in a sautapan with a little half-glaze or 
some of the sauce, and allowed barely to simmer over a stove-fire to 
warm; they should then be dished up in a close circle with a fried 
crotUon of bread in between each fillet ; pour the higarade sauce over 
the entree, and serve. 

1039. FILLETS OP DUCKLINGS, A LA MACEDOINB. 
Thbsb must be prepared in the same manner as the foregoing ; when 

the fillets are trimmed, place them in a sautapan with some half-glaze 
made firom the carcasses, and when about to send to table, warm 
them without allowing them to boil, as that would make them 
tough ; dish them up in a close circle with a crouton of fried bread in 
between each fillet, fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables (No. 
143), pour some bright half-glaze round the base, and serve. 

1040. SALMIS OF FILLETS OP DUCKLINGS. 
Prepare the breasts of the ducklings and roast them off in the man- 
ner directed for those d la higarade; cut them out, trim and score them, 
and place them in a sautapan with a little half-glaze. Next, roast the 
legs of a light brown colour, and when done, break them up ; and put them 
into a stewpan with four shalots, a handful of parsley, a dozen pepper- 
corns, some mushroom-trimmings, a bay-leaf, and sprig of thyme; 
moisten with a pint of Claret or Sauteme wine, and set this to boil very 
gently over a slow fire for about half-an-hour ; then, strain it off through 
a sieve, add this extract or essence to an equal proportion of espag- 
note sauce (No. 3), and work it in the ordinary manner ; when it has 
been cleared by gentle ebullition, and afterwards reduced by boiling to its 
proper consistency, strain it through a tammy into a hain-marie. When 
about to send to table, warm the fillets carefully, dish them up as in former 
cases, fill the centre with scollops of truffles and mushrooms, pour the 
sauce over the entree, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing ducklings for 



316 ENTREES OF QUAILS. 

entrees, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treate 

ing to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and flanks ; for which 

see those articles. 



ENTREES OF QUAILS, 



COMPRISING 



Qoails with stewed Peas. Cutlets of Quails, a la lionUlaise. 

„ a la Firiguetue. Fillets of Quails, a la Talleyrand. 

y. a la Fifianciere. „ a la Parmenne. 

„ eL laJfoyale. Scollops of Quails, with Truffles. 
Cutlets of Quails, a la Mar^chaU', „ with Cucumbers. 

1041. QUAILS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Truss eight quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for 
boiling, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon and 
a garnished faggot of parsley in the centre, cover them with thin layers 
of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), and braize 
the quails gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Prepare about a 
pint of stewed peas, and finish them with a little of the mirepoix redu- 
ced to a glaze ; dish up the quails in a circle with their breasts placed 
outwards, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a scollop of streaky 
bacon in between each quail, pour some espagnole sauce, finished with 
some of the mirepoix, round and over the entree, and serve. 

1042. QUAILS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Draw eight fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouch, or ski" 
of the throat ; fill each with some trufiles cut into very small olives, and 
prepared as for stuffiing fowls, &c.» d la periguenx (No. 660) ; then truss 
them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next, cover the bottom 
of a stewpan with thin layers of bacon, and place the quails thereon ; 
pat a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of garlic in the centre, 
cover them with layers of bacon, and moisten with some wine mire' 
poix (No. 236) ; braize them gently for about three-quarters of an hour, 
and when done, dish them up with their backs resting upright against a 
small ornamental croustade of fried bread previously fastened on the cen- 
tre of the dish ; place a large white cock*s-comb between each quail, 
and some double cock's- combs in the centre, with a laige truffle to crown 
the whole ; pour some perigueux sauce (No. 23), over the entree, and 
serve. 

1043. QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Remove the bones entirely from eight fat quails, reserve the livers, 
and add to them half a pound of fat livers of fowl, with which prepare 
some force-meat (No. 249), and stuff the quails with part of this ; they 
must then be trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a stewpan with 
thin layers of fat bacon under them, a garnished faggot of parsley in the 
centre, and covered with layers of fiit bacon ; moisten with some wine 



>'Sf< 






/i/////A 



mititmf^BiaSMmk 



t> 



CUTLETS OF QUAILS. 317 

mirepoix (No. 236), and braize them gently for about three-quarters 
of an hour. Fre^tiTe & rich financie re ragovZ (No. 188), the sauce of 
which must be finished with some of the liquor in which the quails have 
been braized. When about to send to table, warm the quails, drain and 
dish them up, garnish the centre with the finand&re, pour some of the 
sauce round the entree, and serve. 

1044. QUAILS, A LA ROYALE. 
BoNB eight quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force- 
meat, and truss them in the usual manner ; place them in a stewpan 
with some sliced carrot, an onion, 
two cloves, and a garnished faggot 
of parsley ; moisten with a pint of 
white broth, cover with a round of 
buttered paper, put the lid on, and 
set them to braize very gently by 
the side of a stove-fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour; then 
allow them partially to cool in their 
own liquor, afler which they must 
be taken out and placed upon a 
dish in the larder to become cold ; 
the strings should then be removed, an^ the quails entirely covered with a 
coating of (£' CTiceZ^ sauce (No. 16); when this has become firmly set 
by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten 
egg, and bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, 
place the quails upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, and immerse them in 
plenty of clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose ; fry them of 
a light brown colour, then drain and dish them up on a border of qutndle 
force-meat previously turned out on the dish ; fill the centre with a 
white Touloiise ragout (No. 187), place a decorated minion fillet of 
chicken between each quail, pour some allemancCe sauce round the base of 
the entrSe, and serve. 

1045. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA MARECHALE. 

Split the quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of the 
back-bones, leaving the leg entire, which must be passed through the skin 
of the thigh to give them the appearance of cutlets ; flatten them slightly 
with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask them over 
withathin coating of aZ^wwznc^tf sauce (No. 7), and bread-crumb them twice 
upon this ; once after being dipped in beaten egg, and then in clarified 
butter : pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in 
neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Fry the cutlets of 
a light colour over a rather brisk fire; when done, drain and glaze 
them lightly, and dish them up in the same way as other cutlets ; fill the 
centre with either a macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), or scollops of 
cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, or a puree of artichokes ; pour 
some half-glaze, or a little supreme sauce, round the entrie, and serve. 

1046. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA BORDELAISE. 
Trim the quails into cutlets in the same way as directed in the forego- 
ing case, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan 
with a little clarified butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, and as soon as 



318 ENTREES OF QUAILS. 

they have acquired a light colour on both sides^ pour off all the grease, 
add a spoonfid of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire ; then dish 
them up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the centre with 
scollops of truffles and mushrooms^ pour some borddaise sauce (No. 57) 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

1047. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA TALLEYRAND. 

Fillet eight quails^ and with the carcasses make some essence (No. 
218); trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the legs) into 
them, to imitate cutlets ; then place them in a sautapan with some clari- 
fied butter. Prepare sixteen fried croutons of bread cut in the shape and 
size of the fillets, and fill these with some farce made from the quails' 
livers ; prepare also some scollops of fat livers, truffles and mushrooms, 
and put them into a small stewpan with a little aUemande sauce (No. 7) ; 
finish some suprime sauce (No. 38) by incorporating therein the reduced 
essence of quails, and keep it in a small bain-marie. Just before sending 
to table, simmer the fillets over a moderate stove-fire, and when done, 
pour off all the grease, add a little of the mprime sauce, toss the fillets in 
it, and dish them up as follows : — 

First, place eight of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven), at 
the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre ; then place a 
fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the crovions, and then place 
the last row of fillets ; fill the centre with the scollops, pour the supreme 
sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

1048. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Prbparb the ffllets and the crotUons as directed in the foregoing case, 

and finish and dish them up in the same way ; ffll the centre of the 
entrie with a Parisian ragout (No. 205), pour some of the sauce over 
the ffllets, and serve. 

1049. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH TRUFFLES. . 
Fillet eight quails, trim each fillet into two scollops, and place the 

whole of these in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with a 
little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. 
Use the carcasses to make some extract or essence with, which when 
done, must be clarified, boiled down to glaze, and incorporated with 
some finished espagnole sauce (No. 3), and put into a small bain-marie. 
Simmer the scollops over a moderate fire, and as soon as they are 
done, pour off all the butter, and add half the sauce with about half a 
pound of truffles cut into scollops ; toss them over the stove-fire for two 
minutes without allowing them to boil ; pile them up in the centre of the 
dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over them, garnish the entrU with 
a border of potato croquettes or Jleurons, and serve. 

1060. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

Thbsb are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing. When 
about to send to table, simmer them over the stove-fire, and when done, 
pour off the butter, add some scollops of cucumbers (No. 138), and some 
of the essence made from the carcasses boiled down to a glaze ; toss 
them over the fire for two minutes, and pile them up in the centre of the 
dish ; garnish the entrie round with a border of croquette made with 
the legs, and serve. 



319 



ENTREES OF LARKS, 

COMPRISING 

Larkt, a la Minute, Larks, with fine-herbs. 

„ a la Chipolala. „ with Truffles, a Vltaliemte, 

1051. LARKS, A LA MINUTE. 

Cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a small 
knife ; then place the larks in a deep sautapan previously spread with 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire until 
they have acquired a brown colour, and are nearly done ; all the grease 
must be poured off, and a large gravy-spoonfid of espagnole sauce, 
half a pottle of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon, should then be added ; toss them over the 
stove-fire until the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with fried 
croutons of bread round them, pour the mushrooms and sauce over the 
entree^ and serve. 

1062. LARKS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Pbepabb and fry the larks as directed in the foregoing case, and when 
done, pour off the grease, and add some chipoUUa ragout (No. 1 90) ; toss 
and simmer this over the stove-fire for five minutes, then dish up eight of 
the larks upon as many small oval croutons, place eight more croutons 
on these, and set a like number of larks upon them ; fill the centre 
with the ragout, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1063. LARKS, WITH PINE-HERBS. 

Trim the larks and draw the gizzards, place them in a sautapan with 
a little butter, pepper and salt ; fry them of a light brown colour over a 
brisk fire, and then add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, an equal 
proportion of parsley, and two shalots also chopped ; simmer these with 
the larks for five minutes longer, then add a gravy-spoonful of espagnole 
sauce (No. d), a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, the juice of half a 
lemon and a little grated nutmeg ; toss the whole well together over the 
fire for two minutes, and dish them in a neat pyramidal form, place some 
croutons of fried bread round the entree, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

1064. LARKS, WITH TRUFFLES, A l'iTALIENNE. 
Fry these as directed in the foregoing cases, and when they have ac- 
quired a light brown colour, pour off the grease, add some brown Italian 
sauce (No. 12), half a pottle of mushrooms, and about two ounces of 
truffles cut into scollops ; toss the whole together over the fire for fi'tQ 
minutes, dish up the larks in double rows, with croutons of bread in be- 
tween each row, fill the centre with the truffles and mushrooms, pour the 
sauce over the entree, and serve. 



310 



ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKLINGS, 



COMPRISING 

Pigeoni, it la GautMier, Fillets of Pigeons, it la Borykem, 

„ a /a Cn^pamdim, „ a la BotuympmoUe, 

^ a la Dueketm. m a tAUemande. 

^ d la Seville, Ducklings, h la Rouemmaite. 
„ au gratin in a case. » stewed with Olives. 

„ ^ la Maintemm, „ with stewed Peas. 

Compote of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. Fillets of Ducklings, d. la Bifforade* 
„ with Peas. „ ^ ^ la Maeedome. 

Fillets of Pigeons, a la ViUtroi, Salmis of fillets of Ducklings. 

1022. PIGEONS, A LA GAUTHIER. 
Procure four young fat pigeons, draw, singe, and truss them with their 
legs thrust inside. Next put a half-pound of fresh butter into a small 
Btewpan with the juice of a lemon, a little ininionette-pepper and salt ; 
place this over a stove-fire and when it is melted, put the pigeons with a 
garnished faggot of parsley in it, cover the whole with thin layers of fat 
bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and set them to simmer 
very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes, when they will be 
done. The pigeons must then be drained upon a napkin, and ailer all the 
greasy moisture has been absorbed, place them in the dish in the form of 
a square, with a large queiieUe of fowl (decorated with truffles) in between 
leach pigeon; fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish tails, (No. 196,) 
pour some of the sauce over and round the pigeons, and serve. 

1023. PIGEONS, A LA CRAPAUDINE. 

After the pigeons have been cut in halves, lengthwise through 
the breast, flatten each of these with a cutlet bat, and then remove 
the bones from the breasts and legs; season with pepper and salt, 
and simmer them in a sautapan with some clarified butter over the fire 
until they become partly set ; they must then be put in press between 
two dishes, and when they have become cold, should be breadcrumbed 
tmcG : first after being dipped in the beaten egg, and the second time in 
clarified butter. When about to send to table, broil the pigeons of a li^t 
colour over a clear fure ; then glaze them lightly and dish them up, pour 
some poivrade sauce (No. S9), to which must be added some chopped 
and parboiled shalots and parsley, and serve. 

1024. PIGEONS, A LA DUCHESSK 

Remove the bones entirely from six very young pigeons ; stuff them 
with some qtienelie force* meat of veal mixed with a spoonful of sauce and 
some chopped mushrooms ; sew them up neatly so as to give them an ap- 
pearance of plumpness ; put them in a stewpan with some white poeU 
(No. 2d0), and braize them very gently over a slow fire for about twenty 
minutes ; the pigeons must next be removed on to a dish and allowed to 
become partially cold ; they should then be covered all over with a thin 
coating of reduced alUmande sauce (No. 7), and when this is become 



PIGEONS, ETC. 311 

set upon them by cooling, roll them first in breadcrumbs, then dip them in 
beaten egg and breadcrumb them over again, and place them on a dish in the 
larder. About twenty minutes before dinner time, place the pigeons care- 
fully upon the wire lining of a fiyingpan, and immerse them in plenty of 
clean hog's-lard, made quite hot for the purpose ; as soon as they have 
acquired a light brown colour, remove them fix)m the fryingpan on to a 
napkin to absorb any grease. Then, pile up some macidoine of vegeta- 
bles (No. 143) in the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round tWs in 
circular order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish ; put a 
decorated fillet of chicken in between each pigeon, surmount the entrSe 
with a group of nicely turned small vegetables, pour some dUemande or 
bechamel sauce round the base of the eiUree, dnd serve. 

1025. PIGEONS, A LA SEVILLE. 

These are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the 
foregoing, excepting that they must be braized in some wine rnvrepoix (No. 
236), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat bacon and 
only moistened half their depth ; braize them gently for about twenty 
minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the 
pigeons are done, drain them upon a napkin,, remove the strings and dish 
them up with their backs resting up against a small croiatade of fried bread, 
previously made fast on the bottom of the dish ; garnish with a Spanish 
ragotU,* place a large crayfish between 6ach pigeon, and a decorated minion 
fillet of fowl upon their breasts, surmount the whole with a small larded 
sweetbread, and serve. 

1026. PIGEONS, AU GRATIN, IN A CASE. 

Remove all the bones from six young pigeons, then make some force- 
meat of fat livers (No. 249) and stuff the pigeons with this ; they must 
next be trussed and gently braized for about a quarter of an hour in a 
small quantity of moistening, after this removed on to a dish and placed in 
the larder to become cold. Make a circular case of stout paper, oil it 
over and place it in the oven for a few minutes to make it firm : line this 
case with some of the force-meat, and place the pigeons in it in neat 
order ; fill up the cavities with the remainder of the force-meat, cover them 
over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and then set the case in the oven 
to be baked for about half an hour. The bacon must then be removed, 
and all the grease absorbed by gently pressing a clean napkin upon it, and 
put on its dish. Place some scollops of mushrooms and truffles, 
simmered vnth a spoonful of fine-herbs on the top, pour some brown 
Italian sauce (No. 12) over the erUrie, and serve. 

1027. PIGEONS, A LA MAINTENON. 
Split four young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and then 

* The ra^ut above alladed to consists of small trufRet, carrots, pieces of ham, mash- 
rooms, and a few boiled garhanoas^ or yeUow peas ; these mast be first slightly fried in a 
little oil, and a spoonful of tomata sauce, a glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of the 
powder of the sweet red Pimento, and a piece of glaze added ; simmer the whole together 
over a slow fire until the carrots are done ; then skim off all the grease, add a small 
ladleful of finished eapagnoU sauce (No. 3), and two dozen cloves of garUc, previously 
boiled in water ; the ragout must be allowed to boil gently by the side of the store for 
five minutes longer ; then, after it has been skimmed, add the juice of half a lemon, 
and use it as directed* 



312 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 

season with pepper and salt ; fry them in a sautapan with a little butter, 
some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when this is done, 
add a large spoonful of allemande sauce, a little essence of mushrooms, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon juice ; simmer the whole together for five 
minutes, and allow them partially to cool. Next, trim off the comers 
from as many sheets of note paper as there are pieces of pigeon^ and after 
the paper has been oiled over with a paste- brush, place the pigeons in 
them— dividing the sauce equally ; twist the edges of the paper neatly 
and firmly so as to secure the sauce from oozing out, and broil them over a 
very moderate fire ; dish them up in close circular order upon a napldn, 
and send to table with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), separately in 
a boat. 

1028. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Truss and then braize four pigeons, with three quarters of a pound of 
streaky bacon. Peel half a pint of button onions, and after they have 
been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over a very 
slow fire without allowing them to acquire any colour; they must 
then be drained upon a sieve, and afterwards placed in a small stew- 
pan with half a pottle of mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in 
square dice. With the broth firom the pigeons, make enough brown 
sauce for the entree^ and as soon as it has been sufHciently worked, add 
this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, &c., and set the whole 
to boil very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes : then 
skim off the grease, and place this ragout in a stewpan with the pigeons. 
When about to send to table, make the compdte of pigeons hot, dish up 
the pigeons with a crotUtyii of fried bread between each, put the pieces of 
bacon in the cavities formed between the pigeons, group the mushrooms 
and onions in the centre, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1029. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH PEAS. 
Truss the pigeons as for boiling. Parboil three quarters of a pound of 
streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into ra- 
ther large dice shaped pieces ; put these into a middle-sized stewpan and 
fry them of a light colour over a stove-fire, remove these on to a plate, 
and then throw in the pigeons and fry them also, until they acquire a 
light brown colour, and place them with the bacon. Next, add two 
table-spoonfuls of flour to the fat in the stewpan, and stir this rmix 
over the fire until it acquires a light colour, then gradually mix in 
with it a quart of broth ; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, 
add the pigeons, bacon, a quart of green-peas, a faggot of parsley and 
green onions, and a little minionette-pepper, and keep the compdte gently 
boiling by the side of a stove-fire for about three quarters of an hour ; 
then skim off all the grease, and remove the &ggot, and if the sauce is 
not sufficiently reduced, place the pigeons in another stewpan, and with a 
colander-spoon remove the peas and bacon also; allow the sauce to 
boil briskly on the fire, stirring it the while, until reduced to its proper 
consistency, and then pour it to the compdte. When about to send to 
table, make the compdte quite hot, and cUsh it up in the same way as 
the foregoing. 

1030. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Braize the pigeons together with a piece of streaky bacon (after it has 



FILLETS OF PIGEONS. 313 

been parboiled) ; when these are done, prepare a quart of young 
peas for stewing in the usual way, to which add about half a pint of 
the liquor from the pigeons to moisten and flavour them with, and when 
these have been stewed, and all their moisture boiled down to a glaze, 
thicken them by adding two ounces of fresh butter kneaded with a 
dessert- spoonful of flour ; cut the bacon into fluted oval scollops, 
dish up the pigeons, flrst placing some of the peas in the centre of Uie 
dish to support them upright, then place the scollops of bacon in rows 
between the pigeons, or round them, pile the peas up in the centre ; pour 
some bright espagiwle sauce, worked with some of the liquor from the 
pigeons, round the entree, glaze the pigeons and the bacon, and serve. 

1031. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA VILLEROI. 

Fillet six pigeons, remove the thin skin from them, and also the 
sinew from the under fillet, which must however be left adhering to the 
upper ; flatten them slightly with a small bat, or the handle of a knife, 
dipped in water, and trim them : they must then be covered en- 
tirely with a coating of d' Uxelles sauce (No. 16) and when this hi^ be- 
come firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bread-crumbed 
twice ; once, after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after being dip- 
ped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imitate the bones 
of cutlets ; and place the fillets carefully in a sautapan lined with 
clarified butter. Just before sending to table fry the fillets of a light co- 
lour on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze them lightly and dish them 
up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a macidoine of vegetables, aspa- 
ragus-peas, French-beans or stewed peas ; pour some bright half-glaze 
(made fi:om the carcasses of the pigeons), round the entree^ and 
serve. 

1032. FILLETS OP PIGEONS, A LA BORGHESE. 

Trim the fillets, insert the cutlet bone in each, as in the foregoing case, 
and put them on an earthen dish ; next, bone the carcasses of the pigeons 
and remove the skin and sinews fix)m the flesh, and with this make some 
quenelle force-meat (No. 244). Season the fillets of pigeons with a little 
pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with a coating of the 
force-meat, thus increasing their size about one-half; cover the bottom of 
a sautapan with some clarified butter, about one-eighth of an inch thick, 
and having allowed this to become quite cold, put in the fillets thus pre- 
pared in ciicular rows, and cover them with some clarified butter, which 
however should not be poured over them until it has become nearly cold. 
About a quarter of an hour before sending to table, place the sautapan 
containing the fillets upon a rather brisk fire, and allow them to simmer 
quickly ; when they are done on both sides, drain them upon a nap- 
kin, and glaze them brightly ; dish them up in close circular order, in 
the same way as cutlets, fill the centre with scollops of truffles, previ- 
ously tossed over the fire with a small piece of glaze^ half a pat of fresh 
butter, and a spoonful of sauce ; pour some Madeira sauce (No. 8), 
round the base of the erUrie, and serve. 

1033. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 
Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and when about to 
send to table, simmer them briskly over a stove-fire, and when done, 



314 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 

dndn, glaze, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a 
ragovJt d la hourguigTwUe (ITb. 195)> pour some of the sauce round the 
entree, and serve. 

1034. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A l'aLLEMANDE. 
Prepare these in all respects according to the foregoing directions, and 
vrhen the fillets have briskly simmered over a sharp fire, so as to be- 
come firmly set before they are more than half done, they must be imme- 
diately removed from the sautapan on an earthen dish, and after being 
separately dipped in some light-made batter mixed with good cream, should 
be fried crisp in plenty of clean hog*s-lard made quite hot for the pur- 
pose; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close 
circle ; fill the centre with a pur^e of green-peas, artichokes, or asparagus, 
with either a jardinvirey or nuicSdoine, stewed peas or dressed young 
Windsor-beans ; pour some bright half-glaze (made fit>m the carcasses) 
under the entree, and serve. 

1036. DUCKLINGS, A LA ROUENNAISE. 
Truss two fat ducklings for boiling, put them in a stewpan, with about 
three quarters of a pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), a car- 
rot, an onion, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and cover them with thin 
layers of fat bacon and a round of buttered paper ; moisten with a quart 
of white broth, and then set them to braize gently for about three quar- 
ters of an hour. Cut a bunch of young turnips into the shape of 
large olives, or half-moons, and fry these in a stewpan with two ounces 
of clarified butter, and a dessert- spoonful of pounded sugar, over the fire, 
until they acquire a deep yellow colour ; then strain off the butter, and 
put the turnips into a smaller stewpan containing sufficient bright espag- 
nole sauce (No. 3) for the entree ; add a little of the liquor from the ducks 
to flavour them, and set them to boil gently by the side of a stove-fire until 
they are done, at the same time attending to the reduction of the sauce 
to its proper consistency. When about to send to table, the ducks may 
either be served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed ; 
pile these in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fillets and 
breasts for the top ; garnish the entree with the turnips, place a border 
of scollops of streaky bacon round the base^ pour the sauce over the 
ducks^ and serve. 

1036. DUCKLINGS, STEWED WITH OLIVES. 

Prepare these as in the foregoing case, and when done, cut each up 
into neatly trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs, and two fillets 
with the pinions left on them ; then cut the breast into two pieces, and 
also the back ; clarify the liquor, and after it has been reduced by boil- 
ing to half-glaze, warm the pieces of ducklings in it, and dish them up 
as before directed ; garnish the entree with a ragout of olives, place the 
scollops of streaky bacon round the entree, pour the sauce over the duck- 
ings, and serve. 

1037. DUCKLINGS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 
Prepare these as directed in the foregoing cases. Stew a quart of 
young peas (No. 146), and finish them with a little of the glaze 
made from the liquor in which the ducklings have been braized; the 
members or small joints of the ducklinffs must also be wanned in some 
of the same glaze, and dished up in a pile upon some of the stewed peas^ 



FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. 315 

garnish the base of the enirSe with the remainder ; place a row of scol- 
lops of the streaky bacon upon these^ pour some bright espagnole sauce 
(No. 3) over the entree, and serve. 

1038. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA BIGARADE. 

Draw and singe these, and pick out any remaining stubble-feathers on 
the ducklings; then separate the breasts from the legs and backs, by run- 
ning the knSe in just above the thighs and cutting through the upper part 
of the back under the wings; roast the backs and use them for making the 
higarade sauce with (No. 38). Place the breasts in a deep earthen dish, 
season with a little minionette-pepper, salt, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, three 
table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of a lemon, and allow them to 
steep in this for several hours ; about three quarters of an hour before 
dinner, run a large iron skewer through the breasts of the ducklings 
and tie them on a spit, then place the whole of the seasoning upon them, 
wrap them up with a large sheet of oiled paper, and set them before 'the 
fire for about twenty minutes ; at the end of that time, remove the pa- 
per and seasoning, and allow the ducklings to acquire a bright colour ; 
then remove them from the spit, observing that they should be done 
with the gravy in them. The fillets must then be taken out, slightly 
ti-immed and scored, and placed in a sautapan with a little half-glaze or 
some of the sauce, and allowed barely to simmer over a stove-fire to 
warm; they should then be dished up in a close circle with a fried 
crouton of bread in between each fillet ; pour the higarade sauce over 
the eifUree, and serve. 

1039. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA MACEDOINE. 
These must be prepared in the same manner as the foregoing ; when 

the fillets are trimmed, place them in a sautapan with some half-glaze 
made from the carcasses, and when about to send to table, warm 
them without allowing them to boil, as that would make them 
tough ; dish them up in a close circle with a crouton of fried bread in 
between each fillet, fill the centre with a macidoine of vegetables (No. 
143), pour some bright half-glaze round the base, and serve. 

1040. SALMIS OF FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. 
Prepare the breasts of the ducklings and roast them off in the man- 
ner directed for those d la higarade; cut them out, trim and score them, 
and place them in a sautapan with a little half-glaze. Next, roast the 
legs of a light brown colour, and when done, break them up ; and put them 
into a stewpan with four shalots, a handful of parsley, a dozen pepper- 
corns, some mushroom-trimmings, a bay-leaf, and sprig of thyme; 
moisten with a pint of Claret or Sauteme wine, and set this to boil very 
gently over a slow fire for about half-an-hour ; then, strain it off through 
a sieve, add this extract or essence to an equal proportion of apag^ 
note sauce (No. 3), and work it in the ordinary manner ; when it has 
been cleared by gentle ebullition, and afterwards reduced by boiling to its 
proper consistency, strain it through a tammy into a bain-marie. When 
about to send to table, warm the Slets carefully, dish them up as in former 
cases, fill the centre with scollops of truffles and mushrooms, pour the 
sauce over the entree, and serve. 

Note, — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing ducklings for 



316 ENTKEES OF QUAILS. 

entrees, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treate 

ing to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and flanks ; for which 

see those articles. 



ENTREES OF QUAILS, 



COMPRISING 



Qoails with stewed Pea&. Cutlets of Quails, a la HortUUuse. 

„ a la Ftrigueuje, Fillets of Quails, a la Talleyrand. 

y. a la Financiere, m ^ '** Paristtnite. 

„ a la Ifqjfole, SioUops of Quails, with Trufflefi. 
Cutlets of Quails, a la Marichale. ^ with Cucumbers. 

1041. QUAILS, WITH STEWED TEAS. 

Truss eight quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for 
boiling, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon and 
a garnished faggot of parsley in the centre, cover them with thin layers 
of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepouc (No. 236), and braize 
the quails gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Prepare about a 
pint of stewed peas, and finish them with a little of the mirepoix redu- 
ced to a glaze ; dish up the quails in a circle with their breasts placed 
outwards, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a scollop of streaky 
bacon in between each quail, pour some espagnole sauce, finished with 
some of the mirepoix, round and over the entree, and serve. 

1042. QUAILS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Draw eight fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouchy or ski" 
of the throat ; fill each with some truffles cut into very small olives, and 
prepared as for stuffling fowls, &c., d la perigueux (No. 660) ; then truss 
them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next, cover the bottom 
of a stewpan with thin layers of bacon, and place the quails thereon ; 
put a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of garlic in the centre, 
cover them with layers of bacon, and moisten with some wine mire- 
poix (No. 286) ; braize them gently for about three-quarters of an hour, 
and when done, dish them up with their backs resting upright against a 
small ornamental crotistade of fried bread previously festened on the cen- 
tre of the dish ; place a large white cock's-comb between each quail, 
and some double cock's- combs in the centre, with a large truffle to crown 
the whole ; pour some periguetix sauce (No. 23), over the entree^ and 
serve. 

1043. QUAILS, A LA FINA5CIERE. 

Remove the bones entirely from eight fat quails, reserve the livers, 
and add to them half a pound of &t livers of fowl, with which prepare 
gome force-meat (No. 2'1'9), and stuff the quails with part of this ; they 
must then be trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a stewpan with 
thin layers of fat bacon under them, a garnished faggot of parsley in the 
centre, and covered with layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some wine 




CUTLETS OF QUAILS. 317 

mirepoix (No. 236), and braize them gently for about three-quarters 
of an hour. Prepare a rich financiere ragout (No. 188), the sauce of 
which must be finished with some of the liquor in which the quails have 
been braized. When about to send to table, warm the quails, drain and 
dish them up, garnish the centre with the financiire, pour some of the 
sauce round the entree, and serve. 

1044. QUAILS, A LA ROYALE. 
Bone eight quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force- 
meat, and truss them in the usual manner ; place them in a stewpan 
with some sliced carrot, an onion, 
two cloves, and a garnished faggot 
of parsley ; moisten with a pint of 
white broth, cover with a round of 
buttered paper, put the lid on, and 
set them to braize very gently by 
the side of a stove-fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour; then 
allow them partially to cool in their 
own liquor, after which they must 
be taken out and placed upon a 
dish in the larder to become cold ; 
the strings should then be removed, an^ the quails entirely covered with a 
coating of c^'C^a:€^Ze« sauce (No. 16); when this has become firmly set 
by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten 
egg, and bread-crumb them over again. Wlien about to send to table, 
place the quails upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, and immerse them in 
plenty of clean hog s-lard made quite hot for the purpose ; fry them of 
a light brown colour, then drain and dish them up on a border of quenelle 
force-meat previously turned out on the dish; fill the centre with a 
white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), place a decorated minion fillet of 
chicken between each quail, pour some aUemande sauce round the base of 
the entreey and serve. 

1045. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA MARECHALE. 

Split the quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of the 
back-bones, leaving the leg entire, which must be passed through the skin 
of the thigh to give them the appearance of cutlets ; flatten them slightly 
with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask them over 
with a thin coating of a^^^manc^^ sauce (No. 7), and bread-crumb them twice 
upon this ; once afler being dipped in beaten egg, and then in clarified 
butter : pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in 
neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Fry the cutlets of 
a light colour over a rather brisk fire; when done, drain and glaze 
them lightly, and dish them up in the same way as other cutlets ; fill the 
centre with either a macedoine of vegetables (No. 148), or scollops of 
cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, or a puree of artichokes ; pour 
some half-glaze, or a little iuprime sauce, round the entrie^ and serve. 

1046. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA BORDELAISE. 
Trim the quails into cutlets in the same way as directed in the forego- 
ing case, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan 
with a little clarified butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, and as soon as 



318 ENTREES OF QUAILS. 

they have acquired a light colour on both odes, pour off all the grease, 
add a spoonful of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire ; then dish 
them up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the centre with 
scollops of truffles and mushrooms^ pour some borddaise sauce (No. 57) 
over the cutlets, and serve. 

1047. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA TALLEYRAXD. 

Fillet eight quails, and with the carcasses make some essence (No. 
218); trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the legs) into 
them, to imitate cutlets ; then place them in a sautapan with some clari- 
fied butter. Prepare sixteen fried crotUons of bread cut in the shape and 
size of the fillets, and fill these with some farce made from the quails' 
livers ; prepare also some scollops of fat livers, truffles and mushrooms, 
and put them into a small stewpan with a little aUemande sauce (No. 7) ; 
finish some suprime sauce (No. 88) by incorporating therein the reduced 
essence of quails, and keep it in a small hainrmarie. Just before sending 
to table, simmer the fillets over a moderate stove-fire, and when done, 
pour off all the grease, add a Uttle of the mprime sauce, toss the fillets in 
it, and dish them up as follows : — 

First, place eight of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven), at 
the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre ; then place a 
fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the croutcTiSy and then place 
the last row of fillets ; fill the centre with the scollops, pour the supreme 
sauce over the ffllets, and serve. 

1048. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Prbpabb the fillets and the crotUons as directed in the forgoing case, 

and finish and dish them up in the same way ; ffll the centre of the 
entree with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), pour some of the sauce over 
the fillets, and serve. 

1049. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH TRUFFLES. . 
Fillet eight quails, trim each fillet into two scollops, and place the 

whole of these in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with a 
little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. 
Use the carcasses to make some extract or essence with, which when 
done, must be clarified, boiled down to glaze, and incorporated with 
some finished espagnole sauce (No. 8), and put into a small bain-marie. 
Simmer the scollops over a moderate fire, and as soon as they are 
done, pour off all the butter, and add half the sauce with about half a 
pound of truffles cut into scollops ; toss them over the stove-fire for two 
minutes without allowing them to boil ; pile them up in the centre of the 
dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over them, gfmush the entr^ with 
a border of potato croqwUes or Jleurons, and serve. 

1060. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing. When 
about to send to table, simmer them over the stove-fire, and when done, 
pour off the butter, add some scollops of cucumbers (No. 188), and some 
of the essence made from the carcasses boiled down to a glaze ; toss 
them over the fire for two minutes, and pile them up in the centre of the 
dish ; garnish the entrSe round with a border of croquettes made with 
the legs, and serve. 



319 



ENTREES OF LARKS, 

COMPRISING 

Larks, a la Minute, Larks, with fine-herbs. 

„ iila ChipokUa. „ with Truffles, H Vlialienne, 

1061. LARKS, A LA MINUTE. 
Cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzai'ds with the point of a small 
knife ; then place the larks in a deep sautapan previously spread with 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire imtil 
they have acquired a brown colour, and are nearly done ; all the grease 
must be poured off, and a large gravy-spoonfm of espagnole sauce, 
half a pottle of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon, should then be added ; toss them over the 
stove-fire imtil the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with fried 
crouions of bread round them, pour the mushrooms and sauce over the 
entree, and serve. 

1052. LARKS, A LA GHIFOLATA. 

Prrparb and fry the larks as directed in the foregoing case, and when 
done, pour off the grease, and add some chipolata ragovi (No. 190); toss 
and simmer this over the stove-fire for five minutes, then dish up eight of 
the larks upon as many small oval crctUfmsy place eight more croutons 
on these, and set a like number of larks upon them ; fill the centre 
with the ragout, pour the sauce over the entrie, and serve. 

1053. LARKS, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Trim the larks and draw the ^zards, place them in a sautapan with 
a little butter, pepper and salt ; fry them of a light brown colour over a 
brisk fire, and then add a table-spoonfiil of chopped mushrooms, an equal 
proportion of parsley, and two shalots also chopped ; simmer these with 
the larks for five minutes longer, then add a gravy-spoonful of espagnole 
sauce (No. 3), a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, the juice of half a 
lemon and a little grated nutmeg ; toss the whole well together over the 
fire for two minutes, and dish them in a neat pyramidal form, place some 
croutons of fried bread round the entrie, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

1054. LARKS, WITH TRUFFLES, A l'iTALIENNE. 
Fry these as directed in the foregoing cases, and when they have ac* 
quired a light brown colour, pour off the grease, add some brown Italian 
sauce (No. 12), half a pottle of mushrooms, and about two ounces of 
trufifles cut into scollops ; toss the whole together over the fire for five 
minutes, dish up the larks in double rows, with croutons of bread in be- 
tween each row, fill the centre with the tru£9es and mushrooms, pour the 
sauce over the entrie^ and serve. 



320 



ENTREES OF RABBITS. 

COMPRISING 

Rabbit, a la C%ajMrur. FilleU of KabbiU larded, a la Toulousr^ jr. 

„ fried in batter, with Poirrade ., a la Afariehale^ &c. 

sauce. Blanijuette of Rabbits, ^ VEcarlate. 

„ cLla Baurguupumne, Polpetiet of Rabbit, d, titalienne, 

„ a la Pirufueux, 

1055. RABBIT, A LA CHASSEUR. 
Cut up the rabbit into small joints, as follows: — first, take off the hind 
legs even with the loins, then remove the shoulders, split the head into 
halves^ and divide the loins into six pieces ; trim these neatly without 
waste, and place them in a sautapan with two ounces of clarified butter, 
pepper and salt. Fry them of a light brown colour over a rather brisk fire, 
and add a table-spoonful of chopped fine-herbs, consisting of mushrooms, 
truffle, parsley and shalot ; then put the lid on and set the rabbit over a 
slow fire for about ten minutes longer ; next pour off all the grease, add 
a large gravy-spoonful of espagnole sauce, some scollops of mushrooms and 
truffles, two dozen small guejielles of rabbit, a small piece of glaze, a 
little nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon; simmer the whole together 
on the stove-fire for three minutes, then pile up the pieces of rabbit in the 
dish, arrange the ragout over this in neat groups, pour the sauce over the 
erUrify place some crotUoiis of firied bread round it, and serve. 

1056. RABBIT FRIED IN BATTER, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 
Cut the rabbit up as in the foregoing case, and then follow the direc- 
tions given for dressing chickens in this manner (No. 988). 

1057. RABBITS, A LA BOURGUIGNONNE. 
Cut the rabbits up into small joints, season with pepper and salt, and fry 
them slightly over the fire, without allowing them to acquire much colour, 
adding half a pint of button-onions previously parboiled in water, a very 
little grated nutmeg and half a pottle of itiushrooms ; toss these over the 
fire for five minutes, then add a tumblerful of French white wine (Chablis 
or Sauteme), and set this to boil sharply until reduced to half the 
quantity; next, add two large gravy- spoonfuls of veloute sauce (No. 4), 
simmer the whole together gently for ten minutes longer, and finish by 
incorporating a leason of four yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, 
and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parboiled parsley ; dish up the pieces of 
rabbit in a pyramidal form, garnish the entrh with the onions, &c. placed 
in groups roimd the base, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

1058. RABBITS, A LA PERIQUEUX. 
Cut these up, and fry them with a little butter of a light brown colour ; 
pour off the grease, add some perigueux sauce (No. 23^, four ounces of 
truffles cut into scollops, and two dozen small quenelUs of^rabbit, and sim- 
mer the whole together over the stove-fire for five minutes ; dish up the 
erUrSe with crouUmt round it, garnish with the ragout, pour the sauce over 
it, and serve. 



BLAN QUEUES OF RABBITS. 321 

1059. FILLETS OF RABBITS LARDED, A LA TOULOUSE. 
Fillet four or six rabbits (according to the number of guests) ; trim 
the fillets and lard two-thirds of each — ^beginning at the thick end; 
then place them in a circular row, all curved in the same direction, 
in a sautapan^ the bottom of which should be lined with thin layers of fJEit 
bacon. About twenty minutes before sending to table pour a little 
strong consomme or thin half-glaze to the fillets, place a round piece of 
buttered paper upon them, and set them in the oven to simmer for ten 
minutes ; then remove the paper, dry the larding and glaze it, frequently 
basting the fillets with their own glaze ; next, drain them upon a napkin, 
trim and dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with ragout 
d la Toulouse (No. 187)» pour some of the sauce round the base, glaze the 
larding of the fillets, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of rabbits larded, may also be garnished with either a 
ragout (i la Pariswnne^ or d lafinanci&re ; with small quenelles, scollops of 
truffles, of mushrooms, or of cucumbers ; and with any kind of dressed 
vegetables, oi purees, 

1060. FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA MARECHALE. 

Fillet four rabbits, slightly flatten, and then trim the fillets^ making 
an incision round the interior part of them ; fill this with some (f UxeUes 
sauce (No. 16); mask them over with a thin coating of aUemande 
sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, breadcrumb them 
twice : once dipped in beaten egg, and then after being sprinkled over 
with clarified butter ; broil the fillets over a clear fire of moderate heat, 
with a sheet of oiled paper placed upon the gridiron ; when done of a light 
colour on both sides, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with 
scollops of the kidneys and inner fillets, mixed with truffles and mush- 
rooms, and tossed in a little aUemande sauce ; glaze the fillets, pour some 
bright espagnole sauce, worked with essence made fiom the carcasses, 
round the base of the entree, and serve. 

Note. — These fillets may also be served with some bright aspic, with 
cucumbers, a pur^e of celery, or white Italian sauce. 

1061. BLANQUETTB OF RABBITS, A L'ECARLATE. 

Fillet three rabbits, cut off the hind quarters, place them upon an iron 
skewer ; lay this upon a large sheet of thickly buttered paper, season with 
pepper and salt, and strew upon it some thinly sliced carrot, an onion, 
parsley, thyme, and bayleaf ; wrap the paper round them, and then tie 
the skewer upon a spit, and roast them before the fire for about twenty 
minutes ; then take them up on a dish, and leave them in the paper till 
they have become cold ; the meat must next be peeled off, cut into small 
dice, and made up into croquettes (No. 1020). Trim the fillets, and place 
them in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, pepper and salt^ and sim- 
mer them in the oven or over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without 
allowing them to acquire any colour; then drain them, and cut them into 
sloping scollops ; put these into a stewpan mth one-third of their pro- 
portion of scollops of red tongue and some mushrooms ; add two gravy- 
spoonfuls of aUemande sauce (No. 7), warm the Uanquette, gently tossing 
it over the fire, and dish it up in the form of a dome ; garnish it round with 
the croquettes, previously fried, mask the Uanquette with a spoonful of 
the sauce, and serve. 



322 ENTREES OF HARE. 



1002. POLPKTTES OP RABBITS, A l'ITALIEXNE. 
Roast two rabbits, and when they are cold, cut off all the meat and 
chop it up fine ; put this into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped 
mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley and two shalots, also chop2>ed, 
four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, and two 
graTy-spoonfuls of reduced veloute sauce ; stir these together over the fire 
until well mixed, then add the yolks of four eggs, and spread the pre- 
paration out in a square^ about half an inch thick, upon an earthen dish : 
when this has become cold, stamp the PolpeUes out with a circular 
tin cutter about an inch and a half in diameter ; breadcrumb them twice 
in the usual manner, place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, 
and fry them of a light colour over a brisk fire ; when done, drain them 
upon a napkin, dish them up in double circular rows, pour some brown 
Italian sauce under them, and serve. 

Note. — Besides the foregoing methods of dressing rabbits for entreat 
they may also be served in almost every variety of form in which 
chickens or fowls (previously cut up into small joints) are directed to be 
prepared; pureeSy minces, salpiocms, and every kind of quenelles and bou' 
d%n$y may also be made with rabbits ; for which consult those articles, in 
that part of the work treating of entries of chickens and fowls, and 
proceed in the same manner. 



ENTREES OF HARE, 



COMPRISmO 



FilleU of Hare, Urded, with Poiwade Catleto of Hare, h VAnekme, 

aace. ScoUops of Hare, with FiDO- Herbs. 
r> ttla Ckaatmr. ^ a la Pirigmiut, 

» a rjUemande. Civet of Hare, with Maahroomi. 

CntleU of Hare,a /a Portvguam. 

1063. FILLETS OF HARE LAEDED, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 
If the hares used for this purpose are full grown, three will suffice ; 
they must be filletted, and each Met split into Imlves ; these should be trim- 
med and larded, and placed in a curve at the bottom of a sauti^pan lined 
with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with some mirepoix (No. 296), place 
a round of buttered paper upon the fillets, and set them in the oven to sim- 
mer for twenty minutes, firequently basting them with their own liquor; 
when they are nearly done^ remove the paper, dry the larding and glaze 
it ; drain the fillets upon a napkin, trim and dish them up in a close 
drcle, pour some paivrade^ tomata, or Italian sauce under them, and serve. 

Note. — ^These fillets may also be garnished in the same way as directed 
for fillets of rabbits. 



CUTLETS OF HARE. 323 



1004. FILLETS OF HARES, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Prepare the fillets and place them in a sautapan as directed in the 
foregoing cafie. Use the carcasses for making some extract, or fwnut, 
reserve the hind quarters, run them on a large iron skewer, place them on 
a large sheet of paper thickly buttered, season with pepper and salt, and 
strew over them some thinly sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bayleaf and 
thyme ; wrap the paper round the legs, and fasten the skewer on the spit 
with string, then roast them before the fire for about half-an-hour bast- 
ing them frequently. When done pare off all the meat, chop it very fine, 
and pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a spoonful ofetpoffnole 
sauce ; rub it through a fine wire sieve or a tammy, and put the purie 
into a small stewpan. When about to send to table, braize and glaze 
the fillets as directed in the foregoing case, dish them up in a dose carde, 
fill the centre with the puree, pour round the base of the erUrief and marie 
the puree with some bright eapagnole sauce worked with the fmuet ; glaze 
the larding of the fillets, and serve. 

1065. FILLETS OF HARE, A L'ALLEMAXDS. 
Lard the fillets as in the foregoing cases, steep thera in some niarmade 
(No. 234) for six hours at least ; drain and put them in a sautapan lined 
with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix, braize 
and glaze them in the usual manner, and when done, dish them up in a 
close circle ; fill the centre with large prunes stewed in red wine with a 
small stick of cinnamon, pour some cherry sauce d la Victoria (No. 64) 
round the base, place a border of quenelles of potatoes (No. S12) round 
the erUrie, and serve. 

1066. CUTLETS OF HARE, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 
Fillet three hares, cut each fillet across into halves, flatten these 
slightly with a bat, trim them into the shape of cutlets, and scrape some 
of the ribs to resemble cutlet bones ; season with a little pepper and salt, 
mask them over with a thin coating of aUemande sauce, and breadcrumb 
the cutlets twice : once dipped in beaten egg, and afterwards sprinkled 
with clarified butter ; pat them gently into shape, and place them in a sau- 
tapan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets 
of a light colour, drain, glaze and dish them up in a close circle, fill the 
centre with yams previously cut into the form of olives, and fried in 
butter ; pour some Portuguese sauce (No. 59) round the base, and 
serve. 

1067. CUTLETS OF HARE, A L'AWCIENNE. 
Thbsb must be trimmed as directed in the foregoing case, and i4aced in 
a buttered sautapan without being breadcrumbed ; then season wiUi pepper 
and salt, pour a little clarified butter over them, and with half the hind quar- 
ters make some purie in the usual way — ^ke^ing this rather thidc. Use the 
carcasses to make tomefumeC with, to be worked into some espagnoU sauoe 
for the evUrU, Cut as many cnmUmM of bread as there are cutlets, and 
of the same shape ; draw the pcunt of a small knife round the inside <^ the 
edge of the croutons^ and when thy are fiied of a light colour, remove the 
inner piece, fill the cavities of the crcuUmB with the purie, and place 
them in a sautapan with a round of buttered paper upon them. Just 



324 ENTREES OF HARE. 

before dinner txme, simmer the cutlets over a gentle fire, for about five 
minutes^ turn them over when done on the under side, and allow them to 
remain two minutes longer ; pour off the butter^ add a little glaze and a 
spoonful of the sauce, toss them in this, and dish them up in a close circle ; 
placing one of the croutons (preyiously warmed) in between each cutlet ; 
fill the centre with scollops of the kidneys and small fillets, truffles and 
mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, pour the sauce round the base of 
the entree^ and serve. 

1068. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, WITH FINE-HEKBS, 

Cut the fillets of three hares into scollops, flatten them slightly with the 
handle of a knife dipped in water, trim them neatly and place them in a 
sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them 
on both sides over a brisk fire for about five minutes ; pour off the butter, 
add some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14) and half a pottle of mushrooms ; 
sinuner the scollops over the fire for two minutes, pile them up in the 
centre of the dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish round with cro- 
quetteSf made with the hind quarters as in (No. 1020), and serve. 

1069. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Prbparb the scollops and fry them as directed in the foregoing case ; 
pour off the butter, add some perigueux sauce (No. 23) and some scol- 
lops of truffles ; simmer them over the stove-fire for three minutes, dish 
them up in the form of a dome, garnish round with croquettes in the 
form of pears, and serve. 

Note. — Scollops of hares may also be finished with the following 
sauces: — Poivrade, Italian, tomata, Madeira, espagmle, and bourgui- 
grwtte ; in either case scollops of truffles, tongue, or mushrooms, may be 
added 

1070. CIVET OF HARE, WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Cut the hare into small joints, then parboil one pound of streaky 
bacon^ and cut it into square pieces the size of small walnuts ; fry these 
in a stewpan until they acquire a light brown colour, then take them out 
on a plate, and fry the pieces of hare brown also. Next, shake a handful of 
flour over them, and toss them over the fire for three minutes ; add 
the firied bacon, a pottle of mushrooms, an onion stuck with four cloves, 
a carrot, and a garnished fisiggot of parsley ; season with pepper and salt, 
moisten with a pint of Port wine, and a quart of good broth, stir the 
dvet on the fire till it boils, and then remove it to the side that it may 
clarify itself by gentle ebullition. Fry half a pint of button-onions in a 
small stewpan with a little butter, for five minutes, and when the eitfet 
has boiled about half an hour, throw these in ; as soon as the pieces of 
hare become tender, remove the scum and grease from the surface, take 
out the onion, carrot, and faggot ; and if there appears to be too much 
sauce, pour it into another stewpan, and reduce it by boiling, stirring it 
with a wooden spoon to prevent its burning, then pass it through a 
tammy upon the eivet. Pue up the pieces of hare in the centre of the 
dish, and garnish round with the mushrooms, &c ; pour the sauce over it, 
place a dozen croutons of fried bread cut in the shape of a heart round 
the base, and serve. 



Lbvibits may be dressed in the same manner as rabbits, when cut 
up into small joints. 



325 



ENTREES OP PHEASANTS, 

OOMPRISINO 

Salmis of Pheasant, a la BomrgwgnolU, Scollops of Pheasant, h la RkMieuy 
„ a la BrttUiemie. „ ii la Vidoria, 

ff iLlaPayaanne „ ^laPalerme, 

ft hla Ckaueur, 

1071. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 
Roast the pheasant^ let it become cold> and then cut it up as 

follows: — First, remove the legs, then cut ofif the fillets with the pinion- 
bones adhering thereto, separate the breast from the back, trim them 
both, cut them crosswise into halves, and place aD the pieces in a stewpan. 
Next, chop up the trimmings and put them into a stewpan with three 
shalots sliced up, a small bay-leaf and sprig of thyme, a few pepper- 
corns, a blade of mace, and a pat of butter ; fry these over a stove-fiie 
until they are slightly browned, moisten them with half a pint of Claret 
or Buigundy, and set the whole to boil upon the stove until reduced to 
half the quantity ; then add half a pint of white contomnU, and after the 
fumet has simmered by the side of the stove for a quarter of an hour, 
pass it through a sieve into a steYHP&n containing sufficient upagnoU 
sauce for the erUrie, and work it in the usual manner (by clarifying and 
reducing it), then pass it through a tammy into a basin. Pour one-third 
of the sauce over the pheasant and put the remainder into a bam-marie 
containing some button- mushrooms, small truffles, glazed button-onions, 
and about twenty very small quenelles. When about to send to table, 
warm the members of pheasant without allowing them to boil ; dish them 
up^ first placing the pieces of back, then the legs, and the fillets, sur- 
mounting the whole with the breast ; garnish the salmis with the ragout 
disposed in groups round the base, place some heart-shaped croutons 
between these, pour the remainder of the sauce over the entrie, and 
serve. 

1072. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA BRESILIEKNE. 

Roast the pheasant, and afterwards cut it up into small joints as in 
the foregoing case. Make a little farce with four pheasants' livers (or 
these failing, fowls' livers may be substituted), and use this to fill ei^t 
heart-shaped croutojis of fried bread. Chop the trinunings and put them 
into a stewpan with two cloves of garlic, some chopped mushrooms, 
a blade of mace, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, twelve pepper-corns, and a tea- 
spoonful of the powder of sweet red pimento, four ounces of lean 
ham^ and a good table- spoonful of salad-oil ; firy these over a moderate 
stove-fire for five minutes, then add six ripe tomatas, and after these in- 
gredients have been stirred over the fire until the tomatas are melted, 
pour in half a tumblerful of Madeira ; boil this down to half its quan- 
tity, add half a pint of consommS, allow the fumet to boil gently 
for twenty minutes, and pass it through a tammy with pressure into 
a stewpan containing a small ladlefiil of espagnoU saucei work this iu the 



326 ENTREES OF PHEASANTS. 

usual manner and pass it through the tammy into a basin ; add one- third 
to the pieces of pheasant^ and pour the remainder into a bairMnarie con- 
taining some button-mushrooms and small truffles. Dish up the pheasant 
as usual, place the croutons (warmed in the oven and glazed), round 
the salmisy garnish with the ragout and sauce, and serve. 

1073. SALMIS OF PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSANNE. 

Roast the pheasant, just before dinner, with some croutons of toast 
placed under it, cut it up into small joints and dish them up im- 
mediately ; place the croutons of toast round the salmis, and pour the 
following sauce over it. Chop three shalots, some parsley and mush- 
rooms, put these into a stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of oil, thyme 
and bay-leaf, and a little cayenne pepper ; fry these ingredients over 
a moderate fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a small 
piece of glaze and half a pint of good consommi ; boil the sauce briskly 
until reduced to half its ori^pnal quantity, then add the juice of half a 
lemon, and use it as directed. 

1074. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA CHASSEUR. 

RoABT two young hen pheasants, cut them up as usual, and put the 
fillets, the pieces of the breasts and backs into a stewpan ; using the 
legs to make some pur^ with. Prepare the salmis sauce (No. 108), 
with four shalots and some parsley, chopped and parboiled, whidi 
are to be added, together with the juice of half a lemon when send- 
ing to table. Warm the salmis in the sauce, dish it up in a pyra- 
midal form, garnish it round with a dozen small round croustades of fried 
bread, about an inch and a half high, and the same in diameter, fiHed 
with the pur^e ; pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1076. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA RICHELIEU. 
FiLLBT two pheasants, pare away the sinews without trimming, and 
simmer the fiUets in a sautapan with a little butter, pepper and salt ; 
then cut them into scollops, and put these into a stewpan with some 
Richelieu ragout (No. 207). Just before sending to table, warm the 
scollops without letting them boil ; dish them up, garnish round with 
croquettes made with the legs, and serve. 

1076. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA VICTORIA. 
Fillet two young pheasants, and prepare the scollops as directed 

in the foregoing case. Make some purU with the legs; this must 
be kept stiff, and mixed with one-third of its quantity of reduced al- 
lemande, then spread out half an inch in thickness upon a dish, and when 
cold, cut into small heart-shaped cro^[uettes and bread-crumbed in the usual 
manner. Use the carcasses to make some essence with, which, after be- 
ing reduced to. glaze, must be mixed with some suprime sauce (No. 38), 
and poured on the scollops. Ten minutes before sending to table, fry 
the croqueUes o£ pur^, dish up the scoUops in the form of a dome» plaoe 
the croquettes in a close circle round the entrSe^ and serve. 

1077. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA PALERME. 
pRBPARB some scollops with the fillets of two hen pheasants, use the 

less to make some polpettes with (No. 1062), finish some poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) with the essence made firom the carcasses, and pour this to the 



£NTR££S OF PA&TRIDGISS. 327 

scollops, and add to these some scolloped tongue^ mushrooms^ and truffles. 
Prepare also a dozen small crouOades of nauilles (No. 1266), fry them 
of a light yellow colour, empty them, and fill them with the purSe ; dish 
up the scollops, place the crowtadea round the erUrU^ and serve. 

Note, — Fillets of full-grown pheasants are too laige to dress for erUree$; 
but when young pheasants are used for such a purpose, the fillets may 
be treated according to the various methods directed for dressing fillets of 
fowls. 

For the preparation of boudins and quenelles of pheasant, follow the 
directions given for making houdins and quenelles of fowl. 



ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES, 



OOMPRISINO 



Salmis of Partridge*, it la Finanoiire, FilleU of Partridget, il VAnemm. 

„ h la Pnjvenfole, „ ^ la Parimemts, 

„ h la Perigord, Scollopa of Partridges, with Tnifflei. 

n with Mushrooma, &o. „ with Fine-Herbi, in 

Fillets of Partridges, h la LucuUut. cases. 

„ aia Prince Albert, 

1078. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Truss three partridges, run them upon an iron skewer, wrap them 
round with a large sheet of buttered paper, fasten the skewer upon a spit 
with string, and roast the partridges before a moderate fire for about five 
and twenty miutes ; then take them up, place them on their breast in 
a dish, without removing the paper, and when cold, cut them up into 
small joints: first taking off the legs, next the fillets with the pinion - 
bones left on, then dividing the breast and back, and trimming these 
whole; place these joints in a stewpan, beginning with the pieces of breasts, 
the fillets, and then the legs and back. Make some essence with the trim- 
mings, to be used for working the sauce with ; pour a little of this to the 
pieces of partridges, and warm them without boiling ; dish them up with 
the inferior joints under, garnish the scUniis ^dth a finanddre ragout ^No. 
1 88) finished with the essence, place a dozen heart-shaped croutons of fried 
bread round the entree, and serve. 

1079. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PROYEN^ALE. 
Roast, cut up, and trim the partridges as in the foregoing case ; chop 
the trimmings, and put them into a small stewpan with three shalots, a 
clove of garlic, bay-leaf and thyme, a few pepper-coms, and a sniall 
blade of mace, two ounces of chopped lean of ham, and two table-spoon- 
fuls of salad oil ; fry these ingredients over a moderate ^le for five mi- 
nutes, and then add half a pint of French white wine. Boil this until re- 
duced to half its original quantity, then add half a pint of good consommi 
and a ladlefiil of espagnoU sauce (No. d), stir the sauce over the fire till it 
boils, then remove it to the side to clarify by gentle ebullition ; after 



328 ENTREES OF PABTRIDGES. 

a quarter of an hour's siinmering, remove the grease and skum, pass the 
same through a tammy, and boil it down over a brisk stove-fire ; then 
incorporate a small piece of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, 
and pass it again through a tammy into a basin ; pour one-third to the 
partridges, and put the remainder into a bain-marie containing some scol- 
lops of truffles and mushrooms. When about to send to table, warm the 
scUmia without boiling, dish it up in the usual order, mask it with the ra- 
goiU and sauce, garnish round with glazed croiUons, and serve. 

1080. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PERIGORD. 

Preparb the partridges as before directed, chop the trimmings and use 
them to make the sauce as directed in (No. 1078). Out out a dozen small 
heart-shaped croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, make 
an incision round the inside of the edges, fry them in butter, empty them, 
and then fill the cavities with some jtmrec of truffles (No. 121); warm 
the Bolmis with a little of the sauce, and dish it up so as to form a well in 
the centre ; place six of the croutons round the top of the entrie, fill the 
centre with small queneUes of partridges, poiur the sauce over the salmis, 
garnish the base with the remainder of the croutons, and serve. 

1081. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH MUSHROOMS. 
Roast and trim the partridges as usual, use the trinunings to make 
the sauce (No. 10), then, pour it to the partridges, and add some but- 
ton-mushrooms or truffles ; warm the salmis, dish it up in a pyramidal 
form, pour the sauce over it, garnish with croutons, and serve. 

1082. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA LUCULLUS. 

Fillet four young partridges, trim the large fillets and place them in 
a sautapan with some clarified butter; season with a little bait, and 
place a round of buttered paper upon them ; remove the sinew from the 
minion fillets without tearing them, trim them neatly, and place them 
in a small sautapan spread with butter ; dip a soft paste-brush 
in some beaten white of egg, and pass it over their surface, and then de- 
corate them with black truffles. After this is completed, mask them with 
clarified butter, and place some very thm layers of fat bacon upon them. 
Use the carcasses to make Bome fumet, which must be boiled down to half 
glaze, and part of it incorporated with some white puree of mushrooms ♦ 
(No. 122); place the fillets on the stove-fire for five minutes, then 
turn them over, and when done on both sides, — without having acquired 
any colour, drain ofif the butter, add a little of the purie of mushrooms, 
toss the fillets over the fire for a minute, and dish them up with a heart- 
shaped crouton of fried bread between each ; sauce the fillets with the 
purie, place the decorated fillets (previously simmered in the oven for 
about five minutes) across the croutons, fill the centre with scollops of 
truffles, pour the sauce or purie round the base, and serve. 

1083. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 

FiLLBT four young red-legged partridges, leaving the pinion bones on 

the fillets ; trim these neatly, lard them closely, and place them in a 

sautapan lined with tHin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some white 

wine mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of paper upon them, and braize 

" T\a»puri€ mutt be of the coniiiteiicy and colour oduprimt mice. 



SCOLLOPS OF PAfiTBIDOES. 329 

the fillets over a moderate fire or in the oven, and when they are nearly 
done, glaze them nicely. Dish them up in a close circle, with a decorat^ 
minion fillet between each ; fill the centre with a ragout of crayfish tails 
tossed in a little partridge glaze with some lobster coral; pour some 
allemande sauce mixed with aomefumet of partridges round the entrief 
and serve. 

1084. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A l'aNCIENNE. 
Run an iron skewer through four young partridges, place them on a 
double sheet of thickly-buttered paper, cover them with some reduced 
mirepoix (No. 236), with the vegetables left in it ; wrap the paper round, 
fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for about half 
an hour ; then, take them up on a dish, and set them to cool without 
removing the paper. Cut the fillets out of the partridges, remove the 
skins, and trim them neatly without waste ; place them in a sautapan 
with a little half-glaze made with the carcasses. Make some purie with 
the meat from the legs, and use the gravy that runs from the birds after 
roasting, to moisten it with. Warm the fillets without boiling, dish 
them up with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each, fill the 
centre with the purie, pour some salmis sauce (No. 11) over the entrU, 
and serve. 

1085. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Trim the fillets of four young partridges, mask them over with a coating 
of alUmande sauce (No. 7), dip them in beaten eggs, and bread-crumb 
them ; then, sprinkle them over with clarified butter, and bread-crumb 
them again ; pat them gently into shape, and place them in a circular 
order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Contisez the minion fillets 
with black truffles, lay them in a buttered sautapan in the form of 
crescents, and cover them with clarified butter. Fry the large fillets of a 
bright yellow colour, drain them on a napkin, glaze them slightly, and 
dish them up with a circular scollop of red tongue between each ; fill the 
centre with some Parisian ragout (No. 203), place the minion fillets 
round this, pour some of the sauce round the base^ and serve. 

1086. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Fillet the partridges, remove the smews from the fillets and place 
them in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with a little salt, 
and simmer them in the oven or over a stove-fire for five minutes ; then, 
turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain them upon a napkin 
and cut them into scollops ; place these in a stewpan with four ounces of 
truffles (previously simmered with a small piece of butter and glaze), and 
to these add some espagnole sauce worked with a fumet made from the 
carcasses. Warm the scollops without boiling, dish them up in the form 
of a dome, garnish round with some croquettes made with the legs ; 
or, the minion fillets may be reserved, and when decorated or fried in 
batter, used to place round the scollops. 

1087. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, IN CASES. 

Fillet three young partridges, cut the fillets into smaU scollops, and 

place them neatly in a large sautapan with two small pats of very firesh 

butter merely melted in the sautapan without being clarified; season 

with minionette-pepper, salt, and nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, parsley, 



330 ENTREES OF PABTRIDGES. 

truffles, and two shalots ; simmer the scollops briskly over the stoTe-fire, 
and when done, add two lai^ge graTj - spoonfuls of espoffnoU sauce 
woiked with some fumet or extract (made from the carcasses), and the 
juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire for a few 
minutes, and fill eight or ten small pleated circular, or heart-shaped, 
paper cases that have been oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes 
to make the paper firmer. Place the cases upon a baking sheet lined 
with clean paper, and lay a thin circular layer of fat bacon upon 
each case. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cases 
of scollops in the oven to be warmed through, then dish them up, pour a 
little of the same sauce in each, and serve. 

yoU^ — Scollops of partridges may be dressed as directed for scollops of 
pheasants ; fiUets may also be served in every variety of form directed 
for the treatment of fillets of fowls. 

1088. CUTLETS OP PARTRIDGES, A L'ALGERIENNB. 
Split four young partridges into halves ; remove the breast and back- 
bones, and pass the legs through the skin of the thighs, so as to give 
them the form of cutlets ; trim them without waste, and place them in 
circular order in a sautapan with two pats of fresh butter simply melted; 
season with minionette-pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and then finish 
them as directed for spring chickens, d Valgerienne (No. 981). 

1089. CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA MAITRE d'hOTEL. 
Prbparb these as in the foregoing case, then mask them with d VxdU$ 
sauce (No. 16), bread-crumb them twice, in the usual manner, pat them 
into shape, and place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; fry 
them of a bright yellow colour, drain them upon a sheet of paper, glaze 
them slightly, and dish up; pour some rnaitre dhdtel sauce (No. 43), 
mixed with a piece of partridge glaze, under them, and serve. 

Note, — Cutlets of young partridges may also be dressed d la pompa- 
dour, d la marechale, or d la valengay (see No. 997). 

1090. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES, WITH PLOVER'S EGGS. 
Roast the partridges, remove the skin, pare off all the meat, and use 
the bones to make ^om^ fumet or extract (No. 218); chop the meat 
quite fine, pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a spoonful of 
sauce, and rub this through a tammy or a very fine wire sieve. Put the 
purU into a stewpan, add some of the fumet, (boiled down to glaze) 
and if necessary, a little allemande or heckamel sauce ; warm the 
purie with care, to prevent it from becoming rough, which would be the 
case, if allowed to boil ; dish it up in a conical form, place some poached 
eggs or plover's eggs (if in season), round the base, with a scollop of red 
tongue cut in the form of a cock's-comb between each egg; pour a 
little bright espagnoU sauce over the purU without masking the eggs, 
and serve. 

1091. MINCED PARTRIDGES, WITH POACHED EGGS. 

This entrie is mostly served when there happens to be any roast 
partridges or pheasants in reserve from a previous day's dinner : the 
same remark may in some deg^ree apply to talmiti although it 



BOUBINS OF PART&IDGES. 331 

must be admitted that a salmu made with fresh-roasted game is prefer- 
able. 

Cut the meat from the birds, either into shreds, or very small thin 
scollops or dice ; add a little pepper and salt, and as much salmis, aUe* 
mande, bichamel, or suprime sauce, as will suffice to moisten the mince ; 
some truffles, mushrooms or red tongue, cut up in the same manner, may 
also be added if approved of. Warm the mince, dish it up, garnish 
it round with poached eggs, or potato croqueUeSy and serve. 



BOUDINS, QUENELLES, AND SOUFFLES OF PARTRIDGES, 



COMPRISING 



Boudim of Partridges, a la D^Ortay, Cripmeti§$ of Partridget, a la D^Eslaimff. 

„ , a la Prinianihre. So^ffUs „ a la Rotfole, 



109:2. BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA D'ORSAY. 

Preparb some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of three partridges 
(No. 243). Take two ounces of French truffles, about the same propor- 
tion of mushrooms, red tongue, and dressed calfs-udder ; cut all these 
into even-shaped and very small dice, and add them together with a 
large spoonful of purSe of mushrooms (No. 122) to the force-meat ; mix 
thoroughly, and mould this preparation into three oblong boudins, about 
six inches in length and two inches square : place these upon similar- 
sized pieces of buttered paper laid on a stewpan-lid, and slip them ofif 
into a stewpan containing some boiling broth; allow them merely to 
simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire for about twenty minutes, 
and when done through, drain them upon a napkin, trim them square, 
mask them over with some reduced supreme sauce, place three larded 
minion fillets across each boudin, garnish the entrie with a rag<nU d la 
parisienne (No. 203), and serve. 

1093. BOUDINS OF PARTRIDGES, A PA PRINTANIERE. 

Preparb some force-meat with the fillets of three partridges (No. 243), 
and mould this into three bottdins, as directed in the foregoing case, 
poach them in the same manner, and when done, mask them with some 
printaniire sauce (No. 21) mixed with some partridge glaze: place a 
decorated minion fillet at each end of the bottdins, and a larded lamb's- 
sweetbread in the centre of these ; fill the well of the enirie with some 
prawns'-tails tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral, pour some 
printaniire sauce round the base, and serve. 

1094. CREPINETTES OF PARTRIDGES, A LA d'ESTAING. 

To the quantity of quenelle fbree-meat named in the foregoing article, 
add half that proportion of fat bacon (previously boiled), and four ounces 
of French truffles, both cut into small dice, also a table-spoonful of 
espagnoUy and a similar quantity of partridge glaze (in a liquid state), 



332 ENTREES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 

and season with a little cayenne ; niix well together, and then drop this 
preparation in table-spoonfuls upon a slab or table, over which some flour 
has been previously sprinkled ; mould the erepweUes into the form of so 
many eggs, and wrap each of these in a proportionate-sized piece of 
pig's-caul ; flatten them slightly by pressing upon them with the Angers, 
dip them [in'^clarifled butter, and fly them over a brisk stove-fire to a 
light colour ; drain them upon a napkin, dish them up in a dose circle^ 
pour some half-glaze of partridges mixed with a small pat of butter, 
and^the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

Note. — Observe, that the crSpinettes must be nearly covered with the 
clarified butter, and that they must not be put into the sautapan until it 
is time to fly them.]^ 

1095. SOUFFLES OF FABTRIDGES, A LA ROYALE. 

Prbparb some purie of partridges (No. 1090), warm it, then add five 
yolks of eggs, whisk the five whites and mix them in lightly also. FW 
a dozen small pleated fancy-paper cases with this preparation, pass a soft 
paste-brush dipped in half glaze over their suHaces, put tiiem on a 
baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderately-heated oven, for about 
twenty minutes ; then dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 

These souffles may be served in lieu of patties, after the fish. 

Note. — Partridges dressed whole are also served for entrees, for which 
see removes (No. 724). 



ENTREES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES, 

COMPRISING 

Woodcocks, h la Financiere, Salmi* of Woodcocks, a la MmuU. 

„ iila Perigord, „ ^ hla Bourguiffmotte, 

Filleto of Woodcocks, h VAndenne, „ „ hla BordelaiM, 

„ h la Piriguetue, 



1096. WOODCOCKS, A LA FINANCIERE. 
Truss three woodcocks in the usual way^ and lard the breasts closely; 
place^them'.in a stewpan lined at the bottom with thin layers of &t 
bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of 
buttered paper upon them, cover with the lid containing live embers of 
charcoal, and set them to braize gently for about three-quarters of an 
hour over a moderate fire, or in the oven ; frequently basting them with 
their own liquor. When the birds are nearly done, remove the lid and 
paper, to dry the larding for a minute or so, then glaze the woodcocks, 
and drain them upon a plate ; remove the strings, and place them in 
the dish with their backs resting upright against a crciutade of fried 
bread, about four inches high, and cut in an angular fonn; place a 
decorated quendU between each woodcock, a large trufile on the top 
of the crouitade, and a border of white oock's-oombs round this ; garnish 



FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS. 333 

the erUrSe with a financUre ragonJt (No. 188), glaze the larding, and 
serve. 

1097. WOODCOCKS, A LA PERIGORD. 

Draw three fine fat woodcocks, reserving the livers and trail ; stuff 
them with the usual preparation of truffles (No. 660), and truss them as 
for roasting ; then, run an iron skewer through the birds, and place them 
upon a double sheet of paper thickly spread with butter ; cover them with 
some reduced mirepoix (No. 286), having the vegetables left in it ; wrap 
the paper round them and secure it with string ; tie the woodcocks both 
ends upon a spit, and roast them before a rather brisk fire, for about 
three-quarters of an hour : they must then be taken ofif the spit, and 
dished up in the form of an angle ; fill the centre with small quenelles, 
pour some p&rigueux sauce (No. 23) over the woodcocks, place a dozen 
croutons round the erUrie, and serve. 

The above named crotUons are thus prepared : Fry the trail. See, in 
a small stewpan with a little butter, a table-spoonfiil of chopped mush- 
rooms, parsley, and half a shalot ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 
and then add a table-spoonful of reduced espagnole sauce (No. 3) : rub 
this through a tammy, and spread it upon twelve heart-shaped croutons of 
fried breaS. These croutons should be placed in the oven for three 
minutes, to warm them. 

1098. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A L'aNCIENNE. 

See <' Fillets of partridges" (No. 1084). Add the trail to the legs of the 
woodcocks ; prepare an essence with the carcasses, and use this to work 
the sauce ; in all other respects proceed in the same manner. 

1099. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 
Trim the fillets of three woodcocks, using the under or minion fillets 
to form three more, by patting them together with the handle of a knife ; 
place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and 
salt. Prepare some /arw with the trail, as in No. 1097, and spread it 
upon as many croutons of fried bread as there are fillets. Simmer the 
fillets over the fire without allowing them to acquire any colour ; drain 
off the butter, then add a little of the Phiguetix sauce (No. 28), worked 
with the essence made firom the carcasses, toss the fillets in this, and dish 
them up in a close circle round a small croustade of fried bread, cut in 
the fbrm of a vase ; place one of the croutons (previously warmed in the 
oven for three minutes) between each fillet ; fill the croustade with some 
puree of truffles (No. 121), pour the Perigueux sauce over the fillets, 
and serve. 

1100. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA MINUTE. 
Roast three woodcocks just before dinner-time; cut them up into 
small joints in the usual manner, reserving the trail, which must be made 
into a purie^ and spread upon a dozen small heart-shaped croutons. 
Prepare the sauce as directed in No. 1 1, and add it to the woodcocks. 
Warm the salmis without boiling, dish it up in a pyramidal form, and place 
the croutons round the base ; add a dessert-spoonful of chopped and par- 
boiled parsley to the sauce, pour it over the entrie, and serve. 



534 ENTREES OF WILD FOWL. 



1101. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA BOIXRGUIGNOTTE. 

Roast the woodcocks, cut them up» and prepare the croutons as in 
the foregoing case ; make an essence with the trimmings, and add this to a 
Bourffuignotte ragout (No. 195). Warm the Molmis with a little of the 
sauce, dish it up, garnish with the ragout and sauce, place the croutons 
round the base, and serve. 

1102. SALMIS OF SNIPES, A LA BOBDELAISE. 
Roast six/at snipes, split them into halves, and prepare a dozen croutofu 
with the tnul, as directed in No. 1 097 ; dish up the snipes in double cir- 
cular rows, first placing a row of croutons, then six pieces of snipes upon 
these, and again the croutons^ closing with the remainder of the 
snipes : fill the centre with a ragout of button-mushrooms, truffles and 
small quevuUes, pour some Borddaise sauce (No. 57) over the entr6e, and 
serve. 



ENTREES OF WILD FOWL, 

COMP&ISINO 

Salmis of Wild Dnck. Fillets of Widgeon, eL la Prortnfale, 

^ of Widgeon, or Teal. Widgeons, d. VAmerkaine, 

Fillets of Widgeon, h la Bigarade, Filleto of Teal, a VAnglaise, 

1103. SALMIS OF WILD DUCK. 

Roast a wild duck before a brisk fire, for about five-and-twenty mi- 
nutes, so that it may retain its gravy ; place it on its breast in a d^h to 
get cool ; then, cut it up into small joints — comprising two fillets, two legs 
with the breast and back, each cut into two pieces — and place the whole 
in a stewpan. Put the trimmings into a stewpan with half a pint of red 
wine, four shalots, a sprig of thyme, and a bayleaf ; the rind of an 
orange, free firom pith, the pulp of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; boil 
these down to half their original quantity ; then add a small ladleful of 
worked espagnole sauce (No. 8), allow the sauce to boil, skim it, and 
pass it through a tammy on to the pieces of wild duck. When about to 
send to table, warm the saimis without boiling, dish it up, pour the sauce 
over it, garnish the entrie with eight heart-shaped crovJUms of firied bread, 
nicely glazed, and serve. 

1104. SALMIS OF WIDGEON, OE TEAL. 
Truss three of these for roasting, place them in an earthen dish, and stiew 
about them thinly-sliced carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bayleaf; 
season with minionette-pepper, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, an<l a 
gill of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this mmrinade for twelve 
hours (time permitting), frequently turning them over, that they may 
become thoroug^y impregnated wiUi its flavour. When about to dress 



FILLETS OF WILD FOWL. 335 

the widgeon, nin them upon an iron skewer, placing the vegetables, 
&c. on their breasts ; wrap them round with two sheets of oiled 
paper, fastened on with string ; tie them on the spit at both ends, and 
roast them before a brisk fire for a space of time proportionate to their 
size, in comparison to wild ducks, observing that they must be roasted 
with the gravy in them ; allow them to cool, cut them in the ordinary 
way for salmis^ use the trimmings and the gravy that has run from the 
wild fowl into the dish, to make the sauce with, which is to be prepared as 
directed in No. 28. Pour the sauce when finished on to the pieces of 
wild fowl, adding some button-mushrooms; warm the salmis without 
boiling, dish it up in a pyramidal form, garnish with croutons, pour the 
sauce over it, and serve. 

1106. FILLETS OF WILD DUCKS, WIDGEON, OR TEAL, A LA 
BIOARADE. 

Prepare these, in the first instance, as directed in the foregoing 
article ; spit them, and cover the breasts with their seasoning, wrap 
them up securely with paper, and roast them before a brisk fire ; when 
nearly done, remove the paper, &c., and set them closer to the fire, 
that they may acquire a light brown colour. Take them up, and fillet 
them, leaving the pinion-bones on; score, trim, and dish them up at 
once, placing a crotOon between each fillet ; add the gravy that runs 
from the wild fowl to some Bigarade sauce (No. 33), pour this over the 
fillets, and serve. 

1106. FILLETS OF WILD FOWL, A LA PR0VElSr9ALE. 
Prepare the fillets as above, dish them up in the same manner, pour 
some Proven^aU sauce (No. 25), to which has been added a glass of 
Madeira, over the entrie, and serve. 

1107. WIDGEON, A l'aMERICAINE. 
Roast these quite plain, basting them frequently with fresh butter 
while roasting : when done, cut them up into small joints, and place 
these in a stewpan with half a pound of red-currant jelly, the juice of a 
lemon, and two glasses of port wine ; allow the whole to simmer gently 
over a moderate stove-fire for ten minutes ; dish up the ertirSe with firied 
croutons round it, pour the sauce over the widgeon, and serve. 

1108. FILLETS OF TEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 
Roast the teal quite plain ; when done, cut the fillets out, score them 
across, and dish them up with croutons of fried bread ; pour some essence 
of orange (No. 171) over the fillets, and serve. 



336 
ENTREES OF ORTOLANS AND WHEATEARS, 

COMPRISING 

Ortolans in cases, with Madeira sauce. Wheatean in cases, with Fine-Herbs. 

„ in eroiuiadeSf a la Provemfole. 

1109. ORTOLANS IN CASES, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Thbsb very delicious birds are a great rarity in England ; they are in 
season in September, and are to be had only of first-rate poulterers, who 
mostly import them from Belgium. 

Cut four fat livers of fowls, and an equal quantity of fet bacon , 
into square pieces; first fry the bacon in a sautapan over a brisk 
fire, then add the livers, with a ;5 table-spoonful of fine-herbs, wid 
season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; when all this is firied 
brown, add to it half its quantity of Panada (No. 239), and pound 
tlie whole together in a mortar until well mixed ; add three yolks of eggs, 
then mix the above well together by pounding, and take the farce up into 
a basin. Next, cut eight small oval crougtades of bread, just large enough 
to hold an ortolan each, making a slight incision round the inside of the 
edge of each crouttadey and fry them in butter, of a light colour ; remove 
the inside crumb, line them with a thin coating of the farce^ place an 
ortolan in each, then put them on a baking-sheet with a little oil, and 
bake them in the oven. When they are done, glaze and dish them up, 
pour over thera some Madeira sauce (No. 8) mixed with a small pat of 
anchovy-butter, and the juice of half a lemon, then serve. 

1110. ORTOLANS IN CROUSTADES, A LA TROVENQALE. 

Placb the ortolans in a sautapan with three table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil, a bruised clove of garlic, some chopped truffles, mushrooms, and 
parsley ; season with minionette-pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of a 
lemon ; fry them in this over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, adding a 
small piece of glaze and a spoonful of espaffnoU sauce when done ; toss 
the whole together, and then put the ortolans into small oval crotutadn 
of bread, fried in oil. Pour the fine-herbs over them, and place them 
upon a baking-sheet in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, that they 
may acquire a bright light brown colour ; then, dish them up, pour some 
Provm^ale sauce (No. 25) over them, and serve. 

nil. WHEATEARS IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Thbsb are in season in August, and are seldom exposed for sale in the 
Lpndon markets; they are more plentiful at Brighton, being chiefly 
caught in that neighbourhood ; wheatears are not more than two- thirds of the 
size of larks, but when in good condition, are so unctuous as to resemble 
small lumps of butter, and are esteemed by epicures as very choice eating. 
Cut the legs off the wheatears, chop some truffles, mushrt)oms, and 
one shalot, and firy these in a sautapan with two pats of butter ; season 
with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg ; then add a spoonful of sauce, 
two yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a small piece of anchovy- 
butter, and a little glaze ; place two wheatears in each case (previously 
oiled and baked to stiffen the paper), pour the sauce over them, and bake 
them in the oven upon a sautapan for about a quarter of an hour; pour 
a little bright etpagnole sauce over them, and serve. 



337 



FISH ENTREES, 



COMPRISING 



Boudins of Lobster, h la Cardinal. 

Quenellet ^ a la Vertpri. 

Boudins of Whitings, h la Suprime, 

Quenelles „ iila Prinoesse, 

Boudins of Salmon, d VliaUemte, 

Quenelles „ d la RavigoUe. 

Blanquetie of Stuigeon. 

Scollops of Sturgeon, with fine-herbs. 

Cutlets „ h la BourguignotU, 

FiUeto of Salmon, ^ VAurore. 

^ hla Parisienne, 

„ a la Mainienon, 

FiUeto of Turbot 

Filleto of Gurnet, with Caper Sauce. 



FiUeto of Soles, it la Pieppoise. 

„ a la Afaitre d^hotel, 

f, it la Veniiienne. 

ff ii la Prorenfale, 

„ it la Horley, 

M i^la Royate, 

PaupieUes of Soles, a la Cardinal 
Dolphins of Whitings, it la Parisienne* 
FUleto of Whitingff, &c 
FUleto of Trout, a la Ckevaliire. 

„ hla Regenee, 

Epigramme of FiUeto of Trout. 
FiUeto of Perch, &c. 
y, of Mackerel 



1112. BOUDINS OF LOBSTER, A LA CARDINAL. 

Chop the meat of two good-sized lobsters very fine, put this into a 
mortar with the pith, and part of the coral, reserving the remainder for 
the sauce ; add two-thirds of its proportion of butter, pound the whole 
thoroughly, and rub the produce through a fine wire sieve upon a plate ; 
put the lobster back in the mortar with half its quantity of Panada 
(No. 239), and pound these imtil well mixed; add tlnree yolks of 
eggs, with pepper, salt and nutmeg, mix thoroughly by pounding, add 
one whole egg, and then try the force-meat, by poaching a small portion 
of it in boiling water ; when done, cut it through the middle, and if the 
inside presents a smooth compact surface, take the force-meat up into a 
basin, but if it appears soft and rough, add a little more Panada, and 
another egg ; divide the force-meat into three parts, roll these upon a slab 
with a little flour into oblong boudins, about six inches in length by two 
inches square ; poach them with boiling water in a deep sautapan by the 
stove-fire, for about twenty minutes, turning them over carefully when 
done on one side ; drain them upon a napkm, trim the sides, and mask 
them with some Cardinal sauce (No. 48) ; place across them some 
small fillets of soles, contises with truffles, and dish them up in a trian- 
gular form ; fill the centre with a ragout a la Cardinal (No. 200), and 
serve. 

1113. QUENELLES OF LOBSTER, A LA VERTPRE. 

Mould eighteen table-spoonfuls of quenelles with some lobster force* 
meat prepared as directed in the foregoing case ; place them, in circular 
order, in a sautapan spread with butter, and poach them with boiling 
water, which must be poured upon a stewpan-cover held in a sloping 
direction against the side of the sautapan ; put a round of buttered 
paper over the quenelles^ and set them to simmer gently by the side of a 
stove-fire for about twenty minutes. When done, drain them upon a napkin^ 
stick some thick pieces of the antennse or horns of the lobtten in one end 



338 ENTREES OF FISH. 

of the qiten€He$y dish them up in close circular order, pour some Vertprr 
sauce (No. 21) over them, fill the centre with picked prawns^-tails. (pre- 
viously warmed in a little glaze and lobster coral), and senre. 

1114. EOrDIXS OF WHITIXGS, A LA SUPREME. 

Pound the fillets of four skinned whitings, and rub them through a fine 
wire sieve ; put the produce in a mortar, with two-thirds of its quantity 
of fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada (No. 239) ; 
pound these until well mixed, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 
adding three yolks of eggs, and continue pounding for ^ye minutes, 
then add two whole eggs, and after these have been thoroughly mixed in 
by pounding, take the force-meat up into a basin. Previously to using 
the force-meat, add a spoonful of aUemande or b^chamei sauce ; next shake 
some flour over a slab or table, divide the force-meat with a table-^MKm, 
into fourteen equal parts, roll these with the hand dipped in flour into 
small oval shapes, and place them immediately in a sautapan spread with 
butter ; mask them over with a soft paste-brush dipped in beaten wUte 
of ^> fti^d decorate them with black truffles. Poach the houdins with 
boiling water, in the usual manner ; when done, drain them upon a 
napkin, and dish them up in a close circle, so as to show the decorated 
part ; fill the centre with a ragout consisting either of muscles, oysters, 
shrimps, cray-fish, or mushrooms ; pour round some suprime sauce (No. 
38 )• finished with some reduced essence made from the bones of the fish, 
and serve. 

1116. QUENELLES OF WHITINGS, A LA PRIKCESSE, 

Mould sixteen quenelles in table-spoons, with some force-meat of 
whitings prepared as directed in the above case, mixed with a spoonful 
of puree of mushrooms (No. 122); place the quenelles in a sautapan 
spread with butter, poach them in the usual manner, and when done, 
dbrain, and dish them up in close circular order ; pour some princene sauce 
(No. 45) over the entrie^ fill the centre with a ragout of sofl roes of mac- 
kerel (No. 199), and serve. 

1110. BOUDINS OF SALMON, A l'iTALIENNE, 
Pound about one pound of fresh salmon, and pass it through a fine wire 
sieve ; then put it again into a mortar with two-thirds of its quantity of 
fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada (No. 239) ; 
pound these thoroughly for about five minutes, season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, adding three yolks of eggs ; mix these well together, then 
add one whole egg, and a spoonful of reduced allemande sauce, continue 
pounding for ten minutes longer, after which take the force-meat up into a 
basin. Mould four large quenelles with ra^oti^spoons, and place them in 
a deep sautapan spre^ with butter ; lay a small fillet of sole contisc 
with black truffles round the edge of each quenelle, poach them in the 
usual way, and when done, drain them upon a napkin, then dish them 
upright ^inst a narrow croustade of fried bread, previously fastened in 
the centre of the dish ; place a laige croy-Osh between each quenelle^ 
garnish the top of the croustade with scollops of mushrooms, pour some 
white Italian sauce (No. 13) round the entr^, and serve. 



STURGEON AND SALMON. 339 



1117. QUENELLES OF SALMON, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 
Mould a dozen quenelles in table-spoons, with some force-meat of 
salmon prepared as directed above ; poach them in the ordinary way, 
and when done, drain and dish them up in close circular order ; pour 
some ravigoUe sauce (No. 21) over them, fill the centre with scollops of 
whitings tossed in a little alUmande sauce, and serve. 

1118. BLANQUETTE OF STURGEON. 
Braize about two pounds of sturgeon in some wine mirepoix (No. 
ZS%)t for about three-quarters of an hour, and set it to cool in its own 
liquor ; then drain and cut it up into scollops, and place these in a stewpan 
with some scollops of truffles and button-mushrooms, to which add some 
aUemande sauce finished with part of the mirepoix reduced for the pur- 
pose : warm the hlanqueitey dish it up in the form of a dome, garnish 
round with lobster croquettes, and serve. 

1119. SCOLLOPS OF STURGEON, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Procure about two pounds of sturgeon, place it in an earthen pan, 
strew over it sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and sea- 
son with minionette-pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and a gill of salad-oil ; 
allow this to remain for a day or two, frequently turning the fish 
over in the seasoning. When about to dress the sturgeon, drain it upon 
a cloth to absorb all the moisture, and cut it up into heart-shaped 
or oval scollops, about the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; place these 
in a sautapan with some clarified butter, six ounces of scollops of truffles* 
some mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots chopped fine, and season with 
a little cayenne and grated nutmeg ; fry the whole on a moderate fire, 
turning the scollops over when lightly browned on one side. When 
they are done, drain off the grease, pour in some finished sturgeon sauce 
(No. 56), toss the whole together over the fire for three minutes, dish 
Uie scollops up in the form of a dome, garnish round with a border of 
cray-fish-tails, and serve. 

1120. CUTLETS OF STURGEON, A LA BOURGUIQNOTTE. 

First steep the stuif^eon as directed in the foregoing case, then, cut it 
up into heart-shaped fillets, about the size and rather thicker than fillets 
of fowls ; stick the claw of a cray-fish into the pointed end of each cutlet, 
and place them in a curved form in a sautapan with some clarified but- 
ter ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. Fry the 
cutlets of a light brown colour on both sides ; pour off the grease, toss 
them in a little glaze, and dish them up in a dose circle ; fill the centre 
with some hourguignotte rag&ui (No. 195), pour some of the sauce round 
the base, and serve. 

1121 FILLETS OF SALMON, A L'AURORE. 

Cut about two pounds of salmon into oval fillets ; place these in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter, season with pepper, salt, a little 
chopped parsley, and lemon-juice ; firy them over the stove-fire, for five 
minutes, pour off nearly all the butter, and then mask each fillet with a 
thin coating of a^^^manc^ sauce (No. 7); rub eight hard-boiled yolks of eggs 
through a wire sieve, and spread this kind of vermicelli equally over all 

z2 



340 ENTREES OF FISH. 

the fillets ; then, pass the hot salamander Qver them to deepen the colour 
of the yolk of egg, dish the fillets up in a close circle, fill the centre with 
a ragout of mushrooms, small quenelles^ and muscles, tossed in some 
aurora sauce (No. 41), pour some of it round the hase, and serve. 

1122. FILLETS OF SALMOX, A LA PARISIEXXE. 
Cut these into the shape of fillets of fowls, season with a little pepper 
and salt, and mask them over with a coating of reduced cdUmande sauce ; 
when this has become cold, bread-crumb them twice over, in the usual 
manner, and put them in a sautapan with some clarified butter; fry 
the fillets over a brisk stove-fire, of a light colour, and when done, drain, 
and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with some ragout it la 
parisienne (No. 203), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 

1123. SALilOX CUTLETS, A LA MAIXTENOX. 
Trim the salmon into fillets, as above, and place them in a sautapan 
with some clarified butter ; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, 
chopped mushrooms, truffles, parsley and two shalots, and fry them over 
a stove-fire for five minutes ; then add two gravy-spoonfuls of attenuinde 
sauce, (No. 7), a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; 
simmer the whole together for two minutes longer, and remove them from 
the fire. Cut as many sheets of small note-paper, into the shape of 
hearts, as there are cutlets ; oil them over with a paste-brush, place one 
in each, divide the sauce equally, and then fold the edges down all round, 
by neatly and firmly twisting them under in pleats, so as thoroughly to 
prevent the sauce firom escaping ; place the cutlets upon a clean griduon, 
over a clear fire of coke, of very moderate heat, and broil them without 
allowing the paper to bum; dish them up in a close circle, fill the 
centre with fried parsley, and send some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), 
separately in a boat. 

1124. FILLETS OF TURBOT. 

These are described in the section treating of turbots dressed for 
removes, &c. (No. 405). 

1126. FILLETS OF GURNETS, WITH CAPER SAUCfE. 
FiLLBT the gurnets, remove the skin, and if the fish are large, divide 
each fillet into several pieces, so that they may not be larger tbm fillets 
of fowls ; place them in a sautapan with dfurified butter, season with 
pepper and salt, and place them in the oven, or over a stove-fire, to sim- 
mer for about five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both 
sides, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close drde ; fill 
the centre with small queneUes of the same kind of fish, pour some capers' 
sauce (No. 90) over the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of gurnets prepared and dished up as the above, may 
also be served with any of the following sauces : — Italian, ravigoUe, 
maitre cThotel, oyster, muscles, or cray-fish. 

1126. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA DIEPPOISE. 
Tbim the fillets, and spread them on the outside with a preparation of 
fine-herbs, mixed with three yolks of eggs ; then double them up, pat them 
together, and insert the daw of a cray-fish into the narrow end of each. 



FILLETS OF SOLES. 341 

Place the fillets in a sautapan thickly spread with butter, moisten 
with the liquor from the oysters used for the sauce, and season with a 
little minionette-pepper, and salt ; cover these with a circular piece of pa- 
per spread with butter, and set them to simmer gently over a stove-fire for 
about ten minutes ; when they are done, drain the fillets on a napkin, 
and dish them up in a close circle, showing the cray-fish claws; fill the 
centre, garnish the base of the entrie with some Norman matdoUe 
ragout (No. 194), and serve. 

1127. FILLETS OP SOLES, A LA MAITRE d'hOTEL. 
Trim the fillets neatly, take hold of both ends (keeping the whitest side 
uppermost), and bring them together, one over-laying the other ; then place 
them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, season with pepper and 
salt, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice ; simmer them over the 
fire for ten minutes, and when done, drain •and dish them up in a close 
circle ; pour some maitre cChotel sauce (No. 4S) over them, and serve. 

Note. ^FiWetB of soles prepared as the foregoing, may also be served 
with either of the following sauces : — Eavigotte, Italian, aurora, pcuca- 
line^ cray-fish, oyster, shrimp, and Dutch. 

1128. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA VENITIENNE. 
Fillet four soles, trim the fillets, and place one half in a sautapan, with 
some clarified butter, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, in the manner di- 
rected in the foregoing case ; simmer the remainder (without trimming 
them) also with the same seasoning; when they are done, drain them 
upon a plate, and allow these to cool. Then, cut up the latter into small 
dice, mix them with some reduced dUemande sauce^ and season with two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, minionette- pepper, and grated nutmeg; 
spread this preparation out upon an earthen dish, about the sixth part of 
an inch thick, and when it has become firm by cooling, cut it out into 
pieces about the size and shape of the fillets, and bread-crumb these in 
the usual manner. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over 
the stove, and fry the croquettes in plenty of clean hog*s-lard, made hot 
for the purpose ; when done, drain both upon a napkin, and dish them 
in a close circle, placing alternately the croquettes, and fillets ; fill the 
centre with small quenelles of whitings, pour some Venitian sauce (No. 
26) over these and the white fillets only, and serve. 

1129. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA PROVEN9ALE. 
Trim the fillets of soles, divide each, and steep them for several 
hours in a basin with minionette-pepper, a little salt, lemon-juice, salad- 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and two shalots. Then, drain the fillets on a cloth 
to absorb all the moisture, flour them over, dip them in some light 
batter (No. 231), and fiy them in clean hogVlard; when they have 
acquired a light colour, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up, 
pour either some proven^cUe, Dutch, fine-herbs, ravigotte, or mattre-d^fuftel 
sauce under them, and serve. 

1130. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA HORLT. 
Trim the fillets of soles, and steep them for several hours in the same 
kind of seasoning directed to be used for No. 1129 — substituting two 
spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar for the lemon-juice. Drain the fillets on a 



342 £NTR££S OF FISU. 

doth, in Older to absorb the moisture, then shake them in some flour, 
drop them into some clean hog's-lard, and fry them of a lig^t colour; 
drain the fillets upon a sieve covered with paper, di^ them up in a pile^ 
pour either some tomata, Italian, piquatUe, raviffotU, or prxpven^iMle 
sauce round them, and serve. 

1131. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA ROUEXXAISE. 
Fillet three large soles, divide each across, and trim them in the shape 
of fillets of fowls ; mask them over with a coating of cf Uxdles sauce 
(No. 16), and when this has become firm upon them by cooling, bread- 
crumb them twice over in the ordinary way ; stick a piece of the horns 
of a lobst^ into the narrow end of each fillet, so as to give them the 
appearance of cutlets, and place them in a sautapan^ i^^dth some clarified 
butter. Fry the fillets of a bright yellow colour, on both sides ; drain 
and then dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with a Ecnennaiae 
rag<yut (No. 197), and serve. 

1132. PAUPIETTES OF HLLETS OF SOLES, A LA CARDI5AL. 

Trim the fillets of four large soles, spread them upon a napkin, garnish 
each with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with some 
lobster coral, and roll each fillet up in the form of a small barrel ; qnead 
four sheets of letter paper with butter, then place four paupieUes in each* 
squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and roll them up tightly, to keep 
them in shape. Place these rolls of paupieUes in a sautapan, and put 
them in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then remove the 
papers, drain the paupieUes upon a napkin, pare off the ends with a sharp 
knife, and dish them up on their ends, side by side, in a close drde, so 
as to show the coral ; fill the centre with some cardinal ragout (No. 
200), pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

1133. DOLPHINS OF WHITI5GS, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Skin four fine firesh whitings, and remove the back-bones without de- 
taching the fillets from the head ; roll out, and bake a circular piece of 
common paste, nearly the size of the bottom of the dish; fasten thereon a 
pillar-shaped croustade of fried bread three inches high^ and one inch in 
diameter. Prepare some force-meat of whitings, coloured with lobster 
coral, and mask the heads and fillets of whitings entirely with it, 
smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water ; then turn the 
tail ends of the fish, inwardly, down upon the centre of the head — giving 
to each the form of a heart ; place them upright against the croukade^ 
with their heads resting flat upon the foundation of paste, and de- 
corate them over with haJf-moons of black truffles, plac^ thereon so as 
to represent scales of fish ; cover them with very thin layers of fat bacon, 
and encircle the entrie with a band of buttered paper, fastened with two 
pins : this must not touch the whitings. Bake the dolphins in a moder- 
ately-heated oven, for about forty minutes; ascertain whether they 
are done through, and then remove the paper and bacon ; absorb all the 
grease, place them carefully upon their dish, garnish the entree with 
a ragout of button-mushrooms, oysters and cray-fish- tails ; surmount the 
whole with a large truffle, glaze the dolphins with a little lobster coral 
diluted in the glaze, pour some mprime sauce (No. 38), finished with an 
cMCPce made from the bones and trimmings, round the entree, and serve. 



FILLETS OF TROUT. 343 

Note, — Fillets of whitings may also be prepared according to the 
several directions given for dressing fillets of soles. 

1134. FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA CHEVALIERE. 

Divide the fillets of two good- sized trout into moderate sized oval 
scollops or fillets ; mask them over with reduced cf Uxelles sauce (No. 
16), and bread-crumb them twice over this with bread-crumbs 
mixed with grated Parmesan cheese in the proportion of one-third ; the 
fillets must be first dipped in beaten egg, and then sprinkled with 
clarified butter, preparatory to their being bread-crumbed a second time. 
Fry them of a bright yellow colour, drain, and dish them up in a close 
circle^ fill the centre with a ragatU of soft roes of mackerel or herrings, 
and cray-fish-tails ; pour some cray-fish sauce (No. 54) round the entree, 
and serve. 

1136. FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA REGENCE. 
Trim the fillets into pieces resembling fillets of fowls ; place them in 
a sautapan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped 
parsley^ and lemon-juice ; simmer the fillets over the fire for five mi- 
nutes, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain and dish 
them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a ragout d la rigence 
(No. 210), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 

1136. EPIGRAMME OF FILLETS OF TROUT. 

Trim the fillets as above, bread-crumb one-half, in the ordinary man- 
ner, and place these in a sautapan, with clarified butter ; put the remain- 
der into another sautapan with clarified butter, without being bread- 
crumbed, and season with pepper and salt. Fry the fillets, drain and 
dish them up in a close circle, placing one of each kind alternately ; fill the 
centre with some scollops of fillets of soles, tossed in a spoonful of becka" 
mel sauce and some chopped and parboiled parsley ; pour some aurora 
sauce, (No 41), over the plain fillets (taking care not to smear those that 
are bread-crumbed), pour some of it round the base, and serve. 

Note, — Fillets of plaice, flounders and perch, may be dressed in the 
same manner as directed for fillets of soles or whitings. 

1137. FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 
See Mackerel (No. 480). 



344 



SECOND COURSE ROASTS, 



COMPRISING 



Roast Hare. 


Roast Larks. 


„ Rabbit*. 


« Woodcocks, &c. 


„ Pheasants. 


„ Capons. 


„ Partridges. 


„ Green-Goose. 


„ Quails. 


„ Pigeons. 


„ Rufifs and Reeres. 


„ Black-Game. 


„ Guinea Fowls. 


„ Peafowl. 



1138. ROAST HARE. 

Skin and draw the hare, leaving on the ears, which must he scalded 
and the hairs scraped off ; pick out the eyes, and cut off the feet or pads, 
just above the first joint ; wipe the hare with a clean cloth, and cut 
the sinews at the back of the hind-quarters, and below the fore-legs. 
Prepare some veal stuffing, and fill the paunch with it .; sew this up 
with string, or fasten it with a wooden skewer, then draw the legs un- 
der, as if the hare was in a sitting posture, set the head between the 
shoulders, and stick a small skewer through them, running also through 
the neck, to secure its position ; run another skewer through the four 
legs gathered up under the paunch, then take a yard of string, double 
it in two, placing the centre of it on the breast of the hare, and 
bring both ends over the skewer, cross the string over both sides of the 
other skewer, and fasten it over the back. Spit the hare, and roast it 
before a brisk fire, for about three quarters of an hour, frequently 
basting it with butter or dripping. Five minutes before taking the hare 
up, throw on a little salt, shaJce some flour over it, with a dredger, and 
baste it with some fresh butter; when this froths up, and the hare 
has acquired a rich brown crust, take it off the spit, dish it up with 
water-cresses round it, pour some brown gravy under, and send some 
currant jelly in a boat, to be handed round. 

1139. ROAST RABBITS. 

Truss these in the same manner as hares, then spit and roast them be- 
fore a rather brisk fire, frequently basting them ; ten minutes before taking 
them up, baste the rabbits with the following preparation : — Mix a gill of 
cream with a table-spoonful of flour, some chopped parsley, two yolks of 
egg, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mask the rabbits entirely with this, 
and as soon as it has dried on them, baste them with some fresh butter. 
This not only adds to the attractive appearance of the rabbits, but it 
concentrates their gravy, and prevents them from becoming dry, which 
too generally occurs, when roasted according to the common practice. 
When done take the rabbits up with care, to avoid breaking off the light 
brown crust formed upon them ; dish them up, pour some sauce prepared 
as follows under them, and serve : 

Boil the livers, chop them fine, and put them into a small stewpan 
with chopped parsley, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a spoonful 



ROAST PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, ETC. 345 

of sauce^ pepper, and salt^ grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a spoonful of 
gravy ; stir this over the fire unti^ it boils, and use it as directed above. 

1140. ROAST PHEASANT. 

Draw the pheasant by making a small opening at the vent, make an 
incision along the back-part of the neck, loosen the pouch, &c., v^ith the 
fingers, and then remove it ; singe the body of the pheasant and its 
legs over the flame of a charcoal-fire, or with a piece of paper ; rub the 
scaly cuticle off the legs with a cloth, trim away the claws and spurs, 
cut off the neck close up to the back, leaving the skin of the breast en- 
tire, wipe the pheasant clean, and then truss it in the following manner : 
— Place the pheasant upon its breast^ run a trussing-needle and string 
through the left pinion (the wings being removed), then turn the bird 
over on its back, and place the thumb and fore-finger of the lefl-hand 
across the breast, holding the legs erect ; thrust the needle through the 
middle joint of both thighs, draw it out, and then pass it through the 
other pinion, and fasten the strings at the back ; next, pass the needle 
through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs, thrust it again 
through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly : this will give it 
an appearance of plumpness. Spit and roast the pheasant before a 
brisk fire, for about half an hour, frequently basting it ; when done, 
send to table with brown gravy under it, and bread sauce (No. 80), 
separately, in a boat. 

1141. ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Thbsb should be trussed, roasted and served in the same manner as 
pheasants. Sometimes, for the sake of variety, both pheasants and 
partridges are larded in the same way as sweetbreads^ but the practice 
is not generally liked. 

1142. ROAST QUAILS. 

Draw and truss these in the manner directed for pheasants ; cut some 
thin square layers of fat bacon, just large enough to cover a quail, spread 
a vine leaf over each of these, cut it to their size, and then tie them neatly 
on the breasts of the quails. Run an iron skewer through the quails, fasten 
this on to a spit^ and roast them before a brisk fire, for about a quarter 
of an hour, then dish them up with water-cresses round them, glaze 
the layers of bacon, pour some gravy under the quails, and serve. 

1143. RUFFS AND REEVES. 

Thbse birds must not be drawn, neither do they require much truss- 
ing, being very plump ; a small wooden skewer should be run through 
the thighs and pinions, with a string passed round it, and fastened ; cover 
these also with a layer of bacon and a vine-leaf, run them upon a 
lark' spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, 
frequently basting them with butter, and set some toasted bread under 
them, to receive their droppings. When done, dish them up on square 
pieces of the toast, garnish with water-cresses, pour some gravy under 
them, and serve the following sauce separately in a boat : — A ragout 
spoonful of good butter sauce (No. 70), a piece of glaze, cayenne pep- 
per, and lemon-juice. 

Ortolans and whbatears are served in the same manner as the 
foregoing. 



346 SECOND COURSE ROASTS. 



1144. ROAST LARKS. 

Cut off the heads and legs, and pick out the gizzards at the sides^ with 
the point of a small knife ; season with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and nutmeg ; rub the larks over with beaten yolks of eggs, bread-crumb 
them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and roll them in bread-crumbs a 
second time ; then run them on a lark-spit, fasten this on a conmaon spit, 
and roast them before a very brisk fire, for about a quarter of an hour, bast- 
ing them with fresh butter melted in a spoon before the fire. When 
done, dish them up in rows, or in a circle, fill the centre with bread- 
crumbs fried of a light-brown colour in a sautapan with butter, and 
serve them with the sauce reconmiended for ruffs and reeves. 

1145. WOODCOCKS AND SKIPES. 

These are both trussed and roasted in the same manner. First pick 
them entirely, neck and head, then twist the legs at the joints, so as to 
bring the feet down upon' the thighs ; run their bUl through the thighs and 
body, and fasten a noose with string round the bend of the joints, across the 
lower part of the breast; bring both ends round the head and tip 
of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the woodcocks with layers 
of bacon, and tie these round with string ; roast them before the fire, for 
about five-and-twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter or 
dripping ; place some toasted bread under the birds, to receive the drop- 
pings from the trail, and when they are done, dish them up with a piece 
of the toast under each, and water-cresses round them. Serve some ex- 
tract of Woodcocks (No. 173), separately in a boat. 

1146. ROAST CAPONS. 

Draw and truss these as directed for trussing pheasants ; place them 
upon a spit, fasten the feet to it with string, to prevent the capon from 
twisting round while roasting : about three quarters of an hour will suffice 
to roast them. When done, dish them up with water-cresses, pour some 
bright gravy under them, and serve with bread-sauce in a boat. 

Poulards^ fowls, chickens, and turkey poults, are treated in the same 
manner as the foregoing. 

1147. GREEx\-GOOSE. 

Draw the goose, pick off all the stubble-feathers, scald the legs, and 
rub off the skm with a cloth ; cut the tips of the feet, and twist the legs 
round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs ; then 
truss the goose in the ordinary way, as directed for pheasants. Place it on a 
spit^ and roast it before a brisk fire, for about three quarters of an hour ; 
when done, dish it up with water-cresses round it, pour some gravy 
under, and serve. 

Ducklings are roasted and served in the same way as the above. 

1148. ROAST PIGEONS. 
Truss these with thin layers of fat bacon and a vine-leaf over the 
breasts ; roast them before the fire for about twenty minutes, and when 
done, dish them up with a sauce made with the livers in the manner di- 
rected for making liver sauce for rabbits (No. 11 39). 



GROUSE AND GUINEA FOWLS. 347 



1149. ROAST BLACK-OAME, AND GROUSE. 
Both these should be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, then 
roasted before a brisk fire, and five minutes before takbg them up should 
be frothed with flour and butter, according to the directions for roast 
hare; when done, dish them up with gravy under them, and send to table 
with fried bread-crumbs, and bread-sauce, in separate sauce-boats. 

1150 a. PEAHENS. 

Truss these in the same way as pheasants, except that the head 
must be lefl adhering to the skin of the breast, and listened at the side of 
the thigh ; let the peaJien be closely larded all over the breast, and roasted 
before a moderate fire for about an hour ; when nearly done, glaze the 
larding, and on removing the fowl from the fire, dish up with water-cresses, 
pour some gravy under, and serve with bread-sauce separately, in a 
sauce-boat. 

1150 (. GUINEA FOWLS. 

Two of these are generally served for a dish, one of which should be 
larded, and the other covered with a layer of fat bacon ; roast them before 
a brisk fire for about forty minutes, glaze and dish them up with water- 
cresses ; pour some gravy under, and serve bread-sauce separately, in a 
boat. 



348 



VKOKTABLKS FOR ENTREMETS, OR SECOND 
COURSE DISHES, 



COMPIUSINO 



« with 1>MHU 

« with IVraftNMi Cb<«iiK 



lam Tnitll«iS 4 



French Beans, with fine-herbs. 
BrcMid Beana, a ia Crime, 
Green Peas plain. 
Slewed Peas. 
Peas, a la Frumoaise, 
Turnips sf*»t^* ^^ Sugar. 
Young Carrots, k CAUemande. 
Vegetable Marrow. 
Amher method. 
Ommben, a U PomktU, 
kVEapagnole, 
Jerusalem Artkh<^es, k la mmee, 

^ ^ k ritaliemme* 

White Haricot Beans, k la M<^ire d'HUtL 

^ ^ k la Brttoaiftm 

Am<fkan Yams, k la FraiMxnie. 
Potatoes, a la Maiire d*HM. 
New Potatoes, ^ la Crime. 
Potatoes, k la CWaw, am ffratim. 
S<«kiale« a la Mtmee, 
Bnissris Sprouts. 



1161. BKAUKD CELKRT, WITU ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 
Olkan twelve heads of celery, cut them about six inches in length, and 
trim the i\H^ts neatly ; }>arboil them in water for ten minutes, and then 
inuner»e then\ in eofd water ; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place 
them in a »tew|>an with some N^mc (No. tSo), and braize them gently 
over a slow tire for about an hour ; when done, drain them upon a napkin » 
trim and dish them up in the following onier : — First, place five heads of 
celery the same way in the dish, then four, two^andone, respectively; garnish 
rcvund with some small circular cronstad^ of fried bread, about an inch in 
diameter, and filled with beef nianow, previously boiled for three minutes 
in water with a little salt, and afterwards toned in a stewpan with a 
little liquid glaie, lemon juice, pepper and salt ; pour some bright etpagnoU 
sauce (incorporated with a pat of butter and a little lemon juice) over the 
celer}*, and serve. 

1152. CELERY, A LA VILLEROI. 

Braizs eight heads of celery in the manner described in the previous 
article, and when done, drain it upon a napkin to absorb all the moisture ; 
split each head into halves, mask them with some reduced allemande 
sauce (No. 7), and place them upon an earthen dish to become cold. They 
must then be rolled in breadcnmibs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, 
and breadcrumbed over again. Just before sending to table, place the 
pieces of celery carefully upon the wire lining of a frying-pan, immerse 
them m plenty of clean hogVlaid healed for the purpose, and fry them of a 



VEGETABLES FOR ENTREMETS. 349 

bright yellow colour ; drain them upon a cloth, dish them up on a napkin 
with some fried parsley, and serve. 

1153. SALSIFIS, A LA CREME. 

Scrape off the outside part until the salsiiis become white, and throw 
them into a pan containing cold water mixed with a twentieth part of 
vinegar or lemon juice, to prevent them from losing their whiteness, then 
boil them in hot water, with a little butter, minionette-pepper, salt, lemon 
juice or vinegar. When done, drain them on a sieve, cut them up into inch 
lengths, and put them into a stewpan with a ro^poit^spoonful of cream 
UJiamel sauce (No. 6), a pat of butter, a little minionette-pepper and 
lemon juice ; toss them over the fire, and dish them up in the form of a 
dome, place some ci^tmUms 'of fried bread or JUuront round the dish, and 
serve. 

1164. SALSIFIS, FRIED IN BATTER. 

Prepare the salsifis as above, and when done, drain and cut them into 
pieces about three inches long ; put these into a basin with two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one of French vinegar, some minionette-pepper and salt ; 
allow them to steep in this until within about ten minutes before sending 
them to table ; they must then be drained upon a napkin, dipped in some 
light made batter, and fried in hog*s-lard made hot for the purpose ; when 
done, drain them on a cloth, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

1166. SPINACH, WITH BUTTER. 

Pick all the stalks from the spinach, wash it in several waters, and 
drain it upon a sieve ; throw it into a stewpan of hot water with a hand- 
ful of salt, and keep it boiling until it becomes thoroughly tender and soft 
to the touch ; then drain it in a colander, immerse it in cold water, and 
afterwards squeeze all the water from it. The spinach must next be 
carefully turned over, with the point of a knife, to remove any straws or 
stalks that may have been overlooked ; it should then be chopped or 
pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a coarse wire sieve, and placed 
in a stewpan with about two ounces of butter, a little salt and grated 
nutmeg ; stir the spinach over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon until it 
becomes quite warm, then add a gravy-spoonful of good sauce, a small 
piece of glaze, and about four ounces of fresh butter. Work the whole 
together, with a wooden spoon, until well mixed, then pile the spinach 
up in the centre of the dish, garnish it round with crouUms, and serve. 

116«. SPINACH, WITH CREAM. 
Prepare the spinach as above, season with a • little nutmeg, salt and 
two ounces of fresh butter ; stir it over a stove-fire until quite warm, then 
add a gill of double cream, two pats of butter, and a good dessert-spoonful 
of pounded sugar ; work the whole well together over the fire, and dish 
up the spinach as directed in the foregoing article. 

1167. ENDIVE, WITH CREAM. 

Pick off all the outer leaves, leaving only the white ; trim the roots^ 

and wash the endive in several waters, carefully removing any insects 

that may be concealed in the inner folds of the leaves. Put a laif^ stew* 

pan half filled with water on a biisk fire, and when it boils, throw in the 



350 SECOTTD COURSE DISHES. 

endiTet, with a handful of salt, and allow them to continue boiling &it 
until they become quite tender ; drain them in a colander, immene them 
in plenty of cold water, then squeeze all the moisture from them, and 
place them on a lieve. Next, take each head of endire separately, cut off 
the root, and again look orer the leaves, spreading them on the table 
with the point of a knife ; when this is completed, chop them Tery fine, 
and pass them through a coarse wire sieve. Then, place them in a slew- 
pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and 
salt ; stir this over the fire for ten minutes, add half a pint of double 
cream, a gravy-spoonful of heehamd or vehmU sauce, and a dessert-spoon- 
ful of poimded sugar ; keep the endives boiling on a stove-fire until suffi- 
ciently reduced so as to be able to pile them on a dish when sending to 
table ; garnish round with crouttmi iuJUunmHj and serve. 

1158. CAULIFLOWERS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Remove the green stalks, divide them, if large, into quarters, and with 
the point of a small knife, pick out all the small leaves ; wash the cauli- 
flowers^ and boil them in hot ¥rater with a little minionette-pepper, a pat 
of butter and some salt : when done drain them upon a sieve. Next, 
take a round-bottomed quart bcuin and fill it with the cauliflowers, plac- 
ing the flowrets next the sides, that the white only may show when dished 
np; previously to turning them out upon the dish, drain them again 
on a napkin, by turning the basin upside down upon it ; after which, 
turn the cauliflowers out into their dish, pour some white sauce (No. 71) 
over them, garnish with /^roiu, and serve. 

1169. CAULIFLOWEBS, WITH PABMESA5 CHEESE. 

Pbipabb and dish up the cauliflowers as directed above. Put a huge 
ra^ottf- spoonful of bechamel or velouU sauce^ into a stewpan, with four 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of firesh butter, the yolks 
of four eggs, a small piece of glaze, some lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper and 
salt ; stir this preparation over a stove-fire, until it be well mixed, with- 
out boiling ; then, pour it on to the caidiflowers, so as to mask them 
entirely with it. Smooth the dome over with the blade of a knife, and 
cover the top with a coating of grated Parmesan cheese ; place th«n in 
the oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour ; when they have 
acquired a bright yellow colour, put a border of croutaiu of fried bread 
round the base, and serve. 

The croutons may be stuck round the bottom of the dish in the form 
of a coronet, previously to dishing up the cauliflowers, so as to prevent 
them from spreading. 

1160. TOMATAS, A LA PROVEX^ALE. 
Sltcb ofl* that part of the tomata that adheres to the stalk, scoop out 
the seeds without breaking the sides of the frwt, and place this in 
circular order in a sautapan, containing about a gill of salad oil. Next, 
chop up half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, and four 
shalots ; put these into a stewpan with two ounces of scraped fat bacon, 
and an equal proportion of lean ham, either chopped or grated fine ; 
season with pepper and salt, and a little chopped thyme. Fry these over 
the stove-fire for about five minutes ; then, mix in the yolks of four eggs, 
fill the tomatas with this preparation, shake some light-coloured raspings 
of bread over them, and place them over a brisk stove-fire, holding a 



ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 351 

red-hot salamander over them for about ten minutes, by which time they 
will be done ; dish them up in the form of a dome, pour some brown 
Italian sauce (No. 1 2) round the base, and serve. 

1161. MUSHROOMS, AU GRATIX. 

Punnet or large mushrooms, must be used for this purpose. Cut the 
stalks, trim the edges, and remove the skin, then fill each mushroom with a 
similar preparation to that directed to be used for tomatas d la Proven' 
^ale ; shake some raspings of bread over them, and place them in a 
sautapan, thickly spread with butter; put them in the oven for about 
a quarter of an hour to gratinate, and then dish them up in a pyramidal 
form ; pour some brown Italian sauce round them, and serve. 

116*2. LARGE TRUFFLES, A LA SERVIETTE. 

When the truffles have been thoroughly cleansed by brushing the 
mould off in water, drain them in a sieve, then place them in a stewpan 
lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; pour some wine mirepoix (No. 236) 
on them, place some layers of bacon on the top, and set them to boil on 
the stove -fire; the lid must then be put on, and hermetically closed 
round with stiff flour and water paste to concentrate the flavour of 
the truffles. Allow them to simmer gently by the side of a slow fire, or 
in the oven, for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish them in the 
folds of a napkin, and send the following sauce separately in a sauce- 
boat : — Mix a gill of the finest salad-oil with a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, the juice of a lemon, some minionette-pepper, a little salt, and 
two table-spoonfuls of half-glaze, made by boiling down about a gill of 
the mirepoix in which the truffles have been boiled. 

1163. TRUFFLES, A LA PIEDMONTAISE. 

Cut half a pound of fresh truffles into scollops, place them in a sauta- 
pan with two table-spoonfuls of Lucca-oil, one of chopped parsley, a little 
chopped thyme, a clove of garlic, some minionette-pepper and salt ; fry 
them over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes, remove the garlic, then add 
a gravy- spoonful of Italian or espagnole sauce, a small piece of glaze, 
and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire, and 
pour it over the hollow crusts of two French rolls, from which the top 
crust part has been removed, then thickly spread with butter, and after- 
wards placed in the oven for ten minutes to become crisp. 

1164. PORTUGAL ONIONS, A l'eSPAGNOLE. 

Peel the onions, and stamp out the cores with a long vegetable-cutter 
about quarter of an inch in diameter ; parboil them in water, for ten mi- 
nutes, and then drain them upon a cloth. Spread the bottom of a deep 
sautapan with butter, place the onions in it, moisten with broth sufficient 
to just cover them, and set them to boil gently over a slow fire, occasion- 
ally turning them in their liquor; when they are neariy done, add 
a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, boil them down quickly to a glaze, 
and when this is done, roll the onions in it, and dish them up in a close 
circle. Next, pour a gravy- spoonful of purie of fresh tomatas, and an 
equal quantity of bright espagnole sauce, into the remainder of the 
glaze, boil this together over the stove-fire, pour it round the onions, and 



352 SECOND COURSE DISHES. 

NoU, — These onions are better adapted for garnishing remoTcs of 
braized beef, &(u, than for being served as a second course dish. 

1165 ARTICHOKES, WITH BUTTER SAUCK. 
Trim the bottoms of six artichokes, cut off the tips of the leaves, and 
boil them in water with a little salt^ for about three-quarters of an hour ; 
when done, drain them upon a sieve, and immerse them in cold water 
for five minutes; loosen the fibrous substance in the inside with the 
handle of a table-spoon^ and after this has been aU removed from the arti- 
chokes, put them back into some hot water for a few minutes to warm 
them through ; drun them up-side-down upon a napkin to absorb all the 
moisture, and then dish them up on a napkm ; pour a little butter sauce 
(No. 71) inside each, and send up some of the sauce in a boat. 

1 166. ARTICHOKES, A LA BARIGOULE. 
Trim six small artichokes, and with the handle of an iron table-spoon, 
scoop out all the fibrous part inside. Put about a pound of clean hog^s- 
lard into a firying-pan on the fire, and when quite hot, fry the bottoms 
of the artichokes in it for about three minutes, then turn them upside 
down, and fry the tips of the leaves also ; drain them upon a cloth to 
absorb all the grease, and fill them with a similar preparation to that di- 
rected for tomatas d la proven^le (No. 1160); cover them over with 
layers of fat bacon, tie them up with string, and place them in a large 
stewpan or fricandeau-ipan lined with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten 
with half a tumbler of white wine, and a little good consammS^ or with 
some wine mirepoix (No. ^^Q)\ put the lid on, and after they have boiled 
up on the stove-fire, place them in the oven to simmer very gently for 
about an hour. When done, drain them upon a cloth, remove the 
strings and the bacon, fill the centre of each artichoke with some 
Italian sauce (No. 12), dish them up with some of the sauce in a boat, 
and serve. 

1167. ARTICHOKES, A LA LYOXXAISE. 
Pull off the lower leaves without damaging the bottoms of the arti- 
chokes, which must be turned smooth with a sharp knife ; cut the 
artichokes into quarters, remove the fibrous parts, trim them neatly and 
parboil them in water with a little salt for about five minutes ; then 
drain them in a colander, and immerse them in cold water, after which 
drain them upon a cloth, and arrange them in circular order in a sau- 
tapan thickly spread with about four ounces of firesh butter ; strew 
a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar over this, season with minionette- 
pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and a gravy-spoon- 
ful of good comommSf and place them on a slow fire to simmer very 
gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that they do not 
bum. When done, they should be of a deep yellow colour and nicely 
glazed ; dish them up in the form of a dome, showing the bottom of the 
artichokes only ; remove any leaves that may have broken off in the 
sautapan, add a ra^ot4^spoonful of bright eBpagnoU sauce, two pats of 
butter, and some lemon-juice ; sinuner this over the stove-fire, stirring it 
meanwhile with a spoon, and when the butter has been mixed in with 
the sauce, pour it over the artichokes, and serve. 



ASPARAGUS, AND FRENCU BEANS. 353 



1168. ARTICHOKES, A L'ITALIENNE. 

These are prepared in the manner described in the foregoing article, 
except that when about to finish them, brown Italian sauce (No. 12), 
must be substituted for espagiiole. 

1169. ASPARAGUS, WITH WHITE SAUCE, 
Pick the loose leaves from the heads, and scrape the stalks clean, wash 
them in a pan of cold water, tie them up in bundles of about twenty in 
each, keeping all the heads turned the same way ; cut the stalks even, 
leaving them about eight inches long. Put the asparagus in hot water 
with a small handfid of salt in it, to boil for about twenty minutes, and 
when done, drain them carefully upon a napkin to avoid breaking off the 
heads ; dish them up on a square thick piece of toasted bread dipped 
in the water they have been boiled in, and send to table with some 
white sauce (No. 71) separately in a sauce-boat. 

1170. ASPARAGUS- PEAS, A LA CREME. 
Boil a quart of asparagus-peas in plenty of water and a handful of 
salt: the water must boil before the peas are put in; when they are done, 
drain them in a colander, immerse them in cold water for three minutes, 
and then drain them upon a sieve. Next, place the asparagu8*peas in a 
stewpan with a small faggot of green onions and parsley, two ounces of 
butter, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 
salt ; put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently over a slow fire for 
ten minutes. Then remove the faggot of parsley, and if there is any 
liquor in the peas, boil it down quickly, and incorporate with them two 
small pats of fresh butter, and a leason of four yolks of eggs mixed with 
half a gill of cream ; toss the peas over a stove-fire to set the leason in 
them, and dish them up in the form of a dome, with a border of Jleur<m9 
round them, and serve. 

1171. FRENCH-BEANS, A LA MAITRE d'HOTEL. 
Pick and string the beans, cut them up, and shred each bean into three 
or four strips ; wash them in plenty of water, drain them in a colander, 
and throw them into a stewpan containing boiling water and a handful 
of salt, and boil them briskly until they become tender : they must be 
drained in a colander, then immersed in cold water for five minutes, and 
drained upon a napkin to absorb all the moisture. Next, put a gravy- 
spoonful of bechamel or supreme sauce into a stewpan with four ounces 
of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, a very 
little nutmeg, minionette-pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; 
stir these well together over the stove-fire, and when perfectly mixed 
throw in the beans, and toss the whole together over the fire until quite 
hot ; then dish them up with a border of crotUans round them, and serve. 

1172. FRENCH-BEANS, WITH FINE-HERBS. 
Boil the beans as directed in the foregoing case. Put two pats of 
fresh butter into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped and parboil- 
ed parsley, and two shalots also chopped, a little nutmeg, minionette pep- 
per and salt, and the juice of a lemon ; simmer this over a stove-fire until 
melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the whole together, and disk 
them up with avuiotis round them. 



354 ENTREMETS OF YEGETABLES. 



1173. BROAD-BEANS, A LA CREIIE. 
For this purpose, the beans must be young. Boil them in water, with 
a faggot of parsley and some salt : when done, drain them in a colander, 
put them into a stewpaii with four ounces of fresh butter, some chopped 
parsley, and as much chopped winter-savory as will cover the tip of 
a spoon, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; toss the beans over the fire for 
five minutes, and then incorporate with them a leason of four yolks of 
eggs and the juice of half a lemon ; when the leason has become set in the 
beans, dish them up with ^^tiroiM round them, and serve. 

1174, GREEN PEAS, PLAIN. 

Put the peas into boiling water with some salt and a bunch of green 

mint ; keep them boiling briskly for about twenty minutes, and when done, 

drain them in a colander, dish them up with chopped boiled mint on the 

top, and send some small pats of very fresh butter separately on a plate. 

1176. STEWED PEAS. 
Put a quart of young peas into a pan, with four ounces of butter and 
plenty of cold water ; rub the peas and butter together, with the fingers, 
until well mixed, then, pour off the water, and put the peas into a stew- 
pan, with a couple of cabbage-lettuces shred small, a faggot of green onions 
and parsley, a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt ; put 
the lid on, and set the peas to stew very gently over a slow fire for about 
half an hour : when done, if there appears to be much liquor, boil it 
down quickly over the fire. Next, put about two ounces of fresh butter 
on a plate, with a dessert-spoonful of fiour, and knead them together ; 
put this into the peas, and toss the whole together over the stove-fire until 
well mixed ; diJi the peas up, garnish round vfith JUurans, and serve. 

1176. PEAS, A LA FRANCAISE. 
Thbsb must be prepared as above (No. 1175), omitting the lettuces ; 
stew them in the same manner, and when done, add a little light-coloured 
glare, and fmish with four ounces of kneaded butter and flour, with a little 
more sugar than in the foregoing case. 

1177. TURNIPS, GLACES WITH SUGAR. 
TuBN about two dozen pieces of turnips into the form of rings, about 
two inches in diameter, or else in the shape of small pears ; put them 
into a deep sautapan, thickly spread with finesh butter, and strewn with 
about two ounces of pounded sugar ; moisten with about half a pint of 
good coruommi, and set the turnips to simmer veiy gently over a 
moderate stove-fire for about forty minutes ; when they are neariy done, 
remove the lid, and place them over a brisk fire to boil the moisture down 
to glaze, gently rolling the turnips in this, with great care, to avoid 
breaking them. They must then be dished up in neat order, and the 
glaze poured over them. 

1178. TOUNG CARROTS, A l'aLLEMANDE. 
Turn two bunches of spring carrots, keeping their original shape, but 
making them equal in size; parboil them in water with a little salt for 
about ten minutes ; then drain them into a colander^ and immerse them in 



CUCUMBERS. 355 

cold water, afterwards drain them again, and lay them upon a napkin. 
Next, place the carrots in a deep sautapan, with two ounces of fresh 
butter, an equal proportion of loaf sugar, and about a pint of good 
consommi ; put the lid on, and set the carrots to boil very gently over a 
moderate stove-fire for about half an hour ; then set them to boil briskly 
until their liquor is reduced to glaze, when they must be gently rolled in 
this, and dished up in a round-bottomed quart basin, so as to form a 
perfect dome when turned out upon the dish ; pour round some alle" 
mande sauce (No. 7), mixed with some chopped and parboiled parsley, 
also the remainder of their glaze over the carrots, and serve. 

1179. VEGETABLE MARROW. 
Cut the vegetable-marrow, according to their size, into four, six, or 
eight pieces, just as oranges are divided ; peel and trim them neatly, place 
them in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter, and season with a 
very little nutmeg, minionette-pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded 
sugar ; moisten with half a pint of white broth, and set them to boil 
gently over a stove-fire for about ten minutes ; then boil them down in 
their glaze; toss them gently in this, and dish them up neatly in a 
conical form. Pour a little espagnole sauce mto the sautapan, and 
simmer it with the remainder of the glaze, mix in a pat of butter and 
the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the vegetable-marrow, and serve. 

1180. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Trim the vegetable-marrow as above, boil them gently in water with 
a pat of butter and a little salt, drain and dish them up, pour some white 
sauce (No. 71) or bichamel (No. 5) over them, and serve. 

1181. CUCUMBERS, A LA POULETTE. 

Cut the cucumbers into scollops about an inch in diameter, put them into 
a basin with a table-spoonful of salt, and twice that proportion of vinegar, 
and allow them to steep in this for several hours. Then, pour off all the 
moisture from the cucumbers, and put them into a stewpan with two 
ounces of fresh butter, a very little grated nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful 
of pounded sugar, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire 
until they become quite tender : this will require about half an hour. The 
butter must then be poured off, and a gravy-spoonful of velotUi sauce 
(No. 4) added ; simmer the cucumbers over the fire for a few minutes, 
finish by incorporating with them a leason of four yolks of eggs, mixed 
with half a gill of cream, a spoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, 
and the juice of half a lemon; dish them up with a border of fleurons, 
and serve. 

1182. CUCUMBERS, A l'eSPAGNOLE. 

Cut the cucumbers into lengths of about two inches, scoop out all 
the seeds, pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the 
ends ; parboil them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain 
them upon a napkin. Fill each piece of cucumber with some queneUe 
forcemeat of chicken (No. 242) ; then, place them in neat order in a 
deep sautapan, lined with thin layers of mt bacon, and cover them also 
with the same ; moisten with conaomnUy and set them to simmer very 
gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; when they are 
become quite tender, drain them upon a cloth, dish them u^ vol ^ 



356 EXTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 

pynunidal form, pour some bright etpa^ol^ sauce (No. 3) orer them, 
and serre. 

1183. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A LA SAUCE. 
\Va%h them thoroughly in plenty of water, peel or turn them in the 
form of laige olives or small pears ; boil them in water with a pat of 
butter and a little salt, for about a quarter of an hour ; when done, drain 
them upon a cloth, dish them up neatly, pour some butter sauce (No. 
71) over them, and serve. 

1184. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A L^ITALIEXXE. 

TuBN the artichokes into any fency shape, place them in circular 
order in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter ; season with min- 
ionette-pepper, nutm^ salt, and lemon-juice ; moisten with a little eon- 
Mf/mmct put the lid on, set them to sinuner very gently over a slow fire for 
aliout half an hour — during which time they wiQ, if properly attended to^ 
acquire a deep yellow colour. Roll them up in their glaze, dish them up, 
pour some Italian sauce (No. 12) round them, and serve. 

1185. WHITE HARICOT-BEAyS, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

These are seldom to be met with in England, except in a dried 
state: when procurable, they should be treated in the following 
manner : — 

Put a laige stewpan, half filled with water, on the stove-fire to boil ; then 
throw in the beans, with a pat of butter and a little salt, and allow them 
to boil until they are become quite tender ; drain them in a colander ; 
then put them into a stewpan with about 6oz. of fresh butter, a little 
pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and lemon -juice; toss them whole 
well together over the stove-fire, until weU mixed ; then, dish them up 
with cnnUons round them, and serve. 

Note. — When the haricot-beans are in a dried state, they should be 
steeped in cold water for six hours at least, previously to their being 
dressed for the table, and must be boiled in cold water; in all other 
respects, finish them in the above manner. 

1186. WHITE HARICOT-BEANS, A LA BRETONXE. 

Boil the haricot-beans as directed above, and when done, drain them 
in a colander, put them into a stewpan with some brciowne sauce (No. 
t7)t and set them to simmer over the stove-fire for five minutes ; toss 
them together, and dish them up as the above. 

1187. AMERICAN YAMS, A LA FRANCAISE. 
Cut the yams into slices about half an inch thick, trim them into 
rather large oval-shaped scoUops, and throw them into a panful of water ; 
wash and drain them upon a cloth, then place them in circular order in a 
deep sautapan, thickly spread with 4oz. of fresh butter, and season with 
a little grated nutmeg and salt ; moisten with a pint of broth or water, 
put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently over a slow fire for about 
three quarters of an hour, taking care to turn them over, in onder that 
the;^ may acquire a bright yellow glazed colour on both sides ; dish them 
up m close circular order, piled up in rows ;. pour the following sauce 
under them, and servo : — Knead two pats of fresh butter with a dessert- 



POTATOES, ETC. 357 

spoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with a gill of cream, a spoonful 
of pounded sugar, a very little salt, and a tea-spoonful of orange- flower 
water ; stir this over the fire until it thickens, and then use it as directed. 

1188. POTATOES, A LA MAITRE D'DOTEL. 

Thb small French kidney, or ViieloUe potatoes, are best adapted for 
this purpose : boil or steam them in the ordinary way, and when done^ 
cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick, put them into a 
stewpan with a ragout spoonful of white sauce or broth, 4oz. of butter, 
some pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice ; toss them over 
the stove-fire until the butter, &c. is mixed in wiUi the potatoes, then, 
dish them up with crotUoru round them, and serve. 

1189. NEW POTATOES, A LA CREME. 

Cut some recently-boiled new potatoes in slices, put them into a 
stewpan with a gill of cream, 4oz. of fresh butter, a very little nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; set them to boil on the 
stove-fire, toss them well together, and dish them up with croiUons. 

1190. POTATOES, A LA CREME, AU GRATIN. 
Cut some boiled potatoes in slices, about an inch in diameter, pre- 
pare the same kind of mixture as directed for cauliflowers au grcUin 
(No. 1169) : stick some neatly-cut pointed crautoiu of fiied bread round 
the bottom of the dish, in the form of a coronet ; place a close circular 
row of the slices of potatoes within this border of cr(nUons ; spread a 
layer of the mixture over them ; then^ repeat the row of potatoes and 
the mixture until the dish is complete. Smooth the top over with some 
of the sauce, shake some fried bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese 
over the surface, so as entirely to cover it : put the potatoes in the oven 
for about twenty minutes, to be warmed through, and serve. 

1191. SEAKALE, A LA SAUCE. 

Tib the seakale up in small bundles, and put it in boiling water with 
a little salt : about twenty minutes will suffice to boil it tender : drain 
and dish it up On a piece of toast, and send some butter sauce (No. 71) 
separately in a boat. 

Note, — Seakale may also be served with etpagnoU or bechamel sauce, 
in which case it must be placed in the dish, and the hcchamd or espagnoU 
sauce poured over it : if the latter, a pat of butter and a little lemon-* 
juice should be first worked in with it. 

1192. BRUSSELS-SPROUTS. 

Boil the sprouts green, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of firesh 
butter, some minionette-pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon-juice, and a 
ragout spoonful of veloiUi sauce (No. 4) ; toss the whole well together 
over a stove-fire until the butter is incorporated with them ; then, dish 
them up with a border of Jleurons, and serve. 



358 



ENTREMETS OF EGGS, ETC., 



COMrRISING 

Eggs, ^ la Tripe, Eggs, it la Anns. 

,, au gratin. Maccaroni, d ritalienne, 

„ Brouilles, with TrofSes, &c „ with Cream. 

Omlet, with fine-herbs. n aMffra^n, 

„ with Shalots. m «^ ^ FlorenUm. 

„ with Purmesan Cheese Nouilles^ h la Palerme, 

„ with Kidneys. „ d fa VanOle, 

M with Oysters. Indian Sandwiches. 

Poached Eggs, with Anchovy Toast. Anchory Sandwiches. 

„ with Ham. Italian Salad. 

Eggs, a la Dauphine. Russian Salad. 

„ tt PAurore* German Salad. 

„ with Natbrown Batter. AoukUi h la JlemtcisB, 

1193. EGGS, A LA TRIPE. 

Boil eight eggs hard, immerse them in cold water for three minutes* 
take off the shells, cut them up in rather thick slices, and put these into 
a stewpan. Next, cut three small onions in slices, separating the folds in 
rings ; these must be first parboiled in water, and then after being boiled 
in white broth, should be drained on a sieve and placed with the eggs ; 
add two ra^oti^spoonfuls of good bechamel sauce (No. 5), as much gariie 
as can be held on the point of a knife, a pinch of roinionette pepper, a 
little nutmeg and the juice of a lemon ; toss the whole together over the 
stove-fire, and when the eggs are quite hot, dish them up in a conical 
form ; garnish round with crotUoTU or fieuronSy and serve. 

1194. EGGS, AU GRATIN. 

Boil the eggs hard, and when done, take off the shells, cut them in 
slices, and set them aside on a plate. Next, put a large ro^oti^spoonful 
of white sauce into a stewpan to boil over the stove-fire, and when it is 
sufficiently reduced, add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small 
pat of butter, a little nutmeg, minionette-pepper, the yolks of four ^jgs, 
and the juice of half a lemon ; stir this quickly over the stove until it 
begins to thicken, and then withdraw it from the fire. Place the ^jgs 
in close circular rows in the dish, spread some of the preparation in 
between each layer, observing that the whole must be dished up in the 
form of a dome ; smooth the surface over with the remainder of the 
sauce, strew some fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese 
over the top, put some fried croutons of bread or fieurons round the base, 
and set them in the oven to bake, or gnUinate for about ten minutes, 
then send to table. 

1196. EGGS BROUILLES, WITH TRUFFLES. 
Bbbak eight new-laid eggs into a stewpan, to these add four ounces of 
fresh butter, two ounces oftrufHes, (cut up in very small dice, and sim- 
mered in a little butter), a gill of cream, a small piece of glaze, a little 
nutmeg, roinionette-pepper, and salt ; stir this quickly with a wooden 



OMLETS. 359 

spoon over the stove-fire until the eggs^ &c^ begin to thicken, when the 
stewpan must be withdrawn ; continue to work the eggs with the spoon, 
observing, that although they must not be allowed to become hard, as in 
that case the preparation would be curdled and rendered unsightly, yet 
they must be sufficiently set, so as to be fit to be dished up : to effect this 
it is necessary to stick the crovtoru or Jleurons round the inner circle of 
the dish with a little flour and white of egg paste j dish up the eggs in 
the centre of these, and serve. 

11»6. OMLET, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Break six eggs in a basin, to these add half a gill of cream, a small 
pat of butter broken in small pieces, a spoonful of chopped parsley, some 
pepper and salt ; then put four ounces of fresh butter in an omiet pan on 
the stove-fire ; while the butter is melting, whip the eggs, &c., well 
together until they become frothy, as soon as the butter begins to fritter, 
pour the eggs into the pan, and stir the omlet, as the eggs appear to set 
and become firm ; when the whole has become partially set, roll the om- 
let into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to acquire a golden colour on 
one side, over the fire, and then turn it out on its dish ; pour a little 
thin espagnole sauce, or half-glaze under it, and serve. 

1197*. OMLET, WITH SHALOTS. 
Prepare and finish this omlet, in all respects like the foregoing, 
except that some chopped shalots must be added to the parsley. 

1197^. OMLET, WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 
Break six eggs into a basin, then add a gill of cream, four ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, some minionette-pepper and a little salt ; beat 
the whole well together, and finish the omlet as previously directed. 

1198. OMLET, WITH KIDNEYS. 

First prepare the kidneys with fine-herbs ^No. 876) ; then, make an 
omlet as directed for ** Omlet with fine-herbs' (No. 1196), and when it 
is fried, before folding it up, place the prepared kidneys in it ; roll it 
up into shape, dish it up with a little half-glaze round the base, and 
serve. 

1199. OMLET, WITH OYSTERS. 

This is made in the same manner as the foregoing, merely substi- 
tuting some oysters, prepared as for scollops (No. 538), for the kidneys. 

1200. POACHED EGGS, WITH ANCHOVY TOAST. 
First, break some new-laid eggs into separate small cups or darioU 
moulds ; then, drop them one after the other into a stewpan containing 
boiling water mixed with a table- spoonful of white vinegar and a little 
salt ; keep this boiling while the eggs are being dropped in at the side of 
the stewpan, and when they have boiled for two minutes, drain them 
on a napkin, trim them and place each egg upon a square or oval piece 
of dry toast, spread with anchovy butter (No. 179) over which have 
been laid some thin fillets of anchovies ; dish these up in a close circle, 
pour a little half-glaze under them, place a pinch of minionette-pepper in 
the centre of each egg, and serve. 



360 QTREMIT^ OF WiiGA. 

1:901. POACHED EGG&f WVFEL HAJC. 
PriACH the €f|p aa in the &ni g .iui g cmb. and when dhmey <fiiiii them op 
<m thin otsL fn^ps of fined ham : pour aome thin p&iwrade sauce (No. 
!I9) cmda gh*»n- and terre* 

L20!2. EGGS. A Ll DaCTHETE. 

Boil ten egg? haidr take iS the sheik, and cut each egg mto halTeflt 
lengthwise : xoop the joika 'lut and put them into the mortar, and place 
the whites on a 'iiah. Aid &ur ounces of butto' to the joQcs of eggs, 
also the enunb of a Fiench-mll soaked in eieam, some chopped pac^j, 
grated nutmeg, pepp^* and salt, and two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; pound the whole wdl togjetheiv and then add one whole egg and 
the voUd of two others * mix these well together by poanding, and 
use this preparation &r nlling the whites o{ eggs kept in leserre finr tbe 
purpose: amo«>th them OTer with the blade of a snaQ knife <Hpped 
in water, and as they are tilled, place than on a <fiah» Next, with 
some iJii the remaining part of the preparation, spread a thin fiMmd- 
ation at the bottom of the dish, and proceed to raise the eggs npt 
in three or four tiers^ to a pyramidal form, a aingfe egg crowning the 
whole : four hard boiled yolks of e^ must then be rubbed through a 
wire seTe, ot^^ the entjnmA. for thueHOi to 1^ upon in shreds, like Ter- 
micelli ; place a border of fined ornttimM of bread round the base, and set 
the eggs in the oTen for about twenty minutes, that they may be baked 
of a br^t yellow colour; when done, withdraw than, poor some 
thin hichamd round the emifrrnkM^ and senre. 

1203. EGGS^ A L^ACRORl. 
BoTL the eggs hard, rerooTe the sh^ls and cut eadi egg mto halTes, 
lengthwise; take the yolks out and place them on a dish, shred tbe 
whites up in fine strips ainl put these into a stewpan with some aurora 
sauce (No. 41), toss them oTer the fire until quite hot, and then dish 
them up in the centre of a border of cr^mtemt preTiously studc round the 
bottom of the dish. First place a layer of the whites, then shake a little 
grated Parmesan dieese, alter which rub some of the yolks through a 
wire siere upon this, and so on, repeating the same until the whole is 
used up, finishmg with the yolks of eggs, resembling rermicellL Put the 
ejUremiU in the oTen to be baked of a bright yellow colour, and then 
senre. 

1204. EGGS, WITH NUTBROWy BUTTER- 
Put four ounces of butter into an omlet-pan over the fire, as soon as it be- 
gins to fritter, break the eggs in to it, without disturbing the yolks ; season 
with pepper and salt, fry the eggs OTer the fire for five minutes, and then 
remore them gently on to their dish. Next, put two ounces more but- 
ter into the pan, fry it of a brown colour, then add two table-spoonfuls of 
French vinegar, boil the whole together for two minutes, pour it over the 
oggs, and serve. 

1205. EGGS, A LA SUISSE. 

Si'RKAF) the bottom of a silver dish with two ounces of fresh butter, 

cover this with rather thin slices of fresh Gruyere cheese, break eight 

whole eggs upon the cheese, without disturbing the yolks ; season with 

gmted nutmeg, minionette-pepper, and salt ; pour a gill of double cream 



MAGCARONI. 361 

on the surface, strew the top with about two ounces of grated Oruyere 
cheese, and set the eggs m the oven to bake for about a quarter of an 
hour : pass the hot salamander over the top^ and serve with strips of 
very thin dry toast separately on a plate. 

1206. MACCARONI, A l'ITALIENNE. 

Break up the maccaroni in three-inch lengths, and put it on to boil in 
hot water, with a pat of butter, a little minionette-pepper and salt ; 
when done, drain it on a napkin and as soon as the moisture is absorbed, 
dish it up in the following manner. First, put two large ro^oM^-spoon- 
fuls of good tomata sauce mto a stewpan^ and boil it over the stove-fire ; 
then add two pats of fresh butter with as much glaze, and work the whole 
well together ; next, strew a layer of the maccaroni on the bottom of the 
dish, then pour some of the sauce over it, and strew some grated Parme- 
san cheese over this : and so on, repeating the same, until the dish is full 
enough ; strew some grated cheese over the top, put the maccaroni in the 
oven for five minutes, and then serve while it is quite hot. 

1207. MACCARONI, WITH CREAM. 
Boil one pound of maccaroni, and when done, cut it up in three-inch 
lengths, and put it into a stewpan, with four ounces of fresh butter, four 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a similar quantity of Gruyere 
cheese also grated, and a gill of good cream ; leason with minionette- 
pepper and salt, and toss the whole well together over the stove-fire until 
well mixed and quite hot, then shake it up for a few minutes to make the 
cheese spin, so as to give it a fibrous appearance, when drawn up with a 
fork. The maccaroni when dished up must be garnished round the base 
with fleurons of pasty, and then served. 

1208. MACCARONI, AU GRATIN. 

Cut the maccaroni up as above, put it into a stewpan with three-quarters 
of a pound of grated cheese, (Parmesan and Gruyere in equal quantities,) 
four ounces of fresh butter and a ra^ou^-spoonful of good bechamel sauce ; 
season with minionette-pepper and salt, toss the whole together over the 
fire until well mixed, then pile it up in the centre of a border of fried 
croutons of bread, (previously stuck round the bottom of the dish); 
strew the surface with fine bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in 
equal proportions, run a little melted butter through the holes of a spoon, 
over the top of the maccaroni, and then put it in the oven to be baked of 
a bright yellow colour : it should then be served quite hot. 

1209. TIMBALE OF MACCARONI, A LA FLORENTINE. 

Decorate a plain mould with some nouilles paste (No. 1256), mixed 
with a little sugar ; then line the mould with some thin strips of fine 
short paste (No. 1253), which must be placed exactly in the same man- 
ner as when lining a charlotte mould with bread ; fill the timhale with 
flour, cover it in with some of the paste, and bake it for about one hour; 
it must then be emptied and all the flour brushed out with a paste- 
brush, again put back into the mould, and kept in the skreen imtil 
wanted. 

While the timbale is being made, parboil half a pound of Naples 
maccaroni in water, for a quarter of an hour, then drain it on a sieve, and 
aderwards put it into a stewpan with a pat of butter, a pint of milk and 



S62 ENTREMETS OF EGOS. 

the same quantity of cream, four ounces of sugar, a stick of Tanilla, md 
a Tery litUe salt ; then set the maccaroni to boil very gently over a flow 
fire until it is thoroughly done — by which time the maccaroni will have 
entirely absorbed the milk, &c^ then add al)Out one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese; toss the whole well together over the fire, remoye 
the stick of Tanilla, and fill the timbaU with the maccaroni ; then turn it 
out of the mould on to its dish, shake over it some finely-pounded sugar, 
glaze it with the hot salamander, and send to table. 

1210. NOUILLES, A LA PALERME. 

MikKB three-quarters of a pound ofnauiUes (No. 1 367), parboil them in 
water with a pat of butter and a little salt for about ten minutes ; then drain 
them on a sieve, and afterwards put them into a stewpan with a pint of 
chicken broth, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, minionette pepper, 
and salt ; place a circular piece of buttered paper on the top, put the lid 
on, and then set the nauUles over a slow fire, to boil very gently until the 
whole of the broth has been absorbed. Next, add a gill of cream, four 
ounces of grtited Parmesan cheese, two pats of butter, and a smaU piece 
of glaze ; toss the whole well together over the fire, and then pile them 
up in the centre of a border of croutons previously stuck round the bot- 
tom of the dish ; shake some vermicellied yolks of eggs, and some grated 
Parmesan cheese over the sur&ce, put the entremiU in the oven to be 
baked of a fine bright yellow colour, and send to table. 

1211. TIMBALE OF XOFILLES, A LA VANILLE. 

Parboil the nouilUs in water for ten minutes, then drain them on a 
sieve, and afterwards put them in a stewpan with a pint of cream, a 
table- spoonful of pounded vanilla, a pat of butter, six ounces of sugar, 
and a little salt ; cover them with a circular piece of buttered paper and 
put on the lid, then set them on a slow fire to boil gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour, by which time the cream will be absorbed by the 
nouilUs; add the yolks of six eggs, and mix the whole well together. 
Next, spread a plain round or oval mould with butter, roll some nouilUs 
paste out on the slab with the fingers, and use this for the purpose of 
lining the mould with — coiled round as closely as possible, thus forming 
a kind of timbale; fill this with the prepared nouilUs^ place it on a 
baking- sheet, and put it in the oven to be baked of a fine light colour; 
when it is done, turn the timbale out of the mould on to its dish, shake 
some fine-sifled sugar over it, glaze it with the red-hot salamander, and 
serve. 

1212. INDIAN SANDWICHES. 

Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in very small square dice- 
like pieces, and place these on a plate ; take about four ounces of red 
tongue or lean ham, and four anchovies (previously washed and filleted), 
cut these also in small dice, and place them with the chicken. Next, 
put two ro^ou^spoonfuls of yeloute sauce, and a dessert-spoonful of curry- 
paste into a stewpan, boil these over the stove, stirring it meanwhile^ 
until reduced to the consistency of a thick sauce ; then add the chicken, 
&c., and the juice of half a lemon, mix the whole well together, and use 
this preparation in the following manner: — 

Cut some thin slices of the crumb of a sandwich-loaf, and with a cir- 
cular tin cutter about an inch and a half in diameter, stamp out two 



ITALIAN SALAD. 363 

dozen croutons ; fry these in clari6ed butter to a bright yellow colour, 
drain them on a napkin, and place one half on a baking-sheet coTered 
with clean paper ; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on each 
of these, and then cover them with the remaining twelve crouiona. 
Next, grate four ounces of fresh Parmesan, and mix this with a pat of 
butter into a paste, divide it in twelve parts, roll each into a round ball, 
and place one of these on the top of each sandwich; about ten minutes 
before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed thoroughly, 
pass the red-hot salamander over them, to colour them of a bright ycdlow, 
dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 

1213. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Obder a dozen very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off the 
top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish, and set them aside. 
Next, chop four hard boiled eggs very fine, and put this into a small basin 
with a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon, chervil, chives, and bumet ; 
season with four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, one ditto of French-vinegar, 
pepper and a little salt ; mix the whole well together, and use this 
preparation for filling the rolls with; then, place some small fillets 
of anchovies (previously prepared) over the sandwiches, at about one 
eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of 
fillets across these at a similar distance. Dish the sandwiches up on a 
napkin, in the form of a pyramid, and serve. 

1214. ITALIAN SALAD. 

Boil two heads of fine white cauliflower, a similar portion of aspara- 
gus-points, French-beans cut in diamonds, a few new potatoes, (which 
after being boiled must be stamped out with a small vegetable- cutter), 
half a pint of green -peas, and three artichoke-bottoms, also cut up in 
small fancy shapes when boiled. All these vegetables must be prepared 
with great attention, in order that they may retain their original colour ; 
the cauliflowers should be cut up in small buds or flowrets, and the 
whole when done, put into a convenient-sized basin. 

Next, boil two large red beetroots, six large new potatoes, and twenty 
large-sized heads of very green asparagus, or a similar quantity of 
French-beans ; cut the beetroot and potatoes in two-inch lengths, and 
with a tin vegetable-cutter, a quarter of an inch in diameter, punch 
out about two dozen small pillar- shaped pieces of each,* and put these on 
a dish, with an equal quantity of asparagus- heads or French-beans, cut to 
the same length. Then, take a plain border-mould, and place the green 
vegetables in neat and close order, all round the bottom of the mould ; 
observing that a small quantity of aspic-jelly must be first poured in 
the mould, for the purpose of causing the pieces of French-beans to hold 
together. Next, line the sides of the mould, by placing the pieces of beet- 
root and potatoes alternately, each of which must be first dipped in some 
bright aspic-jelly, previously to its being placed in the mould ; when the 
whole is complete, fill the border up with aspic-jelly. 

Preparatory to placing the vegetables, the* mould must be partially 
immersed in some pounded rough ice, contained in a basin or pan. ' 

When about to send this entremets to table, turn the vegetable border 
out of the mould on to its dish ; after the vegetables before alluded 
to have been seasoned, by adding to them a ro^oti^-spoonful of aspic-jelly, 
three table-spoonfuls of oil, one of tarragon-vin^r, some pepper, and 



3M lyinrrs or i«& 




tki :heK uid «me xniLmii ilLecs it utesuvrje^ uont ob 
taimiij -SEC :ip inu KntLaoK. rii* tsua ic rvi iaaai aaj-fiih. i 
viantirr ir ptanrui-jaLLL rvn iuBQi lirr^i /oridL ad a pwd tmble- 
ip«>iafLii it FVfflgn ages : 'asL n&i & unEdisnc ^^antztr of red aajMi- 
]Nz,;iiif suK f 5i. » • ^1 jhOBLen taes Ezxc79taea£&. mix Uhs wimie together 
tessuj, sad uk ^him vrnazasaia ai iH a wrder >» tu g tuMf* anflv to 
that ieaeniKfi Eel the iiRsnimr stzse. Flxma sbe oAr^BAi in the wamt 



1216. ^Z3JLl5 5.lr..\i>, 
Ri3Bjtx the fldn finm ta^ EILeti it three DgtA- hgiiu c i f cut thew op 
mta fiaati an icciL >»ff and a •parser •« si izach wide, and pot them into 
a faaabi ; with a siarp knxas mskT^ Kcne t^btt thxn ifieei from one pound 
4f Hambn' hcif (jnrntnalj pozto&d in waser £v ahoct half an boor), 
and add them v> toe pteces of cionncs ; ti> theK mial abo he put two 
diVttn tom^d vlir^s, iixcis white aiid red h ee U ' Juc (caked), eat or itamped 
out m fiuser ihapes, in toe pn-p^rdun of •xiie-tMzrth part of the wfac^ of 
the mgrfi&ntBj two dfjxen oaj-fiih-tails, and some curled celery ; thai 
add nffident ramndade auice (3lo. 95) to moisten the whole^'and use 
this p tep anlt on to fill a vegetaUe bocder as Greeted in the fore go in g 
artides^ 

1217. 50CXLES, A LA VIO.^OISE. 

Put half a pint of cr/iufmkmu into a stewpan with four ounces of but- 
ter, and a little pepper and alt ; set this oTer the store, and as soon as it 
tjegini Xf9 simmer, throw in about six ounces of siAed flour to thidcen 
the preparation into a soft paste, and keep stirring this orer the fire for 
about three minutes, bj which time the paste inll cease to adhere to 
the sides of the stewpan ; add two whole eggs, and four ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and work the whole thoroughly together until 
well mixed, then add a gill of whipped cream, and another egg ; mix 
these in with the paste, and mould it with two tea-spoons into small 
fjuendle$ ; when this is done, place them in close order on a stewpan- 
corer prerioushr spread with butter, and when about to poach than, 
they must be slipped off into some boiling watomme^ aftor gently boiling 
for about ten minutes, drain them on a sieve, and place t^m in a deep 
silver dish or souffle lining. Pour suflicient thin bright espagnoU sauee 
over them to reach the surface, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese 
over the top, and set the noukU$ in the oven to simmer for about twoity 
minutes ; just before sending to table, pass the red-hot salamander over 
the surface to give them a bright yellow colour, and serve. 

NoukUi are mostly served immediately afler the fish, but are also 
suited fur the second cou 



365 



COLD ENTREES FOR BALL SUPPERS, &c., 

COMPRISING 

Aspic Jelly. Pott4Hl Pheasants, h la Royalc. 

Fricassee of Chickens with Aspic Jelly. Potted Fowl and Tongue. 

Sn/miv of Partridges ^ ^ Lobster. 

Mayonaige of Fillets of Soles, &c. ,« Prawns, or Shrimps. 

„ of Chickens. „ Yarmouth Bloaters. 

Dame, or Slice of Salmon, a la Mont- Galantine of Pouhird, with Jelly. 

pellier. Boar*s Head with Aspic Jelly. 

Tfout, a la Vertpri, Chickens, h la BeUe- Vue. 

Chicken Salad. Lamb Cutlets, h la Princesse. 

Lobster Salad. ' FilleU ofFowls, a&i FieloHa 

Tongue, Mrith Aspic Jelly. Sandwiches, d Uz Regenoe, 

Ham with ditto „ of Fillets of Soles, &c. 
Aspic of Fowl, h la Reme, 

1218. ASPIC JELLY. 

Take about thirty pounds of knuckle of fresh veal, wash the meat in 
plenty of water, and put it into a stock-pot, with four hens, and eighteen 
calfs'-feet previously boned, and parboiled in water for ten minutes ; fill 
up the stock-pot with about four gallons of spring water, and set it on a 
Btove-fire to boil; as the scum rises to the surface, remove it with 
a skimmer, and keep pouring in small quantities of cold water, to 
check the boiling occasionally, so as to enable the albumen (which 
forms the white scum), when effectually dissolved by the heat of the 
water^ to be thrown up in laiger quantities than would be the case if the 
process is hurried ; otherwise the aspic so prepared, would be more diffi- 
cult to clarify. The aspic being well skimm^, should then be garnished 
with four carrots, three lai^e onions stuck with two cloves each, four 
heads of celery, two cloves of garlic, a large faggot of parsley and 
green-onions, with two bay-leaves, and a large sprig of thyme; four 
blades of mace and a tea-spoonful of pepper-corns. Next, set the stock- 
pot down by the side of the stove-fire, to boil very gently for about six 
hours ; all the grease should be then carefully removed from the top, 
and the aspic strained through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins, 
and put away in the larder to cool. When the aspic has become firm, 
scrape off the grease finom the surface, and run a littie boiling water upon 
the top, to wash away any that remains, throw this water df, and with 
a clean cloth absorb all the remaining moisture. The aspic must now 
be put into a large stewpan, and set to boil on a brisk stove-fire, and then 
removed to the side that it may throw up its scum for ten minutes ; this 
shoidd be removed as it rises, and the aspic must afterwards be allowed 
partially to cool, preparatory to its being clarified ; for which purpose, put 
into a stewpan the whites of six eggs, four whole eggs, about one 
pound of fresh veal, as much game or fowl, perfectly firee from bone, 
sinew, or fat, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar; to these add, 
a bottle of French or Rhenish white wine, and a little spring water ; 
whisk the whole well together until thoroughly mixed, then add this pre- 
paration to the aspic, and continue whisking the whole together over a 
brisk stove-fire until the eggs, &c. begin to coagulate; then, immediately 
pour in the juice of six lemons mixed with a little spring water, and 
remove the aspic to the side of the stove-fire ; put the lid on the stewpan. 



366 



COLD ENTREES. 



place some live embers of charcoal upon it, and leave it to simmer very 
gently for about half an hour. Next, pour it into a flannel jelly-bag 
prepared in the usual way to receive it, and keep pouring the jelly 
through the bag for a few minutes, when it will become perfectly bright, 
then allow it to run into the basin until the whole has passed. Pour 
the aspic into deep sautapans or stewpans, and set it in the larder to 
become firm. Care should be taken throughout the process, to avoid 
putting anything into the aspic that would be likely to prevent it from 
becoming of a pale straw colour : half may be coloured of a darker shade, 
by mixing in with it a few droips of caramel or browning.* 

Previously to mixing the eggs, &c with the aspic, a small quantity 
should be put into a dariole — mould upon the ice, to prove its strength ; 
as although it is necessary (especially during hot weather,) that all jellies 
should contain a large proportion of gelatine, yet, if this predominate, 
the jelly becomes very difficult to clarify. 

1219. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 

Prepare a fricassee of chickens, as directed in No. 968 ; keep the 
pieces of chickens separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly- 
reduced, previously to incorporating the leason of eggs in it ; and when 
this has been done, add about one-third of its quantity of aspic jelly ; 
stir them together on the ice, and when well mixed, dip the pieces of 
chicken in it, and dish them up as you proceed. The entrie should be 
raised in a conical form, and neatly masked with the remainder of the 
sauce, so as to detach each piece of chicken in relief. Place some fine 
cock's combs, white button-mushrooms, and glazed truffles in the cavities ; 
surmount the whole with a large truffle, in which a large white cock's- 
comb has been inserted, garnish the base with some chopped jelly, rolled 
with the blade of a knife in the form of a thick cord, and place a border 
of angular or fancy-shaped croutons of bright aspic jelly, round this. 

1220. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 

Prepare the salmis as directed 
in No. 10/89 l^eep the pieces of 
partridges separate from the sauce, 
which, when partially cold, must 
be mixed with one-third of its 
quantity of aspic jelly, and gently 
stirred on the ice, until it assumes 
sufficient body to admit of its 
being used for masking the pieces 
of partridges with : these must be 
raised on their dish in a pyramidal 
form; pour the remainder of the 
sauce over the entrie^ which should 
be garnished in the same manner 
as the foregoing. 

Note, — Salmis of pheasants, woodcocks, quails, &c, are prepared for 
ball-suppers, and similar entertaiments in the same way as partridges. 

* Thii if made by baking aome nigar in a amall copper pan, and allowing it to boil- 
down Tery gradually oTer a tlow fire, until it becomes a very dark brown in colour ; Mme 
cold water mutt then be added to melt the cmnmd^ and afker it has boiled up, it 
thonld be kept in a nuall bottle for ueo. 




MAYONAISE OF CHICKENS, 



867 



1221. MAYONAISE OF FILLETS OF SOLES, ETC. 

Trim the fillets of three soles, simmer them in a sautapan with 2oz. 
of butter, pepper, salt and lemon-juice ; when done, put them in press 
between earthen dishes, and as soon as they are cold, divide each fillet into 
three scollops, trim the ends round, put them into a basin with a little 
oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them steep in this. Next, prepare 
an aspic border-mould, in the following manner : — Pound some rough ice 
fine, and put it into a deep pan ; imbed the mould partially in this, pour 
a small quantity of aspic jelly in the bottom of the mould, to the depth 
of about the eighth of an inch, and upon this place a decoration, made as 
follows: — Cut some black truffles and boiled white of eggs, in very thin 
slices ; stamp these out into the form of rings, diamonds, leaves, &c. 
and arrange them with taste on the surface of the jelly ; when this is 
complete, the decoration must be covered in with a spoonful of aspic 
jelly, poured over with great care, so as not to disturb it : as soon as this 
has become set, fill the mould up with aspic, and when that also has 
become set, turn the border out of the mould on its dish. Fill the centre 
with the fillets of soles (previously drained upon a napkin) neatly piled 
up in a conical form, pour some green mayonaise sauce (No. 98) over 
them, garnish the base of the fillets with a neat border of trimmed 
prawn s'^tails, and crown the mayonaUe with the white heart of a cab- 
bage-lettuce, stuck into half an egg, boiled hard. 

Note. — Fillets of turbot^ salmon, trout, mackerel, or gurnets, may be 
treated as the above ; the sauce can be varied according to Nos. 97 and 
99, and may also be garnished round the base of the fillets, either with 
plover's-eggs cut, crayfish-tails, or quarters of the white^hearts of cab- 
bage-lettuces. Some shred lettuce, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and 
salt, may first be placed at the bottom of the aspic border, to pile the 
fillets upon. 

1222. MAYONAISE OF CHICKENS. 

Roast two chickens, and when 
cold, cut them up into small joints ; 
remove the skin, trim them neat- 
ly, and steep them in a basin with 
oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Pre- 
pare a decorated aspic border, as 
directed in the preceding article; 
when this has been turned out on 
its dish, pile up the pieces of 
chickens in the centre upon some 
shred lettuces in a conical form ; 
mask them with some white 
mayonaise sauce (No. 97), garnish 
with lettuce-hearts and quarters 
of egg boiled hard, or with 
plover's-eggs ; crown the may<maue 
with some chopped aspic, or a 
crmUoii of jelly. 




368 



COLD 


ENTREES. 










JCE OF 


' SALMON, A 


LA 


MONTPRLLIEE. 




Procure 


a 


prime 


cut 


(four 




12*23. DARNE, OR 



inches thick) from an unsplit i 
of good size ; slip the blade of a 
sharp knife under the skhi, and 
detach this without removinff it; fiQ 
out the Tent with a piece of carrot 
covered with &t bacon ; wrap the 
slice of salmon in layers of fiit 
bacon, and tie them on with string. 
Place the fish on its drainer in a 
stewpan, moisten with some mire^ 
poix (No. 236.), and set it to boil 
very gently over a moderate fire for about three quarters of an hour ; 
then remove it, and allow the fish to remain in its own liquor until it is 
nearly cold ; drain it upon an earthen dish, and set it aside to become 
finn. The danie must then be freed from its skin, &c., trimmed, and 
lightly masked over with glaze mixed with some lobeter-coraL Cut out 
a round or oval piece of crumb of br^rad, about the size of the salmon, 
and an inch thick, and firy it of a light colour ; spread this all over with 
some Montpellier butter (No. 183), smooth the surface with a knife 
dipped in warm water, and put it on the bottom of the dish intended 
to receive the salmon. Next, place the dame of salmon upon this, 
and spread the upper part with rather a thin coating of the Montpellier 
butter which, after being smoothed over, must be decorated with a bold 
wreath of roses or laurels, composed of black truffles. Ornament the 
entree with aspic jelly, by placing fancy-shaped croutons of this round 
the base. 

1224. TROUT, A LA VERTPRE. 

Boil three small trout in some 
mirepoix (No. 236), and when 
cold, remove the skins; spread 
them over completely with a thin 
coating of Montpelli^ butter (No. 
183), and mark out the mouth,gills, 
and the eyes, with some narrow 
strips of black truffles; then, cut 
some of these into thin slices, and 
afterwards stamp them out with a 
circular tin cutter, in the form of 
half-moons, and proceed so to ar- 
range them upon the trout, as to 
imitate fish scales. Prepare a 
foundation of fried bread, covered 
with Montpellier butter, as directed 
in the preceding case ; place it on the dish, arrange the trout upon it in a 
row, and ornament them with a rich border of aspic croutoHS. 




LOBSTER SALAD. 



369 



1225. CHICKEN SALAD. 

Pbepabb the chickens as directed for a mayonaise (No. 1222). Pile 
the pieces of chicken up in the dish, upon a bed of seasoned shred let- 
tuces, in a conical form ; pour some white mayonaiae sauce (No. 97) over 
the pieces, place a border of hard ^gs cut in quarters, and hearts of 
cabbage-lettuces roimd the base ; stick a white heart of a lettuce on the 
top, and serve. 

2^ou. — Chicken-salads may also be ornamented and garnished with 
plover's-eggs, decorated with truffles ; and with eggs boiled hard, cut in 
quarters and ornamented either with thin fillets of anchovies and capers, 
or coloured butter, either lobster coral (No. 182), or green rav^oft* (No. 
185), or with tarragon or chervil-leaves, laid flat on the eggs, or else 
stuck in the point. 

1226. LOBSTER SALAD. 

Break the shells, and remove the 
meat whole from the t^ls and daws 
of the lobsters ; put this into a basin, 
with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and 
salt, and reserve the pith and coral 
to make some lobster-butter (No. 
1 82), which is to be thus used : — 
First, spread a circular foundation 
of the lobster-butter upon the 
bottom of the dish, about seven 
inches in diameter, and the fourth 
part of an inch thick ; then, scoop 
out {he centre, leaving a circular 
band. Drain the lobster on a cloth, 
cut the pieces in oval scollops, and 
with some of the butter (to stick 
the pieces firmly together), pile the 
salad up in three successive rows, 
the centre being left hollow ; fill this with shred lettuce, or salad of any 
kind seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; pour some scarlet 
remoulade (No. 95) or maycnaue sauce (No. 1 00) over the salad, with- 
out masking the pieces of lobster ; garnish the base with a border of 
hearts of lettuces, divided in halves, and around these place a border of 
plover s-eggs, having a small sprig of green tarragon stuck into the 
pointed end of each ; place a white heart of lettuce on the top, and 
serve. 

1227. TONGUE, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 
Run an iron skewer through the root of a pickled tongue ; tie some 
string round the point of the skewer, and fasten it at the other end, thus 
giving to the tongue the form of an arch. Boil the tongue for about 
three hours ; when done, immerse it in cold water, and pull off the outer 
skin. Then, truss the tongue afiresh, in the form of an arch, put it in 
press, sideways, between two dishes, and when cold^ trim it smooth; 
or with a small sharp knife, carve the surface, so as to represent leaves 
and flowers ; glaze it over brightly, and place it upon its dish. Finally, 
garnish and ornament the tongue with aspic jelly (No. 1218), and serve. 

B B 




370 



COLD ENTREES. 



1228. HAM, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 



\^.^^VWU 




Braizb a ham as directed in (No. 646), trim and glaze it accordingly, 
dish it up, and garnish with aspic jelly, according to the design repre- 
sented in the above wood-cut 



1229. ASPIC OF FOWL, A LA REINE. 



Roast off two fowls, and use 
Reine (No. 779) ; mix this with 



them to make some purie a la 
a ragcvt spoonful of good b&Acamd 
sauce (No. 5), and about one-thiid 
part of strongaspic jelly (No. 121 8)« 
and work the whole well together 
in a stewpan upon some rough ioe. 
While tlus is going on, a plain 
round or oval mould should be 
decorated with black truffles and 
red tongue, in the following man- 
ner : — First, place the mould upcm 
some pounded rough ice, quite 
straight ; then, pour about a table- 
spoonful of bri^t aspic ielly oyer 
the bottom, and when this has be- 
come set, place on it a bold decora- 
tion, formed with leaTes, rings, dots, 
crescents, &c., cut out of truffles and tongue, and arranged so as to represent 
a circular wreath, with a star or scroll in the centre. Decorate the sides 
of the mould in the same manner, dipping each piece of the decoration in 
a little melted aspic jelly, to make it adhere to the mould ; when the 
decoration is completed, fill the mould up with the prepared purh, and 
imbed the mould in ice to set the aspic. When it has become quite firm, 
dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, instantly withdraw it, 
wipe it with a clean cloth, and turn it out upon its dish. Garnish 
the aspic round with a roll of chopped aspic jelly, place some enmUms 
round the base, and serve. 

Note. — The above may be made also with pheasant, partridge, or any 
other kind of game. 




POTTED GAME AND SHELLFISH. 37l 

1230. POTTED PHEASANTS, A LA ROYALE. 

Truss a pheasant as for boiling, and braize it with lib. of ham, in 
some well-seasoned wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; when done, drain them 
upon a dish, strain their liquor into a stewpan^ and when divested of all 
the grease, boil it down to glaze. Meanwhile, chop and pound all the 
meat from the pheasant with the ham, and add to these 6oz. of clarified 
fresh butter, a ragatU spoonful of good sauce, and the glaze ; season with 
cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, poimd the whole thoroughly, 
and rub this preparation through a fine wire-sieve on to a dish. Next, 
fill some small round or oval earthen- ware potting-pans with this prepara- 
tion, smooth the sur&ce over with a spoon dipped in water, place them in a 
covered stewpan, and submit them to the action of steam for about half an 
hour. The potted pheasant must then be allowed to cool ; then, with the 
bowl of a spoon, press down the meat in the pots, wipe them clean, and 
run a little clarifi^ fresh butter over the surface. 

^ote — All kinds of game should be potted in the above manner, and 
will then keep fresh-flavoured for months. For those who approve of it, 
more spice and aromatic herbs may be added ; but it should be 
observed, that an immoderate use of these impairs the flavour of the 
game. 

1231. POTTED FOWL AND TONGUE. 

Pabe off all the meat from a roast fowl, chop and pound it thoroughly 
with about one pound of boiled red tongue or dressed ham ; add six 
ounces of clarified fresh butter, three ounces of good glaze (made with 
the bones of the fowl), and a gravy-spoonful of good hUhamd sauce (No. 
5) ; season with cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and salt ; and when the whole 
has been thoroughly mixed by pounding, rub the produce throu^ a fine 
wire-sieve, and then finish this as directed for the potted pheasant 

1232. POTTED LOBSTER. 

Lobsters for potting must be quite fresh. Take the meat, pith^ and 
coral out of the shells ; cut this up in slices, and put the whole into 
a stewpan with one-third part of clarified fresh butter, and to every 
pound of lobster, add four whole anchovies (washed and wiped dry) ; 
season with mace, pepper-corns, and a little salt, then put the lid on the 
stewpan, and set the lobster to simmer very gently over a slow fire for 
about a quarter of an hour. After this, it must be thoroughl}' 
pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a sieve, put into small pots, steam- 
ed, and when cold, should be pressed down with the bowl of a spoon, and 
the surface covered with a little clarified butter. 

1233. POTTED PRAWNS, OR SHRIMPS. 

Pick one pound of fresh boiled prawns or shrimps, and reserve the heads 
and shells ; pound them in a mortar with four anchovies (previously . 
washed and wiped dry for the purpose), and then rub the whole through a 
hair sieve, and put Uie produce, with the picked shrimps into a stewpan 
with six ounces of clarified fresh butter ; season with some grated nut- 
meg, cayenne pepper, and a little salt ; simmer the whole together over a 
slow fire for about ten minutes, then toss the shrimps in tiie seasoning 

B B 2 



372 COLD ENTREES. 

occasionally, until they become nearly cold ; they must then be put into 
pots, with a little clarified butter poured over the surfaoey and b^ 
aside in a cool place, for use. 

1234. POTTED YARMOUTH BLOATERS. 
Take six fresh-cured bloaters, immerse them in scalding water, and 
remove the skins ; wipe them dry, take out the bones, and put the fillets 
of the herrings into a stewpan with half a pound of clarified firesh butter, 
a blade of mace, and enough cayenne to season them ; set this on a slow 
fire to simmer for about ten miniiles, then thoroughly pound the whole 
well together in a mortar and rub it through a sieve. Put this prepara- 
tion into pots, run a little clarified butter over the surface, and keep them 
in a cool place for use. 

Note. — Smoaked, or kippered salmon, or Finnan haddocks, may be 
potted in the same way as the foregoing. By submitting any of the 
above-described potted shell-fish, &c., to the action of steam a sufficient 
time for the meat to be thoroughly penetrated by the heat, they may 
keep good for months. Much will however depend on the freshness of 
the butter used in this preparation : should it become rancid, as fre- 
quently happens after keeping for a few weeks, it will of course consi* 
derably impair the flavour of the potted fish. 

1236. UALANTL\E OF POULARD, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 




Chop up one pound of white veal, with the same quantity of fat bacon, 
and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, ndt, 
and aromatic seasoning (No. 1 250) ; when these are chopped quite fine, 
pound the whole in a mortar, with the yolks of three eggs, and remove 
the force-meat into a basin. Peel one pound of truffles, and cut up 
a boiled red tongue, and about one pound of &t bacon or boiled calf's 
udder, into long narrow fillets, about a quarter of an inch square. Next, 
bone a fine poulard, and draw the skin from the legs and pinions, inside ; 
then, spread the poulards out upon a napkin, and with a sharp knife, pare 
off some part of the fillets, to cover the thinner parts of the skin ; season* 



boar's head, with aspic jelly. 373 

lightly with pepper^ salt, and aromatic spices ; spread a layer of the pre- 
pared force-meat, about an inch thick, then place the fillets of tongue and 
bacon upon this, about an inch apart, and insert rows of truffles be- 
tween these : after which, spread another layer of force-meat over the 
whole, then repeat the tongue and truffles, and so on, until a sufficient 
quantity of both has been placed in the poulard. It must then be sewn 
up the back, placed upon a napkin thickly spread with butter, rolled up 
tightly, and fastened at each end with string ; thus giving to the galan- 
tine the appearance of a cushion. This must be then put into an oval 
stewpan with the carcasses and any trimmings of veal or poultry that may 
be at hand, also two calf 's-feet, two carrots, two onions stuck with four 
cloves, a faggot of parsley garnished with green onions, two bay-leaves, 
sweet basil and thyme, two blades of mace, and a dozen pepper-corns ; 
moisten with two glasses of brandy, and set the pan over a stove-fire to 
simmer for five minutes, then moisten the galantine with as much white 
stock as will suffice to cover it, and put it back on the stove-fire to boil ; 
it must then be placed upon a very slow stove-fire, or in the oven, to 
continue gently braizing (not boiling), for about two hours and a half. It 
should then be removed from the fire, and the galantine taken carefully 
out of the napkin ; the latter, after being washed in clean hot water, must 
be spread out upon the table, and the galantine, afler being placed in it 
again, and bound up tightly as before, should be put back into its braize 
and left in to become partially cold : it must then be put in press between 
two dishes with a heavy weight upon it. Strain the stock, remove all 
the grease from the surface, and clarify it in the usual manner, then pass 
it through a napkin or a jelly-bag, and place it on some rough ice to be- 
come firmly set. When the galantine is quite cold, take it out of the 
napkin, and use a clean cloth to absorb any moisture or grease there may 
be on the surface ; it must then be glazed, and placed upon its dish. De- 
corate it with aspic jelly, as represented in the foregoing wood-cut, and 
ferve. 

Note. — Galantines of turkeys, geese, capons, fowls, pheasants, part- 
ridges, &c., are made in the same way as the above. 

1236. boar's head, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 

Procure the head of a bacon hog,* which must be cut off deep into 
the shoulders ; bone it carefully, beginning under the throat, then spread 
the head out upon a large earthenware dish, and rub it with the follow- 
ing ingredients : — Six pounds of salt, four ounces of saltpetre, six ounces 
of moist sugar, cloves, mace, half an ounce of juniper berries, four 
cloves of garlic, six bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil. 
When the head has been well rubbed with these, pour about a quart of 
port wine-lees over it, and keep it in a cool place for a fortnight ; observ- 
ing that it must be turned over in its brine every day, during that period. 

When about to dress the head, take it out of the brine, and wash it 
thoroughly in cold water ; then absorb all the exterior moisture firom it 
with a clean cloth, and spread it out upon the table. Next, pare off all 
the uneven pieces from the cheeks, &c., cut these into long narrow fillets, 
and put thera with the tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, prepared as direct- 

* For this purpose, the head must be cat off before the pigii Maided, and the bristles 
singed off with lighted straw ; by this means, it will ha?e all the appearance of a wild 
boards head. 



37* COLD EyJEEE?. 




ed for the ffolanline ; then/ line the inside of the head with a layer of 
fbroe-meat, (the same kind as used for galantiM*)^ ahout an inch tluek, 
and lay thereon the fillets of tongue, bacon, truffles, and here and there 
some pistadiio kernels^ (the skin of which must be remoTedby scalding); 
eoTer these with a layer of force-meat, and then repeat the rows of 
tongue, &C., and when the head is sufficiently garnished to fiU it out in 
its shape, it should be sewn up with a small trussing-needle and twine, 
so as thoroughly to secure the stuffing. The head must thai be wraj^ped 
up in a strong cloth, previously well spread with butter, and sewn up in 
this, so as to preserve its original form : it should next be put into a lai]^ 
oval bnuzing-pan, covered with any carcasses of game (especially of 
grouse, from its congenial flavour) or any trimmings of meat there may 
be at hand, and also tour cow-heels, or six calf's-feet ; then moisten with a 
copious wine mirepoix (No. 236), in sufficient quantity to cover the sur- 
face of the head. Set the braizier on the stove-fire ; as soon as it boils 
up, skim it thoroughly, then remove it to a slow fire (covered with the 
lid containing live embers), that the head may continue to simmer or boil 
very gently, for about five hours ; as soon as it appears to be nearly 
done, remove the braizier from the fire, and when the heat of the 
broth has somewhat subsided, let the head be taken up on a large 
dish : if it appears to have shrunk considerably in the wrapper, tUs 
must be carefully tightened, so as to preserve its shape : it should then be 
put back into its braize, there to remain, until the whole has become 
set firm by cooling. The head must next be taken out of the braize 
or stock, and put in the oven, upon a deep baking-dish for a few minutes, 
just to melt the jelly which may adhere to the wrapper ; it must then 
be taken out quickly, and the wrapper carefully removed, after which, glaze 
the head with some dark coloured glaze; place it on its dish, orna- 
ment it with aspic jelly, and serve. 

Note, — On the Continent, it is usual to decorate boar's heads with 
coloured gum-paste, and sometimes with natural flowers : the latter pro- 
duce a very pretty efiect, when arranged with taste ; the former method 
is objectionable, firom the liability of the gum-paste to give way, and 
run down the sides of the head : it has, moreover, a vulgar and gaudy 
look. 

1297. CHICKENS, A LA BELLE-VUE. 
Truss two chickens or fowls for boiling, and braize them in white 



LAMB-CUTLETS AND FILLETS OF FOWL. 375 

broth in the usual manner; when done, set them to cool, and mask 
them completely with some reduced bechamel sauce ^No.. 5), in which 
should be mixed a fourth part of aspic jelly. Previously to saucing 
the chickens, the bSchamel thus prepared must be stirred in a stewpan 
imbedded in rough ice, until it just begins to get firm ; it should then be 
immediately poured over the chickens ; these should be decorated, upon 
the breasts, with black truffles or red tongue, and placed upon their 
dish with a trimmed and glazed tongue in the centre ; ornament them, 
by placing a roll of chopped aspic jelly round the base, then outside this, 
some bold croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. 

1238, LAMB-CUTLETS, A LA PRINCESSE. 
These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as 
cutlets of veal d la dreux (No. 890) ; then braized, pressed and trim- 
med. Next, cover the bottom of a sautapan with some bright aspic 
jelly, not quite a quarter of an inch deep ; when this has b^ome set 
firm, by cooling, place the cutlets fiat upon it, in circular order, then run 
a little aspic jelly over them, just enough to cover them, and place the 
sautapan in ice, to set the jelly ; as soon as this has become quite firm, 
use a tin cutter (in the form of a cutlet) dipped in hot water, to stamp 
the cutlets out ; dish them up in close cirotdar order upon a little aspic 
jelly, placed on the bottom of the dish — ^to raise the cutlets, and garnish 
the centre with a well prepared Maddaine of vegetables (Na 143), 
tossed in some bright aspic jelly, instead of sauce ; ornament the base 
with a border of bold croutons of jelly, and serve. 

1239. FILLETS OP FOWL, A LA VICTOWA. 
Pbepabe the fillets of three young fowls as for a suprime (No. 989) ; 
when they have been simmered, drain them upon a napkin, and put them 
in press between two dishes ; when cold, trim them neatly, dip each 
fillet, either in some suprime (No. 58), or bSchamd sauce (No. 5) mixed 
with one-fourth part of aspic jelly, place them with the smoothest side 
uppermost in a dish or sautapan, and set them on some rough ice. 
Next, cover the bottom of a large sautapan with some bright aspic jelly, to 
the depth of about the eighth of an inch ; when this has become firm 
by cooling on the ice, place the fillets upon it in circular order, and deco- 
rate the upper part of each, with black truffles ; the fillets must then be 
covered with a little bright aspic jelly, to produce the same thick- 
ness upon the upper surface as the under. While this is going on, a bor- 
der of vegetables should be prepared as follows : first, cut some carrots 
and turnips with vegetable cutters, as for a chartreuse, and boil them 
separately in broth ; prepare also some French-beans or asparagus-heads 
and green-peas, which, when boiled, must be used to ornament a border- 
mould in exactly the same manner-as a chartreuse : observing that each 
piece of vegetable must be first dipped in some aspic jelly, previously to 
its being placed in the mould. When the mould is lined, the void leil 
must be filled up with some sort of vegetables cut smaller, and tossed in 
aspic jelly seasoned with a little minionette -pepper and salt, a very little 
salad-oil and tarragon vinegar ; it must then be imbedded in pounded rough 
ice, until set quite firm. The border should now be turned out upon its 
dish, and the fillets of fowls, previously stamped out with a tin cutter 
dipped in hot water, must be placed on the top of the border, in close circu- 
lar order, each one overlaying the other ; fill the centre of the etUrie with a 



376 COLD E5TREES. 

copious wKuednine of Tcgetabks (No. 143)» to«ed in a Utile gUxe and 
fwptc jelly ; fanudi the bue of the eniree with bold croni&nM of jelly, 
and seiTe. 

Or, when the border is dished up, fill the centre with the wuut' 
dtyin^j and place the fillets, with the broad ends resting fuU on the 
top of the border, thus causing the pointed ends to meet at the summit : 
crown this with a bouquet of chopped jelly, insert a narrow strip of red 
tongue, cut in the form of a cock's comh, between each fillet, and place an 
angular crouton of jelly so as apparently to support the tongue : gamiah 
the base with crouton* of jelly* and serve. 

1240. SUDWICHES, A LA REGE5CE. 
Fob this purpose, it is necessary to order one or more dozens of rery 
gmall round or oral rolls, about the size of an egg ; cut a small piece off 
the top of each, about the circumference of half-a-crown piece, and remove 
all the crumb from the inside. These rolls must thai be filled with the 
following preparation. First, shred the white meat firom the breast 
of a roast fowl, and put this in a basin ; then, riired the fillets of 
six washed anchovies, uid some red tongue or dressed ham in equal pro- 
portion to the fowl, and place these with the latter ; add about one- 
sixth part of the whole, of Indian gherkins or mangoes, also shred fine ; 
season with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, add sufficient rfmoa- 
lade sauce (No. 95) to moisten Uie whole, and use the preparation as 
directed above. The roUs must then be covered with the circular pieces 
reserved for the purpose, and dished up on a ni^ldn. 

Not€* — These sandwiches may also be prepared with lobster ; in whidi 
case, neither ham nor tongue should be used. 

1241. SA5DWICHES OF HLLETS OF SOLES. 
Simmer the fillets of soles in a sautapan with a little clarified butter, 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; when done, put them in press between 
two dishes, and afterwards divide each fillet into four scollops; trim, 
and put them into a basin with a little minionette-pepper, salt, oil, 
and vinegar. Some small oval rolls must be ordered for this purpose ; 
after the tops are cut off, and the crumb removed, first strew the bottom 
of each roll with smaU salad, then place a scollop of sole upon this, add a 
little mayonaise sauce (No. 97), then strew some small sadad on the sur- 
hce^ cover with the tops, and ^sh them up. 

Notf. — Sandwiches of lobster or salmon, are prepared in a similar 
manner. 



377 



COLD RAISED PIES, AND PRESERVED GAME, 

COMPRISING 

Veal and Ham Pie, or Timhale, Leicestershire Pork Pie. 

Capon Pie. Eel Pie, a VAnglaise, 

Pheasant Pie. Sahnon Pie, ^ la Ruste, 

Yorkshire Pie. Preserved Hare, and other Game. 

Devonshire Squab Pie, Aromatic Spices for seasoning. 

1242. VEAL AND HAM PIE, OR TIMBALE.* 

First d<itd>e or interlard about three pounds of white veal (from the 
leg) with lardooTis or square strips of fat bacon or ham ; cut this in 
thick slices, across the grain of the meat, and put them on a dish with 
an equal quantity of dressed ham, cut also in thick slices. Next, spread 
the inside of a plain mould with butter, and line it with short paste (No. 
1253), about the quarter of an inch thick ; line the inside of this with a 
rather thick layer of force-meat (No. 247), then place the veal and ham 
in alternate layers, season between each with aromatic spices, pepper and 
salt, fill up the hollow places and cover in the surface with some of 
the force-meat : place some thin layers of fat bacon over the whole, and 
cover in the top with some of the paste, previously rolled out to the 
thickness of the eighth part of an inch ; this must be applied after the 
edges of the pie have been wetted with a paste-brush dipped in water, 
and made fast by pressing both pieces of paste together with the fore- 
finger and thumb, so as to cause them to adhere closely together. The 
edges should then be neatly trimmed, and pinched round with pastry- 
pincers ; decorate the top of the timhdU with thin strips of paste, cut 
out in the form of leaves, &c , arranged according to the upper part of the 
design represented in (No. 1244). Egg the surface over with a paste 
brush, make a small hole in the centre of the top of the pie, for the steam 
to escape, and bake it in the oven for about three hours ; when it is done, 
withdraw it from the oven, and about twenty minutes afterwards, place 
the point of a funnel in the hole at the top of the timhale^ and through 
this pour in about a pint of good well-seasoned strong cahsomme^ reduced 
to the consistency of half-glaze : stop up the hole with a small piece of 
paste, and keep the timhale in a cool place until wanted for use. 

1243. CAPON PIE, WITH TRUFFLES. 

First, bone a capon, spread it out on the table, and season the inside 
with prepared spices and a little salt ; then spread a layer of force-meat 
of fat livers, (No. 247), and place upon this, in alternate rows, some square 
fillets or strips of fat bacon, tongue, and truffles ; cover these with a layer 
of the force-meat, repeat the strips of bacon, then fold both sides of 
the skin over each other so as to give to the capon a plump appear- 
ance, and set it aside on a dish. 

* The difference between a raised pie and a HtnbaU consists principally in the former 
being raised (by hand or otherwise) with a stiff paste, while the latter is prepared in a 
mould, lined with a more delicate kind of short crust, which is made edible. 



97^ COLD RAISED PIES. 

Next, |»re afT the tinewy skin from the rooiue-piece, or inner part of a 
leg of Teal, dauhe it with leaioned lardooni of fiu Laeon, then place 
tlufy and an equal quantity of dressed ham, with the capon. 

Prepare four pounds of hot water-paste (No. 1251) ; take two-thiids 
of this, mould it into a round ball on the slab with the palm of the 
hand, and then roll it out in the form of a band, about two feet long and 
six inches wide ; trim the edges, and pare the ends square, taking eaie to 
eut them in a slanting direction ; wet them with a paste-brush <£j^Kd in 
water mixed with a little flour, and wrap them oTer one another neatiT 
and firmly, so as to show the join as little as posnble. Next, roll out half 
the renuunder of the paste, either in a circular or oval form, about a quarter 
of an inch thick, to the size the pie is intended to be made ; place 
this, with buttered paper under it, on a baking-sheet, wet it round the edge 
with a paste-brush dipped in water, and stick a narrow band of the paste, 
about half an inch high, all round it, to within about an inch of the edge ; 
the wall or crust of the pie is to be raised up round this, and by pressing on 
it with the tips of the fingers, it should be niade to adhere effectually to the 
fi>undation. Then, by pressing the upper part of the pie with the fii^m 
and thumbs of both hands, it will acquire a more elegant appearance, 
somewhat resembling the curved lip of a vase. The base must be spread 
out in proportion to the top, by pressing on it with the thumb. The bot- 
tom and sides of the pie, i^ould now be lined with a coating of force-meat 
of fet livers (No. 247), or if preferred, with veal and fat bacon, in equal 
proportions, well seasoned, chopped fine and pounded ; next, place in the 
veal and ham, previously cut up in thick slices and well seasoned, and fiU 
up the cavity with some of the force-meat ; then add the capon and cover it 
over, and round, with the remainder of the force-meat, placing some truf- 
fles in with it, and cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll 
out the remainder of the paste, and after wetting this, and the pie round 
the edges, use it to cover in the pie« pressing the edges of both tightly with 
the fingers and thumb, in order to make them ^here closely together ; 
trim the edge neatly and pinch it round with the pastry pincers. The pie 
should then be egged over, and decorated, for which latter purpose a similar 
kind of paste must be used, beng first rolled out thin, then cut out in 
the form of leaves, half-moons, rings, &c, and arranged according to 
the designs contuned in (No. 249) : or, if preferred, a moulding raised 
from decorating boards with some of the paste may be used instead. The 
pie must then be placed in the oven, and baked for about four hours, and 
when done, should be withdrawn, and about a pint of strongly reduced 
coTuomnUf (made from the carcasses of the capons, two calf's feet and the 
usual seasoning) should be introduced within it through a funnel : it must 
then be kept in a cold place until wanted for use ; when the cover should 
be carefully removed without breaking it, and afler the top of the pie 
has been decorated with some bright aspic jelly, it may be put on again 
and sent to table. 

J^ote. — For making pies of turkeys, fowls, pheasants, grouse, part- 
ridges, &c., follow the above directions. 

1244. YORKSHIRE PIE. 

First, bone a turkey, a goose, a brace of young pheasants, four partridges^ 

four woodcocks, a dozen snipes, four grouse, and four widgeons ; then 

boil and trim a small York ham and two tongues. Season and garnish the 

inside of the fore- named game and poultry, as directed in the foregoing case, 



YORKSHIRE PIE. 



379 




with long fillets of fat ba- 
con and tongue, and French 
truffles; each must be care- 
fully sewn up with a 
needle and small twine, 
so as to prevent the force- 
meat from escaping while 
they are being baked. 
When the whole of these 
are ready, line two round 
orovalbraizing-pans with 
thin layers of fat bacon, 
and after the birds have 
been arranged therein in 
neat order, and covered 
in with layers of bacon and 
buttered paper, put the 
lids on, and set them in 
the oven to bake rather 
slowly, for about four 
hours : then withdraw 
them, and allow them to 
cool. 

While the foregoing is in progress, prepare some highly-seasoned aspic- 
jelly with the carcasses of the game and poultry, to which add six 
calfs feet and the usual complement of vegetables, &c., and when done, 
let it be clarified : one half should be reduced previously to its being 
poured into the pie when it is baked. 

Make about sixteen pounds of hot water paste (No. 1251), and use it 
to raise a pie of sufficient dimensions to admit of its holding the game 
and poultry prepared for the purpose, for making which, follow the di- 
rections contained in the foregoing article. The inside of the pie must first 
be lined with thin layers of fat bacon, over which spread a coating of 
well-seasoned force-meat of fat livers (No. 247) ; the birds should then 
be placed in it in the following order : — First, put the goose at the bot- 
tom with some of the small birds round it, filling up the cavities with 
some of the force-meat ; then, put the turkey and the pheasants with 
thick slices of the boiled ham between them, reserving the woodcocks 
and widgeons, that these may be placed on the top: fill the cavities with 
force-meat and truffles, and cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, 
run a little plain melted butter over the surface, cover the pie in the 
usual manner, and ornament it with a bold design. The pie must now 
be baked, for about six hours, in an oven moderately heated, and when 
taken out, and after the reduced aspic above alluded to has been poured 
into it, stop the hole up with a small piece of paste, and set it aside in 
the larder to become cold. 

Note. — The quantity of game, &c. recommended to be used in the pre- 
paration of the foregoing pie may appear extravagant enough, but it is to 
be remembered that these very large pies are mostly in request at 
Christmas time. Their substantial aspect renders them worthy of iq>- 
pearing on the side-table of those wealthy epicures who are wont to 
keep up the good old English style, at this season of hospitality and good 
cheer. 



380 COLD RAISED PIES. 



1245. DETOXSHISE SQUAB FIE. 

FiBST* make two pounds of short paste (No. 125S), roll it up in a 
clean cloth, and set it aside till wanted. Then, cut about two pounds of 
griskin of pork in slices, season these with a little chopped onion, Sige, 
and th jme, pepper and nit, and place them on a dish ; cut one pound of 
streaky bacon (preTiously parboQed for a quarter of an hour) also in 
slices, and put them wi^ the pork ; to these add about a dozen good 
apples, whi^, when peeled and the cores taken out, must be cut in thick 
slices and put on a plate. Next, take rather more than half the paste, 
roll it out, and line an oblong tin mould, about two inches deep, with 
It : then, arrange the pork, bacon, and apples in this, in alternate layers, 
commencing with the bacon, oyer this put slices of apples, and then the 
pork : and so on until the whole is used up. The remainder of the 
paste must now be rolled out, and used to cover the pie with ; fiuten it 
securely round the edges, trim it, and pinch it round boldly with the 
pincers; ornament the top with leaves, &-c., egg it over and bake it in 
an oven of moderate heat, for about two hours, and serve it hot. 

1246. LEICESTERSHIKE PORK PIE. 

Cut the pork up in square pieces, &t and lean, about the size of a 
cob-nut, season with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of sage and 
th^-me chopped fine, and set it aside on a dish in a cool place. Next, 
make some hot-water-paste, using for this purpose (if desired) fresh- 
made hogVlard instead of butter, in the proportion of eight ounces to 
the pound of flour. These pies must be raised by hand, in the foI« 
lowing manner : — First mould the paste into a round ball upon the slab, 
then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and with the back of the 
right hand indent the centre in a circle reaching to within three inches of 
the edge of the paste ; next, gather up the edges all round, pressing it 
closely with the fingers and thumbs, so as to give to it the form of a 
purse ; then continue to work it upwards, until the sides are raised 
sufficiently high ; the pie should now be placed on a baking- sheet, with a 
round of buttered paper under it, and after it has been filled with the 
pork — ^previously prepared for the purpose, covered in with some of the 
paste in the usiml manner. Trim the edges and pinch it round with the 
pincers, decorate it, egg it over and bake it until done : calculating the 
time it should remain in the oven, according to the quantity of meat it 
contains. 

1247. EEL-PIE, A L'aXGLAISE. 
BoNi two good-sized Thames eels, spread them out on a dish, and 
sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt Make some quenelle 
force-meat with either perch, tench, or carp ; and afler having mixed 
some chopped mushrooms, parsley, one shalot, spread a thick layer 
of it inside each eel, roll them up, cut the eel into four inch lengths, 
and place them on a dish until wanted. Next, line a plain mould with 
short paste (No. 1258), arrange the pieces of eels in it, in neat order, 
season between each layer with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pep- 
per and salt, and a spoonful of good h^chamd sauce ; cover in the pie, in 
the usual numnor, with some of the paste, pinch the edge round, orna- 
ment the top, egg it over, and bake it in the oven for about an hour and 
a half: when done, dish it up on a napkin, and send to table. 



SALMON-PIE, A LA RUSSE. 381 

Note, — When eel pies are intended to be eaten cold, the top should be 
carefully removed, and the pie ornamented with aspic-jelly. 

1248. SALMON-PIE, A LA RUSSE. 

Make two pounds of short paste (No. 1253), roll it up in a cloth, 
and keep it in a cool place till wanted. Out two pounds of fresh salmon 
in slices about half an inch thick, and set them aside on a plate ; fillet 
six anchovies, turn two dozen olives (removing the stone, by paring off 
the outer part without altering the shape), boil six eggs hard, and place 
the whole of these on a dish. Chop a pottle of mushrooms, two shalots, 
a handful of parsley, a little green-thyme, sweet basil, and tarragon : 
put these ingredients into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and simmer them over the stove-fire for about 
five minutes ; then add about half a pint of good brown sauce, and the 
juice of a lemon, stir the whole together over the stove-fire for five 
minutes longer, and then take it off. Next, roll out two-thirds of the 
paste to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, and after having thinly 
spread the inside of an oblong mould with butter, line it with this, and 
fill it with alternate layers of the slices of salmon, hard eggs, olives, and 
fillets of anchovies, at the same time spreading some of the fine-herbs 
sauce in between each layer; the pie must be covered in with the 
remainder of the paste in the usual manner ; bake it in a moderately- 
heated oven for about one hour and a half, and when done, dish it up on 
a napi n, and send to table. 

Note, — These pies may also be made with sturgeon, trout, mackerel 
char, gurnets, eels, soles, &c.; the addition of some sliced thunny tends 
considerably to improve the flavour. 

1249. PRESERVED HARE, AND OTHER GAME. 

BoNB a hare, lard it with narrow square strips of fat bacon, well 
seasoned with aromatic spices (No. 1250), and salt; then garnish the 
inside with some force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), and fold the hare 
so as to give to it a plump oval form; then place it in an oval 
stewpan with a small glass of brandy ; cover it with thin layers of fat 
bacon, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it in the oven, in order that 
the hare may be sufficiently baked to set the meat : it should be then 
withdrawn. 

Meanwhile, line the bottom and sides of an oval white earthen pan 
(sufficiently large to contain the hare) with thin layers of fat bacon, over 
these spread a coating of the force-meat about an inch thick, and place 
the hare in it, press it down tight, spread a thick layer of the force-meat 
on the top, cover this with layers of fat bacon, and place a covering of 
common paste over the whole ; then, set the pan on a baking- sheet, and 
put it in the oven to bake slowly for about two hours : it should then be 
withdrawn and allowed to cool. Let the paste be removed, the edges 
and sides of the pan washed, and the contents of the pan pressed down 
tight, so as to exclude any confined air, and after pouring over the sur- 
face some well-reduced glaze (made from the carcass), to the depth of 
about a quarter of an inch, keep the pie in a cool place until wanted 
for use. 

When this kind of pie i^ intended to be kept for any length of 



SS2 DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. 

time, some clean hog's-lard should be run over the surface to the depth of 
about an inch ; when this has -become set firm by cooling, the pan 
should be covered in with strong white paper pasted over it, or in 
lieu of this a bladder (soaked m water, and well washed) may be tied 
over it. 

Note. — All kinds of game should be preserved in the above method; 
but, if preferred, game may be used instead of livers for making the force- 
meat. Indeed, this is by far the best plan, when the preserved game is 
intended for keeping, as force-meat, when made witli livers of any kind, 
is more liable to fermentation than when made with fresh-killed game. 

1250. ARGMATIC-SPICES, FOR SEASONING. 

Take of nutmegs, and mace, one ounce each ; of doves, and white 
pepper-H^oms, two ounces each ; of sweet-basil, marjoram, and thyme, 
one ounce each, and half an ounce of bay-leaves : these herbs should 
be previously dried for the purpose: roughly pound the sptoes, then 
place the whole of the above ingredients between two sheets of strong 
white paper, and after the sides have been twisted or folded over tightly, 
so as to prevent as much as possible the evaporation of the volatile pro- 
perties of the herbs and spices, place them on a baking-sheet in the 
skreen to become perfectly dry ; they must then be pounded quickly, 
sifled through a fine hair-sieve, corked up tightly in a dry bottle, ao^ 
kept for use. 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE, 



Hot- water-Paste for raised Pics. Nouiifet Paste. 

French Paste for do. Office do. 

Short Paste, for Timbaiety &c. Almond do. 

Short Puff- Paste. Gum do. 

Tart-Paste. Puff do. 

1261. HOT-WATER-PASTE, FOR RAISED PIES. 

Inorbdients: — One pound of flour, four ounces of buttter, a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, about a gill and a half of hot water. 

Place the flour on the pastry-table, spread it out with the back of the 
hand, so as to form a well or hollow in the centre, into this put the salt. 
Next, put the butter and water into a stewpan over the Are, and when 
they are sufficiently heated so that one can just bear the finger in, pour 
them both gradually in upon the flour, and mix them quickly together 
with the hand, taking particular care to knead the whole firmly, and at 
once, into a compact paste : then press this smoothly together m a nap- 
kin, and afterwajrds keep it covered up in a stewpan in a warm place ttU 
used. 



SHORT-PASTE. 383 

1262. FRENCU-PASTE, FOR RAISED PIES. 

Ingbedibnts: — One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt, a gill and a half of cold water. 

Place the flour on the slab, spread it out in the centre, then add the salt, 
water, and butter, and proceed to work the whole together with the 
hands into a very firm paste in the following manner : — When the ingre- 
dients have been work^ into a paste, this must be brought to the edge of 
the slab ; then use the palms of both hands, applying them alternately, 
with great force, to spread and divide the paste into small parts ; sprinkle 
a few drops of water over the paste, and loiead it together : this is called 
breaking and kneading, and roust be repeated three or four times. 
The paste must then be gathered up, placed in a clean rubber, and 
finally kneaded together by pressing upon it with the elbow. It will 
then be ready for use. 

1263. SHORT-PASTE FOR TIMBALES, ETC. 
Ingredients:— One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and nearly half a pint of water. 

Make a well in the centre of the flour, place in this the yolks of eggs, 
salt, butter and two-thirds of the water, then work the whole together 
with the hands into a somewhat firm paste; dip the fingers into the flour, 
to separate any of the paste that may adhere to them, sprinkle a little 
water over it, and then work the whole together into a ball, and keep it 
in a cloth till wanted for use. 

1264. SHORT PUFF-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, twelve ounces of butter, a little 
salt, one egg, and about half a pint of water. 

Spread the flour out in the usual manner, place the egg, salt, half the 
butter, and two-thirds of the water at first, adding as much of the re- 
mainder as may be necessary afterwards ; work these together into a 
smooth and somewhat firm paste, then spread this out with the hand, 
and after the remaining half of the butter has been placed in the centre, 
the sides should be folded over so as to enturely enclose the butter. 
When the paste has stood five minutes, shake some flour with the hand 
over the slab and on the paste, then roll it out to the length of about two 
feet and a half, and about a foot wide; this must be then folded into 
three, and after turning the paste round so as to bring the sides to face 
you, roll it out again in a similar manner ; after an interval of about 
ten minutes, repeat the rolling* twice more : tlie paste will then be fit for 
use. 

1266. SHORT-PASTE FOR TARTS. 

Ingredients: — One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces 
of pounded sugar, a very little salt, two whole ^;g8, and about a gill of 
water. 

Spread the flour out on the slab with a hollow in the centre, then add 
the butter, sugar, salt, and the water, and break in the two eggs ; work 
the whole together with the hands into a firm paste, and use it ibr cover- 
ing fruit tarts, and lining tartlets, &c. 

* Each time that the paste undergoes the process. of rolling, as here described, it if 
termed by cooks, '^giving it a tum.*^ This kind of patte requires only four turns. 



384 DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. 



1266. NOUILLES-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, about ten yolks of eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and merely sufficient water to melt the salt. 

Place the flour on the slab, form a hollow in the centre, then put the 
salt in, with a little water to melt it, and add the yolks of eight eggs ; 
work the whole well together, at first rubbing the ingredients between the 
hands, and then, if necessary, add two more yolks of eggs, and finish 
working the paste by pushing it from you with the palms of the hands, 
using considerable pressure ; sprinkle a few drops of water over it, then 
knei^ the paste into a ball, and keep it wrapped up in a cloth until 
wanted for use. This paste must be kept very stifl*. 

1257. OFFICE-PASTE. 

Ingredients: — One pound of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar, 
two whole eggs, and two yolks. 

Place the flour on the slab, forming a hollow in the centre, then add 
the sugar and the eggs, and proceed to work the whole up into a stifl* 
compact body. If, however, the paste should appear dry, and present 
any difliculty in kneading, another yolk or two may be added. 

This paste is mostly used for making ornaments for the second course. 

1250. ALMOND-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of Jordan almonds, a pound and a half of 
sugar, with half an ounce of gum dragon. 

First scald the almonds, remove the skin, wash them, and allow them 
to steep in cold water for about twelve hours. Next, put the gum into a 
gally-pot, adding to it rather more than a gill of water, cover this over 
with paper twisted round the edge of the galley-pot, and allow the gum 
to steep until it has absorbed all the water ; it must then be placed in 
the centre of a strong cloth, which should be twisted round at each end 
by two persons (in the manner practiced in wringing wet cloths) with 
considerable pressure* so as to squeeze the gum through the cloth, which 
must then be gathered up into a small basin. Pound the sugar and sift 
it through a very fine lawn-sieve. 

The almonds must now be drained on a napkin, afterwards placed 
in a mortar, and pounded into a very smooth paste; in order to pre- 
vent them from turning oily, while they are being pounded, it will 
be necessary to add a few drops of water or lemon-juice occasionally. 
As soon as the almonds present the appearance of a smooth paste, rub 
this throu^ a very close hair sieve, on to a plate. Next, place the pound- 
ed almonds in a convenient-sized sugar boiler, with about one-third part 
of the sugar, and stir these together over a stove-fire with a new wooden 
spoon, working the paste brisUy and carefully the whole time, in order 
to prevent it from burning or acquiring the least colour. As soon as the 
paste ceases to adhere to the sides of the pan, turn it out on to the slab, 
and begin to work in the remainder of the sugar and the gum : the lat- 
ter roust be previously worked on the marble slab with the hand, and 
some of the sugar should be added at intervals. When the whole of the 
ingredients have been worked together, the paste should form a white, 
st^y and smooth compact body. 

NmU* — Akuond paste prepared as the above, is mostly used for mak- 



PUFF PASTE. . 385 

ing croquanies, small baskets filled with whipped cream and strawberries, 
&c. : it may also be used for making second course ornaments, being pre- 
ferred by many for that purpose on account of its transparency. 

1269. ALMOND-PASTE, ANOTHER METHOD. 

Inoredibnts : — Two pounds of fine sifted sugar, eight ounces of 
pounded almonds, and one ounce of steeped gum-dragon. 

When the ingredients have been prepared as directed in the foregoing 
case, work about half the sugar in with the gum ; then work the 
almonds with part of the remainder, add both together, and manipulate 
them with the remaining portion of the sugar, until the whole is 
thoroughly incorporated. If the paste is not stiff enough, a little more 
fine-sifted sugar should be filled in. In order to obtain this paste of a 
pure and dazzling whiteness, a very small quantity of cobalt blue, in 
powder, may be worked in with it : the colour must be first mixed on a 
plate with a drop of water, preparatory to its being used. 

Note. — About one-third part of starch, or hair powder, may be used to 
work in with this kind of almond paste ; this addition makes it less brit- 
tle, and consequently increases the facility of using it to cast mould- 
ings, cutting out borders, &c. When, however, starch powder is intro- 
duced, double the usual quantity of gum-dragon is required. 

1260. GUM-PASTE. 

Inorbdibnts: — Two ounces of gum-dragon, one pound of finesifled 
sugar, and one pound of starch powder. 

First, steep the gum-dragon in a small basin with nearly half a pint 
of water, cover it over with paper, and put the basin in a warm place : 
when the gum has absorbed all the water, press it through a cloth as di- 
rected for the almond-paste, then woi^ it on the marble slab with the 
palm of the hand, mixing in the sugar at intervals ; when the gum 
has absorbed all the sugar, the powder must be gradually worked in 
with it. The whole when finished, should have the appearance of a very 
stiff compact smooth paste. Then gather it up into a round ball, put it on 
a plate covered with a basin, and keep it in a damp place, to prevent its 
becoming dry and hard. 

1261. PUFF-PASTE. 

Ingredients ; — One pound of flour, one pound of butter, the yolk of 
an egg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and about half a pint of water. 

Place the flour on the pastry-slab, spread it out in the centre so as to 
form a well, in which place the salt, a small piece of butter, the yolk of an 
egg, and about two-thirds of the quantity of water required to mix the 
paste; spread out the fingers of the right hand, and mix the ingredients 
together gradually with the tips of the fingers, adding a little more water 
if necessary; when the whole is thoroughly incorporated together, 
sprinkle a few drops of water over it, and work the paste to and frd on 
the slab for two minutes, after which it should be rather soft to the 
touch, and present a perfectly smooth appearance. 

The paste, thus far prepared, must now be spread out on the slab with 
the hands, and after the butter has been pressed in a cloth, to extract any 
milk it may contain, it should be placed in the centre of the paste, and 
partially spread, by pressing on it with the cloth ; the four sides should 

c c 



386 VOL-AU-VENT CASES. 

then be folded over so as entirely to cover the butter ; a little flour must 
next be shaken under and over it, and the paste should be shaped in a 
square form, measuring about ten inches each way, by pressing it out with 
the hand ; it should then be placed on a clean baking-sheet, laid on 
some pounded rough ice,* and a deep sautapan also filled with ice should 
be placed upon it : by these means the paste will be kept cool and firm. 
About ten minutes afler the paste has been made, take it from the ice and 
place it on a marble slab, shake a little flour over and under it, and then 
roll it out about two feet long, and ten inches wide : observing that the 
paste must be kept square at both ends, as much of the success depends 
on due attention being paid to the turning and folding. The paste should 
then be laid in three equal folds, and afler these have been rolled over to 
cause them to adhere together, the paste must next be turned round in 
the opposite direction and rolled out again in the same manner as be- 
fore ; it should then be put back on the ice, and afler allowing it to rest 
for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, roll it out again, or as it 
is technically termed, give it two more turns ; the paste must now be put 
back on the ice, and again rolled twice or three times, as the case may 
require, preparatory to its being cut out for whatever purpose it may 
be intended. 



^ VOL-AU-VENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES. 



COMPRISINO 



Volr€ut-vefU Caaet for an Entrie. TimbaU ofNouiOeB cases. 

Tomrte ditto ditto. Patties, d, la Mazarine. 

PuflP-paste Patty-caset. Mutton-patties, a la Windsor. 
CroutkuU ditto. 

1262. VOL-AU-VENT CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. 
For this purpose, one pound of puff-paste will be required, and when 
mixing it the juice of one lemon must be added. The paste must be 
rolled perfectly square at the ends, and folded likewise with the 

Ctest correctness, in order to ensure the vd-au-verU^s rising per- 
y straight all round, which cannot be the case if it is rolled un- 
evenly. Five turns and a half must be given to the paste, allowing 
about seven minutes to elapse between each turn : observing that previ- 
ously to folding up the last turn and a half, the paste must be passed 

* In the summer season it is impooible to insure success in making paff- paste, nnlesi 
loogfa ice be nsed to farther that end, it being a matter of the first necessity that it should 
be kept cool and firm : two requisitea that tend materially to fiidlitate the working of the 
paste, and also contribute very considenbly to give to it that extnoidinary degree of elaa- 
ticit^, when exposed to the heat of an OTen, so well-known to experienced pastrycooks. 
A piece of puff-paste a quarter of an inch thick, when baked, iHll rise to the height of 
two inches— thus increasing in Tolnme eight times. To effect this property^ it is neces- 
sary to procure three obkng tin pans, of the following dimensioos : the fint should 
measure 20 inches by 16, depth 3 inches ; the second, 18 inches by 14, depth 2 inches ; 



TOURTE CASES FOR AN ENTREE. 387 

over with a paste-brush dipped in water, or a little lemon-juice ; at- 
tention must be paid, in giving the last two turns, to roll the paste out, 
and also to fold it, especially when giving the last turn on spreading it to 
the size the vol-au-vent is intended to be made, so as to be able to cut 
it as thick as the quantity of paste will admit of; just before cutting out 
the vol-<tu-ventj the piece of paste must be wetted on one side with the 
brush dipped in water. Next roll out about four ounces of common 
paste to the diameter of a dinner plate, lay this on the puff-paste, just 
passing the rolling-pin over to cause it to adhere, and then place it 
on the baking-sheet, previously wetted in the centre to receive it. For 
the purpose of guiding the hand when cutting it out, the cover of a stew- 
pan or bain marie, should be placed on it ; then with a small sharp- 
pointed knife proceed to cut round the edge of the cover, forming perpen- 
dicular flutes or scollops ; the knife, must be held comparatively loose, yet 
securely, with the tips of the fingers only. Remove the trimmings and 
the cover, egg over the surface, and be careful not to smear the edges of 
the paste, as that would prevent it from rising evenly; then with 
the point of the small knife, held slanting, make a slight incision all 
round the surface, within about three quarters of an inch of the edge, 
and with the point notch round the extreme edge of the inner circle, 
so as to separate it entirely from the inner edge of the outer circle. 
The vol-au-verU should now be put into the oven (not too hot, 
as excess of heat prevents the paste from rising); as soon as it 
begins to rise, let a trivet be quickly slipped under it, and the oven 
immediately closed. When it hat risen about two inches, and before it 
has acquired any colour, a broad band of double paper, . measuring two 
inches more in circumference than the vol-att-veTit, about eight inches 
high, and fastened in the form of a hoop, must be placed round it to pro- 
tect the sides from being suddenly caught by the heat, which otherwise 
would not only scorch it, but also check its full development : it should 
remain in the oven quite an hour to be thoroughly baked. When the 
vol-au-vent is done, withdraw it from the oven ; instantly remove the 
cover, and after carefully detaching all the greasy crumb from the 
centre, without in any way injuring the sides of the case, lift it out, taking 
particular care to stop up any thinly covered places in the inside of the 
case with small flakes of the crumb which has been removed : this precau- 
tion is necessary in order to prevent the sauce from escaping through any 
Assures that may exist. 

1263. TOURTE CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. 

First, prepare half a pound of puff-paste, and give it four turns, in the 
usual manner ; make also half a pound of common short paste, take half 
of this, knead it into a round ball, roll it out to the sisse of a dinner plate, 

and the third, 16 inches by 12, depth S inches. Place lonie pounded rough ice in the 
hugest, then set the second sized tin on this, with the puff-paste in it ; lastly, put the 
smallest pan, also filled with ice, on the top of the paste : by this method pnJBF-paste 
may be easily made to oerfection daring the hottest days of summer. 

In winter, the use of ice may of course be diipsiued with. In extreme cold weather, 
when the butter is Tery hard, it will be necessary to press it in a doth or on the slab, to 
give it more expansion, and thus fiicilitate ita iaoomration with the paste. Care mna 
be taken in mixing the paste, not to make it too m^ especially in summer, as in that 
case it becomes, not only troublesome to work, but it also affects its elasticity in 
baking. 

CO 2 



388 



TOUKTE AND PATTY CASES. 




put it on a round *baking-8heet, and place a tampoon * of paper in the 
centre. The puflf-paste must then be rolled out about twenty inches 
long, wetted over with the brush dipped in water, and folded lengthwise 
in three ; this must be rolled again in its width, just sufficient to make it 
about four inches wide ; the paste should then be slightly wetted over, and 
then folded as before : by this time, it should form a band, measuring about 
twenty inches long by nearly two inches wide, and about half an inch 
thick. The edges of the paste must now be pared away with a small 
sharp knife, held perpendicularly in the right hand, whilst the paste must 
be slightly pressed on the slab with the fore part of the fingers. Next 
add the trimmings of the puff- paste to the remaining half of the common 
paste, knead both together, roll this out to the size of a plate, and 
afler having first wetted the foundation round the edge, place it over the 
tampoon, and press it down all round with the thumb ; then wet the 
edge of the tourte round again, and apply the band in the following man- 
ner. Take hold of the band at both ends, and begin by fastening that 
held in the right hand round the edge of the iourte, and continue fixing 
the band all round as fast as it is dropped in its place with the left hand ; 
press the first end down so as to thin it, wet this part with the brush, 
and afler paring away a little of the other end so as to thin that also, 
fasten both together by effectually joining them. Press the band down 
all round with the thumb, and flute it round the edge by jagging it 
slightly with the back of a knife. 

The taurt€ must then be egged over with a paste-brush, so as to carefully 
avoid smearing the edges of the band. Place it in a moderately heated 
oven, and let it be baked of a light colour ; when done, withdraw it, 
make an incision with a small knife all round the bottom of the crown, 
inside the band, remove the crown or top, take out the tampoon, and 
the case will then be ready for garnishing. 

1264. PUFF-PASTE PATTY-CASES. 

Make one pound of puff-paste in the manner described in No. 1261, and 
give it seven turns, wetting the last turn before folding it ; then roll the 
paste out so as to leave it scarcely a quarter of an inch thick, and about 
three minutes afterwards, take a fluted circular tin cutter about two 
inches in diameter, and use this to stamp out as many patties as may be 
required; previously to stamping out each patty, the cutter should 
be first dipped in very hot water, as the heat thus imparted 
to the cutter causes it to slip easily through the paste, and pro- 

* From tbe French word iampomj a kind of small, bard cushion ; in the present case 
it ihoiild connit of a large sheet of rather soft paper, twisted into the form of a dicokr 
cushion about four inches in diameter. 



CROUSTADE AND TIMBALE CASflS. 889 

duces the same effect as if it were cut with a sharp knife ; in con- 
sequence of there being little or no pressure on the e<]^e6, the paste has 
thus a much better chance of rising while baking, especiaUy in the summer 
season. As soon as the patties are cut out, they should be immediately 
placed in rows, on a baking-sheet previously wetted over, about two inches 
apart from each other; then egg them over with a soft brush dipped in 
beaten egg, being careful not to smear the edges, and stamp them in the 
centre, making a slight incision through their surfkce, with a plain circular 
tin cutter about one inch and a half in diameter (this cutter must also 
be dipped in hot water each time it is used). The patties should then be 
quickly put in the oven and baked of a light colour ; when done, let the 
covers or tops be removed, pick out the inner crumb carefully with the 
point of a small knife, and then place the patties with their tops on a 
baking-sheet lined with «lean paper. 

1266. CROUSTADE CASES. 

Roll out half a pound of timbcUe paste (No. 1253) to the thickness of a 
penny -piece, then take a circular tin cutter, about four inches in diameter, 
and stamp out a dozen flats ; next, press one of these on the end of a 
circular piece of wood, about six inches long by about one and a quarter 
in diameter (or failing this, cut a carrot to that shape). Line a darU>le 
mould, previously slightly spread with butter, with the paste so pre- 
pared ; use the thumb to make the paste lie evenly in the mould, trim 
away the edges, raise the sides a little, then fill each crowtade so finished 
with flour, mixed with a fourth part of chopped suet, and bake them 
of a light colour ; when done, empty them, brush them out, and place 
them on a dish. The tops must be stamped out with a small circular 
fluted cutter, from some puff-paste, rolled seven turns ; put these on a 
baking-sheet previously wetted to receive them, egg them over with a soft 
brush, place a much smaller circular piece of paste on the top of each, 
egg these over, and then bake them of a bright light colour; when 
done, trim them, and place each on the top of one of the croustades after 
they are garnished. 

1266. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES CASES. 

Preparb the nouUles as directed in No. 774, and parboil them in 
water for ten minutes, then drain them thoroughly on a sieve ; after- 
wards toss them with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of good bechamel 
sauce (No. 5), and little grated nutmeg, in a stewpan over the stove- 
fire for five minutes; then, throw them into a sautapan, full two 
inches deep, previously slightly spread with butter ; cover them down 
evenly with a circular piece of buttered paper, and allow them to become 
perfectly cold. The preparations must then be turned out of the sauta- 
pan on the table, upon a sheet of paper ; and the croustades or timbaUs 
should be stamped out of this with a plain circular tin cutter about an 
inch and a half in diameter, and placed on a dish ; they must next be rolled 
in very fine fresh made bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten egg, and 
then bread-crumbed over again ; smooth the breadcrumbs on the timhalea 
by rolling and patting them, place them in neat order on a dish, and 
with a plain circular cutter, an inch in diameter, stamp out the sur&ce of 
each, exactly in the centre, making only a slight incision. When about 
to send the timbcdes to table, place them carefully in neat order on the 



390 PATTY CASES. 

^wire lining of a deep fryinc-pan (Imif filled with clean hogVlard made 
quite hot), immerse them ^ the fat, and fry them of a bright yellow 
colour; when done, drain them on a doth, and empty them carefully 
with a fork. 

Nfjie, — Crmutades or small timhales may also be made of vermicelli, 
prepared in the same way as nouilles. Rice may also be used for the 
same purpose. 

1267. PATTIES, A LA MAZARIN. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thick- 
ness of a penny-piece, and stamp out two dozen tops with a plain circu* 
lar tin cutter, about one inch and a half in diameter ; then, gather up 
the trimmings, knead them together, roll them out, and stamp two 
dozen more ; place these on a baking-sheet, about an inch and a half 
a- part from each other, and wet them over with a soft brush ; garnish the 
centre of each with a little force-meat of any kind, place the tops on 
them, and use the upper part of a snmller cutter to press them down, so 
as to fasten the two parts together ; they must then be egged over, and 
baked in a rather brisk oven ; when done, dish them up on a napkin, and 
serve. 

1268. MUTTON PATTIES, A LA WINDSOR. 
Trim the lean parts of a loin of mutton, free from fat and sinew ; cut 
this up into small scollops, mix these with some fine-herbs, consisting of 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot ; season with pepper and salt, 
and add a ro^eni^^poonful of reduced espagnde sauce : use this prepa- 
ration to fill some croiutades lined with short paste, cover them 
with some of the same kind of paste, and bake them of a light colour. 
When done, remove the tops from the patties, pour a little thin etpagnoU, 
or Italian sauce in each, cover them with puff-paste tops (made similar to 
crovutade tops), and serve. 

Note, — Croustades and patties are garnished with scollops or ragouts 
of chicken, game, all kinds of fillets of fish, the tails of cray-fish, prawns, 
and shrimps ; with oysters in scollops, small dice, and also with lobster 
cut up in small dice ? They may be sauced either with tuprime, h^chamely 
or allemandey lobster, oyster, or cray-fish sauces. 



391 
CAKES IN GENERAL, 

COMPK161NG 

Brioche Paste. Almond Oauffre$» 

Baba^ or Polish Cake. Not^, 

Compiegne Cake. Parisian NougaU, 

German Kottghuf. Small Nougali, d la CkatUilljf, 

Parisian Cake. Genoese Cakes. 

Victoria Cake. Genoese Cakes, with Almonds. 

Savoy Cake. Maddeinet, 

Finger, or Naples Biacoits. Spanish Cakes {PetUt ckoux.) 

Plum Cake. Duchess Loaves. 

Scotch Bread. PetiU choiue, with (hrtumeL 

Plain Seed Cake. ProfUroUes. 

Brussels Biscuits, or Rusks. Mecca Loaves. 

Pound Cake. Qneen^s Cakes. 

Flemish GauJ^^, Almond Cakes. 

French Gauffrta, Meringuia, 

1269. BRIOCHE PASTE* 

Ingredients : one pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, half an ounce of 
German yeast, a teaspoonful each of salt, and sugar, and about seven eggs. 

Put one-fourth paxt of the flour on the slab, spread it out to form a 
well, then place the yeast in the centre, and proceed to dissolve it with a 
little tepid water ; when this is effected add sufficient water to mix the 
whole into a rather soil paste ; knead this into the form of a round ball, 
put it into a stewpan capable of contuning three times its quantity^ score 
it round the sides with a knife, put the lid on and set it to rise in a ra- 
ther warm place : in winter it may be put in the skreen, but in hot wea- 
ther, the fermentation will proceed more satisfactorily if it is merely 
placed on the kitchen table, or in some such place of moderate warmth. 
This part of the operation is termed setting the sponge. Next, put the 
remainder of the flour on the slab and spread it out in the centre to form 
the well ; then place the salt and sugar, and a tea-spoonful of water to 
dissolve these, sdfler which the butter must be added ; break in six ^(gs, 
and work the whole together with the hands until well mixed, first 
working it between the hands, and then rubbing it with both fists 
held flat on the slab, and moving them to and fro so as to thoroughly re- 
duce any remaining lumps in the paste. By the time the paste is mixed, 
the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently : to be perfect, it must 
rise to three times its original size : when spread out on the paste pre- 
pared to receive it, it should present the appearance of a sponge, from 
which it takes its name. 

Both the above should be then immediately, gently, but thoroughly 
mixed. A napkin must be spread in a wooden bowl, or a basin, some 
flour shaken over it, and the 6rioc^-paste lifted into it ; then shake a 
little flour over the paste, and after throwing the ends of the napkin 
over all, set the bowl containing the paste in a cool place, free from any 
current of air. 

It is usual to make this kind of paste late in the evening previously to 
the day on which it is required for use. The first thing on the following 
morning, the 6reoc^-paste must be turned off the napkm on to the slab ; 



392 CAK£S. 

then ihake fome flour under and over it, and fold the puie over half a 
dozen times, pressing it down with the knuckles each time; put the 
paste back again into the bowl in the same way as before ; and about 
three hours afterwards, knead it again in a similar manner, preTiouslj 
to its being baked. 

If the paste, when finished, appears to be full of small globules of air, 
and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is certain to be well made, and 
when l»ked will be both light and of a bright clear colour. 

If the paste is intended to be made into one brioche only, take fire- 
sixths of it, mould this into the form of a round ball or cushion, and 
place it in a plain mould or paper -case * (previously spread with butter) 
with the smooth surface uppermost ; press it down in the case with the 
knuckles, and, after moulding the remaining piece of paste in a similar 
manner, first, wet the surface of the other part over with the paste- 
brush dipped in water, and then, after inserting the pointed end of this 
into the centre of that portion of the brioche which has been already placed 
in the case, press the head down upon it with the back of the hand ; egg 
the brioche over with a paste-brush, score the sides slightly, in a slanting 
direction, place it on a baking-sheet and put it in the oven (at moderate 
heat). As soon as the brioche begins to rise, and has acquired a slight 
degree of colour, let it be covered over with a sheet of paper : about two 
hours will suffice to bake a large brioche of double the quantity of paste 
described in this article. 

Note. — Brioches may be varied in their form, when intended to be served 
as fancy bread, for breakfast, &c. ; in which case, they should be moulded 
in the shape of twists, fingers, rings, &c When served on the refresh- 
ment table, at routs, public breakfasts, balls, &c., dried cherries, cedrat, 
candied orange or lemon-peel, pine-apple or angelica, steeped in some kind 
of liqueur, may be introduced ; in either of these cases, previously to 
mixing in the fruit, part of the paste must be reser^'ed, which after being 
rolled out must be used to enclose the other part of the brioche. This pre- 
caution is necessary to prevent the fruit from protruding through the 
paste, as it becomes calcined by the heat of the oven, and gives an un- 
sightly appearance to the sponge. When fruit has been mixed in a brioche^ 
it should be (when baked) glazed with fine sugar by the salamander. 

Oruyere or Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, are sometimes intro- 
duced in a brioche for a second course remove ; the first should be cut up 
in dice, the latter grated. As in the above cases, this kind of brioche must 
be enclosed in a portion of the paste reserved for that purpose. 

* The caae it thus made. For a large briochey intended to be terred as a second course 
remove, take a large sheet of Bristol-board, and cut a band from this, measuring about two 
feet long by eight inches broad ; the two ends should be sewed together ^ith strong 
thread, and some small bands of paper, smeared over with flour-and* water-paste, should be 
stuck over the sewing to make it more secure. This hoop should then be placed upon a cir- 
cular piece of the pasteboard, cut to fit ita circumference, and both these must be securely 
fastened together by pUcing small strips of paper (pasted over) all round the angle of the 
bottom part of the case ; these must be phiced close together and crosswise, with one end 
fastened under the case, while the other is lapped round the angle and fastened at the side. 
These strips of paper, after becoming very dry, should receive another row over them, to 
make the case stronger. 



C0MPIE6NE CAKE. 393 



1270. BABA, OR POLISH CAKE. 

Ingrkdibnts : — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, fiNir 
ounces of sugar, six ounces of muscatel raisins, four ounces of currants, 
two ounces of candied cedrat, a good pinch of saffron, two wine glasses 
of brandy, and the same quantity of rum, half an ounce of salt, about 
fifteen eggs, and one ounce of German yeast. 

First, set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, 
in the same way as directed for preparing brioche. Then, spread out the 
remainder of the flour so as to form a hollow in the centre ; place in this 
the butter, and salt, previously dissolved with a drop or two of water, four 
ounces of pounded sugar, and break in fifteen eggs : mix the whole tho- 
roughly, working the paste with the hands on the slab. When this is eflect<^ 
ed, gather the paste up closely, and take up portions of it with the hands, 
and jerk or throw these down again on the other part of the paste ; conti- 
nue working it in this fashion for five minutes, then, if the sponge is suf- 
ficiently risen, spread it out over the paste and mix both together lightly. 
A large mould should now be spread with butter, and lined not more 
than half through with a thin coating of the paste, and as soon as this 
has been effected, all the fruit, the rum, the brandy, and an infusion of 
the saffron, must be added ; the whole of which must be instantly well 
mixed and lifled into the mould. 

The baha should next be set, to rise gradually, in a place where the 
temperature is moderate and free firom any current of air ; and as soon as 
it has risen in a satisfactory manner, which may easily be known by 
its increasing sufficiently in quantity (through fermentation), to fill 
the mould, — although at first only half filled, the haba should be imme- 
diately placed in the oven on a thick baking-sheet with a thick roll of 
paper round the bottom of the mould to protect the haba from receiving 
too much heat at first. From one hour and a half to two hours will 
suffice to bake it. 

Particular care should be taken in baking the haba, to prevent its ac- 
quiring a deep colour ; to obviate this, it must be baked in an oven of 
moderate heat. 

1271. COMPIEGNE CAKE. 

Ingredients. — Two pounds of flour, twenty-two ounces of butter, 
half a pint of double cream, six ounces of pounded sugar, two wine- 
glasses of maraschino, one ounce of German yeast, fifteen eggs, and half 
an ounce of salt. 

Set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast in 
the usual way, (see brioche, No. 1269,) and while it is rising, prepare 
the paste as follows : — 

Place the remainder of the flour on the marble slab, spread it out in 
the centre to form the well, place in this the salt, and sugar (with a very 
little water to dissolve the salt), the butter and eggs, and proceed to mix 
these thoroughly in the same way as brioche ; just before adding the 
sponge, mix in the maraschino and the whipped cream. The paste must 
be instantly lifted into an appropriate sized mould, previously spread 
with butter, and deposited in a comparatively cool place to rise, or fer- 
ment, in the usual manner ; as soon as it has nearly reached the surface 
of the mould, stick a band of paper round the edge, and put it in the oven 



394 CA&£S. 

to bake^ at a very moderate heat ; remembering that an essential cha- 
racteristic of this kind of cake, is a light colour. 

It is customary to eat the compiigne cake hot, and it is served in vari- 
ous ways. When turned out of the mould, a small piece should be taken 
out of the centre of the top, and a few glasses of maraschino poured in 
through the opening; or, the cake may be cut up in horizontal slices 
half an inch thick, and previously to putting them together again, some 
apricot marmalade may be placed between each. Dried cherries and 
angelica may be introduced in the composition of these cakes, previously 
to their being baked. 

1272. GERMAN KOUGLAUFF. 

Inobedients : — Two pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter of but- 
ter, eight whole eggs, and eight yolks ; one and a quarter ounce of Grerman 
yeast, four ounces of sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon powder, and grated 
lemon-peel, or the rind of lemon rubbed on lump sugar, and afterwards 
scraped off, half an ounce of salt, half a pint of single cream, and six 
ounces of Jordan almonds. 

First, place the butter in a convenient-sized white kitchen pan, and 
work it with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, by which tinie 
the butter should present the appearance of a thick cream ; the cinna- 
mon, lemon and sugar, the pounded sugar, about one-fourth part of the 
flour, and three eggs should then be added, and the whole quickly work- 
ed together for a few minutes ; then add the remainder of the flour and 
eggs gradually, still continuing to work the paste wilh the wooden spoon. 
When the whole has been used up, spread the paste out in the centre, and 
add the yeast (previously dissolved with the salt in the cream made 
tepid for the purpose) ; work the whole thoroughly, then pour this batter 
into a large mould, previously spread with butter, split the almonds, and 
place them round the inside of the mould in close order. Bake the kouglavff 
in an oven of moderate heat. Its colour should be of a bright reddish 
yellow. 

In Germany, it is customary to shake some cinnamon sugar all over 
this kind of cake as soon as it is turned out of the mould. 

1273. PARISIAN CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, eight whole eggs and eight yolks, one pint of single cream, 
eight ounces of Jordan almonds and two ounces of bitter ditto, eight 
ounces of pistachio kernels, four ounces of candied orange peel, half an 
ounce of salt, one and a quarter ounce of yeast. 

First, let the pistachio kernels be scalded, remove the hulls, split 
each kernel into four strips, and place these aside in a small basin. The 
candied orange-peel must then be shred into small thin narrow strips, 
and put with the pistachios. Next, remove the hulls from the almonds, 
wash and pound them into a very soft paste (adding a few drops of water 
to prevent them from becoming oily), then mix them with the cream, and 
after they have steeped for half an hour, let the whole be rubbed through 
a tammy, the same as a purie, and kept in a very cool place until want- 
ed for use. 

For mixing this cake, follow in all respects the directions given for the 
German kouglauf (No. 1272), adding the pistachios and orange-peel after 
lining the mould with the plain paste : the yeast must be dissolved in a 



SAVOY CAKE. 895 

little tepid water, and the almonds and cream added cold. It thould be 
baked nearly of the same colour as a Savoy cake. 

Note, — It is necessary to put all these cakes back in the oven for two 
or three minutes, after they are turned out of the mould, to prevent them 
from becoming shrivelled on the surface,* or from otherwise drinking and 
falling in, which is unavoidably the case when any steam has collected 
upon them. . 

1274. VICTORIA CAKE. 

Ingbkdibnts: — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, twelve 
eggs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six ounces of ground or pounded 
almonds, also a few bitter ditto, eight ounces of dried cherries, four 
ounces of green citron cut up in shreds, half an ounce of cinnamon pow- 
der, half a pint of whipped cream, one ounce and a quarter of German 
yeast, two wine glasses of brandy, and half an ounce of salt 

Mix the above ingredients according to the directions given for the 
German hcmglauff ; except that the yeast must be dissolv^ in a spoon- 
ful of tepid water, and the cream whipped previously to its being added 
the last thing. When the cake is mixed, it should be placed in a tin hoop, 
measuring about ten inches in diameter by four inches deep. A double 
sheet of paper, spread with butter, should be first placed on a stout copper 
baking-sheet, and the hoop, also lined with paper, next placed upon it, 
ready to receive the mixture. As soon as the fermentation of the paste 
has taken place in a satisfactory degree, causing it to increase to twice its 
original quantity, let it be immediately put in the oven (at moderate heat), 
and baked of a light colour. 

This kind of cake may be served as a second course remove; some apricot 
marmalade diluted with a little lemon juice and warmed, should be sent 
to table with it separately in a sauce-boat, or, if preferred, instead of the 
apricot, some German custard sauce, made in the following manner : 

Put four yolks of eggs in a middle-sized bain-marie, and add two 
ounce^ of pounded sugar, two wine glasses of Sherry, and the rind of an 
orange or lemon grated on sugar. Place the hain-^marie containing these 
ingredients in a larger stewpan with water sufficient to reach about one 
inch up the outside of the hairi'marie ; set this on a slow stove fire, and 
commence whisking or milling the contents briskly, until it appears like 
a rich looking froUiy custard. Be careful not to allow the cream to 
become too hot, as that would set the yolks of eggs, and thereby decom- 
pose the custard. 

1276. SAVOY CAKE. 

Inobbdients : — One poimd of the finest quality of sugar (pounded), 
fourteen eggs, four ounces and a half of the finest flour, and four ounces 
and a half of potato flour. 

First, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, taking care not 
to drop the least portion of the yolks into the whites, as any mixture of 
these renders it impossible to whisk the whites firm. The yolks must 
be put into a kitchen basin, and the whites into an egg bowl, to be kept 
in a cool place until used. Add the sugar to the yolks, throw in as much 
salt as will stand on a sixpence, and either some vanilla, lemon, or 
orange sugar, or else a few drops of any kind of essence, such as orange^ 
lemon^ orange- flowers, vanilla, or bitter almonds. Work these together 



896 CAKES. 

with a wooden spoon, until the whole presents the appearance of a thick 
creamy batter. The whites must now be whisked into a firm sub- 
stantial snowy froth; while this is going on, let both the wheaten 
and potato flour be well mixed in with the batter. As soon as the 
whites are satis&ctorily whisked/ proceed to mix them also in with the 
batter ; they must be added in small quantities at first, until it has 
become smoothly diluted ; the whole of what remains should then be 
added, and gently, yet thoroughly mixed. The batter thus prepared, 
must now be gently poured into a mould previously prepared for the 
purpose in the following manner. 

About one pound of beef or veal suet should be first chopped very 
fine, then melted down in a stewpan; afler it has been strained 
through a napkin, pour this into the mould, turn it round in all direc- 
tions, so that the fat may touch all the angles and recesses ; it must then 
be poured out, and the mould should be turned upside down on a plate 
and allowed to stand in a warm place, for a few minutes, that the &t 
may be entirely drained off. About one pound of the finest sifted sugar 
should now be immediately put into the mould, and shaken about in it, 
in order that it may effectually cover the whole of the inside of the 
mould with a perfectly smooth white surface. Care must be taken to 
avoid leaving a greater quantity of fat adhering to the sides of the mould 
than is positively necessary ; for if there be too thick a coating of sugar 
in the mould, the Savoy cake will be more difficult to bake of a light 
colour : the heat of the oven being liable to partially calcine the sugar, 
and thus darken its hue. 

When the Savoy cake is ready to be baked, tie a broad band of paper 
(folded in three) round the base, and put a few wood-ashes on the baking 
sheet, previously to placing the cake on the latter, before putting it in the 
oven, which must be of very moderate heat ; particular care must be 
taken to keep it closed as much as possible while the cake is baking, and 
also not to increase its temperature afterwards: this may be easily 
avoided, if the oven be substantially built,f by its being properly heated 
at first, it will then retain for some time an even temperature. i 

It is impossible to determine on the exact length of time that this, or 
indeed any other cake should remain in the oven before it is done ; this 
will mainly depend upon the construction of the oven, and partly on the 

* The whites mast be whisked slowly at first, increasing the motion of the hand 
gradually until it reaches the greatest possible speed : the motion of the whisk must be 
kept up at this rate, until the whites are become sufficiently firm : when they must be 
instantly mixed in with the batter, — otherwise they are liable, by partial decomposition, 
to loose their consistency. 

t Brick ovens are best adapted for baking all kinds of large cakes, pies, &c. : the 
reason of this is chiefly owing to their being generally constructed of a superior kind 
of bricks and tiles, requiring, from their compactness, one or two hours to heat them 
thoroughly ; such an oven is therefore capable of retaining its heat a much longer time 
than one built of iron : unless, indeed, when the Utter happens to be very substantially 
made, which is too seldom the case. Iron-built ovens are also desirable, as well for 
their economy of fuel as for the short time in which they may be heated ; and further, 
on account of the celerity and convenience with which om perton may prepare lai^ge quan- 
tities of small pastry, and bake it also. This could not so easily be done with a brick 
oven by only one person : as when it happens that a large oven is full of pastry, some 
one must be in constant attendance, in older to watch, and regulate the different degrees 
of heat, or baking, which the several articles require, and determine their stay and position 
in the oven accordingly. All this needs the most Tiflibuit care and attention, in order to 
secure success in the baking of delicate pastrv : for however weU it may have been pre- 
pared, if it it not equally well baked, the reialt will be unmtia&ctory. 



FINGER BISCUITS. 397 

necessity there may be for occasionally opening it during the process of 
baking the cake. 

The best ..way to ascert^n whether the cake be done, is to run a 
wooden skewer down the centre, and if, when withdrawn, the skewer is 
dry, and free from any portion of the cake in an unbaked state, it will 
be safe to turn it out of the mould ; it should then be of a light colour 
and smooth surface. 

Nate, — Savoy cakes may also be made by using twelve, sixteen^ or 
even twenty eggs to one pound of sugar ; but when a cake of large size 
is required, the proportions must be at the rate of twelve, fourteen, or at 
the utmost sixteen eggs to one pound of sugar; even in the latter case, 
such batter would not prove successful where four pounds are required to 
fill one mould* Savoy-cake batter made in the proportion of sixteen or 
twenty eggs to one pound of sugar, is best adapted for imall sponge 
cakes, finger biscuits, drops', &c. 

1276. FINGERS, OR NAPLES BISCUITS. 

Prepare the batter as directed in the foregoing case; then fill a bis- 
cuit-forcer with some of it, and af\er securely folding down the open end, 
proceed to use the batter in the following manner. Cut a sheet of 
foolscap paper in two, fold these lengthwise, in order to mark a straight 
line along the centre of the half sheets ; the forcer must then be held in 
the right hand, pressing the batter out by working the thumb upon it, while 
the pointed end must be guided with the left hand. In this manner the 
biscuits must be spread, or rather dropped in straight lines, resembling 
fingers, about three inches long by half an inch wide ; they should form 
two rows, being divided by the line in the centre of the paper. When 
the sheet is full, place it upon a large sheet of kitchen paper (or demy) 
containing about one pound of the finest sifled sugar, placed in the form 
of a ridge along the upper part of the paper as it lies on the table before you ; 
the sheet containing the biscuits being placed just below the sugar, it will 
only be necessary to lifl up the other paper at each comer with the hands, 
and by giving it a slight jerk, the sugar will be thrown on to the biscuits; 
then, by taking hold of the paper, holding the biscuits at each upper 
comer, and gently shaking it as it is held up in a perpendicular position, 
the sugar ^oll be made to slide over the whole at once. By this means 
the biscuits are effectually glazed without waste. The finger biscuits 
must be immediately placed on a baking sheet, and put in the oven (at 
very moderate heat) ; about a quarter of an hour will suffice to bake 
them. When done, they should be of a very light yellow colour. 

Note. — With the same kind of batter, and by using a biscuit-forcer,* 
the shape of these small biscuits may be easily varied according to taste 
or fancy. 

* These biscuit-fbroen are also made of tin, resembling a fimnel in shape ; ihiey 
have a band of wash-leather affixed roond the npper part, with a string mnning throuan 
the top, — which, when the baff is filled with batter, is drawn tight, thus eflfiKtoaUy 
TOeventing it from escaping at the upper end, while it is forced out at the point below. 
The use of this utensil, however, is objectionable, from the leather contracting a nanseoot 
odour. In other respects it answers the purpose wdl enough. 



a98 CAKES. 



1277. PLUM CAKE. 

Ikorbdisnts required: — One pound and a half of flour, one pound and 
a half of butter, one pound of fine sugar, one pound of dri»i cherries 
(slightly chopped), one pound and a half of currants, one pound and a 
half of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, in equal quantities, — all 
these must be cut in small shreds ; eight ounces of ground or pounded 
almonds, eight whole eggs, the zest or rind of four oranges, (rubbed on 
a piece of sugar and afterwards scraped off,) half an oilnce of ground 
spices, consisting of cinnan^on, cloves, and nutmeg, mixed in equaJ pro- 
portions, half a pint of Cognac brandy, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

Place the butter in a large white earthen pan, and work it with a 
wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of a creamy substance ; 
next add gradually the flour, sugar, and the eggs, still continuing 
to work the batter the whole of 9ie time. When these have been 
thoroughly mixed, the cherries, currants, candied-peel, ground al- 
monds, brandy, spices, and salt, must also be added gradually, and as 
soon as these ingredients are incorporated with the batter, let the 
preparation be poured into a convenient-sized tin hoop (previously lined 
with double bands of buttered paper), and placed on a stmit made copper 
baking sheet, with two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, to pre- 
vent the composition from becoming calcined by the heat of the oven. 
A moderate heat will be sufficient to bake this cake, and care must be 
taken not to put any fire under the oven while it is baking, so as to 
increase the heat. 

These cakes when baked should be iced over with sugar in the fol- 
lowing manner. 

First, mix eight ounces of very fine pounded almonds with double that 
quantity of fine sifled sugar, a little orange-water, and sufficient whites 
of eggs to form the whole into a sofl paste ; spread a coating of this all 
over the surface of the cake (afler it has become cold) ; and when it has 
hardened by drying, let the whole be iced over with the following pre- 
paration. 

Place about six whites of eggs in a convenient sized basin, add about 
one pound and a half of the finest sifled loaf sugar, and work these well 
to|;ether with a clean wooden spoon, adding occasionally a little lemon 
juice, until the whole presents the appearance of a very thick, yet com- 
paratively liquid shiny substance of a pure white. Use this icing to 
mask the entire surface of the cake, with a coating about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; allow this to become firmly set, by di^^g' ^^' which purpose 
the cake should be placed in a warm temperature, and kept covered with 
a laige sheet of paper, to preserve it from dust, &c. When the icing has 
become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides of the cake with raised 
ornaments of gum paste, (stamped out from boards cut for the purpose) 
and arranged with taste, either in the form of garlands, wreaths, scrolls, 
&c. ; or else, the cake may be decorated with piping, using for that pur- 
pose some of the icing worked somewhat thicker, by adding to it more 
su0&r and a little prepared gum-dragon. 

wfien intended for a wedding cake, the ornaments must be all 
white, and some blossoms of orange-flowers should also be introduoed. 



BRUSSELS BISCUITS. 399 

1278. SCOTCH BREAD. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of candied lemon, orange, and citron 
peel, in equal proportions, a gill of Cognac brandy, a very little salt, 
and four ounces of white comfits. 

Put the butter in a basin, work it with a wooden spoon until it pre- 
sents the appearance of thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, eggs, and 
salt, gradually, throwing in a handful of each, and two ^gs at a time ; 
when the whole is thoroughly mixed, the candied peel (cut in shreds), 
also the brandy and the rind of two oranges or lemons (rubbed on sugar) 
must next be added. This paste should now be poured into tins of an 
oblong shape, about two inches deep, spread with butter, and after the 
comflts have been strewn over the surface, a little flne sugar should be 
shaken over the top previously to placing them in the oven on baking 
sheets : they must be baked of a very light colour. 

Note. — This kind of cake is a general favorite in Scotland, bemg 
served on most occasions : at breakfast, luncheon, or for casual refresh- 
ment, and also with the dessert. 

1279. PLAIN SEED CAKE. 

Ingredients : — One quartern of dough, six eggs, eight ounces of sugar, 
eight ounces of butter, half an ounce of carra way-seeds and a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Spread the dough out on the pastry- slab, then add the whole of the 
above named ingredients, work them well together with the hands, so as 
thoroughly to incorporate them with the dough : the eggs should be 
added two at a time. 

When the paste is ready, put it into a plain mould, (previously spread 
with butter,) and set it to rise in a warm place. As soon as the fer- 
mentation has taken place in a satisfactory manner, the cake shoidd be 
immediately put into the oven and baked of a light colour. When done, 
serve it cold for luncheon, or otherwise. 

1280. BRUSSELS BISCUITS, OR RUSKS. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of flower, ten ounces of butter, 
half an ounce of German yeast, four ounces of sugar, four whole eggs 
and four yolks, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a gill of cream. 

Mix the paste in the manner described for the preparation of the Com- 
pi6gne cake, excepting that this must be beaten with the hand on the 
slab until it presents an appearance of elasticity ; the sponge should then 
be added, and after the whole has been well worked once more, the paste 
must be placed in long narrow tins, about two inches deep, and of about 
the same width : preparatory to placing the paste in the moulds, these 
should be first well floured inside (to prevent the paste from sticking), 
then the paste rolled out to their own length, and about one inch and a 
half thick, dropped into them, and set in a warm place to rise. When 
the paste has sufficiently risen, it must be gently turned out on a baking 
sheet previously spread with butter, then egged all over with a soft paste- 
brush, and baked of a bright deep yellow colour. When done, cut them up 
in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, place them flat on a baking-sheet, 
and put them again in the oven to acquire a light yellow colour on 
both sides. 



400 CAKES. 

Thete form a superior kind of nuks, and are well adapted for the 
refreshment table at evening parties, or for the breakfast table. 

KoU. — Rusks may also be made with ^rioc^-paste, pound cake, or 
Savoy cake ; in the latter case a few carraway-seeds are sometimes 
added. 

1281. POrXD CAKE. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one 
pound of sugar, eight eggs, a wine glass of brandy, a little salt, and the 
rind of two oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. 

Place the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it 
assumes the appearance of thick cream ; then add the flour, sugar, and 
the eggs, gradually; when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, 
add the bruidy, sugar, and salt ; mix well together, and bake the cakes 
in any kind of mould (previously spread with butter), or in a tin hoop 
lined with buttered paper. 

Plums, currants, almonds, pistachio kernels, candied-peel, or dried 
cherries may be added. 

1282. FLEMISH GAUFFRES. 

Inorbdiekts required : — Eight ounces of flour, nx ounces of butter, 
six eggs, one ounce of yeast, half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream 
(whipped), the rind of two oranges rubbed on sugar, or a stick of vanilla 
pounded with half an ounce of sugar, and a little salt. 

Put the flour into a gallon-sized l^sin, spread it out in the centre, then 
add the milk (with the yeast dissolved in it over the fire until the whole 
becomes tepid); mix these gradually and thoroughly ; then take the spoon 
out, scrape the sides of the basin with a knife, cover it with paper, and 
set the iMitter to rise in the screen. When the sponge has increased to 
twice its original quantity, the butter should first be merely melted by 
the fire, and then added with the salt, orange sugar, and two whole eggs ; 
mix these well in with the sponge, then add the whipped cream and the 
yolks of the four eggs, and lastly, afler having whipped the four whites 
mto a substantial froth, mix them lightly in with the batter, and again 
set it to rise in a warm place, either on the top of the screen or on the 
kitchen table, that it may rise to twice its original quantity. 

While the batter is being prepared, let the ^au^re-irons be heated 
over the flame of a charcoal fire, and when sufficiently hot to admit of 
their baking the gauffra, run a little clarified butter through them with 
a paste-brush, then fill one side of the irons with some of the batter, 
handling it gently with a spoon ; close the irons, and then turn them 
upside down (that the batter may run into the opposite side), and set 
them over the flame of the charcoal fire, and when done of a bright 
yellow colour on one side, turn the irons over, that the gauffres may be 
baked also on the other side. They must then be turned out of the 
irons, and after the edges have been trimmed with a pair of scissors, set 
them in the oven or before a fire on a baking sheet covered with paper. 
Repeat this, until the whole of the batter be used up ; then, shake some 
orange, lemon, or vanilla sugar over them, pile them up neatly on a 
naplnn, and serve. 

These gaufrt$ are generally served as a remove in the second 
course. 



NOUGATS. 401 



1283. FRENCH GAUFPRES. 

Inorbdibnts required: — Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of pounded 
sugar^ one pint of whipped cream, eight eggs, one stick of vanilla, a little 
salt, and a glass of Curasao. 

Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolks of eggs, 
the pounded vanilla, and the curagao, and mix these well together, 
gradually adding the whipped cream : just before using the batter, add the 
whipped whites of eggs, and mix them in lightly so as to thoroughly in- 
corporate them with it. 

Bake these gauffres in the same way as the foregoing, observing, how- 
ever, that the iron be very carefully heated, and the superfluous heat 
allowed to go off previously to filling them with the batter ; as, owing to 
the presence of sugar in their composition, they readily acquire colour. 
When done, shake some vanilla-sugar over them, and send to table. 

These gauffres may be spread with some kind of preserve; such 
as apricot, currant-jelly, &c. 

1284. ALMOND GAUFFRES. 

Inorbdibnts required: — Eight ounces of Jordan almonds (either chop- 
ped extremely fine, or else cut into very fine shreds), four ounces of 
pounded sugar, a good table-spoonful of flour, two whole eggs, and a very 
little salt ; flavour with orange-flower-water, or flowers (candied). 

Mix the almonds, sugar, flour, and the flavouring together in a basin, 
with a wooden spoon. Then, heat a baking-sheet in the oven, rub it all over 
equally with a piece of white wax, and when this has cooled, spread the 
gauffres y&rf thinly over it with a fork; put them in the oven (at a 
slow heat), and when they are about half-baked, withdraw them, and 
with a circular tin cutter about two inches in diameter, stamp out as many 
gauffres as the sheet will admit of, and put them back again in the 
oven that they may acquire a light fawn colour ; they should then be 
instantly taken out and formed in the shape of small comucopiGe— two or 
three persons assisting, — so as to finish them off before they have time to get 
cold, as in that case, they become brittle, and consequently unmanageable. 
But when it happens that one person only is able to attend to them, it will 
be necessary to keep the gauffres at the entrance of the oven while they 
are shaped, and, as they are finished, to place them on another baking-sheet. 

These gauffres may also be cut into pieces two inches square, and 
coiled round a small roller in the form of barrels ; the ends of these after 
being first covered with whipped white of ^g mixed with a little sugar, 
should then be dipped in some finely chopped pistachios, and placed on a 
baking-sheet to dry in the skreen. In either case they may be filled with 
whipped cream seasoned with vanilla, orange flowers, or maraschino, and 
some strawberries placed on the top of this : they are sometimes also 
garnished with vanUla cream Ice. 

Note. — This kind of gauffres may be varied in their appearance, by 
strewing some currants, or finely shred or chopped pistachios over the sur- 
face, previously to their being placed in thfe oven. 

1286. NOUGATS. 

Ingredients required: — Two pounds of Jordan almonds, and one pound 
of sifled sugar. 

D D 



402 CAKES. 

Scald the almonds, remove the skins, and after they have heen washed 
and dried in a napkin, split each ahnond into halves ; then place them 
on a baking-sheet, and put them in a slow oven to acquire a very light 
fawn colour. While the almonds are undergoing this process in the oven, 
place the sugar in a convenient- sized sugar-bmler, and stir it with a 
wooden spoon over a slow fire to melt it; as soon as it is entirely dis- 
solved, and begins to form small purling bubbles on the sur&ce, the almonds 
(which by this time should be ready and quite hot) must be instantly 
thrown in, and very gently mixed with the sugar, care being taken not to 
break or bruise them. The vessel containing the nougat should be kept 
at the entrance of the oven or near the stove-fire, so as to prevent its be- 
coming cold before it is used up. The mould intended to be used must 
then be first carefully oiled inside with a paste-brush, and set to drain on a 
plate that the superfluous oil may run off. Some of the nougait should 
now be dropped on a slightly-oiled baldng-sheet, and spread out with a 
lemon to the thickness of about the eighth of an inch; and as these 
pieces are thus spread or pressed out, they must be immediately placed 
in the mould, and pressed into its form with the assistance of the fin- 
gers and a lemon, and made to adhere effectually to each other ; great 
celerity must be used in this part of the operation, as in the event of 
the nougat being allowed to become brittle by cooling, it would be 
found impossible to build it up, unless by melting it, which is seldom 
found to succeed. When the nougat has become set by cooling, turn 
it out of the mould, and serve it on a napkin or upon an ornamental 
stand. 

The foregoing proportions, as well as the directions for splitting the al- 
monds, refer only to large wyugaU ; when it is intended to make a smaller 
one, the almonds should be shred. In all cases, the proportion of 
almonds and sugar should be as two of the former to one of the latter. 
For the purpose of varying their appearance, as soon as the nougat is 
turned out of the mould, some shred pistachio-kernels and rough granite- 
sugar,* should be strewed over its surfiice. 

1286. PAEISIAJy NOUGATS. 

Ikorsdibnts required: — Eight ounces of pistachio-kernels, four ounces 
of sugar, and one stick of vanilla. 

Scald the pistachios, remove the skins, absorb all the moisture by 
gently rubbing them in a napkin, then split each kernel into halves, 
and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the skreen. Pound the vanilla 
with one ounce of sugar, sift it, and then put this and the four ounces of 
pounded sugar into a small sugar-boiler, together with a tea-mpoonful of 
the prepared extract of cochineal : stir these over the stove-fire with a 
wooden spoon until the sugar is entirely melted, and as soon as it begins 
to purl on the surface, immediately add the pistachios, and gently mix 
the whole together, taking care not to bruise the pistachios. The 
nougat must now be spread out in the form of a square on a baking- 
sheet or marble slab (previously oiled), to the thickness of about the 



* Onnite-iugar ia genenUv prepared bj breaking op lome loaf sugar of the fineet quality 
into very imall pieces with the end of a roUing^pin ; after sifting away all the fine sugar, 
the pieces are then PMied through a cohmder with laige holes. All that naises through 
this may bo used for the aboye purpose. But when the granite is reqiiiraa finer, it must 
be riddled through a wire-sieye. 



GENOESE CAKES. 408 

eighth part of an inch ; some roughly-broken granite sugar Bhould be 
strewed over the surface, and before it becomes cold, the square must be 
divided into two bands, and then again each of these cut into about a 
dozen small oblong w>ugaU, When about to send to table, pile them up 
in close circular rows on a napkin, and serve. 

1287. SMALL NOUGATS, A LA CHANTILLY. 

Inorbdibnts required: — Three-quarters of a pound of ripe filberts, 
and six ounces of pounded sugar. 

Scald the nuts, remove the skin, then split each kernel in four — length- 
wise, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven ; meanwhile, stir 
the sugar in the boiler over the fire in the usual manner, and as soon as 
it is ready, mix in the above ; have half a dozen small cfario^-moulds 
ready, oiled inside, put some of the mmgat into each of the moulds, and 
use a small stick made of hard wood (about half an inch in diame- 
ter) to work the nougat up the sides, or into the flutes of the moulds ; 
pare away all that may rise above the edge of the moulds, and 
then turn them out on to a baking-sheet. About eighteen will suffice for 
a dish. Several persons should assist in moulding these nougats, in order 
to ensure their all being of one colour ; otherwise, from being frequently 
obliged to wann the nougat, it is liable to become dark. 

When about to send these nougats to table, each should be filled with 
some whipped cream flavoured with yanilla or maraschino, and a few 
strawberries (when in season) placed on the top ; dish them up neatly 
in a pyramidal form on a napkin. 

1288. GENOESE CAKES. 

Inobedibnts required : — Half a pound of flour, half a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter, four eggs, a small glass of brandy, and a 
little salt. 

Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt, well together in a basin 
with a wooden spoon ; then add the butter (merely melted by the side of 
the fire), and when this is thoroughly incorporated with the batter, pour 
it into an appropriate-uzed baking-dieet, previously spread with butter, 
to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and bake this in an oven 
moderately heated. 

When Uie Grenoese paste is done, it should be turned out upon a sheet 
of paper, and cut or stamped out, either in circular, oblong, oval, angu« 
lar, leaf-like, or any other fancy shapes that taste may suggest. These 
may then be decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for 
meringues (No. 1298), or with icing prepared as directed for wedding 
cakes (No. 1277), and ornamented with pistachio-kernels, currants, &c. 
Those cut in the form of leaves, rings, oblongs, &c., nday be ornamented 
by forming a design composed of leaves and pearls (using for that pur- 
pose, some fiimn^rue-paste 4n a paper comet); when the Genoese 
cakes are ornamented in this manner, shake some fine sugar over them 
with a dredger, and dry them either in the skreen or at the entrance of 
the oven , then, finish decorating them by placing some neat stripes 
or dots of any kind of bright preserve, such as red-currant jelly, apple 
jelly, apricot jam, green-gage jam, &c., between the leaves or pearb of 
the white of egg decoration. By these means a very pretty effect is pro- 
duced, and as no artificial or unwholesome substance is used in its com- 
position, it may be partaken of with safety. 

D D 2 



404 CAKES. 

1289. GENOESE CAKES, WITH ALMOXDS. 

Prepare these as directed in the foregoing case, and when they are 
nearly done, mask the surface with the white of an egg beat up with an 
ounce of sifted sugar; then strew four ounces of chopped almonds, 
mixed with two ounces of sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water, 
all over the coating of egg ; shake a little sugar on the top of this, and 
put the Genoese cakes back again in the oven, to finish baking. \Vlien 
done, the coating of almonds should be of a light &wn colour : they 
must then be carefully removed from the baking-sheet, cut or stamped 
out in shapes, according to fancy, and dished up on a napkin, in a 
pyramidal form* 

1200. MADELEINES. 

These are made with the tame kind of batter as Genoese cakes, 
to which currants, dried cherries, candied peel or angelica, may be added. 
When the batter is ready, let it be poured into a sufficient number of 
small fluted or plain darioU or madeUine moulds (previously buttered 
inside) ; these must be placed on a baking-sheet spread with some char- 
coal ashes, to the depth of half an inch, and then baked in an oven of 
a moderate heat. When they are done, turn them out of the moulds, and 
dish them up in a pyramidal form. 

These cakes may also be partially emptied, then filled up with some 
kind of preserve, and the small circular piece, removed previously to 
taking out the crumb, should be replaced. 

1201. SPANISH CAKES, PETITS-CHOUX. 

Ingredients required : — Half a pint of milk or water, four ounces of 
butter, two ounces of sugar, five ounces of flour, three eggs, a few drops 
of essence of orange, a very little salt, and two ounces of chopped 
almonds. 

Put the water, butter, sugar, and the salt into a stewpan on the fire, 
and as soon as these begin to boil, withdraw the stewpan from the fire, 
and add the flour ; stir the whole well together with a wooden spoon over 
the stove-fire for about three minutes ; by which time the ingredients should 
present the appearance of a sofl compact paste. The essence of orange 
(or any other kind of flavour) should now be added, and also one egg ; 
incorporate these with the paste, then mix in the other two eggs, and if 
the paste should be stifi, another egg, or a yolk only, may be added. 
This paste should now be laid out on a bidcing-sheet in small round 
balls, the size of a pigeon's egg, egged over with a paste brush, some 
chopped almonds (mixed with a spoonful of pounded sugar, and a very 
small quantity of white of egg,) strewn upon them, vnth some sifted 
sugar shaken over, and then baked of a very light colour. 

These cakes may be served plain, or garnished inside with cream, or 
some kind of preserve. 

1202. DUCHESS LOAVES. 

These are made of the same kind of paste as the foregoing; this 

must be laid out on the postry-alab, in snudl pieces about the sixe of a 

pigeon's egg, then rolled out with a little flour, in the fi>rm of a finger, 

and placed in order upon a baking^iheet spread with butter ; they should 



MECCA LOAVES. 405 

now be egged over, and baked of a bright light colour. Just before they 
are quite done, shake some finely-sifled sugar over them, set them back 
again in the oven until the sugar is nearly melted^ and then pass the 
red-hot salamander over them, to give them a bright glossy appearance ; 
the loaves must now be immediately withdrawn from the oven^ and 
allowed to cool. Just before sending this kind of pastry to table, make 
an incision down the sides, and fill the small loaves with apricot-jam, 
then dish them up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve. 

1293. PETITS-CHOUX,* WITH CARAMEL. 

Prsparr these as the above, except that they must be rolled and 
baked in the form of round balls, which, when done, should be about the 
size of an egg. About two ounces of roughly-chopped pistachios, a few 
cleaned currants, and an equal proportion of loaf sugar, chopped small, 
should be mixed together on a plate ; then boil about four ounces of 
sugar, first dipping each petit-choux slightly in this, then gently roll 
in the prepared pistachios, &c., so as to mask its surface with these. 
When the whole have been thus passed in the sugar-caram^, allow them 
to cool previously to dishing them up. 

1204. FROFITROLLES. 

PaBPikRB two dozen petiU-ckoux as directed in the first part of the 
foregoing article ; when they are baked and have become cold, cut a cir- 
cular piece from the top of each, about the size of a shilling ; then, fill 
them with some custard, prepared as follows : — Put the yolks of four 
eggs into a small stewpan, with two ounces of pounded sugar, a good 
table-spoonful of fiour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a very 
little salt ; mix these well together with half a pint of cream, add a 
snudl pat of butter, then stir the whole over the stove-fire, and allow 
it to boil for about ten minutes; this custard should now be passed 
through a tammy (with pressure) into a basin, and when it has be- 
come cold, three table-spoonfuls of whipped cream should be added ; 
then serve. 

This custard may also be flavoured either with lemon, orange, vanilla, 
orange-flower, or any kind of liqueur ; in which case, the chocolate must 
be omitted. 

1295. MECCA LOAVES. 

The paste for these is prepared as in the foregoing cases, with the 
addition however of a few spoonfuls of whipped cream, which must only 
be incorporated, just previously to the loaves being laid out on the bak- 
ing-sheet in the following manner : — 

Take a table-spoon, and fill it half full firom the stewpan, containing 
the paste ; then, dip the point of a knife in some beaten egg, and use it 
to force the paste from the spoon, gently dropping it on the baking- 
sheet, in the form of a gherkin, pointed at the ends, and elevated at the 
centre : fill the baking-sheet with these, placing them about two inches 
distant from each other ; egg them over, shake some fine chopped loaf 
sugar (about the size of small hail-stones) over them, then, shake some 
sifled sugar upon them, and put them in the oven (at very moderate heat)^ 

* Pronounced by Engliih cooki, ** petty-thoet.*' 



406 CAKES. 

to bake of a bright yellow colour. When tbe Mecca loaves are done, 
allow them to become cold ; then after they haye been dished up in 
double circular rows, fill the well or centre with some whipped cream 
seasoned with a little sugar, and a small glass of liqueur, and serve. 

1296. queen's cakes. 

First, prepare eight yolks of eggs of nouiUes paste (No. 1256), roll 
this out as thin as paper, cut it into bands, and shred these extremely 
fine ; after the nouUles have been allowed to dry upon a sieve for a 
short time, put them into a convenient-sized stewpan, with a pint of 
boiling cream, two pats of butter, six ounces of sugar, and a glass of 
brandy ; set them to boil very gently over a slow stove-fire (covered with 
the lid), and when the cream has been absorbed by the nouilles, with> 
draw them, add the yolks of six eggs, and stir the whole well together ; 
then place this preparation upon two baking-sheets (spread with butter), 
in layers about the eighth-part of an inch thick, and bake these of a 
deep yellow colour. When done, spread one of them with apricot-jam, 
cover this over with the other, and then stamp the cakes out with a cir- 
cular tin cutter, in the form of half moons; dish these up in double 
circular rows, so as to form a cone, and serve. 

These cakes may also be garnished with any other kind of preserve, 
br even with pastry-custard (No. 1311); they may be cut out, either in 
oblong, circular, oval, leaf-like, or diamond shapes. In order to vary 
their appearance, their sur&ce should be first slightly spread with a little 
mmn^rue-paste (No. 1298), and then strewn with chopped or shred 
pistachios, granite-sugar, or small pink or white comfits. 

1297. ALMOND CAKES. 

Imorbdibnts : — Six ounces of Hour, eight ounces of sugar, two ounces of 
ground or finely-pounded almonds (with a few bitter almonds), six yolks of 
eggs, two whole eggs, four whites whipped, a glass of brandy, a little salt, 
four ounces of chopped almonds mixed with two ounces of sugar, and 
half the white of an egg. 

First work the butter in a basin with a spoon, until it presents a 
creamy appearance; next, add the flour, sugar, aJmonds, brandy, eggs 
and salt, — gradually; then, mix in the whipped whites of eggs 
lightly : pour this paste on a baking-sheet about an inch and a half 
deep (previously buttered), and bake it of a light colour. When the cake 
is nearly done, spread the prepared chopped almonds over the top, 
and Uien put it back again into the oven to finish baking: when 
done, the almonds should be of a light &wn colour. Turn the cake out 
carefully, and when cold, cut it up into bands about an inch and a half 
wide, then agun divide these into diamond-shaped cakes, and dish 
them up pyramidaUy. 

Some whipped cream may be placed in the centre of the dish, and 
the cakes neatly dished up round it. 

Dried cherries, sultana-nusins, currants, any kind of candied peel, 
pistachios or Spanish nuts, may be added. The cakes may also be 
flavoured with any kind of essence or liqueur. 



MERINGUES. 407 



1298. MERINGUES. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of sifted sugar, and twelve whites 
of egg. 

Whisk the whites in an egg-bowl^ until they present the appearance of 
a perfectly white^ smooth^ substantial froth, resembling snow; then 
substitute a spoon for the whisk, and proceed to mix in the whole 
of the sugar lightly ; carefully avoid working the batter too much, 
for fear of rendering it soft, as in that case, it becomes difficult to 
mould the meringues : they can never be so gracefully shaped as 
when it is kept firm. Next, cut some stiff foolscap paper into bands 
about two inches wide ; then take a tablespoon, and gather it nearly full 
of the batter, by working it up at the side of the bowl in the form of an 
®gg> Aiid drop this slopingly upon one of the bands of paper, at the 
same time drawing the edge of the spoon sharply round the outer base of 
the meringue, so as to give to it a smooth and rounded appearance, in 
order that it may exactly resemble an egg. Proceed in this manner 
until the band is full, keeping the meringues about two inches and a 
half apart from each other on the paper ; as each band is filled, place 
them close beside each other on the slab or table, and when all the batter 
is used up, shake some rather coarse sifted sugar all over them, and allow 
it to remain for about three minutes ; then take hold of one of the bands 
at each end, shake off the loose sugar, and place the band of m>eringues 
on the board:* and so on with the other bands, which when placed 
carefully on the boards closely side by side, must be put in the 
oven (at very moderate heat) and baked of a light fawn colour. When 
done, each piece of meringue must be carefully removed from ofif the 
paper, the white part of the inside scooped out with a dessert spoon, 
and then nicely smoothed over ; after thb, they must be placed in neat 
order on a baking-sheet, and put back again in the oven to dry, taking 
particular care that they do not acquire any more colour. 

When about to send the meringue* to table, whip some double cream, 
season it with a little pounded sugar, and either a glass of any kind of 
liqueur, a few drops of orange-flower water, or some pounded vanilla ; 
garnish each piece with a spoonful of this cream, join two together, dish 
them up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — Meringues may be made of all sizes, and may also be shaped 
in the form of small bunches of grapes : for this purpose it is necessary 
to use a " comet** of paper to moidd the berries. In order to vary their 
appearance, previously to shaking the sugar over them, some finely shred 
pistachios or almonds, rough granite sugar, and small currants, may be 
strewn over them. They may also be garnished with preserve^ or any 
kind of iced-creams. 

* These boards must be made of seasoned wood, and should be about an inch thick ; 
their size must of course depend upon the dimensions of the oren, allowing sufficient 
room for them to turn round in it. 



408 



SMALL PASTRY IN GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 

Fanehonftettts, Cupid's, or LoTe*s Well*. 

Cheesecakes. Puff-pa»te WalnaU. 

MirlUonM, Bread-and-butter Pastry. 

Pit/uvien Cakes. Puff-paste Rmgs^ or Wreaths. 

JTArttHM Cake. Polish Cakea. 

Ciennan TourU of Apricots. Harry the VIIl.'i Shoestrings. 

PariHian Turnover of Apples. Poff-paste Platts. 

I)arioU§, Apple Tartlets. 

Cimdi Cakes. Cherry Tartletfc 

Royals. Puff-paste Tartlets. 

D*AnoU of Apricot. Mosaic Tartlets. 

Apricot Nouyalt. Parisian Loares. 

Pastry Custard, or Cream. Marygolds. 

Taluumtes, Apple Tart with Quince. 

Talmotueg with Cheese. Pear Tart 

Florerdinei. Fruit TarU in general 



1209. FANCIIONNETTES. 

Phepare some pastry custard in the manner directed for the profit- 
roUes(No. 1294), season it cither with two ounces of grated chocolate, an 
infusion of coffee, a glass of liqueur, or a few drops of some kind of 
essence, such as orange-Hower, vanilla, bitter almonds or lemon ; 
when this is ready, fill two dozen plain-lined tartlets with it ; bake these 
of a light colour, and when done, take them out of the moulds, and lay 
them flat upon the marble slab to cool. Meanwhile, whip three whites of 
eggs quite firm, then mix in three ounces of pounded sugar, and use 
some of this to mask the fanchonneUes over with, giving to them a flat 
smooth surface ; next, with a cornet filled with some of the whites of 
egg, form a star, or some other design on the top ; when they are 
all done, shake some sifled sugar over them, put them on a baking sheet, 
and bake them of a very light fawn colour. When they are baked, 
|)reviou8ly to dishing them up, ornament them, by placing some neat 
strips of bright currant or apple-jelly in between the folds of the 
decoration. 

These fanchonfiettes may be infinitely varied, by altering tlieir form 
and design, when masking them with the whipped whites of eggs, 
according to taste and fancy. Strips of pistachios^ almonds^ or currants 
may also be used for this purpose. 

1300. CHEESECAKES. 

Inuukdiknts required : — Eight ounces of pressed curd, two ounces of 
ratafias, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter^ six yolks of eggs, 
some grated nutmeg, a little salt, the rind of two oranges- or lemons 
rubbed on sugar, and afterwards scraped off. 

Press the curd in a napkin to absorb the superfluous moisture, then 
pound it thoroughly in a mortar, and mix in the above named ingre- 
dients; when the whole is incorporated togetBer into a kind of soft paste. 



PITHIVIERS CAKES. 409 

take this up in a basin. Next, line two dozen or more tartlet-pans with 
some well worked trimmings of puff-paste, garnish these with the cheese- 
custard, place a strip of candied peel on the top of each^ put them on a 
baking sheet, and then set them in the oven (at moderate heat), to be baked 
of a very light brown colour ; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over 
them, and serve them quite hot. 

Currants, dried cherries, sultanas or citron, may be used instead of the 
candied peel. 

IdOl. MIRLITONS. 

Inorbdients required : — Puff-paste trimmings, three whole eggs, three 
ounces of sugar^ one ounce of ratifias, half an ounce of candied orange- 
flowers, one ounce of butter, and a little salt. 

Put the above into a basin having a spout : the ratafias and orange- 
flowers must be bruised, and the butter merely melted ; work the whole 
well together with a wooden spoon, until the batter presents the ap- 
pearance of a rich creamy looking substance, it must Uien be instantly 
poured into two dozen small deep tartlets, lined with puff-paste trim- 
mings ; shake a rather thick coating of sifled sugar over the fn%rlUon$, 
and when it has nearly melted on their surface, put them in the oven 
(at very moderate heat), and bake them of a light fawn colour. When 
the mirlUons are done, the centre should rise out from the tartlet to 
the height of about half an inch, resembling the crown of a boy's 
cap. 

These cakes may also be flavoured with chocolate, grated previously 
to its being added to the preparation ; or with pistachios or almonds, 
both of these must be pounded first : they may also be flavoured with dif- 
ferent essences. Previously to pouring the batter into the tartlets, a 
sp oonful of apricot or pine-apple-jam may be placed in them. 

1302. PITHIVIERS CAKES. 

Ingrbdibnts required : — Half a pound of puff-paste, eight ounces of 
almonds or nuts, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two ounces of 
ratafias^ a spoonful of orange-flower-water, the yolks of four eggs, and a 
very little salt. 

First, pound the almonds with a little white of egg, until they become 
pulverised ; then add the remainder of the ingredients, and pound the 
whole well together until thoroughly incorporated, when it should present 
the appeamce of a rather soft creamy paste ; take this up in a basin. 

While the above preparation is going on, half a pound of puff-paste 
should be made, to which seven turns or foldings must be given ; take 
two thirds of this, and knead, or rather fold it, by twisting over the 
comers, so as to form it into a cushion ; knead the other piece in a 
similar manner, and then roll them both out in a circular or oval form, 
to the size of a small dish or dessert plate ; place the thinnest piece on a 
baking sheet, wet round the edges with a paste-brush dipped in water, 
fill the whole of the centre with a layer of PUhiviers cream, about an 
inch thick, and place the other piece of puff-paste over the top of 
this ; prass it all round the edge, by bearing on it with the thumb of 
the right hand ; then trim the edges round neatly (in the manner 
practised to cut a vol-au-verU) and with the point of a small knife, 
handled lightly and freely, sketch or mark out some neat or ele- 
gant design, such as a lyre, a vase of flowers, a helmet with flowing 



410 SMALL PASTRY. 

mane or featherSy a wreath^ or a Btar^ &c. Shake some finely sifted sugar 
over the cake, and bake it of the lightest possible colour ; indeed, it should 
be free from any colour, the characteristic appearance of this kind of 
pastry being its whiteness. PUhiviers cake should be eaten cold. 

These cakes may also be made in tartlet moulds thinly lined with puff- 
paste, and after being neatly filled with the FUhiviers cream, (the edgee 
being previously wetted round,) the mould must be covered in with 
circular pieces of puff-paste, stamped out with a cutter to fit them ; 
then fastened down by pressing the two pieces of paste together with 
the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, and finished and baked 
as directed in the foregoing case. 

1303. d'aRTOIS cake. 

Pupp-paste or large D*Artois cakes, prepared as directed in the fore- 
going cases, may be garnished either with apple marmalade, mince- 
meat, or any kind of preserve ; in this case, however, when the cake has 
been covered in with the puff-paste, previously to marking out the 
design on its surface, it must be egged over with a paste-brush ; when 
it has been baked of a bright yellow colour, shake some finely sifled 
sugar over it, after which put it back again in the oven for a minute 
or two, and then pass the red-hot salamander over it to give it a bright 
glossy appearance. The same direction applies to the smaller D'Artois 
cakes. 

1304. GERMAN TOURTE OF APRICOTS. 

Cut a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and put them into a small 
sugar boiler or stewpan, with the kernels extracted from the stones, 
four ounces of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of water ; stir this over 
the stove-fire until the fruit is dissolved into a jam, and then withdraw 
the stewpan from the fire. 

Roll out some trimmings of puff-paste, or else about half a pound of 
short-paste, to the diameter of about eight inches, place this on a circular 
baking-sheet, and with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, twist 
the paste round the edges so as to raise it in imitation of cording ; then 
cut up a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and place these in close 
circular rows on the paste, shake some sifted sugar (mixed with some 
rind of lemon) over the apricots, and then bake the tourte (at moder- 
ate heat) ; when it is done, pour the marmalade of apricots over the 
others, shake some sifted sugar mixed with a tea-spoonful of cinnamon- 
powder over the surface, dish the tourte on a napkin, and serve it either 
hot or cold. 

This kind of tourte may be made of eveiy kind of fruit, the process in 
each case being similar to the above — consisting in baJdng one half 
of the fruit on the paste, while the remainder is added after the 
tourte is baked, being first boiled down into a kind of jam for that 
purpose. In all cases, some cinnamon-sugar must be strewn over the 
sur&ce. 

1305. PARISIAN TURNOVER OF APPLES. 

Pbkl about a dozen apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the 

cores ; aiier which, put them into a stewpan with eight ounces of sugar, 

two ounces of butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, 

and two table-spoonftils of water ; teas the apples over a slow fire until 



CONDE CAKE. 411 

they are about half done, and then remove them from the fire. While the 
apples are being prepared, roll out a piece of short-paste^ in a circular 
form, the eighth part of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner- 
plate; wet this round the edge, then fasten a rolled cord of paste, the 
thickness of a small finger, within an inch of the edge, and pile the pre- 
pared apples up in the centre in the form of a dome ; then, spread some 
apricot marmalade over the surface, and cover the whole in with another 
circular piece of puff-paste ; press them together round the edges, wet the 
extremities, then with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, 
twist or fold the edges over in the form of a cord ; let the turnover 
now be egged all over with a soil paste-brush dipped in some beaten 
white of egg, then strew some rough granite-sugar over the entire surface, 
and bake it of a light colour. 

These turnovers may also be made with all kinds of plums ; the only 
difference in their mode of preparation being, that they need not undergo 
any dressing previously to placing them in the paste, except that the 
stones should be removed ; the plums, peaches, or apricots must be piled 
up in several rows forming a dome, with some pounded sugar between 
each layer, and some of the same kind of fruit the turnover is made of 
should be first boiled down to a jam, for the purpose of masking the firuit 
with, preparatory to its being covered in. 

1306. DARIOLES. 

Inoredibnts : — One ounce of flour, two ounces of pounded sugar, one 
ounce of ratafias, three gills of cream, one whole egg and six yolks, one 
ounce of candied orange-flowers, a small pat of butter, a very little salt, 
half a pound of trimmings of puff-ptiste. 

Place the flour, sugar, the bruised ratafias, and the eggs in a spouted 
basin, work the whole well together, and then add the cream, a very 
little salt, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower-water, and mix these in 
with the batter. Line a dozen ^rto^- moulds with some trimmings of 
pufl'-paste, place these on a baking-sheet, put a very small bit of butter 
at the bottom of each dariole, and then, after stirring the batter well to- 
gether, pour it into the moulds ; strew the candied orange-flowers on the 
top of each, and set them in the oven (at moderate heat) to bake. When 
done, the dariole should be slightly raised in the centre, and of a light 
colour ; take them out of the moulds without breaking them, shake some 
finely-sifted sugar over them, and serve them hot. 

Darwles may also be flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or 
chocolate. 

1307. CONDE CAKES. 
Chop six ounces of Jordan almonds as fine as possible, mix them with 
four ounces of sifted sugar, some grated rind of lemon, and the white of 
an egg : the whole should present the appearance of a rather firm paste. 
Next make half a pound of puff'-paste, to which give eight turns or foldings, 
and roll this out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch ; then, with 
a tin cutter of an oval, circular, crescent, diamond, or any other fancy 
shape, stamp out about eighteen condes and place them on a baking-sheet 
previously wetted over with a paste-brush to receive them ; spread a 
coating of the prepared chopped almonds on the surface of each, shake 
some fine sugar over them with the dredger, and bake them of a very 
light fawn colour. 



412 SMALL PASTRY. 



Id08. ROYALS. 

Mix the whites of two eggs with as much finely -sifted sugar as they 
will absorb, so as to form a kind of soft paste ; this must be effected 
without working it more than is necessary to mix the ingredients together: 
a few drops of any kind of essence may be added to flavour the cakes. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, and to finish these cakes, proceed in 
all respects as directed in the foregoing article. 

1309. D'ARTOIS of APRICOT. 
Make one pound of puflf-paste, and give it seven turns or foldings ; 
then, take one-third part of it, and after kneading this well together, roll 
it out to the size of a square baking-sheet — measuring about fourteen 
inches by twelve, and lay the paste upon it ; next spread a rather thick 
layer of apricot-jam over the paste to within about an inch of the edges ; 
then, roll out the remainder of the puff-paste to the size of the baking- 
sheet, and place it neatly over the surface of the apricot ; fasten it round 
by pressing upon the edges with the thumb, and trim the edges by cutting 
away the superfluous paste from the sides with a knife. The UA rtoU 
must now be marked out in small oblong shapes with the back part of a 
knife, and after the whole surface has been egged over, score them over 
neatly, forming a kind of feather-pattern on each cake. Bake them of a 
bright light brown colour, and when they are done, shake some finely- 
sifled sugar over them out of the dredger, put them back again into the 
oven for a minute or two, to melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot 
salamander over them to give to the pastry a bright glossy appearance. 
When the UArtcU have become sufficiently cold, cut them up, and serve 
them dished up in several circular rows piled on a napkin. 

Note. — This kind of pastry may also be garnished with PUhiviers- 
cream, pastry-custard, apple^marmalade, or any other kind of preserve. 

1310. APRICOT NOUGATS. 

Roll out some trimmings of puff-paste to the thickness of the eighth 
of an inch ; lay this all over the sur&ce of a baking-sheet, spread it 
with a rather thick layer of apricot-jam, and then strew some shred 
pistachio kernels or Jordan almonds over this, shake some finely-sifled 
sugar over all, and bake them in a very moderately-heated oven. When 
done, allow the pastry to cool, and then use any kind of &ncy tin cutter 
to stamp them out. 

1311. PASTRY CUSTARD, OR CREAM. 

Inobbdients: — Four ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, six yolks of 
eggs, two ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, one ounce of ratafias, 
a spoonful of orange-flower-water, and a very little salt 

Mix the flour, sugar, and salt, with two whole eggs, in a stewpan with 
a wooden spoon ; then add the cream and the butter, and stir the whole 
over the stove-tire until it boils ; it must then be well worked together, so 
as to make it smooth. Withdraw the spoon, and after putting Uie lid on 
the stewpan, place the cream in the oven, or on a slow stove-fire partially 
smothered with ashes, that it may continue to simmer very gently for 
about twenty minutes ; the cream must then be put out into a basin, and 



FLORENTINES. 413 

the bruised ratafias, the yolks of eggs, and the orange-fiower-water must 
be added ; after which put four ounces of butter into a small stewpan on 
the fire, and as soon as it begins to fritter, and has acquired a light brown 
colour (which gives to it the sweet flavour of nuts), add this also to the 
cream, and let the whole be well mixed. 

Use this cream to garnish various kinds of pastry, according to 
directions given in the several articles for which it is intended. 

1312. TALMOUSES. 

Ingredients required :— Half a phit of milk, four ounces of flour, two 
ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, six ounces of cream-curd, the 
rind of an orange rubbed on sugar, a very little salt, and half a pound of 
puff-paste. 

Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt into a stewpan on a stove-fir^, 
and as soon as these begin to simmer, fill in the flour by stirring the 
whole with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes over the fire ; then 
add the curd (from which all the superfluous moisture must be extracted 
by pressing it in a napkin), and work in the eggs one afler the other, re- 
membering that this paste must be kept to about the same substance as 
for petUs'choux. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, and give it nine turns ; roll this out 
to the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp out about two dozen cir- 
cular pieces, with a tin cutter about two inches in diameter, and place 
them in neat order on a baking-sheet about an inch apart from each 
other ; then place a good tea-spoonful of the preparation described above, 
in the centre of each, wet these round the edges, and then turn up the 
sides so as to form each of them in the shape of a three-cornered hat : 
egg them over with a paste-brush, bake them of a light brown colour, 
and when they are withdrawn from the oven, shake some fine sugar over 
them. These cakes may be served either hot or cold. 

1313. TALMOUSES WITH CHEESE. 

These are prepared just as the foregoing, except that the sugar and 
rind of orange must be omitted, substituting in their stead four ounces of 
scraped Brie, or Neuchatel, cheese: when these cannot be procured, 
Gruyere or Parmesan cheese may be used for the purpose. 

1314. FLORENTINES. 

Roll out about half a pound of trimmings of puff-paste to the thick- 
ness of the eighth of an inch, and lay this on the entire surface of a 
rather large-sized baking-sheet ; spread a thick layer of green-gage-jam 
over the paste, and then bake it in an oven of moderate heat ; when 
done, let it be withdrawn and allowed partially to cool. Then, spread 
it with a coating of whipped whites of egg mixed with sugar, about 
half an inch in thickness, and strew some shred pistachio kernels all over 
the surface; shake some finely-sifled sugar over the top, and finish baking 
the Florentines of a very light colour, taking care that the merin^^" 
paste is allowed sufficient time to become perfectly crisp. A few 
minutes after the Florentines are taken out of the oven, they must be 
stamped out with a tin cutter, or else cut out with a knife, in oblong or 
diamond-8hapes« 



41 4f SMALL PASTRY. 

1316. CUPID's, or love's WELLS. 

GiVB seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, then roll it out to the 
thickness of the sixth part of an inch ; stamp out about eighteen circular 
pieces from this with a fluted tin cutter one inch and a half in diameter, 
and place these in rows on a baking-sheet previously wetted to receive them. 
Then, stamp out as many more pieces with a smaller fluted cutter only 
one inch in diameter, and after stamping out the centre of these, wet the 
surface of the others over with a paste-brush, and lay one of the 
smaller ones on each of the others ; press them down with the fingers, 
egg over the tops, and bake them of a bright light colour; when 
they are nearly done, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, put 
them back again into the oven for a minute or two, and then pass the red- 
hot salamander over them to give them a bright glossy appearance. Pre- 
viously to serving these " love's wells," fill them either with preserved 
cherries, green-gage-jam, or currant-jelly. 

1316. PUFF-PASTE WALNUTS. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll it out to the 
thickness of the sixth part of an inch ; then, stamp out twenty circular 
pieces, with a fluted cutter about an inch and a half in diameter, and 
after wetting each of these with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold them 
up, at the same time pressing the two parts of the paste slightly, so as to 
cause them to adhere closely together ; they must then be placed on a 
baking-sheet in rows, egged over, and baked of a bright light colour. 
Just before they are done, some fine sugar should be shaken over them with 
a dredger, and they must then be put back again into the oven for a little 
while to melt the sugar ; pass the red-hot salamander over, and with- 
draw them. Previously to serving this kind of pastry, a broad strip 
of red currant or apple-jelly should be placed across the centre. 

1317. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PASTRY. 

Gi VB six turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll it out to the thick- 
ness of a quarter of an inch ; cut this into bands about three inches wide, 
then cut these again into strips rather better than a quarter of an inch 
wide, and place them (on the cut side) on a baking sheet in rows, about 
two inches apart, so as to allow them sufficient room to spread out. 
Bake these strips of paste in a rather sharp oven, and just before they 
are done, glaze them: that is, shake some fine sugar over, and then 
salamander them. About two dozen of these are required for a disli : 
they must be spread with some kind of preserve, and stuck together in 
pairs, to imitate bread-and-butter ; dish them up on a napkin, piled up 
in several circular rows, in a pyramidal form. 

This kind of pastry may also be dished up with some stiffly-whipped 
cream, seasoned with a glass of liqueur, in the centre. 

1318. PUFF-PASTE RINGS, OR WREATHS. 

GiVB eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll this out to the 
sixth part of an inch in thickness ; then, stamp out twenty circular pieces 
with a fluted tin cutter about one inch and three quarten in diameter, and 
stamp out the centre of these with a plain circular cutter about three 
quarters of an inch in diameter, then place the rings on a w<etted baking- 
idieet ; shake some fine sugar over them, and bake them of a Tery light 



PUFF-PASTE PLATTS. 415 

colour (at very moderate heat). Wlien they are done, decorate them with 
some whipped white of egg and sugar, over which strew some coarse 
sugar; put them to dry in the screen, and then finish decorating them by 
placing or inserting some strips of currant or apple-jelly in between the 
folds or dots of the decoration. 

i^ofe- — Puflf-paste turned or folded eight times, then rolled out to 
the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and stamped out with appro- 
priate fancy-shaped tin cutters — either in the form of crescents, leaves, 
trefoil or shamrock, stars, &c., and afler being baked as directed in the fore- 
going case, may also be decorated in the same manner : a comet of paper 
should be used for this purpose. 

13 LO. POLISH CAKES. 

GiVB seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out as in the 
foregoing cases, and then cut it up into square pieces measuring rather 
better than two inches each way ; wet these in the centre, and then fold 
down the comers, so as to make them all meet in the middle of the piece of 
paste ; place a dot of paste in the centre of each, pressing it down with 
the end of the finger, egg them over, and bake them in a rather sharp 
oven, of a fine bright light colour, and just before they are done, shake 
some finely sifled sugar over them ; put them back again in the oven 
to melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot salamander over them to 
give them a glossy appearance. Decorate this kind of pastry with bright 
red-currant or apple-jelly. 

1320. HARRY THE VIII.'S SHOESTRINGS. 

This kind of pastry is prepared in the first instance in exactly the 
same manner as the foregoing, as far as folding the comers down. 
Then cut out a small angle, from each of the parts that have been 
folded down, which will then present the appearance of four bows joined 
together ; place a small ring of pufT-paste in the centre of each, which 
must be fastened on by first wetting the part ; they should be then egged 
over and baked of a bright light colour, and afterwards glazed as directed 
in the foregoing cases. Previously to dishing them up, fill a comet of 
paper with some firm red-currant-jelly, and use this to draw rather 
bold lines all round the angular parts of the bows, and also round the 
ring that has been placed in the centre; then, with another paper 
comet filled with bright apricot or green-gage jam, fill in the centre of 
the bows : this kind of decoration produces a very brilliant efiect. 

1321. PUFF-PASTE PLATTS. 
Give nine turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thick- 
ness of the eighth part of an inch, and then cut this into bands about 
five inches in width, and divide these into narrow strips a quarter of an 
inch wide. Take four of these strips, and srfter fastening them to- 
gether at one end with a little egg or water, plat them neatly but rather 
loosely together, and when finished, fasten the ends: as each platt is 
completed, place it on a baking-sheet, and when they are all ready, egg 
them over, and bake them of a light colour, and when done, let them be 
glazed as usual. Just before sending these cakes to table, decorate them 
by placing in the small cavities some dots of bright currant or apple-jelly, 
and some green-gage-jam. 



416 SMALL PASTRY. 



13-22. APPLE TARTLETS. 

Makb half a pound of tart-paste (No. 1255), roll it out rather tliin, 
then stamp out twenty circular flats, with a fluted cutter suited to 
the size of the tartlets, and use them to line the moulds ; fill each tartlet 
with a spoonful of apple-marmalade, cover them in with a mosaic * of 
paste, egg them over, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake them of a 
light colour ; when done, shake some fine sugar over them^ and use 
the red-hot salamander, to give them a glossy appearance. 

1323. APPLE TARTLETS, ANOTHER METHOD. 
Link the tartlet-pans as above, then garnish them with halves of 
small apples, previously turned and divested of the cores, and afterwards 
parboiled in a little syrup in which the juice of a lemon has been 
squeezed ; bake the tartlets, and when they are done, dilute some apricot- 
jam with a little of the syrup ; use this to mask the apples in the tart- 
lets, and then place a preserved cherry on the centre of each. 

1324. CHERRY TARTLETS. 

Take the stones out of two pounds of Kentish-cherries, put these into 
a small sugar-boiler with three quarters of a pound of pounded sugar, 
toss them in this, then set them on the stove-fire, and allow them 
to boil for about five minutes ; the cherries must then be strained on a 
sieve, and the syrup reduced to about one-third part of its quantity, then 
added to the cherries, and kept in a small basin. 

Line two dozen small tartlet-pans with short-paste or tart-paste (the 
flats being stamped out with a fluted cutter) ; knead as many small 
pieces of paste as there are tartlets, and after dipping them in flour, press 
one of them into each of the tartlets, place them on a baking-slieet, and 
put them in the oven (moderately heated) to be baked of a light colour ; 
when they are nearly done, withdraw them, and take out the pieces of 
paste, shake some fine sugar over them, and then glaze them with the 
red-hot salamander. Just before serving the tartlets, fill them with the 
cherries. 

Note, — Raspberries, currants, gooseberries, and all kinds of plums, 
may be prepared for tartlets, by gently boiling them for a few minutes in 
about a pint of syrup ; the fruit should then be drained on a sieve, and 
the syrup reduced to one-third of its original quantity, and kept with the 
fruit in a small basin, to fill the tartlets with as in the foregoing cases. 

1326. PUFF-PASTE TARTLETS. 

Give eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste (No. 1261), t6\\ it out 
to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and then with a circu- 
lar tin cutter, about one inch and three quarters in diameter, stamp out 
twenty fiats ; again, use a smaUer cutter, measuring one inch in dia- 
meter, to stamp out the centre of these : next, gather up the trimmings, 

* Moeaic-boaidi for tartleU, may be had of all lixei and pattcrai at any turner*! ihop. 
To cut Out impreaaions from these, it if neceuary to um small circular flats of raised pie- 
paste, which must be placed on the board, and pressed into the design, by rolling it with 
a paste-pin ; the superfluous paste must then be cut or shafed away, and the mosaic of 
paste that ramains in the design, shaken out of the board. 



APPLE TAKT WITH QUINCE. 417 

knead them together, and roll them out to the eighth part of an inch in 
thickness, and stamp out as many flats as there are rings ; place them on 
a wetted baking-sheet, moisten the edges with a soft brush dipped in 
water, stick the rings of paste on these, shake some sugar over them with 
the dredger, and bake them of a very light colour (at very moderate heat). 
When the tartlets are done, mask the bands or rings with a little merin- 
yutf-paste, dip them either in some chopped or very finely-shred pista- 
chios or almonds, and place them in the screen to dry. Previously to 
serving these tartlets, they may be filled, either with cherries, currants, 
plums, &c., prepared as directed above, or else with any kind of preserve. 

1326. MOSAIC TARTLETS. 
Prbparb two dozen puff-paste tartlets as directed above, and fill each of 
them with a spoonful of apricot or green-gage-jam ; wet round the edges, 
and place a mosaic of paste on the top of each, egg these over slight- 
ly, and bake them of a light colour ; when they are done, shake some 
fine sugar over them, and glaze them with the red-hot salamander. 

1327. PARISIAN LOAVES. 
Pbbpare some small slender finger-biscuits, spread them with apricot or 
green-gage-jam, and stick two of these together ; then, hold one at a time 
on a fork, mask them over slightly with some mertn^i^-paste, and with 
a paper comet filled with some of the same, draw parallel lines across the 
cakes in a slanting direction; when they are all completed, shake 
some sugar over them, and put them in the oven to be baked, or rather 
dried, of a very light fawn colour. When done, insert some narrow strips 
of bright currant-jelly, green-gage-jam, and apple-jelly between the ban 
of the decoration. 

1328. MABTGOLDS. 

GivB eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the thick- 
ness of the sixth part of an inch, stamp out twenty flats with a circular 
fluted tin cutter about one inch and three quarters in diameter, and 
place these on a wetted baking-sheet ; roll out the trimmings rather thin, 
and with two smaller cutters, stamp out as many rings of the size of a 
shilling as there are cakes, and place one of these on the centre of 
each of the marygolds, previously wetted all over the surface. Then, 
place some almonds split into four strips lengthwise, closely round the 
rings, in a somewhat slanting diiection; these must be slightly pressed into 
the paste to make them hold on, and should be arranged so as to give to the 
cake as much as possible the appearance of the flower they are intended to 
resemble. When they are adl completed, shake some sugar over them 
with the dredger, and bake them of a light colour. When done, insert 
some very narrow strips of bright firm red-currant or apple-jelly be- 
tween each piece of aknond, and place a piece of apricot or green-gage- 
jam, in the ring. 

1329. APPLE TART WITH QUINCE. 
Pbel the apples, remove the cores, cut them in slices or quarters, and 
arrange them neatly in the pie-dish ; then add the quince, which must be 
previously sliced up very thin, and stewed in a small stew-pan over a 
slow fire with a little water, sugar, and a small piece of butter ; add 
suflicient pounded sugar to sweeten the quantity of apples the tart may 

B B 



418 FRITTERS. 

contain, and strew some zest of lemon (». e. the rind rubbed on sugar and 
then scraped off,) over the top. Cover the tart with puflf-paste, first 
placing a band of the same round the edge of the dish ; scollop it round 
the edges by pressing them with the back of a knife, egg the tart over, 
then ornament the top by drawing out some fanciful design with the 
point of a knife, and bake it of a light colour ; when done, shake some 
sugar upon it, and use the red-hot salamander to glaze it 

1330. PEAR TART. 

Ip mellow pears be used for this purpose, the foregoing directions may 
be followed ; but if stewing pears are made use of, these must be first 
stewed with some sugar, a little water, and some lemon-peel and 
cloves tied together ; when the pears are nearly done, allow them to 
cool previously to making the tart, which in this case should be coyered 
with tart paste (No. 1255) ; when so far finished^ sprinkle it over with a 
paste-brudi dipped in some beaten white of egg, and some nfted sugar 
strewn upon it ; it should then be baked of a light colour. 

1331. FRUIT TARTS IN GENERAL. 

Whbn peaches, apricots, or any of the larger kinds of plums are used 
for making tarts, the stones should be removed, and the kernels taken 
out and blanched ; the fruit should be then neatly arranged in the tart> 
dish in the form of a dome, with the kernels amongst it, and some sifled 
sugar strewn over all. These tarts should invariably be covered with 
tart-paste, and finished as directed in the foregoing case. 

For making cherry, damson, raspberry^ and currant tarts, follow the 
same directions ; except that the stones need not be removed from the 
two first of these. 



FRITTERS, 



roMPRISINU 



Apple Fritters. Peach Fritters. 

Pine Apple Fritters. . Spanish Puffs. 

Onuige Fritters. Custaid Fritters. 

1332. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Cut the apples in rather thick slices, scoop out the cores with a tin 
cutter, then pare off the rind, and place the pieces of apples in a basin 
with a small glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of sugar, and some grated 
peel of lemon or orange^ letting them ste^ in this for several hours, if 
possible. When about to send the fritters to table, throw the pieces 
of appleinto a basin containing some light-made batter (No. 232), then 
take them out one at a time, and drop them into some heated hog*8- 
lard, to be fiied of a lidit colour ; when they are done, drain them 
on a sheet of paper, break off all the rough parts, place the firitters on a 



CUSTAKD FRITTERS. 419 

baking-sheet, shake some fine sugar upon them, glaze them with the red- 
hot salamander, and serve. 

Note, — Pear fritters are made in the same manner as the above. 

1333. PINE-APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pbsl the pine apple without waste : if it is small, cut it into slices 
in the same manner as apples ; but if the fruit happens to be large, 
it should be cut up in pieces about the size of a finger ; these must 
be then steeped with a glass of maraschino and a spoonful of pound- 
ed sugar, in a basin for several hours, previously to their being fried 
in batter ; this should be mixed with cream. In other respects, finish 
these as directed for apple fritters. 

1334. ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Choosb some thin-skinned oranges, peel them, divide them into quarters, 
remove the pips, and then put them to steep in a basin with a glass of 
brandy, a spoonful of sugar, and some grated rind of orange. Previ- 
ously to frying the firitters, drain the pieces of oranges from the brandy, 
&c., throw them into some light made batter (No. %S%), then take 
them out one by one, drop them gently in some heated hog's lard, and 
fry them of a light colour ; finish these in the usual manner. 

1336. PEACH FRITTERS. 

Cut the peaches into quarters, remove the skins, and put them to 
steep in a basin with a glass of noyau and a spoonful of sugar ; then 
fry them in batter, as directed in the foregoing cases. 

Note, — Fritters of apricots and large plums are prepared as the above ; 
brandy being used instead of liqueur, to steep the fruit in. 

1336. SPANISH PUFFS. 

Pbeparb some petiis-chouX'^BaXe (No. 1291). Next, cut a sheet 
of fooFs-cap paper into four pieces, spread these with butter, and then 
take up as much of the paste as will stand in a small tea-spoon ; press 
it out in rows on the paper, in the form of round balls : this should 
be done just before frying them. When about to send to table, take 
hold of the sheets of paper containing the puffs, at one comer, and as 
they arc immersed in the hot hog*s-lard, shake them gently off the 
paper ; fry them of a light colour, and when done, drain them on a 
wire-sieve covered with paper to absorb any grease : some fine sugar 
must then be shaken over them, previously to their being dished up on 
a napkin, in a conical form. 

1337. CUSTARD FRITTERS. 
Ingredients : One pint of cream, ten yolks of eggs, one ounce of 
potato-flour, six ounces of sugar, a little cinnamon and grated lemon- 
peel. 

Mix the above ingredients together in a basin, afier having first boiled 
the cinnamon and lemon in the cream ; strain the whole through a sieve, 
and then pour the custard into a plain mould, previously spread with 
butter : steam the custard in the usual manner, and when done, allow 

> I 3 



420 



ICED PUDDINGS. 



it to become cold, preparatory to its being cut up into slices about half 
an inch thick, and then divided into squares of about two inches each : 
place these on a dish, and sprinkle them with a little cinnamon -powder, 
and a spoonful of brandy. When about to send to table, dip each 
piece of custard separately in some light-made batter (No. 23^), then 
drop them into some hot hog's- lard, and fry them of a light colour ; when 
done^ drain them on a sheet of paper, break off any rough parts, sugar 
them, glaze them over with the red-hot salamander, and dish them up 
on a napkin. 

NoU. — This kind of fritter may be yaried by changing the flaTOuring, 
and also by adding a proportionate quantity of either grated chocolate, pul- 
verized almonds, essence of coffee, or lightly-burnt sugar. 



ICED PUDDINGS AND ORNAMENTED ENTREMETS, 



00MPRI8IN0 



loed Cake, a la Stanley. 

Iced Rice Pudding, h la Cintia. 

Iced Pudding, d /a Cento. 

Iced Pudding, a la Prince of Wales. 

„ dla Chesterfield. 

„ k la Kinnaird. 

„ hla Prince Albert. 

„ a la Faritienne, 

^ hla Duchess of Kent. 

Biscuits fflac(»j in small cases. 
Ncsselrode Pudding. 
Iced Puddinff, ^ la Princess Alice. 
MiU^euUUa Cake, a la Chantillj. 
Apples and Rice ornamented. 



Apples and Rice plain. 
Apples, a la Porttupiai$e. 
Apples in the form of a Porcupine. 
Apples, a la Partwffuaue, another way. 
JFian of Peaches. 
Napolitain Cake, it la Chantilly. 
Croquanie of Oranges. 
CroijHanie of Fresh Walnuts. 
Crofputnte of Ratafias, a la Chantilly. 
Merittgue^ h la Parisiettne, 
Grmtt-Aferingue^ with Pistachios. 
Swan of SaToy-Biscuit, tL la Chantilly. 
SaToy Cake, in the form of a Glased Ham. 



1338. ICED CAKE, A LA STANLEY. 




First, make a P&risian cake 
(in a fluted mould), as directed in 
No, 1273. Next, prepare a com- 
p6te of green-gages in syrup; these 
must be kept whole, and of as 
green a colour as possible. Then, 
prepare a custard in the following 
manner : — Mix ten yolks of eggs 
with a pint and a half of boiling 
cream, eight ounces of sygar, and 
sufficient cinnamon and lemon-peel 
to flavour it ; add a very little salt, 
and stir the whole in a stewpan 
over the fire until it begins to 
thicken ; the custard should then be 
immediately pasted through a 
tammy or sieve, into a basin, and 



ICED BICE PUDDING. 421 

allowed to become cold. This custard must now be placed in a freezing- 
pot used for making ices, and should be occasionally worked with a 
scraper as it becomes set by freezing ; when frozen sufficiently firm, 
scrape the custard from the sides of the pot, and gather it all up at 
the bottom ; put the lid on with paper to exclude the hot air, pour off 
the water from the tub, and afler the pot has been packed in with 
fresh ice and salt, place a damp cloth over the top, and keep it in a very 
cool place until wanted. 

When about to send the cake to table, scoop out nearly the whole of 
the crumb from the centre, and fill it with the iced custard ; place it on 
its dish, pile up the compSte of green-gages on the top, as represented in 
the wood-cut, pour some of the syrup round the base, and serve. 

1339. ICED RICE PUDDING, A LA CINTRA. 

Wash and parboil eight ounces 
of Carolina rice ; then, put it into 
a stewpan, with a quart of milk 
and a pint of cream, two sticks of 
vanilla, twelve ounces of sugar, 
and a little salt ; allow the rice to 
simmer very gently over or by a 
slow stove-fire, until the grains are 
almost dissolved, stirring* it over 
occasionally with a light hand. 
When the rice is done, and while 
it is yet in a boiling state, add the 
yolks of six eggs, then stir the whole 
well together for several minutes, in 
order to mix in the eggs, and also 

for the purpose of breaking up and smoothing the rice. Let this rice- 
custard be frozen in the same manner as directed in the foregoing 
case, and then put it into a plain mould ; cover it with the lid, and 
immerse it in ice in the usual way. 

While the above part of the process is going on, a compdte of twelve 
oranges (Modena if in season) should be prepared in the following 
manner : — First, cut each orange into halves, remove the pithy core and 
the pips with the point of a small knife ; then, with a sharp knife, pare 
off the rind and white pith, so as to lay the transparent pulp of the fruit 
quite bare, taking care to trim them neatly, and without waste ; when 
the whole of the fruit is ready, throw it into a convenient-sized sugar- 
boiler, or stewpan, containing about a pint of syrup (made with one 
pound of susar, and nearly a pint of spring water), allow the pieces of 
orange to boil up gently in this for two minutes, and then drain them on 
a sieve. Boil the syrup down to about one-half of its original quantity ; 
then, add two wine glasses of cura9ao, and three table-spoonfuls of 
apricot-jam ; mix the whole togethei, and pour it over the oranges in a 
basin. 

When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould, 
and place it on its dish, dress the compdte of oranges on the top and round 
the base, as represented in the wood-cut, pour the syrup over it^ and 
serve. 




422 



ICED PUDDINGS. 




1340. PUDDING, A LA CEBITO. 

First, prepare about eighteen 
finger, and the same number of 
almond comd-gavfrei (No. 1284X 
and arrange the ^ger-gaufra roond 
the inside of a plain circular char- 
lotte-mould. Prepare also an iced 
custard, as directed for the Stanley 
cake, except that this must be 
flavoured with vanilla. An iced 
mac^doine of fruits in a strawberry- 
water-ice must also be got ready. 

About an hour before sending 
the pudding to table, garnish the 
sides of the ganffres (previously 
placed in the mould as directed 
above), with a coating of the va- 
nilla-cream ice, about an inch thick, and cover the bottom of the 
mould in the same manner ; then fill up the centre with the iced mace- 
doiru of fruits, place a round piece of paper on the top, and cover 
with the lid; next immerse the pudding in rough ice, mixed with 
salt, in a pail or tub ; cover this over with a diunp cloth, and set it 
in a cool place till wanted. The pudding must then be turned out of the 
mould on to its dish, with the decorated top placed upon it, and garnished 
round the base, and on the centre^ with the small gauffres, made in the 
form ef comets or cornucopias, each being filled with a little of the vanilla, 
cream ice, and a strawberry placed on the top ; then serve immediately. 

To prepare the decorated top above alluded to, a circular piece of 
gaufrey the size of the mould, must be ornamented with sugar icing, 
pressed out of a comet of paper, so as to imitate a scroll, as shown in 
the above wood-cut ; the icing must be allowed to dry in the skreen, 
and the decoration should then be completed by introducing some red-cur- 
rant and bright apple-jelly in between the scrolls. 

1341. ICED PUDDING, A LA PRINCE OF WALES. 

First, prepare eifi^ht yolks of 
eggs of custard, as ror the Stan- 
ley cake (No. 1S38); previously 
to passing this through a tammy, 
add two pottles of picked scarlet 
strawberries, tossed in a sugar- 
boiler with ten ounces of pound- 
ed sugar over a brisk fire, until 
they begin to simmer; When the 
whole has been passed into a pur^e^ 
allow it to cool; then freeze it 
in the usual manner, and fill a 
cylindrical pudding-mould with it, 
stop it down with the lid, and 
immerse it in rough ice. 




ICED PUDDINGS, 423 

While the forgoing part of the process is in preparation, an iced 
macedaine of fruits must be made as follows : — First, extract the juice 
from one pound of muscatel grapes, and add a sufficient quantity of 
syrup, to give body to it ; this must then be put into the freezing-pot, 
and worked in the usual way. Just before using the ice, a pro- 
portionate quantity of light-coloured fruit must be added, and mixed in 
lightly with the ice, so as not to bruise them : these fruits should consist 
of small pieces of pine-apple, peach, apricot, white raspberries, straw- 
berries, and bigaroon-cherries ; this macidoine should be finished just 
before dishing up. The pudding must be turned out of the mould on to 
its dish, the centre filled with the maddaine, as represented in the 
annexed wood-cut, and immediately served. 

1342. ICED PUDDING, A LA CHESTERFIELD. 

Grate >ne pound of pine-apple 
into a basin, add this to eight yolks 
of eggs, one pint and a half of 
boiled cream, one pound of sugar, 
and a very little salt; stir the 
whole together in a stewpan over 
a stove-fire until the custard be- 
gins to thicken ; then pass it 
through a tammy, by rubbing with 
two wooden spoons, in the same 
manner as for a purie, in order to 
force the pine-apple through the 
tammy. This custard must now 
be iced in the usual manner, and 
put into a mould of the shape 
represented in the annexed wood- 
cut ; and in the centre of the iced 
cream, some macSdoine ice of red frmts, consisting of cherries, currants, 
strawberries and raspberries in a cherry-water ice, must be introduced ; 
cover the whole in with the lid, then immerse the pudding in rough 
ice in the usual way, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. 

When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould on 
to its dish, ornament the top with a kind of drooping feather, formed 
with green angelica cut in strips, and arranged as represented in the 
wood-cut ; garnish the base with small gaufres, filled with some of the 
iced cream reserved for the purpose, place a strawberry on the top of 
each, and serve. 

1343. ICED PUDDING, A LA KINNAIRD. 

Blanch eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two of bitter ditto ; 
dry them in a cloth, put them into a sugar-boiler, and stir them over 
a slow fire, in order to roast them of a light colour; as soon as 
the almonds have acquired sufficient colour, throw in six ounces of 
pounded sugar, and continue stirring the whole over the fire until the 
sugar has melted, and acquired a light-brown colour ; they should now 
be withdrawn from the fire, and stirred about with the spoon until they 
have become nearly cold ; they must then be thoroughly pounded in a 
mortar, and added to eight yolks of eggs, eight ounces of sugar, 
and one pint and a-half of boiled cream ; stir the whole with a wooden 





424 ICED PUDDINGS. 

spoon in a itewpsn oTer the 
stove-fire, until the yolks of eggi 
are fufficiently set in the cus- 
tard, and then pass it through s 
tammy in the same way as a 
puree. This custard most be iced 
in a freezing-pot in the usual man- 
ner, and afterwards put into a 
mould resembling that represented 
in the wood-cut, and after being 
covered in with its lid, immersed 
in rough ice, there to remain untfl 
it is sent to table. The pudding 
must then be turned out of the 
mould on to its dish, the top 

garnished with a drooping feather, formed of strips of green angelica, and 

served. 

NoU, — The centre of this pudding may be garnished with apricot 
or orange marmalade, previously to its being again inmiersed in the 
rough ice. 

1344. ICED PUDDING, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 
Prepare some rice custard ice, as directed for the pudding a la Cintra 
(No. 1339) : about half that quantity will suffice. Slice up a dozen ripe 
apricots, and boil them with twelve ounces of sugar, and half a pint of 
water, until the fruit is dissolved; then pass it through a sieve — ^if it 
should be too thick, add a little thin syrup, and freeze this in the 
usual manner. The two ices being ready, a pudding-mould should be 
lined with a coating of the apricot-water ice, about half an inch thick, 
and the centre filled up entirely with the iced rice-custard ; cover the 
pudding with the lid of the mould, and immerse it in rough ice 
until <£shing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on its dish, 
garnished with some waier-gaufrea filled with whipped cream seasoned 
with noyau, and served immediately. 

1346. ICED PUDDING, A LA PARISIENNE. 
Parboil and remove the skin from eight ounces of Jordan almonds, 
and two ounces of bitter ditto, wash and dry them on a cloth, and then 
thoroughly pound them with twelve ounces of sugar in a mortar, until 
they present the appearance of a soft paste ; this must then be added to 
eight yolks of eggs, and a quart of boiled cream ; stir the whole together 
in a stewpan over a ttove-fire, until the eggs are sufficiently set in the 
custard, and then pass it through the tammy in the same manner as a 
purSe, Pour this into a freezing-pot — ^ready packed in rough ice, and 
freeze it in the usual manner; when this is effected, fill an ice 
pudding-mould with it, cover it in with the lid, and immerse it in rough 
ice untu dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on its dish, 
and the top and base garnished with a compdU of apricots; after mix- 
ing «a glass of noyau in with the syrup, pour it over the pudding, and 
serve. 



NE8SELK0DE PUDDING. 425 

1346, ICED PUDDING, A LA DUCHESS OP KENT. 
Rbmovb the skins from one pound of filbert-kernels, and pound these 
with ten ounces of sugar, (adding a few drops of water^) until they 
become soil and pulpy; take up this paste into a basin, add a pint of 
single cream^ stir the whole well together, and pass it through a tammy into 
a purie; then freeze this in the usual manner. While the above is being 
prepared, a pint of cherry- water-ice must be made as follows : — Remove 
the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries, and bruise them thoroughly 
in a mortar, so as to break the stones, then take them up into a sugar 
boiler, add twelve ounces of sugar, and boil the whole together over 
a brisk stove-fire for five minutes ; rub this through a hair sieve into a 
basin, and freeze it, adding a little thin syrup if necessary. Use the 
cherry- water-ice to line the pudding-mould with, garnish the centre with 
the filbert-cream-ice, cover the mould with its lid, and immerse the 
pudding in rough ice until dishing up time. The pudding must then be 
turned put on its dish, garnished round with wafer gaufres filled with 
some of the filbert-cream reserved for the purpose, and served immedi- 
ately. 

1347. BISCUITS GLACES, IN SMALL CASES. 
To eight yolks of eggs, add one pint of cream, four ounces of ratifias, 
ten ounces of sugar, and a very little salt ; stir the whole in a stewpan 
over a stove* fire until the egg is sufiiciently set ; then pass the custard 
through a tammy into a basin, and when it has become cold, add two 
wine glasses of maraschino, and fireeze this in the usual manner. 
Just before dishing up the biscuiu, half a pint of whipped cream must 
be lightly added to the iced custard; the small paper cases must be 
filled with this, and afterwards sprinkled over with some finely- bruised 
high coloured ratafias ; then dish the InscuiU upon a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — These iced biacuUs may be almost infinitely varied, by chang- 
ing the flavourings: for which purpose, all kinds of liqueurs, and essences 
of almonds, vanilla, orange, lemon, coffee, chocolate or orange flowers, 
may be used : they may also be made by adding a purie of apricots, 
strawberries, raspberries or pine-apple, to the custard. 

1348. NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Boil three dozen chestnuts in water, and when done, peel, pound, and 
rub them through a sieve ; put this pulp into a stewpan with eight yolks 
of eggs, a pint of cream, two sticks of vanilla, previously pounded, half 
a pint of pine-apple syrup, and a very little salt ; stir these ingredients 
over a stove-fire until the eggs are sufiiciently set in the custard, 
then rub the whole through a tammy, and put the cream into a basin. 
Cut four ounces of green citron, six ounces of pine-apple (previously sim- 
mered in the syrup above alluded to), and place these in a basin with six 
ounces of dried cherries, and four ounces of Smyrna raisins ; to these add 
two wine glasses of maraschino, and allow the firuit to steep for several 
hours. Place the chestnut cream in a freezing-pot inmiersed in rough 
ice, and freeze it in the usual manner ; then add half a pint of whipped 
cream, and the fruit. Mix the pudding, and continue working the freezing- 
pot for a few minutes longer; when the pudding is thoroughly set 
firm, put it into the mould, cover it down, and immerse it in ice until 
it is required to be sent to table. 



426 



ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 



1349. ICED PUDDIXQ, A LA PRINCESS ALICE. 

First, remove the skins from the kernels of about fifty green walnuts, 
then pound these with ten ounces of sugar^ until the whole forms a kind 
of soft and pulpy paste ; take this up into a basin, mix it with a pint of 
single cream, then pass it through a tammy into a pur^e^ and let this 
be frozen in the usual manner. 

While the above is in course of preparation, two dozen green-gages 
must be boiled with twelve ounces of sugar and half a pint of water, 
until the fruit is dissolved, when the whole must be rubbed through 
a tammy or sieve : this should then be frozen, adding if necessary, a little 
thin syrup. The pudding-mould must now be lined with the green-gage ice, 
and the centre filled with the walnut-cream-ice ; then place the lid on the 
mould, and immerse the pudding in rough ice in the usual manner, until 
dishing-up time, when the pudding must be turned out on to its dish, 
garnished round with small aImond-^ai//re« filled with whipped cream, 
with a preserved cherry placed on the top of each, and served immediately. 

1360. MILLEFEUILLES CA E,* A LA CHANTILLY. 

Give ten turns to one pound of 
puff-paste (No. 1261), then divide 
it into two pieces, and roll them 
out to the thickness of the tenth part 
of an inch ; then, with a circular 
tin cutter about five inches in dia- 
meter, stamp out eight or ten 
fiats ; place these on baJcing-sheets, 
stamp out the centre part from each 
of the fiats, leaving only a circular 
band about two inches wide ; shake 
some fine sugar over them, and 
bake them of a very light colour, 
and when done, allow them to be- 
come cold. The fiats must now 
be raised one upon another, with 
layers of some kind of preserve 
between each, and placed on a baking-sheet, in order that the cake 
may be entirely covered with a thin coating of whipped whites of eggs 
mixed with sugar ; this must be smoothed over with the blade ofa 
knife, and shodd then be ornamented with a paper comet filled with 
some of the white of egg, as represented in the wood-cut : as soon as 
this is completed, shake some fine sugar over it, and dry it of a very light 
colour in a slow oven, or else in the hot- closet. When the decoration of 
the cake has been dried, it must be ornamented with bright red-currant 
and apple-jelly, placed tastefully about the design so as to give it more 
effect. On sending to table, fill the centre of the cake with whipped 
cream flavoured with some kind of liqueur, garnish the dome of cream 
with strawberries, and serve. 

The above may also be ornamented with spun sugar or with pistachios. 
The centre of these cakes may also be filled with a macicbine of fruit in 
jelly, or with any of the various kinds of creams ; the latter should be 
whipped on the ice, until nearly set. 

* Or ** thouMnd-leaved** cake, m called Crom the ligfatneM of tlie poflf-pMto with which 
it it made. 




APPLES, A LA P0RTUGUAI8E. 



427 




1361. APPLES AND RICE, ORNAMENTED. 

First, turn or peel smoothly 
about two dozen golden pippins 
(after the cores have been removed) ; 
boil these very gently in some light 
syrup for about ten minutes, when 
they will be sufficiently done. Then 
prepare some rice in the same man- 
ner as for a cake, observing that 
for this purpose, it must be kept 
firmer. Prepare also a circular or 
oval raised-pie-case (No. 752), 
about three inches high, taking care 
that its diameter suits the dish it 
is meant for. When the case is 
baked, fill it with the prepared rice, 
and pile the apples up in a pyramidal 

form, as represented in the wood cut, placing some of the rice in the cen- 
tre of these. Mask the whole with some diluted apricot -jam, place a 
preserved cherry in the hole of each apple, and insert some pieces of 
angelica cut in the form of pointed leaves in between the apples. This 
dish should be served hot, and must therefore be dished up only a short 
time previously to its being served. 

1352. APPLES AND RICE, PLAIN. 
Divide a dozen apples in halves, take out the cores, peel them, and 
place them in neat order in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter ; 
strew some lemon sugar over them, put the lid on, and then bake them 
without allowing them to acquire any colour. Prepare some rice boiled 
with milk, sugar, a little butter, and some cinnamon ; when thoroughly 
done, work this up with a spoon, and then dish it up in the form of a 
dome ; arrange the apples neatly upon this, pour some melted apricot- 
jam over the whole, and serve quite hot. 

1363. APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 

Preparb some apple marmalade 
with about a dozen apples. Split 
a dozen apples into halves, peel 
them, and remove the cores, and 
then place them in a deep sautapan 
thickly spread with butter; shake 
some sugar and grated lemon peel 
over them, and bake them in the 
oven. Prepare next a small quan- 
tity of pastry custard (No. 1311), 
also an ornamented case (No. 752), 
which should be partially baked. 

When the foregoing articles are 
ready, nearly fill the case with the marmalade of apples, leaving an open- 
ing or well in the centre ; then pile the pieces of apples upon the marma- 
lade in the form of a dome, leaving the centre hollow ; fill this with the 
pastry-custard, and cover the whole with some orange marmalade. 




428 OKXAIIENTAL £NTK£>I£TS. 

Next, whip four whites of eggs quite firm, mix in four ounces of sifted 
sugar, and use this merirupie'^pagte to finish the apples, according to the 
design placed at the head of thb article ; this is done by first masking 
over the entire sur&ce of the dome, formed by the apples, with a smooth 
coating of the prepared whites of eggs, and then with a paper cor- 
net filled with some of the same, marking out the design : when this 
has been effected, shake some sifled sugar upon it, and bake the 
meringue of a very light fawn colour. Just before sending this enire- 
nicts to table, finish ornamenting it by filling up the inner part of the 
cross with alternate strips or layers of red-currant and apple-jellies, 
and also with green-gage or apricot-jam ; these must be arranged so as 
to show their colours distinctly, which will produce a very pretty 
effect. 

This entremets should be served hot. 

1354. APPLES IN THE FORM OF A PORCUPINE. 

Prepare some marmalade with about eighteen apples ; place this in 
an oval case of raised pie-paste previously baked for the purpose ; leave 
a hollow in the centre of the marmalade, fill this up with some pastry 
custard (No 1311), and spread some apricot-jam over the whole. Next, 
prepare some m^iTi^t^-paste as directed in the foregoing article, and 
spread this over the surface of the apples, giving it at the same time 
the form of a porcupine ; when this has been effected, about six ounces of 
Jordan almonds, previously shred in strips, must be regularly inserted 
in close rows, to imitate the quills of the porcupine, and the head and 
feet should be marked out with angelica cut out in imitation of these. 
Shake some sifted sugar upon the whole, and bake the meringue cover- 
ing of a very light fawn colour. Just before sending to table, fill out 
the circle of the eyes with apple-jelly, with a currant inserted in the 
centre of each to form the pupils, and use a paper cornet filled with red- 
currant-jelly, to draw some stripes lengthwise, between the rows of 
almonds placed on the back. 

1366. APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE, ANOTHER WAY. 
Remove the cores from a dozen golden pippins, or small russets ; peel 
them smoothly, and then simmer them in a pint of light syrup until they 
are nearly done ; they must then be drained on a sieve. Next, spread 
the bottom and sides of a baked pie-case raised in a mould about two 
inches high, (tart-paste should be used for this purpose), ^"ith apple 
marmalade mixed with one third part of orange-jam, and arrange the 
apples in close circular order in this : each apple must be filled with 
orange-jam, and the entire surface then masked over with a rather 
thick coating of transparent red-currant or apple-jelly. Some tasteful de- 
sign should be formed on the layer of jelly in the form of a wreath or 
scroll ; this should be done either with almond-paste, or with puff- 
paste to which ten turns have been given, then stamped out with ap- 
propriate tin cutters, and placed on a baking-sheet, sugared over and 
baked without allowing it to acquire any colour. The latter style of or- 
namenting is preferable. 

1366. FLAN OF PEACHES. 

Fob this purpose, a crust or case should be prepared in the following 
manner. First, make one pound of short paste ( No. 1 Z55) ; then, spread 



NAPOLITAIN CAKE. 



429 



with butter the inside of a fluted circular or oval mould, about two inches 
high^ and eight inches in diameter ; line this with the paste, cut the 
edges level, and then ruse them all round, and pinch the part that 
rises above the mould with a pair of pastry pincers. Next, fill the case 
with flour, mixed with one sixth part of chopped suet, and bake it until 
it is about three parts done ; the flour must then be removed, and the 
case brushed out clean, with a paste-brush ; after whidi it must be nearly 
filled with halves of peaches, previously skinned and sinmiered in some 
thin syrup for about five minutes ; the flan must now be placed again 
in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, and when withdrawn, a 
close row of halves of peaches (previously simmered in syrup added to 
the juice of a pint of red currants) should be neatly arranged, and a 
peach kernel being placed on each piece of peach, let the jelly be poured 
over the whole, and serve. 

Note. — For the preparation oifluru of apricots, and all kinds of plums, 
follow the above directions ; except that in either of these cases, the 
currant juice is to be omitted. 

1357. KAPOLITAIN CAKE, A LA CHANTILLY. 
First, weigh one pound of flour, eight ounces of sifted sugar, eight 
ounces of pounded almonds, and eight ounces of butter ; place these ingre- 
dients on the pastry slab, add five 
yolks of eggs, the zest of the rind of two 
oranges extracted by rubbing on a piece 
of sugar, and a very little salt ; work 
these well together, and when they 
are thoroughly mixed, knead the paste 
into the form of a rolling pin, and di- 
vide it into twelve equal parts ; these 
must be again kneaded into round balls, 
rolled out to the diameter of about 
seven inches, placed upon baking 
sheets, spread with butter; afler 
having cut them all of the same 
size with a circular tin cutter, let 
them be egged and pricked all over 
with a fork, and baked of a light 
colour, and when done, placed on 
a level slab or table, with a baking-sheet upon them, to keep them 
straight as they become cold. These flats must then be laid one upon 
another, with a layer of some kind of preserve spread between each : apri- 
cot, green-gage, strawberry, orange, or raspberry-jam, may be used for the 
purpose. Previously to placing the last piece on the top of the cake, it 
should be first decorated with utmn^ru^-paste or sugar icing ; the sides 
must be masked with some kind of bright preserve, — such as green-gage, 
apricot, red-currant or apple-jelly, and afterwards ornamented with a 
design similar to that represented in the wood-cut, formed either of 
almond or gum-paste, (raised from carved boards used for such pur- 
poses) ; or else with piping, as used for wedding cakes. The cake should 
then be placed on its dish, the centre filled with whipped cream, and 
some strawberries piled on the top ; when these are not in season, pre- 
served cherries, verjuice, or angelica may be substituted. 









430 ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 



1368. CROQUANTE OF ORANGES. 
Let the peel and all the white pith be carefully remored with the 
fingere fix»m about a dozen sound, and not over ripe, oranges ; then divide 

them by pulling them into small sec- 
tions with the fingers, taking care not 
to break the thm skin which enve- 
lopes the juicy pulp, then place them 
on an ^rthen dish. Next, put 
about one pound of the finest lump- 
sugar into a sugar-boiler with suir- 
ficient spring water to just cover it, 
and boil it down until it snaps or be- 
comes brittle, which may be easily 
ascertained thus: take up a little of the sugar, when it be^s to boil up in 
large purling bubbles, on the point of a knife, and instantly dip it into some 
cold water : i( the sugar becomes set, it is sufiiciently boUed, and wiU 
then easily snap in breaking. The sugar should now be withdrawn from 
the fire. The pieces of orange stuck on the point of small wooden 
skewers must be slightly dipped in the sugar, and arranged at the bottom 
and round the sides of a plain circular mould (previously very lightly 
rubbed with salad oil), according to the foregoing design. When the 
whole is complete, and the sugar has become firm by cooling, just before' 
sending to table, fill the inside of the croquanie with whipped cream sea- 
soned with sugar,* a glass of maraschino and some whole strawberries, 
and then turn it out on to a napkin, and serve. 

1359. CROQUANIE OF FRESH WALNUTS. 
The fittest season for making this, is when the walnuts are just ripe 
enough to be easily taken out of the shell ; about sixty will be required for 
the purpose. They roust be carefully shelled and divided into halves, 
then fireed from the thin whitish skin which covers the kernels, and kept 
in a clean napkin until used. In all other respects, this kind of croqiiante 
must be fini^ed as in the preceding case. 

1360. CROQUANTE OF RATAFIAS, A LA CHANTILLY. 
Pbocubb one pound of small ratafias; boil down one pound of the 
finest loaf-sugar as directed in the foregoing case. Then, slightly rub the 
inside of a basket shaped mould with oU, and proceed to line this with the 
ratafias lightly dipped in the sugar — taking care to arrange them in neat 
and close order ; when the croquarUe is completed, and the sugar has be- 
come firmly set, turn it out of the mould. With the remainder of the 
sugar, form the handles, and a scroll pattern border, which is to be placed 
round the join of the basket, and also round the edge : this is effected by 
dipping the pointed end of the bowl of a spoon into the hot sugar, and 
then £awing it out, and dropping the sugar from the bowl, in the form of 
the intended design, on a baking-sheet slightly oiled; before it be- 
comes set, fix it round the part it is to ornament. Just before sending 
the croquante to table, fill the inside with whipped cream, arrange 
some strawberries, preserved cherries or cut angelica, neatly on the sur- 
fi&ce, and serve. 

* When boiling nigar ig tued for thii pnrpoie, it is costomary to add a piuch of 
cream of tartar and cakined alnm miz«d. 




MERINGUE. 431 



1361. MERINGUE, A LA PARISIENNE. 
First, make half a pound of office paste (No. 1257) ; then, slightly 

rub the outside of a tin vegetable-cutter, about one and a quarter inch in 

diameter, and cover this to the extent 

of about three and a half inches in 

length, with some of the office-paste 

rolled out rather thin ; fasten the join 

neatly with egg, and place it on a 

baking-sheet ; roll out the remainder 

of the paste to the thickness of the 

eighth part of an inch, and, out of 

this cut two circular pieces or flats, 

one measuring about six inches, and 

the other four inches in diameter; 

place them on a buttered baking-sheet^ 

egg them over, prick them with a 

fork, and bake them of a light colour, 

in a slow oven. When they are done, 

and have become cold, file or scrape 

their edges even and smooth, and 

cut the ends of the pillar even, that it may stand perfectly level ; 

then fasten the base of the pillar on to the centre of the largest flat, 

with a little white of egg and fine sugar mixed together; next, 

fasten the smaller flat on the top of the pillar in like manner, taking 
care that it is quite straight, and put the whole to dry in the skreen. 
Whip twelve whites of eggs into a firm substantial froth, and then 

mix in one pound of finely-sifled sugar ; use part of this to mask the en- 
tire surface of the foundation already described, and set this to dry 
at the entrance of the oven ; when it has become comparatively hard, 
fill a paper comet or biscuit-forcer, with some of the TTimri^tie-paste, 
and use this to form the design round the pedestal of the meringue, as 
represented in the wood-cut; when this is done, shake some sugar 
over it, and put it into the oven to be baked of a very light fawn colour. 
With pfurt of the mermguS'^paBte, a kind of cup or deep saucer, measuring 
about seven inches in diameter^ must be formed, by covering a flat dome 
(made of tm) with the paste to the thickness of about an inch ; this must 
be well sugared over and baked firm, without allowing it to acquire 
much colour. When this is done, take the meringue carefully off the dome, 
and place it upside down in a soup plate, and afler the white of egg has 
been partially removed from the interior, smoothed with a spoon, and 
then sugared over, set it to dry in the hot-closet or at the entrance of the 
oven, if the latter is not too hot. As soon as the meringue has become 
dry and hard, fiisten it on the pedestal with a little of the paste, and use 
a paper comet filled with meringue-Tpaaltey to finish ornamenting the edge 
and sides, as represented in the wood-cut ; shake some sifted sugar over 
the unbaked part, and put the meringue to dry in the hot-closet, taking 
particular care that it does not acquire any colour. Just before sending 
to table, place the meringue on a napkin in its dish, fill it with whipped 
cream flavoured with orange flower or some liqueur, and strew some straw- 
berries on the surfiuie ; gumish round the base with quarters of lemons or 
oranges filled with jelly (No. 1429), and serve. 



432 OBXAMEXTAL ENTREMETS. 



1362. GROSSE-MERiyGUE WITH PISTACHIOS. 

Pbeparb the meringue-fssie as directed in (No. 1 298) ; then cut su 
circular pieces of writing-paper to the size of a dimier plate, am 
proceed to cover each of these with a kind of wreath formed with the 
m^Ti^ti^-paste ; this is effected in the foUowing manner : Firsts draw 
a rather thick circle, about five inches in diameter, round the inner port oi 
one of the pieces of paper above alluded to ; then> with a dessert-spoon 
mould the paste in the form of very small elongated ovals, and place these 
crosswise, closely to each other, upon the circle already mentioned, thus 
forming a kind of wreath : fill the remaining five papers in the same 
way, and then after the meringues have been well covered with sifted 
sugar, sliake off the loose sugar, place them on square pieces of board, and 
bake them of a very light colour. When done, turn the wreaths ofwter- 
ingue upside down upon plates, shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked 
part, and set them to dry in a very slow oven. 

Just before sending to table, pile the wreaths or rings of meringue one 
upon another, with a layer of apricot-jam spread in between each ; fill 
the centre with whipped cream flavoured with a glass of liqueur, and 
serve. 

1363. SWA5 OF SAVOY BISCUIT, A LA CHAXTILLY. 

Pbeparb sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter (No. 1275), and bake it in a 
plain oval mould, — or failing this, in a deep oblong paper case; when 
it is done^ and has become quite cold, shape it with a sharp knife in 
the rough outline of the body of a swan ; the wings, tail piece^ and 
the neck and head, must be made of ofiice paste (No. 1257); the bill 
should be dipped in rather high-coloured boiled sugar, and the eyes may 
be formed with a little of the same, with a currant stuck in the centre, 
for the pupil. Just before sending the swan to table, stick the neck into 
the breast-part, insert the wing-pieces in the sides, and the fan-like piece 
into the tail part ; cover the bird entirely with a thick coating of whip- 
ped cream ; first smooth this over with the blade of a knife, and then, 
with the point of a small knife, imitate the feathers about the wings, tail, 
and body. Place some spun-sugar round the swan — in imitation of 
waves, and put a border of petiU-ckcmx glazed with rough sugar and pis- 
tachios round the base, and serve. 

1364. SAVOY CAKE, IN THE FORM OF A GLAZED HAM. 

Bakb sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter in an oblong paper case ; 
when this has become quite cold, shape it in the form of a nicely trim- 
med ham, with a sharp knife, and hollow it out underneath. That part <^ 
the rind which is usually left adhering to the knuckle as an ornament 
must be imitated by spreading a la^er of chocolate-icing over it, in the 
form of a scollop shell ; the remaining part of the siurfiu» of the ham 
should be masked with a coating of diluted bright apricot-jam, to imitate 
glaze. 

Just before sending the ham to table, fill the hollow part with some 
maddoine of fruit in jelly, or else with some kind of cream ; then place 
the ham on its dish, fix a handsome paper ruffle on the knuckle with a 
small silver skewer ; garnish the ham round the base with crouUnu of 
some kind of sweet jelly, pink and white ; place an ornament of the same 
on the top, and serve. 



RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES, 

COMPRISING 

Rice Cake with Almonds. Maccaroni Cake. 

Timbale of Rice. Semolina Cake. 

NomlUi Cake, d rAUemande. Potato Cake. 
Vennicelli Cake. 

1366. RICE CAKE, WITH ALMONDS. 

Wash twelve ounces of rice, put it into a stewpan with four ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of sugar, half an ounce of bitter, and four ounces of 
sweet almonds, (pounded), one quart of milk, and a very little salt ; set the 
whole to boil very gently by the side of a slow stove-fire, and by the time 
that the milk has b^me absorbed by the rice, the latter will be sufficiently 
done — or if not, a little more milk should be added previously to setting 
it to boil a little longer. When the rice is done, mix in the yolks of six 
eggs, and the whites of three, whipped. Next, shred four ounces of 
sweet almonds, and strew them equally over the inside of a plain mould, 
previously rather thickly spread with butter; then, pour in* the prepared 
rice, and bake the cake for about one hour and a half; when done, turn 
it out on to its dish, pour some diluted apricot-jam round the base, and 
serve. 

Note. — Rice cakes may also be flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower, 
lemon and cinnamon, coffee, or any kind of liqueur : dried cherries, cur- 
rants, sultana-raisins, candied-orange, lemon or citron, or pistachio kernels, 
may be added. 

1960. TIMBALE OF RICE. 
The only difference between this and a rice cake consists in the mould 
being lined either with short or puff'-paste : noui^^paste, however, is 
sometimes used for the purpose ; it should be rolled in the form of very 
small pipes, and the mould closely lined with them. The prepared rice 
should then be poured into the mould, and baked for about an hour and a 
half. When done^ turn the timbale out of the mould on its dish, glaze 
it over with sugar, and with the salamander, then pour some kind of 
diluted preserve (warm), round the base. 

1367. NOUILLES CAKES, A L'ALLBMANDE. 
Prbparb about six yolks ofnouUUs (No. 1256), put them into a stew- 
pan with one quart of milk of almonds,* eight ounces of sugar, four ounces 
of butter, two sticks of vanilla and a very little salt ; cover with the 
lid, and set them to simmer very gently by the side of a slow stove-fire ; 

* Milk of almonds is prepared in the following manner : First, remove the skins from 
eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and one oonce of bitter almonds, then pound them 
thoroughly in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of water ; when they are well 
pulverised, place them in a haain, add a quart of spring water, mix well together, and 
allow this to stand for about an hour ; the milk may then be drawn off by straining it 
through a napkin. 

P F 



434 RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES. •* 

by the time that the nouilles have absorbed all the milk, they w ill be 
sufficiently done, and must then be withdrawn from the fire and emp- 
tied into a basin. Add the yolks of six eggs, and the whipped whites of 
three, mix the whole lightly together, and pour it into a mould pre- 
viously spread with butter, and strewn with shredded almonds. The 
cake must then be baked in the usual manner, and when done, turned 
out of the mould on its dish, and served with some Victoria cherry 
sauce (No. 64). 

J\^ote. — This kind of cake may also be made with maccaroni, vermicelli, 
or semolina, and it may be flavoured in the same manner as rice cakes 
or timhales, 

1368. VERMICELLI CAKE. 

Parbol twelve ounces of vermicelli, drain it on a sieve, and then put 
it into a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, eight ounces 
of sugar, the zest or essence of the rind of two oranges extracted by 
rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a little salt ; cover with the lid, and 
set the stewpan to simmer very gently on a slow fire until the vermicelli 
has entirely absorbed the cream. Then add the yolks of six eggs and 
the whipped whites of three, mix the whole lightly together, and put 
this preparation into a mould previously spread with butter, and strewn 
with bread-crumbs ; bake the cake in the oven for about an hour and a 
half, and when done, turn it out on its dish ; pour some damson sauce 
round the base, and serve. 

1369. MACCARONI CAKE 
Is prepared in the same way as vermicelli cake. 

1370. SEMOLINA CAKE. 

This is also made in the same manner as a vermicelli cake, except 
that it does not require to be parboiled. 
Sago and tapioca are treated in a similar way. 

1371. POTATO CAKE. 

Bake eighteen large York potatoes, and when done, rub their pulp 
through a wire sieve ; put this into a large basin, add four ounces of but- 
ter, eight ounces of sifted sugar, a spoonful of pounded vanilla, a gill of 
cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of two, and a little 
salt ; work the whole well together, and then place it in a mould pre- 
viously spread with butter, and strewn with bread-crumbs; bake the 
cake for about an hour, and when done, dish it up with a fruit sauce 
poured round the base, made in the following manner : — 

Pick one pound of either currants, raspberries, cherries, damsons, 
strawberries, or apricots; place them in a stewpan with eight ounces of 
sifted sugar and half a gill of water ; boil the whole down to the consist* 
ency of a thick /mr^, and then rub it through a sieve or tammy. 



435 



SOUFFLES IN GENERAL, 

OOMPRiaiNG 

Potato-flour So^ffU, SouJUs of Raspberries. 

SomffU of Rice. Brown-bread SouffU, d VAUemande. 

Chocolate Souffle, Omelette Soufflii, 

Coffee Souffle, PaDcakes, Plain. 

Ginger SouffU, ^ hla CdeiHme. 

Pine Apple Souffle, Pancakes Souffles. 

Soufflk of Apricots. 

1372. POTATO-FLOUR SOUFFLE. 

Inorbdibnts: — Six ounces of potato-flour, ten ounces of sugar, four 
ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, twelve eggs, two sticks of 
vanilla, and a little scdt. 

Put the milk or cream to boil, then throw in the vanilla, cover the stew- 
pan with its lid, and allow the infusion to stand for about half-an-hour, 
in order to extract the flavour of the vanilla. Next, put the potato- 
fiour, the sugar, butter, salt, and one egg into a stewpan, and mix the 
whole well together ; then add the milk and the vanilla, and stir the 
preparation on the stove-fire until it boils, when it must be worked with 
the spoon to make it perfectly smooth ; after adding the yolks of ten 
eggs, set it aside, while the ten whites are being whipped quite firm, and 
then add these in with the maffA batter : pour the whole lightly into a 
^(mffli dish, having a broad band of buttered caitridge paper round 
the outside, and then set it in the oven to bake: this will take 
about three quarters of an hour. W^®^ ^^® ^oujfli is done, place it 
(on its baking-sheet) upon another baking-sheet covered with hot em- 
bers of charcoal, and let it be thus carried to the dining-room door ; 
just before dishing it up, remove the bands of paper, shake some sifted 
sugar over the top, place it in the wmffl^ dish, and serve immediately. 

Note. — Smfflh of flour, ground rice, semolina, arrow-root, tapioca, tot«- 
lesmoisj (a kind of potato-flour,) should all be prepared as the above; 
substituting either of these for the potato-flour. Souffles may be flavoured 
with orange, lemon, cinnamon, orange-flowers, or with any kind of es- 
sence or liqueur. 

1373. SOUFFLE OF RICE. 
Inorbdibnts : — Six ounces of rice, ten ounces of sugar, four ounces of 
butter, ten eggs, two lemons, a quart of milk, and a little salt. Wash the 
rice and parboil it in water for frte minutes ; then put it into a stew-pan 
with the sugar, butter, milk and salt, and set this to simmer very gently 
on a slow fire for about an hour, by which time the grains of the rice 
will have become quite soft ; the whole should now be well worked with 
a wooden spoon, and the ten yolks of eggs, with the rind of the lemons 
rubbed on sugar, should then be added, and if the rice be too firm, 
a little cream also. The ten whites of eggs must be whipped very 
firm, then lightly mixed in with the preparation, and poured into the 
souffle case or crust, baked for about three quarters of an hour, and 
served immediately. 

F r 2 



43G SOUFFLES. 



1374. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 
This is made by adding eight ounces of finely-scraped vanilla choco- 
late to two thirds of the same kind of preparation directed to be used in 
making a potato-flour ^or/j^e. The same number of eggs are also required. 

1376. COFFEE SOUFFLE. 

Put eight ounces of Mocha coffee into an untinned stewpan or sugar- 
boiler, and roast it of a light colour, by stirring it continually over a char- 
coal fire. When the coffee has acquired a light brown colour, toss it up 
in the pan, blow away the small burnt particles, and then throw it 
into a pint of boiling-cream ; put the lid on the infusion, and allow it to 
stand for about half an hour, in order to extract the flavour. Then, 
strain the infusion away from the coffee-berries, in a basin, and use it 
to mix up the ioufflt, in exactly the same manner as described for the po- 
tato-flour souffle, 

1376. GINGER SOUFFLE. 

Prbpabb a potato-flour souffle^ and add to it eight ounces of preserved 
ginger cut up into small dice-like pieces. The vanilla must of course 
be omitted. 

1377. PINE-APPLE SOUFFLE. 
Follow the directions for making a potato-flour souffle, adding to it 
about one pound of preserved pine-apple, cut up into smaJl pieces ; the 
syrup of this should also be added. 

1378. SOUFFLE OF APRICOTS. 
Remove the stones, and peel eighteen ripe apricots, then put them, 
together with the kernels, into a stewpan with twelve ounces of pounded 
sugar ; stir this over the fire with a wooden spoon, and as soon as the 
fruit is boiled down to a jam, withdraw it from the fire, and mix it 
with half the usual quantity of the preparation for a potato-flour souffli. 
The same number of eggs are required, and in all other respects the 
same directions should be followed. 

NoU, — Sovfflcs of peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums, are pre- 
pared in the same manner as the above. 

1379. SOUFFLE OF RASPBERRIES. 
Put one pound of picked raspberries into a small preserving pan, with 
twelve ounces of pounded sugar, stir the whole over a charcoal fire until 
it has boiled for about five minutes^ and then rub it through a sieve. 
Use this preparation as directed for making a sovffli of apricots. 

Note. — Soufflh of currants, strawberries, or gooseberries, are made 
in the same way. 

1380. BROWN-BREAD SOUFFLE, A l'ALLEMANDE. 
Put one pound of brown breadcrumbs into a stewpan with a pint of 
cream, ten ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of butter, and a little 
salt, and flavour it with some cinnamon-powder and lemon-sugar. Stir 



PANCAKES. 437 

this over the stove-fire until it boils, then remove it, and add the yolks of 
ten eggs ; next^ whip the whites quite firm^ and mix them in lightly 
with the preparation^ then pour it into the touJU-caaef and bake 
it in the usual manner : when done, shake some cinnamon-sugar over it, 
and serve. 

1381. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE. . 
Put the yolks of six ecgs into a large basin, add sii ounces of pound* 
ed sugar, a dessert-spoonfij of potato-flour, ditto of orange-flower- water, 
(or any other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes,) and 
a very Iktle salt ; stir these together with a wooden spoon for about ten 
minutes ; then whip the six whites, and mix them in lightly with the 
batter. Next, put two ounces of butter into an omlet-pan, set it 
on a stove-fire, and as soon as the butter begins to sputter, pour the 
whole of the omlet-batter into it ; set the pan over the fire, and as the 
batter becomes partially set round the sides and at the bottom of the pan, 
toss it over and over gently, and then turn the omelette out neatly, and 
as much as possible in the form of a dome, on to a silver dish previously 
spread with butter ; put it in the oven, and bake it for about twelve 
minutes, when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some sugar on 
the omelette, and serve it immediately. 

1382. PANCAKES, PLAIN. 

Mix four ounces of flour with four ounces of pounded sugar, two 
ounces of bruised ratafias, a dessert-spoonful of orange-flour-water, four 
yolks and two whole eggs, a pint of cream and a very little salt. 
When milk is used instead of cream, two ounces of butter should be 
added, and must be melted previously to its being mixed in with the 
batter. 

When about to firy the pancakes, melt about two ounces of butter in 
a small stewpan, and keep this by the side of the stove ; before throw- 
ing any of the batter into the pan, first pour a little of the butter over 
the bottom ; fry the pancakes on both sides of a very light brown colour, 
pile them one upon another on the dish, and serve immediately. Plain 
pancakes should be eaten with a little lemon-juice and some pounded 
sugar. 

1383. PANCAKES, A LA CELESTINE. 

Prbparb the pancakes as above, and as each is fried, spread some 
apricot>jam upon it, then roll it up, and place it on a baking-sheet in the 
oven ; when a sufficient number is ready, shake some sifted sugar over 
them, glaze them with a red-hot salamander, and then dish up the pan- 
cakes on a napkin in close circular order, in double or treble rows, and 
serve them quite hot. 

1384. PANCAKES SOUFFLES. 
Prbparb some potato-flour «>t^-batter (No. 1972)— about half the 
usual quantity will suffice ; make also the usual quantity of pancake- 
batter. Then firy the pancakes, and as they are done, spread them over 
with apricot-jam, and pile them up one upon another in the form of a 
dome, with a thick layer of the wm^i-batter in between each pancake. 
When the whole is complete, put them in the oven to bake for about 
half an hour ; when done, shiake some sugar over the top, and serve 
immediately. 



438 
PUDDINGS IN GENERAL, 

COMPRISING 

Brown-Bread Pudding, d la Gotha. Oingvr Podding. 

Cherry Bread. Pine-apple ^ 

Mehl Prie. fjemon ^ 

Krapfen^ or German Puffs. Orange » 

Semolina Pudding, d, la Baden. Bread „ plain. « 

Dampfnwieln^ or German Dumplings. Rusk „ 

Pudding, a la (!obuig. Apple „ 

^ a la Franfais*:. Biscuit „ a la Prince Albert. 

„ d la Viennoiife. Plum „ 

Cabinet Podding. Tapioca „ 

Cbeatnut „ 

1386. BEOWN-BREAD PUDDING, A LA GOTHA. 

Get ready the following ingredients : — Twelve ounces of brown bread- 
crumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six eggs, half a pint of whipped 
cream, some grated lemon-rind, a little cinnamon -powder, one pound of 
morello cherries, and a little salt. 

Mix the bread-crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, and whipped 
cream, the lemon, cinnamon, and the salt, together in a laige baisin ; 
then add the whipped whites of six eggs, and set this aside. Next, 
spread a plain mould with butter, and strew it with brown bread-crumbe; 
then, spread a large spoonful of the preparation at the bottom of the 
mould, and arrange a layer of cherries (with the stones left in) upon it; 
cover this with some of the preparation, and upon it place more cherries, 
and so on until the mould is filled. The pudding must now be placed 
on a baking-sheet, and put in the oven (moderately heated), to be baked 
for about an hour; when done, turn it out of the mould on its dish, pour 
a jmrce of cherry-sauce round the base, and serve. 

In Saxony, it is customary to eat this kind of pudding as a cake, 
when cold ; in this case it should be entirely covered with sifled Bugar, 
mixed with one-fourth part of cinnamon-powder. 

1886. CHERRY BREAD. 

Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish-cherries, and pound them 
in a mortar so as to bruise the stones ; they must then be placed in 
a small preserving-pan with about a pint of claret or port vriue, and 
twelve ounces of sugar; allow this to boil upon the stove-fire, remove 
the scum as it rises, and afler the cherries have boiled for about ten 
minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour it into a silver 
«au^- case. 

While the above part of the entremeU is in course of preparation, a 
dozen pieces of crumb of bread, or French rolls, shaped in the form of eggs 
with a sharp knife, should be fried of a light fawn colour in some clarified 
butter. Afler these have been drained on a clean cloth, place them 
in close circular rows in the purie of cherries ; shake some cinnamon- 
sugar over the surface, set the cherry-bread on a baking-sheet in the 
oven, to simmer slowly for about half an hour, and when done, send to 
table. 



GERMAN PUFF 439 



1387. MEHL PRIE. 

Ingbbdibnts required : — Six ounces of flour, eight ounces of 
pounded sugar, two sticks of yaniUa, a very little salt, a quart of cream, 
and a pint of milk. 

Put the flour, sugar, and salt, into an appropriate-sized stewpan, and 
mix in with these the cream and milk with the vanilla ; then, stir the 
whole with a wooden spoon over a brisk charcoal fire, until it has boiled 
down to about one-half of its original quantity; the mehlprie should then 
be withdrawn from the fire, and kept hot by the side of the stove, the 
stewpan containing it being kept covered with its lid. Next, place an 
untinned bakins-sheet on a trivet over a charcoal stove-fire, and when it 
has become too hot for the hand to remain upon it, spread the centre over 
with a thin coating of the mM prie (which may be done with the back of 
a wooden spoon), and as this becomes browned, it will detach itself from 
the baking-sheet; it must then be removed, and before it has cooled, should 
be cut or staipped out with a tin cutter. This must be repeated until 
the process has furnished a plateful of crisp chips. When alx)ut to send 
the mehl prie to table, the custard pudding should be poured into a souJU- 
dish, and the chips sent up separately on a plate; when served &t 
table, a small ladleful of the custard should be first poured on the 
guest's plate, and then a spoonful of the chips placed upon this. 

i38a ERAPFEN, OR GERMAN PUFFS. 

Inorbdibnts required : — One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, six 
^gg8, a gill of cream, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of German yeast, a 
very little salt, with the rind of two oranges rubbed on a piece of sugar 
and the zest then scraped off. 

First, set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, in 
the usual manner, and let it rise in a warm temperature; meanwhile 
spread the flour out in the form of a ring, and place the sugar, salt, butter, 
eggs, and cream in the centre ; then work the whole well together with 
both hands; gather it up in a heap towards the edge of the slab, and with 
the knuckles of both hands bent under, rub the paste quickly before you 
on the slab ; then gather it up again in a heap, by taking up small por- 
tions at a time with both hands held together, and fling it down on the 
slab with some force. This must be constantly repeated for about five 
minutes. As soon as the sponge has sufliciently risen, let it be added to the 
paste, and thoroughly incorporated with it. The krapfen-^eaie should now 
be gathered up, and placed in a clean napkin previously strewn over with 
flour, to prevent the paste firom adhering to it, and set in a rather cool place 
to rise : this will require about four hours. The paste must then be 
kneaded on the slab, and after it has been again placed in the cool for 
about half an hour, let it be cut up into about thirty pieces of equal size; 
knead these in the form of round balls, and place them by half-dozens, on 
separate sheets of paper spread with butter; the sheets of ib^|>/«i must now 
be placed on baking- sheets, and set to rise in a warm part of the kitchen: 
when the krapfen have risen, immerse them in some clean hog's-lard 
made quite hot for the purpose, and fry them of a light colour ; as soon as 
they are done, drain them on a clean cloth, shake some cinnamon and 
orange sugar over them, dish them up in a pyramidal form on a nap- 
kin, and serve them with some warm aprioot-jam diluted with a little 
water or syrup. 



440 PUDDINGS. 



13B9. SEMOLINA PUDDING, A LA BADEN. 

Inobbdients required: — Twelve ounces of semolina, six ounces of 
pounded sugar, eight ounces of butter, eight eggs, a pint of cream, a 
table-spoonful of orange-flower- water, two ounces of ratafias, and a little salt 

Mix the semolina with the sugar, the orange-flower- water, half the 
butter, two eggs, the cream, and salt, in a stewpan ; stir this over a stOTe- 
fire until it boils, then work it perfectly smooth, and keep working the 
paste over the stove-fire until it ceases to adhere to the sides of the stew- 
pan ; then, withdraw it fit>m the fire, and gradually mix in the re- 
mainder of the eggs and butter, and also the bruised ratafias. Next, 
spread the inside of a plain mould with butter, and fill it with the pre- 
paration of semolina ; put the bottom of the mould in a deep saut^wo 
half filled with hot water, and place it in the oven to bake for about an 
hour and a quarter ; when done, turn the pudding out on to its dish, 
pour either a fruit or custard sauce over it, and serve. 

1300. DAMPFNUDELN, OR GERMAN DUMPLINGS. 

' Th BSE are made with the same kind of paste as the hrapfen (No. 1388), 
but half the quantity will suffice for this purpose. When the fermentation 
of the paste has properly taken place, let it be laid on the pastry-slab, 
kneaded into a dozen small rolls, and then placed in a deep sautapan, about 
an inch apart from each other ; as much warm milk must be poured over 
them, as will suffice to cover their surface, and as soon as they have risen 
to nearly twice their original size, put them in the oven to be baked of a 
light colour ; just before withdrawing them from the oven, see that the 
milk is not absorbed by the dampfnuddn, and let them be glazed 
over with sugar and the red-hot salamander. Dish them up on a 
napkin, and send some vanilla-custard sauce separately in a sauce-boat. 

1391. PUDDING, A LA COBOURG. 
For this purpose, it is necessary to have some ready baked hriod^. 
This should be cut in circular slices, about an inch less in diameter 
than the mould intended to be used for the pudding; the slices of 
brioche must be placed on a dish, and soaked in maraschino. The sides 
of the mould should be spread with butter, and ornamented with dried 
cherries and candied citron ; and previously to placing the pieces of brioche 
in the mould, let each of them be spread with apricot-jam ; the mould 
must then be filled up with some vanilla-custard prepared for the purpose, 
part of which must, however, be reserved for the sauce. The pudding 
should be steamed in the usual way for about aa hour and a quarter, and 
when done, turned out on its dish, and the sauce poured over it. 

1302. PUDDING, A LA FRANCAISE. 

Take the following ingredients: — Twelve ounces of chopped marrow, 
eight ounces of flour, eight ounces of apricot-jam, four ounces of chopped 
apples, six ounces of dned cherries, six ounces of candied orange peel and 
citron, four ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, six cloves (pounded), 
a tea spoonful of cinnamon-powder, the zest of the rind of two oranges on 
sugar, five whole eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and about half a 
pint of cream. 

Put the above ingredients into a laige basin, and mix them well to- 



CHESTNUT PUDDING. 441 

gether ; spread a mould with butter, shake a little flour about the inside, 
fill it with the pudding, and after tying it up in a cloth, boil it for about 
four hours, and when done, dish it up with a German-custard-sauce, made 
as follows : 

Put four yolks of eggs into a bain-marie or stewpan, together with 
two ounces of pounded sugar, a glass of Sherry, some orange or lemon 
peel (rubbed on loaf sugar), and a very little salt. Whisk this sharply 
over a veiy slow fire, until it assumes the appearance of a light frothy 
custard. * 

1393. PUDDING, A LA YIENNOISE. 

Inobbdibnts required: — Twelve ounces of brioche, or crumb of bread 
cut up into small dice, two glasses of Madeira, the rind of two lemons, 
two ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds pounded, six 
ounces of sultana raisins, a burnt-sugar custard, made with eight yolks of 
eggs, a pint of cream, two ounces of burnt-sugar, and sweetened with six 
ounces of loaf sugar. 

Put the brioche, almonds, rind of lemon (rubbed on sugar) and the 
sultanas, into a large basin ; pour the Madeira to this, and when it has 
been absorbed by the brioche, &c., pour as much of the burnt-sugar 
custard on to it, as will suffice to complete the quantity required to fill 
the mould. Then, spread the inside of the mould with butter, decorate 
it with candied orange-peel, and fill it with the above preparation. This 
pudding must be steamed for about an hour and a half, and when done, 
turned out on its dish, some custard or arrow-root-sauce poured over it, 
and sent to table. 

1394. CABINET PUDDING. 
Sprbad the inside of a plun mould with butter, and ornament the sides 
with dried cherries and candied citron; fill the mould with alternate 
layers of slices of sponge-cakes and ratafias or macaroons ; then fill up 
the mould with a lemon-custard made with eight yolks of eggs, a pint 
of milk or cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the grated 
rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but merely mixed up. 
Steam the pudding in the usual way, fi>r about an hour and a half, and 
when done, dish it up either with arrow-root-sauce or a custard. 

1396. CHESTNUT PUDDING. 

Bake or boil fifty fine chestnuts, rub their pulp through a sieve, and 
place this in a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, a pounded stick of vanilla, and a very little salt ; stir 
these ingredients over a stove fire until the preparation thickens, and then 
quicken the motion of the spoon, so as to prevent the paste fhftn adhering 
to the bottom of the stewpan. As soon as it leaves the sides of the stew- 
pan, remove it from the fire ; add eight yolks, and the whites of six eggs 
whipped firm ; pour the pudding mixture into a plain mould, previously 
spread with butter, and then steam it for about an hour and a half. 
When the pudding is done, turn it carefully out of the mould on its dish, 
pour some warm fluted apricot-jam over it, and serve. 

1396. GINGER PUDDING. 
Ingredients required: — Six ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, six 
eggs, eight ounces of preserved ginger, a pint of cream, six ounces of 
butter, a little salt. 



442 PUDDINGS. 

Put the cream, sugar, butter and salt into a stewpan on the fire, and 
as soon as these begin to simmer take off the stewpan, throw in the 
flour, and stir the whole together quickly ; then put this paste badk 
again on the fire, and continue stirring it for about five minutes ; it rouit 
then be withdrawn, and the six eggs mixed in gradually with it. The 
ginger, cut into small pieces, must now be added to the preparatiofit which 
must then be poured into the mould previously spread with butter. Steam 
it for an hour and a half, and when done, dish up the pudding with a 
custard sauce made with the syrup from the ginger. 

1397. PIXE-APPLE PUDDIXG. 

This is made in the same manner as the above^ pine-apple being 
substituted for ginger. 

1398. LEM05 PIDDIXG. 

Inorbdibnts required: — The juice and grated rind (rubbed on sugar) 
of six lemons, a pint of cream, six ounces ofbruised ratidias, twelve yolks 
and the whites of four eggs, whipped, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinna- 
mon powder, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and a very little salt. 

Mix the above altogether in a large basin, and work the ingredients 
together with a whisk for about ten minutes. Next, put a £[>rder of 
piSr paste round the edge of a tart dish, spread the dish with butter, 
pour the batter into it, strew some shred pistachio kernels on the top, and 
bake it for about half an hour (at moderate heat). When done, shake 
some sifted sugar over it, and serve. 

1399. ORANGE PUDDING. 

Tjiis is made as the above ; double the quantity of oranges may be 
used for this purpose, owing to their not containing so much acid as 
lemons : but the rind of three will suffice for the zest. 

1400. BREAD PUDDING PLAIN. 

Inorbdibnts :— Twelve ounces of breadcrumbs, six ounces of sugar, 
two ounces of butter, a pint of milk, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a 
piece of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and two whites whipped, and a little salt. 

Put the breadcrumbs into a basin with the sugar, butter, lemon-sugar, 
and salt ; then pour in the milk boiling, cover up the whole and leave it 
to steep for about ten minutes ; the eggs may then be added, and after 
the whole has been well mixed together, pour the preparation into a 
mould, or pudding basin, previously spread with butter. Steam the 
pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish it up with some arrow- 
root sauce made as follows : Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with 
twice that quantity of sugar, half the juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg 
and a gill of water, and stir this over the fire until it boils. ^ 

1401. RUSK PUDDING. 

Inorbdibnts : — A dozen rusks, a plain custard of six eggs, a pint of 
cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of maraschino, a little salt, and four 
ounces of dried cherries. 

Spread a plain mould with butter, arrange the cherries round the sides 
and bottom, dip the rusks in the custard, and place them in the mould 
with a layer of raspberry-jam between each layer of rusks ; fill up the 



PLUM PUDDING. 443 

mould with the custard, and steam the pudding in the usual manner. 
When done^ dish it up with a German custard sauce (No. 1 992,) 

1402. APPLE PUDDING. 
Pebl two dozen grey russets, remove the cores and cut them up in 
slices ; then put the apples into a deep sautapan with four ounces of 
butter, the rind of two lemons, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and one 
pound of apricot jam ; toss the whole over a slow stove fire until the 
apples begin to dissolve, and then set them aside to cool. Next, line a 
good-sized pudding basin with some light made suet paste, fill this with 
the prepared apples, place a covering of paste on the top, fasten it down 
securely, and then steam it in the usual manner for about two hours. 
When the pudding is done, dish it up, pour some warm apricot jam over 
it, and serve. 

1403. BISCUIT PUDDING, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 

Ingrebientb : — Twelve ounces of crumbled Savoy cake, a pint of 
cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of two, the rind of 
a lemon rubbed on sugar, four ounces of pounded sugar, and a little salt. 

Pour the pint of cream (boiling) on to the crumbled Savoy cake and 
let it steep for a few minutes ; then add the sugar, the eggs, the lemon- 
sugar and the salt : mix the whole lightly together, pour the preparation 
into a mould spread with butter, and steam the pudding for about an 
hour and a quarter. When done, dish it up with a puree of currants and 
raspberries for the sauce, or else serve a custard sauce over it. 

1404. PLUM PUDDING. 

Inoredibnts : — Three quarters of a pound of raisins, three quarters 
of a pound of currants, half a pound of candied orange, lemon, and 
citron, one pound and a quarter of chopped beef suet, one pound of 
flour, three quarters of a pound of moist sugar, four eggs, about three 
gills of milk, the grated rind of two lemons, half an ounce of nutmeg, 
cinnamon and cloves (in powder), a glass of brandy and a veiy little 
salt. 

Mix the above ingredients thoroughly together in a large basin several 
hours before the pudding is to be boiled ; pour them into a mould spread 
with butter, which should be tied up in a cloth. The pudding must 
then be boiled for four hours and a half; when done, dish it up with a 
German custard sauce spread over it (No. 1992). 

1406. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Inobedibnts: — Ten ounces of tapioca, a quart of milk, six ounces of 
sugar, six yolks of eggs and two whipped whites, the grated rind of a 
lemon, two ounces of butter, and a little salt. 

Put the tapioca, sugar, butter, salt, grated lemon, and the milk into a 
stewpan, stir this over the fire until it boils ; then cover the stewpan 
with its lid, and set it on a very slow stove-fire (partially smothered with 
ashes), to continue gently simmering for a quarter of an hour. The 
tapioca should then be withdrawn from the fire, and after the six yolks 
and the two whipped whites of eggs have been thoroughly incorporated in 
it, pour the preparation into a mould or pudding basin previously spread 
with butter ; steam the pudding for about an hour and a half, and when 
done, dish it up with either a plain arrowroot or custard sauce over it. 



444 PULDIXGS. 

Sai^ or lemolina may be prepared in the ame manner. 

SfM* — In addition to the foregoing. Puddings may alao be made whi 
ev«ry kind of preparation described for maldng timhaU^ or cakes of ive, 
vermicelli, maccaroni, fumiU^, &c. These may be either steamed in i 
mould or pudding basin, or baked in a pie dish. 

1406. FOyDU OF PARMESAN CHEESE. 

IxGREDiEirrs: — Twelve ounces of fresh P^mnesan cheese grated, fear 
ounces of flour, twelve ^gs, four ounces of butter, a pint of milk or 
cream, a pinch of minionette pepper, and a very little salt. 

Mix the flour, butter, pepper and salt, well together with the milk, 
and then stir this over the fire until it boils ; work the batter quieklr 
with the spoon to render it perfectly smooth, then add the grated 
cheese and the twelve yolks of eggs ; whip the whites quite 6rm and 
add them also, very lightly. Fill the souJU case with the fomdu^ bab 
it for about three quarters of an hour, and send it to table aa soon as it 
is ready. 

Note, — Half the quantity of Gruyere with the other half of Pannesu 
cheese is sometimes used* It is also customary to season fimdus with 
mustard, lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, for those 
who prefer high seasoning to the more delicate flavour of the ParmeHn 
cheese : the latter is most likely to be approved of by a true epicure. 



445 



JELLIES 



COMPRISING 



CalTs-foot Jelly, with wine. 
Clarification of CalTs-foot Jelly for 

general purposes. 
Orange Jelly made with CalTs-foot Stock. 
Clarified Syrup for Jellies. 
To Clarify Isinglass. 
Preparation of Paper for filtering Orange 

or Lemon Juice for Jellies. 
Orange Jelly, a rAnglaite, 
Lemon Jelly, a VAnglaite. 
Orange Jelly, h la Fran^im, 
Pomegranate Jelly. 
Pine Apple Jelly. 



Currant and Raspberry Jelly. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Cherry Jelly. 

Mulberry Jelly. 

Maeedoine of Fruits. 

Orange Jelly, garnished with qoarters of 

Oranges. 
Maraschino Jelly. 
Variegated Jelly, i, la Victoria, 
PanachSe Jelly. 
Russian Jelly. 
Punch Jelly. 
Oranges filled with transparent Jelly. 



1407. calf's foot JELLY, WITH WINE. 

Split four calfs feet, break up the bones, and put the whole into a 
gallon-sized stewpan or stockpot ; then fill it up with cold water, and set it 
on the fire to boU ; remove the scum as it rises to the surface^ and when 
the stock has been thoroughly skimmed, set it down by the side of the 
fire, to continue gently boiling for about five hours. The stock must then 
be strained off through a sieve into a basin or pan, and set aside in a cool 
place until it has become firm. The grease should be scraped off 
the surface with a spoon, and a little boiling water thrown over it, in 
order to wash away any that may remain ; it should then be wiped 
with a clean cloth and put into a stewpan to melt over the fire. Next, 
add two pounds of loaf sugar, a pint of sherry, two glasses of brandy, 
twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of fotu* lemons peeled very 
thin, and without any of tlie pith, as this is bitter ; then pour in the 
whites of six eggs and two whole eggs whipped up with a little cold 
water and the bruised shells ; whip this well together over the fire, and 
when it is near boiling, throw in the juice of eight lemons, stir the jelly 
with the whisk for a minute or so, and then set the stewpan down by 
the side of the fire ; put on the lid with some live embers upon it, and 
allow the jelly to stand by the side of the stove-fire for a quarter of an 
hour longer, to set the eggs. Next, throw the jelly into a jelly-bag fixed 
on a stand, ready with a basin placed under, to receive it as it passes 
through the bag ; continue pouring the jelly back again through the bag 
severad times, until it runs quite bright and clear ; then cover over the 
stand with a cloth, and leave the jelly to run until the whole is passed. 

This kind of jelly may either be served in glasses, or set in moulds 
imbedded in rough ice ; when it has become quite firm, dip the mould in 
hot water, wipe it, and then turn the jelly out carefully on its dish. 



446 JELLIES. 



1408. CLARinCATIOy OF CALF'S-FOOT JELLY, FOR GE5EBAL 
PrRPOSES. 

PcT the prepared stock of four calft feet into a ttewpon with two 
pounds of sugar, the rind of four lemons, and the juice of eight ; whip six 
whites and two whole eggs together, with half a pint of spring water ; 
throw this in with the stock, and whisk the whole together oyer the stofe- 
fire, until it is on the point of hoiling, then add the juice of another kmon 
and a little spring water ; withdraw the jelly from the stove, and set it 
down by the side, to continue gently simmering for about ten minutes 
longer, covered with the stewpan lid containing some live embers of 
charcoal. The jelly may then be passed through the bag in the usual 
way, and when it has run through perfectly bright, let it be kept in a 
cool place to be used as occasion may require. 

This kind of foundation or stock-jelly, prepared without any decided 
flavour, may be used for making all kinds of jellies: it will then only be 
necessary to add, to the quantity required to All a mould, a gill and 
a half of any kind of liqueur ; and if the jelly is too stiff, a little thin 
syrup may also be added. It may be used likewise for making fruit 
jellies, with the addition of a pint of the filtered juice of currants, rasp- 
berries, cherries or strawberries, or half a pint of the clarified infusion 
syrup of peaches, apricots or pine-apples. 

1409. OEAXGE JELLY, MADE WITH CALF'S-FOOT STOCK. 
To the stock produced from four calfs feet, add two pounds of loaf 
sugar, the juice of six lemons and a dozen oranges, and the rind of e^t 
oranges ; put the stewpan on the fire to melt the stock, and then pour in 
the whipped whites of eggs, and continue whisking the jelly on the stove- 
fhre until it begins to simmer ; it must then be set down by the side of 
the stove-fire, covered with the stewpan lid, and allowed to continue 
simmering till the egg is set : the jelly must then bo passed through the 
bag in the usual way, and just before putting it into the mould, a few 
drops of prepared cochineal should be added to give it an orange-pink 
tinge. 

Ncie. — Lemon jelly is prepared in the same way as the above, sub- 
stituting lemons for oranges. 

1410. CLARIFIED SYRUP, FOR JELLIES. 

To every pound of the finest loaf sugar, whatever quantity may be 
required, add rather more than a pint of spring water ; and when the 
sugar is dissolved, add half the white of an egg whipped up with a little 
water; whisk the whole well together, set the stewpan on the stove- 
fire, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, set it down by the side of 
the fire to continue gently boiling, until it has thrown up all the scum ; 
remove this as it rises to the surfece, and then strain the syrup through 
a napkin into a basin, and keep it in a cool place for use. 

1411. TO CLARIFY ISINGLASS. 

First wash the isinglass in cold water, to free it from the dust that is 

apt to gather about it ; then put it into a stewpan, and to every two 

ounces add half a pint of spring water, and about one ounce of sugar ; 

stir this on the stovo-fire till it boils, then throw in the juice of half a 



JELLIES. 447 

lemon, and set the stewpen by the side of the stove, to continue gently 
boiling for about ten minutes, in order to dissolve the shreds of isinglass, 
and that it may thereby throw up all the scum, which should fc^ re- 
moved as it rises to the surface ; the isinglass may then be strained 
through a napkin into a basin, and used for the required purpose. 

Isinglass may also be clarified by adding a very small quantity of 
whipped white of egg, after it has been dissolved in water as directed 
above, and then allowed to cool previously to mixing in the white of egg ; 
it must then be allowed to boil gently by the side of the stove- fire, and 
when perfectly cleared of all the scum, should be strained through a 
napkin. 

Nate. — There are several kinds of gelatine in use which serve the 
same purpose as isinglass, with more or less success ; all these may be 
clarified in the same way as the above. 

1412. PREPARATION OF PAPER FOR FILTERINO ORAKGE OR 
LEMON-JUICE, FOR JELLIES. 

Wash several sheets of whited-brown paper (of the best quality) in 
cold water; then boil them in two quarts of water for about twenty 
minutes, strain the water from the paper and pound it in a mortar until 
reduced to a fine pulp ; mix this with a spoonful' of washed white sand, 
then add both to the juice intended to be filtered, and throw the whole 
into a clean beaver jelly-bag. Pass the juice through the filtering bag 
until it drops as bright as spring water. 

1413. ORANGE JELLY, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Rub the rind of six oranges upon twelve ounces of the best loaf sugar 
and put this into a basin ; then squeeze the juice from a dozen ripe 
oranges and four lemons, and add this to the sugar. Next, clarify two 
ounces of isinglass as directed in (No. 1411), and mix this with the 
juice and sugar in a sugar-boiler, add six drops of prepared cochineal, 
and stir the whole over the stove-fire till the jelly becomes tepid ; then 
strain it through a hair sieve into a basin, and when it has become quite 
cold and is commencing to congeal on the sur&ce and sides of the basin, 
stir it well together, and pour it into a mould previously imbedded in 
rough ice. When the jelly is set firm, dip the mould in rather warm 
water, wipe it with a cloth, and turn it out carefully on its dish. 

1414. LEMON JELLY, A L'aNGLAISB. 

This is prepared in the same way as the above, substituting lemons 
for oranges ; it will be necessary however to add four ounces of sugar, 
on account of the acidity of the lemons. 

1415. ORANGE JELLY, A LA FRAN9AISE. 

Pbbl off the rind from six oranges, as thin as possible, and put it into 
a pint basin. Then clarify one pound of the finest loaf sugar with a pint 
of spring water and half the white of an egg, and strain it through a 
napkin on to the rind ; cover the basin down with a sheet of paper twisted 
tightly round the edges, to prevent the volatile essence of the essential 
oil contained in the rind from escaping. Extract the juice fh>m twelve 
oranges and four lemons (by pressure) into a basin^ remove the pips, and 



448 JELLIES. 

filter the juice as directed in (No. 1412); this being done, strain & 
infusion sjnip through a napkin into a basin, add the filtered jniee, 
two ounces of clarifieid isin^ass and six dn^ of prepared codimeal ; 
stir these together, and then pour the jelly into the mould pre fku dj r 
imbedded in rough ice. 

N(M, — Lemon jeUy h la Frangaite is prepared in the same manner 
as the foregoing, except that the cochineal must be omitted, and four 
ounces of sugar added to qualify the acidity of the lemons. 

1416. F0MI0IIA5ATE JELLT. 

Extract the bright pips from six ripe pomegranates, bruise these in a 
basin, with one pound of roughly pounded sugar, add thereto a gill of 
spring water, and then filter the preparation through a beayer jdly-bag, 
without the aid of paper pulp, in order te preserve the delicate flamour of 
the fruit: when either paper or sand is made use of for the purpose of fil- 
tering the juice of any kind of delicate flavoured fruit, although the juice 
is rendered brighter, it certainly loses much of its original flavour. 

The filtered juice of the pomegranates must then be mixed with two 
ounces of clarified isinglass, six drops of cochineal, and, if necessary to 
make out the quantity of jelly required te fill the mould, some thin darified 
syrup may be added. Set a jelly mould in a basin of rough ice, and fin 
the mould with alternate layers of jelly and the bright pips of thb 
fruit. 

N(A£, — A glass of noyau or maraschino may be added, if approved ofl 

1417. PINE-APPLE JELLY. 
Peel a pine-apple of about one pound weight, cut it inte slices about a 
quarter of an inch thick, and put these inte a basin. CTlarify one pound 
of loaf sugar with a pint of spring water, the juice of two lemons, and 
half the white of an egg whipped with a little water; when thoroughly 
skimmed, strain the syrup on to the pine-apple, allow it to boil for three 
minutes, then cover it down with a sheet of paper twisted round the basin, 
and allow the infusion te stand for several hours, in order te extract the 
flavour. When about te mix the jelly, strain the syrup through a napkin 
inte a basin, and put the pieces of pine-apple te drain upon a sieve; add 
two ounces of clarified isinglass to the pine-apple syrup, and then pour 
the jelly into a mould previously imbedded in rough ice. 

1418. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY JELLY. 
Pick the stalks from one quart of red currants and a pottle of raspber- 
ries, then put these into a large basin with half a pound of pounded sugar and 
a gill of spring water ; bruise them thoroughly, by squeezing them inth the 
back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon against the sides of the basin, 
then throw the whole into a beaver jelly-bag, and filter the juice, pouiiiw 
it back into the bag until it runs through perfectly bright ; next add half 
a pint of clarified syrup, and two ounces of clarified isinglass to the juioe» 
and pour tlie jelly mto a mould placed in rough ice to receive it. 

NaU. — This kind of jelly serves for the foundation of seveial others: 



JELLIES. 449 

for instance, it may be garnished with a macedoine of fruits, with white 
raspberries, with currants, strawberries, peaches, or cherries; either of 
these fruits, when mixed with currant and raspberry jelly, prepared accord- 
ing to the foregoing directions, will make it most delicious. 

1419. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Pick the stalks from two pottles of scarlet strawberries^ put these into 
a basin, and then pour one pint of clarified boiling syrup and half a pint 
of red currant juice on to them ; cover them down with a sheet of paper, 
tightly twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow the infusion to 
stand in a cool place until it becomes cold ; then, filter it through a bea- 
ver jelly bag in the usual way, and when the whole has run through per- 
fectly bright, mix it with two ounces of clarified isinglass, and set the jelly 
in a mould, immersed in rough ice. 

i^o^.— This jelly should be garnished with a pottle of fine *' British 
Queen ** strawberries. 

1420. CHERRY JELLY. 

Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries and a handful of 
red currants, and pound them in the mortar in order to bruise the stones and 
kernels ; then take them up and place them in a small preserving pan, 
with one pound of fine loaf sugar and half a pint of spring water ; set this 
to boil on the stove-fire for about five minutes, taking care to remove the 
scum as it rises to the surface : the whole must then be poured into a bea- 
ver jelly-bag, and filtered in the usual way. The juice should next be 
mixed with two ounces of clarified isinglass, and poured into a mould im- 
bedded in rough ice. The jelly may be garnished with cherries from 
which the stones must be removed. 

1421. MULBERRY JELLY. 
This is prepared in the same way as strawberry jelly (No. 1419). 

14-22. MACEDOINE OF FRUITS. 

This may be made with every kind of jelly, which should be mixed 
with a variety of the most delicate fruits in season : these should be arran- 
ged with taste, so as to show their forms and colours to the best advantage. 
The fruits most appropriate for this purpose are peaches, nectarines, 
apricots, all kinds of plums, strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, red, 
white, and black currants, chemes, pears, oranges, pomegranates, grapes, 
&c. 

1423. ORANGE JELLY, GARNISHED WITH QUARTERS OF ORANGES. 
Peel six oranges with a ^harp knife, leaving the transparent pulp quite 
bare; divide each into six, cutting the orange lengthwise, thus giving an 
angular form to the pieces; put these into a small preserving pan, 
with a pint of clarified syrup, and set the whole to boil on the stove- 
fire for not more than two minutes, then pour the pieces of oranges and 
their syrup into a basin, and set them aside in a cool place. Prepare 
about a pint of blight orange jelly in the manner directed in (No. 1412), 
using the syrup from the pieces of oranges, which must be drained upon a 
sieve for that purpos^. Next, imbed a plain mould in some pounded 
rough ice contained in an earthen pan, and proceed to garnish it 

o o 



450 JELLIES. 

with the pieces of oranges and the jelly, first pouring a little jelly on the 
bottom of the mould, then, when the jelly is set, arrange a layer of 
the pieces of oranges upon it in close circular order, one resting upon 
another ; pour sufficient jelly upon these to reach their sur&ce, and when 
this has become firm, place another layer of oranges upon it, and so on, 
until the mould is filled. 

1424. MARASCHINO JELLY. 

To one pint of clarified syrup, add two ounces of clarified isinglass^ the 
filtered juice of two lemons and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino; 
pour this into a jelly-mould ready set in rough ice. 

Note. — ^Jellies flavoured with noyau, kirschen-wasser, Dantzic brandy, 
cedrattie, and all other kinds of liqueurs, when made with isLnglasBy are pie- 
pared as the above. 

1426. VARIEGATED JELLY, A LA VICfTORIA. 

Prepare some jelly, with Dantzic brandy (sometimes named, 
" gold-and-silver water "). Parboil and remove the skin firom six ounces of 
pbtachios, and shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly-mould in 
some pounded rough ice contained in a pan, pour a little of the jelly 
into the bottom of the mould, and then strew some of the prepared 
pistachios in it ; when this has become firm, pour in a little more of 
the jelly and strew a few of the pistachios in it ; as these layers be- 
come set, repeat the same until the mould is filled, and allow the jelly to 
remain imbedded in the ice for a sufficient time to congeal it properly. 

1426. PANACHEE* JELLY. 

This may be prepared with any kind of light coloured jelly, which 
must be divided into two equal parts: add a few drops of cochineal to 
one half, and leave the remainder plain. Then, imbed the mould in 
rough ice, pour enough of the pink jelly into the mould to reach about a 
quarter of an inch up the sides, and when this has become set, pour as much 
of the plain jelly upon it ; when this has congealed, repeat another layer 
of the pink jelly, and go on alternating the difierent coloured layers of 
jelly until the mould is filled. 

The design for this kind of jelly may be varied according to taste, by 
attending to the following directions. 

Fill two small plain moulds with difierent coloured jelly, such as pink and 
white noyau, or amber and very light pink orange jelly, and when these 
are become firm, turn the jellies out of their respective moulds upon a 
clean napkin. Next, imbed a plain mould in some rough ice, and then 
cut the different coloured jellies into strips, or any kind of fiwcy shaped 
ornaments, which must be so managed as to admit of their bem^ fitted 
into each other, thus entirely covering the bottom of the mould with the 
design so formed ; a little of the jelly must first be poured at the bottom 
of the mould, to cause the decoration to adhere together. The sides of 
the mould should then be ornamented by placing alternate strips of the dif- 
ferent jellies in a perpendicular position, and these must first be dipped in a 

* Derived from another French word pattachty a p1ame~a graceful fSoather. Thia 
jelly iirBt nceWed its name at the period of the fint French reTolution, when H wm 
cottomary for the repreaentatiTet of the French people to wear a tri-eolonied plnma 
in their hata. 



RUSSIAN JELLIES. 451 

little liquid jelly. The mould being lined according to the foregoing direc- 
tions, the hollow may be filled up with either a niacedoine jelly of fruits, 
with any kind of cream, or with the remainder of the same, so arranged in 
it as to have the appearance of marble when cut. 

1427. RUSSIAN JELLY. 

Put about two-thirds of either of the forementioned kinds of jelly 
into a basin, partially imbedded in rough ice, then whip the jelly with 
a whisk, until it assumes the appearance of a substantial froth, and begins 
to thicken ; it must then be immediately poured into a mould, and kept 
in ice until required to be served. 

1428. PUNCH JELLY. 

Put the prepared stock from four calfs-feet into a stewpan, to melt on 
the stove-fire; then withdraw it, and add thereto the following ingre- 
dients : — Two pounds of loaf-sugar, the juice of six lemons and four 
oranges, the rind of one Seville orange and of four lemons, half a nutmeg, 
twelve cloves and two sticks of cinnamon, a small cup of strong green 
tea, a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, and a glass of arrack. Stir 
these well together, then add six whites and two whole eggs whipped up 
with a little sherry and spring water, and continue whisking the punch 
on a brisk stove-fire until it begins to simmer, then set it down by the 
side of the fire, and cover the stewpan with its lid containing some live 
embers of charcoal ; about ten minutes afler, pour the jelly into a 
flannel or beaver filtering-bag, keep pouring the jelly back into the bag 
until it becomes quite clear and bright, and when the whole has run 
through, set it in a mould in ice in the usual way. 

1429. ORANGES FILLED WITH TRANSPARENT JELLY. 

Select half a dozen oranges without specks on the rind, make a hole 
at the stalk- end with a circular tin cutter, about half an inch in diameter, 
and then use a small teaspoon to remove all the pulp and loose pith 
from the interior ; when this is effected, soak the oranges in cold water 
for about an hour, then introduce the spoon through the aperture, and 
scrape the insides smooth, and after rincing them again in cold water, 
set them to drain on a cloth. Next, stop up any holes that may have 
been made in them while scooping out the pulp, and set the oranges in 
some pounded rough ice contained in a deep sautapan; fill three of 
them with bright pink- orange jelly, and the remainder with plain jelly. 
When the jelly has become firm, wipe the oranges with a clean cloth, cut 
each into four quarters, dish them up tastefully on an ornamental pastry- 
stand, or upon a napkin, and send to table. 

Note, — Lemons may be prepared in the same way as the above. 



452 



CREAMS, 



rOMPRISING 

BlnmyMamyr. Pistachio Ci 

Manuchino Ravarian Cream. Italian ditto. 

Straw^jerry Bavarian Cream. Raauan CharUdte. 

Apricot dittOL CeUstim Stfawberry Crei 

Coffee Cream. Currant and Raspberry 
Chocolate ditto. Cbeeae. 

Buret ditto. Apricot Cbeeae, a la CkamHUy. 
OnnffjU'finwtit ditto. 

1430. BLAXC-MA50ER. 

Parboil twelve ounces of Jordan, and two ounces of bitter almonds* 
in a quart of water for about two minutes ; drain them on a sie?*, 
remove the skins, and wash them in cold water; after they have 
lieen soaked in cold water for half an hour, pound them in a mortar 
with four ounces of sugar, until the whole presents the appearance of a 
soft paste. This must then be placed in a large basin, with twelve 
ounces of loaf sugar, and mixed with rather more than a pint of spring 
water ; cover the basin with a sheet of paper, twisted round the edges, 
and allow the preparation to stand in a cool place for about an hour, in 
order to extract the flavour of the almonds more effectually. The milk 
should then be strained off from the almonds through a napkin, with 
pressure, by wringing it at both ends. Add two ounces of clarified isin- 
glass to the milk of almonds, pour the hUmc-manger into a mould 
imbedded in rough ice, and when set quite firm, turn it out on its 
dish with caution, after having first dipped the mould in waim 
water. 

1431. MARASCHINO BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Whip a pint of double cream, until it presents somewhat of the 
appearance of snow, taking care not to overdo it, as it would 
then produce butter. When the cream is whipped, add one ounce 
and a half of clarified isinglass, a gill and a half of genuine marasdiino, 
the juice of a lemon, and four ounces of pounded sugar; mix these well 
together, and pour the cream into a mould, previously very sliglitly oiled 
inside with oil of sweet almonds ; set the cream in rough ice, and when 
it has become firm, turn it out on its dish. The mould having been 
oiled prevents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream in warm 
water, previously to turning it out. 

This kind of cream may also be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs ; 
also with the essences of orange, lemon, orange-flowers, vanilla, roses, 
and bitter almonds. 

1432. STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 
Pick the stalks from a pottle of scarlet strawberries, and bruise them 
in a basin with six ounces of pounded sugar ; rub this through a sieve, 



CREAMS. 453 

and mix it with a pint of whipped cream^ and one ounce and a half of 
clarified isinglass ; pour the cream into a mould, previously oiled with 
oil of sweet almonds, set it in rough ice, and when it has become firm, 
turn it out on its dish. 

NoU, — Raspberries, mulberries, currants and raspberries, may be 
prepared for making Bavarian creams, by following the above directions. 

1433. APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Split a dozen ripe apricots, and remove the stones ; place the pieces 
in a small preserving-pan, with twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and a 
cill of spring water, then stir them on the fire and let them boil, until the 
fruit is entirely dissolved ; this jmrhe must then be rubbed through a clean 
hair-sieve into a lai^ basin, and mixed with a pint of whipped cream, 
and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass ; pour the cream into an 
oiled mould, and set it in rough ice, in the usual way. 

This sort of cream may be prepared with all kinds of plums, instead 
of apricots. 

1434. COFFEE CREAM. 

Roast eight ounces of mocha coffee-berries in a small preserving-pan 
over a stove-fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, until it 
assumes a light-brown colour ; then blow away the small burnt particles, 
and throw the roasted coffee into a stewpan containing a pint of boiling 
milk or cream, put the lid on the stewpan, and set it aside to allow 
the infusion to draw out the flavour of the coffee. Next, strain this 
through a napkin into a stewpan, containing eight yolks of eggs and 
twelve ounces of sugar, add a very snudl pinch of salt, stir the cream 
over the stove-fire until it begins to thicken, then quicken the motions of 
the spoon, and when the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set, strain the 
cream through a tammy or sieve into a large basin. Mix half a pint of 
whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass in with 
this, pour the whole into a mould ready set in rough ice for the purpose, 
and when the cream has become firm, dip the mould in warm water, and 
turn the cream out on its dish. 

1435. CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Grate eight ounces of vanilla chocolate, put this into a stewpan with 
eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of eggs, and a pint of cream ; stir the 
whole over a stove-fire until the preparation begins to thicken ; and 
the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set without allowing them to curdle, 
strain the cream through a tammy, with pressure, into a basin; add 
half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified 
isinglass, mix the whole well together, and pour it into a mould, previ- 
ously imbedded in rough ice, to receive it. 

1436. BURNT CREAM. 

Put two ou&ces of pounded sugar into a stewpan, with the grated 
rind of two lemons ; stir these with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, 
imtil the sugar begins to assume a rather light-brown colour ; then pour 
in a pint of cream, add to thb eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of 
eggs, and a little salt, and stir the whole over a stove-fire until the eggs 



454 CREAMS. 

are set ; then strain the cream through a tammy into a large ba8in» and 
mix in with it half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half 
of clarified isinglass. Pour the cream into a mould imbedded in 
rough ice. 

1437. ORAJ^GE-FLOWER CREAM. 
Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of pounded sugar ; stir these over a slow fire until the sugar ii 
merely melted, and pour in a pint of cream, adding eight ounces of 
sugar, eight yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a 
very little salt ; stir this preparation over the fire to set the yolks of eggi, 
and then strain the cream through a tammy into a basin ; add half a pint 
of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass to it, 
mix well together, and then pour the cream into a mould imbedded in 
rough ice. 

Nate. — The flavouring of this kind of cream may be varied according 
to taste, by substituting lemon, orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, or 
any other kind of essence or liqueur, for the foregoing. 

1438. PISTACHIO CREAM. 
Parboil eight ounces of pistachio kernels for two minutes in boil- 
ing water; then remove the skin, wash and wipe the kernels, and 
pound them in a mortar with six ounces of sugar and a dessert- spoonful 
of orange- flower water; rub the whole through a fine hair-sieve, and 
place it in a large basin. Add to the pounded pistachios a spoonful of 
the green extract of spinach (No. 285), a pint of whipped cream, and 
one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass ; mix well together, pour 
the cream into an oiled mould, and then set it in ice in the usual way. 

1439. ITALIAN CREAM. 
Put eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan with four ounces of ratafias, 
eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of 
cinnamon, a wine-glassful of cura9ao, and a pint of cream ; stir this 
over a stove-fire, in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, and then strain it 
through a tammy into a basin. Add thereto half a pint of whii^>ed 
cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after having 
well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould ready imbedded in 
rough ice to receive it. 

1440. RUSSIAN CHARLOTTE. 
Trim about six ounces of finger biscuits perfectly straight, so as to 
make them fit closely to one another, and line the bottom and sides of a 
plain mould with these ; then fill the interior of the charlotte with any 
one of the foregoing creams. The same kinds of firuits as are used for 
making a maccdoine jelly may be introduced in the cream. 

1441. CELESTINA STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Imbed a jelly-mould, or plain charlotte-movXA, in some rough ice con- 
tained in an earthen pan ; line the bottom and sides of the mould with 
picked strawberries : which must first be dipped in some perfectly cold 
liquid jelly ; then fill the interior of this kind of charlotte with some 
straw berry -cream, prepared for the purpose. 



AP&ICOT QRRRftR, 456 



1442. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TRANSPARENT CHEESE. 

Pick the stalks from a quart of ripe red currants and a pottle of rasp- 
berries ; put these into a small preserving-pan with one pound of pounded 
sugar and a gill of water; stir the whole on a stove- fire and keep it 
boiling for about five minutes ; remove the scum as it rises to the surface^ 
and tiben rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a large basin; add 
two ounces of clarified isinglass, and then pour it into a jelly- 
mould, ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. When this kind of 
cheese is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, vripe it, and turn the 
cheese out on its dish ; fill the well or cylinder with some stiffly-whipped 
cream, and serve. 

1443. APRICOT CHEESE, A LA CHANTILLY. 
Rbhove the stones from eighteen ripe apricots, and put them into a 
small preserving-pan with one pound of loaf sugar, and a gill of spring 
water ; stir this on a brisk stove-fire, until the whole of the fruit is 
entirely dissolved ; and then rub it through a hair-sieve into a large 
basin; add two ounces of clarified isinglass, and fill a jelly-mould 
(ready imbedded in rough ice) with the preparation. When the cheese 
is set firm, turn it out on its dish, and fUl the centre with whipped cream. 

Note, — These cheeses may be made of every kind of firuit before 
directed to be used for both jellies and creams ; and also with pears, 
apples, and quinces. 



4.'^ 



1414. MINCE-MEAT. 



Thobouchlt cleanse four pomids of eurnuitB» and remoTethe ftonei finom 
four pounds of raisins ; cot up two pounds of candiwi dtioii, one pound 
of candied lemon, and one pound of orange-peel, into ahreds^ or Terr 
small dice ; remove the skin, and then chop four pounds oi fieih 
beef suet, and place this with the currants and the candied peel in an 
earthen pan ; next chop the raisins with four pounds of peeled af^es, 
and add them to the other ingredients. Trim away all the sinewy parts 
from eight pounds of roasted sirloin of heei, and diop all the lean of the 
meat quite fine ; this will produce about four pounds, which must also be 
placed in the pan. To the foregoing must now be added four pounds of 
moist sugar, four ounces of ground spice— consisting of nutmegs, doves, 
and cinnamon in equal proportions, with the grated rind of twelve oranges^ 
and of the same number of lemons ; the whole must then be thofougiil? 
mixed together, and pressed down to a level in the pan. Two bottles of 
brandy, and a like quantity of Madeira, Sherry or Port, should be poured 
into the mince-meat. Put the lid on the pan, place a doth over it, and 
tie it down close, so as to exclude the air as much as possible, and also 
to prevent the evaporation of the brandy, &c. The mince-meat should 
be kept in a cool place, and will be fit for use a fortnight after it is made. 

1446. LEMON MI5CE MEAT. 

Boil four lemons till quite tender, then pound them in a mortar or 
chop them up while warm, adding to them two pounds of pounded loaf 
sugar ; let this stand till next day, then add two pounds of suet, two 
pounds of currants, one pound of raisins chopped, a little brandy, one ounce 
of mixed spice, and port wine, to taste, say half a pint of brandy and 
wine together. 



A SERIES OF BILLS OF FARE 

FOR EVERY MONTH THROUGHOUT THE YEAR. 



DiNMBB FOB 6 Pbbsons. January, 
Julienne soup. 

1 F'uh. 
Fried soles, anchovy saude. 



Fowl and rice. [2 Remova.'] Roast leg of Welsh mutton. 

2 Entrees: 
Salmis of partridges, 4 rancienne. Fricandeau with pur^ of sorrel. 



Second Course. 
Roast snipes. 



3 ErUremStt: 

Spinach with cream. Blanc-manger. 

Apples k la Portuguaise. 



Dinner fob 6 Pbbsons. January, 
Palestine soup. 

1 Fish, 
Crimped cod and oyster sauce. 

Roast griskin of pork, with apple [2 Removes.] Braized pheasant, with cabbages. 
8auce. — — 

2 Entrees: 
Chicken of patties, k la bechamel. Mutton cutlets sautees, with pur^ 

of potatoes. 



Second Course. 
Roast Hare. 



3 Entremitsi 
Fried salsifis in batter Apricot puffs. 

Orange jelly. 



458 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner fob 6 Persons. Janwary. 
Ox-tail clear soup. 

1 Fith, 
Broiled Herrings, with mustard sauce. 



Snipe pudding, a la D'Orsay. [2 Remove^.'] Roast saddle of mutton. 

a ErUraa: 
Blanquettc of fowl with mushrooms. Scollops of bec( ^ la Napolitainc. 



Second Course. 
Roast Pheasant. 



3 EfUremiU: 
Brussels sprouts, a la crcmc. Meringues, with crcatn. 

Pears and rice, k la Cond^. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Vermicelli soup, a la Windsor. 

1 Fish, 
Turbot, with lobster sauce. 



Boiled neck of mutton, with [2 Eemovet.] Partridges, ^ la Seville. 

mashed turnips. 

2 Entrees: 
Fillets of rabbits, k la Mar^chalc. Fricassee of chicken, in a border of rice. 



Second Course. 
Roast wild duck. 



3 EntremiU : 

Jerusalem artichokes, a TEspagnole. Custards in gl; 

Tourtc of apples, ^ la Cobourg. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Jardiniere clear soup. 

1 Fish. 

Whitings, au gratin. 

Roost neck of venison. [2 Removes,] Braized pheasant, with Soubise 

sauce. 

2 EntrUs s 
Quenelles of fowl, a Tcsscnce. Tendons of veal, witli a pur6e of spinach. 



Sbcond Coubsb. 
Roast larks. 



3 Entremits: 

Brown-bread midding, ^ la Qotha (preserved cherries). 

Turnips glac^, a rKspognole. Apple fintteis. 



FOR JANUAEY. 



459 



DnrvsB fob 12 Psbbohb. January. 
8oop 4 la Xavier. [2 Smqm,] Pur^ of fowl, k la R«ine. 

Fried smelts, with Dutch sanoe. [2 FithesJ] Crimped ood, k la cremc au gratin. 

Braized ham, garnished with Bms- [2Remove$J] Roast loin of veal, Ik la Monglaa. 

sols sprouts. 

4 Entriet: 
Fillets of partridges, ^ la de Luynes. Kromeskys of lobsters, 4 la Rosse. 

Mutton cutlets, k la Soubise. Scollops of fowls, with truffles. 



Widgeon. 
Fondue of Parmesan. 



Italian salad. 

Muishrooms, ^ la Provenyale. 



Sroono Coursb. 

[3 RoasU.] Woodcocks. 

[2 Removes,'] Iced pudding, ^ la Cintra. 

6 Entremitii 

Punch jelly. 
Damson tartlets. 



Apples and rice plain, with apricot jam. Mecca loaves, with raspberry jam. 



Dnrmss fob 12 Pkbsohb. January. 
Flemish clear soup. [2 Soup$.] Mock turtle* 

Soles in Norman matelottc. [2 FtMfiet.} Haddocks, with egg sauce. 

Pheasants k la Dauphinoise. [2 Remoftes.] Roast saddle of mutton. 

4 Entries t 
Oyster patties. Boudins of fowl, k la Richelieu. 

Salmis of woodcocks, k Pancienne. ScoUops of sweetbreads, k la ViUeroi. 



Larks. 
Ginger pudding. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[2 Removes,] 



Roast Capon. 
Souffle of arrow-root. 



Braized celery, k ressencc. 
Macaroni au gratin. 
Maraschino jelly. 



6 Entremits t 

Charlotte of apples. 
D'Artois of strawberry jam. 
Italian cream. 



460 



BILLS OF FARE 



DiNHKB FOB 12 Pkbsohs. January. 
Macaroni clear soup. [2 Soupg.'] V\a6e of carroU, a la Cr^. 

John-dory, with Dutch noce. 
Poulards, a la P^rigueux. 



Fillets of whitings, k la Royale. [2 F'uha.'] 



Braized fillet of beef^ with Madeira [2 RemotetJ] 
sauce. 



Boudins of pheasant, a la neime. 
Mutton cutlets, a la Bourguignotte. 



4 Entries : 

Fillets of pigeons, a la D^Uzello. 
Marrow patties, with fine-herha suiee. 



Teal. 
Brown-bread souffle. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[2 Removes.] 

6 Entremets: 



Salsifis, k la crerae. 
Potatoes au gratin. 
Lemon jelly. 



Hare. 
Ramequins, ik la Sefion. 



Vol-au-vent of greengages. 
No^u cream. 
Pithiviers cakes. 



Dinner fob 12 Pebsonb. January, 
Soup, k k Colbert. [2 Simps.] Pur^e of pheasant, ^ la chasseur 

Torbay soles, with lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Fillets of gurnets, a la maiu 

d'hotel. 

Roast turkey, k la Financiere. [2 Remows.] Baked ham, with Madeira sanee. 

4 EntrUt: 
Mutton cutlets, a la Proven^ale. Fillets of widgeon, poivrade sauce. 

Bouchto of rabbit, a la Pompadour. Croquettes of oysters, 4 La b^hamd. 



Second Course. 
Partridges. [2 RooMts.] 

;, k la Duchesse [^Removes.] 



Black game. 
Pancakes souffle. 



6 ErUremets . 

Portugal onions glazed k I'Espagnole. Apple tartlet^. 

Spinach au jus. Meringue k la Parisiennc. 

Damson cheese ik la Chantilly. Eggs a la neige, flavoured with coffee 



FOR JANUARY. 



461 



DiNNBB FOB 16 Pbbsons. January. 
Julienne. [2 Soup$:] Calf s-feet, fi la Windsor. 

Fillets of soles, k la V^itienne. [2 Fiihe$.^ Haddocks broiled, Dutch sauce. 

Capon a la Toulouse. [2 Removei.'] Rump of beef k la Jardiniere. 

QEntriti 
Croustadcs of ox-piths, k la Monglas. Mutton cutlets bread-crumbed, with a 

Border of rice garnished with a pur^e pur^ of chestnuts. 

of pheasants. Fillets of fowls with truffles, supreme 

Boudins of rabbit k la D'Artois. sauce. 

Salmis of widgeon k la Bigarade. 



Pheasants. 
Apricot Souffle. 



Second Course. 
[2 RoaUt,'] 

\2Removtt,'] 



Snipes. 
Parmesan fritters. 



8 Entremets: 
Lobster «alad. Kirschen-wasscr jelly. 

Mushrooms au gratin. Chocolate cream. 

Potatoes a la maitre d'hotel. Pears, k la Cond^. 

Brussels sprouts sautes with butter. Darioles a la Vanillt. 



DiNNBB FOB 16 Pbbsons. January. 
Pur^e of celery, k la creme. [2 Soups.'] Quenelles of rabbit, in consomm^. 

Baked pike, piquante sauce. 



Fillets of soles^ k la Di^ppoise, 
Calf Vhead, k la Tortue. 



[2 Fisher,] 



[2Remaves,] Fowls with Nouillet,^rAllemande. 



6 Entrees : 

Patties k la Reine. 
, . Fillets of partridges, k la Mar^hale. 

Mince of chicken in a border, garnished Sweetbreaos larded, with endives, 
with poached eggs. 



Pork cutlets, k la Robert. 
Woodcocks, ^ la Monarque. 



Hare. 
Pancakes with apricot. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts,] 

[2Removes.] 



Wild ducks. 
Iced pudding, ii la Stanley. 



8 EiUremStS: 
Potato croauettes, k la b^hamel. Panache jelly* 

Seakale, k rEspagnole. Pine-apnle cream. 

Crusts garnished with mushrooms. PastafroUe cake, k la Napolitaine. 

Lobster, au gratin. Tourte of greengages. 



462 



BILLS OF FAKE 



I 



DisvEB FOB 8 PsBSoxa. FebrmtMry, 
Cream of bariev, a la Beizie. 
Mfttelotte of eels. [2 F'ukts.^ Crimped cod broiled, Didcib «:£ 

Plicanants, a la financiere. [2Rmoces.] Braized roll of bcc^ a la Fkaai> 



Noukles with Pannesan. 



HcoUopfl of fowli!, a F^carlate. 



Teal. 



Cana]!^ of anchoncs. 
Scakalc a la l>^cliauie]. 



2 Entria: 



Lamb cutlets bremdcmmbed, Mvk 1 1 
pur^ of celery. 



8eco!vd Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

1 Remove, 
Rice souffle. 



Macaroni i ritalienne. 



4 Entremets : 



Tourte of pears^ a la Cobouig. 
Burnt cream. 



DiNNKB FOB 8 Pbbsons. Fihrwxry. 

Soup, a la Desclignac. 

Crimped haddocks, Dutch sauce. [2 Fit Aei.] Fillets of brill, ik la MarMwle. 

Roast haunch of mutton. \%'Rjemotes^ Braized goose, 4 la jardinieie. 

Lobster Patties. 



Chickens, & la Marengo. 



2 Entrtts : 

Salmis of snipesy k la Talleyrand. 



Black game. 



Skoond Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Salad, i la Russe. 



1 Remove, 
Nouilles cake, 4 TAllemande. 



4 EntremHs • 
Celery, ik la Villeroi. Profitrolles ^ la cr^me. 

Poached egga, on anchovy toast. Apricot checge^ ii la Chantilly. 



FOR FEBRUART. 463 

DiNNBB FOB 8 Pebboks. Ftbrvartf. 

Hare soup, iL la Chasseur. 

Turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fi$hes ] Broiled whitings, capers sauce. 

Capon and rice. [21lemot7ei.] Braized leg of mutton, ^ la Sou- 

bise. 

Patties ^ la Mazarin. 



2 Entries: 
Orenadins of veal larded, garnished with Fillets of pheasants, k la Mar^hale. 
a Nivernaise. 



Second Course. 
Potato chips. [2 Roa$ts.'\ Ptarmegans. 

[1 Remove.] 
Apple pudding. 



4 Entremets: 
Braized Celery, garnished with crous- Oranee Jelly, k TAnglaise. 

tades of marrow. Bread and butter pastry. 

Scolloped oysters. 



DiNNEE FOB 8 Pebsons. February, 

Ox-check soup, k la Flamande. 

Brill, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Baked Gurnets, Italian sauce. 

Fillet of beef, poivrade sauce. [2Remov€s.] Braized Ducks, with turnips. 

Tourte of godiveau, k la Ciboulette. 

2 Entrees: 
Boudins of pheasant, k la Victoria. Veal Cutlets, k la R^nce. 



Second Coubsk. 
German'salad. [2 Roasts,] Woodcocks. 

1 Remove. 
Macaroni pudding. 

4 Entremits: 
Jerusalem artichokes, k TEspiignole. Quarters of oranges filled with transpa- 

Eggs brouill^, with tmfHes. rent jelly. 

Almond Gauffres, k la cr^me. 



464 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner fob 20 Persons. February, 
Soup k la S^vign^. [2 Sotcps ] Cream of rice 4 la chasseur. 

Salmon, lobster sauce. [2 F'uhttl\ Slices of crimped Cod broiled, a li 

maitre d'hoteL 

Ham, ^ la Parisienne. [2jR«inov€S.] Poulards, ^ la Bojale. 

Kromeskys of oysters. 

8 Entries, 

Fillets of rabbits larded, k rauciemie. Lamb cutlets, with macedoine of veg^ 

Fricassee of chickens, k la St. Lambert. tables. 

Pat^-Chaud of larks, k la P^rigueux. Fricandeau, with pur^e of artichokes. 

Border of rice, with pur^e of fowl k la Fillets of partridgfes, with fumet. 
T>«i«T.«;o^ ^ Mazarine of fat livers, k la Financiere. 



Polonaise. 

Snipes. 

Iced pudding, k la Syrienne. 

Nougat of almonds. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Pheasants. 



[)iRemoves,] Souffle tartlets, ^ la D'Artois. 
[2 FianksJ] Savoy cake in the form of a swan. 



8 EntremHs: 
Aspic of lobsters, with mayonaise. Charlotte of apricots. 

Russian salad. Orange jelly, garnished with oranges. 

Spiftach with cream. Florentines, with pistachios. 

Brocoli with Parmesan cheese. Cherry tartlets. 



Dinner for 20 Persons. February. 
Pur^c of pheasant. [2 Soups,] Brunoise soup. 



Crimped soles, Dutch sauce. 
Turkey k la P^rigueux. 



[2 Fishes.] Fillets of turbot, 4 la Parisienne. 
[2 Removes.] Braized roll of beef, 4 la D'Orl^aos. 

Marrow patties. 



8 Entrees : 
Potato border, garnished with scollops Mutton cutlets, ^la Duchesse. 

of Larks. Fillets of fowls ^ Tecarlate, with su- 

Turban of ox-palates, au gratin. preme sauce. 

Fillets of widgeons, a la Gasconne. Sweetbreads larded, k la Monarque. 

Calf's-ears, k la tortue. Quenelles of partridge, ^ PAllemande. 



Hares. 
Small fondus in cases. 
Sultana of spun sugar. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[2Removes.] 

[2 Flanks.] 



Bhick game. 
Polish Baba. 
Meringue ^ la Parisienne. 



Truffles ii la Piedmontaise. 
Crayfish k la Poulette. 
SeaKale with white sauce. 
Brussels sproutit with maitre d 'hotel 
sauce. 



8 FrntremHs : 

Varie^ted jelly, k la Victoria. 



Bavarian coffee cream. 
Apricot nougats. 
Mirlitons. 



FOR FEBRUARY. 465 

DiNHJOi FOR 24 Pebsons. Fdmiary. 
Pur^ of turnips, ^ la jardiniere. [2 Soupi,'] Barley in consomm^ ^ la Princesse. 

John doiy, Dutch sauce. [3 jPiito.] Salmon, ^ la R^cnce. 

Fried smelts. 

Calfs-head, ^ la financiere. [^RemoveiJ] Chickens, li la Montmorency. 

Fillet of beef, ^ la Napolitaine. [2 FlanksJ] Grenada Ham, with spinach. 

8 Entr'ee$ : 
2 Lamb Cutlets, li la Ch^vreuse. 2 Fillets of Woodcocks, k la Valen^ay. 

2 Scollops of fowls, with cucumbers. 2 Timbales of macaroni, ^ la chasseur. 



Sroond Course. 
Partridges. [2 JRoos/s.] Wild Ducks. 

Talamouscs, with cheese. [2 KtmovesJ] Iced Pudding, ii la Prince Albert. 

Croquantc of Ratafias. [2 F/on/v.] Cake ^ la Parisienne. 

12 Entremets, 

French truffles, au champagne. Braized celery, ^ I'Espagnole. 

Scolloped oysters in small shells. Brocoli, with bechamel sauce. 

Aspic ^ la iteine. Mayonaise of fillets of soles. 

Bavarian cream of preserved raspberries. Pine-apple jelly. 

Mosaic tartlets of apricots. Napolitain cake, li la Chantilly. 

Mac^oine jelly. Charlotte, a la russe. 



Dinner for 36 Persons. February. 
Pur^ of partridges ^ la Cond^. [4 Sotqu,] 2 Turtle, Spring soup. 

Fried smelts, Soles k la Pari- [4 Fishes,] Crimped turbot, lobster sauce, 
sienne. — ^— — fried fillets of whiting. 

Roast Barron of lamb, ^ la Ma- [2 Removes,] Pheasants, li la Daupnine. 

c^doine. 

Croquettes li la Reine, and oyster croustades. 

Pat^-chaud of snipes, k la p^ri- [2 Fianks.] Chartreuse of tendons of veal. 

gueux. 

12 Entrees, 
2 Mutton Cutlets, ^ la soubisc. 2 Fillets of rabbits, ^ la D'Uxelles. 

2 Scollops of partridges, ^ la Victoria. 2 Boudins of fowl, k la Sefton. 
2 Lamb s-ears, k la financiere. 2 Croustades of nouilles, with pur^c of 

woodcocks. 



Second Course. 
Black Game. [3 Roasts.] Teal, Ducklings. 

Flemish gauffres,Fondu of cheese. [^Removes,] Iced pudding, ii la Kinnaird. 

Millefeuilles cake, a la chantilly. [2 Flanks.] Ham of Savoy cake, garnished with 

jelly. 

16 Entremits: 
2 Croutes of mushrooms. 2 Asparagus, with butter sauce 

2 Dames of salmon, with Montpellier- 2 Lobster salads. 

butter. 2 Punch iellies. 

2 Cherry cheeses with cream. 2 VolWvents of apricots. 

2 Darioles, with candied orange-flowers. h h 



¥» VLL& Of IMMJL 









McxtAC n'i^tji HkxsiJitsL 'wvHt x pcr€e of Voi'aa'Teis of jr«>ixTCAa. a k e3> 






3 EmtramUi : 
Eggi brr>aill^ with affp«neTtt-pes;. TapiocA patddiK, ctwtard ssaee. 

GenEAD toarte of sppks. 



Donnni rom 6 Poaonb JTordL 
Puree of Tciretables, a k C iu i wi . 



1 /U. 
Sftk Tub, k k b^dMUDd. 



Rout Mddlc of miittoD. [2 A^tmows.] Partridge pie A rAi^kke. 

2 Entrut: 
Chickens k k Ljonnaise Bknquette of sweetbreadj^ ganusbe^ 

with croquettes. 



Sico!n> Coum. 
Boast krka. 



3 EntnmcU: 
Balsifis with white saace. Ba?arian cream of nojaii. 

Duchess loayes with laspberry jam. 



DurvxB FOB 6 PEB80V8. Morch. 
Soup k k bonne^fcmme. 

1 Fish. 
Fillets of whitings, k k proTcn^ale. 



Roast fillets of beef, poivrade sauce. [2Renuff)et,] Cushion of veal, 4 la JArdinieie. 

2 Entries: 
Partridges, k la Br^ilienne. Quenelles of fowl, k I 



SlOOND COURSI. 

Roast wild duck. 



3 Entremiis: 
Bniswk sprouts saut^ with butter. Orange jelly i k Franguae. 

Genoese cakes with almonds. 



FOR MARCH. 467 

Dinner fob 6 Pbbso^s. March. 
Potato soup, fi la creme. 

1 FiMh. 

Fillets of salmon, li la ravigote. 

Chickens ^ Tltalienne. [^Rcmone*,'] Roast bee^ horse-radish sauce. 

2 EntrUi: 
Pigeons 4 la Crapaudine, with piquante Carbonnades of mutton, ^ la jardiniere. 



Second Coursb. 
Roast Plovers. 



3 Entremits: 
Macaroni au gratin. Lemon pudding. 

Chocolate custards. 



BiNNBB FOB 6 PBB80N8. March. 
Paysanne tt>up. 



1 Fish. 
Crimped skate fried, with capers' sauce. 

Braized neck of mutton, k Tlrlan- [^Removes,] Lark pudding, li la Chipolata. 

daise. 

2 Eniria: 
Timhale of raviolis, ^ la Romaine. Chickens k TAllemande. 



Sbcond Coursb. 
Roast Duckling. 



3 Entremits: 
Scolloped muscles. Cranberry tart. 

Lemon and cinnamon cream. 



DiNNEB FOB 6 Pbbsons. March, 
Cream of rice soup, ^ la Victoria. 

1 Fish. 
Fried Eels, k la Tartare. 



Lamb's-head, k la Gallimauffr^. [2Removes.] Fowl ^ la Dauphine. 

2 Entrees : 
Beefsteaks ^ la Fran^aise. Braized duck, k la Nivemaisc. 



Second Course. 
Roast Pigeons. 



3 Entremets : 
Jerusalem artichokes, k PEspagnole. Cherry bread, k la Gotha. 

Puff paste tartlets of raspberry jam. 

H H 2 



4«8 



BILLS or fJJLL 



DonriE roft 12 PcBaos^ Apr^L 

Cnrnjied Mlrr^z/Ti, wi*i. fMnler tnd [2 ¥%Mkt%.\ Pereh, m !& SeanW. 

r>T]tUT MMei^. 

CftirVh«ba/L A la B<*i2reaa. [2 jR^MOwt.] Pooknis and tongue, a k 3lft» 

doiDe. 

4 £A/rcef: 

fiMnh Oitl^rf, It U I>viche^i!<r. Boadlzis of lobeter. ^ la Cardinal 

FilltA '/f fowU with airfaraiTia-peaa, Fritot of spring ehickenft. «ith poina 
Kxiytiaiit: ftaijc:. aauce. 



Guinea fowU larded. 
Htearned fk>uf{U. 



Secoscd CoriSB. 
[2 Raoffs.] 

[2R«OTOKS.] 



Docklings. 
Compi^gne cake. 



4 RUremets: 



lUffCiAi with white faiice. 
Hpinach in Hrnall crouKtadeii. 



Oooeeberry cream. 

Flan of pears and rice 4 la Goode. 



DnrvEB FOR 12 Persons. April. 

Qiienellofl of fowl, in conBomm^. [2 Satqa.] Pur^ of young carrots, ^ la Fts- 

bonne. 

Hpcy trout, Dutch sauce. [2 Fithes.'i Fillets of soles, ^ la BagratioiL 

Roast fore-quarter of lamb. [^Renuwes.] Chickens ii la printani^. 

4 Entrees: 
Veal cutlets, k la dreux. Fillets of mutton larded, with tomato 

Scollops of fowls with cucumbers. sauce. 

Boudins of rabbit, k la pompadour. 



Pigeons. 
Ramcquins, k la Sefton. 



Bcakalc with white sauce. 
Mushrooms au gratin. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roattt,] 

[2Remov€s,] 



Turkey poults. 
Biscuits glac^ in 



4 FAiiremUs: 

Gooseberry tartlets. 
Pudding i la Vi^nnoise. 



FOR APRIL. 469 

DllfKBB FOB 16 PBB0ON8. April. 

Maccaroni clear soup. [2 Sot^.] Pur^e of spinach, k la Cond^. 

Crimped turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fithes.] Matelotte of eels, li la Bordelaise. 

Braized saddle of lamb, k la jardi- [^Removet.] Poulards, li TEstragon. 

nifere. 

Shrimp patties, to be handed round. 

6 Entrees: 
Mutton cutlets with new potatoes. Sweetbreads larded, fi la Parisienne. 

Fillets of piffcons k la Ehiuphine, with Fillets of ducklings, k la Bigarade. 
French-beans. Quenelles of fowl, k la p^rigueux. 

Quails au gratin with fiuanci^re sauce. 



Second Coursb. 
Pea-hen larded. [2 RoMis.] Green goose. 

Brioche with cheese. [2 Removes.} Chocolate souffle. 

6 Entremits: 

Asparagus with white sauce. Vanille cream. 

French-beans, ii la poulette. Apricot tartleta. 

Mac^doine jelly. Porcupine of apples meringu^. 



Dinner fob 16 Pbb0onb. April. 
Clear turtle soup. [2 Sotqn,] Soup k la Hollandaise. 

Haddocks, egg sauce. [2 Fishet,] Turbot, li la cr^me au gratin. 

Lobster patties, to be handed round. 
Fillet of beef k TAllemande. [2Removet.\ Capon k la p^rigueux. 

6 Entries: 
Braized carbonnades of mutton, k la ma- Fricandeau, with pur^ of spinach. 

codeine. Casserole of rice k la Reine, with ployers 

Lamb cutlets breadcrumbed, cucumber eggs. 

sauce. Pat^chaud of quails, k la Bourgui- 

Fillets of pigeons, ^ la de Luynes. gnonne. 



Sboono Course. 
Spring chickens. [2 Roasts.] Leverets. 

Small fondus in cases. [2 Removes,] Pine-apple fritters. 

6 Entremits : 
Croutes with mushrooms. Bavarian strawberry cream. 

Asparagus-peas, li la Frangaise. Cheese cakes. 

VoVau'vent of rhubarb. Calf 's-feet wine jelly. 



470 BILLS OF FABE 

Dinner fob 20 Pbbsons. April^ 
Chiffonade spring soup. [2 Soups.] Bisque of crab, 4 la Fitzhardlnge. 

John-dory, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes,] Salmon, 4 la Royalc. 

Kromeskys of fowl, 4 la Russe. 

Braized rump of beef, k la Polo- [ZRemoves,] Chickens 4 la Chivry. 

naise. 

8 Entrees: 
Mutton cutlets braized, vdth a pur^^ of VoVau'vent, 4 la Ndsle. 

chestnuts. ' Fillets of fowls, 4 la mar^hale. 

Scollops of leverets, k la p^rigueux. Lamb Vears farcied, 4 la Dauphine. 

Compote of pigeons, k la Boureuignotte. Grenadins of veal, with pur^ of spinach. 
Timbiue of maccaroni^ a la Mazarin. 



Sbcono Course. 
Quails. [2 Roasts.] Ducklings. 

Vorau'vent of damsons with [2 Removes.] Semolina souffle 

iced Qustard. 

Nougat, 4 la Parisienne. [2 Flanks.] Brioche with candied citron. 

8 Entremets: 

French beans, k la maitre d'hotel. Brocoli with Parmesan cheese. 

Bastion of eels with Montpellier butter. Aspic of plover's egga. 

Pine-apple cream. Strawberry jelly. 

Parisian loaves. Green currant tartlets. 



DiNNBB FOB 20 Pebsons. April. 
Spring soup. [2 Soups.] Bisque of quails, 4 la Prince Albert. 

Mackerel, fennel sauce. [2 Fishes.] Trout 4 la Parisienne. 

Rissoles h. la Milanaise. 



Poulards, 4 la Pnntaniere. [2Remov€S.] Roast fillet of beef larded, Madeira 

sauce. 

8 Entries: 
Fillets of chickens, with a pur^e of Epigramme of Lamb, with asparagus- 
truffles, peas. 
Cutlets of sweetbreads, 4 la D'Uxelles. Boumns of fowl, 4 la Reine. 
Noix of veal, k la St. Cloud. Fillets of rabbits larded, with a pur^ of 
Timbale of nouilles, k la chasseur. endives. 

Border of potato, garnished with scollops of leverets. 



Second Course. 
Guinea fowls. [2 Roasts.] Pigeons. 

Ramcquins with Gruyere. [^Removes.] Iced Pudding, li la Princesse Alice. 

Cake ^ la Victoria. [2 Flanks.] Large Meringue, li la ChantiUy. 

8 Entremets: 
P^rigord truffles (boiled in mirepoix.) Aspic of fillets of fowl, k la belle-vne. 
Asparagus with white sauce. Pomemnate jelly. 

Lobster salad with a border of plover's Bavanan coffee etetm, 

eggs. Tourte of apricots, li P Allemande. 

Croquante of Genoese cake. 



FOB MAY. 471 



Ddtnbb fob 8 PnsoMa May» 
Scotch broth. 



Trout, Dutch sauce. [2 f uAei.] White bait. 

Roast poulard, 4 ritalienue. [SJRcmovei.] Boiled Leg of lamb and spinach. 

Patties of ox-piths an jus. 

2 Enirim: 
Pigeon Cutlets, k la Dauphine. Scollops of fillets of beef» k la Claremont. 



Second Coubsb. 
Plover's eggs plain. [2 Roatts^] Ghreen goose. 

1 Remove, 
Apricot souffle. 



4 EntremiU: 
Green-peas plain. Burnt cream. 

New potatoes au gratin. Strawberry tartlets. 



DXMHISB VOB 8 PBE801M. Mt^' 
Pur6e of gre«B-peas, k la Victoria. 

Scollops of fillets of gurnets, Dutch [2 Fitkes,] Boiled mackerel,ai la maitred'hdtel. 

sauce. 

Poulard and rice [2E«fM0Mi.] Beefsteak pie. 

Mazarine patties. 

2 Entries: 
Lambs sweetbreads laided, with pur^ of Blanquette of fowls, garnished with cu- 
asparagus. cumbers, finrcied. 



Sbooiid Coubsk 
Russian salad. [2 Raatis,'] LeTcret 

1 Remove. 
Brown-bread pudding, ohirry sauce. 

4 Enif^miiM: 
French beans^ ik. k poukttc. Mar^rgoldi of puff jpaate. 

Maccaroni, ^ la craM. Russian chadotte of strawberries. 



472 BILLS OF FARE 

DnrNSB FOB 8 Pebsohs. May. 
Pur^ of fowls, ik la C^lestine. 

Crimped soles, Dutch sauce. [2 'El9ht%,'\ Red muUets in cases with fine- 

herbs. 

Chickens a la Reinc. [2 Kemonn^ Ribs of beef, a la mode. 

Lobster patties. 

2 £n/ra>s: 
Boudins of rabbit, a la Richelieu. Mutton cutlets with stewed peas. 



Second Course. 
Crayfish plain. [2 'RMut%,'\ I>uckliiig8. 

1 'Remott, 
Pancakes with apricot. 



4 Eairemiis: 
New potatoes k la creme. IVArtois of strawberry jam. 

Maccaroni au gratin. Maraschino jeUv. 



DiNNBB FOR 8 Persons. May. 
D^sclignac soup, with asparagus points. 



Small turbot, lobster sauce. [2 FUhet.] Epigramme of fillets of trout. 

Braized green-goose, li la Flamande [ZRemoves.] Roast quarter of lamb, il la maitre 

i dliotel.. 

Soft roes of mackerel fried in batter, Gasconny sauce. 

2 Enirees: 
Chickens li la Florentine. Tendons of veal, with a mao^oioe of 

vegetables. 



Second Course. 
Canap^ of anchovies. [2 Rooits.] Turkey-poult larded. 

1 Remove. 

Flemish gauffi^. 



4 ERtremiU: 
Seakale k la b^hamcl. Oranffe flower cream. 

New potatoes k la maitre d'hotel. Raspberry tartlets. 



FOR MAY. 



473 



DiNNiB FOB 36 PEB80NB. May. 



Turtle soup (clear). 
Soup k la oevigne. 



r . r, T Turtle soup (full). 

[4 Soup$.\ p^^ ^^ f^^jg ^^i^ Princesse. 



Crimped salmon. lobster sauce, r^ v*.l^ -i 
Wliitebait. [4F«*ef.] 

Grenada ham braized, garnished 



Turbot ^ la Vatel. 
White bait. 



with a mac^doine. 
Calf Vhead, k la tortue. 



Fillet of beef larded, k la Napoli- 
[ARemove$.'] tain. 

Poulards, li la Qodard. 



Kromeskys of lobsters, to be handed round. 



12 Entrta : 



2 Fillets of quails, Ik Tanciennc. 
2 Scollops of fowls with cucumbers. 
2 Lamb cutlets breadcrumbcd, garnish- 
ed with pur6e of mushrooms. 



2 Quenelles of fowl, li I'essence. 

2 Pat^s-chauds of leverets, ^ la p^ri- 

gueux. 
2 Timbales of raviolis, k la Romaine. 



Pigeons barded. 



8£0ONO C0UR8£. 

[3 BmuU.^ 
Peahen larded. 



Spring chickens. 



Krapfen with apricot. [3ll«m<wet.] 

Iced pudding, i la Chesterfield. 



Fondu. 



Savoy cake, k la vanille. [2 FlankiJ] 



Sultana of spun sugar. 



16 Enirtmits : 
2 Groups of larffc p^rigord truffles. 2 Aspics garnished with plover's eggs. 

2 Stewed peas, a la Frangaise. 2 Red currant and raspberry jellies. 

2 Asparagus with white sauce. 2 Pine- apple cheeses, a la cnantilly. 

2 Cherry tartlets. 2 Peaches au riz 4 la Cond^. 



474 



MLLS Of FAME 



Tvtk soap. 



Bwqne of prmwnsy 4 k O 



Crtnroi zrvru koeser si^oc. [3 ioAo.] Sdngeon, i^ U fi^enec 

Fillets oi wihiiiis, a k Horl j. 

Marrov pstriie&. with fine-bolw araee. 

PoclarisL a k ^ksphiikf. [21taw«ciL] Burao of lainb,^ la Montmo 

SciftH rl4 'if b^f bnzzed. a k [3 .FX^db ] Bntzed baniygmnuahed with! 

Mik:ai<e. ^ bemns. 

S EMiria: 
:i )f :ini:*a cmkc» brmized. a k Robk. 2 Fillets of fowls larded and 

i Fillets of ^ipxna. a k Vilkroi. gar- ganusfaed with a Pansian n 

nLihol with a boorzaignotte ra- 2 \cal kernels gtao^s, gamiahed 
guot. ^ parte of gieeifr-peaa. 



Skcond Coubse. 



Turkey-poult larded. 



[3 RooiU.] 
Quaik. 



Tal mouses of cheese. 



Croquantc of oranges. 



['^Removes,] 
Cabinet pudding. 



IHicklings. 
Pancakes souffles. 

[2 Flanks.] Meringue ^ la Parisienn 

12 EntremiU: 
2 Frcncli-bcans raut^t with butter. 2 Italian salads in decorated 

ti Aftparagus, white sauce. borders. 

2 Macedoinc jellies. 2 Celestine strawberry creams. 

2 Red currant and raspberry tartlets. 



FOR JUNE. 475 

DlNNEB FOa 6 PBB0ON8. Jum, 

Green-poM aoup 4 la Cond^. 

1 FiMh, 
Baked whitings, with fine-herhs. 

Chicken pie 4 TAnglaiBC. [2jRemooes.] Breast of veal and stewed-peas. 

2 frUr^es: 
Mutton cutlets, k la Milanaise Rahhit curry, in a border oi rice. 



Sacond Cqubse. 
Boast pigeons. 



3 Entremits : 

Stewed-peas k la Frangaise. Bavarian strawberry cream. 

Puff-paste royals. 



DiNNEB FOA 6 PsssoNS. June. 
Clear rice soup. 



1 Fish. 
Fillets of mackerel, k la maitre d'hdtel. 



Poulard a 1*1 voire. [2Renioves,] Braized neck of mutton, k TAlle- 

mande. 

2 Entries : 
Minced beef, k la Polonaise. Tourte of godiveau, k\& financiere. 



Second Course. 
Roast Duckling. 



Cauliflowers with white sauce. Duchess loaves with apricot jam. 

Timbale of ground rice. 



DiNNBS FOB 6 PEBSON& JuTU, 

Bonne-femme soup. 

1 Fish. 
Broiled trout, Dutch sauce. 



Roast leg of Welsh mutton. [2Remof>es,] Noix of veal, k la creme. 

2 Entrees: 
Mince of fowl, with poached eggs. Fillets of beef in their glaze, garnished 

with stewed-peas. 



Second Course. 
Roast fowl. 



3 Enlremits : 
Asparagus with sauce. Apricot nougats. 

Muraschino jelly with strawoerries. 



f 7^ HLU Of f IKK 



Iroms worn, d 

1 F«L 



Crwpecoof 



3 EmiretM: 
LucXi4ttt a k poclene. CapaofiKif «f iwi witk mil 



SicoarD Col nil. 
Ixfttfer an fntin. [2 RomiMj] Green-^ooae. 

Pesdi fintten. 



4 EMiramits: 
ChcTTj un. Gieeo-peasplaui. 

CaiUrds io f^MBKS, Awfit k la Retne. 



DmsB FOft 8 Pkbsovb. y«m«. 
Soup k la Colbert. 

1 FuA. 
Pftupiettes of filleUi of gorneta, k la Cardinal. 

Braized liam, with spinach. iZRenunes,] Boast fillet of veal, ^ TAu^laise. 

Cronstades k la Monglas. 

2 Entries : 
Fricawec of chickens, k la boorgui- Mutton cutlets, li la Maintenon. 
gnonnc. 



Sboond ComsB. 
mover's eggs plain. [2 Eoof^jJ Guinea-fowls. 

1 Remove, 
Souffle of rice. 



4 Entremiti: 
Btowod-iicas k la Frangaise. Vorau'vent garnished with a mao^ilAifM 

Braiwdlcttucci k I'Espagnole. of fruits. maceooiiM 

Noyau cream. 



FOB JUNB. 477 

DiNNSB FOB 8 PEB80NS. Jwu. 
Soup ^ la Ferney. 

1 Fi$h. 
Spitchcocked eels, with piquante sauce. 

Ox-piths fried in batter, with tomata sauce. 

Chickens ^ TEspagnole. [2Kmavef.] Boiled neck of mutton. 

2 Entriet: 
Lamb cutlets breadcrumbed, with stew- Young rabbits saut^ with fine-herbs.- 
ed-peas. 



Second Course. 
Italian salad. [2 Ilo<uUj\ Quails. 



1 Kemove, 
Fritters, ^ la Dauphine. 

4 Entremits : 
French beans k la cr^mc. Peach jelly. 

Crayfish ^ la poulette. Queen's cakes. 



DiNNBB FOB 18 PEB80NB. JutU. - 
Quenelles of rabbit in consomm^. [2 Sotqn,] Bisque of lobsters, k la Stanley. 
Crimped turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Mullets k la Chesterfield. 

White bait. 



Chickens iurAllemandc. [2Hemovet.] Calfs-head k la Marigny. 

6 Entrees : 
Croustades of soft roes of mackerel, k la Fillets of ducklings with green-peas. 

ravigotte. Salmis of quails, a la Bordelaise. 

Chartreuse k la Parisienne. Veal cutlets laraed, with a pur^e of en- 

Epigramme of lambs sweetbreads, k la dives. 

mac^doine. 



Second Course. 
Turkey-poult. [2 Roasts.] Leverets. 

Ramequins in cases. [2Rtmoves.'] Iced pudding, k la Prince of Wales. 

6 EntremiUi 
Asparagus with sauce. Ginger cream. 



New potatoes k la creme. Vol au Vent of strawberries and cream. 

Cherry jelly garnished with cherries. Parisian nougats. 



478 BILLS OF FARE 

BiNHEB FOB 18 Persons. Juiu. 
Consomme with lettuces and peas. [2 SouptJ] Maccaroni 4 la medicis. 

Salmon trout with parsley and but- [2 FishesS^ Sturgeon ^ la Beaufort. 

ter. 

Bouch^es of whitings 4 la Pompadour. 

Poulards fi la belle-vue. [2 'Remove$,'\ Haunch of Tenifion. 

6 EntrU$: 
Mazarine of fat livers, k la Toulouse. Mutton cutlets braized, ^ la NiYcmaiM. 

Chartreuse of vegetables, garnished with Fillets of fowls, ^ la Valeii^ay. 
Tendons of veal. Lamb*s-ears, k la Tortue. 

Boudins of rabbit, ^ la Reine. 



Second Couisb. 
Green-goose. [2 BxhuU.'] Quails. 

Large meringue with iced cream. [^Bemovei.'] Compi^gne cake. 

6 Entremets : 
French-beans sautds with butter. Pine-apple cheese, ^ la Chantilly. 

Stewed-peas, ii la Franjaise. Fanchonettes with vanille. 

Red currant jelly, garnished with peaches Flan of cherries. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. July. 
Vermicelli clear soup. [2 Soupt,] Bro^-n pur6e of turnips, ^ la Cond^. 

Fried flounders. [2 Fishes.] Char li la Genoisc. 

Noukles, with Parmesan. 



Fillet of beef, chevrcuil sauce [^Removes.] Chickens and tongue, ^ la Printa- 

ni^re. 

4 Entrees : 
Cutlets of breasts of lamb, ^ la Villeroi, Quenelles of lobster, ila Vertpr^. 

with French-beans. Pat^haud of young rabbits with fine^ 

Compote of pigeons with peas. herbs. 



t 



Second Coursk. 
Peahen larded. [2 Roasts.] Ducklings. 

Parmesan fritters. \2Removes.] Polish ,Baba. 

4 Entremits: 
Young broad-beans, i la poulette. Peaches with rice^ 4 la CSoiid^ 

Aspic of prawns. Puff-paste platts. 



FOR JULY. 479 

DiNNBR FOB 12 Pebsons. Jvly. 

Consomme soup, h. la Xavier. [2 iSoiipt.] Green-peas soup, h la Fabert. 

White bait. [2 Fithei.l Salmon ^ rficossaisc. 

' Shrimp patties. 

Poulard ^ la godard, [2Remov€t.'\ Necks of lamb larded, h, la mac^- 

— — doinc. 

ABntreet: 
Mutton cutlets bre&dorimibed and broil- Tendons of veal on a border of Tcgeta- 

ed, with shalot gravy. bles, garnished with peas. 

Vol-au-vent, k la financiere. Blanquette of fowls, ^ T^carlate. 



Sboonb Coubsb. 
Guinea-fowls. [2 jR<mm^s.J Quails. 

Omlet souft^. {^Removes.'] Cobuig cake. 

4 Enirtmitt: 
Cucumbers farcied, ^ ressence. Tourte of currants and raspberries. 

Stewed-peas, h. la Fran^aise. Blanc-manger. 



DiNKBB FOB 14 Pebsons. July, 



Spring soup. [2 Stmpt,'] Cream of pearl-barley, ^ la Prin- 

tani^re. 

Crimped perch, Dutch sauce. [2 FifAet.] Salmon h. la mar^chale. 

Rissoles of lamb's brains, ^ TAUemande. 



Chickens k k Florentine. \^Rem(me$,'\ Small ribs of beef, k la Fkmande. 

4 Entreti : 
Grcndins of veal with stewed-peas. Boudins of whititlgs, with a ragout of 

Cutlets of pigeons, 4 la Dauphine, gar- crayfish tails. 

nished with bouiguignotte ragout. Fricass^ of chickens, k la paysannc. 



Second Course. 
Capon. [2 Roa$ts,'\ Leverets. 

PufF-paste ramequins. [2 Removes.] Souffle pudding of semolina. 

4 Entremits: 
Lobster salad, with plover's tm. Artichokes k la Lyonnaise. 

Charlotte Russe, garnished wnh fruits. Vorau'vent of cherries. 



4^ 3ILL§ •:? FlKX 

4 £ac-us: 

Xnam rule?. & !a pompaoaiir. jar- Lamb V i w iiaiJneA ig larded, vidipine 
iistuA -rsD. i nod^iitine. -it artic&afees. 

^entlnoa ir iiiail? -rrrs nimec «nis uui PHes 'if iiwis 4 la M3c rae, wica »- 
:rix5i!9. xanwaeii v-jci subl amis- prime sad 

zaaea if amiM. 




3orag-rhtrirffy. ~i Am^slT DuekliiHei. 



iMuTocLiae fritaen. 'iiK^MnEL^i Tunlle Mmfflt* in cue. 



4 £jiDnSHf£i: 

Fntneh-b<a*». a la maic^ dliottL S uA w be ti i jrflr. 

Aapie of p^j^er's «2;^ !&•! pnv^s. PratttroQes a la vaniDe. 



Soup a la dauphine. [2 S]ipt.j Porfe of a^iangos 4 la St. Geoigv. 

Crimped salmoD, paraler and batter [2 FoAcs.] Fre^ water tnrat in cases aith fiiie- 

herbs. 

Chicken patties ak la bechameL 

Capon k la Toulonse. [iRtmoKM.] Saddle of lamb 4 la Printaniee. 

6 EtUrea: 

Chartrciueof Te^etableSyj^amished with Scollops of fowls with cueumbere and 

braized ouails, fiimet sauce. supreme sauce. 

Turban r^f fillets of rabbits a la royale, Glutton cutlets braized, garnished widi 

financiere ragout. asparagus-peas. 

Vcal Kernels a la Villeroi, garnished Fillets of cfuckfiDgs, with Frendi-beim 

with a pur^ of green-peas. and half glaze. 



Second Cocass. 
Pigeons. [2 RoatU,] Turkey-poults. 

Klrfriish gauffrcs. [2Remores.] Iced pudding, ii la Nesselrode. 

6 Entremiis: 
Artichoke*!! k la Imrigoule. Raspberry tartleta. 

HifWPt\'\wM, k la Fmngaisc. Duchess loaves, ganuBhed with fterii 

I'liir-appli* Jelly currants. 

Peach cheese, ^ la Chantilly. 



FOR JULY. 



481 



DiNMBB FOB 18 Persons. Jvly, 
Coosomm^ of fowl with quenelles. [2 Soups.] Pur^e of green-peas, k la Ferney. 



Water-souchet of fillets of soles. [2 Fuha.'\ 



Kromeskys of lobsters. 



Poulards, h, la Parisienne. [2Jiemoeef.] 



Stiugeon ii la Cardinal. 



Haunch of Venison^ 



6 Entrees : 

Mazarine of fillets of whitings, k la Ve- Pat^haud of leverets, k la p^rigueux. 

nitienne. Scolloj>s of sweetbreads, k la mar^hale, 
Lamb-cutlets, breadcrumbed, with piu^e with puree of mushrooms. 

of artichokes. Fricassee of spring chickens, k la bour- 
Fillets of pigeons, k la de Luynes, with guignonne. 

a mac^doine of vegetables. 



Green-goose. 



Brioche with cheese (hot). 



Second Coursk. 
[2 Roasts,] 



Quails. 



[2}Umoves.] Vorau'vent of currants and rasp- 
berries, with an iced custard- 
cream. 



8 Entremits 
Young broad-beans, k la poulette. Bavarian cream of pistachios, 

Cucumbers farcied, with esnagnole sauce. "" 
Italian salad in a border of aspic jelly. 
Dame of salmon, with Montpellier sauce, 



Panach^c jelly. 

Almond ganflrcs, filled with strawberries 

and cream. 
German tourte of apricotK. 



I 1 



¥%t hlLLt OF FAKE 



Ball Scffek foe S^.^O Pexsoy?. .>i««brr. 

^ GrrmU'pkKti. cm cmamcntcl tt€tmdMz 
2 lUiMr^i pi** '/f f'vTiU *ij«i Jal'j ■-; :L 2 HazD«. orraiiMcted with afotc ;»t^" 



4^ Co/(f cntrietf dahtd up an iitotr piaicM : 

(/ (jTouyi^ of ploTorS ej?srs gvuiFhed 6 LobneT nlmds. 

with ftifpic j<:I]y. ' 6 MaTonaises of fovL 

C PUu-« *A cold r'^sifft fovU witb do. 6 Majonaiscs of fillets of salxzwc 

(cut up;. C; Entries of lamb-cotlet^. a b heTx- ^ 

6 Plat«i< of Vfosnie. in Flice>^, sraniishefi 6 Entries of chaad-froid fricMFS€-«i 

witli ufpic-jellT. chickens. 

36 f -c^ roattfovh, and 4 tongms, to be kept in rttenxfor the pmrpoae ijfrtpUniik 
thote entriet as they are eaten. 



8 Groue pieces of pastry, on stands: 
2 Hftvoy cakeff, a la vanille. 2 Croquantcs. 

2 Nougatfi of almondK and pintactiioH. 1 Baba. 1 Victoria cake. 



Hi Entremett of small pastry : 

Oierrv tartlctu. Mecca loaves. 

8traw(»ciTy and apricot tartletH. Polish cakes. 

Fenchonnettcfi, with orange flowers* Cheese-cakes. 

0(rrioese cakes, with almonds. Queen^s cakes. 

Aoricot noiigatK. Small meringrnes. 

Florentines. Almond gauffrcs. 

Madeleines. Puff-paste mosaic tartlets. 

IhichesR loavcft. Petits choux, with pistachios. 

36 Moulds of jellies and creams : 
G CurrontjcllieSjgaroished with peaches 6 Pine-apple jellies. 

6 Clierry jellies. 6 Mac^dome jellies. 

6 Russian Cliarlottcs. 6 Strawberry charlottes. 

3 SoupSf to be served Jrom the buffet. 
Spring soup. Vermicelli clear soup. 

Pur^e of fowls or cream of barley. 

24 Hot roast fowls. 

French beans, new potatoes. 



FOR SUMMER. 483 



PuBUO DiNKEB FOB 300 Pebsoms. Summer. 

Spring soup. [3 iSataw.] Pur^c of fowls, h. la Beine. 

Turtle soup (full and clear).* 



8 Haunches of yenison. 48 Roast fowls (hot). 



48 Hot entries ; 
8 Of sweethreads larded, with pur^e of 8 Of lamb-cutlets breadcnimbed, with 

artichokes. mac^doine. 

8 Of beefsteaks, a la Frangaise. 8 Of Cutlets of quails, k la mar^chale, 

8 Of scollops of fowls with cucumbers. with stewed-peas. 

8 Of chickens, k la Marengo. 



48 Cold entrees : 
8 Of lobster salads. 8 Of Mayonaises of chickens. 

8 Of fillets of fowls, k la belle vue. 8 Of sliced galantine with jelly. 

8 Of salads of fillets of soles and salmon. 8 Of aspics of plover's eggs. 



8 Chrosse pieces, on ornamental stands : 
2 Raised pies, garnished with aspic-jelly. 2 Groups of large p^rigord truffles. 
2 Groups of large crayfish. 2 Hams garnished with aspic-jelly. 

8 Grosse pieces of pastry, on stands : 
2 Brioches, with dried cherries and can- 2 Coburg cakes (in high moulds), (hot), 
died citron (hot). 2 Nougats, a la Parisienne. 

2 Grosse meringues, ^ la Chantilly. 



36 Entremits of srnall pastry , on ornamental stands : 
6 Of Genoese cakes, witli pistachios and 6 Of currant and raspberry tartlets. 

apple jelly. 6 Of Profitrolles (half with coffee, half 

6 Of Apricot puff paste tartlets. with chocolate). 

6 Of Parisian loayes. 6 Of Dariolcs, k la yanille. 



24 Moulds of jellies and creams : 
6 Peach jellies. 6 Mac^oinc jellies. 

6 Cherry jellies. 6 Bavarian strawberry creams. 

6 Italian creams and blanc-mangers. 6 Panache jellies (with apricot cream 

in the centre). 



[24 Entremits of dressed vegetables: 
6 Of New Dotatoes, it la creme. 6 Of artichokes, i Tltalienne. 

6 Of stewed-peas, k la Frangaise. 6 Of French-beans, k la maitre d'hdtel. 



* Serve 8 tureens of turtle, 4 of dear, and 4 of fuU dicaaed turtle; 4 tureena of spring soap, and 4 of 
pur^ of fowl, a la Heine. 



ii2 



^^ 3ILLi }W iJkMM 



r.R JI 



^luSL I A lubfs:: 




» T»^n\ - isdcSL A la Wipam 



'LaoffU. 1 A lulauuse. LScnuvci.' BcauKti seeks 'ic Tnir??*' ImiAa i 

I' % ItTnamfi* 






Fioau ot PimeHO. '£&.-> 




4 Ejurtmtti : 
Vfz«ianie aiarr.v. a a ovme. Gutlinir dkicse, a Im Chantzllj. 

Pocasi>». a la H'-iuan^imiae. Genoeie cakes with putaefaios. 



InssKB Fom 12 Pnuoxf. ^M^ncit 
Maecaroni m consoaimc. [2 ^S^MpL] Pur6« of spinach* a la BcaoTfta. 

Water-^otichet of perch. [2 FiaktM.] Slices of aahnoo bfoiled, withcapcn 

sauce. 

Pittxes, aa jus. 

KoMt Mddle of mutton. [2IUm»noa.] Grouse pie, ^ rEcoonae. 

4 EiUria: 
FricMM^; of cliickenA, a la financiere. Members of ducks, a la Niveroaiae. 

Kffigramme of lamb, with a pur^ of po- Fillets of leverets larded, widi poimA 
taUiCs. sauce. 



Second Coubsb. 
Oinnca>fowls. [2 Roa$i% ] RuAGb and reeves. 

Ornlct with apricot. [^Renunei.^ Cherry bread. 

4 Entremelt : 
Krrrich-lN'An*^ A la iKiulctto. Flan of peaches. 

Artichokm with white sauce. Coffee cream. 



FOR AUGUST. 



485 



Dinner fob 12 Persons. August. 

Consomm^ of fowl with quenelles. [2 Soupt.'\ Hodge-podge, i rEcossaise. 
Fried whitings, Dutch sauce. [2 jP«^.] Charr, k la Parisienne. 

Oyster patties. 
Roast haunch of venison. [2iltfiitooef.] Capon au gros sel. 

4 EntrUi: 

Memhers of chickens, a la mar^chale. 
Mutton cutlets with pur€e of turnips. 



Chartreuse k la Cardinal. 
Fricandeau, k la Jardiniere. 



Peahen larded. 
Custard fritters. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roattt,^ 



Grouse. 



[^KemovetJ] Apple pudding with apricot Jam. 



4 Entremili : 
Vegetable marrow, k I'Espagnole. Blanc-manger. 

Spinach with cream. Florentines 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Julienne soup. [2 Soupt,] Oyster soup, ^ la Plessy. 

Brill and shrimp sauce. [2 Fithes.] Trout, k I'aurore. 

Lobster patties. 
Roast capon, ^ la financi^re. [2Removei,] Necks of red deer, ^ la St. Andrew. 



Grouse, k la Richelieu. 
Quenelles of fowl, ^ la Toulouse. 



4 EntrU$: 



Ox-cheek braized, ^ la Jardiniere. 
Timbale of raviolis, ^ la Romaine. 



Second Coubse. 
Ducklings. [2 RoatU,] Wheatears. 

Pancakes with apricot. [2R«mooef.] Iced biscuits, in cases. 

4 Entrtmiis: 
Cucumbers, k la poolette. Kiischeowasser jeDy. 

Artichokes, ^ la provengale. Meringues with cream and strawberries. 



FOR SEPTEMBER. 487 

Dinner for 24 Persons, Russian style.. September. 

Maccaroni, a la St. Pierre. [3 Soma.'] Jardmiere clear soup. 

Turtle. 



^tfOlets of salmon, ^ la ravigotte. [3 FUhes,] Pike, ^ la Ghambord. 

Turbot, lobster, sauce. 

Kromeskys of oysters. 

Ham wiih French-beans. \ZRemov€t,\ Chickens, ^ la belle- vue. 

Haunch of venison. 



6 Entrees: 
2 Of mutton cutlets, ^ la soubise. 2 Of partridges with fine-herbs. 

2 Of quenelles of fowl with essence. 



Second Coubsk. 



Quails. [3 RtaaU,] Capon. 

Qrouse. 



r Fondu of Parmesan. [3il«»o©ef .] Brown-bread pudding. 

Iced cake, k la Stanley. 

, 8 Entremits : 

2 Of Artichokes, k la provengale. 2 Of Peach jellies. 

2 Of apricot tartlets. 2 Of Rusisian salads. 



Dinner for 24 Persons, Russian style. September. 

Soup, k la Colbert. [3 Soups.] White pnr^e of turnips. 

Griblet soup. 

Fillets of gurnets, k Tltalienne. [3 Fishes.] Fried soles. 

Crimped cod with oyster sauce. 

Patties, k la b^hamel. 

Boiled leg of mutton. [3Remove9.] Black game, k la Norw^gien. 

2 Roast geese, ^TAnglaise. 

6 Entries : 
2 Of sweetbreads larded, with pur^e of 2 Of cutlets of young partridges, 2^ la 
endives. mar^chalc. 

2 Of haricot of venison, k la Nivemaise. 



Second Course. 



Wheatears. [3 Roasts.] Pigeons. 

Poulard. 



Parmesan fritters. [ZRemoves.] Pancakes souffles. 

Pudding, k la Nesselrode. 

8 Entremits : 
Of French-beans sautftj with butter. 2 Of pears with rice, k la Cond^. 

Of scolloped lobsters au gratin. 2 Of Vorau'vents of green-gages. 



488 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 16 Pebsons. September. 

Vermicelli, h, la royale. [2 Soupi,'\ Ox-tail soup. 

Cod, ^ la bechamel. [2 FUhes.'] Broiled haddocks, Dutch sauce. 

Fowls and tongue with cauliflowers. [2JRemave5.] Haunch of red deer, 4 la Kinnaird 

6 Entrees: 
Fillets of grouse, breadcrumbed, ^ la Croustade garnished with lamb Vbrains, 

maitre d'hotel. with matelotte sauce. 

Mutton patties, si la Windsor. Tourte of scollops of lobsters, a la Car- 

Minced beef, 4 la Polonaise. dinal. 

Chickens sautes, k la Lyonnaise. 



Black-game. 
Sweet omlet. 



Tomatas au gratin. 
Fried artichcSces. 
Lemon jelly, k la Russe. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[2Removes.] 

6 Entremets : 



Partridges. 
Chestnut puddiug. 



Bavarian chocolate cream. 
D*Artois of apple marmelade. 
Petits choux, with almonds. 



Dinner for 16 Persons. September, 

Pur^e of endives, k la creme. [3 Soiq)s,] Oiblct soup, k rirelandaise. 

Eels, k la tartare. [2 Fishes.] Salmon with lobster sauce. 
Veal and ham pie. 



6 Entrees: 
Ox-piths in small cases, with fine-herbs. Partridges, k la p^rigueux 
Croustades, ^ la milanaise. Quenelles of whitmgs, 

VoPauVent of lambVfeet, k la poulette. sauce. 

Blanquette of fowl with mushrooms. 



[^Removes.] Braized goose, k Tcstoufiade. 

with crayfisb 



Capon. 
Puff-paste ramequins. 



Spinach au jus, 
Ve 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[2Removes.] 



Leveret. 
Tapioca pudding. 



6 Entremits: 



egetable marrow, k la b^hamel. 
Charlotte of apricots. 



Noyau JeDy. 

Burnt almond cream. 

Cheese cakes. 



FOR OCTOBER. 



489 



Dinner fob 12 Pebsons. 
Julienne. [2 Sotqn,^ 

Cod's head, baked. 
Ham, with spinach. 



October. 

Mock turtle soup. 
[2 Fishes,] Fillets of soles, k la Dieppoise. 



[2Removes.] Roast fillet of yeal, h la mac^oine. 

4 Entrees: 
Supreme of fowls, k la Talleyrand. Mutton cutlets, ^ Tlndienne. 

Oyster patties, k la Sefton. Fillets of woodcocks, k PAncienne. 



Hare. 
Brioche, with cheese. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 

[^Removes,] 



Pheasants. 
Souffle of chocolate. 



4 Entremits: 
Mushrooms, k la Provengale. German apple tourte. 

Scolloped crayfish. Pine-apple jelly. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. OdoUr, 

P}^6e of spinach, k la Conti. [2 Soups,] Soup, k la Paysanne. 

[2 Fishes,] Crimped cod, Seville. 

[^Removes,] Partridge pie, k I'Anglaise. 



Fried soles, shrimp sauce. 
Roast saddle of mutton. 



4 EntrUs: 
^ ,,, — . w. «^», » » « M^^^AMSj^^, ScoUopsofbecfsaut^cs, with oyster sauce. 

Ballotines of legs of chickens, k la Croquettes of sweetbreads, k TAlle- 
Financiere. mande. 



Fillets of teal, k la Provengale. 



Larks. 
Omlet, with Parmesan. 



Croutes, with mushroonis. 
Maccaroni, au gratin. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts,] 

[iRenunes,] 

4 Entremits: 



Grouse. 
Pancakes, with apricot. 



Damson cheese, & la Chantilly. 
Apple mosaic tartlets. 



490 BILLS OF FARE 

DiNNBB FOB 12 PsBSONS. October » 

Consomm^, with rice. [2 Soups.] Brown pur6e of turnips. 

Brill, with lobster sauce. 1 2 Fishei] Cod*s sounds, k la Provengale. 

Braized ribs of beef, k la mode. [2Removet,] Roast sucking pig, k TAnglaise. 

4 Entrees: 
Scollops of young rabbits in cases, with Salmis of partridges, wiUi mushrooms, 
fine-herbs. Cliickens, with Lasagnes, a ritalienne. 

Fricandeau, with puree of endives. 



Second Course. 
Poulard. [2 RoastM,] Snipes. 

Croquettes of chestnuts. [^Removes,] Pine-apple pudding. 

4 Entremets: 
Brussels sprouts, dressed with butter. Puff paste royals. 

Scolloped muscles, au gratin. Apple charlotte. 



.Dinner fob 12 Persons. October. 

Consomme with Lasagnes. [2 Soups], Calfs-tails soup, ^ la royale. 

Fried smelts, anchovy sauce. [2 Fishes.] Haddocks, egg sauce. 

Boiled leg of mutton, h TAnglaise. [2Remov€S.] Braized pheasants, with cabbages. 

4 Entrees: 
Kromeskys of oysters, k la Russc. Boudins of rabbit, JL la D'Artoia. 

Pork cutlets, JL la sauce Robert. Chickens sautes, a PAlgcrienne. 



Sboond Coursk. 
Hare. [2 Roagts.] Partridges. 

Spanish ptiib. [2Bemovet,] Apple pudding. 

4 Entremftt: 
Potatoefl^ k la Maitre d'bdtel. Nougats of apricot. 

Tomataiy with fine-heriis, an gmtin. Cofice cream. 



FOR OCTOBER. 491 

Dinner foa 12 Pbb8ons. October, 

Bninoisesoup. [2 SouptJ] Hare soup, c la St. George. 

Fillets of whitings, k la royale. [2 JPifAet.] Bakedgumets, with piquante sauce. 

Capon, with rice. \^Rem(mei,'\ Roast haunch of mutton. 

4 EntrUi: 
Salmis of woodcocks, k la minute. Fillets of heef saut^ in their glaze. 

Polpettes of rabhit, k Tltali^ne. Mince and grill of fowl, k la bechamel 



SkCOND CoTTftSB. 

Larks. [2 Roasti.'] Pheasants. 

Coburg cake. [2Refiiorcf.] Iced pudding, A la Duchess of 

4 Entrem^i : 
^inach, au jus. Apples, k la Portiiguaise. 

Efggs brouin^, with truffles. Russian lemon jelly. 



Dinner fob 12 Pbbsons. October. 
Flemish soup. [2 Soupi.] Pur^e of pheasant, k la Cond^. 

Slices of cod, broiled, JL la MaUre [2 Fuhes,] Fillets of gurnets, A Tltalienne. 

d'hdtel. 

Chickens, k Tlvoire. [2Remove$.] Haunch of roebuck, a PAllemande. 

4 Entrees : 
Veal cutlets, breadcrambed, with pur^e Partridges, k la Br^ilienne. 

of spinach. Quenelles of fowl, k la Mar^hale. 

Haricot of mutton, 4 la Nivemaise. 



Sroond Course. 
Bkck game. [2 Roasts,] Golden plovers. 

Parmesan fritters. [^Removes,] Ginger pudding. 

4 Entremits: 
Jerusalem artiohokiee. k U b^ohftiod. Punch jelly. 

Portugal enions, k rE^pagnde. Genoese cakes, k la Chftntillf. 



492 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner foe 18 Persons. November. 
Julienne. [2 Soupt.'] Bisque of snipes, k la bonne-boucbc 

Crimped skate fried, with capers [2 Fishet,"] Matelottc of carp and eels. 

sauce. 

Pheasants, h, la Financiere. \2Rtmov€$,'] Braized rump of beef, ii la Fk- 

mande. 

6 Entreet : 
Pat^chaud of partridges, a la Chasseur. Blanquette of fowl, with jtruffle?. 
Chartreuse, a la Parisienne. Braized carbonnaaes of mutton, k la 

Pork cutlets, a Taurore. Bretonne. 

Fillets of grouse, with fiimet sauce. 



Second Course. 
Capon. [2 Roastt.] Teal. 

Cheese fondu. [2Remave$,] Apple fritters. 

6 Entremitt : 

Maccaroni, a la Napolitaine. Rupsian charlotte, k la vanille. 

Turnips glac6(, with sugar. Dariolcs, with ratafias. 

Orange Jelly, k TAnglaise. Bread-and-butter pastry. 



Dinner for 18 Persons. November, 

Consomni^ of pheasant, with [2 Soup$.] Cream of pearl barley, ik la Victoria. 

quenelles. 

Spitchcocked eels. [2 Fishes.] Crimped haddocks, Dutch sauce. 

Roast haunch of mutton. [^Removes.] Black game, k la Montagnarde. 

6 Entries: 
Pat^-chaud of ox-palates, fl Tltalienne. Quenelles of fowl, ^ la D'Orsay. 

Chartreuse of tendons of veal, garnished Mutton cutlets, ii la ProTen^ale. 

with a jardiniere. Scollops of fowls, with truffles. 

Frit6t of chickens, with tomata sauce. 



Second Course. 
Wild ducks. [2 Roasts.] Partridges. 

Krapfen. [^Removes.] Coffee souffle. 

6 Entremets : 
Group of [>^rigord truffles. Mirlitons, with aprioot. 

Brocoli^ with Parmesan cheese. Lemon jelly in quarters. 

Pear with rice, k la Conde. Maraschino Bavarian cream. 



FOR NOVEMBER. 493 

DiNNSB FOB 18 Pebsons. November, 

Maccaroni clear soup. [2 Soupt,'] Pur^e of celery, h. la creme. 

Fillets of perch, fried, Dutch sauce. [2 Fihu$J] Carp, it la Chamhord. 

Poulards, ^ la P^rigueux. [^Removes,'] Fillets of mutton, larded, with 

poivrade sauce. 

6 Entrees : 
Croustades of rice filled with pur^e of Fillets of rabbits, k la D'Uxelles, gar- 
woodcocks, nished with soubisc pur^e. 
Tourtc of Godiveau, k la Financiere. Supreme of fowls, k T^carlate. 
Scollops of pheasant, k la Victoria. Mutton cutlets, with pur^ of potatoes. 



Second Course. 
Larks. [2 Roattt,'\ Grouse. 

Custard fritters. [9,Remova.^ Apple souffle. 

6 Entremets: 
Salsifis, with white sauce. Calf's-feet jelly, with grapes. 

Mushrooms, with finc-hcrbs, au gratin. Timbale of ground rice. 

Cuirayao, Bavarian cream. Puff-paste walnuts. 



DiNMEB FOB 18 Pbbsoms. November. 

Scotch broth. [2 Soupt.'] Hare soup, k TAnglaise. 

Fried slices of cod, oyster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Baked pike, with Italian sauce. 

Roast fillet of beef, poivrade sauce. [2IUmoves,] Braized goose, a la Flamande. 

6 Entrees: 
Boudins of partidge, k la Perigueux. Scollops of mutton, with oyster sauce. 

Pork cutlets, broiled, with tomata sauce. Widgeon. ^ I'Am^ricaine. 
Curry of rabbits, a Tlndienne. Croustades of marrow, with finc-hcrbs. 



Second Course. 
Golden plovers. [2 Rmtsis.] Pheasants. 

Ramequins. [^Rcnufcts.] Iced pudding, k la Parisicune. 

6 Entremith : 
Braized celery, a TEspaguole. Piuc-applc cheese, u la Cluintilly. 

Scolloped muscles. Mtcca loavcs. 

Noyau jeUy. Apples and rice, with apricot. 



494 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner fob 8 Pebsonb. November. 

Soup, a la Paysanne. 

Turbot, lobator sauce. [2 FUha.'] Salmon cutlets^ a la MaiatoDon. 

Roast leg of mutton. [^Remota,'] Lark pudding, ii la Mehon Mow- 

bray. 

Rissoles, k la Milanaise. 

2 Entriet: 
Pigs feet, a la Ste. M^n^hould. Chickens sautes, with iino-hcrbc. 



Second Course. 
Fried potatoes. [2 BxMsts,'] Pheasant. 

Apricot souifl^, to remove the roast. 



4 Enlrcmcts : 
Croutes with truffles, a la Piedmonlaisc. Puddinff, a la Vieunoise. 
German salad. Almond cakes, a la creme. 



Dinneb fob 8 Pebsons. November, 
Pur^e of rabbits, k la Chantilly. 



Broiled herrings, mustard sauce. [2 Fitihcs,] Scollops of cod, a la Hollandaise. 

Capon, witli nouillcs. [2 Removes.'] Braized neck of mutton larded, • 

la Soubise. 

Calf's brainn, fried in batter. 



2 Entries : 
Kidneys breadcrumbed, k la Maitre Cutlets of partidgcs, & rAlgeri^ne. 

d^hAtel. 



Second Course. 
Maccaroni, au gratin. [2 Roasts.] Wild ducks. 

Orange frttcrs, to remove the roast. 

4 Entremets: 
Celery, k la Villeroi. Pear cheese, a la cremc. 

Poached eggs, on anchovy toa«t. Jjove's wells, garnished with pref«r%*«. 



FOE NOVEMBER. 495 

DuiNSB FOB 8 Pbbboks. November. 
Petal barley Boup, k la Princesse. 

Salmon, k la tartarc. [2 Fiihet.] Paupiettes of fillets of soles, k la 

ravigotte. 

Roast neck of venison. [2 Removet.] Calf *-head, i T Anglaise. 

Black puddings. 

2 EntrUi: 
Boudins of pheasant, k la Dauphine, Fricas^ of chickens, k la Romainc. 
with Souoise sauce. 



.Second Coubse. 
Scolloped oysters. ( [2 RoaUt,] Woodcocks. 

Iced rice pudding, k la Cintra, to remove the roast. 

4 EntremiU: 
Eggs, k TAurorc. Apple cheese, with custard. 

Spinach, with cream. Harry the Fourth's shoe-strings. 



Dinner fob 8 Psbsons. November, 
Mulligatawney soup. 



Fillets of haddock, k la royale. [2 Fishes,'] Cod, k la creme. 

Boiled turkey, with oyster sauce. [2Removes,] Roast sucking pig. 

Croquettes of ox-palates. 

2 Entrees: 
Crepinettes of partridges, & la D'Estaing. Fricandcau, with pur^c of tomatas. 



Second Course. 
Italian salad. [2 Roasts,] Hare. 

Iced biscuits, in small cases. 



4 Entremits: 
Brussels sprouts sautes, ^ la niaitrc Potatoes, k la Hollaudaisc. 

d'hotei. Orange pudding. 

Meringues, a la creme. 



496 BILLS OF FAKE 

Dinner fob 8 Pkbsons. November. 
Cream of rice, a la Chasseur. 



Fried smelts. [2 FUha,^ Lampreys, ii la Foley. 

Goose, ^ la dauphinoise. [SR^movrs.] Fillets of red deer, 4 la royale. 

Patties, au jus. 



2 Entrees: 
Sheep's tongues, ii T^carlate, with spi- Pigeon's, k la Duchesse. 

nach. 



Second Course. 
Pheasant. [2 RoasU.] Snipes. 

Pear fritters, to remove the roast. 



4 EntrcmUn: 
Salsifis fried in batter. Rice eake, with almonds. 

Eggs, k la triiKj. Vol-au-vent of apricots. 



Din NEB FOB 8 Pbbbonb. November. 
Pur^e of lentilles, a la soubise. 



Fried soles. [2 F'uhet,'] Tench, ^ la HoUaadaise. 

Ham, with spinach. [^RenwveM,'] Roast turkey, ^ PAnglaise. 

Douch^es of larks, it la Pompadour. 

2 Entrees: 
Fillets of partridges, a la Plessy. Scollops of mutton saut^es, vrith oliveiL 



Second Couhse. 
Russian salad. [2 Roasts,] Widgeon. 



Vol-au-vent of damsons, with iced cream, to remove the roust. 

■1 Entremets: 
Kggs, a la Dauphinc Pomegranate jelly. 

Endives, with cream. Maccaroni cake. 



FOR DECEMBER. 497 

Dinner fob 14 Psbbons. December, 

Julienne, ' [^ Soiqts.] Pur^eofrabbit8,a lamaitred'hdtel. 

Crimped slices ofpike, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.] Broiled turbot, a la provcn9ale. 

Turkey, with celery sauce. [2 Removes,] Haunch of roebuck, li ]& Marie 

Stuart. 

OjTster patties, k la Sefton. 

4 Entrees: 
Mutton cutlets, k la Russe. Fricassde of chickens, il la Dauphine. 

Partridges, k la p^rigueux. Noix of Veal, it la Mace'doine. 



Second Course. 
Pheasants. [2 Roasts.] Snipes. 

Ratifia soufflee. [2 Removes.] Chestnut Pudding. 

Q Entremets: 
Seakale, with white sauce. Vanilla Bavarian cream. 

Group of krge truffles. Millefeuille cake, it la Chantilly. 

Orange jelly, it la Fran9aise. Apricots, ^ la Cond^ (preserved). 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December. 

Consommd of game, with lasagnes. [2 Soups.] Pur^e of lentils, k la brunoise. 

John Dory, with lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Wliitings, with fine herbs. 

Ham, with Brussels sprouts. [2 Removes.] Roaste tyrkey, k la chipolata. 

White puddings, it la Royale. 

4 Entries: 
Vea cutlets, k la Zingara. Fillets of grouse, it la Dauphine, with 

Tim 1c of raviolis, it la Napolitane. piquant sauce. 

Civet of bare, with mushrooms. 



Second Course. 
Wild docks. [2 Roasts.] Partridges. 

Iced pudding, it la Kinnaird. [2 Removes.] Mince pies. 

6 Entremits: 
Jerusn^ m artichokes, ^ Tespagnole. Lemon jelly, it la Fran^aise. 

Croquf»t«»s of potatoes. Cherry tartlets. 

Pistacl cream. Tourte of frangipane, 

K K 



4f>8 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December, 
Brunoise t'oiip. [2 Simps'] Puree of grouse, a la Conile. 

Baked i»ikc, with piquant sauce. [2 Fith€s,'\ Whitings, n la inaitrc ^I'hi'itel. 

Capon, a la perigueux. \2Rcmoves,'] Roosted Ham, a la St. Jainos. 

Rissoles of calf's brains. 



4 EnlrU's: 
Cutlets of partrill^ro^, si la Mur^chalc, Scollojw of fat livers, witli tinc-lierhs. 
with an essence (»f garlic. Boudins of fowl, a la D^OrMiy. 

Mutton cutlets, with puree of endives. 



Pheasants 
Arrow-root, Souffle. 



Potatoes, an grntin. 
Croutes, with mushr(M>ms. 
Calfs feet jelly, with j^frapi's. 



Second Couksk. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Rcniuvvs. ] 



Widgeon. 
French gnnffres. 



6 Entremets: 

Bavarian ra:<pl)errv cream (prcsi^rvod). 
Tinibule of Nouilles, with vanilla. 
Florentines, with green-ga^e juni. 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December. 

Maccoroni, ^ la Royale. [2 Soups.] Soup of tendons of veal, k la 

diniere. 

Fried fillets of gurnets, shrimj) [2 Fishes] Soles in matelottc Nomiandc. 

sauce. 

Roast pheasants, k ritaliennc. [2 Removes.] Mutton pic, k PADglaisc. 

Muscles, fried in hatter. 



4 Entrees: 
Tendons of veal, k la Villeroi, with a Salmis of wild fowl, a la Proven^ale. 

Nivemaise ragout. Fillets of beef saut^ with an csAence 

Supreme of fowls, k Tdcarlatc, with a of anchovies. 

pur^e of truffles. 



Hare. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.'] 



Souffles of vanilla, in small cases. [2 Removes.] 



Spinach, au jus. 
If ried potatoes. 
Queen 8 cakes, with a]incot. 



6 Entremets: 



Partridges. 
Ginger pudding. 



Pine-anplc jelly. 

Flan or pears. 

Polish puff -paste cakes. 



FOR DECEMBER. 499 

DiNNBB FOR 6 PsBSONS. December, 
Vermicelli clear soup. 



1 FUh. 
Brill, with shrimp sauce. 

Capon, with brocoli. [2 JlcOTOcei.] Roast fillet of beef, poivrade sauce. 

2 Entree*: 
Pur^ of pheasant, with poached eggs. Scollops of sweetbreads, with soubise 



Second Coursk. 
Roast partridges. 



3 Entremiis ; 
Omlet, with fine-herbs. Lemon pudding. 

Blanc-mangcr in glasses. 



DiNNBB FOR 6 Pebsonb. December. 
Pur^ of peas, it TAnglaise. 

1 Fish, 
Cod, it la creme au gratin. 



Roast pheasant, k la p^rigueux. [2 Removet,] Boiled leg of pork, ^ TAnglaise. 

2 Entries: 
Blanquette of fowl, garnished with po- Scollops of beef, with oysters, 

tato croquettes. 



Second Course. 
Roast snipes. 



3 Entremits: 
Spinach, with poached ^jgs. Plum pudding. 

Almond cakes, k la Chantilly. 



K K 2 



500 BILLS OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 

Dinner for G Persons. December, 
Puree of endives, a la creme (preserved). 

1 Fith. 
Fillets of whitinn:s, a la Provengale. 



SiiijK? piuMiiig, a hi d'Orsay. [2 Keinov€$.^ Braized pheasant, with celery sauce. 

2 Entrees : 
Chickens, h la Tartare. Mutton Cutlets, with pur^ of chestnuts. 



Second Course. 
lioast wild duck. 



3 Entremets : 
Apricot omlet. Apple Charlotte. 

Bnissels sprouts, with butter. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. December. 
Consomme, with nouillcs. 



1 Fish. 
Smelts, au gratin. 

Roast saddle of mutton. [9 Removes.] Partridges, & la soubisc. 

2 Entries: 
Curry of rabbits, it PIndienne. Ox-tail, ^ la Jardiniere. 



Second Course. 
Roast larks. 



3 Entremits: 
Potatoes souffle. Mince pios. 

Orange jelly, ^ TAnglaisc. 



INDEX. 



%* The number refers to the Article, unleaa otherwise expressed. 



Albert sauce, 46. 
AUemande sauce, 7. 
Almond cakes, 1297. 
„ gauffres, 1284. 
„ paste, 1258. 
„ another method, 1259. 

American yams, a la Fran^aise, 1187* 
Auchoyies, essence of, 176. 
Auchory sandwiches, 1213. 

„ sance, 72. 
Apple fritters, 1332. 
M pudding, 1402. 
„ tart with quince, 1329. 
„ tartlets, 1322. 
„ another method, 1323. 
Apples and rice, ornamented, 1351. 
„ pkin, 1352. 

„ a la Portuguaise, 1 354. 
„ „ another method, 1355. 

„ in the form of a porcupine, 1354. 
„ Parisian turnover of, 1305. 
Apricot Bavarian cream, 1433. 

M cheese, a la Chantilly, 1443. 
„ nougats, 1310. 
,, souffle, 1378. 
Apricots, German tourte of, J 304. 
Aromatic sauce, 34. 

„ spices for seasoning, 1250. 
Artichoke-bottoms, garnish of, 153. 
Artichokes, pur6e of, 117. 

„ with butter sauce, 1 165. 
n a la Barigoule, 1 1 66. 

„ aTItalienne, 168. 

„ Jerusalem, with white sauce 1 183. 
„ „ iritalienne, 1184. 

„ a la Lyonnaise, 1 167. 
„ M pur^ of, 126. 

Asparagut-heads, garnish of 147. 
y, peas, a la cr^me, 1170. 
M 9» garnish of, 148. 

„ pur^eof, 118. 
M with white sauce, 1169. 
Aspic of fowl, a la Reine, 1229. 
Aspic jeUy, essence of, 1 72. 

„ or savoury jelly, 1218. 

Atelet sauce, 36. 
Aurora sauce, 41. 

fiaba, Per oliah-cake, 1270. 



Ballotinea of legs of fowls, i la Jardini^ 
1012. 
» ik la Financiere, 

1011. 
„ with endive, stewed- 

peas, &c, 1011. 
Barsch, or Polish soup, 380. 
Bechamel sauce, 5. 

„ cream, sauce, 6. 
Bee^ braized roll of^ a I^Allemande, 542. 
„ „ a la Claremont, 545. 

M „ a la Dauphinoise, 549. 

M „ a hi Flamande, 539. 

„ „ a la Milanaise, 547. 

„ „ a hi D'Orleans, 546. 

„ „ a la Polonaise, 541. 

„ „ a la Richelieu, 548. 

„ „ a la Royale, 543. 

„ „ a la Windsor, 544. 

„ „ garnished, 550. 

„ braized rump of, 551. 
„ M A TAlIemande, 556. 
„ „ a la printaniere, 540. 
„ boiled brisket of, a TAnglaise, 564. 
„ „ a IVcarlate, 565. 

n stewed brisket of. a la Flamande, 566. 
„ edgebone of, a TAnglaise, 567. 
„ fillet of, a la Jardiniere, 554. 
y, „ a la Macedoine, 553. 
„ , , a la Milanaise, 558. 
y, ,, a la Napolitaine, 552. 
„ „ dressed roebuck-lashion, 555. 
M 19 with Madeira sauce, 557. 
„ braized fillet of, a la Nivemaiie, 560 
), vt a la Royale, 561. 

„ fillets of, dressed phiin, 563. 
„ fillets or scollops oi^ in their own 
gUize, 808. 
„ „ with oysters or 

muscles, 808. 
M rt ^^^ olives, truffles, 

or gherkins, 808. 
„ „ with purees of ve- 

getables, 808. 
., „ with vegetable gar- 

nishes, 808, 
„ roast fillet of, a TAoglaise, 559. 
„ „ a hi Parisienne, 562. 

„ „ a la Provenqale, 563. 



502 



INDEX. 



Beef, Btewed ribs of^ a la Chasaenr, 57U. 
„ braized ribs of, a la Piedmnntaise, 57 1 . 
^ small ribs of, a la Mode, 57*2. 
„ „ rt a la l^urgeoise, 573. 
„ ribs of, with Madeira sauce, 57-^* 
,, „ a la Baden, 575. 
„ boiled round of, a TAnglaisc, 568. 
„ „ „ a la Chasseur, 569. 

„ entrees of, p. 244. 
„ miuced, with poached eggs, 809. 
„ „ a la Portttguaise, 810. 

„ hashed, plain, 811. 
„ „ and broiled bones, 812. 
„ slices of braized, a la Claremont, 813. 
„ „ with sharp sauce, 813. 

„ „ with maccaroni, 813. 

„ „ with purees of vegeta- 

bles, 81S. 
Beefsteak a la Franqaise, 806. 
„ plain, 805. 
„ with anchovy butter, 807. 
„ with Indian pickles, &c., 807. 
Beef-tea, 226. 

Beiirre-noir, or black-butter sharp-sauce, 93. 
Bigarade sauce, 33. 
Biscuits, glacis, in small cases, 1347. 
Black-puddings, a la Fronqaise, 955. 

„ a TAnglaise, 956. 

Bhick currant jelly sauce for venison, 66. 
Black-game, a la Financi^re, 751. 
„ a la Italienne, 748. 

y, a la Montagnarde, 747. 

M a la Norwcgiennc, 751. 

„ a la Paysanne, 750. 

„ a la P^'rigueux, 751. 

„ a hi Soubise, 751. 

„ a hi Suedoise, 749. 

„ vrith a pur^e of celery, 751. 

Blanc, or white braize, for calfs heads, 236. 
Blanquette of lambs* sweetbreads, 935. 
„ of rabbits, a T^carlate, 1 06 1 . 
„ of sturgeon, 1118. 

„ of veal, with mushrooms, 895. 
Blond de veau, or veal gravy, 222. 
BoarVhead sauce, 103. 

„ another method, 104. 

,. withaspic jelly, 1236. 

Boiled marinade, 234. 
Bordelaise sauce, 57. 

Border of potato-paste, garnished with scollop 
ofkrks, 1782. 
„ M with himbs*-feet, a la 

Paacaline, 783, 
», „ with scollops of ox- 

pahites, a Tlndienne, 
784. 
,. f, with scollops of sheeps*- 

tongiies, 785. 
n n with cairs-brains, a la 

ravigotte, 786. 
Borders of potato-paste, for entries, &c 

1782. 
Bonch^ of fowl, a h. Pompadour, 1010. 
Boudiiu of partridges, a la D^Orsay, 1092. 
f» « a la Printanidre, 1093. 

n of fowls, a la D^Artoii, 1007. 



Boudins of fowls, a la P^rigueaz, 1 005. 
„ » a la Reine, 2009. 

„ „ a la RichclietL, 1 094. 

„ „ alaSef^on, 1006. 

„ „ a la Soubise, 1008. 

Bouillabaisse, or Provenqale soap, 379. 
Bourguignotte sauce, 28. 
Braize for general purposes, 230. 
Brawn sauce, 105. 
Brcad-pnnada for quenelles, 240. 
Bread sauce, 80. 

„ fried, sauce, 81. 
Bretonne sauce, 27. 
Brill, method of dressing, 410. 
Brioche-Paste, 1269. 
Brucoli, garnish of, 155. 
Broth, cray-iish, for purifying the Uooi 
227. 
„ Mucilaginous, for persons in deliest 

health, 229. 
„ mutton, plain, 22.5. 
„ pectoral chicken, 224. 
„ plain chicken, 223. 
„ snail, for inveterate coughs, 228. 
Broths, medicinal, for invalids, 223. 
Brown Italian sauce, 12. 

„ gravy, for roast veal, 82. 
Brussels-sprouts, garnish of, 1 56. 

„ for a 2nd-coarse dish, 1 192. 

n biscottes, or rusks, 1280. 

Bubble-and-squeak, 814. 
Butter, Anchovy, 1 79. 
,. Cray-iish, 184. 
„ Epicurean, for the table, 186. 
„ Green-ravigotte, 185. 
„ Lobster, 182. 
„ Montpellier, 183. 
„ Proven<;ale, 181. 
„ Ravigotte, 180. 
„ sauce, 70. 
„ for asparagus, &C. 71. 

Qibbages, garnish of braized, 162. 

„ „ stewod red, 163. 

Cabinet pudding, 1394. 
Cake, Compi^gna, 1271. 
,, Parisian, 1273. 
„ pkun seed, 1279. 
M plum, or wedding, 1277. 
„ pound, 1281. 
„ Savov, 1275. 
., Victoria, 1274. 
CalTs-brains, with matelotte Mnce, 921. 
M with Nutbrown butter, 922L 
„ fried, a la Proten^ale, 923. 
., scolloped. 924. 
CalTs-cars, a la Tortue, 915. 

M fried, with Tomatm ntioa. ftu 
916. 
CalTs-feot, a U Pafcaline, 917. 

„ fried, with Italian miee» 918. 
Cairft-hcad,a TAngLuse, 624. 
„ a la Beanvanx, 627. 
„ a la Financiere, 626« 
„ a hi Maiigny, 629. 
M a U Tortuii 628. 



INDEX. 



503 



Calfi-head, plain, with piquante sauce, 625. 
CalfVliver, braised, with vegetables, 919. 

„ fried, with fine-herbs sauce, 9*20. 

C-alfs-udder, prep, of, for forcemeats, 24*2. 
Cambridge sauce, 94. 
Caper sauce, for fish, 90. 

„ for boiled mutton, 91. 

Capilotade of chickens, a Tltaliennc, 986. 
Capon, stuffed with truffles, a la Perigord, 
666. 
„ a TAnglaise, 669. 
„ a la Chipolata, 668. 
„ a TEstragon, 675. 
„ a la Qodard, 667. 
„ a PI voire, 673. 
„ a la Jardiniere, 670. 
„ with Maccaroni, 678. 
„ a la Macedoine, 671* 
„ a la Milanaise, 677. 
„ with nouilles, 679. 
y, a la Printaniere, 672. 
„ with rice, 676. 
„ au gros sel, 674. 
Cardinal sauce, 48. 
Carp, a TAllemande. 517* 
„ a la Bouiguignotte, 514. 
„ a la Chainbord, 512. 
„ a la Perigueux, 515. 
„ a la Proven^ale, 516. 
„ a U Royale, 513. 
„ fried, a la Venitienne, 518. 
„ small, fried, 520. 
,1 stewed, a TAnglaisc, 519. 
Carrots, young, a TAllemande, 1 1 78. 

„ a la Suedoise, for garnishing removes, 

749. 
„ garnish of, in olives, &c., 135. 
,, young, garnish of, 1 34. 
., „ alaFlamande, 142. 

„ pur4e of, for cutlets, &c , 108. 
„ and turnips, garnish of^ a hi Nivemaise 
137. 
Casserole, or border of rice, 777. 
Casserole of rice, a la Polonaise, 778. 
„ Reine, 779. 

„ garnished with a par6e of 

game, 780. 
„ garnished with wings of 

fowls, 78). 
„ with fricassee of chickens, 

page 230. 
„ with bhinquette of sweet- 

breads, page 230. 
„ with scollops of game, poge 

230. 
Cauliflowers, puree of, for cutlets, &c.. 111. 

„ garnish of^ for entr^s, &c., 1 55. 
„ with white sauce, 1158. 

„ with Parmesan, au gratin, 1159. 

Celery, pur^ of^ garnishing entr^ 110. 
M garnish o^ & la crdme, 140. 
f, „ aTEspAgnole, 141. 

„ braized, a Tespagnole, 1151. 
., „ a la Villeroi, 1 152. 

Char, a U Beaufort, 496. 
„ a hi Qenoise, 493. 



Char, a la HoUandaise, 495. 

,. in Matelotte, 494. 
Chartreuse a hi Rclle-vue, 791. 
„ a la Cardinal, 792. 
„ a la Parisieune, 790. 
„ of vegetables, garnished with par- 
tridges, 787. 
„ „ garnished with qoailif 

788. 
„ „ with tendons of veal, 

789. 
„ „ with scollops of phea- 

sant, 789. 
„ w with blanquettc of 

fowl, 789. 
M 9, with lambs* sweet- 

breads, 789. 
Cherry-bread, 1386. 
Cherry sauce, 62. 

„ a la Victoria, 64. 

Cherry tartlets, 1324. 
Cheese cakes, 1300. 
Cheese, apricot, a la Chantilly, 1443. 

„ greengage, &c. 1443. 
Chestnut pudding, 1395. 
Chestnuts, puree of, for cutlets, &c., 115. 
„ garnish o^ for a roast turkey, 
157. 
Chevreuil sauce, for roebuck, 69. 
Chickens, a TAfricaine, 692. 
„ a la Algerienne, 981. 
„ a hi Allemande, 690. 
„ a la Cardinal, 689. 
„ u la Chivrv, 687. 
„ a hi Dauphine, 684. 
,. a la Diable, 979. 
„ a la Espognole, 694. 
„ a U Florentine, 688. 982. 
„ a la Indienne, 691. 
„ a hi Italienne, 681. 
„ a hi Lyonnaisc, 978. 
„• a brMiknaise, 686. 
„ a la Montmorency, 685. 
„ a hi Proven9aIe, 977. 
„ a hi Reine, 680. 
„ a la Tartare, a la 980 
„ a hi Turque, 693. 
„ a la V^nitiennc, 683. 
„ with Tomata sauce, 682. 
„ fricassee of^ with mushrooms, &c. 

968. 
„ „ a U St. Lambert, 969. 

„ „ a U Dauphine, 970. 

„ „ a hi Financiere, 971. 

„ a hi Chevaliere, 972. 

,, „ a la Romaine, 973. 

„ (cut up in small joints), a hi Marengo 

974. 
„ with oysters, &c., 975. 
„ with truffles, &c. 976. 
„ fritot of, 985. 
„ a la Toscane, 987, 
„ marinade of, fried in batter, 988. 

sabd, 122,5. 
„ a la Belle -vue (cold entree), 
1237. 



504. 



INDEX. 



Civet of hare, 1070. 
M roebuck, 967. 
„ venison, 960. 
Claiemont laucc, 58. 
Clarification of calTs feet jelly, 1408. 
Cockles, scolloped, 538. 
Cod-fish, fillets of, a Tlndicnne, 446. 
„ slices of^ a la Seville, 445. 
„ scollops of, a la Bechamel, 450. 
„ and oyster sauce. 441. 
„ stuffed and baked, 442. 
„ a la creme, nu gratin, 443. 
„ crimped slices of, and oyster sauce, 

444. 
„ „ a la HoUandaise, 

447. 
., „ a la Colbert, 448. 

„ n a la Maitre d'hotcl, 

451. 
» „ in matelotte Nor- 

mande, 449. 
CodVhead, baked, 452. 
CodVsounds, and egg sauce, 461. 
n a la Oasconne, 463. 

M a la Ravigotte, 462. 

„ a la Royale, 464. 

Cold marinade for pickling roebuck, &c., 235. 
Cold poivrade sauce, 102. 
Common stock, for general purposes, 1. 

n gravy, for roasts, &c., 221. 

Consomme for preparing soups in general, 
213. 
„ of fowls, for soups, &&, 214. 
„ of pheasants or partridges (brown), 

215. 
„ „ (white). 

218. 
fi of fowls (white) for working sauces, 

217. 
y, of rabbits (brown), 21 6. 
Cond^s, 1307. 
Cray -fish sauce, 54. 
Crayfish, scolloped, 538. 
Cream, Apricot, 1433. 
„ Blano-manger, 1430. 
M Caramel, or burnt, 1436. 
„ Celestina strawberry, 1441. 
„ Chocohite, 1435. 
„ Coffee, 1434. 
„ Cuiraqao, 1431. 
» Currant and raspberry transparent, 

1442. 
„ Italian, 1439. 
„ Maraschino Bavarian, 1431. 
„ Noyau (pink or white), 1431. 
„ Orange-flower, 1437* 
„ Pistachio-kernels, 1438. 
„ Russian Charlotte, 1440. 
y. Strawberry Bavaiian, 1482. 
Cream sauce, for roast necks of veal, 83. 

., for salt fish, 92. 
Croqoante of oranges, 135B. 
„ of firesh wakuts, 1 359. 
„ of mtafiaa, a la Chantilly, 1360. 
Cn)quettet of fowl and moshioomi, 1020. 
« of veal, 896. 



Croustade of bread, garnished with calf VtaOs 
a U poulctte, 794. 
„ garnished with lambs^-brains, 795. 
„ with scollops of fiit livers, a TEpi- 

curienne. 796. 
„ with quails, a la Bourgnignotte, 

797. 
y, cases, for patties, 1265. 
Cucumbers, pur6e of, 1*24. 

„ scollops of, for garnishing, 138 

„ garnish of, fiircis, 139. 

,. i lapoulettc,118]. 

„ a TEspagnole, 1182. 

Cupid, or loves' wells, 1315. 
Curry sauce (plain), 87. 

„ of chickens, a Tlndienne, 983. 
Cygnets, page 202. 

Dampfnudeln, or German dumplings, 1390. 

Darioles, 1306. 

Dame of Salmon, with Montpellier butter, 

1223. 
D'Artois, of apricot-jam, 1 309. 
Duchess-loaves, 1292. 
Ducks, for removes, 703. 
„ a la Mac6doine, 703. 
„ braized, with turnips, 704. 
», y, with stewed peas, 705. 

„ M A la proven oale, 706. 

M M A 1ft Jardiniere, 706. 

„ M alaNivemai8e,706. 

„ „ with olives, 706. 

n rt ^th sauerkraut, 706. 

„ „ for entries, 1035. 

Ducklings, a la Rouennaisc, 1 035. 
„ stewed with olives, 1036. 
„ with stewed peas, 1037. 
„ fillets of, a ]& Bigaradc, 1038, 
„ „ Mac^doiut', 1039. 

„ with truiBes and mushrooma, 1040. 
Dutch sauce, 42. 

„ plain, 79. 

D*Uxelles sauce, 16. 

Eels, spitchcocked, 501. 

„ plain broiled, 502. 

„ stewed, a TAnglaise, 503. 

„ matelotte of, a la Bordelaisc, 504. 

n »t alaOenoise, 506. 

„ ., a la Parisienne, 505. 

„ a la Dauphinoise, 507. 

„ aTIndiennc, 511. 

„ ahi Poulette, 510. 

„ a la Tartire, 509. 

„ a hi V^nitienne, 508. 
Eggs, a la tripe, 1193. 

„ an gratin, 1194. 

„ brouillcs, with truffles, 1195. 

., poached, with anchovy toast, 1 200. 

„ M with ham, 1201. 

„ a TAurore, 1203. 

„ aUDauphine, 1202. 

„ a U Suisse, 1205. 

„ with nutbrown butter, 1204. 
Egg sauce, 84. 

„ another method, 85. 



INDEX. 



505 



Endiye, pur^e of, for fricandeaux, &c. 114. 
Endive, a la creme, 1 1 57. 
Kntr^efloffish, 1112. 

Entree, of boudins of lobster, a la Cardinal, 
1112. 
„ of quenelles of lobster, a la Vertpr^, 

1113. 
„ of bondins of whitings, a la Supreme, 

1114. 
„ of quenelles of whitings, a la Princesse, 

1115. 
„ of boudins of salmon, a Tltalienne, 

1116. 
„ of quenelles of salmon, a la Ravigotte, 

1117. 
„ of blanquette of sturgeon, 1118. 
„ of scollops of sturgeon, with fine-herbs, 

1119. 
„ of cutlets of sturgeon, a la Bourguig- 

notte, 1120. 
„ of dolphins of whitings, a la Paris- 

ienne, 1133. 
„ of fillets of salmon a TAurore, 1121. 
„ „ a la Maintenon, 1 1 23. 

„ y, a la Parisienne, 1122. 

y. „ of turbot, 1 124. 

„ „ of gurnet, 1125. 

„ „ of soles, a la Dieppoise, 

1126. 
„ „ alaHorly, 1130. 

„ „ a la Maitre d*h6tel, 

1127. 
„ „ a la ProTcnjale, 

1129. 
„ „ alaRoyale, 1131. 

„ „ a la Venitiennc, 

1128. 
„ of paupiettes of soles, a la Cardinal, 

1132. 
„ of fillets of whitings, p. 343. 
„ „ of trout, a la Chevaliere, 

1134. 
„ „ of mackerel, 1137. 

„ n of perch, p. 343. 

Epigramme of fillets of trout, 1 1 35. 
Efipagnole, or brown sauce, 3. 
Essence of anchovies, for broiled steaks, 176. 
„ aspio-jellj, 172. 

„ fine-herbs, for broiled meats, &c. 

170. 
„ game, for broiled partridges, &c. 

174. 
„ garlic, for broiled fowls, &c, 175. 

„ mushrooms, 169. 
„ onions, for broiled pork, 1 79. 
„ orange-zeste, for wUd fowl, 171. 
„ sage and onions, for geese, 178. 

„ shalots, 167. 

„ truffles, 168.^ 

„ woodcocks, 173. 
Extract of hare or rabbit, 220. 
„ larks or quails, 219. 

Fanchonnettes, 1299. 
Farce, for preserving game in, 249. 
„ of fiit-ltvers, for gmtins, 250. 



Fennel sauce, 75. 
Fillets of fowls, for entrees, 989. 
„ a TEcarlate, 989. 

„ supreme of, a la Toulouse, 

990. 
„ „ with truffles, 991, 

„ „ a la Parisienne, 

992. 
„ with cucumbers, a la Belle- 

vue, 993. 
„ a la Financiere, 999. 

„ a rindicnne, 995. 

„ a la Marechale, 996. 

„ a la P^rigord, 994. 

„ a la Royale, 998. 

„ a la D'Uxelles, 1000. 

„ a hi Valen^av 997. 

Finger, or Naples biscuits, 1276. 
Financiere sauce, 8. 
Fine-herbs sauce, 1 4. 
Fhin of peaches, 1356. 
Flemish gauffres, 1282. 

„ sauce, 89. 
Florentines, 1 314. 
Flounders, fillets of, 1136. 
Forcemeat of liver and ham, 248. 
French-beans, puree of, cutlets, &c., 125. 
„ garnish of, 152. 

„ a la maitre d'hotel, 1171. 

„ with fine-herbs, 1172. 

French gauffres, 1283. 

Fricassee of chickens, with aspic jelly, 1219. 
Fruit tarts in general, 1331. 
Frying-batter, for fillets offish, &c., 232. 
„ for fruit-fiittcrs, 233. 

Galantine of poulard, with aspic jelly, 1235. 
Garlic, garnish of cloves of, for entries of game, 

&c., 159. 
Gasconne, sauce, a la, 68. 
Genoese cakes, 1288. 

„ „ with almonds, 1289. 

Gt noise sauce, 30. 
German sweet sauce, 61. 
Gherkin sauce, 19. 
Godiveaux, in general, 251. 
Goose, a TAUemande, 691. 

„ a TAnglaise, 695. 

., a la Dauphinoise, 699. 

„ a P£stoui&de, 696. 

„ a la Flamande, 697. 

„ a la Normande, 700. 
Gooseberry sauce, 76. 
Grayling. 485. 
Green ravigotte sauce, 21. 
Grey-Mullet, 485. 

Grouse for removes (see black-game), 751 . 
Gurnet, stuifed and baked, 474. 

„ a la Dauphine, 475. 

„ a U Q^noise, 476. 

Haddocks, fillets of; a Tltalienne. 460. 
„ „ a la Marechale, 459. 

„ „ a la Royale, 458. 

„ „ a la Royale, 453. 

„ stuffed and bake(C 454. 



506 



INDEX. 



Haddocks, a la Belle- vue, 455. 

^ broiled with Dutch sauce, 456. 
,, boiled with egg sauce, 457. 

Ham, braized, with spinach, &c., GiG, 
„ Grenada and Bayonnc, 650. 
„ Westphalia, a Tessence, 647. 
„ „ baked, 648. 

„ „ roasted, a la St. James, 

649. 
„ „ a hi Parisienne, 650. 

„ with aspic jftlly, 12*J8. 
llare, cutlets of, a TAncienne, 1067. 
„ „ a a Portaguaise, 1066. 

,y entries of, or side dishes, 1063. 
„ fillets of, a TAllemande, 1 065. 
„ a la Chasseur, 1064. 

„ larded, with poirrade sauce, 

1063. 
„ scollops of, with fine-herbs, 1068. 
„ r, alaPerigueux, 1069. 
Haricot beans, a la maitre d'hotel, 1 185. 
„ a la Rre tonne, 1186. 

„ garnish of, for cutlets, &c., 1 60. 

„ red, garnish of, 161. 

Harry the VIII. shoe-strings, 1320. 

Iced cakes, a la Stanley, 1 338. 
„ Nesselrodc pudding, 1 348. 
„ pudding, a la Cento, 1340. 

„ a la Chesterfield, 1342 

„ a la Duchess of Kent, 1 346. 

^ a la Kinnaird, 1343. 

^ a la Prince Albert, 1344. 

„ a la Prince of Wales, 1341. 

„ a Ui Parisienne, 1345. 

„ a la Princess Alice, 1349. 

„ rice-pudding, a la Cintra, 1339. 
Indian Curry Sauce, 47. 
Jolin Dory, 411. 

Konghinff, or German cake, 1 272. 
Krapfen, or German puffs, 1388. 
Kromeskys of fowl, i la Russe, 1019. 

Lamb, removes of^ 614. 
„ baron of^ a hi Jardiniere, 6 1 6. 

„ aUMaitied'H6tel,617. 

„ M & ^ Montmorency, 614. 

„ „ a la Printoniere, 615. 
„ braized carbonnades of, 933. 
„ breasts of, a la Marechale, with new 

potatoes, 929. 
., cutlets, plaui, with cucumbers, &c, 930. 
„ „ bread-crumbed, with asparagus- 
peas, 931. 
„ „ a la Chevreuse, 932. 
,, a U Princesse, 1238. 
„ cpigramme of, with mushrooms, 927. 
„ „ a hi Villeroi, with peas, 928. 

„ hind-quarters of, 617. 
^ neck of, a la lUgence, 926. 
„ saddle of, a la Danphine, 618. 
„ „ alaOodaid, 619. 

„ „ a la Financiere, 620. 

„ M a hi MacMoine, 622. 

„ n a U Milanaise, 623. 



Lamb, saddle of, a la Royale, 0*21. 

„ shoulder of, larded, a la Financiere, 
925. 
Lambs* sweetbreads, a la. Toulouse, &c., 934. 

„ „ scollopiMl, 936. 

„ ears, a li Dauphine, 939. 

„ „ a la Financiere, 938. 

„ „ a la Venitienne, 940. 

„ „ fried in batter, 941. 

„ feet, a la Poidettc, 942. 

„ „ a la D*Uxelle«, 943. 

„ ,, fried in batter, 944. 

„ head, a la Pascaline, 937. 

„ blanquettc of, 935. 
Lompenis, how to dress page 1 33. 
„ a hi Bcauchainp, 499. 
„ a b Foley, 498. 
I^ampreys, matelotte of, 497. 
Larks, a la minute, 1051. 

., a hi Chipolata, 1052. 

n with fine-herbs, 1053. 

„ with truffles, a Tltalienne, 1054. 
Lettuces, garnish of braized cabbsige, 164. 
Lobster salad, 1226. 

„ sauce, 55. 

„ „ plain, 73. 

„ scolloped, 538. 
Lyonnoisc sauce, 24. 

Maccaroni, a I'ltalienne, 1206. 

„ with cream, 1207. 

„ timbale of, a la Florentine, 1209. 

«» au gnitin, 1208. 
Macedomc of vegetables ( white), 1 43. 

„ ., (brown), 144. 

Mackerel, boiled, with fennel siiuce, 477. 

„ broiled, a la maitre d'hotel, 478. 

„ „ with nutbrown butter, 479. 

„ „ a la Genoise, 480. 

„ „ a la I'ltalienne, 480. 

„ fillets of, a hi Maitre d'hotel, 480. 
„ „ a hi Kavigotte, 480. 

Madeleines, 1290. 
Matelotte sauce, 31. 

y, Norman, sauce, 32. 
Mayonaisc sauce, 97. 

„ „ green, 98. 

„ n red? 99. 

„ ,9 of savoury jelly, 100. 

„ of chickens, 1222. 

„ of fillets of soles. &c., 1221. 
Mazarine of whitings, a hi Venitienne, 803. 
„ of fat livers, a hi Toulouse, 804, 
Mecca loaves, 2195. 
Meringnes, 1298. 

„ a la Parisienne, 1361. 

„ with Pistachios, 1362. 
Millefeuilles cake, a hi Chantilly, 1350. 
Mince and grilled fowl, 1013. 308. 
M n another way, 1014. 

„ or scollops of fowl, au giatin . 1018. 
M or salpicon, for garnishing, 1 02 1 . 
Minced chicken, and poached eggs, 1015. 
„ with maccaroni, 1016. 

w with rice, 1017* 

MirlitonsyiaOl. 



INDEX. 



607 



Mirepoix, for braising larded roebuck, 237. 

Motaic Tartlets, 1326. 417- 

Mullets, in cases, with fine-herbs, 481. 

„ a la Cardinal, 484. 

„ a la Chesterfield, 485. 

„ a la Oenoise, 483. 

„ a ritalienne, 482. 
Mushrooms, au giatin, 1161. 

M garnish of^ in allemande sauce, 

132. 
» „ in Espagnole sauce, 1 33. 

pnr^ o^ 122. 
Muacle sauce, 52. 
Mustard sauce for herrings, 86. 
Mutton, removes of, 601. 

M braized carbonnades of, a la Dauphi- 
noise, 866. 

„ „ alaFkunande, 

867. 

„ „ a la Richelieu, 

865. 

M „ leg of, with roots, 602. 

M » saddle of; a U Macedoine, 607. 

„ „ a la Bretonne, 605. 

„ M a la Jardiniere, 606. 

w „ a la Provenjale, 603. 

„ n a hi Soubise, 604. 

„ boiledlegof, aTAnglaise, 601. 

y, fillets of, larded, wi£ Chevreuil sauce, 
868. 

„ haricot o^ a la Niremaise, 869* 

M necks o^ a TAllemande, 6 1 2. 

H M a TAngUise, 608. 

n „ a rirl^daise, 609. 

V M a la Jardiniere, 610. 

„ „ krded, with poivrade sauce, 

611. 

^ „ a la Soubise, 613. 

„ „ with pur6e of artichokes, 854. 

„ cutlets for entries, or side-dishes, 836. 

„ „ braized, a la Chipokita, 855, 

v» „ ,. a la Lyonnaise, 853. 

854. 

^ „ „ a la Pompadour, 850. 

„ „ „ a la Provence, 857. 

„ „ „ a la Russe, 858. 

M n „ a la Soubise, 852. 

„ „ bread-crumbed, and broiled, 

844. 

„ „ plain, 836. 

„ „ a la Bourguignotte, 839. 

„ „ a la Bretonne, 848. 

„ „ a rindienne, 850. 

„ „ a la Macedoine, 849. 

„ „ a la Maintenon, 838. 

„ „ a la minute, 837. 

„ „ a hi Milanaise, 847. 

„ „ another method, 842. 

„ „ a la Nivcniaise,&c ,841. 

„ „ with cucumbers, 846. 

„ „ with puree of chestnuts, 85 1 . 

„ „ with puree of endives, &c., 

840. 

„ ., with puree of mushrooms, 845. 

„ „ with ktewed peas, &&, 858. 



Mutton cutlets, with new potatoes, &c, 843. 
>, scollops of, with fine-herbs, 859. 
„ „ a la Claremont, 860. 

„ M a rindienne, 862. 

„ M '^^ mushrooms and truf- 

fles, 864. 
„ „ with olives &rcies, 863. 

„ „ with oysters, 861. 

Neapolitan cake, a U Chantilly, 1357. 

„ sauce, 63. 
Nougats, Uuige, 1285. 

M snudl, a U Chantilly, 1287. 

„ a hi Parisienne, 1286. 
Nouilles, a k Palermo, 1210. 

H limbale of; a la vanille, 1211. 
Noukles, a U Viennoise, 1217. 
Nutritive soup, 22. 

Omlette, souffle, page 437. 
Omlet, with fine-herbs, 1 196. 
M with kidneys, 1198. 
„ with oysters, 1199. 
„ with Parmesan cheese, 1197*. 
„ with shalots, 1197. 
Onions, pur^e of; a la Soubise, 119. 
„ button, for Matelotte, 149. 
„ white button, for garnishing, 150. 
„ glazed, for garnishing, 1 54. 
OrtoUns in cases, with fine-herbs, 1109. 

,. in croustades, a la Proven9ale, 1110. 
Oz-cheeks, for removes or flank dishes, 
630. 
M braised, a I'Allemande, 632. 

„ „ a la Bretonne, 817. 

,» vt a la Flamande, 630. 

„ „ a la Jardiniere, 820. 

„ „ a la Polonaise, 631. 

M n a la Pompadour, 634. 

„ n a hi Portugiuiise, 633. 

M „ a U Proven^ale, 818. 

M „ with pur^ of green-peas, 

815. 
t, „ withstewedcabbage,819. 

Ox PALATSa FOR BNTRK18, 821. 

Ox palates, attereaox of, a U D*Uxelles, 
825b 
„ caiielons o^ with poivrade sauce, 

821. 
„ curry of, 824. 

ff paupiettes of; a hi Financiere, 

822. 
„ a U Tortne, 823. 
„ in cases, with fine-herbs, 826. 
Ox-piths, for Entrees, p. 250. 
„ a la ravigotte, 827. 
„ in cases with fine-herbs, 828. 
„ croustades o^ 829. 

Ox TONUUK8 FOR BNTRBKS, p. 251. 

Ox tongue with spinach, 830. 

„ with Brussels-sprouts, 831. 

„ a TAllemande, 834. 
„ a la Jardiniere, 833. 
^ a la Macedoine, 832. 252. 

„ with tuuierkraut, 835. 



508 



INDEX. 



Oyster laace, (white), 50. 
„ (brown), 51. 

Pancakes, plain, 1382. 

„ alaCelestine, 1383. 
„ souffles, 1384. 
Parisian loaves, 1327. 
„ nougats, 1286. 
„ sauce, 40. 
Parsley sauce, 77. 

Partridges for removes, or top and bottom 
dishes. Page 209. 
„ entries of, page 327. 

„ „ a k Cento, 726. 

„ « a TElUlcr, 729. 

„ „ a la Ravigotte, 727. 

„ „ a la Seville, 724. 

„ „ a la Soubise, 728. 

„ red-legged, a la Plessy, 725. 
„ cutlets of, a TAlgerienne, 1 088. 

„ „ alamaitrcd^hotcl, 1089. 

„ fillets of, a la Lacullus, 1082. 

„ » a la Prince Albert, 1083. 

„ „ a Tancieune, 1084. 

„ „ a la Pariftienne, 1085. 

„ minced, with poached eggs, 1091. 
„ pur^e of, with plover's eggs, 1090. 
„ salmis of, a la Financierc, 1078. 
„ „ a Li Proven cale, 1079. 

„ „ a lu P« rigord, 1080. 

„ „ with mushrooms, 

1081. 
„ scollops of, with truffles, 1 086. 
„ „ in cases, 1087. 

Pascaline sauce, 1 5. 
Paste, French, for raised-pies, 1252. 
„ Gum, 12'30. 

„ hot water, for raised- pics, 1251. 
„ NouiUes, 1266. 
„ Office, 1257. 
„ short, for tarts, &c., 1255. 
„ short, for timbales, &c., 1 253. 
Pastry-custard or cream, 1311. 
Pat^chauds, for entrees, page 219. 

„ of godiveau, a la Ciboulette, 756. 

., of larks boned, a Tessence, 760. 

„ of leverets, with trufHea, a la Peri- 

gueux, 754. 
„ of leverets, a la Financiere, 755. 
„ of ox-palates, a PItulienne, 758. 
M of young partridges, a la Chasseur, 

757. 
„ of quails, a la Financiere. 759. 
„ of young rabbits, with fine-herbs, 

752. 
M 9y a la poivmdc, 

753. 
„ of snipes, a la Bordelaisc, 761. 
Patties, a la Mazarin, 1267. 
Peoi, pur6e of, for garnishing entrees, &c., 
106. 
n green, garnish of, for cutlets, &c., 145. 
„ ttewcd, for do., 146. 
„ green, plain, to boil, 1 1 74. 
fj stewed, a la Franyaise, 1 1 76. 
„ stewed plain, 1 1 75. 



Perch, a la Stanley, 526. 

,. a la V^nitienne, &c., 528. 
„ a la Wastrefische, 527. 
„ filleU of; a la Cardinal, 529. 
„ „ a ritalienne, 529. 
„ „ a IaMaitred*h6teU 529. 
„ „ a la Ravigotte, 529. 
„ „ a la Vertpre, &c., 529. 
Petits-choux, with almonds, 1291. 
„ with caramel, 1293. 

Perigueux sauce, 23. 

Pheasants for removes, or top and botto 
dishes. Page 204. 
„ aTAIlemande, 719. 
„ a TAspic, 722. 
„ a la Beau vaux, 710. 
„ a la Chipolata, 708. 
„ a la Dauphine, 714. 
„ a la Dauphinoise, 716. 
.„ a la Financiere, 711. 
„ a la Flamande, 718. 
„ a ritalienne, 709. 
„ a la Monglas, 723. 
„ a la Paysanne, 715. 
„ a la Perigueux, 707. 
„ a U R^gence, 720. 
„ a In Soubise, 713. 
„ with pur^e of celery, 712. 
M with stewed cabbage, &c., 71 7. 
„ with rice, a TEspaguole, 721. 
Pie, capon, with truffles, 1243. 
„ eel, a TAnglaise, 1247. 
„ Devonshire squab, 1245. 
„ Leicestershire pork, 1246. 
„ salmon, a la Russe, 1248. 
„ Yorkshire, 1244. 
„ raised, of veal and ham, 1242. 
Pics meat, for removes, or entrees, 212. 
Pie, beefsteak and oyster, 735. 
„ chicken, a la Rcine, 730. 
„ fieldfare or bkckbird, 739. 
„ giblet, with fine -herbs, 734. 
„ grouse, a TEcossaisc, 732. 
„ lark, a la Melton Mowbray, 740. 
^ mutton, a PAnglaise, 737. 
„ partridge, a la Chasseur, 733. 
„ pigeon, a TAnglaise, 731. 
„ veal and ham, 736. 
„ of woodcocks or snipes, a rirUmdaise, 731 
Pig, sucking, roast, 641. 

„ o roast, a la Chipolata, 643. 
„ „ a la Napolitaine, 6 i5. 

M „ a la Perigord, 642. 

M „ a la Proven^idc, 644. 

Pigeons, a TAllemande, 1034. 
M a la Crapaudine, 1 023. 
„ alaDuchesse, 1024. 
„ a la Oauthier, 1022. 
„ a la Seville, 1025. 
M filleU of; a U Dorghcse, 1 032. 
„ w ala Bourgnignottc, 1033. 

„ „ aUViUeroi, 103L 

„ an gratin, in a case, 1026. 
„ a la Maintenon. 1027. 
Pigs feet, a la Ste Menehould, 952. 
n a la Perigord, 953. 



INDEX. 



509 



Pig's feet a la Richelieu, 954. 
Pike or Jack, stuffed and baked, 521. 
„ a la Cardinal, 522. 
„ a la Chamboard, 522. 
„ a la Royale, 522. 
„ fried a TAllemande, 522. 
„ „ a la Hollandaise, 523. 
„ crimped in slices, a la HoUandaise, 

524. 
„ filleU of, 525. 
Piquante sauce, 18. 
Pithiviers cakes, 1 302. 
Plaice, fillets of, 1136. 
Poele, white, for poultry, 231. 
Poiyrade sauce, 29. 
Polish cakes, 1319. 
Polish sauce, 37* 

Polpettes of rabbits, a ritalienne, 1062. 
Poor man's sauce, 17* 
Portuguese sauce, 59. 
Portugal onions, a TEspagnole, 1 1 64. 
Pork, boUed leg of, a I'Anglaise, 635. 
„ „ a TAUemande, 736. 

„ roast leg of, a TAnglaise, 637. 
„ „ loin of, 638. 
„ „ neck 0^ 639. 
„ „ griskin of, 640. 
Pork cutlets plain broiled, 948. 
„ a rindienne, 951. 

„ a la sauce Robert, 949. 

„ a TAurore, 950. 

Pork, entrees of, p. 285. 

„ griskin of^ a U Soubise, 945. 
„ „ a la Lyonnaise, 946. 
„ „ a la Pirigueux, 947. 

Potatoes, pur^ of, for cutlets, &c., 116. 
„ a la cr^me, an gratin, 1 1 90. 

„ a la maitre d'hdtel, 1 1 88. 

„ new, a la cr^me, 1 1 89. 

Potted bloaters, 1234. 

„ fowl and Tongue, 1231. 
„ lobster, 1232. 
„ pheasant, a la Royale, 1 230. 
„ prawns or shrimps, 1233. 
Preparation of paper for filtering orange juice, 

&c. 1421. 
Preserved Hare, and other game, 1249. 
Princess sauce, 45. 
Prorenjale sauce, 25. 

„ (cold) sauce, 101. 

ProfitroUes with chocolate, 1294. 
Puddings, mkat, for rbmoves or sntrsbs, 
page 215. 
„ bee&teak and oyster, 741 . 
„ kidney, 743. 
„ mutton, 742. 
„ sausage, 746. 

„ of small birds, a la Chipolata^ 744. 
„ snipe, a la D'Orsay, 745. 
Puddings for kntrxmsts, or sbcond-courss 
Di8Hss,page 440. 
„ brown bread, a la Ootha, 1 385. 
„ bread (plain), 1400. 
„ rusk, 1401. 

„ biscuit, a la Prince Albert,1403. 
„ ,> a la Cobonig, 1391. 



Pudding, buscuit, a la Fran^aise, 1 392. 

„ ,, a la Viennoise, 1393. 

„ cabinet, 1394. 

M chestnut, 1395. 

,, ginger, 1396. 

„ apple, 1402. 

„ pine-apple, 1397, 

„ plum, 1404. 

» lemon, 1398. 

„ orange, 1399. 

„ tapioca, 1405. 
Puff-paste, 1261. 

„ patty-cases, 1264. 

H platts, 1321. 

„ rings or wreaths, 1318. 

„ „ marygolds 1328. 

„ royals, 1308. 

„ short, 1254. 

„ tartlets, 1325. 

„ walnuts, 1316. 

Quails, with stewed peas, 1041. 
„ a la Financiere, 1043. 
„ a la P^rigucux, 1 042. 
„ a la Royale, 1044. 
„ cutlets of, a la Bordelaise, 1046. 
M „ a la Marechale, 1045. 

„ fillets of, a la Parisienne, 1048. 
n „ ala Talleyrand, 1047. 

„ scollops of, with cucumbers, 1050. 
„ „ with truffles, 1049. 

Queen's cakes, 1296. 
Quenelle forcemeat, of fish, 246. 
„ of fowl, 243, 

„ of hare, 244. 

„ of lobsters, 247. 

„ of pheasant or partridge, 

244. 
M of rabbit, 244. 

„ of small birds, 245. 

Quenelles, bread panada for, 240. 

„ Pate-a-choux, panada for, 241. 
„ Prep, of calfs udder, for, 242. 
M of fowls, a Tessence, 1 00 1 . 
M ofpariridges,alaD'0r8ay,1092. 
„ „ a la Prwtamere, 

1093. 
„ of pheasants, 1017. 
„ of rabbit, 1062. 
„ a la Mar^hale, 1003. 
„ a la Toulouse, 1002. 

Rabbit k la Boui^ignonne, 1057. 
„ a la ChasMur, 1 055. 
„ a la P^rigueux, 1058. 
„ fillets of; larded, a la Marechale, 1060. 
„ a la Toulouse, 1059. 

„ fined in batter, with poiTrade sauce, 
1056. 
Rabbits, entries o^ or side dishes, 1055. 
„ how to dress, the same methods as 
fowls. Page 322. 
Ragout, Bouivuignotte, for entries of game, 
195. 
„ Cardinal, for chickens, &c 200. 
„ Chipolata, for turkeys, &c., 190. 



610 



INDEX. 



Ragout cmy-fish, for fish entries, 1 96. 
„ Finonqiere, 188. 
„ Matelotte, for fish, 193. 
y, Norman Matelottc, for soles &c^ 194. 
,, Parisian, for fillets of partridges, &c., 

203. 
„ P^rigaeux, for garnishing entrees, &c., 

192. 
„ Rouennaisc, 197. 
„ Regent's, 211. 
„ Ridieliea, for brcad-cnimbcd entr^s, 

207. 
„ Strasbourg, of fat livers, for fillets &c., 

191. 
„ a la Tortue, for calf 's-head, 1 89. 
„ Toulouse, for garnishing fowls, &c., 

187. 
,, of chickens wings, 208. 
„ of cocks' kernels, a la sonbise, 206. 
„ of ox-pahites, 209. 
„ of shcep's-tongues, 210. 
„ scollops of poultry or game, 204, 
„ of scollops of larks, for an entree, 

20.5. 
M of scollops of sweetbreads, 1 98. 
M of soft roes of mackerel, 199. 
„ of scollops of soles to garnish fish 

entries, 201, 
„ of scollops of salmon, 202, 
Ravigotte, (white) sauce, 20. 
,, (green) sauce, 21. 
„ plain, 78. 
Red-currant jelly sauce, for venison, 65. 
Regency saace, 49. 

Remoulade sauce, for cold meat, &c., 95. 
Roasts, second-course, p. 344. 
Roast black game and grouse, 1 1 49. 
„ capons, 1146. 
„ green-goose, 1147. 
„ guinea fowls, IISOK 
„ hare, 1138. 
„ laiks, 1144. 
„ peahens, 1150a. 
„ partridges, 1141. 
„ pheasant, 1140. 
„ pigeons, 1148. 
„ quails, 1142. 
„ rabbits, 1139. 
„ ruffs and reeves, 1143. 
„ woodcocks and snipes 1145. 
Robert sauce, for pork cutlets, 67. 
Roux white, for thickening Velout(: sauce, 
238. 
„ brown, for thickening etpagnole sauce, 
239. 
Rnscian sauce, 35. 

Sailsifis, a la cr^me, 1 153. 

„ firied in batter, 1 1 54. 
Salmis of partridges, with aspic jelly, 1220, 
„ saooe, 10. 

M », aTAneieiine, 11. 
Salad, Gennan, 1216. 
„ Italian, 1214. 
M Rosnan, 1215. 
Salmon arAnglaiie, 418. 



Salmon, a la Cardinal, 416. 
„ alaChambord, 412. 
„ aPEcossaise, 419. 
„ a la Ocnoise, 414. 
„ a la Mar^chale, 417. 
„ a la R^genoe, 413. 
„ a la Tartaie, 420. 
„ alaVictoria, 416. 
„ matelotte of, 421. 
M slices of, a la VenitieDne, 422. 
Sandwiches, Indian, 1212. 

„ a la Regence, 1240. 

„ anchovy, 1213. 

., of fillets of soles, Sx^ 1241. 

Sauerkraut. German, 165. 
„ French, 1 66. 

Savoy cake in the form of a Ham, 1364. 
Scotch bread, 1278. 
Seakale, pur6c of, 127. 

„ a la sauce, 1191. 
Shrimp sauce, 53. 

„ plain, 74. 

Sicilian sauce, 60. 
Skate, crimped, boiled, 530. 
„ fried, 531. 

„ with nutbrown butter, 532. 
n fried, n Tltalienne, 533. 
y. with fine-herbs, au gratin, 634. 
„ a la Pascaline, 535. 
„ a la Royale, 536. 
Smelts, fried, &c., 500. 
Snipes, sahnis of, a la Bordelaise, 1 102. 
Soles, fried, with shrimp sauce, 466. 
„ boiled, with Dutch sauce, 466. 
„ a la Colbert, 467. 
„ auffratin, 468. 
„ with fine-herbs, 469. 
„ a la Parisienne, 470. 
„ la a Marcchale, 471. 
r, matelotte Normande of, 472. 
M alaPlewBy, 473. 

Sorrel, pur6e of, for Fricandeaux, &c, 113. 
SoufH^ of rice, 1373. 
M apricot, 1378. 
„ brownbread, 1380. 
„ chocolate, 1374. 
„ coffee, 1375. 
ginger, 1376. 
„ pine-apple, 1377. 
„ raspberries, 1379. 
„ potato-flower, 1372. 
Souffles of partridge, a la Royale, 1095. 
Soup, barley, a la Princesse, 260. 
„ Barsch, or Polish, 380. 
„ bonne-fcmme. 315. 
M Bouillabaisse, or Provenvale, 379. 
„ BrOnoise, 273. 
„ calfs-foet, a la Windsor, 355. 
„ Cevlon Mom, gebtinoas Chicken broth, 

„ chicken, or game custards, 392. 

,y chidLen paiwda, 390. 102. 

„ chickens and rice, 268. 

Chiffonnade, 625. 

„ cocky4eeky, 269. 

n clear eomomm^ with rioe, 266. 



INDEX. 



5U 



Soup, 



clear rice, with apeamgas headk, 267. 

Dauphine, 259. 

Crecy, with whole rice, Ac, 309. 

deerVhead, a la Chasseur, 360. 

Descliffnac, 277. 

eel. a U Richmond, 338. 81. 

Flemish, 276. 

fillcU of flounders, a T Anglaise, 339. 

giblet, a TAnglaisc, 352. 

clear giblet, a Tlrlandaise, 353. 

grouse, a la Mantagnarde, 361, 

hare, a TAnghuse, 356. 

„ St George, 357. 
hodge-podge, 271. 
Italian-paste, 264. 
Jardiniere, 254. 
Julienne, 255. 

knuckle of veal and rice, 272. 
Lasagnes, 265. 
lettuce and whole peas, 274. 
leveret, a la Rossie, 358. 
moccaroni, 263. 
maccaroni, a la Medicis, 385, 
„ a la St. Pierre, 386. 

a la Royalc, 384. 
mulligatawney, 351. 
nutritions liquid custards of Chicken 

394. 
ox-tail, 354. 
ox-cheek, 359, 
Ouka. or Russian, 381. 
011a Podrida, or Spanish, 382. 
NiTemaise, 275. 
oyster, a la Plessy, 336. 
Palestine, 296. 
Paysanne, 278. 

pheasant or partridge panada, 391. 
Pilaff, or Turkish, 383, 
potato, a la creme, 310. 

„ Victoria, 311. 
quenelles of fowl in consomm^, 261. 
Rariolis, a la Napolitaine, 375. 
rice, a la Florentine, 376. 
a la Piedmontaise, 377 
a k Bfiamaise, 378. 
of fillets of Soles, a la Bagarlion, 337 

„ Game, 395. 
ipnng, 252. 

„ a la Vertpre, 253. 
tportsman*s clear, 276. 
Semolina, a hi Palermo, 387. 
„ alaPisanc, 389. 
„ a la V^nitienne, 388. 
scotch broth, 270. 
turtle. 347. 
„ clear. 348. 
„ mock. 349, 

clear, 350. 
clear Termicelli, 262. 
a la Fabcrt, 304. 
ahiFaubonne.302. 
a hi Femey, 301. 
a k Hollandaise, 316. 
of bisque of crabs, a la Fitshardinge, 
332. 
„ crayfish, a TAncienne, 331. 



Soup, of bisque of crayfish, a la Malmesbury, 
332. 
„ lobsters, a la Stanley, 334. 

„ „ prawns, a la Cerito, 335. 

„ „ quails, a la Prince Albert, 

328. 
„ „ rabbiu, au Velout^, 229. 

„ , , snipes, a la bonnc-bouche, 330 

, , cream of pearl-barley, a hi Duchesse, 327. 
„ „ a kPrincesse, 326 

,, „ „ A \a Frintaniere. 

823. 
„ ,, „ a U B«ine, 322. 

„ „ „ a k Royale, 324, 

325. 
,, cream of rice, a k Cardinal, 319. 
„ „ „ a k Royale, 317. 
„ ,, „ a k Chasseur, 321. 
„ ,, „ akJuTenal, 320. 
„ „ „ a k Victoria, 318. 
„ of gratinated crusts, a k Bcaujon 283, 
» „ ak Femeuse,282. 

„ „ a k Jardiniere, 

279. 
„ „ a k Princesse, 280. 

„ M a k Royal, 281. 

y, pur6e of asparagus, a k Cond^, 313, 
M >• », a k St. George, 314. 

„ „ of artichokes, 297. 
„ „ of carrots, a la Crecy, 293. 
„ M a k Stanley, 308. 
„ brown pur^e of chestnuts, 299. 
„ white puree of chestnuts, 300. 
„ >, of endives, 298. 

„ pur^e of fowl, a k Reine, 362. 
„ „ a k Printaniere, 363. 

„ „ a k Princesse, 364. 

,, „ akCelestine, 365. 

„ ., of French partridges, a k Conti, 

366. 
„ „ hare, a k Conti, 372, 

, , „ partridges, a k Beaufort, 370. 

„ „ lentils, a la reine, 288. 

„ „ a k soubise, 289. 

„ „ a k brunoiie, 290. 

„ „ of green peas, 291 

„ „ of peas, a TAngkise. 284. 

,f «i green split-peas, 285. 

„ „ red haricot beans, 286. 

,, „ of white haricot, 287. 

„ „ green peas, a k Victoria, 306. 

„ » » a k Princesse, 

307. 
„ „ of pheasants, a k Royale, 367, 

., „ „ a k Dauphine, 

368. 
„ „ a I'Angkise, 369. 

„ „ ., a k Balxac, 371. 

„ ,, rabbits, a k Maitze 

d* h6tel, 373, 
„ „ a la Chantflly, 374. 

„ „ of roots, 292. 

„ „ of spinach a k Beanvanz, 301. 

M ,» of spring-herbs, 305, 

„ brown por^e of turnips, 294. 
„ white pur^e of turnips, 295. 



512 



INDEX. 



Veal, venison panada, 393. 

„ Xavicr, 258. 
Spanish pufis, 1336. 
„ cokes, 1291. 
Spinach, puree of, for cutlets, &c., 112. 
„ with butter, 1155. 
„ with cream, 1 1 56. 
„ extract of, for colouring, 285. 
Stock sauces, brown and white, 2. 
Sturgeon sauce, 56. 
Sturgeon lOiip, a rAmcricaine, 340. 
„ a TAnglaisc, 341. 

,, a rindienne, 342. 

Supreme sauce, 88. 

„ of game, 39. 

Swan of Savoy cake, a la Clumtilly, 1363. 
Sweetbreads larded, with stewed peas, &c. 920. 
„ 99 a la Conti, 904. 

^ „ Epigramme of^ 907. 

- „ ,, a la monorque, 903. 

„ „ a la Parisienne, 906. 

„ „ a hi St. Cloud, 905. 

„ „ scollops of, ^ith Shalot 

gravy, 908. 
„ „ „ a la Daupliine, 900. 

„ „ a la D'Uxelles 910, 

„ „ „ a la Marechule, 91 1 . 

„ „ „ a la Soubisc, 912. 

„ „ „ a la Poulette, 913. 

rt „ „ ala Kusse, 913. 

„ », »» ala Prov<»ncale,913. 

Talmouses, a k crcme, 1312. 
„ with cheese, 1313. 
Tartare sauce, 96. 21. 
Teal, sahnis of, 1104. 
,, fillets o^ a PAnglaise, 1108. 
„ a la Bigarade, 1 105. 

Timbole of maccaroni, a k Milanaise, 772. 
„ „ a la Mazarin, 773. 

„ of nouilles, a la Chasseur, 774. 
M garnished with soft roes of mackarcl, 

775. 
„ of raviolis, a la Romaine, 776. 
Tomata sauce, 22. 
Tomatas, pur^ of, for cutlets, &c. 120. 

„ an gratin, 1160. 
Tongue, with Aspic jelly (cold entr^), 1227, 
Tourte of whitings, a la Dauphine, 768. 
„ of Oodiveau, au Madere, 769. 
„ of ox-palates, a hi Francaise, 770. 
„ of scollops of lobster, a la Cardinal, 
771. 
Trout, a PAurore, 427. 
f, a k Chevaliere, 425. 
M a la Oasconne, 424^ 
,, a PItalienne, 423. 
„ alaRoyale, 429. 
„ a la Vertpr6 (cold entree), 1224. 
,9 broiled, with Dutch sauce, 430. 
n au gntin, 426. 
„ in cases, with fine-herbs, 428. 
Truffles, pur^ of, for fillets of fowls, Ac. 121. 
*, garnish of^ for an entr^, &c. 128. 
,9 „ a la Parisienne, 129. 



Truffles, garnish of with supreme sauce, 130. 
„ „ whole, 131. 

„ hirge, a la Serviette, 1 162. 
„ a la Picdmontaise, 1 1 63. 
Turban of ox-palates, a la P6rigucux, 798. 
„ of fillets of fowls, a la Prince de Galles 

799. 
„ of fillets of rabbits, a la Financiers 

300. 
„ of fillets of hares, a la Conti, 801. 
„ of fillets of soles,a la Ximenes, 802. 
Turbot, pUin boiled, with lobster sauce, 
397. 
„ a la Bechamel, 403. 
„ a la Cartme, 400. 
„ a la creme, au gratin, 401. 
„ a la Mar^chal, 404. 
„ a la Parisienne, 398. 
„ a la Vatcl, 400.* 
„ broiled, a la Proven^alc, 399. 
„ fillets of^ a Plndienne, 405. 
„ „ a la ravigotte, 406. 
„ „ a la Cardinal, 409. 
„ „ a riuUienne, 408. 
„ „ ft la Vertpre, 407. 
„ in Matelotte Nomuinde, 402. 
Turkeys, removes of, or top and bottom dishes. 

660. 
Turkey, roast, a la Pcrigord, 660. 
„ ,, a TAiiglaise, 662. 

„ „ a la Chipolata. 661. 

„ ,, a hi Financiere, 663. 

„ boiled, with pur6e of celery, 664. 
,1 with oyster sauce, 665. 

Turnips, glacis with sugar, 1177. 
,, garnish of, for ducklings, 136. 
„ purte of, for cutlets, &c. 109.. 
Turtle sauce, for cairs head, 9. 

Vegetable marrow, 1 1 79, 
Veal, entries of, or side dishes, 880. 
Veal- cutlets, a la Financiere, 889. 
„ a la Dreux, 890. 

„ a la Duchesse, 893. 

„ a laPcricord, 891. 

„ a la Zingara, 892. 

M in papillotte^ 894. 

,, fricandeau ofi with puree of green pees, 

&c., 880. 
„ ,, a k Maccdoine, &g., 881. 

„ noix of, a k Rcgence, 882. 
„ „ Toukuse, 883. 

, , grenadins of, with spinach, &c., 884. 
„ tendons of, with stewed peas, 885. 
n „ a k ViUeroi, wiih pnr^ of 

celery, 886. 
Veal-kemcls, with puree of artichokes, 887. 

„ a k Talleyrand. 888. 

Veal, removes of, or top and bottom dishes. 

Page. 157. 
Veal and ham scollops, with Italian tanoe, 897. 
„ Scotch scollops 0^ 898. 
„ minced, and poached tm, 899. 
M 9, another methoo^SKX). 

„ „ a k Portuguaise, 901 . 



INDEX. 



513 



Veal, roost iiUet of, 576. 
,, „ a la Jardiniere, 578. 

^ „ ala Mac^doine, 577. 

M roast neck of, a la crdme, 579. 
M braized neck of, a la Dreoz, 581. 
„ „ a TEcarlate, 583. 

^ „ a la Montmorency, 580. 

^ „ a la Royale, 584. 

„ „ a la d'Uxelles, 582. 

„ noix of, a la Financiere, 586. 
„ „ a la St. Oeoige, 585. 

„ „ a la Jardiniere, 588. 

„ „ a la Mac^doine, 587. 

„ roast loin of, 589. 
„ „ a la cr^me, 594. 

„ „ a la Dauphine, 591. 

^ „ a la Financiere, 593. 

„ „ a la Monglas, 590. 

^ „ a la Royale, 592. 

„ roast breast of, a TAnglaise, 595. 
^ „ a la Boorgeoise, 596. 

^ „ a la Financiere, 598. 

„ „ a la Windsor, 597. 

M rolled „ a la Romaine, 599. 
^ „ „ a la Royale, 600. 

Vegetable marrow, 1 1 79. 
Venison, removes of, or top and bottom dishes 
651. 

„ entr^ of, or side dishes, 958. 

„ , , another method, 1 1 80. 

„ haric6tof;958. 

„ „ another method, 959. 

„ chops, 962. 

„ firy, 963. 

„ civet of, 960. 

„ scollops of, 961. 

„ roebuck, cutlets of, a la Chasseur, 
964. 

,, „ fillets of , a la Kinnaird, 

„ „ with poivrade sauce 

966. 

„ „ civet of, 967. 

„ red-deer, haunch o^ a TEcossaise. 
654. 

„ „ a la Glengarry, 655. 

„ „ a la Kinnaird, 656. 

„ necks of, a la Marie Stuart, 657. 

„ ,, a la St. Andrew, 658. 



Venison, fillets of, a hi Royale, 659. 
„ haunch of, a PAnglaise, 651. 
^ „ a TAllemande, 652. 

„ „ a la St. Andrew, 658. 

„ „ a U St. George, 653. 

Vol-au-vent, a la NIsle, 762. 

„ a la Financiere, 763. 
„ of cod, a la creme, 766. 
„ of salmon, a la ravigotte, 765. 
„ of salt-fish, a rAnghiise, 767. 
, , of turbot, a k Bechamd» 764. 
Venitian sauce, 26. 

Wastrefische sauce, 88. 
Water-souchet of crimped sahnon, 343. 
„ plain, 344. 

„ filleU of perch, 345. 

„ soles, 346. 
Whcatears in cases, with fine- herbs, 1111. 
White-bait, how to fry, 537. 
„ Italian sauce, 13. 
„ puddings, a la Royale, 957. 
„ velout^ sauce, 4. 
Whiting-poults, how to dress. Page 129. 
Whitings, boiled, 490. 
„ fried, 491. 
„ broiled, 492. 

„ filleU of, a la maitre dliotel, 486. 
„ „ a k Horly, 487. 

„ „ a la Mar^chale, 488. 

„ „ a hi Royale, 489. 

Widgeon, a PAmfericaine, 1107. 

„ sahnis of^ 1 104. 
Wild ducks, salmis of, a la Bigarade, 1105. 
„ filleU 6f, a hi Proven^ale, 1 106. 

Wild duck, sahnis 0f, 1103. 
Wild goose, a TAberdeen, 701. 

„ TAllemande, 702, 

Windsor beans, pur^ of, for cutlets, &c, 107. 
„ a la crime, 1173. 

M garnish of, for hams, &&, 151. 

Woodcocks, a U Financiere, 1096. 
„ a la P^rigord, 1097. 

„ fillets of^ a TAncienne, 1098. 

„ M Perigueuz, 1099. 

„ salmis, a la minute, 1 100. 

«, „ Bourguignotte, 1101. 



THE END. 



LONDON : 

Printed by 8. & J. Bkrtlst, Wilson, uad Plbt. 

Baogor Houae, Shoe Lane. 



\ 



I] 



f 




i 



