PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 



THK 



FRENCH COOK, 



A FULL AND LITERAL TRANSLATION OF 



LA PETITE CUISINIERE HABILE,' 




'iinir;TTT:r?;^^l..H,/.lwnM..iiiiijjiilliJiiillliliilllllllllllll'' 

GIVING FULL DIRECTIONS 



FOR TIIS 

MOST eELEBRATED AND DELICIOUS POTA-GES, ENTREKS, 

KNTREMETS, CBEMES, FRITURES, SAUCES, PATES, 

PATISSEAIE, CONFITURES, CfEtEES, &C. 

WITH DELICACY AND ECONOMY. 

WITH FULL DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING FRUITS, MEATS, 

. \ 

FISH, AND VEGETABLES. 



Wm h graham, tribune Binr.D(\r.s. 

1846. 



w 



r 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1846, by Wm. H. 
Graham, in the Clerk's Office, of the District Court, of the Southern District 
of New York. 



ThiBCNB Prjnt, Nt). 7 Spruce-street, 
J. A. Fraetas, Printer. 



THE 



FEENCH COOK, 



A FULL AND LITEEAI, TSANSZ^TION OF 



«LA PETITE CUISINI^RE HABILE,' 



OIVINO PLAIN DIRKCTI0N3 FOR MAKII70 THB 

MOST CELEBRATED AND DELICIOUS POTAGES, 

ENTRIES, ENTREMETS, CRIMES, FRITURES, SAUCES, 

PATfiS, PATISSERIE, CONFITURES, GELfiES, &c. 



WITH DELICACY AND ICONOMT. 



WITH FULL DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING FRUITS, MEATS, 
FISH, AND VEGETABLES. 



NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY WM. H. GRAHAM, 

TRIBUNE BUILDINaS. 
1846. 



>! 



.Xi.U-' 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



Gastronomy is one of the sciences, and cookery 
one of the arts, in which the French nation has long 
excelled every other — the dishes of the French, like 
their language, having been adopted by every civi- 
lised nation, even by those who consider themselves 
their " natural enemies" — as we might properly call 
ourselves their natural friends. 

There is no fashionable hotel in this country of 
travellers, where there is not a French cook, or, at 
least, French dishes in the bill of fare ; and though 
the names of these are unintelligible to nine tenths of 
those who dine at hotels, their flavor is not the less 
agreeable. Because comparatively few persons learn 
the French language, there is no good- reason why 
all should not enjoy French cookery. • 

The following work will answer more than one 
useful purpose. As a vocabulary of French dishc^^t 
will be well worth its cost to any one who h^s ever 
been puzzled by a bill of fare, in a language which 
might as well have been Arabic or Chinese, for all 
the idea it gave him of any thing worth eating. 
Ris de veau, cochon de lait, dindon a la DaubSf canard 
d la bourgeoise, etc., will henceforth have appetising 
instead of tantalising effects. 

But the most important purpose of this work is 
to introduce into families the various, elegant, and 
economical preparations so plainly described. It 
will do away with the sameness of domestic cook- 
ery, without increasing its excense. The^ood house- 



4 , ADVERTISBMENT. 

wife, with this little work in hand, can, from the most 
common materials, serve up a great variety of dishes. 
For instance, there are herein described no less than 
nineteen modes of cooking eggs, thirteen varieties of 
meat pies, fifteen sauces, nine soups, thirteen dishes 
of veal, and other dishes in proportion. The articles 
on preserving fruits, meats, etc., in the -peculiar 
French style, cannot but be important. 

In truth, a better work, containing more useful 
matter in a small compass, cannot be found in any 
language. 



LA PETITE ^ 

CUISINI^RE HABILE 

THE CLEVER LITTLE COOK. 



POT AU FEU — Principes pour la bienfaire. 

MEAT-BROTH LITERALLY, POT TO THE FIRE. 

Containing the principles of making what may be 
termed, a good foundation for a variety of soups. 

The pieces of beef the most esteemed for making 
a good broth (bouillon), are : the rumps {la culotte)^ 
the knee {la noir), the edge-bone {la tranche), and the 
breast {la poiirine). The broth of veal is not very 
good, except for the sick, as it is weak and colorless. 
Mutton, especially the pieces of the fore quarter, that 
is to say, the neck {le cou), the shoulder {Vepaule), 
and the breast, make an excellent broth. Barn-yard 
fowls, especially old hens and cocks, sensibly improve 
the savor and strength of ihe pot aufeu. 

Take then the piece, or pieces of meat which you 
intend for yowv pot aufeu ; truss and tie them as you 
desire, put them in a kettle large enough to contain 
two quarts {deux litres) of water for each pound of 
meat ; fill up with cold water in this proportion, and 
place it over a good fire. As fast as the froth rises, 
you must skim it oflf carefully. It is only after the 
scum ceases to rise, that you must salt the broth. 
At that time diminish the fire, or raise the kettle fur- 
ther from the heat ; put in carrots {carottes), turnips 
{navets)f leeks (jpoireaux)y celery {celeri), root of 
1* 



e POTAGES— SOUPS. 

parsley (racine de persiT), cloves (clous de giroffle), 
one or two laurel leaves {Juilles de laurier)^ and a 
burnt onion (oignon hrHle), to give ita good color. 

Have a care nov7 that your pot boils vrith a very 
small fire, but does not stop boiling entirely. It takes 
ordinarily, five or six hours to make a good pot au 
feu ; and while the meat is well cooked, you have an 
excellent and very healthy broth. 

Delicate persons, and those of refined taste (bons 
gastronomes), are not fond of broth made with cab- 
bages, nor to have many turnips in their soup, as 
these vegetables give it a harsh taste, and a windy 
quS-lity. It is better, if you are fond of these, to boil 
them in a small pot or saucepan by themselves ; then 
throw away the water in which they are first boiled, 
and put them afterward in the broth, a short time 
before it is served. 

Be careful, also, that the piece of lard or butter, if 
you put any in, is not rancid. Some calves' feet or a 
jowl added to i\\Q pot aufeu, has a very good effect. 

Observe that at the moment of serving you fill not 
instantly the tureen, in which you have put your 
slices of bread ; put in merely enough broth for the 
bread to swim, cover the tureen, and about ten 
minutes after, pour in the rest of the broth which you 
design to have served. 

It is not well to boil the butter with bread, because 
it changes the taste and quality of the broth. 

Some persons put the vegetables upon the bread 
in the tureen ; others prefer to have them upon the 
plate with the boiled meat. On fashionable tables, the 
piece of boiled beef is surrounded with green parsley. 

POT AGE au Rizy au Ver micelle, au Sagou, a\(Ji Herhes, a la 

Puree, etc. 

RICE SOUP, VERMICELLI SOUP, SAGO SOUP, VEGETABLE 
SOUP, PEA SOUP, ETC. 

AU,tlie§aaaQ^?s9i;ies mu^tbe cookedjiii4 prepa?e4 



POTAGES— SOUPS. 7 

in pots or saucepans apart. At the moment of serv- 
ing, put them in the soup dish, and pour the broth 
over them. 

CONSOMMJ&. 

JELLY BROTH. 

A consomm6, or jelly broth, is nothing more than 
an excellent broth, which has been made more strong- 
ly succulent, by letting it boil a long time, so as to 
destroy the meat, vv^hich loses all its consistence and 
savor, to strengthen the broth. Upon these princi- 
ples, you see it is very easy to reduce to a consomme 
broths of every description. After your consomm6 
has been v^ell cooked, you pass it through a fine towel 
or strainer, expressing all the juice, till no more can 
be squeezed out. If you find that your consomme is 
muddy, and you would clarify it, put it over the fire 
again, and when it boils add some whites of eggs, well 
beaten up, after which, strain again through a napkin, 
or a sieve of silk, and it will be perfectly clear and 
limpid. 

BOUILLON DE POULE, ^our Us Malades, 

CHICKEN BROTH, FOR THE SICK. 

After having picked, singed, and cleaned your 
chicken, put it in a kettle with three quarts of cold wa- 
ter ; add the herbs or seeds prescribed by the phy- 
sician. Cook the whole over a small fire and well 
covered. As soon as the broth is reduced one third, 
put in a little salt, and pass it through a sieve or 
strainer. 

POTAGE d la Minute. 

MINUTE SOUP SOUP TO A MINUTE. 

This process, employed by many professional cooks 
(chefs de cuisine) ^ for the purpose of quickly obtain- 
ing a nourishing sauce, may also be useful to many 
other persons, especially in travelling, hunting, in 
pleasure parties in the country, etc., etc. 



8 POTAGES— SOUPS. 

Take one pound of good beef, one of veal, and two 
ounces of thin lard ; begin and chop up these articles ; 
then add a large onion, a turnip, a carrot, a little 
celery, a small root of parsley, and finish, chopping all 
these together. Put it in a kettle with three quarts of 
water, a little salt, two cloves, and a leaf of laurel ; 
place the kettle over the fire, and let it boil half an 
hour, taking care to skim it, and seeing, at the same 
time, if it is well seasoned. Then strain it through a 
sieve or napkin, and serve upon slices of bread, or on 
rice or vermicelli. If with either of these, you must 
boil them in a separate pot, turn them into the soup 
dish, and pour the broth upon them. 

You may also use the hash, which remains in the 
strainer ; for this purpose, you make a little gravy 
with the grease of the pot and a pinch of flour ; soften 
this gravy with a little of the broth, add an onion cut 
thin, or well chopped up, a pinch of fine herbs (sum- 
mer savory, etc.) ; season with salt and spices, thai 
your sauce may have a good flavor ; now put in the 
hash, stir, make it boil over a quick fire, for a few 
minutes, and serve with some poached eggs over it. 

In this way you have in one half hour an excellent 
soup and a delicate hash. 

Note. — The quantities in this and most dishes may be in- 
creased, of course, preserving the proportions, and articles left 
out or substituted at pleasure. 

POTAGE a la Julienne. 

JULIAN SOUP. 

Cut into very small pieces carrots, turnips, leeks, 
bottoms of celery, and parsnips ; take also sorrel, let- 
tuce, beets ; chop fine all these vegetables ; about 
half cook it in butter, and then add thick or thin soup, 
season with salt, finish the cookmg, and serve the 
soup with a little bread. 



POTAGES— SOUPS. 9 

POTAGE a la Jardiniere. 
gardener's soup. 

Take carrots, turnips, potatoes, celery, and leeks, 

cut them in pieces of the length of a cork, cook them 

with the broth already made, season, dish up and 

serve. 

POTAGE Printannier. 

SPRING SOUP. 

Having made a Potage a la Julienne, add to it the 
products of the spring, such as tops of asparagus, 
green peas, etc. 

POTAGE au Fermicelle, 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

One can make this soup with thick broth, with wa- 
ter, or with milk ; but in either case the vermicelli 
must be put in the liquid when it is boiling hot, and 
the cooking finished over a good fire. The propor- 
tion is generally three to four ounces of vermicelli 
for each quart of broth or milk. 

Note. — Vermicelli is an Italian manufacture of flour and oil, 
pressed into small tubes, and when broken up resembling little 
worms ; hence the name. Macaroni is similar, but as large as 
a goose-quill. Both are sold at the shops of most large towns 
and cities. 

POTAGE a la Semoule, 

This is made like vermicelli. 

POTAGE au Macaroni. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Put the macaroni in thick or thin broth {gras ou 
rnaigre), the moment when it boils, and let it cook 
over a large fire, and, on serving, sprinkle it over 
with grated cheese. 

RIZ au Gras. 

RICH RICE SOUP. 

Yick your ric« and wash it in cold water, put it in 



|Q POTAGES— SOUPS. 

the broth the moment it boils, and let it cook gently 
until the rice has well burst open. 

RIZ au Maigre. 

THIN KICE SOUP. 

Make the rice open gently — a little, in boiling wa- 
ter, and after it has been sufficiently cooked, add to 
it some butter, salt, a very little pepper, and, if you 
like it, some thin jelly (coulis en maigre), 

RIZ au Lait. 

RICE WITH MILK. 

Boil the rice in the same manner as above directed, 
but in milk, and instead of salt, put in some sugar. 
Some persons put in also, at the moment of serving, 
some drops of orange-flower water. The proportion 
is commonly one ounce of rice for each person, and 
one quart {litre) of broth or milk for each quarter of 
a pound of rice. 

POTAGE au Fromage de Gruiere ou ae Parmesan. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

For this potage, the cheeses made in the province of Gruiere^ or 
in Parmi, Italy, are most commonly used ; hut any hardy dry 
cheese, of good flavor, would answer. 

Put in your soup dish a quantity of grated cheese, 
and over it a layer of slices of bread ; make altefnate- 
ly three or four layers of each, one over the other, 
moisten them with good broth, rich or thin, but which 
has but very little salt ; add a good piece of butter. 
Let it simmer well over some hot ashes^ and, at the 
moment of serving, pour over it a little more broth. 

POTAGE aux Poissons, ou Bouille-ahaisse. 

FISH SOUP OR CHOWDER. 

See vmder the head Foissons— Fish, 



POT AGES— SOUPS. H 

BOUILLON RAFRAICHISSANT. 

REFRESHING BROTH. 

Put in a kettle a half pound of the n6ck of mutton, 
a like quantity of fillet of veal, each cut in small pieces, 
and four quarts of water. After having skimmed all 
the scum off, put in a handful of chervil, a handful of 
doucemere, a little w^ild chicoree, and tvro small let- 
tuces ; all these herbs must be cut into thin slices. 
Make it boil for three hours over a gentle fire, and 
strain it, adding then a little salt. 

OUILLON DE MOU DE VEAU. 

NECK OF VEAL BROTH. 

Cut the half of a neck of veal into small pieces, and 
soak them for one hour in cold water, to extract the 
blood. Then boil it in an earthen pot, with three or 
four quarts of water, a pinch of salt, a handful of 
chervil (any similar herb will answer), cut in slices, 
and some roots of garden sauce, cut in slices. Skim 
it, and let it boil away slowly about one half, and 
pass it through a strainer. 

PANADE. 

PANADO. 

Cut white bread in small pieces, let them boil in a 
saucepan or small kettle, with water, a little salt, and 
some fresh butter ; pass your panado through a cul- 
lender ; put it back in the saucepan, and see if it is 
well seasoned ; let it boil again for five or six minutes, 
and add a strengthening of yolks of eggs, and serve 
immediately. 

LAIT DE POULE. 

HEN*S MILK. 

Put in a porringer or small tureen, three or four 
ounces of powdered sugar, three yolks of eggs, and 
a half spoonful of flower of orange water (or other 



BCEUF-'BEEF. 



agreeable preparation) ; beat well this mixture, until 
the yolks of eggs turn white, and the longer you beat 
them the better. Pour, Httle by Httle, over this mix- 
ture, a pint of boiling water, stirring it quickly, to 
prevent the eggs hardening ; your chicken's milk is 
made, and it is the most nourishing drink possible 
(le hoire le plus chaudement possible) ! 



BCEUF A LA MODE. 

ALAMODE BEEF. 

Lard your beef with thick lard, put it in a kettle 
with some pieces of fat (couennes de lard), a calve's 
foot, some onions, a carrot, a bunch (bouquet) of fine 
herbs, laurel, thyme, garlic, cloves, salt and pepper ; 
turn over the whole one or two tumblers of water, 
with half as much wine, and make it cook well cov-- 
ered over, smothered, until the meat is tender. It 
takes about six hours to cook beef d la mode; and 
it must be done over a small fire, and well covered. 

ALOYAU DE BCEUF, a la Broche. 

SIRLOIN OF BEEF, ROASTED. 

Cut your piece properly, spit it so as to hold it 
firmly, and place it before a hot fire, during one hour 
an^ a half to two hours at the most, according to the 
size of the piece, taking care to moisten it frequently. 
Some people serve it with its own gravy ; others add 
a little gravy, a dash of vinegar, small cucumbers 
(gherkins), cut fine, salt and pepper — served in a 
sauce-boat. 

The sirloin is also sometimes served with sauce 
piquant, (see sauces), with small cucumbers, cut in 
thin round slices, laid upon it. 

A sirloin is equally excellent, cooked in a stewpan, 
if you have one safliciently large, (see further the ar- 



BCEUF— BEEF. 13 

tide, Filet a la Braise). In warm countries, the sir- 
loin, or fillet of beef, is often served with tomato sauce, 
and sometimes with olives. 

FILET DE BCEUF, a la Broche. 

ROASTED FILLET OF VEAL. 

The fillet of beef is the most tender part of the sir- 
loin. Prepare your fillet, and do not leave upon it 
much fat. Lard the lean side with fine lard, and 
spice. Put it in a tureen with slices of onion, laurel, 
salt, and pepper-corns ; pour upon it a pint of good 
vinegar, tempered with white wine or water. Leave 
your fillet in this twenty-four hours, taking care to 
turn it oyer from time to time, that the pickle may 
penetrate all sides. Two hours before the meal, put 
it on the spit, and roast before a quick fire ; put the 
pickle in a dripping-pan, through a strainer ; baste 
with this frequently, and when it is done, serve with 
a sauce made of its juice, a little gravy or broth, 
echallottes, salt and pepper. It is necessary that 
your sauce be highly seasoned and served in a sauce- 
boat. 

FILET DE BCEUF, a la Braise. 

BAKED FILLET OF BEEF. 

Prepare your fillet of beef as above described, wash* 
the surface, and lard it with thick spiced lard ; truss 
it properly, and having fixed your saucepan, brazier, 
or bake-kettle, so that the meat will not touch the 
bottom, put in some sHces of lard, and place your 
fillet over it ; some onions, with cloves, two laurel 
leaves, one carrot cut in slices, a little thyme, a bunch 
of parsley, and leeks or small onions, some salt, and 
pepper-corns, and a little broth or water. Cover 
your stewpan, and make it boil immediately ; then 
finish, by cooking for two hours over a gentle fire. 
A half hour before serving, it is necessary to put the 
fire equally over the cover of the stewpan, to give the 
2 



X4 B(EUF— BEEF. 

meat a good color. After it is cooked, untruss it and 
serve, with the sauce passed through a strainer. 

COTE DE BOEUF, a la Bonne Femme. 

EIB OF BEEF, A LA GOOD WOMAN. 

Have a beautiful rib of beef, trim it, and lard it with 
spiced lard ; put it in a stewpan, with two or three 
spoonfuls of good pot-grease ; make it brown a little 
over a hot fire, having a care to turn it two or three 
times. When it has got a little color, season with salt 
and coarse pepper, and moisten with a spoonful of 
broth. Place your stewpan over a gentle fire, cover 
it, and put a little fire over the cover, and so let it 
cook for an hour and a half. If you find that there 
is not sufficient sauce, you can add again one or two 
spoonfuls of broth {bouillon). 

COTE DE BCEUF, a la Prc/venfale. 

RIB OF BEEF, PROVENCE FASHION. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the above, 
except that it is baked with oil. Afterwards, when 
it is dressed to be served, you take a plenty of onions, 
if largfe sHce them, but if small use them whole, and 
let them brown in the stewpan with the oil ; when 
they have become of a good color, you put in the 
sauce of your rib, a little broth, a wine-glass of vin- 
egar, salt and pepper, and heat the whole. Put your 
rib on a plate, and turn the sauce over it. 

ROSBIF, a VAnglaise. 

ENGLISH ROASTBEEF. 

Take the second piece of the sirloin (it is necessary 
that the piece should be large), put it on a spit, baste 
with butter, and make it turn before a brisk fire, wliich 
must be kept up constantly to the same degree. 
Take care that your meat does not cease dripping, 
for it must be done to a turn. Take up your rosbif, 



BCEUF— BEEF. ^5 

and serve with potatoes, boiled whole, steamed, or 
fried. 

BIFTEC auxjine Herbes. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH FINE HERBS. 

Cut a fillet of beef in thin slices, and beat them un- 
til they are well flattened. Let it soak in a pickle of 
oil, salt and peppfer; broil it over a quick fire, and 
serve very rare {saignant, bleeding), upon a piece of 
butter, some parsley, and juice of lemon or verjuice, 
garnished with small cucumbers. 

Some people cook all sorts of beefsteaks in the 
same manner, but put upon the plate, according to 
their taste, water-cresses, fried potatoes, anchovy- 
butter, truffles cut in slices, etc. 

BOUILLI RESSERVI, a la Fine. 

A DELICATE DISH, FROM COLD BEEP 

Cut your cold beef in thin slices, let it pickle a ha]/ 
hour with a little butter, parsley, a bit of garlic, two 
echallottes, all hashed together, with salt and pepper. 
Make adhere to each slice, as much of this dressing 
as possible ; sprinkle them well with crumbs of bread, 
and let them broil over a slow fire, moistened with 
the rest of the pickle : serve with a little vinegar. 

CERVELLES de Boeuf, de Veau, ou de Mouton. 

BRAINS OF BEEF, OP VEAL, OR MUTTON. 

Clean your brains, remove the coagulated blood, 
the fibres, and the thin skin which covers them. 
Put them for some hours in fresh water, to free them 
entirely from blood. After this, put them in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, to which you have added a 
wine-glass of vinegar, and some salt. After they 
have thus soaked a quarter of an hour, put them in 
cold water. A quarter of an hour after, you can 
pour off the water, and they are ready to receive 
any sauce or dressing you may choose to give them. 



IQ BCEUF—BEEF. 

You can serve them with oil and vinegar, or with 
sauce piquante, or d la maitre d^ hotel, or with tomato 
sauce ; — some persons like them with black butter 
(buerre noir) ; they are also excellent fried or in frit- 
ters, or cooked d la Bourgeoise, 

CERVELLES, a la Bourgeoise. 

BRAINS FIT FOR A CITIZEN. 

While preparing your brains of beef, veal, or mut- 
ton, as described above, place in the bottom of your 
saucepan with some slices of lard, put in onions, car- 
rots, some cloves, four pepper-corns, a leaf of laurel, 
half a wine-glass of vinegar, or, if you like better, 
some slices of lemon, a bunch of parsley, leeks, and 
salt, and moisten with broth. Stew down this to a 
sauce, put in your brains for half an hour, and serve. 

CERVELLES DE BGEUF, en Matelote. 

BEEF BRAINS, SAILOR FASHION. 

Roast small onions in a stewpan ; when they have 
got a good color, put in a little flour, and moisten 
with a glass of white wine, or white vinegar and 
water. As soon as this brown sauce is of a beauti- 
ful light yellow, add to it some water or broth ; stir 
it well, and taste, to see if your sauce is well sea- 
soned. Put in your brains, which you have proper- 
ly cleaned and washed, and to them you can add 
some mushrooms, if you have them ; after being one 
quarter of an hour over the fire, dish your brains, 
pour over them the sauce, and serve. 

CERVELLES FRITES, ou en Beignets. 

FRIED BRAINS, OR IN FRITTERS. 

After having dressed and washed your brains, in 
the manner first mentioned, you must let them drain 
well ; then, when you would prepare them for the 
table, cut them in small pieces, and soak them for 



BaiUF— BEEF. 17 

two hours in a pickle composed of vinegar, oil, salt, 
and pepper, that they may be properly seasoned. 
Drop them in a frying-pan, and let them have a good 
frying ; prepare a fritter batter, dip in yom' pieces of 
brain, and let them fry to a fine yellow color (belle 
coulour blonde). 

CERVELLES, a la Poulette. 

BRAINS IN THE STYLE OF CHICKEN. 

Free the brains from blood, and w^ash tnem as 
above. Put them in melted butter, vv^ith a spoonful 
of flour, and add some broth, spices, onions, and 
mushrooms, if you have them, which you have cook- 
ed separately ; thicken the whole with some yolks of 
eggs, and season with some lemon juice. 

LANGUE DE BCEUF, a VEcarlate. 

TONGUE OF BEEF, SCARLET FASHION. 

Take a nice tongue of beef, trim it, and rub it well 
with two ounces of powdered saltpetre. Put it in an 
earthen vessel, with thyme, sweet basil, some leaves 
of laurel, and pepper-corns. Dissolve two handfuls 
of salt in hot water ; when this brine is cold, pour it 
over the tongue, and let the whole rest three or four 
days. Before you cook it, you must soak it for one 
hour in cold water ; then put it in a stewpan, with a 
fourth part of its pickle, carrots, onions, garden herbs, 
pepper-corns, and cloves ; put in sufficient water to 
cover the whole, and let it cook two hours over a 
small fire : remove ; let it cool in the sauce, and serve. 

LANGUE DE BCEUF en Papillotes. 

TONGUE OF BEEF IN PAPERS. 

Remove the blood and properly wash your beePs 
tongue, and boil it in water, with salt, pepper in ker- 
nels, and onions. Then let it drain, trim it, remove 

the skin, and cut it in slices. Dip the slices in good 

2* 



Ig BCEUF— BEEF. 

olive oil, and cover them on both sides with crumbs 
of bread, as directed in the article Cotelettes en Pa- 
pillotes, making the covering of bread crumbs as 
thick as possible. Put each slice of tongue in a pre- 
pared piece of greased paper, between two very thin 
slices of lard ; fold the pieces of paper over the edges 
as closely as possible, to prevent the escape of the 
juice, and broil them over a fire so gentle as not to 
burn the paper. Some make them of a crown shape, 
or twisted like a shell, and serve them on a plate 
without sauce. 

LANGUE DE BCEUF en Cartouches. 

TONGUE OF BEEF IN CARTEmGES. 

This dish is prepared exactly like the tongue in 
papers, with the exception that they are rolled up 
in the form of cartridges, enveloved with a thin slice 
of fat bacon around them, and done up in greased 
paper, exactly like musket cartridges. This form is 
very good to prevent the escape of the sauce. Broil 
them over a gentle fire, and serve on a plate in a 
heap, or pile up like split wood {en pile ou en buches)^ 
without sauce. 

LANGUE DE BCEUF, aux fines Herbes. 

TONGUE OF BEEF, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Cut a cold boiled tongue in very thin slices ; take 
the plate upon which you wish to serve them, and put 
in the bottom a little broth, a little vinegar, parsley, 
leeks, a little thyme and garlic, the whole chopped 
very fine. Add salt, pepper, chippings or raspings 
of bread ; moisten with a little oil ; place upon it your 
slices of tongue, and place a similar dressing over 
them, seasoning as before, and putting upon the whole 
th0 crumbs of bread and the sprinkling of oil. Put 
the plate on a stove or furnace, to a small fire ; make 
it simmer gently, until it adheres slightly to the bot" 



BOSUF— BEEF. 19 

torn of the plate. Before serving, pour over the dish 
a spoonful of broth. 

PALAIS DE BCEUF, a la Menagere. 
beef's mouth, housekeeper fashion, 

"Wash vrell your mouth of beef, and after boiling it 
in water, remove all the skins and black spots. Then 
cut it in pieces, brown some onions, put in your pieces 
of beef mouth moistened with broth ; add a bunch of 
sweet herbs, spices and salt, and some boiled pota- 
toes, cut in slices ; moisten again with broth if ne- 
cessary, and let it cook until the sauce is nearly sim- 
mered away. 

PALAIS DE BGEUF, a la Lyonnaise. 

beef's mouth, LYONS FASHION. 

After having boiled and cleaned, as above directed, 
cut in small pieces, and serve in a sauce {puree, a sort 
of vegetable jelly) of onions. 

GRAS-DOUBLE, enfricasee. 

THICK TRIPE FRICASEE. 

Scrape, clean very carefully, and wash in several 
boiling waters, the pieces of tripe, fat, and of a good 
thickness ; then let them rinse in fresh water, and 
boil in water with slices of onions, garlic, cloves, 
pepper in grains, and laurel ; after a while, put in 
some butter with a little flour, moisten with a little 
broth, mix the sauces, and serve. 

GRAS-DOUBLE, a la Prixvengale. 

THICK TRIPE, PROVENCE FASHION. 

After having well cleaned and scraped it, wash 
in several cold waters, and after it has well drained, 
cc^L it with grated lard, two carrots cut in' slices^ 



20 VEAU— VEAL. 

some onions stuck with cloves, a husk of garlic, some 
allspice, a sprig of thyme, two leaves of laurel, a 
bunch of parsley ; moisten with some spoonfuls of 
broth or water, and a half wine-glass of vinegar. 
Cover the vessel well, and cook your tripe for six or 
eight hours over a gentle lire. When it has become 
sufficiently tender, you must let it cool in its broth ; 
afterwards set it to drain, and cut it in equal slices. 
Then, put several onions in a saucepan, with oil, 
and cook them until they have become of a fine blond 
color ; put in some garlic and parsley, chopped fine, 
and add afterwards your pieces of tripe ; moisten 
with the sauce of the first cooking, passed through a 
sieve or strainer. Make the whole boil together, 
and at the moment of serving, sprinkle upon it some 
raspings of bread. 

CARR1& DE VEAU, a la Brocliu^ auxfine iferbes. 

ROASTED SHOULDER OF VEAL, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Properly trim, and rub with lard, the whole piece 
of a breast of veal ; let it pickle for three hours in a 
tureen, with leeks, parsley, fenil, mushrooms, leaves 
of laurel, thyme, sweet basil, and shallots, all chopped 
very fine, with ground pepper, grated nutmeg, and a 
little oil ; when your breast of veal has been envel- 
oped in this mixture so as to acquire its flavor, put it 
upon the spit, or otherwise prepare it for roasting, 
with all tliis seasoning upon it, the whole enveloped 
in two strong sheets of buttered paper, so fixed that 
the fine herbs cannot escape. When sufficiently 
roasted, remove the paper, take off* the fime herbs 
which have become attached, and put them in a 
stewpan, with a little of the juice or drippings, two 
spoonfuls of verjuice, and a little butter and flour 
worked together, salt, and pepper ; mix over the fire 
to serve with the meat, which, while making the sauce, 
you have left on the spit; after having mixed the 



VEAU— VEAL. 21 

above with a little melted butter and yolks of eggs, 
beaten together, then sprinkle the whole with crumbs 
of bread, and let it get a good color before a hot fire. 
A fine color may be given to such dishes by passing 
over them a red-hot shovel. 

fiTUVEE DE VEAU. 

VEAL RAGOUT. 

Cut your veal in pieces suitable for a stew; put 
them in a brown sauce, then place them in a stewpan, 
with pieces of lard, cut up, some onions, carrots in 
slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, leaves of 
laure^ some cloves, and a husk of garUc. Add as 
much cold water as will just cover the meat. Cover 
over the saucepan, and cook over a gentle fire. 
When the meat is done to a point, if you find that 
the sauce is too thin, you can thicken it with a little 
flour. The sauce must be thick and high seasoned. 
Before serving, add to it a little vinegar. 

COTELETTES DE YE AJJ, en Marinade fine. 

VEAL CUTLETS, IN A FINE PICKLE. 

Properly trim your cutlets, arrange them in a stew- 
pan, with a little chopped lard, or some butter, if you 
prefer it ; add all sorts of sweet herbs, hashed fine, a 
little vinegar, salt, and pepper ; place the stewpan 
over a gentle fire, and turn them, from time to time, 
until the sauce thickens and adheres to the cutlets. 
When they have become nearly cooked, remove 
them, let them drain, and rub them over with crumbs 
of bread ; a half hour before serving, put them on the 
gridiron, and broil them over a gentle fire, that the 
covering of bread may not get too quick a color. 
When they are broiled, arrange them on a plate, and 
spread over them, if you have any left, the rest of 
the sauce in the stewpan. 



^ VEATT— VEAL. 

COTELETTES DE VEAU, en PapUhtes 

VEAL CUTLETS, IN PAPERS. 

Have some beautiful veal cutlets, and prepare them 
properly. Put them in a stewpan, with butter, salt, 
and pepper, and make them cook gently for a half 
hour, turning them from time to time. 

Prepare your covering of bread crumbs, mixed 
w^ith some parsley and shallots, chopped very fine, 
raspings of bread, salt, and spices. When your cut- 
lets are nearly cooked in the saucepan, remove them, 
and put them on the plate where you have your 
bread crumbs, of which you must make as much as 
possible adhere on both sides. Envelope them in 
buttered paper, and make them broil over a gentle 
fire. Serve in the papers which envelope them. 
Thus prepared, they are very succulent. 

FILET DE VEAU, a la Provenfale. 

riLLET OF VEAL, PROVENCE FASHION. 

Cut thin slices from a piece of cold roast veal ; 
make a sauce with a little grease and flour, or a half 
wine-glass of oil, parsley, leeks, and shallots, all 
hashed together, with salt and pepper ; moisten with 
water or some broth, and mix the sauce over the fire ; 
put in the pieces of veal, and let them become quite 
hot, without boiling ; squeeze in a little lemon juice, 
or a dash of vinegar, and serve. 

^ FOIE DE VEAXJ, dVExquise. 

calf's liver, style EXaUISITE. 

Put in a saucepan, a good piece of butter, or 
grated suet, with a calfs liver, cut in slices as thick 
as your finger ; let it fry over the fire until it is well 
cooked, turning it so that both sides may do, and 
then remove it immediately ; put in the same sauce- 
pan a little flour, moistened, little by little, with a glass 



VEAU— VEAL. 23 

of red wine (claret or burgundy), put in four or five 
shallots, parsley, leeks, all chopped fine, with salt and 
pepper ; let it boil up two or three times, until re- 
duced to a thick sauce. Then put back the liver, 
and let it heat, without boiling, and serve very hot, 
with some capers and hashed anchovies, if you like it. 

fricassI:e de veau. 

VEAL FRICASEE. 

Cut your meat in small pieces, and wash them well ; 
having well drained them, put them in a stewpan, 
with a piece of fresh butter, with some broth, salt, 
pepper, laurel, whole onions, and a little thyme ; cook 
over a slow fire, and before serving add a strength- 
ening, or binding of yolks of eggs (liaison de jaunes 
d'oBt^s), 

BLAUQUETTE DE VEAU, en Entree, 

WHITE FBICASEE OF VEAL. 

A ** hlauquette'^ is composed, ordinarily, of the re- 
mains of a piece of roast veal. Cut it in thin slices, 
and put them in a stewpan, with fresh butter or lard, 
a little flour, salt, pepper, a small bunch of parsley and 
leeks, and a little laurel ; mix the whole together, and 
moisten with a little broth ; boil easily for five min- 
utes ; serve with thick sauce, with a binding of yolks 
of eggs, and a little vinegar. 

FRAISE BE VEAU, d la Bourgeoise. 
calf's fluck, citizen fashion. 

Wash from the blood your calfs pluck, in cold 
water, for two hours, and then wash in boiling water ; 
when it has boiled a half hour, put it again in cold 
water, and an instant after let it drain. 

A calPs pluck is usually served plain {au natural)^ 
with oil and vinegar ; but if you prefer to have it with 



24 VEAU— VEAL. 

sauce, take a little brown sauce, which you must di- 
lute with broth, or water, and to which you add on- 
ions, carrots in slices, leeks, parsley, salt, pepper, and 
cloves ; you may add, also, a piece of garlic, if you 
like. When your sauce is well cooked, and has a 
good taste, pass it through a cullender into another 
stewpan. Put in your pluck, let it cook a quarter of 
an hour, and before serving, add a little vinegar. 

FRAISE BE VEAU, a la Sauce piquante. . 

calf's pluck, with sauce PiaUANTE. 

After having well cleaned, removed the blood, 
rinsed, and boiled your pluck, in the manner above 
described, cut it in slices, or have it entire if you pre- 
fer, and serve with " sauce piquante^^ (see " Sauces"). 

ills DE VEAU, a la Marengo. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS, MARENGO FASHION. 

Clean and wash your sweetbreads. When they 
are boiled, drain them, and cut them in slices of the 
thickness of a finger ; put them in a stewpan, with a 
good slice of butter, a handful of mushrooms, or else 
of truffles, cut very fine, a husk of garlic, and a little 
finely cut parsley, salt, pepper in kernels, and fine 
spices ; moisten with some spoonfuls of broth, and 
cook between two fires for a half hour — the fire above 
and below. In serving, add a little vinegar, or, if you 
have and like it, some tomato sauce. 

ROUELLES DE VEAU. 

FILLETS OF VEAL. 

Stick the thick fat with spice, put the fillet in a 
stewpan, with butter or chopped suet, and finish the 
dressing and cooking as directed in the article, 
" BcRuf d la mode ;" or, it is still better, in a bake-pan, 
{cloche d la braise) ; make thick sauce and serve. 



MOUTON— MUTTON. 2f 

TENDONS DE VEAU. a la Poulette. 

VEAL TENDONS, LIKE CHICKEN. 

Take a breast of veal, and cut the tendons, or mus- 
cles, in small round pieces, of two or three ounces 
each. Put in the bottom of a stewpan a little lard, 
and place over it the tendons, with thyme, laurel, 
parsley, leeks, three or four carrots, or else some 
onions. Make them cook, moistening with broth. 
When sufficiently done, take from the fire, mix the 
sauce with yolks of eggs, and serve. 

MOUTON, a la Dauhe, 

MUTTON, WITH THICK SAUCE. 

Beat your leg of mutton (gigot de mouton), and 
remove the skin and the handle ; lard it well with 
slices of salt bacon, and put it in your pot or deep 
stewpan, with broth, salt, pepper, laurel, thyme, and 
some slices of lemon ; make it cook to a small fire, 
covered closely, smothered (a, Vetouffie). When it 
is partly cooked, put in a pint of wine. Then return 
your leg of mutton, and cook until the sauce is nearly 
dried up. Have a care to force the slices of fat ba- 
con well through the meat, so that when it is carved 
it may be well marbled. 

CARRE DE MOUTON, a la Bourgeoises 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON, PIT FOR A CITIZEN. 

Cook in a stewpan with broth, a glass of white 
wine, a bunch of sweet herbs and spices. When it 
is cooked, remove the meat, and simmer down the 
sauce, to which add a piece of butter mixed with 
flour and chopped parsley, with a little vinegar or 
lemon juice. 



3 



26 MOUTON— MUTTON. 

CARRE DE MOUTON, a la Pengord. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON, PERIGOED STYLE. 

Put in a stewpan your shoulder, nicely trimmed) 
with a little oil, parsley, mushrooms and spices ; your 
saucepan first having its bottom covered v^ith some 
slices of veal and a dozen truffles, cut in small pieces. 
Cover the whole with lard, add a half lemon in slices, 
make the whole boil very gently, and moisten from 
time to time with broth. Finish the cooking over a 
gentle fire, reduce the sauce a little, strain it, brown 
your meat, and serve with truffles. 

COTELETTES DE MOVTO^, parties. 

BREADED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Contrary to the general usage, you must not batten 
your mutton chops to have them eat well ; but after 
rubbing them over with salt, pepper, and especially 
a little powdered cloves, you then dip them in oil, 
and cover them with a coating of crumbs of bread ; 
put them on the gridiron for ten minutes over a clear 
fire, and serve au naturel, or with a sauce composed 
of fresh butter and fine herbs. 

COTELETTES DE MOUTON, grillis. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Prepare as above, except the oil and breading ; 
broil over a quick fire that the juice may not be lost, 
and serve without any other preparation. 

COTELETTES DE MOUTON, sautees. 

MUTTON CHOPS, JUMBLED. 

Put at the same time in your frying-pan your chops 
and a piece of fresh butter, and cook over a gentle 
fire. Take your chops from the frying-pan, and stir 
in with the grease remaining in the pan, five or six 
SDOonfuls ; throw in some spices, fine herbs, shallots, 



MOUTON— MUTTON. 27 

all well hashed, and small cucumbers cut in thin, 
round slices ; put the whole in the sauce, shake up, 
and serve with a squeeze of lemon juice, or a little 
vinegar. 

ROUELLES DE MOUTON. 

FILLETS OP MUTTON. 

Prepare for cooking the same as those of veal, but 
it is necessary to cook them longer, and to put in 
a wine-glass of white wine, when they are partly 
done. Some slices of lemon also have a good effect. 

GIGOT DE MOUTON, aux Corniclums. 

LEG OF MUTTON, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

First beat well your leg of mutton, to make it ten- 
der, and then put it in your stewpan with some onions, 
fine herbs, and spices to your taste, some salt, and 
sufficient water. Cover the stewpan, and let your 
leg of mutton cook. When it has become pretty ten- 
der, you must skim off the grease which swims upon 
the top, and put it with some butter in another stew- 
pan, in which you roast the meat to a good color. 
Having done this, you add some of the first broth, to 
make a good sauce, and afterwards a part of a small 
cucumber, split in quarters ; the whole having been 
boiled together, mix the sauce, and serve very hot. 

GIGOT DE MOUTON, a VOsdlle. 

LEG OF MUTTON, WITH SORREL. 

Prepare the leg of mutton as above, but in place 
of cucumbers, take some handfuls of sorrel, chopped 
fine, and cook with butter in a stewpan well cov- 
ered. When nearly cooked, put in some spoonfuls 
of good cream mixed with yolks of eggs, a little flour 
and the broth of the mutton, after which turn the sor- 



2g MOUTON— MtJ'fTON. 

rel sauce (la sauce d'oseille) over the leg o^ 'button, 
and serve. 

GASCONNADE. 

LEG OF MUTTON, IN THE GASCON FASHION. 

Lard or stuff a leg of mutton vv^ith a dozen husks 
of garhc and a dozen anchovies, in pieces ; roast on 
a spit, and serve w^ith the following sauce : — Pick a 
full quarter of a peck of husks of garlic, make them 
boil in several w^aters, and v^^hen they are nearly 
cooked, remove them, and pour in some fresh w^ater, 
and let them drain. Put in a saucepan a glass of 
good broth, and the drippings of the meat, w^ith some 
meat jelly, if you have it ; put in your garlic, stew 
down and serve on your meat. The natives of Gas- 
cony are very fond of these meats, and we give this 
recipe, because there are Gascons everywhere. 

GIGOT DE MOUTON. — Manure de la preparer pour qu'il 
ne differe en rien d'' une piece de Chevreuil. 

LEG OF MUTTON, COOKED TO RESEMBLE VENISON. 

Take a beautiful leg of mutton, remove the fat, as 
with venison ; then lard with fat bacon, season with 
salt and fine spices, and put it in a tureen sufficiently 
spacious, with three husks of garlic, some onions, 
three or four cloves, laurel, sweet herbs and pepper- 
corns, and pour over the whole vinegar enough to 
nearly cover it. If your vinegar is too strong, tem- 
per it with water. Cover the tureen, and let your 
leg of mutton lay in pickle for two or three days, 
taking care to turn it every day to the other side. 
Then put it in a dripping-pan, in which you moisten 
it on both sides with melted butter, or good fat, a 
glass of the pickle and two glasses of good red wine. 
Cook in an oven or bake-pan, or if you prefer, on a 
spit, and baste in the same manner. You will be 



MODTON—MUTTON. ^ 

satisfied that your leg of mutton has all the delicacy 
"rfthe best game. 

GIGOT DE MOUTON, a la Kretchmer. 

LEG OF MUTTON, IN THE STYLE OF KRETCHMER. 

Commence by removing, with a well-sharpened 
knife, the thin skin which covers the leg of mutton, 
and which forms a sort of parchment ; take out the 
bones, if you have not had it already done by the 
butcher ; take a half pound of fresh butter, or sweet 
lard, chopped fine, or a quarter may answer, if the 
leg is small ; mix together salt, pepper, parsley, chop- 
ped leeks, and a little flour, and make them into a 
roll, which you introduce into the centre of the leg, 
in place of the bone ; put it on a spit, and secure it 
properly. Before putting it to the fire, rub it over 
with salt and pepper, and cover it with crumbs of 
bread in the following manner. Cover it abundantly 
with oil, gi'ease, or warm butter, and roll it in very 
fine crumbs of bread, so as to make as many as pos- 
sible adhere ; sprinkle also with some flour, and put 
to the fire and turn gently, occasionally sprinkling 
with flour ; but you must not baste this roast like 
others. The crumbs of bread, the flour and the 
grease, form a perfect shell, and make a crust of the 
greatest utility, preserving perfectly all the juices 
and savor of the meat. When this precious gigot is 
served, and the carving-knife is followed by torrents 
of jus, and a most delectable flavor, you will bless 
the memory of the inventor of a dish so delicious, 
and be obliged to us for oflfering his name to the ad- 
miration of gastronomes, present and future. 

HARICOT DE MOUTON. 

MUTTON RAGOUT. 

Cut a shoulder or breast of mutton in small pieces, 
and stir them over the fire, with a little butter, for a 

3* 



30 AGNEAU— LAMB. 

quarter of an hour ; remove the meat, add to the 
grease which remains in the stewpan a spoonful of 
flour, and let it do to a light brown, then moisten it 
with broth, and put in salt, pepper, parsley, leeks, 
thyme and garlic ; put back the meat, and let it do 
for two hours. Have some turnips which you have 
fried brown in butter, add them to the ragout, and 
let them cook a half hour together ; scrape out, and 
serve. 

POITRINE DE MOUTON, farcie, 

STUFFED BREAST OF MUTTON. 

Wash the thin skin, and put between it and the 
flesh a stuffing of any meat that you wish, and cook 
with spices, lardings of bacon, broth and herbs. 
Make a sauce with a little of the juice and some flour. 
Some people cook it in the pot a feu. If you had 
rather roast it, it must be well larded. It is gene- 
rally served with green peas or beans, or with sauce 
like a ragout. 

POITRINE DE MOUTON, sur le GriL 

BROILED BREAST OF MUTTON. 

Stew the breast of mutton with broth, salt, pepper, 
parsley, leeks, thyme and laurel. Afterwards dip it 
in oil, and cover with crumbs of bread, mixed with 
parsley and leeks chopped fine, with salt and pepper ; 
broil and serve with sauce piquante. You may first 
boil the meat in your pot afeuy and then bread and 
bioil in the same manner. 



QUARTIER D' AGNEAU, pane et r6d. 

aUARTER OF LAMB, BREADED AND ROASTED. 

Stick with fine lard the outside, and rub the inside 
with fresh butter or olive oil ; cover it well with 



HORS D'CEUVRES— BY-DISHES. ^1 

crumbs of bread, and envelope with oiled paper; put 
to the spit. Before it is quite cooked, take it from 
the fire, and sprinkle a second time with rasped 
bread, mixed with salt and chopped parsley, the part 
you have breaded, that is, the inside ; roast brown 
before a very hot fire, baste with vinegar, or serve 
with a sauce of sorrel. 



COCHON DE LAIT, a la Broche. 

ROASTED SUCKING PIG. 

Scald and truss well ; fill it with a stuffing com- 
posed of the lights, the liver, with sausage meat, or 
any other meat, properly spiced and seasoned ; gene- 
rally this is mixed with sage, mushrooms, chestnut, or 
truffles. Put on the spit, basting first five or six times 
with water, salted and spiced, and afterwards with 
oil, by means of a bunch of sage fastened to a stick. 
The basting with oil renders the skin crisp and crack- 
ling. It takes a pig from two hours to two hours and 
a half to cook ; serve hot from the spit. 

GRILLADES DELICATES. 

DELICATE BROILS. 

Take some fillets of veal, or slices of beef, or of a 
leg of mutton, or of fresh pork, cut them into slices 
as big as four fingers, and the thickness of thin cut- 
lets. Let them soak in a pickle made of a little oil or 
butter, salt, pepper, parsley, leeks, shallots, all chop- 
ped fine ; put them for a little while over the fire, 
and let them cool. Make as many little cases of pa- 
per as you have pieces of meat, oil them all over, put 
the pieces in them, with their seasoning above and 
below, and cook them on a gridiron, covered with a 
sheet of paper. When cooked, sprinkle with lemon- 
juice or vinegar, and serve in their envelopes. 



^ VOLAILLES— POULTRY. 

HACHIS DE VIANPE, au gratin mi en BouUites, 

MEAT HASH, PROM THE FAN OR IN BALLS. 

Take such meat as you have, whether butchers' 
meat, poultry or game, roasted or otherwise, or seve- 
ral sorts mixed together ; chop the whole very fine, 
and season with parsley, leeks and onions, chopped, 
bread in crumbs, and one or two eggs beaten together. 
Put your hash in a stewpan, and place it over the 
fire, with a piece of butter or chopped lard, and a 
pinch of flour ; moisten with broth, and let it stew 
for a half hour over a gentle fire ; then spread it on 
a plate, on which you intend to serve it ; place it on 
the stove, until it is a little crusted, and serve very 
hot. 

If you hke better to make it into balls (houlettes), 
mix with each pound of hash a quarter of a pound of 
sausage meat, and some more yolks of eggs, Some 
persons also add veal, sweet breads, triiffles, mush- 
rooms, or anchovies, but that depends upon what 
taste and facilities you have. Form yoi r balls, and 
dip them in the white of eggs, flour them, fry them 
of a beautiful color, and serve, garnished with pars- 
ley, or any convenient sauce. 

PIGEONS DELICATES. 

DELICATE riGEQNS. 

Singe and clean pigeons of a middling size, and 
lard all the fleshy parts with little pieces of truffles ; 
let them remain in a stewpan, with some good oil or 
fresh butter, a little chopped truffles, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Afterwards put them, with all their 
seasoning, in another stewpan, of which you have 
covered the bottom with slices of veal and ham ; 
cover the whole with thin slices of fat bacon, and a 
sheet of paper ; let it stew over the hot ashes, with 



VOLAILLES— POULTRY- a|3 

coals above and below, for a good half hour ; put in 
afterwards a half glass of good white wine, and as 
much broth. Remove the superfluous grease, and 
finish the cooking. It is necessary that the sauce 
should be stewed down, passed through a sieve, and 
served upon the pigeons with some lemon juice. 



PIGEONS en Co?npot€. 

PIGEON STEW. 

Put your pigeons in a stewpan, with butter and 
lard or chopped suet, until they take a good color ; 
take them from the stewpan, in which you now put a 
pinch of flour ; when this sauce is of a rich brown 
color, dilute it with broth, and put in again your 
pigeons, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, cloves, a 
husk of garlic, and some mushrooms, if you have 
them. Cover your stewpan, and when the pigeons 
are nearly cooked, put in a proportionate quantity of 
small onions, whole, that you have already stewed 
in butter ; next add a glass of white wine ; finish 
cooking with the onions, and reduce the sauce lo a 
proper thickness ; at the moment of serving, arrange 
your pigeons on a plate, and pour over them the 
dressing. 

PIGEONS, d la Crapaudiere. 

BROILED PIGEONS. 

Cut your pigeons open on the back, and flatten 
them, without breaking the bones ; dip them in oil, 
sprinkle them with raspings of bread, salt, pepper, 
parsley, leeks, and shallots, chopped fine and mixed 
together ; make as much as possible of this breading 
adhere. Let them broil over a gentle fire, and serve 
with a sauce ravigotte (see Sauces). 



34 VOLAILLES— POULTRY. 

PIGEONS, aux pedis Pais. 

PIGEONS, WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Clean and split in two your pigeons ; put them in 
a stewpan, with a piece of butter or lard ; when they 
have become well browned, put in your green peas, 
with some broth, some garnish herbs, and a little 
flour. Cook over a slow fire, and before serving, 
throw in a little butter mixed w^ith flour. 

POULETS en Fricassee. 

CHICKEN FRICASEE. 

After having well cleaned your chickens, in the 
usual manner, cut them in pieces, and put them with 
the lights, livers, gizzards, etc., in a stewpan, with a 
good piece of butter, a bunch of parsley, laurel, a 
little thyme, two cloves, and put the whole over a 
good fire ; moisten the fricasee with broth or water, 
season with salt and pepper, and cook until the sauce 
is quite thick. At the moment of serving, stir in a 
strengthening of yolks of eggs, and a squeeze of 
lemon juice. 

You may very much improve this fricasee, if you 
put in also truffles, small mushrooms {morilles), craw- 
fish tails, sweetbreads of veal, mushrooms, capers 
etc., according to your taste. 

POULARDE Galante. 

FAT PULLET. 

Dress a nice fat pullet, and cut it in two, and let 
it pickle for one hour, with a little butter, salt, coarse 
pepper, fine herbs, truffles, mushrooms, shallots, all 
hashed fine. Envelope each half of the pullet with 
two folds of buttered paper, with all this seasoning ; 
Cook slowly by the fire, in a covered bake-dish, with 



VOL AILLES— POULTRY. 35.: 

cinders upon and under it. When done, remove all 
the fine herbs, which adhere to the paper, and put 
them with the pullet, and the sauce which has escaped 
from it, in a stewpan with a little broth, and two 
spoonfuls of meat jelly or gravy. Let it boil up 
twice, skim off the fat, and serve the pullet with a 
squeeze of lemon juice. 

POULARDE, a la Duchesse. 

PULLET, FIT FOR A DUCHESS. 

Singe, draw, and truss the legs into the body, and 
put over the fire, with butter, parsley, leeks, mush- 
rooms, all chopped fine, with salt and pepper. Put 
the whole in a stewpan, with the bottom lined with 
slices of veal, covered with thin slices of fat bacon ; 
moisten with broth, and cook over a slow fire. Take 
the thickest of the sauce, put in a strengthening of 
the yolks of eggs, mix over the fire, and pour over 
the chicken. Serve with a little lemon juice or 
vinegar. 

POULARDE, aux Truffes. 

PULLET, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Wash and rub well in several waters, two, three, 
or even four pounds of truffles, according to the size 
of the pullet. Peel and chop very fine the less beau- 
tiful of three beets ; the others put in the stewpan, 
with their skins, all together, with a pound of lard 
chopped fine, with a good seasoning, such as sweet 
herbs, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Cook over a 
gentle fire for one hour ; then remove, and let it 
nearly cool. You now take three or four fowls' 
livers, which you mash in a mortar with some chop- 
ped truffles, and mix with the rest. With these stuff 
the pullet, and sew up. In a few days, according to 
the temperature, it will have acquired the flavor of 
the truffles, when it is to be roasted in an envelope 



36 VOLAILLES— POULTRY. 

of buttered paper. Thus prepared, a pullet cannot 
be more excellent ; but its preparation requires much 
time and care. 



DINDE, aux Trvffes. 

HBN TURKEY, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Prepare in the same manner as in the preceding 
article, the truffle stuffing. On spitting, lard, and en- 
velope in strong greased paper. It must roast before 
a small fire for two hours ; about this time remove 
the paper ; let it brown for ten minutes, and serve. 
If you have no truffles, you may prepare a stuffing 
of all sorts of meat hashed, or of mushrooms, chopped 
and seasoned with fine herbs, or of chestnuts, boiled 
and peeled. 

DINDON, dans son Jus. 

TURKEY COCK, IN ITS SAUCE. 

Line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of veal 
and small pieces of lard. On these lay the turkey 
cock, breast downward ; put in spices, salt, pepper, 
and sweet herbs ; cover all with slices of fat bacon 
or pork ; moisten with broth, and let it cook gently 
over a very small fire ; strain the sauce, skim off the 
grease, and put it on the turkey. 



DINDON, en Daube. 

TURKEY COCK, IN JELLY, OR THICK SAUCE. 

A preference is generally given to a fine old tur- 
key cock, but some prefer an old hen. He is to be 
cleaned, and trussed with his feet in his body, and 
larded with large pieces of fat meat, well seasoned 
with spices and fine herbs, chopped up. Sew up 
and tie the turkey, and place him in a deeo stewpan. 



37 VOLAILLES— POULTRY. 

with slices of fat pork, a knuckle of veal, onions, car- 
rots, thyme, laurel, leeks, a husk of garlic, cloves, 
salt and pepper, and cover all with broth until he 
swims in the juice ; cover with paper, and put the 
cover tightly on the pot. Let it cook over a small 
fire, having care to turn it when half cooked. It 
requires seven or eight hours. When it is cooked, 
remove from the fire, dress the turkey on a plate, 
strain and skim the sauce, and pour it over him. 

It is the fashion to serve the turkey cooked in this 
way, the next day after it is cooked, cold, with its 
jelly. 



CUISSE DE DINDON, reveillantes. 

LEG OF A TURKEY, WARMED OVER. 

If you have some legs of turkeys, which you wish 
to warm over in style, put them in a stewpan, with a 
good glass of white wine, a glass of thick broth, salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, or half a husk of gar- 
lic, and two cloves ; let them cook an hour, and sim- 
mer down the sauce ; then put on a plate, and serve 
with the following ragout : 

Put in a stewpan a sweetbread of veal, scalded 
and cut in pieces, parsley, chopped leeks, with some 
good butter, lard, or sweet oil ; put them over the 
fire, sprinkle with flour, moisten with a glass of broth 
and half a glass of white wine ; let it boil over a 
small fire for a half hour ; skim off* the grease, and 
put in some chopped anchovies and capers, and a 
handful of olives, from which you have taken the 
stones ; let it heat without boiling, and turn it over 
your turkeys' legs. 

In place of anchovies, capers, and olives, you can 
put in your ragout trufiiles or mushrooms, just as you 
like best. 

4 



38 VOLAILLES— POULTRY. 

OIE, en Daube. 

GOOSE, IN JELLY. 

Put in the bottom of your pot some slices of ham, 
in which place your goose, with half a calf's foot, 
two wine-glasses of broth, as much white wine, car- 
rots, onions, herbs, leaf of laurel, salt, pepper ; cover 
well the pot, and let it cook over a very little fire for 
three or four hours. This done, dress the goose on 
the plate, and when it is nearly cold, skim the fat 
from the sauce, and pour it over the goose through a 
sieve. Serve cold, when the sauce has become a 

jelly- 

CANARD, a la Bourgeoise. 

DUCK, CITIZEN FASHION. 

Lard the duck, and cook it over a small fire, with 
some slices of ham, a little broth, a glass of wine, a 
bunch of parsley, leeks, cloves, laurel, salt, pepper ; 
skim the grease from the sauce, and strain it. 

CANARD, aux Olives. 

DUCK WITH OLIVES. 

Cook in a stewpan as before. When it is half done, 
put in some olives, from which you have cut the 
stones ; finish the cooking, and serve with the olives. 

CANARD, aux Navels. 

DUCK, WITH TURNIPS. 

Begin, by frying brown some small turnips in a 
frying-pan, with some butter, and half a spoonful ol 
brown sugar. Then bake your duck in a bake-pan, 
with some butter, and when it has got a good color, 
add the turnips, moisten with broth and put in spices, 
and garnish with herbs ; finish the cooking, and before 



GIBIER— GAME. ^§ 

serving, add a piece of butter mixed with flour. The 
ducks, thus baked, may also be served with green 
peas, ientiles, onions, etc., or with a ragout, or sauce 
relive e. 

ABATIS DE DINDON OU D'OIE, en Haricot. 

STEWED GIBLETS OP TURKEY OR GOOSE. 

Cut them in pieces, and put them in a kettle ; mois- 
ten with broth, and add spices, herbs, and cook for 
an hour and a half ; then put in your turnips or pota- 
toes, which you have browned in a frying-pan, add 
some more broth, and seasoning if necessary ; finish 
the cooking, and thicken with some flour and butter, 
worked together. 

CAPITOLADE, de Volaille. 

A FORTRESS OF POULTRY. 

Dress in this way the remains of fowls, which you 
may have left. Make a white gravy, and mix with 
it mushrooms, parsley, shallots, hashed, moistened 
with white wine and broth ; cook your pieces gently 
in this a half hour, free from the fat, and serve them 
surounded with fine pieces of bread. 

LI^VRE, d la Broche. 

ROASTED HARE. 

Having properly picked with fat pork or bacon, 
spit the hare whole. Then you must take of the 
blood, the liver, and the lights, which you work to- 
gether in a sufficient quantity of vinegar, and some 
very finely chopped shallots, all well salted and pep- 
pered. This sauce must be cooked with hot coals, 
placed under the dripping-pan, over which the hare 
is roasting. Baste the roast with this sauce, and to 
finish the cooking, take the tongs and pinch a piece 



40 GIBIER— GAME. 

of fat meat, done up in paper, which you set on fire 
and let the fat drop over the roast. The hare must 
not be too much done. If you do not wish to roast 
the whole, let it be the hind part, and save a portion 
of the blood, liver, lights, etc., for a stew, to be made 
from the fore quarters. 



Lll:VRE Manne. 

PICKLED HARE. 

Before picking, or stuffing with lard, remove from 
the shoulders and legs the skin, which would prevent 
the pickle from penetrating. This done, lard well 
your hare, and let it soak in a pickle, composed of 
vinegar, salt, pepper, a little water, onions, parsley, 
thyme, and laurel. It is necessary that the pickle 
should be lukewarm, and that the hare be left in it for 
six hours at least. Afterwards put it on the spit, and 
make it cook, as described in the preceding article ; 
and in making the sauce, as above, add some of the 
pickle ; pass the sauce through a sieve, and serve 
from a sauce-boat. 

LifeVRE en Civet. 

STEWED HARE. 

Cut the fat of the breast into small pieces ; make 
them stew in a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and 
a plenty of small onions. When these last have got 
a good color, take them up, and put in their place 
your hare, cut in pieces ; stew these, and then make 
the grease which remains to a good gravy. Put in 
then half a bottle of wine, and as much broth as will 
make your meat swim ; put in the meat, the onions, 
the fat ; add sweet herbs, salt, pepper, laurel, and 
cloves. Let it cook an hour, or an hour and a quar- 
ter. When it is sufficiently tender, put in the blood, 



GIBIER— GAME. 41 

Stir the sauce over the fire, and let it reduce to a 
thick sauce. 

LIJ&VRE, au Chaudron. 

POTTED HARE. 

Cut your hare in small pieces, and put it in a ket- 
tle, with onions, thyme, laurel, cloves, salt, and pep- 
per, and pour upon it a quart and a half of strong red 
wine. Make it boil over a clear fire, so that the 
wine will catch fire at the first boiling ; then add 
half a pound of butter, worked with flour, and the 
blood, made thin with vinegar, and finish the cook- 
ing, which will take a half hour. 

LAPIN, en Gihelotte. 

RABBIT FRICASEE. 

Roast some small onions, and the small pieces of 
fat from the breast, with a piece of butter. As soon 
as the onions have got a good color, remove them, 
and put in their place your rabbit, cut in pieces. 
Put it over the fire, and add next, herbs, salt, and 
spices. Moisten with three half pints of w^ater, and 
one of white wine. Cook over a small fire. Your 
meat having nearly cooked, add some onions and 
mushrooms, if you have them, with a small piece of 
butter, worked with flour. Finish the cooking ; and 
before serving, remove the herbs, skim the sauce, 
and serve very hot. 

PERDRIX, aux Choux. 

PARTRIDGE, WITH CABBAGE. 

Truss two partridges, and make them brown before- 
hand in a stewpan, with some butter and a little flour ; 
moisten with three glasses of broth ; put in a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and a quarter of a pound of lard, or 

4* 



48 POISSONS— FISH. 

fat pork. Cook apart one or more beautiful cab- 
bages, with one pound of salt pork; when your 
cabbages are nearly cooked, take them up, let them 
drain, and put them in the stewpan, to finish with the 
partridges. 

ANGUILLE des Gourmands. 

EEL FOR GOURMANDS. 

Put in a stewpan the pieces of a beautiful eel, be- 
tween slices of veal and ham, with a bunch of fine 
herbs, a husk of garlic, two cloves, a leaf of laurel, 
a little salt, coarse pepper, and some white wine ; let 
it cook ; take out the eel, when done, and put in the 
saucepan some spoonfuls of broth ; boil down to a 
nice sauce ; skim off the fat, and pass it through a 
sieve, and then put again the eel in the sauce ; make 
it hot without boiling, and before serving, dash in a 
little vinegar. 

ANGUILLES GrilUes, 

BROILED EELS. 

You cut your eels in pieces, and pul them in a 
tureen, with salt and pepper, to remove their bad 
flavor, and let them remain one hour ; then, after 
having well washed them in salt water, you bread 
them with crumbs of bread, and broil them on a grid- 
iron. When well cooked, serve with a high sauce. 

ANGUILLES, a la Tariare. 

EELS, TARTAR FASHION. 

Put in a stewpan a piece of butter, onions, parsley, 
thyme, laurel, salt, and pepper ; moisten with white 
wine, and let it stew a half hour : put in this sauce 
your eel, skinned, and cut in pieces ; make it cook; 
remove, cover with crumbs of bread well seasoned, 



POISSONS— FISH. 43 

and dip the pieces in yolks of eggs, beaten up ; roll 
them again in the crumbs of bread, and broil them 
to a good color over a gentle fire, and serve under 
sauce d la Tartare, (see Sauces). 

ANGUILLES Fricassee. 

FRICASEED EELS. 

Cut your eels in round slices, and after leaving 
them an hour in an earthen dish, v^ith salt and pep- 
per, wash them well, wipe them dry, and let them 
fry in a frying-pan, half brown ; and when they have 
become quite tender, put in salt, pepper, sHces of 
onions, cloves, wine, a little broth, and let it stew in 
a saucepan ; when you are ready to serve, put in hah 
a cup of capers, and a binding of yolks of eggs. 

LAMPROIE. 

LAMPREY. 

This fish is prepared like the eel, which it closely 
resembles. When large, it may be roasted, on the 
spit, enveloped in well-buttered paper, and served 
with a sauce blanche aux cdpres (white sauce with 
capers). 

BLEU OU COURT-BOUILLON, i?owr toutes sartes de 

Poissons. 

A BOILING FOF ALL SORTS OF FISH. 

Fill your kettle with boiling water, with wine, vin- 
egar, onions, salt, pepper-corns, and leaves of laurel, 
and cook the fish in it over a good fire. 

BROCKET, au Bleu. 

BOILED PIKE (or PICKEREl). 

Cook as above, and serve hot, with white sauce 
{sauce blanche) f or cold, with oil and vinegar. 



44 POISSONS— FISH. 

BARBOTS ET BARBILLONS. 

ROACH AND BARBELS SMALL FRESH WATER FISH. 

These fishes are cooked in the style of " Carpe" 
BROCHETS Frits. 

FRIED PIKE. 

Scale your pike or pickerel, and split them on the 
back, and in the place of the entrails put a bunch of 
parsley in each fish, and powder over them salt and 
pepper. When your frying-pan is quite hot, flour 
the fish and fry them ; serve hot from the frying-pan. 
Small pike are generally fried ; but the larger are 
better stewed {au court-bouillon). They may also 
be prepared in the two manners following, in which 
they are very delicate. 

BROCKET AU PLAT, Mets delideux. 

PIKE ON A PLATE A DELICIOUS DISH. 

Clean and wash well a pike of the medium size ; 
cut in convenient pieces, then place them on a pewter 
or silver plate, over a chafing dish, filled with burn- 
ing charcoal. Put in two spoonfuls of good butter, 
some shallots, two or three anchovies, fine herbs, all 
hashed very fine, leaves of laurel, cloves, and pep- 
per-corns. Arrange over these the pieces of pike, 
salt them, and let them cook in the plate, well cover- 
ed, for a quarter of an hour ; then turn over the 
pieces, put in some more butter, a glass of white 
wine, and some slices of lemon. Cover again the 
plate, and finish the cooking in a second quarter of 
an hour ; then put in some spoonfuls of small capers, 
as much hot water, and a few raspings of bread ; let 
it take now two boilings, and serve in the same plate. 



POISSONS— FISH. 4^ 

BROCHET GOURMAND. 

PIKE FOR A GOURMAND. 

Put in a stewpan some parsley, some pepper-corns, 
as much cloves, some shallots, small onions, some 
leaves of laurel, and some salt ; arrange your pieces 
of fish upon them, and pour over them as much boil- 
ing water as will just cover them ; make them boil 
over a very quick fire, taking care to skim it well ; 
after a quarter of an hour, put in some butter and 
some slices of citron ; boil another quarter of an 
hour ; then make a strengthening (une liaison) of 
yolks of eggs, flour, and a glass of white wine ; mix 
with the sauce of the fish, and after some more boil- 
ings, serve. 

ALOSE. 

., - SHAD. 

This fish can be cooked as a stew, {au courUhoil- 
lojijy or broiled on a gridiron, and served with oil and 
vinegar, or with any other sauce. [Shad, so plenti- 
ful in our rivers, are usually broiled or fried, and 
eaten with a plenty of butter. They are salted and 
smoked, hke mackerel and salmon, and cooked in the 
same manner.] 

CARPE, au Vin. 

CARP, WITH WINE. 

After having scaled and cleaned, put in their in- 
sides a piece of butter, worked in with parsley, leeks, 
shallots, all hashed, salt and spice ; fasten up your 
carp, and cook with a bottle of wine, as much broth, 
a piece of butter, onions, thyme, laurel, cloves, and 
some slices of lemon. Boil over a quick fire, and 
when the carp are well cooked, dress them on a plate, 
remove the fastenings, pass the sauce through a sieve. 



46 POISSONS—FISH. 

boil it down, and pour over the fish. [Other fish, of ^ 
a similar character, may, of course, be cooked in the 
same styles, as are here described.] 



CARPES Fntes. 

FRIED CARPS. 

Scale your carp, split them in two parts, remove 
the smelt or spawn, flour them and put them in a hot 
frying-pan ; when the fish is half done, flour the smelts 
or spawn, and put them in also, and serve, garnished 
with fine parsley. 

Carp may also be broiled on a gridiron, and served 
with sauce blanche aux cdpres, (see Sauces). 



CARPE, a la Proven^ale. 

CARP, PROVENCE FASHION. 

Cut them in pieces, and cook them in a bottle of 
wine, with" oil, parsley, leeks, shallots, mushrooms, 
all chopped, salt, and spices. A moment before the 
cooking is done, put in a piece of garlic-butter {beurre 
d'ail) worked with flour, (see the article [Beurre de 
Provence), or, not having this, a husk of garlic pound- 
ed, and a pinch of flour : reduce to a thick sauce. 



TANCHES, aux fine Herhes. 

TENCH (a fresh WATER FISh), WITH FINE HERBS. 

Wash for several minutes your tench in boiling 
water, then scale them, without taking off* the skin, 
and clean them. Let them soak for some hours in 
oil, seasoned with spices and fine herbs. Let them 
cook on a gridiron, in their pickle, the whole envel- 
oped in paper. Dress them on a plate, remove the 
paper, and serve with any sauce you find convenient. 



POISSONS— FISH. 47 

TANCHES Fricasste 

FRICASEE OF TENCH. 

Plunge your tench for several moments in boiling 
water ; take them out, and scale and clean them well ; 
wash them thoroughly in fresh water ; having clean- 
ed them well, cut them in round pieces, and fry them 
to a light brown ; turn them, and afterwards put with 
them wine and water, some small onions, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, grains of pepper, cloves, and salt. Cook 
over a good fire. Dress your fish on a plate ; re- 
move the laurel and bunch of herbs ; mix the sauce 
with yolks of eggs, and pour it over the fish. 

SAUMON au Bleu. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Cook your salmon by boiling, as before directed in 
the article " Bleu ou Court-bouillon" and serve with 
oil and vinegar. 

SAUMON Ghille. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Cook on a gridiron, entire, or cut in slices, with or 
without a pickle, and serve with such sauce as you 
find to your taste. The most usual are the white 
sauce with capers (sauce blanche aux cdpres), and a 
sauce of oil, vinegar, and pepper, with or without fine 
herbs. You may, also, after the fish is cooked au 
bleu, serve with sauce d la maHre d^ hotel, (see Sauces). 

SAUMON, a la Broche. 

ROASTED SALMON. 

Cut the salmon in slices, either crosswise or length- 
wise, and stick the back with nice fat pork or bacon. 
Let it pickle for six hours, in oil, well seasoned with 



48 POISSONS— Fisa 

spices and fine herbs. Attach to a wooden spit your 
slices of salmon, separated from each other by a slice 
of bread, as large as the salmon, and thick as your 
thumb. Fasten this wooden spit to your iron one, or 
otherwise arrange it, and cook before a gentle fire, 
basting with oil or butter, and serve with sauce re- 
mouladej or sauce poivrade (see Sauces), or it is very 
good without sauce, with a little vinegar or lemon 
juice. 

THON FRAIS. 

FRESH TUNNY. 

The most usual manner of preparing this fish is to 
cut it in slices, and cook it on a gridiron, and serve 
in oil and vinegar. If you carefully soak them in 
good oil, some hours before they are broiled, they 
will be all the more succulent. 



THON FRAIS, en Caisses ou PapiLhtes. 

FRESH TUNNY, IN CASES OR PAPERS. 

Soak your slices in oil, cover them with crumbs of 
bread, mixed with fine herbs and shallots, hashed ; 
put them, surrounded with their breading, in little 
cases of greased paper, and broil them on a gridiron 
over a gentle fire, so that the papers will not burn. 
Take care to turn them in their cases. Serve with 
hot or cold sauce. 



THON, d la Dauhe. 

TUNNY, IN JELLY. 

Stuff your round pieces of tunny fish with large 
slices of fat pork and bacon, well spiced, and let it 
cook in a thick stew, exactly like hoe-uf a la mode, and 



POISSOT^S— FISH. 49 

with the same seasoniiig. It is a succulent and deli- 
cious dish. 



TRUITE, a la Genevoise. 

TROUT, GENEVA FASHION. 

^"tibokyouY trout au bleu, ou court-bouillon, (see 
article tinder this head). Make, in a saucepan, a little 
light brown gravy, with some butter and a little flour. 
Pass your fish broth (court-bouillon) through a sieve, 
add mushrooms and parsley, chopped ; and gently 
simmer down to a thick sauce. Arrange your fish 
on a plate, and pour this dressing over them. 

You may also serve trout with un sauce blanche 
aux cdpres, (see Sauces). 

Some, also, like them with tomato sauce. In these 
two last cases, water is generally used in the court- 
bouillon, instead of wine. 

' You may also broil them on the gridiron, and serve 
with hot or cold sauce. 



TURBOT. 

TURBOT. 

Boil as directed in the article " au bleu'* etc., and 
serve with sauce blanche, or with oil and vinegar. 



fiOLES, LIMANDES, CARRELETTES, PLIES, ET 

LOTTES. 

SOLES, FLAT-FISH, FLOUNDERS, PLAICE, AND POUTS. 

^ All these fish are cooked in the same manner. 
After being well cleaned, and washed, they are to be 
floured, and put in a very hot frying-pan, over a clear 
quick fire. 

5 



50 POISSONS— FISH. 



MAQUEREAU, d, la Maitre d'HStel 

MACKEREL, IN THE STYLE OF THE MASTER OF THE 
HOUSE (literally). 

After having cleaned and washed your mackerel 
(of course, a fresh one), split it on the back, and let it 
soak for some hours in oil, peppered and salted ; then 
broil it, basting with this pickle. Put in the bottom 
of the plate a piece of butter, worked with parsley, 
salt, and pepper ; place your mackerel upon it and 
serve. 

Some people also serve a broiled mackerel with 
oil and vinegar. 



MAQUEREAU, au Bewrre Noir, 

MACKEREL, WITH BLACK BUTTER. 

After having broiled the mackerel, split as before, 
or boiled it in salt water ; heat very hot a piece of 
butter in a frying-pan ; fry in it some parsley, and 
pour it over the mackerel ; then rinse the frying-pan 
with half a wine-glass of vinegar, which you also 
turn over the plate, and serve immediately. 

UERLANS Fnts. 

FRIED WHITINGS. 

Whitings are generally cooked by broiling or fiy- 
ing in a frying-pan. Clean and scrape, and wipe 
with a napkin ; leave in their livers ; make five or 
six incisions on each side ; flour, and make them fry 
over a quick fire, and serve with green parsley around 
them. [Our porgies and flat-fish are dressed in a 
similar manner.] 



P0ISS0N8— FISH. ' 51 

MERLANS GrilUs. 

BROILED WHITINGS. 

Clean, wash, and make incisions as above directed. 
Let them soak in a pickle of oil, fine herbs and spices. 
Broil over a hot fire, and baste with the pickle ; 
serve with sauce blanche aux cdpres, (see Sauces). 

MERLANS, Delicates. 

DELICATE WHITINGS. 

After you have scraped and cleansed them, cut 
them in pieces, which you place in a stewpan, with 
butter, slices of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pep- 
per-corns, cloves and salt. Pour in water enough to 
make the fish swim ; boil over a good fire for a half 
hour ; taste your sauce, and when you find it of a 
good flavor, arrange the pieces of fish on a plate, and 
pour the sauce over them. 

MERLANS, au Gratin. 

BREADED WHITINGS. 

Choose for this style of cooking, small whitings ; 
clean, wash and wipe them. Put half the butter you 
design to use in cooking them, in a deep plate, with 
parsley, leeks, and mushrooms, chopped fine, some 
gratings of bread, salt and pepper ; arrange your fish 
over them, with more of the same seasoning, and 
then put in the other moiety of butter ; add half a 
glass of white wine, and a spoonful of gravy or broth ; 
cover the plate well, and cook over a chafing dish 
for a half hour. 

VIVE. 

SEA DRAGON, 

Clean, remove the horns, pickle in oil, salt and pejy. 



52 POISSONS— FISH. 

per, broil, and serve with sauce a la i-avigotte, or any 
other, (see Sauces.) 

llAIE, a la Sauce Blanche. 

THORNBACK, OR SKATE WITH WHITE ^AUCE. 

Open and clean well, and cook in boiling water, 
with salt and vinegar. It takes but little cooking. 
Take it from the water, pick, and properly arrange it. 
Put it in the plate on w^hich you serve it, and pour 
over it some white sauce with capers, {sauce blanche 
aux cdpres). . 

RAIE, au Beurre Noir. 
SKATE, W^ITH BLACK BUTTER. 

Cook as in the last, and at serving, pour over it the 
black butter, as described in ^^ Maquereau au heurre 
noiry 

RAIE, au Beurre Blanc. 

SKATE, WITH WHITE BUTTER. 

Put in the bottom of the plate on which you wish 
to serve your skate, some fresh butter, with salt, pep- 
per, and a httle verjuice. Put over this your skate, 
cook as before, and serve hot. 

ROUGETS. 

ROACH. 

Cook tbem au bleu (see article '' au bleu," etc.), 
scale. Without touching the head, and serve hot or 
cold, with oil and vinegar, or any other sauce. 

ROUGETS, Gnlles. 

BROILED ROACH. 

Put off the head, open and clean; put them in a 
sauce of butter, parsley, leeks and shallots, hashed, 



t'OISSONS— FISH. 53 

and salt and pepper. Cover them with crumbs of 
bread, and broil them. They are also cooked au 
grafin, or with sauce blanche ; and are equally good 
671 matelotte. 



MORUE. 

SALT CODFISH. 

Soak in fresh water for twenty-four hours ; then 
take off the scales, wash well, and put in a kettle filled 
with soft fresh water ; skim off with care, and re- 
move from the fire when it begins to boil. Cover 
the kettle, and after a quarter of an hour, take it out 
and let it drain. Pick over and remove the bones, 
fins, etc., when it will be fit to dress in any manner 
you desire. *'^^^ '^'^*' ^- ' ''^ ^ ''■ '^^^: ^'" - 

To cook salt codfish in a fricasee, after preparing 
as above, you put in a saucepan a piece of butter, a 
little flour, a very little salt and some pepper. Mois- 
ten with a little water or milk, put in your picked 
codfish, let it boil up, and serve. 

It may be served with sauce blanche (see Sauces), 
with some capers over it, and some chopped ancho- 
vies, if vou like. 

With sauce d la maitre de hotel, it is equally good. 

In some southern countries, after having boiled 
and picked the codfish, they fry it with oil, and serve 
with a little vinegar. 



MORUE, a la Proven^ale. 

SALT CODFISH, IN PROVENCE FASHION. 

After having soaked, cleaned, scalded, and picked 
your codfish, cut it in very fine pieces with forks ; 
then put in a stewpan a glass of good oil, and when 
it bas become hot, but not boiling, put in your fish, 
stir it well, and keep it over gentle fire for one min* 



54 • COQUILLAGES— SHELL-FISH. 

ute. Remove the stewpan, and put in another half 
glass of oil, shake the saucepan for two or three 
minutes, and put it again over the fire ; put in more 
oil, and shake again ; continue these operations alter- 
nately, until your codfish resembles a very thick por- 
ridge {tres-ipaisse puree). This operation requires 
from a good half hour to an entire hour, according to 
the bigness of the stewpan. Some people moisten 
alternately with cream and oil, but each time in a 
very small quantity. The purU thus made is very 
white and deUcate. At the moment of serving, you 
put in a strengthening of yolks of eggs, mixed with 
half a glass of capers, shaking up to have them well 
mixed, and serve. If you have no capers, you can 
put in at the beginning some garlic, chopped very 
fine : serve hot. 

MOULES. 

MUSCLES. 

Take care to have the muscles fresh, and free from 
crabs. Wash them well, let them drain, and put 
them without water in a stewpan, over a good fire, 
until they have sufficiently opened. Take them from 
the fire, and remove the shell from each. Put them 
then in another stewpan, with butter, herbs chopped 
fine, and spices. Scatter a little flour over them, 
moisten with water, and stir frequently, and if you 
wish, thicken the same with cream or yolks of eggs, 
at the moment of serving. 

GRENOUILLES, Fntes. 

FRIED FROGS. 

Only the hind quarters of frogs are cooked. Let 
them soak, while raw, for an hour in vinegar, with 
fine herbs, spices and salt ; let them drain, flour them, 
and fry. Serve with fine parsley. 



ECREVISSES— CRAWFISH. 55 

GRENOUILLES, en Fricassie de PouLets. 

CHICKEN FRICASEE OF FROGS. 

Put your frogs in a stewpan, with butter ; shake 
them, sprinkle Hghtly with flour, moistened with equal 
parts of white wine and broth {bouillon) ; put in a 
liaison of yolks of eggs, with a little very finely chop- 
ped parsley. 

ESCARGOTS. 

SNAILS. 

Put a good handful of ashes in a kettle of soft wa- 
ter ; when it begins to boil, put in your snails ; in 
about a quarter of an hour you can take them easily 
from their shells. Then wash them in several waters, 
put them in a new water, in which you let them boil 
a moment. Then drain them, put them in a stew- 
pan, with a piece of butter, and finish the same as 
with the grenouilles en fricassee de poulets. 

ECREVISSES, HOMARDS, et CRABES, de Mer. 

CRAWFISH, LOBSTERS, AND SEA-CRABS. 

These are all prepared in the same fashion. Cook 
them for a half hour, more or less, in boiling water 
and vinegar, with plenty of salt ; they must not be re- 
moved until they are quite red. Let them cool, and 
arrange in a plate, covered with sprigs of green pars- 
ley. Lobster is eaten with oil and vinegar. 

MATELOTTE, a la Mariniere. 

FISH STEW, OR HOTCH POTCH. 

The fish which are preferred to compose a good 
matelotte are, the carp, the barbel, the tench, the eel- 
pout, and the eel. Scale, open, and clean them well, 
and cut them in pieces. Make in your stewpan a 



56 POISSONS— FlSft... 

gravy, with butter, in which you have stewed some 
lat meat, cut in small slices ; an(i when this is done 
brown, take it out, and in its place put some small on- 
ions and mushrooms, which you remove as soon as 
well browned. Then mix your gravy with flour, 
and pour in wine enough to cook the fish; add salt, 
pepper, cloves, a bunch of parsley, thyme, laurel, a 
husk of garlic ; increase your fire, and when the wine 
boils, put in your fish, the largest and coarsest pieces 
below, and the smaller above, and cover the whole 
v/ith thin pieces of fat meat, onions and mushrooms. 
Cook over a large fire about ten minutes ; taste the 
sauce, to increase the seasoning, if it requires it. Fin- 
ish the cooking by putting in a piece of butter, 
worked with flour, or some slices of toasted bread, 
and a small wine-glass of brandy. In arranging on 
the platter, put on the slices of bread first, the most 
beautiful pieces of fish on top, and ornament the 
whole with a dozen of crawfish, cooked in advance. 

Some persons, at the moment when the wine be-f 
gins to boil with the fish, put fire in the stewpan, 

BOUILLABAISE, a la Marseillaise. 

MARSEILLES FISH-STEW. 

These dishes are composed of whitings, roach, 
tench, pouts, eels, or any other fish you have. The 
seasoning is much varied, but it is a sort of pottag& 
very much esteemed in Provence, where it is made 
in this manner. Scale, clean and wash well your 
fish, and cut them in pieces. Put a large handful of 
slices of onions in a stewpan, with some oil ; let them 
simmer, without becoming brown ; then put in your 
fish, with a bunch of herbs, cloves, pepper-corns and 
salt, a husk of garlic, nearly, but not more, and seve- 
ral tomatoes cut in small pieces, which you scatter 
between the layers of fish. Moisten again with oil, 
and fill your stewpan with water. It is not necessary 



LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 57 

that the fish should swim, but that there should be 
enough liquid to form the stew. Cover the stewpan 
and make it boil one hour. Taste the broth, and sea- 
son if necessary , and see if the fish is all tender 
alike. The cooking finished, garnish the bottom of 
the soup-dish with sUces of bread ; on these pour some 
broth, and arrange the fish above, put slices of bread 
over it, and over all pour the rest of the broth, and 
serve. 

ARTICHAUTS. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Trim off the ends of the leaves with shears. Cook 
them in boiling water with salt, and when the leaves 
are easily detached, they are cooked enough. Take 
them out of the water, and cut off the choke. They 
are served very hot, and well dried, with a sauce 
blanche. They are eaten raw, or cooked with oil and 
vinegar. 

ARTICHAUTS Frits. 

FRIED ARTICHOKES. 

Choose those which are small and tender. Cut 
them in quarters, and dip in ^pdte a frire, (see the 
word). Fry in a frying-pan, until they are nicely 
browned, and serve with fine parsley. 

ARTICHAUTS, a la Barigoule. 

ARTICHOKES, BARIGOULE FASHION. 

Take small and tender artichokes, and half cook 
them in boiling water; remove the choke, dry, put 
them in a very hot frying-pan, and brown them. 
Chop some suet fine, with mushrooms, parsley, shal- 
lots, salt and pepper, and a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter or oil ; mix all these together, fill the artichokes 



58 LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 

with this stuffing, taking care to tie them, and put 
them on a basting dish, well buttered ; moisten with 
a Httle broth and white wine; finish cooking, and 
serve with a sauce composed of the same ingredients 
with which you have stuffed your artichokes. 

Another Style. — Cut them in quarters, and cook 
them in a stewpan, with a good piece of butter or oil ; 
shake them well, and make them take a good color. 
Add then parsley, leeks and shallots, hashed ; salt, 
pepper, a little gratings of bread, and moisten with a 
little broth. Finish cooking, stew down the sauce un- 
til it is quite thick, and put on the plate like a pyramid. 

^ ARTICHAUTS, a la Prmsencale. 

ARTICHOKES, PROVENCE FASHION. 

After having cleaned your artichokes, boil them 
half an hour in water ; remove the choke, and put 
them in a stewpan, with oil, salt, pepper, and husks 
of garlic ; cook over hot ashes, fire above and below. 
When they are done brown, remove the husks of 
garlic, and serve your artichokes, leaves downwards 
in the oil in which they were cooked ; squeeze over 
them the juice of a lemon. 

ASPERGES. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape and wash your asparagus, and tie them in 
small bunches, and cook them in boiling water with 
salt. Take care that it is not boiled too much. It 
must also be a little crisp. It is generally eaten with 
a sauce blanche (see Sauces), or with oil and vinegar, 
served apart in a sauce-boat. It is also served with 
a sauce made of gravy broth, butter, salt, and pep- 
per, mixed and poured over the asparagus. It is 
also dressed like green peas. For this, cut them in 
very small pieces ; cook an instant in boiling water, 



LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 59 

drain them, and dress like green peas, (see petits 
pois). 

AUBERGINES. 

MAD-APPLE A PLANT LIKE A CUCUMBER. 

Cut your aubergines in half, lengthwise ; remove 
the insides, but do not scrape them much, as there 
must be some pulp left ; let them pickle in oil, with 
salt and pepper, and broil them, basting with their 
pickle. 

AUBERGINES Farcis 

STUFFED AUBERGINES. 

Put in a stewpan a half pound of grated suet, three 
or four spoonfuls of oil or good butter, some shallots, 
parsley, and some mushrooms, if you have them, all 
hashed fine ; add salt, pepper, and spices. Cook the 
whole a quarter of an hour, then let them cool ; then 
mix a little chopped meat, some crumbs of bread, and 
a chopped anchovy. Mix the whole thoroughly to- 
gether, and fill with this stuffing your halves of au- 
bergines ; sprinkle a thick coating of crumbs of bread, 
place them on a plate, moisten each aubergine with 
a spoonful of oil or melted butter, and cook them, 
in an oven or bakepan, between two fires, and serve 
very hot. 

POMMES D'AMOUR, OU^TOMATES, Farcis. 

LOVE APPLES, OR TOMATOES, STUFFED. 

Choose tomatoes which are sound and quite ripe ; 
cut them in two, scoop out the seeds with a small 
spoon, and squeeze them a little to express some of 
the juice ; place the upper sides upon a metal plate, 
with the other parts, when you have in the same 
manner removed their seeds, and cut off their stems. 



60 LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 

Now put the seeds and the expressed juice in a sauce- 
pan, with a little wine, a piece of butter, or some 
spoonfuls of oil, and a little ham or suet, chopped fine, 
some salt, pepper, parsley, shallots, and garUc ; place 
your stewpan over a gentle fire, and cook until it is 
of the consistence of thick broth. Then add a little 
grated bread, and see if it is well seasoned. Fill the 
halves of tomatoes with this puree, put some crumbs 
.>f bread over them, moisten them with some good 
olive oil ; bake them in a hot oven, and serve. 

BETTERAVES, en Epinards. 

BEETS, SERVED AS SPINNAGE. 

Spinnage becomes acrid in summer, when it can 
be replaced with young beet leaves, which you must 
free from their stems and dead parts. Cook them in 
boiling water ; remove them, and wash in fresh wa- 
ter, and express this ; chop them up, and put them 
in a stewpan, with butter, salt, sugar, and a little 
flour. Let them boil gently during a half hour, after 
having moistened them with milk or cream, if you 
would have it not very rich (en maigre), or with good 
meat broth, if you would have it rich {om gras). 

GARROTTES, a la Maitre d'Hdtel 

CARROTS, IN THE STYLE OF THE MASTER OF THE HOUSE. 

Scrape them ; cut them, either in long slices or 
round pieces ; put them in a stewpan, with butter or 
lard, chopped parsley and leeks, salt, and spices ; 
moisten with water or broth. Finish the cooking, 
and simmer down the sauce. 

CU0VX,dVAlle7nande. 

CABBAGES, GERMAN FASHION. 

Cook them with a little lard or small piece ot salt 
pork. They are generally served with sausages. 



LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 62 

CHOUX, a la Crime. 

CABBAGES, WITH CREAM. 

Boil them with water well salted ; take them out, 
press them, cut them coarsely, and put them in a 
stewpan, with butter, spices, and a spoonful of flour. 
Moisten with cream, and serve, surrounded with 
sausages, if you please. 

CHOUX FarcU. 

STUFFED CABBAGE3. 

Choose the largest and best headed cabbages ; cut 
out the heart, and replace it with a stuffing, com- 
posed of the white meat of fowls, or veal with lard, 
and sausage meat, chopped very fine, and highly 
seasoned ; mix this hash with some yolks of eggs, tie 
up your cabbage, and cook it in a covered kettle, 
with meat broth. 

CONCOMBRES. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Peel them, split them through the middle, cut in 
convenient slices, and boil them in salted water ; 
then let them drain, and prepare them in the follow- 
ing styles. 

CONCOMBRES, a la Maitre d' Hotel. 

CUCUMBERS, ETC. 

Shake them up in a saucepan with butter, parsley, 
and leeks, chopped fine, and well seasoned. 

CONCOMBRES, a la Poulette. 

CUCUMBERS, LIKE CHICKEN. 

Shake them in a stewpan, with butter, a pinch of 
6 



62 LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. 

flour ; moisten with broth and cream, and mix the 
sauce with yolks of eggs, and a little vinegar. 

They are also eaten raw, as a salad, cut in very 
thin slices, and soaked in vinegar, salt and pepper. 

CONCOMBRES Farcis. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel them, cut a small piece from the top, and dig 
out the middle with a small teaspoon. Fill them with 
a stuffing of meat or fish ; stop the end with a piece 
of carrot cut like a stopple ; and cook it in a stew- 
pan, with good broth, well spiced and seasoned. 
Serve on tomato sauce, or any other sauce you like. 

They may also be served, stuffed or not, with a 
sauce d la crtme, or aux hechamel maigre, 

CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE. 

' SPICE CAKES, OF POTATOES. 

Your potatoes having been boiled and peeled, you 
mash them in a morter, then mix with them an equal 
quantity of hashed meat ; add some butter or lard, 
salt, pepper, parsley and shallots chopped, one or two 
eggs ; work the whole well together, and make it into 
balls ; moisten them with whites of eggs, and after 
being thinly coated with flour, fry them in a hot 
frying-pan. Serve them garnished with fine parsley, 
or with a high-seasoned sauce, (une sauce relivee.) 

HARICOTS VERTS, a la Maitre d'Hdtel 

GREEN BEANS, ETC. 

Have the beans small and tender ; pick them, wash 
them, make them cook in boiling water, with some 
salt, and drain them. Put in a stewpan some fresh 
butter; add some parsley chopped very fine, salt, 



LEGUMES— VEGETABLES. ^ 63 

pepper ; put in your beans, shake them, and serve 
with a sprinkle of verjuice or vinegar. 

HARICOTS VERTS, au Gras. 

RICH GREEN BEANS. 

Cook and drain, as before. Put in a stewpan some 
parsley and an onion cut thin, with some good grease ; 
put in your beans, let them stew for ten minutes ; 
moisten with gravy and broth, and leave to cook a 
quarter of an hour over a slow fire ; stew down the 
sauce, with a thickening of yol^s of eggs. 

HARICOTS VERTS, au Maigre. 

GREEN BEANS, MEAGER. 

Cook as before, and put them in a stewpan, with 
fresh butter, a pinch of flour, parsley and leeks chop- 
ped very fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and a glass 
of milk, or, if you have not milk, of water ; boil a 
short quarter of an hour, and serve with a strength- 
ening of yolks of eggs. If you have not used milk, 
you can add a little vinegar. 

HARICOTS VERTS, au Beurre Nair. 

GREEN BEANS, WITH BLACK BUTTER. 

When cooked as before, season with salt and pep- 
per, and dress upon the plate. Then make some 
brown grave of butter, in a frying-pan, and pour over 
the beans ; heat also in the same frying-pan a spoon- 
ful of vinegar, stirring it about, and pour this also 
over the beans, and serve very hot. 

PETITS POIS, a la Francaise. 

GREEN PEAS, FRENCH STYLE. 

For each quart of green peas, it takes two ounces 



Q^ (EUFS— EGGS. 

of very fresh butter; put them together in a stew- 
pan, with a bunch of parsley, some small onions and 
a heart of lettuce, and a little salt and sugar. Shake 
them, make them boil over a small fire a half hour ; 
take out the bunch of parsley, and serve. 

PETITS POIS, a VAnglaise, 

GREEN PEAS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Half an hour before serving, boil water in a sauce- 
pan; add some salt, and put in your peas. Let them 
boil until the moment they are to be served ; then 
drain them in a cullender, and serve on a plate, on 
good fresh butter, which has been melted in its bot- 
tom, like d la maUre d'hotel. 

SALSIFIS, ou Scorsonneres. 

goat's BEARD, OR SNAKE-WEED. 

These roots are generally eaten either with sauce 
blanche, or fried. Scrape them, remove all the black 
spots, and put them, as fast as you prepare them, in a 
vessel in which you have mixed some water and vin- 
egar. Take them out, and put them in boiling water ; 
add a glass of vinegar, and cook until they are suffi- 
ciently tender, but not too much. After this, drain 
them, and a moment before serving, roll them in a 
frying-paste {p<^te dfrire) ; fry them to a good color, 
and serve. 

Or you may, after they have been cooked and 
drained, serve them with sauce blanche. These roots 
are also good with roasted duck. 



• -^fX^f-l^, .Tft 



(EUFS, d la Tripe. 

EGGS, PREPARED LIKE TRIPE. 

Cut in slices a handful of onions, and put them with 
some butter and a spoonful of flour, to stew, Mois- 



CEUFS— EGGS, 6^ 

ten, with broth, or milk, or water ; make a thick sauce, 
ai^d well seasoned ; put in your hard-boiled eggs, cut 
in shces ; shake them together, make them boil up; 
put in a little vinegar, and serve with a thick sauce, 
and very hot. 

CEUFS, a la Cr&me. 

EGGS, WITH CREAM. 

Make a sauce a la crime (see Sauces), and at the 
moment of serving, put in your hard-boiled eggs, cut 
in round slices. 

CEUFS, au Lait. 

EGGS, WITH MILK. 

Boil a pint of milk with some sugar, a little pinch 
of salt, some lemon-peel, or vanilla, or orange flower, 
or milk of laurel, according to which of these aro- 
matics you prefer. When the milk boils, you turn 
up into a dish, where you have well beaten six eggs ; 
stir quick, and mix all together. Cook by putting 
this plate in a vessel of boiling water (bain-marie) ^ 
with a cover, with fire upon it. When done, remove, 
let it cool, powder with sugar, and pass a red hot 
shovel over it. 

CEUFS AU PAIN, d la Romaine. 

EGGS WITH BREAD, ROMAN STYLE. 

Soak crumbs of white bread in milk for two or 
three hours, and press the whole afterwards through 
a fine cullender ; add sugar and flower of orange-wa- 
ter ; break the yolks of eight or ten eggs ; the whole 
having been well mixed with crumbs of bread, beat 
up the whites very white ; after having mixed the 
whole, together, put this paste in a saucepan well 
greased, and cook it with fire above and below. 
6* 



^Q (EUFS— EGGS. 

When cooked, reverse the same pan over a plate, 
and serve. You may also put grated cheese in this 
paste, before it is cooked. 



CEUFS MOLLETS, en Sauce. 

SOFT-BOILED EGGS, WITH SAUCE. 

Let your water boil, put in the number of eggs 
that you w^ould serve, and let them remain five min- 
utes ; take them out quickly, and plunge them in cold 
water ; remove carefully the skins, so as not to break 
the whites ; by this means you have the eggs soft 
and flexible to the finger. You serve them whole, 
with sauce blanche, sauce verte, sauce Robert, sauce 
piquante, or any other sauce (see Sauces), ragout, or 
gravy, which you judge to be proper. 



CEUFS, au Miroir. 

EGGS, IN MIRROR STYLE. 

Spread butter over a plate warmed by the fire, 
break your eggs into it, without breaking the yolks ; 
sprinkle them wath salt and pepper, and put over, 
from place to place, small pieces of butter, with a 
spoonful of cream, and grated nutmeg. Cook over 
a small fire, pass a red hot shovel over the eggs, and 
serve. 

CEUFS BROUILLES, au Naturel. 

EGGS JUMBLED, OR POACHED. 

Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan ; break in as 
many eggs as you "wish to serve, season them, and 
let them cook over a furnace, or coal fire, stirring 
constantly. They are soon cooked, and must be 
served immediately. 



(EUFS—EGGS. 67 



CEUFS BROUILLfiS, aux Truffes^ aux Champignons^ aux 
Points d'Asperges, aux Petits Pois, etc. 

JUMBLED EGGS, WITH TRUFFLES, MUSHROOMS, TOPS OP 
ASPARAGUS, GREEN PEAS, ETC. 

Whichever of these you may choose, must be 
prepared just as if to serve in any other manner ; a 
small quantity, one or tw^o large soup-spoonfuls. 
Hash fine such as require it, and put them in the 
eggs, and cook the same as above directed. 



CEUF S, au Beurre Noir. 

EGGS, WITH BLACK BUTTER. 

Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan ; when it is 
done sputtering, put in your eggs, which have been 
opened in advance in a plate, without breaking, and 
season with salt and pepper. Do not let the yolks 
harden, but pass the hot fire-shovel over them, to 
make them crust a little, and serve with a little 
vinegar. 

CEUFS, a la Neigt. 

EGGS, LIKE SNOW. 

Boil in a saucepan a pint of milk, two spoonfuls of 
flower of orange-water, and two ounces of powdered 
white sugar ; at the moment the milk boils hardest, 
put in with a spoon six whites of eggs, beaten with 
powdered sugar as white as snow, and turn them 
over with a skimmer, so that it may cook on both 
sides. Arrange them upon the plate, away from the 
fire ; afterwards mix the milk, over the fire, with the 
yolks of the eggs, stirred together, and turn them 
over the plate ; serve cold. 



69, 



<EUFS— EGGS. 



OMELETTES, de differentes Faxons, 

OMELETS, OF DIFFERENT FASHIONS. 

All the world knows how to make omelettes au 
naturel; I shall not speak but of some of the most 
distinguished kind. 

[For fear that there may be those who do not even 
know how to make a plain omelet, the translator gives 
the following method :] 

Take six eggs, leaving out the whites of two ; beat 
very light, and strain through a sieve ; add pepper 
and salt to your taste. Divide two ounces of fresh 
butter into small pieces, and put into the Ggg. Have 
a quarter of a pound of butter in a frying-pan, or flat 
stewpan; put it over a clear fire, and when the but- 
ter boils, put in the eggs. Fry gently, till of a light 
brown on the under side, and when done take it on a 
dish, and double it over, like a "turnover." It is 
usually served with parsley. 



CEUFS D'ANGERS, OU OMELETTES au Fromage. 

CHEESE OMELETS. 

Grate some Gruyere cheese, or any other, the 
strong and dry kinds are best ; beat it up with the 
eggs in an earthen dish. Season with salt and pep- 
per, in proportion as the cheese you use is more or 
less salt ; pour the whole in a frying-pan, and finish 
the omelet in the accustomed manner. It must be. 
served all smoking hot. 

You may also make it m the following manner : 
Make first a plain omelet, and when it is cooked, 
powder the grated cheese, glaze it, by passing oy^r^ 
it a hot shovel, and serve immediately. 



CEUFS— EGfGS. 69 

OMELETTE, au Rognon. 

KIDNEY OjVIELET. 

Prepare the same as for a plain omelet. At the 
moment of serving, spread over it a hash of veal kid- 
neys, seasoned with its grease, and fine herbs, and 
turn the omelet. 

For Truffle Omelets (Omelettes aux Truffes)^ 
Suet Omelets {au Lard), Mushroom Omelets {au 
Champignon), Oyster Omelets {aux Haitres), Her- 
ring Omelets {aux Harengs), Ham Omelet {au 
Jamhon), etc., employ the same proceedings, hav- 
ing care to cook beforehand whatever you would 
put in your omelet. Some persons in making these, 
beat up the kidneys, etc., with the eggs, instead of 
spreading them over. 

OMELETTE Sucree. 

SUGAR omelet. 

This is a plain omelet, on which you powder 
stigar, inside, before it is turned, and over it after- 
wards. 



OMELETTES, duJi-' Confitures. 
sweetmeat omelets. 

Make' first a plain omelet, but with very little 
salt, and spread upon its inner surface a layer of 
sweetmeats, and also spread them over the omelet 
when it has been turned. 

You may make this kind of omelet with all sorts 
of sweetmeats {coufitures), marmelades, and stewed 
fruits {compotes). 



70 ENTEEMETS— SIDE-DISHES. 

OMELETTE Soufflee. 

SMOTHERED OMELET. 

Break open six eggs ; put the whites apart ; add to 
your yolks a good spoonful of white powdered sugar, 
and a little flower of orange water ; stir well with a 
wooden spoon ; then whip very fast the six whites of 
the eggs, as white as snow, and mix them gently, but 
exactly, with the yolks. Put in the frying-pan a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, and when it is very 
hot, but not burning, pour your paste into the frying- 
pan, and cook your omelet over a very hot fire. It 
being cooked, you turn it out, bottom up {en chaus- 
son)f upon a plate. Put this plate over hot ashes, and 
over it the cover of a bake-kettle {four de campaigne), 
with fire upon it. Leave your omelet there for four 
or five minutes, time enough for the omelet to rise ; 
powder with sugar, glaze with a red hot fire-shovel, 
and serve immediately. 

OMELETTE Rouge. 

RED OMELET. 

Put in an earthen dish a glass of the blood of poul- 
try ; of a chicken, hen, or a lamb, with eight or 
ten eggs, a half-glass of cream, some sweet herbs, 
hashed very fine, and a pinch of salt and pepper ; add 
some spoonfuls of melted butter, and beat the whole 
together. Finish the omelet in the ordinary way, 
and serve very hot. Some persons put in some ham 
cut in very small pieces, which renders it more suc- 
culent. 

MACARONI, a la Gobert. 

MACARONI, STYLE OF GOBERT. 

Take half a pound of macaroni, put it in a sauce- 



ENTREMETS— SIDE-DISHES. 71 

pan, with so much water that it will swim inside ; 
boil until the water disappears, then grate a half pound 
of Gruyere, or Parmesan cheese, or any other ; and 
put it in the macaroni, with two ounces of fresh but- 
ter ; shake them all together over the fire, until the 
cheese is well melted. Have now another stewpan ; 
grease well the sides and bottom, and cover them 
with a coat two lines, or one-sixth of an inch thick, 
with pdie d f oncer, (see Pates). Put inside your maca- 
roni, and cover with a plate of the paste, of the same 
thickness ; cook over a very gentle fire, cover the 
stewpan, and put fire over it. Let it cook for three 
quarters of an hour. When the cooking is finished, 
reverse upon the plate on which you intend to serve, 
and you will find it to have the shape of a kettle drum, 
and an exquisite flavor, {goiit exquis). 



GATEAU AU RIZ Chaud. 

HOT RICE CAKE. 

Make a good and very thick rice broth, by boiling 
together half a pound of rice and a quart of good 
milk. Let it cool ; then put in a dish a half pound of 
good fresh butter, which you have washed well with 
a wooden spoon, until it is reduced to a cream ; to 
this add then seven yolks of eggs, the boiled rice, a 
little flower of orange-water, a quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar, a half ounce of bitter almonds, 
shelled and powdered, and a pinch of salt ; mix the 
whole well together, and add afterwards the seven 
whites of eggs, whipped to snow. The composition 
thus finished, pour it in a deep stewpan, well buttered, 
and covered over its whole inside with grated bread ; 
cook this preparation in a baking-pan, fire above and 
below, or in an oven. When it has acquired a fine 
brovm color, turn the saucepan over a plate, and serve 
hot. It is customary to powder this dish before-hand, 



72 CRIMES— CREAMS 

'With sugar and cinnamon, or to accompany it witb a 
Igood sauce of the cream of almonds (see " Sauce a la 
' Crime Amandee ") . 

CHARLOTTE de Pmnmts, 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

This may be made in two manners. Peel your 
apples; the finer they are the better; remove their 
cores, and cut them in pieces. Stew them in a sauce- 
pan, with a glass of wine, some lemort-peel, and sugar. 
Stir them often, to prevent their burning. Then 
make ^pdte d f oncer (see Pdtes). Spread it of the 
thickness of your little finger, over the bottom and 
sides of a stewpan that has previously been well but- 
tered or oiled. Place your apple marmelade on this 
paste in beds, and put alternately between each layer 
of apples, one of marmelade of apricots, if you have 
them ; cover the whole with a layer of the paste, and 
cook in an oven, or bake-pan. 

The second plan consists in having some slices of 
'soft bread, cut very thin, which you dip in warm but- 
ter or good oil, and with which you symmetrically 
line the bottom and sides of your dish ; put your mar- 
melade of apples within them, and alternately, as be- 
fore, a layer of apricots, if you have them; cover 
with slices of bread, prepared as before, and bake in 
the same manner. 

Some persons, in place of reducing the apples to a 
marmelade, cut them in thin round slices, and steam 
them in a stewpan, with sugar and cinnamon, and let 
them cool ; then prepare and cook as before. 
6 

CREME, a la Flmn d' Orange. 

CREAM, FLAVORED WITH ORANGE-FLOWERS. 

Boil a quart of good milk, with four or five ounces 



CREMES— CREAMS. 73 

of sugar, and three spoonfuls of flower of orange wa- 
ter; after boiling a quarter of an hour, remove the 
milk from the fire, and let it cool. Beat well together 
eight yolks of eggs, and three whites ; put them little 
by little in the milk, mix well together, pass this com- 
position through a strainer, and pour it on a plate, or 
in little pots, Tike custard cups. Put the cups in a 
large saucepan, in which you pour just as much boil- 
ing water as will three-quarters cover them ; cover 
over the saucepan, and put the fire under, so as to 
cook them gently in this water bath. In about a 
quarter of an hour, your creams will be done ; when 
take out your pots, and serve cold. 

If you prefer to serve your cream on a plate, you 
may put your plate in the boiling water, in the same 
manner. When the cream is done, remove and let 
it cool. A moment before serving, powder it with 
sugar, and pass a hot shovel over to glaze it. 



CREME, a la Vanille. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

This is made like the preceding, with one quart of 
milk, six ounces of sugar, one large vanilla bean 
grated, eight yolks, and three whites of eggs. 

In place of vanilla, or flower of orange, you may 
make a cream of the flavor of almond cakes, by boil- 
ing in the milk one or two leaves of the almond laurel. 
In other respects it is prepared like the preceding. 

CUE ME, atix Pistaches, ou Creme Verte. 

PISTACHOE CREAM, OR GREEN CREAM. 

Pick and pound very fine four ounces of pistachoe 
nuts ; boil a quart of milk, with six ounces of sugar; 
when the milk boils, add the pistachoe nuts ; let it 
7 



74 



CRIMES—CREAMS. 



take one or two boilings, and then cool the milk ; 
mix with it eight yolks of eggs, and two whites ; add 
also one spoonful of the juice of spinnage, to give a 
beautiful green color to the cream ; mix well this 
preparation, pass it several times through a strainer, 
pour it in little plates or pots, and cook in hot water, 
as before. 

ANOTHER MANNER OF MAKING CREAMS, WITHOUT THE 
HOT-WATER PROCESS. 

Take a quart of milk, six ounces of sugar ; add any 
ingredients or aromatics you prefer, either orange- 
flower, vanilla, almond, pistachoe, chocolate, etc. ; 
mix up six yolks of eggs ; put your saucepan over 
a gentle fire, and boil the whole, stirring with a 
wooden spoon, without cessation. As soon as the 
moisture adheres to the spoon, it is done. Pass it 
now through a sieve, pour in a plate or in little pots, 
let it cool, powder with sugar, pass over it the red 
hot shovel, and serve. 

Note. — It is to be observed that Ice Creams, of all descrip- 
tions, are made in the same manner, except that they are frozen, 
in forms or otherwise, by being surrounded with pounded ice 
and a little salt, instead of being cooked by heat. 



CREME FOUETTfiE, et Fromage en Neige. 

WHIPPED CREAM, AND CHEESE LIKE SNOW. 

These two side-dishes are made in the same man- 
ner. Put in an earthen dish a quart of good cream, 
with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in powder, a 
pinch of gum tragacanth in powder, and a little flower 
of orange water ; whip well your cream with a willow- 
rod, and as fast as the froth is formed, remove it with 
a skimmer, and arrange it in the shape of a pyramid, 
on a plate ; garnish this pyramid with little pieces of 
preserved lemons, and serve. 



BEI6NETS— FRITTERS. 75 

If it is the Cheese Snow (Fromage en Neige), that 
you would serve, you put the froth, or snow, as fast 
as it is formed, in a cheese-basket, in which is spread 
a clean towel. Let it drain some instants ; turn it 
into a sweetmeat dish, sprinkle with sugar, and serve. 

FROMAGE, a la Creme. 

CHEESE CREAM. 

Warm over the fire a quart of good milk ; add a 
piece of cheese, as large as a hazel-nut, mashed fine, 
in the milk ; stir it well ; cover your saucepan, and 
make it curdle over a little hot ashes. When it is 
fixed, put your curd in a small willow basket, or one 
of rushes, covered with fine linen. When it is well 
drained, put it in a sweetmeat dish, and serve with 
good cream and powdered sugar. 

BEIGNETS de Pommes. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel your apples, and cut them in slices, removing 
the cores, and dip them in a frying paste, (see Pdtc 
a Frire). Put your apples, well covered with this 
paste, in a hot frying-pan, and take them out when 
fried of a light brown. Let them drain a moment in 
a cullender, powder with sugar, and serve very hot. 
The fritters of apricots, of peaches, and oranges, are 
made in the same manner, but cut in quarters, and 
freed from their stones and seeds. 



PATE A FRIRE, pour Beignets, Artichauts, Salsijis^ et av^ 

tres Fritures. 

FRYING PASTE, FOR FRITTERS, ARTICHOKES, S^LSIFIS, ETC. 

Take a half pound of flour, two spoonfuls of olive 
oil (or butter will answer), a little salt, four yolks of 



76 BEIGNETS— FRITTERS. 

eggs, a spoonful of flower of orange water, a half- 
glass of water and milk'; stir and mix well together ; 
then whip the whites of two eggs, which you incor- 
porate with your paste, by stirring it in lightly. This 
paste is made in a moment, but it will not keep for 
any time. 

CREPES. 

PANCAKES. 

Take a quart of flour, mix it with six eggs, a spoon- 
ful of brandy, a good pinch of salt, a glass of milk, 
and some water, if you find it necessary to make it of 
the proper consistence, that of paste. Light a fire, 
clear and hot, of fine wood ; grease the bottom of a 
frying-pan with a lump of butter, or of hogs' lard, or 
sweet oil. Dip a spoon in fat, and put it in the fry- 
ing-pan, and spread it very thin over the bottom. 
Let it fry on one side, and then turn it neatly, so that 
it may take a good color on both, and eat them hot. 

PETS DE NONNE. 
nuns' cakes. 

Put in a saucepan a pint of water, or if you would 
have them more delicate, a pint of cream or milk, a 
piece of butter, as large as an egg, a little flower of 
orange water, if you prefer it, some grated lemon- 
peel, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt ; at this mo- 
ment put in handful by handful, as much nice wheat 
flour as will absorb the water or milk, having care to 
stir continually with a wooden spoon, to prevent its 
forming lumps, or burning on the bottom. When the 
paste is so thick as to be detached from the bottom 
of the saucepan, remove it from the fire, and break 
in an egg, which you mix well with the paste before 
you put in a second, and so on until the paste shall 
be neither too stiflf, nor too thin, and stir constantly. 



HORS-D'CEUVRE— BY-DISHES. 77 

When the paste will retain its shape in a spoon, it is 
sufficiently thick. This paste made, have it near you, 
and drop it in little balls, as large as a nut, in a fry- 
ing-pan, with lard or oil, a very little warm — they 
will swell very much ; finish frying them to a good 
color, by putting your frying-pan over a hot fire ; 
take them out with a skimmer, and after they have 
drained in a cullender, place them on a plate, and 
serve with powdered sugar. 



PETITS CHOUX, au Gateaux a la Duchesse, 

LITTLE PUFF PASTES, OR DUCHESS CAKES. 

Make a paste the same as for the Nuns' Cakes 
(Pets de Nonne) ; but in place of putting them in a 
fry, arrange your balls a little separated from each 
other, on thin iron plates (or tins), which you have 
carefully greased. Wash over your puffs with yolks 
of eggs, and cook them in a moderately hot oven. A 
moment before they are perfectly cooked, take them 
out, and sprinkle them with powdered sugar, then 
put them back, and they will be beautifully glazed. 
Some put over them some powdered pistachoe nuts, 
or crisp orange flowers ; but this depends upon your 
taste, and what you may have handy. 



GATEAUX, a la Magdelaine. 

MAGDELEN CAKES. 

Take half a pound of butter, and let it soften in 
steam ; stir it with a wooden spoon, for a good quar- 
ter of an hour, until it is reduced to the consistence 
of cream ; incorporate with it, then, one by one, six 
eggs, add a half pound of grated sugar, a little orange 
flower, or grated lemon-peel, and after all, mix with 
it a pound of flour. Work well your paste, so that 
7* 



78 SAUCES— SAUCES. 

you can roll it out with a rolling-pin. Make your 
cakes of any convenient size, and arrange them upon 
iron (or tin) plates, about half the thickness of your 
thumb ; wash them with yolks of eggs, and bake 
them in a very moderate heat, so that they may re- 
main in the oven half an hour. 



SAUCE BLANCHE. 

WHITE SAUOE. 

Put in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a spoonful of flour, a glass of water, salt, and pepper ; 
stir until it has become well mixed and is ready to 
boil ; then take it from the fire, and add some drops 
of verjuice or a little vinegar. 



SAUCE AUX CAPRESL 

CAPER SAUCE. 

In the white sauce {sauce blanche), instead of ver- 
juice or vinegar, put in half a glass of capers. 

SAUCE AUX ANCHOIX. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Make a gravy with a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and a spoonful of flour ; moisten with good broth or 
with water ; add a handful of parsley and of shallots, 
hashed very fine, and five or six anchovies, which 
you have previously washed, freed from the bones, 
and chopped fine. Stir well over the fire, add as 
much broth or water as is necessary to make it suf- 
ficiently thin, and make it take five or six boilings ; 
put in a pinch of pepper, no salt, and serve in a 
sauce-boat. 



SAUCES— SAUCES. 79 

SAUCE, a la Creme Amandee. 

CREAM OF ALMOND SAUCE. 

Boil with a pint of cream, one ounce of sugar, and 
one ounce of bitter almond cakes in powder. After 
some boiling, thicken with the yolks of eggs, and serve 
in a sauce-boat. 

[This is the sauce to accompany lu Gateau au Riz, 
already described.] 

SAUCE, a Pauvre Homme. 
POOR man's sauce. 

Put in a saucepan .chopped parsley and shallots, 
with broth, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar ; boil 
until the shallots are cooked. Thicken, if you have 
it, with some grated bread. This sauce is generally 
served with the remains of roast meats, warmed 
over. 

SAUCE, a VHuile et au Vinaigre, convenahle pour les Arti- 
chauts crus et cuits, les Asjperges^ les Sardines Grillees^ etc. 

CONVENIENT SAUCE OF OIL AND VINEGAR, FOR RAW OR 
COOKED ARTICHOKES, ASPARAGUS, BROILED SARDINES, 
ETC. 

' Take two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and mix them 
with two spoonfuls of vinegar, salt, pepper, the arti- 
cles for a sallad, chopped very fine, or a shallot, also 
chopped fine ; add four or five spoonfuls of oil, and 
serve. 

SAUCE Piquante. 

SHARP OR PiaUANT SAUCE. 

Put some finely chopped shallots in a brown gravy, 
made of butter and flour ; moisten with broth, add a 
half glass of vinegar, allspice, thyme, laurel, a little 



80 SAUCES— SAUCES. 

bread raspings, seasoned with salt and pepper ; let it 
simmer down a little, and at the moment of serving 
your sauce, add some small cucumbers, cut in small 
pieces. 

SAUCE Poivrade. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, 
five small onions, chopped up, six shallots, a husk of 
garlic, thyme, sweet basil, all chopped fine, a leaf of 
laurel, four or five cloves, carrots in slices ; put the 
whole over the fire until they are of a good color ; 
then put in a pinch of flour, moisten with wine and 
water, a glass of each, and a spoonful of vinegar ; 
make it boil a half hour, strain, and add salt and 
pepper. This sauce may be used whenever a high 
seasuijod one is required. 



SAUCE Ravigotte. 

CHIVES SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan a handful of water-cresses, 
chervil, chives, and tarragon, all chopped fine; add 
a full ladle of broth, a half glass of vinegar, salt, and 
pepper; boil a quarter of an hour; remove from the 
fire, melt in your sauce a piece of butter, worked 
with flour, and stir till they are mixed. 

SAUCE, a la Remoulade. 

SAUCE PiaUANT, OF MUSTARD. 

Put in a porringer some shallots, parsley, leeks, a 
garhc, capers, and anchovies, the whole chopped 
fine, a spoonful of mustard, salt, a little pepper, ; thin 
with a half glass of vinegar, and three glasses of oil ; 
mix well, and serve in a sauce-boat. 



SAUCES— SAUCES. 81 

SAUCE Robert. 
Robert's sauce. 

Make a gravy of a fine color, with butter and 
flour ; put in a handful of onions, chopped very fine; 
add another piece of butter, salt, and pepper ; when 
your onions have become cooked, moisten with a 
little broth, and boil a quarter of an hour ; add a 
spoonful of vinegar, and as much mustard ; mix the 
whole over the fire. This sauce is usually served 
with broiled sardines or herrings ; also for fresh 
pork, and cold roast turkey. 

SAUCE, a la Tartare. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

Put in a porringer of crock.ery a half dozen shal- 
lots, chervil, and tarragon, all chopped very fine; 
add mustard, salt, and pepper ; thin it, little by little, 
with a half glass of vinegar, and two or three glasses 
of oil, stirring all the while, to mix the sauce per- 
fectly. Taste it, as it must not be either too salt or 
too sour. This sauce is particularly intended for 
roasted eels. 

■ SAUCE Tomate. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cook six or eight tomatoes, with a glass of water, 
some pepper and salt. When they are done to a 
jelly {en puree), pass them through a cullender, and 
put them back in the saucepan, and add to them 
some broth, or tomato juice, or water, as much as is 
necessary to make the sauce sufficiently thin ; let it 
boil a moment, and when ready to serve, put in a 
piece of butter or a glass of oil, which will not mix 
with the sauce. 



83 SAUCiJg— SAUCES. 

SAUCE BechamaU au Gras, 

EICH BECHAMAL SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan a piece of butter and two spoon- 
fuls of flour ; stir quickly, so that this gravy may 
thicken without becoming brown ; moisten with gra 
broth, and boil down over a hot fire. Aa soon as 
your sauce commences to get thick, add to it some 
boiling cream, turned in little by little, stirring con- 
tinually. Put in salt, and spices, and add or not, such 
accessories as mushrooms, etc. This sauce is served 
particularly for les vols-aU'Vent 

Bl:CHAMAL Maigre. 

THIN BECHAMAL. 

Make a white gravy, with a piece of butter and 
two spoonfuls of flour,* and moisten, little by little, 
with a pint of cream ; boil down, and stir constantly, 
and when it begins to thicken, add another pint of 
boiling cream, but little by little, stirring without 
cessation ; add salt and spices to your taste. This 
sauce is excellent for turbots, whitings, and many 
other fishes ; also for asparagus, cauliflower, and 
divers other vegetables. 

AYOLI, ou Beurre de Provence. 

i»ROVENCE BUTTER. 

The inhabitants of Provence, and people who love 
the taste of garhc, make great account of this prepa- 
ration. They serve it especially with many kinds of 
white fish, and it is prepared in the following manner . 

Take, according as you wish, six to twelve husks 
of garlic, more or less, pick them well and put them 
in a stone or iron mortar, moisten them with a little 
olive oil, and crush them with a wooden pestle. 



SAUCES— SAUCES. 83 

When the garlics are well crushed, stir them with 
the pestle, always on the same side, and add, from 
time to time, some oil, and some drops of lemon juice, 
but always a little at a time, and stir without ceasing. 
When this preparation has in this way become of 
the thickness of a very thick broth, and of a beautiful 
whiteness, your Provence butter is made. Put it in 
a preserve-jar, and keep it in a cool place until it is 
served. 

BEURRE DE MONTPELIER. 

MONTPELIER BUTTER. 

Put in a stone mortar a husk of garHc, well picked, 
four heaping spoonfuls of fine capers, five or six an- 
chovies, washed and picked, the yolks of eight eggs, 
a spoonful of chopped spinnage, two pinches of salt, 
and one of pepper. Mash and bruise all these to- 
gether, and add, little by little, a pound and a half 
to two pounds of olive oil ; continue grinding, always 
the same side, until the whole is formed into a paste 
of the consistence of fresh butter ; squeeze from time 
to time the juice of a lemon, or a little white vinegar. 
Having it placed conveniently, put it through a 
strainer of silk or bombazine, with a wooden spoon. 
This sauce is usually served with lobsters or the 
largest shell-fish, and also with boiled fish of various 
kinds. 

BEURRE D'ANCHOIS. 

ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Pick and wash well your anchovies, and pound 
their meat in a stone mortar, and mix them with 
double their quantity of fresh butter. 

BEURRE DE NOISETTE. 

HAZELNUT BUTTER. 

This is made like the garlic butter, except that the 



84 pat:6s— PIES. 

hazelnuts, well picked, are in place of the garlic, to 
which you add parsley, terragon, and leeks, chopped 
fine. It is served, as well as the anchovy butter, for 
hors d'ceuvres (by-dishes), aiix dejeunes d la four- 
chette (meat breakfasts.) 

PATE A DRESSER. 

STIFF PASTE. 

Put upon a table a quantity of fine flour, more or 
less, according to the quantity you wish to make. 
Make a hole in the middle, and for each pound of 
flour, add a half ounce of fine salt, a half pound of 
butter, three eggs, and a glass of water. Knead all 
this together with the flour, little by little, and moisten 
again with water, if necessary, but not much, for it 
is necessary that your paste should have a firm con- 
sistence. Knead and work with the fists, as quickly 
as possible, especially in summer ; cover it with a 
napkin, and let it be for two hours before it is used. 

This paste serves for the thick bottoms of pies, 
cold and hot ; also to form figures and ornaments, 
which are placed on the upper crusts of meat pies. 

To form these upper crusts, you must make a 
Pate Brisee, or paste in layers. To make this, at 
the moment of making the pie, you take a part of 
your paste, which you work over, and roll it out with- 
a roller, of half the thickness of your finger ; on this 
place at short distances small pieces of butter, then 
fold up the paste like a towel, roll out as before, and 
repeat the operation three times. Take care to flour 
the table and the rolling-pin, so that the paste may 
not adhere to them. 

PATJ& FROID ; Manure de le dresser. 

COLD PIE, HOW PREPARED. 

You must have prepared in advance, that is to say, 
you must stew beforehand, the pieces of meat, fowl, 



PATES— PIES. 85 

game, etc., of which you intend to make your pie. 
Leave them to cool in their seasoning, and then let 
them drain. Observe that your meat must be freed 
from all bones, picked in with fat meat, and well sea- 
soned. Afterwards make a stuffing of chopped suet, 
with the parings of your meat, season again ; have 
near you a plenty of slices of fat meat, cut very thin, 
and all being thus ready, you proceed to build your 
pie in the following manner * Make, with your stiff 
paste {pdte a dresser), a bottom of a convenient size, 
and put this on an iron plate (or tin) well greased, 
give it the shape that your pie is to have ; raise up 
the borders, so as to form a band around it. Garnish 
the bottom with the sUces of fat meat or suet, spread 
over these a layer of the stuffing, and upon this ar- 
range a layer of meat ; fill up the empty spaces with 
stuffing and with pieces of butter, then another layer 
of meat, and so build it up, in any form you choose; 
cover the whole with the staffing ; lay over more 
slices of suet or fat, and finish with a crust of pdte 
hrisie (see preceding article) ; fasten well the edges 
to each other, by moistening them with water. 
Wash over the pie with yolks of eggs ; decorate, if 
you please, with figures or ornaments, made with the 
stiflf paste {pdte a dresser), which also wash over with 
the yolks. Make a chimney, that is to say, an open- 
ing, in the middle of the cover, in which you intro- 
duce a card, rolled up, so as to prevent the hole being 
filled up. Put the pie in an oven sufficiently hot, and 
leave it two or three hours, according to its size. If 
you see that your pie is doing too brown, you may 
cover it with a sheet of paper. When it is nearly 
done, pour through the chimney, two spoonfuls of 
brandy, which has a good flavor ; shake it, and finish 
the baking. When it is nearly cold, stop up the 
chimney with a little paste, and turn it over, so that 
the juices may be spread through it equally, when 
cold. 

8 



g0 PATES— PIES ' 

PATfi DE LI^VRE, en Terrine. 

HARE PIE, IN AN EARTHEN DISH. 

Free from its bones a fresh hare ; put with it a 
pound of fresh pork, and a pound of fillets of veal ; 
cut the meats in pieces as for a fricasee. Then chop 
up very fine a half pound of lard, a quarter of a pound 
of beef suet, leeks, parsley, a husk of garlic, and a 
little thyme. Cover the bottom of your earthen dish 
with slices of fat meat, put the hash over, and arrange 
upon this the meats, well intermixed ; season well 
With salt, pepper, and cloves. Put in one or two 
leaves of laurel, cover with hash and slices of fat ; 
pour over the whole a glass of brandy ; put the 
cover on the dish, and cement it well with paste, 
and cook for four hours with a gentle fire, above and 
below, or for the same time in an oven. 



PATfi CHAUD. 

HOT PIE. 

Make the bottom and sides with the stiff paste 
(pdte d dresser), and the top with the paste in layers 
(pate hriste). There are two ways of preparing this 
pie. In the first, you arrange the meats, fowl, etc., 
of which you intend to make it, and which has been 
first cooked and seasoned ; otherwise, you may cook 
your crust alone, and not fill it up until the moment 
you are ready to serve it. In this case, fill the in- 
side with floured paper, put on the cover, wash it 
over with the yolk of an egg, and bake it. Then 
open the crust, remove the paper which you find in- 
side, and fill the crust with the rago-ut or the fricassee^ 
which you have provided. Add the sauce and con- 
venient accessories, put on the upper crust, and serve 
immediately. 



PAT^— PIES. §t 

TIMBALE. 

DRUM PIE. 

This is an economical kind of pie, which can be 
made in a stewpan over a furnace or other fire. 
Grease well the inside of yom' stewpan, and cover 
the whole inside from a third to half an inch thick 
with the light paste {pdte brisee) ; fill it up with any 
ragout or fricassee, either meat, fowl, game, or fish, 
which you have convenient. Cover it over with a 
thickness of paste, which you stick fast to the edges 
of the sides ; put over a cover, and cook upon hot 
ashes, and with fire upon the stewpan. When the 
pie has been cooked, reverse the stewpan over a 
plate, so that your timhale will drop out. Then 
make in the middle a round opening, through which 
you introduce any sauce proper for your pie; put 
the piece of paste in the opening, and serve hot. 

. PATi: DE VOLAILLE, aux Truffes. 

POULTRY PIE, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Make a good hash, with the fivers of fowls, plenty 
of chopped truffles, chopped suet, and fine herbs, but 
do not season too high. Put one-third of this stuf- 
fing in a layer in the pie, and put the rest in the inside 
of the fowls ; or, if it is a turkey-pie you are making, 
employ the other portion of the stuffing to fill the 
spaces between the pieces of turkey, which must be 
freed from its bones. Whatever kind of poultry is 
used, must first be well larded, seasoned with fine 
spices, stewed and cooked ; they must then be ar- 
ranged upon the paste, with plenty of truffles and 
other articles, and supply it with hashed suet. Cover 
the whole with slices of fat meat, and finish as before 
directed (see Pdte froid), and make it cook in an 
oven, or in a bake-kettle, well attended to. 



88 PATES— PIES. 

PATi: DE GODIVEAU. 

HOT VEAL PIE. 

Take a pound of fillet of veal, a half pound of fresh 
pork, or of sausage meat, a half pound of beefs' mar 
row, chopped all together very fine, w^ith parsley, 
shallots, salt, and fine spices ; mix this hash with some 
yolks of eggs, and form it into balls, which you roll 
in wheat flour. It is with these balls that you gar- 
nish your under crust of pdie d dresser; fill the 
spaces with tops of asparagus, veal sweetbreads, bot- 
toms of artichokes, mushrooms, tails of crawfish, in 
short, of whatever you have, that is suitable for this 
purpose. Observe that all these accessories must be 
cooked and seasoned beforehand ; when you have 
thus arranged your pie to your liking, cover with 
thin slices of fat, and afterwards with an upper crust 
of light paste {pdte brisee). Fasten well the edges, 
wash over with the yolk of an egg^ and cook in an 
oven. When about to serve, open your pie, put in 
any proper sauce, and serve very hot. 

PATf: D'ANGUILLESv 

EEL PIE. 

Skin a fine eel, remove the bones of the sides, and 
leave him suspended for some hours in the air ; after- 
wards cut him in pieces, and season well. Then chop 
very fine the flesh of carp, and other fish, which you 
have seasoned with salt, pepper, suet, fine spices and 
and parsley ; then arrange your paste, and spread 
over it part of this hash ; place upon it the pieces of 
eel, fill up the spaces between with tops of aspara- 
gus, bottoms of artichokes, mushrooms, crawfish tails, 
etc., and finish by covering your pie with the remain- 
der of the hash ; put upon it plenty of butter or slices 



PATfiS— PIES. 89 

of fat meat, and cover with a crust of paste. The 
Hght paste (pdte hrisee) is used for this pie; cook in 
an oven and serve.hot, with any suitable sauce. 



PATfi DE TRUITES. 

TROUT PIE. 

Wash and clean a large trout, remove the fins and 
the head, and lard the meat with pieces of anchovies, 
and pieces of truffles, and season with fine spices and 
salt. Put inside the trout plenty of good butter, or 
chopped lard, worked in with chopped truffles, and 
all sorts of fine herbs ; arrange the trout upon the 
paste, with or without such accessories as artichokes, 
mushrooms, etc., and cover it with the hash and 
slices of fat meat, or butter. Finish the pie as usual, 
and bake for two hours, in an oven. 



PATfi DE SAUMOUS FRAIS. 

FRESH SALMON PIE. 

Prepare the salmon in the same manner as directed 
for the trout, except that it is not usual to put in truf- 
fles, and that, as the salmon takes up much fat, it must 
not be used sparingly. For the rest, the paste and 
the manner of dressing are the same. It takes two 
hours to bake. If it is served hot, it must have some 
sauce, but if prepared cold, it can be served without. 

PATi: AUX HUITRES. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Shell the oysters, and scald them in their own wa- 
ter, as for a stew ; then chop up a part of them, and 
mix with the others, and put in fine herbs, shallots, 
8* 



90 PATISSERIE— PASTRY. 

mushrooms, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a good 
piece of butter or some spoonfuls of oil. Knead all 
these well together, and put this piixture together in 
a high pile in the crust of a pie, and finish as we have 
said in regard to other pies. It will not take more 
than an hour in cooking. Before serving, open the 
pie, and turn in a sauce of Champagne wine, or a be- 
chamal d la crime, (see Sauces). 



PATi: FEUILLETEE, pour petiU Pates, Tmtrtfs, etc. 

PASTE IX SHEETS, OR PUFF PASTE FOR LITTLE PIES. ETC. 

Take, according to the quantity of paste that you 
would make, one or two pounds of butter, more or 
less, wash it well in cold water : cut it in very thin 
and broad slices, and leave them over night in fresh 
water. The next day, when you would make your 
paste, you take for each pound of butter, a pound 
and a half of fine flour, which you put in a heap on a 
table. Make a hole in the middle, in which put a half 
ounce of salt, two entire eggs, and a little water ; mix 
and knead them with the flour, working it well with 
the whole strength of your arms and fists ; then, with 
a rolling-pin. roll it out as thin as possible, then fold 
it up like a towel, and roll it out again : fold up in 
the same manner, and again roll out, taking care to 
cover the paste from time to time with flour, so that 
it may not adhere, either to the table or the roller. 
Fold and roll out in this way, alternately your paste 
four times, neither more nor less, when it will be 
ready for use. This paste is for little pies, vols-au- 
ventf etc. 

FEUILLETAGE, a la ProfxnfoU. 

PASTRY OF PROVBXCE. 

It is known that the people of Provence, and it is 



PATISSERIE— PASTRY. 91 

the same with a portion of the inhabitants of Lan- 
guedoc, do not employ butter in any of their ahmen- 
tary preparations, neither do they use it in their 
pastry ; they use lard or sweet oil in its place, ac- 
cording as ihey would have their ragouts, p<ites, etc., 
thick or thin {en gras, ou en maigre.) 

Let us see how they prepare the pdte feuilleUe 
(paste in sheets), with grease. Take the good fat 
from the kidneys of beef, or from the inside of veal ; 
free it from all its fibres, etc., and pound it in a mor- 
tar until it is of the consistence of butter ; squeeze it 
through a hair sieve, work it well in fresh water, and 
dry it in a proper towel. Then use it in the prepa- 
ration of the pdtes hrisees or feuillefages, in the same 
proportions and manner as before described. 

To make a paste (feuilletage) icith oil, put on the 
table a cup of flour ; suppose that you would have 
a pound ; you make a hole in the middle, put in two 
eggs, a half pound of oil of olives, a half ounce of 
salt, and as much water as will mix all the flour, 
and make the paste of the proper consistence ; knead 
it well, and let it rest. Two hours after, you roll it 
out as thin as possible ; have a second half pound 
(or half pint) of oil, sprinkle it over the paste, and 
then fold it together, like a napkin, and roll out again ; 
oil, fold up, and roll again, repeating the operation 
four or five times, taking care to use the whole of 
your second half pound of oil, and take equal care to 
flour the table and roller, so that the paste may not 
adhere. The paste thus made is excellent, and may 
be served for all patisseries en maigre, 

PETITS PAT^S, aux Truffes. 

LITTLE PIES, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Take, for each pound of truffles, a half pound of 
fillets of veal, a quarter of a pound of sausage meat, 
and a quarter of the marrow of beef. Chop all to- 



82 PATISSERIE— PASTRY. 

gether, or, still better, pound them in a mortar; add 
salt, pepper, one or more eggs, and as many small 
spoonfuls of brandy as eggs. Put this preparation 
on an under crust of pdte feuilleUey of the size and 
thickness of a silver dollar. Cover with a paste of 
the same size, stick the edges together, wash over 
with yolk of egg, bake in an oven, and serve very hot. 



PETITS PATES, aux Foies Gras. 

LITTLE PIES, OF LIVER. 

Mash your livers of poultry or of veal (those oi 
geese are most esteemed), in a mortar, with grated 
suet, salt, fine herbs and spices in powder ; mix with 
them one or two eggs, a little grated bread, and a 
small glass of brandy ; and dress the pies as above 
directed. 

PETITS PATJ&S, aux Anchois. 

LITTLE ANCHOVY PIES. 

Cut new anchovies in pieces, and soak them well 
to free them from salt ; afterwards, when they have 
been dried with a towel, let them soak for two or 
three hours, in a pickle composed of oil, pepper-corns, 
parsley, and shallots, chopped up ; then take out part 
of the anchovies and put them aside, chop up the rest, 
very fine, mix them with soft bread grated, some 
lemon peel, and one or two eggs. Put this hash, by 
small heaps, in under crusts of pdte feuilleUe ; put 
over them, in the form of a cross {en croix), two of 
the pieces of anchovy that you have laid aside ; cover 
your pies with crusts of the same size, wash over 
with yolk of egg. Before serving, open the pies, 
and squeeze into them a little lemon juice ; replace 
the crust, and serve very hot. 



TOURTES— PIES. 93 

PETITS PAT£S, aux Anchois, Truffes, 

LITTLE PIES, OF ANCHOVIES AND TRUFFLES. 

In place of hashing a part of the anchovies, as 
above directed, make the hash with truffles ; put a 
httle in the bottom of each crust, of a httle pie, and 
the httle pieces of anchovy over it, in the form of a 
cross {en croix), and finish as above directed, serving 
with lemon juice, and very hot. 

VOL -AU- VENT, a la Financier e. 

Make, with the pdte de feuilletage, the crusts of 
twice the size and thickness of the common petits 
pdtcs ; and cook these crusts in advance. Open 
them, and fill them with houlettes de godiveau (balls 
described in the article ^^ PdU de Godiveau^), with 
brains, sweetbreads of veal, mushrooms, truffles, etc. 
All these things must be well seasoned, and mixed 
with the sauce in which they have been fricaseed, or 
with a good bechamel au gj-as, (see Sauces) 

TOURTE de Fruits. 

FRUIT PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a pie-dish, well buttered, with 
a thickness of light paste (pdte feuilleUe) ; make a 
border of three or four thicknesses of the same paste, 
and place upon this crust your fruits, in the follow^- 
ing manner. The apples having been pared, cored, 
and cut in slices ; the apricots or peaches in halves 
or quarters, and freed from their stones ; the prunes 
or cherries, without stones, but otherwise entire ; 
the pears remaining entire, arranged upon the pie, 
with their stems upward; the grains of verjuice, 
muscat raisins, and raspberries, remaining whole ; — . 



94 GATEAirX— GAKE8. 

according as you would make your pie with either, 
you proceed to submit your fruits to the following 
operation. Boil in a saucepan a glass of wine with 
a quarter of a pound of sugar ; put in your fruit for 
five minutes, and add a small glass of brandy. Let 
them drain ; place on the paste, and put the pie in 
the oven. When it is baked, you pour over it the 
syrup in which you have boiled the fruit. This is the 
manner in which you must make pies with all sorts 
of fruits, marmelades and preserves. 

TOURTES d'Epinards 

SPINNAGE PIE. 

Prepare the paste and the sauce as for a fruit pie, 
described above ; bake it, and fill it up, at the moment 
it is served, with a stufling or filling of spinnage, with 
cream and sugar {epinards a la creme et an sucre) ; 
glaze with a red-hot shovel, and serve. 

TOURTE de Creme. 

CREAM PIE. 

Prepare your pie dish with a crust, and high bor- 
der of light pastry, as for a fruit pie ; fill it with a 
cream made beforehand, in the manner described in 
the preceding pages (see Creams). Observe that it 
is necessary that your cream should be cold, before 
it is turned upon the pastry. Wash the border crust 
with yolk of Qgg, and bake in an oven. Before serv- 
ing, powder with sugar and glaze with a hot shovel. 

GATEAU DE SAVOYE. 

SAVOY CAKE. 

Take eight eggs, separate the whites from the 
yolks, which latter you put in an earthen dish, with 



GATEAUX-CAKES. 95 

three-quarters of a pound of white sugar in powder, 
and the grated yellow or entire skin of a lemon. 
Stir the yolks of eggs with the sugar, until ihey have 
well amalgamated. Whip your whites of eggs to a 
very thick snow ; then mix your yolks gently, and 
add, through a sieve, a half pound of fine flour. Mix 
well the whole, turn your paste in the tinned moulds 
or forms, which you have beforehand carefully 
greased. Do not fill the moulds more than two- 
thirds full, and bake in an oven moderately hot. 



BISCUIT FIN. 

FINE BISCUIT DELICATE CAKE. 

Take twelve eggs, put the whites in a confectioner's 
basin, and whip them with a large willow stick, until 
they have risen to a very thick froth ; then put in the 
yolks, which you have taken care to beat up well in 
a bowl apart, with a half pound of sugar in powder, 
and the grated outside of a lemon. After having 
well mixed the yolks of eggs with the frothed whites, 
put the basin on an empty cask, in which you have 
placed a brazier of coals or lighted chafing-dish, and 
constantly whip or beat up the paste, until it is of 
such a consistence as to form globules, which will 
remain. Then retire the basin from the fire, and 
continue to stir it until the paste is cold ; when this 
takes place, you add a half pound of fine flour, and 
another half pound of powdered sugar, which you 
put together in a sieve, and so mix gently with the 
paste by shaking the sieve over it. These having 
been perfectly incorporated, you put your paste in 
well greased moulds or paper cases ; powder the last 
with fine sugar, and cook in an oven moderately 
hot. 



95 GATEAUX— CAKES. 

GATEAU DE MILAN, ou Biscuit au Beurre. 

MILAN CAKE, OR BUTTER BISCUIT. 

It is made in the same manner as the preceding, 
except that before putting the paste in the moulds, 
you add half a pound of good melted butter, clarified, 
but not very hot. After it is perfectly mixed, you 
put it in the moulds well greased, which you must 
not fill more than half full, for this cake rises very 
much, and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

GATEAU DE LISBONNE. 

LISBON CAKE. 

Melt half a pound of good butter, having care to 
skim and draw it clear in a bowl. When it has be- 
come cool, stir it with a wooden spoon until it is of 
the consistence of cream. Then add half a pound of 
white sugar in powder, stirring the whole continually,- 
and beating in from one to six eggs, a half pound of 
flour through a sieve, and some grated lemon peel, 
or nutmeg, or crisped and powdered orange flowers, 
according to your taste. After it is thoroughly mix- 
ed, turn the composition into one or. more moulds 
well greased, and bake in a very moderate heat. It 
must remain three-quarters of an hour in the oven. 

BRIOCHES. 

BUNS. 

You take two pounds of flour, from which you 
separate a pint, which you mix with a half ounce of 
good yeast, and afterwards wdth water, a little more 
than lukewarm, until you make a very soft paste ; 
heap it upon a plate, and put it in a warm place. 
When you perceive that the leaven has taken effect, 
and that the dough is well expanded, put in a bowl 
the remainder of the flour make a hole in the middle, 



GATEAUX— CAKES. 97 

and put in a pound of butter, six eggs, and half an 
ounce of salt dissolved in half a glass of warm wa- 
ter. Knead well the paste ; it is necessary that it 
should be rather soft ; if it is too hard you must put 
in more eggs. When it is of the proper consistence 
roll it out, and place upon it that which you have 
risen with yeast, mix, and knead again the whole. It 
is essential that it should be thoroughly kneaded 
together, rolled, and worked on all sides. Press it 
down also, two or three times. Sprinkle with flour a 
white napkin, and in it put this dough, cover it care- 
fully, and let it remain seven or eight hours. After 
this, uncover your paste, turn and knead it two or 
three times on a table powdered with flour, and let it 
rest again for an hour, and then, while the oven is 
heating, take off this paste pieces of the size of which 
you would make your buns, flatten them, work them 
well with the hand, give them the form of a ball flat- 
tened in the middle, on which you place another ball 
of dough, half as large, to give them the proper form ; 
place them upon buttered paper, wash with the yolk 
of an egg, and bake in the oven. 

You may give to these cakes any fanciful shape 
you please, or if you prefer to bake them in forms on 
a dish, you may make the dough of a less firm 
consistence. 

GALETTE « la Bourgeaise. 

FLAT PASTE CAKE. 

Put in a bowl three pounds of flour, make a hole 
in the middle, in which put one pound of fresh butter, 
four eggs, one ounce of salt (if the butter be salt, a 
less quantity will be sufficient), and enough water to 
mix the paste so that it can be worked. Knead well, 
make it into balls that you flatten with a rolling pin, 
on a floured table, that the dough may not adhere. 
Make your flat cake,s as thick as your thumb, wash 



98 COMPOTES— STEWED FRUITS. 

them over with the yolk of an egg, powder with 
sugar and chopped almonds, put them in an oven and 
bake them of a good color. 

This paste will equally serve to cover the bottom 
of a saucepan, in which you would make a timhale^ 
or pate en casserole, and as a common paste for any 
other sort of pies and cakes. To make it light, in 
leaves, it is only necessary to roll it out several times 
as directed in the article Fate feuilleUe, 

COMPOTES de Pommes. 

APPLE SAUCE, OR, STEWED APPLES. 

Peel some fine apples ; cut them in halves, cut out 
the cores, and stew them with a good glass of water, 
a little sugar, some lemon juice, and some pieces of 
cinnamon.. When they are done, seve them in a 
preserve dish (compotier), and pour over them the 
syrup in which they were cooked. 

COMPOTES de Pcnres. 

STEWED PEARS. 

Peel your pears ; if they are large, cut them in 
quarters ; if small, leave them entire ; cook and serve 
them as with the apples, in the preceding article. 

COMPOTES de Poires au Tin. 

PEARS STEWED WITH WINE. 

Peel them, and leave them whole, and stew the 
sauce as in the Compotes de Pommes. When they 
are about half cooked, moisten them with a glass of 
red wine. Finish cooking over a small fire, and 
when they are thoroughly done, arrange them in a 
a preserve dish, stew down the syrup, and pour it hot 
over the pears. 



COMPOTES— STEWED FRUITS. 99 

COMPOTE dc Coings. 

STEWED aUINCES. 

You must first partly cook them in boiling water ; 
take them out and put them in cold water, and then 
peel them, cut in quarters, and remove their cores. 
Afterwards, put them in a saucepan, with a qunrter 
of a pound of sugar, and some little pieces of cinna- 
mon, a large glass of water, and some lemon uice. 
Finish the cooking, and serve with the syrup boi.ed 
down and poured over them. 

COMPOTES de Prunes. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Cook a pound of prunes with a half pint of 
water, a half glass of wine, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and some little pieces of cinnamon, until 
you can crush them in your fingers ; arrange them 
in a preserve dish, and when your syrup is stewed 
to a proper consistence, pour it over them and serve 
the prunes. 

COMPOTES de Cerises, de Fraises, de Framhoises, de Gro- 
seilles, de Raisins, etc. 

STEWED CHERRIES, STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, GOOSE- 
BERRIES, RAISINS, ETC. 

These are all done the same as prunes ; the pro- 
portions being always a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and a half pint of vvrater, for each pound of fruit. 

COMPOTES d'Abricots, mi de Peches. 

STEWED APRICOTS OR PEACHES. 

These are done in the same way as the apples and 
pears, with the same proportions of water and sugar. 
The apricots must be peeled and divided, and the 
peaches deprived of their skins and stones. 



100 FRUITS COxNFITS=-FRUIT PRESERVES. 



SALADE B'OKANGES, pour Dessert. 

SALAD OF ORANGES, FOR DESSERT. 

Cut them in slices with the peel, powder them with 
sugar, and moisten them with wine or brandy. 

SALADE DE FECB.ES, jpour Dessert 

PEACH SALAD, FOR DESSERT. 

Take beautiful peaches which have arrived at the 
true point of maturity ; peel them, cut them in slices, 
powder with sugar, moisten with excellent brandy, 
and serve in a preserve dish. 

GROSEILLES FERhEES, pour Dessert. 

PEARLED GOOSEBERRIES, FOR DESSERT. 

Take a fine bunch of gooseberries, quite ripe ; put 
them in a liquid composed of one glass of water and 
two whites of eggs beaten together. Let them drain 
for two minutes ; roll them in powdered sugar, and 
put them on paper to dry. The sugar crystallizes 
around each berry, and they form a dessert dish of 
brilUant effect. 

INSTRUCTION POUR CONFIRE LES FRUITS. 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRESERVING FRUIT. 

Before preserving fruit in sugar, it is necessary 
that the sugar should be well clarified. The follow- 
ing is the best method : put your sugar in a brass 
kettle, or pan, such as is used by confectioners, with 
one pint of water to each pound of sugar. Have in 
p. porringer beside you the whites of eggs whipped 
with water. As soon as your sugar boils, you turn 
a portion of this frothed water in the syrup, and stir 



FRUITS CONFITS— FRUIT PRESERVES. JQl 

it in with a spoon, and then as the froth rises, skim it 
off; put in more of the white of egg, and skim again, 
and continue this operation until your syrup is well 
clarified. Then cook your fruits as much as is ne- 
cessary for each particular kind. 



POUR CONFIRE LES A.BRICOTS. 

HOW TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. 

Choose such apricots as are of a fine color, but not 
too much ripened. Make, with the point of a knife, 
a little notch in the top ; then, pushing the knife into 
the end by the stem, you push out the stone on the 
opposite side ; put them in a proper proportion of 
fresh water, and make them scald over the fire. As 
soon as the water commences to simmer, take them 
out with a skimmer, as soon as they feel soft to the 
finger ; cool them in fresh water, and let them drain. 
Afterwards, clarify a quantity of sugar proportioned 
to the number of apricots ; that is to say, one pound 
of sugar for twenty-five apricots, and when your 
syrup is clear and almost boiling, put in the apricots. 
Let them boil a few moments, then take them off, and 
pour them into an earthen or stone jar until the next 
day, that the fruit may take up the sugar. On the 
morrow, turn off the syrup, which you must boil 
down very strong, and then turn it boiling hot over 
the a} ncots. The day after that pour off the syrup, 
and boil down again, and still again the day after. 
Each time the sugar will be deposited upon the apri- 
cots. The fruit may then be drained, and after they 
have dried on a metal plate, they must be powdered 
with sugar, turning them so as to cover both sides, 
and when they have become dry, arrange them in a 
box in layers, with a paper between each layer. 

Prunes, little pears, and other plums may be calj 

died in the same manner. 

9» jVp •ii.i- 



102 FRUITS A L'EAU-DE-VIE— BRANDIED FRUITS. 
MARMELADE D'ABRICOTS. 

MARMELADE OF APRICOTS. 

Take apricots which are fully ripe, remove their 
skins and stones, cut them in pieces and weigh them ; 
then take three-quarters of a pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit ; melt the sugar in a brass basin or 
kettle, with a pint of water for each pound of sugar, 
over a very gentle fire ; and after it has boiled a 
good half hour, put in your apricots, and continue 
boiling over a gentle fire for an hour or an hour and 
a half, taking care to continually stir your marmelade 
that it may not burn upon the bottom of the kettle. 
To ascertain if it is sufficiently cooked, take a little 
upon your fingers, press your thumb upon it, and^if 
it is glutinous, and when the thumb is removed forms 
a little string, it is done enough ; when it must be re- 
moved from the fire and turned into pots. 

There are some persons who like the marmelade t« 
be flavored with the meats of the stones. In this 
case, crack half the stones, and scald the meats in 
boiling water to enable you to remove their skins ; 
put them in the marmelade a short time before it is 
done, and stir well the whole so that each pot may 
have its equal share. Do not cover the pots until 
the marmelade is entirely cooled. This marmelade 
is an excellent and very nourishing food. 

La marmelade de peches (marmelade of peaches), 
and those of prunes, and of other plums, are made 
in precisely the same manner, except the addition of 
the seeds, which, however, may be done with the 
peaches if you like. 

FRUITS A L'EAU-DE-VIE. 

BRANDIED FRUITS. 

Take a certain quantity of apncots, which have 



FRUITS A L'EAU-DE-VIE—BRANDIED FRUITS. 103 

not ripened to their perfect maturity ; wipe off the 
down with a towel, prick them to the stone with a 
large pin, put them in fresh water, and let them boil 
over a gentle fire ; but they must not boil much, but 
be kept merely simmering. When you find that the 
fruits are soft between your fingers, take them out 
with a skimmer, and put them in cold water ; take 
care not to crush them or tear off their skins, and let 
them drain and dry. 

During this time, you should have clarified a pound 
of sugar in a pint of water, for each twenty-six apri- 
cots, or peaches ; put in your fruit to take a boiling, 
and then leave them in the syrup until the next day, 
then take them out and let them drain. While they 
are draining, put your sugar again over the fire, 
2Uid let it boil for some time, and then put in your 
apricots for a moment, to take a little boiling more. 
Take them out, and when they are cold, arrange them 
in a glass or stone jar. Boil still more your syrup, 
but take care that it does not turn yellow, or glaze 
over ; and after having added a double quantity of 
high proof brandy {eau-de-vie d 22 degris)^ mix well 
the brandy with the syrup, and turn over the apri- 
cots previously arranged in the jar. Put in the 
stopple, cover over and tie it down, and put away 
for use. 

If you are obliged to use apricots which are ripe, 
you can dispense with scalding them in boiling water. 

Les Ptches a V eau-de-vie (brandied peaches), are 
prepared exactly like apricots ; the proportions of 
sugar and of brandy are also the same. 

REINE-CLAUDES a VEau-de-vie. 

BRANDIED GREEN-GAGES. 

They must be chosen of such as are handsome, of 
an equal size, and which are not colored nor fully 
ripe. Cut off a part of their stems, prick them with 



104 FRUITS A L'EAU-DE^VIE— BRANDIED FRUITS. 

a pin, and to preserve their beautiful green, put in the 
water in which you scald them, a glass of vinegar, 
and a handful of spinnage. As for the rest, proceed 
in the same manner as with the apricots or peaches, 
employing for two hundred green-gages, the same 
quantity of sugar and brandy, as for one hundred of 
the former. 

Note. — All other plums may be preseiTed in the same man- 
ner, varying the proportions according to their size ; that is, for 
i. plums of which five would make one apricot, five times as many 
may be done in the same quantities of sugar and brandy. 

ORANGES FINES a VEau-de-vie. 

FINE BRANDIED ORANGES. 

Choose fine oranges, of a good color and an even 
size ; stick a pin in their centres, and put them into a 
proper quantity of fresh water, and as soon as they 
are softened by scalding, remove them into cold 
water. Clarify the sugar in the same proportions as 
for apricots, and when the syrup is not boihng, but 
yet is very hot, and give to the whole five or six 
boilings, covered. Take the kettle from the fire, and 
leave the oranges in the syrup till the next day. 
Repeat the same operation on the two days follow- 
ing, commencing each time by boiling down the 
sugar separately, so that it will crystallize on the 
oranges, after which put in the oranges and give 
them one or two boilings, covered as before. The 
third dav after all these operations have been con- 
cluded, draw the oranges, and arrange them in j-?rs 
(the glass ones are prettiest), and when the syrup is 
cold, mix with it an equal quantity of brandy, turn 
the mixture over the fruit, and cover it with care. 

CERISES d I' Eau-de-vie. 

BRANDIED CHERRIES. 

Take some fine cherries sound and not too ripe 



FRUITS A L'EAU-DE-VIE— BRANDIED FRUITS. 105 

cut half the stems off, and put the cherries in a jar, or 
a bottle with a large neck, with some cloves and 
some pieces of cinnamon. Mash in a bowl a quarter 
of a pound of ripe cherries, for each pound of the 
others ; put in some raspberries, and squeeze out the 
juice by putting them in a cloth. Take then a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar for each pound of cherries, 
clarify with a glass of water, and boil it down to the 
point of crystallization ; then put in the juice of the 
cherries, give a dozen boilings, and then, when the 
syrup is cooled, put in a pint of brandy for each 
pound of cherries ; pour the mixture into the jars and 
fasten them well. 

AUTRE MANIJ&RE DE METTRE LES CERISES A 
L'EAU-DE-VIE, Beaucoup plus Delicate. 

ANOTHER MANNER OF BRANDYING CHERRIES, MUCH MORE 

DELICATE. 

Making brandied cherries in the common method, 
is no more than to soak the cherries in brandy in 
the sun, adding some aromatics ; but all fruits, either 
cherries, prunes, peaches or apricots, merely soaked 
in brandy, without being previously candied and 
preserved with sugar, lose much of their juice and 
flavor. The fruit must not be merely a piece of 
sponge, for the liquor to penetrate, while the brandy 
itself will not be stronger than wine, by mixing the 
juices of the fruit. That the ladies may have bran- 
died cherries (and similar fruits) of the most delicate 
flavor, M. Cadet de Vaux gives the following recipe : 

Take some cherries which have early ripened, re- 
move their stems, squeeze them in the hands, jam out 
the stones, and put them in a brass basin or kettle, 
with some sugar. Boil down one third, and turn 
this syrup, all boiling, into some brandy, to which 
you have added your aromatics, and let this prepa- 
i^ation infuse in the sun. When the season for rasp- 



106 GELfiES— JELLIES. 

berries has arrived, you can add some of these, if 
you think proper, to the infusion. Prepared in this 
way your Uquor will retain its strength, but will ac- 
quire the aroma of the cherries, etc., to which it is 
joined. The cherries preserve their size and color, 
are very agreeable to eat, and digest more easily 
than those which are full of brandy. 

The proper proportions are, six pounds of early 
ripe cherries, one pound of raspberries, three pounds 
of sugar, six quarts of good brandy. You can flavor 
with cloves, cinnamon, or vanilla, according to your 
taste. It is well to pulverize these aromatics before, 
putting them into the infusion. 

^ CONFITURES DE CERISES. 

CHERRY PRESERVES. 

Ramove the stones and stems of the cherries, wipe 
them, and put an equal quantity of sugar over the 
fire ; melt it with a glass of water, a glass of the juice 
of gooseberries, and a half glass of raspberry juice ; 
when the sugar has sufficiently boiled, put in your 
cherries, cook them a short hour over a gentle fire, 
taking care to remove the scum, and when they have 
cooked a little in the kettle, put them in jars, and do 
not cover them until entirely cold. 

The cherries to preserve are those which have 
short stems, and are last ripe, about a month after 
those which are first ripe. When you have turned 
off, expressed, and filtered this infusion, you have 
now an excellent ratafia of cherries and raspberries, 
and it is in this you put your cherries. 

GEL6E DE GROSEILLES FRAMBOIS^ES. 

GOOSEBERRY AND RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Take any quantity of fine red gooseberries, a quar- 
ter as many white one^ and half a quarter as many 



GELEES— JELLIES. 107 

raspberries ; pick the fruits and put them in a kettle 
for preserves, with as many pounds of sugar in pieces, 
as you have pounds of fruit. Boil over a quick fire, 
skimming carefully, and continue boiling until your 
jelly, turned upon a napkin, fixes or congeals in a 
moment. This is a proof that your jelly is sufficient- 
ly cooked. Remove it from the fire, and turn it 
through a hair sieve. Let it drain without squeez- 
ing, and turn the first results into your pots. This 
will be a jelly of the first quality, of a beautiful ruby 
tint, and perfectly transparent. 

Afterwards squeeze and express the remainder into 
another vase. This second part is as good as the 
first, but it has not its transparency, a quality much 
esteemed by gourmands and connoisseurs. 

You may also make a good use of what still re- 
mains in the sieve ; put it in a pitcher, and pour upon 
it two or three pints of white wine. This wine, ex- 
pressed afterwards, may be used to make a fruit 
ratafia, by adding to it a pint of brandy and some 
pieces of cinnamon or other aromatic ; and after you 
have filtered this infusion, your have four pints of a 
very agreeable cordial. 

GEL^E DE GOINGS. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Take some sound, yellow quinces, which are not 
over ripe; peel them, cut them in quarters, and boil 
them in as much water as will cover them. When 
they have been well boiled, squeeze them through a 
linen cloth, clarify the juice in a filtering bag, weigh 
it, and put it with three-quarters of its weight of 
sugar in a brass kettle. Do not forget to put in a 
piece of cinnamon. Cook the whole together until it 
ha"3 become a jelly, to ascertain which, try as in the 
preceding article. Take it from the fire, and tic up 
in pots, when it is cold. 



108 COxNFITURES— CONFECTIONS. 

MANI^RE DE FAIRE LE RAISINi:. 

MANNER OF MAKING CONFECTION OF GRAPES. 

Gather ripe grapes in dry weather, leave them for 
some days in their bunches, until they soften ; then 
pick them, squeeze out the juice, and boil it gently, 
stirring all the while with a wooden stick, and di- 
minish the fire as the liquor evaporates, continuing to 
siaimer it down, until it is three-quarters boiled away. 
Then, when it has got to the proper consistence, put 
it in pots, where you let it stand, without being 
covered, until next day, in a lukewarm oven. Then 
dip round pieces of paper, cut so as to closely fit in 
the pots, in brandy, and lay them upon the confec- 
tion ; cover with another paper, tie down, and set 
the pots in a dry place. 

If you choose to put fruits in this confection {rai- 
sine), it is necessary, whether quinces, pears, orange 
peel, or whatever, that they should previously be 
scalded in boiling water, until soft to the fingers ; 
then drain dry, and join to the grape confection, 
when it is about half boiled down ; boiling (^ver a 
small fire, and as before, stirring without cessation. 
When you suppose that your confection is sufficient- 
ly boiled away, put a little on a napkin, and if it fixes 
at once, quickly remove the kettle from the fire, ar- 
range the fruits in the pots, and turn the confection 
over them ; put them for eight or ten hours in a warm 
oven, and then cover as before. 

OBSERVATIONS ESSENTIELLES POUR LA CON- 
SERVATION DES GELEES ET CONFITURES DE 
TOUT ESP£:CE. 

ESSENTIAL OBSERVATIONS IN REGARD TO THE PRESER- 
VATION OF ALL KINDS OF JELLIES. 

You must never cover the pots until the jellies are 



CONFITURES— CONFECTIONS. JOg 

perfectly cool. The best way is not to do it till some 
days after ; and then take care to dip the first round 
piece of paper, that which rests immediately upon 
the jelly, in brandy. This will preserve them much 
better than without it, and it will keep them from 
becoming mouldy. 

I observe also, that it is absolutely essential that 
the basins, kettles, etc., in which syrups or jellies are 
made, if of earthern or iron ware, are subject to burn 
them, and give them a bad taste. Those who have 
not a kettle adapted for the purpose, and are com- 
pelled to use any other, should be careful to scour 
them perfectly clean. 

It is not well to leave any confection in a brass 
kettle, on account of the formation of verdigris, 
which is poisonous ; on this account it is important 
to turn the confections in the pots as soon as their 
cooking is finished ; or it may be turned into an 
earthern pot to cool a little, before being put in the 
jelly pots. 

A wood fire is not so good as one of charcoal, 
w^ell sustained. 

You must never leave your confections while they 
are over the fire, but stir them, remove the scum, 
and watch that they do not burn to the kettle. 



110 



SUPPLEMENT. 



MEANS OF PRESERVING MEATS, ETC., IN SUMMER. 

I believe that I shall render an important service 
to my readers, by letting them know the means of 
preserving meats during the heats of summer. This 
knowledge is important on the double grounds of 
health and economy, and is especially essential to 
those who live in the country, and are obliged to 
keep their provision for several days, being exposed 
to the double inconvenience of first eating it when it 
is too fresh, and consequently tough, and afterwards 
when it is too far advanced towards putrefaction. 

POUR CONSERVER LE GIBIER, LE BCEUF, ET 
AUTRES VIANDES. 

TO PRESERVE GAME, BEEF, AND OTHER MEATS. 

Envelope in a white napkin the pieces of meat, 
poultry, or game, which you would preserve, while it 
is quite fresh, and place it in the coal-hole, well cov- 
ered with the dust of charcoal, or with coals and 
cinders of the wood fire. In this manner meats may 
be kept for three weeks, without alteration, in spite 
of both heat and dampness. 



AUTRE MOYEN. 

ANOTHER MEANS. 

Cover your pieces of meat, etc., with milk curd ; 
a very advantageous method, as the curdled milk 
does not in the least alter the savor of the meat, and 
will preserve it perfectly well for eight or ten days. 



SUPPLEMENT— SUPPEMENT. HI 

MOYEN D'ATTENDRIR LES VIANDES. 

METHOD OF MAKING MEATS TENDER. 

Before putting upon the spit, or in the pot, a piece 
of butcher's meat, it should be beaten vigorously 
with a wooden roller, at least for one or two minutes. 
This is the grand secret for rendering meats tender 
and delicate ; but in most households they are igno- 
rant of this simple proceeding. 

maniI:re de preparer la volaille avant 
de le faire guire. 

MANNER OP PREPARING POULTRY BEFORE IT IS COOKED. 

When we put a fowl to the fire as soon as it is 
dead, or even within a few hours, unless some pre- 
cautions are taken, it is impossible to serve it tender 
and delicate. The fowl you would serve for dinner 
should be killed the night before, and that which you 
would serve in the evening should be killed early in 
the morning, if not at night before you retire to bed. 
As soon as the fowl is dead, and has ceased bleeding, 
it must, before picking, be plunged in a bucket of 
cold water, so as to cover it entirely. Leave it in 
this water over night, or if killed in the morning till 
evening, at any rate until you are ready to cook it. 
On taking it out of the cold water, plunge it in boil- 
ing water, and the feathers will come off easily ; then 
prepare it according to the way you intend to cook 
it. By these means your fowl will be tender, white, 
and of an exquisite flavor. 

MOYEN DE PRESERVER LE POISSON DE LA 
CORRUPTION, suivant Mme. Gacon-Dufour. 

MEANS OF PRESERVING FISH FROM CORRUPTION, ACCORD- 
ING TO MME. GACON-DUFOUR. 

To keep fish, you must give it a slight boiling in a 



112 SUPPLliMENT—SUPPLEMEN'r. 

small quantity of water, with a little salt. You may 
leave it in this water two or three days without spoil- 
ing, if it is kept at the bottom of the dish and the 
water entirely covers it. 

If you are compelled to keep it longer than three 
days, put the dish again over the fire, add a little 
more salt, and a leaf of laurel. The fish may now 
sustain three boilings — that is, let the water three 
times come to the boiling point, as a greater number 
would destroy its quality. 

You may employ for this operation an earthen 
vase, but must avoid iron, and especially brass or 
copper. A thoroughly tinned vessel, however, may 
be used with safety. 

The same lady has given us a method of treating 
frozen fish, meats, and vegetables, before cooking. 
It is merely to plunge them in cold water ; the frost 
will form a coating of ice around the fish or mea,t. 
This must be removed, and the operation repeated 
until the fish, meat, egg, or fruit, is brought to the 
same temperature as the water. Frozen articles, 
even potatoes, treated in this manner, retain their 
natural qualities. 

MOYEN DE CONSERVER LES GEUFS PENDANT 
TOUT L'HIVER DANS UN £TAT PARE AIT. 

MEANS OF PRESERVING EGGS ALL WINTER IN A PER- 
FECT STATE. 

According to the quantity of eggs you wish to 
preserve, take large, well-glazed earthen pots, and 
put them in, and cover them with any kind of oil, to 
a finger's depth above the eggs. You must be care- 
ful not to touch them with the hands, or with iron, 
so as to hurt the oil, and prevent in consequence the 
preservation of the eggs. By means of this precau- 
tion, the oil will be preserved good and pure, and 
the eggs will be as fresh as when they were put in 



SUPPLEMENT— SUPPLEMENT. 113 

the pots. If you wish to take out any eggs, take 
them out very carefully with a silver spoon. 



AUTRE MANIERE PLUS SIMPLE DE CONSER- 
VER LES (EUFS. 

ANOTHER AND MORE SIMPLE MANNER OF PRESERVING 

EGGS. 

Put some ashes in a coarse sieve or an old strainer ; 
put these ashes in a small cask, or in some pots, and 
as fast as you collect your eggs, you put them in 
these ashes, taking care that they are entirely cover- 
ed, and that they do not touch each other. 

Eggs are said to keep better if placed the small 
end downwards. 

MOYEN D'AVOIR DES GEUFS FRAIS PENDANT 
LES PLUS GRAND FROIDS, ET LES HIVERS 
LES PLUS LONGS, Suivant Mme. Gacon-Dufour. 

MEANS OF HAVING FRESH EGGS IN THE COLDEST AND 
LONGEST WINTER, ACCORDING TO MME. GACON-DUFOUR. 

About the last of October, take a dozen hens and 
put them in the cow-stable, behind a paling or net- 
work, so high that they cannot get over it. Give 
them for their food buckwheat^ and in the morning a 
paste of pounded hemp-seed, in which you put a very 
little barley, and about a sixteenth part of brick, 
pounded and passed through a sieve. This feeding 
will make them lay eggs every day; but by spring, 
the hens are spoiled for laying, and are good for 
nothing but to fatten and kill. 

FIN DE LA PETITE CUISINilRE. 

END OF THE LITTE COOK. 



TABLE DES MATIERES 

PAR ORDRE ALPHABfiTIQUE. 

ALPHABETICAL TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



ABATIS de dinde ou d'oie, en haricot — Stewed giblets of 

turkey or goose 39 

AGNEAU, pan6 et roti — Quarter of lamb, breaded and 

roasted 30 

ALOYAU de boeuf, ^ la broche — Sirloin of beef, roasted. 12 

ALOSE— Shad 45 

ANGUILLES fricassee— Fricaseed eels 43 

des gourmands — Eels for gourmands 42 

^ la Tartare — Eels, Tartar fashion 42 

grillees — Broiled eels 42 

ARTICHAUTS— Artichokes 57 

frites — Fried artichokes 67 

k la Barigoule — Artichokes, Barigoule fashion... 57 

k la Provecyale — Artichokes, Provence fashion.. 58 

ASPERGES— Asparagus 58 

AUBERGINES — Mad-apple, a plant like a cucumber 59 

farcies — Stuffed aubergines 59 

AYOLI, ou beuiTe de Provence — Provence butter 82 

BARBOTS et barbillons — Roach and barbels, small fresh 

water fish 44 

BEIGNETS de pommes— Apple fritters 75 

BETTERAVES en epinards — Beets served as spinnage. 60 

BEURRE de Montpelier — Montpelier butter 83 

d'anchois — Anchovy butter 83 

de noisette — Hazelnut butter 83 

BIFTEC aux fine herbes — Beefsteak with fine herbs 15 

BISCUIT fin— Fine biscuit, delicate cake 95 

BLANQUETTE de veau— White fricasee of veal 23 

BLEU, ou court-bouillon — A boiling for all sorts of fish 43 

BCEUF ^ la mode—Alamode beef 12 

BOUILLABAISE a la Marseillaise— Marseilles fish-stew 56 

BOUILLI resservi — a delicate dish, from cold beef. J 5 

BOUILLON de poule — Chicken broth for the sick 7 

k la minute — Minute soup 7 

rafralchissant — Refreshing broth 11 

— ^— de mou de veau — Neck of veal broth H 



TABLE DES MATIERES— CONTENTS. 115 

BRIOCHES— Buns 96 

BROCKET au bleu— Boiled pike (or pickerel) 43 

frites — Fried pike 44 

au plat — Pike on a plate 44 

gourmand — Pike for a gourmand 45 

CANARD a la bourgeoise — Duck, citizen fashion 38 

aux olives — Duck with olives 38 

aux navets — Duck with turnips 38 

CAPITOL ADE de volailles— A fortress of poultry 39 

CAROTTES k la maitre d'h6tel— Carrots in the style of 

the master of the house 60 

C ARPE au vin — Carp with wine 45 

frites — Fried carp 46 

d la Provenjale — Carp, Provence fashion 46 

CARRfi de veau aux fine herbes — Roasted shoulder of 

veal with fine herbs 20 

de mouton k la bourgeoise — Shoulder of mutton 

fit for a citizen 25 

de mouton k la Perigord — Shoulder of mutton, 

Perigord style 26 

CERISES k I'eau-de-vie— Brandied cherries 104 

d'une autre facon plus delicate — Another manner 

of brandying chenies, much more delicate 105 

CERVELLES de bceuf, veau, mouton — Brains of beef, 

of veal, or mutton 15 

a la bourgeoise — Brains fit for a citizen 16 

en matelote — Beef brains, sailor fashion 16 

frites, ou en beignets — Fried brains 16 

k la poulette — Brains in the style of chicken 17 

CHARLOTTES de pommes— Apple Charlotte 72 

CHOUX k r Allemande — Cabbage, German fashion 60 

a la creme — Cabbages with cream Gl 

farcis — Stuflfed cabbages 61 

CIVET de lievre — Stewed hare 40 

COCHON de lait k la broche — Roasted sucking-pig 31 

COMPOTES de pommes — Apple sauce, or stewed apples 98 

de poires — Stewed pears 98 

au vin — Pears stewed with wine 98 

de coings — Stewed quinces 99 

de prunes — Stewed prunes 99 

' de cerises, fraises, framboises, de groseilles, de 

raisins, de verjus,etc. — Stewed cherries, straw- 
berries, goosebeiTies, raspberries, raisins, etc. . 99 

d'Abricots ou de peches — Stewed apricots or 

peaches 99 

CONCOMBRES— Cucumbers 61 



116 TABLE DES MATIERES— CONTENTS. 

CONCOMBRES a la maitre d'hotel— Cucumbers, etc. . . 61 

k la poulette — Cucumbers like chicken 61 

farcis — Stuffed cucumbers 62 

CONFITURES de cerises— Cherry preserves 106 

CONSOMME— Jelly broth 7 

COTE de boeuf ^ la bonne femme — Rib of beef ^ la good 

woman 14 

k la Proven9ale — Rib of beef, Provence fashion. 14 

COTELETTES de veau en marinade— Veal cutlets in a 

nice pickle 21 

de veau en papillotes — Veal cutlets in papers 22 

de mouton panees — Breaded mutton chops 26 

grillees — Broiled mutton chops 26 

— ;; sautees — Mutton chops jumbled. 26 

CREME a la fleur d'orange — Cream flavored with orange 

flowers 72 

a la vanille — Vanilla cream 73 

aux pistaches — Pistachoe cream 73 

fouette et fromage en neige — Whipped cream 

and cheese like snow 74 

CREPES— Pancakes 76 

CROQUETTES de pommes de terre — Spice cakes, or 

potatoes 62 

DINDE aux truffes — Hen turkey with truffles 36 

DINDON dans son jus — Turkey-cock in its sauce 36 

— ' — ■— en daube — In jelly or thick sauce 36 

— ^-^— (cuisses de) reveillantes — Leg of a turkey warm- 
ed over 37 

l&CREVISSES, homardes, et crabes de mer — Crawfish, 

lobsters, and sea-crabs 55 

ESCARGOTS— Snails 54 

ETUV£E de veau— Veal ragout 2J 

FEUILLETAGE Proven9ale— Pastry of Provence 90 

A I'huile — To make a paste with oil 91 

FILET de boeuf k la broche— Roasted fillet of veal 13 

a la braise — Baked fillet of beef 13 

a la Proven9ale — Fillet of veal, Provence fashion 29 

FOIE de veau k I'exquise — Calf's liver, exquisite style.. 22 
FRAISE de veau ^ la bourgeoise — Calf's pluck, citizen 

fashion 23 

^ a la sauce piquant — Calf's pluck, sauce piquant. 24 

FRICASSE E de veau— Veal fricasee 23 

de poulets — Chicken fricasee 34 

FROMAGE ^ la cr^me — Cheese cream 75 

FRUITS ^ I'eau-de-vie— Brandied fruits 102 

GALETTE k la bourgeoise— Flat past© cake 97 



TABLE DES MATlfiRES— CONTENTS n^ 

GATEAU au riz— Hot rice cake 71 

de Savoye — Savoy cake 94 

biscuit au beurre — butter biscuit • 96 

de Lisbonue — Lisbon cake 96 

GATEAUX a la duchesse — Little puff paste, duchess cake 77 

— a la Magdelaine — Magdalene cake 77 

GELEE de gi'oseilles — Gooseberry and raspberry jelly. . 106 

de coings — Quince jelly 107 

GIGOT de mouton aux cornichons — Leg of mutton with 

cucumbers 

\ I'oseille — Leg of mutton with sorrel 

Gasconade — Leg of mutton, Gascon fashion. . . . 

en chevieuil — Leg of mutton, cooked to resemble 

venison 

a la Kretchmer — Leg of mutton, Kretchmer style 

GR AS-DOUBLE en fricassee — Thick tripe fricasee 19 

a la Provencale — Thick ti'ipe, Provence fashion. 19 

GRENOUILLES, frites— Fried frogs 54 

en fricassee de poulet — Chicken fricasee of frogs 55 

GRILL ADES delicates — Delicate broils 31 

GROSEILLES perlees— Peach sallad 100 

HATCH IS de viandes au gratin — Meat hash 32 

HARICOT de mouton — Mutton ragout 

HARICOTS verts a la maitre-d'hotel — Green beans, etc. 62 

au gi-as — Rich green beans 63 

au maigre — Green beans, Meager 60 

au beurre noir — Green beans witli black butter 63 

INSTRUCTION pour confire les fruits— Instruction for 

preserving fruits 100 

LAITde poule— Hen's milk 11 

L APIN en gibelote — Rabit fricassee 41 

LAMPROIE— Lamprey 43 

L ANGUE de boeuf a I'ecarlate — Tongue of beef 18 

en pRpillotes — Tongue of beef in papers 18 

en cartouches — Tongue of beef in cartridges. . . . 

aux fines herbes — With fine herbs 

Lifi VRE a la broche — Roasted hare 39 

— en civet — Stewed hare 40 

' — au chaudron — Potted hare 41 

MACARONI \\ la Gobert — Macaroni, Gobert style 70 

MAQUE RE AU— Mackerel 50 

^ au beurre noir — Mackerel with black butter. ... 50 

MANIERE de foire le raisine — Manner of making confec- 
tion of grapes 108 

MARMELADE d'Abricots — Marraelade of apricots 102 

de peches — of peaches 102 



118 TABLE DES MATlfi RES— CONTENTS. 

MA.TELOTE h la raarmi^re — fish stew, or hotch potcb 65 

MERLANS frits— Fried whitings 50 

grilles — Broiled whitings 61 

delicats — delicate whitings - . 61 

au gratin — Breaded whitings 61 

MORUE— Salt codfish 63 

a la Proven9ale 53 

MOULE S— Muscles 64 

MOUTON en daube — Mutton with thick sauce 25 

(EUFS d' Angers— Cheese omelets 68 

a la tripe — Eggs prepared like tripe 64 

k la crime — Eggs with cream 65 

au lait — Eggs with milk 65 

au pain, k la Romaine — Eggs with bread 65 

mollets, en sauce — Soft boiled eggs, with sauce. . 66 

au miroir — Eggs in mirror style 66 

brouilles, au naturel — Eggs jumbled or poached 66 

aux truflfes, aux champignons, etc. — Jumbled 

eggs, with truffles, mushrooms, etc 67 

au beurre noir — Eggs with black butter 67 

k la neige — Eggs like snow 67 

OMELETTES— Omelets of diflferent fashions 68 

au rognon — Eidney omelet 69 

sucree — Sugar omelets 69 

aux confitures — Sweetmeat omelets 69 

souffle e — Smothered omelet 70 

rouge — Red omelet 70 

OIE en daube — Goose, in jelly 38 

ORANGES k I'eau-de-vie — Brandied oranges 104 

PALAIS de boeuf ^ la m§nagere — Beefs mouth, etc 19 

a la Lyonnaise — beef's mouth, Lyons fashion 19 

PANADE— Panado 11 

PATE h dresser— Stiff paste 84 

PATE froid — Cold pie, how prepared 84 

de lievre en terrine — Hare pie 86 

chaud — Hot pie 86 

de volaille, aux tmffes — Poultry pie, with truffles 87 

de godiveau — Hot veal pie 88 

d'anguilles — Eel pie 88 

de truites — Trout pie 89 

de saumon frais — Fresh salmon pie 89 

aux huiti'es — Ovster pie 89 

PETITS PATE S aux truffes— Little pies with truffles. . 91 

aux foie gi*as — Little pies of liver 92 

' aux anchois — Little Anchovy pies 92 

■'■■ aux anchois, truffes — Little pies, of anchovies, etc. 93 



TABLE DES MATlfiRES— CONTENTS. 1 19 

PfeCHES 3i Teau-de-vie — ^Brandied peaches 103 

PERDR IX aux choux — Partridge with cabbage 41 

PETITS POIS ^ la F ran 9aise— Green peas, French style 63 

A I'Anglaise — Green peas, English style 64 

PETS de nonne— Nun's Cake 76 

PIGEONS delicats— Delicate pigeons 32 

en compte — Pigeon stew 33 

k la crapaudine — Boiled pigeons 33 

anx petits fois — Pigeons, with green peas 34 

POITRINE de mouton farcie — Stuffed breast of mutton. 30 

sur le gril — Broiled breast of mutton 30 

POMMES d'amour ou tomates farcies — Love apples, or 

tomatoes, stuffed 59 

POT au feu— Meat broth 5 

POT AGE au riz, au vermicelle, au sagou, aux herbes, k 

la pur6e, etc. — Rice soup, vermicelli soup, etc 6 

^ la Julienne — Julian soup 8 

a la Jardiniere — Gardener's soup 9 

printannier — Spring soup 9 

k la semoule 9 

au macaroni — Macaroni soup 9 

au fromage — Cheese soup 10 

aux poissons — Fish soup or chowder 10 

POUR CONFIR LES ABRICOTS— How to preserve 

apricots 101 

POUL ARDE galante— Fat pullet 34 

a la duchesse — Pullet fit for a duchess 35 

■ aux truffes — Pullet, with truffles 35 

RAIE ^ la sauce blanche — Thornback, or skate with white 

sauce 52 

au beurre noire — Skate, with black butter 52 

au beurre blanc — Skate, with white butter 52 

REINE-CLAUDES ^ I'eau-de-vie— Brandied green- 
gages 103 

RIS de veau k la Marengo — Veal sweetbreads, Marengo 

fashion 24 

RIZ au gras — Rich rice soup 9 

au maigre — thin rice soup 10 

au lait — Rice with milk 10 

ROSBIF a I'Anglaise— English roastbeef 14 

ROUELLES de veau— Fillets of veal 24 

de mouton — Fillets of- mutton /■^^^ 

ROUGETS— Roach 52 

grilles — Broiled roach 52 

SAL ADE d'oranges — Salad of oranges 100 

de p6ches — ^Peach salad 100 




120 TABLE DJJS MATXfiaES^CONTENTS. 

SALSIFIS oil seor<p^H<giSSeS-T~iBt)at*s head or soake weed 64 

SAUCE blanche— White sauce 78 

aux cSpres-^CapejT sauce 78 

aux anchois— ^Anchovy >sauce - w 78 

a la oi»em8 amaHdee — C^'eana of almond sauce. . . * 79 

a pauvre henime— Poor man's gadce. .... Ju ii;. . ^ 79; 

poui^ les artiohautes, etc.— -Sauce for artichokjes* «te.- 7d 

■ ■ -piqiaaBte — Sharf), or pUjuant sauce i .1 * v • 70^ 

'■ ■ '■ poivrade — ^Pepper sauce. 80 

-^— — ravigotte — Chives sauce — 80 

a la renioulade — Sauce piqu^at of mustard 80 

Robert— Robert's sauce . , 81 

-* a ]a Tartfli'e — Tartar sauce 81 

•^ Tomat-e — Tonmto sauce 83 

- — — bechamel an gi-as — Rich bechamel sauce 82 

au raaigi-e — Thin bechamel 82 

SAUMON-au bleu — Bailed salmon 47 

-^ gi'ille- — Broiled salmon 47 

- — - 'a la broehe — Roasted salmon 47- 

SOLE S,- limandes, caiTelets, etc.r— Soles, flat-fish, etc. . . ^^ 4^ 

TANGHE5 aux fines- herbes— Tench with fine tieits. . . 4& 

-^ on fricassee — -Fricasee of Tench 47 

TENDONS a k poulette — Veal tendons, like chickens. . 46 

THON frais— Fresh tunny. 48 

- — — • en papiHotos — Fresh tunny .in papers 48 

a la daube — Tunny, in jelly 48 

TIMBALE— Dinirn pie 87 

TOURTE de fruits— Fruit pics 93 

d'epinards — Spinnage pie 94 

de-creme — Cream pie .-.-•.. - 94 

TIlUITE a la Gfenevoise — Trout, Geneva feshion 49 

TURBOT— Turbot :... .^i^. - 49 

VIVE— Sek dragon. 51 

VOL-AU^VENT fi k- financiere.'. 93 

POL li CON SERVER le gibier, !e bceu^ eta^To pre- 
serve game,-beef, etc.. ...... ., ^^- 110 

AUTRE SlOYEN— Anoth^means iU.Ld. 110 

MO YEN d'attendrir les-viandes — Method ef making meate 

tender. ..•.--•.'.'..-.--•..- ^-- -. . Ill 

MANIERE de preparer la volaille avantde le faire euire— 

Manner -of preparing poultry for cooking Ill 

MOYEN de ppesei-ver le poissonde la corruption — Means 

- of preserving fish from corruption . - . - .i; 111 

MOYJEN' de conserver les oeufs pendant tout I'hiver dans 

: uii etat parfttit — Means of preserving eggs all Hvintei' 112 

AUTRE maniere plus simple — Another more simple. ... 113 



