
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




Digitized by Google 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 



The Gastronomy Collection of 
George Holl 



d by Google 



d by Google 



d by Google 



d by Google 



^ILLUSTRATIONS OF EATING; 



DISPLAYING THB 



OMNIVOROUS CHARACTER OF MAN; 



AND BXHIBITINO THB 



J^ATIVES OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES AT FEEDING TIME. 




Kp 9 Set&£ater« 



^* Every moving thing thnt livetb shiill be meiit for 70a ; even as the 
green herb have I given you all thingt." 



LONDON : 

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 
4, OLD COMPTON STREET, SOHO SQUARE. 

MDCCCXLYII. 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



f/* 



uu 



C. ANn J. ADLARD, PRINTBR8, BARTUOLOUBW CLOSE. 

digitized by Google 



drrtntso 

V3 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Chap. I. — Interest and importance of the subject — Three 
grand methods of procuring food, the simple^ the adven- 
turoWf and the mgeniow — Paley's Pigeons . 7 

Chap. II. — Brief account of the process of digestion . 13 

Chap. III. — Grand constitutional distinction between Man 
and Brute — Comparative view of some structural differences 
in the Tiger, in the Sheep, and in Man — The crude re- 
gimen considered — The question, " Have we a reasonable 
claim to destroy animal Ufe ?" considered — Philosophical 
inference 17 

Chap. IV. — Description of the food of the Greenlanders — 
Their extraordinary politeness — ^The food of the Lap- 
landers, and their singular burial customs . . 26 

Chap. V. — The immense quantity of animal food required by the 
inhabitants of high latitudes — The reason for this — Re- 
ligious fastings modified to suit different climates — Dis- 
pensation in favour of several kinds of water-birds 31 

Chap. VI. — The food of the Calmuk Tartars — Extreme hos- 
pitality of the Cochin-Chinese — Description of a Chinese 
entertainment in high life — Food of the lower orders — 
Indiscriminate feeding of the natives of Siam, Pegu, and 
Aracan — Healthy regimen of the Ladrone Islanders 34 



11- 



4 CONTENTS. 

Chap. YII. — Legalized cannibalism of the Battas of Sumatra — 
Odd proof of filial affection in the Cingalese— Habits of 
the Hindoos — Fruit-eating in Persia . . .40 

Chap. VIII. — Gluttony of the Australians, and their promis- 
cuous bill of fare 44 

Chap. IX.— Cannibal feasts of the New Zealanders . 48 

Chap. X. — Habits and customs of the Hottentots — Reptiles, 
Insects, and Monkeys used by the Mexicans — Expedients 
to subdue hunger — Horseflesh, Vipers, Snails, Frogs, 
Toads 50 

Chap. XL — Curious description of an Abyssinian feast . 56 

Chap. XII. — The Geophagists, or Earth-eaters — The wood and 
bark of trees used as food 61 

Chap. XIII. — Man becomes more fastidious in his diet as he 
advances in civilization — Impossibility of enumerating the 
substances used as food by civilized nations — Adultera- 
tions—Doings of the Parisian restaurateurs — Refined me- 
thod of adulterating animal food — Foie gras — Brawn 65 

Chap. XIV. — Food used under the influence of starvation — 
Siege of Paris — Horrible Fate of Mons. Foscue . . 73 

Chap. XV.— What is nutrition ?— The doctors at fault— Milk 
the most important aliment-^ Its constituents — Univer- 
sality and predominance of water in the economy of 
Nature — Relative proportion of fluids and solids in the 
human body — Unsatisfactory results of analyses — Oil or 
fat in every vegetable substance — Interesting experi- 
ment of Liebig 76 

Chap. XVI. — Rationale of Roasting and Boiling — Curious me- 
thods of preparing food in vogue among the Ancients — 
The bontte bouche 83 



NoTX. Last line of p. 28 should be last line but one of p. 29. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



THE BEEF-EATER TO HIS FRIENDS. 



In diBhing up the galHmaafry which is here 
presented to the omniyorous reader^ no pains have 
heen spared to render it savoury as well as whole- 
some, and to adapt it to every variety of taste. The 
ingredients have heen collected from all parts of the 
globe, and it is hoped that the condiments will be 
found both piquant and spicy. The Beef-Eater also 
trusts that it will not be found deficient in salt. 



d by Google 



But man is a carnivorous production, 

And must have meals — at least one meal a day : ' 
He cannot live, like "woodcocks, upon suction ; 

But, like the shark and tiger, must have prey. 
And though his anatomical construction 

Bears vegetables in a grumbling way. 
Your labouring people think, beyond all question, 
Beef, veal, and mutton, better for digestion. 

Byron. 



d by Google 




ON THE 

OMNIVOROUS CHARACTER OF MAN. 



CHAPTER I. 

Interest and Importance of the Subject — Three Grand Methods 
of procuring Food — the simplCf the adventurous^ and the 
ingenious — Paley's Pigeons. 

In a "Treatise on Diet/ composed by Hippocrates, 
he endeavours to make it appear that all men are 
bom with the same mental capacity, and that the 
difference which, in after life, is discoverable in the 
minds of different individuals is to be attributed 
entirely to the quantity and quality of the food they 
have eaten. The amount of truth in this proposition 
we will not pretend to determine ; but it is an ac- 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



8 ILLUSTRATIONS 

knowledged fact that the metaphysical depends upon 
the physical; or, in other words, that the mind 
takes its tone, in a great measure, if not entirely 
from the sluggishness or energy of the physical 
organs of which it forms a part, and of which it is, 
in fact, the most important manifestation. These 
physical organs, as we are perfectly aware, are 
formed of a modification of those suhstances which 
we use as food ; consequently, our eating and drink- 
ing constitute the groundwork, not only of our 
hodies, hut of our minds also — fashioning the one, 
and giving temper to the other. 

This heing the case, we may readily imagine that, 
when this suhject shall he investigated with that 
attention which it so well merits, we may he ahle 
to ascertain the disposition and hias of an individual 
from a knowledge of the quantity and quality of the 
aliment which he devours, as unerringly as can now 
he done hy the more refined systems of physiognomy 
and phrenology. 

In fact, the grand outline of this principle is 
already acknowledged. It is plain that the national 
food forms the national character ; in proof of which 
we have only to look, on the one hand, at the 
smooth, slippery, and volatile character of the soup-, 
snail-, and frog-eating Frenchmen ; and on the other, 
at the heavy, dull, and imperturhahle character of oiur 
own heef-and-pudding-eating countrymen. There is 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF BATIKG. 9 

eyidently a mysterious canse-and-effect connexion 
between the food and the character; when the 
nature of this connexion shall be discovered, the 
subject will at once be elevated to the dignity of a 
science, and form an important chapter in the history 
of mankind. 

Having thus, we hope, satisfactorily established 
the interest and great importance of our theme, let 
us proceed to our '* Illustrations/' 

But, before entering into the pith of our subject, 
it may not be uninteresting, briefly to describe the 
process of digestion; and notice a few other par- 
ticulars which appear relevant to our main object. 

Mrs. Glass, of culinary celebrity, in commencing 
her instructions to prepare a certain fish for the 
table, very pertinently observes, " first catch your 
fish." This is a very necessary preliminary : the 
food, before it can possibly be subjected to the action 
of the digestive apparatus, must first be procured. 
Now, there are different methods, in different coun- 
tries, of procuring the food. In countries inhabited 
by savages the general method seems to be that of 
hunting ; but in civilized countries the methods are 
extremely various. They may all, however, be 
grouped into three grand orders, namely, — 

1. The Simple Order. 

2. The Adventurous Order. 

3. The Ingenious Order. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



10 ILLUSTHATIONS 

To the first of these categories belong those straight- 
forward and single-minded individuals, who procure 
their food by the sweat of their brows; to the 
second, those who, inflated with magnanimous ideas 
of liberty and independence, prefer the more ad- 
venturous mode of appropriating the food of others ; 
to the third (and this is by far the most limited order 
of the three), those who contrive to secure a superabun- 
dance of the very best materials for the exercise of 
their digestive organs by the dexterous application 
of a machine, which we cannot better designate than 
by calling it the Corn-law Mill.* The machinery of 
this miU is so ingeniously contrived, that it conveys 
nearly all the fat of the land into the possession of 
the inventors of the machine, and throws out merely 
the husks and the refuse to the poor devils who 
constitute the first order, and who are obliged, 
nevertheless, to keep the wheels of this master-piece 
continually going round. 

The members of the third order, might, perhaps, 
without much impropriety, have been classed with 
those of the second; the principles of the third, 
or Ingenious Order, appear to be merely a refined 
modification of those of the second, or Adventurous 
Order. 

* This null is, at present (1846), considerably out of 
repair, and there is a probability that it will speedily fall to 
pieces. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 1 1 

The highly unnatural state of our social arrange- 
ments, on the subject of food-procuring, cannot be 
more correctly described than in the language of the 
clear-sighted Paley. 

"If," says he, "you should see a flock of pigeons in 
a field of com, and if (instead of each picking where 
and what it liked — taking just as much as it wanted, 
and no more) you should see ninety-nine of them 
gathering all they got, into a heap, reserving nothing 
for themselves but the chaflf and the refuse ; keeping 
this heap for one, and that the weakest, perhaps 
worst, pigeon of the flock ; sitting round, and look- 
ing on, all the winter, whilst this one was devouring, 
throwing about, and wasting it; and if a pigeon, 
more hardy or hungry than the rest, touched a grain 
of the hoard, all the others instantly flying upon it, 
and tearing it to pieces : if you should see this, you 
would see nothing more than what is every day 
practised and established among men. Among men, 
you see the ninety-and-nine, toihng and scraping 
together a heap of superfluities for one (and this 
one, too, oftentimes the feeblest and worst of the 
whole set, — a child, a woman, a madman, or a fool) ; 
getting nothing for themselves all the while, but a 
little of the coarsest of the provision, which their 
own industry produces ; looking quietly on, while 
they see the fruits of all their labour spent or 
spoiled ; and if one of the number tak^ or touch a 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



12 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



particle of the hoard, the others joining against him, 
and hanging him for the theft/* 

A three-hours' speech, from Lord Brougham him- 
self, could not place the fact in a clearer light. 




d by Google 



OP EATING. 13 

CHAPTER 11. 
Brief Account of the ProeeM of Digestioii. 

We will now suppose the food to have been pro- 
cured by one or other of the aforesaid methods 
{rCimporte laquelle), and duly introduced to the 
mouth, where it is cut to pieces, and ground by the 
action of the teeth, and, at the same time^ is reduced 
to a moist and soft mass by its admixture with the 
saliva. 

Thus prepared, it passes slowly down the oesopha- 
gus or gullet, into the stomach, where the process 
of digestion commences ; the first stage of which is 
effected by means of the gastric juice, aided by the 
unceasing action of the sides of the stomach. 

Various and conflicting are the opinions of anato- 
mists upon the nature and functions of this impor- 
tant organ. To use the words of the celebrated 
John Hunter, — "Some physiologists will have it 
that the stomach is a mill ; others, that it is a fer- 
menting-vat ; others again, that it is a stewpan : but, 
in my opinion, gentlemen, it is neither a mill, nor a 
fermenting-vat, nor a stewpan ; but a stomachy gen- 
tlemen — a STOMACH." 

To resume. The gastric juice is a peculiar fluid. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



14 ILLUSTRATIONS 

which is secreted and given out by the inner coat of 
the stomach, and which not only exerts a very power- 
ful action in chemically dissolving the food, but 
also produces some changes in it that have, as yet, 
defied explanation upon any known principles of 
chemistry. 

The solvent power of the gastric juice is, indeed, 
very great. Besides the ordinary substances which 
it acts upon, it will dissolve cartilage, bone, wood, 
and even iron ; but it will not reduce the least bit of 
cork, nor the smallest fibre of cotton-wool ; and it is 
important to recollect that it will not dissolve the 
membranous skins of any kind of fruit. 

We have a familiar instance of the operation of 
gastric juice in the formation of curds and whey. 
Rennet, which is the fluid used to curdle the milk, 
b, in fact, the gastric juice (diluted) from the sto- 
mach of the calf. Cheese is likewise made from nulk 
by means of the same fluid. 

The gastric juice performs a very important part 
in the process of digestion ; and, in acting upon the 
substances introduced into the stomach, it is aided 
by a peculiar action of the sides of.the stomach, by 
which every portion of the food is brought into con- 
tact with the gastric juice. The result of this is, 
that the mutton, and the turnips, and the pudding, 
and the cheese, are all converted into a soft, uniform, 
pulpy mass — each article of food having completely 

digitized by Google 



OP EATING. 15 

lost its indiyidual character. This mass is called 
chyme ; which word merely means certain ingredients 
softened and incorporated. 

When the food has been properly reduced to 
chyme, the action of the stomach forces it into the 
first portion of the intestinal canal, called the duo- 
denum, which is, in every respect, a second stomach 
where it mixes with fresh secretions, and undergoes 
another change. These fresh secretions are, first, 
the bile, secreted by the liver; and, second, the 
pancreatic juice, secreted by the pancreas. 

The effect of this admixture is the separation of 
the chyme into two parts. The first and important 
part is called chyle (which simply means juice, or 
extract). It is a milky fluid, and constitutes the 
nutritious matter. The second is the refuse, or that 
part which is either indigestible, or unfit for being 
converted into chyle. 

The chyle, thus elaborated, is drawn in or ab- 
sorbed by the lacteal vessels, as it passes along the 
succeeding parts of the alimentary canal. From the 
intestine the chyle is conveyed by the lacteals to a 
vessel called the thoracic duct, which ascends in the 
back part of the chest, and pours its contents into a 
large vein near the heart, from whence it is sent to 
the lungs, there to be still further purified, before it 
contributes to- the general nourishment of the body. 

This, although a very meagre outline of the process 

digitized by Google 



16 



ILLU8TBATION8 



of digestion, must be sufficient for our present pur- 
pose. In fact, to give but a very limited view of all 
the organs connected with digestion, would occupy 
the whole of our space, and be inconsistent with our 
present object. 




d by Google 



OP EATING. 17 



CHAPTER III. 

Grand constitutional distinction between Man and Brute — 
Comparative view of some structural differences in the Tiger, 
in the Sheep, and in Man — ^The crude regimen considered — 
The question, " Have we a reasonable claim to destroy ani- 
mal life ?" considered — Philosophical inference. 

One considerable distinction between mankind 
and the brute creation is manifest in this, — that 
whereas the various species of animals are, for the 
most part, restricted to particular regions or lo- 
calities, man is spread over every portion of the 
earth's surface. 

As an exemplification of this, the lion is found only 
in the warm countries of Asia and AMca, and the 
tiger ispecuHar to the south-eastern portions of Asia. 
The species of apes which most nearly approach the 
human form are all limited to small districts in hot 
regions; and when carefully removed to cold cU- 
mates, cannot be preserved against those diseases 
which arise from great sensibility to cold. The va- 
rious tribes are confined within very narrow limits : 
the orang-outang is found only in the island of 
Borneo, and the chimpanzee in the west of Africa. 
The same may be said of the camel, which thrives 

2 



d by Google 



18 ILliUSTBATIONS 

only in hot sandy countries ; and of the elephant, 
one species of which is confined to Asia, the other 
to Africa. The animals of North and South America 
are, with very few exceptions, peculiar to those conti- 
nents ; and the animals of New Holland are altogether 
pecuhar. 

Man, on the contrary, is not restricted to any par- 
ticular locality. His constitution is of the most 
accommodating kind ; and, accordingly, we find him 
existing in almost every part of the world. 

The extremes of heat and cold which a human 
being is able to bear with impunity seem almost in- 
credible to those who, like ourselves, inhabit a com- 
paratively temperate climate. 

In many parts of North America the mercury 
freezes in the thermometer; and on the shores of 
Hudson's Bay brandy freezes in rooms in which 
fires are kept : yet the inhabitants go about hunt- 
ing in those latitudes. On the other hand, the 
most populous parts of Asia are the hottest, and 
the islands immediately under the equator are fiilly 
peopled. 

The sultry interior of Africa swarms with a negro 
population. In Senegal, in Sierra Leone, in the de- 
serts of South America, in South Carolina, — the ther- 
mometer, during the seasons of heat, ranges from 
100 to 115 degrees. And not only does man thus 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 19 

establish himself in almost every degree of latitude, 
his ingenuity procuring food, clothing, and a place 
to lay his head, but he thrives, and increases and 
multiplies. 

The same capability for occupying all situations is 
observable in his being placed on plains and on 
mountains — ^in the lowest situations, and on positions 
so high, that the pressure of the atmosphere is re- 
duced to two thirds of what it is on the medium 
surface of the globe. 

It is evident, therefore, that to a being so exten- 
sively distributed every kind of food must be con- 
genial, as it would be utterly impossible for him to 
find the same description of produce in cUmates so 
dissimilar. 

In those extreme latitudes, where the cold precludes 
the possibility of the least vegetation from springing 
up during the far greater portion of the year, the 
inhabitants find it both necessary and wholesome to 
live on a diet composed of animal food. 

As we approach the temperate zone we find that 
vegetables are used in conjunction with animal food — 
the consumption of vegetables gradually increasing 
as we draw nearer the equator, where we find that 
the principal ^«rt of human sustenance is derived from 
the vegetable kingdom. Rice, mullet, maize, the 
plaintain, the yam, the cassava, the banana, nuts of 
various kinds, spices, and cooling fruits — these are 

digitized by Google 



20 ILLUSTEATIONS 

the substances upon which the natives of tropical 
climates chiefly subsist. 

The principal reason (independent of climate) 
why the different species of animals are confined 
to limited localities is, that the nature of their phy- 
sical organs restricts them to a particular kind of 
food. 

If we examine the skull of a tiger, we find that 
the upper and under jaws are connected by a simple 
hinge-joint, which allows of only one kind of mo- 
tion, namely, a motion precisely similar to that of a 
pair of pincers when they are opened and shut. 

If we examine, in the same manner, the skull of 
a sheep, we there see a hinge-joint of a very different 
construction. It not only allows of a motion to open 
and shut the mouth in a perpendicular direction, 
though not to so great an extent as in the tiger, but 
it also admits of a considerable degree of motion 
from side to side. 

On an examination of the human skuU, it is evi- 
dent that the jaws have a power of motion of an in- 
termediate character, possessing the vertical motion 
of the tiger, and the lateral motion of the sheep ; 
but neither of those motions to so great an extent 
as by those animals. Look at the teeth in the 
jaws of the tiger ; there we see them pointed, and 
jagged, and sharp, and of three distinct kinds. 
(See Fig. 1.) 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



or EATINO. 



21 




Fig. 1. 

But it will be seen, by a glance at the following 
figure, that the teeth of the sheep are only of two 
kinds; that in the upper jaw there are no front 
teeth, and that the back teeth are broad and rough, 
and altogether diflFerent from those of the tiger. 




Fig. 2. 

Compare the teeth of these two animals with those 
in the jaws of the human skull. (See Fig. 3.) Here 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



22 



ILLUSTBATIONS 




Kg. 3. 

we find the teeth of three kinds, as in the tiger, hut 
in shape there is a sHght approximation to those of 
the sheep. The intermediate structure prevails as 
well in the teeth as in the articulation of the jaws ; 
neither so broad and rough as those of the sheep, 
nor so sharp and jagged as those of the tiger. 

Besides these varieties in the teeth and jaws, we 
find equally remarkable varieties in the length of the 
intestinal canal. Compared with the length of the 
body, it is as 

3 to 1 in the tiger ; 
26 to 1 in the sheep ; and 

6 to 1 in man. ^ . 

digitized by LiOOgle 



OP EATING. 23 

Thus it is obvious that, in comparing the masti- 
catory and digestive organs of these two animals with 
those of the human subject, the organization of the 
latter occupies an intermediate position, partaking, 
to a limited extent, of the nature of both the carni- 
vorous and the herbivorous ; and, consequently, ca- 
pable of digesting animal as well as vegetable food. 

This being the case, it will be unnecessary to enter 
into a formal refutation of the doctrine of those who 
contend that vegetables alone form the natural diet 
of man. This antediluvian notion is completely set 
aside by the appeal Vfe have just made to comparative 
anatomy. 

With respect to those eccentric wise-acres who 
maintain that cooking is an unnatural process, and 
that we ought to eat our various articles of food with- 
out any preparation, — to those it is only necessary to 
say, that if our judgment and ingenuity are not to be 
exercised in relation to our food, the same principle 
must, of course, be extended to all our articles of 
dress ; and this will at once restore us to the de- 
lightftd simpUcity of the age of innocence, before 
even fig-leaves were thought of. In the article of 
clothing, Nature has been more niggardly to man 
than to any other animal. She sends him into the 
world in a truly unsophisticated state; and those 
who act upon the principle of taking nothing but 
what is presented to them by Dame Nature, must 
be content to remain in that state : — 

digitized by Google 



24 ILLUSTEATIONS 

** ChacuD k son petit Tilain goiit.'* 

There is yet another class of fine-spinning theorist* 
which must not be left unnoticed, and that is the 
nltra-sentimental anti-cruelty to animals' class, who, 
with great pomp and gravity, declare that we have 
no right to deprive anything of life which God has 
created. A startling proposition, truly! But on 
what foundation does it rest ? According to these 
innocents man must not eat a beefsteak, but a lion 
or a tiger may riot on a hecatomb ; man must not 
regale himself with a leg of lamb, but a wolf may 
revel on the firstlings of the flock ; man must not 
adorn his table with hare, or partridge, or fowl, — oh 
no, — but a fox may worry and devour them at his 
leisure. And thus it is throughout all nature — the 
strong feeding on the weak, and often the weak 
feeding on the strong. 

" Fleas there are that live on men, 
Whilst other fleas bite them again, 
And they have other fleas that bite 'em. 
Thus flea bites flea ad infinitum /" 

Now if animals are thus permitted to eat each other, 
surely man, who is the chief of animals, may be al- 
lowed to eat his mutton without laying himself under 
the imputation of violating the order of nature, or of 
being accused of possessing a depraved and sanguinary 
appetite. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 



25 



Besides, we haye already shown that the human 
organization is expressly adapted to the assimilation 
of animal substances ; and if man's stomach was 
made for mutton, it is by no means unphilosophical 
to infer that mutton was made for man's stomach. 




d by Google 



26 ILLUSTRATIONS 



CHAPTER IV. 

Description of the Food of the Greenlanders — ^Their extraor« 
dinary Politeness — The Food of the Laplanders, and their 
singular Burial Customs. 

Having, we hope, satisfactorily proved that man 
is a camiyorous animal, as well as a vegetable feeder, 
we will now take a peep at the various countries in 
which he has established himself, and see what he 
eats, and how he eats it ; whereby we shall discover 
that his capacity for eating, and his instinctive desire 
for particular kinds of food, are wonderfully modi- 
fied to suit the varying circumstances by which he 
may be surrounded. 

Greenland. — If we turn our attention to the 
native inhabitants of Greenland, we there find them 
living exclusively on animal substances. Sometimes, 
indeed, they find a few berries, which, for a treat, 
they preserve in blubber ; and sometimes they make 
a meal of the sea-weed which they pick up from the 
shore ; but these are merely exceptions to the general 
rule. 

They have advanced so far in the arts of civilized 
life as to receive parties and provide entertainments. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OP BATING. 27 

These usually consist of three or four dishes, and it 
is considered polite in a stranger to require great 
pressing before he partakes of anything. When we 
consider what these dishes are composed of, we would 
be apt to imagine that great pressing would be abso- 
lutely necessary. The greatest delicacy, in many 
cases, is part of a whale's tail, rendered soft and 
easy of digestion by being half putrid, or, perhaps, 
a seal's carcase in the same delicious state. By way 
of dainties, they sometimes present the flesh of bears, 
belugas, sharks, dogs, gulls, and bull-heads. 

When they wish to treat a European with extra- 
ordinary politeness, before offering him a piece of 
meat, they lick off the blood and dirt with their 
tongues ; and, moreover, it is considered a gross in- 
sult to decline the gift. 

The seal, being generally abundant and easily 
caught, constitutes nearly the whole of their food ; 
the most important additions being flsh and sea-fowl. 
Train oil is used for preserving their food, and blub- 
ber is principally eaten to the dried smelt. 

Their great time for feasting is when they happen 
to kill a whale, or And one dead on the shore ; in 
which case every one runs to the prize, cutting off 
and carrying away as much blubber as he can obtain. 

Their cooking is performed in vessels of pot-stone, 
suspended over lamps, or in metal cauldrons in the 
open air, and is in accordance with the disgusting 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



28 ILLUSTRATIONS 

dirtiness of their other habits. The vessels in which 
they cook are never cleaned, except in being licked 
by the dogs; and the meat, when taken out, is 
simply laid on the ground, or perhaps on an old skin, 
not much cleaner. 

In the interior of Greenland there exists a horde 
of savages, who are, perhaps, the most indiscriminate 
feeders of all. Every animal which falls into their 
clutches is made food of, from the bodies of their 
enemies down to those delicate zoological specimens 
which they find on each others' heads. In times of 
scarcity they wander to the coast, and subsist upon 
sea-weed. 

As might naturally be supposed, there is not much 
variety in the food used by all the barbarous tribes 
inhabiting north of sixty degrees. Vegetables in 
those high latitudes scarcely exist, and of animals 
there are not many. The few differences which are 
observable between the various countries in this re- 
spect, consist chiefly in the preparation of their 
scanty bill of fare, though they are very often content 
to take it in its simplest form, namely, without any 
preparation at all. 

Lapland. — The Laplanders live principally upon 
dried fish, and the flesh of the reindeer and bear. 
They make a kind of bread which is composed of 
the pounded bones of fishes, mixed with the tender 
are left as the priest's perquisites, — a sort of post- 
Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 29 

bark of the pine or birch free. Their usual drink is 
whale-oil, or water in which juniper berries have been 
infused. 

Their burial customs are not a little singular, and 
as they involve the interesting subject of eatables, 
they are apropos of our present subject. When they 
bury a corpse, they put into the coffin an axe, a flint 
and steel, a flask of brandy, some venison, and dried 
fish. "With the axe the deceased is supposed to hew 
down the bushes or boughs that may obstruct his 
passage in the other world ; the provisions are for 
biTn to subsist on during the journey ; and the flint 
and steel are designed for striking a light, should he 
find himself in the dark at the day of judgment. 

The Muscovite Laplanders observe other ceremo- 
nies still more gross. They not only supply the 
defunct with money on his own account, but likewise 
provide him with money for the porter of Paradise, 
and a certificate from the priest, directed to St. 
Peter, specifying that the bearer has lived like a good 
Christian, and deserves to be admitted into heaven. 
They walk in procession several times round the 
body, demanding in a whining tone the reason of 
his leaving them. After several other equally im- 
portant mummeries, the body is conveyed to the 
place of interment on a sledge, drawn by a reindeer, 
and this, together with the clothes of the deceased, 
mortem offering. Three days after the funeral, the 

digitized by Google 



30 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



kinsmen and friends of the departed are invited to 
an entertainment, where they eat the flesh of the 
reindeer which had the honour to drag the corpse to 
the burying-ground. 




d by Google 



OF EATING. 31 



CHAPTER V. 



The immense quantity of Animal Food required by the inha- 
bitants of high latitudes — The reason for this — Religious 
Fastings modified to suit different Climates — Dispensation 
in favour of several kinds of water-birds. 

One striking peculiarity of those countries within 
and bordering the arctic circle is, that the inhahi- 
tants require four or five times more food than the 
inhabitants of temperate climates. Even Englishmen 
who are stationed at the Fur Companies' factories 
find it necessary to eat nearly as much as the natives 
in order to keep up their health and strength. The 
ordinary allowance of buffalo beef, or other animal 
food, at those establishments, is from ten to twelve 
pounds a-day for each mau. 

From which it seems obvious that the intense cold 
of these regions gives greater tone and activity to 
the digestive orgaus, and at the same time takes 
away that disgust to certain gross and oily articles 
of food which appears to be so natural to the inhabi- 
tants of a milder atmosphere. It is well known 
that Europeans, who spend the winter at Nova 
Zembla, are obliged to follow the example of the 
natives, by drinkiug the blood of the reindeer and 
eating raw flesh. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



32 ILLUSTRATIONS 

This change of the quality and increase of the 
quantity seems to be absolutely necessary to support 
the great expenditure of animal heat, occasioned by 
the lowness of the temperature. 

On the other hand, the Brahmins of India, the in- 
habitants of the Canary Islands, and of the Brazils, 
&c., who live almost exclusively on herbs, grains, 
and roots, inhabit a climate, against the excessive 
heat of which they have to seek means of protection ; 
now, the digestion of vegetables is attended with 
less heat and irritation. The philosophical or reli- 
gious sects, by which the abstinence from animal 
food was considered as a meritorious act, were all in- 
stituted in warm climates. The school of Pythagoras 
flourished in Greece, and the Anchorets, who in the be- 
ginning of the Christian religion peopled the solitude 
of Thebais, could not have endured such long fastings, 
or supported themselves on dates and water, in a more 
severe climate. In proof of this, the monks who re- 
moved into different parts of Europe, were obliged 
to relax the excessive severity of such a regimen, 
and yield to the irresistible influence of the climate. 
The most austere came to add to vegetables, which 
formed the base of their food, eggs, butter, fish, and 
even water-fowl. In books of casuistry, it may be 
seen on what ridiculous grounds there was granted a 
dispensation in favour of plovers, water-hens, wild 
ducks, snipes, scoters, — birds whose brown flesh, more 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 33 

animalized and more heatings ought to have been 
proscribed from the kitchens of the monasteries much 
more strictly than that of common poultry. 

To the inhabitants of warm countries temperance, 
or eyen occasional abstinence, is no very difficult vir- 
tue ; northern nations, on the contrary, are voracious 
from instinct and necessity. 

They swallow enormous quantities of food, and 
prefer those substances which in digestion produce 
the most heat. Obliged to struggle incessantly 
against the action of cold, which tends to benumb 
the vital powers, to suspend every organic motion, 
their life is but a continued act of resistance to ex- 
ternal influences. Those nations that occupy the 
confines of the habitable globe, in which man is 
scarcely able to withstand the severity of the climate, 
the inhabitants of Kamschatka, the Samoiedes, and 
Esquimaux, live on the rank and stimulating flesh of 
whales, walruses, bears, beavers, otters, and foxes ; 
and on fish that, in the heaps in which they are piled 
up, have already undergone a certain degree of pu- 
trefactive fermentation. The abuse of spirituous 
liquors is fatal to the European transported to the 
burning climate of the West Indies; the Russian 
drinks spirituous liquors with a sort of impunity, 
and lives to an advanced age amidst excesses under 
which an inhabitant of the south of Europe would 
sink. 

Digitized byX^OOgle 



34 ILLUSTRATIONS 



CHAPTER VI. 

The Food of the Cahnuc Tartars — Extreme hospitality of the 
Cochin-Chinese — Description of a Chinese Entertainment in 
high life — Food of the lower orders — Indiscriminate feed- 
ing of the Natives of Siam, Pegu, and Aracan — Healthy 
regimen of the Ladrone Islanders. 

Tartary. — The wandering Calmuc Tartars eat 
the flesh of horses, wild asses, and other animals, 
either raw, or with a slight degree of preparation 
which it very often undergoes by putrefying under 
their saddles. Their common drink is mare's milk, 
fermented with the flour of millet. 

Cochin-China. — The Cochin-Chinese are repre- 
sented as frugal, and hospitable to the following 
degree: A Cochin-Chinese traveller, who has not 
money sufficient to defray his expenses at an inn, 
enters the first house of the town or village he arrives 
at, where he waits for the hour of dinner, takes part 
with the family, and goes away when he thinks 
proper, without speaking a word, or any person ask- 
ing him a single question. If such a summary 
method of obtaining the great meal were established 
in England, there is every reason to believe that it 
would meet with general encouragement. 

In most countries eggs are considered best when 



d by Google 



OP EATING. 35 

new-laid, but in Cocbin-China putrid and half- 
hatched eggs are reckoned delicacies, and are sold 
for thirty per cent, more than fresh ones. 

China. — The Chinese are famous for the richness 
and variety of their entertainments, although some 
of their viands are rather peculiar. 

Captain Laplace attended one of their feasts, which 
he describes. He says, *' The first course was laid 
out in a great number of saucers, and consisted of 
various relishes in a cold state, among which were 
salted earthworms, prepared and dried, but so cut 
up that I fortunately did not know what they were 
untn I had swallowed them ; smoked fish aud ham, 
both of them cut up into extremely small slices ; 
besides which there was what they call Japan leather, 
a sort of darkish skin, hard and tough, with a strong 
and far from agreeable taste, and which seemed to 
have been macerated for some time in water. All 
these dishes, without exception, swam in soup. On 
one side figured pigeons' eggs cooked in gravy, to- 
gether with ducks and fowls cut very small, and 
immersed in a dark-coloured sauce; on the other, 
little balls made of sharks' fins, pounded shrimps, 
and maggots of an immense size. 

" I had great difficulty in seizing my prey in the 
midst of these several bowls fiUed with gravy. In 
vain I tried, in imitation of my host, to hold their 
wretched substitute for a fork between the thumb and 

Digitized by Google 



36 ILLUSTEATIONS 

the first two fingers of the right hand, for the cursed 
chop-sticks slipped aside every moment, leaving he- 
hind them the unhappy little morsel which I coveted. 
It is true that the master of the house came to my 
relief with his two instruments, which, a few moments 
before, had been in contact with lips tolerably im- 
bued with snuff and tobacco. I could very well have 
dispensed with such assistance, for my stomach had 
already much ado to support the various ragouts, 
each one more surprising than another, which I had 
been obliged to taste of, nolens volens. However, I 
contrived to eat, with tolerable propriety, a soup 
prepared with the famous birds' nests, in which the 
Chinese are such epicures. The substance thus 
served up is reduced into very thin filaments, trans- . 
parent as isinglass, and resembling vermicelli, with 
little or no' taste." This is generally accompanied 
with pigeons' eggs boiled hard, and eaten with soy. 
A Chinese host is not satisfied that his guests have 
done justice to his fare until they begin to emit those 
sonorous eructations which usually proceed from an 
overloaded stomach; not squeamishly stifled, but 
boldly sent forth, indisputable evidence of the great- 
ness of their entertainer's hospitality ! And this is 
actually considered a mark of politeness. 

Animals that in England would be looked on with 
disgust and destroyed, are by the Chinese regarded 
as delicacies. Among others, a grub which breeds 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OP EATING. 



37 



in the sugarcane, the caterpillar of the sphinx-moth, 
and the common earthworm are much relished. 
And, moreoTer, their dishes are frequently cooked 
with castor oil. 




Amongst the poorer class of Chinese the feeding 
is almost as indiscriminate as amongst the northern 
savages. Cats and dogs, especially when they have 
been well fed, are considered capital eating; and 
they can make a tolerable dinner of a drowned rat. 
The rich, themselyes, consider the wild cat, when in 
good condition, a dainty dish. 

There is scarcely an object of commerce that is 
not hawked about in the streets of Pekin by the 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



38 ILLUSTRATIONS 

itinerant merchants. Among the most extraordinary 
of these may be reckoned the travelling cook : he 
carries about with him the necessary apparatus and 
utensils for cooking, a portable fire to fry, roast, or 
boil, together with meats ready prepared, and a 
varied stock of the raw material. These itinerant 
cooks dress up and prepare an astonishing variety of 
dishes, such as chesnuts cooked in honey, sheep's 
head and trotters, pig meat of all kinds, and even 
the flesh of that quadruped which Bufifon wished to 
avenge for the disdain with which he was treated, in 
spite of his good qualities, of which patience, docility 
and sobriety are not the least. Such is the penchant 
of the common people for the flesh of animals, that 
every kind of animal substance (which is not abso- 
lutely poisonous) is bought and devoured.* 
♦In the eating of dogs and cats, however, the 
Chinese are not peculiar ; hundreds of dogs and cats 
are annually consumed by the inhabitants of the 
French capital. There is certainly one trifling dif- 
ference in the two cases : the pig-tailed disciple of 

* " Tout ce qui est viande," disent les Missionnjdres, " se 
vende et se mange. La police, qui est si sage, si humaine, et 
si admirable dans tant de choses, a pli^, sur cet article, jusqu'a 
tolerer de vrais abus, et jusqu'a conniver a des especes de 
boucheries et de ventes que nous n'oserions nommer." 

" La chair," dit le P. Amiot, " de la plupart des animaux 
domestiques morts de vieillesse, de maladie, ou tout converts 
d'ulceres, font leurs delices." 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 39 

Confucius is fully aware of the specific nature of 
the animal which he is devouring, while the poor 
victimized Parisian fondly imagines he is feasting 
upon a hare— K)r a rabbit at the least.* 

Pegu, — Aracan, — Siam. — The inhabitants of 
these countries are not more delicate in their eating 
than the lower class of Chinese; they eat, without 
distinction, rats, mice, serpents, putrefied fish, and 
all sorts of garbage. 

Ladipone Islands. — The inhabitants of the 
Ladrone Islands subsist solely on roots, iruits, and 
fish ; they are, nevertheless, muscular and healthy, 
and Hve to an extreme old age, 

* Query — Are there no dogs or cats served up at the eating, 
houses in our own metropolis ? 




d by Google 



40 ILLUSTEATIONS 



CHAPTER VII. 

Legalized cannibalism of the Battas of Sumatra. — Odd proof 
of filial affection in the Cingalese. — Habits of the Hindoos. 
— Fruit-eating in Persia. 

Sumatra. — ^The most extraordinary, and at the 
same time the most revolting eating customs that 
are to be found in any country, however barbarous, 
are those practised by the Battas, a numerous nation 
in the island of Sumatra, who are habitual and sys- 
tematic cannibals. What makes this appear the 
more extraordinary is, that they are, in general, to- 
lerably educated, the majority of them being able to 
read and write. They acknowledge a Supreme Being, 
are fair and honorable in their dealings, and their 
country is highly cultivated. Yet these people, so 
far advanced in civilization, actually have laws to 
regulate the eating of criminals and prisoners of war. 

Sir Stamford Baffles, who investigated this subject 
with the greatest zeal, gives the following as the 
result of his researches. 

"It is the universal and standing law of the 
Battas, that death by eating shall be inflicted on the 
following crimes : — Adultery ; midnight robbery; 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OP EATING. 4 1 

treaclierous attacks on a house^ village, or person ; 
and on all prisoners of war. 

" In all these cases it is lawful for the victims to be 
eaten ; and they are eaten alive, that is to say, they 
are not previously put to death. The criminal or 
prisoner, as the case may be, is tied to a stake, with 
his arms extended : the chief enemy, when it is a 
prisoner, or the chief party injured, in other cases, 
has the first selection ; and after he has cut off his 
slice, others cut off pieces, according to their taste or 
fancy, until all the flesh is devoured. It is eaten 
either raw or grilled, with a mixed condiment of 
Chili pepper and salt. When the party is a prisoner 
of war, he is eaten immediately, and on the spot." 

From the clear and concurring testimony of all 
parties, it is certain that it is the practice not to 
kill the victim till the whole of the flesh cut oflf by 
the party is eaten, should he live so long. The 
chief, or injured party, then comes forward and cuts 
off the head, which he carries home as a trophy. 

When a criminal is sentenced to be eaten, he is 
secured and kept for two or three days, till every 
person is assembled. He is then eaten quietly, and 
in cold blood, with a9 much ceremony, or perhaps 
more, than attends the execution of a capital sentence 
in Europe. 

The brains belong to the chief captor, or to the 
injured party, who usually preserves them in a 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



42 ILLUSTRATIONS 

bottle, for purposes of witchcraft. The palms of 
the hands and soles of the feet are the favorite de- 
licacies ; and many drink the blood. Formerly they 
ate their parents when too old for work. 

Sir Stamford Baffles concludes his account by 
saying, '*I have also a great deal to say on the 
other side, for these people have many virtues. I 
prize them highly." 

Ceylon. — It is affirmed by historians of the last 
century that the natives of Ceylon were in the habit 
of feeding on human flesh, and that they even ate 
the dead bodies of their parents, instead of burying 
them, imagining that no other sepulchre could be 
so fit for them as their own bowels, since thereby 
they are changed into their own substance, and live 
again in themselves. 

This custom of giving so excessive a proof of filial 
affection is likewise related of the ancient Scythians, 
and possibly it might have been practised by the in- 
habitants of Ceylon ; but in both countries it is now 
entirely abolished. 

HiNDOSTAN. — As an extreme contrast to the car- 
nivorous tribes, we may mention the Brahmins of 
India, who religiously abstain from every kind of 
animal food, and even think it a crime to destroy 
the gnats, fleas, or other vermin by which they are 
annoyed. They throw rice and beans into the rivers 
to nourish the fishes, and grain upon the ground to 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 43 

feed the birds. When they meet a hunter or a 
fisherman, they earnestly beg of him to desist ; and 
if he be deaf to their entreaties, they oflFer him money 
for his gun or net ; and if he be still obstinate they 
trouble the waters to frighten away the fishes, and 
set up hideous cries to scare away the birds and 
other game. The food of these people consists of 
milk and vegetables. 

Persia. — Although the use of animal food is by 
no means rare in Persia, and the flesh of the wild 
ass is esteemed a luxury, yet their favorite food is 
drawn from the vegetable kingdom. It is said to 
be no uncommon thing for a Persian to eat ten or 
twelve pounds of melons ; and, of course, it is not 
surprising to learn that many of them fall a sacrifice 
to this excessive appetite for fruit. 




d by Google 



44 ILLUSTEATIONS 

CHAPTER VIII. 

Gluttony of the Australians, and their promiscuous bill of fare. 

Australia. — Let us now direct our attention to 
that extraordinary land Australia, and there we shall 
find the native barbarians almost entirely camiyorous. 
Their food consists of kangaroos, kangaroo-rats, 
opossums, bandacoots, which are animals resembling 
rabbits, various sorts of insects, and wild honey. 

A recent traveller, who spent several years in that 
country, and frequently accompanied the savages in 
their hunting excursions, was an eyewitness to many 
of their singular habits. On one occasion he saw 
a native cutting away with his tomahawk into the 
bark of a tree, from which he soon extracted about 
seven or eight grubs, thick, fat, yellow insects, 
which he put into his mouth — ^head, legs, and all, 
one after another, and pronounced them — -tapping 
his chest — capital ! 

He continues — **As we proceeded, I observed 
another digging away at the trunk of a rotten tree, 
from which he soon brought to light a nest of small 
ants, which were completely covered with little 
white eggs. As soon as he had dug them out in a 
mass, he cut a piece of bark from the elbow of a 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 45 

gum tree» which formed an oblong concave yessel, 
in which he placed the nest of ants with their eggs, 
and conveyed them to the encampment. I inquired 
what he was going to do with them; he replied 
— Good food — good food." 

The manner of eating these insects is as carious . 
as the repast itself. " The black, having procured 
some stringy bark, commenced pulling it apart, until 
he had converted it into a sort of tow. With a 
parcel of this he took up as many ants and eggs as 
the tow could hold, and then, carefully putting them 
in his mouth, he chewed them very composedly. 
After throwing out the quid, he took another supply ; 
and so on, until he had finished the whole. He 
described them to be very sweet." 

All eatable insects they swallow while alive. Even 
the common bee they put into their mouths whole, 
for the sake of the honey contained in it. Almost 
all the quadrupeds, as well as reptiles, that are 
found in the country, are eaten ^by them ; but the 
opossum, which is the most numerous, and most 
easily procured, is their principal food. 

They appear to have but one method of cooking 
their meat: whether it be quadruped, reptile, or 
fish, it is carelessly thrown on the fire, and devoured 
piecemeal, as it becomes cooked. 
. The quantity they can eat is truly astomshing, 
and scarcely credible. " On one occasion" says the 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



46 ILLUSTRATIONS 

narrator, " four natives came to the tent late in the 
evening, each having a large kangaroo slung over 
his shoulder. As they were very hungry, cooking 
operations immediately commenced. They began 
by extracting the sinews from the tail ; then placing 
the animals on the fire, until all the hair was singed 
oflf, they held them by the tails and rubbed the 
singed and crumpled parts smooth with the soles of 
their feet. Afterwards, that part of the kangaroo 
to be eaten first (which is generally the tail) was again 
placed over the fire, and constantly turned, so as to 
become thoroughly heated; they then divided the 
joints of the tail with the tomahawk, and ate them 
separately. Next an incision was made from the 
chest, through the abdomen, the entrails taken out 
and thrown aside, after which they took out from, 
the fire several heated stones, whicli they pushed 
with their tomahawks into the carcase. The blood 
hissed, and the steam issued forth, bringing with it 
a savoury smell. They then tore out the heart, 
liver, and lungs, which they instantly devoured, and 
licked their hands, reeking with the blood. 

"Thus they continued, roasting and devouring, 
with gluttonous appetites, for several hours, until 
they became so crammed, that they were unable to 
go to the stream near at hand for water, and begged 
me to send for some. I sent for a large bucket-full, 
which I sweetened with sugar ; and when they had 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 



47 



fairly emptied its contents, they faintly chanted a 
sort of tune, and fell asleep. In the morning they 
consumed the remaining fragments of their kan- 
garoos. I do not exaggerate in stating, that within 
a space of eighteen hours, these four natives devoured 
from twenty-five to thirty pounds of flesh each, 
besides no very small portion of hread." 

The eggs of a large species of snake found in 
Australia, which in size resemble pigeons' eggs, are 
eaten both by natives and Europeans, and are said to 
be delicious when roasted in wood ashes. 




d by Google 



48 ILLUSTRATIONS 



CHAPTER IX. 

Cannibal Feasts of the New Zealanders. 

New Zealand. — Here we find the same revolting 
feasts of cannibalism, which we have already de- 
scribed, in speaking of the Battas of Sumatra. In 
New Zealand, however, they do not devour their 
victims in a living state. 

The method they adopt to cook the flesh has been 
very accurately described by an EngHsh sailor, who 
was a compulsory resident on the island during a 
period of twelve years. This description relates to 
the cooking of several of his companions, who were 
captured at the same time with himself. 

" After they were killed" he says, " some of the 
natives proceeded to dig eight large holes, about a 
foot deep, into which they put a quantity of dry 
wood, and covered it over with a number of stones. 
They then set fire to the wood, which continued 
burning till the stones became red hot. In the 
mean time some of them were employed in stripping 
the bodies of my slaughtered shipmates, which they 
afterwards cut up. 

" The stones being red hot, the largest pieces of 
the burning wood were pulled from under them and 
thrown away, and some green bushes, having been 
first dipped in water, were laid round the edges of 



OP EATING. 49 

the stones, while they were at the same time covered 
oyer with some green leaves. The mangled bodies 
were then laid upon the top of the leaves, with a 
quantity of leaves also strewed over them ; and after 
this a straw mat was spread over the top of each 
hole. About three pints of water were poured upon 
each mat, which, running through the stones, 
caused a great steam ; and then the whole was in- 
stantly covered over with earth. The whole of this 
preparation took place in the evening. 

"We got up the next morning, as soon as it was 
daylight, and went and sat down outside the house. 
Here we found a number of women busy making 
baskets of green flax, into which the bodies of our 
messmates, that had been cooking all night, were 
put. A quantity of potatoes had also been prepared 
by a similar process. 

" I observed some of the children tearing the flesh 
from the bones of our comrades, before they were 
taken from the fires. A short time after this the 
chiefs assembled, and the baskets being placed 
before them, they proceeded to divide the flesh 
amongst the people. They also sent us a basket of 
potatoes, and some of the flesh, which had the ap- 
pearance of pork ; but instead of partaking of it, we 
shuddered at the very idea of such an unnatural and 
horrid custom, and made a present of it to one of 
the natives." 

Digitized byVjOOQlC 



50 ILLUSTRATIONS 



CHAPTER X. 

Habits and customs of the Hottentots — Reptiles, Insects, and 
Monkeys used by the Mexicans — Expedients to subdue hun- 
ger — Horseflesh, Vipers, Snails, Frogs, Toads. 

We must now traverse the broad Atlantic, and pay 
our respects to the good people of Africa. 

Caffraria. — The culinary arrangements of the 
Hottentots and Caf&es are at once simple and ex- 
peditious : their unfastidious palates are easily pleased. 
So long as the quantity is satisfactory, the manner 
of its preparation is a matter of very minor impor- 
tance. Buffalo-beef, which is their staple article of 
consumption, is merely cut into slices, and held over 
the fire till it is half-broiled : this is eaten without 
bread, and often in the first stage of putrefaction. 
Grease or tallow is the great dainty of the Hottentots, 
which they are not only fond of eating, but, when 
melted, they also drink, without feehng the least 
inconvenience therefrom. 

Idleness is the predominant vice of the Hottentots. 
Some of them sleep nearly the whole of their time, 
and are only roused to activity by the urgent call of 
hunger, which forces them at length to rise and seek 
for food. When they have killed a buffalo, they lay 
themselves around a fire to broil their meat, and eat 



digitized 



by Goo -c.^ 



<3^ 



OF EATING, 5 1 

and sleep by turns, as long as there is anything left to 
eat, and till hunger again drives them to hunt for more. 

It is a custom among the Hottentots, that when a 
cow is barren she must be killed ; but in this case 
the flesh must be eaten by married people only, and 
not by those who are single. 

The Hottentots, in common with several other 
nations which we have already noticed, are in the 
habit of feeding on various kinds of insects, parti- 
cularly those large caterpillars from which butter- 
flies and moths are produced ; also white ants, grass- 
hoppers, snakes, and some sorts of spiders. 

The Caffres eat lions ; but Bruce, the celebrated 
traveller, was listened to with incredulous ears when 
he related that he had dined on the flesh of a lion in 
the North of Africa. 

The Moors in West Baebauy, before they kill a 
hedgehog, which with them is esteemed a princely 
dish, rub his back against the ground, by holding 
his feet betwixt two (as men do a saw when they are 
sawing stones), till it has done squeaking, and then 
cut its throat. They are also remarkably fond of 
honey-comb, with the young bees in it, while they 
still resemble gentles. 

America and the West Indies. — In Mexico, 
the banana forms the principal food of the inhabitants. 
When gathered green, they cut it into slices, and lay 
them in the sun to dry,. When sufficiently dry, 

digitized by Google 



52 ILLUSTRATIONS 

they pound them into meal, which they use for the 
same purposes that flour is generally used for. 

The cassava, though not so abundant, is extremely 
nutritive, forming, when smoked and grated, a sub- 
stance which is not subject to the attacks of insects ; 
and this constitutes one of their chief articles of 
provision on long journeys. 

Frogs, of which they have three very large species, 
are much in request, as an article of diet, in Mexico, 
and are considered as good as turtle. 

A large fly, which is produced near the Mexican 
Lake, lays innumerable eggs on the rushes which 
border the shores. These eggs are collected by the 
natives, who make them into a sort of paste, for sale 
in the markets, where it is eagerly purchased for 
food, and is said to resemble caviare. Moreover, 
many kinds of insects, even in the mature state, are 
dried, reduced to powder, and made into paste, for 
the same purpose. 

But the most remarkable food used in Mexico, as 
also in many of the "West India Islands, is the flesh 
of the monkeys with which most of their forests are 
plentifully stocked. To prepare this dish, the body 
is scalded in order to remove the hair, and after this 
operation has been neatly "performed, the creature 
has the exact appearance of a dead child ; and, of 
course, would be rather ornamental than useful on 
the table of an Englishman. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



or EATING. 53 

It is not at all improbable that many savage nations 
may have been accused of cannibalism merely from 
the circumstance of their indulging in this sort of 
food ; for, according to UUoa, the appearance of the 
monkey of Panama, when being cooked, is precisely 
that of a human body. 

The American Indians are very fond of rattle- 
snakes, boiled or stewed. The anaconda and other 
boas afford a wholesome diet to the natives of the 
countries they inhabit. Crocodiles, iguanas, and 
other lizards, are eaten in South America and the 
Bahama Islands. 

The sloth is also a common article of diet in 
South America, and is said to have the flavour of 
boiled mutton. The tapir and the armadillo are 
eaten by the Brazilian and West Indian ; and the 
opossum is eaten in Peru. 

Humboldt says the children in some parts of 
America may be seen dragging enormous centipedes 
from their holes, and crunching them between their 
teeth without compunction. 

A peculiar expedient resorted to by the American 
Indians, when they undertake a long journey, and 
are like to be destitute of provision, is to mix the 
juice of tobacco with powdered shells, in the form of 
little balls, which they keep in their mouths, and the 
gradual solution serves to counteract the uneasy 
craving of the stomach. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



54 ILLUSTRATIONS 

Upon the same principle a glass of gin will take 
away the appetite of such as are not accustomed to 
it. Lord Byron, in order to keep his figure thin and 
genteel, used frequently to fast for two or three 
days, at which times he suhdued the sensation of 
hunger by an occasional glass of brandy. 

In various countries of civilized Europe the in- 
habitants use, as food, many substances, the very 
idea of which would cause disgust and loathing in 
the more fastidious Englishman. 

In Denmark and Sweden, horseflesh is publicly 
exposed for sale in the markets; and Duchitelet 
asserts that a very large quantity is consumed by the 
inhabitants of Paris. The knackers and their fami- 
lies, who live principally on it, have a remarkably 
robust and healthy appearance. 

Vipers, both stewed and made into soup, consti- 
tuted, in former times, an important item in the 
Materia Medica ; and at the present time they are 
said to be eaten in many parts of France and Italy. 

Snails are taken for food in many parts of Europe, 
and are reckoned both pleasant and nourishing. 
With the Romans, snails were in great esteem. 
Fulvius Hilpinus, not long before the civil war 
between Csesar and Pompey, made in his garden 
several inclosures, for the feeding of snaUs, keeping 
every species by itself: there might be seen the 
white snails of Reate, the gray and great snails of 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 55 

ni3rTicuiii9 the fruitful snails of Africa, and the 
Solitan snails, most famous and excellent of all 
others ; which he suffered not to feed upon shrubs 
and plants, but gave them a kind of pap made of 
sweet wine, honeyj and flour, by which they were 
fed so fat, and became so wholesome and delicious, 
that they were much sought after, and sold for eighty 
quadrants a dishful. 

The esculent or edible frog is considered quite a 
delicacy in France, Germany, and Italy. Toads are 
also eaten by the French, although in blissful igno- 
rance. The frogs brought to the markets in Paris 
are caugh t in the stagnant waters round Montmorency, 
in the Bois de Yincennes, Bois de Boulogne &c. 
The people who collect them separate the hind- 
quarters and legs from the body; after carefuUy 
skinning them, they arrange them on skewers, as 
larks are done in this country, and bring them in 
that state to market. In seeking for frogs, these 
dealers often meet with toads, which they prepare 
and skewer along with the frogs : now, as it is im- 
possible, except by a scientific eye, to determine 
whether these denuded hind quarters belong to frogs 
or toads, it continually happens that great numbers 
of the supposed frogs, sold in Paris for food, are 
actually toads : thus the Parisian is, (literally and 
without a figure of speech) a " toad-eater." 



d by Google 



56 ILLUSTEATIONS 

CHAPTER XL 

Curious description of an Abyssinian feast. 

Abyssinia.— Perhaps the most extraordinary mode 
of procuring a dinner, of which we have any record, 
is that employed by the inhabitants of a district in 
Abyssinia. 

Bruce, the Abyssinian traveller, relates that when 
he was at no great distance from Axum, the ancient 
capital of Abyssinia, he fell in with three of the 
natives driving a cow. They halted near a brook, 
and the drivers suddenly tripped up the cow, and gave 
the poor animal a very rude fall upon the ground. 
One of them then got across her neck, holding down 
her head by the horns, the other twisted the halter 
about her forefeet, while the third, who had a knife 
in his hand, to Mr. Bruce' s very great sturprise, in- 
stead of taking her by the throat, got astride upon 
her belly before her hind legs, and cut two pieces, 
thicker and longer than our ordinary beefsteaks, out 
of the upper part of the buttock. 

One of them still continued holding the head, 
while the other two were busied in dressing the 
wound. This was not done in an ordinary manner : 
the skin, which had covered the flesh that was taken 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 57 

away, had been left entire ; this was carefully laid 
over the wound, and fastened to the corresponding 
part by two or three small skewers or pins. At the 
river side where they were, they had prepared a 
cataplasm of clay, with which they covered the suture. 
After regaling themselves on the flesh, raw and yet 
quivering with life, they forced the animal to rise, 
and drove it on gently as before. 

On convenient occasions, the Abyssinians of the 
best fashion in the villages, courtiers in the palace, 
or citizens in the town, of both sexes, meet together 
to dine between twelve and one o'clock. A long 
table is set in the middle of a large room, and 
benches beside it for the number of guests who are 
invited. A cow or bull (one or more, as the com- 
pany is num^ous) is brought close to the door, and 
his feet strongly tied. The skin that hangs down 
under his chin and throat is cut only so deep as to 
arrive at the fat, and, by jhe separation of a few 
small blood-vessels, six or seven drops of blood fall 
upon the ground. Having satisfied the Mosaical law, 
according to their conception, by pouring these six 
or seven drops upon the ground, two or more of 
them fall to work. On the back of the beast, 
and on each side of the spine, they cut skin-deep ; 
then putting their fingers between the flesh and the 
skin, they strip the hide of the animal half way 
down his ribs, and so on to the buttock, cutting the 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



58 ILLUSTRATIONS 

skin wherever it presents any impediment to their 
operations. All the flesh of the buttocks is then 
cut off", and in solid square pieces, without bones, 
or much effusion of blood ; and the prodigious noise 
the animal makes is a signal for the company to sit 
down to table. 

There are then laid before ^yery guest, instead of 
plates, round cakes, about twice as big as a pancake, 
and somewhat thicker and tougher. They are made of 
a grain called teff ; and though of a sourish taste they 
are far from being disagreeable, and are very easily 
digested. Three or four of these cakes are generally 
laid upon each other for the food of the person 
opposite to whose seat they are placed ; and beneath 
these four or five others of the ordinary bread, which 
is of a blackish kind. These serve the master to 
wipe his fingers upon, and afterwards the servant 
for bread to his dinner. 

Two or three servants then come in with square 
pieces of beef in their bare hands, and lay them upon 
the cakes of teff. By this time all the guests have 
knives in their hands ; the men have the large 
crooked ones which they put to all sorts of uses 
during the time of war, and the women have small 
clasp knives, such as the worst of the kind made at 
Birmingham. The company are so arranged that 
one man sits between two women. The man first 
cuts a thin piece off the large square, while you yet 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 59 

Bee the motion of the fibres ; the women then cut it 
lengthwise into strips, about the thickness of a finger, 
and crosswise into square pieces, something smaller 
than dice. This they lay upon a piece of the teff 
bread, strongly powdered with Cayenne, or black 
pepper, and fossil salt ; they then wrap it up in teff 
bread like a cartridge. 

In the mean time the man, having put up his 
knife, with a hand resting on each woman's knee, 
his body stooping, his head low and forward, and 
mouth open very like an idiot, turns to the one 
whose cartridge is first ready, who stuffs the whole 
of it into his mouth, which so fiUs it that he is in 
constant danger of being choked. The greater the 
man would seem to be, the larger piece he takes in 
his mouth; and the more noise he makes in chewing 
it, the more polite he is thought to be. They have, 
indeed, a proverb to this effect: — "Beggars and 
thieves only eat small pieces, or without making a 
noise.'' Having dispatched the first mouthful, his 
next female neighbour holds forth another cartridge, 
which goes the same way; and so on till he is 
satisfied. He never drinks till he has finished eating, 
and before he begins, in gratitude to the fair ones 
who fed him, he makes up two small rolls of the 
beef and teff bread; each of his neighbours then 
opens her mouth at the same time, while with each 
hand he puts in the roll. He then falls to drinking 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



60 ILLUSTRATIONS 

out of a large handsome horn ; the ladies eat till 
they are satisfied, and then they all drink together. 
A great deal of mirth and joke goes round, rarely 
with any mixture of acrimony or ill-humour. 

During the whole of this time the victim at the 
door still lives. As long as they can cut off flesh 
from the other parts they do not meddle with the 
thighs, or the parts where the great arteries are. At 
last, they fall upon these also ; and the animal, hleed- 
ing to death, hecomes so tough, that the servants, 
who have the rest of it to eat, are obliged to gnaw it 
from the bones like dogs. 

In the mean time, those within are very much 
elevated ; love lights all its fires, and everything is 
permitted with absolute freedom. There is no 
coyness, no delays, no need of appointments or 
retirement to gratify their wishes: the temple of 
Bacchus becomes the temple of Venus. 




d by Google 



OF EATING. -61 



CHAPTER XII. 

The Geophagists, or Earth-eaters — The Wood and Bark of 
Trees used as Food. 

The substances used as food, which we have 
spoken of hitherto, although numerous and very 
dissimilar, have, nevertheless, all been immediately 
derived from the animal or vegetable kingdoms. We 
must now descend to the mineral kingdom, for even 
there substances exist, from which the human organs 
of digestion appear to be able to extract considerable 
nutriment. 

The OTTOMAauES. — ^We learn from Humboldt, 
that '' the Ottomaques on the banks of the Meta and 
the Orinoco, feed on a fat unctuous earth, or a species 
of pipeclay, tinged with a little oxide of iron. They 
collect this clay very carefully, distinguishing it by 
the taste ; they knead it into balls of four or five 
inches in diameter, which they bake slightly before 
a slow fire. Whole stacks of such provision are 
seen piled up in their huts. These balls are soaked 
m water when about to be used, and each individual 
eats about a pound of the material every day. The 
only addition which they make to this unnatural 
fare consists of small fish, lizards, and fern roots. 

digitized by Google 



62- ILLUSTRATIONS 

The quantity of clay that the Ottamaques consume, 
and the greediness with which they devour it, seem 
to prove that it does more than distend their hungry 
stomachs, and that the organs of digestion have the 
power of extracting from it something convertible 
into animal substance." 

The banks of the Mackenzie River, a few miles 
above the Bear Lake, contain layers of a kind of 
unctuous mud, which the Indians in that neighbour- 
hood eat occasionally during seasons of scarcity, and 
also take it even at other times for an amusement. 
It is said to have a milky taste, and that the flavour 
is by no means unpleasant. 

The inhabitants of Capua are said to have for- 
merly paid a tribute to the Neapolitans, for a kind 
of earth called leucogseum, which they made use of 
in the preparation of a dish named alica. 

Aleppo. — Russell, in his 'Natural History of 
Aleppo,' relates that a kind of fuller's earth, called 
byloon, is brought to that city in great quantities, 
and carried about on asses to be sold in the streets. 
This earth is mixed with dried rose-leaves, and made 
up into balls. Its use as food is chiefly confined to 
pregnant women and sickly girls. 

In India, lime is commonly eaten with the betel- 
leaf. 

In New Guinea, the negroes, it is said, are in the 
habit of eating a yellowish earth, and are so fond of 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 63 

it, that when brought to America as skyes, no pu- 
nishment can induce them to relinquish it, although 
their health suffers materially in consequence. 

In New Caledonia, the inhabitants make use of 
a species of oolite as food, sometimes devouring as 
much as a pound weight at once of this apparently 
indigestible substance. 

In several parts of Peru, the natives buy in the 
markets a calcareous earth, which they reduce to a 
fine powder, and mix with their coca. 

In Java, little rolls of a reddish clay are sold in 
the market-place, under the name of ampo. Many 
eat it to become thin, which is reckoned a great 
beauty among the Javanese. 

Russia. — An earthy substance, found on the 
banks of the river Kamen-da-Maslo, is eaten in va- 
rious ways, both by the Russians and the Tongousi. 
It is of a yellowish colour, and not unpleasant in 
taste ; but it is pernicious to the health, producing 
various disorders, the most frequent of which is the 
gravel. 

In Germany it is well known that the workmen 
in the freestone quarries of Kiff hausen spread upon 
their bread, instead of butter, a very fine clay, which 
they term stein-butter. 

Sweden. — A considerable tract on the shores of 
Lake Lettnaggsjon, near Umea, in Sweden, is com- 
posed of a material, which, from its extreme fineness. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



64 ItLUSTBATIONS 

resembles flour. This has long been known to the 
natives by the name of bergmehl, or mountain meal ; 
and it is used by them in considerable quantities, 
mixed up with flour, as an article of food, experience 
having taught them that it is highly nutritious. On 
examination with the microscope, the bergmehl is 
found to consist entirely of the shells of a species 
of animalcule, which, having been accumulating from 
age to age at the bottom of the waters in which the 
living animal is found, form a stratum of consider- 
able thickness. 

Recent experiments in Germany have proved that 
the wood of various trees may be converted into a 
nutritious substance. The fibres of the birch, fir, 
lime, beech, poplar, and elm, when dried, ground, 
and sifted, so as to form a powder like coarse flour, 
are not only capable of affording wholesome nourish- 
ment to man or domestic animals, but with a little 
culinary skill, constitute very palatable articles of 
food. Cold water being poured on this wood-flour, 
inclosed in a fine linen bag, it becomes quite milky. 

The bark of trees, also, has been frequently used, 
when prepared in a similar way, as a substitute for 
other food. This is the barke-hrod of the Norwe- 
gians. 



d by Google 



OF EATING. 65 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Man becomes more fastidious in his diet as he advances in 
civilization — Impossibility of enumerating the substances 
used as food by civilized nations^ — Adulterations — Doings of 
the Parisian restaurateurs — Refined method of adulterating 
animal food — Foie gras — Brawn. 

The principle is by no means evident upon which 
the inhabitants of civilized countries have agreed to 
select some substances as edible, and to reject others. 
That which is regarded as a luxury in one country 
is by its neighbour abhorred as loathsome. An 
Englishman is not easily persuaded to dine on snails 
with an Italian — on frogs with a Frenchman — on 
horse- jflesh with a Tartar — or on monkeys and lizards 
with a West Indian. On one occasion this capricious 
taste was carried so far, that the Neapolitans actually 
refused to eat potatoes during a famine. 

The only general principle which seems to prevail 
is— that in proportion as civilization advances, so 
does man become more fastidious in his diet ; but 
whether those substances which he selects and retains 
in lus bill of fare are in reality more wholesome and 
nutritious than those which he discards, it is difficult 
to determine. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



66 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



It has not been attempted to enumerate those suo- 
stances which are used as food by the ciyilized na- 
tions, of which Britain forms a part. The attempt 
would be rather a speculative one at the best ; for, 
as the generality of articles in ordinary use pass 
through so many hands before they arrive at the 
consumers, it would be extremely difficult in the 
majority of instances to say precisely either what we 
eat or what we drink. 

Take, for example, a few of the things in daily use : 
bread, milk, tea, coffee, chocolate, beer, wine ; we all 
very well know that the commodities frequently pur- 
chased under these names are little better than coarse 
imitations of the genuine articles. Then, again, there 
are certain ambiguous eatables known under the 
various titles of German sausages, polonies, and 
saveloys ; the reader's own imagination will readily 
suggest the various substitutes which may be profit- 
ably employed to save the beef and pork. 

The following paragraph, which appeared in the 
* British Gazette' a short time ago, will throw some 
light on this subject : 

"Caution to Importers of Sausages, — Bologna 
sausages seem likely to be at a discount for some 
time, in consequence of a ham-and-beef shop in the 
suburbs of Brussels having, for several months past, 
been purchasing a considerable quantity of horse- 
flesh, under the pretext of making lamp-black. It 



OF EATING. 67 

was obserred^ at the same time, that he was making 
a great number of Bologna sausages. The attention 
of the police having been directed to these circum- 
stances, a large quantity of suspicious sausages were 
seized on the premises, and handed over to com- 
petent judges to be analysed.' ' So much for 
sausages! 

Some interesting information relative to the doings 
of the Parisian eating-house-keepers is given by 
Sefton Glossmore,* in a letter to his friends. 

He says, " Avoid the cheap restaurateurs ; I mean 
those who give you five or six dishes, which you se- 
lect out of 250, at thirty-two sous par t^te. The 
dishes are mysterious excellences, savoury and satis- 
fjfing to your heart's content ; but if you have an 
mquiring mind, speculations will arise, not calculated 
altogether to strengthen your digestion. Horseflesh 
and cat's flesh are reported to be employed as substi- 
tutes for beef, and rabbit's, or hare's flesh ; and not 
long ago the police took the liberty of prying into 
these doubtful points. The result of their inquisition 
has had the sad effect of shaking the faith of the 
Parisians in the identity of the dishes with those 
described in the cartes ; and which a seizure of 2000 
kilogrammes of horseflesh by the octroi officers at 
the Barri^re du Combat last week will not, I fear, 
tend to re-establish. 

* Lloyd's Pilferings from the Calais Post-bag. 

digitized by Google 



68 ILLUSTRATIONS 

'' This cargo of carrion "was on its road to one of 
the great dining-houses at thirty-two sous a head ; 
and the police have since heen ordered to visit all 
these cheap eating-houses forthwith. The discovery 
of a few score cat-skins on the premises of a traiteur, 
in the Rue Montmartre, has raised a prejudice against 
these unsuspicious-looking innocents ; and economi- 
cal bachelors, who had fattened on their maiden 
friends' lost pussies, and their rich ones' cast-ofif tits, 
for years past, now (black ingratitude) join in the cry 
against the restaurants par tSte.^^ 

A much more refined method of adulterating 
animal food, and one which is not so liable to detec- 
tion, is that of fattening the animals to be used as 
food on substances of a questionable description. 
As an illustration of this : A lady of Algiers, who 
some time ago buried one of her children, recently 
obtained permission from the municipal authorities to 
have the grave opened for the purpose of placing in 
the coffin a stiUbom infant. The coffin was found 
entirely empty ; and an inquiry being instituted as 
to the cause of this, it was clearly ascertained that 
the grave-digger, who is the owner of an immense 
number of pigs, and who supplies most of the pork- 
butchers of Algiers, fed his pigs with the dead bodies 
from the cemetery. In his house were large quanti- 
ties of human flesh chopped up ; and on examining 
the other graves, nearly every coffin was found 

Jigitized by Google 



OF EATING. 69 

^rnpty. A discovery was also made in the bouse of 
the grave-digger of jewellery to the value of about 
50,000 frMics, which bad been taken from the bodies. 
He was immediately arrested, and the prosecution 
was going on at the time the letter was written con- 
taining the account. The use of pork was inter- 
dicted for some time; and all the grave-digger's pigs 
were, by order of the procureur-general, instantly 
killed and buried. In this rather singular case, it is 
very probable that many persons had been eating 
pork actually fed with the flesh of their own rela- 
tions. But why should this startle us ? Hear what 
Hamlet says : 

King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius ? 

Ham. At supper. 

Kmff. At supper ? Where ? 

Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten : a certain 
conyocation of politic worms are e*en at him. Your worm is 
your only emperor for diet ; we fat all creatures else to fat us, 
and we fat ourselyes for maggots : your fat king and your lean 
beggar is but variable service ; two dishes, but to one table — 
that's the end. 

King. Alas, alas ! 

Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a 
king ; and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm. 

King. What dost thou mean by this ? 

Ham. Nothing, but to show you how a king may go a pro- 
gress through the guts of a beggar. 

It has been stated, though we will not vouch for 
the truth of the statement, that in our own metro- 
Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



70 ILLUSTBATIONS 

polls, people who keep fowls in the neighbourhood 
of the hospitals, fatten them with the poultices which 
they procure from the nurses. It may be presumed 
that they do not fat them for their own tables. 

The celebrated foie gras of the French is nothing 
more than the liver of the goose pretematurally en- 
larged. A lean goose is selected, and confined in a 
deal box, which is so small that the bird cannot turn 
in it ; the bottom is provided with a wide grating 
for the passage of the dung. A hole is made in the 
fore part of the box for the head of the goose, under 
which a vessel is placed full of water, with some 
pieces of charcoal in it to keep it fresh. The box 
with its inmate is then placed in a cellar, or other 
dark place, to prevent distraction or excitement ; it 
is even said that the creature's eyes are sometimes 
put out to render it more inactive. The food em- 
ployed is maize soaked in water, considerable quan- 
tities of which are crammed down the animal's 
throat morning and evening, and the rest of the day 
is spent in drinking and guzzling from time to time 
the water placed before it. After this process has 
continued for about three weeks, some poppy oil is 
mixed with the maize, and by the end of the month 
the fattening is usually completed. This is ascer* 
tained by the difficulty the bird has in breathing, 
and by the presence of a lump of fat under each 
vnng. It is now necessary to kill it, or otherwise it 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OP EATING. 71 

would die of fat. Some idea may be fonned of the 
state of obesity produced, when it is known that the 
liver of a goose, treated in this manner, often weighs 
from a pound and a half to two pounds, and that 
the body, which is considered excellent eating, fur- 
nishes in roasting from three to five pounds of fat. 

The lovers of brawn will, no doubt, be interested 
in the following description, which is from the quaint 
pen of Dr. Thomas Moffet: "The best way of 
brawning a boar is this of all other, which I learned 
first of Sir Thomas George, and saw practised 
afterwards to good purpose. Shut up a young 
boar, of a year and a half old, in a little room, in 
harvest time, feeding him with nothing but sweet 
whey, and giving him every morning clean straw to 
lie upon, but lay it not thick ; so before Christmas 
he will be sufficiently brawned with continual lying, 
and prove exceedingly fat, wholesome, and sweet. 
As for the common way of brawning boars, by sty- 
ing them up in so close a room that they cannot 
turn themselves round about, and whereby they are 
forced always to lie on their bellies, it is not worthy 
of imitation ; for they feed in pain, lie in pain, and 
sleep in pain ; neither shall you ever find their flesh 
so red, their fat so white, nor their liver so sound, 
as being brawned otherwise accordingly as is before 
rehearsed. After he is brawned for your turn, thrust 



d by Google 



72 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



a knife into one of his flanks^ and let him run with 
it till he die ; others gently bait him with muzzled 
dogs. The Roman cooks thrust a hot iron into his 
side, and then run him to death, thinking thereby 
that his flesh waxed tenderer and his brawn firmer. 




d by Google 



OF EATING. 73 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Food used under the influence of starvation — Siege of Paris — 
Horrible fate of Mons. Foscue. 

Having pointed out most of the articles of food 
which mankind either adopt by choice, or are re- 
stricted to by the nature of the climate which they 
inhabit, and briefly alluded to some of those myste- 
rious compounds which we daily eat in blissful igno- 
rance, we will now direct our attention to those 
substances which human beings have been induced 
to eat under the extreme pressure of starvation. The 
history of the suflerings of the inhabitants of 
Paris, during the memorable siege of that city in 
1590, wiU furnish us with ample materials to illus- 
trate this branch of our subject. 

By the time the siege had continued about seven 
weeks, the great mass of the people had consumed 
every particle of ordinary food. 

Horses, mules, and asses first fell under the 
butcher's knife, and their flesh sold at a high price. 
After these were consumed, all the cats and dogs 
were ordered to be delivered up to be killed for food. 
For the purpose of cooking them, public kitchens 
were established in the diffierent quarters of the city. 



d by Google 



74 ILLUSTRATIONS 

where the meat was boiled in large caldrons, and 
distributed every day, with an ounce of bread, to 
each person. In this manner the people were sup- 
ported for a fortnight. After this the poor ate the 
skins of all these different animals. These, however, 
lasted but a very short time ; and they were then 
obliged to resort to still more loathsome food. 

Some devoured the raw, half putrid flesh of dogs, 
which they found dead in the streets ; others, entrails 
which had been thrown into the kennels; others, 
rats and mice, which had in like manner been cast 
away ; and, moreover, the bones of the heads of dogs, 
which they bruised into a sort of meal. 

But even all these substances were soon exhausted ; 
so that not a dog, or cat, or rat, or offal of any de- 
scription was to be found within the city. Revolt- 
ing, therefore, as were the expedients to which their 
previous necessities had driven them, those to which 
they were now reduced were still more sad. They 
actually pounded slates, and baked the dust into 
a sort of bread. Many, at last, rifled the very graves ; 
and, extracting the bones from the rotten carcases, 
ground, and baked, and ate them. A few even be- 
came cannibals, and ate human flesh. An account is 
well authenticated of a mother who, when her two 
children died, instead of having the bodies buried, 
salted them, and, together with her female servant, 
fed on them for several days. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 



75 



It is important to notice that most of the persons 
who endeavoured to support life on these unnatural 
and extraordinary substances soon died. 

The remarkable case of Mons. Foscue furnishes 
another instance of what a human being will eat when 
driven to the last extremity. This Mons. Foscue, 
having amassed a large sum of money, to keep it safe 
placed it in a deep concealed cellar, the door of which 
was fastened by a self-acting spring lock. On one 
occasion, being in the cave, the door by some acci- 
dent closed upon him ; and the cellar being too deep 
for his cries to be heard, he ultimately perished for 
Want of food. A few months afterwards, on making 
some alterations in the building, the body was found, 
and the candlestick. He had eaten the candle, and 
gnawed the flesh off both his arms. 




d by Google 



76 ILLUSTRATIONS 



CHAPTER XV. 

What is Nutrition? — The Doctors at fault—Milk the most 
important Aliment — Its Constituents — Universality and pre- 
dominance of Water in the economy of Nature — ^Relative 
proportion of Fluids and Solids in the Human Body — Unsa- 
tisfactory results of analyses — Oil or Fat in every vegetable 
Substance — Interesting experiment of liebig. 

The subject of nutrition has engaged the pen of 
almost every physiologist from Hippocrates down to 
Dr. Kitchener; nevertheless, it must be acknow- 
ledged that absolutely nothing has been advanced 
upon which a sound general principle can be esta- 
blished. One very learned and clever doctor will 
tell you this kind of food is more nourishing than 
that, and will give you a very plausible reason for 
his opinion; another doctor, equally learned and 
clever, gives you quite a different statement, and 
quite as plausible a reason for it. 

" Who shall decide when doctors disagree ?" 

The cause of this inconsistency undoubtedly is, 
that they have not yet ascertained what nutrition is, 
or what those substances are which afford nourish- 
ment to the human body. In fact, upon this sub- 
ject, as upon that of the nature and treatment of dis- 



ci by Google 



or EATING. ^^ 

ease^ the learned doctor is not much in advance of 
the ignorant plebeian. 

Gluten and starch are accounted the nutritious 
principles in the vegetable foods, and gelatine, or 
animal gravy, in the animal foods. In estimating, 
therefore, the nutriment contained in any particular 
substance, the usual method is merely to ascertain 
the quantity of starch, or gluten, or albumen, or 
gelatine contained in it; the fluid particles, which 
have been evaporated during the process, being re- 
garded as nothing. It seems to have been quite for- 
gotten that nourishment is not derived from solid 
matter merely, but from fluid also. A certain quan- 
tity of soup, for instance, will go further in support- 
ing a family, than the whole solid matter would do, 
of which the soup was formed ; and a basin of sago, 
properly prepared, will afford more nourishment 
than the grains of sago swallowed dry. The same 
may be said of the barley or oatmeal-crowdy of the 
Scotch, which is more nutritious than the same 
quantity of barley or oatmeal made into bread. 

We all very well know how important — how indis- 
pensable — the pure element is to the existence of 
every Hving thing, and that the demands of thirst 
are even more imperious than those of hunger ; yet 
in all analyses on this interesting subject, the water 
is invariably rejected. To show the fallacy of this 
mode of reasoning, we have only to imagine the case 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



78 ILLUSTRATIONS 

of an individual living entirely on any, or all, of 
these so-called nutritious substances, after they have 
been deprived of their fluid : the result may be easily 
conceived. 

Milk, as has been proved by experiment, is the 
only known ahment which is capable of supporting 
life alone. It is, in fact, prepared by nature ex- 
pressly for food. And what is it composed of? It 
would naturally be expected that, since milk pos- 
sesses the nourishing property in so eminent a de- 
gree, its constitution must be peculiar, and contain 
a greater variety of the principles forming alimentary 
matter than other kinds of food. Such is, indeed, 
the fact ; for every sort of animal milk is composed 
of albuminous, oily, and saccharine elements, or, in 
other words, of cheese, butter, and sugar. And are 
these all ? By no means. Nature expressly declares 
that these ingredients are incomplete without the 
addition of a large quantity of water. The propor- 
tions in which these three substances (albumen, oil, 
and sugar) are united in diflferent kinds of milk vary 
exceedingly; but they have always been found to 
exist in the milk of every animal, and invariably 
blended with a large proportion of water. 

Now, if Nature, not only in milk, but in every 
other nutritious article of food, is so liberal of her 
supplies of this fluid, surely, it must be, to say the 
least, as important an element in the composition, 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 79 

and as necessary to the nourishment of the hody, 
as those substances which are styled nutriment par 
excellence ; and, although its operation in the grand 
process of digestion be imperceptible and mysterious, 
it is not the less certain and effectual. This must 
be obvious to every one, when it is considered that 
by far the greater part of the human body is com- 
posed of fluids. 

The relative proportion of fluids in the human 
body (we quote from Southwood Smith) is always 
much greater than that of the solids ; hence, its soft 
consistence and rounded form. The excess, accord- 
ing to the lowest estimate, is as six to one, according 
to the highest, as ten to one. 

The fluids, which are composed principally of 
water holding solid matter in solution, are not only 
more abundant than the solids, but they are also 
more important, as they aflbrd the immediate ma- 
terial of the organization of the body ; the media 
by which its composition and its decomposition are 
effected. They bear nourishment from every part, 
and by them are carried out of the system its noxious 
and useless matter. In the brain they lay down 
the soft and delicate cerebral matter ; in the bone, 
the hard and compact osseous matter ; and the 
worn-out particles of both are removed by their 
instrumentality. Every part of the body is a 
laboratory in which complicated changes are going on 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



80 ILLUSTKATIONS 

every instant : the fluids — the all-important fluids — 
are the materials on which these changes are 
wrought. 

This being the case, it necessarily follows that, 
although we may analyse with the greatest exact- 
ness, it is impossible to determine the nourishing 
properties of any kind of food, merely by the quan- 
tity or predominance of any particular ingredient. 
Moreover, nourishment does not appear to depend 
upon any one substance, whatever its nature may 
be, but upon the harmonious combination of various 
substances ; and this combination depends, in a 
great measure, for its virtues, on the particular con- 
stitution which it receives; for what may be beneficial 
in one case, may prove injurious in another, so true 
it is, that one man's meat may be another man's 
poison. In fact, the experience of an observing 
man, on his own constitutional peculiarities, is worth 
more than the fine-spun theories of all the chemists 
and doctors in the world. 

We perfectly concur with Dr. Kitchener, when he 
observes — "To afi&rm that anything is wholesome 
or unwholesome — without considering the subject 
in all the circumstances to which it bears relation 
and the unaccountable peculiarities of diflerent con- 
stitutions — ^is, with submission, talking nonsense." 

In the assimilation of food, much depends on the 
state of the mind and the nervous system. During 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 81 

high excitement, either of joy or grief, the stomach 
loses its power of digesting, and even, in some cases, 
of receiving or retaining food. In cold weather, as 
has already heen stated, its power is greater than in 
hot; and in activity its power is greater than in 
idleness ; consequently the food must vary according 
to the prevailing state of the individual. Some men 
will keep in good condition on potatoes and salt, 
while others are as lean as scarecrows, although 
hving on the fat of the land. 

As a fine specimen of the quackery and uncer- 
tainty of chemical analysis on the suhject of food, 
we may cite the result of several experiments made 
to ascertain the relative nutrition in potatoes and 
wheat ; and these by celebrated chemists : 
According to Mayer, 

Potatoes are to wheat as 15 to 48 

According to Black, as 15 to 120 

According to Petri, as 15 to 74 

What can we observe in these conflicting statements 

but the ignorance and pretension of the learned 

doctors who make them ? 

It may seem surprising, at first sight, that an 
individual should not only increase in flesh, but 
actually get fat upon a diet purely vegetable ; but 
our surprise will cease when we consider that there 
is, in every vegetable substance, a considerable 
amount of oily or fatty matter. 

Digitized by fioOgle 



82 ILLUSTRATIONS 

Liebig, in his celebrated work on Chemistry, quotes 
the instance of a lean goose, weighing four pounds, 
which in thirty-six days, gained five pounds weight, by 
consuming twenty-four pounds of maize, and yielded 
three pounds and a half of pure fat. Liebig could 
not account for this quantity of fat, because maize, 
according to such experiments as had heen. made 
upon it before Liebig wrote, did not contain the 
thousandth part of its weight of fat. Since that 
time, however, it has been found by repeated ex- 
periments that it really contains at least nine per 
cent. ; so that when a lean goose eats twenty-four 
pounds of maize, it takes up two pounds and a half 
of fatty matter, which, with the fat preyiously exist- 
ing in the animal, is sufficient to account for the 
three pounds and a half. 

Even dry hay, such as is met with in the trusses 
eaten by cattle, contains two per cent, of fatty or 
oily matter. 

Animals which live on grain and vegetables are 
always fatter than those which live exclusively on 
flesh. Their fat is consistent and firm, while that 
of carnivorous animals is almost completely fluid. 

It is not, therefore, surprising that Paddy should 
get plump upon his cabbages and praties, or that 
Sawney should be well-favoured on his brose and 
oaten bannocks. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



OF EATING. 83 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Rationale of Roasting and Boiling — Curious methods of pre- 
paring food in vogue among the Ancients — ^The bonne bouche. 

Although in high latitudes it may be conyenient^ 
and even necessary, for the inhabitants to eat their 
food without any preparation, yet, in all temperate 
and warm climates, the art of cookery prevails to a 
greater or less extent. The observation of Seneca, 
that in proportion to the number of cooks so have 
diseases multiplied, might famish us with a chapter 
of interesting and important matter, but, as it does 
not come within our present scope, we suggest it as 
a theme to the learned members of the College of 
Physicians. 

The flesh of animab is, in general, either roasted 
or boiled ; although, in an economical point of view, 
it would certainly be better to eat it in its raw state ; 
for, in the flrst place, we should most probably be 
content with a smaller quantity than we usually eat ; 
and, in the second place, it is a well-known fact, 
that, in whatever way the flesh of animals is cooked, 
it loses a considerable portion of its substance. 

In an extensive public establishment, experiments 
have been made, on a large scale, to ascertain the 



d by Google 



84 ILLUSTKATIONS 

precise amount of loss upon both beef and mutton, in 
the process of roasting and boiling. 

It was found that twenty-eight pieces of beef, 
weighing altogether 280 lbs., lost in boiling 73 lbs. 
14 oz., being at the rate of 26 lbs. 8 oz. in 100 lbs. 

Nineteen pieces of beef weighing 190 lbs., lost in 
roasting 61 lbs. 2oz., being at the rate of 32 lbs. in 
each 100. 

Nine pieces of beef, weighing 90 lbs., lost in 
baking 27 lbs., being at the rate of 30 lbs. in each 
100. 

Twenty-seven legs of mutton, weighing 260 lb8.,lo8t 
in boiling, and by having the shank-bones taken off, 
62 lbs. 4 oz. The shank-bones being estimated at 
4 oz. each, the loss in boiling was 55 lbs. 8 oz., 
being at the rate of 21 lbs. 5 oz. in each 100. 

Thirty-five shoulders of mutton, weighing 350 lbs., 
lost in roasting 109 lbs. 10 oz., or 31 lbs. 5 oz. in 
each 100. 

Sixteen loins of mutton, weighing 141 lbs., lost 
in roasting 49 lbs. 14 oz., or 35 lbs. 8 oz. in each 
100. 

Ten necks of mutton, weighing 100 lbs., lost in 
roasting 32 lbs. 6 oz. 

Consequently, a piece of beef which, in the 
butcher's shop, weighs 9 lbs., when it appears on 
the dinner-table, after being roasted, only weighs 
6 lbs. : mark that, ye domestic economists ! Of the 

digitized by Google 



OF EATING. 85 

other 3 lbs. part has been converted into kitchen- 
stt^, and the remainder h^ yanished up the chimney. 
By boiling a similar piece you do not lose so much 
by half a pound. 

Shoulders and necks of mutton lose as much as 
beef ; and loins lose rather more. 

But if you prefer the leg, why of course you boil 
it ; and by so doing you save a pound of mutton ; 
for, where the roast mutton wastes 3 lbs., the boiled 
mutton only wasted two, and the virtue of those 
two will be found in the broth. 

The cooks of the ancients appear to have been 
much mote accomplished in their art than our 
modem practitioners. One of these illustrious 
ministers of luxury attained such a degree of envi- 
able perfection, that he could serve up a pig boiled 
on one side, and roasted on the other ; and, more- 
over, stuffed with every possible dehcacy, without 
the incision being perceived through which these 
dainties had been introduced. On being intreated 
to divulge this wonderful secret, he swore, by the 
manes of all the heroes who fell at Marathon, or 
conquered at Salamis, that he would not reveal this 
sacred mystery for one year. When the important 
day arrived, and he was no longer bound by his 
vows, he condescended to inform his anxious hearers, 
that the animal had been bled to death by a wound 
under the shoulder, through which the entrails had 



86 ELLUSTEATIONS 

been extracted; and, afterwards, hanging up the 
victim by the legs, the stuffing was crammed down 
his throat. One half of the pig was then covered 
with a thick paste, seasoned with wine and oil. 
This being done, it was put into a brass oven, and 
gently and tenderly roasted. When the skin was 
brown and crisp, our hero proceeded to boil the 
other moiety ; the paste was then removed, and the 
boiled and roasted grunter was triumphantly served 
up. 

Sometimes pigs were slaughtered with red-hot 
spits, that the blood might not be lost; and the 
stuffing consisted of various small animals. 

Snails were also a great dainty amongst the 
Romans. After being fattened on bran and other 
articles, they were broiled alive on silver gridirons, 
and served up to table on the same. They were 
eaten to give a relish to their wine. 

In our own country, and at the present time, 
in preparing the woodcock for table, the en- 
trails are not drawn, but roasted within the bird, 
whence they drop out with the gravy upon slices 
of toasted bread, and are relished as a delicious 
kind of sauce. 

But of all the ingenious methods of cooking 
that were ever devised, the method of roasting a 
goose, practised by our good old ancestors, in the 
good old times, was the most ingenious and re- 

uigitized by Google 



OP £ATINO. 87 

fined. The directions are thus set forth : — " Take 
a goose, or a duck, or some such lively creature 
(but the goose is best of all for the purpose) ; 
pull off all her feathers— only those of the head 
and the neck must be spared. Then make a fire 
round about her; not too close to her, that the 
smoke do not choke her, and that the fire do not 
bum her too soon ; nor too far off, that she may 
not escape the fire. Within the circle of the 
fire let there be small cups and pots fall of water, 
wherein salt and honey are mingled ; and let there 
be also set chargers full of sodden apples, cut 
into small pieces. The goose must be all larded 
and basted over with butter, to make her the 
more fit to be eaten, and that she may roast the 
better. Put the fire about her, but do not make 
too much haste, when, as you see her begin to 
roast; for, by walking about, and flying here and 
there, being cooped in by the fire, that stops her 
way out, the unscared goose is kept in. She 
will fall to and drink the water to quench her 
thirst, and cool her heart, and all her body; and 
the apple sauce will cleanse her. When she wasteth 
and consumes inwardly, always wet her head and 
heart with a wet sponge; and when you see her 
giddy with running, and begin to stumble, her heart 
wants moisture, and she is roasted enough. Take 
her up, and set her before your guest; and she 

.,y, ,..u uy Google 



88 



ILLUSTRATIONS OF EATING. 



will cry as you cut off any part from her; and 
will be almost eaten up before she is dead." 
The writer concludes by observing — " It is mighty 
pleasant to behold." 




C. AND J. ADLAliD ,PKINTKKI, BAILTHOLUMBW CLU8E. 



digitized by Google 



d by Google 



BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 
4, Old Compton Street ^ Soho Square, London. 



NURSERY RHYMES of England, collected chiefly froir 
Oral Tradition. Edited by J. O. Halliwell. Fourth edition, en- 
larged, with 38 Designs by W. B. Scott, Director of the School ol 
Design, Newcastle-on-Tyne. 12mo, in very rich illuminated cloth 
gilt leaves, 4s. 6d. 

The largest collection ever formed of these old ditties, v^ith Illustrative 
Notes, &c. 

ESSAYS on Subjects connected with the Literaturej 
Popular Superstitions, and History of England in the Middli 
Ages. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A. Two stout vols, pos 
8vo, elegantly printed, clothf 16s. 

SAINT PATRICK'S PURGATORY; an Essay on th. 
Legends of Purgatory, Hell, and Paradise, current during the Middlj 
Ages. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A., &c. Post 8vo, cloth, 6^ 

THE CURIOSITIES of HERALDRY; with lUustrationi 

from Old English Writers. By Mark Antony Lower, Author (j 
* Essays on English Surnames.' With Illuminated Title-page, ani 
numerous Engravings from Designs hy the Author. 8vo, clotlj 
GULES, appropriately ornamented or, 14s. 

ENGLISH SURNAMES. A Series of Essays on Fami 
Nomenclature, Historical, Etymological, and Humorous ; with Cha 
ters on Canting Arms, Rebuses, the Roll of Battel Abbey, a List • 
Latinized Surnames, &c. By Mark Antony Lower. Secoi 
edition, enlarged, post 8vo, pp. 292, with 20 Woodcuts, cloth, 6s. 

DICTIONARY of Archaic and Provincial Words, Obsole 
Phrases, &c., from the Reign of Edward I ; forming a complete K 
for the reader of the works of our Ancient Poets, Dramatists, a 
other Authors, whose works abound with allusions of which e 
planations are not to be found in ordinary dictionaries and books 
reference. By J. O. Halliwell, F.R.S., &c. Two thick vols. 8\ 
closely printed in double columns, cloth, £2 2s. 

THE MERRY TALES of the Wise Men of Gotham. Editc 
by J. O. Halliwell, Esq., F.S.A. Post 8vo, Is. 

LOVE LETTERS of Mrs. Piozzi, written when she mv^ 
Eighty, to the handsome Actor, William Augustus Qonway, ag 
Twenty-seven. 8vo, sewed, 28. 

THE DRUIDICAL TEMPLES of WUtshu-e Elucidate 
By the Rev. E. Duke, of Amesbury. Royal 12mo, Plates', clotK 



d by Google 



d by Google 



d by Google 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

LOAN DEPT. 

This book Is due on the last date stamped below^ of 

OQ the date to which renewed^ 

Renewed Ijtati.Mesubject to immediate recall. 




JiAN 2 8 1369 311 



^^P^ 



3B»^ 



-^l^CO 



\S> 



MAY 3 200S 



I^D 21A-50m'12/60 
{B62aislO)476B 



Geoeral Library 
Unt^eisity of Calif orni' 

Digitized byXaOClyjkelej' 



YA 0343 



1 




d by Google 



r i 



^gle 



