Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



A TREATISE 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN 



BY 



WILLIAM HENRY ROBERTSON, M.D. 



PHYSICIAN TO THE BUXTON BATH CHARITY. 



BE-WRITTEN AND MUCH ENLARGED. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 



VOLUME I. 




LONDON: 
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCE S-STRBBT, SOHO. 



MDCCCXLVII. 



/J7. i^./^r. 



CONTENTS OF VOL. I. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

PAGE 

The Organic Laws ; their Viohitioii the Gaase of Disease 1 

Diseases divided, according to their Causes and Ctharacter, into 

Sporactic, Endemic, and Epidemic . .2 

Gnoses of Endemic Disease . . . . . . 3 

Sanatory Ck>nseqaences of Agricnltnre . . . .5 

Adaptation of Man to Climate . . . 7 

Causes of Epidemic Disease .9 

Contagion and Infection, as Causes of Disease . . 13 

Periodicity of Disease . . . . .15 

Sanatory Results of Civilisation . . . . 17 

The largest Sanatory Gains only to be obtained by the active 

Co-operation of the People . .21 

Duties and Responsibilities of Medical Men . . . 23 

Public Enlightenment the able antagonist of Endemic Disease . 25 
And of Quackery . * . .27 

Both of which are equally the Offspring of Ignorance and 

N^lect ... . . . 28 



CHAPTER XL 

ON DIET. 

Digestion ; Complicated Nature of the Assimilating Processes . 29 

Digestive Ferment . . . . . .31 

Molecular Changes during Digestion . . . . 32 

Chemical Opinions . . . . . .33 

Gastric Juice ; Pepsin ..... 34 

Digestion a Vital Function . .35 

Comparative Digestibility of Animal and Vegetable Food 36 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

Digestion of Liquids . . . . . . . 39 

Circumstances Modifying Digestion . . . .40 

Necessity of Vascular and Nervous Power to the Digestive 
Processes . . . . . . .41 

Illustrations of the Effects of the Nervous System and its 

Different Conditions on the Digestion . . .43 

Influence of Digestion on the General Economy of the System . 47 
Effect of Clothing inmodifyingthe Alimentary Wants of the System 48 
Importance of ascertaining, as far as possible, the relative 
Digestibility of the different Articles of Food, as an indirect 
means of lessening the risk from exposure to the common 
Causes of Disease, and as a direct means of influencing Morbid 
Conditions . . . . . . .49 

Nature's Dietetics . . . . . . . 56 

Chemical Constituents of the Body . . .57 

Expenditure of Nitrogen . . . . . 59 

Expenditure of Carbon . . . . . .62 

Experiments on the relative Digestibility of Aliments . . 64 

Dr. Beaumont's Case of Alexis St. Martin . .66 

Results and Inferences from Dr. Beaumont's Experiments . 70 
Table of Comparative Digestibility, derived from St. Martin's Case 72 
Conclusions derivable from the Experiments . . 75 

Composition no Guide to Digestibility . . . .77 

Construction of Dietetic Generalisations, from the observation of 

Cases in Healtii and Disease . . .79 

Mutton and Beef . . . ... 80 

Lamb and Veal . . . . .83 

Pork . , . . . . . . 85 

Meat, Broiled — Roasted . . . . .86 

„ Stewed — Hashed . . . . .88 

„ Boiled — Baked . . . . ... ^9 

„ Salted— Dried 90 

Ham . . . . . . . 90 

Bacon . . . , . . .91 

Liver, Kidney, &c . . . . . . 92 

Poultry . . . . ..93 

The different Parts of Animals . . , . . 95 

Game, &c. . . . . . .96 

Flesh of Carnivorous Animals . . . . 98 

Gravy— Beef Tea . , .98 

Broth . . . . . . 98 

Grelatin ........ 100 

Fibrin , , . . . * . . 101 



CONTENTS. 



XI 



Fat . .... 

Turtle ..... 

Soup . . . ■ . ' . 

Fiflh ... 

Milk 

Dietetics of Childhood 

Non-azotised Food, its Uses and Value 

Milk, continued 

Oeam — Cord .... 

Whey • . - . 

Sugar of Milk .... 

Batter Milk .... 

Skimmed Milk .... 
Addition of Lime-water to Milk 

Milk^et 

Asses' Milk— GoatB' Milk 

Butter ..... 

Cheese ..... 

Effect of Cookery on the Digestion of Aliments 

Groats' Milk Cheese 

Diluted and undiluted Aliments 

Cream Cheese .... 

Egg ...... 

The Vegetable Articles of Food 

Azotised Vegetable Substances 

Grain ..... 

Wheat ........ 

Dr. R. D. Thomson's Table of Proportional Azote 

Digestibility versus Chemical Composition ■ . . . . 

Professor Brando's Table of the Proportional Water, contained 
in the Flesh of different Animals .... 

Nutrition dependent on Digestibility .... 

Aqueous Dilution of Aliments . . . . « 

Gluten — Gliadine . . ... 

Extract from Mr. Darwin's Journal . . . 

Panary Fermentation ... 

New Bread • . . . • . 

Small Loaves — Toasted Bread ..... 

Coarse Bread . • . • . 

Adjustment of Dietetics to the Indications and Circumstances 
of different Cases ...««. 

Economical Suggestion as to making use of the Bnux and the 
Pollard of the Wheat-grain « » • , • 



PAOB 

102 
. 104 

104 
, 106 
. 109 
. 110 
. 114 
. 115 
. 117 
. 118 
. 118 
. 120 
. 120 
. 120 
. 121 
. 123 
. 124 
. 126 
. 127 
. 128 
. 129 
. 130 
. 131 
. 134 
. 135 
. 136 
. 137 
. 138 
. 139 

141 
141 
142 
144 
144 
145 
148 
149 
150 

151 

153 



XU CONTENTS. 

PAOB 

Unfermented Bread . . ... . 164 

Bread rendered Light or Poroos without Fennentatioii . 164 

Biscuit ........ 155 

Dietetic Uses of Bread . . . . . 156 

Saliya . . . . ... 156 

Action of Saliva on the Digestion of Fecula . . .157 

Diastase ........ 158 

Animal Diastase ... . . . . . 159 

The Pancreatic Secretion ; its Probable Uses . . .160 

Yeast Dumpling . . . . 161 

Vermicelli and Maccaroni ... . . . 168 

Puddings and Pies . . . . . . 164 

Oatmeal . . . . . . . .167 

Relative Digestibility of Fibrin^ Albumen^ and Casein . 168 

Oatmeal, continued ...... 169 

Groats . . . . 171 

Gruel ........ 172 

Oatmeal Porridge . . . 174 

Broee ........ 175 

Oat-cake . . . . . . 175 

Barley-meal ....... 176 

Malting of Barley . . . . . 177 

Barley-water ....... 180 

Rye-flour . . . • . . 181 

Bice ........ 182 

Maize-flour ........ 183 

Peas-meal ....... 184 

Asparagus — Sea-kale— Celery — Vegetable Marrow — Artichoke . 185 
Cauliflower — Brocoli . . . • • .186 

Kidney-bean ........ 187 

Potato 187 

Quotation from Dr. William Budd, as to the altered Diet of the 
People within the last Half Century . . . . 186 

Spinach .....>•• 189 

Turnip . . . . . . 189 

Cabbage — Greens ...... 190 

Sailer Kraut .••.•••• 109 

Carrot — Parsnip— Pea — Broad Bean . . .191 

Dried Pea and Dried Bean, eaten as substitutes for Pot-herbs .191 
Mushrooms— Truffles — ^Morels . . 192 

Aqueous character of Pot-herbs . • . .192 

Antiscorbutic EfftBCt of Pot-herbs . . . . . 195 

Water-cress— Garden Mustard — ^Garden-cress . . .195 



CONTENTS. 



XUl 



Lettuce . • • » 

Celery 

Radish • . 

Onion — ^Leek — Shallot — Grarlic 

Cacmnber • •• 

Classification of Fruits and Seeds 

Grape 

Orange — Lemon — Citron — Lime 

Strawberry — Baspberry , 

Pine-apple .... 

•Currant — Gooseberry 

Peach — Nectarine — Apricot — Cherry — Green-gage— Damson 

Apple — Pear ....... 

Cooked Fruits . . 

Apple Tea — Lemonade 

Chestnut .... 

filbert — ^Hazel-nut . . . 

Melon .... 

Cranberry — Barberry — Bilberry 
Blackberry — Elderberry , 
Cloudberry .... 

Dried Fig 

Raisin — ^Dried Currant 

Preserved Fruits . 

Orange Marmalade 

Leaf-stalks of Rhubarb 

Starch .... 

Arrow-root 

Sago ..... 

Tapioca .... 

Salop ..... 

Gum .... 

Gum Arabic .... 

Linseed .... 

Iceland Moss .... 

Cane Sugar 

Gn^ Sugar .... 

Conversion of Starch into Grape Sugar 

IMfficult Digestibility of Crystallisable Aliments 

Digestibility and Dietetic Effect of Sugar . 

Unmixed Alimentary Principles, their difficult Digestibility 

Treacle ...... 

Honey ....... 



PAQM 

. 196 
. 196 
. 197 
. 197 
. 198 
. 199 
. 200 
. 201 
. 202 
. 203 
. 203 
. 203 
. 204 
. 204 
. 205 
. 205 
. 206 
. 206 
. 207 
. 208 
. 209 
. 209 
. 210 
. 211 
. 211 
. 212 
. 212 
. 217 
. 217 
. 218 
. 218 
. 218 
. 219 
. 219 
. 219 
. 220 
. 221 
. 223 
. 224 
. 224 
. 225 
226 
. 226 



XIV 



CONTENTS. 



Digestion of the Amylaceous and Saccharine Aliments 

Olive Oil . 

Vinegar 

Culinary Salt 

%>iees 

Pickles 

Seasoning Herbs 

Theine, Cafifeiney Theobromine 

Tea . 

Coffbe . . 

Inferences from the Effects of Tea 

Cocoa • • , 

Fermented Liqnors . 

Alcoholic Fermentation . 

Effidcts of Alcohol on the System 

Brandy — Gin 

Whiskey — Rom 

Champagne— Sherry 

Madeira — Port 

Claret 

Hock .... 

Sweet Wines 

Blalt Liquors 

Ulthnate Effects of Alcohol 

Hygienic Use of Alcohol 

Use and Abuse of Narcotics 

Coca .... 



Betel 

Opium • 

Tobacco . 

Dietetic Uses of Water . 
Emulging Effects of Water . 
Stated Hours for Meals 
Break&st 
Dinner 

Simplicity of Diet .... 
Importance of thoroughly masticating the Food 
Advantage of eating slowly . 
Quantity of Food required 
Reference to a Case cited by Dr. M^Cabe 
Reference to the History of the Mutiny of the Bounty . 
Reference to the Report^ by Sir David Barry and Dr. Corrie, on 
the System of Public Medical Relief in Ireland 



PA ox 

22r 

230 

. 230 

231 

238 

235 

235 

236 

. 239 

246 

249 

251 

. 252 

. 252 

. 255 

. 261 

. 262 

. 268 

. 263 

. 263 

. 266 

. 266 

. 267 

. 271 

. 273 

. 275 

. 276 

. 278 

. 278 

. 278 

. 279 

. 281 

. 283 

. 285 

. 288 

. 290 

. 291 

. 292 

. 294 

. 295 

. 298 



299 



CONTENTS. XV 

PAOB 

Dietary of the British Navy . . . . . 300 

Naval Hospital Dietary . . • . .302 

Reference to the Experience and Opinion of Comaro and Dr. 
Cheyne on the Quantity of Food required . . . . 304 

Case of Thomas Wood, of Billericay . . .304 

Inferences from Mr. Wood's Dietary . . . . 309 

Alimentary Expenditure of the System .... 310 

Regimental Hospital Dietary . . 311 

Dietaries offered for selection by the Poor Law Commissioners . 312 
Mr. Mott's Observations on the Pauper Dietaries . . 315 

Comments on the Pauper Dietaries . . . . 318 

Dietary of the Middlesex Hospital .... 319 

Dietary of the Northampton Greneral Infirmary . . 320 

Dietary of the Manchester Royal Infirmary . . . 320 

Dietary of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary . . . . 321 

Dietary of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary . . 322 

Chelsea Hospital : — ^Establishment of Diet . . . 823 

Scales of Victualling, allowed for the Surgeon superintending, to 
each Soldier of the Guard over Convicts, and to every Con- 
vict Settler and Child . . . . . . 323 

Gaol Dietaries ....... 324 

Dietaries proposed for the Use of the Inmates of Charity Work- 
houses in Scotland, in a Report by Drs. Alison and 
Christison . . . . . . . . 325 

Tabular Estimate, derived from the different Public Dietaries, 
of the rough Weight of Animal Fibre and other Food respeo- 
tiyely, of the total dry Nutriment, and the total azotised 
Nutriment, contiuned in the daily Rations . . . 326 

Inferences from the Dietaries ..... 328 

Proportion of Animal Fibre in Dietaries . . . 332 

Importance of Flesh in the Dietaries .... 333 

Modification of Dietaries to different Circumstances . . 338 

Importance of a liberal Dietary ..... 340 

Mutual Influence and Re-action of Mind and Body . . .341 

Dietetic Generalisations ...... 345 

Summing-up . . . . . . . 349 

Adaptation of Dietetics to the Treatment of different Morbid 
Conditions ....... 352 



ERRATUM. 



Page 182, line 4 from bottom, fw « Piout'a" rtwi « Proust V 



PREFACE. 



The first edition of this work was published more 

than eleven years ago ; and the investigations and 

« 

progress of modem Chemistry^ and more especially 
in the great department of Organic Chemistry^ — the 
laborious inquiries and able Reports of the Par- 
liamentary Committees as to the sanatory condition 
of the people^ — the able and full Reports on the 
sickness and mortaUty of the Army and Navy, 
in the Home service, and in the different colonies 
and dependencies of Great Britain, — ^have severally 
added to the materials which time, thought, and 
increased experience have served to collect. The 
result is, that the work has had to be entirely re- 
written, and its matter has been more than doubled 
in quantity; and I venture to hope, that it has 
been, at the same time, improved in character. 

Too much cannot be said, and happily little need 
to be said, as to the claims of Dr. Prout, as the 



Yl PREFACE. 



early and successful cultivator of that great depart- 
ment of Chemistry^ the Chemistry of Organisation ; 
a department which is so peculiarly the production 
of these times^ and so magnificent a proof of the 
energetic character of this age^ — and which bears 
so important and intimate a part in fixing the true 
elements of healthy and determining the nature and 
consequences of disease. And little need be said as 
to the claims of Dr. Southwood Smithy for his early^ 
.io«»M - ™we«yi.g. effort, b. ta»« Ae 
causes and circumstances of endemic and epidemic 
disease. Too much praise^ moreover^ cannot be 
given to all who have been engaged either in col- 
lecting the facts^ or drawing up the Reports^ on the 
sickness and mortality of the Military and Naval 
services^ on the sanatory condition of the people^ 
on the health of towns^ on the extension and per- 
fecting of the registration of births and deaths^ 
and in the preparation of several similar valuable 
public documents^ derived from extensive and vari- 
ous data^ and from which such important conclu- 
sions may be eventually derived^ as to the causes 
and prevention of disease^ the preservation of healthy 
and the prolongation of life. In the grateful enu- 
meration of the chief benefactors to the science of 



PREFACE. YIl 

the age^ so far as it bears upon the great primary 
question of the Public Healthy the names of liebig, 
Simon^ and Mialhe^ and those of Professor Brande^ 
Dr. William Gregory, Dr. Lyon Playfair, Dr. George 
E. Day, and Dr. B. D. Thomson, perhaps deserve 
especial mention, on account of the amount or 
ihe value of their contributions. But, however 
much may hereafter be done in the extension and 
improvement of this important department of Che- 
mistry, and however large the debt which the art 
of medicine may eventually owe to any and all of 
those engaged in such researches, the name of Sir 
Humphrey Davy, for what he did at a time that 
now seems comparatively long ago, must be con- 
nected in our respectful and grateful feelings with 
those of Dr. Prout and Professor Liebig, as having 
laboured early in this department, as having contri- 
buted largely to its facts, and as having paved the 
way to many of its more recent and important dis- 
coveries and conclusions. From this list of bene- 
fjEurtors to the great cause of PubUc Health, it 
would be wrong to omit the names of Mr. Chadwick 
and Mr. Parr, the able Secretaries to the Poor Law 
Commission, and to the Registrar-General, who have 
so ably sifted, analysed, generalised, and enriched 



YIU PBBFACE. 

with practical deductions^ the facts collected within 
their respective departments. 

The present edition of this work is pre&ced 
by an introductory chapter on the origin^ &c.^ of 
sporadic^ endemic, and epidemic disease^ — ^the influ- 
ence of ciyilisation on human health and the ex- 
pectation of life, — ^the importance of information 
on the physical necessities of health, and the prin- 
cipal sources of disease, — and the evils which arise 
from the general ignorance of the public on sana- 
tory questions, and from quackery, which is the 
child of such ignorance. The body of the work con- 
tains chapters on diet, — ^ventilation, climate, and 
change of air, — ^the hygienic effects of clothing, 
&c., especially with reference to practical infer- 
ences, — ^the physiological effect of water on the 
system, when appUed to the skin, and when taken 
into the stomach, — ^mineral waters, — ^sleep, — influ- 
ence on health and life-expectancy of the combined 
physical causes, with reference to employment, town 
or country residence, &c., — and on the effects of 
mental culture on health. 



Thr Square, Buxton, 
Derby SHIRR. 



A TREATISE 



OH 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 



CHAPTER I. 



Introductioii.— The Organic Laws. — ^Violation of these Laws the 
Cause of Disease.— ^Diseases diyided, according to their Causes 
and Chaiacter, into Sporadic^ Endemic^ and Epidemic. — Effect 
of Civilisation upon Endemic and Epidemic Disease. — Its Influence 
on Sporadic Disease. — The htfgest Sanatory Gains only to be 
obtained by the active Co-operation of the People.— Duties and 
Responsibilities of Medical Men. — Public Enlightenment the 
able Antagonist of Endemic Diseases and of Quackery, which 
are equaDy the offspring of Ignorance and Neglect. 

There can be no doubt that the duration of 
man^s life and its healthiness depend upon the 
fulfihnent of certain conditions^ which are fitly called 
the organic laws. There is^ moreover, no doubt, 
that the non-observance of these laws not only 
affects the healthiness, and shortens the duration, of 
the individual life, but includes, in direct proportion 
to the degree of such non-observance, the entailment 

B 



INTRODUCTION. 



of infirmity on the offspring, involving a greater 
liability to disease, and a less expectation of life. 

There may be said to be three principal ways in 
which the organic laws are violated ; — ^the one arising 
from the acts of the individual, entailing on him, and 
perhaps on his posterity, the, as far as may be, iso- 
lated consequences ; — ^the second, produced by the 
acts or neglects of a combination of individuals, 
involving injury to the health, and life-probability, 
of the body-politic ; — ^the third, stiU more general, 
and chiefly depending on natural phenomena, as 
atmospherical conditions, and the like. To the first 
head, by way of illustration, may be referred disease 
of the liver, resulting &om intemperance ; to the 
second, fever, produced by imperfect drainage of a 
town or district ; to the third, the epidemic diseases, 
as plague, cholera, or the exanthemata. But, 
although disease may be thus divided into three 
great classes, according to the immediate cause firom 
which it springs, — and it may be said to be sporadic, 
endemic, or epidemic, — it must not be supposed, that 
these great immediate causes of disease are indepen- 
dent of one another, or that they may not act in 
combination, and by so much intensify the resulting 
disease. Thus : the man of intemperate habits, with 
disease already existing in some one of his organs, 
or so much disordered action as to constitute its ini- 
tiative, will be more liable to suffer from causes that 
affect the health of the community of which he is a 
member, than he would be were he in perfect and 
vigorous health ; and when so suffering, be more 



THE CAUSES 07 DISEASE. 8 

likely to die^ or to have his health permanently 
injured^ or his life shortened^ by such endemic 
disease, than a man who might be attacked when in 
health. And, moreover, the more largely acting 
causes of epidemic disease would influence more 
extensively and seriously a community already suffer- 
ing from endemic disease, than a community not 
SO suffering. 

In a thinly peopled and imperfectly cultivated 
country, with large districts of undrained morass, the 
means of health may be in a great degree beyond 
individual attainment ; and if to such causes, a 
variable, and on the whole extreme climate, whether 
tropical or frigid, be added, the individual life may 
be necessarily shorter than the average duration of the 
hfe of man, and the organization either stunted or 
feeble, and the mental and physical capabiUties below 
par. In such a district, these may be the consequences, 
although the individual habits be necessarily tempe- 
rate, and the life one of active, and by no means undue 
exertion. It should be remembered that these, the 
endemic causes of disease, are more destructive to 
health and life than individual irregularities, — ^that 
these causes, which are beyond individual control, and 
are only to be modified or removed by the combined 
efforts of an extensive society or body of men, may 
render life short, and the race feeble and sickly, in 
defiance of individual habits, — ^and that, on the other 
hand, the removal of the endemic causes of disease, 
or their extensive mitigation, may add to the dura- 
tion of life, and the healthiness and vigour of the 

b2 



4 INTKODUCnON. 

TBce, despite the inregolarities, privatioiiB, or excesses 
of the indiiridnals. We find, in tact, these Tery cir- 
ciunstances in foil operation in England at the 
present time. We find that the improved cnltiTa* 
tion of the soil, its drainage, &c., is eyery year 
adding to the expectation of life in all classes of the 
people; and this, notwithstanding the denser popu- 
lation of the larger towns, and the still neglected ven- 
tilation, and the imperfect cleansing, of the districts 
inhabited by these densely packed masses ; and not- 
withstanding the many causes which add to the 
individual sufierings and privations, or excesses; 
and notwithstanding the consequent increase of scro- 
fiilous predisposition, amongst the more exposed and 
the poorest of the population. Ague, with all its enor- 
mous amount of fS&tality, sooner or later victimising 
its thousands, has virtually disappeared even firom 
the once fenny districts of the midland counties ; 
fever is comparatively little known, unless in the 
closely peopled, badly drained, and badly ventilated 
districts of the larger towns, — among the ill-fed, the 
over-worked, and probably for the most part intem- 
perate, — ^the poorest and most physically wretched of 
the population; and, even in this case, there is no 
doubt that it is rather the endemic than the indivi- 
dual causes of disease — ^the imperfect ventilation, the 
defective sewerage, and such causes as shew a neglect 
of public sanatory regulation and civic control, 
that lead to such disease, than the individual 
misery, or privation, or over-work, or excesses, that 
form its predisposing causes. And the existence of 






ENDEMIC CAUSES OF DISEASE. 5 

such endemic causes of disease seems almost neces* 
sary, to render the epidemic causes as fatal as they 
are susceptible of being. Even the exanthemata — 
small-pox, &c. — appear to be robbed of half their 
terrors, when not exacerbated by such endemic 
influences ; and without lessening, in any degree, 
the highest estimate of Tenner's magnificent and 
triumphant discovery of the true antidote to this 
particular horror, it seems that even small-pox might 
be robbed of many of its terrors as an epidemic, by 
sanatory fiscal regulations — ^by ventilation, perfect 
sewerage, and in £act, a pure air, untainted by living 
animals, or by effete animal substances, or deca3ring 
vegetable matters, or stagnant and necessarily tainted 
waters. Attention to the endemic causes of disease, 
and their careful removal, are said to have driven, or 
almost driven, the Plague from Egypt, where it has 
so long and so triumphantly dwelt, and which it has 
at intervals so extensively ravaged ; and, at all events, 
to a great diminution of these causes has England 
been indebted for her long fireedom firom this gigantic 
disease ; and to the endemic condition in which the 
Asiatic cholera found our towns, are we to ascribe 
ite very various influence and ratio of mortality in 
different places, — ^andthe comparatively small extent 
to which it affected the general mortality of the 
population, — and the shortness of the nevertheless 
severe visitation. 

A pure air is not then attainable, without the 
toils and skill of the many being directed to the 
cultivation and drainage of the country at large j; 



6 



INTRODVCTION. 



and an old ooontry, so cultivated and so drained, is 
unquestionably more healthy, eaterit parilnu, than 
a country upon which less of these great changes 
have been wrought. The expectation of life in 
England becomes yearly greater; although its popu- 
lation increases so fast j although indiridual misery 
may increase in even greater proportion than the 
increase of the population j although the work-shops, 
the work-rooms, the mines, &c., may all tell fearful 
tales of victimised health and blighted life ; although 
the very church-yards, reeking with decaying dead, 
in the midst of closely packed and folly inhabited 
dwellings, may well become sources of disease and 
mortality J although streets are still built far too 
narrow for such currents of air to pass through 
them as are necessary to health; although courts 
and alleys are so many cnl-de-sacs, where free ventila- 
tion cannot be hoped for; although whole districts 
of towns are so badly sewered, as to make a healthy 
existence almost hopeless to their inhabitants. Th 
expectation of life in America is becoming greater 
and its population more vigorbus and healthy i ' 
the same ratio as its surface is becoming more'ex^ 
tensively inhabited, its soil more thoroughly drained' 
and its air cleared of the impurities that exhale from 
a wet and corrupt surfiice-soil, charged with organic 
remains, which are exposed, and not immediately 
wanted by the existing vegetation. It thus happens 
that the climate of a newly peopled countiy, hitherto 
in a great degree covered with wood, or rankly 
graased prairie, or undrained and in a great deer^ 



SANATORY C0N8BQUINCKS OV AGRICULTURE. 7 

submei^ed morass, becomes, in the first instance, so 
much less healthy, as the forest land is cleared, the 
morasses partially drained, and all the miasmatous 
exhalations multiplied; becomes less healthy in the 
same proportion as the woodland is robbed of its 
trees, and dense brushwood and grasses, — and the 
morasses are less entirely covered with water ; and 
the miasms are rendered by so much more hurtful to 
animal existence, and by consequence to the health 
of man, as they are less changed and purified by the 
agency of a redmidant vegetable life. Thus, the 
land may have been originally by no means, or to no 
great extent, injurious to the health of its few and 
widely scattered savage population; and yet speedily 
become greatly prejudicial to the health of its first 
civilised settlers, who clear its forests, and begin to 
cultivate its soil. This, however, will soon cease to 
be the case, as its surface gets to be better drained, as 
the land is brought more under tillage and under grass 
crops ; and the probability will be, that, from having 
been at first so greatly deteriorated as a place of 
human residence, it will become eventually more 
healthy, and have a longer lived population, than 
when it was an uncultivated hunting-ground for 
barbarous denizens. The medical history of different 
districts of America have proved, and indeed are 
now proving, the truth of these statements. 

It seems that, with fiur play, — ^with a drained soil, 
covered with sufficient and not redundant crops; 
and consequently, with an atmosphere firee, to a 
certain extent, firom miasmatous exhalations, — ^human 



8 INTEODXTCTION. 

life may be accommodated to almost every extreme 
and variety of climate ; although probably several 
generations may be necessary to perfect the adapta- 
tion^ and make the race of its inhabitants as healthy 
and as long Uved as they are capable of becoming. 
This adaptation to different climates may be in- 
fluenced by many causes ; among the rest even by 
the colour of the skin^ which^ after the residence of 
successive generations in a particular climate^ is now 
known and admitted to become more or less deeply 
tinged ; varying' more or less from the standard of 
black or white or brown, whichever may be believed 
to be the standard of perfection, or to have been the 
original colour of the human race. It is by no 
means, however, only by the colour of the skin, but 
likewise by the relative amount of work performed 
by all the different organs of the body, that this 
adaptation to different climates must be supposed to 
be effected. As in our own variable climate, the 
skin acts more freely in warm weather, and in the 
summer time, and the kidneys more freely under 
opposite circumstances, so must the amount, and 
what is the just balance of fiinctions, be different in 
different climates ; and such a habit of system may 
well be supposed to be by no means perfected during 
the life of an individual bom of parents differently 
circumstanced; and as possibly requiring, and in 
extreme cases necessarily requiring, several genera- 
tions to complete and establish the peculiar habit of 
body that is best adapted to any given region of the 
earth. It might indeed be contended, with much 



ADAPTATION OF MAN TO CLIMATE. 9 

probability^ that^ under the most fitvourable dream- 
stances as regards soil and pnrity of atmosphere, 
human life is almost uniform in its duration, in all 
the climates of the earth; that three-score years and 
ten is the just duration of the life of man, whether 
inhabiting tropical, temperate, or fidgid climes ; and 
that the evident and unquestionable ineqnaKty in 
this respect in so many instances, is not owing to the 
climate, but to secondary and removable circum- 
stances — ^to miasms and the like. It is indeed true, 
that the remittent fever of tropical countries, so 
directly resulting from the miasmatous exhalations 
of its undrained and corrupt soil, is, und^r any 
drcumstances, and when attacking even the native 
population, a much more immediately and directly 
fiettal complaint, than the intermittent fever which 
results £rom,the same caiuses in temperate climates, 
which, if fatal, usually proves so only after many 
attacks, or by leading to some secondary, and even- 
tually perhaps independent disease. But this would 
not militate against the argument, that all climates 
may, by drainage and cultivation, be made equally 
suitable and sanatory to the human race; whikt it 
will help to explain the great difference there is 
between the healthiness of different districts, coun- 
tries, and climates, according to the degree in which 
the un&vourable circumstances obtain. 

K to the caiuses of endemic diseases abeady spoken 
of, there be added exhalations from putrid animal 
substances, still more serious and fatal forms of dis- 
ease are produced; and fever ceases to be either 

b3 



10 INTRODUCTION. 

intenxuttent or remittent^ becoming continued^ and 
typhoid^ with increased and increa^ng tendency to a 
general putrescence of the affected oi^nism ; and, 
under certain circumstances, new and violent kinds 
of disease are produced, such as plague or cholera ; 
and these, under circumstances or conditions of con- 
densed virulence in the causes or concomitants, — ^by 
imperfect ventilation, for instance, — ^are generally 
admitted to acquire the additional property of being 
capable of communication directly from the sick to 
the healthy,— of being propagated by contagion or 
by infection. If not so concentrated, it may be said 
probably, that even these severer forms of endemic 
disease are not capable of being thus communicated, 
or of being rendered epidemic; unless it may be to 
systems prepared for their reception by pre-existing 
derangement of function, and in whom there may 
have been more or less of exposure to the original 
sources of disease. This latter circumstance throws 
great, and perhaps insurmountable, difficulties in 
the way of determining how &r disease is capable 
of becoming contagious or infectious; making it 
doubtfdl, whether, in the cases where the probability 
of so direct an origin seems in the first instance to be 
the most strong, the individual cases may not really 
have originated from the same causes as originally 
gave rise to the disease. Nevertheless, it seems impos- 
sible to deny that, in some few instances, — ^they may 
perhaps be admitted to be the more rare and excep- 
tional cases, — ^such diseases are traceable to a conta- 
gious or infectious origin, or at least that their 



CAUSES OP EPIDEMIC DISEASE. 11 

occurrence is not to be otherwise explained. Such an 
illustration as the following^ is of fireqnent occurrence 
in fever hospitals. The majority of the patients are 
found to be derived^ in a given year^ from certain 
districts^ and indeed £rom certain streets, of the town ; 
and not only so, but probably, year after year, finom 
the same districts and the same streets, unless some 
important physical change has been wrought in their 
condition, by improvements in the sewerage, and the 
like. Yet persons living at a part of the town remote 
from this, the fever district, who attend the wards of 
the hospital, and come into contact with, or even 
stand very near to, the persons of the affected, are 
often found to become seized with the fever; the 
complaint being shown to be the same disease, by 
having the same character, the same symptoms pre- 
dominant, and even the same probable fatality, as the 
disease from which it seemed to originate, although 
placed in the first instanceunder such different circum- 
stances, as a spacious and well ventilated room, sur- 
rounded by cleanliness and comfort, compared with 
the small, close, dirty and wretched apartment, from 
which the poorer victim of the disease was conveyed 
to the hospital. Medical students, the medical 
officers, the nurses, Sec., of such institutions, afford 
too often, such vivid, and alas I occasionally such 
fatal illustrations of the possibility of the contagious 
or infectious propagation of such diseases, under the 
circumstances of concentration of its exhalations, 
whether from an isolated case of an aggravated 
character, or from several such cases occupying the 



12 INTRODUCTION. 

same apartment, or from imperfect ventilation of' 
the words — ^a degree of ventilation possibly sufficient 
for persons in health to maintain them in health, 
but insufficient to cany off the specific poison of the 
existing disease, or so to dilute it irith pure and 
unvitiated air as to render it innocuous. Should, 
however, even such cases as these that have been 
cited admit, in the opinion of some, of another 
explanation, there can be little doubt that the degree 
to which the original causes of the disease are con- 
centrated increases its severity, or, in other words, 
its malignant, putrescent and fatal character; or, 
that a continued exposure to the operation of the 
same causes after the seizure, adds to the pro- 
bability of its being of severe and fatal charac- 
ter. This becomes, of course, one of the strong- 
est arguments in favour of fever hospitals, and 
the best reason why such buildings, — ^while they 
should not be placed at such an inconvenient distance 
from the affected districts as to render them in any 
degree difficult of access, — should be far enough 
removed from the primary sources of disease, to be 
beyond suspicion of being subjected to the same 
malignant influences. Yet, after all, if the premises 
advanced be sound and tenable, it must be admitted 
that fever hospitals are, in themselves, public demon- 
strations of a neglect of those means by which the 
disease might be in a great degree, if not altogether, 
put an end to. It is to be borne in mind, that 
whereas an endemic fever of remittent or intermittent 
character may degenerate into the continued and 



CONTAGION AND INFECTION^ AS CAUSES OF DISEASE. 13^ 

typhoid^ or putrid type^ by the addition of animal 
putrescence to the causes of atmospheric vitiation^ 
the latter alone^ if aided by moisture^ may give rise 
to the same disease^ although prqbably affecting a 
much more- limited district ; and hence typhus may 
be Umited to a street, or almost to a house; or it 
may affect and ravage a wide district; and, in the 
same way, plague may be confined to one quarter of 
a town, or to several towns of a district, leaving un- 
touched the population of some intermediate town, 
where the endemic causes are carefully removed, or 
from natural circumstances do not obtain. 

But it must not be supposed that fevers, strictly 
so called, or even that forms of disease involving 
much constitutional excitement, are the only ailments 
that may be propagated from the sick to the healthy. 
Erysipelas, as has been too fully proved, is likewise 
thus communicable from the affected to the healthy 
by infection; and especially to such as are feeble, or 
who have some open wound of the surface, whether 
from accidental injury or consequent on a capital 
operation. This has been too frequently observed 
in the wards of hospitals, to admit of any dispute. 
It seems to have been proved, moreover, that the 
infection of erysipelas may, under some circum- 
stances, be conveyed from the sick, by means of a 
third person, who remains unaffected with the dis- 
ease, to parturient women, or women who have been 
recently delivered, producing that extreme form of 
disordered action, puerperal fever, which involves 
irritation of the lymphatics, probable inflammation 



14 INTRODUCTION. 

of thewomb^ the possible extension of the inflamma- 
tory action to the peritoneum^ and great and perhaps 
fatal depression of the nervons enei^es. It is not 
eyen to be suppq^sed that disease must be of acute 
character^ in order to its being directly communicable. 
Itch affords a well-known illustration^ that a disease 
may be of sufficiently chronic character^ and of long 
standings and by no means dangerous tolife^ and yet 
be readily communicable by contact of the affected 
with the healthy. Some diseases seem to be neither 
endemic, nor epidemic, nor strictly speaking sporadic, 
but to be only communicable by inoculation of the 
healthy from the affected : that is^ by briaging the 
morbid secretions produced by the disease^ and 
which are its specific result^ into contact with the 
mucous membranes of the healthy^ or with some 
other of their tissues that presents open-mouthed 
lymphatics for the absorption of the virus. 
Glanders and hydrophobia are examples of this 
peculiarity. 

Whatever be the conclusions respecting the ques- 
tions of contagion and infection^ as direct sources of 
typhus or of remittent fever, or of the plague, or of 
cholera, or of any disease that may spring firom an 
endemic cause, there is no doubt that an important 
class of diseases is thus propagated, whatever may be 
the source from which these diseases are originally 
derived. All the exanthemata — smaU*pox, measles, 
scarlatina, hooping-cough — are thus directly propa- 
gated, both by contagion and infection, perhaps espe- 
cially by the latter; and require the air to be very 



PERIODICITY OF DISEASE. 15 

lailgely dilated before it ceases to have the infectious 
property ; although the certainty and probability of 
its power is necessarily diminished or increased^ as 
the exhalations from the affected person are more or 
less diluted. Not only so ; but it would appear that 
Uie power of propagating these diseases continues 
for some time, even after the apparently perfect 
convalescence; and that some weeks must elapse 
between the entire subsidence of the attack and the 
perfect freedom from risk with which the healthy 
may be exposed to intercourse with the recently 
affected. It is a curious fact, that while this class 
of diseases constitutes the most extreme type of 
diseases — ^the type which is communicated as only 
the most aggravated and severe of the other forms 
of disease can be communicated, supposing that 
thus much were conceded, — ^it likewise constitutes 
the most perfect type of disease in its course, having 
a definite number of days for its progress, matu- 
ration and decline, being limited and defined in its 
course and duration. The same law of time or 
periodicity, applies, although much less strictly,* to 
most forms of continued fever, whether typhoid or 
simple fever, which have likewise a marked tendency 
to run through a course at not less than a given 
length of time ; often evidencing, moreover, a decided 
tendency to exacerbation or remission on particular 
days ; and frequently making a curative or restorative 
effort, whether successfully or not, on certain days, — 
some one of which usually constitutes the crisis of 
the attack, whether this be the first, or the second, 



16 INTRODUCTION. 

or the thirds or some subsequent one^ of such 
marked and critical days^ — so marked by the extended 
observation of a very large number of cases of 
the disease. This periodicity of disease is more 
noticeable in the case of remittent^ and more 
noticeable still in that of intermittent fevers ; and 
it is evidenced^ although much more obscurely and 
uncertainly^ in most febrile and inflammatory com- 
plaints^ in which some days are marked by exacer- 
bation of the complaint^ some by its remission, 
— or some hours of the day or night are similarly 
distinguished. 

Periodicity is, however, only one feature of disease : 
in some cases an important, in others a very insig- 
nificant feature of morbid action; which is often 
wholly absent ; which is only another shape of that 
great natural law, which determines the hours of 
sleep and of wakefulness, of meal-times, and the 
like,— which helps man by adding to the number of 
his habits — ^habits, that when established, become 
almost instincts. And this law of periodicity, 
which, as applied to disease, is so often wanting, and 
is of primary importance in so few diseases, com- 
paratively speaking, must not, as has been done at 
different times, be confounded with the essentials 
of disease, or considered to constitute one of its 
primary and necessary conditions, 

AU the many degrees there may be between the 
mildest case of intermittent fever and the most 
severe case of yellow fever, — ^from simple continued 
fever to typhus gravior,— are so many instances of 



8ANATOBT RESULTS OF CIVILISATION. 17 

disease depending on endemic causes^ wbicli vitiate 
the atmosphere^ and charge it more or less with 
noxious miasmata ; and these may or may not be 
added to the less ' apparent primary causes of 
epidemic diseases^ as small-pox, — adding to their 
intensity ; or they would seem, even per se, if con- 
centrated in extreme, to have the power of rendering 
diseases tliat are usually simply endemic, epidemic, 
— or propagable directly from the sick to the 
healthy. 

On all these forms of disease, civilisation, — ^the 
drainage and cultivation of the soU, — adequate sewer- 
age, — commodiously constructed and well ventilated 
streets, houses, and apartments, — have exercised, 
and may exercise, so large an influence, as to miti- 
gate, or possibly altogether do away with, endemic 
disease ; and to modify and greatly lessen the fatal- 
ity of epidemic disease. These are the social gains 
accruing to every individual of a well-organised 
community, the degree of which can scarcely be 
estimated; and which, however imperfectly and 
crudely conceived, might well reconcile us to the 
times we live in, and atone to us for not having 
lived in '^ those good old days,'^ when agues, malig- 
nant fever, plague, putrid sore-throat, and confluent 
smaU-pox, thinned, at short intervals, the population 
of the towns, villages and hamlets of Old England. 
Civilisation, however, with all its great improve- 
ments, and the large boons it has conferred on the 
mass of the people, has dealt less mercifully with 
individual. Shutting up 80 many in the close and 



18 INTRODUCTION. 

less pure air of otir large cities^ and sucli numbers 
in the closer air of workshops^ cellars, and small 
rooms,-*<sonfining so many to a single occupation, 
involving perhaps almost a single position of the 
body, day by day, and year by year, — making life 
a succession of privations, confinement, and mecha- 
nical and tmvarying employment,-civiliflation deals 
out to these her victims, a large amount of indivi- 
dual disease and suffering, which never reach the 
social importance of endemic or epidemic disease, 
but which sicken the life and shorten it, and affect 
injuriously the health and the probability of life of 
the posterity, — ^probably to destroy the individual 
and his descendants in the course of a few suffering 
generations, by forms of disease characterised in 
all their phases by diminished power, and called 
cachectic, having the generic name of scrofula 
common to the whole of them. And yet there is 
no doubt that much of this individual penalty, which 
is paid by social man for his civilised position, is no 
necessary part of the civilised state, — that, although 
large numbers of people cannot be brought together 
into one building, where they must spend a large 
part of every twenty-four hours, without some degree 
of physical injury to them all, — ^that, although indi- 
vidual health must be affected even by the crowding 
of large masses of people into the limited district of 
a closely built town,— yet, by sewerage, by cleanli- 
ness, by ventilation, a great amount of the evil may 
be done away with, and the expectation of life, 
although not equal to the highest standard attain- 



8AXATOBT BSSULT8 OF CIVILISATION. 19 

able in a well-drained rural district^ be greatly 
increased firom that which obtains nnder less favour* 
ing drcumstances. 

Following health and disease downwards firom 
the classes to the individuals^ we find many things 
attending the state of high and advancing dvilisa- 
tion, that are both for and against the healthiness 
and the expectation of life. The price of food pro- 
bably rises^ in some degree^ in proportion to the 
increasing population and the greater demand, and 
in a greater proportion than the relative advancement 
of the wages of the handicraft ormere labourer; and 
hence the further evil of insufficient, or a lower cha- 
racter of food, is risked in the case of the producing 
classes of the people : animal food firom its greater 
relative cost becomes less and less attainable, and 
vegetable food becomes more and more exclusively 
the means of support. To counterbalance this risk 
in some degree, an advancing agriculture gives them 
a variety of vegetable productions unknown to their 
ancestors, or less generally enjoyed by them, the 
effect of which is not only to multiply the physical 
enjoyments, but to promote the health, and add to the 
expectation of life. It needs only to mention the 
potato and almost all the pot-herbs, in proof of the 
change in these respects in the daily figure of the 
poorest of the population ; and the whiter and much 
better bread is further proof of the same fact. Com- 
merce, too, extending itself to all parts of the world, 
and bringing tea, coffee, spices, &c., to temper his 
system to its altered habits, fix>m those of severe 



20 INTEODUCTION. 

ont-of-door labour to sedentary in-door employ- 
ment^ lias helped^ and greatly helped^ to diminish 
the social evils that must attend upon the march 
of civilisation. And then^ manufactures^ — while 
they draw an immense proportion of the people 
from the fields into the towns^ and expose them to 
the sufferings consequent on breathing all their 
lives the more or less vitiated atmosphere^ — ^in their 
turn supply all classes of the people with better^ and 
warmer, and more various and suitable clothing, and 
at a far cheaper rate, to protect the surface, main- 
tain the bodily temperature, and so diminish or cut 
off the sources of a large number of the more 
importaat and dangerous forms of disease. 

To whatever degree, then, it may be admitted 
that the health of social mankind is benefited by 
civilisation, — ^however far the expectation of life is 
increased by the diminished chances of epidemic 
and endemic diseases, and the mitigated severity of 
such diseases when they do occur, — and however far 
the individual sufferings of a large number of the 
people, that are consequent upon a town life and 
in-door occupations, may be lessened by sanatory 
regulations and control, and by an increased general 
enlightenment of the minds of the suffering masses, 
to shew them how they themselves may aid in 
lessening these evils, which press on them so hea- 
vily, — a large amount of individual evil must still be 
left, as it were by way of penalty for so much good 
to the community at large, which no mere sana- 
tory regulations can re^ch, but which are not there- 



MUTUAL CONNECTION OF HYGIENIC SUBJECTS. 21 

fore wholly without means of mitigation. Such 
means are to found in judicious self-control and 
self-culture^ — in the careful avoidance of whatever 
may be injurious to the healthy — ^in the care taken 
to modify^ as far as possible^ whatever may be the 
injurious tendencies of the social position^ — ^in the 
judicious management of children during the import** 
ant years of growth^ lessenings as far as may be^ 
any hereditary tendencies to disease that may have 
descended to them> — in careful attention to the 
means of promoting the development and the 
vigour of every fiaculty and function^ — ^and in ever 
diminishing^ by such means^ the risk of an undue 
taxation for the many and admitted social advantages. 
Such seem to be^ strictly speakings the aim^ scope^ 
and importance of diet and regimen^ to the consi* 
deration of which the foregoing observations may 
serve as a not unfitting introduction. 

It is not, however, meant by this, that, — although 
the words diet and regimen appear to confine the sub- 
ject to such hygienic questions as belong to the indi- 
vidual members of a community, and to be thus, either 
wholly or in a great degree, under their personal 
guidance and control, — such questions could be, in 
every case, thus exclusively treated, or that it would 
be advantageous, even were it possible, thus to consi- 
der them. The subjects of ventilation and climate 
could scarcely be reduced to questions of merely indi- 
vidual concern. On the contrary, to consider the 
drcumstances and relations of these great means of 
health in a satisfactory maimer, the purity of the air. 



22 INTRODUCTION. 

its hygrometrical character^itstemperature^its density 
(elevation)^ and its movement (ventilation), and the 
direction of the prevailing winds, must be connected 
with the geographical position of the place, and its geo- 
logical character, and with its vegetation, irrigation 
and drainage, in order to the fiUing up of the outline 
obtained by studying the less general circumstances 
of the position of the dwelling, the size and aspect of 
the rooms, the nature of its surface-soil, and the 
modes of heating, lighting, and ventilating the inte- 
rior of the building. Nor is it meant to be implied, 
that, in speaking of diet and regimen as chiefly, or 
more strictly, individual questions, which every one 
may be supposed to be able to influence for the 
advantage or otherwise of his health, and his expecta- 
tion of life, that this is therefore a matter less strictly 
medical than the other questions appertaining to the 
physical interests of mankind. On the contrary, 
however useful definite views and opinions may be 
to every member of a community, as to the relative 
digestibility of the different articles of food, as to the 
uses of muscular exercise and its mode of action and 
effects on the system, as to the value of ventilation, 
the influence of climate, &c., &c., the practical appli- 
cation of such knowledge, its definite reduction to 
cases and circumstances, must be left to the judgment 
and experience of the medical profession, from whom 
the public are entitled to expect so much guidance, 
and who have, it may not be disputed, been more or 
less wanting in this great duty. To keep people well 
may often be a more difficult matter than to restore 



DIAGNOSIS or HYGIENIC INDICATIONS. 28 

them to health; and the art and capability of carrying 
the principles of Hygiene to every man's habitual hfe^ 
and adapting them to every one's constitution and the 
wants of his position^ are the strict and proper 
business of the medical man. The public may leam 
—and leam most advantageously to the chances 
of life^ healthy intellectual capability^ and probabi- 
lity of usefiilness — ^the general principles on which 
alcohol is believed to influence the animal economy^ 
its effects on the system^ the good and the evil 
that it may produce ; but no man can judge for 
himself^ or but few could be trusted to judge, as to 
whether he should, or should not, abstain altogether 
ttom the use of alcohol, in any form. Two men find 
themselves to be suffering fix>m evident sjrmptoms of 
determination of blood to the head ; and both may 
be much on a par, as regards age, condition, occupa- 
tion, and even habits of life ; and yet the one require 
depletion, and the other tonics — the one be injured, 
and the other benefited, by the moderate use of 
stimulants. How needless to add, that this dis- 
tinction, to draw which would be quite beyond the 
capabilities of either sufferer for himself, might be 
readily made, in a few seconds, by a medical man 
practised in the use of the stethoscope. Nothing is 
more true, and to some extent nothing can be more 
useful knowledge, than that temperance in the use 
of the alcoholic compounds conduces to health and all 
the best physical blessings of life ; but nothing is 
better proved, than that temperance to one man 
means literal abstinence ^m all such potations, and 



24 INTBODUCTION. 

that every indulgence in their use^ to however small 
a degree^ is injurious to his bodily well-being, and 
therefore a virtual intemperance ; and nothing is 
more fully proved, than that, in these latitudes, there 
is a large number of people, in whom, either from 
hereditary deUcacy of constitution, or from the 
nature of the employment, or from the kind of 
district they inhabit, a certain quantity of alcohol, in 
some form or other, mixed with the food, is decidedly 
useful, diminishing the risk of disease, promoting 
the strength of the system, and, in all likelihood, 
prolonging the existence. In circumstances of dis- 
ordered condition of the physique, it is still more 
plain, that every decision as to the use of stimu- 
lants, or as to the nature of the aliment to be 
used, can only be given judiciously by the medical 
man ; and demands from him as nice and careful 
observation, analysis, and comparison of the facts of 
the case before him, as the prescription, to write 
which is the more ostensible part of his duty. If 
medical men were to feel the importance and need- 
fulness of doing their whole duty as to these great 
questions, and to become the dispensers of hygienic 
lessons and dietetic orders as well as of drugs, and 
in this path to go beyond the more imimediately 
urgent duty of enjoining the antiphlogistic regimen 
in acute cases, the gross errors in questions of 
hygiene on the part of the public, and the general 
ignorance as to the importance and value of atten- 
tion to the organic laws and the subsidiary means 
of health, must soon disappear. Were medical men 



INSTANCES .OF SANATORY NEGLECT. 25 

to assume the position, which their information, 
experience and social station, alone enable them, of 
all mankind, to occupy, — ^and to make the subjects of 
diet and regimen matters of daily and hourly teach- 
ing to those, for whose physical well-being they are 
so largely responsible, — ^intra-mural sepulture, defec- 
tive sewerage, cellar-habitations, and a long list of 
similarly gross violations of the organic laws, could 
never continue to find a place among any people 
removed from barbarism. If the proved and admitted 
facts on these subjects were known to all men, would 
the offensive, the health-damaging, and life-deterio- 
rating custom of packing the dead, side by side, and 
tier above tier, in the churchyards, in the midst of 
closely-placed and fuUy-peopled dwellings, be allowed 
to continue ? The people in general do not, and 
cannot know, that the occurrence of a case of 
fever, not obviously dependent on some localised 
inflammation of adequate severity, is primd facie 
proof that there is in the district some remov- 
able source of atmospherical impurity, which, — 
although possibly producing only one case of fever, 
or only a few cases of fever, — ^and although perhaps 
attracting Uttle notice, and not affecting under the 
name of fever the tables of mortality, or even adding 
directly to the local rates under the guise of widow- 
hood or orphanage, — gives rise, necessarily, to num- 
berless cases of lesser disease, amounting to fever only 
in those who have been predisposed to suffer largely 
from the operation of such causes, owing to debility 
or functional derangement however induced, or in 

c 



26 iNmODITCTION. 

those who have been moat ei^sed to the miasmaitoiu 
matt^, which hto so far poisoned the air. Sndi 
mincMT disorda^ conditions may be visceral derange- 
ment^ dyspepsia^ iitegolarities of the circalation, or 
any of the countless forms of malaise^ that render 
man less fitted for the duties of his caUing^ if not 
temporarily incapacitated from following it at all. 
t^Bople do not and cannot know such &cts as these ; 
or nothing less than a hue and cry would be raised 
on the occurrence of fever ; the sources of impurity 
would be anxiously investigated ; and every matter 
for suspicion would be promptly and carefully 
removed. It cannot be beUeved^ that the public 
mind is aroused to the vast and vital consequences 
of ignorance and inattention to these questions ; and 
it is only to the members of the medical profession^ 
that attention can be turned with any hope of wit- 
nessing speedily a more enlightened state of things* 
There is another question to whidi I would allude, 
before concluding this necessarily somewhat discur- 
sive introduction. It is a question that is intimately 
bound up with the well-being of tibe people^ and 
which is essentially dependent on the personal efforts 
made by medical men^ to extend to the masses f^ 
the populaticm^ some general information ss to the 
principles and redsonings^ the facts and deductions, 
on which the art and practice of medicine are fotmded 
and built. This is no less than the suppression of 
quackery in the ia*eatment of the diseases of m&nkiiid, 
or at least its gradual removal : an end, perhaps, only 
to be attamed, or even approached, by these means. 






KNOWLEDGE TEBSUB QUACKERY. 27 

It woiild probably signify but little^ even if the 
LegiilaEtnre were to resign its greater or less profits 
on the sale of quack medicines, and no longer inrest 
them with the legal stamp, whidi gives them a sort 
of national sanction. It mi^t not, perhaps, have 
any very great influence, even if our universities 
and colleges were to make a decided stand against 
empiricism in all its shapes, and signalise the deter- 
mination by eKpelling from their numbers, every 
member of the profession, proved to have lent himself 
to any of the humbugs that delude mankind, — con- 
signing those who practise, and those who aid and 
abet the practice, of any of the fcnrms of Charlatanism, 
to a notable dismissal from our ranks. It might 
sigmfy but Sttle, if the Legislature were even to 
forbid tke sale ef xmpres(H^3>ed medicines,-^o place 
the heatth of the people at large in the care of 
pubhc and fully quidified medical officers, — ^and 
aso^rtain duly the fitness of eveary one practising the 
profession in the cases of individual disease,^ — visiting 
every one foimd guilty of practising without such 
qtiailification, with an amount of punishment propor- 
tionate to the degree of the misdemeanour. All 
such means, admitting that they are st^>s in the 
right direction, and such as a well-informed Legisla- 
ture might be justified in adopting, and the protection 
of the pubUc from the wrong inflicted by the ignorant 
or the knavish might appear to demand, are liable 
to be regarded as an unfair and uncalled-for inter- 
ference with the liberty of the people, until the 
public mind is so fully informed of the expediency 

c2 



28 INTRODUCTION. 

of such measures^ so fiilly aliye to the irrationality 

and knavishness of quackery, in all its shapes, as, in 

&ct, to require no protection from its machinations, 

unless in the case of the lowest and least informed 

remnant of the people, over whom a paternal Legis* 

lature might feel the kindness and necessity of 

throwing the shield of its enactments, as a safeguard 

against the efforts of the designing and unprincipled. 

I would not have myself so far misunderstood, as to 

be thought capable of undervaluing whatever efforts 

may have been made to suppress quackery, whether 

by bringing about the exposure and disgrace of those 

who practise it, or by enlisting in so good a cause 

the strong arm of the State. Quackery, in all its 

shapes, is only second in amount of bad consequences 

to those of the general ignorance which has indirectly 

served to maintain epidemic and endemic disease in 

these latitudes, and thereby to augment so much the 

ratio of mortality, and the amount of widowhood and 

orphanage, of these kingdoms; and whatever tends 

to lessen either the ignorance on the one hand, or 

the advantage taken of the ignorant by the quack on 

the other, are necessarily only different paths leading ' 

to the same object. 



CHAPTER 11. 

On Diet — Digestion. — Complicated Nature of the Assimilatiiig 
Processes. — Chemical Opinions. — Animal Food more easily 
assimilated than Vegetable Food. — Circomstances influencing 
the Kind and Amount of Food required. — Digestion a Vital 
Action. — Influence of the Nervous System on Assimilation. — In- 
fluence of Digestion on the Circnlation, and the general Economy 
of the Body. — Indigestion a predisposing and exciting Cause 
of Disease. — Importance of Dietetics. — Nature's Dietetics. — 
Chemical Constitution of the Body. — Non-azotised, Albuminous, 
and Grelalinous Tissues. — ^Fibrin, Albumen, and Casein of Alimen- 
tary Substances convertible into Protein. — Use of the Non- 
azotised Aliments. — Use of the (gelatinous Aliments. — Experi- 
ments on the Comparative Digestibility of the Articles of Food. — 
Dr. Beaomont's Case of Alexis St. Martin ; its Results and In- 
ferences. — Dietetic Tables of Comparative Digestibility. — Com- 
parative Digestibility of Animal Substances. — Meats. — Poultry. 
—Game. — Gravy.— Gelatin.— .Fibrin.--Fat — Turtie.— Fish.— 
Milk and its Products. — Egg. — Comparative Digestibility of 
Vegetable Substances. — Grain : Wheat, Oats, Rye, Barley, Maize, 
Bice, &C.. — Pot-herbs, Roots, &c. — Vegetables eaten Uncooked. 
— Fruits and Seeds. — Dried Fruits. — ^Vegetable Principles : 
Starch, Gum, Sugar, Oil. — Effect of Saliva on Digestion of Fecula. 
— Crystallisable Substances. — Molasses, Honey. — Condiments. — 
Spices. — Tea, Coffee, Cocoa. — Liquors the product of Fermen- 
tation. — ^Dietetic Effect of Water. — General Dietetic Rules. — 
Quantity of Food required. — Meal-times, &.c. 

To regulate the diet^ is the first and most im- 
portant step that can be taken^ either to restore 
health or to preserve it. The great series of pro- 
cesses concerned in the nutrition of the body, — ^the 



so PROCESSES CONCERNED IN ASSIMILATION. 

minute mechanical division of the food by mastica- 
tion, — ^its intimate mixture with the saliva — ^with the 
probable effect of still further separating it into 
detached particles, of adding to it a chemical re- 
agent, and of mixing with it a lai^ amount of 
atmospheric air, for taking up and enclosing which 
within it, in considerable quantity, the saliva is so 
peculiarly remarkable, — the giving to the mass^ 
when it has reached the stomach, the temperature 
of the body, — the adding to it a pecuKar solvent, 
the gastric juice, which is likewise largely antiseptic, 
— ^the solution of the solid parts of the food, and 
the conversion of the contents of the stomach into a 
homogeneous mass of pulpy consistence, the whole 
being thus mixed with the gastric juice, and blended 
into an uniform mass, by the vermicular contractions 
of the coats of the stomach, — the mechanical 
ejection of the chymous mass from the stomach, by 
means of the contractions of the viscus, - — the 
mixture of the chyme with the bile in the duode- 
num, and the consequent neutralisation of the 
excess of acid, saponification of the oily matters, 
and large addition of carbon to the whole of the 
alimentary mass, — ^the extraction, by the^ vital and 
mechanical powers of the lymphatics, of the nutri- 
mentary from the excrementitious matters, — the 
conveyance of the chyle thus formed, into the 
thoracic duct, and thence into the current of the 
circulation of the blood, where, soon passing through 
the lungs, it loses much of its watery particles, 
becomes oxygenated, and is formed into perfect and 



DIOBSTIYE 7BEMBNT. 31 

Titalised blood, fitted for the restoration of the 
wasted^ and the repair of the worn-out parta of the 
different oi^ans and tisanes of the body, — are all 
parta of the great function of digestion, all subject 
to derangement firom many causes, and when so 
deranged, axe with difficulty, if at all reatorable to a 
healthy state, unless the character and circumstances 
of the food that is taken, be accommodated to the de- 
ranged condition of thesystem it is intended to nourish. 
Sueh disordered state of the digestive functions, 
moreoTer,interferes largely with thegeneral power and 
eeoncHuy of the system, renders it less fitted to resist 
9JaA overcome external influences that are calculated 
to affect it injuriously, and thus may form the remote 
cause of many, and a directly-exciting cause of some, 
of the diseases to which man is liable. It is in this 
direct and this indirect way, that the state of the 
digestive oi^ans asstonea such an important position 
in the great questions of maintaining health and 
warding off disease^ or of restoring health when it 
is deranged ; and it is thus that dietetic facts and 
observations acquire an increased importance^ both 
with reference to health and disease. 

I venture to retain this account of the functions 
of the stomach in regard to digestion, notwith- 
standing the more recent views regarding the action 
of a disintegrant and fermenting product, itself in 
a state of molecular movement and undergoing the 
process of decomposition and change, which is believed 
to be derived from the effete matters thrown off from 
the lining membrane of the stomachy or to be formed 



82 MOLECULAR CHANGES DURING DIGESTION. 

of detached portions of its own expended organism^ 
— and, acting exactly on the principle of yeast or 
ferment, is supposed to throw into movement and 
produce the re-arrangement of the molecules of the 
food, and accomplish the first of the series of changes 
in it that have to be undergone before it can again 
become a part of a living organism. To this should 
be added the opinions, that, in this case, the acid 
secretion of the stomach may be either unnecessary, 
—only the product of irritation— offering, whenever 
present, primd facie evidence of a disordered con-* 
dition,— or, in another view, may be always present, 
but only serves to disintegrate the food, and 
diminish the cohesion of its particles, before it is 
subjected to the action of the ferment,— or, by the 
known antiseptic action of organic acids, this secre- 
tion may be of importance, after the food has 
imdergone those molectilar changes, in arresting 
the fermentative process, and arresting it at such 
a point, as to ensure that the molecular con- 
dition of the food, when it leaves the stomach to 
undergo the next stage in the process of digestion, 
should be always the same, and precisely that 
which is best suited to the action of the other 
assimilating agents, and the chemical constitution of 
the organism of which it is to form a part. Having 
thus early set forth these statements and views, as 
to the action of the stomach on the food> and the 
changes which the aliment undergoes in the stomach: 
views which forcibly recal to mind the passage quoted 
by Dr. Paris, from a MS. note of one of John 



CHEMICAL OPINIONS. 33 

Hunter's lectures, — ^•'Some say the stomach is a 
laboratory, others that it is a fermenting vat, others 
that it is a stew-pan, but I say that it is a stomach, 
gentlemen, a stomach ;*' — ^having stated these views, 
and admitted most fiilly their ingenuity, their 
interesting character, their plausibility, and allowed 
that they may eventually be shown to be true ; — 
granting that they are supported by much analogy, — 
that the process of fermentation, with the mole- 
cular changes, and altered relations, composition and 
character produced by it, is at least curiously similar 
to those alterations produced in alimentary sub- 
stances in the processes of ^digestion; — it must be 
added, that it is only a theory, that it is not yet an 
established doctrine, and that the comparatively 
smaU importance it leaves to the acid secretion of the 
stomach must, until more is ascertained, tend to add 
to the reasonable doubts entertained in regard to it. 
It may be added, that much and undeniable evidence 
would have to be afforded, before the opinion that 
the acid secretion of the stomach is only a morbid 
product, and is not necessary to the purposes of 
digestion, could possibly be believed. Under these 
circumstances, it is perhaps justifiable to retain the 
older mode of explaining the action of the stomach 
on the food, if to this be added the probable action 
of some cause of molecular movement, similar to 
that which might be caused by a ferment, by 
which the series of intestine movements of those 
molecules is commenced, which must be accomplished 
before the various aliments can be re-organised, and 

c8 



34 oAsmic juiCK. — pepsin. 

converted into a fluid which is to all seeming exactly 
the same^ whether the aliment be vegetable or 
animal^ and the same no matter what the character 
of the vegetable or animal food^ provided only that 
it contains the four elementary substances^ that are 
essential to the composition of every living creature. 
The experiments instituted by Dr. Beaumont in 
the case of Alexis St. Martin^ hereafter detailed (page 
65)^ confirm if they do not prove the primary im- 
portance of the gastric juice in the solution of the 
aliments within the stomach. It by no means fol- 
lows^ however^ that the action of the gastric juice 
upon the aliments sho^dd be exclusively^ or even 
chiefly^ by virtue of the acid or acids it is in part 
composed of. On the contrary^ it seems to be proved 
that food is not dissolved in diluted adds^ unless a 
small proportion of the animal matter secreted from 
the lining membrane of the stomachy is mixed with 
the acids. It appears to be a justifiable inference 
from these experiments, which have been performed 
over and over again by different chemists and in 
different ways, that this animal matter performs no 
secondary part in the formation of the chyme; and 
it seems to be a probable inference that its action is 
somewhat analogous to that of a ferment, and that it 
produces the molecular changes in the ultimate par* 
tides of the food, which must attend the great 
changes it undergoes in its conversion into chyme, 
and be needful to prepare it for being again brought 
within the influence of the vital prmdple, and ren- 
dered fit to form part of the Uving organism. To the 



DIGESTION A VITAL FUNCTION. 35 

aiiimal matter which ezerdseia this great effect in the 
digestive process, — ^which is probably itself in a state 
of molecular movement^ and therefore capable of 
commnnicating such movement to other organiied 
substances, — and which, from all analogy, is perhaps 
justifiably believed to be peculiar in its composition 
and character, — ^the name of pepsin has been given. 
The nature of the add contained in the gastric juice 
has occupied the attention of most of the great che- 
mists ; and it has been said to be hydrochloric acid, 
acetic add, lactic add, superphosphate of lime, &;c. A 
much more practically interesting result derived from 
the numerous and anxious investigations into these 
questions, and one that seems to be proved, is, that 
an animal matter contained in the saliva, and sepa^ 
rable from it, when mixed with alkali proves to be 
the solvent and digestive medium of starch, upon 
which addulated animal matter has no action,-*-and 
that either this same animal matter, or some similarly 
eonstituted animal matter, when mixed with the 
add secretion of the stomach, proves to be the proper 
solvent for the azotised articles of food, such as fibrin, 
gelatin and albumen, having no power to dissolve or 
assmilate the non-azotised aliments. 
- It should however be added, that in the views enter* 
tained by chemists as to the theory of the assimilating 
processes, there is perhaps too little allowance made 
for the influence of the vital principle — ^the organ- 
inng agent. In alltheviews,reasonings and inferences, 
which greater researches and further information 
may seem to justify, the true vital character of the 



36 COMPARATIVE DIGESTIBILITY OF ALIMENTS. 

digestive fiinctions most be always set forth^ or trath 
end usefiilness must be equally forfeited. 

It is by no means the case^ that all alimentary 
substances are digested and assimilated with equal 
facility^ by the chemical and vital powers of the 
system^ any more than it is the case that all such 
substances are equally nourishing. On the con- 
trary^ the nearer the food is^ in the first instance^ to 
the composition of the blood, the more easily is it 
assimilated; and hence^ other things being equal, 
animal food is so much more easily digested and assi* 
milated than vegetable food ; and hence, the great 
anatomical &uct finds its explanation, — ^that the 
digestive organs are so much more complicated in 
the herbivorous than in the carnivorous animals* 
In man, the same thing is illustrated, both in health 
and disease. In infancy, all attempts to nourish 
the system on vegetable food exclusively, must sig- 
nally fail, from the fact that the digestive organs 
are, at that time, unequal to the great task of con- 
verting matters into blood, that are so different to 
it in their composition, or in the arrangement or 
proportion of their elementary constituents; — ^in 
states of disease characterised by much debi- 
lity, the system must be nourished, almost exclu- 
sively, on the more simple forms of animal food^ 
and cannot otherwise be restored to health; — and, 
when in health, man must be in high vigour, and 
be pkced in circumstances which greatly aid in 
maintaining the digestive organs in the fdllest 
power, if he can be preserved in health and strength 



ANIMAL AND VEOETABLX TOOD, 37 

on a strictly vegetable diet, i.€,, a diet not only 
without animal fibre^ but without animal substance 
in any form constituting a part of it. It may 
indeed be necessary^ and often must be so, that, 
even in states of disease, the system must be con- 
fined to a strictly yegetable diet ; but this amounts, 
in such cases, to a comparative question of starva^ 
tion, for the relief of such morbid action; and the 
vegetable food must be offered in such moderate 
quantity, and in so comparatively easily digested a 
form, as may accommodate it, as far as may be, to 
the general derangement, and to the assimilating 
capabilities of the organs of digestion. But it by 
no means follows that, because animal food is more 
easily digested than vegetable food by the healthy 
human stomach, it should therefore be more suited 
to the feeble or the disordered stomach. Under 
such circumstances, on the contrary, animal food 
may prove too directly stimulating to the stomach 
itself, or indirectly add to the morbid condition 
by stimulating too much the general system, and 
necessitate the use of a vegetable diet, or of a diet 
in great part vegetable, even admitting that it 
might be less easily digested than some forms of 
animal food; while the knowledge of the great 
fact, that vegetable food is comparatively less easily 
digested, might influence the kind and quality and 
form in which the vegetable food should be given, 
or lead to the mixing with it, as soon as circumstances 
might permit, and to as great a degree as might seem 
otherwise expedient, a larger or smaller proportion of 



38 COMFA&ATIVE DIGESTIBILITY OF ALIMENTS. 

ammal food. It does not follow however^ that because 
food is more easily reduced to a chTiuous mass b j the 
peptic and solvent powers of the stomachy it is there- 
fore easily assimilated, and readily formed into blood; 
for the stomach^s duties in the process of digestion, 
although of primary importance, are not all-exdu- 
sively important. Many articles of food which 
occasion no inconvenience to the stomach itself — 
leaving it speedily, in a state of unirritating chyme — 
may be so unsuited to the state of the other digestive 
organs as to lodge in the intestines, and eventually 
be expelled from them, in abut little if at all altered 
state, having fJEoled altogether in the great purpose 
of nourishing the body. This is sometimes found 
to be the case, where farina, or starch, in any of 
its forms, has been too exclusively trusted to, as 
the diet of children, or of invalids. Some animal 
substances then, although oonfessedly more easily 
assimilated than vegetable substances, may be jus- 
tifiably considered to be unsuitable food in certain 
cases, from their being less easily dissolved by the 
secretions of the stomach than certain vegetable 
substances, from their adding by so much to the 
unavoidable amount of the stomach^s duties, which 
it may be important to render as little onerous as 
possible; or an animal diet may be objectionable 
in these or other cases, even where &cility of assi- 
milation is of considerable importance, from its 
proving too directly and largely nutrimentary, or 
too directly stimulating, to a morbid and irritable 
state of the system. The question of comparative 



CIRCUMSTANCES MODIFYING DIGESTION. 39 

digestibility^ or compaiatiye facility of assimilation^ 
may tben^ in some cases^ become of secondary 
importance to that of the comparative nntritioas- 
ness^ or the comparatiydy stimulating character of 
the articles of food. Again^ — as will have to be 
more folly stated afterwards^ — ^the form in which 
the article of food is offered to the action of the 
gastric juice, has very much to do with the readi-^ 
ness with which it may be assimilated. Liquids, 
when taken alone into the stomach, unmixed with 
soUd food, are in a great degree absorbed by the 
veins and absorbents^ which open on the lining! 
membrane of the viscus, and thus escape^ to that 
extent^ the necessity of being subjected to the 
ordeal of the digestive processes. But liquids hold- 
ing solid matters in solution are by no means, 
always permitted to escape thus^ but have to be 
digested, — a large proportion of the fluid part being 
however^ when the stomach is healthy, drawn off 
from the solid matters, which are thus left in a 
state better adapted to the peptic powers of the 
gastric secretion. When the stomach is in a less 
healthy state, and its gastric juice has less of solvent 
power, and probably a more acrid character, and 
the absorbents perform their duty less perfectly, or 
possibly not at all, aliment taken in a semi-fluid 
state is often found to be with much difficidty con-. 
Terted into chyme, to remain a long time in the 
stomach, and perhaps to be rejected from it, charged 
with acrid morbid secretions from the stomach and 
its mucous membrane, when the same aliment. 



40 CIRCUMSTANCXS MODIFYING DIGESTION. 

taken in a more solid form^ is digested without 
perceptible difficulty. On the other hand, food 
may present difficulties to the stomach and other 
organs of assimilation, which may be strictly 
called mechanical, — depending, in fact, on its being 
too hard and dense in its character and consistence ; 
thus, over-cooked and dried meat becomes less easily 
digested, in direct proportion to its hardness and 
dryness* Some substances are more or less diges-» 
tible, owing to their chemical constitution and 
character rendering them stimulating, or irritating, 
or causing them to neutralise and interfere with the 
chemical action of the gastric juice, or to aid and 
promote its solvent properties. The necessities of 
the system likewise, in some degree, influence the 
activity and power of the assimilating functions; 
but this with too many exceptions, to render the 
state of the digestive functions an infallible guide, as 
to the quantity or the kind of food that should be 
taken. The habits of the individual, and as it should 
appear, the habits of his parents, likewise influence 
and serve to modify the amount and the character 
of the food that the system requires. And the tem- 
porary state of muscular repose or activity, vigour or 
exhaustion, — of a mind engrossed by thought, or in a 
state of relaxation from toil, — ^through the medium of 
the nervous system, interferes with, or aids, the solvent 
powers of the stomach, and the influence of that and 
the other digestive organs in efiecting the needful 
changes in the ingesta — re-arranging and vital- 
ising the molecules of the food, and fitting them to 



TARTIKG EXPENDITURE OF THE SYSTEM. 41 

fonn a part of the liying organism. Further, through 
the medium of the respiration, the requirements of 
the system for fresh supplies of nutrimentary matter 
may differ very much at different times, owing to 
a varying expenditure; and from this cause, the 
activity and power of the digestive functions may 
vary very perceptibly, and to an important degree, 
at different times. By expending a large amount 
of carbon, the respiration requires at all times an 
important proportion of the alimentary supplies; 
and when the consumption of carbon by the respi* 
ratory function is more considerable, as it neces* 
sarily is in cold weather, to maintain at its normal 
and elevated standard the temperature of the body, 
the alimentary supplies must likewise be more con- 
siderable, or the powers of the system must be drawn 
upon for the extra consimiption ; and usually, the 
digestive organs become proportionably more active, 
to meet this increased demand. 

The peptic functions of the stomach require, for 
their performance, a large amount of vital or nervous 
power, and a considerable determination of blood to 
the organ, while engaged in its duties. Whatever 
interferes temporarily, or for any longer period of 
time, with either of these conditions, to the same 
extent deranges the functions of the organ, and 
induces dyspepsia. The physiology of digestion is 
thus very intimately connected with its pathology. 
The series of processes concerned in the assimilation 
of the food and its conversion into blood, peculiarly 
requires the mens sana ia corpore sano. Exerdse, 



42 NBKTOire 7QWEE NICBSSABY TO DIGESTION. 

by detenzuBing the blood to the sur£M^ of the body, 
and by uamg the nervoua powers specially in willing 
the aetion of the muscles concemed in the move- 
ments required, interferes by so mndi with the 
digeatiye functions; and^ by consequence^ the less 
Tigorous the nervous and vascular systems^ the more 
feeble the individual^ or the less healthy the digestire 
powers^ the greater this risk, and the more extreme 
the degree of the dyspepsia induced. Nervous 
exhaustion, however brought about, whether by 
disease, or by loss of sleep, or by excessive muscular 
exercise, or by the undue perspiration occasioned by 
very hot weather, or by the depressing passions and 
emotions of the mind, or by excessive care, anxiety, 
or study, to the same degree as it obtains, influences 
and deranges the digestive processes. Some such 
causes may last for a considerable time, and derange 
in an increasing degree the digestive powers; and 
even lead to organic change in the structure of the 
organs, and consequently to permanent injury of 
their functions. It is not only then, that the food 
varies much in the degree of its digestibility, but 
that the system varies much in its capability of 
assimilation; and it foUows that there arise thus 
additional reasons, why the relative facility with 
which different articles of food axe digested, should 
be as fiEur as possible determined and known, in 
order to adapt the kind of food to the varying circum- 
stances of every man^s daily life, and to avoid as far 
as may be the risk of adding dyspepsia to the other 
trials and dangers of his existence. 



BALANCE OP THE NSBYOUS POWERS. 43 

A due balance of the povers of the iienrous system 
is necessary to the just performance of all the 
diffeient fimctions of the animal economy. A 
man arises in the mornings refireshed by sleep^ — 
his nervous system restored to its tone^ and its 
several and different endowments^ for mental, o^anic, 
respiratory, sentient and motor acts, rendered once 
more eqnable in their rehitiye degree, and apt for 
Hie discharge of their great duties. For, during 
every day of the most regular life, some one of the 
nervous feundties must ahnost neoessarily be more 
used than the others, and by so much deprive the 
others of the nervous power that might have been 
expended upon them; the equipoise of nervous 
or vital power being restored by sleep. As a 
matter of course, the stomach and other organs 
<tf assimilation are by so much more capable of 
performing their duties rightly, and without in- 
convenience, as there is more of vital power ready 
to be expended upon them ; and by so much is the 
first meal in the day the least likely to be followed 
by dyspeptic symptoms. There are indeed excep- 
tions to this: exceptions caused by such morbid 
conditions as render the sleep unre&eshing, and 
incapable of restoring the due balance of the nervous 
enei^es ; as when the nervous and vascular systems 
are 80 far deranged, whether primarily or secondarily, 
Bs to lead to local determinations of blood, to irri- 
tation or congestion, and to exhaustion or torpor. In 
some of these cases, the digestive powers in the 
morning are as feeble as at any other time of the 



44 CAUSES DERANGING DIGESTION. 

da7; and in others, especially the congestive and the 
torpid states, the system, by the exercise of its 
several duties, mental and bodily, has the balance 
of the nervous power in some degree restored, whidt 
the sleep had only farther deranged, — and the 
assimilating organs accordingly become more apt for 
their duty in the after-parts of the day, than in the 
early morning. Many cases of chronic disease, of 
great debility and nervous derangement, illustrate 
this ; and a restored appetite for the breakfast, and 
an increased power of digesting it, become important 
indications of a return to health. On the other 
hand, in the early stages of many such chronic cases, 
a diminished digestive power in the morning is often 
one of the first and important indications of the evil 
at hand. 

How entirely the due performance of the assimi- 
lating processes is dependent on the condition of the 
nervous and vascular systems, admits of sufSciently 
familiar illustration. A man sits down to his dinner, 
after severe or long-continued exercise, with his 
nervous energies expended, or much excited; the blood 
being probably determined unduly to the surface; and 
the action of the heart and arteries either already 
depressed, or, if rather irritated than depressed, yet 
having so little real vigour as to be ill-fitted to perform 
the extra duty of determining the blood adequately to 
the stomach, to render the first stage of digestion suffi-r 
ciently short and perfect ; and the nervous energies 
being already so far expended, as to leave little 
power for securing the due elimination of the gastric 



PHYSICAL CONDITIONS DEEANOINO DIGESTION. 45 

jiiice^ and the due performance of the yital functions 
of the stomach : in such a state^ even an ordinary 
meal of food may be most unwisely taken ; and it 
could hardly be expected to be digested without 
difficulty and inconvenience. The practical lesson 
might be deduced^ that^ under such circumstances, 
there should be a longer or shorter intei-val of time 
between the exercise and the meal^ in which the 
circulation may recover its equilibrium^ the action 
of the heart and arteries may regain its power, and 
the nervous energies be proportionably restored to 
their usual condition. Supposing however, that this 
matter should not be understood, or should be 
neglected, and that the meal be taken under these 
drcumstances, — ^the additional effort required firom 
the circulating organs, and from the vital powers, 
will probably add so far to their pre-existing disturb* 
ance, as to induce a disturbed or an oppressed sleep 
the conjoined eiSect of expended nervous energy and 
an irregularly-distributed circulation, during which 
state of comparative rest of mind and body, an 
additional effort is made to further the performance 
of the duties of the stomach, by concentrating upon 
it the undivided efforts of the nervous and va^ular 
systems; the primary digestion being, nevertheless, 
in all likelihood performed imperfectly, if performed 
at all, — ^and the food being ejected from the stomach 
into the bowels, in a crude and imperfectly chymous 
state. It is much the same if the nervous or the 
vascular system be otherwise influenced to the same 
extent, in any different way, by which its vigoiur, or 



46 IN7LUENCX OF MIKD OV BI6E8TION. 

its dei^otedDess to its special dntj of ministering to 
the digesrtive fimction^ is affected. Thus, mental 
exhattBtion, expended as the nervous powers must be 
in this state, may in the same way interfere in& 
the peptic duties of the stomadi^ and so, the mental 
emotions or passions, and anxiety, may immediatdy 
affect, in a greater or less degree, the function cf 
digestion. And these same &ct8 are equally 
a^licable, if the exertion of mind or body, — ^if the 
mental ^notion, or anxiety, or stretch of thoaght,— 
have to be undergone soon affcer a meal, as if they 
had preceded it. The stronger and voluntary effort 
overcomes the less active or less energetic involuntary 
function; and the hurried walk, or long ride, — 
the unhappy tidings, or sudden exertion, — nxajr 
bring to a sudden stop the digestive process, or 
derange it so materially, as to involve a fit of 
indigestion as the necessary consequence, afier 
the simplest and hghtest meal, which would other- 
wise have been converted into chyme in a eihoirt 
time, and without the smallest apparent efect 
either on the pulse or the nearvous powers. This 
might well teach the foolishness of forcing grief to 
its stated and usual meals, — of expecting the oveiv 
worked student to maintain his ordinary appetite, 
and to continue, without dyspepsia, his previoas diet, 
—of desiring that the watchfdl attendant on the bed of 
sickness, and especially when mind andljody are being 
equally exhausted by protracted vigils, should est 
more than may just suffice to support the enfeebled 
system, without adding indigestion to its unadfidi 



PHT8IOLOQICAL DEPINSSNCISt OF DIOSOTIOK. 47 

cares. In the same way — becaase, dnrmg digestioii, 
80 much of the nervoufi and vascular power is devoted 
to the stomach aad its duties — exposure to cold 
and wet becomes so much more dangenxms aft^ a 
full meal than before it^ for the self-^evident reason 
that the resisting powers of the body, the efforts to 
maintain an active state of the suifiu)e-circalation, to 
provide ibr a large combustion of carbon to compen- 
sate for 1^ unusually rapid loss of the temperature 
of the body, are now, in some degree, diverted from 
these great aad pressing duties, to produce the scdu- 
ti(m and chymification of the food in the stomadi. 
A common iQustration of the effect of digestion in 
thBfi influencing the other great processes <^ the 
system, is found in the sense of coldness so com* 
monly experienced alter an unusually large meal, or 
wken the food taken has been of difficult digestion, 
or when the air is at tiie lowest temperature which 
the system could previously resist without inccmve- 
nience. Bi:^ it is not only the condition of the mind 
and the body, as influenced by their own acts, that 
affects the fusK^ons of the stomach. The temperature 
of the air likewise largdy influences the expenditure 
of the food in the respiratory process, and to the 
same extent affects the powers by which the supply 
is prop(»iioned to the demand. In warm weather, 
the sjrstem has to bum less carbon in order to main- 
tain itself at the temparartnre of 98 degrees, and by 
so much is less of the food exp^ided in this way, and 
diverted from its other office of repairing the wear and 
tbe waste of the body, — ^and by so much is less food 



I 

48 BESPIAATOBT EXPENDITURE OF ALIMENTS. 

required^ and the risk of repletion firom the ordinary 
diet^ and of indigestion firom an over-loaded state of 
the circulation^ increased. And in the same way, 
in cold weather, more food is required for the respira- 
tory process, and more is abstracted from the blood 
for this purpose, and the necessity arises for additional 
supplies to maintain the system in its due vigour ; 
and to subserve this purpose, the circulation, thus 
unloaded, or more efficiently drained of possible 
redundancies, — and the nervous system, thus left in a 
state of unfettered vigour, — ^are in an apt condition to 
further the consumption and digestion of additional 
nourishment. And hence is explained the now 
admitted, but at first somewhat startling fact, that 
the inadequately clothed, whose surfaces are com- 
paratively ill-protected from the cold, whose systems 
are thus robbed of temperature beyond aU due pro- 
portion, require more food, cceteris paribus, than the 
warmly clad ; because more carbon is consumed in 
maintaining the bodily heat; — ^and an extra coat 
becomes in this way, not only a luxury, or a means 
of averting disease, from depressed and deranged 
circulation, but a positive substitute for a certain 
amount of extra food, which the greater coldness of 
the atmosphere would otherwise render necessary. 

Such are some of the many circumstances, which 
modify the necessities of the system, or the activity 
of the functions of the stomach ; and which, inde- 
pendently of specific disorder of the digestive organs, 
may interfere with their functions, and derange them 
so far as to render them imperfectly performed* If 



OY8P£PSIA DIETETICS. 49 

such causes are only occasional^ or are but a very 
short time in operation^ the dyspepsia may be of 
equally short duration^ and the digestion be restored 
to its natural state on the removAl of the disturbing 
or deranging cause. Even in such cases^ son;e know- 
ledge of the relative digestibility of the different 
articles of food may be very useful^ and may not only 
avert present inconvenience and disturbance^ but 
by possibility prevent such a morbid state from being 
induced as might prove to be the predisposing or 
the exciting cause of more severe and lasting injury 
to the health of the system. Sut if such causes are 
long continued^ they occasion an enfeebled state of 
the stomach itself^ and of its vital and chemical 
functions which may out-last the causes which 
originally produced it^ and even continue to be^ 
more or less^ the bane and injury of the health and 
after-life. 

In such cases and in those of original debility^ 
with feeble and easily-deranged digestive powers, the 
importance of knowing as much as possible of the 
comparative digestibility of the different articles of 
food, becomes impoitant and necessary. And indeed, 
it may be said to be true, in the case of every man 
leading the artificial life, which is necessary to every 
member of a civihsed and advanced society, that he 
should be aware of what causes may contribute to 
the due assimilation of his food, and what may 
militate against the performance of these most 
needful and complicated processes. A considQration 
of how very far such a maix^s life must diffei: from. 

D 



so USEFULNESS OF DIETETICS. 

that which he would have passed in a state of primi- 
tive barbarism, will readily show how great must be 
the power of adaptation in his economy, to enable 
him to maintain a healthy system under such very 
different circumstances; but it will, at the same 
time, indicate that whatever interferes with, and 
perhaps even whatever does not serve to piroinote, 
such adaptability, must be a remote cause of derange- 
ment. And, after what has been said of the great 
exertion called for, from the nervous and the vascular 
systems, in the digestion of the food, — remembering, 
moreover, that, excepting during some few hours of 
sleep, the stomach is seldom off duty, — it will be 
readily seen that digestioiti is the function most 
likely to be primarily deranged. And such dyspepsia 
becomes, in itself, a still farther means of deranging 
the equilibrium of the circulation, and the due 
balance of the nervous functions ; giving rise to local 
irritation, — ^local determination of blood, — sympa- 
thetic disturbance of the nervous system generally,^*— 
imperfect assimilation of the chyle into blood, — 
deficient or imperfect elimination of the several 
secretions and excretions from the blood, — ^among its 
necessary consequences ; in addition to the immediate 
effect of interrupting the primary processes of nutri- 
tion, and producing an unhealthy chyme, or that of 
allowing the food to pass through the prinuB vue 
undigested, and not taken into the living economy 
at all. The inference is easy, that, under such 
circumstances, the initiative is taken to any form of 
morbid action that the system may be predisposed 



MOBBIFIC TENDENCIES OF DYSPEPSIA. 51 

to^ whether from congenital peculiarity^ or from 
hereditary disposition^ or from the habits and cir- 
cumstances of the individual life. It is well said^ 
that a common cold^ however slight^ should never be 
neglected^ on account of the very serious and even 
fiettal consequences such neglect frequently entails ; 
and it is at least as true^ that any form or degree of 
indigestion should be watched and dealt with^ and 
as far as may be prevented, inasmuch as dyspepsia 
is the great spring and origin of most of the diseases 
that flesh is heir to, or is the connecting link by 
which external causes of disease arei enabled to 
influence the system. A inan in the full vigour of 
mind and body, with his stomach^s functions un- 
impaired and underahged, may probably be exposed 
with impunity to circumstances that would lead to 
inflammatory and other morbid actions, under less 
healthy conditions. The great morbific agents, cold 
and wet, may repeatedly find him securely fortified 
against their influence, until a breach has been made 
bystomach derangemeiit, — ^the energies of the system, 
diverted by the local irritation from the main duty 
of keeping up thJe temperature of the surface, may 
prove to be unequal to resist the external depressing 
influence, — ^the surface inay become chilled, — ^the 
equal distribution of the blood be interfered with, — 
internal congestions of blood established, — a febrile 
state of the heart's action, and a general irritation of 
the nervous powers, be produced, to combat with, 
and if possible remove, the local determination and 
congestion,— and, unable to accomplish this, or being 

d2 



52 MORBIFIC TENDENCIES OF OT8PEPSIA. 

greater than is needed for the restoration of health, 
become, either in the one way or the other^ causes 
of increased disturbance to the economy, — ending, 
possibly, in inflammatory action of some of the great 
and vital organs of the body. The physiology and 
pathology of digestion are indeed closely and inti- 
mately allied to one another ; and not only so, but 
while the one is connected with health, and is its 
primary element, the other is equally connected with 
disease, in nearly aU its fonns,-being either its first 
cause, or itis predisposing circumstance, or its direct 
means of fixing and establishing itself in the system. 
The morbid agent may then succeed in depressing 
the temperature of the surface, in disturbing the 
equilibrium of the circulation, in lessening the quan- 
tity of blood in the superficial vessels, in determining 
it unduly to some of the internal organs, in producing 
a congested condition of that organ, for the relief of 
which an excited state of the heart's action and an 
irritated state of the nervous system may be sympa- 
thetically set up; and all this may terminate in a 
triumph of the powers of the system over the incipient 
morbid condition, in the restoration of the balance 
of the circulation, and an immediate restoration to 
perfect health,— or the sufficient cause by which this 
happy termination may be prevented, may be so 
much disturbance of the digestive functions as 
diverts from their duties the general powers of the 
system. Should morbid action, however, have been 
set up, the importance of attention to the functions 
of the stomach becomes of still more immediate and 



MOBBIFIC TENDENCIES OF DYSPEPSIA. 53 

paramount consequence; and this^ not only firom the 
probability of the digestive powers being at once 
enfeebled and disposed to derangement^ from the 
diversion of nervous and vascular power to the seat 
of diseased action^ and from the increased excitability 
of the general system; but because^ even if capable 
of digesting it^ the amount of nourishment taken 
may be too much for the excited and febrile condition 
of the system; or because the food may be of too 
exciting a quality ; or because there is much risk of 
adding to the disordered state by superinducing 
dyspepsia^ or by risking the probable irritation that 
would be caused by the passage of crude and imper- 
fectly digested matters along the course of the 
intestinal canal; or finally^ because the more un- 
irritating and the more easily digested the food that 
has to be needfully taken^ the less likely is its 
conversion into chyle to call upon the system for 
much of that power^ which should be diverted as 
Utde as possible from the more important and 
pressing duty^ of meetings and endeavouring to 
carry through^ and terminate successftdly^ the morbid 
condition. 

The question of diet then^ whether in health or 
disease, has a very important and prominent position 
in any system of hygiene or of medicine, — and, as 
has been said, a more important position, the more 
artificial, the farther removed from a state of bar- 
barous labour, the state of mankind may be. The 
more fully the physical conditions of life and health 
are fulfilled, the less needful must be the regulation 



54 ' IMFOBTANCB OF SXBTKTICt. 

of the diet^ either as to its quantity or quality. K 
man is to breathe the fresh and tinyitiated open air 
daring the greater part of his working hours, — if he 
is to labonr daily and severely for his subsistence^ — 
if the body is Tised 80 much, and the mind compara- 
tively little^ — attention to the diet may be of little 
moment, even if any yariety or abundance of appe- 
tising yiands were by possibility attainable, which, 
under such circumstances, would be most unlikely. 
But if man is to spend his life yery differently, — 
shut up in the closer air of a town^ passing the great 
majority of Ids hours within doors, and possibly in an 
apartment where the direct rays of the sun seldom 
or neyer enter, and which may be yery imperfectly 
ventilated, — engf^ed in an occupation that confines 
him to his chair, or limits his bodily exertion to an 
occasional and uniform change of position, or to a 
series of slight muscular movements, and calling 
comparatively few muscles into exercise, — and if to 
this be added much wear and tear of mind, whether 
in thought or anxiety, — the question of diet must 
become a matter of primary importance, even 
although, notwithstanding any amount of attention 
to it, the most that can be hoped for in the case may 
be, to diminish the amount and severity of the dyis- 
peptic symptoms, and to maintain the man's system 
in a state nearer to that of health than it otherwise 
could be. The importance of attention to diet, — ^the 
selection, and it may be the restriction of the food, 
as to its quality and quantity, — ^is the greater, inas- 
much as civilised n^ui:^ is placed above the necessity 



IMPORTANCE OF ' DIETBTICS. 55 

of a siinple and little, yaxied diet^ in almost aU the 
oases even of the poorest of the people. Alcohol in 
its many fonns, spices of all kinds^ are so many 
provocatiyes to disturbance^ , to. false appetite, to 
excess, to derangements of the nervous and vascular 
systems, and eventually to defective assimilation of 

the ingesta. 

It is not to be wondered at, that, in a commercial 
country, where sedentary occupations are the lot of 
a very large proportion of the people, and a mode of 
Mving which might almost with justice be called 
omnivorous is within the reach of all but. the lowest 
grades of society, so few should be found who are 
free, from stomach derangement, and who ape not 
more or less dyspeptic. There are few .instances 
of such perfect health; and there aire therefore 
f(?w who are in a situation to neglect all dietetic 
r^;ulation, and to eat without risk whatever is 
put before them. But even the few who have such 
alMolutely unimpaired powers of digestion, will 
be found to consist chiefly of those who live and 
have always lived plainly and frugally, — who |iaye, 
^ther from necessity or from hfibit, dieted them- 
selves. The few, the very few. among th^m, of whom 
this cannot be said, are, if midjdle-aged^ men w^o 
have taken a great deal, of exercise ; or they are the 
yQmig, who haviB had constitutions of iron to begin 
with ; which ooi^ptitutions it sometimes takes much 
hvd work to wear out. Man wa^ destined to work 
for his food. Thus is provision made for that, which 
is 80 much neglected by all classes, but those of 



56 nature's dietetics. 

whose occupation it is part and parcel : to wit^ exer- 
cise. Unaided by his fellow-men^ — destitute as yet 
of the advantages which a division of labour and 
commerce supply, — his food would of necessity be 
confined to the few simple herbs, which his own 
toil could extract from the earth, or to the animals 
which he had earned by his exertions in the chase. 
Here then are two of the first, and the two most 
important regulations, of which modem dietetics 
inculcate the observance, — viz., exercise and simplicity 
of diet. For the best of all reasons, a man so situated 
would not indulge in the use of stimulants ; he would 
not know either that they could be procured, or how 
to procure them ; and consequently, neither from 
alCi nor wine, nor spirits, would he run any risk. 
And here we find the third section in nature's 
scheme of diet, — ^viz., sobriety; and a sobriety, it will 
be observed, that is not merely the comparative 
degree of drunkenness, but positive temperance, 
complete abstinence from stimulating liquids. This 
then may perhaps be said to be the natural state of 
man ; the state in accordance with which his organs 
were formed, and the several tissues of his body were 
fashioned and modified; the kind of diet and regi- 
men, from which the more he varies, the more does 
he oppose the dictates of nature, the more does he 
expose himself to the influence of disease, the greater 
risk does he incur of essentially curtaiiing his exist- 
ence, and the more active and energetic must be 
the interference of art, to counteract as far as pos- 
sible such consequences, and to spin out his exist- 



CONSTITUENTS OF THE SYSTEM. 57 

ence. This then is the true fouiidation of dietetics^ — 
the guide to such a diet and regimen^ as may best 
serve to keep man in healthy and to restore it to him 
when he has lost it. 

The digestion and assimilation of food subserve 
the great purposes of maintaining the elevated 
temperature of the body, and of restoring the waste 
and repairing the expenditure of the system. The 
animal body consists especially, and perhaps essen- 
tially, of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, 
together with lime, sulphur, phosphorus and iron ; the 
whole being in different states of combination, as to 
proportion and as to arrangement, in the different 
parts. The fat and the water of the system are 
destitute of nitrogen. The other organs and textures, 
according to Professor Liebig, and most other modern 
chemists, are all, with one exception, reducible to a 
substance having a very similar composition and pro- 
perties, whencesoever obtained ; and this substance, 
from presenting a primitive or simple type of a com- 
pound, from which all the various tissues and organs 
may be supposed to be formed, has been called 
protein. To this general rule, gelatin furnishes the 
important exception. The basis of all the gelatinous 
textures, as the skin, cellular tissue, &c., gelatin is 
not found to be reducible to protein; and Liebig 
therefore believes, and at all events with very much 
probability on his side, that gelatinous aliments can- 
not repair the waste of any but the gelatinous tissues 
of the body ; although, supposing that gelatin is not 
afforded in adequate quantity in the food, the gela- 

d3 



SB " ASOTISED CONSTITUENTS. 

tinous textures may be formed from the alimentary 
substances that are conyeitible into protein. All the 
alimentary substances^ whether animal or vegetable^ 
which contain nitrogen^ are found to be either gela- 
tinous^ or to be reducible into three principal com- 
ponents, any one of which is convertible into protein. 
These are fibrin^ albumen and casein. The fibrin 
separates spontaneously from the newly expressed 
juices of vegetables^ when they are allowed to remain 
at rest for a very short time ; and^ when the colouring 
matter has been removed from it, the fibrin is left 
as a white grey substance. This vegetable fibrin is 
identical in composition^ and in chemical and physical 
properties, with the animal fibrin obtained from the 
blood on its coagulation. The vegetable juices con- 
tain, moreover^ when the fibrin has thus become 
BGpsTsteA, a substance in solution, and which remains 
dissolved at the ordinary temperature of the atmo- 
sphere; beings however^ coagulated when the juices 
are heated to the boiling point. This is vegetable 
albmnen^ identical^ in every way, with the albumen 
of the egg or the serum of the blood. In cer- 
tain vegetable matters^ especially the leguminous 
seeds, there is a third of these peculiar vegetable 
principles^ containing nitrogen and resolvable into 
protein, which is soluble in water, and is so far like 
albumen, but differs from it in not being coagulable 
by heat. It forms, when heated, only a scum on the 
surface of the liquid holding it in solution, but is 
coagulated on the addition of an acid. This is vege- 
table casein ; resembling, in all essential particulars^ 



FIBRIN — ALBUMEN CASEIN. 59 

tke curd formed by adding acids to the milk, of 
animaVs, — ^in this ci^ constitutiiig cheese^ when 
pressed and dried; whence it^ name^ casein. .These 
three nitrogenised constituents of the food^ — all 
resolvable into protein; all having the same compo- 
9iti<w T«nth .one another, whatever form they assume, 
and whether derived fro^gi vege^bleis or animus; 
and all directly convertible into the living tissues of 
the. animal body^ by means of the digestive funct^pns^ 
— ^are the main elements of food^ and of course the 
direct sources from which the .waste and expenditure 
of the body p.i^ compensated. Professor Liebig says 
of them:— "The chemical analysis of these three sub- 
stances has led to the very interestiag result^ that 
they contain the. same organic elements^ united in 
the same proportion by weight; and^ what is still 
more remarkable^ that they are identical in compo- 
sition infith the chief constituents of bloody animal 
fibrin and albumen : they all three dissolve in 
concentrated muriatic acid^ with the same deep 
purple colour; and^ even in their physical characters^ 
animal fibrin and albumen are in no respect dif- 
ferent from vegetable fibrin and albumen. It is 
especially to be noticed^ that by the phrase identity 
qf composition we do not here imply mere similarity^ 
but that even in regard to the presence and relative 
amount of sulphur^ phosphorus^ and phosphate of 
Ume^ no difference can be observed."* 

* Organic Chemistry of Physiology and Pathology. By Justus 
Liebig, M.D., &c., &c.; translated by Dr. William Gregory, Pro- 
feasor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh.- 



60 PaOTETN. 

The qnestion of digestion becomes^ in this view, 
simplified into the condition, that inorgaiuc materials 
are in the first place organised, and arranged into 
certain principtd forms of combination, by the vital 
powers of plants; and that thus chemically pre- 
pared, and formed into certain compound principles, 
having almost an identity of composition, appearance 
and sensible properties, with the blood and the 
tissues and organs formed from it in the animal 
system, it is capable of being once again brought 
within the infiuence of vital action, and of being 
again assimilated, and formed into part of an organ- 
ised and living substance; firom which it may be 
either again thrown off to be reduced to its primary 
elements, or be put into a different state of combi- 
nation, or be placed in a condition to famish once 
more a readily assimilated food for plants ; or, it may 
be, are at once convertible, in the shape of their 
flesh, &c., into the food and sustenance of other living 
creatures. Whether derived directly jfrom the protein 
of animals, or from that of plants, the organised and 
organisable aliments are all, in the first instance, 
converted into blood; and this has two great pur- 
poses to fulfil : the one, to absorb, by means of its 
globular constitution, the oxygen of the air inspired 
during respiration, to carry this important element 
to all the capillaries of the body, where it unites with 
one of the elements of the wasted and expended 
tissues — the carbon, evolving in the consequent 
formation of carbonic acid, the animal heat, — the 
carbonic acid being expired by the lungs, or exhaled 



EXPENDITURE OF NITROGEN. 61 

througli the pores of the skin ; the second^ to supply^ 
by means of the oi^ans of secretion^ new materials^ 
in the place of those which have been thus consumed : 
and the thirds to carry off what is not thus combined 
with the oxygen, — ^viz., the nitrogen (the hydrogen 
combining with a certain proportion of the oxygen, 
to form part of the watery vapour exhaled in respira- 
tion, and of the liquid matters otherwise expended 
and escaping from the system), — ^and, besides the 
nitrogen, carrying away certain saline and earthy 
matters, which may no longer be wanted by the 
system, and are therefore not re-absorbed into it. 
The nitrogen thus disengaged, escapes by the kid- 
neys and the skin. Were the views of chemical 
physiology limited to what has now been stated; 
were it set forth, that all the carbon required for the 
maintenance of the animal heat, is derived from the 
destruction of expended tissue; and were it con- 
nected with this position, as it would have to be, 
that all this waste or destruction must be accom- 
pUshed by exercise of the expended structures ; for 
it is believed, that, in using any organ, — as the brain, 
in thought, — ^the nerves, in sensation or volition, — 
the muscles, in movement, — ^we cause the partial 
dissolution and expenditure of certain of its com- 
ponent atoms, and that thus only are they normally 
expended; there would be involved the necessity for 
a very active life, in order to keep the respiratory 
apparatus supplied with a sufficiency of redundant 
carbon to maintain the animal heat ; and at the same 
time, a correspondingly large proportion of nitrogen 



62 EXPENDITURE OF CARBON. 

add other compouents of the expended tissues would 
have to be disposed of^ at the expense of the oon- 
tinued exertions of the excreting organs. And^ 
accordingly^ we find that the carnivorous animals do 
lead very active lives, that they do expend a large 
proportion of nitrogen ; and we find, that if mqin 
leads a veiy active life, he may live almost exclusively 
on an animal diet ; and as a matter of consequence, 
that the necessity of subsisting in a great degree on 
an animal diet, makes a great amount of muscular 
exercise necessary to healtib. Certain of the South 
American people of the present day,, subsisting as 
they do on flesh and water almost exclusively, illus- 
trate the position that people living on an animal 
diet may take a veiy large amount of exercise, with 
little or no sense of fatigue; and the restless and 
almost unceasing movements of the carnivorous ani- 
mals, when confined in the cages of our menageries, 
is well cited by Liebig as a proof, of the amount of 
exercise such a diet renders needful, in order to 
obtain by the destructive process^ the carbon required 
for the purposes of respiration. Accordingly> our 
aliment is, so to speak, diluted with vegetable prin- 
ciples that do not contain nitrogen, and which are 
capable of ministering to the respiratory process 
without the disengagement of this principle, and 
consequently without the necessity for its excretion 
from the economy, and without the otherwise needless 
expenditure of tissues and structures, and therefore 
without rendering any amount of exercise necessary 
for the mere purposes of respiration, beyond what 



EXPBNDITUBB OF CARBOlf. 63 

may serve to expend to a needful extent^ the existing 
structures of the body. These non-azotised prin- 
dptes are chiefly starch and sugar, with which y^e- 
table food is largely diluted; and these appear to 
subserye no pilrpose in the repair and renewal of the 
wasted and expended muscular or other asotised 
tissues^ whidi require nitrogen to renew and repair 
them ; but to be simply meant as sources firom which 
the respiratoiy or free carbon may be directly sup- 
plied; and of this carbon, the fat of the system may 
be, in part at least, intended to serve as a reservoir, 
in the formation of which any superfluous carbon 
of the food may be made use of, and by the expendi- 
ture of which any deficiency in the direct supply 
of carbon may be made up for. 

Such are a few of the diemical views of Liebig 
and his followers, as to the great questions connected 
with the assimilation of the food, and its purposes 
of repairing the waste of the system, and maintaining 
its temperature; and further illustrations and re- 
marks on these important and practical views' will 
have to be given, from time to time, in. the prose- 
cution of the different branches of our subject. 
Enough may have been said by way of pr^aration 
for an inqtdry into the relative digestibility of the 
different articles of food. It may, however, be 
added in this place, that the chief use of the Uver 
appears to be that of ehminating and emidging the 
carbon, which in the bile is united with an alkaline 
matter, the latter being probably drawn from the 
circulation, to set at liberty the acid with which it 



64 COMPARATIVE DIGESTIBILITY OF ALIMENTS. 

had been combined^ in order that this might act 
upon the food in the stomachy — and, having 
answered that purpose, and descended with the food 
into the bowels, to re-unite with the alkali, form a 
neutral salt, and re-enter the current of the circu- 
lation as a simple saline, — ^in the course of time, to 
be again decomposed into acid and alkali, for the 
digestion of the food, and possibly to aid in the 
elimination of the carbon, or to be gradually ex- 
pended in the different excretions, and its place 
supplied by the saline matter contained in the 
alimentary supplies. In the meantime, the carbon 
emulged by the liyer is partly carried at once to the 
lungs, to serve its respiratory purposes, and partly 
conveyed in the first instance into the bowels, in the 
form of bile; the greater part of which is re- 
absorbed into the system in its passage through the 
intestines, having served its purposes in the secondary 
digestion of the aliment j the remaining and super- 
fluous carbon becoming excrementitious. 

Many experiments have been made, to prove the 
comparative digestibility of the different kinds of 
food most ordinarily used by us. The secretion of 
the stomach has been collected, — food of different 
kinds has been put into it, in vessels kept at the 
temperature of the body;*— and ^deductions as to the 
different degrees of digestibility have been drawnfirom 
such experiments. The evident sources of fallacy 
that must occur in such experiments ; — ^the probable 
difference in the gastric secretion obtained for the 
different experiments, — the absence of all the 



EXTEBIMENTS ON DIGESTION; 65 

accessories to the stomach^s action^ in the masti- 
cation^ in the intimate admixture with atmospheric 
air, by means of the saliva, the oxygen of which may 
answer an important purpose, whne the nitrogen may 
readily escape through the membranes, and thus be 
insensibly removed from the body, as through the 
pores of the skin, — ^the absence of the important 
influence of the salivary diastasa, especially in the 
digestion of fecula, — ^the absence of the vital action 
of the stomach, and of the probable adaptation of 
the solvent power of the gastric juice to the variety of 
food undergoing solution, — are reasons why little or 
no dependance can be placed upon the results of 
such trials, and no trustworthy deductions drawn 
from them. Other experimentalists have introduced 
food into the stomach, enclosed in perforated balls ; 
by examining which, at regulated intervals of time, 
they have endeavoured to determine in how long or 
how short a relative time, the solution of the solid 
contents of the balls might be effected. This again 
is liable to the same sources of error as the other 
order of experiments, and would be as likely to 
mislead as to assist enquiry. The most trustworthy 
experiments of this kind with which I am acquainted, 
were instituted, under peculiar and most singular 
circumstances, by Dr. Beaumont, of Plattsburgh, 
in the United States, and have been detailed by 
him in a work devoted to the subject. The case is 
likewise given at length in Dr. Combe's very able 
work on Digestion and Dietetics, to which the> 



66 CABS OF ALBXIS BT. MARTIN. 

reader is referred for a more foil aocount of these 
interesting experiments. It may be enough to give 
here a brief summary of the experiments and their 
results. 

Alexis St. Martin, a Canadian, eighteen years of 
age, having a good constitution and robust health, 
was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a 
musket, on the 6th of June, 1822. The charge was 
received in the left side, at the distance of a yard 
from the muzzle of the gun. The shot, mixed with 
powder, entered the body from behind, passed for- 
ward and inward in an oblique dii^ction, literally 
blowing off a portion of the integuments and musdes, 
of the size of a man^s hand ; fracturing and carrying 
away the anterior half of the sixth rib, fracturing 
the fifth ; lacerating the lower portion of the lungs 
and the diaphragm, and perforating the stomach. 

Thanks to an extraordinary constitution, and the 
skill and attention of Dr. Beaumont, this young 
man recovered. The wound into the stomach had 
sloughed, lacerated portions of the stomach had 
come away, the edge of the orifice had healed, but 
the opening had never closed. A year after the 
accident, the injured parts were all sound ; a perfo- 
ration into the stomach remaining open, of two 
inches and a half in circumference. The food could 
only be retained in the stomach by means of a com- 
press over the aperture, secured by a bandage, till 
some months after this time, when a fold or doubling 
of the inner coat of the stomach appeared, and 



CASS or ALBXI8 ST. MARTIN. 67 

gradually increased in size^ tintil it filled the aper- 
ture^ and acted as a valve, preventing completdy the 
escape of any of the contents of the stomach through 
the aperture^ but being* easily pmshed back firom 
without^ so as to admit of any thing being pnt into 
the stomach or taken ont of it. The man was now in 
perfect health ; the facility of observation had never 
been equalled^ and Dr. Beaumont availed himself^ in 
the inost masterly manner^ of the opportunity thus 
afforded. 

^^In the Spring of 1824^ the individual had 
recovered his natural health and strength. The 
aperture in the stomach still remained^ but the 
surrounding wound was firmly cicatrized to its edges. 
From this period to the present time^ he has enjoyed 
general good health. He has been active^ athletic, 
and vigorous; exercisin^^ eating, and drinking, like 
other healthy and active people. 'For the last four 
months, *(of the Autumn of 18SS,) he has b^en 
unusually plethoric and robust, though constantly 
subjected- to a continned series of experiments on the 
interior of the stomach; allowing to be introduced or 
taken out, at the aperture, different kinds of food, 
drinks, various iustruments, and the different contents 
of the stomach, alihost daily, and sometimes hourly. 

^'The perforation through the coats of the sto- 
mach is situated about three inches to the left of 
the cardia, near the left superior termination of 
the great curvature. On pressing down the valve 
when the stomach is full, the contents flow out 
copiously. 



68 OB. Beaumont's experiments. 

" When the stomach is nearly empty and quies- 
cent^ the interior of its cavity may be examined to 
the depth of five or six inches, if kept distended by 
artificial means ; and the food and drinks may be 
seen entering, if swallowed at tins time, through the 
ring of the oesophagus. When entirely empty, the 
stomach contracts upon itself, and sometimes forces 
the valve through the orifice, together with an addi- 
tional portion of the mncous membrane, which 
becomes completely inverted, forming a tumour as 
large as a hen's egg. After lying on the left side, 
and sleeping a few hours, a still larger portion pro- 
trudes, and spreads out over the external integu- 
ments, five or six inches in circumference, fairly 
exhibiting the natural rugse, villous membrane, or 
mucous coat, lining the gastric cavity. This appear- 
ance is almost invariably exhibited in the morning, 
before rising from bed.'' 

It was in May, 1 825, that Dr. Beaumont began 
his first series of experiments on this extraordinary 
case ; and in the following August, St. Martin re- 
turned to Canada, and remained there four years. 
He returned to the United States in 1829, and now 
entered into Dr. Beaumonf s service, for the purpose 
of a second series of experiments, which he con- 
tinued uninterruptedly until 1831. He then went 
back again to Canada, coming back to Dr. Beau- 
mont in 1832; and with the interruption of about 
three months, the experiments continued to No^ 
vember, 1833. 

" The usual method of extracting the gastric juice. 



THE GASTRIC JUICE. 69 

for experiment^ is by placing the subject on his right 
side^ depressing the valve within the aperture^ intro- 
ducing a gum-elastic tube^ of the size of a lai^e 
quill^ five or six inches into the stomachy and then 
turning him on his left side^ until the orifice becomes 
dependent. On introducing the tube^ the fluid 
soon begins to flow, first by drops, then in an inter- 
rupted, and sometimes in a short continuous stream 
— ^moving the tube about, up and down, or back- 
wards and forwards, increases the discharge. The 
quantity of fluid ordinarily obtained is from four 
drachms to one and a half or two ounces, vary- 
ing with the circumstances and condition of the 
stomach. Its extraction is generally attended by 
that peculiar sensation at the pit of the stomach, 
termed sinking, with some degree of faintness, which 
renders it necessary to stop the operation. The 
usual time of extracting the juice is early in the 
morning, before eating, when the stomach is empty 
and clear.^^ 

The fluid thus obtained was clear and transparent, 
inodorous, a little saltish, and very perceptibly acid 
to the taste; having the flavour, when applied to 
the tongue, of thin mucilage slightly acidulated. 
It very speedily difTused in water, wine, or spirits ; 
slightly eflervesced upon the addition of alkalies; 
coagulated albumen in an eminent degree; and 
was found to be powerfully antiseptic, by checking 
the putrefaction of meat. The mucus, which was 
always more or less mixed with it when first ob- 
tauied, giving to it a degree of ropiness, soon sepa- 



70 SOLVENT' ACTION 07 GASTRIC JUICE. 

rated from the fluid in loose white flocculi, fialling 
to the bottom of the vessel containing it. Saliva 
imparted to the fluid an azure tinge and frothy 
appearance. Derangement of the digestive organs^ 
slight febrile excitement^ fright^ or any sudden emo- 
tion^ was found to occasion an important alteration 
in. its appearance; and excess in eating caused a 
rancid state of the fluid, and sensibly diminished 
its solvent properties. 

The solvent action of the gastric juice was proved 
most conclusively by Dr. Beaumont^s experiments. 
Almost every kind of alimentary matter, whether 
animal or vegetable, when submitted to the action 
of the fluid taken from the stomach, and kept at 
the temperature of about 100 degrees of Fahren- 
heit's thermometer, was found to become, in the 
course, of a few hours, compJietely softened, and 
reduced to a pnltaceous state. The rapidity of solu^ 
tion depended much on the mechanical condition, 
as to tenderness or minute division, of the aliment 
submitted to the action of the fluid. Milk and 
the different forms of Hquid albumen were found 
to be in the first place coagulated by the gastric 
juice, and then dissolved by it. It seems to be 
proved by the experiments, that cold gastric juice 
has little or no solvent power. In one instance, a 
piqce of roasted beef was submitted to the action 
of the fluid, in the open air, at the temperature of 
thirty-four degrees; and, after twenty-four hours, 
was foxmd to be imchanged; whereas, when the 
temperature was raised to 100 degrees, it was 



GASTRIC MUCOUS TISSUE. 71 

speedily dissolved. Dr. Beaumont has founds how- 
ever^ that the gastric juice does not accumulate in 
the stomach during the intervals of digestion, as 
was at one time belieyed to be the case ; but his 
expmments show that, on the contrary, it is only 
secreted when food or some other stimulus is 
brought into direct and immediate contact with 
the lining membrane of the stomach. When not 
containing food^ the stomach was usually obsenred 
to be contracted, the rugae of its inner coats folded 
irregularly upon one another, the lining membrane 
being of a pink colour, of a soft yelvet-like i^pear- 
anccy and coyered constantly with a yery thin, trans- 
parent and yiflcid mucus. When the tongue was 
appUed to the mucous membrane of the stomach, 
in the empty and unirritated state of the organ, no 
acid taste was perceiyed; but when food, or other 
irritant, was in contact with the membrane, and 
the gastric papillae consequently excited, an acid 
taste was immediately perceptible. The ordinary 
temperature of the interior of the stomach was 
fomid to be about 100 degrees. A dry state 
of the atmosphere was found to increase, and a 
damp one to diminish the temperature. Actiye 
exercise was found to raise the temperature about 
one degree and a half, whatever might have been 
its previous temperature. When food was received 
into the stomach, the action of the vessels of its 
lining membrane was perceptibly increased; the 
membrane becoming of a brighter red ccdour, the 
vermicular movements of the organ beiag excited. 



n 



RESULTS OF THE EXFEBIMENTS. 



and the secretion of gastric juice commencing. It 
was observed that when a portion of food entered the 
stomachy the rugae of the organ closed upon it ; and if 
the ingesta were suflSciently fluids they were found 
to be gradually diffused throughout the lining 
membrane ; the contraction of the rugse appearing to 
exclude the rest of the food until the first portion had 
been duly mixed with the solvent, when the rugae 
relaxed, to contract again upon a new portion of the ali- 
mentary mass. It was, moreover, found that food taken 
in a liquid form, as soup, &c., is deprived by absorp- 
tion of much of its aqueous portion before it is 
digested. The results of Dr. Beaumont's experi- 
ments on the digestion of the different kinds of 
food, are very well given in the following table : — 



Table, showing the Mean Time of Digestion of the different 
Articles of Diet, according to the Experiments of Dr. 
Beaumont, in the Case of Alexis St. Martin. 



Articles of Diet. 



Rice 

Sago . 

Tapioca . 

Barley 

Milk 

Ditto . 

Gelatin . 

Pigs' Feet, soused 

Tripe, soused . 

Brains 

Venison Steak 

Spinal Marrow . 



Mode of 
Preparation. 



BoUed 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Raw . 

Boiled 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

Broiled 

Boiled 



Time required 
for Digestion. 



H. H. 



1 
1 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 





45 







15 

30 





45 

35 

40 



TABLE OF COMPARATIVE DIGESTIBILITY. 



73 



Articles of Diet 



Turkey, domestic 
Ditto, ditto 
Ditto, wild 
Groose 

Pig, socking 
Liver, beefs, fresh 
Lamb, fresh 
Chicken, full-grown 
Eggs, fresh 
Ditto, ditto . 
Ditto, ditto 
Ditto, ditto 
Ditto, ditto . 
Ditto, whipped 
Costard . 
Codfish, cured, dry 
Trout, Safanon, fr^sh 
Ditto, ditto, ditto . 
Bass, striped, fresh 
Flounder, ditto 
Catfish, ditto . 
Salmon, salted . 
Oysters, fresh . 
Ditto, ditto . 
Ditto, ditto 
Beef, fresh, lean, rare 
Ditto, ditto, dry 
Ditto, Steak 
Ditto, with salt only 
Ditto, with mustard, &c. 
Ditto, fresh, lean 

Ditto, old, hard, salted 
Pork, Steak . 
Pork, fiit and lean 
Ditto, recently salted 
Ditto, ditto 
Ditto, ditto . 
Ditto, ditto, recently salted 
Ditto, ditto 

* • • • 



Mode of 
Frepantion. 



Roasted 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Ditto . 
Ditto 
Broiled . 
Ditto 
Fricasee 
Hard boiled 
Soft ditto 
Fried . 
Roasted 
Raw 

Ditto 

Baked . 

Boiled 

Ditto 

Fried 

Broiled . 

Fried 

Ditto . 

Bdled 

Raw 

Roasted 

Stewed 

Roasted 

Ditto . 

Broiled 

Boiled . 

Ditto 

Fried . 

BoUed 

Broiled 

Roasted 

Boiled . 

Fried 

Broiled . 

Raw 

Stewed . 



Time required 
for DigBBtion. 



H. M. 

2 SO 

2 25 

2 18 

2 30 

2 30 

2 



2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
3 
3 
3 
4 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
3 
4 
4 
3 
5 
4 
4 
3 
3 
3 



30 
45 
30 


30 
15 


30 
45 



30 
30 



30 
30 


55 
15 
30 


30 


45 
30 


15 
15 
15 
30 
15 
15 







74. 



TABLE OF COMPABATITB DIOIBTIBIUTT. 



ArttdM of Diet 


Modaof 
Frepantioii. 


Time required 
ftnr Digeatkm. 


Matton, fresh 


Roasted . 


H. M. 

3 15 


Ditto, ditto . . . . 


Broiled . 


3 


Ditto, ditto 


Boiled . . 


3 


Veal, fresh . . . . 


Broiled 


4 


DittO) ditto . . . . 


Fried . . 


4 30 


Fowl, domestic 


BoUed . 


4 


Ditto, ditto 


Roasted . . 


4 


Duek, domestic 


Ditto . 


4 


Ditto, wild 


Ditto . . 


4 30 


Suet, beef, fresh 


Boiled . 


6 3 


Suet, mutton • . . 


Ditto . . 


4 30 


Batter 


Melted . 


3 30 


Cheese, old, strong • . . 


Raw. . . 


3 30 


Sonp, beef, vegetables, and bread 


BoUed . 


4 


Ditto, Marrow-bones 


Ditto . . 


4 15 


Ditto, Beans . . . . 


Ditto . 


3 


Ditto, Barley .... 


Ditto . . 


1 30 


Ditto, Mutton .... 


Ditto . 


3 30 


Green Com and Beans • 


Ditto . . 


3 45 


Chicken Soup . . 


Ditto . 


3 


Oyster Soup .... 


Ditto . . 


3 30 


Hash, meat and vegetables 


Warmed 


2 30 


Sausage, fresh . . 


Broiled . . 


3 20 


Heart, animal .... 


Fried . 


4 


Tendon 


Boiled . . 


5 30 


Cartilage 


Ditto 


4 15 


Aponeurosis 


Ditto . . 


3 


Beans,pod . . . . 


Ditto . 


2 30 


Bread, wheaten, fresh . . . 


Baked 


3 30 


Ditto, com (maize) . 


Ditto . . 


3 15 


Cake, com (maize) . . . 


Ditto . 


3 


Ditto, sponge 


Ditto . . 


2 30 


Dumpling, apple 


BoUed . 


3 


Apples, sour and hard . . . 


Raw . . 


2 50 


Ditto, ditto, mellow . 


Ditto . 


2 


Ditto, sweet, ditto . . . 


Ditto . . 


1 30 


Parsneps . . . . ■ 


Boiled . 


2 30 


Carrot, orange . . 


Ditto . . 


3 15 


Beet .... 


Ditto 


8 45 



INFEKBIfCXS PROM THE BXPEKIHXRTB. 



75 



Articles Of Diet. 


Mode of 
Preparation. 


Time required 
for Digestion. 


Turnips, flat . . 
Potatoes^ Irish 
DittOyditto . . 
Ditto, ditto . . . . 
Cabbage, head • . . . 
Ditto, with vinegar . . . 
Ditto, ditto . . . . 


Boiled . . 
Ditto . 
Roasted . . 
Baked . 
Raw . . 
Ditto . 
Boiled . . 


H. M. 

3 30 

3 30 
2 30 
2 30 
2 30 
2 

4 30 



The results of this table are highly curious and 
interesting; and unquestionably more so than those 
ol any other experiments that have been made^ on 
the comparative digestibility of different articles of 
food. But these results must^ after all^ be received 
with a considerable degree of qualification; and it 
must be admitted^ that they are not so practically 
important and conclusive as they may^ at first sight, 
appear to be. The several articles of food having 
been, for the most part, singly submitted to the 
action of the gastric juice, instead of having been 
more or less mixed with other alimentary matters, 
as would be the case under the common circum- 
stances of people^s diet, is one reason for receiving 
these results with a qualified confidence. The 
admitted ^Lceptions to the digestibility of the 
different articles of food in the cases of different 
people, is another, and even a stronger reason, why 
any deduction drawn from a single case should be 
admitted doubtfully, and only admitted at all when 
confirming, or confirmed by, the results of general 
observations, founded upon a large number of ex- 

E 2 



76 INFERENCES FROM THE EXPERIMENTS. 

amples. All this is evident^ without taking into 
consideration the modifications produced by debility^ 
or by disordered action of the system in general^ or 
of the digestive organs in particular^ when dietetic 
regulation becomes more necessary^ and is more likely 
to be sought after. In point of fact^ the dietetic 
question^ so far as it is capable of influencing health 
and disease^ may be said to be^ to determine what 
kind of food may be assimilated without incon- 
venience to the system^ or any gastric derangement 
or irritation^ rather than within how short a time any 
article of diet may be digested. It is indeed true^ 
that the longer the food remains in the stomachy and 
the more slow its digestion^ the more likely it is to 
occasion derangement; but it does not therefore 
follow that it must do so. On the contrary^ inas- 
much as disease is the exception to healthy so must 
this be the exception to the much larger number of 
cases^ in which^ notwithstanding that the food may 
be slowly converted into chyme by the gastric juice, 
whether from the mechanical or chemical resistance 
of the food to the action of the solvent, it may, 
nevertheless, be dissolved in the stomach without 
occasioning any dyspeptic symptom, and be eventually 
and fully assimilated without perceptible derangement 
to the system. There must then be afforded some 
other means of judging, as to the probable and com- 
parative digestibility of the different articles of food; 
and, so far as we know, this can only be supplied by 
extensive and careful observation of healthy and 
invalided stomachs, — determining from such observa- 



COMPOSITION NO GUIDE TO DIGESTIBILITY. 77 

tion^ as accurately as may be^ what articles are most 
commonly founds either to task unduly the powers 
of the healthy stomach, or to derange the functions 
of the feeble stomach, giving rise to dyspeptic 
symptoms. It need hardly be said that any such 
observations, however carefully made, allow for many 
exceptions; or that it is only sought to establish 
such general rules, as seem to be founded upon what 
is observed to obtain in the majority of cases, and 
thus to direct and assist in determining the com- 
parative digestibility of the different articles of 
food, in any individual case. And, however great 
the light which Chemistry has of late years thrown 
on the subjects of digestion and nutrition, — ^how- 
ever satisfactorily the great chemist, liebig, has 
brought his own chemical labours, and those of 
others, to bear upon these great phenomena, — Che- 
mistry is able to do very little for us, in deter- 
mining what substances are more easily digested, 
and what are less so. On the contrary. Chemistry 
finds very little difference of composition between 
gum and sugar, their relative digestibility being very 
different, — or between fat and alcohol, although the 
comparative readiness with which they are taken into 
the system is still more different. And although 
Chemistry has seemed to prove, that articles of diet 
which do not contain nitrogen, are only capable of 
ministering to the respiratory function, whereas those 
which contain nitrogen are exclusively capable of 
repairing the waste, and renewing aad maintaining 
the eutireness of the tissues and organs ; not only 



78 COMPOSITION NO OVIDB TO DIOXBTIBIUTT. 

does Chemistry not assist in any way in detenBining 
the relative digestibility of either of these classes of 
dietetic substances^ but the most easily and the least 
easily digested articles of food are found in both oi 
these classes. And^ although the alimentary articles 
which contain most nitrogen^ might, other circum- 
stances being the same, be admitted to be the most 
nutritious, and those which contain the smallest 
proportion of nitrogen to be the least nutritious, 
and the latter might therefore be supposed to be 
the most easy of digestion; yet this supposition 
would not be found to be either the general rule, 
or the exception to it, or any guide whatever on 
the subject ; the digestibility depending neither oa 
the presence nor the absence of nitrogen, nor on 
the proportion in which it is found to exist in any 
article of food. Fat, containing no nitrogen, is 
less easily digested than lean, which contains nitro- 
gen in large proportion; beef, which contains a 
very large proportion of nitrogen, is more easily 
digested than salmon, which contains a much smaller 
proportion of nitrogen; and, on the other hand, egg, 
which contains much less nitrogen than salmon, is 
much more digestible. 

If to this be appended the results of observation 
and of experiment equally, as to the comparative 
solubility by the gastric juice of animal and vege- 
table substances ; and it be determined that some 
of the farinaceous articles of diet are much more 
easily and quickly converted into chyme than any 
other alimentary substances, — ^rice being dissolved in 



TABLES OF COMPA&ATIYE 0IGE8TIBILITY. 79 

the stomachy according to Dr. Beaumont's experi- 
ments^ in one hour^ alt^oogh containing less than 84 
per cent, of aaotised matter^ whereas animal sub- 
stances^ consisting^ with the exception of fat^ ahnost 
ex:<diisively of azotised matter^ require at least double 
this time for their chymification ; and if this be 
ccmipared with the relative primary digestion of rice 
and turnips^ the former containing less than 84* per 
cent.^ and the latter leas than li per cent, of azotised 
matter ; yet^ the former being dissolved by the gastric 
juice in one hour, the latter requiring 3^ hours for 
its solution, the little assistance that is afforded by 
Chemistry indetermining the digestibility of different 
articles of food becomes more and more apparent. 

In the question of the comparative digestibility of 
the different articles of food, we are then reduced 
to the necessity of finding genend rules for our 
guidance in individual cases, from wide and careful 
observations of the digestibility of the different 
kinds of food, in health and disease ; by no means 
conceiving such observations, however carefully 
made, to be infallible ; but bearing ever in mind the 
probability, or at least the possibility, of frequent 
exceptions occurring, to any one of the generalisations 
at whidi we may have arrived. In fact, all attempts 
to frame such general rules are liable to strictures, 
on the ground of so many and signal exceptions to 
the rule being frequently met with. But, notwith- 
standing such strictures, dietetic observations are of 
the greatest use as guides ; although they may not 
be found worthy of implicit trust, in every detail oS 



80 MBAT8. — MUTTON AND BEEP. 

every case that may occur. To prove that- such 
observations must have much value^ it is enough to 
showi from general experience, and universal admis- 
sioui that some articles of food are almost invariably 
foimd to be less likely to agree with the dyspeptic or 
debilitated stomach than others are : for instancCj 
that, in nearly all such cases, mutton agrees better 
than lamb, or veal, or pork; that fat, as has 
been said, agrees better than lean, — starch than 
sugar,— eggs than cheese. In regard to the attempt 
to arrange the different kinds of food in tabular 
order, with reference to their digestibility, it may 
now claim, after a trial of eleven years, to have 
undergone the test of time, and to have been proved 
to be useful ; although it is admitted to be by no 
means an unvarying and certain guide. 

The articles are placed, in each of the tables, in the 
order of their relative digestibility, beginning with 
those that are in general the most easily digested. 

MEATS.* 

1. Mutton. I 3. Lamb.t 

2. Beef I 4. Vealf 

5. Pork.f 

Mutton is placed first in the above table. It is 
usually more easily digested than beef. This is pro- 
bably owing to the larger size of the fibres of beef. 
According to the smaller size of each fibre, it is but 
reasonable that its digestion should be more quickly 

♦ This mark (f) opposite to any of the substances in this op 
the following tables signifies that such articles are generally found 
to be unsuited to the dyspeptio. 



MUTTON AND BEBF. 81 

performed^ supposing the digestibility to be otherwise 
equal. But tbe comparatiye digestibility of beef and 
mutton depends a good deal upon many circum- 
stances^ of which the age of the animal, its being or 
not being in good condition, and the part that is 
eaten, occur to me as being the most important. 
Mutton is more easily digested, if it be firom a four or 
five-year old wether, or firom a two or three-year old 
ewe, than if it be firom an animal that is yoimger. It 
seems likewise to be a well-authenticated observation, 
that the nearer to a state of nature that the animal 
has been brought up in, the wider and less confined its 
pasturage, the more easily will the flesh be digested. 
Hence, sheep that have ranged over wide tracts of 
country, as in the less cultivated parts, of Wales or 
Scotland, or in certain of the uplands of England, 
particularly notable in Derbyshire and Devonshire, 
are found to afford a preferable and more digestible 
flesh. The same remark does not apply to beef; for 
the richer the pasture of the ox, the more wholesome 
its flesh. Yet neither beef nor mutton is so whole- 
some, when the animal is not in good condition at 
the time of slaughter. The flesh of an animal that 
is in good condition at the time of its being killed, 
is firmer and redder, and is fuller of nutriment. 
Such meat is known by its marbled appearance, — ^by 
having layers of fat in the substance of the lean. It 
would be a mistake to suppose, that it is the fat which 
produces the greater degree of digestibility. It is 
invariably the case, that fat is much more indigestible 
than lean ; and although such meat should always 

E 3 



SZ MVrtOlg AND BESF. 

be selected with preference^ the invalid should care- 
fully separate the fat from the lean^ and eat only the 
latter. The flesh of animals that have been fattened 
on artificial food, as oil-cake, and the Uke, is much 
more likely to disagree with the dyspeptic, than that 
of animals which have been fed on fresh herbage. 
The health of the animal has much to do, in every 
case, with the digestibility of its flesh; and the 
less easily digested the flesh of an animal may 
be, the more important must this fact become. 
It is, however, the case, that the flesb of some 
animals is much more susceptible than that of 
others of being influenced by their having been in 
a state of more or less perfect health at the time 
of slaughter. However much more digestible and 
nutritious the flesh of the ox, when in good con- 
dition and perfect health at the time of slaughter, 
having been fed and fattened on fr^sh herbage, or, 
at all events, on vegetable food, than when fattened 
on oil-cake ; and however much the probable digesti- 
bility may be influenced by the animal having been 
stall-fed, — especially if the stall-feeding have been 
carried on in an ill-ventilated building, and the 
animal kept from all due exercise for some time ; 
there is no doubt that mutton may be in these ways 
much more influenced in digestibility and whole- 
someness than beef; and that, when mutton is said 
to be more digestible than beef, a free pasture, fresh 
herbage for food, abundant exercise, and, of course, 
the fi«e respiration of a pure air, and if possible, in 
an upland country^ are necessary conditions to the 



LAHB ANB VBAIm 88 

producticm of such easily digested and wholesome 
muttcm; and that^ therefore^ the digestibility of 
mutton must depend greatly on the circumstances of 
the animaFs life, the season of the year, and the like. 
For these reasons, mutton may be less generally of 
easy digestion in winter than in summer ; and, on 
another account, it may be less easily digested in 
spring than in uutumn. Further: the flesh of the 
fully grown animal is more easily digested than that 
of the animal which is still growing. The ox or the 
Aeep should not only indeed have arrived at its full 
growth, but hare become matured, and be at the 
age of fiillest vigour and development, in order that 
its flesh may be as digestible as it can become. To 
what this is owing is, perhaps, doubtM. It has be^i 
ascribed to the absence of the proper quantity of 
alkaline constituents in the flesh of the growing and 
immature animal, — ^and likewise to the larger quan- 
tity of gelatinous matter, that, in the flesh of young 
animals, is mixed with the fibrinous matter; the 
flesh of the fully grown animal consisting chiefly of 
the latter. It may, by possibility, be in some degree 
attributable to the mixture of gelatin with fibrin in 
larger proportion in the flesh of the growing animal ; 
inasmuch as it is common to find that mixtures of 
different articles of food, having different degrees of 
digestibility, irritate and disturb the digestive func* 
tions when the system is feeble, or when the organs 
of digestion are in an irritable condition. This may, 
however, be exclusively owing to the greater quantity 
of fat beneath the skin, which obtains in young 



84 LAMB AND TEAL. 

animals, for the purpose of protecting the parts 
beneath from any risk of external injury, and of 
assisting to preserve the elevated temperature of the 
body, — ^but, perhaps, chiefly to serve as a reservoir 
of carbon, to maintain the respiratory process in a 
state of unvarying activity, at a time when all the 
powers of the assimilating organs are directed to the 
support of the growth and development, as well as to 
make up for the waste and expenditure of the system. 
We find, at all events, that when the growth and 
development of the system become rapid, much of 
the superabundant fat is rapidly expended. The fatty 
covering must, however, have an important influence 
in assisting to preserve the temperatiure of the body, 
especially when the vascular powers are necessarily 
feeble, and less able to resist external influences ; and 
there can be no doubt, that, in the way the flesh of 
young animals is often cooked, this fat, not being 
removed, is absorbed by the lean during the cooking, 
and adds very materially to the difficulty of its diges- 
tion. The question of comparative nutritiousness 
between beef and mutton, veal and lamb, is simply 
resolvable into the flesh of the mature animal con- 
taining more nitrogen, and a larger proportion of the 
elements of protein, than that of the growing animal. 
Whether the reasons given above, why the flesh 
of young animals is less easily digested than that 
of animals which have attained their full growth, 
be the true reasons or not, is, perhaps, of only 
secondary importance. The fact remains unde- 
niable; and lamb and veal are, unquestionably. 



PORK. 85 

much less digestible than beef and mutton. This 
has long been admitted in regard to lamb; but 
veal was^ until a comparatiyely recent time^ regarded 
as a proper article of diet for invalids and conva- 
lescents^ — ^is so spoken of and recommended by the 
older authors on diet^ — and is still generally thus 
regarded by the public ; and it becomes important 
to state it^ as an unquestionable and proved fact^ that 
veal^ however cooked, should be banished from the 
sick-room, — that the invalid, unless he enjoys a very 
peculiar idiosyncracy, will generally find it to disa- 
gree with his stomach. 

Pork is very difficult of digestion. The fat is so 
intimately mixed with the lean, the tissue between 
the fibres contains so much of it, that it is utterly 
impossible to separate the one from the other. But, 
although pork is by no means suited to the stomach 
of the invalid, and seldom if ever agrees with it, yet 
to the stomach having unimpaired powers, it seems 
to be a useful and economical article of diet. But a 
man must have unimpaired powers of digestion to 
render it nourishing, and a stomach that is not 
easily irritated to render it wholesome. What 
has been said, as to the digestibility of the flesh of 
young animals, applies particularly to pork. There 
are few among the sedentary, the studious, or the 
voluptuous classes, that can eat sucking-pig without 
suffering, in some degree, by the difficulty of its 
digestion. 

Much, however, as. to the degree of digestibility 
of pork, depends upon the feeding of the animal, and 



86 PORK.. 

the other drcumstanoes of its life. If pigs am fed 
on tainted refuse^ or fish^ or animal food of any kind, 
even very partially, — if they are not dnly supplied 
with vegetable and farinaceous food £rom the first, — 
it is vain to expect that the flesh will be well deve- 
loped and tender, and as easily digested as it is 
capable of being rendered. To this may be added, 
that the health of all animals, and perhaps especially 
of the pig, depends very much on the cleanly con- 
dition of the skin, — ^the due ventilation, drainage, 
and purity of the sty, — and the having a sufficient 
degree of exercise. There is no doubt that the 
system of shutting up pigs in small, ill-ventilated, 
imperfectly cleaned styes, which is so prevalent in 
England, makes pork much less wholesome and less 
digestible than it might be,— or that the flesh of 
the wild animal is more easily digested tjian that 
of the tame animal, and probably for this reason 
chiefly. Until the ventilation and drainage of stalls 
and styes are properly and sedulously attended to, 
and considered to be of first importance, — ^untU due 
exercise of the animal be permitted, and, if need be, 
enforced, — enough has not been done to render the 
flesh as perfect and digestible as it may be ; and 
these matters are of an importance only secondary 
to the due, careful and wholesome feeding of the 
animal throughout life, and putting it, as far as 
circumstances permit, into the natural conditions of 
existence, or those which would obtain in the wild state. 
The meats, and indeed all animal muscular fibre, 
are, generally speaking, more digestible if broiled on 



BROIIiEB AND BOASTED MEATS. 87 



a gridiron^ — still less so if roasted^ — still less so if 
boiled^ — still less so if baked^ — still less so if fried. 

The reason why broiled meat is so much more 
easily digested than meat that is cooked in any 
odier way, is almost self-evident. The meat is 

meat is roasted, a large portion is cooked at once ; 
and, in order that the internal parts may be suffi- 
ciently done, the outer parts must be over-done; 
and not only so, but rendered hard and tough, by 
their long exposure to so elevated a temperature. 
In a large joint of meat, however carefully it may 
have been roasted, it is a difficult matter to find a 
slice which is sufficiently, and yet not too much 
cooked. It is a well known fact that the greater 
the degree of cohesion there is between the particles 
of any substance, the greater must be the force 
exerted by chemical re-agents to act upon it. Chalk 
is acted upon and dissolved by muriatic acid; — if 
the chalk is in a state of fine powder, the action is 
quick, and the solution is speedily effected; — if it is 
in the state of marble, the action is much slower. 
The solvent must, in fact, be in absolute contact 
with every atom of the chalk before it can dissolve 
it; and the harder the mass is, the greater the 
degree of cohesion between its particles, the more 
slowly will the acid penetrate it, — ^for the outer 
atoms must be dissolved, before the acid can act on 
those within them. It is the same with the sto- 
mach: the softer, the less hard and resisting, the 
solid article of food, the quicker, other things being 



88 8TEWED ANB HASHED MEATS. 

equal, will the stomach digest it. Lean meat that 
is somewhat under-done is more digestible than if 
thoroughly cooked, and for the obvious reason, that, 
in the latter case the fibres are more hardened, 
and their reduction by the chemical action of the 
stomach rendered by so much the more difficult. 

For the same reason, stews and hashes ought to 
be forbidden to the dyspeptic. He had much better 
eat his meat cold, on the second day of its appear- 
ance at table, than incur the risk of having it 
over-cooked, by being warmed-up again in any of 
the various ways that cooks and cookery-books are 
so fond of. Any observer would feel little hesita- 
tion in saying, that there are few dyspeptics who 
can eat with impunity hashed or stewed meats. 
This should be urged the more earnestly on the 
dyspeptic^s attention, because it is a common notion 
that meat ^^ done to rags^* must be very digestible. 
Sut, if the toughened fibres are to be eaten, this is 
very far firom being the case ; if the gravy and the 
jelly, into which the fibres have been in part dis- 
solved, are to be eaten, and not the fibres them- 
selves, the question is different, and will be considered 
presently. Meat done to rags is, however, for the 
most part, meat on which heat has acted to such a 
degree, as to have dissolved the substances which 
connect the fleshy fibres together ; not so far as to 
have dissolved those fibres, but only so far as to 
have rendered them as hard and tough as possible, 
and so to render their solution by the secretions 
of the stomach as difficult as possible. 



BOILED MEATS. — BAKED MEATS. 89 

Other objections may be made to hashes and stews^ 
in addition to those that have been mentioned. 
They firequently — it might be said, commonly — con- 
tain much fat, skin, &c. ; they are a mixture of 
liquid and solid food, which usually disturbs a sto* 
mach that is out of health ; a large amount of season- 
ing enters usually into their composition, which irri- 
tates the disordered stomach, and at the same time 
communicates a false appetite, and tempts the indi- 
vidual to eat more than the stomach can digest 
without inconvenience. The large effect upon the 
digestion, of diminishing the necessity of masti- 
cation, and depriving the stomach of the important 
auxiliary influence of so much saliva, must be 
another reason why hashes and stews should be 
usually forbidden to the invalided. 

Boiled meat is less easily digested than roasted 
meat. This may, perhaps, be owing to the extraction 
of so much gravy and gelatine from the meat, and 
the dryness and toughness of the muscular fibres 
consequent on the loss of those principles. Whether 
this be true or not, there is no doubt as to the 
correctness of the opinion, that boiled meat is not so 
easily digested as either broiled or roasted meat. 
Invalids in general, and especially dyspeptics, should 
be forbidden to eat boiled meats. This is indeed a 
remarkable change from ancient dietetic maxims; 
but it is based securely on observation and theory. 

Baked meats are likewise difficult of digestion. 
This is to be ascribed to the empyreumatic oil, into 
which more or less of the fatty matters are converted 



90 tALTSB MSAH. MAM. 

in tida mode of oookiiig; and tbe empTreama may 
jHobaUy be owing to the wantofTentilatioiiLinoyenB. 
if the great object, a anffidently high temperatDTe^ 
oonld be secured^ in ccmneclion with free ventilaticm, 
baked meats might probably be as digestible at 
roasted. 

The effect of bnmt fat on the digestibiUtjrof meat, 
is one reason why fried meat is digested with so 
much comparative difficulty. There is aauither 
obvious reason, viz., that the fat is not only bmmed, 
but the fibres of the meat are necessarily soaked in, 
and intimately mixed with it. 

Salted meats are much more difficult of digestion 
than firesh meats. The salt contracts the fibies, and 
renders them tougher ; and they yield less readily to 
the reducing power of the gastric secretions. When 
salted meats are dried, this toughening of the fibres 
is still ftrther increased, and their digestion is th^eby 
rendered still more difficult. The smoking of salted 
meats rather diminishes their digestibility tiian adds 
to it. 

For these reasons, cured hams, tongues, &c., are 
by no means easily digested. The fibres are rendered 
hard by the process of salting, still harder by that of 
drying; and they yield slowly to the action of the 
stmnach. In the healthy stomach, tiiis may be of 
little consequence. Food may, perhaps, remain 
many hours in such a stomach, without occasioning 
any disturbance of its functions, or even inconve- 
nience to its nerves. The consequence is, that 
salted meat forms a very substantial kind of food, the 



BACON. 91 

digestion of which occupies a long time; and it there* 
fore satisfies the appetite for a considerable period. 
Bat no kind of food will remain for a long time 
quiescent in the disordered stomach; and any artide^ 
the digestion of which is tedious, will, almost neces- 
sarily, produce disturbance. 

Bacon has been much vaunted as a remedy for 
indigestion. In the large majority of such cases it 
can not be so ; but, on the contrary, must tax stiU 
furth^ the powers of the stomach, or irritate still 
farther its tissues, which, under such circumstances, 
may be ahready in a state of morbid sensitiveness. 

Bacon is obtained from the most difficultly-digested 
of the meats, the fleshy fibres of which are toughened 
by the salt and by the drying. That &t is rendered 
nuHre digestible by being impregnated with salt, is 
an admitted fact ; and this must, of course, qualify 
thetsie strictures on the use of bacon. But the ]ea& 
of bacon is rendered more difficult of digestion, by 
die same process that has increased the digestibility 
o{ the fat ; and the fat is not by any means so altered 
in character, as no longer to irritate the debiUtated 
or disordered stomach. I have no hesitation in say- 
ing, that in the greater number of cases of 
dyspepsia^ bacon does harm. It must do harm in 
all cases where the secretions of the stomach are 
either deficient in quantity, or vitiated in quality, 
and where the tissues of the stomach are in a state of 
irritation, or of morbid sensitiveness, and, k fortiori, 
in all cases, where there is subacute or chronic inflam- 
matory excitement; in fact, when the indigestion 



92 BACON. 

has its seat in the stomach. But when the secretions 
of the stomach are sufficient in quantity^ and healthy 
enough in character^ to mix with the food^ and act 
on it chemically, — ^and when the membranes of the 
stomach are not in a state of irritability ; and, in 
short, in all cases where the food is duly digested by 
the stomach, is ejected from it in the proper state 
into the bowels, and where all that is wanting is a 
stimulus to carry the mass forward through the 
intestines, the laxative properties of the fat and salt 
contained in the bacon will act beneficially, and to 
such cases bacon will, no doubt, be of service. It 
will be admitted, that such cases as these constitute 
a very small minority of the cases of dyspepsia. If 
the remote causes of indigestion are considered, the 
truthfulness of the foregoing will be stiU more 
obvious. Indigestion is, in most cases, a consequence 
of neglected exercise, and of taking more food than 
is required for the expenditure of the system. And, 
however engendered, dyspepsia is usually accom- 
panied by a more or less irritable and easily excited 
condition of the membranes and glands of the 
stomach ; and it is a matter of much importance to 
avoid food that will directly irritate those tissues and 
organs, or the digestion of which wiU give them 
much to do. These constitute strong objections to 
the use of bacon — ^the fat of which is so highly 
carbonaceous, and so difficultly assimilated, and the 
salt of which is directly stimulating — ^in the ordinary 
cases of dyspepsia. 

The visceral and glandular parts of animals, such 



GLANDULAR PARTS OF ANIMALS. — POULTRY. 93 

as brain, heart, liver, kidney, tongue, tripe, &c., are 
generally difficult of digestion. The sweet-bread 
(pancreas) is a partial exception to this rule. In the 
case of many invalids, and not a few dyspeptics, the 
sweet-bread is easily digested. It is, however, ques- 
tionable whether this is true in the greater number 
of such cases. 

Animal food is almost always more easily digested, 
if it has undergone some degree of putefractive 
change ; at least to such a degree as is sufficient to 
make the fibres more tender. If the change has 
proceeded to a greater extent than this, it generally 
induces a degree of nausea, and either interrupts or 
disturbs the digestive process.* 



POULTRY. 

1. Fowl I 3. Duck.t 

2. Turkey. I 4. Goo8e.t 

Birds are usually more digestible in proportion 
as they are younger. The fibres of birds not only 
lose the greater part of the gelatinous intermix- 
ture as the animals become older; but the fibres 
become harder, and tougher, and by so much less and 
less digestible. They Airnish a more gelatinous and 
less fibrous, a lighter andless nourishing kind of food, 

* The power of the gastric juice in counteracting and correcting 
putrefaction is a most important and wonderful provision. Although 
more remarkable and useful in some animals than others, as for 
instance in those that feed on carrion, it is nevertheless sufficiently 
important in the case of man. But for this, even slightly tainted 
food absorbed, unaltered in character, into the circulation, must 
have acted as a direct and almost certain poison. 



M POULTET. 

when they are young, than when they are mature. 
Duck and goose are marked in the table as being of 
difficult digestion. It is an observation which ia 
applicable, with few exceptions, to all water-birds. 
They are much fS&tter, their flesh is tougher, and it ia 
80 thoroughly mixed up with &tty cellular substanee^ 
that the civilised stomach must be in a state of 
imusual healthiness, or have a most unusual idiosyn- 
cracy^ to be capable of digesting either duck or goose, 
without inconvenience. 

Domestication is admitted to have much effect on 
the flesh of the gallinaceous tribe. They are thus 
rendered more fleshy, and more tender, and probably 
in the same degree more digestible. The mode of 
feeding, and other circumstances of the management, 
influence likewise the digestibility and wholesome- 
ness of poultry. There is no doubt, that, whereas 
regular and adequate feeding, and free exercise in a 
pure air, adds to the fleshiness and the digestibility 
of poultry, confinement and over-feeding adds rather 
to the fat than the flesh, and renders it less easily 
digested. As in other cases, the more necessarily 
difficult of digestion the species may be, the greater 
the effect of the mode of feeding; and ducks and 
geese are more affected as to their wholesomeness, 
by insufficient or improper food, than fowls or turkeys 
are found to be. The guinea-fowl and the pea-fowl 
are sufficiently easy of digestion; although not so 
digestible as the common fowl. 

Poultry is more easily digested when broiled ; is 
somewhat less digestible when roasted ; and is least 



DIGESTIBILITY OF DIFFERENT PARTS. 06 

easily digested when boiled. The less it is mixed 
and qualified with sauces and stuffing, the more 
easily is it digested. 

As to the parts of animals that are the most easily 
digested, — ^it is a good general rule, admitting, of 
course, of some few exceptions, that the fleshy fibres 
which are least used, are the most tender, the smaller, 
and the most easily digested. Thus, we find that 
the loin of beef and mutton, the breast of poultry, 
and the thighs of game birds, are usually the parts 
selected for their tenderness, and consequent digesti- 
bility. The degree to which any part is free, or can 
be separated, from skin, fat, or ceUular membrane, 
influences yery much its digestibility. 

The effect o£ confinement, exposure to a high 
artificial temperature, and over-feeding, on the flesh 
of poultry, is particularly remarkable in the turkey 
and the goose, and especially in the latter. By these 
means the liver of the goose becomes three or four 
times larger than its natural size, owing principally to 
an expansion of its cells, which become filled with fiit. 
There is thus, produced the important ingredient of 
a viand much prized by gourmands, but which must 
be necessarily difficult of digestion. And, although 
in a much less ratio of difficult and doubtful digesti- 
bility than the Pati de Foie Gras, it is questionable 
rf the crammed turkey, the enormous proportions of 
which grace our tables at Christmas-time, affords so 
easily digested a flesh as the bird which arrives, by 
the aid of natural appetite alone, at so much more 
moderate a diegree of development. 



96 OAKE. 



GAME^ &a 



1. Hare, hunted. 

2. Partridge. 

3. Pheasant. 

4. Venison. 

5. Grouse. 



6. Ptarmigan, Black-cock. 

7. Hare. 

8. Pigeon, Lark, &c. 

9. Rabbit. 

10. Woodcock, Snipe, &c.f 



Oame is generally very easily digested. The long- 
billed birds are the exception to the rule ; and they 
should be forbidden to the decidedly dyspeptic. 
Season is deservedly and uniyersally believed to 
influence in a remarkable degree the digestibility 
of the wild animals that are used as food. Age like- 
wise adds to the alkalescence and to the toughness 
of the fleshy and renders it by so much less diges- 
tible. Broiling or roasting are the preferable modes 
of cooking game; but^ however dressed, if young, 
and in season, game is very easily and quickly 
digested, and in proportion to its nutritiousness, 
seldom gives the stomach much to do. The distinc- 
tion which is made in the table, between the digesti- 
bility of hare that has been killed by hunting, and 
one that has been in any other way deprived of life, 
will be generally admitted to be correct. The place 
occupied by venison in the table, may be considered 
by some to be a matter of doubt. This doubt will 
be found, however, to be attributable to the mode of 
cooking, and the accompanying sauces. Few who 
had eaten a broiled venison steak, would have reason 
to find fault with its digestibility. The tamed or 
home-fed pigeon and rabbit are, probably, if kept 
in good health by proper feeding and cleanliness. 



GAMB. 97 

mach more digestible than the wild pigeon, or wild 
rabbit. There is usually less of the peculiar flavour 
of the flesh, which may depend on some essential oil, 
and which is so much influenced in all animals by 
season, age, and diet. It is not generally the case, 
however, that home-fed animals are more easily 
digested than wild animals. The fact that game is 
usually so easily digested, is sufficient proof to the 
contrary. And indeed, in general, home-fed or 
pastured animals, by being made to lead artificial 
lives, deprived more or less of the power or incli- 
nation to take much exercise, or the necessity for 
domg so reduced by good pastures, are by so much 
rendered less easily digestible. As exercise expends 
the redundancies of the system, and maintains in 
full activity the assimilating organs, it renders the 
muscular fibre more developed, firmer, more free 
from fat and gelatinous matters, and by so much 
more nourishing, and more digestible. This is a 
rule, however, which must be admitted with qualifi- 
cation; and one that, on the one hand, probably 
depends on the degree to which the home-feeding is 
carried, and to which due exercise is interfered with; 
and, on the other hand, on the readiness or difficulty 
with which the wants of the animal are supplied 
by its own exertions. It becomes, in fact, a question 
of good and perfect health, attained by sufficient 
food and adequate exercise, and not interfered with 
by an accumulation of redundant fat. 

The animals of which the flesh is used as human 
food in this country, are, exclusively, herbivorous or 

F 



98 CARNIVOROUS ANIMALS. ANIMAL PRINCIPLES. 

graminiyorouB. The flesh of camiyorous animals 
is acrid and strongs and much less easily digested. 
This is so much the case with all animal products 
that are not derived directly from vegetable sub- 
stancesj or from food consisting of a large propor- 
tion of vegetable substances^ that it is said by many 
observers^ infants will refuse^ or be much disordered 
by the milk of nurses, who live too much on an 
animlEd diet. 



ANIMAL PRINCIPLES. 



1. Gravy. 

2. Grelatin. 



3. Fibrin. 

4. Fatty Matters-tt 



In the table^ the common animal principles are 
classed in the order of their relative and ordinary 
digestibility. 

Under the first head^ gravy, is included simple 
beef tea, made very strong, from lean beef, — ^allowed 
to cool, — the fat, then risen to the sur£Eice, wholly 
removed, — ^and warmed for use, with the addition 
of only a few pepper-corns, and a little salt. This is 
a kind of food which agrees well with most dyspeptic 
stomachs ; or, at all events, with most of the cases 
that are not of severe character. 

This should not be confounded with the degree of 
digestibility of broth ; nor should the question of 
broth be mixed up with that of soup^ which^ again, 
is a matter for separate consideration. 

Broth, or a weak decoction of the more soluble 
parts of animal fibre, seldom agrees with the 
djrspeptic, or with the merely feeble stomach ; and. 



BROTH. 99 

of course^ more seldom with the former than with 
the latter. The first great objection to broth is the 
&tj of which it ahnost always contains more or less^ 
unless it has been allowed to stand until quite cold^ 
and the fat wholly removed, — ^the broth being 
warmed again for use. This objection may be thus 
easily got rid off; the next to be mentioned is con- 
sequently of more importance. It will usually be 
found in the case of the dyspeptic^ and not unoften 
in that of the debilitated invalidi that liquids of any 
sort, provided they hold nutrimentary matter in 
solution, produce a sense of fulness and uneasinesa 
of stomach during their digestion, even when they 
do not occasion any more marked symptoms of dis- 
turbance in the stomach^s fimctions. This effect is 
very apt to be produced by aU sorts of unthickened 
slops. It may be that they dilute too much the 
gastric secretion, or that their bulk causes them to 
be less readily and promptly submitted to its action. 
The difficulty with which those liquids holding 
alimentary matters in solution are digested, is so 
general, and affords so few exceptions, that un- 
thickened chicken broth, or mutton broth, should 
seldom be allowed to the invalid or the dyspeptic. 
When thickened with arrow-root, or with any of 
the simple farinacea, they often agree sufficiently 
well, and form a light, palatable, and nourishing 
diet. 

Broth with vegetables in it, is, for reasons which 
will be understood by referring to the remarks made 
under that class of substances, highly objectionable 

f2 



100 OBLATIN. 

in the case of the invaUded^ and should nerer be 
eaten by the dyspeptic. 

Gelatin is, in general, of easy digestion. When 
the stomach is labouring under mere debility, as 
during convalescence firom severe and exhausting 
illness, it is usually found that jeUy, made firom 
calves' feet, ivory dust, &c., is a grateful and palat- 
able, a safe and unirritating step, firom farinaceous 
to more solid animal food. But this remark is 
hardly applicable to the dyspeptic stomach, which, 
if suffering firom debility, is seldom suffering from 
debility alone. When the gastric secretions are either 
deficient or disordered, — ^when the stomach is irritable 
or morbidly sensitive, — and still more if the organ 
be in a state of subacute inflammatory excitement, 
jelly will usually be found to be objectionable. 1 
must say that I would rather, speaking generally, see 
a dyspeptic patient of mine eat a somewhat underdone 
broiled mutton chop, than jelly of any sort, made in 
any way, or firom any source. K the views of Pro- 
fessor Liebig are correct, and that they are mainly 
so will hardly be questioned, gelatin is of little use 
as food, unless to repair the waste of the gelatinous 
tissues. But these tissues constitute a very large 
and important proportion of the system; and the 
mere business of ministering to the restoration of 
their expenditure might well be a reason for letting 
gelatinous matters form a part of the food. In con- 
valescence fi*om illness, when the skin is evidently 
attenuated, and the cellular tissue as evidently wasted, 
and in part absorbed, the usefulness of gelatinous 



FIBRIN AND GELATIN. 101 

food becomes, in this yiew, very apparent, and tlie 
propriety of tHe time-honoured custom of giving jelly 
in some form to our convalescent patients is con- 
firmed, — ^however doubtful, it may still be maintained, 
is the propriety of allowing gelatinous food to the 
cases of dyspepsia. 

The digestibility of fibrin has been already con- 
sidered under the heads of meat and of gravy; the 
former consisting of solid fibrin, and the latter of 
fibrin in a state of solution. Its ultimate com- 
position,— differing therein very little from the 
composition of albumen and casein, — ^is, according 
to Mulder : Carbon 54-90, Hydrogen 6'95, Nitrogen 
15-89, Oxygen 21-55, Phosphorus 0-35, Sulphur 0^86. 
The three animal principles convertible into protein — 
albumen, fibrin, and casein— differing very Uttle from 
one another in ultimate composition, and being, in 
fact, convertible into one another, — differ from 
gelatin especially, in containing sulphur and phos- 
phorus as essential elements of their constitution. 
Sulphur and phosphoms do not appear to be essential 
to the composition of the purely gelatinous tissues ; 
being added when gelatin is about to be converted 
into the bony or homy textures, besides the needful 
depoisition of earthy matter. According to Mulder^ 
the ultimate composition of gelatin is: — Carbon 
50-048, Hydrogen 6-648, Nitrogen 18-388, Oxygen 
^'921. "For the same amount of Carbon,^' says 
Professor Liebig, " Gelatin contains more Nitrogen, 
Hydrogen, and Oxygen, than the constituents of the 
blood. We may suppose, that by the separation 



102 FIBRIN AND OBLATIN. — FAT. 

of a certain qxumtitj of these elements from tbe 
gelatin^ a body may be obtained^ which, in reference 
to the proportion of Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, 
and Oxygen, shall hare a composition identical with 
that of the constituents of blood; but, so far as our 
knowledge extends, we are not acquainted with any 
process in the organism by which such a compound 
could be suppUed with the sulphur, in which it is 
deficient/' (Op. Citat . 3rd edition) . In other words, 
on a large scale, the albuminous tissues could not be 
renewed by means of gelatin. On a small scale, and 
for a special purpose, this may be done, and is 
probably often done; but it would seem that, in 
such a case, some other part of the economy must 
be deprived of carbon and sulphur in the same pro- 
portion. 

Fatty matters are placed lowest in the table, and 
marked as being considered to be very indigestible. 
Fat is with difficulty reduced to chyme by the action 
of the gastric juice ; and, falling its due and perfisct 
reduction in a given time, is apt, or almost certain, 
to derange and irritate the stomach and its functions, 
producing acrid secretions, and increasing the quan- 
tity of the gastric secretions at the same time that 
their quality is deranged; and thus an additional 
irritant of the stomach is produced, besides that of 
the slowly and imperfectly assimilated fat. The 
digestibility of fat is, moreover, much afiected by the 
mode in which it is cooked. If unduly heated, it 
becomes partially decomposed, and it is by so much 
rendered less digestible; and if too much cooked. 



FAT. lOS 

althougli not unduly heated, it becomes Harder, and 
by so much less easily digested. The effect of the 
vegetable acids in promoting the digestibility of fiit, 
and likewise the similar influence of the common 
culinary salt, are very great and remarkable, and will 
haye to be mentioned in their proper place hereaftex*. 
The opinions as to the advisability and necessity of 
eating fat, have been much modified by the recent 
chemical views of its uses in the economy. Containing 
no nitrogen, £ftt subserves no purpose in repairing the 
waste of the system : its single purpose is to supply 
carbon for the respiratory process; and thus is 
explained the long known and admitted fact, that fat 
may be eaten with much less risk of immediate or 
eventual derangement firom it, in cold than in hot 
weath^ — ^and the d^ree to which it is consumed 
in colder latitudes, becomes hence intelligible. And 
again, by this view, the effect of an undue pro- 
portion of fiat in the diet, in surcharging the system 
with carbon, in overloading the liver with work, or 
oppressing it with its own accumulations, produciug 
or adding to hepatic derangements, — an effect so 
long known, and so universally allowed, — finds a 
valuable and satisfactory explanation. 

The ultimate composition of fat differs in some 
small degree, according to the animal from which it 
is obtained, and probably according to the part of the 
animal that it is obtained from. And it is certainly 
true, that the fat of different animals, and of different 
parts, differs in its digestibility. Fat may be said to 
contain — Carbon 79, Hydrogen Hi, Oxygen 9i. 



104 TURTLE. SOUP. 

Turtle remains to be spoken of in this place^ as an 
animal matter of some importance as an article of 
food^ — ^and one that seems likely to become more im- 
portant^ from the increasing facilities of commnni- 
cation between distant parts of the world, and from 
the application of the simplest scientific knowledge to 
the preservation of food, by inclosing it in air-tight 
tin cases. Turtle, as presented in carefully made 
soup, is a more nourishing article of food than its 
merely gelatinous constitution would serve to explain. 
It probably contains a considerable proportion of 
albuminous matter. In proportion to the degree of 
its nutritiousness, it is by no means difficult of diges- 
tion, and is not usually apt to irritate the stomach, 
when, in common with the rest of the system, it has 
been weakened by rapidly expending indisposition. 
For dyspeptic cases, turtle would be a more than doubt- 
ful article of food; but when people are suffering from 
loss of power, and perhaps from a loss of the gela- 
tinous and carbonaceous, rather than the protein- 
producing substances, turtle-soup will often prove 
to be a valuable prescription. 

Soup in general is much more easily digested than 
broth, — supposing that soup is distinguishable from 
broth by containing more animal matter and less 
water, and by consisting of a mixture of gelatin and 
gravy, instead of gravy only. A valuable article of 
diet for invalids may be made by mixing beef tea 
with calves' foot jelly, flavouring the compound 
according to circumstances and taste. When not 
otherwise objectionable, the addition of a small quan- 



80UF. 105 

tity of sound old white wine to this^ not only makes 
it much more palatable^ but greatly promotes its 
digestibility. When thus intimately mixed with 
alimentary matter^ wine is necessarily much less 
likely to prove unduly, or even perceptibly stimu- 
lating, than when taken in almost any other way. 
The importance of separating all the fat from soups 
in general, is as great as in the case of broth; and 
it is generally better understood in this case, and 
more fully carried out. 

Regarded as an article of food to be occasionally 
resorted to for the restoration of the feeble and 
invalided to health and strength, soup presents a 
very different question to that of its forming the pre- 
liminary of the daily dinner, — ^when, eaten very hot, 
and highly charged with spices, it becomes neither 
more nor less than a stimulus to appetite and the 
primary digestion. In this view, soup is liable to 
the same animadversions as any other stimulus, 
and may be judiciously used, or abused so grossly as 
to involve the ultimate penalty of repletion, plethora, 
and deranged health. In general, the appetite and 
digestion should be sufficiently good to secure enough 
food and its due assimilation, to meet the wants of the 
system ; and if any such habitual stimulus appears 
to be necessary, there must be something radically 
wrong, which should be regulated and correctefd by 
appropriate means. 



f3 



106 FISH. 



FISH. 



1. Whiting. 

2. Haddock. 

3. Cod. 

4. Sole and Flounder.f 

5. Lobster and Grab.f 

6. Oystet^raW.f 



7. Freah-water Fish in general, 
as Trout, &e.t t 

8. Turbotft 
d. Sa]mon.tt 

10. Mackerel.+ + 

11. Oyster, oooked.'hf 

12. Herring and Spratf t| 



Taken in the aggregate^ fish may be thus classed 
as to the usual degree of their relative digestibility : — 
Ist^ white-fleshed fish; 2nd^ flat-fish; 3rd^ shell-fish; 
4th^ fresh-water fish; 5th, red-fleshed fish; and, 
lastly, the more oleaginous fish. 

The more greasy the fish,, and the greater the 
proportion of gelatin between its fibres, the more 
difficult it is of digestion. Hence it is not only the 
rich and fat fish that disagree with the disordered 
stomach. It is, perhaps, owing to the great quantity 
of gelatin they contain, that fish so commonly disturbs 
the stomach of the dyspeptic, and that some are not 
able to digest at all. This is more probably owing, 
however, to the nature of the peculiar animal matter 
on which the flavour depends, or to the greater or less 
degree of oiliness of every kind of fish; or it may be 
partly ascribed to the watery character of the fibres. 

It is luidoubtedly true, that when the stomach is 
in such a state as not to bear much liquid food, it will 
seldom be able to digest fish without inconvenience. 
Fish ought always to be eaten with a considerable 
quantity of salt : it greatly facilitates the digestion. 
Salted fish, however, is much more difficult of diges- 



fIBH. 107 

tion than fresh fish. When salt is eaten with fresh 
fish, the fibres are not hardened by the salt ; and the 
only effect of the salt is to stimulate the stomach so 
far, as to promote, or produce, its speedy digestion. 
In the case of salted fish, the fibres are veiy percep- 
tibly hardened by the proieess ; and, whether owing 
exclusively to this or not, salted fish is much more 
difficult of digestion than fresh fish. The more 
greasy the fish, the more salt should be eaten with 
it j and idnegar is usually a palatable and advisable 
addition. It answers the same end as salt, in cor* 
recting the effect of the fat, &c. This only apphes 
to such stomachs as c^u bear a moderate quantity of 
add without incomsenience. 

I have affixed a double mafk to some of the 
articles in the above table, to express my opinion of 
the extreme difficulty of their digestion. Oysters 
are usually thought to be of easy digestion. I have 
been led to form an opposite opinion. I think even 
raw oysters to be more than questionable, if the sto- 
mach is in any degree out of order; but cooked 
oysters are anything but easily digested, and they 
should be shunned by every valetudinarian. 

The observation as to difficulty of digestion, is 
applicable to all the different kinds of shell-fish. 
Muscles, cockles, &c., are less easily digested than 
oysters. Prawns, shrimps, cray-fish, &c., like the 
lobster and the crab, have hard and close fibres 
that are not readily dissolved by the gastric secre* 
tions. The character of the fibres wiU afford a 
trustworthy guide, other circumstances being equal. 



1 08 FISH. 

to the digestibility of the diflferent kinds of fish, 
when^ from their being less generally used^ or from 
a fear of confusion^ certain kinds are not found to 
be enumerated in the table. For example : the 
denser fibres of the skate render this fish less diges- 
tible than the tnrbot^ and the same circumstance 
makes the halibut less digestible than the salmon. 

Fish is much less nourishing than other animal 
fibre ; and on this account^ in some cases of undue 
repletion^ might advisably form a part of the usual 
diet^ or be had recourse to as an occasional or frequent 
substitute for meat^ on the principle of a semi-fast. 
It may have been on this principle^ as well as that of 
mortifying the inclination and appetites^ that fish 
was originally enjoined in the case of some commu- 
nities, to be used on certain days, or at certain 
seasons, instead of meat. The objections to ordering 
fish instead of meat are, necessarily, the risk of taxing 
unduly the powers of the system to assimilate it, and 
of irritating the digestive organs by the extra duty. 
Supposing the case to be otherwise such a one as 
renders the occasional or frequent substitution of fish 
instead of meat advisable, the effect on the digestive 
organs must be watched with care, and the fish be 
forbidden if its digestion should occasion disturbance 
or irritation. There is no doubt, moreover, that, 
even when assimilated, a fish diet may derange the 
excretions, and indirectly irritate the excretory organs, 
especially the kidneys; and this may have to be borne 
in mind, as a probable reason why fish might be 
justifiably forbidden to some invalids, or why it might 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS. 109 

be very properly or necessarily discontinued^ when 
otherwise apparently indicated. 

Broiling and boilings especially perhaps the latter^ 
are undoubtedly the most wholesome and easily 
digested ways of cooking fish. Fried fish^ from 
being cooked in boiling butter or fat^ is much less 
digestible. If the fish be not of a greasy character^ 
broiling is the most digestible way of cooking it ; 
if greasy, the fat is rendered more or less empyreu- 
matic, and by so much less wholesome, by broiling, — 
and boiling is then the best way of cooking it. With 
the exception of salt, — and in the case of greasy fish, 
of vinegar, — ^all addition to fish, in the form of sauce 
or condiment, of necessity renders its digestion more 
difficult. The melted butter with which fish is almost 
invariably eaten, must render it less digestible ; and 
the dyspeptic who will eat fish, should not add butter 
to it in any form. 



MILK. 



1. Whey. 

2. Milk, skimmed. 

3. Milky unskimmed. 

4. Cream. 



6. Curd. 
6. Butter. 
It Olieese. 
8. Cream-cheese. 



The composition of milk varies very much in 
different species of animals, — and in the same species, 
and, indeed, in the same individual, at different 
times. In one of the analyses of Simon, which may 
be taken as a mean, he found cow's milk to contain — 
water, 857; and solid constituents, 143. Of the 
latter, he found 40 to be butter, 72 casein, 28 sugar 



110 IftLK. 

and extractive matter^ and the remainder to consist 
of fixed and eartlij salts. 

It ifl one of the most carious announcements of 
chemistry, that milk contains all the elements of 
respiration and nutrition, arranged in the san^e way 
as we find them in tibe multiplied articles of animal 
and vegetable food, — ^these being presented {n milk, 
in the due ph)portion required for the respiration, 
nutrition, and growth of the young animal. Milk 
contains fat (cream — butter), which is destitute 
of nitrogen, and only subserves the respiratory 
process; casein, (cheese), which contains nitn^n, 
and serves the purposes of nutrition and growth; 
and sugar, which is another of the organised princi- 
ples which contain no nitrogen, and are therefore not 
capable of being converted into the organs and tissues 
of the body. Thus is the young animal supplied with 
a sufficiency of carbonaceous food, to minister to its 
respiration and to the maintenance of its elevated 
temperature, without the necessity of expending either 
the nitrogenised alimmit, or the tissues of the body, 
for this single purpose, — or farther than its little and 
comparatively feeble movements enable it, without 
disadvantage, to accomplish ; and thus is the nervous 
system of the young animal enabled to refiresh its 
powers by frequent and long sleep, during which the 
great vegetative functions of developing the organs 
and tissues, perfecting their formation, and adding to 
the size of them severally, go on without drain or 
interruption, from the nervous power being expended 
either on the mental, sentient, or motor functions. 



DIETETICS OP GHILDHOOB. Ill 

It may be added^ that the milk of di£ferent ftTiimala 
contams a different proportion of the simply carbons, 
ceons and the nitrogenised constitoents ; and this 
evidently for the purpose of adapting it to the vants 
of the yonng. When the young are more torpid, and 
less strong^ and less fiilly developed at birth^ there is 
the larger proportion of carbonaceous matter in the 
milk^ to serve the purpose of respiration without the 
necessity of making such exertions as their feeble 
systems are not capable of; and^ on the other hand, 
the milk contains more of the nitrogenised constitn- 
ents, when intended as food for those animals which 
are more fiilly developed at birth, and are capable of 
almost immediate exertion. And what is even 
more surprising than this, is the long known fact, 
that the milk differs according to the age of the 
yomig animal for whose suatemiBce it is provided^ 
containing at first a larger proportion of fat and 
sugar, and subsequently the proportion of these 
respiratory aliments diminishing, and that of the 
casein — the nitrogenised aliment — being largely 
increased. There is no doubt, that the digestibility 
of the milk of different animals in the human stomach 
is much affected by this, — or that, even in the case of 
cow's tmlk, it becomes more or less digestible accord- 
ing to its relative composition. 

^hile speaking of the diet of the young, it may 
be observed, that an acquaintance with the researches 
and views of chemistry is of much importance in 
reference to this question ; and that proof is con- 
tinually being afforded, how great is the danger of 



112 DIETETICS OF CHILDHOOD. 

an ignorance of tlie circumstance^ that neither sugar, 
fat, nor gelatin (except in so far as the gelatinous 
tissues are concerned) appear to contain the elements 
of nutrition ; that this is absolutely so in the case of 
oily and saccharine matters ; and that, in regard to 
gelatin, if it is convertible into the non-gelatinous 
tissues at all, it must be at a much greater cost and 
difficulty to the assimilating powers of the system. 
It is not to be doubted, that many children have 
been atrophied, and probably lost, from their food 
being confined to such articles of diet as starch, 
sugar, butter, and, perhaps it may be added, 
gelatin : substances incapable of doing more than 
minister to the respiratory fimctions, or renew the 
gelatinous tissues, and not fitted to repair the general 
waste and expenditure of the body. It should be 
impressed on the minds of parents and nurses, that, 
whereas one great danger arises from overloading 
the systems of children, and so deranging their 
susceptible and easily-disturbed economy, there is a 
greater danger of possible occurrence : that of not 
giving them such food as contains a sufficiency of 
nitrogen to meet the wants of the system, and main- 
tain its health and power. Children are often foimd 
to do well upon a minimum amount of azotised food, 
until the periods of the first or the second denti- 
tion, when the extraordinary call upon the system 
for the development of the roots of the teeth, and the 
consequent protrusion of the teeth through the gums, 
is not adequately met, or only ministered to at the 
expense of»the rest of the body, — and dentition 



DIETETICS OF CHILDHOOD. IIS 

becomes slow and defective^ and the health evidently 
impaired. The possibility of an extra quantity of 
fibrinous aliment^ — or such aliment as is reducible to 
protein out of the body^ and by consequence con- 
Tertible into organ and tissue within it^ — being 
required at this period of life^ should be borne in 
mind. There is^ moreover^ as great a risk of children 
being supplied with an undue quantity of simply 
carbonaceous food^ as of their being furmshed with 
too scanty a proportion of azotised food. The con- 
sequence of this error^ whether in the years of 
growth or in after-life^ must be to surcharge the 
system with carbon^ — ^to diminish unwisely the 
instinct and necessity for muscular exercise^ by 
supplying without its intervention the whole of the 
carbon wanted for respiration^ — ^to render the system 
torpid, — ^to overwork the great emunctory of carbon, 
the liver, — ^to derange its great processes, — ^to render 
the bile less fitted for its important duties, — and, 
finally, to disturb the digestion, and thus affect the 
healthiness of the whole economy. This shews fully, 
that, independently of the primary risk of fatty 
matters and sugar deranging the stomach by any 
difficulty in their digestion, they are apt to injure 
eventually, by unduly taking the place of the azotised 
elements, and by so much making the ftinctions of 
the body sluggish, and prone to take on morbid action. 
Inasmuch as starch is easily digested, and rarely 
irritates even the dyspeptic stomach if not taken in 
undue quantity at a time, the risk of using this great 
respiratory aliment is reduced to that of surcharging 



116 MILK. 

Tnth only one inconvenience^ and tbis does not by 
any means always obtain. It often constipates tbe 
bowels^ and thus deranges tbe digestive processes. 
This is less likely to bappen^ if tbe milk is tbickened 
witb flour or oatmeal ; and tben it forms a diet wbicb 
most people like^ and wbicb is very generally wbole- 
some. Sucb addition^ moreover^ renders milk more 
easily digested. The beneficial effect of the flour, 
or the oatmeal, on the digestion of milk, is partly 
owing to the mere thickening, — ^the use of wbicb in 
facilitating the digestion of liquid food has abready 
been spoken of; but it acts chiefly by preventing 
milk from curdling in large masses in the stomach. 
Milk is curdled by the gastric juice before it is 
digested. The effect of the flour, or the oatmeal, is 
to separate the milk, and cause it to be curdled in 
small portions, instead of being formed into large 
masses of curd. The way in which this must add to 
the digestibility of milk, must be sufficiently obvious. 
A diet that is usually considered palatable, and 
which agrees well with those who can take milk in 
any form, is made of equal parts of skimmed milk 
and barley water; to which a little sugar or lemon- 
peel, either or both, forms a grateful and not unwbole^ 
some addition. 

Milk is, of all kinds of food, the one which is tbe 
best adapted to children ; and it should mainly con- 
stitute the principal meal, — ^which, at all ages, ought 
to be the breakfast. 



CSEAM. — CURD. 117 

Cream^ the more oleaginous part of milk^ which^ 
from its lower specific gravity^ spontaneously sepa« 
rates from milk^ and rises to the sur&ce when it has 
been allowed to remain at rest for .some hours^ con- 
sists of butter^ casein^ and whey. These several 
constituents of cream vary somewhat in their rektive 
proportions: they are stated^ on the authority of 
Berzelius^ to be — ^butter 4^^ casein 3^^ and whey 92 
per cent. 

There is a saying very prevalent in Derbyshire^ 
that ''cream is lighter than milk/' implying that 
it does the stomach less harm, and is more easily 
digested, because it swims on the top of the milk. 
To whose strange abuse of the meaning of the 
word lights the public is iadebted for the singular 
opinion, I do not know. If respectable for its 
antiquity, it certainly is so on no other account. 
K it were true, that the more specifically light the 
substance, the more easily it is digested, butter, or 
fat, or oil, would be more easily digested than would 
water. This would scarcely have been noticed at aU, 
had it not been for the personal knowledge I have 
of its being so prevalent a notion in this county^ 
and had I not seen repeated instances of its injurious 
consequences. Cream is, of course, much less diges<* 
tible than milk. 

Curd (caseui) is separated &om milk by the addi- 
tion of adds ; and it separates from it when milk 
undei^oes spontaneous decomposition, or when the 
decomposition is accelerated by the addition of a 
ferment, or an organised and azotised matter which 



118 CUSB. — WHBY. — ^SUGAB OF MILK. 

is itself in a state of molecalar movement, and in 
the act of undergoing decomposition. Tlie casein 
of milk appears to be held in solution by means of 
an excess of potash. Milk presents an interesting 
example of the spontaneous decomposition of animal 
matter. When exposed to the air, the first change 
seems to take place in the casein ; and frcmi this it ex- 
tends to the saccharine matter ; the sugar is partially 
converted into lactic acid, by which the remainder 
of the casein is ^coagulated; the decomposition pro- 
ceeds, and the sugar is at length entirely changed 
into lactic acid, &c. 

According to Scherer, the analysis of casein, as 
obtained from fresh milk, is — carbon 54*826, hydro- 
gen 7*1S3, nitrogen 16*628, oxygen and sulphur 
22-394. 

Curd is less easily digested than cream, and is 
much less digestible than whey, or than skimmed 
or unskimmed milk. Curd is, however, more easily 
digested than butter. 

Whey, which is the remainder when the curd has 
been separated £rom milk, is usually an easily di- 
gested and grateful beverage. It still contains much 
of the saccharine matter of milk ; but the greater 
part of the oleaginous matter, and most of the casein 
of the milk are separated £rom it. The sugar of 
milk, is obtained from whey, by evaporation to the 
consistence of honey, and clarification. It presents 
crystals of briUiant whiteness. 

Sugar of milk is a weak form of the saccharine 
principle : that is, it contains a larger proportion of 



WHET. 119 



oxygen and hydrogen than cane sugar^— or^ accord- 
ing to Dr.Proufs new^ a lai^er proportion of compo- 
nent water. There are three principal varieties of 
the saccharine principle^ all consisting exclnsiyelj 
of carbon^ hydrogen^ and oxygen. Of these^ the 
strongest, or that which contains the smallest relatiye 
proportion of oxygen and hydrogen, is obtained firom 
the sugar-cane ; the weakest, or most aqneous, called 
grape-sugar, is obtained &om grapes, firom honey, 
and, by the action of diastase, firom starch ; and the 
sugar of milk occupies a place between these. Its 
composition, according to Dr. Prout, is — carbon 40, 
hydrogen 6*66, and oxygen 53'S4,— or 40 of carbon 
to 60 of component water. 

Deprived of the casein, and of much of the oil, 
whey contains only the more digestible form of 
carbonaceous aliment obtainable from milk, — ^and 
even this in very small proportion; and is therefore 
properly considered as a beverage, rather than as 
an article of diet. It is not, however, by any means 
always easily digested by the feeble or dyspeptic 
stomach, and is not so firequently ordered as it used 
to be as a diet-drink for the sick. In the many cases 
of valetudinarianism where it agrees, it is, however, 
a valuable addition to the comforts and resources of 
the invalid, and is often quite worth remembering 
among the things to be suggested. It should be 
borne in mind, that the form of the saccharine prin- 
ciple contained in milk, from being of weaker cha- 
racter, is probably much more easily digested than 
that obtained from the sugar-cane. 

o2 



120 BUTTER-MILK. — SKIMMED MILK. 

Butter-milk^ wliich is sometimes looked upon as 
little else than wliey^ is^ however, very different in 
its nature and composition. It contains the greater 
part of the casein and the saccharine matter of 
the milk ; the oily matter being in great part sepa- 
rated. It rapidly undergoes the acescent fermen- 
tation, and then may form an objectionable kind of 
food, or otherwise, according to circumstances. In 
any condition, however, it is a very nutritious article 
of diet, and is duly appreciated as such by the 
peasantry in Scotland, and the northern counties 
of England. 

Skimmed milk, deprived as it is of the greater part 
of the cream, is undoubtedly more easily digested 
than unskiEnmed milk. Beiiig only deprived of the 
oleaginous matter, and still containing the sugar 
and casein, skimmed milk is not so much less 
nutritious than unskimmed milk, as has been com- 
monly supposed. 

It is probably quite true, that, in most cases, the 
digestibility of milk is increased by boiling ; but, 
admitting this to be the general rule, there will be 
found to be many exceptions to it. The scum which 
rises to the surface when milk is boiled, is said to 
consist chiefly of the alkaline and earthy salts, of 
which milk contains a varying proportion of firom 2 to 
7 parts in a thousand. 

When the digestion of milk occasions flatulence 
and acidity, while its use seems to be otherwise 
strongly indicated, the addition of a small quantity 
of lime-water, in. the proportion of half an ounce 



MILK-DIET. 121 

to the pint of milk^ often corrects the deranging 
tendency su£Sciently well, and may form a nseful 
snggestion. 

The cases in which a nulk-diet is indicated, and 
when not inconveniencing the digestive organs proves 
most nsefiil, are of freqnent occurrence, including a 
large number of scrofulous affections, and other con- 
ditions marked by a mixed state of debiUty and morbid 
sensitiveness; and accordingly, the consideration of a 
milk-diet forms one of the most important practical 
matters the medical man has to deal with. In a 
very large proportion of the cases of early phthisis, 
and in no smaU number of the cases of confirmed 
and even advanced phthisis, — in most of the cases of 
enlarged glands, — ^in most of the cases of spinal cur- 
vature, — ^in a large number of the cases of cachectic 
affection of the joints, — ^and in many of the cases 
of articular rheumatism of chronic character, — a 
nulk-diet, more or less exclusively adhered to, con- 
stitutes a very important part of the treatment, 
and one that I believe to have been of late years 
tar too much neglected. A milk-diet includes the 
addition of any of the simpler farinaceous ali- 
ments, as rice, sago, arrow-root, and bread; but 
a strictly milk-diet does not include any other 
form of animal food than the milk itself, nor does 
it include any of the stimulating products of fer- 
mentation. 

What is meant by a milk-diet, may be illustrated 
from the diet-tables of the public hospitals. The 
diet-table of the Middlesex Hospital specifies, under 



182 MILK-BIET. 

the head of milk-diet, as the daily allowance to ererjr 
patient, — 

12 oz. of bread Daily. 

Ipintofimlk Forbreakfitft 

i pint of milk, with rice-pudding four days, 1 p^ ^Haaet. 

and with batter-pudding three days . J 
^ pint of milk, or 1 pint of gruel . • For supper. 

The diet-table of the Manchester Royal Infinnary, 
under the same head, specifies — 



» For breakfast. 



1 pint of tea 
6 oz. of bread . 
foz. of butter 

i pint of nulk 

12 oz. farinaceous puddinz. bread, saffo. ( _ ,. 

X . X . u ^ J >For dinner, 

arrow-root, nee, tapioca, or batter pud- 

ding, sweetened 

1 pint of milk pottage 
6 oz. of bread 



' vFor supper. 
• • • . • J 



The diet-table of the Qeneral Infirmary, at North- 
ampton, specifies, under the head of milk-diet, — 

1 pint of milk porridge . . Forbveakfiwt. 

1 pint of thickened milk . ... For dinner. 

1 pint of milk • For supper. 

7 oz. of bread Daily. 

It will be sufficient to have quoted the above, as 
illustrations of a milk diet. The daily allowance 
of milk varies from 1-J- pint (Manchester), to S pints 
(Northampton) ; the allowance of farinaceous aliment 
being proportionably less in the latter case. Con- 
taining firom 16 to 19 ounces of alimentary matter, 
offered in a form that is in most cases very readily 
assimilated, such a diet as is presented in any of the 
above tables, may probably be considered equal to 



asses' milk.— goats' milk. 12S 

maintain tbe powers of the system in due vigour^ if 
not adhered to for a protracted period of time^ and 
if not .nsed under drcnmstances of active and con- 
tinued exertion. It is proyed, at all events^ to be equal 
to the support of the system under most such invalided 
conditions, as a rigid adherence to a milk-diet^ during 
some weeks or months, would be likely to benefit. 

According to the analysis already quoted, 1000 
parts of cows' milk contain : — water 857, butter 40, 
casein 72, sugar and extractive matter 28. The same 
authority (J. F. Simon) states, that an analysis of 
asses' milk afforded: — water 907, — butter, with 
some lactic add, 12*10, — casein 16'74, — sugar, with 
extractive matter and alkaline salts, 62*31. 
• Cows' nulk may be said, in round numbers, to 
contain 4 per cent, of butter, 7 per cent, of casern, 
and 8 per cent, of* sugar. Asses' milk appears 
to contain less than a third of the proportion of 
butter, less than one-fourth the proportion of 
casein, and more than double the quantity of sugar, 
compared with the proportion of these ingredients 
in cows' nulk. It is easily explained firom this, 
that asses' milk is more easily digested, and less 
nourishing, than cows' milk. The usefdlness of 
asses' milk in the case of many invalids, so long 
known and believed, and which has of late years 
been comparatively little attended to, is demon- 
strated satisfactorily by the results of the analysis, 
and deserves to be insisted on. The analyses of 
goats' nulk afford results, as to the relative pro- 
portion of buttCTj casein, and sugar, contained in it. 



1 24 BUTTEK. 

which are too far different firom one another to justify 
any inferences^ as to its relative nntritiousness and 
digestibility, that might be derived from them. But 
goats' milk contains a peculiar animal matter (Hircic 
acid), of strong taste and odour, which seems to be 
apt to derange the digestive organs, and might 
render goats' milk unfit for the diet of the invalided. 
This is of little importance in this country, as re- 
gards the dietetic question of milk; but it bears 
on the question of cheese made from it, which is 
imported, and has come to be a good deal used. 

As a question of some physiological interest, it 
may be noticed, that, compared with cows' milk, 
human milk is said to contain little more than half 
the quantity of butter, not so much as half the pro- 
portion of casein, and not very much less than 
double the proportion of saccharine matter. 

By agitation (churning), as is well known, the 
butter is readily separated from the cream. Butter 
is, strictly speaking, a mixture of the oleaginous 
matter of milk with a portion of casein and whey. 
These maybe separated from the oily part by heating 
the butter to the temperature of 98^ ; but the cha- 
racteristic flavour is thereby in a great degree lost, 
and the probable digestibility considerably affected. 
It may be said to be no longer butter, but the pure 
oleaginous matter of milk ; it is almost transparent; 
and its tendency to undergo spontaneous decompo- 
sition is diminished in the same proportion as it is 
freed from azotised matter. 
, Butter is admitted, on all hands, to be irritating 



BUTTER. 125 

to the stomacli of the dyspeptic^ and to be with 
difficulty digested^ and therefore a common cause 
of derangement^ in the case of most invalids. If 
eaten at all by such persons^ it should be used 
sparingly and cold. Melted butter, whether on 
toast or in sauces, should be banished firom the 
table of eveiy valetudinarian. The digestibility of 
batter depends, moreover, very much on its fresh- 
ness and quality. The less recently it has been 
made, the less easQy is it digested ; the less carefully 
it is separated from the butter-milk, the more apt 
it is to disagree with the stomach. A cow fed on 
fresh herbage, yields a better and more easily di- 
gested butter, than the animal which is stall-fed; 
and this is still more the case, if the comparison 
be made with butter from a cow fed on oil-cake, 
and strong or rank food. Salt butter, however 
carefully made and preserved, if kept for some 
time, is necessarily much less easily digested than 
fresh butter of good quality. The addition of a 
certain quantity of salt to butter at the time of 
eating it, promotes, however, its digestion, as in 
the case of the other oleaginous articles of food. 
It should be borne in mind, that butter and other 
oily articles of diet have, very generally, more or 
less of solvent effect on the bowels; and that in 
some cases, this may prove a reason for allowing 
such articles to form part of the diet, where its 
propriety might otherwise be doubtful, or in which 
it might be otherwise properly forbidden. 
It may be reasonably doubted, whether children, 

o3 



126 BUTTSm«--CBEE8E. 

and especially very yonng children^ should be 
allowed to eat butter* Indeed^ cbildbood is the 
age at which a rigorous attention to dietetics is 
often most imperatively called for, both as the 
means of warding off the diseases of early life, 
and mitigating their severity when they do occur, 
and as the means of laying a foundation for tem- 
perance and self-control in their after-life. Yet 
the opposite extreme of making the lives of childrraoi 
a series of needless daily penances, should be care- 
ftdly avoided. Carried to an unreasonable extent, 
such restrictions may only serve to debilitate the 
system generally, and weaken the digestive organs ; 
while it may debase, cramp, and irritate their moral 
and intellectual nature, and thus lead, more or 
less directly, to eventual consequences that are no 
less deplorable. It is a matter of some nicety and 
much importance in the management of children, to 
restrict the diet, as far as is needful for their physical 
well-being, and as far as may conduce to the rearing 
of a well-regulated mind, endowed with self-control, 
— ^and by no means to the extent of debilitating 
the powers of the body, or cramping the faculties of 
the mind. Such questions should always be brought 
before the child's mind, as matters of reasonable- 
ness and judicious guidance, rather than enjoined 
as so many motiveless penances. 

Cheese,«-or casdn, dried, and having probably 
undergone some chemical change in the year or 
two allotted to what is called the ty^eninff, — ^is 
generally very difEicult of digestion. Cheese almost 



CHEESE. COOKEBY. 127 

always contains a considerable proportion of the 
oleaginous part of the milk mixed with the casein. 
In some cases, the cheese is made ahnost entirely 
from cream, and contains a correspondingly large 
proportion of bntter. The comparative impunity 
with which many persons can eat toasted cheese, 
may be partly attributed to the mustard, &c., 
Hsually taken with it; although the cooking has 
much to do with the greater digestibility. 

It is difficult to over-estimate the effect of cookery 
in the digestion of the different articles of food. It 
is probably the chief cause of the usually much 
greater digestibility of toasted cheese ; it influences 
the digestion of mUk ; it modifies in a material degree 
the digestion of animal fibre, and is in many cases 
all-important, as will be hereafter stated, in the 
digestion of fecula. In the case of the more albu- 
minous substances, as in that of animal fibre, the 
digestibiHty is impaired, or otherwise, according to 
the degree of heat to which the article of food is 
exposed. Although exposed to a much higher tem- 
perature when roasted than when boiled, meat cooked 
in the former way has been determined to be much 
moice easily digested than boiled meat ; but to this 
should be added, that meat cooked in water seems to 
be more easily digested, if the water be maintained 
at the simmering temperature of 120® to 150®, than 
if allowed to reach the boiling point of 212®; that 
roasted meat becomes less easily digested if cooked 
before a very hot fire ; and that, whereas dissolved 
animal fibre may be usually more easily digested 



128 COOKERY FACILITATES DIGESTION. 

than solid fibre, animal fibre is not digestible in the 
ratio of its solubility, — since veal and lamb are less 
easily digested than beef and mntton; and this, 
even if all the fat is, in either case, most carefblly 
removed, and the meat cooked in any way, and at 
any temperature. The reducing effects of cookery, 
in a n;Lechanical point of view, are of much import- 
ance infSadUtating the action of the digestive oi^ans 
on the food; but its reducing effects in a chemical 
point of view,— causing the alimentary matters to 
become blended, if not actually combined, with a 
larger proportion of water, — ^is usually of stiU 
greater importance, and especially in the instance of 
many of the vegetable articles of food. 

The question as to the digestibility of cheese^ is 
by no means confined to that of its solubility 
in the gastric secretions, or its passage into the 
upper bowels. Cheese is apt to produce crudity, 
and consequent irritation, in the intestines, and to 
affect the fdnctions of the abdominal viscera, — some- 
times inducing a relaxed, but more frequently a 
costive, state of the bowels; and it may be on 
these accounts sufficiently objectionable, supposing 
that its primary digestion may occasion no incon- 
venience. Cheese made from cows' milk is more 
easily digested than that made from goats' milk ; 
and the richer, or more oleaginous, the cheese, 
the more easily is it digested. There is no doubt 
that perfectly ripe, or weU-matured cheese, is much 
more digestible than new cheese, whatever may be 
the opinion regarding the digestibility of decayed 



DILUTED AND UNDILUTED ALIMENTS. 129 

cheese. The truth seems to be^ that^ inasmuch 
as decayed cheese is much more stimulating than 
ordinary cheese, although in many cases it irritates 
and disturbs, it often in other cases appears to 
assist a weakened stomach in the digestion of its 
food. But decayed cheese usually irritates the dys- 
peptic stomach, — ^in which there is either morbid 
sensibility of the organ, or an acrid state of the 
gastric secretions, or both; and it cannot, of course, 
be more than a temporary stimulus to the stomach, 
which effect might, if such were thought to be 
advisable, be obtained by some other means, less 
liable to possible objection on account of the di£Bi- 
culty of ultimately assimilating a concentrated or 
undiluted alimentary substance into blood. 

There can be no doubt, as has been well and ably 
shown by Dr. Prout, that the digestibility of many 
substances is much impaired by their being offered 
to the stomach in a concentrated form ; — ^that honey, 
inasmuch as it is a weaker form of sugar, is by so 
much more easily assimilated than pure sugar; — 
that cream, or butter, when taken in the natural 
state of milk, are much less objectionable and 
injurious to the stomach, and task less the assimi- 
lating powers of the system, than when taken in 
the separated and concentrated form; — ^that pure 
albumen, or pure gelatin, or pure fibrin, is perhaps 
in every case less easily assimilated, than when in 
the state of natural dilution in which they severally 
exist in the ordinary articles of food ; — that starch 
is more easily assimilated, even if it be not more 



130 DILUTED AND UNDILUTED ALIMENTS. 

easily converted into chyme by the stomachy when 
diluted with vegetable fibrin (gluten) in the flour 
of the different grains^ than when separated^ and 
taken in the purer state. And hence it may be 
conceived, that arrow-root, although so similar in 
composition to the starch obtained £pom wheaten 
flour or firom potatoes, may be more easily assimi- 
lated, because diluted with a small proportion of 
some other vegetable and aqueous matters; and 
hence it may be inferred, that a common practice 
of mixing pure vegetable fibrin, with the food of 
children, — obtaining the fibrin by boiling flour in- 
closed in a bag for a long time in wat^, thus 
extracting the starch, &c., and leaving the gluten 
as a hard lump in the bag, taking it out, scraping 
it into powder, and mixing it with the child's food, 
— although it may be occasionally indicated, will 
seldom be without serious objections, even on the 
score of digestibility; and that, when fibrinous 
matters are strongly indicated by the evident wants 
of the child's system, it might be better to supply 
it in the diluted and mixed state of animal fibrin, 
either in the form of gravy, or of animal fibre. 

Cream-cheese, and particularly when used in a 
state of partial putrescence, as is commonly the case, 
is even less digestible than ordinary cheese, espe- 
cially when the latter is perfectly ripe. When 
quite firesh and free from taint, however, cream- 
cheese is probably as digestible as other cheese ; but, 
— however free from taint or rancidity, — and however 
rich or oleaginous, and by so much more digestible, 



CEBAM-CHXS8E . — ^EOO. 181 

— cream-cheese is, nevertheless, mainly composed of 
casern, and is by so much less dige^ble than bntter. 
The e^ constitutes an important feature in every 
cookery-book, and is Uttle less important in a work on 
diet. Both the yolk and the white are principally 
albuminous: the latter is almost purely albumin- 
ous; in the former an oily substance is added to 
the albumen.* Notwithstanding this — and it may 
be in part as a consequence of the oil it contains, 
diluting in so &r the pure albumen — ^the yolk 
very generally sqjts the dyspeptic stomach. If 
lightly boiled, the digestion of the yolk of egg is 
hardly ever felt. Not so the white: when boiled, 
this almost always irritates the disordered stomach ; 
and by the dyspeptic and invalid it should not be 
eaten. The same observations apply, to some ex- 
tent, to eggs when made to form part of a pudding : 
the yolk is stiU the part which is most easily 
digested, — the white, that which is the more likely 
to disagree; but the latter is not so Ukely to prove 
injurious, as when eaten alone, and unmixed with 
other things. The probable reason of this is the 
same as that assigned for the increased digestibility 
of milk, when mixed with flour or oatmeal : the 
albumen being prevented from coagulating into 
large masses, is offered to the action of the gastric 
secretions in smaller portions, which are therefore 

• « Of an egg w^hlng 1000 grams, the shell constitutes about 
106 grains, the white 604, and the yolk 290, or theieabouta * * * * 
In one instance, the yolk, weighing 316*5 grains, contained 170-2 
water, 55-3 albumen, and 91 yellow oil ; but these proportions varied 
in different instances." — Dr, Hewnft Elements of Chemittry. 



132 Eoo. 

more readily acted upon by it. It is an important 
fact^ that either the white or the yolk of egg^ if 
eaten raw^ and therefore nncoagulated^ is very much 
more easily digested than when it has been pre- 
viously boiled. The albumen is^ of course^ in this 
case coagulated by the acid secretion of the stomach, 
as the first step to its digestion; but this coagu- 
lation is different from the coagulation by heat, 
and does not offer the same degree of resistance to 
the solvent powers of the stomach. A raw e^ is 
not, then, liable to the objections, on account of its 
degree of digestibility, that a boiled egg may de- 
serve; and on the contrary, it would seem that 
there are few articles of diet which are so quickly 
or so easily digested as uncoagulated albumen. 
Lightly poached egg is probably more digestible 
than egg boiled in the shell; and this may be 
owing to the more rapid coagulation of the albumen, 
and the shorter time it is necessary to expose the 
albumen to the heat, in order to render it suffi- 
ciently cooked for palatability. It is hardly neces- 
sary to say, that fried eggs, involving the addition 
of fat, part of which is necessarily browned, and by 
so much burned or converted into empyreumatic 
oil, and likewise involving the exposure of the 
albumen to a much higher temperature than that 
of boiling water, must be much less easily digested 
than boiled eggs. Hard-boiled egg is very slowly 
digested. But, however objectionable on this ac- 
count to the dyspeptic, it constitutes to the strong 
and healthy a substantial article of food, — ^keep- 



xoG. 133 

ing away the sense of hunger for a considerable 
time^ together with the feehng of fiedntness and 
exhaustion so apt to attend unappeased hunger; 
and thus^ this has long been a &Youiite article of 
food for people who have^ for many successive hours^ 
to undergo continued exercise, — as sportsmen and 
others. As in the case of most articles of food, and 
especially when offered in the simpler forms, the 
addition of salt promotes very much the digesti- 
bility of egg, — and the addition of butter interferes 
with its digestion. 

The white of egg is, upon an average, of about 
twice the weight of the yolk. Deducting firom the 
weight of the egg about one-tenth part for the 
weight of the shell, and the half of remaining nine- 
tenths for water, and less than a fourth of the farther 
remainder for the oleaginous matter of the yolk, the 
hrge proportion of about one-third of the entire 
egg appears to consist of azotised matter; and the 
egg, usually digested without any difficulty, is no 
doubt capable of ministering in a correspondingly 
considerable degree to the nutrition of the body.* 

The digestibility of egg is much influenced by its 
having been recently laid. Containing so much 
azotised matter, and the usual proportion of sulphur 
and phosphorus, egg soon undergoes the changes of 
decomposition ; and probably to a considerable ex- 

* The hen's egg is^ of oonne, exchuaiyely referred to in the text 
The eggs of the duck and the goose are much less easily digested. 
The eggs of some of the wild birds, particularly the plover, are 
esteemed as gastronomic delicacies. They do not differ fi:om the 
hen's egg as to digestibility, in any very appreciable degree. 



134 VEGETABLE ABTICLES OF FOOD. 

tent before these are to be detected by the taste or 
smell. The ultimate composition of albumen^ on 
the authority of Mulder^ is — carbon 54*84^ hydn^en 
7-09, nitrogen 15*83, oxygen 21-28, sulphur, 0*68, 
phosphorus O'SS. 

The vegetable substances that are used as food, 
differ essentially £rom the animal articles of diet, 
in containing a large dilution of starch or of sugar, 
which embrace the purposes of re^iration, and 
do not minister to the nutrition of the body;— 
the nutrient parts of the vegetable articles of diet 
being either vegetable fibrin, albumen, or casein, 
which exist in them in different proportions; — these 
vegetable principles being azotised, as the same prin- 
ciples are when derived from animal substances, and 
being like them convertible into protein, and therefore, 
according to MM. Mulder and Liebig, capable of 
being assimilated by the organism, and converted into 
tissue.'i^ In most cases, the azotised principles are 

• ^Such are vegetable albumen, vegetable fibrin, and YegeUfi^ 
casein, as well as animal albmnen, animal fibrin, and animal casein. 
The latter, when compared with the former respectiyely, are found to 
differ firom them only in form, agreeing with them in all essential 
chemical characters. Every one of the six dissolves in strong hydro- 
chloric acid, gently warmed, with a purple colour ; and aU of them 
likewise dissolve in caustic potash, forming a solution which (after all 
the sulphur has been converted into solphuzet of potassium by boifiog) 
gives, on the addition of acetic add, sulphuretted hydrogen gas, and » 
gelatinous (looking) precipitate, which in every case is the same sub- 
stance, called protein, by Mulder its discoverer. Hence the above 
substances are called protein compounds, — ^not that we can prove them 
to contain protein ready formed, but because they all yield protein in 
the same circumstances.** — (hulmes of Chemistry, by Dr. William 
Gregory, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh. 



AZOTISED VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES. 185 

further diluted^ or reduced, by contaming^ in large 
proportion^ either water or its elements^ and being 
thus made to constitute a weaker form of alimentary 
matter. V^etable fibrin, or gluten, is readily 
obtained separately firom the flour of wheat ; and 
is contained, in greater or less proportion, in that 
of most of the other more important grains. It is 
the gluten which remains in the hand when wheaten 
flour is kneaded under water, and the starch sepa- 
rated from it by this means. It is not, however, 
as was once thought, the binding element, which 
enables the flour to be formed into a paste ; but 
this property, seemingfy possessed by it, in the case 
of wheaten flour particularly, is due, according to 
modem chemists, to another substance, which is 
combined with it in small proportion. Vegetable 
fibrin must evidently be dissolved in the juices of 
the plants as the fibrin of the blood is soluble in 
that fluid; although both are separable from the 
solvent by simple mechanical means, and although 
it is insoluble in water. The second azotised con- 
stituent of vegetables, in point of dietetic import- 
aace, is albumen, which is almost identical with 
animal albumen, as found, for instance, in the 
white of egg. Like it, this is ooagulable by heat, 
and is^ by this means, readily separable from the 
juices of many vegetables, as cauliflower, asparagus, 
or turnips, — ^being likewise abundant in certain 
seeds, as nuts or almonds (Idebig.) Vegetable 
casein, the third form of azotised nutriment found 
iu vegetables, is soluble in water, but is not coagu- 



136 GEAIN. 

lated by heat. Wh^i an add is added to it, how- 
ever^ it coagulates, exactly as animal milk does,— 
the cnrd^ or casein, separating firom the fluid. This 
is found chiefly in the leguminous seeds, as peas or 
beans. By reason of one or more of these being 

contained in the different vegetable substances, they 
are nutritious; being, of course, more nutritious; 
other things being equal, the more of these azotised 
substances convertible into protein that they con- 
tain, and the less the degree of their dilution, by 
starch, or other non-azotised matters. 

There is said to be no difference of composition 
between animal and vegetable fibrin and albumen; 
and these vegetable principles are therefore directly 
fitted for assimilation and conversion into the animal 
organism. 

The grains owe their great power as nutrient 
aliment to the large proportion of albuminous matter 
which they contain ; much diluted, however, as this 
is, in all cases, with starch. 



GRAIN. 



1. Wheatrflonr. 

2. Bioe. 

3. Rye-flour. 



7. PeasmeaL 



4. Maize-floor. 
6. Oatmeal. 
6. Barley-meaL 



Of these, only the three first are much used in 
England; the fourth having been hitherto principally 
used in America; and the three last having been, 
as far as Great Britain is concerned, chiefly confined 
to the north of the Tweed. 



WHEAT. 187 

The wheat grown in the southern conntieB of Eng- 
land uflnally contains a larger proportion of albumin- 
ous matter than that grown in the northern part of 
the island; and the character of the season as to 
temperature^ &c., the amount of tillage^ and the 
nature of the soil^ not only influence the amount^ 
but likewise affect the nutritive quality^ of the pro- 
duce. But the wheat grown in certain parts of the 
South of Europe is pre-eminently distinguished by 
the large proportion of gluten contained in it. 

It used to be said^ that in the flour of the best 
wheat that is grown in this country^ there is from 18 
to 24 per cent, of gluten (fibrin) ; whereas in that of 
oats^ there is only six per cent. ; in that of lye^ only 
five per cent. ; and in that of peasj only four per cent. 
It is to be borne in mind, however^ that this pre- 
supposes that the amount of the binding element of 
the flour represents fidrly the proportion of gluten 
with which it is connected, — and this leads to an 
opinion that is by no means correct. And, again, 
there is no doubt, that, in many cases, as in the 
cited case of peas, the diminished proportion of 
gluten is made up for by the presence of a much 
larger proportion of one of the other azotised con- 
stituents, that are, like it, convertible into protein. 
It is said, for instance, that maize flour contains very 
little, if any, of the binding constituent ; and infer- 
ences in depreciation of its nutritiveness have been 
attempted to be drawn from it, which £acts suffi- 
ciently disprove ; and, further, the inquiries which 
might seem to show that oatmeal is only one-fourth 



138 TABLE OF FBOFOBTIONAL AZOTE. 

as nourishing as wheaten flour^ might be objected to 
on the commonest observation^ as by no means repre- 
senting adequately the nutritive qualities of oatmeal. 
The amount of gluten separable from the flour oi 
any grain by kneading it imder water^ by no means 
represents the relative nutritiveness of the flour when 
used as food^ unless in the case of wheaten flour. 
It may serve to distinguish a better from an inferior 
sample of wheaten flour. 

A more correct view of the comparative amount 
of albuminous or azotised matter contained in the 
different grains^ &c.^ is given in the following table, 
for which we are indebted to the work of Dr. R. D. 
Thomson, on the food of animals * : — 

Albnmiiums or NmtritiTe 
Mfttter, per oent. 

Bean meal 25*36 

Linseed meal 28*62 

Scotch oat meal ...... 15*61 

Semolina 12*81 

Canadian flour 11*62 

Barley ... . • . . 11*81 

Maize 10-93 

Essex flour 10*65 to 11*80 

East Lothian flour .... 9*74 to 11*55 

Hay 9*71 

Malt 8*71 

Bice (East Indian) . . . . k . 8*37 

Sago 3*83 

South Sea arrow-root 8*21 

Tapioca 313 

Potatoes 2*23 

Starch (wheat) 2*18 

Swedish turnips 1*82 



* Experimental Researches on the Food of Animals, and the 
Fattening of Cattle, with Remarks on the Food of Man. By Robert 
Dundas Thomson, M.D., Lecturer on Practical Chemistry, University 
of Glasgow. 



DIGESTIBILITY V, CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 189 

It is, of course^ to be understood^ that this com- 
prises all the azotised aUmentary matter obtained 
from these substances^ whether in the form of vege- 
table fibrin^ true albumen^ or casein. This will serve 
to explain how it happened that the older chemists 
arrived at the opinion^ now proved to be erroneous, 
that wheaten flour is more nutritious than that of 
the other alimentary seeds and grains : since, in the 
first place, they conceived the amount of the binding 
principle contained in the flour to represent the 
proportion of azotised matter contained in it; andj 
in the second place, they estimated the amoimt of 
vegetable fibrin, without taking notice of the two 
other azotised principles, although these minister, 
and probably in an equal degree, to the nutrition of 
the body. Bearing these observations in mind, — ^they 
wiU have to be noticed in more detail, however, from 
time to time, — ^the table gives a very interesting 
view of the proportion per cent, of azotiised matter 
contained in the different substances enumerated. 
But it by no means follows, that the difFierent sub- 
stances should be more or less nutritious in exactly 
the same degree ; although it may give results, as to 
this, which approximate to the truth. Much depends 
on the digestibility of the form in which the azotised 
matter is presented to the digestive organs. The 
table affords a strong illustration of this in the case 
of hay; the number attached to which would, 
assuredly, not represent its power of affording 
nourishment to the human system. The different 
articles of the table contain, moreover, an average 



140 DIOE8TIBILITT V. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 

of from 10 to 14 per cent, of water; the lai^ 
remainder^ with a small deduction of saline matters, 
consisting of what are called calorifiant matters, — 
that IB, substances which subserve exqlusively the 
purposes of respiration, and to maintain the animal 
heat^ as starch and sugar. 

It is, in truth, quite impossible to arrive at any 
definite, or otherwise than approximative results, 
from the analytical operations of chemistry, as to 
the amount of nutriment contained in a given quan- 
tity or weight of any of the articles of food. It may 
indeed be said, with sufficient certainty, that the 
non-azotised aliments only minister to the respiratory 
process, and are not otherwise alimentary; but it 
cannot be maintained that substances are nutritious 
in a definite proportion to the amount of albuminous 
matter they contain. This is particularly remarkable 
when animal food is compared with vegetable food, 
the relative proportion of albuminous matter con- 
tained in di£ferent animal and vegetable substances 
ascertained, and these are considered with distinct 
reference to their nutrient powers. ''When the 
muscular parts of animals are washed repeatedly in 
cold water, the fibrous matter which remains consists 
chiefly of albumen, and is in its chemical properties 
analogous to the clot of blood. Muscles also yield 
a portion of gelatin ; and the flesh of beef, and some 
other parts of animals, afford a peculiar substance, of 
an aromatic flavour, called by Thenard, ownazome. 
Albumen and gelatin constitute the leading nutritive 
ingredients in the different kinds of flesh used as 



NUTRITION DEPENDENT ON DIGESTIBILITY. 141 

food^ and it is curious that their relative proportions 
are not very dissimilar in quadrupeds^ birds^ and 
fishes^ as shown in the following table. The water 
was determined by evaporation in vacuo^ or at a 
temperature below 212®. 

100 Pacta of ^^^ -^^"Sf* Gelatta. S*^?I'5*- 

Huadeof ▼▼•*«. op Fibrin. "«»««. tiitiTe Bistter. 

Beef . . 74 . . 20 . . 6 . .26 

Veal . . 76 . . 19 . . 6 . .25 

Mutton . 71 . . 22 . . 7 . .29 

Pork . . 76 . . 19 . . 6 . .24 

Chicken . 73 . . 20 . . 7 . .27 

Ck)d . . 79 . . 14 . . 7 . .21 

Haddock . 82 . . 13 . . 5 . .18 

Sole . . 79 . . 15 . . 6 . .21 

ProfetaoT Brande^i Manual of Chemistry. 

K the different articles of this table are compared 
with one another^ the relative nutrimentary matter 
ascertained by the chemist^ and the relative power 
of affording nourishment to the system ascertained 
by observation and experience^ will be found to be 
very different. The relative dij£culty with which fish 
is so often foimd to be digested^ might possibly be 
referred to the larger quantity of water mixed with 
the albuminous matter; and the proportions of 18 
per cent, of albumen and gelatin contained in had- 
dock, and 29 per cent, of these azotised substances 
contained in mutton, might assist in determining 
the relative nutritive qualities of these substances ; 
biit no such results of chemical investigation would 
justify an inference that chicken is more nutritive 
than beef, or pork less nutritive than veal. As has 
been said before, it is only in the general principles, 
and not in the minuter detaUs, that chemical experi- 

H 



142 AQUEOUS DILUTION OP ALIMENTS. 

ments liave assisted dietetic inquiry. J£ an article of 
food does not contain azote^ it may be inferred that 
it can only minister to the respiratory process ; and 
in many instances^ as in the case of &t^ and in that 
of milk and its different products^ this serves a very 
important purpose in estimating the dietetic uses and 
value; but such experimental results do not enable 
us to arrive at any definite conclusions^ as to the 
amoimt of respiratory or of nutrient matter which 
the digestive organs may extract and assimilate from 
any dietetic substances; although^ if all other dr- 
cumstances are the same^ it may assist us in arriying 
at a probable conclusion. For instance^ it is certainly 
true that, in man, and d fortiori in strictly carni- 
vorous animals, animal food is capable of aflFording a 
larger amount of nutrimentary matter to the system 
than vegetable food. No statement that bean-meal 
or linseed-meal contains more albiuninous matter 
than beef or mutton, would justify an inference that 
they are therefore more nutritive articles for the 
food of man. The character and peculiarities of the 
organs of assimilation must be taken into the ac- 
count ; and the results of chemical experiments, the 
peculiar nature of the digestive organs, and general 
experience and observation, must serve to confirm 
and strengthen one another, or, in a practical point 
of view, the researches of the chemist are of httle 
value in dietetic details. 

One great point of difference between the different 
articles of food, consists in the proportional amount of 
blended or combined water which they respectively 



AQUEOUS DILUTION OF ALIMENTS. 143 

contain j and one of the most important of the uses 
of cookery is to adjust^ and in some degree equalise, 
the condition of the several alimentary substances as 
to this matter. Animal food contains, in the first 
instance, as much combined water as is commonly 
required for the purposes of the primary assimila- 
tion; and the uses of the economy are suf&ciently 
answered, by talcing any additional aqueous matter 
that may be required, either at the meal times, or 
at other periods of the day. Indeed, the modes in 
which meat is often cooked, necessitate the removal 
&om the meat of a considerable proportion of the 
aqueous matters ; the animal fibre not seeming to be 
thereby rendered in any very apparent degree less 
digestible, provided this desiccating process is not 
carried too far. Such food is inferred firom the table, 
to contain usually 74 per cent, of water. In the 
case of vegetable food, the proportional of com- 
bined water varies very much, from the maximum 
quantity contained in many of the fruits, roots, and 
succulent plants, to the minimum contained in the 
flour of the more important grains. In this latter 
case, cookery subserves a very important purpose in 
adding to the proportion of combined water, chemi- 
cally reducing or lowering the definite proportion of 
carbon and nitrogen contained in the alimentary 
substance, and adding to its proportionals of oxygen 
^i\iydrogen. 

Aliments are, then, diluted with a larger or smaller 
Proportion of combined water, as well as by admixture 
With the non-azotised alimentary substances; and 

h2 



144 GLUTEN. — OLIADINE. 

on the relative proportion of such dilution^ as well as 
on the amount of proportional azote, and on the 
mechanical condition of the food, &c., do the due 
assimilation, and the relative nutritive properties of 
the different aliments, in some degree, depend. 

According to the climate in which wheat is 
grown, the favourable or unfavourable nature of the 
season, the greater or less degree of cultivation 
bestowed upon the soil, &c., does wheat contain more 
or less gluten ; and although it is not, strictly speak- 
ing, to the gluten, but to the admixture of the gluten 
with another principle (gliadine), that flour owes its 
viscidity when mixed with water, yet as this must bear 
some proportion to the quantity of gluten contained in 
the flour, the dough is necessarily more tenacious, the 
larger the proportion of gluten contained in the 
flour from which it is made. 

It is, then, the vegetable fibrin which is the principal 
nutrimentary ingredient of wheaten flour; this being 
diluted, so to speak, with starch, which subserves ex- 
clusively the purposes of respiration* ; and the degree 
of viscidity of the dough made from the flour, is, to 

* The needfulness and effect of the dilution of the azotised articlea 
of food by means of the non-azotised, is well illustrated in the follow- 
ing passage from Mr. Dajrwin*s admirable Journal : — Journal of 
Researches into the Natural History and Geology of the Countries 
visited during the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle round the World. By 
Charles Darwin, M.A., F.R.S. The author is on his way from Bahia 
Blanca to Buenos Ayres. '< We were here able to buy some bis- 
cuit. I had now been several days without tasting anything besides 
meat : I did not at all disUke this new regimen ; but I felt as if it 
would only have agreed with me with hai-d eiLercise. I have heard 
that patients in England, when desired to confine themselves exclu- 



PANART FERMENTATION. 145 

some extent^ a criterion of the proportion of azotised 
niatter contained in it, and consequently of its com- 
parative excellence. Hence it happens, moreover, that 
the best flour — that which contains most gluten, 
always makes the lightest bread, by preventing, in 
some degree, the escape of the products of the fer- 
mentation, to which process most of the bread that 
is eaten in the present day is subjected before it 
is baked. The two principal varieties of bread are, 
that which is leavened, or has imdergone some degree 
of fermentation, and that which is unleavened. 

The character of the flour is a good deal altered by 
the fermentation. A large quantity of the carbon 
miites with oxygen, and is evolved as carbonic add. 
A small quantity of acetic acid is likewise generated, 
frhich, together with the carbonic acid, is in a great 
measure expelled by the heat during the process of 
baking. A considerable quantity of alcohol has, 

nrely to an animal diet, even with the hope of life before their eyes, 
hare hardly been able to endure it Yet the Ghuicho, in the Pampas, 
for montlia together touches nothing but beef. But they eat, I 
observe, a yery large proportion of iSot, which is of a less animalised 
nature ; and they particularly dislike dry meat, such as that of the 
Agouti, Dr. Richardson also has remarked (Fauna Boreali-Ameri- 
cana, vol. L p. 35), ^that when people haTe fed for a long time 
solely upou lean animal food, the desire for fat becomes so insatiable, 
that they can consume a large quantity of unmixed and eren oily fat 
without nausea :" this appears to me a curious phymological fact. It 
is, perhaps, from their meat regimen that the Gauchos, tike other 
carnivorous animals, can abstain long from food. I was told that at 
Tandeel some troops voluntarily pursued a party of Indians for three 
days, without eating or drinking." It need hardly be said, that, sup- 
posing the digestive organs to be equal to the task of its assimilation, 
the fat would be as much a diluent to fibrinous and azotised flesh, as 
stardi is to the albuminous matter of wheaten flour. 



146 PANART FEKMEXTATION. 

moreover^ been obtained firom a batch of bread while 
baking. The addition of yeast, or leaven, to the 
paste or dongh, and the fermentation of the mass, 
are not then to be regarded merely as means of 
adding to the palatability of bread, but as mate- 
rially altering its character. A lai^r or smaller 
proportion of the flonr is virtoally lost. Flour 
contains about 5 per cent, of saccharine matter, 
and this appears to be wholly eiqpended during 
the panary fermentation. In addition to this, it 
is probable that a portion of the starch is made 
use of, in the formation of the various products 
of the fermentation; and there is little doubt that^ 
to some extent, the more important fibrinous and 
azotised constituent of the flour is expended, to 
midtiply the particles undergoing the molecular 
changes that constitute the necessary condition 
of the fermentative process, since it seems that a 
yeast or ferment consists essentially of an azotised 
substance in a state of decomposition. Additional 
ferment is thus obtained from a partial decompo- 
sition of the gluten of the flour ; and the action 
becomes extended throughout the whole batch of 
dough, at the expense of a corresponding diminu- 
tion of its azotised and nutritive properties. This 
loss of the elements of flour during the panary 
fermentation, amounts, according to Dr. William 
Gregory, to the very large proportion of one-sixteenth 
part of the whole of the flour (Op. Citat. p. 532). 
He says, "To avoid this loss, bread is now raised 
by means of carbonate of soda or ammonia and 



PANART FERMBNTATION. 147 

a diluted add, which are added to the dough, 
and the effect ia perfectly satisfactory. Equally 
good or better bread is obtained, and the quantity 
of flour which will yield 1500 loaves by fermen* 
tation, famishes 1600 by the new method, the 
sugar and fibrin being sayed/' Another autho- 
rity. Dr. B. D. Thomson (Op. Citat. p. 183), says, 
'' The result of my experiments upon the bread pro- 
duced by the action of hydrochloric acid upon car- 
bonate of soda, has been, that in a sack of flour there 
was a difference in fiivour of the unfermented bread 
to the amount of SO lbs. 13 ozs., or, in round num- 
bers, a sack of flour would produce 107 loaves of 
unfermented bread, and only 100 loaves of fermented 
bread of the same weight. Hence it appears, that in 
the sack of flour, by the common process of baking, 
seven loaves, or six and a half per cent, of the flour, 
are driyen into the air and lost.'' * These opinions 
confirm one another, as to the degree to which the 
flour loses its non-azotised and its azotised con- 
stituents during the fermentation of dough. So far 
as the processes of digestion are affected, the result 
of the fermentation is probably only of importance, 

* Were it to become a uniyersal practice, to render bread porous 
and light by the chemical re-action of adds and the carbonated 
alkaliflB, some of the obaerrations in the text would become unne- 
ceflsary. Bnt^ in the first place, people are not readily led to adopt 
fresh processes in their domestic economy ; and, in the next place, 
the saccess of the experiments demands a degree of care and 
accaracy, as to the strength of the acid made nse of, and sach a 
cwefhl adjustment of the respective qualities and quantities of acid 
and alkali, as could rarely be obtained in private houses, or even 
among professed bakevs. . 



148 NEW BREAD. 

inasmucli as the gaseous matters^ generated bj the 
fermentation^ and prevented from making their imme- 
diate escape by the viscidity of the dough, render the 
bread light, or spongy, producing a number of cells 
in it, by which a larger surface for the escape of the 
watery and other matters is produced; by which, 
moreover, the heat more readily and quickly permeates 
its substance, and more thoroughly cooks it ; and by 
which it would seem to be more readily dissolved by 
the gastric juice. But, although the fermentation of 
bread is attended with such considerable advantages, 
yet it makes necessary an extra degree of care, as to 
the bread being very thoroughly baked, audit makes 
it of some importance that the bread should be kept 
for a day or two before it is eaten. K not thoroughly 
baked, not only does part of the bread remain in the 
state of dough, viscid and tenacious, and but ill- 
suited to the solvent action of the stomach ; but not 
having been completely freed from its fermenting 
ingredients, the process will probably be continued 
in the stomach, and interfere much with its fonctions. 
The same thing is, although to a much smaller 
extent, applicable to new bread. Some little time is 
necessary, after the bread is baked, for the escape of 
the gases, that have been generated by the fermenta- 
tion, and disengaged by the heat; and this is perhaps 
still more necessary, to allow the watery matters to 
evaporate in some degree ; and the bread is left drier, 
purer, and more wholesome. The crust and the 
part of the bread next to it are much more easily 
digested than the inner part of the loaf; and this. 



SMALL LOAVES. TOASTED BREAD. 149 

probably^ because firom the former the products of 
fermentation have been more completely expelled. 
But another remark should go hand in hand with 
this: the browner the crusty the more have the 
nutritious elements of the bread been altered, or 
driven off, by the heat, and the greater the propor- 
tion of charcoal in what remains. 

It is a sound dietetic observation, then, that bread, 
if wished to be as easily digested as possible, should 
be baked in small loaves. The principal reason for 
this, as may be gathered from what has been said, is, 
that the bread is in this way more entirely freed 
from the products of fermentation : they must escape 
more completely from a small loaf than from a large 
one. There is, moreover, in the second place, less 
necessity for putting the bread into a very hot oven, 
or for keeping it in the oven so long a time as to 
deprive the outer part of its nutritive qualities. Bread 
baked in small loaves is sweeter to the taste than 
when baked in large loaves ; and this is probably 
because it is more entirely freed from, the products 
of fermentation. To the same cause may probably 
be referred, the greater digestibility of toasted than 
of iintoasted bread; the bread being, in this way, 
not only dried, but the fermented matters being to 
a great degree expelled, — and more particularly if 
the bread be cut in very thin slices, and toasted 
before a hot fire. 

The degree to which the fermentation of the dough 
is carried before it is put into the oven, likewise 
affects its digestibiUty. If the fermentation of the 

h3 



150 COARSlf BREAD. 

dough be carried far^ whether for the sake of increas- 
ing the apparent quantity of the batch of breads or 
to render the bread whiter^ or for any other purpose^ 
there is no doubt that not only is the amount of 
alimentary matter by so much diminished^ but the 
digestibility of the bread is lessened in the same pro- 
portion. Such bread will have undergone so much 
more of the acetous fermentation^ and be by so much 
more likely to derange the stomachy and to be with 
difficulty assimilated; while it will have had so 
much more of its alimentary particles converted into 
the products of fermentation^ which are either alto- 
gether lost, and driven off by the heat of the oven, 
or, if retained, render the bread in the same degree 
less digestible. 

The bread hitherto spoken of is that made of the 
flour of the finest wheat, without other addition than 
the leaven and salt. The viscidity of the dough is 
necessarily much diminished, if any of the covering 
of the grain is left mixed with the flour; and the 
lightness or porosity of the bread made from it is 
lessened in the same degree ; and, owing to this, the 
products of the fermentation, &c., do not so com- 
pletely escape during the baking. In some people, 
its tendency to disagree with the stomiu;h is, in this 
way, very materially increased. Yet in a large 
number of people, whose stomachs seldom complain 
unless they are dreadfully overworked, and with 
whom the chief grievance is a confined state of the 
bowels, this kind of bread is for the most part found 
to agree much better than that, into the composition 



ADJU8TMBNT OF DIETETICS. 151 

of which the flour enters exdusiyely. The coarser 
particles of the husks mechanically irritate the sto- 
mach and bowels^ and promote the propulsion of 
the ingesta through them. To such people, this 
kind of bread may be judiciously recommended; 
or, at all events, it may be had occasional re- 
course to by them, with probable advantage. The 
continued use of any mechanical irritant to the 
bowels, is, however, a very questionable matter, by 
which some risk is incurred. In this case, for 
instance, the bran is often found to be eventually 
left, forming lodgments in the bowels, and risking 
some serious and severe derangement of the economy. 
In most of the cases in which bread mixed with bran 
is made use of, it is found to be advisable to admi- 
nister, occasionally, some such aperient medicine as 
wiU greatly lessen, or whoUy remove, all risk from 
sudi lodgment of foreign matter in the intestines. 

In truth, one of the most important considerations 
for the calm judgment and opinion of the medical 
man, in the application of dietetics to individual 
cases, is to preserve a just balance, as far as atten- 
tion to diet can do so, between giving the stomach 
more to do than its powers are capable of performing 
without inconvenience or irritation, and confining 
the individual to such a nee.dlessly strict and very 
easily digested diet, as deprives the intestines of such 
assistance to their mechanical duty of propelling 
their ingesta onwards, as somewhat cruder or less 
perfectly digested food unquestionably affords to 
them. The more feeble or irritable the stomach, — 



152 ADJUSTMENT OF DIETETICS. 

the greater the derangement of the hepatic functions] 
— ^the less well the duodenal digestion is performed, 
— the more important and the more strict must be 
the attention to diet, the more easily assimilated 
must be the kind of food, the less likely must it 
be to task imduly the digestive powers, the more 
likely to be quickly and fully digested, and the less 
likely to leave a crude and, under such circum- 

which the existing derangement of the economy 
would be kept up or increased. And yet, however 
needful the dietetic regulation and restriction may 
be, the condition is almost necessarily involved, 
that, in direct proportion as the points aimed at 
are secured, in direct proportion as the food is 
more quickly and completely assimilated, does the 
action of the . bowels become more sluggish, and 
does the artificial assistance of medicinal or other 
means become more needful, and must it be more fre- 
quently had recourse to. It may be often reasonably 
and justly objected to dietetic restrictions — '' Let 
me return to my new bread and small beer^ as articles 
of food, and I shall want no more pills ; '' — or, ^' My 
stomach feels more comfortable, my digestion cer- 
tainly gives me less trouble, I have lost the acidity, 
the flatulence, the spasmodic pain, since I have had 
my diet restricted, but the increased and increasing 
costiveness of my habit is becoming almost as great 
an evil as the indigestion itself.^' This important 
circumstance, which obtains so very generally, makes 
it a matter of moment that restrictions in diet should 



ADJUSTMENT OF DIETETICS. 163 

not be carried to an unnecessary extent : butter^ fat, 
sugar^ vegetables^ &c.^ although requiring more effort 
for their assimilation^ and being by so much liable 
to be imperfectly digested^ and apt to occasion dys- 
peptic symptoms, and irritate and derange the 
economy^ have a marked tendency to keep the 
bowels in a state of solvency^ and by so much minis- 
ter to the continued healthiness of the economy. It 
need not be added^ that this caution^ respecting the 
degree to which dietetic regulation should be carried, 
in no degree militates agabist the importance of such 
restrictions, when not pushed too far; but, on the 
contrary, indicates, how great may be the influence 
of attention to diet, on all the processes and condi- 
tions of the system.* 

However well fermented bread may be baked, — 

* The adyantage of using more or less of the coyermgs of the 
grain, in the preparation of bread, has often been urged, on economical 
principles. There can be no doubt, that a very large proportion of 
nutritive matter is contained in the bran and the pollard ; and these 
are estimated to constitute about one-fifth part of the entire weight of 
the wheat-grain. It is, unquestionably, so far wasteful to remove 
these altc^gether from the flour ; and in the case of the majority of 
people this waste may be unnecessary, even on the score of digesti- 
bility. It has been frequently suggested, that, in cases where the 
introduction of any portion of the pollard and bran might be objec- 
tionable, from the risk of their proving mechanical irritants to the 
bowels, or from the chance of their disturbing the first or the second 
stage of the digestive processes, the more soluble matters might be 
extracted from them by means of hot water, and this water used 
instead of common water in making the dough. It is said, that the 
quantity of bread obtainable from a given Weight of flour may, by this 
simple means, be very greatiy increased, and the proportion of aliment 
increased in at least as large a proportion : the coverings of the grain 
appearing to containing a very large proportion of albuminous matter. 



154 UNFERMENTEP BREAD, 

however thoroughly the products of fermentation 
maj be expelled by the baking, and by letting the 
bread be a day or two old before it is eaten, — there 
are some people with whom it seldom agrees, and 
some states of system in which it is anything but 
easily digested. Of these, the most important are 
infEUits and very young children ; and these famish 
few exceptions to the remark. At the period of 
weaning, and the whole time before that period, and 
some little time after it, fermented bread is ahnost 
always a direct cause of stomach disturbance. But 
there are others with whom fermented bread dis- 
agrees. In cases of severe dyspepsia, with acrid gas- 
tric secretions, or much irritability and morbid sensi- 
tiveness of stomach, fermented bread can seldom 
be eaten without producing derangement. In such 
cases, bread that is unfermented is much more likely 
to agree, if it is thoroughly baked. Biscuit is the 
only, form of unfermented bread that can be baked 
thoroughly,— restricting the word bread, to a mix- 
ture of flour, water, and salt, without addition. The 
addition of any material to these, as a substitute for 
the fermentation, to render the bread porous, and 
enable it to free itself from the aqueous and other 
matters, and to be sufficiently altered by the exposure 
to heat, in the condition of the starch in particular, 
for easy solution and assimilation by the digestive 
secretions, properly speaking brings the mixed article 
of food within the denomination of pastry or cake. 
There is an exception to this, in the case of the bread 
which is rendered porous, by mixing such materials 



BISCUIT. 156 

with the flour, before it is made into dough, and 
exposed to heat, as, united, cause carbonic acid to be 
disengaged, — ^the resulting saline addition being 
either cominon salt, or some harmless and tasteless 
compound. . I beUeve that bread made in tins way, 
if the relative quahties and proportions of acid and 
alkali could be duly and uniformly secured, would 
prove to be as easily digested, and as little likely to 
inconvenience the dyspeptic stomach, as any form of 
farinaceous food, and much less likely to do so than 
fermented bread, — ^in addition to the proved economy 
of the large per centage of the elements of the flour, 
that are expended in the panary fermentation. 

When only made of flour and water and salt, and 
carefully and thoroughly baked, biscuit is a very 
easily digested article of food. To be as wholesome 
a« possible, biscuit should either have been recently 
baked, or have been carefully preserved from ex- 
posure to the air, or to damp. It is otherwise apt 
to become somewhat acescent, and to derange 
the digestive organs ; and this, when the palate 
may have been unable to detect the &ct of a 
chemical alteration. 

Ship-biscuit, in which the mass of dough is most 
carefully and well kneaded; and in which, in order 
to the biscuit keeping during long voyages, the 
baking is done perfectly, — is generally the best kind 
for the diet of children, or for that of such valetudi- 
narians as fermented bread does not agree with. 
Unleavened bread requires much more baking than 
leavened bread, probably on accoimt of the chemical 



156 SALIVA. 

changes produced in the flour by the fermentation^ 
and perhaps partly firom the porosity of the fermented 
dough enabling the heat to permeate the doughy and 
the aqueous matters to escape from it more readily. 
Hence^ unleayened breads if baked in thick loaf-like 
masses, is always difficult of digestion. 

Bread forms a kind of food which seldom stimu- 
lates, even when the system is out of health ; and 
yet it is a highly nutritiye article of diet. It is of 
some importance, moreover, in giving bulk to the 
more nutritive articles of food ; and its very slight 
degree of taste enables it to be eaten along with 
ahnost any other kind of alimentary matter. The 
mastication of dry bread involves, moreover, the 
secretion and swallowing of a large quantity of saliva, 
which subserves important purposes in the assimila- 
tion of the food, and especially of all the articles of 
food which contain starch. 

Saliva, besides certain saline matters, as chloride 
of calcium, and lactates of potash and soda, phos- 
phate of lime, and silica, contains a proportion of 
free soda, chiefly in combination with mucus. When 
in a morbid state, the saliva occasionally shows an 
acid re-action, which seems to be due to the presence 
of free acetic acid; but in the healthy state, saliva 
has decidedly an alkaline character, from the presence 
of tmcombined or free soda. According to Mitsch- 
erlich, there is 1.64 of soda in 1000 parts of saliva; 
and, according to Dr. Wright, only one-third 
of this proportion of free alkali. It is, perhaps, 
enough, to be aware, that the saliva, when healthy, 



DIGESTION OF FECULA. 157 

possesses a decidedly alkaline re-action^ and that this 
is due to the presence of free soda. Admitting that 
alimentary matters are to be generally classed as 
being albnininous^ fatty^ and saccharine ; the first of 
these^ the albuminous^ made to embrace all the azo- 
tised articles of food^ are assimilated (as has been 
said before^ p. 85) only by means of the gastric 
juice, which, besides its acid, is belieyed to con- 
tain a genuine ferment (pepsin), by which the food 
is prepared for solution and assimilation. This 
ferment, or organised matter in a state of change, 
or of virtual decomposition, seems to be an essential 
means, by which the first step is taken in the assimi- 
lation of all the azotised articles of food. Probably, 
according to Professor Liebig, derived from the trans- 
formation of a portion of the lining membrane of the 
stomach itself, this ferment appears to be the primary 
re-organising element, by which the atoms of the 
ingesta are once again vitalised, and brought within 
the influence of the organic laws. This ferment may 
itself prove to be a newly vitalised product of the 
existing disorganisation, and be identical with the 
various ways in which fermentation occurs out of the 
body, involving new organised existences, which 
in their turn rapidly increase, and influence the 
decomposing atoms in their vicinity. This ferment 
has been happily and well compared by Professor 
Liebig, to that, by which, in the germination of 
seeds, the atoms are made to assume such extraordi- 
nary and decisive new arrangements. The most 
familiar instance of this may be the sprouting of 



158 DIGESTION OF FECULA. 

barley ; and the conversion of starcli into sugar, its 
very striking effect.* Supposing this to be the true 
theory of the primary assimilation of the albuminous 
or azotised alimentary articles,— and that it is 
probable the conversion of the fatty articles of food 
is due to the action of the bile, or to its being in the 
first instance saponified, and thus weakened and 
fixed, and rendered misdble and capable of combining 
with water, — ^the way in which saccharine substances 
are assimilated in the first instance, remains to 
be accounted for; and for this we are indebted 
to the experiments and researches of M. Miaihe. 
For the primary assimilation of the saccharine ali- 
ments, the influence of free alkali appears to be a 

* '< Vegetable fibrin is subject to continual alteration by contact with 
water ; and in this state it has the singular property of converting 
starch into dextrine (a soluble gum), and then into sugar. This remark- 
able power is best seen in germinating grain, as in malt, of which a 
small part mixed with a large quantity of starch, in a thick paste, 
and warmed to 150^ to 160° very soon renders the whole quite fluid 
and dissolved, and finally converts it into grape sugar. That part of 
the fibrin which acts on the starch has become soluble in water. It 
is called diastase. 

^' Diastase is made by rubbing up malt with a little water, ex- 
pressing the mixture, adding just enough alcohol to separate the 
albumen, and to allow the liquid to filter. The filtered liquid, mixed 
with more alcohol, deposits the diastase. It is purified by being 
repeatedly dissolved in water and precipitated by alcohol. It is 
finally dried at a temperature of 100° or 110°. Thus prepared, 
diastase cannot be a pure compound, but i^ possesses, in a high degree, 
the power of promoting the solution of starch, that is, its conversion 
into dextrine and sugar. One part of diastase can convert into 
dextrine, with a little sugar, no less than 2,000 parts of starch. 
Diastase is, evidently, fibrin altered, and still more prone to change. 
Its solution cannot be kept ; it becomes rancid, and loses its action 
on starch.*'«-2V. Wm, Oregory, Op. Citat. 



ANIMAL DIASTASE. 169 

primary necessity; and this condition is found in 
the saliva. But, probably in the case of all the 
saccharine aliments, and unquestionably so in that 
of the purely amylaceous substances, a farther means 
of reduction, and conversion into organised matter, 
is necessary ; and for this, the constitution of the 
saliva likewise furnishes the necessary condition. 
As in the case of the gastric secretion, so in that of 
the saliva, the animal fluid contains a substance in a 
state of change, like the diastase or ferment in the 
sprouted barley ; and to this diastase, called, by M. 
Mialhe, animal diastase, is the assimilation of all the 
starch aliments to be ascribed. By the action of 
this animal diastase, the particles of starch are more 
or less quickly, and so entirely changed, that the 
distinetive effect of iodine upon starch no longer 
obtains ; and, incapable of combining and forming 
an iodide of starch any longer, the addition of iodine 
to starch, thus modified, no longer produces a blue 
colour; and, on the other hand, whereas, when 
caustic potash is added to unmodified starch, it pro- 
duces no change of colour, the addition of potash 
to the starch, now converted, produces a deep brown 
colour. The rapidity with which amylaceous articles 
are thus modified by this animal diastase, is much 
influenced by the mechanical condition of the 
particles of starch submitted to its action. K the 
particles are disintegrated, or broken up, by having 
been boiled in water, or exposed to a highly elevated 
temperature, as in baking, — or partially broken up, 
as in the fermentation of bread, — or ground and 



160 PANCREATIC SECRETION. 

crashed and broken, as in mastication, — ^to the same 
extent are they more readily and completely acted 
apon by the saliyary ferment. Hence some of the 
importance and nsefulness of the processes of 
cookery, so long known to be especially important 
in the case of the yegetable articles of food ; and 
hence the beautifiil and remarkable provision, that 
the graminivorous and herbivorous animals have com- 
plicated means of mastication, and not merely incisor 
and canine, but grinding teeth, while their salivary 
glands are so much larger than are those of the 
carnivorous animals. Perhaps it remains to be 
shown and explained, how the amylaceous articles of 
food, that are swallowed without salivary admixture, 
come to be assimilated. This may, however, be 
explained, by the fact of saUva being subsequently 
swallowed for their conversion and solution; or it 
may not improbably lead to the finding, at length, 
an important use for the pancreas, which unquestion- 
ably secretes a fluid very similar in appearance, and, 
as it seems &om the analyses, very similar in chemical 
character, to that of the salivary glands. 

It is in some degree confirmatory of this sugges- 
tion, that, in birds, M. Magendie should have found 
the pancreatic fluid so largely albuminous, as to 
coagulate on the application of heat, and therefore so 
capable of acting as a ferment, — ^that in the experi- 
mental researches of MM. Tiedemann and Gmelin, 
1000 parts of the pancreatic fluid of a dog left 87 
parts of solid residue, of alkaline character, the 
fluid itself having been so decidedly of albuminous 



YEAST DUMPLINGS. 161 

character as to have been drawn out like threads, 
exactly as in the case with the albumen of the egg, 
containing moreover what they call a modified casein, 
— that in the experiments of the same distinguished 
savans, the pancreatic fluid of the sheep was likewise 
found to be alkaline and albuminous, and more de- 
cidedly so after a meal than before, — and that in the 
experiments of MM. Leuret and Lassaigne, although 
believed by M. Simon to have been less carefaUy 
performed, the pancreatic juice of the horse was 
found to be almost identical in its composition with 
that of human saliva. It remains to be determined, 
however, by further and more carefully conducted 
experiments, whether the pancreatic fluid of man 
and other animals, besides general similarity in 
appearance, in physical character, and in chemical 
composition, to the salivary secretion, contains a 
real analogue to the animal diastase discovered by 
M. Mialhe in the saliva, having the same physical 
and chemical characters.* 

Fermented dough is sometimes boiled instead of 

• The animal diastase obtained by M. Mialhe from the saliva is 
stated to be " solid, white op greyish white, amorphous, insoluble in 
alcohol, but soluble in water and spirit. The directions for obtaining 
it are the following :— Filter saliva, and treat it with five or six 
times its weight of absolute alcohol, adding it as long as any precipi- 
tate occurs. This anunal diastase is insoluble, and falls into white 
flocks, which must be collected on a filter and dried. It forms about 
2^ of the whole saHva/'—Animal Chemistry, with Reference to the 
Physiology and Pathology of Maa By Dr. J. Franz Shnon, Fellow 
of the Society for the Advancement of Physiological Chemistry at 
Berlin, &c., &c. Translated and Edited by Geoi^ £. Day, M.A. 
andL M., Cantab., &c.— Sydenham Society's Edition, vol ii. p. 9. 



162 VEBMICXLLI AND MACCABONI. 

being baked^ forming what is called yeast or barm 
dumpling. This is^ however, far from being as 
easily digested as bread. These dumplings have 
all the unwholesome qualities of new bread; and, 
furthermore, it is probable, that the gluten and 
the starch are not so much altered as when subjected 
to the higher degree of heat of the oven; the 
products of the fermentation being, besides, in aU 
likelihood, not so completely expelled. These 
dumplings do, however, form a very nutritious kind 
of food, which is well adapted to men who require 
a large amount of support, and whose stomachs 
are not impaired in their functions, by sedentary 
habits, or repletion, or intemperance. It may be 
even matter of surprise, that they are not more 
made use of than they are, by those of the working 
classes, whose employment is such as to cause a 
large expenditure of nutriment, without disturbing 
the assimilating functions. But with those whose 
digestive powers are disordered, no matter from 
what cause, yeast dumplings wiQ almost always 
disagree. 

Vermicelli and maccaroni are modified forms, 
strictly speaking, of unleavened wheaten bread. 
They are made from the flour of the grano duro: 
a variety of wheat, the grains of which are smaU 
and hard, and which is grown chiefly on the borders 
of the Black Sea, and in Apulia. It is said, that 
the quality of maccaroni depends on its being made 
exclusively of the ffrano duro, or on this being mixed^ 
and so far adulterated, with the flour of soft wheat. 



VERMICELLI AND MACCARONI. 163 

The flour is somewhat coarsely ground^ is made into 
paste by the addition of water only^ which is kneaded 
for a long time by means of a block of wood^ worked 
by a very simple contrivance. When sufficiently 
kneaded^ the paste is forced by common pressure 
through a number of circular holes : in the case of 
the substance to be called vermicelli, the holes being 
of course much smaller than in that of maccaroni. 
Maccaroni is^ moreover, hoUow throughout, to faci- 
litate its being thoroughly dried, which its lai^er 
diameter would otherwise render difficult or uncer- 
tain. Over each of the larger holes, intended for 
the maccaroni, there is a small copper bridge, raised 
sufficiently above the hole to enable the paste to 
pass under it into the hole ; and from this bridge 
depends a copper wire, long enough to pass through 
the hole, and thus the paste which passes through 
is left hoUow. The strings, whether larger or 
smaller, hollow or otherwise, owing to the long 
kneading, and especially owing to the fibrinous and 
glutinous quality of the grain used in the manu- 
&cture, are remarkably tenacious, and in any 
required length, are twisted into certain shapes, and 
himg conveniently to dry. 

Maccaroni and vermicelli are, then, unleavened 
dough, not baked, but simply hardened by being 
dried in the air ; made of the grano dwro, probably 
the very best and most nourishing variety of wheat- 
grain, which is grown only in certain parts of 
Southern Europe, which appear to be peculiarly 
congenial to the wheat-plant. These are easily 



164 PASTRY. 

digested forms of food ; and they are at least pro- 
portionably nutritious. Stewed^ and eaten with 
salt^ perhaps flavoured with pepper^ with the addi- 
tion of simple beef gravy, they form a kind of food 
which is by no means unpalatable, ^^^ that is 
sufficiently easy of digestion even for most dyspep- 
tics. Eaten along with meat, as a substitute for 
potatoes, or other vegetables, stewed maccaroni like- 
wise forms a grateful article of food, and one that 
is useful for its digestibility. As more commonly 
eaten, — ^mixed with cheese, and baked, — ^maccaroni, 
of course, loses its good character in regard to 
digestibility, and can only derange the weak, or add 
to the labours of the overloaded stomach ; unless, 
perhaps, by serving to stimulate it, the cheese may 
assist it to accomplish its difficult and enervating 
labours. The sensualist must pay the penalty of 
the expenditure, derivation, and probable exhaustion, 
of the nervous power, to effect the digestion of the 
multiplied mass, which he thinks fit to swallow; 
and by so much is the nervous power diverted from 
its higher uses, and by so much is the individual 
sunk from his elevated position as a thinking being. 
By the art of cookery, wheaten flour is made 
to assume many and various other forms ; some of 
which are in the majority of cases wholesome and 
advisable articles of food; whilst others must be 
regarded as being often of very doubtful value, if 
not positively injurious. Much depends upon the 
mode of cooking, on the nature of the matters added 
to the flour, and on the time at which they are eaten. 



PUDDINGS AND PIES. 165 

Puddings^ or boiled paste^ are generally more easily 
digested than pies^ or baked pastry; but to this 
there are- many exceptions. Butter, or lard, or suet, 
and sugar, or treacle, are to be looked upon as the 
great causes of objection to the different kinds of 
pastry ; and milk and eggs, as the additions which 
are least likely to be injurious. The old-fashioned 
hasty-pudding, made with egg, milk, and flour, is 
perhaps the most digestible form of pudding. The 
common batter-pudding, made with the same in- 
gredients, somewhat differently proportioned, and 
boiled, may probably be placed second on the list 
of relative digestibility. If this same pudding, with- 
out addition, is baked, it may be somewhat less 
easily digested, but not so much so as to be usually 
any ground of objection to it. If made to receive 
all the fat that may fall from meat while it is roast- 
ing, — constituting the Yorkshire pudding of high and 
old renown, — the pudding must take a low position 
as to digestibility, however great its claims and merits 
on other accounts. The pancake, — equally venerable 
as to fame and antiquity, — ^made of batter, fried in 
butter or fat, must be at least equally objectionable 
on the score of digestibility. In general, if butter 
or suet is added to the paste, it is more easily 
digested if boiled, than if baked, for the obvious 
reason, that the fat is less apt to be much affected 
in the cooking, from being subjected in boiling to a 
less elevated temperature. Pastry, to be as easily 
digested as possible, should be light, but not rich ; 
and it should be thoroughly cooked. If it be an 



166 PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

object to obtain a paste^ that will be the most 
easily digested^ it should be as little rich^ that is ' 
greasy, as is consistent with its being moderately 
light. A heavy or sad paste is an abomination 
to any stomach, the energies of which are in any 
degree impaired. The relative digestibihiy and 
wholesomeness of the different kinds of fruits, 
whether used in these or other ways, will have to 
be noticed afterwards. A paste made of flour and 
water, without addition, and boiled, — ^the hard dum- 
pling of by-gone days, — ^is generally of difficult 
digestion. 

In the question of diet, puddings and pies are 
of much importance ; and, I think, their use may be 
often very unwisely prohibited. Inasmuch as they 
are, unless made most needlessly rich and greasy, 
much less nourishing than animal food, — ^and as they 
must be eaten, more or less, as a substitute for it, — 
they may subserve an important purpose, in lessen- 
ing the risk of repletion and plethora. There is, 
however, the unquestionable risk, that, by variety, 
and the consequent gourmandise, the appetite may 
be stimulated to take too much food. Puddings and 
pies are, however, particularly important articles of 
diet in the case of children ; serving, in some degree, 
as a substitute for an amount of animal food, that is 
apt to disagree with, and overload them. The diet 
of most children should be in a large degree fari- 
naceous. It is seldom the case, that the health of 
children continues to be long unimpaired, into whose 
diet animal fibre or oleaginous matters enter largely. 



OATMEAL. 167 

Bread and milk^— or milk boiled^ and thickened 
with flour^ oatmeal^ rice^ or arrow-root^—- or oatmeal 
porridge^ eaten with milk, — constitute usually the 
very best breakfast for children; and the greater 
proportion of their dinner should generaUy consist 
of some plain light pudding or pie. As their age 
advances^ it will be generally necessary to modify 
this plan of diet a good deal ; increasing the pro- 
portion of animal food^ and diminishing that of the 
farinaceous aliments. 

Meat puddings and meat pies^ — ^that is^ meat 
surrounded or covered with a crust of pastry^ — ^may, 
most justifiably^ be placed the lowest in the scale 
of digestibility, in this class of dietetic articles, more 
especially if the crust is eaten; and these should 
be strictly forbidden to the invalid. 

The oat is the grain of second importance as an 
article of diet. Little used, comparatively speaking, 
in the southern parts of this island, it is an important 
article of food in the northern counties of England, 
and still more so in Scotland. Oatmeal is said to be 
more nutritious than wheaten flour. It is reported 
to contain as much as one third more of albuminous 
matter than wheaten flour. This, however, probably 
gives an exaggerated notion of its nutritive properties. 
It is certainly less easily digested, and perhaps even 
less entirely digestible, than the flour of wheat. 

Even if it should be eventually proved, that the 
experimental results of modem chemists, as to the 
relative amount of azotised matter contained in the 
flour of the different kinds of grain^ is free from any 

i2 



168 DIGESTIBILITY 07 THE VEGETABLE FBINCIPLE8. 

degree of error, it must be borne in mind, in practi- 
cally considering the question of diet, that this 
becomes a consideration of mechanical condition and 
of chemical character, so far as these may fEunlitate 
or otherwise the process of assimilation, at least as 
much as it is a question of the amount of azotised, 
and, if duly digested, of nutritive matter. In this 
point of view, as regards the chemical part of the 
question, the practical points of the inquiry are not 
confined to that of what proportion of azotised 
matter there may be in the flour of any of the grains 
that are used as food, but must include that of the 
state in which the azotised alimentary matter is pre- 
sented, whether as vegetable fibrin, albumen, or 
casein. There can be little doubt, that, in general, 
vegetable fibrin is more easily digested, and is there- 
fore more likely to be fully and duly assimilated, than 
vegetable albumen; and there is, if possible, less 
doubt, that either of these forms of azotised vegetable 
food is more easily digested, and therefore more 
certain to be fully assimilated, than vegetable casein. 
It is not enough, then, to prepare us to estimate the 
question of the comparative nutritiveness.of the dif- 
ferent grains, to ascertain the amount of azotised 
matter contained in a given weight of the flour 
obtained from them respectively ; and we can by no 
means infer from any such experimental results, that 
bean-flour is more than twice as nutritive as the flour 
of wheat, or linseed-meal little less nutritive than 
bean-meal, or oat-meal much more nutritive than 
wheaten flour. In the case of bean-meal, although 



ASSIMILATION OF FIBRIN, ALBUMEN, AND CASEIN. 169 

the absolute amount of azotised matter contained in 
a given weight may be so much greater than that con- 
tained in wheaten flour, the amount of vegetable fibrin 
is probably very considerably less, — ^the difference 
and excess of azotised matter being made up in a 
great degree by vegetable casein ; and in the case of 
hnseed-meal and oat-meal, the amount of vegetable 
fibrin is probably likewise much less than is contained 
in wheaten fiour, — ^the difference and excess being 
made up by vegetable albumen. Without reference to 
this consideration, and the probable consequent degree 
of digestibihty, and the likelihood of the more or less 
perfect assimilation of the whole amount of azotised 
matter contained in them severally, it would be as 
little justifiable to say that one grain is therefore 
more nutritive than another, as it would be to say 
that the flesh of the different animals that are used 
as food, is nutritious in proportion to the amount of 
nitrogen contained in it, — or that the degree of nutri- 
tiveness of the different parts of those animals could 
be thus determined, — which is, beyond all doubt, by 
no means the case. 

The mechanical condition, moreover, in which the 
floui* of the different grains is necessarily presented to 
the action of the assimilating organs, must have much 
to do with the facility, and the probable degree, of 
their a38imilation. In the case of oatmeal, this may 
be reasonably inferred to offer some degree of greater 
mechanical hindrance to the action of the digestive 
organs, and to justify corresponding deductions from 
:the inferences as to the relative amount of nutri- 



170 OATMEAL. 

tiye quality in oatmeal^ when used as the food of 
man. 

Although^ then^ the proportion of yegetable fibrin 
contained in any grain^ is not a fair criterion of 
its nutritive quahty^ as was at one time believed; 
because the amoimt.of azotised matter contained in 
it in other forms^ must likewise form part of the 
estimate; — ^the proportion of gluten contained in 
such flour is not without some degree of practical 
interest, even with reference to the question of 
nutrition. 

According to the analysis of Sir Humphrey Davy^ 
oatmeal does not contain more than a third oi the 
proportion of gluten, that is contained in wheaten 
flour; and it is at least proportionally less viscid or 
tenacious. 

The oat will grow and thrive in much colder situ- 
ations, than any other of the grain-bearing plants ; 
indeed, even many parts of the south of England are 
said to be too warm for it ; and the grain produced 
in those districts is reported to be less farinaceous, 
and less nutritious, and probably less wholesome as 
food, than that produced in the more northern and 
colder counties of England, and in Scotland. Much 
of this may be accounted for by the structure of the 
plant, and the disposition of its seeds. Each grain 
in the ear — or rather, in this case, the panicle — is 
separated from the others, and mounted on its pecu- 
liar stalk ; and from the weight of the grain, when 
advancing to ripeness, the seeds are bent downwards, 
which protects them efiectually from the immediate 



OATMEAL.— H^ROATS. 171 

contact of moisture; while the separation of the 
seeds from one another^ prevents the oat from being 
liable to many diseases^ to which the seeds of most 
other grain-bearing plants are subject. But^ it will 
be observed^ that this arrangement of the seeds 
exposes them individually much more to the direct 
influen<!;e of the sun^ and enables evaporation to take 
place much more quickly from their surfaces, than is 
the case with wheat, or barley, or rye ; and thus the 
oat requires moisture more essentially than they do, 
— ^at the same time bearing much heat worse, and 
requiring it less. It is probably on these accotmts, 
that the oat seldom thrives in the warmer districts, 
and is abnost always of better quality when grown in 
colder situations; and, perhaps, this may be one 
reason, if not the principal reason, why this grain is 
so much more used by the inhabitants of the northern 
parts of this island, as a staple article of food, than it 
is by those of the southern districts. 

Oatmeal is a very substantial article of food. No 
one could look upon the Scottish peasantry, with 
whom it is the chief article of subsistence, with> 
out becoming convinced that this grain is largely 
nutritious. Living upon little else than oatmeal 
bread and oatmeal porridge, and butter-milk, with 
a broth almost wholly vegetable, these men are pro- 
verbially hardy and strong, subject to few aihnents, 
living to a fully average age, and capable of enduring 
a great deal of fatigue, and that for considerable 
periods at a time. 

Oats passed through a mill, by which they are 



172 OBUEL. 

freed from their husks^ constitute tlie groats^ so much 
used in making gruel. Oruel^ whether it be made 
from groats^ or from oatmeal^ is a most valuable 
article of invalid diet. It is in general very easily 
digested^ seldom giving even a much disordered 
stomach any inconvenience ; while it is much more 
nutritious than is commonly believed. A bland 
demulcent^ it soothes the stomach when its secretions 
are acrid or disordered; and from having some small 
degree of consistence^ it often sits easily on the 
stomachy when a more liquid beverage would be 
rejected^ or occasion pain or inconvenience. Varied 
as to its degree of consistence^ and given in the 
quantity, and at the intervals of time, which may be 
most desirable, it famishes a most valuable palliative 
in many cases of illness, and a most excellent remedy 
— for in that light may it be fairly regarded — ^in 
many cases of dyspepsia. Being at once mode- 
.Jy .^«c», LHn ^ inLee. ^ ^, 
digested, its value in cases of protracted indisposition 
can hardly be estimated. It is valuable as a diet- 
drink,-^— as a means of protecting the stomach from 
acrimonious and irritating secretions, — and as a 
supper for those invalids, who cannot go to bed 
supperless without pain and sleeplessness, and yet 
with whose stomachs most kinds of food disagree, 
the disturbance occasioned by the indigestion almost 
banishing sleep. It is sometimes urged against 
the use of gruel, that its fluidity interferes with its 
being easily digested, and that its bulk often renders 
it irritating to the disordered stomach. If the 



GRUEL. 173 

quantify taken at a time is regulated carefully, these 
.objections to the use of gruel will be of rare occur- 
rence. Half a tea-cupful of gruel, or even less^ 
every two or three hours^ has been found to answer 
every purpose in the majority of cases^ when such 
rigid abstemiousness^ and such a rigorous simpli- 
city of diet^ have been necessary^ or when almost any 
other kind of food has been productive of stomach- 
disturbance. In inflammatory affections, thin oat- 
meal or groat gruel^ with no other addition than a 
small quantity of salt^ is probably the kind of food that 
is least likely to occasion disturbance ; w:hen^ indeed, 
it does not appear to be necessary to confine the 
patient to water, or toast and water, exclusively. In 
severe cases of indigestion, characterised by a highly 
acrimonious state of the gastric secretions, and an 
irritable or inflammatory condition of the stomach, 
there is no plan of diet that is so generally success- 
ful, as a rigid restriction to gruel, with or without 
the addition of bread or of biscuit. It is often an 
important, if not the primary, part of the treatment 
of such cases. There are, of course^ exceptions to the 
advisability of a gruel diet, even under such circum- 
stances as these; but such cases are comparatively 
rare. There are individuals, with whose stomachs, 
oats, in any shape or form, will never agree; and there 
are cases even of severe dyspepsia, in which a system 
of dry-dieting — ^living upon solid food, and drinking 
only between the meals — ^is the only effectual way of 
combating the disease ; but these form few and rarely- 
occurring exceptions to the greater number of dys- 

i3 



174 OATMEAL POKBIDOE. 

peptic cases. When gmel is found to agree at the 
firsts and for some little time^ it sometimes ceases to 
do 80^ and comes to occasion dyspeptic symptoms. 
It is nsually sufficient to intermit its use for a short 
time^ in such cases as these; resuming it after a 
time^ if it should seem to be still indicated. With 
these observations^ should be connected the import- 
ance of ascertaining that gruel is well and thoroughly 
cooked. Oruel, to be fitted for the use of invalids^ 
should be boiled for at least an hour. In many 
cases^ where it is thought to disagree^ this will be 
found to be owing to its having been imperfectly 
cooked. 

Oatmeal is likewise used^ and deserves to be much 
more used than it is^ in the form of what is called 
stirabout or porridge. This is made^ by gradually 
stirring oatmeal into boiling water^ imtil enough has 
been added to give the required degree of consistence^ 
— continuing the boiling until the meal is sufficiently 
cooked. It is commonly eaten^ either with milk^ or 
with butter-milk. This is usually a very unirri- 
tating kind of food — an article of diet which is well 
adapted to the case of children^ and little less so to 
that of dyspeptics ; and for the labouring population^ 
it forms a breakfast that is much more nourishing 
and wholesome^ than the tea^ and the bread and 
butter^ or bread and drippings which are in Eng- 
land so much more generally made use of. Bread 
and milk^ although certainly well suited to the 
stomachs of most children^ is nevertheless found to 
disagree with some; and as a general breakfast for 



BROSE. — OAT-CAKE. 176 

children^ I thiixk^ that oatmeal porridge and milk 
deserves to be preferred. It is an nustimulating 
diet; it is very easily digested; it contains a very 
considerable proportion of nutriment ; and it seems 
usually to act slightly on the alyine excretions, — 
wbile^ in many cases, a continued use of milk renders 
it necessary to take an occasional dose of aperient 
medicine. 

Brose is another article of diet which is made from 
oatmeal. The process consists simply in pouring 
boiling water upon oatmeal, and stirring them 
together. The meal is consequently very imperfectly 
cooked; and however weU it may agree with the 
stomach of a hardy North-country man, it would 
seldom be equally suitable to those of more civilised, 
and consequently more delicate people. It, instead 
of boiling water, the fat skimmings of soup be poured 
upon the oatmeal, that vaunted Scotch dish,/a/ brme, 
is the rich and indigestible result. It must require 
extraordinary powers of digestion, to be able to assii- 
milate this without inconvenience. 

Oat-cake, made by baking a paste of oatmeal and 
water, roUed out thin, on a girdle, or slab, of iron or 
stone, placed over the fire, is another way in which 
oatmeal is made use of as food. There are two lands 
of oat-cake ; the one of which is more commonly 
made use of in Scotland, the other being more used 
in Derbyshire, Yorkshire, and the adjacent counties. 
The first of these kinds is made by simply working 
up meal and water into a paste, rolling it out to a 
sufficient degree of thinness, and baking it forthwith. 



176 BABLET-MEAL. 

In the second kind^ advantage is taken of the great 
tendency of oatmeal to undergo the acetous fermen- 
tation. A little of the stale doughy already in a fer- 
mented state^ is commonly added to thepaste^ and in 
a short time the whole is sufficiently leavened. The 
first kind is very short and dry; the second kind is 
much tougher and moister. The latter varies a 

good deal in different districts^ according to the 
degree of fermentation the meal has been made to 
undergo before the baking. The preference given to 
either the unleavened or the leavened kind depends^ 
of course, chiefly on habit ; of the two, it is probable 
that the unleavened variety is the more easily di- 
gested. The remarks on the digestibility of oatmeal, 
when in the form of gruel or porridge, are not appli- 
cable to oaten bread. It is apt to disorder a weak 
or irritable stomach. 

Barley is now little used as an article of food; 
although scones, or thin cakes, of barley-meal, have 
still a place in the farm-houses of the north. But, 
much as the consumption of barley, as a direct arti- 
cle of food, has decreased, it is more and more in 
demand for the production of beer and spirits; and 
the demand for barley is probably little less great, 
than when a large proportion of the bread used in 
tins country was made of it. 

Barley possesses some advantages over most of 
the other grain-plants, which, under certain cir- 
cimistances, must be of considerable importance. It 
bears heat and drought better than they do ; it will 
grow on lighter soils ; and it arrives more quickly at 



MALTING OP BARLEY. 177 

maturity ; so that^ in many barren situations^ in whicli 
the summer is too short to admit of the ripening of 
wheats barley becomes the staple article of food. So 
rapid is its growth^ that^ it is said^ the farmers in 
•Spain^ and in other countries haying a similarly high 
temperature^ can grow two crops in the year. The 
chief peculiarity, however, in the growth of barley, 
is the injury it receives from excessive moisture. 
Owing to the chemical constitution of the grain, 
barley is exceedingly apt to sprout in the ear; and 
a degree of moisture, which might probably be no 
more than the other grain-plants would bear weU, 
and thrive with, would produce in barley this result. 
It is owing to the facility with which it germi- 
nates, that this grain is so suited to the purposes 
of malting. 

According to the analysis of Dr. Prout, barley 
contains only 3 per cent, of gluten ; which is only 
one-half the proportion contained in oats, and not 
more than a sixth to an eighth of that contained in 
wheat. But, from the more recent analysis, it 
would appear to contain more than ll-J per cent, of 
albuminous matter, in some form or other. Barley 
contains about 5 per cent, of sugar. The process of 
malting consists in making barley undergo the first 
stages of germination, by steeping it in water, and 
then placing it in a heap, — ^when its temperature 
increases, — ^it absorbs oxygen and evolves carbonic 
acid, — the seeds swell, — the radicle and plume 
elongate, — and, when the germination has been 
carried fEtr enough, to produce thQ largest conversion 



178 MALTING or barley: 

of the hordein and the starch into saccharine mattef ^ 
the further change is arrested by drying the grain 
at a somewhat elevated temperature. Dr. Prout^s 
analysis of the changes in the composition of the 
barley when converted into malt^ gave the following 
results : — 

In 100 of Bartoy. In 100 of Milt. 

Reain . . 1 . . .1 

Gum . . . . 4 . .15 

Sugtar . . 5 . . .15 

Gluten . . . 3 . . . .1 

Sterch . . . 32 . . . .56 

Hordein . . . 55 . . . .12 

The hordein^ mistaken for starch by the previous 
experimenters, is said to differ from it in being 
insoluble in hot water. It is the hordein which is 
converted into saccharine matter in the process of 
malting. But the starch is a good deal altered in 
its character during the changes produced in the 
malting of barley, although increased rather than 
diminished in its relative quantity; and starch is 
proved to be convertible into sugar, — by boiling it 
with diluted sulphuric acid for a long time, and 
then saturating the acid with chalky filtering the 
soluble matter from the sulphate of lime, and eva- 
porating, purifying, and crystallising, in the usual 
way. It is quoted from Nicholson^s Journal, in 
Professor Brande^s Manual of Chemistry, that "Dr. 
TuthiU digested a pound and a half of potato 
starch (obtained from about nine pounds of potatoes) 
in a mixture of six pints of distilled water, and a 
quarter of an ounce (by weight) of sulphuric acid 



MALTING OF B ABLET. 179 

at a boiling heat; tlie mixture was afterwards 
stirred, and fresli water occasionally added to supply 
loss by evaporation. After thirty-four hours, an 
ounce of powdered charcoal was added, and the 
boiling resumed for two hours. The acid was then 
carefully saturated by lime, and the boiling con- 
tinued for half an hour, when the liquor was strained 
through calico. The insoluble residue, after having 
been washed and dried, consisted of charcoal and 
sulphate of lime. The filtered liquor was evaporated 
to the thickness of syrup; and being set aside, 
became, in eight days, a crystallized mass, resem- 
bling brown sugar and treacle. The sugar weighed 
one pound and a quarter. One pound of it, fer- 
mented in the usual way, afforded, on distillation, 
fourteen drachms of proof spirit. MM. de la 
Rive and Saussure have shown that the contact of 
air is unnecessary in the above process; that no 
part of the acid is decomposed, no gas evolved, and 
that the actual sugar obtained exceeds, by about 
one-tenth, the original weight of the starch.'^ The 
solution of the starch, and its conversion into sugar, 
is owing, as has been said some few pages back, to 
the presence of a substance in a state of decompo- 
sition (diastase), which acts as a ferment, and throws 
the molecular atoms into new movements and com- 
binations. One part of this diastase, which modem 
chemistry has shown to be separable and inde- 
pendent, is capable of producing this great change 
in two thousand parts of starch: a change, the 
degree of which is more readily estimated, by 



180 BABLEY-WATER. 

looking at the figures taken from Professor Liebig's 
work on Animal Chemistry. 

starch Sugar (Orape or Starch Sugar) 

Catenlated, C is, H lo, O lo. Calculated, C is, H u, O i4. 

Carbon . . . 44-91 . . 36*80 

Hydrogen . . . 6*11 ... 7*01 

Oxygen . . . 48*98 . . . 56*19 

The principal use now made of barley^ used as 
such for food^ is in the form of the decorticated 
grain^ — constituting what is called pearl-barley. 
Bread made of barley-meal^ although palatable to 
most people^ is usually digested with some little diffi- 
culty, — owing, perhaps, in part, to the bread being 
necessarily heavy, &om the extremely small pro- 
portion of gluten which it contains. Pearl-barley is a 
valuable addition to broth, serving to increase its con- 
sistence, and forming a kind of semi-farinaceous food 
that is in general more easily digested; and pearl- 
barley is further valuable, on account of the valuable 
diet-drink that is made from it. Barley water, or 
barley gruel, from the larger proportion of gum that 
it contains, is more suitable than oatmeal gruel to 
some people. One inconvenience is the long time 
required for its preparation, — two or three hours 
not being too long a time for its concoction. Sqxial 
parts of skimmed milk and barley water, often 
afford a useful and simple form of diet for the 
invalided, which is at once easily digested and 
moderately nutritious. The importance of frequent 
and recent preparation is to be kept in mind, in 
the case of barley water, as it very soon becomes 
acescent. 



^YB. 181 

Bye^ which was^ in olden times^ one of the most 
extensively nsed of the grain-plants^ in the food of 
man, has, by degrees, become less and less used; 
until the plant has almost ceased to be cultivated 
in this country, on account of its usefulness in this 
way, — ^being grown principally for the sake of its 
straw, or on account of the uses of the grain in 
certain manufactures. Bye contains, however, ac- 
cording to Sir Humphrey Davy's analysis, more than 
10 per cent, of gluten; and it contains, moreover, a 
considerable proportion of saccharine matter. It is 
readily convertible into malt ; but this appears to be 
by no means of so productive a quality as that 
obtained from barley,-yielding compa.at.Vely Httle 
alcohol on fermentation, and being, besides, ex- 
ceedingly apt to pass from the vinous to the acetous 
fermentation. 

This grain is said to thrive on a much more sandy 
soil than any other of the cerealia, and hence to be 
of much importance in the extensive sandy districts 
of Sweden and some parts of Bussia. It seems to 
be the chief article of food in those countries. 
Where it does not derange the system, by producing 
much acidity during its digestion, rye-bread may 
prove useful, by exerting some degree of laxative 
effect. The peculiar disease to which this grain is 
subject during its growth— the ei^ot — may be 
mentioned, inasmuch as, when so diseased, it exerts 
such a powerful influence if taken into the human 
system, — becoming valuable, under some circum- 
stances, in a medicinal point of view, — ^but having. 



182 BICE. 

at different times, in the countries where it was 
used as the staple food, given rise to most extensive 
disease of very awful character; marked by gangrene 
of the extremities^ and impaired nervous power, — 
affecting, moreover, the sensorium, and ofiten ending 
in death. It is said, that, happily ! bread made of dis- 
eased rye has a characteristically acrid and nauseous 
taste. Bye-flour is sometimes mixed with wheaten 
flour, in this country, to make a brown bread, that 
often agrees with the stomach sufficiently well; 
while it tends to keep the bowels in a solvent state. 

Bice is a grain of extensive importance, through- 
out the vast continent of India, and the great 
Chinese Empire. Its introduction into America 
seems to be of comparatively modem date ; and rice 
is said to be much less used as an article of food in 
America than maize and wheaten flour. Bice requires 
for its growth a very large amount of moisture, as 
weU as a temperature of considerable elevation. For 
the germination of the grain and the growth of the 
plant, the soil must be, either naturally or artificially, 
for the most part covered with water. It has been 
acutely advanced, that this circumstance makes rice 
of less real value as a staple food for man, on 
account of the uncertainty of the crop ; and indeed 
the entire loss of the crop might be consequent upon 
a season of even moderate drought. 

Bdce contains, — according to Prout^s analysis, as 
given by Baspail, — from 3 to 4 per cent, of gluten, 86 
per cent, of starch in a state of considerable purity> 
and nearly 6 per cent, of hordein. The proportion 



RICE. — MAIZfl. 183 

of albuimnous matter of any kind contained in it, ap- 
pears, however, to be about 8 per cent. But as far as 
dietetics are concerned, it may be considered as being 
virtually and essentially a modification of starch; and 
it is a most valuable and important article of invalid 
diet. Having little flavour, it may be mixed and 
eaten along with almost any other kind of food. 
Simply boiled, it forms a grateful and useful addition 
to the meat, in cases where potatoes, and vegetables 
generally, are found to disagree with the stomach ; 
and when mixed with milk, or fruit, or soup, and 
thoroughly cooked, it has become more and more 
used and valued by dyspeptics. The importance of 
letting the grains be thoroughly swelled, completely 
cooked, and yet left unbroken, seems to be even now 
insufficiently appreciated. 

Maize is a grain of extensive and probably increas* 
ing value in the food of man. It contains little 
gluten, — ^using this word to signify the albuminous 
principle in combination with the peculiar binding 
material, that is so largely present in wheaten flour. 
Of albuminous matter in other forms, it is said to 
contain nearly 1 1 per cent. Throughout the American 
continent, it is a staple article of food ; and its large 
capabilities of serving as nutriment for men and cattle, 
are beyond doubt. From the deficiency of gluten, the 
bread made from it is dry and crumbling ; and it is so 
different in its character from the bread made from 
wheaten flour, as to require the usage of years to 
make it generally liked as well as wheaten bread. 
But those who have made use of it from childhood, are 



184 MAIZE-MEAL. — PEAS-MEAL. 

said to prefer it to any other kind of ''bread-sttiff." 
When mixed with a small proportion of wheaten 
flour, biscuits are made of maize-meal, which have 
the peculiar and by no means ungrateful flavour 
of the grain, and which appear to be sufficiently 
digestible. If mixed with a larger proportion of 
wheaten flour, maize-meal is made into a household- 
bread, of highly nutritive quality, and which seems 
to be digested without undue difficulty. Maize-meal 
is, however, much more used and valued, in different 
forms of pudding and porridge ; and these appear to 
be little inferior in degree of digestibility, to the 
same viands made of wheaten flour. 

Peas-meal is chiefly noticeable, on account of the 
large proportion of vegetable casein contained in it. 
It is, whether for this reason or not, by no means 
easily digested, and is almost always found to disagree 
with the feeble stomach. It contains a very small 
proportion of gluten; and the bread made from it is ne- 
cessarily heavy, — even although it be baked in loaves 
that are by no means thick. It is seldom, however, 
used in the form of bread in this country, unless it 
may be in the north ; and even there it is probably 
less and less made use of in this way. As might be 
inferred, from the casein contained in it, peas-meal 
proves a very nutritious article of food. It is now 
chiefly used to thicken and flavour soups and broths, — 
and is in especial requisition for these purposes on 
board of ships. Whether it is so much used in the 
diet of sailors, from being found to act in any espe- 
cial degree as an anti-scorbutic, — or simply from its 



ASPARAGUS^ &C. 185 

proving abundantly nutritious^ — or from its marked 
flavour, possibly covering the taste of other food, 
rendered somewhat rancid from long keeping, — does 
not appear to be ascertained. 



POT-HERBS, ROOTS, &c., EATEN COOKED. 



6. Tumip.f 

7. Cabbage— Greeii8.f 

8. Carrotft 

9. Parsiiip.f f 

10. Pea. ft 

11. Broad, or Windsor Beaaff 

12. Miiahrooin.fi- 



1. Asparagus — Sea-kale — Celery 

— Vegetable-Marrow — Ar- 
tichoke. 

2. Caoliflower, the heart. 

3. French Bean. 

4. Potato, if dry ; or, as it is 

called, mealy. 

5. Spinach. 

• 

The whole of the individuals in this list, should be 
generally considered as being hkely to disagree with 
the dyspeptic or the feeble stomach ; and their effect 
during digestion should be watched with correspond- 
ing care. It is a great truth, that food should never 
be felt in the stomach at all; and whenever it is felt, 
to however small a degree, there is evidence that the 
functions of the stomach are deranged, and that the 
food has not been adapted to its powers or its con- 
dition. 

Asparagus, Sea-Kale, Celery, Vegetable-Marrow, 
and Artichoke, placed first in the table, are com- 
paratively seldom found to disagree. They consist 
essentially of mucilaginous matter, — ^a modification 
of gum, in its turn a modification of starch, — and, so 
far, simply non-azotised. They all contain, moreover, 
a peculiar vegetable principle, probably different in 
each, on which their taste, &c., depend. This some- 



186 CAULIFLOWEB^ &C. 

times affects their digestibility^ and consequent whole- 
someness. Some persons cannot eat asparagus 
without being deranged by itj on this account. This 
happens^ however, in comparatively very few in- 
stances ; and usually these vegetables are digestible 
in proportion to the absence of hard fibre^ — ^and 
probably digestible in the order in which they 
are placed in the table. The essential principle 
referred to, is probably in every case in very minute 
proportion, and seems to be a highly azotised 
substance. 

The heart of the cauliflower is usually digested with 
sufficient readiness, to make its use unobjectionable* 
The whole of the edible individuals of the genus 
Brassies^ — cabbage, brocoli, greens, and cauliflower^ 
consist chiefly of mucilage, with a rather considerable 
proportion of saccharine matter. Like most of the 
other succulent vegetable substances, they are com- 
posed of a very large proportion of water — 100 parts 
being said to afford little more than seven parts of 
either mucilage, sugar, or albumen ; the latter being 
in comparatively very small proportion. They are 
consequently by no means nutritious articles of food ; 
and it should be added, that their watery consti- 
tution leads to their disagreeing in many instances. 
Generally speaking, the substances in the above table 
are found to disagree, in proportion as they contain 
more component water, — as they contain a larger 
proportion of saccharine matter, — and in proportion 
as they have a more fibrous character; and, on the 
other hand, are more easily digested, the larger the 



KIDNBY-BEAN.-^POTATO. 187 

proportion of mucilage^ or starcli^ which they contain, 
— and the less of any other constituent. 

French or Kidney-beans, if young, and therefore 
as little fibrous as may be, seldom disagree, even with 
the dyspeptic stomach. These too are chiefly muci- 
laginous; but they probably contain, even when very 
young, — ^although of course in still larger propor- 
tion when older, — ^a greater amount of albuminous 
or azotised matter than cabbage or cauliflower; 
and may be inferred to be correspondingly more 
nutritious. 

The potato has come to be a very important, and 
probably an unduly important, article of food. Pota- 
toes are said to contain about 25 per cent, of nutritive 
matter; and of this about fotir-fifths seem to be 
starch;— the remaining one-fifth, or 5 per cent, of 
the whole, affording between one and two parts of 
saccharine matter, and rather more than three parts 
of albumen. The potato is unquestionably a mode- 
rately nutritious article of food, but is not so much 
so as has been ordinarily supposed, — and probably 
not more than one-fourth, if so much as one-fourth, 
as nutritious as wheaten flour. In fact, this estimate 
of the nutritiousness of the potato, supposes the 
sample to be of first-rate quality. Containing so much 
less of azotised matter than is contained in wheaten 
flour, the potato may be considered as essentially a 
non-azotised aliment,^-ofmuchimportance in diluting 
highly azotised food, and diminishing the tendency 
to the large class of diseases, which are either produced 
Or aggravated by what may be called azotic plethora. 



188 POTATO. 

The introduction of the potato has probably had 
much effect^ in lessening the prevalence and severity 
of scorbutic, calculous, and arthritic disorders.'*' At 
the same time, trusted to unduly, from the £eunlity 
of growth and cultivation, and the large obtainable 
produce, it should be borne in mind that this vege- 
table may prove injurious, from containing so large 
a proportion of watery matter, and so small an amount 
of azotised aliment. The quality of the potato is like- 
wise so important a question as regards its nutritive- 
ness and its digestibility, and this depends so much 
on the healthiness of the plant, the season, soil, &c., — 
for the plant, one of a poisonous class, is apt to dege- 
nerate, and is easily affected in its healthiness, and the 
tubers are equally apt to lose their good qualities as 
esculents, — that the potato should never be allowed, 
under any circumstances, to occupy, as the staple 

* '*We have before us an account-book bearing date from the 
middle to the hitter end of the hiat century, and in it we find some 
interesting entries of the comparative prices of meat and vegetables. 
The prices for a long period run as follows : — * Quarter of a sheep, 
two shillings ; peck of potatoes, sixpence.' In the same district, at 
present, potatoes are often only threepence a peck, whereas mutton 
is sixpence a pound, and sometimes more. The gentleman who gave 
us this account-book, and who is now more than seventy years old, 
informs us that when he was young, no potatoes were kept for winter 
use, and that the only other sort of garden-stuff used was a coarse 
kind of kale, the leaves of which were stripped off the stalk, and 
prepared for the table by phun boiling. This vegetable was tou£^ 
and unpalatable ; and during four or five winter months the food 
consisted, almost exclusively, of meat, bread, and flour puddings. 
The change which extensive cultivation of the potato and diffusion of 
gardenmg has wrought in the nature of the food of the population 
generally, is remarkably great, and well deserves the attention of 
physicians."— From a valuable article, in * tiie Library of Medicine,' 
by Dr. William Budd. 



POTATO. — SPINACH. — TURNIP. 189 

aliment of any class of oar population^ the place of 
any of the grain-bearing plants. 

The more mealy the potato when cooked^ the 
more nutritire its quality, and the more easy its 
digestion. It is of little signification as affecting the 
digestibility, whether the potato be roasted or baked, 
or boiled, — ^provided the quality and the cookery be 
unimpeachable. They are probably more nutritive, 
— ^that is, contain more azotised matter, — ^if boiled 
with their skins on, than if peeled before boiling; 
but it is equally probable that they are more easily 
digested if peeled before they are boiled, — ^the part 
nearest to the skin, and necessarily removed in this 
case, being less easily digested. The new or imma- 
ture potato, is much less easily digested than the fully 
ripened tuber, and should certainly be forbidden to 
the majority of dyspeptics. Early and forced pota- 
toes must be less easily digested, than those which 
have been grown with the advantages of tree ex- 
posure to the air and the sunshine. 

Spinach is in general easily digested. The extreme 
tenderness of the fibres may in part serve to accoimt 
for this ; but it is, no doubt, mainly owing to a pecu- 
liar extractive principle, which acts as a stimulant to 
the stomach and bowels, — and in many people to the 
extent of exerting laxative properties. 

Turnips contain a very small proportion of nutri- 
tive matter; probably little more than four per cent. 
The greater proportion of this is saccharine matter — 
the quantity of mucilage being very small. Turnips 
likewise contain an essential oil. The turnip consists 

K 



190 CABBAOEj &C. 

of fibres which are apt to resist the ready action of 
the stomachy independently of the frequent cases 
in which the essential oil proves irritating to the 
digestive organs. The yonngerj and therefore the 
less tough the fibres ; and the less acrid^ and therefore 
the less of the essential oil contained in it; the 
more easily is the turnip digested. 

Cabbages and greens are digested with difficulty ; 
perhaps partly because they contain so large a pro- 
portion of component water, and partly on account 
of the hardness of their fibres ; but in some degree 
likewise, there is no doubt, from their tendency to 
undergo the acetous fermentation. They are pecu- 
liarly apt to occasion flatulence and acidity during 
their digestion; even when they do not otherwise 
derange perceptibly the digestive organs. The cab- 
bage, or the variety in which the leaves are so close 
as to compress and blanch one another, is composed 
of smaller and less tough fibres than kale, colewort, 
or greens, the other important variety of the culti- 
vated brassica, — ^and is by so much more easily 
digested. 

The tendency of the cabbage to undergo fermenta- 
tion, is taken advantage of in the great and favourite 
preparation, so much used and valued by the Germans 
— ^the celebrated Sauer Kraut. For the preparation 
of this, the cabbage is made to undergo fermentation 
under pressure, with the addition of salt, and a little 
olive oU. This is, no doubt, a valuable antiscor- 
butic; and appears to be easily digested by those 
accustomed to its use ; and may be conceived to be a 



CARROT. PARSNIP. PBA. BROAD BEAN. 191 

sufficiently important addition to a diet, consisting 
largely of highly azotised food. 

Carrots, from containing a harder fibre than 
turnips, and a larger proportion of saccharine matter, 
are proportionably more difficult of digestion. They 
are more nutritious than either the tmnip or the 
cabbage, — containing nearly 10 per cent, of azotised 
and non-azotised matter. 

The parsnip is equally saccharine, and rather 
more mucilaginous, than the turnip. It is now very 
little used in this country. It is by no means easily 
digested ; and perhaps even less so than the cairot, 
although its fibres appear to be more tender. 

Green peas are usually digested with difficulty. 
This, however, much depends on their age and 
character. When young, and of good quality, they 
are much more readily digested than when older and 
harder. Although by no means so nutritious as 
when matured, green peas contain a large proportion 
of nutrimentary matter, and prove to be a valuable 
article of food. They can, however, seldom be eaten 
by the dyspeptic, without disturbing the functions of 
the stomach. 

Broad or Windsor beans contain much nutri- 
mentary matter; but they are digested with diffi- 
culty, — and can only be made use of with impunity 
by the healthy and the strong. 

The ripe and dried peas are used more or less in 
soups, stews, and made-dishes ; and several varieties 
of dried beans appear to be used very extensively, 
particularly in Mexico, in the same way, or served 

k2 



192 MUSHROOM. 

simply. There can be bo doubt of the highly nntri- ^ 
mentory character of beans and peas^ when used in 
any way as food, — supposing the digestive organs to 
be equal to the assimilation of so large a proportion 
of vegetable casein. Some of the kinds of bean 
that are thus used, are remarkably free firom any 
marked flavour, — ^having much less flavour than the 
dried peas, — and may prove to be, in the same pro- 
portion, more easily digested. 

The edible varieties of mushroom must be classed 
among the kinds of food, that are with difficulty 
digested. Apart from the difficulty of their assimi- 
lation, they are probably very nutritious articles of 
food. They are chiefly used in the manufacture of 
ketchup; and thus prepared with salt and spices, and 
used only in smaU quantities, to give their flavour to 
other articles of food, are seldom found to disagree. 
Truffles and morels, likewise, belong to the esculent 
fimgi. They are not easily digested, if used in suffi- 
cient quantity to make their assimilation a question 
of any importance. 

It should be appended to the remarks on the vege- 
tables that are eaten cooked, that the season of the 
year, and the temperature of the weather, have much 
to do with the question of their wholesomeness and 
value as articles of diet, — and influence very greatly 
both the fdnctions of the stomach, and the necessi- 
ties of the system. This may be greatly owing to the 
amount of aqueous matter consumed and required by 
the system in warm weather, and which is offered to 
it very freely, and probably in a form that is very 



AQUEOUS CHARACTER OF POT-HERBS. 198 

readily made use of^ in these articles of diet^ — ^which 
are so largely composed of combined water^ that some 
of them afford only four per cent.^ and^ with the 
exception of the potato^ few so much as nine per cent.^ 
of solid matter^ whether soluble and nutritive or other- 
wise^ — ^the large remainder being aqueous matter. 
Those articles of diet^ on the other hand^ which con- 
tain a very small proportion of component water, have, 
in most cases, to be reduced or diluted in their com- 
position, by the addition of the water contained in 
the body itself, before they can be assimilated, and 
made to form part of the living organism ; and by so 
much are they less fitted for food, when the system 
has more need for, and expends more largely, its 
watery supplies, — ^not only for the purpose, as is the 
case at aU times, of dissolving saline and effete mat- 
ters, that have to be eliminated, but by means of 
vaporisation, of lowering more or less, as may be 
required, the temperature of the body, and maintain- 
ing it at that same level of heat, which is found to 
obtain with so small an appreciable degree of dif- 
ference in the human system, in all climates and 
seasons, and at every degree of atmospheric tempo ^ 
rature. Independently of the large expenditure of 
aqueous matters, in subserving the elimination of all 
the other secretions and excretions of the body, a 
very large quantity of water is required to maintain 
the due proportion of vapour which is exhaled with 
the expired air, and which must be furnished with 
more or less readiness by the system, in proportion 
as the demand for aqueous matter for the other 



194 AQUEOUS CHARACTER OF 70T-HERBS. 

processes of the economy is less or more con- 
siderable. 

Independently of the greats and easily appreciated 
value^ of what may be called the weaker or more 
aqueous forms of vegetable food, when the system is 
in circumstances to consume and expend a larger 
proportion of watery matters, these diluted forms of 
food are important and valuable from their being so 
little nutritive in proportion to their bulk, assisting 
the consumer to adjust the amount of his food to his 
wants and expenditure. Man undergoes less volun- 
tary exertion, either of mind or body, in warm 
climates and seasons, than in a colder atmosphere; 
and he therefore expends not only less carbon in the 
maintenance of the bodily heat, but less nitrogen in 
the reproduction of tissue. Hence the value of 
largely diluted forms of alimentary matters imder 
these circumstances, and their comparatively small 
necessity in the colder latitudes. The practices of 
different nations, in different climates, afford strik- 
ing illustrations of the importance of these con- 
siderations. 

It follows, that the same objections which would 
apply to these vegetables as articles of food, in the 
cold months of winter, would be by no means neces- 
sarily applicable in the hot months of summer. In- 
deed, unless they produce decided disturbance during 
their passage through the stomach and bowels, a 
moderate proportion of fresh vegetables ought to be 
eaten at such seasons, even by the dyspeptic; and to 
men who are enjoying an average state of health, a 



i 



ANTISCORBUTIC EFFECT OF POTHERBS. 195 

moderate daily use of firesh vegetables is almost 
indispensable to the securitj of the health. 
^ It seems to be unquestionable^ that^ besides their 
great importance as weak and aqueous forms of ali- 
ment; containing little azote^ and but a small propor- 
tion even of carbon^ fresh vegetables^ whether eaten 
cooked or otherwise^ have some great influence on 
the chemical condition of the blood itself. In what 
this influence essentially consists^ is doubtful; but 
its effSect seems to be to prevent the blood corpuscles 
being diminished in their normal number^ — and^ like- 
wise^ so far to maintain the full and high organisation 
of the great vital fluids as to decrease^ as much as 
possible^ the chance of a degeneration in its coagu- 
lable and other essential properties^ which are impor- 
tant to the health and vitality of the system. The 
word putrescence^ or putrescent tendency, if at all 
applicable to the blood as existing and circulating in 
the system, may be said to antagonise the effect of 
recent vegetables as articles of food ; and they are 
considered to serve as antiseptics in the economy, 
and assist in keeping the blood in such a state of 
composition, as preserves it from the chances of such 
degeneration. 

VEGETABLES, EATEN UNCOOKED. 



1. Water-cress — ^Mustard— 

Ghirden-cress. • 

2. Lettuce. 

3. Celery. 



4. Badish, if the acrid rind is 

removed. 

5. Onion— -Leek— Shallot— Gar- 

lic.+ 

6. Cucumber.ft 



The water-cress (Nasturtium officinale)^ the com* 



196 

mon gaiden-iiiiutaid (theyonngphnts of the Sim^ 
alba), and tlie oommoiL gardm-creaB (Lq^idinm sati- 
Tnm), are genenlfy digested without inoonTen^^ — 
contaiiiiiig, morecfter, each of them, a peculiar eaaen- 
tial oily which is palatable to nuMt people, and affords a 
Terjr gratefal stimuhis to the stomach and the appetite. 

The lettuce is <Hie of the most yahiable of this daas 
of vegetable sabstanoes. It is generally sufficiently 
digestible. It contains an important narcotic prin- 
ciple. Although this principle exists in no large pro- 
portion in the young TegetablCy — increasing, however, 
rapidly as the plant becomes matured, and giving a 
characteristic bitterness to the taste, — the proportion 
of narcotic effect may be a sufficient reason for prohi- 
biting the use of the lettuce under some circumstances. 
The younger, and the more quickly grown, and the 
less strong and tough the fibres, the more digestible 
is the lettuce found to be. Its digestibility may be 
promoted or otherwise, according to the state of the 
stomach, and other circumstances, by the addition of 
vinegar, or sugar, or oil, or cream, or any or all of 
them. It may be difficult, and sometimes impossible, 
to determine beforehand, whether such addition be 
advisable or not ; but in the case of the dyspeptic, it 
may be said with sufficient confidence, that, if let- 
tuce does not prove to be readily digested, with the 
single addition of a moderate quantity of common 
salt, it may be wisely prohibited altogether. 

The foot-stalk of the leaf of celery (Apium gra- 
veolens), is the part generally used in this coimtry ; 
and this is usually blanched in the cultivation. If 



RADISH. — ALLIACEOUS PLANTS. 197 

the stalks be of carefully selected quality^ and well 
and quickly grown^ and quite young and tender^ they 
generally agree even with the dyspeptic stomachy 
and are a grateful^ and probably useful^ addition to 
the unobjectionable articles of food. It is probably^ 
however^ less easily digested when eaten uncooked^ 
than when boiled. The seeds of the plant are useful^ 
in giving the peculiar flavour to soups^ &c. 

The radish is not so easily digested^ as the vege- 
tables hitherto mentioned. The more youngs the less 
toughj and the less acrid^ the more easily is it 
digested. Radishes should always be scraped^ to 
firee them from the acrid rind ; and they should be 
made use of cautiously in the instance of dyspeptics. 

The alliaceous plants famish important articles of 
food or flavourings to the people of most of the 
European countries. They are less easily digested^ 
in proportion as they are of stronger flavour^ and 
have more acridity. As far as the invalid and the 
dyspeptic are concerned^ their use must^ in general^ 
be strictly forbidden ; but they furnish a much-prized 
addition to the poor man's comfort. In diflierent 
districts^ whether from accidental circumstances^ or 
the nature of the food with which they are mixed^ 
different individuals of the class are preferred. The 
leek is probably the most easily digested^ and the 
garlic the least so. The foreign onion^ grown to a 
large size^ in a congenial climate and soil^ and having 
comparatively little acridity^ is necessarily much more 
easily digested than the stronger varieties of onion. 
The odour and the taste of all these plants is pecu- 

kS 



198 CUCUMBEE, &C. 

liarly offenrire to some people^ and apt to disagree 
with them in the same proportion. The onion, 
when eaten very yonng and immature, is much more 
easily digested than the matured bnlb. The digesti- 
bility of these vegetables is probably much increased 
by their being cooked, and especially perhaps if 
boiled, as iu this case some part of their acrid juice 
may be supposed to be remoTed. Their digesti- 
bility and usefulness are much dependant on the 
habits, and other circumstances of life, of the con- 
sumers. In the case of people who have to subsist 
chiefly on the aqueous articles of food, and on a 
meagre diet, and especially if exposed to a damp and 
cold atmosphere, this class of vegetable substances is 
of much importance, and probably materially assists 
digestion, and promotes the healthiness of the system. 
The genus Cucumis, affording as the firuits of 
its different species, — or those of the allied genus 
Cucurbita, — ^the melon, the water-melon, the vege- 
table-marrow, besides the plants of which the firuits 
yield the valuable medicines elaterium and colo- 
cynth, likewise contains the cucumber (cucumis 
sativus, vel hortensis). The seeds of this plant yield 
an oil; and to the presence of this in the firuit, 
whether in the seeds or in the pulpy matter, may 
the difficulty with which cucumber is ordinarily di- 
gested, in all probability, be ascribed, — and not 
simply, or perhaps in any important degree, to the 
aqueous and cooling character of this fruit, to which 
its difficulty of being digested is more commonly 
referred. To whatever it may be owing, however, 



JPBUITS ANB SEEDS. 



199 



this vegetable is very notoriously apt to derange the 
functions of the stomach ; and it should be strictly 
forbidden to most dyspeptics. The addition of pepper 
and vinegar fiualitates its digestion. 



FRUITS AND SEEDS. 



1. Grape. 

2. Orange. 

3. Strawbeny. 

4. Raspberry. 

5. Pine-apple. 

6. dunrant. 

7. Gooeebeny. 



9. Apple^ Pear. 

10. Cherry. t 

11. Plum.t 

12. Walnut^-Chestnutt 

13. Hazel-nut— Filbert, t 

14. AJmond.f 

15. Gocofr-nat.t 



8. Peach — ^Nectarine — Apricot. 16. Melon.ff 

The above is a tolerably long aud sufficient lust of 
the fruits and edible seeds^ which are usually pro- 
curable in England^ and which are important from 
being in general use. The few wild fruits there are 
of native growth, and the dried fruits grown in 
warmer climates^ must be separately considered. 

Eruits have been classed by different writers^ as 
— ^Ist. Meshy fruits^ having the seeds enclosed in 
membranous cells: comprising the apple-genus; — 
2nd. Pulpy fruits^ with the seeds interspersed among 
the pulp : the grape^ the fig, the pomegranate, the 
mulberry, the currant, the gooseberry, the rasp- 
berry, the strawberry, the barberry, the elderberry, 
the blackberry, the bilberry, the cloudberry, the me- 
lon, &c ; — 3rd. Stone fruits, having the seed enclosed 
in a hard nut, which is covered with flesh: the peach, 
nectarine, almond, apricot, plum, cherry, and olive ; 
— ^and 4th. Nuts, more strictly so called, of which the 



200 FRUITS AND SEEDS. — GRAPE. 

external oovering is neither fleshy nor pulpy : the wal- 
nut^ the chestnut^ the hazel nut. But some of the 
fimits^ of warmer climates especially^ are not quite 
fitly classed imder any one of these four heads : such 
as the orange^ the date^ and the pine-apple. 

With a view to the question of dietetics^ the 
fruits might be appropriately arranged, according to 
their predominant characteristics, as the acid, the 
saccharine, the mucilaginous, and the farinaceous. 
In the colder regions of the earth, where fruit of 
any kind would be little fitted for man^s sustenance, 
where a less diluted form of nutrimentary matter is 
indispensable to man^s well-doing, and where the 
single use of fruit must be to correct the putrescent 
and acrid tendency of a highly animalised and gross 
diet, the fruits are of an acid character, only an- 
tiseptic, and in little or no degree nutrimentary. 
Such a fruit is the cranberry. On the other hand, 
in warm climates, where diluted forms of alimentary 
matter seem to be essential, to adapt the system and its 
supplies to the comparatively small expenditure, the 
fruits are either simply mucilaginous and aqueous, 
as the water-melon and the mango, — or farinaceous, 
presenting, however, a much diluted form of fari- 
naceous matter, as the date, the bread-fruit, and 
the fig. 

The grape is probably the most easily digested of 
all the fruits. That the fruit be ripe, and of good 
quality, is, however, essential to its deserving such a 
character. Those grown in the hot-house, at a 
carefully regulated temperature, fully matured and 



ORAPB. — ORANOX. 201 

ripened, are probably more easily digested, as well as 
characterised by a finer flavour, than grapes grown 
in the open air, in any climate whatever. Grapes 
contain sugar, gum, and gluten, — ^together with vege- 
table acid, chiefly in the form of bitartrate of potassa, 
— and a large proportion of water. They contain much 
more sugar than acid, — ^and are probably digestible in 
direct proportion as they contain a smaller proportion 
of acid. And it is the same with the other fruits : the 
more sugar and the less add they severally contain, 
the more easily digested they generally prove to be. 
To accomplish the process, similar to that of fermen* 
tation, by which the acid and mucilage are converted 
into sugar, and which is the condition of the matu- 
ration or ripening, heat, and probably light, are 
requisite conditions; and well-ripened fruit, not 
damaged by wet, is seldom to be objected to, if 
the quantity eaten be moderate, and the more 
easily digested kinds are made use of; whereas 
miripe and unsound fruit is, in almost all cases, 
digested with difficulty, and apt to occasion dyspeptic 
symptoms. 

The orange genus affords, as its four principal 
species, the orange, the lemon, the citron, and the 
lime. The juice of the former contains but little 
citric acid, and more mucilage and sugar; being, 
however, essentially aqueous, and holding very little 
of either sugar, acid, or mucilage, in solution. The 
other three species afford little sugar, but contain a 
large quantity of citric acid. As much as twelve 
ounces of the crystallised acid, appear to have been 



202 LEMON. — STBAWBEBBT. — BASPBEBBT. 

obtained firom a gallon of lemon juice; and it is a 
fiedr inference^ that the whole of the citric acid was 
not obtained from it even then. An aqueons and 
cooling firuit^ containing little acid^ and but a small 
proportion of either sugar or mucilage, the orange is 
as grateful to the palate, as it is in most cases easily 
digested. The lemon, independently of its import- 
ance in warm climates, from its antiseptic and coohng 
properties, is a valuable addition to an oleaginous diet 
in colder regions, and is of much importance as a me- 
dicinal agent, and especially in the case of scurvy, — 
once the scourge of the navy, and now comparatively 
seldom seen, and still more seldom destructive to 
life. Preserved from speedy decay by their close 
skin and acrid rind, which is valuable in itself foi 
the essential oil it affords, these fruits bear car- 
riage pecdiarly weU, and are almost as important in 
these colder latitudes, as the fruits of native growth, 
or as they are in the countries which produce 
them. 

The strawberry contains malic and citric add, 
with sugar and mucilage. It contains, moreover, a 
peculiar essential oil, of much fragrance, which seems 
to affect and impair its digestibility in many cases. 
When perfect as to ripeness and quality, the straw- 
berry is generally, however, sufficiently digestible. 
Its digestibility is impaired by its being either im- 
perfectly ripened, or unduly acid, — and likewise, and 
very seriously, as is the case in wet seasons, when 
damaged and somewhat tending to decay. 

The raspberry is of less decided character than 



FINE-APPLE. CURRANT^ ftc. SOS 

the strawberry as to acidity, — ^and certaixdy seldom 
disagrees so much as the strawberry does, in the few 

The ™,W i. e«. „», .Leptible^d^lu. 
the strawberry. 

The pine-apple is more fleshy, and contains a 
larger proportion of add and sugar; it has a strong 
flavour, and is in general easily digested. When 
of hot-house growth, and perfectly matured and 
ripened, it is probably more digestible, as weU as of 
better flayour and quaUty, than the fruit which is 
imported. 

The currant and the gooseberry contain more acid, 
and less sugar, than the preceding fruits, — and are by 
so much less digestible. They are, howeyer, in most 
cases, suj£ciently digestible. They are probably 
natives of the temperate countries, and possibly 
natives of Britain. They are of better quality and 
flavour when grown in the cooler than in the warmer 
climates; and this is still more the case with the 
gooseberry than with the currant. The seeds and 
L ddT.^ n^e^ril, i:.dig««bH „d .dd ™. 
chanically to the risk of visceral disturbance from 
their use. 

The stone fruits contain malic acid and sugar, with 
a considerable proportion of mucilage, and a small 
quantity of essential oil. The more aqueous and the 
less fleshy, and the more saccharine and the less add 
they are, the more easily are they digested. These, 
for the most part native productions of warmer cli- 
mates, are generally of better quality, more perfectly 



204 PLUM^ &C. — APPLE^ &C* 

matured, and more easily digested, when grown in tlie 
hot-house. Having stronger fibres or a harder pulp, 
and being more mucilaginous, than the fruits already 
spoken of, the stone fruits are much less easily 
digested, and much more liable to derange the 
digestive organs, than those fruits are. Even the 
peach, and its remarkable variety — ^the nectarine, 
and the apricot, the relative digestibility of which 
is probably in the order in which they are named, 
should be allowed cautiously, and in very moderate 
quantity, to the dyspeptic; the cherry is still less 
certain to be easily digested; and the varieties of 
plum (in all cases, still less easily digested), are less 
readily digestible in the same proportion as the 
fruit is more add, less saccharine, less aqueous, 
and more fleshy, — ^the green-gage being the most 
easily digested, and the damson the least easily 
digested variety. 

The fruits of the apple genus, affording malic acid, 
some sugar, and much mucilage, — ^the fruits being 
fleshy and of fibrous character, — are more or less 
easily digested, as they are more sweet and aqueous, 
and less acid. The digestion of either the apple or 
the pear, even when of least objectionable quality, 
must be said to task somewhat the powers of diges- 
tion; although, — ^inasmuch as these fruits are free 
from essential oil, — they are otherwise less apt to 
irritate the digestive organs, than the individuals of 
the plum tribe. Cooking affects very much the 
digestibility of these fruits; and in much greater 
degree than that of most other fruits ; — pro- 



NITTS. 205 

bably from dissolving or softening the vascular 
fibres. Whether roasted^ baked^ or boiled^ cooked 
pears and apples are almost always much more 
easily digested than the raw fruits. Most fruits 
are rendered more easily digested by being cooked ; 
although this is more the case with the cha- 
racteristically fibrous fruits^ as apples^ than with 
the more simply add^ or saccharine^ or mucila- 
ginous fruits. Baked and roasted fruits deserve the 
first place in the scale of relative digestibility; 
stewed fruits rank next to these ; and then^ boiled 
fruits. The drier the cooked fruit is^ the more 
likely it is to agree with the stomach. It is 
not wise^ for this reason^ to drink water while 
eating, or soon after eating it ; or to mix any liquid 
with it. And, on this account, apple tea, black cur- 
rant tea, lemonade, orangeade, &c., are not by any 
means so likely to agree, as might d priori be sup- 
posed; nor, in general, are they so likely to be 
digested without inconvenience, as the fruits them- 
selves. 

The whole of the fruits of the nut tribe contain 
a large proportion of fecula ; and a greater or less, but 
generally a large, proportion of oil. The fibres are 
hard, and usually digested with some slowness and 
difficulty, which is necessarily added to by their 
oleaginous character. The less oily the nut, and 
the less hard the fibres, the more easily it is digested. 
The chestnut, when roasted, or otherwise cooked, and 
its fibres therefore softened, is often sufficiently di- 
gestible. Chestnuts appear to have been much more 



206 MXLON. 

used in former times in this country, than they noir 
are. In the southern parts of Europe, they are said, 
even now, to form an important article of food to 
the common people. Even the roasted chestnut is, 
however, in general, necessarily forbidden to the 
dyspeptic. The filbert, or cultivated variety of hazel 
nut, is more easily digested, than its uncultivated 
prototype. The recently gathered fruits of the nut 
tribe are more easily digested, than when they have 
been kept, and have become harder and drier. This 
is particularly noticeable in the case of the cocoa- 
nut, which is, in this country, so remarkably difSicnlt 
of digestion; whereas it is said to be much more 
easily digested, when recently gathered. 

The melon is even peculiarly apt to derange the 
digestion ; perhaps chiefly from its watery and refrige- 
rant character, but partly from containing a peculiar 
and characteristic oil. That the fruit be ripe, and 
the fibres perfectly tender, are of much importance to 
its digestibility; and it is usually quite needfrd that 
a moderate quantity of some generous wine should be 
taken along with it, to correct its peculiarly aqueous 
and refrigerant properties. The melon affords a 
good instance of the different effects of food, in 
different climates. It seems, that all the aqueous 
and refrigerant fruits are eaten largely in tropical 
countries, not only without discomfort or derange- 
ment, but with much and evident advantage to the 
health; whereas they often disagree, and prove to 
be by no means suitable, when made use of in the 
colder latitudes. 



WILD FBUIT8. 207 

It would be weU^ if the inyalid were to abstain 
from eating those fruits, that require the addition of 
8i:^ar to render them palatable; yet there can be no 
question^ that such fruits are more wholesome when 
eaten with sugar^ than they would be without it. 

The addition of cream increases materially the dif- 
ficulty with which fruit is digested. Although it may 
pass through the stomach without disturbing its func- 
tions^ — ^the probability is^ however^ that^ in the case 
of the invalid^ this wiU not be so, — such a mixture 
will seldom pass through the bowels^ without mani- 
fiasting some sign that it has disagreed. 

The wild fruits grown in this country, are, in 
general,, objectionable, either from their extreme 
acidity, or from their being more viscid than the 
cultivated variety of the fruit. The more import- 
ant of these are — ^the cranberry, the barberry, the 
bilberry, the brambleberry or blackberry, the rasp- 
berry, and the strawberry ; — ^and to these may be 
added, the elderberry, — and, although rarely found 
in our moorlands, probably from their being gene- 
rally sheep-pastures, the cloudberry. The objections 
to the cranberry are, its extreme acidity, and the 
peculiarly tough and therefore indigestible skin. 
In extremely cold countries, it may probably have 
much value, as an antiseptic addition to the strong 
and oleaginous articles of food. The barberry is like- 
wise extremely acid, and is only used in the form of 
pickle or confection. It has a very purely add 
taste, and is proportionably palatable when well 
qualified with syrup. The bilberry, the abundant 



208 CBANBEBBYj ELDEBBEBRT, &C. 

growth of our moorlands, contains little acid, and 
has a much thinner skin than the cranberry. It 
contains a peculiar flavouring principle, probably 
oleaginous, which disagrees with some people, and 
seems to be distasteful to many. The bilberry, ap- 
pears, however, to be usually as little objectionable 
on the score of digestibility, as any of the wild fruits, 
if not less so. The brambleberry, or blackberry, 
the common growth of the English hedge-rows, is 
more objectionable from its viscid character, than 
from its acidity. It contains a fair proportion of 
saccharine matter. It appears to derive no ad- 
vantage from cultivation. The wild raspberry and 
wild strawberry are well known to have more fla- 
vour than the cultivated varieties. The wild vari- 
eties are more acid, and usually have more viscidity. 
The strawberry owes much more to cultivation^ than 
the raspberry. In a congenial soil and climate, as 
in the plantations near Buxton, the wild raspberry 
may be found as large, and of a much finer flavour, 
than the garden fruit. 

The elderberry is principally used to form the 
staple of a highly spiced wine, which used to be 
much valued as a winter beverage. That it supplies 
a grateful way of swallowing the aromatics, is, per- 
haps, the most that can be said in its favour. The 
acidity of the fresh fruit is due to malic add. The 
fresh fruit, moreover, contarns a purgative principle, 
which is apt to nauseate the stomach, if the fruit be 
eaten in substance. From half an ounce to an ounce 
of the juice, is said to be a moderate purgative. 



DBIED FBX7IT8.—- FIGS^ &C. 209 

This aperient quality is^ for the most part^ lost, in 
the process of fermentation, and is not fomid in the 
elderberry wine. The flowers of the elder are noted 
for affording an agreeable aromatic flavour, like that 
of the Frontignac grape, which they yield in distina- 
tion to water, or impart by infusion to vinous and 
spirituous liquors, and to oils. 

Of the cloudberry we know very little in this 
country ; it being chiefly remarkable for its rarity, 
and the extreme beauty and lustrous character of 
its colour. Its name implies its attachment to ele- 
vated and exposed situations. It is said to be of 
much value and importance in Sweden and Norway ; 
being, indeed, in those countries, an article of ex- 
tensive commerce, and a much used and important 
fruit. 

The foreign dried fruits are of much and increasing 
importance. They are principally the fig, the raisin, 
the so called currant, and the plum. They generally 
acquire sweetness, and lose acidity, during the drying. 

Dried figs contain, besides the sugar, a considerable 
proportion of farinaceous or mucilaginous matter. 
In former times, among the Hebrews, the Greeks, 
and even the Romans, the fresh fig was an impor- 
tant article of diet to the population; and it appears, 
from its easy cultivation, great fruitfrdness, the wide 
range of latitude in which it flourishes, and from the 
double or even treble crops of fruit which it yields 
every year, to be well suited to occupy so large and 
important a position. As in the case of many others 
of the farinaQjeous fruits, the cultivation of the dif- 



210 RAISINS^ &C. 

ferent plants belonging to the CereaHa has mucli 
circumscribed^ and considerably lowered, the impor- 
tance of the fig as an article of food, even in the 
countries where it thrives most luxuriantly and easily. 
As regards the dried fruit, it is considered to possess 
aperient properties, which are chiefly to be attributed 
to the mechanical action of the insoluble seeds and 
skin upon the bowels ; and these necessarily render 
it liable to irritate and derange the digestive organs, 
where the mucous membrane is irritable, or mor- 
bidly sensitive. 

The raisin, or dried grape, is usually rather more 
acid, somewhat less saccharine, and decidedly less 
mucilaginous, than the dried fig. When recently 
dried, they are more easily digested, than when 
kept a longer time ; but the insolubility of the skins 
makes them objectionable to the dyspeptic, whe- 
ther eaten alone, or mixed with puddings, or with 
bread. The same remark applies, in some degree, to 
the dried currant8,-wUch are, more strictly speak- 
ing, a small seedless variety of grape. But the 
objection to these is less strong, inasmuch as the 
skins of the dried currants are thinner, and by so 
much less apt to irritated The dried plum is more 
viscid than any of the others, and by so much less 
digestible than they are. 

The dried fruits are so generally considered to 
be comparatively easily digested and harmless, and 
consequently are so apt to be eaten by invalids and 
dyspeptics, that the necessary insolubility of the 
skins, — ^the objectionableness of some on account of 



FRESSBVED FBUITS. 211 

the seedsy and of others on account of the Tis- 
ddity^ — ^require to be fuUy impressed on the mind, 
and steadily enforced. Dried currants or plums 
ought seldom^ if ever, to be eaten by the invalid^ or 
to be put into his pudding or his bread; and yet 
this is a common practice, to add to the palatabiHty 
of either ; or, in the case of bread, to form what is 
erroneously supposed to be a harmless substitute, 
when the dyspeptic finds himself obliged to refrain 
from the use of butter. 

For the same reason, if the preserved fruits are 
to be allowed to the sick or the dyspeptic (a practice, 
by the way, that is by no means always judicious), 
it is well to prefer jelly, or the juice and pulp made 
into a confection with sugar, to jam, in which the 
skin and seeds are likewise present. Preserved fruits 
may be objectionable, on account of the large quan- 
tity of sugar they contain, or on account of their 
acidity, or from the viscid character of the fruit 
they are made from. Probably the most grate- 
tul and wholesome of them all is the marmalade, 
made from the bitter orange, — especially when made 
of sugar and the juice of the orange, with an ir^fimon 
of the rind, — ^the rind itself not being used. This is 
sometimes usefrdly allowed as a substitute for butter, 
and without disadvantage or inconvenience: the 
aromatic bitter probably soothing, and giving some 
degree of tone to the stomach. But this, and all the 
varieties of preserved fruits, are improper for the 
seriously afflicted dyspeptic or invalid. 



212 TBGBTABLB PEINCIPLES. 

The leaf-ttalks of lirabarb^ firom their character, 
and the mode of naiiig them, ahoiild be considered 
nnder the same head as firoita; in treating of dieteticB. 
When stewed or baked, they^ form a yery gratefbl, 
and generally a soflBcimtly digestible article of food. 
They are lightly add, and aqneons, — haYing little 
sweetness or viscidity. The medicinal species of 
ihnbarb is coltiyated by some people, on account of 
the more laxative properties of its leaf-stalks, — 
which are nsed by them, as those of the more com- 
monly CDltivated species are by the generality of 
people. These leaf-stalks are not so palatable as 
those of the common rhubarb ; but they are not 
decidedly unpleasant to the taste; and their use in 
some habits of body is not unattended with benefit. 



VEGETABLE PRINCIPLES. 
1. Slazch. 2. Gmn. 3. Sogiff.t 4. OiLf 

These are, severally, of much importance, firom 
being so extensively used as articles of diet in their 
separate forms, as well as firom constituting the 
greater part or bulk of the nutrimentary portions of 
the different vegetable productions, which are used 
as food. They are characterised by great similarity 
of composition, — ^by the ready conversion of either 
starch or gum into sugar, — ^and by their being non- 
azotised articles of food, and therefore ministering 
exclusively to the respiratory wants of the animal 
system. The composition of starch (carbon 1 2, hydro- 



STARCH. 213 

gen 10, oxygen 10,) differs very little from that of 
gum (carbon 12, hydrogen 11, oxygen 11) ; and the 
analysis of gum gives precisely the same results as 
that of cane sugar. The ready conversion of starch 
and gum into sugar, finds from this a ready explana- 
tion. The much greater difficulty with which sugar 
is digested and assimilated, is not so easily explicable ; 
although it may admit of an approximative explana- 
tion. 

Starch is diffused universally throughout the vege- 
table kingdom. It occurs in seeds, as in those of 
the Cerealia and of the Leguminosse, — ^in roots, as 
the potato, turnip, &c., — ^in pith, as that of the Sagus 
Bumphii (sago), — and in fruits, as the apple, fig, &c. 

Starch is chiefly obtained from wheat-flour (com- 
mon stardi) ; from the tubers of the potato (potato- 
starch); from the root of the Jatropha manihot 
(tapioca); from that of the Maranta anmdinacea 
(arrow-root) ; from that of the Orchis mascula (salep) ; 
and from the pith of the Sagus farinifera Bumphii 
(sago). The whole of these varieties differ in no 
great degree from one another, either in composition, 
digestibility, or nutritive qualities. Starch is formed 
in granules, having the appearance of minute par- 
ticles, even to the naked eye ; and which microscopic 
examination shows to be small rounded bodies, having 
no trace of crystallisation. The size of these gra- 
nules is evidently determined by that of the organised 
cells in which they are formed, — varying in different 
plants; the granules being largest in the starch 
obtained from the potato, — much smaller in that from 



214 STARCH. 

the Leguminosse^ — ^those firoih the Cerealia being the 
smallest. These granules are not affected by being 
immersed in cold water. Each grannie appears to 
be secreted in a semi-fluid state ; the excess of water 
being afterwards removed. The granule is covered by 
a smooth integument, which is less readily soluble 
than the contents. Starch yields a certain propor- 
tion of phosphatic salts, on destructive analysis; 
which appear to be the chief, if not the sole, appre- 
ciable difference in chemical composition, between 
starch and sugar; the great difference between them 
being possibly referable to some polarising influence of 
the adventitious salts, on the arrangement of the 
atomic molecules with reference to one another. 
When heated with water, the integuments of the 
particles are influenced and softened; the granules 
swell ; and a mucilage or viscid mass is formed. If 
free iodine be added to the mixture of starch and 
water, a deep-blue colour is formed, — supposed to be 
owing to a mechanical division of the iodine, and its 
adherence to the particles of starch, in the same way 
as a dye-stuff adheres to cloth. If the mucilage 
formed by the mixture of starch with boiling water, 
be heated with any substance containing nitrogen, 
and in a decomposing condition, — or, in fact, with its 
molecules in a state of change or of movement, such 
as a strong infusion of malt, — ^the starch undergoes a 
further and greater change, the particles are broken 
up, and the resulting product, now called dextrme^ 
no longer gives the peculiar blue colour on the addi- 
tion of free iodine ; and dextrine resembles gum in 



STARCH. 215 

its appearance^ differing from it^ howeyer^ in the 
r^narkable facility with which it is converted into 
sugar. Whether the dextrine be virtually pre-exist- 
ent in the grannies of starchy and detached by the 
bursting of the less soluble integumentary matter, 
may be a doubtful, but is probably an unimportant 
question. The rupture of the granules, and the 
change of the physical and chemical characters, are 
interesting results of the addition of a nitrogenised 
and fermentative matter, — ^results which are aided by 
pressure, or other mechanical means of breaking 
down the grains ; and the consequent and remarkable 
convertibility of starch into other forms, is a pheno- 
menon which helps to illustrate, in an important 
degree, not only the processes by which fermentation 
produces such great changes out of the body, but 
those by which the action of the saliva, and that of the 
proper gastric juice, may subserve the great purposes 
of converting the different alimentary matters into 
a chyme, that is suitable for the nutrition of the body. 
Starch, gum, and sugar, are all essentially composed 
of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen; the two latter 
constituents being probably in the proportions neces- 
sary to form water, although the relative quantities 
of these and carbon vary considerably in these dif- 
ferent vegetable products. And, indeed, the different 
varieties of starch contain different proportionals of 
the hydrogen and oxygen; or as it may be said, for the 
sake of intelligibility, of constituent water : that is, 
of water which cannot be detached from the substance 
without destroying it altogether. For starch con- 

l2 



216 STARCH. 

tainB^ firom whatever source obtained, a large quantity 
of water, which is not essential to its composition, 
and may be driven off, by a carefully managed 
and moderate degree of heat, without injury to it. 
Independently of this adventitious water, the proper* 
tion of component water (or of oxygen and hydrogen), 
that is in union with carbon, varies much, in the 
different modifications of this important vegetable 
principle ; and the starch is said, in the language of 
Dr. Prout, to be stronger or weaker , accordingly : 
the interesting result being, that the weaker the form 
of starch, or the more of component water and the 
less of carbon it contains, the more easily it is 
digested. Arrow-root is at once the weakest and the 
most easily digested form of starch. The same 
curious and interesting fSetct will have to be noticed, 
when speaking of the varieties of sugar : the weaker, 
^)r more aqueous, the form of sugar, or the less the 
proportion of carbon, the more easily it is digested, 
and the less definitely crystalline its character; — 
crystallisation being a characteristic of inoi^anic, 
and not of organised matter ; and one which shows 
the substance to be less assimilable, and with more 
difficulty made to enter into the composition of the 
living organism. And these facts are admirably cited 
by Dr. Prout, in illustration of one of his great posi- 
tions : that aprimary step in a^simiktion is to reduce 
the food in chemical character, by the addition of 
component water to the molecules, and so prepare it 
for the vitalising influence of the assimilating organs, 
— bringing the molecules more within the influence 



ARROW-ROOT. — SAGO. 217 

of modifymg agencies^ and remoTing them from that 
of their affinity for one another. Oleaginous sub- 
stances iUustrate the same interesting position ; con- 
taining^ as they do^ a large proportion of carbon^ they 
are with difficulty assimilated^ unless the system is in 
circumstances to require, and expend, a large pro- 
portion of carbon ; and they are relatiyely digestible, 
very much according to the degree in which the pro- 
portion of water is greater than that of the carbon, 
or as the oil is weaker or more strong. 

Arrow-root is obtained chiefly from the root of 
the Maranta arundinacea. The roots are crushed 
and reduced to a pulp, the fibrous parts separated 
and thrown away, and the starchy particles mixed 
with water, and repeatedly washed, and allowed to 
suboide, the water being drained off; the arrow-root 
being eyentually dried in the sunshine, upon cloths, 
and being then fit for use. It is an article of much 
value ; and more peculiarly so, firom its ready digesti- 
bility, and little likelihood to irritate the digestive 
organs, or tax them unduly for its assimilation. It 
is, of course, by no means a substitute for the azo- 
tised articles of food : and can never be more than 
an auxiliary to them, in the nutrition of the body ; 
or more than a respiratory aliment. 

Sago, obtained fix)m the pith of the Sagus &rinifera, 
is an important and grateful form of the amylaceous 
principle. Growing wild and without culture in 
congenial climates, attaining a considerable height 
and girth, having a large central pith mainly 
composed of starch, the Sagus fisainifera furnishes the 



21 8 TAPIOCA. SALEF. 

staple food of the population of some parts of the 
world. A single tree is said to yield from two to 
four hundred weight of the starch. The farina is 
brought into the granulated state in which it is sent 
to Europe, by being moistened, and passed through 
a sieve, into an iron pot, held over a fire. To this 
]Kurtial cooking, the easy preservation of the granu- 
lated sago is said to be owing; the powder when 
uncooked, turning sour very soon. 

Tapioca, obtained from the root of the Jatropha 
manihot, is a palatable and easily digested form of 
starch. The root is said to be peeled, then ground 
or grated; the pulp being separated from the juice, 
which is poisonous, by pressure in bags ; the farina 
being then baked, on a hot hearth, or an iron plate. 

Salep, chiefly the produce of the Orchis mascula, 
is obtained from the root of the plant, which is 
cleaned, peeled, baked, and dried. It contains a 
gummy matter, which is probably peculiar to it, and 
to the viscidity of which it seems to have been 
indebted for the reputation it used to enjoy, of 
being more nutritious than the other forms of 
starch. 

Gum is an abundant and important vegetable pro- 
duct, although not by any means so much so as 
starch. Almost identical with starch in chemical 
composition, it differs from it in not being formed in 
granules, or not having its particles contained in 
capsular integuments, and in being therefore soluble 
in cold water. Pure gum yields 2 or S per cent, of 
earthy matter, consisting chiefly of carbonate of lime; 



GUM. — LINS££D. ICELAND MOSS. 219 

and in this respect chiefly^ differing from starch on 
the one hand^ and sugar on the other. The less pure 
gum^ as that obtained &om Hnseed^ is said to leave 
11 per cent, of ashes^ which are chiefly composed of 
lime^ either in the state of phosphate or in that of 
carbonate. Like starchy gum is readily convertible^ 
by long boiling with diluted sulphuric acid^ into the 
weaker form of sugar, or grape sugar. 

The purest form of gum is obtained firom a species 
of Acacia. It exudes naturally from the bark of the 
trunk and branches of the tree, in a nearly fluid state, 
and hardens without losing its traiisparency. This 
— the gum Arabic of commerce — ^is of little import- 
ance in the question of diet, probably on account of 
its cost; although it is much used as a demulcent 
for medicinal pTirposes, and affords a bland and easily 
digested article of food. 

A cheaper, but much less pure, form of mucilage, 
is found in linseed, — ^the seed of the Linum usitatissi- 
mum — ^the common flax. By expression, the seeds 
yield one-sixth part of their weight of fixed oil; and 
they contain, moreover, a principle, which is in- 
soluble in water, and resembles the substance called 
Bassorine — ^the chief and essential ingredient of gum 
tragacanth. If boiled in water, the seeds yield some 
of the oil, as well as the purer gum ; and hence the 
decoction differs from the infusion of linseed, in being 
more or less oleaginous. 

Thelceland moss, the plant of the Cetraria islandica, 
yields to water a large proportion of mucilaginous 
matter ; which, however, is not, strictly speaking, a 



220 SUGAB. 

gum, but rather resembles a mucilaginous substance 
that is obtained from the root of the Inula helenium 
(Elecampane root), and hence called Inulin. Besides 
the mucilage, of which it seems to yield at least 40 
per cent., Iceland moss contains 3 per cent, of a bitter 
principle, which may be separated, in a great degree, 
by boiling the plant for a short time, after macerating 
it in several portions of cold water, — ^the boiling 
water being poured ofip, and the mucilage being 
obtained by a much longer decoction. The bitter 
principle, however, may or may not be objectionable, 
according to circumstances. Of course, if simply 
used as an article of food, the bitter principle is 
advisably extracted and separated, as far as possible. 
There is another species, sold as Irish moss, which 
does not contain the bitter principle, and may or may 
not be preferred on that account. Both kinds are 
chiefly used by invalids, and for the sake of their 
demulcent qualities. 

Besides the sugar of milk, already taken notice of 
(p. 118), there are two principal varieties of sugar, 
which differ from one another, in au important 
degree, iu their chemical characters, and somewhat 
even in their composition. They are cane-sugar and 
grape-sugar. 

Cane-sugar is obtained from the sugar-cane, from 
beet-root, from the maple, &;c. 

When the sugar-canes have attained a certain 
height and age, the cuticle having become smooth, 
dry, and brittle, they are cut, stripped of their 
leaves, and crushed between rollers to express the 



CANE-SUGAR. 221 

juice^ which is mixed Tnth lime^ to saponify^ and 
render more liquid and separable^ the molasses, or 
liquid and uncrystallisable sugar^ commonly called 
treacle. The juice is now heated to the temperature 
of 140^^ and separated from the scum^ and again 
heated several tunes^ and at length allowed to drain^ 
for the separation of the molasses^ and the crystal- 
lisation of the sugar. The raw sugar thus formed 
is again purified^ by being dissolved in lime-water^ 
jnixed with bullock's blood: the one serving still 
more to separate the molasses^ — ^the other^ by the 
coagulation of the albumen^ effecting the clarifica- 
tion^ and mechanical separation of any foreign 
insoluble matters. Reduced to a certain syrupy 
consistence^ the sugar is poured into moulds^ and 
agitated for a certain time, to prevent the formation 
of lar&^e crystallisations, and secure a compact mass 
of clL/adherent, siLdl, and glistenJg grains; 
the quality of the sugar depending greatly on the 
lowness of the temperature, at which the boiling has 
been effected. Sugar is obtained and refined by the 
same processes, from the sap of the Acer saccha- 
rinum, or sugar maple, and from beet-root. When 
the refined sugar is left to crystallise slowly, at a 
somewhat elevated temperature, sugar-candy is 
formed ; or if the melted and viscid mass is left 
to cool more quickly, a transparent solid form is 
obtained, known as barley-sugar. 

The other variety of sugar^ called grape-sugar, 
from existing in the juice of grapes, and many other 
fruits^ is likewise contained in honey^ and is the 

l3 



iii GRAPB-SUOAR. 

product of the fennentatioii of starch and of gum ; 
and even cane-sugar is reduced to this form of 
saccharine matter^ when subjected to the action of a 
ferment^ — ^and ia probably likewise so reduced before 
it can be assimilated by the digestive organs. 

Grape-sugar is essentially a weaker form of sugar 
than cane-sugar : that is, according to the view of 
Dr. Front, contains a larger proportion of com- 
ponent water. The composition of cane-sugar being 
stated as, carbon 12, hydrogen 9, oxygen 9, + £ 
hydrogen and oxygen, — that of grape-sugar is, 
carbon 12, hydrogen 11, oxygen 11, -f- 3 hydrogen 
and oxygen, — containing, accordingly, so much 
more of combined water. Grape-sugar contains 
about 7 per cent, more of component water than 
cane-sugar. By boiling with diluted sulphuric acid, 
cane-sugar is converted into grape-sugar. 

The three varieties of sugar differ very much from 
one another, as to the degree of their solubility in 
water: cane-sugar dissolves in one-third of its 
weight of cold water, and in any quantity of boiling 
water ; grape-sugar likewise dissolves in any quan- 
ity of boiling water, but requires one and a-half 
times its weight of cold water for its solution ; and 
sugar of milk requires five or six times its weight of 
cold water, and two and a-half times its weight of 
boiling water, to dissolve it. 

Grape-sugar is much less sweet to the taste than 
cane-sugar; and its syrup is not nearly so viscid. 
Although cane-sugar is so easily converted into 
grape-sugar, and although the formula of their 



OBAFE-SUOAR. 2^3 

composition only show a difference in the number 
of the equivalents of component water^ they differ 
very much from one another in their chemical pro- 
perties. The strong mineral acids immediately 
decompose cane-sugar^ but appear to have little 
effect on grape-sugar. On the other hand^ the 
effect of alkalies^ although Httle on cane sugar^ is 
of a marked and decided character on grape-sugar : 
converting it into dark-coloured compounds. Even 
when vegetable juices containing cane-sugar are 
evaporated^ the presence of organic adds in such 
juices causes the cane-sugar to be more or less 
converted into grape-sugar; aud then, when lime 
is added, to clarify the juice, the action of the lime 
is to produce melassic acid, — ^making the sugar so 
&r dark and uncrystallisable, and converting it in 
the same degree into molasses. This loss has to 
be avoided, by carefiilly neutralising the lime with 
sulphuric add, as soon as it has answered its purpose 
of clarifying the sugar. 

To obtain grape-sugar from starch, one part of 
starch is boiled with four parts of water, acidulated 
with sulphuric add to a certain minimum or maxi- 
mmn degree, for thirty or forty hours; the acid 
is then neutralised with chalk, and the solution 
of sugar filtered from the little soluble sulphate of 
lime, and evaporated. In the process, the starch 
combines with four equivalents of water; so that 
there should be about a fifth greater weight of 
sugar obtained, than that of the starch employed. 
By the same means, grape-sugar may be obtained 



224 CRT8TALLI8ABLE ALIMENTS. 

from cane-sugar, or even from woody fibre, or from 
the third variety of sugar — sugar of milk; cane- 
sugar requiring three equivalents of water; woody 
fibre, six equivalents; and sugar of milk, two 
equivalents, for their conversion. The same result 
is produced, and much more quickly, by adding to 
starch, infusion of malt, — containing as it does, 
diastase, so often mentioned as a peculiar substance, 
in a state of movement, decomposition, or change ,- 
the result being probably due to a true fermentation. 

The third variety of sugar, the sugar of milk, has 
already been alluded to. like grape-sugar, it is 
susceptible of vinous fermentation, whether con- 
verted in the first instance into grape-sugar, or not. 

On the principle of being crystallisable, and there- 
fore as far as possible removed from the influence of 
organisation, and, as nearly as may be, assimilated 
in properties to those of inorganic matter, sugar 
might be supposed, d priori^ to be digested with 
some difficulty. K to this, the preliminary step of 
reduction to a weaker sugar, in the case of cane- 
sugar, be added, the reason why sugar is so apt to 
derange and over-task the digestion, may appear to 
be sufficiently explained. But whether this be 
granted or not, sugar in its pure state is by no means 
easily digested; although it is probably sufficiently 
easy of digestion, when diluted and mixed with the 
juices, &c., of the plants from which it is obtained. 
As far as frimishing a supply of the respiratory car- 
bon, and for the renewal of the fatty tissue, sugar 
is a nutritious article of food, if the condition of its 



UNMIXED ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 225 

being digested be secured. It can by no means^ 
however^ be sufficient to sustain existence^ without 
some azotised article of diet. 

It is a doctrine of sufficient dietetic importance to 
justify repetition again and again^ that^ with few 
exceptions^ the digestion and assimilation of pure 
substances^ or separated yegetable principles^ is more 
difficult than that of these same principles^ when 
combined with other vegetable matters^ as they exist 
in the juices^ See., of plants^ or when less altered from 
the state in which they exist naturally. Pure sugar 
is unquestionably less easily digested than honey^ 
this than whey or other simple and natural forms of 
the saccharine principle^ this than the unciystallisable 
form of the amylaceous principle — starch. 

Even in the case of starchy simple and Uttle 
irritating as it usually is, and readily enough di- 
gested, the weaker form of arrow-root is certainly 
more easily digested than the stronger starch, ob- 
tained from wheat flour; and even arrow-root is 
often found to be less easily digested, by people of 
very feeble digestion, than the farina of many of the 
grains, in which the starch is diluted and combined 
with other vegetable principles. Casein and butter, 
generally sufficiently digestible, when in the natural, 
weak, and mixed state of milk, are with much more 
difficulty assimilated when separated from it. And 
yet, even butter, although a fatty, and a highly 
oleaginous matter, is not a pure oil, but consists of 
certain mixed fatty matters, in combination with 
several organic acids and casein ; and butter is, pro- 



226 TKKACLE. HONET. 

bably in the same pioportioii as it is a leas pore 
okagiiioas matter, more easQy digested than pnie 
oil. The same principle holds good in ahnost every 
example that the articles of diet afford, and is well 
worthy of being held to be of much practical import- 
ance: for instance, the sq>aratedoi^aiiic acids are de- 
cidedly more likely to derange the digestive oi^ans, 
than the same acids when in combination with other 
matters, in the fimits, &c., firom which they are ob- 
tained. This view may assist in the explanation of 
the effect, that the weak form of the oily principle, 
alcohol, has upon the digestive organs ; and it may 
help to explain the long observed difference between 
the effect on the assimilating and expending organs 
of the body, of the mixed and less pure forms of 
alcohol, as existing in wine and beer, and that of the 
pnrer and stronger alcohol, obtained firom these by 
distillation, and used as brandy, whiskey, &c. 

Molasses or treacle, the uncrystaUisable portion of 
sugar, contains more component water, and is tdore 
easily digested, than sugar. It is usually somewhat 
laxative in its effects ; and when su£5.ciently so, this 
property often corrects any ill effects on the system 
it might otherwise have. It is still, nevertheless, 
saccharine matter, and is still apt to irritate the 
digestive organs^ and by so much to interfere with, 
and derange the processes of, ultimate assimilation. 

Honey is likewise a weak form of sugar. It is^ 
moreover, a compound substance: containing aro- 
matics, and acids, &c. ; and having even more of the 
laxative property than treacle, is still less apt than 



DIGESTION OF AMYLACEOUS ALIMENTS. ^7 

treacle to interfere with the assimilating processes. 
It is probably digested more easily^ when only im- 
perfectly freed from the wax of the comb^ than when 
quite pure. In most cases^ the more aromatic the 
honey^ the more easily it is digested. Honey is 
said to consist of a mixture of cane and grape sugars^ 
with the addition of mucilage, wax, and essential oil. 
It is probable, that this comparatively weak form of 
saccharine matter, rapidly and easily undergoes such 
chemical changes, as leads to the partial conversion 
of the one form of sugar into the other. Like trea- 
cle, honey often acts as a laxative, and to a greater 
degree. But, like all other concentrated forms of 
saccharine matter, the digestibihty of honey is only 
a comparative question; and although honey may 
be much less apt to derange the functions of assi- 
milation than cane sugar or treacle, it is neverthe- 
less by no means easily digested, when the stomach 
is either weakened, or otherwise less equal to its 
duties j and should always be used cautiously by the 
dyspeptic, if used at all by them. 

The cloying effect on the palate and appetite of 
all the purer forms of the amylaceous principle, 
showing their less adaptabihty to the influence of 
the saliva, and to the susceptibihty of the mucous 
membrane, is a primary indication of their compa- 
rative unsuitableness for staple articles of food; an 
effect which is diminished, in direct proportion as 
these non-azotised articles of diet are in a less crys- 
tallisable form, and in direct proportion as they are 
less pure, and more diluted with azotised and earthy 



228 DIGESTION OF AMTLACEOUS ALIMENTS. 

matters. Even the different forms of starcli made 
use of as food^ although useful from proTing so little, 
irritating to the organs of assimiktion during their 
passage through the stomach aud bowels, — and even 
so little irritating in some cases, where they prove to 
be in a great degree indigestible, passing through 
the bowels and out of the system without having 
undergone any appreciable degree of change,— are 
not to be considered as being digestible in the same 
proportion as they prove to be little irritating, nor is 
their occasioning little or no sensible inconvenience, 
or dyspeptic symptoms, to be considered, as in any 
degree marking their suitableness to the assimilating 
powers of the digestive organs, or their capability of 
being converted into respiratory carbon, or into the 
adipose tissue of the system. 

I cannot help believing, that this has been a 
frequent source of error. There is no doubt, that 
all the forms of the amylaceous principle, if capable 
of being digested, are largely useful to the economy, 
in supplying the carbon required for the purposes 
of respiration, — and in supplying the adipose matter 
of the body, which is essential for so many of its 
wants and processes, and is capable besides of prov- 
ing a reservoir for the respiratory carbon, into which 
it may at any time be converted, to meet the wants 
of the economy. The whole question, of course, 
rests on the non-azotised articles of food being 
digested ; and the probabilities of this are less, in the 
same proportion as they are pure, — ^unmixed with 
the azotised articles of diet. To this, in the case of 



ASSIMILATION OF StTGAB. 229 

the saccharine variety of the amylaceous principle^ 
has to be added their directly irritating e£fect on 
the prinuB via, if the assimilating functions are not 
equal to their conversion into chyle. 

The digestibility of sugar^ and its chance of irri- 
tating and deranging the digestive processes, by no 
means cease to be interesting when it has passed the 
stomach, or even when it has partially undergone 
what has been called the second stage of the digestive 
process. Saccharine matter is still apt to occasion 
irritation, to lead to the secretion of an abnormal 
quantity of acid matter from the stomach and bowels, 
to rob the system of alkaline matter for the neutral- 
isation of the excessive or morbid product, and thus 
to derange the ultimate processes of restoration and 
waste in the economy, and give rise to various forms 
of disease. \ 

The difficulty with which sugar is assimilated, is 
not affected, or not affected materially, by mixing it 
artificially with other articles of food. It is still cane- 
sugar, has still to be converted into the weaker form 
of saccharine matter before it can be digested, is still 
crystaDisable, and is still a pure vegetable substance, 
and as such is still as foreign as may be to the con- 
stitution of the animal organism. Although honey 
is so much more easily assimilated than cane-sugar, 
and is so by virtue of containing a larger proportion 
of combined water, this water is in a state of che- 
mical union with the other constituents, and cannot 
by any of our processes be separated from them, 
without total destruction to the honey. On the 



280 OLIVE OIL. VINEGAR. 

other handy mix and dilute sugar as we may with 
other articles of food^ or with water^ the sugar is 
readily separated from them again^ and reproduced 
in its pure and crystallised form. We can separate 
the starch from the fibrin of the wheaten-flour, and 
obtain a product^ which^ although less easily assiini- 
lated than flour^ is likewise less likely to irritate the 
stomach and bowels; but we cannot combine the 
starch and the vegetable fibrin, to form the wheaten- 
flour again. In the natural state, the vegetable prin- 
ciples are mixed and diluted with one another ; and 
are, moreover, diluted and weakened, by having a 
larger or smaUer proportion of combined water ; and 
are thus in a state to be more easily assimilated, 
than they are found to be in the purer states, in 
which they have been separated by means of art. 

Olive oil, so much used in continental cookery, is 
another important illustration of this fact. Although 
probably only inferior to fresh butter in digestibility, 
when compared to any other form of oleaginous mat- 
ter, oUve oil is, nevertheless, too much used in foreign 
cookery, to render their dishes as easily digested, on 
the whole, as our own are found to be ; notwithstand- 
ing their admirable concoctions, and reduction of 
food to gravies and jellies, and the little labour of 
solution left; for the gastric secretions to perform. 

Vinegar, another form of the crystallisable articles 
of diet, is likewise digested with difficulty, and apt to 
derange the functions of assimilation, and so &r to 
interrupt, or retard, the digestion of other articles of 
food, or to disturb the ultimate processes of expendi- 



VINEOAR. CONDIMENTS. 231 

tore and restoration in the economy ; and yet there 
is no doubt^ that the less pure form of acetic acid 
oflFered in the vinegar made from wine, is more easily 
digested in itself, and is less apt to inconvenience the 
economy of the system, than the purer form of acetic 
acid obtained from the distillation of wood, or by other 
means. The true theory of the conversion of wine or 
beer, or rather of the alcohol contained in them, into 
vinegar, appears to be that of a slow combustion of 
the alcohol, either by means of the ferment contained 
in those liquids, or, in the case of pure alcohol, by the 
addition of a ferment, or substance containing azote, 
and in a state of movement or change, and the con- 
sequent addition to the atomic constitution of so 
much more oxygen. The effect of vinegar upon the 
digestive organs, is, however, infinitely different 
under different circumstances. In the case of the 
food being oleaginous, to an important degree, there 
is no doubt that vinegar promotes its digestion, and 
to a very considerable extent ; and under such cir- 
cumstances is desirably made use of. And again, in 
the case of the food being of putrescent character, 
there is equally little doubt that vinegar answers an 
important purpose, by virtue of its action as an anti- 
septic, in diminishing or averting danger to the eco- 
nomy ; although, possibly, by no means to the extent, 
that this important purpose is answered by citric add. 
Of the condiments generally, to which class 
vinegar may very fairly be considered to belong, salt 
is the most important, and indeed essential, to the 
economy. By virtue of its chlorine, this important 



2S2 SALT. 

substance largely promotes the functions of the 
stomach and bowels in assimilating the food; by 
virtue of its soda, it greatly gubsenres the uses of the 
bile in the economy ; and in every way, its action,— 
whether by means of its separated constituents, or in 
its combined state, serving probably to maintain the 
blood in its singularly compound and yet homo- 
geneous condition, — ^is shown to be great, on all the 
functions and conditions of the body. There can be 
no question, however, that even salt may be too 
much or too little used in the food : that in the one 
case, the tissues and the expending organs are too 
much stimulated; in the other case, the system is 
unduly, and not without serious risk, deprived of that 
agent, by which so large a share ia performed in the 
nutrition of the body ; and which in itself, by its 
ultimate elimination from the body in the several 
excretions, probably serves to keep up the action of 
the excreting organs, and promotes the disintegra- 
tion and throwing off of the effete matters, no longer 
fitted for the purposes of the economy, and which 
could not be retained without injury. The less 
readily assimilated the articles may be, and the 
less of saline matter contained in them, the more 
essential is salt as a part of the diet ; and hence the 
oleaginous articles of food, and the purer forms of 
the amylaceous principle, when largely used as the 
means of nutrition, require usually more salt to 
be eaten with them, than the more ordinary and 
less pure forms of vegetable or even animal diet. 
And yet animal diet of any kind, probably from its 



SPICES. 288 

putrescent tendency;, if not mixed with vegetable food 
in sufficient proportion^ is found to require a large 
mixture of salt with it, for the maintenance of health 
and strength. 

The various spices are more or less important to 
the food of man, in proportion to the circumstances 
in which he is placed. They seem to be more im- 
portant in warm climates, or under circumstances 
calculated to relax and depress the powers of the 
system. They all depend for their effects on the 
presence of peculiar essential and volatile oils, which 
differ from other essential oils, as oil of turpentine, 
in containing a small proportion of oxygen. The 
plants which yield these stimulating additions to our 
articles of food, are all the growth of tropical coun- 
tries. The spices are conveniently divided into 
those which are simply hot and acrid, and those 
which have a sweet and aromatic flavour besides. 
The simply acrid spices are probably less apt to 
derange the economy than the aromatic spices. 
Common pepper, the seed of the Piper nigrum, and 
cayenne pepper, the pod of a species of Capsicum, are 
the principal examples of the simple or merely acrid 
spices used in this country. The other spices are 
probably more likely to agree, as they have less 
sweetness and aroma, in addition to the acridity. 
They are all, no doubt, valuable as well as palatable 
additions to the articles of food, promoting digestion 
directly by their action as stimulants, and indirectly 
by ministering to the palate. They are, however, 
on this account liable to be too much made use of. 



284 SPICES. 

and are, beyond question^ nsed unduly ; and more 
especially in cold and dry districts^ in which the risk 
of over stimulating the system is greater, than in hot 
or humid, and therefore relaxing localities. These, 
and aU stimulants, excite for a time: rousing the 
organs into greater activity, increasing the amount of 
the secretions, and temporarily augmenting the 
organic powers, and especially those of the stomach. 
But languor and exhaustion are ahnost sure to foUow 
6ven a single instance of their immoderate use ; and 
taken habitually, they are certain to produce, in- 
directly, debility, and weakened action of the several 
fdnctions, — ^particularly, and usually in the first place, 
of those of the stomach. They should be used, 
therefore, with much moderation. Exciting, in the 
first instance, the action of the stomach, and tempo- 
rarily increasing its powers, their ultimate effect is 
to weaken and impair its fanctions. 

Carraway seeds, obtained from the Carum carui, 
perhaps deserve to be pointedly mentioned, on 
account of their grateftd effect on many dyspeptic 
stomachs. They are probably little liable to abuse, 
and form a palatable and not unwholesome addition 
to the invaUd's bread or biscuit. 

The use of spices and condiments, however, of all 
kinds, salt alone excepted, should be moderate and 
careful. The more deranged the processes of assimi- 
lation, the greater the morbid sensitiveness of the 
stomacl;!, the more acrid and morbid the gastric 
secretions, the more likely are aU the carminatives 
to be injurious. In the atonic state of the digestive 



PICKLES. — SEASONING HERBS. 2SS 

organs^ whether engendered by hot climates or other- 
wise^ their use is, no doubt, of some occasional 
service; but they are apt in the end to add to the 
evil, by leaving additional real debility as a conse- 
quence of the artificial stimulation, and should be 
made use of accordingly with as much moderation as 
may be. 

Pickles are liable to whatever objections may be com- 
bined under the several heads of vegetables, vinegar, 
and spices. They may be sometimes needful stimu- 
lants, and valuable antiseptics; they are more usually 
provocatives to appetite, and unwisely stimulating to 
the digestive organs; probably often occasioning the 
formation of an imperfectly assimilated chyme, 
causing the ingesta to be propelled in a somewhat 
crude state into the bowels, and eventually deranging 
the ultimate assimilation, although possibly facili- 
tating the primary processes of digestion. 

Unless for the sake of completeness, the seasoning 
herbs might seem to be almost unnecessarily men- 
tioned. Used, in general, in too small a quantity, to 
make their digestion a matter of much importance, — 
containing, moreover, sufficient of the aromatic prin- 
ciple to secure their own assimilation, in most cases, — 
and yet being too weakly acrid and aromatic to have 
much stimulating effect, — they need seldom be for- 
bidden in the broth, soup, or pottage, prepared for 
invalids, and are not in themselves for other reasons 
objectionable. Parsley, horse-radish, the three 
species of mint, thyme, sage, marjoram, balm, &;c., 
the more important, and more commonly used of 



236 TBA. COFPEE. COCOA. 

these herbs, are all, in themselyes, in most cases, 
sufficiently unobjectionable, unless in cases of idiosyn- 
crasy. If mixed with less digestible substances, as 
in the caseof all the yarious forms of what cooks are 
pleased to call stuffing, they are to be forbidden to 
invalids and dyspeptics, as interfering with the di- 
gestion of other viands, in an important degree. 
Some of these are probably too much neglected in 
these days; and perhaps especially parsley, balm, 
and the mints; — affording, as they may often do^ 
grateful, and not seldom very useful beverages to 
invalids, — and at all events affording a palatable 
medium, by which a large amount of diluent matter 
may, under some circumstances, be introduced into 
the system, with much advantage. 

1. Tea. 2. Coffee. 3. Coooa. 

''We shall never, certainly,'^ writes Professor 
Liebig, '* be able to discover how men were led to 
the use of the hot infusion of the leaves of a certain 
shrub (tea), or of a decoction of certain roasted 
seeds (coffee). Some cause there must be, which 
would explain how the practice has become a ne- 
cessary of life to whole nations. But it is surely 
still more remarkable, that the beneficial effects of 
both plants on the health must be ascribed to one 
and the same substance, the presence of which in 
two vegetables, belonging to different natural 
families, and the produce of different quarters of the 
globe, could hardly have presented itself to the 
boldest imagination. Yet recent researches have 



THEINE. CAFFEINE. — THEOBROMINE, 237 

showily in such a manner as to exclude all doubt^ 
that ca£Peine^ the peculiar principle of coffee^ and 
theine^ that of tea^ are^ in all respects^ identical. 

^^ Without entering minutely into the medicinal 
action of caffeine (theine)^ it will surely appear a 
most striking fact^ even if we were to deny its 
influence on the process of secretion^ that this sub-* 
stance^ with the addition of oxygen and the elements 
of water, caa yield taurine, the mtrogenised com- 
pound peculiar to bile : 

1 at. caffeine or theine . = C g, N ^^ H g, ^^ 
9 at water • . . = Hg, ^, 



9 at, oxygen . , = 



9< 



^ 8> N J, H ^^y g^. = 

= 2 at taurine . . . = 2 (C ^ N H „ O ^q)." 

After endeavouring to showj in the same way^ that 
*^ The addition of the elements of water and of a 
certain quantity of oxygen to the elements of theo- 
bromine^ the characteristic principle of the cacao 
bean {T^obroma cacao), yields the elements of 
taurine and urea, of taurine, carbonic ax)id, and 
ammonia, or of taurine and uric acid/^ he goes on 
to say : ^^ To see how the action of caffeine, theo- 
bromine, &c., may be explained, we must call to 
mind that the chief constituent of the bile contains 
only 8*8 per cent, of nitrogen, of which only the 
half, or 1*9 per cent., belongs to the taurine. 

'^Bile contains, in its natural state, water and 
solid matter, in the proportion of 90 parts by 
weight of the former to 10 of the latter* If we 
suppose these 10 parts by weight of solid matter to 

M 



238 THEINB. CAnSIKE. — THSOBROMINB. 

be choleic add, with 3'87 per cent, of nitrogen, then 
100 parts of firesh bile will contain 0-171 parte of 
nitrogen in the shape of taurine. Now this qnantity 
is contained in 0*6 parte of caffeine; or E^Soths 
grains of caffeine can give to an oonoe of bile the 
nitrogen it contains in the form of taorine. If an 
infusion of tea contain no more than the -^^ of 
a grain of caffeine, stiU, if it contribute in point 
of fact to the formation of bile, the action, even of 
such a quantity, cannot be looked upon as a nullity. 
Neither can it be denied that in the case of an 
excess of non-azotised food, and a defici^icy of 
motion, which is required to cause the change of 
matter in the tissues, and thus to yield the nitro- 
genised product which enters into the composition 
of the bile ; that in such a condition, the health 
may be benefited by the use of compounds which 
are capable of supplying the place of the nitrogemsed 
product produced in the healthy state of the body^ 
and essential to the production of an important 
element of respiration/' — {Op. Citat,) 

This may be an ingenious attempt to adapt an 
atomic chemical theory to a physiological process^ 
and nothing more ; and yet it serves to mark the 
admitted importance of these great articles of modem 
consumption in the question of diet, and enables us 
to enter into the consideration of them with consider- 
able advantage. The essential principles of these 
three vegetable substances being shown to be so 
much alike in chemical composition, and to be 
azotised to such a degree, their action on the system 



TEA. 289 

might be^ to some degree^ inferred to be similar^ and 
their stimulating and narcotic effects might likewise 
be to some extent rendered probable. 

In speaking of the effects of any of these forms 
of the azotised vegetable principle on the system, 
those of the sugar^ and of the warm or hot water^ 
commonly mixed with them^ must be taken into 
the account, or their possible influence be removed. 
The tendency of sugar to derange the digestive 
processes, by the difficulty with which it may be 
assimilable, should be borne in mind, and made 
to bear its due share of any derangement by which 
the use of any of these different beverages may be 
followed j and it need hardly be said, how often the 
dyspeptic finds the great use of discontinuing the 
consumption of sugar in his tea or coffee, and finds 
these beverages no longer causes of discomfort, but 
grateful auxiliaries to his digestive processes, when 
they had previously and invariably added much to 
his protoeiform and compUcfited ailments. The effect 
of the hot liquid, in which these peculiar vegetable 
principles are commonly taken^ likewise deserves to 
be separately and deliberately considered. Some 
several years ago, it became somehow the fashion for 
dyspeptics to drive off the fit of indigestion by copious 
draughts of hot water. In the course of months, relief 
was no longer afforded ; the disease became worse ; 
and in a few instances, terminated in very serious 
derangement of the digestive processes. In nearly 
all cases, the functions of the stomach were essen- 
tially enfeebled ; rendering necessary to the common 

M 2 



240 TEA. 

comfort of the sufferer^ and to the hope of his 
recovery, a protracted and exclusive use of the 
plainest and least irritating forms of food. The 
temperature at which these beverages are taken^ is 
then an important matter, in the question of their 
utility and wholesomeness ; and the more important, 
if the digestive organs are less strong, their functions 
more easily deranged, their tissues more easily 
irritated, and more readily enfeebled. Supposing 
that, when there is reason to suspect that the sugar 
produces dyspeptic symptoms, its use is discontinued, 
— and supposing that these beverages are never used 
very hot, and in some extreme cases are made use of 
only cold, or not far removed from cold, — ^their action 
is that of a stimulant and narcotic ; acting like small 
doses of the stronger narcotics, in soothing the 
system generally, and the secreting tissues in par- 
ticular; while the intellectual and perceptive faculties 
are stimulated and excited, in a degree that corres- 
ponds, other things being equal, to the dose of the 
agent. 

The tea shrub, the TTiea of botanists, is said to be 
peculiar to a tract of country on the eastern side of 
the Chinese empire, between the 80th and 88rd 
degree of north latitude. It appears that the plant 
requires much attention, — ^that it is raised from the 
seed, — ^that it is found to yield leaves of the required 
quality, only during certain years of its growth, — 
that the leaves are gathered at certain periods of the 
year, — ^that the gathering, rolling up, and drying, 
require to be performed with much care, and at the 



TEA. 241 

expense of much time and labour. The leaves yield 
from 1 to 6 per cent, of theine^ according to their 
quality. Besides the theine^ the leaves contain 14 or 
15 per cent, of casein^ — ^and are therefore nutritious 
when «aten^ as they are said to be by some oriental 
nations. 

Besides theine and casein^ tea-leaves contain a 
small proportion of astringent matter (gallic acid)^ — 
and> of course^ a large proportion of inert and insoluble 
woody fibre. It is a curious fact^ that when the 
leaves have been exhausted of all the matters capable 
of extraction by water, by repeated infusion^ they 
yield nearly as large a proportion of matter to alco- 
hol, firom which it is readily given up again to boil- 
ing water, — ^the liquid tasting and smelling strongly 
of tea. The expense of the alcohol, and the trouble 
of again separating it from the aqueous infusion^ 
prevent this from being more than a barren fact. 
Green tea usually contains more astringent matter 
than black tea, as well as more of the peculiar nar- 
cotic principle, on which the properties depend. 

According to the interesting account given by Dr. 
F. J. F. Meyen in his ^' Outlines of the Geography 
of Flants,^^ so ably translated and published for 
the Ray Society,* ''The leaves of the tea-plant, 
when freshly plucked, have nothing of the odour 

* Oatlines of the Geography of Planto : with ParticoUir Enquuies 
concerning the Native Country, the Cnltare, and the Uses, of the 
Principal Coltivated Plants on whidi the Prosperity of Nations is 
Based. By F. J. F. Meyen, Ph.D^ IID., late Extraordinary Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the University of Berlin, &c. Translated by 
Margaret Johnston. 



242 TEA. 

and flavour of the dried leaves : they have neither 
a sharp^ nor an aromatic, nor a bitter taste. The 
properties .which they afterwards shew as prepared 
tea, and for which they are so highly prized, viz., 
the pleasant taste and delightful odour, are the 
effects of the roasting by which the leaves are dried. 
We need wonder the less at this, as it is the same 
with coffee. Every one knows that unroasted coffee 
possesses nothing of the pleasant aroma and ethereal 
odour, which are proper to it after being roasted. 
The tea*leaves are dried upon great iron plates, 
which are excessively heated, and in large flat iron 
pans, the sides of which are somewhat slanted. The 
leaves are first made to shrivel up in these pans by 
being constantly stirred with a gentle heat, and are 
then gradually dried by keeping np the heat. After 
this, the hot leaves are turned out upon mats, and 
rubbed with the palms of the hands ; after having 
cooled, they are again put in the pans and again 
roasted, until the tea is perfectly dried, which is 
done by repeating this operation firom four to six 
times.'' The leaves are said, by the same authority, 
to lose so much weight in this process, that '* three 
pounds of fresh leaves produce only one pound of 
dry tea. The differences in the colour, shape, and 
pubescence of the dried tea-leaves, at first induced 
botanists to think that the green and black teas 
were prepared from different species ; this, however, 
is not the case, but both kinds of tea can be made 
from the leaves of the same plant, as Abel learned 
during the journey of Lord Amherst. But when 



TEA. 243 

onoe prepared, the tea^ as Mr. Beeves also mentions, 
eannot well be changed; at least, black tea can- 
not be made into green tea, though the green may 
be chained, imperfectly at least, into black/' In 
another place, Dr. Mey en says, — " The green tea is 
prepared in the manner I have already stated; the 
black, on the contrary, is made in what is called the 
moist way. The firesh leaves are laid on large sieves, 
and these are placed over boiling water, so that the 
leaves are fermented, and strongly infhsed by the 
hot steam. After this, the leaves are dried on iron 
firames, in the manner previously described/' Such 
fermentation, and a consequent modification of the 
chemical constitution, in addition to a greater loss of 
the volatile constituents firom their solubihty in the 
steam, than would be sustauied firom exposure to dry 
heat alone, may serve to explain fiilly the different 
effects on the system of black and green tea. 

Tea acts on the system as a stimulus or a sedative, 
according to the strength of the infiision that is 
taken. When taken in smaller quantity, its effect is, 
in general, simply, and in a small degree, sedative, 
even in the first instance ; when used in larger 
quantity, its primary action is decidedly that of a 
stimulus. Its well-known effect of inducing wake- 
fulness illustrates this. To many people, when taken 
late in the evening, — and in some, when taken 
strong, at almost any time, — it produces a very 
sensible d^ree of stimulation, and a state of sleep- 
less excitability. Students and others, who devote 
to theur pursuits the hours that Nature prescribes for 



244 TEA. 

sleep^ are well known to use and abuse this peculiar 
effect of tea. Besides inducing vigilium^ tea seems 
to sharpen the mental faculties^ — ^and perhaps, in an 
especial degree, that of the imagination : — 

^ The Mnse^s friend, tea does our tajkcy aid ; 
Kepreas those Tapoiirs which the head invade ; 
And keep that palace of the soul serene." 

Waller. 

Green tea has, speaMng generaUy, more stimu- 
lating; black tea, more sedative properties. The 
stimulating effects are, however, always and ne- 
cessarily followed by sedative effects, — ^which may 
amount, in extreme cases, to depression, or even 
to a degree of narcotism; and, in most cases, it acts 
as a narcotic on the organs of excretion, produc- 
ing more or less visceral torpidity and sluggishness. 
To the man who has a sufficiency of nourishing and 
wholesome food, the use of tea, in moderate quanti- 
ties, and at proper times, cannot be said to be ever 
followed by impleasant or unsatisfiBu^ory conse- 
quences. If taken in excessive quantities, tea be- 
comes decidedly debilitating to the nervous system ; 
affecting it in much the same way as any other sti- 
mulant and narcotic. But although tea» when used 
in moderation, is serviceable to the individual who 
takes a sufficient quantity of nutritious food, un- 
questionably serving some important purpose in 
completing and perfecting the last stages of diges- 
tion ; and although, under such circumstances, the 
use of tea is not injurious ; this is by no means the 
case when the aliment that is taken is deficient in 



TEA. 245 

quantity, or of too poor a quality. Under such dr- 
cumstances, tea acts on the nervous system to a de- 
gree, that is often productive of disorder, and which 
probably sometimes leads to disease. The extent to 
which tea is often made use of by the lower orders 
of people, under these very circumstances, is a fre- 
quent and important cause of ailment and injury. 
With many, it constitutes an invariable and im- 
portant part of every meal, and does a proportional 
amount of harm, — enervating and deranging the 
digestive functions, and the general powers of the 
system. It were a vain task to try to induce such 
to forego the use of that, which seems to them to 
be necessary to keep them alive. Perhaps the best 
thing that can be done is, to induce them to mix 
the infusion with equal quantities of milk, which 
answers the double purpose of affording a consider- 
able amount of nourishment, and of protecting the 
system, in some degree, from the deleterious influ- 
ence of the tea. 

Ghreen tea, although said to be used ahnost exclu* 
sively in some countries, is found to be much too 
narcotic and stimulating for general and exclusive 
use in this country; and is necessarily forbidden to 
most invalids, from its evidentiy enervating effects. 

The effect of tea on the second stage of digestion, 
and probably on the secretion of the bile, points out 
and explains its value, when taken about three or 
four hours after the principal meal of the day; and 
illustrates the well-known anxiety of the dyspeptic 
for tea-time, and the comparative comfort he enjoys 

m3 



246 COFFEE. 

after this beverage, wbich is aptly said to cheer but 
not inebriate. Taken at the same time as a heavy 
meal of food, or such a meal as contains a large pro- 
portion of the day's alimentary snpply, tea may prove 
to be too much of a diluent, or too directly narcotic ; 
and, in some cases, may rather retard the primary 
digestion than otherwise. This, however, depends 
very much on the quantity and the strength of the 
infusion made use of. 

Coffee, the seed of a by no means large tree, — 
the seed having a dense membranous envelope> 
and being inclosed in a berry, — ^is now an impor- 
tant produce of both hemispheres ; although intro- 
duced into the West Indies little more than a 
century ago, — having been, perhaps, previous to 
that time, the exclusive growth of Arabia and of 
Persia, in which latter country it was probably 
indigenous. It is said to contain, besides caffeine, 
gum, bitter extract, gallic acid, and a large remainder 
of insoluble woody fibre. The berry, of a red colour, 
something like a cherry, and with a glutinous and 
insipid pulp, incloses two hard seeds ; each of which 
has a flat side, to correspond with that of the other, 
and placed towards it. When roasted, coffee is found 
to undergo an important change in its composition; 
the most remarkable feature of which is^ the formation 
or development of a fragrant and aromatic principle. 
Before this alteration, coffee seems to be improveable 
I almost indefinitely by being kept; afterwards, it 

rapidly loses its properties, and cannot be used too 
soon. 



COFFEE. 247 

Whether the roasted seeds be used in infdsion or 
decoction^ coffee is more nutritious than tea. It is, 
however^ more difficult of digestion. Whether owing 
to the tannin^ which the roasted coffee is said to 
contain^ or to the aromatic oil, or the mucilage, or 
the bitter extract, or to the combination of these 
different constituents, coffee deranges considerably 
the stomachs of some people,— and is usually some- 
what difficult of digestion to invalids, and to those 
who are more seriously dyspeptic. It is probable 
that this is not referable to the aromatic principle, 
as the best coffee, which contains more aroma, is 
less likely to disagree than the commoner sorts. 
The infiision is usually less apt to disagree than the 
decoction, unless the latter have been most carefully 
clarified ; and then the extra cooking may more than 
compensate for the larger proportion of mudlage, 
&c., contained in the decoction. The consequence 
of tsoffee proving to be difficult of digestion, is rather 
to produce considerable acidity, and any derangement 
that may in time result from this, than to give rise 
to any other marked dyspeptic symptom. Supposing 
that coffee does not disagree, which in the healthy 
and strong it seldom does, it is a peculiar and 
decided stimulus, quickening the circulation, pro- 
moting the secretions and excretions, very percqitibly 
warming the system, and elevating the spirits. Its 
effect on the spirits is better known and appreciated 
among the Mahometans, and such people as are more 
or less strictly debarred, by their religion or their 
laws, from using the more direct alcohoho stimulants ; 



248 coppEE. 

and is accordingly much used by them^ with imme- 
diate view to its stimulating effects. Its peculiarly 
warming effects are^ at leasts equally important and 
valuable. These effects are remarkably durable. Dr. 
Rush was probably the first to notice this particu- 
larly. In his " Inquiry into the Effects of Ardent 
Spirits/^ he says that he once knew a country phy- 
sician^ who made a practice of drinking a pint of 
strong coffee previous to long-continued exposure to 
cold^ and found it more cordial to him than spirits 
in any form. Perhaps^ in some degree^ on the same 
principle that alcohol^ in its different forms^ proves 
less directly stimulating, when taken along with a 
considerable quantity of nutrimentary matter^ coffee 
may be more permanently stimulating in proportion 
to its nutritive qualities. However this may be^ the 
warming effects of coffee are very considerable ; and 
it is often most usefully taken either before or after 
continued exposure to cold^ as in travelling. Without 
encroaching upon another and distinct department 
of this chapter, the practice — ^probably still a com- 
mon one — of ^'taking a dram^^ of some kind of 
spirits before exposure to cold, may be adverted to. 
It is a practice that is at once foolish and dangerous. 
The stimulating effect of the spirits soon goes off, 
and is followed by a degree of languor proportioned 
to the amount of stimulation. This is the state in 
which the body is most easily chilled, and the secre- 
tion of the skin most easily checked, — ^in which an 
individual is most liable ''to take cold;'' and, if 
exposed to the depressing influence of cold under such 



INFERBNCISS FROM THB EFFECTS OF TEA. S(49 

circumstaiioes — rafter the stimalating effects have sub- 
sided^ — ^the cliances are very strongly in fieiyonr of 
the system suffering from it. Spirits ought not to 
be taken before such exposure ; unless the person is to 
be so exposed only for a very short time^ or unless the 
dose is to be repeated as often as the effects of the 
previous dose begin to subside. Coffee is little liable 
to this objection: its stimulating effects are much 
more lasting; and its warming effects seem to me to 
be even greater; and the subsequent languor is 
certainly less. 

Supposing that the powers of the digestive organs 
are adequate to its complete assimilation^ coffee^ from 
being much more nutritious^ and more decidedly 
restorative to the system^ forms a better addition to 
other articles of food that are taken at breakfast^ 
than tea. If its ready digestibility be suspected^ the 
question of its being mixed with sugar^ and the known 
difficulty with which sugar is digested^ should be con- 
sidered^ before coffee is pronounced to be unsuitedto 
the individual. The addition of milk to coffee adds 
much to its nutritiousness^ diminishes in some degree 
its directly stimulating effects^ and seldom makes its 
digestion more difficult. 

There are probably few things for which we ought, 
as regards the means of health, to be more grateful 
to Providence, than for the introduction of tea and 
coffee. As civilisation advances, the man of wealth 
and rank uses personal exercise less, whether in 
walking or on horseback, and prefers the luxurious 
carriage as a means of transporting himself from 



260 INFERENCES FROM THE EFFECTS OF TEA. 

place to place ; — ^keeping pace with the progress of 
civilisation^ is the number of the thinking and the 
studious increased; a class of men^ which is pro- 
verbially, and with few exceptions, sedentary; — 
tantamount to the increased number and importance 
of our commercial relations, is a larger number of 
men drawn from the fields, and the health-fraught 
toils of agriculture, into the pent-up and dose atmo- 
sphere of a town, and have their time occupied in 
sedentary, or almost sedentary, employment; and 
in these ways, there has arisen a daily increasmg 
number, of all classes, who, taking less exercise, could 
bear less food, could assimilate, consistently with 
health, a less amount of nutriment ; who could not 
eat, with impunity, the meat and beer breakfasts, 
the heavy and substantial food, to which their fathers 
had been accustomed ; and, as if to meet this, tea 
and coffee have been introduced, and supply the 
desideratum : a diet which is palatable, only mode* 
rately nutritious, and, if not abused, quite harmless. 
It has been the fashion, of late years, for the pro- 
fessors of certain new guises in which quackery has 
presented itself, — arrayed^ in one case, in the assumed 
garb of facts and experience ; in the other, in that 
of mystical and fandfiil reasonings, — ^to contend 
against the harmlessness of these great beverages 
of daily use ; and to advise their discontinuance, 
unless in occasional and probably infinitesimal doses, 
and for directly medicinal purposes. The experience, 
the comfort, the temperance, and the well-being of 
civilised man, are aU happily adverse to such a view 



COCOA. 251 

as this ; and^ Uke most of the other errors of these 
quacks and visionaries^ it hardly influences the many^ 
and cannot long continue to influence even the few. 
The mild and gratefol stimtdus of these important 
beverages^ probably ministering as they do^ and in a 
large degree^ to the digestion and health of the 
civilised and sedentajry^ is not to be given up at the 
bidding of those, who otherwise prove how smaU aud 
bad their title to direct and control the public health, 
by the practice of either hydropathy, or homoeopathy, 
or any similar mixture of reason and absurdity, truth 
and error, ignorance and fraud. 

Cocoa, — ^the seeds or nuts of the Theobroma cacaOy 
or chocolate tree, — ^is another of this important class 
of azotised vegetable substances. The composition 
of theobromine, the crystalline and azotised principle 
on which its quaUties depend, has been akeady 
noticed, and is very similar to that of theine. The 
seeds grow in pods, some of which are said to contain 
as many as a hundred of the seeds. Cocoa is either 
used in the form of the ground seeds, simply made 
into a decoctionj or these are ground into a paste, 
mixed with cloves, cinnamon, vaidlla, and perhaps 
other aromatics, forming chocolate. Cocoa is olea- 
ginous, and somewhat acrid ; and is, in general, by 
no means so easily digested as either tea or coffee. 
But still there are many people, and it may even be 
said many dyspeptics, and many sedentary people, 
with whom it invariably agrees. The only thing that 
can be done under these circumstances, is to refer 
the question to the individual experience. The 



252 FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

decoction ought to be made weak, and, like coffee, 
to be taken at breakiSEuit rather than in the evening. 
The marked taste of cocoa favours the use of it in the 
much diluted state of a very weak decoction, without 
discomfort to the palate; and so diluted, the decoc- 
tion being made with water, und a Lirger or smaUer 
quantity of milk being added at the time of using it^ 
cocoa often proves usefiil as part of the breakfiist, 
even of very delicate people. When made simply from 
the ground seeds, it is much more easily digested, 
than when prepared from pastes or powders, which 
are manufactured with various additions. 

LIQUORS THE PRODUCTS OF FERMENTATION. 





SPIRITS. 


1. Brandy. 


3. Whiskey. 


2. Hollands. 


4. Rum. 


WINKB — ^MALT LTQUOBS. 


1. Champagne. 




7. Sweet Wines generally. 


2. Sherry. 




including Home-made 


3. Madeira. 




Wines. 


4. Port. 




8. Ale. 


5. Claret. 




9. Porter. 


6. Hock. 




10. Beer. 



The effect on the economy, of all these various 
forms of fermented Uquor, depends on the alcohol 
they contain; its influence being modified according 
to the quantity and the nature of the vegetable 
matters with which it is combined, and the degree in 
which it is diluted with water. 

Alcohol is obtained by the fermentation of saccha* 
rine matter. The fermentation may be effected 



ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION. 253 

spontaneously^ that is^ without the addition of 
any ferment to the saccharine liquor, when it 
abeady contains an azotised element capable of 
communicating the necessary movement to the sac- 
charine atoms, which compels and permits their 
entering into the new mode of combination. This 
is the case in the great instance of grape-juice, which 
ferments spontaneously when at the temperature of 
firom 40 to 85 degrees. On the other hand, the solu- 
tion of pure sugar in water does not undergo fermen- 
tation without the addition of a ferment. In the 
case of grape-juice, the natural ferment is gluten, 
probably in some peculiar state, which fits it to 
undergo and produce the requisite molecular move- 
ment. Although the presence of an azotised sub- 
stance is necessary to the spontaneous or the artificial 
fermentation of liquids containing sugar, this sub- 
stance must be in the peculiar state, whatever that 
may be, which enables it to exert this remarkable 
property; for any putrid azotised substance may 
produce molecular movement in saccharine liquids, — 
such movement, however, terminating in ammoniacal 
degeneration, and not in the production of the alco- 
holic compounds. 

Supposing that a liquid containing saccharine 
matter in solution, and containing, moreover, the 
necessary ferment, is exposed to the required tem- 
perature, an intestine movement ensues, the tempera- 
ture of the liquor increases, and carbonic acid is 
evolved in large quantities; until, at length, the 



254 ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION. 

movement, the disengagement of gaseons matter^ 
and the turbidity, cease; the liquid becomes dear^ 
and is found to be of less spedfic gravity, to have 
lost its sweetness, and to have acquired the alcoholic 
character, as to taste, smell, and stimulant action on 
the animal economy. To obtain alcohol firom this 
liquor, the simple process of distillation is employed; 
by which the more volatile spirit is drawn off £rom 
the aqueous and other matters ; being still, however^ 
milled with water, together with certain essential 
oils, &»., — forming, in the case of distillation from 
wine, brandy, — in that from fermented sugar or 
molasses, rum, — in that from the fermentation of 
grain or of malt, whiskey, hollands, or gin, accord- 
ing to the various processes of the manufacture. 
IlVom any of these, the purer alcohol may be obtained 
by a second or third distiUation; the spirit, however, 
being still mixed with water, for which it has a 
remarkable affinity, and from which it can only be 
separated effectually by being distilled along with 
substances having a strong affinity for water, when 
an absolute alcohol is obtained in the receiver. 

The sugar is, in the course of the great metamor* 
phosis effected in the fermentation, converted into 
alcohol and carbonic add. In the case of cane 
sugar, this is perhaps converted, in the first instance^ 
into grape sugar, by bdng combined with a larger 
proportion of oxygen and hydrogen; tins again 
yidding, from carbon 12, hydrogen 14, oxygen 14 
(grape-sugar), 2 equivalents of alcohol, each equiva- 



SFFECT8 OF ALCOHOL ON THB SYSTEM. 255 

lent having the composition^ carbon 4^ hydrogen 6^ 
oxygen 2; and 2 equivalents of water^ oxygen 2^ 
hydrogen 2 : or this may be thus expressed : — 

Grape Sugar — 

Ovboo . . . 12l fd Alcohol . . 8C. 12 H. 4 Ox. 

Hydrogen , 14 

Oxygen . . . 14 



4 Gaxtxmic Add 4 C. — 8 Ox. 
2 Water . 2H. 2 0x. 



12C. Ua 14 Ox. 

The probable action of alcohol on the economy of 
the system, is, by permeating the tissues rapidly, to 
come into very speedy and very general contact, by 
many and extensive surfiEbces, with the oxygen of the 
arterial blood, and to combine with it, — giving its 
carbon to the oxygen, forming carbonic add, — ^its 
hydrogen to the oxygen, forming water; the effect 
being the disengagement of heat, independently of 
any alteration of the tissues, or of the conversion 
of arterial into venous blood by the union of 
oxygen with the carbon of the blood, upon which, 
under ordinary circumstances, the elevated tempe- 
rature of the body is known to depend.* This 
effect is necessarily connected with increased action, 
excitement, and such stimulating effects on the 
nervous and vascular systems, as alcohol, however 
taken, is known to produce. According to this, the 
primary effect of alcohol is, to interfere with the 
combination of the carbon of the tissues and of the 
system generally, with the oxygen received by in- 
spiration, — ^and by so much to diminish waste; the 

* The first part of these remarks, on the effect of alcohol upon the 
system, is taken, almost verbatim, from the author's work on Gout. 



256 EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE ST8TEtf» 

secondary effect is, to excite the nervous and vasctdar 
systems; and the third effect must be such an amount 
of depression, as will correspond, other things being 
equal, with the amount of excitement that had pre- 
ceded it. Such may be very fairly assumed to be 
the effects produced by alcohol upon the system; 
' modified, however, by the form in which it is used, 
by its state of combination with other vegetable or 
nutrimentary matters ; and much modified, likewise, 
by the degree to which the individual system may 
have been accustomed to its use. If the body has, 
from habit, acquired a custom of being supplied in 
this way with a certain amount of temperature and 
stimulus, without expense to the tissues, and without 
the use of the organs of motion, — if the heart and 
arteries have had their action correspondingly acce- 
lerated, and the respiration has been by so much 
quickened, the nervous system by so much excited, 
and the various functional processes, among the rest 
digestion, by so much facilitated in their perform- 
ance, — ^the loss of all this must be largely felt ; and 
it may hardly be withheld in many cases without 
decided injury, even although the obtaining these 
effects in an illegitimate manner, without exercise of 
the muscles, and without primary waste of the 
azotised tissues, may be virtually the cause of de- 
rangement in the amount or the regularity of the 
expenditure of the system, or increase materially the 
risk of disordered action. But there are undoubtedly 
cases, in which the use of alcohol, if moderate, and 
carefully adapted in quantity to the wants of the 



EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE SYSTEM, 257 

system^ may be beneficial : cases^ probably^ in which 
the supply of oxygen is excessive^ or greater than the 
waste of the tissues is prepared to meet; in which, 
in fact, sufficient exercise cannot be taken to secure 
sufficient waste, nor sufficient non-azotised food di- 
gested to combine with the oxygen of respiration. 
If this should not prove to be the correct explanation 
of the fact, it nevertheless remains true, that there 
are cases in which some of the forms of alcohol may 
be used necessarily, and with much benefit. There 
are many cases, perhaps comprising a large propor- 
tion of the individuals in civilised life, in whom a 
certain moderate proportion of alcohol does no appa- 
rent harm, and, at least for the time^ appears to do 
good* But these do not prove its necessity, and only 
serve to prove its harmlessness ; and we probably 
want more extensive statistical and numerical proof, 
before we can say that ''teetotalism/^ or even the 
using fermented liquors so irregularly as not to 
habituate the system to their effects, is, or is not, 
useful to the health of man; their excessive use 
being admitted, and only too well k])own, to be 
injurious. 

When a habit of using alcohol in some form has 
been gradually, but decidedly, produced, it may soon 
become, in truth, part of the functional requirements 
of the system ; and therefore to withhold it, may be 
to interfere considerably with those requirements, 
and by so much occasion derangement and loss of 
power. Such a step will be attended with more im- 
mediate and important consequences, the greater the 



258 EWECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE SYSTEM. 

degree to which they have been used^ and the more 
decidedly the alcohol may have been modified in its 
effects by its mode of combination. Thus^ although 
a sudden discontinuance of ahabit of drinking braady- 
and-water daily^ may be attended with great imme- 
diate depression^ yet it is very doubtful if the eventual 
effect of this discontinuance upon the system and its 
powers^ will be adequate^ or nearly adequate^ to that 
of as suddenly leaving off the use of malt Uquor or 
wine. There is another consideration^ of little less 
importance. In the use of malt liquor and of winCi 
— ^however much the alcohol contained in them^ pro- 
bably in a state of very intimate combination^ may jxo- 
mote the digestion of the nutrimentary constituents^ 
— ^yet the assimilating organs must be called upon for 
the conversion of those constituents into the materials 
of the body ; making the question of their use very 
frequently one of much doubt^ — and^ in many stomach 
caseSj leading us temporarily to substitute alcohol in 
a purer form^ when it might not be advisable to dis- 
continue the use of this powerful stimulus. To leave 
off the use of wine^ when the system has been long 
accustomed to its daily influence^ is often a very 
unwise proceeding. If there are sufficient reasons^ 
which wiQ probably seldom be the case, for leaving 
off the use of everything containing alcohol, the ex- 
periment should be made slowly and gradually, under 
such circumstances. The blood, the tissues, the ner- 
vous system, the general powers and functions, can- 
not be suddenly or greatly deprived of so energetic 
and rapidly acting an agent, if long accustomed to 



EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE 8T8TEM. 269 

its influence^ without risk of loss of strength and 
derangement of function ; and I believe this risk to 
be greater^ the larger the proportion of nutrimen- 
tary matters that is combined with the alcohol ; and, 
consequently, to be greater when malt liqnor has 
been so made use of, than when the alcohol has been 
used in the form of wine, — ^and consequently greater 
in the case of heavy fiiiity wines, than in those of a 
thinner quality. 

It must not be at all inferred from what has been 
said, that it is intended to recommend the habitual 
use of spirits, in preference to that of malt liquor or 
wine. On the contrary, the use of alcohol, only 
qualified with water, or very slight vegetable addi- 
tions, as may be the case in brandy, whiskey, rum, 
and hollands, is probably directly injurious in the 
same proportion as it is so uncombined, and there- 
fore so unmodified in its stimulating effects; this 
being compensated only by the lessened difficulty of 
assimilation, and the less consequent risk of disturb- 
ing the digestive process; and therefore it can be 
only when habit, or the circumstances of the case, 
render an alcoholic stimulus necessary, and yet the 
state of the digestive organs renders the assimilation 
of wine or malt liquor difficult, slow, or imperfect, 
that spirit, or spirit-and-water, should be taken. In 
such cases, the purer and older the spirit, the better; 
and the more lai^ely the stomach will permit it to 
be diluted with water without being inconvenienced 
by it, the less willitbe likely to do harm; audit will 
generally be better that it should be mixed with cold 



260 ETFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THE SYSTEM. 

water than warm^ — ^and, in cases of stomach irrita- 
tion or marked dyspepsia, without sugar than with it. 
In the tabular list of the different products of alco- 
hoUc fermentation chiefly made use of, the individual 
articles are classed in the order in which I believe 
them to be usually digestible.* Or the wines may be 
thus classed, according to their four principal varieties. 



1. bid wines which ha,ye lost 
their sweetness, and much 
of their frnitiness, without 
acquiring acidity. 



2. Fruity Wines, 

3. Sweet Wines. 

4. Acid Wines. 



Liquors, the products of fermentation, may be said 
to be more easily digested, in proportion to the larger 

* It is perhaps only fair to say once again — ^no such role can be 
without exceptions. Idiosyncrasy, or peculiariiy of constitution and 
habit, forms many cases to which no such universal rule could be 
applicable. One man is found to be nauseated by even the smell of 
nuts ; another man is immediately covered with nettle-rash after eat^ 
ing anything which contains oatmeal ; another has his tongue furred, 
and his digestive organs disturbed, by the slightest odour of onions ; 
and another is so strongly senmtive to the action of certain perfumee, 
that a slight odour of musk will bring on faintness, or a bouquet of 
flowers in his room induce dyspnoea. It is not, of course, such cases, 
nor cases resembling them, that such tables are meant to include. It 
is well known that one man cannot drink any kind of spirit without 
suffering afterwards from its effects, while he can take his bottle of 
wine at a sitting without inconvenience. It is well known that some 
men cannot drink sherry, but can drink port without inconvenience ; 
and that others cannot drink port, but can drink sherry. It is not 
the question whether brandy always agrees better than wine ; but it 
is simply, whether brandy does not generally occasion less incon- 
venience to the stomach, and especially to the dyspeptic stomach, 
than wine does. The question is, whether sherry is not generally 
better borne, and more easily digested, than port And such question 
will admit of only one answer, which will correspond to the opinions 
advanced in these tables. 



BBANDY. — GIN. 261 

quantity of spirits^ and the smaller quantity of other 
matters, which they contain; in fact, in proportion 
as they are stronger and thinner^ — destitute alike of 
sweetness and acidity. But, in the large number of 
cases, the selection of the alcoholic liquor to be 
habitually made use of, should not be made a mere 
stomach question; although iq dyspeptic cases, and 
invalid cases, it must usually be simply so looked 
upon. 

Brandy is decidedly the best form of alcoholic 
stimulus for the weak or disordered stomach, pro- 
vided it is prevented from unduly irritating that 
organ, by being sufficiently diluted with water. A 
reference to its chemical composition does not show 
why brandy is preferable to, and more wholesome 
than, the other kinds of spirit. It is very probably 
a simple question, as to the greater age and purity of 
the spirit. It is quite true, that the older the spirit, 
the more wholesome and digestible, and the less irri- 
tating, it is found to be. This is quite independent 
of the proportion of alcohol contained in the spirit, 
which may be stronger or weaker than the newer 
spirit, with whil^h it is compared. The extreme 
acrimony, and injurious effects on the system, of 
new rum, are well known to publicans and dram- 
drinkers ; and although this does not probably obtain 
to the same extent iq the instances of the other 
spirits, it nevertheless does so in a considerable 
degree. Gin, or hollands, is prepared from a fer- 
mented infusion of malted barley and rye, and is 
flavoured with the oil of the juniper berry. It is 

N 



262 WHISKEY. — BUM. — CHAMPAGFNE. — SHEBRT. 

therefore more diuretic than the other spirits^ and 
may^ on that account^ be preferred to them in some 
cases. Whiskey^ prepared from malt mixed with 
unmalted grain^ is likewise peculiarly diuretic in its 
effects on the economy^ although by no means so 
much so as hollands. Bum^ prepared from sugar, 
or from molasses, is more sudorific in its effects 
than the other spirits, and is more immediately 
stimulating and heating to the system. It is, by 
common consent, the least wholesome of the spirits, 
and the most apt to derange the digestive organs, and 
interfere seriously with the functions of the liver. 

Of the wines, champagne is nsuaUy considered 
to be the most easily digested. This is due to the 
fixed air that it contains, for siUery is not so easily 
digested as the effervescent wine. The digestibility 
and wholesomeness of champagne is, however, a 
reasonable matter of much doubt. It is an imper- 
fectly fermented form of wine, of which the free 
carbonic acid is a product and a proof. However 
easily it -may be digested in the first instance by the 
stomach, its ultimate assimilation is often difficult. 

Sherry, when sufficiently old, and pure, — free 
from admixture with inferior wines, and free from 
acid, — ^is the most valuable form of wine for the use 
of the invalided. A perfect result of fermentation, 
free from acid and from sweetness, with much aroma, 
matured intoapeo^ect combination by age, sherry 
becomes one of the most easily digested and readily 
assimilated forms of alcoholic stimulant. It has a 
very slight degree of astringency, which may be 



MADEIBA.— -FOBT. — CLABET. 268 

owing to the skins in wliich it is conveyed from the 
interior to the coast. 

Madeira is only inferior to sherry, as regards its 
digestibility and wholesomeness, from usually con- 
taining some proportion of free add. It might 
otherwise, when fully matured, and of the finest 
growths of the island it comes from, be considered 
to be the best and soundest wine imported into this 
country. It is generally sufficiently digestible, and 
is remarkably restorative; and where its highly 
stimulating qualities, and the degree of free acid it 
contains, are not objectionable, it may be wisely pre- 
ferred to any other wine for the use of the feeble or 
the convalescent. 

Port wine is peculiarly characterised by containing 
a considerable proportion of astringent matter. This 
is apt to derange the primary processes of digestion, 
— and probably still more, the ultimate processes 
of assimilation ; and the astringent wines should be 
made use of habitually, with a corresponding degree 
of caution, and watchfulness as to their effects. 

All the above wines commonly contain a large 
proportion of added and less perfectly combined 
alcohol, said to be added to suit the British market 
and British' palate. Brandied wines are necessarily 
less wholesome than the pure wines. 

The French wines — the clarets — contain less 
alcohol than those of Spain, and have usually less 
brandy added to them afterwards. Professor Brande, 
in his admirable and elaborate tables, states the 
average proportion of alcohol, specific gravity '825 

n2 



264 CLARET. 

at 60^1 by measure, to be — ^in port wine, within a 
small firaction of 23 per cent., in Madeira 22*27 per 
cent., in sherry 19' 17 per cent.; whereas in claret 
the average per centage was fonnd to be 15*10, in 
hock 12*08, in champagne 12*61, in gooseberry wine 
11*84, in cider 9*87, in ale 6*87, in porter 4*20, and 
in brandy 63*39. Consequently, port wine may be 
considered to be somewhat stronger than sherry or 
Madeira, nearly twice as strong as claret, more than 
double the strength of hock, four times as strong as 
ale, and half as strongly alcohotic as brandy itself. 
It is not, however, to be inferred, that any quantity 
of combined alcohol, which may be contained in any 
wine, will have the same effect on the system, as the 
same quantity of uncombined spirit mixed with water. 
Half a bottle of brandy would certainly have more 
intoxicating effect on the system than a bottle of 
port wine. But it may be fairly inferred, that the 
combined spirit in one kind of wine, will have the 
same proportional effect on the system, as the com- 
bined spirit in another kind of wine; and, conse- 
quently, that the French and German wines are 
much less stimulating, and so far less heating, and 
less injurious, than the Spanish wines. 

Clarets are, then, a weaker form of alcoholic sti- 
mulant, and contain usually less uncombined brandy, 
and are by so much purer forms of wine. They all, 
however, contain much free acid, which renders their 
use objectionable in most dyspeptic cases, — embrac- 
ing under this head, the cases generally of disordered 
assimilation. The finer qualities of claret are, how- 



CLABET. 265 

ever^ mucli less acid than the inferior sorts ; they 
have^ moreover^ more aroma; and are, on both these 
accounts, much more wholesome. There can be no 
question, that, in a large proportion of wine-drinkers, 
the amount of acid contained in these wines, and 
especially in the finer qualities of claret, is no ground 
of objection to their use ; nor that, from being purer 
and less stimulating wines, and from containing a 
much smaller proportion of free spirit, they must, 
when the acid is not injurious, be miich more whole- 
some and useful to the economy, 

The quantity of nourishment obtainable from wine 
3iid malt-liquor, is a curious, intricate, and interesting 
subject of inquiry. There can be no doubt, that the 
amount of nutriment these several liquids afford to 
the economy, bears no necessary proportion to the per 
centage of alcohol they contain; nor even, as far as we 
can judge, to that of the saccharine, azotised, or car- 
bonaceous ingredients, that are contained in them. 
Whether or not this may be explicable, on the prin- 
-ciple of the nutrimentary and the stimulating matters 
being so essentially combined, that they are taken 
more readily into the system, and with less expense to 
the assimilating organs, than other forms of nutri- 
mentary matter,— there can be no dispute, that malt*- 
Uquor and wine do. afford an amount of nutriment 
to the system, that is greater than a knowledge of 
their composition could have led us to infer. But, 
this having been granted, it must, at the same time, 
be allowed, that the chief use of all or any of the 
products of fermentation is, to rouse the circulation 



266 HOCK. — SWBXT WINB8. 

into more energetic action^ — to increase the actirity 
of the absorbents, and enable, and indeed compel 
them to do more work, to take np more nonrishment 
from the food, — ^to force yessels, debilitated from what- 
ever canse, or depressed bj whatever infinence, to 
ponr forth more of those secretions, which are neces- 
sary for the conversion of food into chyme, — ^to nrge 
those vessels to increased exertions, which absorb 
the chyle from the chymons mass, and convey it to 
the current of the circulation, — ^to stimulate the 
heart's action, and cause the blood to flow more 
quickly through the vessels, carrying with it at once 
the new material to be deposited in every tissue and 
every fibre, and the stimulus to enforce its conversion 
into texture. And this may be the chief use of 
alcoholic stimulants in the economy, in whatever 
form they may be exhibited. 

Hock, and the German or Rhine wines generally, 
contain more acid than the clarets, and less alcohol. 
They are light, and remarkably free from mndlagi- 
nous matters ; and, when the acid is not objection- 
able, are sufSciently wholesome and useful. As in 
the case of the clarets, the finer qualities are much 
more wholesome than the inferior kinds. The degree 
of aroma contained in wine, materially increases its 
digestibility and wholesomeness. 

The sweet wines, when the sweetness is in abso- 
lute combination with the other ingredients, are 
usually sufficiently wholesome and easily digested. 
Such wines are malmsey, constantia, &c. Even 
these, however, are by no means suitable to the 



MALT LIQUO&S. 267 

dyspeptic stomach. When the sweetness is not in 
such perfect combination in the wine^ bnt is merely 
nnxed with and added to the other ingredients^ as is 
the case in home-made or British wines^ the question 
of digestibility is much more doubtful. Such wines 
should not be made use of by invalids or dyspeptics. 

The digestibility and wholesomeness of malt liquors^ 
is much influenced and modified by the amoimt of 
mucilage, free saccharine matter, and bitter principle, 
they contain. The less mucilaginous, the less sweet, 
and the more bitter, ale is, the more digestible and 
wholesome it may be usually considered to be. Ale 
should be pale, perfectly clear, sufficiently old to 
have its fermentation fidly completed, and not old 
enough to have become in any degree acid. Such 
file is, perhaps, generally more wholesome than por- 
ter, — ^however good in quality the latter may be. The 
stronger kinds of porter are, however, much more 
nutritious than ale; and in cases of debility, and 
in some diseases — diabetes, to wit — ^may be indicated 
strongly, for this reason. In the cases of the dys- 
peptic, the valetudinarian, and the sedentary, the 
habitual use of malt liquor, of any kind, ought, 
however, to be looked upon with much distrust and 
suspicion, as of probably injurious tendency. 

It should be borne in mind, that whereas in the 
invalided or the dyspeptic, where the use of the 
alcoholic stimulants is indicated, according to the 
degree of the dyspepsia should the form in which 
the alcohol is exhibited be more and more pure ; the 
extremely dyspeptic being ordered brandy and water; 
the less dyspeptic, the stronger wines; and those 



268 HALT LIQUOB8. 

still less dyspeptic^ the weaker wines ; while those 
only who have no marked stomach derangement 
should make nse of the malt liquors; so, on the 
other hand, in the case of the healthy and the active, 
the more diluted the form in which they make use 
of the alcoholic compounds, and the more largely 
they are combined with nutrimentary matters, the 
less likely they are to prove injurious to the economy. 
If the drinking some kind of alcoholic stimulant is 
to be habitually indulged in, there can be no doubt 
that the ale and porter drinker runs least risk, the 
wine drinker more, and the spirit drinker most. 
This fact is easily and well illustrated by another, 
which is well known and universally admitted, — ^that 
so long as a man has a healthy appetite for food, and 
can take an average quantity of it, stimulants are 
less hurtful to him ; and it is when he loses his appe** 
tite, and can eat very little food, that they injure 
him most. Now, ale and porter contain a consider* . 
able proportion of mucilaginous, glutinous, saccharine, 
bitter, and other matters, in combination with the 
spirit, by which the irritating and deleterious effects 
of the alcohol must be, in some degree, counteracted. 
In this respect, a good deal of stress may be fairly 
laid on the bitter principle that ale and porter con* 
tain, — soothing and allaying the irritation that might 
be produced by the spirit ; while the gluten and the 
other ingredients, nourish and give tone to the sys* 
tem. The effect of the bitter principle in modifying 
that of the spirit in the case of malt liquor, is well 
illustrated by the well-known influence of the vege- 
table bitters, in the case of the languid and expended 



Pk 



J 



If ALT LIQUORS. £69 

debauchee^ in relieving^ soothing^ and giving tone 
to his expended digestive organs. Whereas ale or 
porter, then, froQi their containing so large a quan* 
tity of other matters mixed with the spirit, neces- 
sarily task more the digestive pow«a^ than wine or 
brandy, and are therefore justly said to be less suited 
to the stomach that is feeble or dyspeptic; such 
combination and dilation of the alcohol with hutri- 
mentary matters, makes them more suitable to, and 
less likely to injure, the healthy and the active. To 
be able to use malt liquors habitually without injury 
to the system, involves the necessity of a larger 
amount of exercise than is necessary for the main* 
tenance of health under the habitual use of wine, 
on the simple principle of their being so much more 
nutritious, — and more nutritious, as I believe, than 
their composition would lead us to infer. The 
degree of exercise must, of course, depend on the 
» quantity of malt liquor made use of, and other cir- 
cmnstances. There are men engaged in certain 
employments in London, who have long been noticed 
and quoted, on account of the large quantity of malt 
liquor habitually consumed by them. These are 
principally the men employed on the river Thames, 
in loading vessels with ballast,— those engaged in 
emptying the coal barges, — and the brewers^ dray- 
men. It is said that many of these men drink 
several quarts of malt liquor every day.* They are 

« ^ Each man (of the ballasters) drinks firom two to three gallons 
of porter daily, and generally a comdderable quantity of spirit bemdes.*' 
— Db. William Budd. 

N 3 



£70 MALT LIQtrOBS. 

^S^f gi^o^ s^^d unwieldy men^— capable and called 
upon to undei^ a great deal of bodily labour; and 
they work^ for tbe most part^ in the open air. To 
estimate, however, fairly and fully, the effects of 
this great abuse, even of this much modified form 
of alcoholic stimulus, such men's lives should be 
watched, until the effect of a common inflammatory 
attack, or a severe bruise, or a lacerated WQund^ 
or a firactured bone, may be seen. And then it is 
found that these men, apparently so strong and fiill 
of vigour, win not bear the depletion that their 
ailment indicates; that they must be treated with 
opium rath» than the lancet ; that they cannot be 
kept to the antiphlogistic regimen; that their dis- 
orders ran into incurable disease, with fearful rapi- 
dity; and their injuries are often converted from 
simple cases, that in healthy systems might hardly 
require any treatment at all, into serious and fatal 
ones. The fidl habit of body, the florid and swollen^ 
face, the corpulent abdomen, and fat extremities, are 
not indications of sound health and an unimpaired 
constitution. That man only is in good health, who 
recovers rapidly from the simple accidents incidental 
to his occupation, and from the simple disorders 
incidental to his hum^anity and to the cUmate he 
lives in, and who can bear the treatment that those 
accidents or those disorders demand; and such a 
man is not he who uses in excess alcohol in any of its 
forms ; but, far more probably, the man who is, from 
hereditary or acquired strength of constitution, able 
to maintain himself in health and strength, without 



ULTIMATE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL. 271 

making use of alcohol at aU^ or who makes use of no 
more than just suffices for these purposes. 

The ultimate effect of alcohol on the organs^ and 
on the condition of the body generally^ when it is 
used habitually^ differs^ in some degree^ according to 
the form in which it is used. The larger the amount 
of nutrimentary matter with which the alcohol is 
combined^ the more gross does the system become^ 
and proportionally the more lethargic. This is^ of 
course^ most observable^ when malt-liquor is largely 
made use of. It is much less marked in the case of 
the wine-drinker ; and so much .less so in that of 
the spirit-drinker^ that the latter is rather charac- 
terised by a sunken face^ and thin extremities^ than 
the swollen features and thick limbs of the malt- 
liquor drinker. Stilly however taken^ the effect of 
alcohol is^ necessarily^ to charge the system with 
carbon^ — to overwork the liver and the kidneys, — 
to produce accumulations of fat, particularly in the 
cellular tissue covering the abdominal parietes, and 
in that of the omentum, — to produce engorgement^ 
congestion, and eventually disease of the Hver, and, 
especially in the case of the spirit-drinker, eventually 
likewise of the kidneys, — ^to derange generally the 
functions and organs of the body, and predispose the 
latter to take on any morbid action to which they may 
have been hereditarily predisposed, or to suffer from 
any of the exciting causes of disease, to the influence 
of which the system may be subjected. Thus, the 
intemperate abuser of the alcoholic compounds, not 
only subjects his system to alternations of excitement 



272 ULTIMATE EFVECTS OF ALCOHOL. 

and consequent depression^ — at one time^ stimulating 
the nervous system^ — ^then, tlirowing it into a state 
of lethai^c torpor^ — and then^ subjecting it to much 
exhaustion and depression ; not only does he entail 
upon himself the saddest moral consequences^ — 
lowering the tone and character of his highest facul* 
ties^ and circumscribing and enervating his intelt 
lectual capabilities ; not only does he interfere with 
his digestive powers, and the regular and due assi* 
milation of the ingesta, and the adequate expendi* 
ture of the effete matters of the system; but, 
eventually^ he entails so much derangement of the 
general economy of the system^ and so seriously 
interferes with the functioiis of certain of the organs, 
and so deranges the character even of the blood 
itself and so adds to the organic sensitiveness of 
the tissues, that, if not cut short in the wretched 
career by some common casualty, such as an acci* 
dent or an inflammation, which, in this depraved 
habit of system, may lead to disorganisation and 
death, his life must be shortened by the gradual 
establishment of structural changes in some of the 
great organs of the body, — ^and the end is known to 
be, in most such cases, much more wretched than 
the deaths of the temperate.'^ 

* The effect of spirits in adding to the accmnolation of fat in the 
system, was forcibly illustrated some time ago, in the case of a yery 
young man, who died thus early from the intemperate use of spixiti. 
It appeared, that, for seyeral months, he had been unable to eat more 
than a very small quantity of food, and that his powers were almost 
exclusively maintained by frequent dram-drinking. The immediate 
cause of death was cerebral ramolissement ; but, althoqgh the body 



HYGIENIC USE OF ALCOHOL. 273 

It is a practical and important dedaction £rom 
what has been advanced^ that^ admitting the usefiilo 
ness of the alcoholic compoonds in many consti-^ 
tntions^ when temperately nsed, they should never 
be needlessly made use of^ and never to an intem- 
perate degree. It is quite true^ moreover, that 
children, and young people generally, are more 
likely to grow up into healthy men and women 
without aloohoUc stimulants in any form being used 
by them habitually ; to which, however, some cases 
of scrofulous or feeble children may be necessarily 
and properly txcepted. 

The circumstances under which the alcoholic com- 
pounds are taken, modify their effects to an import* 
ant degree. They should be mixed as much as 
possible with the alimentary supplies ; and, therefore, 
are most safely as well as usefully taken with the 
mid-day meal, which should be the most substantial 
meal of the day, comprising a fair proportion of 
animal food. To meet this intention, the malt- 
liquor, the wine, or the spirit-and-water, should be 
taken in divided portions, at the same time as the 
solid food, — ^and thus mixed with it as much as 
possible. If taken before, or even after, the meal, 
the alcohol is apt to be immediately absorbed from 
the stomach into the system; thus acting more 

was much attenuated, the muscular fibre of the system much wasted, 
and the subcutaneous fat of the extremities had ahnost disappeared, 
on cutting through the abdominal walls to examine the condition of 
the liver, a very considerable thickness of fat had to be divided ; the 
more remarkable Irom the general attenuation, but probably not less 
than three times as thick as is usually met with. 



274 HYGIENIC USE OF ALCOHOL. 

directly as a stimulaiit^ and aiding less in the diges- 
tion of the aliment^ and promoting less the nutrition 
of the body. It is almost always unwise, under any 
drcumstances, to allow any of the forms of alcohol 
to be made use of habitually in the evenings or 
within a short time of the hours of sleep. The sys- 
tem is generally more excitable in the evenings and 
the effect of alcohol by so much the greater. But 
the effect of a stimulant in the evening, is to render 
the sleep less perfect and less r^:e8hing, — ^to disturb 
more decidedly the economy of the nervous system, 
— and to risk much more than when .the stimulant 
is taken in the middle of the day, the eventual inter- 
ference with the action of the secreting organs^ and 
the production of visceral sluggishness, and conse- 
quent congestion. It is ahnost too well known to 
make it necessary to add, that none of the alcoholic 
compounds should be taken into the fsusting sto- 
mach, — ^involving, as this does, their immediate and 
unqualified absorption into the circulation, and their 
most decided action as mere stimulants to the 
economy. 

If a man will use habitually any of the alcoholic 
stimulants^ he ought to take care, that, as far as he 
can, he uses a degree of exercise proportionate to the 
quantity he indulges in. It may be relied on, how- 
ever, that, when the system is not peculiarly feeble^ 
from hereditary infirmity or predisposition, or from 
a clefective early physical education, or from other 
causes, the full maintenance of health and strength 
seldom requires the habitual use of any liquid, which 



USS AND ABUSE OF NARCOTICS. 275 

is a stronger stimulant than water. Medical men 
have generally to contend with the consequences of 
long continued habits^ which may fairly be called 
habits of excess^ and which it may be unwise^ or even 
unsafe^ to interfere with^ or even to modify in any 
veiy considerable degree. 

It is a curious and interesting fact^ that^ in districts 
tar removed £rom one another in geographical posi* 
tion^ havings perhaps^ however, some chmatorial 
characteristics in common, and in which the inhabit- 
ants in some degree seem to stand in need of some 
means of checking the disintegration of the tissues 
of the body, plants have been provided, which exert 
this influence on the system, and appear to be made 
use of advantageously, although, of course, without 
any direct idea of the effect produced thereby. Thus 
the Peruvian makes use of the leaves of the coca 
plant, the East Indian and South-Sea-Islander of the 
areca or betel nut, the Turk of opium, and the 
Chinese and American of tobacco. But, however 
properly, or even needfully, these several narcotics, 
with the exception of opium, which must be always 
too powerful for habitual use — ^may be had recourse 
to, under certain circumstances of climate and habits 
of life, they cannot be required, and may by so much 
do harm, when men are placed under very different 
external circumstances, when the expenditure of the 
system may and indeed must be justifiably great, and 
when the alimentary supplies are at least equal to f he 
possible expenditure. It is neither surprising, nor 
difficult of explanation, that the habitual use of any 



£76 USE AND ABUSE OF NARCOTICS. 

of these luurcotics, under sach drcnmstaiices^ should 
interfere imdoly with the expenditure of the system, 
should enorvate and derange the nervous system^ 
should diminish the action of the great emulging 
organs, should eventually induce visceral congestion, 
should charge the system with carbonaceous matters, 
and in the end disturb aud impair the assimilating 
functions. And such is the fair statement of the 
effects of tobacco on the system in these latitudes, 
and what may be gathered to be the effects of this 
and sunilar substances, when used in excess, in the 
countries where their moderate use appears to be 
required. There is in Dr. Meyen's work, already 
quoted from, an interesting illustration of the effect of 
climate in modifying the ultimate effects of the coca 
leaf on the system, which may be fully extended to 
tobacco and the other narcotics when used habitually. 
The extract is, moreover, otherwise interesting : — 

'^ Poeppig, who, during his stay at Huallaga, on 
the eastern side of the Peruvian Cordilleras, was for 
several months in parts where the coca is grown, 
has given us full information concerning this branch 
of Peruvian agriculture. Just as it is extremely 
difiBicult for a drunkard or a real tobacco smoker to 
give up his favourite indulgence, so it is difficult for 
a coquero to refrain from the use of the coca. 
We also learn from these travels, that the use of 
coca is as universal on the eastern side of the Cordil- 
leras of Northern Peru, as on the table land in the 
south, and the consequences of it are said to be very 
bad in the warmer and damp districts. In the cold 



COCA. £77 

and elevated parts of the plateau of Chnquito^ where 
the use of coca is certainly very general^ and that 
not only amongst the Indians^ but amongst the 
mixed races, as weU as the whites, little is to be 
observed of all the dreadful diseases which are said to 
arise from its use. In the villages and towns around 
the basin of Chuquito, Indians, negroes, whites, and 
persons of mixed blood, of extreme age, are seen 
going about, and now as before using the coca. The 
women of these parts, who, as of mixed blood, are 
known under the name of Zambitas, are exceedingly 
<K>rpulent, and chew coca as generally as betel is 
used in India, without exhibiting any signs of the 
dreadfdl consequences. By the mixture of burnt 
lime, which is much more general in Northern Peru 
than in the South, the teeth are dyed in a disgusting 
xaanner, but they do not suffer any injury, which 
can easily be seen to be the case on the islands of 
India, where the betel, mixed with lime, is one of 
the ordinary enjoyments of life. It is oertainly the 
case, that the excessive use of coca, on account of its 
volatile principle, which produces an effect similar to 
that of opiiun, weakens the organs of digestion and 
gradually over-exdtes the nervous system; and a 
number of diseases thus arise, which, however, are 
far from being so dangerous as those which are the 
consequence of using opium.'' 

The Peruvians chew the coca leaves either by 
themselves, or mixed with clay or lime, and made 
into little balls, which they keep in the mouth until 
th^ find all the bitter and strong taste to have been 



278 BETEL.-— OPIUM. — TOBACCO. 

tetracted. The betel is formed firom the nut of the 
areca palm^ rolled in leaves of the betel pepper^ 
striped with moistened chalk on one side. The use 
of this^ whichis said to turn the teeth to ared colour^ 
to stain even the gums^ and produce a constant flow 
of salivay and to be altogether one of the most dis- 
gusting practices imaginable^ prevails extensively; 
and almost universally^ among the native East In- 
dians; the South-Sea-Islanders^ &;c. Of the extensive 
use of opium among the Turks, and more recently 
among the Chinese, it is hardly needful to speak. The 
most powerful of the narcotics, — ^when used habit- 
ually, it becomes a stimulus of great activity, and of 
proportionably great injury to the nervous system, — 
lowering the tone and disturbing the equilibrium of 
the circulation,— enfeebling and derangiiig the seve- 
ral processes of secretion and excretion, — and leaving 
the wretched consumer of this potent drug, the victim 
of depression, and of ills of all phases, mental and 
bodily, in the intervals between Ids paroxysms of 
bUssful excitement,— and eventuaUy the victim of a 
premature imbecility of mind, with an organism worn 
out before its time, and the scarcely-to^be-pitied prey 
of an early death. '' The Confessions of an English 
Opium-Eater '' leave nothing to be wished for, in the 
description of the frightfiil effects of the habitual use 
of opium. 

Tobacco playB a more important part in this coun- 
try, as to the habits of the people. However used, 
whether smoked, chewed, or used as snuff, its action 
on the system is but little different. It is essentially 



TOBACCO. — DIETETIC USES OF WATER. 279 

a narcotic; and as such^ it is detrimental to tlie 
power and healthiness of the nervous system^ — as 
suchj it stimulates at the expense of subsequent de- 
pression and eventual loss of tone^ — ^as such^ it inter- 
feres with the functions of assimilation and expen- 
diture^^-and as such is injurious to the health of the 
system. Tobacco exerts more marked and injurious 
effects when chewed^ less of these when smoked^ and 
is least deleterious when used in the form of snuff. 
This is only^ however, a question of degree ; and in 
the temperate climates, the use of tobacco in any 
way can only be justifiable, when, from poverty of 
diet, and consequent vital depression, the effects 
of an habitually used narcotic may not be unde- 
sirable. 

Perhaps enough has been already incidentally said 
as to the effect of water when taken into the system, 
so far as its action as a chemical agent may be of 
importance, by furnishing oxygen and hydrogen to 
the organic processes, and entering into combination 
accordingly with the materials of the body ; or at all 
events, this may have been sufSciently noticed, so far 
as it seems to be a necessary supposition in explain- 
ing some of the organic processes ; — the digestion 
of water and other liquid food by immediate absorp- 
tion from the stomach, has, moreover, been already 
referred to ; — and the importance of water, as a sol- 
vent for the more solid ingesta, and the menstruum 
of all the alimentary suppUes, — as the great softener 
and fashioner of the organic atoms, — as furnishing 
the stream, by which the new atoms are conveyed to 



280 DIETETIC U8E8 OF WATER. 

the different tissues and structures, and bj wbich 
the effete matters are removed, and by which the 
«yg«of ti»«^i«d -, i. conveyed ».d«,.»Med 
equally in all parts of the body for the maLntenance 
J the amJ heat, is, moriver, great and inte- 
resting* But the effect of the aggregate quantity 
of water taken into the system, and of the periods 
at which it is taken, on the stomach, and on the 
general functions and powers of the body, are of 
more direct practical importance to the present 
inquiry. 

The stomach may be too weak, and the system 
generally too feeble, to bear large draughts of water 
at a time, without inconvenience; and its absorption 
may be consequently so difficult, slow, and imperfect, 
as to render the use of it very properly a subject of 
caution and guidance. This may be remediable by 
restricting the quantity made use of; or it may be 
necessary to combine it with demulcents, or with 
aromatics, or with stimulants, to obviate the incon- 
venience. When taken shortly before a meal, in 
debilitated states of system, or feeble conditions of 
the digestive organs, water may remain long unab- 
sorbed, or so expend the energies of the organ to 
effect its absorption, as to diminish very much the 
chance of the food next taken being digested without 
inconvenience. When taken in too large quantity 
along with the food, it may unduly task the powers 
of the system to effect its absorption, and thus very 
much retard, and probably derange, the digestive 
process. Taken soon after a meal, when the stomach 



EMULOINO EFFECTS OF WATER. 281 

is engaged in the primary digestion, and the food 
and gastric juice are being blended, and are in a 
state of re-action, the effect of water, even in the 
strong, and when the fiinction of the stomach is in 
a state of healthy activity, is, commonly, to interfere 
much with the digestion, interrupt the solution of 
the food, and give rise to dyspeptic symptoms. When 
the stomach, or the system generally, is in a languid 
or disordered state, these facts ought to be especially 
remembered ; and the quantity of water taken, should 
be carefdUy regulated by the wants of the system ; 
and the time at which it is taken, in reference to the 
meal-times, should be likewise attended to, — limiting 
the quantity taken soon before a meal, or at the 
same time with the food, or shortly after it, as much 
as possible, — and letting it be taken, as much, as may 
be, neither soon before nor shdHily after the meals, 
and even then in regulated quantities. 

As to the ultimate action of water on the system, 
— ^its effect as a solvent for the effete matters, and a 
direct means of their elimination, — ^the influence of 
the great solvent may be made useful in many dis- 
ordered conditions of the body; and, on the other 
hand, may be carried much too far, and with injurious 
consequences to the system. It seems to be a simple 
enough fact, that, however pure may be the state in 
which water is taken into the system, it is never 
pure when discharged from it; but always carries 
off, in solution, saline and azotised matters ; and is, to 
the same degree, an emulging and expending agent. 
This may be most useful in maintaining health, in 



282 EMULOINO EFFECTS OF WATER. 

warding off disease^ or in correcting or removing 
morbid action. It may promote needftd secretion ; 
it may carry off redundant matters ; it may relieve 
local irritation ; it may equalise the general circula- 
tiouj or remove the slighter degrees of congestion ; 
and act beneficially upon the plethoric^ the sluggish^ 
or the excited^ conditions of the system^ which may 
or may not be sufficient in degree to amount to dis- 
ease. The good effects of water^ as a diluent and 
emulgent^ in the human body^ whether in health or 
disease^ can hardly be exaggerated in importance. 
But^ in the same degree, it is possible to make too 
much use of so energetic an agent; — ^to the same 
degree, it is possible to make it a means of inducing 
debility, whether local or general;. and an nnwise 
means of expending the powers of the system. Water 
is by no means a weak and unimportant agent in the 
animal economy; and is as capable as most other 
powerful agents, of subserving the weU-being, or of 
deranging the tone and healthiness, of the system. 
It has been, of late years,— thanks to an extension of 
one of the forms of modem quackery to the habits 
of the people ! — ^too much the custom to drink water 
more largely than the system requires its diluent and 
emulgent action, in the delusive hope of its acting, 
in some mysterious way, as a tonic and remedial 
agent. However taken, when used in lai^er quantity 
than the wants of the system imperatively require, 
water must always act as an emulgent, and, to the 
same extent, as an expending and debilitating agent, 
— ^and should by so much be made use of cautiously 



STATED HOURS FOR MEALS. 283 

m any excessive degree ; and only according to tlie 
evident requirements of the system^ whether it be 
healthy or diseased ; and with a view to^ and due 
consideration of^ its emulgent effects. 

The individual articles of diet have now been 
discussed. A number of general observations have 
been interspersed among them. Some^ however^ 
still remain to be mentioned. 

Eating at regular hours, is one of the most im- 
portant dietetic regulations. It is one, which the 
man who is in a state of comparative health might 
do weU to attend to ; and one, the necessity of which 
cannot be too strongly impressed upon the invalid. 
The interval of time between the meals ought not to 
be longer thsn five, — ^nor less, as a general rule, than 
four hours. For instance, if the first meal is taken 
at eight o^clock in the morning, the second might be 
advisedly taken at one p. m., the third at five p. m., 
the fourth, if a fourth were found to be necessary, 
between eight and nine o^clock in the evening. It 
may be observed, that, according to this, five hours 
is allowed as the interval between the first and 
the second meal; four hours after the second 
meal; and only three hours and a half after 
the third. The reason is, that the two former 
should be the principal meals; and ought to be 
looked upon as being virtually the only meals. The 
third meal usually consists essentially of tea, which 
acts as a cordial and restorative to the stomachy and 
is generally very grateful ; and, in some cases, when 
the stomach is either languid, or morbidly sensitive, 



284 THE MEALS. 

may be very useful, and even be necessary. The 
advantage of taking a certain quantity of liquid three 
or four hours after a meal which substantially con^ 
sists of solid food, and the digestion of which expends 
or employs so much of the fluids of the system, is 
sufficiently apparent, — ^and is usually indicated by the 
sensations ; and when the peculiar azotised principle 
contained in tea, is added to the mere diluent action 
of the water, subserving a sedative or narcotic pur- 
pose on the tissues and the nervous system gene- 
rally, and probably some secondary good effect on 
the secretion of bile, the usefulness of the third 
meal of tea needs neither further illustration nor 
further defence. If very little or no solid food is 
taken along with it, tea does not add in any appa- 
rent degree to the labours of the stomach, but rather 
and simply aids it in the completion of the digestion 
of the previous meal. And, indeed, so fully am I 
persuaded that it is in this way the third meal 
should be regarded, that I should advise the great 
majority of people to eat nothing at tea-time. So 
taken, about three or four hours after what is almost 
always the heaviest meal in the day, tea is simply 
and decidedly soothing and restorative ; facilitating 
the assimilation of any still undigested matters that 
may remain in the stomach, and leaving so long an 
interval between the dinner and the supper, or the 
dinner and the bed-time, as may commonly enable 
even the feeblest stomach to dispose of the largest 
meal of the day. But if any solid food is taken with 
the tea, the stomach, hardly recovered from the 



BREAKFAST. 285 

expending consequences of digesting the dinner, is 
again set to work ; and the beneficial effects of the 
tea are apt to be counteracted by the call on the 
stomach for a renewal of its labours. The student 
will^ I think, commonly find that, after a cup of 
tea, thus taken by itself, about three or four hours 
after his dinner, he will be better prepared for any 
intellectual exertion, than at any other time of the 
day; whereas, if he takes solid food with the tea, 
mind and body are apt to become more or less 
lethargic ; and he loses, to a greater or less extent, 
his command over the mental faculties, for an hour 
or more. K the practice of eating nothing at tea- 
time, need not be regularly adhered to, — ^when a 
reason or necessity for an extra degree of mental 
labour exists, it may be usefully adopted. 

The breakfast should always be an important, if 
not the most important, meal of the day. It should 
seldom be taken until some little time after rising 
in the morning, and seldom until after some little 
exercise has been taken. The necessity for this rule 
is greater, if food have been taken late on the pre- 
ceding evening, and the possibility of any remaining 
crudity of stomach from the preceding meal is 
involved. In many cases of debility, whether of 
the digestive organs in particular, or of the system 
generally, some food is properly and necessarily 
taken, even before rising from bed in the morning, 
and at all events as soon after rising as may be, 
and before any exertion is made ; and in default of 
this indulgence, the system is found to be deranged, 

o 



286 BKEAK7AST. 

and the fanctional processes disturbed, during the 
remainder of the day. These are^ however, extreme 
cases ; and cases in which the habit of taking food 
before rising in the morning has been merely 
acquired by indolence and self-indulgence, should 
not be mistaken for them. If the interval of time 
between rising in the morning and the break£Eust, be 
not long enough to expend unwisely, or somewhat 
exhaust, the nervous energies, the meal may nsually 
be more substantial in quality and quantity, the 
longer the time, and the greater the amount of 
bodily or mental exercise undergone, before the 
breakfast. 

The breakfast is very properly made to consist of a 
considerable proportion of liquids, to supply the loss 
of the fluids of the body during the hours of sleep; 
and along with the hquids, should generally be taken 
a large proportion of the solid food required for the 
support of the system during the twenty-four hours. 
And this, for more than one important reason. The 
nervous system is restored by sleep to its fullest 
power and activity; the equilibrium of its different 
endowments is regained; and ail the oi^t:iiic pro- 
cesses are fitted for their offices in a corresponding 
degree. Hence the importance of appetite for the 
breakfast, as a criterion of unimpaired health, and 
the greater chance of the food then taken being 
assimilated without apparent disturbance of the 
digestive organs, or any evident tax upon the powers 
of the economy. But, in addition to this very suf- 
ficient reason for making the breakfast consist of an 



BREAKFAST. 287 

important part of the day's bill of fare^ may be 
mentioned^ the great effect of light on all the functions 
of the body, and likewise the importance of the long 
inteiral between the early meal of the day and the 
hours of sleep^ as additional reasons and motives for 
attaching so much importance to the breakfast. 
Granting that any one who undergoes a fair share of 
mental and bodily exertion, should eat a given quan- 
tity of animal food every day, diluting this, for the 
purposes of respiration, &c., with vegetable food, the 
advisibility of dividing this quantity into two parts, 
one of which is taken when the powers of the body 
are in the fittest state to assimilate it duly, and the 
other after a reasonable interval, and before the 
nervous system has become expended by its mental 
and bodily labours, may suggest itself reasonably to 
any one. The animal food may consist, according 
to circumstances, of cold or broiled meat, fish, eggs, 
bacon, and the hke, — adapting the kind, as well as 
the quantity, to the powers of the stomach, and the 
probable wants and expenditure of the body ; and this 
is diluted with any required quantity of farinaceous 
food. Whether the liquid taken at breakfast be tea, 
coffee, cocoa, chocolate, milk, gruel, or barley water, 
or cold water, must depend on the state of the 
digestive organs, and the powers and organic sensi- 
bilities of the system. The quantity of liquid should 
likewise be carefully adapted to the state and wants 
of the system; remembering that the separate ab- 
sorption of the liquid food from the stomach may 
interfere with and derange the digestive process in 

o2 



288 DINNER. 

many instances, — and in most cases, if the liquids 
be taken in an undue quantity. 

The second meal should be taken some four or five 
hours after the breakfast. It should embrace almost 
all the remainder of the food not taken at breakfast, 
that is required by the economy during the twenty- 
four hours, — ^whether fashion and circumstances allow 
this meal to be called dinner or not. How exceed- 
ingly unwise it must be to fast longer than five hours, 
during those hours of the day when the mental and 
bodily expenditure is the greatest, — to task them un- 
duly, and so far exhaust the powers of the economy, — 
is an evident and important truth ; and the useful- 
ness of taking the large proportion of the alimentary 
supplies so long a time before the hour of sleep, as 
will almost prevent, and certainly much diminish, 
the chance of going to sleep with undigested food in 
the stomach, in such a degree of crudity as may 
interfere with the soundness and perfectness of the 
sleep, and its restorative and equalising influence on 
the nervous and vascular and organic processes, — ^is 
very obvious ; and the desirableness of the food being 
taken before the nervous energies are otherwise in 
great part expended by the mental and muscular 
labours, only to be restored after another night's 
sleep, is, again, a cogent reason for dining, or virtu- 
ally dining, in the middle of the day, or as near to 
the middle of the day as may be. That anomalous 
meal, luncheon, becomes necessary or desirable, if the 
dinner cannot be taken about five hours after the 
breakfast ; and if, breakfasting at eight, nine, or ten. 



DINNER. 289 

in the mornings a maa^ especially if he be a dys- 
peptic, cannot dine before five, six, or seven in the 
evening, not only should he eat luncheon at twelve, 
one, or two o^clock, but he should virtually dine at the 
luncheon, or eat at that time the larger proportion of 
his alimentary supplies, — ^leaving as little as may be 
to be eaten at hours so much nearer to his bed-time. 
It is usually unwise to sleep soon after any of the 
meals. It risk, the formation of an imperf Jly con- 
cocted chyme, and the passage of undissolved and 
unmixed food into the bowels, — and consequent de- 
rangement of the second digestion, and interference 
with the ultimate assimilation of the food, — and pos- 
sible disturbance of the prima via. But the advisa- 
bility of remaining still for some longer or shorter 
time after eating, is not thereby affected. The fact 
remains, that, during the first stage of the digestive 
processes, a large quantity of blood is determined to 
the stomach, to produce the secretion of the gastric 
juice, to reduce the chemical condition of the different 
articles of food, to dissolve the alimentary atoms, and 
prepare them for assimilation, — and that, if there be 
any doubt as to the general vigour and activity of the 
system, or as to the power and healthiness of the 
digestive organs, there should be no diversion of the 
blood thus determined to the stomach; an effect 
which muscular exercise, or setting the mind to 
work upon any engrossing and thought-requiring 
subject, must necessarily risk. The time necessary to 
be so devoted to non-interference with the stomach^s 
fimctions, varies according to the degree of general 



290 SIMPLICITY OF DIET. 

debility, or the feebleness or derangement of the 
digestive oi^ans : it may be said to be, from half-an- 
hour to two hours. After this, exercise, especially 
bodily exercise, and more particularly if taken in the 
open air, assists the processes of assimilation, by 
promoting the action of the capillaries, and the 
general expenditure of the system, as well as by 
equalising the circulation, and diminishing the chance 
of irregular distribution of the blood. 

The dinner very properly contains a smaller quan- 
tity of liquid matter than the breakfast ; both because 
the system probably requires less liquid ingesta at 
that time of the day, and because, when not needfdl, 
liquids tend to interfere with the digestion of the 
soUd aliment. In fact, if the stomach is feeble, or 
otherwise disordered in its functions, it may be wise 
or needful to take what liquids the system requires 
between the meals, rather than along with them. 
Liquids ought, moreoyer, to be rather taken before 
eating, than either at the same time with the solid 
food, or soon thereafter. It would have been said at 
one time, to be injudicious to drink before eating, from 
the idea that, in this way, the gastric juice might be 
diluted, and its solvent powers by so much weakened. 
This is now known to be a false objection ; because 
the gastric juice is only secreted, when the aliment is 
in contact with the lining membrane of the stomach. 

Every sufferer from indigestion, in any of its forms, 
should be restricted to one or at most two dishes at a 
meal. The multiplicity of dishes tempts the appetite 
to overload the stomach ; but, in addition to this, the 



MASTICATION OF FOOD. 291 

stomach digests more quickly a single dish^ even of 
somewhat difficult digestion^ than a mixture of dishes 
that are digested more easily. 

^ But other ills, th' ambigaons feast pursue, 
Besides provoking the lasciTious taste. 
Such various foods, tho' harmless each alone, 
Each other violate ; and oft we see 
What strife is brew'd, and what pernicious bane. 
From combinations of innoxious things." 

Abmstbono. 

Dishes which are composed of a great variety of 
articles, are properly included under this head. The 
simpler the dish to which the dyspeptic confines 
himself, the less likely is he to feel its digestion. 
There is no question, however, that cookery plays 
an important part, in subserving or interfering with 
the functions of the stomach ; or that some of the 
results of the continental mode of cookery, when 
not spoiled by the addition of oils or acids, are more 
easily digested than the plain roasted and boiled 
meats of the English cook. This is probably a ques- 
tion of the mechanical condition of the animal fibre, 
and its being made more tender and soluble, instead 
of more hard, by the culinary processes ; and not a 
question as to the complexity or simplicity of the 
dish that is eaten. 

The more thoroughly the food is masticated, the 
more quickly and easily it is digested. Indigestion 
very commonly comes on, when people are losing 
their teeth, and are consequently unable, from irri- 
tation of the gums, to chew their food properly. 
Horses become emaciated and out of health from a 



292 MASTICATINa THE FOOD. 

similar cause, — ^from inequalities of tlie surfaces of 
the teeth, which prevent the perfect mastication of 
the food. It has even been said, and perhaps justly, 
by distinguished naturalists, that the loss of the 
teeth, and the consequent imperfect mastication of 
the food, is the principal cause of the shortness of 
the life of many of the lower animals. Cases of 
indigestion are of frequent occurrence, which are 
wholly attributable to the common practice of eating 
the meals too quickly, and the consequent swallow- 
ing of the food in large and imperfectly chewed 
masses.* Food that is so taken into the stomach, is 

* A medical man who had paid considerable attention to dental 
surgery, assmred me, that one of the greatest causes of the early 
decay and consequent loss of the teeth which so generally preyails, is, 
that they are too close together. He says, ^< that, although fixed in 
their sockets, the teeth still yield somewhat during the mastication 
of food, — that their mode of connection with the alveolar processes 
renders them more or less elastic, — enabling them to recede in some 
degree before the resisting body:'' a beautiful provision to prevent 
unnecessary friction, and so to prevent or diminish the wearing away 
of the enameL He says, ^ that when the teeth are too dose togetiier, 
the rubbmg of the teeth on one another during mastication wears 
away or cracks the enamel that is between them, by which the bony 
structure is exposed, and the teeth decay." He drew the rational 
inference, that, for this among other reasons, the teeth of young 
people, from their eighth or ninth to their eleventh or twelfth year, 
should be occaaionally examined ; and that, when this undue proximity 
of the teeth to one another is found to obtain, one should be removed 
from each side of the over-filled jaw. He contended, that, by this simple 
means, the teeth would, to a very great degree, be prevented from 
decaying prematurely, while the set would be rendered more regular 
and uniform, and the teeth would, of course, at that early age, so 
accommodate themselves to the additional room thus given to them, 
that there would be eventually no perceptible gap at the places from 
which the teeth had been extracted. For obvious reasons, he prefers 
removing the first or second molar teeth. There is probably mnch 



ADVANTAGE OF EATING SLOWLY. 293 

not thoronghly mixed with saliva; and the great 
assistance which this important secretion renders to 
the complex processes of digestion is thereby lost. 
In the case of the fannaceoos foods^ this will be un- 
derstood to be peculiarly important. But the usefiil- 
ness of a due mastication of the food is by no means 
confined^ in the case of man^ to the farinaceous 
articles of food. It is almost equally evident in the 
case of animal fibre^ when the effect of mastication 
may be simply mechanical^ and have little to do 
with the admixture with the saliva ; and many dys- 
peptic cases connected with imperfect mastication^ 
either &om a long habit of eating rapidly^ or from 
the defective condition of the teeth, are much re- 
lieved by directing the meat to be pounded or 
chopped into small pieces by the cook, and served 
up, plainly cooked, in this state. A strong extract 
of meat,— made by mixing pounded animal fibre, 
free from skin or fat, with its own weight of cold 
water ; rubbing them thoroughly together, to secure 
the solution of all the soluble matters; gradually 
heating the mixture to the boiling point ; allowing it 
to boil for a few minutes; and straining the ex- 
tract from the hard and coagulated albununous and 
fibrinous remaiader, — affords an animal matter, 

important truth in these views as to the cases of the decay of the 
teeth, which commences in the surfaces which are in contact with the 
other teeth. It could not be applicable to the cases in which the 
caries begins at the top of the crown of a tooth. The observationy 
however, seems to be so feasible, and is probably applicable to so 
many cases, that, if true, it cannot be too generally known. 

o3 



294 ADVANTAGE OF EATING SLOWLY. 

of higlily nutrimentary character^ wliicli contains, 
according to Professor Liebig^ a mixture of albnmen 
and gelatin^ nearly one-half being an absolute albu- 
men. Nearly one-fourth of the whole solid or non- 
aqueous substance of the meat is thus extracted; 
and a much larger proportion of the animal matter 
that is convertible by the organs of digestion into 
aliment. In such cases as those referred to, in which, 
whether from decay of the teeth or other causes, a 
due mastication is not afforded to the solid animal 
fibre, to facilitate its digestion in a sufficient degree, 
the use of such an extract, either alone, or mixed at 
discretion with other viands, might prove to be an 
exceedingly valuable and desirable addition to the 
dietary. 

But food ought not to be eaten quickly, for another 
reason. It is important to eat slowly, because there 
is thus less danger of eating to repletion, — of taking 
more food at one time, than the stomach can easily 
digest. If food is eaten slowly, a distinct sensation 
is felt when enough has been taken. K food is eaten 
faster, this sensation is either not perceived until too 
much has been taken, or it is not attended to. 

The quantity of food made use of, is of no less 
importance than its digestibility, simplicity, mode of 
cookery, and due mastication, to the healthy condition 
of the digestive organs and of the system generally. 
The great and good Dr. Fothergill, in one of his papers, 
says, '* Nothing is of so much consequence to invalids, 
and the more delicate of both sexes, as attention to 



QUANTITY OF FOOD KEQUIEED. 295 

quantity. There are many people who seem to be 
possessed of such powers of digestion^ as to be under 
no restraint on that account^ and who never feel them- 
selves incommoded, either with the quantity, or the 
most heterogeneous qualities of their food. They rise 
from the most plentiful mixed and rich repasts, with- 
out any kind of apparent uneasiness. But this is not 
the case with the generality — ^they are affected with 
uneasiness, some in one way, some another, by the 
unnatural load. And how often do we hear such 
complaining of the ill effects of this or that particular 
kind of diet, when, perhaps, their sufferings arise 
from the quantity of all, rather than the disagreement 
of any. It demands attention to observe that just 
medium, and no less resolution to keep to it, which 
the stomach invariably points out in respect to qua- 
lity. The how vmch must be determined by every 
individual.^' In reference to this question, I may be 
permitted to quote the following from Dr. M^Cabe's 
able work ''On the Cheltenham Waters, and the 
Diseases in which they are recommended.^' — '' It is 
surprising, and deserves to be generally known, what 
a small quantity of food is necessary, not only to 
preserve life, but also to maintain perfect health. As 
the particular application of a fact has more weight 
than its general assertion, we shall here mention a 
circumstance which Dr. Gregory, of Edinburgh, was in 
the habit of relating, in his lectures on the practice 
of medicine, which is strongly illustrative of the posi- 
tion above advanced. Some European troops, in the 



296 QUANTITY OF FOOD BEQUIBED. 

East Indies^ were^ by the chances of war^ reduced 
to the necessity of subsisting for a considerable time 
on the scanty allowance of about two ounces of rice 
daily. Among them were some officers who had 
long been accustomed to the luxurious mode of living 
usually adopted by Europeans in the East. When 
first reduced to this scanty allowance^ th^ expected 
that death would shortly relieve them from their 
miserable condition; but they were agreeably sur- 
prised to &adf day after day^ that they stiU retained 
their health and vigour; and after the expiration of 
several months^ during which time they had Uved on 
this scanty allowance^ they were all in perfect health. 
This celebrated physician went farther; he said^ that 
some of them^ who at the commencement of their 
involuntary abstinence were pallid^ sallow^ and ema- 
ciated, with aU the other symptoms which usually 
characterise chronic diseases of the liver, at the time 
of their liberation were considerably improved both 
in health and general appearance.^^ This case is 
interesting, and in some degree illustrative of this 
question, both from the degree to which the involun- 
tary abstemiousness was carried, and the length of 
time during which it had to be endured. But the 
climate of India, involving the consumption of so 
much less carbon for the maintenance of the animal 
heat, and the probably small amount of exertion 
whether mental or bodily these troops would be 
called upon to undergo, make a large deduction 
necessary, in applying the facts to the climate of 



QUANTITY OF FOOD REQUIRED. 297 

Great Britain^ and to the ordinary circumstances 
of life. There* can^ however^ be no doubt^ that 
the tendency^ especially among the middle and 
upper classes of the people^ and among the more 
sedentary, is to eat too much, more than is required 
to meet and compensate for the expenditure of the 
system; that this excess of food, either loads the 
system unduly and unwisely, or tasks the emulging 
organs with extra duty for its elimination; failing 
which, disordered action must ensue. That there are 
exceptions to this, however, and an opposite side to 
this picture, is likewise true; that there are men, 
whose labours of mind, and sometimes, althouigh 
more seldom, of body likewise, are so great, that the 
nervous energies are so far expended by these exer- 
tions, as to rob unfairly, and at their proper peril, 
the digestive processes of their share of vitalising 
influence, I know to be true : I have seen cases of 
this kind, in which the stomach has been so feeble, 
and the powers of assimilation so much deranged, that 
the system has been restricted to a minimum quantity 
of farinaceous food, in order that there might have to 
be expended in the digestion as little as possible of the 
power sought to be devoted to the business of the life. 
It need not be said, that the end, in all such cases, 
must be the same ; that the machine must be injured 
by all excesses, whether intellectual or otherwise; 
that the great processes of reproduction and expen- 
diture become less and less equal to the mainte- 
nance of organic power, or even of life; and that 



298 QUANTITY OF FOOD BEQUIBBD. 

disease must be the certain^ and not very remote 
consequence. Such cases must enlist more of our 
sympathy^ than those of the glutton or the drunkard; 
but they inyolye at least an equal infraction of the 

to warn men from such dangerous courses. Man is^ 
under all circumstances^ largely the creature of his 
organisation ; in consonance with the requirements 
of which he must live^ if he is to mantain his healthy 
and consequently his power^ opportunity, and length 
of time, for usefulness, and for the attainment of his 
object, — ^whether that object be high or low, selfish 
or philanthropical, ennobling or otherwise. 

The quantity of food upon which life may be 
maintained for considerable periods of tune, is shown 
to be small, by many well authenticated instances of 
privation, from the consequences of shipwreck, &c. 
In the well-known instance of ''The mutiny of 
the Bounty,^' eighteen men were kept aUve, at an 
admitted point just above that of actual starva- 
tion, on an allowance per man of four ounces 
of bread per day, divided into three portions, and 
consumed in the morning, at noon, and at sunset. 
This fearfully low scale of diet, improved by the 
occasional addition of half an ounce of pork, or the 
quarter of the kernel of a cocoa nut, was virtually 
more low and meagre than it appears to be, from 
the statement that the bread was in a great degree 
spoiled by exposure to wet, and is called in the 
"eventful history,^' rotten and decayed; that the 



QUANTITY OF FOOD REQUIKED. 299 

quantity of water issued to every man per day had 
to be limited to less than a pint; that the poor 
fellows were exposed in an open boat night and 
day^ and had to endure the extremes of cold^ some 
degree of labour^ loss of sleep^ and the like. Their 
case was made worse^ moreover, by their having had 
to throw away^ early in their awfiil time of sufferings 
all superfluous clothes^ in order to lighten the boat^-^ 
and by their defenceless exposure to wind and raia 
during part of the subsequent time. The single com- 
fort spoken of^ is a small quantity of rum^ — ^which^ 
although only sufficient to be served out in quaatities 
of a teaspoonful to each^ relieved the sense of cold and 
exhaustion^ when it became extreme and alarming. 
This state of misery continued during twenty-three 
days^ aad was survived by all the men. This case aud 
such cases are matters^ however^ rather of curious 
experience, than of practical interest. 

In gaols, the inmates are said to have been kept in 
health and strength, on a daily allowance to every indi- 
vidual of — 1st, nine pounds of potatoes, a pint of new 
milk, and a pint of butter milk; or, 2nd, of two pounds 
of bread and a quart of new milk; or, 3rd, of eight 
ounces of oatmeal, made into stirabout, four pounds 
of potatoes, a pint of new milk, and a pint of butter- 
milk ; or, 4th, in an instance of people who had to 
work, of thirteen ounces of oatmeal, two and a half 
pounds of potatoes, and two and a half pints of but- 
termilk.* These, however, are examples of dieting 

* Report, by Sir David Barry and Dr. Ck)rrie, on the System of 
Public Medical Relief in Ireland. 



300 DIETARY OF THE BRITISH NAVY. 

without the use of flesh-meat; and are rather, it 
should be observed, indications of how little food 
may serve to keep men in a certain degree of health, 
than satisfactory guides to a fit diet for those who 
are not criminals, and deserve to be UberaUy pro- 
vided for, and yet not more so than jb found to 
consist with the maintenance of health. Such a 
scheme of diet appears to be the one used in the 
British navy. 

DIETARY OF THE BRITISH NAVY. 

The provisions allowed daily to every person serving in her Ma- 
jesty*s ships, connst of — 

Bread . . . . . 1 lb. 

Beer . . 1 gal. 

Cocoa . . . . 1 oz. 

Sugar . . . . . H oz. 

Fresh meat . . 1 lb. 

and 

Vegetables . . . . O^lb. 

Tea . . . . . . O^oz. 

When fresh meat and vegetables are not issaed^ there is, in lieu 
thereof — 



Salt beef ..... Oflb.^ 

and 
Flour . . . Ojib. 

or 
Salt pork . . . OJlb. 

and 
Peas . . . . ^pint'' 



>» 
^ 



I 



And, weekly, whether fresh or salt meat is used — 



AqD^itity of {^^}not»ceedtog{|j?J 



/ for occanonal 
use, and only 
paid for when 
used. 



DIETARY OF THE BRITISH NAVY. 



301 



The following scheme shows the proportion of provisionsy with salt 
meat for each man, for fourteen days : — 



Days of the Week. 



Sunday . 

Monday 

Tuesday . 

Wednesday 

Thursday. 

Friday 

Saturday . 

Sunday 

Monday . 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 



Proportion for 14 days 



•a 



lb. 



14 






gal. 



14 



bo 
9 
90 



oz. 

H 
H 

H 

H 
H 
H 

H 
H 
H 
H 
H 
H 
li 



oz. 



21 



14 



I 



oz. 



1 
4 



3J 



pq 



lb. 



5i 



i 



lb. 



4 

2 



i 
i 

i 



fi* 






lb. 



I 



pt. 

i 
i 
i 

i 

i 
i 

i 



3* 



■=8 

a ^ 

HI 



if 
-8 

1 

M 
o 

CD 



On the days on which flour is issued, suet, and raisins or currants, 
may be substituted for a portion of the flour ; 1 lb. of raisins, or 4 lb. 
of currants, or 4 lb. of suet, being considered equal to I lb. of flour. 

When it is necessary or expedient to alter any of the kinds of 
provisions, and to issue others as their substitutes, it is observed, 
that— 



1| lb. of soft bread, or 

1 lb. of rice, or . 

1 lb. of flour . 

1 pint of wine, or 

^ pint of spirits 

1 oz. of cofiee, or 

i oz. of tea . 

1 lb. of rice, or . 

1 pint of calavances, or . 

1 pintof dholl . 

1 lb. of rice equal to 1 quart of oatmeal 



} 
} 
} 

} 



is to be considered equal to 
1 lb. of biscuit. 

is to be considered equal to 
1 gallon of beer. 

equal to I oz. of cocoa. 



equal to 1 pint of peas. 



302 



NAVAL HOSPITAL DIETARY. 



1 lb. of Imtter equal to 1 lb. of sugar. 

2 Ibe. of cheese equal to 1 lb. of cocoa. 
^Ib. of onions, or . 
4 lb. of leeks . 



y equalto lib. of other vegetables. 
• • • J 



When salted meat has been used for fourteen days, lemon juice, 
with an additional allowanoe of sugar, is issued, as an antiscorbutic. 

The following is the table of diet used in the Naval 
Hospitals, and Marine Infirmaries : — 



Fun Diet. 



Half Dlflt 



Braad, lib. 
Beef or mutton, 1 lb. 
Potatoes or greeu, 1 lb. 
Herbs for broth, 26 dnna. 
Barlffir, 14 drms. 
Salt, 8 drms. 
Vinegar, 16 drms. 
Tea, 4 drms. 
Siuar, 16 drms. 
BfUkfortea,|pint. 
Broth, 1 pint. 

HOMK. 

Beer (small). 2 pints. 
Or strong, If pint. 

FORXION. 

Wine ( at the surgeon's 1 1 pt 

or < discretion, not > 
Porter ( exceeding J IJ pt. 

VeaL (Sooh^qnantities, in lien 
Fowls. < of beef and mutton, as 
Fish. ( may be prescribed. 



Bnad,llb. 
Beef or mutton, 8oz. 
Potatoes or greens, 8 ox. 
Herbs for broth, 26 drs. 
Barley, 14 drms. 
Salt, 8 dims. 
Vinegar, 16 drms. 
Tea, 4 drms. 
Sugar, 16 drms. 
MOk for tea, | pint. 
Broth, 1 pint. 

HOMK. 

Beer (small), 14 pint 
Or strong, 1 pint. 



FoRxraif. 
Wine at the sur- 
geon's discretion, \ 1 pt. 
not exceeding 



q 



Low Diet 



BreadSox. 
Herbs for 
broth. 124 

drms. 
Barley, 7 

drms. 
Salt, 8 dr. 
Tea, 4 dr. 
Sugar, 16 

amis. 
Millc for 
tea, ipint 
Milk for 
diet, 1 pt 
Broth, 4 pt 



FeverDlet 



Bread 8ox 

or 

Sago, 4 OX.I 
Tea, 4 dr. 
Sgr. 20 dr. 
Amk fox 
tea,! pint 
Bfilk foi 
diet, ^ pint 



%* Rice or flour pudding at the discretion of the medical officer. 



NoTK — Two drachms of tea, eight drachms of sogar, and one-sixth 
of a pint of milk, to be the allowance for a pint of tea to each patient, 
morning and evening. The meat for the full and half diet to be boiled 
together with fourteen drachms of Scotch barley, eight drachms of 
onions, one drachm of pardey, and sixteen drachms of cabbage, for 
every pint of broth ; or, at the discretion of the medical officers, eight 
drachms of carrots, and eight drachms of turnips, in lien of the cabbage ; 
and thus will be made a sufficient quantity of good broth, to allow a 
pint to each on full and half diet, and half a pint to each on low diet 



NAVAL HOSPITAL DIETARY, 



803 



RICB PUDDINO^BACH TO OOHTAIN 

Rice • . . • 8 oz. 

Sugar . . . . 1 oz. 
Milk . . . . } pint 
Eggs . . 1 No. 

Cmnamon . .1 blade. 



FLOUB PUDDXNO— KACH TO CONTAIM 

Flour . 4oz. 

Sugar . . . 1 oz. 

Bfilk . . . . } pint 

Eggs . . . . INo. 
Ginger . • afew grains. 



The above tables of diet for the patients in the Naval Hospitals 
have been modified and improved by the following scheme of substi- 
tutes, which is adopted instead of that given above, when the fresh 
provisions are proeorable : — 



Soft bread 

Beef .... 

Vegetables 

Broth .... 

Barley for ditto 

Or rice in lieu of barley 

Potherbs . 

Salt ... . 

Vinegar . 

Tea .... 

Sugar . 

mk .... 

Wine (at the discretion of the 

surgeon • . 
Cocoa (as a substitute for tea) 



DAILY. 



FuUDiet. 



lib. 

lib. 

lib. 

1 pint 

12drs. 

lOdrs. 

24dr8. 

8drs. 
16drs. 

3drs. 
14drs. 
^pmt 



1 oz. 



Half Diet. 



12 oz. 

8 oz. 

8oz 
1 pint 
12dr8. 
lOdrs. 
24drs. 

8drs. 
16drs. 

3drs. 
14drs. 
ipint 



1 oz. 



Low Diet. 



8 oz. 

None. 

None. 

ipint. 

6drs. 

5drs. 
24drs. 

8drs. 

None. 

Sdrs. 
14dra. 
1 pint. 



1 oz. 



These tables for the sick-dietary of the navy^ are 
at once liberal and well considered. They supply a 
valuable guide; and in many cases may be taken^ 
without alteration^ as a standard of sick-dietary. 
The scheme of diet for the healthy in the naval 
service^ is chiefly remarkable for the comparatively 
large allowance of animal food^ and other substantial 
articles of diet. This, however, is probably rendered 



804 DIETARIES OF COBNABO AND DB. CHEYNE. 

necessary by the great exposure of the men to the 
open air^ and to the air of the night in the 
watches^ — ^by the considerable muscular exertions 
they have to undergo^ — and^ it must be added^ by 
the depressing influence of the mephitic air of 
the between-decks^ during the hours of sleep^ with 
the men's hammocks in absolute contact with one 
another. 

The above might be even sufficient to afford a 
guide to the scale of diet aud quantity of food 
requisite for men in healthy and undergoing a regu- 
lar amount of exercise. To complete the rule, and 
adapt it to individuals variously circumstanced, as 
to climate, age, sex, social position, and habits of 
life, requires a knowledge and due consideration of 
all such circumstances. Comaro found that he was 
in the best health, when living daily on twelve ounces 
of soUd food and fourteen ounces of wine ; Dr. 
Cheyne recommends eight ounces of flesh meat, 
twelve ounces of bread, and about a pint of wine, 
in the twenty-four hours ; aad some have consi- 
dered two pounds of good bread, and three pounds 
of nulk, to be sufficient for a working man. But 
all such observations are, in reality, loose, and of 
little value, without the habits and circumstances of 
the life are duly taken into consideration. The 
remarkable case of Thomas Wood, a miUer, who 
lived at Billericay, in Essex, seems to be worth 
citing, as an illustration of the quantity of food upon 
which health and strength may, under some circum- 



CASE OF THOMAS WOOD. 305 

stances, be secured. This case was laid before the 
College of Physicians in 1767, by Sir George Baker. 
Thomas Wood appears to have been subject to vari- 
ous disorders, particularly rheumatism, until he was 
thirteen years of age. *' He then had the small-pox 
in a favourable way; and from that time became 
healthy, and continued to have no complaints, to 
the age of about forty-three years. From his 
attaining the age of manhood to this period, but 
especially during the latter part of the time, he 
indulged himself, even to excess, in fat meat, of 
which he used to eat voraciously three times a day; 
together with large quantities of butter and cheese. 
Nor was he more cautious with respect to strong 
ale, which was his common drink. About his fortieth 
year, he began to grow very fat; but finding that 
he had a good appetite, and digested his food without 
difficulty, and that his sleep was undisturbed, he 
made no alteration in his diet.'' In his forty-fourth 
year, however, his sleep began to be disturbed, his 
digestion became impaired, the state of his bowels 
became irregular and uncertain, and he began to 
suflFer from headache and vertigo. Moreover, he 
^^had almost a constant thirst, a great lowness of 
spirits, violent rheumatism, and frequent attacks of 
the gout. He had likewise two epileptic fits; but 
the symptom which appeared to him to be the most 
formidable, was a sense of suffocation, which often 
came on him, particularly after his meals. Under 
such a complication of diseases, every day increasing. 



806 CASE Of THOMAS WOOD. 

he OQntiimed until the month of Angost^ 1764/^ or 
about a year* At this time, the adyice of a worthy 
clergyman, who lived in the neighbourhood^ and the 
reading the Life of Comaro, led him to think that 
intemperance might be the cause of his severe 
ailments. '^ However, he thought it prudent not to 
make a total change in his diet, suddenly and at 
once: accordingly, he at first confined himself to 
one pint only of his ale every day; and used animal 
food sparingly. This method he soon found to 
answer to his satisfaction; for he felt easier and 
lighter, and his spirits became less oppressed. These 
good effects encouraged him to proceed in his 
experiment ; and therefore, after he had pursued the 
regimen before mentioned, during ten months, he 
deducted from his allowance half the former quantity 
of ale, and was still more sparing of gross animal 
food. In this course he continued till the 4th of 
January, 1765, since which time he has entirely left 
off all malt liquor ; and, in the following month, he 
began to drink only water, and to eat none, except 
the lighter meats. Under this degree of abstinence, 
although some of his complaints were relieved, yet 
some of them remained in full force. The rheuma- 
tism tormented him ; and he had still, now and then, 
slight fits of the gout. On the 4th of June following, 
he began the use of the cold bath ; and continued it 
twice or thrice a week, until the 29th of October, 1767. 
About the same time he began the exercise of the 
dumb-bell; in which he perseveres to this day. 



CASE OF THOMAS WOOD. 807 

Water was his only drink from the beginning of 
January^ 1765^ to the 2Sth of the following October. 
From this day he drank no more^ until the 9tl^ of 
May^ 1766^ when he drank two glasses and a half of 
water; since which, he has drank no more of any 
liquor whatever, except only what he has taken in 
the form of medicine. He has avoided cheese ever 
since the 30th day of June, 1767. He began to 
abstain from butter some time sooner. The 31st of 
July, in the same year, was the last time of his eating 
any animal flesh. Since that date, his diet has been 
principally confined to pudding made of sea biscuit. 
He allows himself very little sleep ; generally going 
to bed at eight o^dock in the evening, sometimes 
even earlier, and generally rising about one o'clock 
in the morning, but being very rarely in bed after 
two o'clock. Under this strict course of abstinence 
he still continues to live ; and he expresses, in the 
highest terms, the great pleasure and tranquiUity of 
mind which he enjoys in consequence of it. The 
poor diet to which he has accustomed himself, is now 
as agreeable to his palate, as his former food used to 
be ; and he has the additional satisfaction to find his 
health established, his spirits lively, his sleep no 
longer disturbed by frightful dreams ; and his 
strength of muscles so far improved, that he can 
carry a quarter of a ton weight, which weight he in 
vain attempted to carry when he was about the age 
of thirty years. His voice, which was entirely lost 
for several years, is now become clear and strong. 



308 CASE OF THOMAS WOOD. 

In short, to use his own expression, he is metamor- 
phosed from a monster, to a person of moderate size ; 
from the condition of an nnhealthy, decrepit old man, 
to perfect health, and to the yigonr and activity of 
youth/^ His exclusive diet for years, appears to have 
consisted of a pudding made of flour and water : the 
daily allowance being one pound of such flour as 
the coarser sorts of sea biscuit are made of, and as 
much water as would render it soft and tender. This 
pudding was boiled, and eaten at twice, without any 
addition whatever ; the first half being taken at four 
or five o'clock in the morning, and the second half 
at noon. He neither required nor took any addi- 
tional liquid, than that contained in the pudding. 
He lived in this way till May, 1783, enjoying good 
health in general; active, energetic, and industri- 
ous ; advising aU and sundry to follow his example ; 
haviQg become a Kving illustration of the value of 
temperance and moderation. Dunng eighteen 
years and upwards, he had led a life of such remark- 
able abstemiousness; had more than regained the 
vigour of his youth ; had put to flight a whole host 
of serious diseases; and demonstrated upon how 
small a quantity of food, and how simple a diet, life 
and health may be secured and enjoyed. Had Mr. 
Wood been equally cognizant of the importance of 
the other organic laws, his life might have been 
much longer spared to illustrate and spread such 
principles and practice. He admitted that it was 
the consideration of the imprudent indulgences of 



INFERENCES FROM MR. WOOD^S DIETARY. 309 

his earlier life^ and their fearful consequences on his 
system, together with the consideration of his having 
been forty-five years of age, when he entered on the 
different mode of living, that induced him to carry 
his degree of abstemiousness to so extreme a point. 
Mr. Wood died from a severe inflammatory attack, 
in May, 1783. Till then, he had continued in his 
wonted good health ; when he caught cold by riding 
in the rain, with his coat and waistcoat unbuttoned, 
as usual; and thus brought on the inflammation from 
which he died. ^' A few days before his last illness, 
he had travelled on horseback more than sixty miles, 
without any sense of fatigue.'' 

This case will be admitted to be remarkably inte- 
resting, as an illustration of how small a quantity of 
food may be really needful, for the maintenance of 
the health or power of the system. If two ounces be 
deducted from the sixteen ounces of flour used daily, 
as a probable average of the water contained in it, — 
the remaining fourteen ounces may be said, in round 
numbers, to contain three ounces of albuminous or 
azotised matter, adapted to the nutrition and general 
support of the organs and tissues of the body, and 
eleven ounces of amylaceous or non-azotised matter, 
singly and exclusively adapted to the uses of respira- 
tion ; and to maintain the elevated temperature of the 
body, without injury or waste to its own organisation. 
I do not, however, conceive that a scale of diet such 
as that adopted by Mr. Wood, either as to its amount 
of nutriment or as to its sameness, would be generally 



310 ALIMENTARY EXPENDITURE OF THE SYSTEM. 

desirable or sanatory. On the contrary^ it seems 
to be quite certain^ tbat^ in order to maintain the 
economy of the system in the condition of most 
efficient and absolute healthiness, the food should 
be yaried in kind, and allowed in greater quantity 
than may be absolutely needful for the mainte- 
nance of temperature or the restoration of wasted 
tissue. * 

For the respiratory wants of the system, Professor 
Liebig assumes, from the results of experiments and 
by inference, '^ that an adult, taking moderate exer- 
cise, consumes 13*9 ounces of carbon daily ;^^ or as 
much food as would contain sufficient carbon and 
hydrogen to supply twenty-four pounds of blood 
with these elements, for combination with the oxy- 
gen of the respired air, and the consequent mainte- 
nance of the animal heat; the consequent assumption 
being, that the whole of the blood undergoes this 
change in the course of four days and fiye hours. 
This estimate of the expenditure of carbon in the 
respiratory process and otherwise, is interesting as a 
guide to determine, ui some degree, the dietetic wants 
of the system; ever bearing in mind the effect of 
climate, season, weather, temperature, and the 
amount of exercise taken daily, in modifying the 
wants and expenditure of the body. 

HaviQg already cited the diet tables adopted in 
the British Naval Service, and in the Naval Hospitals, 
I quote that circulated for use in the Regimental 
Hospitals, dated October, 1 843 : — 



BE6IMENTAL HOSPITAL DIBTABY. 



811 



EEGIMENTAL HOSPITAL DIETAEY. 

ARTICLES OOMPOSING THE DIFFERENT DIETS FOR ONE DAY 

FOR ONE HAN. 



FnUDiet. 



18 oz. Meat. 
16 OIL Bnad. 
16 oz. Potatoes, 
li oz. Bariqr. 

JocSalt. 
dn. Tea. 
14 oz. Sugar. 
60Z. Milk. 



Half Diet. 



Low Diet. 



8 OS. Meat. 
16 oz. Bread. 
8 oz. Potatoes. 
1\ OS. Barley. 
i oz. Salt. 
4drB. Tea. 
14 oz. Bngar. 
60Z. MUkT 



4 01. Meat. 
12 oz. Bread. 
8 oz. Potatoes 
1^ oz. Bariigr. 

Joz. Salt. 
drs.Tea. 
14 oz. Sugar. 
6 oz. Milk. 



Spoon Diet. 



80Z. Bread. 
4drs.Tsa. 
14 oz. Sugar. 
60Z. MUk. 



Milk Diet 



14 oz. Bread 

Soz.Rioe. 

3pt8.MiIk. 



Nora.— The meat to be boiled so as to make a pfait of good broth for the 
dinner of eaoh patient, indnding smaJl vegetables and pepper as usual. 



DIET TABLE FOR ONE DAY FOR ONE MAN. 



I 



IfonFuU 
Diet. 



1 pint Tea. 
6 oz. B r e ad. 

12 oz. Meat. 

4oz. Bread. 

16 oz. Potatoes. 

1 pint Tea. 
60a. Broad. 



If on Half 
Diet. 



1 pint Tea. 
6 oz. Bread. 



8 oz. Meat. 
4 oz. Bread. 
80Z. Potatoes. 

1 pint Tea. 
6 oz. Bread. 



If on Low 
Diet 



1 pint Tea. 
4 oz. Bread. 



1 pint Tea. 
4 oz. Bread. 



1^1 

RucAEKs. — No extras to be given (m fUl, half, or low diets, ezorat wine, 
porter, or spirits. These to be ^ven when required, in conformity with ezist- 
mg regulations. 

* Puddings to rSoz. rice, or8oz.sago, or8oz. bread,') Gingerordnnamcm, 
consist of \ 4 pint mflk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg. / a few grains. 



4oz. Meat. 
4 oz. Bread. 
8 oz. Potatoes. 

1 phit Tea. 
4 oz. Bread. 



If on Spoon 
Diet. 



At medical 
discretion, as 
puddings.* 

1 pint Tea. 
4 oz. Bread. 



If on Milk 
Diet 



1 pt. Milk. 
60Z. Bread. 

IptMilk. 
Soz.Rice. 
4oz. Bread. 

IptMilk. 
40Z. Bread. 






The Poor Law Commissioners for England and 
Wales^ in their Second Annual Eeport^ offered six 
different dietaries^ to be selected from by the Boards 
of Guardians of the different Unions^ according to 
the habits of living of the pauper and labouring 
population, in their respective districts. The dif- 
ferent scales are equally set forth, as intended for the 
maintenance of able-bodied paupers : — 

p 2 



312 



POOR LAW COMMISSION DIETARIES. 



No. 1.— DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



Sunday • 

Monday . 

Tueiday. 

WtdoMday 

Thunday 

Friday. . 

SaturdiQr 



(Men 
'iWomtn . 

(Men 

* (Women • 

(Men 

* \ Women • 

(Men 
'i Women . 

(Men 

* (.Women • 

(Men 

* ( Women • 

(Men , 

* {Women • 



BUUXVA8T. 



OS. 

9 
6 

6 
6 



6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 



1 



pinto. 

It 
It 

it 
It 
It 



DIlfUBB. 



oz. 
6 
6 



6 
6 



6 

6 



£ 



lb. 

t 



t 



t 



I 



pinto. 



it 



It 



It 









OS. 



14 
U 



SUPPER, 



OS* 

6 
6 

6 
5 

6 
5 

6 
6 

6 
5 

6 
5 

6 




OS. 



8 
8 



8 
8 



8 
9 

8 
8 



pta. 

it 



it 



it 



No. 2.— DIETARY FOB ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



Sonday . 

Monday . 

Tneiday 

l^edneiday 

Thnnday 

Friday . 

Saturday 



(Men 
'(Women 

(Men 
'(Women 

(Men 
* I Women 

(Men 

'(Women 



•{ 



Men 
Women 



(Men 
* ( Women 

(Men 
' ) Women 



BREAKFAST. 



OS. 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

« 
6 



I 



OS. 



I 



OS. 



DINNEB. 



It 



OS. 

16 
10 



!£ 



OS. 



16 
10 



16 
10 



OS. 



7 
7 



7 

7 

7 
7 



7 

7 



OS. 



1 
1 



1 
1 

1 

1 



1 
I 



8UPPEB. 



OS. 
6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 




OS. 



I 



OS. 



POOR LAW COMMISSION DIETARIES. 



313 



No. 3.— DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 





BRRAKFAST. 


DINNER. 


SUPPER. 








Potatoes 
and other 
Vegetables 












8«»«w .|^^: 


1 


1 


Cooked 
Meat. 


t 

pte. 


• 

01. 

7 
6 


OK. 

2 


OS. 
6 
5 


• 

OS. 


OS. 

8 
6 


pints. 

11 


02. 


lb. 


M"^ .[^SS-.; 


8 
6 


H 


— 


— 


— 


7 
6 


2 
14 


6 
6 


H 


T"-**' •("rm..: 


8 
6 


n 


8 
6 


1 


— 


_^ 


— 


6 
5 


11 


^•*»"««»{wS«i : 


8 
6 


11 


— 


— 


— 


7 
6 


2 

14 


6 
6 


11 


ItanOv {w^: 


8 
6 


^ 


— 


— 


H 


6 
5 


— 


6 
5 


H 




8 
6 

8 
6 


11 
11 


BaeoB 
6 

4 


] 


— 


7 
6 


2 

14 


6 
5 

6 
5 


11 
11 



No. 4.— DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 







BREAKFAST. 


BINNBR. 


SUPPER. 




1 


Pickled Pork 
or Bacon. 


g. 


1 


MeatPud- 

dhigwith 

Vegetables. 


Rice or Suet 
Pudding. 


1 


• 

g 


Sunday 


(Men 
• ( Women . 


OS. 

8 

e 


pints. 

11 


OS. 




OS. 

5 


OS. 


OS. 


OS. 

6 
5 


OS. 

2 
14 


Monday 


Men 
• { Women . 


8 
6 


11 


— 


— 


— 


— 


12 
10 


6 
6 


2 

14 


Tuesday 


(Men 
'{ Women . 


8 
6 


1} 


— 


2 
14 


6 
6 


— 


— 


6 
6 


2 

14 


W.d».av{^?„en: 


8 
6 


11 


6 
5 


— 


— 


— 


— 


6 
6 


2 

14 


Thursday 


(Men 
'[Women . 


8 
6 


11 


— 


— 


— 




12 

10 


6 
6 


2 

14 


Friday 


(Men 
• 1 Women . 


8 
6 


14 
14 


— 


2 

14 


6 
6 


— 


— 


6 
5 


2 

14 


Saturday 


Men 
* Women . 


8 

e 


11 


— 


— 


— 


12 

10 


— 


6 
6 


2 

14 



314 



POOK LAW COMMISSION DIETABIES. 



No. 5.— DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



•[ 



M«n * 
Woomh 



(Mtn . 
'(Womtn 



Sundaj 
Mondaj 

Friday 



(Mtn . 

'(WOIIMII 



BREAK- 
FAST. 



01. 
7 
6 

7 
6 

7 
6 

7 
6 

7 
6 

7 
6 

7 
6 



1^ 

liS 



pts. 

It 

il 
it 
it 
It 
it 



DINNBB. 



I 

I 



OS. 

5 
6 



6 
6 



i 



lb. 



I 



I 

00 



01. 



it 



14 



^1 



ot. 



14 
IS 



Ol. 



7 
6 



7 
6 



7 
6 

7 
6 



! 



01. 



2 
8 



8 
2 



SUPPER. 



01. 
7 
6 



7 
6 



7 
6 



£ 



lb. 



OB. 

14 



it 



U 
U 



No. 6.— DIETARY FOR ABLE-BODIED PAUPERS. 



Sunday 

Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thunday . 

Friday 

Saturday . 



( Men 
( WouMn 

(Men . 
(.Women 

(Men . 
(Women 

(Men . 
(Women 

( Men 
(Women 

( Men 
(Women 

(Men . 
( Women 



BREAK- 
FAST. 



1 

n 



ox. 
6 
6 

6 
5 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
5 



DINNER. 



I 



02. 



J 

I 



01. 



£ 



4 
4 



4 
4 



OS. 



I 



8) 



OS. 



12 
18 



12 

12 



64 

64 



3 



11 
11 



I 

I 



ox. 
16 
12 



OS. 



6 
6 



6 
6 



6 
6 



I 



OS. 



1 
1 



SUPPER. 



1 



1 
1 



1 
1 



OX. 

6 
6 

6 


6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 

6 
6 



OS. 

1 



& 



OS. 

1 



& 

n 
pte. 



4 



1 
1 



1 
1 



4 

"4 



MB. MOTT ON TH£ FAUPEB DIETABIES. 315 

In the same year's Report of the Poor Law 
Commissioners, Mr. Mott makes some interesting 
observations upon these dietaries. He supposes 
that No. 1 contains an average daily allowance of 
nineteen ounces of nutritive matter; No. 2,, twenty- 
five and a half ounces; No. 3, twenty-four ounces; 
No. 4, twenty-six ounces; No. 5, twenty ounces; 
No. 6, twenty-three and a half ounces. These con- 
clusions are founded upon somewhat exaggerated 
data, as to the relative dry nutriment contained in 
the principal articles of the dietaries ; but the same 
observation seems to be equally applicable to the 
instances of the amount of food that is consumed by 
labourers and operatives in the rural and town dis- 
tricts; which Mr. Mott cites fairly enough as evi- 
dence of the sufficiency of the dietaries to support 
and maintain the health of the system. The con- 
clusion at whidi Mr. Mott arrives, after much pains- 
taking inquiry, is, that agricultural labourers are 
subsbted on an average upon 140 ounces of food per 
week, — " say, 134 ounces of bread and six ounces of 
meat.'' He found that in the food consimied by 
mechanics, in receipt of a much larger income, and 
sufficient means of procuring whatever amount of 
food the requirements of the system might demand, 
the food consisted of a much larger proportion of 
animal food; but, according to his data, did not 
contain more than sixteen ounces of nutritive mat- 
ter per day, on the average ; and this, even in the 
case of the better classes of mechanics, in the receipt 
of high wages, and consequently enjoying some of 
what may be termed the luxuries of life. Even in 



316 MK. MOTT ON THE PAUPBK DIBTARIBS. 

the instanoe of mowers^ sawyers^ and prize-fighters 
when training, Mr. Mott seems to haye ascertained, 
that, according to his data, the food consumed did 
not ayerage more than ''twenty-seven to thirty 
onnces per day, eqnal to firom twenty to twenty^ 
three ounces of nntritiTe substance/' 

" The correctness of these condnsions/' says Mr. 
Mott, ''respecting the quantities of food requisite 
for the yarious descriptions of labourers and others, 
was proved by Captain Sir Edward Pany on his 
last North Pohir eiqpedition, when it was expedient 
to limit the weight of the stock of provisions and 
other necessaries, for the boats'-crews, to fiuahtate 
their movements. Sir Edward Parry, for some time 
before he commenced his harassing journey across 
the ice, placed himself, his officers and crew, on a 
limited allowance of food daily; and it was found 
that ten ounces of biscuit, with nine ounces of pem- 
mican, or animal food dried and powdered, and one 
ounce of cocoa, making together twenty ounces daily, 
were amply sufficient to support them under the 
ordinary exertions of sailors performing tiie regular 
ship duties. This quantity corresponds, as nearly 
as possible, with that consumed by our labourers and 
mechanics, namely, sixteen ounces of nutritive matter 
daily for each person. It is generally admitted that 
the digestive organs are influenced by climate, and 
that in the colder regions a proportionate increase in 
the quantity of food is necessaiy for man ; and on 
trial it was proved, that to support the harassing 
and exhausting labour of drawing the boats over the 
ice, twenty oimces were insufficient ; but Sir Edward 



i 



KB. HOTT ON THE FACFES DIETAKIS8. 317 

Fan? states, that it was agreed by all hands that 
an addition of one-third (^ that quantity, that is to 
say, twenty-seven or twenty-eight oonces per day, 
would have been amply sufficient to have supported 
them even under all their hardships in that climate. 
Now this ia equal to about twenty-two or twenty- 
three ounces of nutritive matter daily, and oorre- 
spouds exactly with the quantity before stated as 
requisite for mowers, sawyers, pugilists when train- 
ing, and others when enduring great bodily exertion. 
It woold thus appear that, under no circumstances 
to which men, taken generally, are exposed, is . a 
larger quantity than thirty ounces of solid food per 
day necessary, not exceeding twenty-three ounces 
of nutritive matter." 

Mr. Mott adds to these interesting observatious 
the following inferences : — " Much, I admit, depends 
upon constitution and the nature of their employ- 
ment. I submit, however, that although, even for 
persons in full health, it would be difficult, perhaps 
impossible, to establish any given quantity of food to 
suit the capabilities of every stomach, it is possible 
so to claasify them, as to form a tolerably correct 
rule for the whole. I have been led to believe 
that the result shown in the following scale may be 
considered as a fair estimate of the proportions of 
Jbod requisite to support humau life in a sound and 
- itate. 1st. For persons of moderate health 
'tion, but using little exercise or exer- 
lUowance of food, twelve to eighteen 
itter equal to an average daily 
T persons of good health, 
3 
I 



318 COMMENTS ON THE FAUFEK DIETABIES. 

accustomed to moderate labour, as sailors and sol- 
diers, on ordinary peace dnty, or agricnltnral labour- 
ers or mechanics at their usual work : daily allowance 
of food, eighteen to twenty-four ounces ; in nutritive 
matter equal to an average daily of ten ounces. 
3rd. For persons subject to hard labour or other 
violent exertion, in good bodily health : twenty-four 
to thirty oimces of food : equal to twenty-two ounces 
of nutritive matter. The foregoing calculations have 
been made from data taken from cases indiscrimi- 
nately, and I have reason to believe they will bear 
the test of examination; but round nimibers are 
seldom correct, and I must beg again to disclaim 
any intention of offering them as infallible.^' 

Making every needfiil allowance for the scarcely 
avoidable leaning to an under-estimate of the wants 
of the system, from official position ; and for incorrect 
deductions, from deficient chemical and medical in- 
formation ; these facts and inferences are well worthy 
of a place in any attempt to estimate the quantity of 
food required by man, when placed in different cir- 
cumstances as to climate and mode of Ufe. It is, 
however, very evident, how little importance is 
attached in the above observations, to the relative 
amoimt of animal food contained in any dietary ; and 
how little is thought of the form of animal or vege- 
table food that is made use of, and its consequent 
digestibility and nutrient power. 

The diet tables found to be useful in the different 
hospitals or infirmaries, are valuable illustrations of 
the quantity of food required under different circum- 
stances ; and more especially valuable, inasmuch as 



MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL DIETABY. 



319 



all the wants of the inmates of snch establishments^ 
are proverbially ministered to with liberal hands. 



1 

o 

CO 

P 
P 



^ 



I 



o 



1" 

-I 



I 



.a 

P4 



i 



2 

I 



I 

I 






t 



o 



1 



« -M 






•s -s 



P4 



^ P^ "S • 

'2 ^ .S S> 

•s "• -s 1 



a s a s. 



n 




g 



I 










S J 8 ■a • 



& 




^ 



II 

o o 

•11 




.9 •S 



.g 

P4 



I 



1 

t 



I 



<g 



.9 

P4 



I 

o 

i 

a 

a 

I 



t4 

o 

CI 



S 

s 

M 



320 



FBOVINCIAL HOSPITAL DIETABIE8. 



NORTHAMPTON OBNBRAL INFIRMARY.— DIBT TABLE. 



BrwkfMt 



Dlnmr 



•{ 



Sapper . 



FnUDiefc. 



Ipt of milk por- 
ridge or broth. 

4 OS. of meat, 1 
pt. of broth, aad 
Tegetablfliatdis. 
eretioii. 



2 OK. of cheese, 
or 1 OS. of bat- 
ter, on Wednes- 
days and Satur- 
days, for the 
week's eon- 
sumption. 

14 OS. of bread 

daily. 

Three A pints of 

beerdaiiy. 



Half Diet. 



Ipt. of milk por- 
ridge, or broth. 

2 OS. of meat, 1 
pt. of broth, and 
Tegetablesat dis- 
cretion. 



2 OS. of ^.MXiiiv, 

or los. of bat- 
ter, on Wednes- 
days and Bator- 
days, for the 
week's con- 
samption. 

14 OS. of bread 

dally. 

Ipint of beer 

dally. 



Milk Diet. 



Ipt. of milk 
ponidge. 

1 pint of 

thidcened 

milk. 



1 pint of 
milk. 



7oanees of 
bread daily. 
No beer. 



Ferer Diet. 



Grael,asrttqair- 
ed. 

Onid, bread 
podding, or rice 
padding, 
qaired; 
tables at disoe 
tlon. 

1 OS. of batter, 
on Wednesdays 
and 8atard«ys, 
for the wedi's 
consomption, if 
required. 

bread as requir- 
ed. 

ipt. of milk if 
required. No 
beer. 



MANCHESTER ROYAL INFIRMARY.— DIET TABLE. 



^ 



I 



V 



l\ 



Generous. 



1 pt. of tea. 
6oz. of bread. 
I OS. of batter. 
Everyday. 

80S. of beef or 

mutton, boiled or 

roasted. 

80S. of potatoes 

orrioe. 

Ipint of beer. 

Monday ) h ? 
Wednesday > q.h 
Friday ; • ^ 

Tuesday 
Thursday 
Saturday 
Sunday 




1 pt. of imilk pot- 
tage. 

4 OS. of bread. 
ETeiyday. 



Common. 



00 

'I 



1 pt. of tea. 
60s. of bread. 
^ OS. of buttor. 
Everyday. 

60s. of beef or1 

mutton, boiled or 

roasted. 

8 OS. of potatoes 

or rice. 

3 OS. of bread. 

Tuesday, Thurs- 
day, Saturday, 
with rice, 8oe. 

1 pint of soup,' 
thickened with 
meal, barley, or 
peas, with 2 os. of 
meat in the soup. 
8 OS. of pudding, 
made of bread, 
rice, sago, arrow- 
root, tapioca, bat- 
ter, or suet pud- 
ding, sweetened. 
3 OS. of bread. 

Monday, Wednes* 
day, Satarday, with 
potatoes, 80s. 

8 OS. of white fish. "^ ,^ 
8 OS. of potatoes, f p, 

3 OS. of bread.— IM 
Friday. J ^ 

ipt of table beer on 
meat and fish days. 

1 pt. of milk pottage. 

4 OS. of bread. 
Bveiyday. 



I 



Blilk. 



Ipt. of tea. 
60s. of bread. 
|os. of butter. 
Bveiy day. 



ipt 
12c 



)t. of milk. 
12 OS. of fari- 
naceous pud- 
ding, bread, 
sago, arrow- 
root, rice, ta- 
pioca, or bat- 
ter padding, 
sweetened. 
Eveiyday. 



1 pt. of milk 

pottage. 

6 OS. of bread. 

ETBiyday. 



Low. 



Ipt. of tea. 
Sob. of bread. 
ETBryday. 



Ipt. ofgnial. 
2 OS. of bread. 
Bveiy day. 



water grusl, 
or tea, alter- 
nately. 
2 OS. of bread. 



GLASGOW INFIRMARY DIETARY. 



321 



< 




i 

a 
% 



P N 



C<1 



*« o r 





. ,a B M a 

O N N _4 

o o 

-H '* <N 8 S 




N S o 
o o ^ 




2 6 I ^ i 6 -S ft 



I 
s 



.a 
3 

p 



5h 

o 

P3 

o 

CO 



^ 
s 



'2 "^ -e 




o 
Q 

I 



o 

I 
S 



Q 









CD 



a -5 



CO 




•d »Q '^ "^ 




I 



of 



III ^ 

« g s § 

--H ii« CO iz; 



o 



■3 

o 



1 

a •« 



o 



o 



m 

o 



^ oo oo ;i; 



i 






CO 



S22 



EDINBURGH INFIKMAKT DIXTAKT. 






P4 

O 

EH 

g 

O 

o 



CQ 



< 

H 

P 
I 







1 

00 



i 



(3 3* 



N N ti 

o o o 



ilfll 



•I 

1 



n H 



fi 




S M ** «0 

•M _u 1^ (D ^'^ 



N N N 

o o o 





•g ^ 



11 

lis 8 8^- 



t 







n H 



N N N 

o o o 







n^^ 



1^ 



i 



i 



CHELSEA HOSPITAL AND CONVICT DIETABIES. S2S 

I venture to consider this subject to be one of 
mucli and increasing importance^ from tbe large 
number of people who are maintained in union- 
houses^ hospitals^ prisons^ penitentiaries^ &c. ; and I 
shall accordingly cite a few more instances of pubHc 
dietaries. 

CHELSEA HOSPITAL.— ESTABLISHMENT OF DIET. 



To each man 



daily 4 





Bread 








BMfor 


when 




Cocoa xeady 




Mutton. 


Baked. 


Potatoes. 


for cue. 


Sugar 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


13 


16 


13 


i 


» 



Also an ounce of butter per man, on Wednesday and Friday in 
each week ; and one pound of cheese weekly per man, at the rate of 
a quarter of a pound on each of the days which are fixed for the 
same being issaed. 

SCALES OF VICTUALLING FOR CONVICTS, &c. :— 

For the Surgeon superintending, and to each Soldier of the Guard 
oyer Convicts, and to eyery Convict Settler, and Child, the following 
daily quantity of Provisions :— 



SPBCIES. 



Biflcoit . 
Spirits. 
BMiMeat 
y^^tables 

Oatmeal . 

Sugar . 

Chocolate 

Tea 



To the Surgeon 

superintending, and 

to each Soldier of 

the Guard over 

Convicts. 



lib. 

ipint 

llh. 

hVb. 
notmore t i-f,(per 
than |*P*{week 

l^oz. 

loss. 

^oz. 



To each 
MaleConvict, 

or 
Male Settler. 



fib. 

{lb. 
41b. 

ipint. 

1^01. 

I OS., or 
:^oz. 



To each 

Female 

Convict, or 

Female 

Settler. 



lib. 

fib. 
I lb. 



Uoz. 

4 OS., or 

:^oz. 



To each 

Child of 

Convicts or 

Settlers, 

under ten 

years of age. 



4 lb. 

jlb. 
lib. 



lox. 
ioi. 



Either three-eighths of an ounce of chocolate, or one quarter of an ounce of 
tea, is to be issued daily to each male convict, or male settler, viz., on one day 
chocolate, and on the follovring day tea, and so on alternatively. 

When fresh meat and vegetables cannot be issued, these shall be allowed in 
lieu thereof, viz.— ^ 

41b. 



Salt Beef. 
Flour 

or 
Salt Pork 
Peas 
Flour . . 



^ 






§ 



}lb. 
I lb. 

lib. 
}pint 



41b. 

41b. 
4 pint 



lb. 
lb. 



41b. 
4 pint 
I lb. 




324 GAOL BIETABIES. 

And weekly, whether fresh meat or salt meat be iflsaed, vinegar 
not exceeding one half-pint per man a week, to the gnard, &C.9 nor 
exceeding one quart for each mess of six other persons. 

District Militaby Pkisons.— Dibt of Prisonebs when not in 
Solitary Confinement. — Ordinary Diet. 

■Q 1^ ^ r 12 oz. of oatmeal, or 12 oz. of bread, and ^ pint 
Breakiast| of milk, daily. 

Tk'«« « / ^ 1^' o^ potatoes, ¥rith salt, 1 pint of milk, 
^">o^' '\ daily. 

On Sundays, the ^Unner of the first class to consist of ten ounces of 
beef, without bone, and after cooking, and two pounds of potatoes. 
If in solitary confinement by sentence of a court-martial — 

-D«».L.« „. r 10 oz. of oatmeal, or 10 oz. of bread, and i pint 
I5reakast| of milk, daily. 

Dinner / ^ ^^' ^ potatoes, with salt, and 1 pint of milk, 
'\ daily. 

If in solitary confinement for a prison offence, one pound of bread, 
with such quantity of water for drinking as a prisoner may desire to 
haye— daily. 

In gaols and houses of correction the dietaries 
are different^ according to the terms of imprison- 
ment; bemg lowest when the imprisonment is for 
shorter periods. The breakfast may be probably 
alike in all the classes ; consisting of a pint or a 
pint and a half of gruel or porridge^ and eight 
ounces of bread. The supper may be the same 
as the breakfast. The dinner^ in the first class^ viz. 
convicted prisoners^ whose term of imprisonment 
does not exceed fourteen days, may consist of eight 
ounces of bread, and eight ounces of potatoes. In 
the second class, sentenced to imprisonment and hard 
labour for a term above fourteen days, and less than 
six weeks, the dinner may consist of three ounces of 



DBS. ALISON AND CHRISTISON ON DIETARIES. 825 

cooked meat^ without bone^ — eight ounces of breads 
— and eight ounces of potatoes^ — every other day ; 
the alternate day^s dinner consisting of three ounces 
of beef^ made into soup^ with eight ounces of bread. 
In the third and fourth classes of prisoners^ sentenced 
to hard labour for periods exceeding six weeks and 
three months respectively^ the scale of diet is further 
raised by the addition of as much soup as would con- 
tain another ounce or more of beef to the dinner of 
the alternate days ; and in the longer term of incar- 
ceration^ of one or more ounces of solid animal food 
to the dinner of the intervening days. 

Report on the Diet fob Cha&itt Workhouses in Scotland. 
Bt Dbs. Alison and Christison. Dated, Edinburgh, 16th 
January, 1847. 



ti 



a 

i 



I 



First rate, for the 
bealthy who do 
not work. 



Oatmeal, 3 oz. 
Batter milk, or 

Bkimmed milk, 

^pUt 



Bread, 6 ox. 
Ox headaad 
Hongh,34oz. 
or beef, ex- 
dudtngbone, 
2oz. 

Barley, 2 oz. 
Peas, i oz. 
Vegetables, 
lioz. 
iSalt— q. 8. 



i 

Pi 



i 



Oatmeal, 3 oz. 
Batter nJlk, or 

skimmed milk, 

ipint. 



Second rate, for 
the bealthy who 
do not work. 



Oatmeal 4 oz. 
Butter milk, or 

skimmed milk, 

f pint. 

Bread, 8 oz. 
Broth, 1^ pint, as 
in ftrst rate. 



Oatmeal, 4 oz. 
Batter mUk, or 

skimmed milk, 

ipint. 



Third rate, for the 
healthy who 
work. 



Same as second 
rate. 



Bread, 8 oz. 
Broth, 1^ pint, as 

in first rate. 
Boiled meat, 4 oz. 



Fourth rate, foi 
the infirm. 



Same as second 
rate. 



Oatmeal, 4 oz. 
Skimmed'milk, 
ipint. 



Bread, 6 oz. 

Rice, I^oz. 
Beef, exclud- 
ing hone, but 
not left in the 



I 




BoOedmeat,4oz. 



''Sugar, ^oz. 



»i 



New milk, 

loz. 
^Tea,i^oz. 



This question^ as to the quantity of food that is 
necessary to the support of life and maintenance of 



326 ESTIMATE OF THE DIFFEBENT DIETARIESi 

health ill different circumstances^ is not only inte- 
resting to the physiologist^ the statist^ and the poli- 
tical economist^ and to all who have the management 
and responsibility of providing for the inmates of 
public institutions; but it bears intimately on the 
ordinary duties of the medical man^ on the cure of 
many disordered conditions^ and the maintenance 
of health and strength under different or conflicting 
circumstances^ as to external influences^ and as to 
expenditure ; and I have endeavoured to throw some 
of the results of the diet tables into a more con- 
clusive shape. 

In the first colmnn of the following estimate^ 
animal fibre only is included^ whether used as such^ 
or consumed in the form of soup. Milk and all 
other forms of strictly speaking animal food^ are 
included under the second column^ for reasons 
which may be sufficiently obvious. 

ESTIMATE OF DAILY RATIONS. 



AUTHORITY. 



Navy 



Natal Hobpitals. 
Full Diet 
Half Diet . 
Low Diet . 
Fever Diet . 



®5 
.a 



!l 



oz. 
16 



16 
8 
1 



o 

4» 



I 



III 



oz. 

26f 



40 
26i 
40 
20i 



n 



oz. 

17* 



20i 

H 
8 




oz. 



6* 

H 

2 



SSTIMATE OF THE DIFFERENT DISTABIE8. 327 



ESTIMATE OF DAILY RATIONS-MNtliMMd. 



AUTHORITY. 



Rbqimsntal Hospitals. 
FoUDiet. 
Half Diet . 
Low Diet 
Spoon Diet . 
Milk Diet 



Poor Law Ck>ifMissiON. 
No.1 . 
Na2 
No. 8 . 
No.4 . 
No. 5 . 



No. 6 • • . . • 

Chelsea Hospital. 
Each Soldier of the Guard \ 

OVER CoNYICTS . .J 

Each Conyict or Sbitler . 
Each Child of Conyict, under 

TEN tears of age 

Gaols. 
Ist Class. Imprisoned fori 
fourteen days, or under j 



2nd Class. Imprisoned for*" 
terms above fourteen 
days, and under six 

w^OGKS • • • 

3rd Class. Imprisoned fori 
terms above six weeks, l> 
and under three months J 

4th Class. Imprisoned fori 
terms exceeding three y 
months . .J 

Middlesex Hospital. 
Meat Diet . . . . 
Soup Diet .... 
Milk Diet . . . . 




oz. 
12 

8 

4 



2 

n 

13 

16 
11 

5 



3 



4 
3 



oz. 

41 

33 

29 

15i 

64 



2U 

25i 

28i 

26i 

29 

25J 

35i 

27i 
23i 

13 



36 



36 



38 



40i 



42 
30 
48 



It 



n 



I 



oz. 
20i 

17* 
13i 

7* 
17* 



13* 
14* 


4 

3 


16* 
18 


»* 
4 


14* 
16* 


3* 
3 



19 

20* 
17 

8J 



19* 



25* 



22 



22* 



19 
12 
13 




oz. 

Si 

4* 
3 

1* 
fi* 



S* 

6 

4* 

2* 
3* 



4* 



4 

3» 

4* 



328 ESTIMATE OF THE DIFFERENT DIETARIES* 



ESTIMATE OF DAILY RATIOVB-^mHtuied, 



AUTHORITY. 



Midd: 



HOfltPXTAIr-eOfl^tfMfed. 

Simple Diet .... 
Cancer Diet ... 

Northampton Infibmabt. 
Full Diet . . . . 
Half Diet . . . . 
Milk Diet .... 



Infibuart. 



Manchesteb 
GreneroiiB Diet • 
Common Diet 
Milk Diet 
Low Diet 



Olasqow Infibmabt. 
Foil Diet. 
Middle Diet No. 1 
Middle Diet No. 2 . 
Ordinary Diet 
Spoon Diet 
Milk Diet . 

Edinbubor Infibmabt. 
Low Diet .... 
Rice Diet 
Steak Diet 
Common Diet 
FuUDiet. 
Extra Diet . 



Repobt bt Dbs. Alison and 

Chbistison. 
IstRate . . . 

2nd Rate .... 

3rd Rate 

4th Rate .... 




oz. 



8 



5 
3 



8 
4 



H 

H 



8 
6 
2 
8 

10 



2 
2 
6 
5 



o g 



I 






^t 



OZ. 

12 
36 



33^ 

33 

45 



48 
26i 
39i 
10 



43 

43 

24 

44 

14 

52 



14 

3^ 

34 

66J 

79 



32 

44 
44 
36 



It 



t 



'4 



OZ. 

11* 



14* 
14 

13 



181 

IH 
13 

7* 



IH 

14* 

H 

13| 

6* 
12 



8* 
10 
14} 

13* 
19 

23 



12* 
16* 
18 

IS* 




OZ. 

1* 

6* 



4» 
4 

«* 



fi* 
3* 
8* 
1* 



6* 
fi* 
6* 
3* 
1* 
4* 



2I 

6 

7i 



4 

4 
4 



If the justness of this estimate as to the different 
dietaries be admitted to be essentially correct^ the 
conclusions are very obvious, and of manifest im- 



XNFEBENCES FROM THE DIETARIES. 329 

portance. Granting that the quality and relative 
digestibility of the articles of food are indispensable 
preliminary considerations, the next questions that 
arise are, how much of animal and vegetable food 
respectively are necessary to the maintenance of 
health under certain given circumstances, and how 
much of dry azotised and non-azotised aliment should 
such food contain. One quart of soup, however 
grateful to the palate, and seemingly consistent and 
substantial, and therefore satisfying to the appetite 
at the time of eating it, which contains only five 
ounces of vegetable food, and which, at a high 
estimate, would afford only four ounces of dry nutri- 
ment, and less than half an ounce of azotised aliment, 
would, even when aided by a very large sized biscuit, 
be at once seen to be inadequate to the maintenance 
of health and strength, — even if it might keep a 
pauper population a single point above actual starva- 
tion, and consequent death, during many weeks : the 
probability being, however, that fever would step in 
under circumstances of such defective nutrition, to 
check any triumphant result from such a short- 
coming benevolence.* It seems from the tabular 

* I Yentnre to quote the following^ in elucidation and proof of the 
needfiihiefls and truth of the observationfl in the text. 

" Receipt No. I. — Foe Two Gallons of Soup. 
Two ounces of dripping. 

Quarter of a pound of solid meat (cut into dice one inch square). 
Quarter pound of onions^ sliced thin. 

Quarter pound of turnips ; the peel will do, or one whole one cut 
into small dice. 
Two ounces of leaks ; the green tops will do, sliced thin. 
Three ounces of celery. 



330 nrwEMXSCEM fbom ths DisTAmiss. 

erthnate demed fnm the diff ere nt dietaries quoted, 
tbat finnn tidrteen to twenty oonoes of diy nntri- 



Time qnarten of s fwimid of cammon floor. 

Half ft pound of pcaH bni^, or coe pound of Seolcli. 

Time oonew of nH. 

Quutsr oi flD oonce of Ixwni sDgpv. 

Two gdloni of water. 

^ I lint pot two omieeB of dr^png into a anie^aa (oqMlile Off bold- 
ing two galkoa of water), with a qoarler of a pound of leg of beef 
widioai bones, cnt into sqoaie pieces of about an ineii ; and two mid- 
dling ozed onions, peded and sfioed ; I tiien set flie ■iiwpan over a 
eoal fir^and stifled iSbe contents roond for a few i ii iimteB with a 
wooden (or iron) gpooa watil hied lig^itfy brown. I bad flien ready 
wadied iSbe pe^ng of two tnmipe, fifteen greoi leaTes or tops of 
eelerj, and the gteea part of two led» ; {the wbeUe of wbicfa, I nmst 
observe, are ahrajs llirown awaj). Harhig cat ihe above vegetables 
into small pieces, I tbrew tfaem into Ae sancepan with ibe other 
ingredients, stirring tfaem oceaoonallj over iSbe fire for another ten 
mimites; then added one qoart of cold water and three qoarten of a 
pound of common floor, and half a poond of pearl barlej, mixing all 
wdl together. I then added seven quarts of hot water, seasoned 
witti three oonoes of salt, and a qoarter of an oonoe of brown sogar, 
stirred oceasionalty nntil boiling, and aUowed it to simmer veiy 
gently for tfaiee hoars ; at the end of which time I foond the bailey 
perfectly tender. Hie above soap has been tasted by nmneroos 
noblemra, members of parhament^ and several ladies who have latdy 
visited my kitchen department, and who have considered it very good 
and noariflhing." — Charkahle Cookery; or, the Poor Man*$ Hegeneraior. 
By A. SoTEB. 

I may add to this, for the sake of those who dislike anions and leeks, 
that, if these be omitted, and either a larger proportion of celery 
be made use of, or (which answers jnst as well) a small qoantity 
of celery seed, an excellent soap is prodnced, as fer as taste and 
appearance are concerned^ — and at a cost which is singnlariy small, 
and which reflects in the same proportion much credit on the talents 
of M. Soyer as a cook. As regards the question of diet and natri- 
tion, however, sach a soap occapies a very low position, and ilhu- 
trates in a remarkable manner the importance of reducing any 
dietary that may be under consideration, to the quantity of dry 
and azotised aliment it may contain, before we trust to it as affording 
sufficient nutritive matter for the support of a population. 



INFEBENCES VBOM THE DIETARIES. 



331 



ment^ and from four to six ounces of azotised aliment^ 
is a needful daily ration for people who have to 
undergo regular and active exertion ; and that less 
than the lowest of these quotations would be an 
unjustifijable allowance to adults in healthy who are 
called upon to work. Such an estimate is easily 
made^ and should be considered a necessary step 
previous to the adoption of any plan of diet for the 
inmates of public institutions^ or the dependants on 
public charity. The following table^ contained in 
the report of Drs. Alison and Christison^ already 
referred to^ contains the more important articles of 
food commonly needed in such dietaries^ and may 
prove a useful reference : — 



SPECIES. 



Bread. 

Oatmeal . 

Barley 

Peas 

Potatoes 

Carrots . 

Cabbage 

Turnips . 

Lean of Meat 

Skimmed-Milk Cheese 

White Fish 

New Milk 

Skimmed Milk . 

Butter Milk . 



Per Centage of 



Dry 

NutrinMut. 



62 

82 

82 

80 

27 

10 

7 

6 

27 

65 

21 

12-6 

10 

7 



Nitrogenous 
Nutrimoit. 



lOi 
18} 
15 
24i 

H 

H 
27 
65 
21 

8 

8 

7 



^' These equiyalents have been partly adopted from a variety of 
good authorities^ partly from personal investigations. The nitroge- 
nous ingredients of the articles of vegetable food are founded on the 
recent analysis of Mr. Horsford, conducted at Giessen, under the eye 
of Professor Liebig." — Rajgort, 



832 FBOPOBTION OF ANIMAL FIBRE IN DIETARIES. 

In regard to the relative proportion of animal 
fibre^ which should form part of the habitual 
daily ration of people in healthy and undergoing 
regular exercise^ in these latitudes^ it may be gathered 
£rom the tables that a minimum of four ounces^ and 
a maximum of sixteen ounces^ are the extreme 
allowances of different public dietaries. Excluding 
the dietaries of gaols and workhouses^ — ^in which 
the absence of exercise in the open air^ and the 
restriction of free migration^ would necessarily 
reduce the wants of the system, — from ten to 
sixteen ounces of animal fibre daily might per- 
haps be fairly assumed to be no more than is a 
needful allowance for labouring men in the prime 
of life, and in fiQl health. The just allowance of 
animal fibre in poor-houses would be reduced by 
the circumstance, that so many of the inmates may 
be inferred to be either infirm or aged, and that 
the able-bodied and vigorous should be offered no 
temptation to continue to be recipients of the 
public charity, in the form of any greater amount of 
food than is sufficient to support existence, with- 
out ulterior injury to health and the expectation 
of life. The relative proportion of animal fibre 
required in the daily rations, must be much modified 
by the proportion of milk or eggs, or animal food in 
any other form, which enters into the scheme of diet. 
It should be felt, however, that no such other forms 
of animal food are, in essential points, to be con- 
sidered to be perfect substitutes for animal fibre, in 
repairing the waste of the system, and maintaining 
its power of enduring continuous labour without 



IMPORTANCE OF FLESH IN THE DIETARIES. 833 

undue and unwise cost to the assimilating organs. 
Supposing it to be proved that other articles of food^ 
whether vegetable or aaimal^ contain the elementary 
matters that are essential to restore the waste and 
expenditure of the human system^ the re-adjustment 
of such elements^ the forming them into new com- 
binations^ whether of simpler or more complicated 
character^ must be so far aa additional task for the 
digestive and other assimilating organs^ so far an 
additional source of organic expenditure^ so far ne- 
cessitate a deduction from the eventual restoration 
of the waste of the economy, and so far involve a 
risk lest any failure of assimilation may lead to a 
corresponding proportion of such food being in no 
degree conducive to the nourishment of the body. 

These views of the importaace of animal fibre as 
a part of the ordinary diet of a healthy and active 
man, are confirmed fully by the researches of Baron 
Liebig.* Supposing the flesh of animals to have 
an acid reaction, whereas even the blood itself 
exhibits alkaline characters; and that flesh affords 
no less than five organic compounds, of distinctive 
properties and composition ; and that flesh differs, 
moreover, from the blood, in having potash in- 
stead of soda for the principal base of its saline 
constituents ; it follows that to form flesh, and main- 
tain its integrity, notwithstaading the wear and tear 
of the ordinary organic processes, and the ftirther 
wear and tear of muscular exercise, from almost any 

• f< Researches on the Chemistry of Food. By JustnB liebig, 
M.D., &c.— Edited by Dr. Gregory." 

Q 



834 IMPORTANCE OF TLESH IN THE DIETARIES. 

other nutritive material than animal ffbre^ must 
require much additional effort on the part of the 
organs of assimilation. And the animal machine 
can hardly be kept in full tone and condition^ in 
the greatest possible aptness to undergo and endure 
full muscular exertion^ without a. corresponding pro- 
portion of animal fibre forkiihg p^ of the daily 
food. It is a very curious fact^ tlistt most of the 
vegetable articles offobd'contain 'potash as the prin- 
cipal alkali of their saline constituents^ and that the 
same is the case with .the .'flesh of animals; whereas 
the blood contains and requires soda as its. principal 
saline base^^as i it; is .believed^ chiefly: with a view to 
the remarkable property. of: the. phosphate of soda in 
absorbing a.nd giving off. carbonic: sdd with great 
facility^ with the double intentibn of relieving the 
system of its carbon^ and of ministering it readily to 
the calorific wants, of the system. 

In noticing these researches of Professor Liebig, 
it may be added^ that as flesh contains from 
seventy-six to seventy-jaine per cent, of water, and 
from two to three per cent, of soluble albumen, there 
are only about twenty per cent, of fibrin and other 
less soluble matters. ^^And it appears from these 
researches, that by the boiling of flesh an essential 
change in its composition is effected. According to 
the duration of the boiling, and the amount of water 
employed, there takes place a more or less perfect 
separation of the soluble from the insoluble consti- 
tuents of flesh. The water in which flesh has been 
^iled contains alkaline phosphates, lactates, and 



IMPORTANCE OP PLESH IN THE DIETARIES. 335 

inosinates^ phosphate of magnesia^ aad only traces of 
phosphate of lime; the boiled flesh contains chiefly^ 
with the fibrin^ &c.^ the insoluble inorganic consti- 
tuents^ phosphate of Ume and phosjphate of magnesia. 
It is obvious that if fleshy employed as food^ is again 
to become flesh in the body, if it is to retain the 
power of reproducing itself in its original condition, 
none of the constituents of raw flesh ought to be 
withdrawn from it during its preparation for food. 
If its composition be altered in any way, if one of 
the constituents which belong essentially to its con- 
stitution be removed, a corresponding variation must 
take place in the power of that piece of flesh to 
re-assume in the living body the original form and 
quality, on which its properties in the living organism 
depend.^' * 

* M. Liebig goes on to flhow, that boiled flesh, when eaten without 
the sonp formed in boiling it, is so much the less adapted for nutrition, 
the larger the quantity of the water in which it has been boiled, and 
the longer the duration of the boiling. He says that when finely- 
chopped flesh is extracted with cold water, it loses the whole of the 
albumen contained in it ; and the residue, after being well washed 
with cold water, is found to be perfectly tasteless when boiled with 
fresh water. It is inferred that all the sapid and odorous constituents 
of flesh exist in the flesh itself in the soluble state, and that the smell 
and taste of roasted flesh arise from these soluble constituents, which 
have undergone a slight change under the influence of the higher tem- 
perature. ^ The liquid which is obtained by lixiyiation of the diflbrent 
lands of flesh with cold water, after it has been heated to boiling, and 
the albumen thus coagulated, possesses, in all cases, the well-known 
general flavour of soup ; but each kind, indiyidually, has, besides tins, 
a peculiar taste, which recalls the taste and smell of the different 
lands of flesh ; insomuch that, when to boiled beef, for example, the 
concentrated cold aqueous infusion of roe-deer yenison or of fcmi is 
added, and the whole warmed together, Ihe beef cannot then be d' 
tingnished from the yenison or the fowL" Supposing, howeyer, 

q2 



336 IMPORTANCE OF FLESH IN THE DIETARIES. 

When the absolute and relative bulk, weight, and 
importance of the muscular system in man are con- 
sidered, and the direct way in which muscular sub- 
stance used as food must minister to the maintenance 
and restoration of the integrity of this system are by 
these views more fully appreciated, the importance 
of animal food, and especially of flesh, in the diet of 
man, becomes obvious and expHcable. It is not, 
that the kreatine, the kreatinine, the sarcosine, 

the taste and flavour of flesh depend on the soluble parts, and that 
these are chiefly composed of albumen or mixed with it, the fibrin, 
which seems to be comparatively destitute of appetising qualities, is 
at least as nutritious and as important to the economy of the system 
when used as food. Soup cannot under any circumstances represent 
all the nutritive qualities of meat ; although it may represent, accord- 
ing to these views, all the odorous and sapid qualities of the flesh it 
is prepared from. In the case of roasted flesh, inasmuch as none of 
the soluble ingredients have been removed from it, all the conditions 
of nutrition seem to be as far as possible fulfilled. In the case of 
boiled flesh, if the meat is to be the principal consideration, it is evi- 
dent that it should be introduced into the water when the latter is 
actually boiling, to secure the coagulation of the albumen near the 
surface, and the smallest possible solution of it in the water made use 
of ; and lest the continued high temperature should have too harden- 
ing an influence, so much cold water might in a very short time be 
added, as would reduce the temperature of the water to 1 65<>, at 
which the whole should be maintained for as many hours as may be 
needful to cook the flesh thoroughly. It seems that the requisite 
changes required by cookery do not take place in the ordinary red 
meats at a lower temperature than 144<>, nor in the white fleshed 
meats, as fowls, at a less temperature than 130<> to 140<>. If, on the 
other hand, the object be to extract from the meat all its soluble and 
sapid material, the obvious deduction is to cut and pound it into a 
sausage meat, steep it in cold water, — say of an equal weight, — 
heat the water slowly to the boiling point, and after a brisk ebullition 
of a few minutes, strain the liquid through a cloth, to separate it from 
the coagulated albumen and the hard fibrinous matters, — oolouriog 
and flavouring this extract of flesh according to taste, 



IMPORTANCE OF FLESH IN THE DIETARIES. 837 

the inosinic acid^ &c.^ obtained by Baron liebig 
from the flesh of animals^ may not be formed from 
any kind of food containing their indispensable con- 
stituent elements^ by the vital and organic powers 
of the animal economy ; and accordingly^ where the 
expenditure of the system is small^ either from 
dimate or habits of life, we know that life subsists, — 
and the system, and the muscular system among the 
rest, is restored, and maintained in health and medium 
vigour, — without animal food forming any large or 
regular or influential part of the diet, and with a 
small or even without any allowance of flesh meat in 
any form. But it is, that to form muscle, and there- 
fore to form all the compUcated chemical compounds 
which are shown to be the constituents of muscle, 
more efforts must be made by the organic system, 
and a correspondingly greater expenditure of power 
occasioned, than if the constituents of muscle were 
offered to the organs of assimilation in the form of 
muscle itself. In the same way as I believe, that^ 
under a special exigency, muscle may be formed from 
gelatin, and as we know that fat is formed from all 
the amylaceous and saccharine substances, may it be 
inferred that muscle may be formed from its elements 
by the powers of the system. In such a climate 
as that of Great Britain, and in a country where 
the energies of the system are desired to be wasted 
as little as possible in the maintenance and reproduc- 
tion of the animal frame work, the importance of a 
mixed diet, containing animal food, and especially 
flesh, as a needful ingredient of the dietary, becomes 



838 HODIPICATION OF DIETARIES. 

a matter of sufficiently clear demonstratioii. The 
analogy^ however^ as to the essentials of elementary 
composition^ between the fibrin^ albumen^ and casein 
of animal and regetable 8ul)stances^ must not be 
forgotten ; nor the consequent power of the system 
to conrert them respectively into one another ; re-r 
quired as this view is by dietetic observation/ and 
supported as it is by chemical researches. 

It becomes very obvious^ from all that has been 
said and cited^ how great and important must be the 
modifications of different dietaries^ according to age, 
sex, habits of life, cUmate, and season. In infancy 
and early childhood, the respiratory, and consequently 
the hepatic wants of the system, are more import 
tant and considerable, the muscular and organie 
wants and movements comparatively, small; and a 
diet consisting in great part of amylaceous and 
saccharine matter meets the bodily expen^ture,.and 
maintains the integrity of the organista. As life 
passes on, during the years of growth, the respi- 
ratory expenditure continues to be very large ; the 
hepatic system is stiU very active ; the skin and the 
lungs emulge much aqueous matter, to preserve the 
temperature of the body as nearly as possible at an 
equilibrium ; and (notwithstanding the proverbial 
activity of childhood, — ^largely as this is balanced, 
however, by the much longer periods required for 
sleep than are needed in after lifi, and notwithstand- 
ing the wear and tear of muscular substance, and 
notwithstanding the demand occasioned by the con- 
stant and great additions made to the size of all 



MODIFICATION OF DIETABIES. 839 

the organs and tissues of the body) the conditions 
as to the wants of the economy are for the most part 
sufficiently fulfilled by a diet^ consisting ahnost ex- 
clusively of milk and the different fimnaceous articles 
of food. In mature life^ although the respiratory 
wants of the system are less^ the growth of the body 
has no longer to be provided for j the maintenance of 
its integrity £rom the effects of waste and expenditure^ 
and the supply of carbon for the purposes of respira- 
tion and temperature^ have alone to be provided for; 
and^ unless under very peculiar circumstances^ the 
vegetable articles of food^ and more particularly the 
farinaceous articles of food^ continue to fiilfil the prin- 
cipal dietetic indications ; and no more animal food 
seems to be necessary^ than may serve to restore a 
certain amount of the extraordinary expenditure^ 
that is occasioned by exercise of the locomotive 
powers^ or by any other extreme exertion of nervous 
or organic function^ that involves a large expenditure 
of azotised material. And thus the difficulty and 
risk of securing a due allowance of animal food^ and 
no more than such a due allowance, as may serve to 
equalise the supply and the expenditure of the 
economy ; and avoid an undue call upon the organs 
of assimilation to convert vegetable food into mus- 
cular substance on the one hand; or so ready and 
fall a supply of ready-prepared fibrinous aliment, as 
renders the supply of azotised material afforded by 
the other articles of food, when deprived of their car- 
bonaceous matter for the purposes of respiration, &c., 
at once needless, and a possible source of plethora. 



340 IMPORTANCE OF A LIBERAL DIETARY. 

and ultimate morbid action. In this way^ in warm 
climates and warm seasons of the year^ the consump- 
tion of respiratory carbon being so much less^ and the 
amount of motor power required for^ the purposes of 
the circulation being so much smaller^ and the general 
activity of the nervous system being so much di- 
minished from what obtains in colder latitudes and 
seasons^ the expenditure of carbon and nitrogen is so 
much smaller ; and animal food, or even farinaceous 
food, has to be largely replaced by more aqueous vege- 
table aliments, — or the system becomes plethoric, the 
organs overworked, and eventually oppressed, — ^and 
disease ensues. Under any circumstances, however^ 
as to climate^ season, habits, occupation, age, or sex, 
it may be taken as a general rule, admitting of few 
exceptions, that the system must be generously dealt 
with in regard to food, and not restricted to the mere 
quantity that appears to meet the absolute wants of 
the economy ; or such a state of system will be in- 
duced, as forms the most common predisposing cause 
of disease, — ^rendering the body peculiarly liable to 
suffer from exposure to any of its immediate or 
exciting causes, whether cold, or miasms, or changes 
of weather, season, or climate. Man was destined 
to work for his food ;. and was accordingly formed 
to require such an amount of food, as would sup- 
port the expenditure of a life of labour. People 
may indeed go on existing, for indefinite and long 
periods of time, upon much less food than that now 
referred to, and therefore need less enforced expendi- 
ture of the waste and redundancies of the system ; but 



RE-ACTION OF MIND AND BODY. 341 

they will not be in vigorous health, if their state of 
system deserves the name of health at all ; and their 
state of body is exactly that, in which the seeds of 
cachexia are most readily laid,— or in which inflam- 
matory affections are the most readily set up, — or 
in which malaria or contagion find their readiest 
victims. And, moreover, their condition of system 
is exactly that, in which the powers succumb most 
readily to the effects of morbid action ; in which, if 
inflammation be not so high, nor so active, sa when it 
attacks the man in full and vigorous habit, it yields 
less readily to treatment, and leaves behind it conse* 
quences the most injurious and least remediable. 

The effect of the mind on all the digestive pro- 
cesses, and of these in their turn on the mental 
capabilities, is a very full subject; and one that 
must be adverted to, however shortly. To what an 
extent, unexpected news, whether involving great 
excitement or great distress of mind, takes away, on 
the instant, all appetite and relish for food ; and, if 
food be taken under such circumstances, how certain 
it is to be followed by dyspeptic indications; are 
matters of every-day observation. That distressing 
tidings, received after an ordinary meal of food, 
leads to indigestion, and much stomach-disturbance, 
— ^that all the ills of dyspepsia may be at once 
removed, by whatever acts pleasingly and fully on 
the mind, — ^that dyspepsia, in its turn, enervates the 
mind^s powers, and distorts its views, lowering its 
tone, dwarfing its capacity, or, in some way tinging, 
perverting, or lessening, the mental capabilities, — 

q3 



342 RE- ACTION OF MIND AND BODY. 

mercantile yidssitudes^ the di£Ferent scenes and trials 
of life^ and the lives of men of genius^ abundantlj 
illustrate. Among the more important of the prac- 
tical suggestions^ which these observations lead to^ 
is that of the importance of the dyspeptic Hying and 
mixing freely with cheerful society. The solitary 
meal^ and the consequent rapid eatings with the 
mind absorbed by the weighty cares^ and uncheered 
by the amenities^ and reciprocal feelings^ and inter- 
change of ideas^ and harmonies of social intercourse, 
have produced no few cases of dyspepsia, that, in 
their turn, have involved no few cases of more seri- 
ous disease. It should, then, be a serious matter, 
that would justify such an alteration of the invalid's 
meal-times, unless under the pressing exigency of 
acute disease, as takes him away from the family 
meal, and consigns him to eating his food alone. It 
should be no light matter, that justifies a severe 
mental effort, or laborious thought and abstraction 
of mind, soon after an ordinary meal of food ; and 
in the same way as, if a man were to undergo violent 
muscular exercise soon after eating, his meal should 
be sparing in quantity, and especially digestible in 
kind, so the man who has such mental efforts to 
make, should be careful that the meal of food cor- 
respond, in the smallness of its quantity, and its easy 
digestibility, with the mental labours before him, 
and the consequent diversion of nervous power from 
the stomach to the brain ; or otherwise be prepared to 
allow so long an interval of time, between the meal 
and the mental effort, as will enable the nervous 



RE-ACTION OF HIND AND BODY. S4S 

energies to be sufficiently expended on the digestive 
process^ to secure its being duly performed. This is 
the more important^ from the fact of the great 
bodily exhaustion^ and consequent appetite^ which 
so notoriously foUow mental exercises, when not 
carried too far. If the mind^s powers^ indeed, have 
been tasked unduly, the stomach and general system 
may be so far exhausted, as that the appetite maybe 
lost, together with the chance of whatever food is taken 
being duly digested; precisely as is foimd to obtain 
after any other way, such as common bodily fatigue, 
by which the powers of the body are much expended. 
But if the mental labour have not been to such an 
exhausting degree, as great an appetite is often 
induced by it, as by a full but not excessive degree 
of bodily exertion. In fSact, by both is the azotised 
matter of the system expended; by both is the 
expenditure of the organised atoms effected; and by 
both is the necessity of alimentary supplies of new 
materials produced; and, perhaps, by both in an 
equal degree. The question, so far as dietetic regu- 
lation is concerned, is dependent on the degree to 
which mental labour has been undergone. If it 
has been only moderate in degree, the expenditure 
may be wisely made up for at once, by a suitable 
meal. If the mental labour has been carried to a 
more exhausting degree, the propriety of taking 
food at all, without a longer or shorter interval of 
repose, may be fairly questioned ; and the quantity 
taken be very needfdUy restricted ; and its quality be 
properly confined to the simplest, and most easily 



344 BE-ACTION OF MIND AND BODY. 

digested kinds of food. The importance of a rea- 
sonable interval of rest^ after severe bodily or mental 
labour^ before sitting down to a meal^ can hardly be 
exaggerated. Of course^ the more feeble the indi- 
vidual^ — ^the more morbidly sensitive^ easily deranged^ 
and deficient in tone^ his digestive organs^ — the 
more important is the rule^ and the longer should 
this interval be. And sometimes^ as in cases of 
great debility^ even when no further exertion has 
been made than that involved in sitting in a chair^ 
I have found it very serviceable^ to direct the 
recumbent posture^ even with sleep^ when that has 
been practicable^ to precede the difierent meals of 
the day; and in less severe cases^ after common 
mental or bodily exercise^ the same has been enjoined 
with good effects. This is^ of course^ a simple ques- 
tion of degree; and is by no means intended to 
justify^ either the recumbent position for some time 
before dinner^ or the indulgence in sleep at that 
time of the day^ when the amount of labour on the 
one hand^ or of debility on the other^ does not show 
it to be desirable. 

The \isefulness and necessity of rest^ both of mind 
and body^ after food, hinge likewise on the state of 
the digestive organs, the powers of the general 
system, and the kind and quantity of food that has 
been taken. The strongest and most healthy should 
remain at rest for some time after a heavy meal; 
and the more feeble the digestive powers, or the 
weaker the state of the system, or the greater the 
amount of mental or bodily exertion to be thereafter 



DIETETIC OENEBAUSATIONS. 345 

undergone^ the more important and tHe longer 
ought this interval of rest to be. However justifiably^ 
under extreme circumstances^ a mid-day sleep 
may be allowed^ or prescribed^ before a meal^ it is 
almost always unwise to permit this to be indulged 
in after a meal. By this^ the powers are not 
refireshed ; but^ on the contrary^ the digestion of 
the food is deranged^ and the nervous syst^n by so 
much irritated ; while the circulation of the blood is 
interfered with, as well mechanically by the fulness 
of the stomach, as by an undue derivation of blood 
to the stomach; and oppression and crudity reci- 
procally aggravate the consequent derangement of 
the economy. To sleep after a meal, makes easily- 
digested food, and a very feeble system, necessary 
conditions, if the prescription is justifiable, and 
the result advantageous. The mutual bearings of 
sleep and the digestive processes, will, however, 
have to be taken notice of again, in a subsequent 
chapter. 

To return to the consideration of the best hour for 
the dinner, it must be admitted to be so far compli- 
cated, and BO far dependent on different circum- 
stances, that it may justifiably differ a good deal in 
different cases. Granting the importance and truth 
of the general rule, that the longer the interval 
between the second great meal of the day and the 
bed time, supposing it to be eaten at a sufficient in- 
terval of time after the breakfast, the more desirable 
it is for the due performance of the great processes 
of assimilation, — ^nevertheless, if the dining at one or 



S46 DISTKTIC GBHSmAUSAnOHS. 

two o'dodL P.M. inTohres the eating the meal aoJitar 
ttIj, instead of amidst the cheering infloence of the 
fiunfly circle and social relaxation^— or if tiie dining 
so eartyin the daymnst be followed hj an immediate 
return to the mfrntaJ or bodily laboor, witiiont any 
sufficient interval of rest, — it may be more than 
donbtfiol whether the prescription is not nnwise, and 
does not substitute a greater for a smaller eriL In 
general, unless under drcumstances of much dys« 
pepsia, a somewhat later hour of dinner is seldom 
sufficiently objectionable to justify either a solitary 
meal, or the loss of some short interval of rest after 
the food has been swallowed ; and, usually, even in 
cases of decided dyspepsia^ attention to the quantity 
and quality of the food will be sufficient to remove 
the derangement of the digestive oigans. If the 
dinner, then, is put off, for sudi sufficient reasons, 
till later than five hours after the break&st, some 
luncheon becomes advisable, and indeed necessary. 
The stomach, it may be repeated, should never, un- 
less during sleep, be longer than five hours without 
some kind of food being taken, and more especially 
during the early or mid hours of the day. The 
luncheon, ought, however, to be so simple, and con- 
sist of such quickly and easily-digested materials, 
and contain so small a quantity of nutriment, as will 
not interfere with the powers of the digestive organs 
when the hour of dinner arrives ; and it should only 
be sufficient to prevent that degree of languor, and 
that extreme degree of appetite, which, when the &st 
from the first to the second meal is longer than five 



DRTETIC GSNnULUSATIOKS. S47 

boiin^ almost always leads to the eatmg an undue 
quantity of food at the dinner ; while it so fiur 
enfeebles the powers of the stomachy as to diminish, in 
an impcMtant degree, the probability of its being duly 
digested without local disturbance^ or disadvantage 
or derangement of some other function of the body, 
A biscuit^ or crust of bread, may be sufficient to 
answer every needfbl purpose, when the £Eist is not 
very long, or the amount of mental or bodily exertion 
is not severe ; and when the dinner hour is neces- 
sarily late, or the day's duties laborious, the amount 
of the food eaten at luncheon must be proportioned 
thereto, — care being taken that it is rather kept 
within the poiat of moderation, than allowed to 
exceed it. If the dinner hour is unavoidably a late 
one, and the day's work fatiguing, or the system 
somewhat feeble, or the digestive powers not vigor- 
ous, or deranged considerably in their functions, 
the question arises whether even a solitary early 
dinner, with all its admitted disadvantages, should 
not be, at least temporarily, had recourse to ; making, 
perhaps, the ostensible dinner rather a pro formA 
and light meal, than one of the two more important 
meals of the day. 

The probable necessity for supper, which is occa- 
sioned by dining early in the day, constitutes the 
only objection to the early dinner, which is, on 
most other accounts, so much more desirable. If, 
however, the breakfast and the mid-day meal have 
consisted of sufficiently nutritious food, and been 
made to comprise so large a proportion of the day's 



S48 DISTBTIC 6BinBBAI.I8ATION8. 

susteniinoe^ as has been advised, — verjrUttle solid food 
willy in most cases^ be found to be necessary after- 
wards ; and the sapper may be of such articles, as 
wonld be little likely to task the powers of the 
stomach nndnly, to interfere with the sleep, or to 
prove eventually disturbing to any of the assimilating 
organs. If the dinner be taken so early as one 
o'clock in the day, some solid food may, indeed, be 
required between that and bed-time, which may be 
ten, or possibly eleven, hours afterwards; and espe- 
cially, if this long time have been spent in active 
mental or bodily exertion. In this case, the re- 
mainder of the day's food may be usually taken at 
tea-time, and several hours have to pass by between 
that and the bed-time. In cases of decided dyspepsia, 
however, it will be, usually, better to take the tea by 
itself, without solid food, as has been already men- 
tioned, about three hours after the dinner ; the real 
third meal, or so called fourth meal, the supper, being 
taken about seven or eight o'clock in the evening ; 
and possibly made to consist of any simply farina- 
ceous food, — such as bread, or biscuit, — or rice, sago, 
arrow-root, &c., in any acceptable and simple form. 
Recent vegetables or fruits on the one hand, or solid 
animal food on the other, are wisely forbidden in the 
supper of the dyspeptic ; and there are few cases of 
any kind, as has been already said, in which the 
alcoholic compounds should not be strictly forbidden 
in the later periods of the day, — and the later in the 
day, the more strongly should they be objected to. 
There are certainly, however, some cases, in which 



SUMMING UP. 349 

supper is justifiably erected into a more important 
meal than this^ and in which some substantial food 
is properly allowed* Such cases are, perhaps, suffici-^ 
ently marked by the sense of exhaustion experienced 
during the night, and the disturbance of the sleep, 
together with much flatulence, and other indications 
of undue fasting. There may often, indeed, be some 
doubt as to whether the symptoms are not owing to 
too little, or a too acrid, or a difficultly assimilated 
kind of food, having been taken at the early meals, — 
even although the uneasy feelings may be at once 
subdued, re&eshing sleep obtained, and the recur- 
rence of such symptoms prevented, by a meal of food 
being eaten late in the evening ; and, at all events, 
care may be taken, that such supper is eaten at 
least two or three hours before the bed-time, and 
the risk of ultimate interference with the processes 
of assimilation, in this way lessened, as much as 
possible. 

Food ought seldom to be eaten between the meal- 
times, and only under very pecuUar circumstances. 
As the food seldom leaves the stomach in less than 
three hours, — and more usually, especially if the 
powers of the stomach are somewhat impaired, re- 
mains in it four or five hours, — ^the addition of undi- 
gested food to the partially chymified mass, interferes 
with the complete and due performance of the 
stomach's duties. 

These general observations on diet may be fitly 
concluded by a rapid summing up of some of the 
opinions that have been ofiered. The amoimt of 



350 suMMnro itp. 

every man's tooA, however strong and well lie may 
be, should be measured and regulated by the expen- 
diture and consequent wants of his system, and by 
the amonnt of eiercise, whether of nfind or of 
body* His food should be eaten at stated and re* 
gular times-; and, unless during sleep, he should 
never fiast longer than five hours. This is more 
important in the early, than in the later parts of the 
day. The break&st should be, in most eases, the 
principal meaL The large proportion of the day's 
sustenance should be taken early in the day. All 
the alcoholic liquids should be avoided as much as 
possible : — 

*< Tho' I look old, yet I am strong and lusty; 
For in mj yontili I nertae did apply 
Hot and rebeDioos fiqaois in my blood. 
Nor did I with mibaahfol forehead woo 
The means of weakness and deibility ; 
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter, 
Frosty, but kindly.^ 

As Ton LiKX It. Act II. Scene 3. 

As little liquid as may be, should be taken 
at the second, or mid-day meal, — probably, after 
all, the most nourishing meal eaten in the day, 
and the one which taxes most his digestive powers. 
The food should be eaten slowly; each mouthful 
b^ing well and carefully masticated, and mixed inti- 
mately with the saliva. The dinner should be con- 
fined, as much as may be, to one or two dishes. 
Little or no supper should be eaten; and food should 
seldom be eaten within two hours of the bed-time. 
Thus living, a man will be fulfilling his duty to his 



SUMMING UF^ 351 

health ; adding to his chances of life^ and to the pro- 
babilities of his prolonged usefulness^ so fiar as his diet 
is concerixed^ and! so fieur^ be taking the best means 
of warding off disease. If already dyspeptic^ more 
care than these rules involve^ will be needful to him. 
The effect of every article of food upon his stomachy 
its comparative digestibility^ and consequent whole* 
someness^ should be observed; his diet should be 
strictly confined to a single dish at every meal; and 
that must consist of what his stomach can digest 
without perceptible inconvenience^ — ^if he should^ to 
secure this end^ have to be forbidden the use of ani- 
mal food^ &c.^ — ^and be confined to the most simple 
and least irritating kinds of farinaceous food. And> 
having reached that point in the scale of comparative 
digestibility^ at which the food is found to agree 
with the stomach, the needfuhiess of restricting 
himself to that point should be impressed upon his 
mind, until, by such means of quiescence, and les- 
sened irritation of the organs of assimilation, and 
such other means of health, whether hygienic or 
medicinal, as may be indicated, the stomach has 
regained its tone, the gastric secretions again become 
equal to their great duties, and the processes of assi- 
milation been restored to a healthy and normal state; 
when the steps should be retraced with caution and 
judgment, until he is again entitled to live, judiciously 
and temperately, on the various kinds of food, which 
civilisation and commerce have brought within his 
reach ; avoiding, as common sense directs, those irre- 
gularities, or other errors, which may have, in the 



852 SUMMING UP. 

first instance^ produced^ or contributed to the dys- 
peptic symptoms. 

The adaptation of the general principles of dietetics^ 
and all we know or have to learn of the chemistry of 
food^ and the chemistry of the human system^ to the 
treatment of different diseased conditions^ must be 
regarded as no secondary duty of the medical man^ 
and no inconsiderable and unimportant means of 
restoring health and preserving life. The importance 
and needfulness of the antiphlogistic regimen^ — ^in- 
cluding a diet that is principally aqueous^ and con- 
taining exclusively farinaceous aliment^ and that in a 
minimum quantity^ — ^have always been admitted and 
enforced; but more than this assistance in the treat- 
ment of disease^ and the fulfilment of its indications^ 
may be more and more looked for from dietetic 
researches. The dietetic management of the scor- 
butiCj purpuric^ ansemic^ cachectic^ and arthritic^ con- 
ditions of the system, by corresponding modifications 
of diet, may be already adduced, as significant illus- 
trations of the practical good that may be looked 
for in this direction, by further researches and a 
more zealous attention to this important department. 
Indeed, without a rational adaptation of dietetics to 
chronic as well as acute diseased conditions, their 
treatment must be rendered by so much more difficult, 
tedious, and uncertain, — even if the chances of restor- 
ation to health be not otherwise wholly done away 
with. A form of modem empiricism, unquestionably 
owes the proportion of success that has attended it, to 
such dietetic management, — and not to the infinite* 



SUMMING UP. 353 

simal doses of silica^ and the like ; and this may be 
fairly adduced as an illustration of how much dietetic 
management may effect in the cure of certain mor- 
bid states^ without the assistance of any strictly 
medicinal treatment whatever. By simple attention 
to the quantity and quality of the daily rations^ the 
number of the blood globules may be diminished or 
increased^ — and febrile or inflammatory states mode- 
rated or even removed, — or an anaemic condition 
cured; by a modified vegetable diet, the scorbutic 
condition ; by a mixed diet, the purpuric condition ; 
by a fibrinous diet, the ansemic condition; by a 
milk diet, the cachectic condition ; by a less azotised 
diet, the arthritic condition; may be respectively 
relieved, in an important degree, without the aid of 
drugs; and, in many cases, it cannot be doubted, 
be more effectually and permanently influenced by 
such means. 

The dietetic management of children during all 
the years of growth, — and especially of the children 
bom and bred in cities, exposed necessarily to the 
physical disadvantages of a deranged atmosphere, and 
the like, — ^is another great and important branch 
of practical dietetics ; and one, in which greater and 
greater advances may be expected to be made. The 
avoidance of a dietary that is unduly stimulating on 
the one hand, or defectively nutritious on the other ; 
the maintenance of power, the restoration of waste, 
the provision for the growth, with the least expense 
to the organs of assimilation, the least risk of irri*- 
tation to the excitable mucous tissue; are obvious 



S54 SUMMING UP. 

points to be arrived at by dietetic management^ — 
and to secure which must be a sanatoiy gain of no 
Becondaiy importance. 

The question as to the use and abuse of the alco- 
holic stimulants, is a third matter of much moment 
in the treatment of different moiibid conditions, and 
in the management and preseira^tion of the health of 
people, who begin hfe, or wio have to maintain life, 
under such very different circumstances, as the pro- 
ducing and the consuming, the thinking and the 
toiling, the city-pent and tbe rural classes. To the 
rational medical man, who: weigh?, well these different 
conditions, who sees disease so often proceed from, 
or so often aggravated by> conditions that habitual 
or occasional stimulants are alone able to counteract, 
or wbich may be most readily, or most surely and 
safely, thus antagonised and relieved, the question 
of teetotalism, in its attempted general application 
to all ranks and conditions of the people, must show 
itself to be unbased on sound theory or just prac- 
tical inferences, 

> The question as to the feeding of the indigent, 
the sick, the aged, and the labourer, brings the 
subject of dietaries within the direct influence of the 
Legislature, and renders its details and facts of in- 
appreciable value. There can be no question, that, 
by dietaries which have been xmequal to the wants 
of the system, or have not been adapted in character 
to the attendant circumstances of the life, disease, in 
its worst and most fatal forms, has been, many times, 
induced, in places of punishment, of well-inten- 



SUMMING UP. 355 

tioned charity^ of manufiarCture^ and of education; or 
that, without constant recurrence to the principles 
of dietetics, such occurrences may be reasonably ex- 
pected to occur again. It is only a knowledge of 
the ordinary and the extraordinary expenditure of 
the system, of the varying expenditure dependent 
on age, season, climate, toil, &c., and of the nutri- 
mentary qualities of different kinds of food, that can 
afford a secure basis for the establishment of useful 
dietaries, and adjust their modification to suit the 
various requirements of the economy under different 
circumstances. 



END OF VOI4UME I. 



LONDON: 
BSAOBUBT AND XTANS, PBINTBBfl, WBITBFBXAB8. 



n 



X- 




