% 



vi%? 



m 



TREATISE 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 



FOB THE USB OF 



YOUNG LADIES AT HOME, 



AT SCHOOL. 



BY MISS CATHERINE E. BEECHER. 




REVIfflD EI 
WITH NUMEKOUS ADDITi5*nl AND IHrelmATIVE ENGRAVINGS. 



NEW YORK: 

HAEPEK. & BllOTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 
82 CLIFF STREET. 

1848. 



< 



2A'*' 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, m the year 1842, by 

Thomas H. Webb, & Co., 

/n the Clerk's Office of the DHrict Court of Massachusetts. 



\ 



w y 




TO 

AMERICAN MOTHERS, 

whose intelligence and virtues have inspired admira- 
tion and respect, whose experience has furnished many 
valuable suggestions, in this work, whose approbation 
will be highly valued, and whose influence, in promoting 
the object aimed at, is respectfully solicited, this work 
is dedicated, by their friend and countrywoman, 

THE AUTHOR. 



PREFACE 

TO THE THIRD EDITION. 

The author of this work was led to attempt it, by dis- 
covering, in her extensive travels, the deplorable sufferings 
of multitudes of young wives and mothers, from the com- 
bined influence of poor health, poor domestics, and a defect^ 
ive domestic education. The number of young women 
whose health is crushed, ere the first few years of married 
life are past, would seem incredible to one who has not in- 
vestigated this subject, and it would be vain to attempt to 
depict the sorrow, discouragement, and distress experien- 
ced in most families where the wife and mother is a perpet- 
ual invalid. 

The writer became early convinced that this evil results 
mainly from the fact, that young girls, especially in the 
more wealthy classes, are not trained for their profession. 
In early life, they go through a course of school training 
which results in great debility of constitution, while, at the 
same time, their physical and domestic education is almost 
wholly neglected. Thus they enter on their most arduous 
and sacred duties so inexperienced and uninformed, and 
with so little muscular and nervous strength, that probably 
there is not one chance in ten, that young women of the 
present day, will pass through the first years of married life 
without such prostration of health and spirits as makes life 
a burden to themselves, and, it is to be feared, such as se- 
riously interrupts the confidence and happiness of married 
life. 

The measure which, more than any other, would tend to 
remedy this evil, would be to place domestic economy on an 



PREFACE. 



equality with the other sciences in female schools. This 
should be done because it can be properly and systemati- 
cally taught {not practically, but as a science), as much so 
as political economy or moral science, or any other branch 
of study ; because it embraces knowledge, which will be 
needed by young women at all times and in all places ; 
because this science can never be properly taught until it 
is made a branch of study ; and because this method will 
secure a dignity and importance in the estimation of young 
girls, which can never be accorded while they perceive 
their teachers and parents practically attaching more value 
to every other department of science than this. When 
young ladies are taught the construction of their own bod- 
ies, and all the causes in domestic life which tend to weak- 
en the constitution ; when they are taught rightly to ap- 
preciate and learn the most convenient and economical 
modes of performing all family duties, and of employing 
time and money ; and when they perceive the true estimate 
accorded to these things by teachers and friends, the grand 
cause of this evil will be removed. Women will be train- 
ed to secure, as of first importance, a strong and healthy 
constitution, and all those rules of thrift and economy that 
will make domestic duty easy and pleasant. 

To promote this object, the writer prepared this volume 
as a text-book for female schools. It has been examined 
by the Massachusetts Board of Education, and been deem- 
ed worthy by them to be admitted as a part of the Massa- 
chusetts School Library. 

It has also been adopted as a text-book in some of our 
largest and most popular female schools, both at the East 
and West. 

The following, from the pen of Mr. George B. Emmer- 
son, one of the most popular and successful teachers in our 
country, who has introduced this \ybrk as a text-book in 



PREFACE. 7 

his own school, will exhibit the opinion of one who has 
formed his judgment from experience in the use of the 
work : 

'* It may be objected that such things cannot be taught 
by books. Why not 1 Why may not the structure of the 
human body, and the laws of health deduced 'therefrom, 
be as well taught as the laws of natural philosophy ? W^hy 
are not the application of these laws to the management 
of infants and young children as important to a woman 
as the appUcation of the rules of arithmetic to the extrac- 
tion of the cube root ? Why may not the properties of the 
atmosphere be explained, in reference to the proper venti- 
lation of rooms, or exercise in the open air, as properly as 
to the burning of steel or sodium 1 Why is not the human 
skeleton as curious and interesting as the air-pump ; and 
the action of the brain, as the action of a steam-engine 1 
Why may not the healthiness of different kinds of food and 
drink, the proper modes of cooking, and the rules in refer- 
ence to the modes and times of taking them, be discussed 
as properly as rules of grammar, or facts in history ? Are 
not the principles that should regulate clothing, the rules 
of cleanliness, the advantages of early rising and domestic 
exercise, as readily communicated as the principles of min- 
eralogy, or rules of syntax 1 Are not the rules of Jesus 
Christ, applied to refine domestic manners and preserve a 
good temper, as important as the abstract principles of eth- 
ics, as taught by Paley, Wayland, or JoufFroy 1 May not 
the advantages of neatness, system, and order, be as well 
illustrated in showing how they contribute to the happiness 
of a family, as by showing how they add beauty to a copy- 
book, or a portfolio of drawings ? Would not a teacher 
be as well employed in teaching the rules of economy, in 
regard to time and expenses, or in regard to dispensing 
charity, as in teaching double, or single entry in book-keep- 



PBEFACB 



ing ? Are not the principles that should guide in construct- 
ing a house, and in warming and ventilating it properly, as 
important to young girls as the principles of the Athenian 
Commonwealth, or the rules of Roman tactics ? Is it not 
as important that children should be taught the dangers to 
the mental faculties, when over-excited on the one hand, 
or left unoccupied on the other, as to teach them the con- 
flicting theories of political economy, or the speculations of 
metaphysicians'? For ourselves, we have always found 
children, especially girls, peculiarly ready to listen to what 
they saw would prepare them for future duties. The truth, 
that education should h^ a preparation for actual, real life, 
has the greatest force with children. The constantly-recur- 
ring inquiry, * What will be the use of this study V is al- 
ways satisfied by showing, that it will prepare for any duty, 
relation, or office which, in the natural course of things, 
will be hkely to come. 

" We think this book extremely well suited to be used 
as a text-book in schools for young ladies, and many chap- 
ters are well adapted for a reading book for children of 
both sexes." 

To this the writer would add the testimony of a lady 
who has used this work with several classes of young girls 
and young ladies. She remarked that she had never 
known a school-book that awakened more interest, and that 
some young girls would learn a lesson in this when they 
would study nothing else. She remarked, also, that when 
reciting the chapter on the construction of houses, they be- 
came greatly interested in inventing plans of their own, 
which gave an opportunity to the teacher to point out dif- 
ficulties and defects. Had this part of domestic economy 
been taught in schools, our land would not be so defaced 
with awkward, misshapen, inconvenient, and, at the same 
time, needlessly expensive houses, as it now is. 



PREFACE. 9 

Although the writer was trained to the care of children, 
and to perform all branches of domestic duty, by some of 
the best of housekeepers, much in these pages is offered, 
not as the result of her own experience, but as what has 
obtained the approbation of some of the most judicious 
mothers and housekeepers in thje nation. The articles on 
Physiology and Hygiene, and those on horticulture, were 
derived from standard works on these subjects, and are 
sanctioned by the highest authorities. 

Miss Beecher^s Domestic Receipt Book is another 
work prepared by the author of the Domestic Economy, 
in connexion with several experienced housekeepers, and 
is designed for a supplement to this work. On pages 354, 
355*, and 356* will be found the Preface and Analysis of 
that work, the two books being designed for a complete 
course of instructions on every department of Domestic 
Economy. 

The copyright interest in these two works is held by a 
board of gentlemen appointed for the purpose, who, after 
paying a moderate compensation to the author for the time 
and labour spent in preparing these works, will employ all 
the remainder paid over by the publishers, to aid in edu- 
cating and locating such female teachers as wish to be era- 
ployed in those portions of our country, which are most 
destitute of schools. 

The contract with the publisher provides that the pub- 
lisher shall guaranty the sales and thus secure against 
any losses for bad debts, for which he shall receive fiv« 
per cent. He shall charge twenty per cent, for commis- 
sions paid to retailers, and also the expenses of printing, 
paper, and binding, at the current market prices, and make 
no other charges. The net profits thus determined are 
then to be divided equally, the publishers taking one half, 
and paying the other half to the board above mentioned 



CONTENTS. 



Pr£FACE, . . . , y 

CHAPTER 1. 

PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 

American Women should feel a peculiar Interest in Democratic 
Institutions. The Maxim of our Civil Institutions. Its Iden- 
tity with the main Principle of Christianity. Relations involv- 
ing Subordination ; why they are needful. Examples. How 
these Relations are decided in a Democracy. What decides 
the Equity of any Law or Institution. The Principle of Aris- 
tocracy. The Tendency of Democracy in Respect to the Inter- 
ests of Women. Illustrated in the United States. Testimony 
of De Tocqueville. Miss Martineau's Misrepresentations. In 
what Respects are Women subordinate ? and why ? Wherein 
are they equal or superior in Influence ? and how are they 
placed by Courtesy ? How can American Women rectify any 
real Disadvantages involved in our Civil Institutions ? Opinion 
nt De Tocqueville as to tlie Influence and Example of Ameri- 
can Democracy. Responsibilities involved in this View, espe 
cialiy those of American Women, ,25 

CHAPTER II. 

DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR TO AMERICAN WOMEN. 

A Law of Moral Action to be noted. Its Application. Consid- 
erations to be borne in Mind, in appreciating peculiar Trials. 
Application to American Women. Difference between this 
and Aristocratic Countries. How this affects the Interests of 
American Women. Effect of Wealth, in this Country, on Do- 
mestic Service. Effects on the Domestic Comfort of Women. 
I^^P^'^^Pecj^iar Trial of American Women. Extent of this 
Evil. 1 he Writer's Observation on this Point. Effects on the 
Anticipations of Mothers and Daughters. Infrequency of 
Healthful Women in the Wealthy Classes. Causes which op- 
erate to undermine the Female Constitution. Excitement of 
Mind Course of Intellectual Training. Taxation, in Domes- 
tic Life, of Amencan Mothers and Housekeepers. Exercise 



IS CONTENTS. 

and Fresh Air needful to balance Mental Excitement. Defect 
in American, compared with English, Customs, in this Respect. 
Difference in the Health and Youthfulness of Appearance be- 
tween English and American Mothers. Liabilities of Ameri- 
can Women to the uncommon Exposures of a New Country 
Remarks of De Tocqueville and the Writer on tiiis Point, . 3H 



CHAPTER ni. 

REMEDIES FOR THE PRECEDING DIFFICULTIES. 

First Remedy suggested. Obligations of Wealthy Ladies on thiv 
Point. How a Dearth of Domestics may prove a Blessing. 
Second Remedy. Domestic Economy should be taught in 
Schools. Third Remedy. Reasons for endowing Colleges 
and Professional Schools. Similar Reasons exist for endowing 
Female Institutions. Present Evils in conducting Female Ed- 
ucation. A Sketch of a Model Female Institution. Accom- 
modations provided. Mode of securing Exercise to Pupils. 
Objections to this answered. Calisthenics. Course of Intel- 
lectual Discipline adopted. Mode of Division of Labor adopt- 
ed. Example of Illinois in Regard to Female Education. 
Economy of Health and Time secured by such Institutions. 
Plan suggested for the Early Education of Young Girls. Last 
Remedy suggested, 48 

CHAPTER IV. 

ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A BRANCH OF STUDY. 

Impediment to making Domestic Economy a Study at School. 
First Reason why it should be so made. State of Domestic 
Service precarious. Second Reason. Examples illustrating. 
Third Reason. Questions asked. First Objection ; how an- 
swered. Next Objection ; how answered. Next Objection j 
how answered. Last Reason, 63 

CHAPTER V. 

ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

importance of a Knowledge of the Laws of Health, and of the 
Human System, to Females. Construction of the Human 
Frame. Bones ; their Structure, Design, and Use. Engrav- 
ing and Description. Spinal Column. Engravings of Verte- 
bras. Exercise of the Bones. Muscles ; their Constitution, 
Use, and Connection with the Bones. Engraving and Descrip- 
tion. Operation of Muscles. Nerves ; their Use. Spinal 
Column. Engravings and Descriptions. Distortions of the 
Spine. Engravings and Descriptions. Blood-Vessels ; their 
Object. Engravings and Descriptions. The Heart, and its 
Connection with the System. Engravings and Description?, 



CONTENTS. 13 

Organs of Digestion and Respiration. Engraving and 
Description. Process of Digestion. * Circulation of the Blood. 
Process of Respiration. Necessity of Pure Air. The Skin. 
Process of Perspiration. Insensible Perspiration. Heat of the 
Body. Absorbents. Importance of frequent Ablutions and 
Change of Garments. Follicles of Oily Matter m the Skm. 
Nerves of Feeling, 63 



CHAPTER VI. 

ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 

Responsibility of a Housekeeper in Regard to Health and Food. 
The most fruitful Cause of Disease. Gastric Juice ; how pro- 
portioned. Hunger the Natural Guide as to Quantity of Food. 
A Benevolent Provision ; how perverted, and its Effects. A 
Morbid Appetite, how caused. Effects of too much Food in 
the Stomach. Duty of a Housekeeper in Reference to this. 
Proper Time for taking Food. Peristaltic Motion. Need of- 
Rest to the Muscles of the Stomach. Time necessary between 
each Meal. Exceptions of hard Laborers and active Children. 
Exercise ; its Effect on all parts of the Body. How it produces 
Hunger. What is to be done by those who have lost the Guid- 
ance of Hunger in regulating the Amount of Food. On Qual- 
ity of Food. Difference as to Risk from bad Food, between 
Healthy Persons who exercise, and those of Delicate and Seden- 
tary Habits. Stimulating Food ; its Effects. Condiments need 
ed only for Medicine, and to be avoided as Food. Difference 
between Animal and Vegetable Food. Opinion of some Med 
ical Men. Medical Men agree as to the Excess of Animal 
Food in American Diet. Extracts from Medical Writers on 
this Point. Articles most easily digested. The most Unhealth- 
ful Articles result from bad cooking. Caution as to Mode of 
Eating. Reason why Mental and Bodily Exertions are injuri- 
ous after a full Meal. Changes in Diet should be gradual ; and 
why. Drink most needed at Breakfast; and why. Dinner 
should be the heartiest Meal ; and why. Little Drink to be 
taken while eating; and why. Extremes of Heat or Cold, 
why injurious in Food. Fluids immediately absorbed from the 
Stomach. Why Soups are hard of Digestion. Case of Alexis 
St. Martin. Why highly-concentrated Nourishment is not 
good for Health. Beneficial Effects of using Unbolted Flour. 
Scarcity of Wheat under William Pitt's Administration, and 
its Effects. Causes of a Debilitated Constitution from the 
Misuse of Food, ^^ 



CHAPTER VII. 

ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 

Responsibility of a Housekeeper in this Respect. Stimulating 
Drinks not required for the Perfection of the Human System. 

2 D. E. 



4 CONTENTS. 

Therefore they are needless. First Evil in using them. Sec 
ond Evil. Five Kinds of Stimulating Articles in Use in this 
Country. First Argument in Favor of Stimulants, and how 
answered. Second Argument; how answered. The Writer's 
View of the Effects of Tea and Coffee on American Females., fj 
Duty in Reference to Children. Black Tea the most harmless 
Stimulant. Warm Drinks not needful. Hot Drinks injurious. 
Effect of Hot Drinks on Teeth. Mexican Customs and their 
Effects illustrating this. Opinion of Dr. Combe on this subject. 
Difference between the Stimulus of Animal Food and the 
Stimulating Drinks used. Common Habit of Drinking freely 
of Cold Water debilitating. Persons taking but little Exer- 
cise require but httle Drink, ... 106 



CHAPTER Vni. 



ON CLOTHING. 

Calculations made from Bills of Mortality ; and Inference from 
them. Causes of Infant Mortality. Of the Circulation in In- 
fancy. Warm Dress for Infants ; and why. Investigations in 
France, and Results. Dangers from the opposite Extreme. 
Effects oftoo much Clothing. Rule of Safety. Featherbeds; 
why unhealthy in Warm Weather. Best Nightgowns for 
Young Children, Clothing ; how to be proportioned. Irra- 
tional Dress of Women. Use of Flannel next the Skin. Evils 
of Tight Dresses to Women. False Taste in our Prints of 
Fashions, Modes in which Tight Dresses operate to weaken 
the Constitution. Rule of Safety as to Looseness of Dress. 
Example of English Ladies in Appropriateness of Dress, . . 112 



CHAPTER IX. 

ON GliEANLINESS. 

Importance of Cleanliness not realized, without a Knowledge of 
the Nature of the Skin. Foundation of the Maxim respecting 
the Healthfulness of Dirt. Office of the Skin. Other Organs 
which perform similar Duties. Amount of Matter daily exhaled 
by the Skin. Effect of a Chill upon the Skin, when perspiring. 
Illustration of this. Effect of closing the Pores of the Skin, 
with Dirt or other Matter. The Skin absorbs Matter into the 
Blood. Reasons for a Daily Ablution of the whole Body. Ef- 
fects of Fresh Air on Clothing worn next the Skin. Ameri- 
cans compared with other Nations as to Care of the Skin. 
Cautions in Regard to a Use of the Bath. How to decide when 
Cold Bathing is useful. Warm Bath tends to prevent Colds ; 
and why. When a Bath should be taken. Advantages of 
General Ablutions to Children. Care of the Teeth, . . . .118 



CONTENTS. Il5 

CHAPTER X. 

ON EARLY RISING. 

Universal Impression in Respect to this Practice. Why it should 
be regarded as American and Democratic. Practice in Aris- 
tocratic Circles in England. Appeal to American Women. 
First Consideration in Favor of Early Rising. Another 
Physiological Reason in its Favor. Another Reason. Time 
necessary for Sleep. Proper Hours for Rising and Retiring. 
Evils of protracted Sleep. Testimony of Sir John Sinclair. 
Another Reason for Early Rising. Responsibility of Parents 
for the Health and Industry of a Family. Effects of Early 
Rising on General Society, 125i 

CHAPTER XI. 

ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 

Causes which produce Delicacy and Decay of the Female Con- 
stitution. Want of Exercise. Neglect of the Laws of Health. 
Want of Pure Air. Objectionable Amusements. Sleeping by 
Day. Want of Exercise a greater Cause of these Evils, than 
all the Others combined. Importance of understanding the 
Influence of the Neglect or Abuse of the Muscular System. 
Nerves of Sensation and of Motion. Both need Exercise. 
Rules for Exercise. Importance of a Feeling of Interest in 
taking Exercise. Walks merely for Exercise. Exercise most 
proper for Young Girls. Exercise, more than any Thing else, 
imparts fresh Strength and Vitality to all Parts of the Body. 
Mistakes of Mothers and Teachers on this Subject. Effects of 
neglecting to use the Muscles ; Effects of excessive Use of 
them. Effect of School Confinement and Seats. Extract 
from the Young Lady's Friend. Lady Montagu. Daughter 
of a French Nobleman, 129 

CHAPTER XIL 

ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

What are Good-manners. Defect in American Manners. Cold- 
ness and Reserve of the Descendants of the Puritans accounted 
for. Cause of the Want of Courtesy in American Manners. 
Want of Discrimination. Difference of Principles regulating 
Aristocratic and Democratic Manners. Rules for regulating 
the Courtesies founded on Precedence of Age, Office, and Sta- 
tion, in a Democracy. Manners appropriate to Superiors and 
Subordinates. Miss Martineau's Remarks on the Universal 
Practice of Americans to give Precedence to Woman. Pecu- 
liar Defect of Americans in this Respect. This to be remedied 
in the Domestic Circle, alone. Rules of Precedence to be en- 
forced in the Family. Manners and Tones towards Superiors 
to be regulated in the Family. Treatment of grown Brothers 
and Sisters by Young Children. Acknowledgement of Favors 
by Chil<ken to be required. Children to ask leave or apologize 



16 CONTENTS. 

in certain Cases. Rules for avoiding Remarks that wound '^lie 
Feelings of Others. Rules of Hospitality. Conventional 
Rules. Rules for Table Manners. Caution as to teaching 
these Rules to Children. Caution as to Allowances to be 
made for those deficient in Good-manners. Comparison of 
English and American Manners, by De Tocqueville. America 
may hope to excel all Nations in Refinement, Taste, and 
Good-breeding ; and why. Effects of Wealth and Equali- 
sation of Labor. Allusion to the Manners of Courts in the 
past Century, 136 

CHAPTER Xni. 

ON THE PKESERVATION OF A GOOD TEMPER IN A 
HOUSEKEEPER. 

Influence of a Housekeeper on Domestic Happiness. Contrasts 
to illustrate. Sympathy. Influence of Tones. Allowances 
to be made for Housekeepers. Considerations to aid in regu- 
lating Temper and Tones. First ; Her Duties to be regarded 
as Dignified, Important, and DiflScult. Second ; She should 
feel that she really has Great Difficulties to meet and over- 
come. Third ; She should deliberately calculate upon having 
her Plans interfered with, and be prepared for the Emergency. 
Fourth ; All her Plans should be formed consistently with the 
Means at Command. Fifth ; System, Economy, and Neatness, 
only valuable when they tend to promote the Comfort and 
Well-being of the Family. Sixth ; Government of Tones of 
Voice. Some Persons think Angry Tones needful. They 
mistake. Illustration. Scolding, tjnlady-like, and in Bad 
Taste. A Forgiving Spirit necessary. Seventh and Last 
Consideration offered; Right View of a Superintending Prov- 
idence. Fretfulness and Complaining sinful, . .... 148 

CHAPTER XIV 

ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

Question of the Equality of the Sexes, frivolous and useless. 
Relative Importance and Difficulty of the Duties a Woman 
is called to perform. Her Duties not trivial. More difficult 
than those of the Queen of a great Nation. A Habit of Sys- 
tem and Order necessary. Right Apportionment of Time. 
General Principles. Christianity to be the Foundation. In- 
tellectual and Social Interests to be preferred to Gratification 
of Taste or Appetite. The Latter to be last in our Estimation. 
No Sacrifice of Health allowable. Neglect of Health a Sin in 
the Sight of God. Regular Season of Rest appointed by the 
Creator. Divisions of Time. Systematic Arrangement of 
House Articles and other Conveniences. Regular Employ 
ment for each Member of a Family. Children can be of great 
Service. Boys should be taught Family Work. Advantage 
to them in Afterhfe. Older Children to take Care of Infants 
of a Family, 155 



CONTENTS. 17 

CHAPTER XV. 

ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

No Point of Duty more difficult to fix by Rule, than Charity. 
First Consideration ; — Object for which we are placed in this 
World. How to be perfectly happy. Self-denying Benevo- ' 
lence. Important Distinction. Second Consideration ; — Nat- 
ural Principles not to be exterminated, but regulated and con- 
trolled. All Couvstitutional Propensities good, and designed 
to be gratified. Their Abuses to be guarded against. Third 
Consideration ; — Superfluities sometimes proper, and some- 
times not. Fourth Consideration ; — No Rule of Duty right 
for One and not for All. The Opposite of this Principle tested. 
Some Use of Superfluities necessary. Physical Gratifications 
should always be subordinate to Social, Intellectual, and Moral 
Advantages. Difficulties in the Way. Remarks upon them. 
Plan for Keeping an Account of Necessaries and Superfluities. 
Untoward Results of our Actions do not always prove that we 
deserve Blame. Examples of Conformity to the Rules here 
laid down. General Principles to guide in deciding upon 
Objects of Charity. Parable of Good Samaritan. Who are 
our Neighbors. Those most in Need to be first relieved. In- 
tellectual and Moral Wants more necessary to be supplied 
than Physical. Not much Need of Charity in supplying Physi- ' 
cal Wants in this Country. System of Associated Charities, 
in which many small Sums are combined. Indiscriminate 
Charity — Very injurious to Society, as a General Rule. Ex- 
ceptions. Impropriety of judging of the Charities of Others, .167 

CHAPTER XVI. 

ON ECONOMY OF TIME AND EXPENSES. 

Economy of Time. Value of Time. Right Apportionment of 
Time. Laws appointed by God for the Jews. Proportions of 
Property and Time the Jews were required to devote to Intel- 
lectual, Benevolent, and Religious Purposes. The Levites 
The weekly Sabbath. The Sabbatical Year. Three sevenths 
of the Time of the Jews devoted to God's Service. Christian- 
ity removes the Restrictions laid on the Jews, but demands all 
our Time to be devoted to our own best Interests and the Good 
of our Fellow-men. Some Practical Good to be the Ultimate 
End of all our Pursuits. Enjoyment connected with the Per- 
formance of every Duty. Great Mistake of Mankind. A Fi- 
nal Account to be given of the Apportionment of our Time. 
Various Modes of economizing Time. System and Order. 
Uniting several Objects in one Employment. Employment of 
Odd Intervals of Time. We are bound to aid Others in econ- 
omizing Time. Economy in Expenses. Necessity of Informa- 
tion on this Point. Contradictory Notions. General Prin- 
ciples in which all agree. Knowledge of Income and Ex- 
penses. Every One bound to do as much as she can to secure 
System and Order. Examples. Evils of Want of System and 
Forethought. Young Ladieg should early learn to be system 
2* D, E. 



18 CONTENTS. 

atic and economical. Articles of Dress and Furniture should 
be in Keeping with each other, and with the 'Circumstances of 
the Family. Mistaken Economy. Education of Daughters 
away from Home injudicious. Nice Sewing should be done 
at Home. Cheap Articles not always most economical. Buy- 
ing by wholesale economical only iri special cases. Penurious 
Savings made by getting the Poor to work cheap. Relative 
Obligations of the Poor and the Rich in Regard to Economy. 
Economy of Providence in the Unequal Distribution of Prop- 
erty. Carelessness of Expense not a Mark of Gentility. Beat- 
ing down Prices improper in Wealthy People. Inconsistency 
in American would-be Fashionables, ... . . . . , 180 

CHAPTER XVn. 

ON HEALTH OF MIND. 

Intimate Connection between the Body and Mind. Brain ex- 
cited by improper Stimulants taken into the Stomach. Mental 
Faculties then affected. Example of a Person having lost a 
Portion of his Skull. Causes of Mental Diseases. Want of 
Oxygenized Blood. Fresh Air absolutely necessary. Exces- 
sive Exercise of the Intellect or Feelings a Cause of Derange- 
ment. Such Attention to Religion, as prevents tlie Perform- 
ance of other Duties, wrong. Teachers and Parents should 
look to this. Unusual Precocity in Children usually the Re- 
sult of a Diseased Brain. Parents generally add Fuel to this 
Fever. Idiocy often the Result, or the Precocious Child sinks 
below the Average of Mankind. This Evil yet prevalent in 
Colleges and other Seminaries. A Medical Man necessary in 
every Seminary. Some Pupils always needing Restraint in 
Regard to Study. A Third Cause of Mental Disease, the 
Want of Appropriate Exercise of the Various Faculties of the 
Mind. Extract from Dr. Combe. Examples of Wealthy La- 
dies. Beneficial Results of active Intellectual Employments, 
indications of a Diseased Mind, . , 195 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

No Subject on which American Women need more Wisdom, 
Patience, Principle, and Self-control. Its Difficulties. Neces- 
sary Evils. Miseries of Aristocratic Lands. Wisdom of 
Conforming to Actual Circumstances. How to judge cor- 
rectly respecting Domestics. They should be treated as we 
would expect to be under similar Circumstances. When 
Labor is scarce, its Value is increased. Instability of Domes 
tics J how it may be remedied. Pride and Insubordination; 
how remedied. Abhorrence of Servitude a National Trait of 
Character. Domestics easily convinced of the Appropriate- 
ness of different Degrees of Subordination. Example. Do 
mestics may be easily induced to be respectful in their De- 
portment, and appropriate in their Dress. Deficiencies of 
Qualifications for the Performance of their Duties ; how rem- 
edied. Forewarning, better than Chiding. Preventing, better 



CONTENTS. 



than findintr Fault. Faults should be pointed out m a Kmd 
Manner. Some Employers think it their Office and Duty to 
find Fault. Domestics should be regarded with Sympathy 
and Forbearance, 



19 



204 



CHAPTER XIX 

ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 

Necessity of a Knowledge of this Subject, to every Young Lady. 
Examples. Extracts from Doctors Combe, Bell, and Eberle. 
Half the Deaths of Infants owing to Mismanagement, and 
Errors in Diet. Errors of Parents and Nurses. Error oi ad- 
ministering Medicines to Children, unnecessarily. Need ot 
Fresh Air, Attention to Food, Cleanliness, Dress, and Bathing. 
Cholera Infantum not cured by Nostrums. Formation ot 
Good Habits in Children, ^^'^ 

CHAPTER XX. 

ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

Physical Education of Children. Remark of Dr. Clark, and Opin- 
ion of other Medical Men. Many Popular Notions relating to 
Animal Food for Children, erroneous. The Formation oi the 
Human Teeth and Stomach does not indicate that Man was 
designed to live on Flesh. Opinions of Linnaeus and Cuvier 
Stimulus of Animal Food not necessary to Full Developement 
of the Physical and Intellectual Powers. Examples. Ot Lap- 
landers, Kamtschatkadales, Scotch Highlanders, Siberian Ex 
iles, Africans, Arabs. Popular Notion that Animal Food is 
more Nourishing than Vegetable. Different Opinions on this 
Subject. Experiments. Opinions of Dr. Combe and others. 
Examples of Men who lived to a great Age. Dr. Franklm s 
Testimony. Sir Isaac Newton and others. Albany Orphan 
Asylum. Deleterious Practice of allowing Children to eat at 
short Intervals. Intellectual Training. Schoolroonis. Moral 
Character. Submission, Self-denial, and Benevolence, the 
three most important Habits to be formed in Early Lite. t!.x- 
treiaes to be guarded against. Medium Course. Adults some- 
times forget the Value which Children set on Trifles. Example. 
Impossible to govern Children, properly, without appreciating 
the Value they attach to their Pursuits and Enjoy m^ts. 
Those who govern Children should join m their Sports. Ihis 
the best way to gain their Confidence and Affection. Bttt 
Older Persons should never lose the Attitude of Superiors, 
Unsteadiness in Government. Illustrations. Punishment trom 
unsteady Governors, does little Good. Over-Government. 
Want of Patience and Self-control in Parents and Governors. 
Example of Parents more effectual than their Precepts. Jbor- 
mation of Habits of Self-denial in Early Life. Denying Our- 
selves to promote the Happiness of Others. Habits of Honesty 
and Veracity. Habits of Modesty. Delicacy studiously to be 
cherished. Licentious and Impure Books to be banished. 
Bulwer a Licentious Writer, and to be discountenanced, . £Ai 



20 V CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXL 

ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 

Women frequently called upon to direct in Cases of Indisposi- 
tion. Extremes to be avoided. Grand Cause of most Diseases, 
Excess in Eating and Drinking. Fasting useful. Extracts 
from Doctors Burne and Combe. Necessity of a Woman's 
Understanding the Nature and Operation of Common Medi- 
cines. Simple Electuary. Discretion required. Useful Di- 
rections in Regard to Nursing the Sick. Fresh Air absolutely 
necessary. Frequent Ablutions important. Dressing a Blis- 
ter. Arrangements to be made beforehand, when practicable. 
Importance of Cleanliness^; Nothing more annoying to the 
Sick, than a want of it. Necessity of a proper Preparation of 
Food, for the Sick. Physicians' Directions to be well under- 
stood and implicitly followed. Kindness, Patience, and Sym- 
pathy, towards the Sick, important. Impositions of Apotheca- 
ries. Drugs to be locked up from the Access of Children, . . 234 

CHAPTER XXII. 

ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES, 

Medical Aid should be promptly resorted to. SuiFocation, from 
Substances in the Throat. Common Cuts. Wounds of Ar- 
teries, and other severe Cuts. Bruises. Sprains. Broken 
Limbs. Falls. Blows on the Head. Burns. Drowning. 
Poisons : — Corrosive Sublimate ; Arsenic, or Cobalt ; Opium ; 
Acids; Alkalies. Stupefaction from Fumes of Charcoal, or 
from entering a Well, Limekiln, or Coalmine. Hemorrhage 
of the Lungs, Stomach, or Throat. Bleeding of the Nose. 
Dangers from Lightning, 240 

CHAPTER XXIIl. 

\ ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 

[ndefiniteness of Opinion on this Subject. Every Person needs 
some Recreation. General Rules. How much Time to be 
given. What Amusements proper. Those should always be 
avoided, which cause Pain, or injure the Health, or endanger 
Life, or interfere with important Duties, or are pernicious in 
their Tendency. Horse-racing, Circus-riding, Theatres, and 
Gambling. Dancing, as now conducted, does not conduce to 
Health of Body or Mind, but the contrary. Dancing in the 
Open Air beneficial. Social Benefits of Dancing considered. 
Ease and Grace of Manners better secured by a System of 
Calisthenics. The Writer's Experience. Balls going out of 
Fashion, among the more refined Circles. Novel-reading. 
Necessity for Discrimination. Young Persons should be 
guarded from Novels. Proper Amusements for Young Per- 
sons. Cultivation of Flowers and Fruits. Benefits of the 
Practice. Music. Children enjoy it. Collections of Shells, 



CONSENTS. 21 

Plants, Minerals, doc. Children's (xames and Sports. Parents 
should join in them. Mechanical Skill of Children to be en 
couraged. Other Enjoyments, Social Enjoyments not always 
considered in the List of Duties. Main Object of Life to form 
Character Family Friendship should be preserved. Plan 
adopted by Families of the Writer's Acquaintance. Kindness 
to Strangers. Hospitality. Change of Character of Com- 
munities in Relation to Hospitality. Hospitality should be 
prompt. Strangers should be made to feel at their Ease, . . 244 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

ON THE CONSTRUCTION OP HOUSES. 

Importance to Family Comfort of well-constructed Houses. 
Rules for constructing them. Economy of Labor. Large 
Houses. Arrangement of Rooms. Wells and Cisterns. 
Economy of Money. Shape and Arrangement of Houses. 
Porticoes, Piazzas, and other Ornaments. Simplicity to be 
preferred. Fireplaces. Economy of Health. Outdoor Con- 
veniences. Doors and Windows. Ventilation. Economy 
of Comfort. Domestics. Spare Chambers. Good Taste. 
Proportions. Color and Ornaments. Plans of Houses and 
Domestic Conveniences. Receipts for Whitewash, .... 258 

CHAPTER XXV. 

ON riRES AND LIGHTS. 

Wood Fires. Construction of Fireplaces. Firesets. Building 
a Fire. Wood. Cautions. Stoves and Grates. Cautions. 
Stovepipes. Anthracite Coal. Bituminous Coal. Proper 
Grates. Coal Stoves. On Lights. Lamps. Oil. Candles. 
Lard. Pearlash and Water for cleansing Lamps. Care of 
Lamps. Difficulty. Articles needed in trimming Lamps. 
Astral Lamps. Wicks. Dipping Wicks in Vinegar. Shades. 
Weak Eyes. Entry Lamps. Night Lamps. Tapers. Wax 
Tapers for Use in Sealing Letters. To make Candles. 
Moulds. Dipped Candles. Rush Lights, 28ft 



CHAPTER XXVL 

ON WASHING. 

All needful Accommodations should be provided. Plenty of 
Water, easily accessible, necessary. Articles to be provided 
for Washing. Substitutes for Soft Water. Common Mode 
of Washing. Assorting Clothes. To Wash Bedding. Feath- 
ers. Calicoes. Bran-water. Potato-water. Soda Washing. 
Soda Soap. Mode of Soda Washing. Cautions in Regard to 
Colored Clothes, and Flannels. To Wash Brown Linen, 
Muslins, Nankeen, Woollen Table-Covers and Shawls, Wool- 
len Yarn, Worsted and Woollen Hose. To Cleanse Gen- 
tlemen's Broadcloths. To make Ley, Soft Soap, Hard Soap, 
White Soap, Starch, and other Articles used in Washing, . . 284 



22 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXVIl. 

ON STARCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 

To prepare Starch, Glue and Gum Starch. Beef's or Ox-Gall. 
Starching Muslins and Laces. To Cleanse or Whiten Silk 
Lace, or jBlond, and White Lace Veils. On Ironing. Articles 
to be provided for Ironing. Sprinkling, Folding, and Ironing, 292 

CHAPTER XXVin. 

ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 

To Whiten Articles and Remove Stains from them. Mixtures 
to Remove Stains and Grease. To Cleanse Silk Handker- 
chiefs and Ribands ; Silk Hose or Gloves ; Down and Feathers ; 
Straw and Leghorn Hats On Coloring. Pink, Red, Yellow, 
Blue, Green, Salmon, Buff, Dove, Slate, Brown, Black, and 
Olive Colors, 296 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

ON THE CARE OF PARLORS. 

Proper Arrangement of Rooms. Shades and Colors. Carpets, 
Curtains, and other Furniture, should be selected with Ref- 
erence to each other. Laying down Carpets. Blocks to pre- 
vent Sofas and Tables from rubbing against Walls, and to hold 
Doors open. Footstools. Sweeping Carpets. Tealeaves. 
Wet Indian Meal. Taking up and cleansing Carpets. Washing 
Carpets. Straw Matting. Pictures and Glasses. Curtains and 
Sofas. Mahogany Furniture. Unvarnished Furniture ; Mix- 
tures for. Hearths and Jambs. Sweeping and Dusting Parlors, 302 

CHAPTER XXX. 

ON THE CARE OF BREAKFAST AND DINING-ROOMS. 

Large Closet necessary. Dumb Waiter, or Sliding Closet. Fur- 
niture for a Table. On Setting a Table. Rules for doing it 
properly ; — for Breakfast and Tea ; for Dinner. On Waiting at 
Table. On Carving and Helping at Table, 306 

CHAPTER XXXI. 

ON THE CARE OF CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS. 

Importance of well- ventilated Sleeping-rooms. Debility and 
Ill-health caused by a Want of Pure Air. Chamber Furni- 
ture. Cheap Couch. Bedding. Feathers, Straw, or Hair 
Mattresses. To Make a Bed. Domestics should be provided 
with Single Beds, and Washing Conveniences. On Packing 
and Storing Articles. To Fold a Gentleman's Coat and Shirt, 
and a Frock. Packing Trunks. Carpet Bags. Bonnet Cov- 
ers. Packing Household Furniture for Moving, 311 



CONTENTS. 23 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

ON THE CARE OF THE KITCHEN, CELLAR, AND STOREROOM. 

Importance of a Convenient Kitchen. Floor should be painted 
Sink and Drain. Washing Dishes. Conveniences needed. 
Rules. Kitchen Furniture. Crockery. Iron Ware. Tin 
Ware. Wooden Ware. Basket Ware. Other Articles. On 
the Care of the Cellar. Storeroom. Modes of Destroying In- 
sects and Vermin, • . 317 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

Importance of Young Girls being taught various Kinds of Stitch- 
ing. Directions for doing various Kinds of Work. Work- 
Baskets, and their Contents. On Cutting and Fitting Gar- 
ments. Silks. Cotton and Linen. Old Silk Dresses quilted 
for Skirts. Flannel; White should be colored. Children's 
Flannels., Nightgowns. Wrappers. Bedding. Mending, . 324 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 

ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 

On the Preparation of Soil. For Pot-Plants. On the Prepara- 
tion of a Hot-Bed. Planting Flower-Seeds. To plant Garden- 
Seeds. Transplanting. To Re-pot House-Plants. On laying 
out Yards. Gardens, Flower-Beds. Bulbs and Tuberous 
Roots. List of Various Kinds of Flowers, in Reference to 
Color, and Height. Annuals. Climbing Plants. Perennials. 
Herbaceous Roots. Shrubs ; List of those most suitable for 
adorning a Yard. Roses; Varieties of. Shade-Trees. Time 
for Transplanting. Trees. Care of House Plants, .... 331 

CHAPTER XXXV. 

ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 

Pifferent Modes of Propagation ;— By Offsets ; Cuttings ; Lay- 
ers; Budding, or Inoculating; Ingrafting; — Whip- Grafting ; 
Split-Grafting ; Stock- Grafting. Pruning. Thinning, . . . 341 

CHAPTER XXXVL 

ON THE CULTIVATION OF FRUIT. 

Value of Attention to this Subject. Preparation of Soil. Plant- 
ing of Seeds. Budding, Grafting, and Transplanting. Train- 
ing the Limbs. Attention to the Soil. Manuring. Filberts. 
Figs. Currants. Gooseberries. Raspberries. Strawberries. 
Grapes, To Preserve Fruit; Modes of Preserving Fruit-Trees. 
Fire Blig-ht. Worms, ° 34 



24 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXXVII. 

MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 

Women should know how to take proper Care of Domestic Am- 
mals. Care of a Horse. Care of a Cow. Poultry. Cautions 
for Winter. Smoky Chimneys. House-Cleaning. Parties. 
Invitations. Comfort of Guests. Flower-Baskets. Fire-Boards. 
Water-proof Shoes. Earthen Ware. Cements, &c. &c. . .351 

Note. — Cooking, , *..*... 354 

Glossary, 355 

Index, 371 



LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 

1. The Human Skeleton, showing the Connection of the Bones 

of the System, 70 

2, 3, 4. The Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar, Vertebrae, ... 72 

5. Muscles of the Arm, .74 

6. Vertical Section of the Skull and Spinal Column, side view, 77 

7. View of the same as seen from behind, 77 

8. Ramifications of the Nerves, 79 

9, 10, 11. Natural and Distorted Spines, 81 

12. Vascular System, or Blood- Vessels, . 82 

13. The Two Sides of the Heart, separated, 85 

14. The Heart, with its two Sides united, as in Nature, ... 86 

15. The Heart, with the great Blood- Vessels, on a larger scale, . 87 

16. Organs of Digestion and Respiration, 88 

17. Elevation of a Cottage of Fine Proportions, 262 

18. Ground-plan of the same, 262 

19. Arrangementof one Side of a Room, 263 

20. Fireplace and Mantelpiece, 265 

21. Elevation of a Cottage on a dijfferent Plan from the former, 265 

22. Ground-plan of the same, 266 

23. 24. Ground-plan and Second Story of a two-story Cottage, 267 

25. Front Elevation ofthe latter Cottage, 268 

26. Front Elevation, on a different Plan, 268 

27. 28. Plans of First and Second Stories ofthe latter Elevation, 269 
29, 30. Plans of First and Second Stories of a larger House, . . 270 

31. Front Elevation of a very convenient Cottage, 271 

32. Ground-plan ofthe same, 272 

33. Cottage of Daniel Wadsworth, Esq., near Hartford, Conn., 274 

34. Accommodations for securing Water with the least Labor, . 275 

35. Back-door Accommodations, 276 

36. Latticed Portico, , 277 

37. Sliding Closet, or Dumb Waiter, 278 

38. Cheap Couch, 312 

39. PlanofaFlower-Bed, 334 

40. Budding, 343 

41. Grafting, 344 

42. Stock- Grafting, . . 345 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE PECULIAR REFPONSIBILITIES OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 

There are some reasons, why American women should 
feel an interest in the support of the democratic institu- 
tions of their Country, which it is important that they 
should consider. The great maxim, which is the basis 
of all our civil and political institutions, is, that "all men 
are created equal," and that they are equally entitled to 
" life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." 

But it can readily be seen, that this is only another 
mode of expressing the fundamental principle which the 
Great Ruler of the Universe has established, as the law 
of His eternal government. " Thou shalt love thy neigh- 
bor as thyself;" and "Whatsoever ye would that men 
should do to you, do ye even so to them," are the Scrip- 
ture forms, by which the Supreme Lawgiver requires 
that each individual of our race shall regard the happi- 
ness of others, as of the same value as his own ; and 
which forbid any institution, in private or civil life, which 
secures advantages to one class, by sacrificing the inter- 
ests of another. 

The principles of democracy, then, are identical with 
the principles of Christianity. 

But, in order that each individual may pursue and 
secure the highest degree of happiness within his reach, 
unimpeded by the selfish interests of others, a system of 
laws must be established, which sustain certain relations 
and dependencies in social and civil life. What these 
relations and their attending obligations shall be, are to 
3 



26 PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 

be determined, not with reference to the wishes and in- 
terests of a few, but solely with reference to the general 
good of all ; so that each individual shall have his 
own interest, as well as the public benefit, secured by 
them. 

For this purpose, it is needful that certain relations 
be sustained, which involve the duties of subordination. 
There must be the magistrate and the subject, one of 
whom is the superior, and the other the inferior. There 
must be the relations of husband and wife, parent and 
child, teacher and pupil, employer and employed, each 
involving the relative duties of subordination. The su- 
perior, in certain particulars, is to direct, and the in- 
ferior is to yield obedience. Society could never go 
forward, harmoniously, nor could any craft or profession 
be successfully pursued, unless these superior and sub- 
ordinate relations be instituted and sustained. 

But who shall take the higher, and who the subordi- 
nate, stations in social and civil life ? This matter, in 
the case of parents and children, is decided by the Cre- 
ator. He has given children to the control of parents, 
as their superiors, and to them they remain subordinate, 
to a certain age, or so long as they are members of their 
household. And parents can delegate such a portion 
of their authority to teachers and employers, as the 
interests of their children require. 

In most other cases, in a truly democratic state, each 
individual is allowed to choose for himself, who shall 
take the position of his superior. No woman is forced 
to obey any husband but the one she chooses for her- 
self ; nor is she obliged to take a husband, if she prefers 
to remain single. So every domestic, and every artisan 
or laborer, after passing from parental control, can choose 
the employer to whom he is to accord obedience, or, if 
he prefers to relinquish certain advantages, he can remain 
without taking a subordinate place to any employer. 

Each subject, also, has equal power with every other^ 
to decide who shall be his superior as a ruler. The 
weakest, the poorest, the most iUiterate, has the same 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 27 

opportunity to determine this question, as the richest, 
the most learned, and the most exahed. 

And the various privileges that wealth secures, are 
equally open to all classes. Every man may aim at 
riches, unimpeded by any law or institution which se- 
cures peculiar privileges to a favored class, at the expense 
of another. Every law, and every institution, is tested 
by examining whether it secures equal advantages to all ; 
and, if the people become convinced that any regula- 
tion sacrifices the good of the majority to the interests 
of the smaller number, they have power to abolish it. 

The institutions of monarchical and aristocratic na- 
tions are based on precisely opposite principles. They 
secure, to certain small and favored classes, advantages, 
which can be maintained, only by sacrificing the inter- 
ests of the great mass of the people. Thus, the throne 
and aristocracy of England are supported by laws and 
customs, which burden the lower classes with taxes, so 
enormous, as to deprive them of all the luxuries, and of 
most of the comforts, of life. . Poor dweUings, scanty 
food, unhealthy employments, excessive labor, and en- 
tire destitution of the means and time for education, are 
appointed for the lower classes, that a few may live in 
palaces, and riot in every indulgence. 

The tendencies of democratic institutions, in reference 
to the rights and interests of the female sex, have been 
fully developed in the United States ; and it is in this 
aspect, that the subject is one of pecuhar interest to 
American women. In this Country, it is established, 
both by opinion and by practice, that woman has an 
equal interest in all social and civil concerns ; and that 
no domestic, civil, or political, institution, is right, which 
sacrifices her interest to promote that of the other sex. 
But in order to secure her the more firmly in all these 
privileges, it is decided, that, in the domestic relation, 
she take a subordinate station, and that, in civil and po- 
litical concerns, her interests be intrusted to the other 
sex, without her taking any part in voting, or in making 
and administering laws The result of this order of 



28 



PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 



things has been fairly tested, and is thus portrayed by 
M. De Tocqueville, a writer, who, for inteUigence, fidel- 
ity, and ability, ranks second to none. 

" There are people in Europe, who, confounding to- 
gether the different characteristics of the sexes, would 
make of man and woman, beings not only equal, but 
alike. They would give to both the same functions, 
impose on both the same duties, and grant to both the 
same rights. They would mix them in all things, — 
their business, their occupations, their pleasures. It 
may readily be conceived, that, by thus attempting to 
make one sex equal to the other, both are degraded; 
and, from so preposterous a medley of the works of 
Nature, nothing could ever result, but weak men and 
disorderly women. 

" It is not thus that the Americans understand the 
species of democratic equality, which may be established 
between the sexes. They admit, that, as Nature has 
appointed such wide differences between the physical 
and moral constitutions of man and woman, her mani- 
fest design was, to give a distinct employment to their 
various faculties ; and they hold, that improvement does 
not consist in making beings so dissimilar do pretty 
nearly the same things, but in getting each of them to 
fulfil their respective tasks, in the best possible manner. 
The Americans have applied to the sexes the great 
principle of political economy, which governs the man- 
ufactories of our age, by carefully dividing the duties 
of man from those of woman, in order that the great 
work of society may be the better carried on. 

" In no country has such constant care been taken, 
as in America, to trace two clearly distinct lines of ac- 
tion for the two sexes, and to make them keep pace 
one with the other, but in two pathways which are 
always different. American women never manage the 
outward concerns of the family, or conduct a business, 
or take a part in political life ; nor are they, on the 
other hand, ever compelled to perform the rough labor 
of the fields, or to make any of those laborious exertions, 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 29 

which demand the exertion of physical strength. No 
famihes are so poor, as to form an exception to'^thi's rule. 
" If, on the one hand, an American woman cannot 
escape from the quiet circle of domestic employments, 
on the other hand, she is never forced to go beyond it! 
Hence it is, that the women of America, who often 
exhibit a mascuhne strength of t!inderstandin,o-, and a 
manly energy, generally preserve great dehcacy of per- 
sonal appearance, and always retain the manners of 
women, although they sometimes show that they have 
the hearts and minds of men. 

" Nor have the Americans ever supposed, that one 
consequence of democratic principles, is, the subversion 
of marital power, or the confusion of the natural au- 
thorities in families. They hold, that every association 
must have a head, in order to accomplish its object ; 
and that the natural head of the conjugal association is 
nian. They do not, therefore', deny him the right of 
directing his partner ; and they maintain, that, in the 
smaller association of husband and wife, as well as in 
the great social community, the object of democracy is, 
to regulate and legalize the powers which are necessary,' 
not to subvert all power. 

" This opinion is not peculiar to one sex, and con- 
tested by the other. I never observed, that the women 
of America considered conjugal authority as a' fortunate 
usurpation of their rights, nor that they thought them- 
selves degraded by submitting to it. It appears to me, 
on the contrary, that they attach a sort of pride to the 
voluntary surrender of their own will, and make it their 
boast to b6nd themselves to the yoke, not to shake it 
off. Such, at least, is the feeling expressed by the most 
virtuous of their sex; the others are silent; and in the 
United States it is not the practice for a guilty wife to 
clamor for the rights of woman, while she is trampling 
on her holiest duties." 

"Although the travellers, who have visited North 
America, differ on a great number of points, they agree 
m remarking, that morals are far more strict, there, than 

*^ D. E 



30 PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 

elsewhere.* It is evident that, on this point, the Ameri- 
cans are very superior to their progenitors, the Enghsh.\* 
" In England, as in all other Countries of Europe, pub- 
lic malice is constantly attacking the frailties of women. 
Philosophers and statesmen are heard to deplore, that 
morals are not sufficiently strict ; and the literary pro- 
ductions of the Country constantly lead one to suppose 
so. In America, all books, novels not excepted, sup- 
pose women to be chaste ; and no one thinks of relating 
affairs of gallantry." 

" It has often been remarked, that, in Europe, a cer- 
tain degree of contempt lurks, even in the flattery which 
men lavish upon women. Although a European fre- 
quently affects to be the slave of woman, it may be seen, 
that he never sincerely thinks her his equal. In the 
United States, men seldom compliment women, but they 
daily show how much they esteem them. They con- 
stantly display an entire confidence in the understand- 
ing of a wife, and a profound respect for her freedom. 

* Miss Martineau is a singular exception to this remark. After 
receiving unexampled hospitalities and kindnesses, she gives the fol- 
lowing picture of her entertainers. Having in other places spoken 
of the American woman as having " her intellect confined," and " her 
morals crushed," and as deficient in education, because she has 
" none of the objects in life for which an enlarged education is con- 
sidered requisite," she says, — " It is assumed, in America, particularly 
in New England, that the morals of society there are peculiarly pure. 
I am grieved to doubt the fact; but I do doubt it." "The Auld- 
Robin-Gray story is a frequently-enacted tragedy here ; and one of the 
worst symptoms that struck me, was, that there was usually a demand 
upon my sympathy in such cases." — " The unavoidable consequence 
of such a mode of marrying, is, that the sanctity of marriage is 
impaired, and that vice succeeds. There are sad tales in country 
villages, here and there, that attest this; and yet more in towns, in 
a rank of society where such things are seldom or never heard of 
in England."—" I unavoidably knew of more cases of lapse in highly 
respectable families in one State, than ever came to my knowledge 
at home ; and they were got over with a disgrace far more temporary 
and superficial than they could have been visited with in England." 
— " The vacuity of mind of many women, is, 1 conclude, the cause of 
a vice, which it is painful to allude to, but which cannot honestly be 
passed over. — It is no secret on the spot, that the habit of intemper- 
ince is not infrequent among women of station and education in the 
most enlightened parts of the Country. I witnessed some instances, 
And heard of more. It does not seem to me to be regarded with all 
*he dismay which such a symptom ought to excite. To the stranger, 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 31 

They have decided that her mind is just as fitted as that 
of a man to discover the plain truth, and her heart as 
firm to embrace it, and they have never sought to place 
her virtue, any more than his, under the shelter of 
prejudice, ignorance, and fear. 

" It would seem, that in Europe, where man so easily 
submits to the despotic sway of woman, they are never- 
theless curtailed of some of the greatest qualities of the 
human species, and considered as seductive, but imper- 
fect beings, and (what may well provoke astonishment) 
women ultimately look upon themselves in the same 
light, and almost consider it as a privilege that they are 
entitled to show themselves futile, feeble, and timid. 
The women of America claim no such privileges." 

"It is true, that the Americans rarely lavish upon 
women those eager attentions which are commonly paid 

a novelty so horrible, a spectacle so fearful, suggests wide and deep 
subjects of investigation." 

It is not possible for language to give representations more false in 
every item. In evidence of this, the writer would mention, that, 
within the last few years, she has travelled almost the entire route 
taken by Miss Martineau, except the lower tier of the Southern 
States; and, though not meeting the same individuals, has mingled in 
the very same circles. Moreover, she has resided from several months 
to several years in eight of the different Northern and Western 
States, and spent several weeks at a time in five other States. She 
has also had pupils from every State in the Union, but two, and has 
visited extensively at their houses. But in her whole life, and in all 
these different positions, the writer has never, to her knowledge, seen 
even one woman, of the classes with which she has associated, who 
had lapsed in the manner indicated by Miss Martineau ; nor does she 
believe that such a woman could find admission in such circles any 
where in the Country. As to intemperate women, ^»e cases are all 
of whom the writer has ever heard, in such circles, and two of these 
many believed to be unwarrantably suspected. After following in 
Miss Martineau's track, and discovering all the falsehood, twaddle, 
gossip, old saws, and almanac stories, which have been strung together 
in her books, no charitable mode of accounting for the medley re- 
mains, but to suppose her the pitiable dupe of that love of hoaxing 
so often found in our Country. 

Again, Miss Martineau says, " We passed an unshaded meadow, 
where the grass had caught fire, every day, at eleven o'clock, the pre- 
ceding Summer. This demonstrates the necessity of shade"! A 
woman, with so little common sense, as to swallow such an absurdity 
for truth, and then tack to it such an astute deduction, must be a tempt- 
ing subject for the abovementioned mischievous propensity. 



32 PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 

them in Europe. But their conduct to women always 
imphes, that they suppose them to be virtuous and re- 
fined ; and such is the respect entertained for the moral 
freedom of the sex, that, in the presence of a woman, 
the most guarded language is used, lest her ear should 
be offended by an expression. In America, a young 
unmarried woman may, alone, and without fear, under- 
take a long journey." 

"Thus the Americans do not think that man and 
woman have either the duty, or the right, to perform 
the same offices, but they show an equal regard for 
both their respective parts; and, though their lot is 
different, they consider both of them, as beings of equal 
value. They do not give to the courage of woman the 
same form, or the same direction, as to that of man ; 
but they never doubt her courage: and if they hold 
that man and his partner ought not always to exercise 
their intellect and understanding in the same manner, 
they at least believe the understanding of the one to be 
as sound as that of the other, and her intellect to be as 
clear. Thus, then, while they have allowed the social 
inferiority of woman to subsist, they have done all they 
could to raise her, morally and intellectually, to the 
level of man ; and, in this respect, they appear to me 
to have excellently understood the true principle of 
democratic improvement. 

"As for myself, I do not hesitate to avow, that, 
although the women of the United States are confined 
within the narrow circle of domestic life, and their situ- 
ation is, in some respects, one of extreme dependence, 
I have nowhere seen women occupying a loftier position ; 
and if I were asked, nov/ I am drawing to the close of 
this work, in which I have spoken of so many important 
things done by the Americans, to what the singular 
prosperity and growing strength of that people ought 
mainly to be attributed, I should reply, — to the superi- 
ority of their tvomen." 

This testimony of a foreigner, who has had abundant 
opportunities of making a comparison, is sanctioned by 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. , 33 

the assent of all candid and intelligent men, who have 
enjoyed similar opportunities. 

It appears, then, that it is in America, alone^ thai 
women are raised to an equahty with the other sex- 
and that, both in theory and practice, their interests are 
regarded as of equal value. They are made subordi- 
nate in station, only where a regard to their best inter- 
ests demands it, while, as if in compensation for this, 
by custom and courtesy, they are always treated as 
superiors. Universally, in this Country, through every 
class of society, precedence is given to woman, in all 
the comforts, conveniences, and courtesies, of life. 

In civil and political affairs, American women take 
no interest or concern, except so far as they sympathize 
with their family and personal friends ; but in all cases, 
in which they do feel a concern, their opinions and 
feelings have a consideration, equal, or even superior, 
to that of the other sex. 

In matters pertaining to the education of their chil- 
dren, in the selection and support of a clergyman, in all 
benevolent enterprises, and in all questions relating to 
morals or manners, they have a superior influence. In 
such concerns, it would be impossible tQ carry a point, 
contrary to their judgement and feehngs ; while an 
enterprise, sustained by them, will seldom fail of 
success. 

If those who are bewailing themselves over the fan- 
cied wrongs and injuries of women in this Nation, could 
only see things as they are, they would know, that, 
whatever remnants of a barbarous or aristocratic age 
may remain in our civil institutions, in reference to the 
interests of women, it is only because they are ignorant 
of them, or do not use their influence to have them rec- 
tified ; for it is very certain that there is nothing reason- 
able, which American women would unite in asking, 
that would not readily be bestowed. 

The preceding remarks, then, illustrate the position, 
that the democratic institutions of this Country are in 



34 PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 

reality no other than the principles of Christianity car- 
ried into operation, and that they tend to place woman 
in her true position in society, as having equal rights 
with the other sex ; and that, in fact, they have secured 
to American women a lofty and fortunate position, 
which, as yet, has been attained by the women of no 
other nation. 

There is another topic, presented in the work of the 
above author, which demands the profound attention 
of American women. 

The following is taken from that part of the Intro- 
duction to the work, illustrating the position, that, for 
ages, there has been a constant progress, in all civilized 
nations, towards the democratic equality attained in 
this Country. 

" The various occurrences of national existence have 
every where turned to the advantage of democracy ; all 
men have aided it by their exertions ; those who have 
intentionally labored in its cause, and those who have 
served it unwittingly ; those who have fought for it, and 
those who have declared themselves its opponents, have 
all been driven along in the same track, have all labored 
to one end ; " " all have been blind instruments in the 
hands of God." 

" The gradual developement of the equality of con- 
ditions, is, therefore, a Providential fact ; and it pos- 
sesses all the characteristics of a Divine decree : it is 
universal, it is durable, it constantly eludes all human 
interference, and all events, as well as all men, contrib- 
ute to its progress." 

" The whole book, which is here offered to the pub- 
lic, has been written under the impression of a kind of 
religious dread, produced in the author's mind, by the 
contemplation of so irresistible a revolution, which has 
advanced for centuries, in spite of such amazing obsta- 
cles, and which is still proceeding in the midst of the 
ruins it has made. 

" It is not necessary that God Himself should speak, 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 35 

in order to disclose to us the unquestionable signs of 
His will. We can discern them in the habitual course 
of Nature, and in the invariable tendency of events." 

" If the men of our time were led, by attentive ob- 
servation, and by sincere reflection, to acknowledge 
that the gradual and progressive developement of social 
equality is at once the past and future of their history, 
this solitary truth would confer the sacred character of 
a Divine decree upon the change. To attempt to 
check democracy, would be, in that case, to resist the 
will of God ; and the nations would then be constrained 
to make the best of the social lot awarded to them by 
Providence." 

"It is not, then, merely to satisfy a legitimate curi- 
osity, that I have examined America ; my wish has been 
to find instruction by which we may ourselves profit." 
" I have not even affected to discuss whether the social 
revolution, which I believe to be irresistible, is advanta- 
geous or prejudicial to mankind. I have acknowledged 
this revolution, as a fact already accomplished, or on 
the eve of its accomplishment ; and I have selected the 
nation, from among those which have undergone it, in 
which its developement has been the most peaceful and 
the most complete, in order to discern its natural con- 
sequences, and, if it be possible, to distinguish the 
means by which it may be rendered profitable. I 
confess, that in America I saw more than America ; I 
sought the image of democracy itself, with its inchna- 
tions, its character, its prejudices, and its passions, in 
order to learn what we have to fear, or to hope, from 
its progress." 

It thus appears, that the sublime and elevating an- 
ticipations which have filled the mind and heart of the 
religious world, have become so far developed, that 
philosophers and statesmen are perceiving the signs, 
and are predicting the approach, of the same grand con- 
summation. There is a day advancing, " by seers pre- 
dicted, and by poets sung," when the curse of selfish- 
oess shall be removed ; when " scenes surpassing fable, 



36 PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES 

and yet true," shall be realized ; when all nations shall 
rejoice and be made blessed, under those benevolent 
influences, which the Messiah came to establish on 
earth. 

And this is the Country, which the Disposer of 
events designs shall go forth as the cynosure of nations, 
to guide them to the light and blessedness of that day. 
To us is committed the grand, the responsible privilege, 
of exhibiting to the world, the beneficent influences of 
Christianity, when carried into every social, civil, and 
political institution; and, though we have, as yet, made 
such imperfect advances, already the light is streaming 
into the dark prison-house of despotic lands, while 
startled kings and sages, philosophers and statesmen, 
are watching us with that interest, which a career so 
illustrious, and so involving their own destiny, is calcu- 
lated to excite. They are studying our institutions, 
scrutinizing our experience, and watching for our mis- 
takes, that they may learn whether "a social revolu- 
tion, so irresistible, be advantageous or prejudicial to 
mankind." 

There are persons, who regard these interesting 
truths merely as food for national vanity ; but every 
reflecting and Christian mind, niust consider it as 
an occasion for solemn and anxious reflection. Are 
we, then, a spectacle to the world ? Has the Eternal 
Lawgiver appointed us to work out a problem, in- 
volving the destiny of. the whole earth? Are such 
momentous interests to be advanced or retarded, just 
in proportion as we are faithful to our high trust? 
^' What manner of persons, then, ought we to be," 
in attempting to sustain sO solemn, so glorious a re- 
sponsibility ? 

But the part to be enacted by American women, in 
this great moral enterprise, is the point to which special 
attention should here be directed. 

The success of democratic institutions, as is con- 
ceded by all, depends upon the intellectual and moral 
character of the mass of the people. If they are intel- 



OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 37 

ligent and virtuous, democracy is a blessing; but if 
they are ignorant and wicked, it is only a curse, and as 
much more dreadful than any other form of civil gov^ 
ernment, as a thousand tyrants are more to be dreaded 
than one. It is equally conceded, that the formation 
of the moral and intellectual character of the young is 
committed mainly to the female hand. The mother 
forms the character of the future man ; the sister bends 
the fibres that are hereafter to be the forest tree ; the 
wife sways the heart, whose energies may turn for good 
or for evil the destinies of a nation. Let the women of 
a country be made virtuous and intelligent, and the men 
will certainly be the same. The proper education of a 
man decides the welfare of an individual ; but educate 
a woman, and the interests of a whole family are 
secured. 

If this be so, as none will deny, then to American 
women, more than to any others on earth, is committed 
the exalted privilege of extending over the world those 
blessed influences, which are to renovate degraded man, 
and " clothe all climes with beauty." 

No American woman, then, has any occasion for 
feeling that hers is an humble or insignificant lot. 
The value of what an individual accomplishes, is to be 
estimated by the importance of the enterprise achieved, 
and not by the particular position of the laborer. The 
drops of heaven which freshen the earth, are each of 
equal value, whether they fall in the lowland meadow, 
or the princely parterre. The builders of a temple are 
of equal importance, whether they labor on the founda- 
tions, or toil upon the dome. 

Thus, also, with those labors which are to be made 
effectual in the regeneration of the Earth. And it is 
by forming a habit of regarding the apparently insignif- 
icant efibrts of each isolated laborer, in a comprehensive 
manner, as indispensable portions of a grand result, that 
the minds of all, however humble their sphere of ser 
vice, can be invigorated and cheered. The womar, 

4 D. £ 



38 DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR 

who is rearing a family of children ; the woman, who 
labors in the schoolroom ; the woman, who, in her re- 
tired chamber, earns, with her needle, the mite, which 
contributes to the intellectual and moral elevation of 
her Country ; even the humble domestic, whose exam- 
ple and influence may be moulding and forming young 
minds, while her faithful services sustain a prosperous 
domestic state ; — each and all may be animated by the 
consciousness, that they are agents in accomplishing the 
greatest work that ever was committed to human re- 
sponsibility. It is the building of a glorious temple, 
whose base shall be coextensive with the bounds of the 
earth, whose summit shall pierce the skies, whose splen- 
dor shall beam on all lands; and those who hew the 
lowliest stone, as much as those who carve the highest 
capital, will be equally honored, when its top-stone shall 
be laid, with new rejoicings of the morning stars, and 
shoutings of the sons of God. 



CHAPTER 11. 

DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR TO AMERICAN WOMEN. 

In the preceding chapter, were presented those views, 
which are calculated to inspire American women with 
a sense of their high responsibilities to their Country, 
and to the world ; and of the excellence and grandeur 
of the object to which their energies may be conse- 
crated. 

But it will be found to be the law of moral action, 
that whatever involves great results and great benefits, 
is always attended with great hazards and difficulties. 
And as it has been shown, that American women have 
a loftier position, and a more elevated object of enter- 
prise, than the females of any other nation, so it will 
appear, that they have greater trials and difficulties to 



TO AMERICAN WOMEN. 39 

overcome, than any other women are called to en- 
counter. 

Properly to appreciate the nature of these trials, it 
must be borne in mind, that the estimate of evils and 
privations depends, not so much on their positive na- 
ture, as on the character and habits of the person who 
meets them. A woman, educated in the savage state, 
finds it no trial to be destitute of many conveniences, 
which a woman, even of the lowest condition, in this 
Country, would deem indispensable to existence. So 
a woman, educated with the tastes and habits of the 
best New England or Virginia housekeepers, would 
encounter many deprivations and trials, which would 
never occur to one reared in the log cabin of a new 
settlement. So, also, a woman, who has been accus- 
tomed to carry forward her arrangements with well- 
trained domestics, would meet a thousand trials to her 
feelings and temper, by the substitution of ignorant 
foreigners, or shiftless slaves, which would be of little 
account to one who had never enjoyed any better 
service. 

Now, the larger portion of American women are the 
descendants of English progenitors, who, as a nation, 
are distinguished for systematic housekeeping, and for 
a great love of order, cleanliness, and comfort. And 
American women, to a greater or less extent, have in- 
herited similar tastes and habits. But the prosperity 
and democratic tendencies of this Country produce 
results, "materially affecting the comfort of housekeep- 
ers, which the females of monarchical and aristocratic 
lands are not called to meet. In such countries, all 
ranks and classes are fixed in a given position, and each 
person is educated for a particular sphere and style of 
living. And the dweUings, conveniences, and customs 
of life, remain very nearly the same, from generation 
to generation. This secures the preparation of all 
classes for their particular station, and makes the lower 
orders more dependent, and more subservient to em 
ployers. 



40 DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR 

But how different is the state of things in this Coun- 
try. Every thing is moving and changing. Persons 
in poverty, are rising to opulence, and persons of 
wealth, are sinking to poverty. The children of com 
mon laborers, by their talents and enterprise, are be- 
coming nobles in intellect, or wealth, or office ; while 
the children of the wealthy, enervated by indulgence, 
are sinking to humbler stations. The sons of the 
wealthy are leaving the rich mansions of their fathers, 
to dwell in the log cabins of the forest, where very 
soon they bear away the daughters of ease and refine- 
ment, to share the privations of a new settlement. 
Meantime, even in the more stationary portions of the 
community, there is a mingling of all grades of wealth, 
intellect, and education. There are no distinct classes, 
as in aristocratic lands, whose bounds are protected by 
distinct and impassable lines, but all are thrown into 
promiscuous masses. Thus, persons of humble means 
are brought into contact with those of vast wealth, 
while all intervening gTades are placed side by side. 
Thus, too, there is a constant comparison of conditions, 
among equals, and a constant temptation presented to 
imitate the customs, and to strive for the enjoyments, 
of those who possess larger means. 

In addition to this, the flow of wealth, among all 
classes, is constantly increasing the number of those 
who live in a style demanding much hired service, 
while the number of those, who are compelled to go to 
service, is constantly diminishing. Our manufactories, 
also, are making increased demands for female labor, 
and offering larger compensation. In consequence of 
these things, there is such a disproportion between 
those who wish to hire, and those who are wiUing to go 
to domestic service, that, in the non-slaveholding States 
were it not for the supply of poverty-stricken foreigners, 
there would not be a domestic for each family who de 
mands one. And this resort to foreigners, poor as it is, 
scarcely meets the demand ; while the disproportion 
must every year increase, especially if our prosperity 



TO AMERICAN WOMEN. 41' 

increases. For, just in proportion as wealth rolls in 
upon us, the number of those, who will give up their 
own independent homes to serve strangers, will be 
diminished. 

The difficulties and sufferings, which have accrued 
to American women, from this cause, are almost incal- 
culable. There is nothing, which so much demands 
system and regularity, as the affairs of a housekeeper, 
made up, as they are, of ten thousand desultory and 
minute items ; and yet, this perpetually fluctuating state 
of society seems . forever to bar any such system and 
regularity. The anxieties, vexations, perplexities, and 
even hard labor, which come upon American women, 
from this state of domestic service, are endless ; and 
many a woman has, in consequence, been disheartened, 
discouraged, and ruined in health. The only wonder 
is, that, amid so many real difficulties, American women 
are still able to maintain such a character for energy, 
fortitude, and amiableness, as is universally allowed to 
be their due. 

But the second, and still greater difficulty, peculiar 
to American women, is, a dehcacy of constitution, 
which renders them early victims to disease and decay. 

The fact that the women of this Country are unu- 
sually subject to disease, and that their beauty and 
youthfulness are of shorter continuance than those of 
the women of other nations, is one which always at- 
tracts the attention of foreigners ; while medical men 
and philanthropists are constantly giving fearful mo- 
nitions as to the extent and alarming increase of this 
evil. Investigations make it evident, that a large pro- 
portion of young ladies, from the wealthier classes, have 
the incipient stages of curvature of the spine, one of 
the most sure and fruitful causes of future disease and de- 
cay. The writer has heard medical men, who have made 
extensive inquiries, say, that a very large proportion of 
the young women at boarding schools, are affected in 
this way, while many other indications of disease and 

4* D. E. 



4i2 DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR 

debility exist, in cases where this particular evil cannoi 
be detected. 

In consequence of this enfeebled state of their con- 
stitutions, induced by a neglect of their physical educa- 
tion, as soon as they are called to the responsibilities 
and trials of domestic life, their constitution fails, and 
their whole existence is rendered a burden. For no 
woman can enjoy existence, when disease throws a dark 
cloud over the mind, and incapacitates her for the proper 
discharge of every duty. 

The writer, who for some ten years has had the charge 
of an institution, consisting of young ladies from almost 
every State in the Union, since relinquishing that charge, 
has travelled and visited extensively in most of the non- 
slaveholding States. In these circuits, she has learned 
the domestic history, not merely of her pupils, but of 
many other young wives and mothers, whose sorrowful 
experience has come to her knowledge. And the im- 
pression, produced by the dreadful extent of this evil, has 
at times been almost overwhelming. 

It would seem as if the primeval curse, which has 
written the doom of pain and sorrow on one period of 
a young mother's life, in this Country had been extend- 
ed over all ; so that the hour seldom arrives, when " she 
forgetteth her sorrow for joy that a man is born into the 
world." Many a mother will testify, with shuddering, 
that the most exquisite sufferings she ever endured, were 
not those appointed by Nature, but those, which, for week 
after week, have worn down health and spirits, when 
nourishing her child. And medical men teach us, that 
this, in most cases, results from a debility of constitution, 
consequent on the mismanagement of early life. And 
so frequent and so mournful are these, and the other 
distresses that result from the delicacy of the female 
constitution, that the writer has repeatedly heard moth- 
ers say, that they had wept tears of bitterness over their 
infant daughters, at the thought of the sufferings which 
they were destined to undergo ; while they cherished 



TO AMERICAN WOMEN. 43 

the decided wish, that these daughters should never 
marry. At the same time, many a reflecting young 
woman is looking to her future prospects, with very 
different feelings and hopes from those which Provi- 
dence designed. 

A perfectly healthy woman, especially a perfectly 
healthy mother, is so unfrequent, in some of the wealth- 
ier classes, that those, who are so, may be regarded as 
the exceptions, and not as the general rule. The writer 
has heard some of her friends declare, that they would 
ride fifty miles, to see a perfectly healthy and vigorous 
woman, out of the laboring classes. This, although 
somewhat jocose, was not an entirely unfair picture of 
the true state of female health in the wealthier classes. 

There are many causes operating, which serve to per- 
petuate and increase this evil. It is a well-known fact, 
that mental excitement tends to weaken the physical 
system, unless it is counterbalanced by a corresponding 
increase of exercise and fresh air. Now, the people of 
this Country are under the influence of high commercial, 
political, and religious stimulus, altogether greater than 
was ever known by any other nation ; and in all this, 
women are made the sympathizing companions of the 
other sex. At the same time, young girls, in pursuing 
an education, have ten times greater an amount of in- 
tellectual taxation demanded, than was ever before ex- 
acted. Let any daughter, educated in our best schools 
at this day, compare the course of her study with that 
pursued in her mother's early life, and it will be seen 
that this estimate of the increase of mental taxation 
probably falls below the truth. Though, in some coun- 
tries, there are small classes of females, in the higher 
circles, who pursue literature and science to a far great- 
er extent than in any corresponding circles in this 
Country, yet, in no nation in the world are the advan- 
tages of a good intellectual education enjoyed, by so 
large a proportion of the females. And this education 
has consisted far less of accomplishments, and far more 
of those sohd studies which demand the exercise of the 



44 DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR 

various powers of mind, than the education of the women 
of other lands. 

And when American women are called to the respon- 
sibilities of domestic life, the degree in which their minds 
and feelings are taxed, is altogether greater than it is in 
any other nation. 

No women on earth have a higher sense of their moral 
. and rehgious responsibilities, or better understand, not 
only what is demanded of them, as housekeepers, but 
all the claims that rest upon them as wives, mothers, and 
members of a social community. An American woman, 
who is the mistress of a family, feels her obligations, in 
reference to her influence over her husband, and a still 
greater responsibility in rearing and educating her chil- 
dren. She feels, too, the claims which the moral inter- 
ests of her domestics have on her watchful care. In 
social life, she recognises the claims of hospitality, and 
the demands of friendly visiting. Her responsibility, in 
reference to the institutions of benevolence and religion, 
is deeply realized. The regular worship of the Lord's 
day, and all the various religious meetings and benevo- 
lent societies which place so much dependence on 
female influence and example, she feels obligated to 
sustain. Add to these multiplied responsibilities, the 
perplexities and evils which have been pointed out, re- 
sulting from the fluctuating state of society, and the 
deficiency of domestic service, and no one can deny 
that American women are exposed to a far greater 
amount of intellectual and moral excitement, than those 
of any other land. Of course, in order to escape the 
danger resulting from this, a gi'eater amount of exercise 
in the fresh air, and all those methods which strengthen 
the constitution, are imperiously required. 

But, instead of this, it will be found, that, owing to 
the climate and customs of this Nation, there are no 
women who secure so httle of this healthful and protect- 
ing regimen, as ours. Walking and riding and garden- 
ing, in the open air, are practised by the women of other 
lands, to a far greater extent, than by American females. 



TO AMERICAN W03IEN. 45 

Most English women, in the wealthier classes, are able 
to walk six and eight miles, without oppressive fatigue ; 
and when they visit this Country, always express their 
surprise at the inactive habits of American ladies. In 
England, regular exercise, in the open air, is very com- 
monly required by the mother, as a part of daily duty, 
and is sought by young women, as an enjoyment. In 
consequence of a different physical training, English 
women, in those circles which enjoy competency, pre- 
sent an appearance which always strikes American 
gentlemen as a contrast to what they see at home. An 
English mother, at thirty, or thirty-five, is in the full 
bloom of perfected womanhood ; as fresh and healthful 
as her daughters. But where are the American moth- 
ers, who can reach this period unfaded and unworn? 
In America, young ladies of the wealthier classes are 
sent to school from early childhood ; and neither parents 
nor teachers make it a definite object to secure a proper 
amount of fresh air and exercise, to counterbalance this 
intellectual taxation. As soon as their school days are 
over, dressing, visiting, evening parties, and stimulating 
amusements, take the place of study, while the most un- 
healthful modes of dress add to the physical exposures. 
To make morning calls, or do a little shopping, is all 
that can be termed their exercise in the fresh air ; and 
this, compared to what is needed, is absolutely nothing, 
and on some accounts is worse than nothing.* In con- 
sequence of these, and other evils, which will be point- 
ed out more at large in the following pages, the young 
women of America grow up with such a delicacy of 
constitution, that probably eight out of ten become sub- 
jects of disease, either before or as soon as they are 
called to the responsibilities of domestic life. 

But there is one peculiarity of situation, in regard to 
American women, which makes this delicacy of consti- 

* S3 little idea have most ladies, in the wealthier classes, of what is 
a proper amount of exercise, that, if they should succeed in walking 
a mile or so, at a moderate pace, three or four times a week, they 
would call it taking a great deal of exercise. 



46 BIFFICULTIES PECULIAR 

tution still more disastrous. It is the liability to the 
exposures and hardships of a newly-settled country. 

One more extract from De Tocqueville will give a 
view of this part of the subject, which any one, familiar 
with Western life, will admire for its verisimilitude. 

"The same strength of purpose which the young 
wives of America display in bending themselves, at 
once, and without repining, to the austere duties of 
their new condition, is no less manifest in all the great 
trials of their lives. In no country in the world, are 
private fortunes more precarious, than in the United 
States. It is not uncommon for the same man, in the 
course of his life, to rise and sink again through all the 
grades which lead from opulence to poverty. American 
women support these vicissitudes with a calm and un- 
quenchable energy. It would seem that their desires 
contract, as easily as they expand, with their fortunes. 
The greater part of the adventurers, who migrate, every 
year, to people the Western wilds, belong" "to the old 
Anglo-American race of the Northern States. Many 
of these men, who rush so boldly onward in pursuit of 
wealth, were already in the enjoyment of a competency 
in their own part of the Country. They take their 
wives along with them, and make them share the count- 
less perils and privations, which always attend the com- 
mencement of these expeditions. I have often met, 
even on the verge of the wilderness, with young women, 
who, after having been brought up amid all the com- 
forts of the large towns of New England, had passed, 
almost without any intermediate stage, from the wealthy 
abode of their parents, to a comfortless hovel in a forest. 
Fever, solitude, and a tedious life, had not broken the 
springs of their courage. Their features were impaired 
and faded, but their looks were firm : they appeared to 
be, at once, sad and resolute." 

In another passage, he gives this picturesque sketch : 
" By the side of the hearth, sits a woman, with a baby 
on her lap. She nods to us, without disturbing herself. 
Like the pioneer, this woman is in the prime of life ; 



TO AJIERICAN WOMEN. 47 

her appearance would seem superior to her condition : 
and her apparel even betrays a lingering taste for dress. 
But her delicate limbs appear shrunken ; her features 
are drawn in ; her eye is mild and melancholy ; her 
whole physiognomy bears marks of a degree of religious 
resignation, a deep quiet of all passion, and some sort 
of natural and tranquil firmness, ready to meet all the 
ills of life, without fearing and without braving them. 
Her children cluster about her, full of health, turbu- 
lence, and energy ; they are true children of the wilder- 
ness : their mother watches them, from time to time, 
with mingled melancholy and joy. To look at their 
strength, and her languor, one might imagine that the 
life she had given them had exhausted her own; and 
still she regrets not what they have cost her. The 
house, inhabited by these emigrants, has no internal 
partition or loft. In the one chamber of which it con- 
sists, the whole family is gathered for the night. The 
dwelling is itself a little world ; an ark of civilization 
amid an ocean of foliage. A hundred steps beyond it, 
the primeval forest spreads its shades, and solitude re- 
sumes its sway." 

Such scenes, and such women, the writer has met, 
and few persons realize how many refined and lovely 
women are scattered over the broad prairies and deep 
forests of the West ; and none, but the Father above, 
appreciates the extent of those sacrifices and sufferings, 
and the value of that firm faith and religious hope, which 
live, in perennial bloom, amid those vast solitudes. If 
the American women of the East merit the palm, for 
their skill and success as accomplished housekeepers, 
still more is due to the heroines of the West, who, with 
such unyielding fortitude and cheerful endurance, at- 
tempt similar duties, amid so many disadvantages and 
deprivations. 

But, though American women have those elevated 
principles and feelings, which enable them to meet such 
trials in so exemplary a manner, their physical energies 
are not equal to the exertions demanded. Though the 



48 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

mind may be bright and firm, the casket is shivered ; 
though the spirit may be wihing, the flesh is weak. A 
woman of firm health, with the hope and elasticity of 
youth, may be envied rather than pitied, as she shares 
with her young husband the hopes and enterprises of 
pioneer life. But, when the body fails, then the eye 
of hope grows dim, the heart sickens, the courage dies ; 
and, in solitude, weariness, and suffering, the wanderer 
pines for the dear voices and the tender sympathies of 
a far distant home. Then it is, that the darkest shade 
is presented, which marks the peculiar trials and liabili- 
ties of American women, and which exhibits still more 
forcibly the disastrous results of that delicacy of consti- 
tution which has been pointed out. For, though all 
American women, or even the greater part of them, are 
not called to encounter such trials, yet no mother, who 
rears a family of daughters, can say, that such a lot will 
not fall to one of her flock ; nor can she know which 
will escape. The reverses of fortune, and the chances 
of matrimony, expose every woman in the Nation to 
such liabilities, for which she needs to be prepared. 



CHAPTER m. 

REMEDIES FOR THE PRECEDING DIFFICULTIES. 

Having pointed out the peculiar responsibilities of 
American women, and the peculiar embarrassments 
which they are called to encounter, the following sug- 
gestions are offered, as remedies for such difficulties. 

In the first place, the physical and domestic educa- 
tion of daughters should occupy the principal attention 
of mothers, in childhood ; and the stimulation of the 
intellect should be very much reduced. As a getieral 
rule, daughters should not be sent to school before they 
are six years old ; and, when they are sent, far more 
attention should be paid to their physical developement, 



.1, ftEMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 49 

than is usually done. They should never be coniinedj 
at any employment, more than an hour at a time ; and 
this confinement should be followed by sports in the 
open air. Such accommodations should be secured, 
that, at all seasons, and in all weathers, the teacher can 
every half hour send out a portion of her school, for 
sports. And still more care should be given to preserve 
pure air in the schoolroom. The close stoves, crowded 
condition, and poisonous air, of most schoolrooms, act 
as constant drains on the health and strength of young 
children. 

In addition to this, much less time should be given 
to school, and much more to domestic employments, 
especially in the wealthier classes. A little girl may 
begin, at five or six years of age, to assist her mother ; 
and, if properly trained, by the time she is ten, she can 
render essential aid. From this time, until she is four- 
teen or fifteen, it should be the principal object of her 
education to secure a strong and healthy constitution, 
and a thorough practical knowledge of all kinds of do- 
mestic employments. During this period, though some 
attention ought to be paid to intellectual culture, it 
ought to be made altogether secondary in importance ; 
and such a measure of study and intellectual excitement, 
as is now demanded in our best female seminaries, ought 
never to be allowed, until a young lady has passed the 
most critical period of her youth, and has a vigorous 
and healthful constitution fully established. The plan 
might be adopted, of having schools for young girls 
kept only in the afternoon ; that their mornings might 
be occupied in domestic exercise, without interfering 
with school employments. Where a proper supply of 
domestic exercise cannot be afforded, the cultivation ot 
flowers and fruits might be resorted to, as a delightful 
and unfailing promotive of pleasure and health. 

And it is to that class of mothers, who have the best 
means of securing hired service, and who are the most 
tempted to allow their daughters to grow up with in- 
active habits, that their Country and the world must 

5 D. E. 



50 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES* 

look for a reformation, in this respect. Whatever 
ladies in the wealthier classes decide shall be fashion- 
able, will be followed by all the rest ; but, while they 
persist in the aristocratic habits, now so common, and 
bring up their daughters to feel as if labor was degrading 
and unbecoming, the evils pointed out will never 
find a remedy. It is, therefore, the peculiar duty of 
ladies, who have wealth, to set a proper example, in 
this particular, and make it their first aim to secure a 
strong and healthful constitution for their daughters, by 
active domestic employments. All the sweeping, dust- 
ing, care of furniture and beds, the clear starching, and 
the nice cooking, should be done by the daughters of a 
family, and not by hired servants. It may cost the 
mother more care, and she may find it needful to hire 
a person for the express purpose of instructing and 
superintending her daughters, in these employments ; 
but it should be regarded as indispensable to be secured, 
either by the mother's agency, or by a substitute. 

It is in this point of view, that the dearth of good 
domestics in this Country may, in its results, prove a 
substantial blessing. If all housekeepers, who have the 
means, could secure good servants, there would be little 
hope that so important a revolution, in the domestic 
customs of the wealthy classes, could be effected. And 
so great is the natural indolence of mankind, that the 
amount of exercise, needful for health, will never be 
secured by those who are led to it through no necessity, 
but merely from rational considerations. Yet the 
pressure of domestic troubles, from the want of good 
domestics, has already determined many a mother, in 
the wealthy classes, to train her daughters to aid her 
in domestic service ; and thus necessity is compelling 
mothers to do what abstract principles of expediency 
could never secure. 

A second method of promoting the same object, is, 
to raise the science and practice of Domestic Economy 
to its appropriate place, as a regular study in female 
seminaries. The succeeding chapter will present the 



REMEBIES FOR THESE Dlf FlCtfL*ifi§*I $tr 

reasons for this, more at larg^. But it is to the mothers 
of our Country, that the community must Idok for this 
change. It cannot be expected, that teachers, who 
have their attention chiefly absorbed by the intellectual 
and moral interests of their pupils, should properly 
realize the importance of this department of education 
But if mothers generally become convinced of this, then 
judgement and wishes will meet the respectful consid 
ei'ation they deserve, and the object will be accomplished. 

The third method of securing a remedy fot the evil^* 
pointed out, is, the endowment of female institutions, 
under the care of suitable trustees, who shall secure a 
proper course of education. The importance of this 
measure cannot be realized by those, who have riot 
turned their attention to this subject ; and fof such, the 
following considerations are presented. 

The endowment of colleges, and of law, medical, slrid 
divinity, schools, for the othei' sex, is designed to se6ufe 
a thorough and proper education, for those v/ho have 
the most important duties of society to performi The 
men who are to expound the laws, the theii Who have 
the care of the public health, and the men Who are to 
communicate religious instruction, should have Well- 
disciplined and well-informed minds ; and it is mairily 
for this object that collegiate and professional institu- 
tions are established. Liberal and wealthy individuals 
contribute funds, and the legislatures of the States also 
lend assistance, so that every State in this Nation has 
from one to twerlty such endowed institutions, supplied 
with buildings, apparatus, a library, arid sl faculty of 
learned men to carry forward a superior course of in- 
struction. And the use of all these advantages is 
secured, in many cases, at kn expense, no greater than 
is required to send a boy to a commofl school and pay 
his board there. No private school eould offer these 
advantages, without charging such 8L sum, as Would 
forbid all but the rich from securing its benefits. By 
furnishing such superior advantages, on low terms, mul- 
titudes are properly educated, who would otherwise 



52 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

remain in ignorance ; and thus the professions are sup- 
plied, by men properly qualified for them. 

Were there no such institutions, and no regular and 
appropriate course of study demanded for admission 
to the bar, the pulpit, and to medical practice, the 
education of most professional men would be desultory, 
imperfect, and deficient. Parents and children would 
regulate the course of study according to their own 
crude notions ; and, instead of having institutions which 
agree in carrying on a similar course of study, each 
school would have its own peculiar system, and com- 
pete and conflict with every other. Meantime, the 
public would have no means of deciding which was 
best, nor any opportunity for learning when a profes- 
sional man was properly qualified for his duties. But 
as it is, the diploma of a college, and the license of an 
appointed body of judges, must both be secured, before 
a young man feels that he has entered the most prom- 
ising path to success in his profession. j 

Our Country, then, is most abundantly supplied with 
endowed institutions, which secure a liberal education, 
on such low terms as make them accessible to all class- 
es, and in which the interests of education are watched 
over, sustained, and made permanent, by an appropri- 
ate board of trustees. 

But are not the most responsible of all duties com- 
mitted to the charge of woman ? Is it not her profes- 
sion to take care of mind, body, and soul ? and that, 
too, at the most critical of all periods of existence? 
And is it not as much a matter of public concern, 
that she should be properly qualified for her duties, 
as that ministers, lawyers, and physicians, should be 
prepared for theirs? And is it not as important, to 
endow institutions which shall make a superior educa- 
tion accessible to all classes, — for females, as for the 
other sex ? And is it not equally important, that insti- 
tutions for females be under the supervision of intelli- 
gent and responsible trustees, whose duty it shall be to 
secure a uniform and appropriate education for one sex 



REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 53 

as much as for the other ? It would seem as if every 
mind must accord an affirmative reply, as soon as the 
matter is fairly considered. 

As the education of females is now conducted, any 
man or woman who pleases, can establish a female 
seminary, and secure recommendations which will at- 
tract pupils. But whose business is it to see that these 
young females are not huddled into crowded rooms ? or 
that they do not sleep in ill-ventilated chambers? or 
that they have healthful food ? or that they have the 
requisite amount of fresh air and exercise ? or that they 
pursue an appropriate and systematic course of study ? 
or that their manners, principles, and morals, are prop- 
erly regulated ? Parents either have not the means, or 
else are not quahfied to judge ; or, if they are furnished 
with means and capacity, they are often restricted to a 
choice of the best school within reach, even when it is 
known to be exceedingly objectionable. 

If the writer were to disclose all that can truly be 
told of boarding-school life, and its influence on health, 
manners, disposition, intellect, and morals, the dis- 
closure would both astonish and shock every rational 
mind. And yet she beheves that such institutions are 
far better managed in this Country, than in any other ; 
and that the number of those, which are subject to im- 
putations in these respects, is much less than could 
reasonably be expected. But it is most surely the case, 
that much remains to be done, in order to supply such 
institutions as are needed for the proper education of 
American women. 

In attempting a sketch of the kind of institutions 
which are demanded, it is very fortunate that there is 
no necessity for presenting a theory, which may, or 
may not, be approved by experience. It is the greatest 
honor of one of our newest Western States, that it can 
boast of such an Institution, endowed, too, wholly by 
the munificence of a single individual. A slight sketch 
of this Institution, which the writer has examined in all 
5 * D. E 



54 beMedies for these difficulties. 

its details, will give an idea of what can be done, by 
showing what has actually been accomplished. 

This Institution * is under the supervision of a Board 
of Trustees, who hold the property in trust for the ob- 
ject to which it is devoted, and who have the power to 
fill their own vacancies. It is furnished with a noble 
and tasteful building, of stone, so liberal in dimensions 
and arrangement, that it can accommodate ninety pupils 
and teachers, giving one room to every two pupils, and 
all being so arranged, as to admit of thorough ventila- 
tion. This building is surrounded by extensive grounds, 
enclosed with handsome fences, where remains of the 
primeval forest still offer refreshing shade for juvenile 
sports. 

To secure adequate exercise for the pupils, two 
methods are adopted. By the first, each young lady is 
required to spend a certain portion of time in domestic 
employments, either in sweeping, dusting, setting and 
clearing tables, washing and ironing, or other household 
concerns. 

Let not the aristocratic mother «and daughter express 
their dislike of such an arrangement, till they can learn 
how well it succeeds. Let them walk, as the writer 
has done, through the large airy halls, kept clean and 
in order by their fair occupants, to the washing and 
ironing-rooms. There they will see a long hall, con- 
veniently fitted up with some thirty neatlyrpainted tubs, 
with a clean floor, and water conducted so as to save 
both labor and slopping. Let them see some thirty or 
forty merry girls, superintended by a motherly lady, 
chatting and singing, washing and starching, while every 
convenience is at hand, and every tiling around is clean 
and comfortable. Two hours, thus employed, enable 



* The writer omits the name of this Institution, lest an inference should 
be drawn which would be unjust to other institutions. There are others 
equally worthy of notice, and the writer selects this only because her atten- 
tion was especially directed to it as being in a new State, and endowed whol- 
ly by an iadividual. 



REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTiES 55 

each young lady to wash the articles she used during the 
previous week, which is all that is demanded, while 
thus they are all practically initiated into the arts and 
mysteries of the wash-tub. The Superintendent re- 
marked to the writer, that, after a few weeks of proba- 
tion, most of her young washers succeeded quite as 
well as those whom she could hire, and who made it 
their business. Adjacent to the washing-room, is the 
ironing establishment ; where another class are arranged, 
on the ironing-day, around long, extended tables, with 
heating-furnaces, clothes-frames, and all needful appli- 
ances. 

By a systematic arrangement of school and domestic 
duties, a moderate portion of time, usually not exceed^ 
ing two hours a day, from each of the pupils, accomr- 
plished all the domestic labor of a family of ninety, 
except the cooking, which was done by two hired do- 
mestics. This part of domestic labor it was deemed 
inexpedient to incorporate as a portion of the business 
of the pupils, inasmuch as it could not be accommo- 
dated to the arrangements of the school, and was: iq 
other respects objectionable. 

Is it asked, how can young ladies paint, play the 
piano, and study, when their hands and dresses musts 
be unfitted by such drudgery ? The woman who asks 
this question, has yet to learn that a pure and delicate 
skin is better secured by healthful exercise, than by any 
other method ; and that a young lady, who will spend' 
two hours a day at the wash-tub, or with a broom, is: 
far more likely to have rosy cheeks, a finely-moulded 
form, and a deUcate skin, than one who lolls all day in 
her parlor or chamber, or only leaves it, girt in tight 
dresses, to make fashionable calls. It is true, that long- 
protracted daily labor hardens the hand, and unfits it 
for delicate employments ; but the amount of labor 
needful for health produces no such effect. As tOi 
dress, and appearance, if neat and convenient accom-, 
modations are furnished, there is no occasion for the 
exposures which demand shabby dresses. A dart call 



66 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

CO, genteelly made, with an oiled-silk apron, and wide 
cuffs of the same material, secures both good looks and 
good service. This plan of domestic employments for 
the pupils in this Institution, not only secures regular 
healthful exercise, but also aids to reduce the expenses 
of education, so that, with the help of the endowments, 
it is brought within the reach of many, who otherwise 
could never gain such advantages. 

In addition to this, a system of Calisthenic* exercises 
is introduced, which secures all the advantages which 
dancing is supposed to effect, and which is free from 
the dangerous tendencies of that fascinating and fash- 
ionable amusement. This system is so combined with 
music, and constantly varying evolutions, as to serve as 
an amusement, and also as a mode of curing distor- 
tions, particularly all tendencies to curvature of the 
spine ; while, at the same time, it tends to promote 
grace of movement, and easy manners. 

Another advantage of this Institution, is, an elevated 
and invigorating course of mental discipline. Many 
persons seem to suppose, that the chief object of an 
intellectual education is the acquisition of knowledge. 
But it will be found, that this is only a secondary ob- 
ject. The formation of habits of investigation, of 
correct reasoning, of persevering attention, of regular 
system, of accurate analysis, and of vigorous mental 
action, is the primary object to be sought in pre- 
paring American women for their arduous duties ; 
duties which will demand not only quickness of per- 
ception, but steadiness of purpose, regularity of system, 
and perseverance in action. 

It is for such purposes, that the discipline of the 
Mathematics is so important an element in female 

* From two Greek words, — y.(x?.og, kalos^ beauty, and aSsvog, sthe- 
nos, strength, being the union of both. The writer is now preparing 
for the press, an improved system, of her own invention, which, in 
some of its parts, has been successfully introduced into several female 
seminares, with advantage. This plan combines singing with a great 
variety .of amusing and graceful evolutions, designed to promote both 
health and easy manners. 



REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 51 

education ; and it is in this aspect, that the mere 
acquisition of facts, and the attainment of accompUsh- 
ments, should be made of altogether secondary ac- 
count. ' 

In the Institution here described, a systematic course 
of study is adopted, as in our colleges ; designed to 
occupy three years. The following slight outline of 
the course, will exhibit the liberal plan adopted in this 
respect. 

In Mathematics, the whole of Arithmetic. contained 
in the larger works used in schools, the whole of Eu- 
clid, and such portions from Day's Mathematics as are 
requisite to enable the pupils to demonstrate the various 
problems in Olmsted's larger work on Natural Philoso- 
phy. In Language, besides Enghsh Grammar, a short 
course in Latin is required, sufficient to secure an un- 
derstanding of the philosophy of the language, and that 
kind of mental discipline which the exercise of trans- 
lating affords. In Philosophy, Chemistry, Astronomy, 
Botany, Geology and Mineralogy, Intellectual and Mor- 
al Philosophy, Pohtical Economy, and the Evidences 
of Christianity, the same textbooks are used as are re- 
quired at our best colleges. In Geography, the most 
thorough course is adopted ; and in History, a more 
complete knowledge is secured, by means of charts and 
textbooks, than most of our colleges offer. To these 
branches, are added Griscom's Physiology* Bigelow's 
Technology, and Jahn's Archaeology, together with a 
course of instruction in polite literature, for which 
Chambers's English Literature is employed as the text- 
book, each recitation being attended with selections and 
criticisms, from teacher or pupils, on the various authors 
brought into notice. Vocal Music, on the plan of the 
Boston Academy, is a part of the daily instructions, 

* This work, which has gone through numerous editions, and been receiv- 
ed by the public with great favour, forms No. Ixxxv. of the " Family Libra- 
ry," and No. Ivii. of the " School District Library," issued by the publishers 
of this volume. It is abundantly illustrated by engravings, and has been ex-, 
tensively introduced as a school text-book. 



58 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

Linear drawing, and pencilling, are designed also to be 
a part of the course. Instrumental Music is taught, but 
not as a part of the regular course of study. 

To secure the proper instruction in all these branches, 
the division of labor, adopted in colleges, is pursued. 
Each teacher has distinct branches as her department, 
for which she is responsible, and in which she is inde- 
pendent. One teacher performs the duties of a gov- 
erness, in maintaining rules, and attending to the habits 
and manners of the pupils. By this method, the teach- 
ers have sufficient time, both to prepare themselves, 
and to impart instruction and illustration in the class- 
room. In this Institution it is made a direct object of 
effort to cure defects of character, and habits. At the 
frequent meetings of the Principal and teachers, the 
peculiarities of each pupil are made the subjects of in- 
quiry ; and methods are devised for remedying defects 
through the personal influence of the several teachers. 
This, when thus made a direct object of combined effort, 
often secures results most gratifying and encouraging. 

One peculiarity of this Institution demands consid- 
eration. By the method adopted here, the exclusive 
business of educating their own sex is, as it ever ought 
to be, confined to females. The Principal of the In- 
stitution, indeed, is a gentleman ; but, while he takes 
the position of a father of the family, and responsible 
head of the whole concern, the entire charge of in- 
struction, and most of the responsibilities in regard to 
health, morals, and manners, rest upon the female 
teachers, in their several departments. The Principal, 
is the chaplain and religious teacher ; and is a member 
of the board of instruoters, so far a& to have a right to 
advise, and an equal vote, in every question pertaining 
to the concerns of the School ; and thus he acts as a 
sort of regulator and mainspring in all the various de- 
partments. But no one person in the Institution is 
loaded with the excessive responsibilities, which rest 
upon one, where a large institution of this kind has a 
Principal, who employs and directs all the subordinate 



REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 59> 

assistants. The writer has never before seen the prin- 
ciple of the division of labor and responsibility so per- 
fectly carried out in any female institution ; and she 
believes that experience will prove that this is the true 
model for combining, in appropriate proportions, the 
agency of both sexes in carrying forward such an insti- 
tution. There are cases where females are well quali- 
fied, and feel willing to take the place occupied by the 
principal ; but such cases are rare. 

One thing more should be noticed, to the credit of 
the rising State where this Institution is located. A 
female association has been formed, embracing a large 
portion of the ladies of standing and wealth, the design 
of which, is, ta educate, gratuitously, at this, and other 
similar, institutions, such females as are anxious to ob- 
tain a good education, and are destitute of the means. 
If this enterprise is continued, with the same energy and 
perseverance as has been manifested during the last few 
years, that State will take the lead of her sister States 
ia well-educated women; and if the views in the pre- 
ceding pages are correct, this will give her precedence 
in every intellectual and moral advantage. 

Many, who are not aware of the great economy se- 
cured by a proper division of labor, will not understand 
how so extensive a course can be properly completed 
in three years. But in this Institution, none are re- 
ceived under fourteen ; and a certain amount of pre- 
vious acquisition is required, in order to admission, as is 
done in our colleges. This secures a diminution of 
classes, so that but few studies are pursued at one 
time ; while the number of well-qualified teachers is so 
adequate, that full time is afforded for all needful in- 
struction and illustration. Where teachers have so 
many classes, that they merely have time to find out 
what the pupils learn from books, without any aid from 
their teachers, the acquisitions of the pupils are vague 
and imperfect, and soon pass away ; so that an im-- 
mense amount of expense, time, and labor, is spent in 
acquiring or recalling what is lost about as fast as it is 
gained. 



60 REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

Parents are little aware of the immense waste incurred 
by the present mode of conducting female education. 
In the wealthy classes, young girls are sent to school, 
as a matter of course, year after year, confined, for six 
hours a day, to the schoolhouse, and required to add 
some time out of school to learning their lessons. Thus, 
during the most critical period of life, they are for a 
long time immured in a room, filled with an atmosphere 
vitiated by many breaths, and are constantly kept under 
some sort of responsibility in regard to mental effort. 
Their studies are pursued at random, often changed 
with changing schools, while book after book (heavily 
taxing the parent's purse) is conned awhile, and then 
supplanted by others. Teachers have usually so many 
pupils, and such a variety of branches to teach, that 
little time can be afforded to each pupil ; while scholars, 
at this thoughtless period of life, feeling sure of going 
to school as long as they please, manifest little interest 
in their pursuits. 

The writer believes that the actual amount of educa- 
tion, permanently secured by most young ladies from 
the age of ten to fourteen, could all be acquired in one 
year, at the Institution described, by a young lady at 
the age of fifteen or sixteen. 

Instead of such a course as the common one, if 
mothers would keep their daughters as their domestic 
assistants, until they are fourteen, requiring them to 
study one lesson, and go out, once a day, to recite it to 
a teacher, it would abundantly prepare them, after their 
constitutions are firmly established, to enter such an 
institution, where, in three years, they could secure 
more, than almost any young lady in the Country 
now gains by giving the whole of her youth to school 
pursuits. 

In the early years of female life, reading, writing, 
needlework, drawing, and music, should alternate with 
domestic duties ; and one hour a day, devoted to some 
study, in addition to the above pursuits, would be all 
that is needful to prepare them for a thorough educa- 



REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 61 

tion after growth is attained, and the constitution estab 
hshed. This is the time when young women would 
feel the value of an education, and pursue their studies 
with that maturity of mind, and vividness of interest, 
which would double the perpetuity and value of all 
their acquisitions. 

The great difficulty, which opposes such a plan, is, 
the want of institutions that would enable a young lady 
to complete, in three years, the liberal course of study, 
here described. But if American mothers become con- 
vinced of the importance of such advantages for their 
daughters, and will use their influence appropriately 
and efficiently, they will certainly be furnished. There 
are other men of liberality and wealth, besides the indi- 
vidual referrea to, who can be made to feel that a for- 
tune, expended in securing an appropriate education to 
American women, is as wisely bestowed, as in founding 
colleges for the other sex, who are already so abundant- 
ly supplied. We ought to have institutions, similar 
to the one described, in every part of this Nation; 
and funds should be provided, for educating young 
women destitute of means : and if American women 
think and feel, that, by such a method, their own trials 
will be lightened, and their daughters will secure a 
healthful constitution and a thorough domestic and in- 
tellectual education, the appropriate expression of their 
wishes will secure the necessary funds. The tide of 
charity, which has been so long flowing from the female 
hand to provide a liberal education for young men, will 
flow back with abundant remuneration. 

The last method suggested for lessening the evils pe- 
cuhar to American women, is, a decided effort to oppose 
the aristocratic feeling, that labor is degrading; and to 
bring about the impression, that it is refined and lady- 
like to engage in domestic pursuits. In past ages, and 
in aristocratic countries, leisure and indolence and friv- 
olous pursuits have been deemed lady-like and refined, 
because those classes, which were most refined, counte- 
nanced such an opinion. But whenever ladies of refine 

6 D. K. 



6^ REMEDIES FOR THESE DIFFICULTIES. 

ment, as a general custom, patronise domestic pursuits, 
then these employments will be deemed lady-like. It 
may be urged, however, that it is impossible for a woman 
who cooks, washes, and sweeps, to appear in the dress, 
or. acquire the habits and manners, of a lady ; that the 
drudgery of the kitchen is dirty work, and that no one 
can appear delicate and refined, while engaged in it. 
Now all this depends on circumstances. If a woman 
has a house, destitute of neat and convenient facilities ; 
if she has no habits of order and system ; if she is re- 
miss and careless in person and dress ;-^-then all this 
may be true. But, if a woman will make some sacri- 
fices of costly ornaments in her parlor, in order to make 
her kitchen neat and tasteful ; if she will sacrifice ex- 
pensive dishes, in order to secure such conveniences for 
labor as protect from exposures ;, if shje will take pains 
to have the dresses, in which sh^ works, made of suita- 
ble materials, and in good taste; if shie will rise early, 
and systematize and oversee the work Qf her family, so 
as to have it done thoroughly, neatly, a>nd in the early 
part of the day ; she will find no necessity for^ ^y such 
apprehensions. It is because s\kch work has generally 
been done by vulgar people, and in a, yu^ar way, that 
we have such associations; and when ladies manage 
such things, as ladies should, then such asso<?iations will 
be removed. There are pursuits, deemed very refined 
and genteel, which involve quite as much exposure as 
kitchen employments. For example, to draw a large 
landscape, in colored crayons, would be deemed very 
lady-like ; but the writer can testify, from sad experi- 
ence, that no cooking, washing, sweeping, or ajiy other 
domestic duty, ever left such deplorable traces on hands, 
face, and dress, as this same lady-like pursuit. Such 
things depend entirely on custom and associations ; and 
every American woman, who values the institutions of 
her Country, and wishes to lend her influence in ex- 
tending and perpetuating such blessings, may feel that 
she is doing this, whenever, by her example and influ 
ence, she destroys the aristocratic association, which 
would render domestic labor degrading. 



DOMESTIC ISCftl^QMY ASt A BRANOH OP STUDY. 6^ 

CHAPTEIR IV. 

QN DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A BRANCH OP STUDY. 

The greatest impediment to making Domestic Econ- 
omy a branch of study, is, the fact, that neither parents 
nor teachers realize the importance, or the practicability 
of constituting it a regular part of school, education. 

It is with reference to this, that the first aim of the 
writer will be, to point out some of the reasons for in- 
troducing Domestic Economy as a branc-h of female 
education, to be studied at school. 

The first reason, is, that there is no period, in a 
young lady's life, when she will not find such knowledge 
useful to herself and to others. The state of domestic 
service, in this Country, is so precarious, that there is 
scarcely a family, in the free States, of whom it can be 
affirmed, that neither sickness, discontent, no? love of 
change, will deprive them of all their domestics, so that 
every female member of the family will be required to 
lend some aid, in providing food and the conveniences 
of living; and the better she is qualified to. render it, 
the happier she will be, and the more she will contribute 
to the enjoyment of others. 

A second reason, is, that every young lady, at the 
close of her schooldays, and even before they are closed, 
is liable to be placed in a situation, in which she will 
need to do, herself, or to teach others to do, all the va- 
rious processes and duties detailed in this work. That 
this may be more fully realized, the writer will detail 
some instances, which have come under her own obser- 
vation. 

The eldest daughter of a family returned from school, 
on a visit, at sixteen years of age. Before her vacation 
faad closed, her mother was laid in the grave ; and such 
were her father's circumstances, that she was obliged to 
assume the cares and duties of her lost parent. The 



64 DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A 

care of an infant, the management of young children, 
the superintendence of domestics, the charge of family 
expenses, the responsibihty of entertaining company, 
and the many other cares of the family state, all at once 
came upon this young and inexperienced schoolgirl. 

Again ; a young lady wei\t to reside with a married 
sister, in a distant State. While on this visit, the elder 
sister died, and there was no one but this young lady to 
fill the vacant place, and assume all the cares of the 
nursery, parlor, and kitchen. 

Again ; a pupil of the writer, at the end of her school- 
days, married, and removed to the West. She was an 
entire novice in all domestic matters ; an utter stranger 
in the place to which she removed. In a year, she be- 
came a mother, and her health failed ; while, for most 
of the time, she had no domestics, at all, or only Irish 
or Germans, who scarcely knew even the names, or the 
uses, of many cooking utensils. She was treated with 
politeness by her neighbors, and wished to return their 
civilities ; but how could this young and delicate crea- 
ture, who had spent all her life at school, or in visiting 
and amusement, take care of her infant, attend to her 
cooking, washing, ironing, and baking, the concerns of 
her parlor, chambers, kitchen, and cellar, and yet visit 
and receive company ? If there is any thing that would 
make a kindly heart ache, with sorrow and sympathy, 
it would be to see so young, so amiable, so helpless a 
martyr to the mistaken system of female education now 
prevalent. " I have the kindest of husbands," said the 
young wife, after her narrative of sufferings, "and I 
never regretted my marriage j but, since this babe was 
born, I have never had a single waking hour of freedom 
from anxiety and care. O ! how httle young girls know 
what is before them, when they enter married Hfe ! " 
Let the mother or teacher, whose eye may rest on these 
lines, ask herself, if there is no cause for fear that the 
young objects of her care may be thrown into similar 
emergencies, where they may need a kind of prepara- 
tion, which as yet has been withheld. 



BRANCH OF STUDY. 6S 

Another reason for introducing such a subject, as a 
distinct branch of school education, is, that, as a general 
fact, young ladies will not be taught these things in any 
other way. In reply to the thousand-times-repeated 
remark, that girls must be taught their domestic duties 
by their mothers, at home, it may be inquired, in the 
first place, What proportion of mothers are qualified to 
teach a proper and complete system of Domestic Econ 
omy ? When this is answered, it may be asked. What 
proportion of those who are quahfied, have that sense 
of the importance of such instructions, and that energy 
and perseverance which would enable them actually to 
teach their daughters, in all the branches of Domestic 
Economy presented in this work ? 

It may then be asked. How many mothers actually do 
give their daughters instruction in the various branches 
of Domestic Economy ? Is it not the case, that, owing 
to ill health, deficiency of domestics, and multiplied cares 
and perplexities, a large portion of the most intelligent 
mothers, and those, too, who most realize the importance 
of this instruction, actually cannot find the time, and 
have not the energy, necessary to properly perform the 
duty ? They are taxed to the full amount of both their 
mental and physical energies, and cannot attempt any 
thing more. Almost every woman knows, that it is 
easier to do the work, herself, than it is to teach an 
awkward and careless novice ; and the great majority 
of women, in this Country, are obliged to do almost 
every thing in the shortest and easiest way. This is 
one reason why the daughters of very energetic and ac- 
comphshed housekeepers are often the most deficient 
in these respects; while the daughters of ignorant or 
inefficient mothers, driven to the exercise of their 
own energies, often become the most systematic and 
expert. 

It may be objected, that such things cannot be taught 
by books. This position may fairly be questioned. Do 
not young ladies learn, from books, how to make hydro- 
gen and oxygen ? Do they not have pictures of fur- 

6* I>. E. 



IP DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A 

naces, alembics, and the various utensils employed m 
cooking the cheniical agents? Do they not study the 
various processes of mechanics, and learn to understand 
and to do many as difficult operations, as any that be- 
long to housekeeping ? All these things are explained, 
studied, and recited in classes, when every one knows 
that httle practical use can ever be made of this knowl- 
edge. Why, then, should not that science and art, 
which a woman is to practise during her whole fife, be 
studied and recited ? 

It may be urged, that, even if it is studied, it will 
soon be forgotten. And so will much of every thing 
studied at school. But why should that knowledge, 
most needful for daily comfort, most liable to be in de- 
mand, be the only study omitted, because it may be 
forgotten ? 

It may also be objected, that young ladies can get 
such books, and attend to them out of school. And so 
they can get books on Chemistry and Philosophy, and 
study them out of school ; but will they do it ? And 
why ought we not to make sure of the most necessary 
knowledge, and let the less needful be omitted ? If 
young ladies study such a work as this, in school, they 
will remember a great part of it ; and, when they for- 
get, in any emergency, they will know where to resort 
for instruction. But if such books are not put into 
schools, probably not one in twenty will see or hear of 
them, especially in those retired places where they are 
most needed. And is it at all probable, that a branch, 
which is so lightly esteemed as to be deemed unworthy 
a place in the list of female studies, will be sought for 
and learned by young girls, who so seldom look into 
works of soHd instruction after they leave school ? So 
deeply is the writer impressed with the importance of 
this, as a branch of female education, at school, that 
she would deem it far safer and wiser to omit any other, 
rather than this. 

Another reason, for introducing such a branch of 
study into female schools, is, the influence it would ex- 



5R4.NCH OF STUDY. 6Tf 

ert, in leading young ladies more correctly to estimate 
the iniportance and dignity of domestic knowledge. 
It is now often the case, that young ladies rather pride 
themselves on their ignorance of such subjects ; and 
seem to imagine that it is vulgar and ungenteel to 
li^jiow how to work. This is one of the relics of an 
piristoeratie state of society, which is fast passing away. 
Here, the tendency of every thing is to the equalisation 
of labor, so that all classes are feeling, more and more, 
that indolence is disreputable. And there are many 
liiothers, among the best educated and most wealthy 
classes, who are bringing up their daughters, not only 
to know how to do, but actually to do, all kinds of do^ 
mestic work. The writer knows young ladies, who are 
daughters of men of wealth and standing, and who 
g,re among the most accomplished in their sphere, who 
have for months been sent to work with a mantuama^ 
ker, to acquire a practical knowledge of her occupation, 
and who have at home learned to perform all kinds of 
domestic labor. 

And let the young women of this Nation find, that 
Domestic Economy is placed, in schools, on equal or 
superior ground to Chemistry, Philosophy, and Mathe- 
matics, and they will blush to be found ignorant of its 
first principles, as much as they will to hesitate respect- 
ing the laws of gravity, or the composition of the at- 
mosphere. But, as matters are now conducted, many 
young ladies know how to make oxygen and hydrogen, 
and to discuss questions of Philosophy or Political 
Economy, far better than they know how to make a 
bed and sweep a room properly ; and they can " con-^ 
struct a diagram" in Geometry, with far more skill than 
they can make the simplest article of female dress. 

It may be urged, that the plan suggested by the 
writer, in the previous pages, would make such a book 
as this needless ; for young ladies would learn all these 
things at honie, before they go to school. But it must 
be remembered, that the plan suggested cannot fully be 
carried into effect, till such endowed institutions, as the 



©9 ON THE CARE OP HEALTH. 

one described, are universally furnished. This proba- 
bly will not be done, till at least one generation of 
young women are educated. It is only on the suppo- 
sition that a young lady can, at fourteen or fifteen years 
of age, ehter such an institution, and continue there 
three years, that it would be easy to induce her to re- 
main, during all the previous period, at home, in the 
practice of Domestic Economy, and the limited course 
of study pointed out. In the present imperfect, desul- 
tory, varying, mode of female education, where studies 
are begun, changed, partially learned, and forgotten, it 
requires nearly all the years of a woman's youth, to 
acquire the intellectual education now demanded' 
While this state of things continues, the only remedy 
is, to introduce Domestic Economy as a study at school. 
It is hoped that these considerations will have weight, 
not only with parents and teachers, but with young la- 
dies themselves, and that all will unite their influence 
to introduce this, as a popular and universal branch of 
education, into every female school. 



CHAPTER V. 

ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

There is no point, where a woman is more liable to 
sufier from a want of knowledge and experience, than 
in reference to the health of a family committed to her 
care. Many a young lady, who never had any charge 
of the sick ; who never took any care of an infant ; 
who never obtained information on these subjects from 
books, or from the experience of others ; in short, with 
little or no preparation ; has found herself the principal 
attendant in dangerous sickness, the chief nurse of a 
feeble infant, and the responsible guardian of the health 
of a whole family. 

The care, the fear, the perplexity, of a woman, sud 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 69 

denly called to these unwonted duties, none can real- 
ize, till they themselves feel it, or till they see some 
young and anxious novice first attempting to meet such 
responsibihties. To a woman of age and experience, 
these duties often involve a measure of trial and diffi- 
culty, at times deemed almost insupportable ; how hard, 
then, must they press on the heart of the young and 
inexperienced ! 

There is no really efficacious mode of preparing a 
woman to take a rational care of the health of a family, 
except by communicating that knowledge, in regard to 
the construction of the body, and the laws of health, 
which is the basis of the medical profession. Not that 
a woman should undertake the minute and extensive 
investigation requisite for a physician ; but she should 
gain a general knowledge of first principles, as a guide 
to her judgement in emergencies when she can rely on 
no other aid. Therefore, before attempting to give any 
specific directions on the subject of this chapter, a short 
sketch of the construction of the human frame will be 
given, with a notice of some of the general principles, 
on which specific rules in regard to health are based. 
This description will be arranged under the general 
heads of Bones, Muscles, Nerves, Blood-Vessels, 
Organs of Digestion and Respiration, and the 
Skin. 

BONES. 

The bones are the most sohd parts of the body. 
They are designed to protect and sustain it, and also 
to secure voluntary motion. They are about two hun- 
dred and fifty in number, (there being sometimes a few 
more or less,) and are fastened together by cartilage, 
or gristle, a substance hke the bones, but softer, and 
more elastic. 

In order to convey a more clear and correct idea of 
the form, relative position, and connection, of the bones 
constituting the human framework, the engraving on 
page 70, (Fig. 1,) is given. 



70 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 




By the preceding engraving, it will be seen^ that the 
cranium, or slcuU, consists of several distinct pieces, which 
are united by sutures, (or seams,) as represented by the 
zigzag Unes ; a, being the frontal bone ; 6, the parietal 
bone ; c, the temporal bone ; and d, the place of the oc- 
cipital bone, which forms the back part of the head, and 
therefore is not seen in the engraving. The nasal bones, 
or bones of the nose, are shown at e; f, is the cheek 
bone; g, the upper, and h, the lower, jaw bones ; ij i, 
the spinal column, or back bone, consisting of nuu^^rous 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 71 

small bones, called vertebrcR ; j, j, the seven true ribs, 
which are fastened to the spine, behind, and by the car- 
tilages, Jc, Jc, to the sternum, or breast bone, I, in front ; 
m, m, are the first three false ribs, which are so called, 
because they are not united directly to the breast bone, 
but by cartilages to the seventh true rib ; n, n, are the 
lower two false, which are also called floating, ribs, be- 
cause they are not connected with the breast bone, nor 
the other ribs, in front ; o, o, p, q, are the bones of the 
pelvis, which is the foundation on which the spine rests ; 
r, r, are the collar bones ; s, s, the shoulder blades; t, t, 
the bones of the upper arm ; u, u, the elbow joints, where 
the bones of the upper arm and fore arm are united in 
such a way that they can move like a hinge ; v w, v w, 
are the bones of the fore arm; x, x, those of the wrists ; 
y, y, those of the fingers ; z, z, are the round heads of 
the thigh bones, where they are inserted into the sockets 
of the bones of the pelvis, giving motion in every direc- 
tion, and forming the hip joint ; a b, a b, are the thigh 
bones ; c, c, the Icnee joints ; d e, d e, the leg bones ; f, f, 
the anlcle joints ; g, g, the bones of the foot. 

The bones are composed of two substances, — one 
animal, and the other mineral. The animal part is a 
very fine network, called the cellular membrane. In 
this, are deposited the harder mineral substances, which 
are composed principally of carbonate and phosphate 
of lime. In very early life, the bones consist chiefly of 
the animal part, and are then soft and pliant. As the 
child advances in age, the bones grow harder, by the 
gradual deposition of the phosphate of lime, which is 
supplied by the food, and carried to the bones by the 
blood. In old age, the hardest material preponderates ; 
making the bones more brittle than in earlier life. 

As we shall soon have occasion to refer, particularly, 
to the spinal, or vertebral column, and the derangement 
to which it is liable, we ^ve, on page 72, representa- 
tions of the different classes of vertebrae ; viz. the cervi- 
cal, (from the Latin, cervix, the neck,) the dorsal, (from 
dorsum, the back,) and lumbar, (from lumbus, the loins.) 



72 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

Fig. 2. 




Fig. 2, represents one of the cervical vertehrcB, Seven 
of these, placed one above another, constitute that part 
of the spine which is in the neck. 

Fig. 3. 




Fig. 3, is one of the dorsnl vertebra, twehe of which, 
form the cf^^.Uai part of the spine. 

Fig. 4. 




ON THE CASE OF HEALTH. 73 

Fig. 4, represents one of the lumbar vertehrcB, (five 
in number,) which are immediately above the sacrum. 
These vertebras are so fastened, that the spine can 
bend, in any direction ; and the muscles of the trunk 
are used in holding it erect, or in varying its move- 
ments. 

By the drawings here presented, it will be seen, that 
the vertebrae of the neck, back, and loins, differ some- 
what in size and shape, although they all possess the 
same constituent parts ; thus. A, in each, represents 
the body of the vertebrae ; B, the articulating processes, 
by which each is joined to its fellow, above and below 
it ; C, the spinous process, or that part of the vertebra, 
which forms the ridge to be felt, on pressure, the whole 
length of the centre of the back. The back bone re- 
ceives its name, spine, or spinal column, from these 
spinous processes. 

It is the universal law of the human frame, that exer- 
cise is indispensable to the health of the several parts. 
Thus, if a blood-vessel be tied up, so as not to be used, 
it shrinks, and becomes a useless string ; if a muscle be 
condemned to inaction, it shrinks in size, and diminishes 
in power ; and thus it is also with the bones. Inactivi- 
ty produces softness, debility, and unfitness for the func- 
tions they are designed to perform. This is one of the 
causes of the curvature of the spine, that common and 
pernicious defect in the females of America. From in- 
activity, the bones of the spine become soft and yielding ; 
and then, if the person is often placed, for a length of 
time, in positions that throw the weight of the body 
unequally on certain portions of the spine, they yield to 
this frequent compression, and a distortion ensues. The 
positions taken by young persons, when learning to write 
or draw, or to play on the guitar, harp, or piano, and 
the position of the body when sleeping on one side, on 
high pillows, all tend to produce this effect, by throwing 
the weight of the body unequally, and for a length of 
time, on particular parts of the spine. 

7 D. E. 



74 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

Fi^. 5. 




MUSCLES. 



The muscles are the chief organs of motion, and con- 
sist of collections of fine fibres or strings, united in 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 75 

casings of membrane or thin skin. They possess an 
elastic power, like India rubber, which enables them to 
extend and contract. The red meat in animals consists 
of muscles. Every muscle has connected with it nerves, 
veins, and arteries ; and those designed to move the 
bones, are fastened to them by tendons at their extrem 
ities. The muscles are laid over each other, and are 
separated by means of membranes and layers of fat, 
which enable them to move easily, without interfering 
with each other. 

The figure on page 74, represents the muscles of the 
arm, as they appear when the skin and fat are removed. 
The muscles a and h are attached, at their upper ends, to 
the bone of the arm, and by their lower ends to the upper 
part of the fore arm, near the elbow joint. When the 
fibres of these muscles contract, the middle part of them 
gTows larger, and the arm is bent at the elbow. The 
muscle c, is, in like manner, fastened, by its upper end, 
to the shoulder blade and the upper part of the arm, 
and by its lower end to one of the bones of the fore 
arm, near the elbow. When the arm is bent, and 
we wish to straighten it, it is done by contracting this 
muscle. The muscles d, d, are fastened at one end 
near the elbow joint, and at the other near the ends of 
the fingers ; and on the back of the hand are reduced 
in size, appearing like strong cords. These cords are 
called tendons. They are employed in straightening the 
fingers, when the hand is shut. These tendons are 
confined by the ligament or band, e, which binds them 
down, around the wrist, and thus enables them to act 
more efficiently, and secures beauty of form to the limb. 
The muscles at /, are those which eAable us to turn the 
hand and arm outward. Every different motion of the 
arm has one muscle to produce.it, and another to restore 
the limb to its natural position. Those muscles which 
bend the body are called ^ea?or5 ; those which straighten 
it, extensors. When the arm is thrown up, one set of 
muscles is used ; to pull it down, another set : when it 
is thrown forward, a still different set is used ; when it 



T6 ON THE CAE-E OF HEALTH. 

is thrown back, another, different from the former ; when 
the arm turns in its socket, still another set is used ; and 
thus every different motion of the body is made by a 
different set of muscles. All these muscles are compact- 
ly and skilfully arranged, so as to work with perfect 
ease. Among them, run the arteries, veins, and nerves, 
which supply each muscle with blood and nervous power, 
as will be hereafter described. The size and strength 
of the muscles depend greatly on their frequent exer- 
cise. If left inactive, they grow thin and weak, instead 
of giving the plumpness to the figure, designed by Na- 
ture. The dehcate and feeble appearance of many 
American women, is chiefly owing to the little use they 
make of their muscles. Many a pale, puny, shad-shaped 
girl, would have become a plump, rosy, well-formed 
person, if half the exercise, afforded to her brothers in 
the open air, had been secured to her, during childhood 
and youth. 

NERVES.. 

• The nerves are the organs of sensation. They enable 
us to see, hear, feel, taste, and smell ; and also combine 
with the bones and muscles in producing motion. 

The first engraving, on p. 77, (Fig. 6,) is a vertical 
section of the skull, and of the spinal column, or back 
bone, which supports the head, and through which runs 
the spinal cord, whence most of the nerves originate. It 
is a side view, and represents the head and spine, as 
they would appear, if they were cut through the mid- 
dle, from front to back. Fig. 7, exhibits them as they 
would appear, if viewed from behind. In Fig. 6, a, 
represents the cerebrum, or great brain ; b, the cerebel- 
lum, or Httle brain, which is situated directly under the 
great brain, at the back and lower part of the head ; 
c, d, e, is the spinal marrow, which is connected with 
the brain at c, and runs through the whole length of the 
spinal column. This column consists, as has already 
been stated, of a large number of small bones, /, /, 
called vertebrae, laid one above another, and fastened 
together by cartihgt. or gristle, g, between them. 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

Fig-, e. ■ Fig. 7. 



77 



M 



( t > 



♦ T f 



78 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

Between each two vertebrae, or spinal bones, there 
issues from the spine, on each side, a pair of nerves. 
The lower broad part of the spine, (see p, Fig. 1, 
p. 70, and Fig. 7, p. 77,) is called the sacrum ; in this, 
are eight holes, through which the lower pairs of nerves 
pass off. 

The nerves of the head and lungs run directly from 
the brain ; those of all other parts of the body proceed 
from the spine, passing out in the manner already men- 
tioned. 

The nerves which thus proceed from the spine, branch 
out, like the hmbs and twigs of a tree, till they extend 
over the whole body ; and, so minutely are they divi- 
ded and arranged, that a point, destitute of a nerve, 
cannot be found on the skin. 

Some idea of the ramifications of the nerves, may 
be obtained by reference to the following engraving, 
(Fig. 8.) In this. A, A, represents the cerebrum, or 
great brain ; B, B, the cerehellum, or little brain ; (see 
also «, 5, in Fig. 6 ;) C, C, represents the union of the 
fibres of the cerebrum ; D, D, the union of the two sides 
of the cerebellum; E, E, E, the spinal marrow, which 
passes through the centre of the spine, (as seen at c, d, e, 
in Fig. 6 ;) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, branches of the nerves going 
to different parts of the body. As the nerves are the 
organs of sensation, all pain is an affection of some 
portion of the nerves. The health of the nerves de- 
pends very greatly on the exercise of the muscles, with 
which they are so intimately connected. This shows 
the reason why the headache, tic douloureux, diseases 
of the spine, and other nervous affections, are so com- 
mon among American women. Their inactive habits, 
engender a debility of the nervous system, and these 
diseases follow, as the consequence. 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

Fig. 8. 



79 




80 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

It can be seen, by a reference to the side view, repre- 
sented on page 77, (Fig. 6,) that the spine is naturally 
curved back and forward. When, from want of exer- 
cise, its bones are softened, and the muscles weakened, 
the spine acquires an improper curve, and the person be- 
comes what is called crooked, having the neck projected 
forward, and, in some cases, having the back convex, 
where it should be concave. Probably one half of the 
American women have the head thus projecting for- 
ward, instead of carrying it in the natural, erect position, 
which is both graceful and dignified. 

The curvature of the spine, spoken of in this work 
as so common, and as the cause of so many diseases 
among American women, is what is denominated the 
lateral curvature, and is much more dangerous than the 
other distortion. The indications of this evil, are, the 
projection of one shoulder blade more than the other, 
and, in bad cases, one shoulder being higher, and the 
hip on the opposite side more projecting, than the other. 
In this case, the spine, when viewed from behind, in- 
stead of running in a straight line, (as in Fig. 7 and 9,) 
is curved somewhat, as may be seen in Figures 10 
and 11. 

This effect is occasioned by the softness of the bones, 
induced by want of exercise, together with tight dress- 
ing, which tends to weaken the muscles that are thus 
thrown out of use. Improper and long continued po- 
sitions in drawing, writing, and sleeping, which throw 
the weight of the body on one part of the spine, in- 
duce the same evil. This distortion is usually accom- 
panied with some consequent disease of the nervous 
system, or some disarrangement of the internal organs. 

By comparing Figures 9 and 11, the difference be- 
tween a natural and distorted spine will be readily 
perceived. In Fig. 10, the curved hne shows the 
course of the spine, occasioned by distortion ; the per- 
pendicular line, in this and Fig. 11, indicates the true 
direction of the spine ; the horizontal lines show that 
one shoulder and hip are forced fr6m their proper level. 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 



81 




BLOOD-VESSELS. 



The blood is the fluid into which our food is changed, 
and which is employed to minister nourishment to the 
whole body. For this purpose, it is carried to every 
part of the body, by the arteries; and, after it has 



82 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 



given out its nourishment, returns to the heart, through 
the veins. 

The subjoined engraving, (Fig. 12,) which presents 
a rude outline of the vascular system, will more clearly 
illustrate this operation, as we shall presently show. 



Fig. 12. 




ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 83[' 

Before entering the heart, the blood receives a 
fresh supply of nourishment, by a duct which leads 
from the stomach. The arteries have their origin from 
the heart, in a great trunk, called the aorta, w^hich is the 
parent of all the arteries, as the spinal marrow is the pa- 
rent of the nerves which it sends out. When the arteries 
have branched out into myriads of minute vessels, the 
blood which is in them passes into as minute veins; 
atid these run into each other, like the rills and branches 
of a river, until they are all united in two great veins, 
which run into the heart. One of these large receivers, 
called the vena cava superior, or upper vena cava, brings 
back the blood from the arms and head, the other, the 
vena cava inferior, or lower vena cava, brings back the 
blood from the body and lower limbs. 

In the preceding figure, H, is the heart, which is 
divided into four compartments ; two, called auricles, 
used for receiving the blood, and two, called ventricles, 
used for sending out the blood. A, is the aorta, or great 
artery, which sends its branches to every part of the body. 
In the upper part, at a, a, a, are the main branches of the 
aorta, which go to the head and arms. Below, at a, «, 
are the branches which go to the lower limbs. The 
branches which set off at X, X, are those by which the 
intestines are supplied by vessels from the aorta. Every 
muscle in the whole body, all the organs of the body, and 
the skin, are supplied by branches sent off from this great 
artery. When the blood is thus dispersed through any 
organ, in minute vessels, it is received, at their termina- 
tions, by numerous minute veins, which gradually unite, 
forming larger branches, till they all meet in either the 
upper or lower vena cava, which returns the blood to 
the heart. V I, is the vena cava inferior, which re- 
ceives the blood from the veins of the lower parts of 
the body, as seen at v, v. The blood, sent into the 
lower limbs from the aorta, is received by minute veins, 
which finally unite at v, v, and thus it is emptied through 
the lower vena cava into the heart : o, o, represent the 
points of entrance of those tributaries of the vena cava^ 



84 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

which receive that blood from the intestines, which is 
sent out by the aorta at X, X. In the upper part, V S, 
is the vena cava sujyerior, which receives the blood from 
the head and arms ; v, v, v, are the tributaries of the 
upper vena cava, which bring the blood back from the 
head and arms ; d, d, represents the course of the thora- 
cic duct, a delicate tube by v/hich the chyle is carried 
into the blood, as mentioned on page 89 ; t, shows the 
place where this duct empties into a branch of the 
vena cava. 

It thus appears, that wherever a branch of the aorta 
goes to carry blood, there will be found a tributary of 
the upper or lower vena cava, to bring it back. 

The succeeding engravings, will enable the reader to 
form a more definite idea of this important function of 
the system, — the circulation of the blood. The heart, 
in man, and in all warm-blooded animals, is double, 
having two auricles and two ventricles. In animals 
with cold blood, (as fishes,) the heart is single, having 
but one auricle and one ventricle. Fig. 13, represents 
the double heart as it appears when the two sides are 
separated, and also the great blood-vessels; those on 
the left of the figure being on the right side of the 
body, and vice versa. The direction of the blood is 
represented by the arrows. A, represents the lower 
vena cava, returning the blood from the lower parts of 
the body, and ' L, the upper vena cava, returning the 
blood from the head and arms. B, is the right sinus, 
or auricle, into which the returned blood is poured. 
From this cavity of the heart, the blood is carried 
into the right ventricle, C ; and from this ventricle, 
the pulmonary arteries, D, convey into the lungs the 
blood which is returned from the body. These five 
vessels. A, B, C, D, and L, belong to the right side 
of the heart, and contain the venous or dark-colored 
blood, which has been through the circulation, and 
is now unfit for the uses of the system, till it has 
passed through the lungs. 



ON THE CARE OP HEALTH. 

Fig. 13. 



Q§ 




When the blood reaches the lungs, and is exposed to 
the action of the air which we breathe, it throws off its 
impurities, becomes bright in color, and is then called 
arterial blood. It then returns to the left side of the 
heart, (on the right of the engraving,) by the pulmonary 
veins, E, E, (also seen at m, m. Fig. 15,) into the left 
auricle F, whence it is forced into the ventricle, G. 
From the left ventricle, proceeds the aorta, H, H, 
which is the great artery of the body, and conveys 
the blood to every part of the system. I, J, K, are 
branches of the aorta, going to the head and arms. 



8 



D. E. 



86 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 



Fig. 14. 




Fig. 14, represents the heart, with its two sides 
united as in nature ; and will be understood from the 
description of Fig. 13. 

On the opposite page, Fig. 15, represents the heart, 
with the great blood-vessels, on a still larger scale ; a, 
being the left ventricle ; h, the right ventricle ; c, e, f, the 
aorta, or great artery, rising out of the left ventricle; 
g, h, i, the branches of the aorta, going to the head and 
arms; ^, I, I, the pulmonary artery, and its branches; 
m, m, veins of the lungs, which bring the blood back 
from the lungs to the heart; n, right auricle; o, vena 
cava inferior ; p, veins returning blood from the liver 
and bowels ; q, the vena cava superior ; r, the left auri- 
cle; s, the left coronary artery, which distributes the 
blood exclusively to the substance of the heart. 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 



87 



Fig. 15. 




ORGANS OF DIGESTION AND RESPIRATION, 

Digestion and respiration are the processes, by which 
the food is converted into blood for the nourishment of 
the body. The engraving on the next page (Fig. 16) 
shows the organs by which these operations are per- 
formed. 

In the lower part of the engraving, is the stomach, 
marked S, which receives the food through the gullet, 
marked G. The latter, though in the engraving it is 
cut off at G, in reaUty continues upwards to the throat. 
The stomach is a bag composed of muscles, nerves, and 
blood-vessels, united by a material similar to that w-hich 
forms the skin. As soon as food enters the stomach, 
its nerves are excited to perform their proper function 
of stimulating the muscles. A muscular (called the 
'peristaltic) motion immediately commences, by which 
the stomach propels its contents around the whole of 
its circumference, once in every three minutes. 



88 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 




This movement of the muscles attracts the blood from 
other parts of the system; for the blood always hastens 
to admmister its supplies to any organ which is called 
to work. The blood-vessels of the stomach are soon 
distended with blood, from which the gastric juice is 
secreted by minute vessels in the coat of the stomach 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 89' 

This mixes v/ith the food, and reduces it to a soft pulpy 
mass, called chyme. It then passes through the lower 
end of the stomach, into the intestines, which are folded 
up in the abdomen, and the upper portion, only, of which, 
is shown in the engraving, at A, A. The organ marked 
L, L, is the liver, which, as the blood passes through its 
many vessels, secretes a substance called hile, which 
accumulates in the gall-bladder, marked B. After the 
food passes out of the stomach, it receives from the 
liver a portion of bile, and from the pancreas the pan- 
creatic juice. The pancreas does not appear in this 
drawing, being concealed behind the stomach. These 
two hquids separate the substance which has passed 
from the stomach, into two different portions. One is 
a light liquid, very much like cream in appearance, and 
called chyle, of which the blood is formed ; the other is 
a more solid substance, which contains the refuse and 
useless matter, with a smaller portion of nourishment ; 
and this, after being further separated from the nour- 
ishing matter which it contains, is thrown out of the 
body. There are multitudes of small vessels, called 
lacteals, which, as these two mixed substances pass 
through the long and winding folds of the intestines in 
the abdomen, absorb the chyle, and convey it to the 
thoracic duct, which runs up close by the spine, and 
carries the chyle, thus received, into a branch of the 
vena cava superior, at t, whence it is mingled with the 
blood going into the heart. In this engraving, the lac- 
teals and thoracic duct are not shown ; but their position 
is indicated by the dotted lines, marked X, Y ; X, being 
the lacteals, and Y, the thoracic duct. 

In the upper half of the engraving, H represents the 
heart ; a, the commencement of the aorta ; v c s, the 
termination of the vena cava superior. On each side 
of the heart, are the lungs ; 1 1, being the left lobe, and 
r I, the right lobe. They are composed of a network 
of air-vessels, blood-vessels, and nerves. W, represents 
the trachea^ or windpipe, through which, the air we 
breathe is conducted to the lungs. It branches out 

8* D. E. 



90 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

into myriads of minute vessels, which are thus filled 
with air every time we breathe. From the heart, run 
the pulmonary arteries, marked p a. These enter the 
lungs and spread out along-side of the branches of the 
air-vessels, so that every air-vessel has a small artery 
running side by side with it. When the two vena cavas 
empty the blood into the heart, the latter contracts, and 
sends this blood, through these pulmonary arteries, into 
the lungs. 

As the air and blood meander, side by side, through 
the lungs, the superabundant carbon and hydrogen of 
the blood combine with the oxygen of the air, forming 
carbonic acid gas, and water, which are thrown out of 
the lungs at every expiration. This is the process by 
which the chyle is converted into arterial blood, and the 
venous blood purified of its excess of carbon and hydro- 
gen. When the blood is thus prepared, in the lungs, 
for its duties, it is received by the small pulmonary veins, 
which gradually unite, and bring the blood back to 
the heart, through the large pulmonary veins, marked 
p V, p V. 

On receiving this purified blood from the lungs, the 
heart contracts, and sends it out again, through the 
aorta, to all parts of the body. It then makes another 
circuit through every part, ministering to the wants of 
all, and is afterwards again brought back by the veins 
to receive the fresh chyle from the stomach, and to be 
purified by the lungs. 

The throbbing of the heart is caused by its alternate 
expansion and contraction, as it receives and expels the 
blood. With one throb, the blood is sent from the right 
ventricle into the lungs, and from the left ventricle into 
the aorta. 

Every time we inspire air, the process of purifying 
the blood is going on; and every time we expire the 
air, we throw out the redundant carbon and hydrogen, 
taken from a portion of the blood. If the waist is com- 
pressed by tight clothing, a portion of the lungs be com- 
pressed, so that the air-vessels cannot be filled. This 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 91 

prevents the perfect purification and preparation of the 
blood, so that a part returns back to the heart unfitted 
for its duties. This is a slow, but sure, method, by 
which the constitution of many a young lady is so un- 
dermined that she becomes an early victim to disease 
and to the decay of beauty and strength. The want 
oi pure air is another cause of the debility of the female 
constitution. When air has been rendered impure, by 
the breath of several persons, or by close confinement, 
it does not purify the blood properly. Sleeping in 
close chambers, and sitting in crowded and un ventilated 
schoolrooms, are frequent causes of debility in the con- 
stitution of young persons. 

OF THE SKIN. 

The skin is the covering of the body, and has very 
important functions to perform. It is more abundantly 
supplied with nerves and blood-vessels than any other 
part ; and there is no spot of the skin where the point 
of the finest needle would not pierce a nerve and 
blood-vessel. Indeed, it may be considered as com- 
posed chiefly of an interlacing of minute nerves and 
blood-vessels, so that it is supposed there is more 
nervous matter in the skin, than in all the rest of the 
body united, and that the greater portion of the blood 
flows through the skin. ' 

The whole animal system is in a state of continual 
change and renovation. Food is constantly taken into 
the stomach, only a portion of which is fitted for the 
supply of the blood. All the rest has to be thrown 
out of the system, by various organs designed for this 
purpose. These organs are, — the lungs, which throw 
off" a portion of useless matter when the blood is puri- 
fied ; the kidneys, which secrete liquids that pass into 
the bladder, and are thrown out from the body by that 
organ ; and the intestines, which carry oflf the useless 
and more solid parts of the food, after the lacteals 
have drawn off" the chyle. In addition to these organs, 
the skin has a similar duty to perform; and as it has 



92 ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. 

SO much larger a supply of blood, it is the chief organ 
in relieving the body of the useless and noxious parts 
of the materials which are taken for food. 

Various experiments show, that not less than a 
pound and four ounces of waste matter is thrown off 
by the skin every twenty-four hours. This is accord- 
ing to the lowest calculation. Most of those, who 
have made experiments to ascertain the quantity, rep- 
resent it as much gi*eater ; and all agree, that the skin 
throws off more redundant matter from the body, than 
the whole of the other organs together. In the ordi- 
nary state of the skin, even when there is no apparent 
perspiration, it is constantly exhaling waste matter, in 
a form which is called insensible perspiration, because 
it cannot be perceived by the senses. A very cool 
mirror, brought suddenly near to the skin, will be 
covered, in that part, with a moisture, which is this 
effluvium thus made visible. When heat or exercise 
excites the skin, this perspiration is increased, so as 
to be apparent to the senses. This shows the reason 
why it is so important frequently to wash the entire 
surface of the body. If this be neglected, the pores 
of the skin are closed by the waste matter thrown 
from the body, and by small particles of the thin scarf- 
skin, so that it cannot properly perform its duties. In 
this way, the other organs are made to work harder, in 
order to perform the labor the skin would otherwise 
accomplish, and thus the lungs and bowels are often 
essentially weakened. 

Another office of the skin, is, to regulate the heat 
of the body. The action of the internal organs is 
constantly generating heat ; and the faster the blood 
circulates, the greater is the heat evolved. The per- 
spiration of the skin serves to reduce and regulate this 
heat. For, whenever any liquid changes to a vapor, 
it absorbs heat from whatever is nearest to it. The 
faster the blood flows, the more perspiration is evolved. 
This bedews the skin with a liquid, which the heat of 
the body turns to a vapor; and in this change, that 



ON THE CARE OF HEALTH. ^ 

heat IS absorbed. When a fever takes place, this per- 
spiration ceases, and the body is afflicted with heat. 
Insensible perspiration is most abundant during sleep, 
after eating, and when friction is applied to the skin. 
Perspiration is performed by the terminations of minute 
arteries in every part of the skin, which exude the per- 
spiration from the blood. 

The skin also performs another function. It is pro- 
vided with a set of small vessels, called ahsorhentSy 
which are exceedingly abundant and minute. When 
particular substances are brought in contact with the 
skin, these absorbents take up some portions and carry 
them into the blood. It is owing to this, that opium, 
applied on the skin, acts in a manner similar to its 
operation when taken into the stomach. The power 
of absorption is increased by friction ; and this is the 
reason that liniments are employed, with much rubbing, 
to bruises and sprains. The substance applied is thus 
introduced into the injured part, through the absorbents. 
-This shows another reason for frequent washing of the 
skin, and for the frequent changes of the garment next 
the skin. Otherwise portions of the noxious matter, 
thrown out by the skin, are reabsorbed into the blood, 
and are slow but sure causes of a decay of the strength 
of the system. 

The skin is also provided with small foUicles, or 
bags, which are filled with an oily substance. This, 
by gradually exuding over the skin, prevents water 
from penetrating and injuring its texture. 

The skin is also the organ of touch. This office is 
performed through the instrumentality of the nerves of 
feeling, which are spread over all parts of the skin. 

This general outline of the construction of the hu- 
man frame is given, with reference to the practical 
application of this knowledge in the various cases 
where a woman will be called upon to exercise her 
own unaided judgement. The application will be 
further pointed out, in the chapters on Food, Dress, 
Cleanliness, Care of the Sick, and Care of Infants. 



94 ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 



CHAPTER VI. 

ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 

The person who decides what shall be the food and 
drink of a family, and the modes of preparation, is the 
one who decides, to a greater or less extent, what shall 
be the health of that family. It is the opinion of most 
medical men, that intemperance in eating is the most 
fruitful of all causes of disease and death. If this be 
so, the woman who wisely adapts the food and cooking 
of her family to the laws of health, removes the great- 
est risk which threatens the lives of those under her 
care. 

To exhibit this subject clearly, it will be needful to 
refer, more minutely, to the organization and operation 
of the digestive organs. 

It is found, by experiment, that the supply of gastric 
juice, furnished from the blood, by the arteries of the 
stomach, is proportioned, not to the amount of food 
put into the stomach, but to the wants of the body ; so 
that it is possible to put much more into the stomach 
than can be digested. To guide and regulate in this 
matter, the sensation called hunger is provided. In a 
healthy state of the body, as soon as the blood has lost 
its nutritive supplies, the craving of hunger is felt, and 
then, if the food is suitable, and is taken in the proper 
manner, this sensation ceases, as soon as the stomach 
has received enough to supply the wants of the system. 
But our benevolent Creator, in this, as in our other 
duties, has connected enjoyment with the operation 
needful to sustain our bodies. In addition to the allay- 
ing of hunger, the gratification of the palate is secured, 
by the immense variety of food, some articles of which 
are far more agreeable than others. 

This arrangement of Providence, designed for our 
happiness, has become, either through ignorance, or 



ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 95 

want of self-control, the chief cause of the various 
diseases and sufferings, which afflict those classes who 
have the means of seeking a variety to gratify the 
palate. If mankind had only one article of food, and 
only water to drink, though they would have less en- 
joyment in eating, they would never be tempted to put 
any more into the stomach, than the calls of hunger 
required. But the customs of society, which present 
an incessant change, and a great variety of food, with 
those various condiments which stimulate appetite, lead 
almost every person very frequently to eat merely to 
gratify the palate, after the stomach has been abun- 
dantly supplied, so that hunger has ceased. 

When too gi-eat a supply of food is put into the 
stomach, the gastric juice dissolves only that portion 
which the wants of the system demand. The remain- 
der is ejected, in an unprepared state ; the absorb- 
ents take portions of it into the system ; and all the 
various functions of the body, which depend on the 
ministries of the blood, are thus gradually and imper 
ceptibly injured. Very often, intemperance in eating 
produces immediate results, such as colic, headaches, 
pains of indigestion, and vertigo. But the more gen- 
eral result, is, a gradual undermining of all parts of the 
human frame ; thus imperceptibly shortening life, by 
so weakening the constitution, that it is ready to yield, 
at every point, to any uncommon risk or exposure. 
Thousands and thousands are passing out of the world, 
from diseases occasioned by exposures, which a healthy 
constitution could meet without any danger. It is 
owing to these considerations, that it becomes the duty 
of every woman, who has the responsibility of pro- 
viding food for a family, to avoid a variety of tempting 
dishes. It is a much safer rule, to have only one kind 
of healthy food, for each meal, than the abundant 
variety which is usually met at the tables of almost all 
classes in this Country. When there is to be any va- 
riety of dishes, they ought not to be successive, but so 
arranged, as to give the opportunity of selection. How 



96 ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 

often is it the case, that persons, by the appearance of 
a favorite article, are tempted to eat, merely to gratify 
the palate, when the stomach is already adequately 
supplied. All such intemperance wears on the con- 
stitution, and shortens life. It not unfrequently hap- 
pens, that excess in eating produces a morbid appetite, 
which must constantly be denied. 

But the organization of the digestive organs de- 
mands, not only that food be taken in proper quan- 
tities, but that it be taken at proper times. 

It has before been shown, that, as soon as the food 
enters the stomach, the muscles are excited by the 
nerves, and the peristaltic motion commences. This 
,is a powerful and constant exercise of the muscles of 
the stomach, which continues until the process of di- 
gestion is complete. During this time, the blood is 
withdrawn from other parts of the system, to supply 
the demands of the stomach, which is laboring hard 
with all its muscles. When this motion ceases, and 
the digested food has gradually passed out of the 
stomach. Nature requires that it should have a period 
of repose. And if another meal be eaten, immediate- 
ly after one is digested, the stomach is set to work 
again, before it has had time to rest, and before a 
sufficient supply of gastric juice is provided. 

The general rule, then, is, that three hours be given 
to the stomach for labor, and two for rest; and in 
obedience to this, five hours, at least, ought to elapse 
between every two regular meals. In cases where 
exercise produces a flow of perspiration, more food is 
needed to supply the loss ; and strong laboring men 
may safely eat as often as they feel the want of food. 
So, young and healthy children, who gambol and exer- 
cise much, and whose bodies grow fast, may have a 
more frequent supply of food. But, as a general rule, 
meals should be five hours apart, and eating between 
meals avoided. There is nothing more unsafe, and 
wearing to the constitution, than a habit of eating at 
any time, merely to gratify the palate. When a tempt- 



ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 97 

ing article is presented, every person should exercise 
sufficient self-denial, to wait till the proper time for 
eating arrives. Children, as well as grown persons, 
are often injured, by eating between their regular 
meals, thus weakening the stomach, by not affording 
it any time for rest. 

In deciding as to quantity of food, there is one 
great difficulty to be met by a large portion of the 
community. It has been shown, that the exercise of 
every part of the body is indispensable to its health 
and perfection. The bones, the muscles, the nerves, 
the organs of digestion and respiration, and the skin, 
all demand exercise, in order properly to perform their 
fu^ijictions. When the muscles of the body are called 
into action, all the blood-vessels entwined among them 
are frequently compressed. As the arteries are so con- 
trived, that the blood cannot run back, this compression 
hastens it forward, through the veins, towards that 
organ. The heart is immediately put in quicker mo- 
tion, to send it into the lungs ; and they, also, are thus 
stimulated to more rapid action, which is the cause of 
that panting which active exercise always occasions. 
The blood thus courses with greater celerity through 
the body, and sooner loses its nourishing properties. 
Then the stomach issues its mandate of hunger, and a 
new supply of food must be furnished. Thus it ap- 
pears, as a general rule, that the quantity of food, 
actually needed by the body, depends on the amount 
of muscular exercise taken. A laboring man, in the 
open fields, probably throws off from his skin ten times 
the amount of perspirable matter, which is evolved 
from the skin of a person of sedentary pursuits. In 
consequence of this, he demands a far greater amount 
of food and drink. 

Those persons, who keep their bodies in a state of 
health, by sufficient exercise, can always be guided 
by the calls of hunger. They can eat when they 
feel hungry, and stop when hunger ceases ; and then 
they will calculate exactly right. But the difficulty is, 

9 D. E. 



98 ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 

that a large part of the community, especially women, 
are so inactive in their habits, that they seldom feel the 
calls of hunger. They habitually eat, merely to gratify 
the palate. This produces such a state of the system, 
that they have lost the guide which Nature has pro- 
vided. They are not called to eat, by hunger, nor 
admonished, by its cessation, when to stop. In con- 
sequence of this, such persons eat what pleases the 
palate, till they feel no more inclination for the article. 
It is probable, that three fourths of the women, in the 
wealthier circles, sit down to each meal without any 
feeling of hunger, and eat merely on account of the 
gratification thus afforded them. Such persons find 
their appetite to depend almost solely upon the kind 
of food on the table. This is not the case with those, 
who take the exercise which Nature demands. They 
approach their meals in such a state that almost any 
kind of food is acceptable. 

The question then arises, how are persons, who 
have lost the guide which Nature has provided, to 
determine as to the proper amount of food they shall 
take? 

The only rules they can adopt, are of a general 
nature ; founded on the principles already developed. 
They should endeavor to proportion their food to the 
amount of the exercise they ordinarily take. If they 
take but little exercise, they should eat but little food 
in comparison with those who are much in the open 
air and take much exercise ; and their food should be 
chiefly vegetable, and not animal. But how often is it 
seen, that a student, or a man who sits all day in an 
office, or a lady who spends the day in her parlor and 
chamber, will sit down to a loaded table, and, by con- 
tinuing to partake of the tempting varieties, in the end 
load the stomach with a supply, which a stout farmer 
iould scarcely digest. 

But the health of a family depends, not merely on 
the quantity of food taken ; but very much, also, on 
the quality. Some kinds of food are very pernicious 



ON HEALTHFUL. FOOD. 9^ 

in their nature, and some healthful articles are rendered 
very injurious by the mode of cooking. Persons who 
have a strong constitution, and take much exercise, 
may eat almost any thing, with apparent impunity ; 
but young children, who are forming their constitu- 
tions, and persons who are delicate, and who take but 
little exercise, are very dependent for health, on a 
proper selection of food. 

There are some general principles, which may aid 
in regulating the judgement on this subject. 

It is found, that there are some kinds of food which 
afford nutriment to the blood, and do not produce any 
other effect on the system. There are other kinds, 
which are not only nourishing, but stimulating^ so that 
they quicken the functions of the organs on which 
they operate. The condiments used in cookery, such 
as pepper, mustard, and spices, are of this nature. 
There are certain states of the system, when these 
stimulants are beneficial ; but it is only in cases where 
there is some debility. Such cases can only be pointed 
out by medical men. But persons in perfect health, 
and especially young children, never receive any benefit 
from such kind of food; and just in proportion as con- 
diments operate to quicken the labors of the internal 
organs, they tend to wear down their powers. A per- 
son who thus keeps the body working under an un- 
natural excitement, lives faster than Nature designed, 
and the sooner the constitution is worn out. A woman, 
therefore, should provide dishes for her family, which 
are free from these stimulating condiments, and as 
much as possible prevent their use. It is also found, 
by experience, that animal food is more stimulating 
than vegetable. This is the reason vi^hy, in cases of 
fevers, or inflammations, medical men forbid the use 
of meat and butter. Animal food supplies chyle much 
more abundantly than vegetable food does; and this 
chyle is more stimulating in its nature. Of course, 
a person who lives chiefly on animal food, is under 
a higher degree of stimulus than if his food was chiefly 



100 ON HEALTHFUL TOOD. 

composed of vegetable substances. His blood will 
flow faster, and all the functions of his body will be 
quickened. 

This makes it important to secure a proper propor- 
tion of animal and vegetable diet. Some medical men 
suppose, that an exclusively vegetable diet is proved, 
by the experience of many individuals, to be fully 
sufficient to nourish the body ; and bring, as evidence, 
the fact, that some of the strongest and most robust 
men in the world, are those, who are trained, from 
infancy, exclusively on vegetable food. From this, they 
infer, that life will be shortened, just in proportion as 
the diet is changed to more stimulating articles ; and 
that, all other things being equal, children will have 
a better chance of health and long life, if they are 
brought up solely on vegetable food. 

But, though this is not the common opinion of medi- 
cal men, they all agree, that, in America, far too large a 
portion of the diet consists of animal food. As a nation, 
the Americans are proverbial for the gross and luxurious 
diet with which they load their tables ; and there can 
be no doubt that the general health of the Nation would 
be increased, by a change in our customs in this respect. 
To take meat but once a day, and this in small quanti- 
ties, compared with the common practice, is a rule, the 
observance of which would probably greatly reduce the 
amount of fevers, eruptions, headaches, bilious attacks, 
and the many other ailments which are produced or 
aggravated by too gross a diet. 

The celebrated Roman physician, Baglivi, (who, 
from practising extensively among Roman Catholics, 
had ample opportunities to observe,) mentions, that, 
in Italy, an unusual number of people recover their 
health in the forty days of Lent, in consequence of the 
lower diet which is required as a religious duty. An 
American physician remarks, " For every reehng drunk- 
ard that disgraces our Country, it contains one hundred 
gluttons ; — persons, I mean, who eat to excess, and 
suffer in consequence." Another distinguished physi- 



ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 101 

cian says, "I believe that every stomach, not actually 
impaired by organic disease, vv^ill perform its functions, 
if it receives reasonable attention ; and vi^hen we per- 
ceive the manner in which diet is generally conducted, 
both in regard to quantity and variety of articles of food 
and drink, which are mixed up in one heterogeneous 
mass, — instead of being astonished at the prevalence of 
indigestion, our wonder must rather be, that, in such cir- 
cumstances, any stomach is capable of digesting at all." 

In regard to articles which are the most easily di- 
gested, only general rules can be given. Tender meats 
are digested more readily than those which are tough, 
or than many kinds of vegetable food. The farinaceous 
articles, such as rice, flour, corn, potatoes, and the like, 
are the most nutritious, and most easily digested. The 
popular notion, that meat is more nourishing than bread, 
is a great mistake. Good bread contains one third more 
nourishment than butcher's meat. The meat is more 
stimulating, and for this reason is more readily digested. 
A perfectly healthy stomach can digest almost any 
healthful food ; but when the digestive powers are weak, 
every stomach has its peculiarities, and what is good for 
one, is hurtful to another. In such cases, experiment, 
alone, can decide, which are the most digestible articles 
of food. A person, whose food troubles him, must de- 
duct one article after another, till he learns, by expe- 
rience, which is the best for digestion. Much evil has 
been done, by assuming that the powers of one stomach 
are to be made the rule in regulating every other. 

The most unhealthful kinds of food, are those, which 
are made so by bad cooking ; such as sour and heavy 
bread, cakes, pie-crust, and other dishes consisting of 
fat, mixed and cooked with flour ; also rancid butter, 
and high-seasoned food. The fewer mixtures there are 
in cooking, the more healthful is the food likely to be. 

There is one caution, as to the mode of eating, which 
seems peculiarly needful to Americans. It is indispen- 
sable to good digestion, that food be well chewed and 
taken slowly. It needs to be thoroughly chewed, in 

9* D. E. 



102 6j^ Healthful food. 

order to prepare it for the action of the gastric juice, 
which, by the peristaltic motion, will be thus brought 
into universal contact with the minute portions. It has 
been found, that a solid lump of food requires much 
more time and labor of the stomach, than divided sub- 
stances. It has also been found, that, as each bolus, or 
mouthful, enters the stomach, the latter closes, until 
the portion received has had some time to move around 
and combine with the gastric juice ; and that the orifice 
of the stomach resists the entrance of any more, till this 
is accomphshed. But, if the eater persists in swallow- 
ing fast, the stomach yields ; the food is then poured in 
more rapidly than the organ can perform its duty of 
digestion ; and evil results are sooner or later developed. 
This exhibits the folly of those hasty meals, so common 
to travellers, and to men of business, and shows why 
children should be taught to eat slowly. 

After taking a full meal, it is very important to health, 
that no great bodily or mental exertion be made, till 
the labor of the stomach is over. Intense mental effort 
draws the blood to the head, and muscular exertions 
draw it to the muscles ; and in consequence of this, the 
stomach loses the supply which it requires when per- 
forming its office. When the blood is thus withdrawn, 
the adequate supply of gastric juice is not afforded, and 
indigestion is the result. The heaviness which follows 
a full meal, is the indication which Nature gives of the 
need of quiet. When the meal is moderate, a sufficient 
quantity of gastric juice is exuded in an hour, or an 
hour and a half; after which, labor of body and mind 
may safely be resumed. 

When undigested food remains in the stomach, and 
is at last thrown out into the bowels, it proves an irri- 
tating substance, producing an inflamed state in the 
lining of the stomach and other organs. The same 
effect is produced by alcoholic drinks. 

It is found, that the stomach has the power of grad- 
ually accommodating its digestive powers to the food 
it habitually receives. Thus, animals, which live on 



ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 103 

vegetables, can gradually become accustomed to animal 
food ; and the reverse is equally true. Thus, too, the 
human stomach can eventually accomplish the digestion 
of some kinds of food, which, at first, were indigestible. 

But any changes of this sort should be gradual ; as 
those which are sudden, are trying to the powers of the 
stomach, by furnishing matter for which its gastric juice 
is not prepared. 

In regard to the nature of the meals prepared, the 
breakfast should furnish a supply of liquids, because the 
body has been exhausted by the exhalations of the 
night, and demands them more than at any other 
period. It should not be the heartiest meal, because 
the organs of digestion are weakened by long fasting, 
and the exhalations. Dinner should be the heartiest 
meal, because then the powers of digestion are strength- 
ened, by the supplies of the morning meal. Light and 
amusing employments should occupy mind and body 
for an hour or more after a full meal. 

But little drink should be taken, while eating, as it 
dilutes the gastric juice which is apportioned to each 
quantity of food as it enters the stomach. It is better 
to take drink after the meal is past. 

Extremes of heat or cold are injurious to the process 
of digestion. Taking hot food or drink, habitually, 
tends to debilitate all the organs thus needlessly excited. 
In using cold substances, it is found that a certain de- 
gree of warmth in the stomach is indispensable to their 
digestion; so that, when the gastric juice is cooled 
below this temperature, it ceases to act. Indulging in 
large quantities of cold drinks, or eating ice-creams, 
after a meal, tends to reduce the temperature of the 
stomach, and thus to stop digestion. This shows the 
folly of those refreshments, in convivial meetings, where 
the guests are tempted to load the stomach with a va- 
riety, such as would require the stomach of a stout 
farmer to digest, and then to wind up with ice-creams, 
thus destroying whatever ability might otherwise have 
existed, to digest the heavy load. The fittest tempera- 



104 ON HEALTHFUL. FOOD. 

ture for drinks, if taken when the food is in the digest- 
ing process, is blood heat. Cool drinks, and even ice, 
can be safely taken at other times, if not in excessive 
quantity. When the thirst is excessive, or the body 
weakened by fatigue, or when in a state of perspiration, 
cold drinks are injurious. When the body is perspiring 
freely, taking a large quantity of cold drink has often 
produced instant death. 

Fluids taken into the stomach are not subject to 
the slow process of digestion, but are immediately ab- 
sorbed and carried into the blood. This is the reason 
why drink, more speedily than food, restores from ex- 
haustion. The minute vessels of the stomach inhale 
or absorb its fluids, which are carried into the blood, 
just as the minute extremities of the arteries open 
upon the inner surface of the stomach, and there 
exude the gastric juice from the blood. 

When food is chiefly hquid, (soup, for example,) 
the fluid part is rapidly absorbed. The solid parts 
remain, to be acted on by the gastric juice. In the 
case of St. Martin,* in fifty minutes after taking soup, 
the fluids were absorbed, and the remainder was even 
thicker than is usual after eating solid food. This is 
the reason why soups are deemed bad for weak stom- 
achs ; as this residuum is more difficult of digestion 
than ordinary food. In recovering from sickness, beef- 
tea and broths are good, because the system then de- 
mands fluids to supply its loss of blood. 

Highly-concentrated food, having much nourishment 
in a small bulk, is not favorable to digestion, because 

* The individual here referred to, — Alexis St. Martin,— was a 
young Canadian, of eighteen years of age, of a good constitution 
and robust health, who, in 1822, was accidentally wounded by the dis- 
charge of a musket, which carried away a part of the ribs, lacerated 
one of the lobes of the lungs, and perforated the stomach, making a 
large aperture, which never closed ; and which enabled Dr. Beau- 
mont, (a surgeon of the American army, stationed at Michilimackinac, 
under whose care the patient was placed,) to witness all the processes 
of digestion and other functions of the body, for several years. The 
published account of the experiments made by Dr. B., is highly inter 
esling and instructive. 



ON HEALTHFUL FOOD. 105 

it cannot be properly acted on by the muscular con- 
tractions of the stomach, and is not so minutely di- 
vided, as to enable the gastric juice to act properly. 
This is the reason, why a certain hulk of food is need- 
ful to good digestion ; and why those people, who live 
on whale oil, and other highly-nourishing food, in cold 
chmates, mix vegetables and even sawdust with it, to 
make it more acceptable and digestible. So, in civil- 
ized lands, bread, potatoes, and vegetables, are mixed 
with more highly-concentrated nourishment. This ex- 
plains why coarse bread, of unbolted wheat, so often 
proves beneficial. Where, from inactive habits, or oth- 
er causes, the bowels become constipated and sluggish, 
this kind of food proves the appropriate remedy. One 
fact on this subject is worthy of notice. Under the 
administration of WiUiam Pitt, for two years or more, 
there was such a scarcity of wheat, that, to make it 
hold out longer, ParUament passed a law, that the 
army should have all their bread made of unbolted 
flour. The result was, that the health of the soldiers 
improved so much, as to be a subject of surprise to 
themselves, the officers, and the physicians. These 
last came out publicly, and declared, that the soldiers 
never before were so robust and healthy ; and that 
disease had nearly disappeared from the army. The 
civic physicians joined and pronounced it the healthiest 
bread ; and, for a time, schools, families, and public 
institutions, used it almost exclusively. Even the no- 
bility, convinced by these facts, adopted it for their 
common diet ; and the fashion continued a long time 
after the scarcity ceased, until more luxurious habits 
resumed their sway. For this reason, also, soups, 
gellies, and arrow-root, should have bread or crackers 
mixed with them. We thus see why children should 
not have cakes and candies allowed them between 
meals. These are highly-concentrated nourishments, 
and should be eaten with more bulky and less nourish- 
ing substances. The most indigestible of all kinds of 
food, are fatty and oily substances ; especially if heat 



106 ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 

ed. It is on this account, that pie-crust, and articles 
boiled and fried in fat or butter, are deemed not so 
healthful as other food. 

The following, then, may be put down as the causes 
of a debilitated constitution, from the misuse of food. 
Eating too much, eating too often, eating too fast, eating 
food and condiments that are too stimulating, eating 
food that is too warm or too cold, eating food that is 
highly-concentrated, without a proper admixture of less 
nourishing matter, and eating food that is difficult of 
digestion. 



CHAPTER VII. 



ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 



Although intemperance in eating is probably the 
most prolific cause of the diseases of mankind^ intem- 
perance in drink has produced more guilt, misery, and 
crime, than any other one cause. And the responsi- 
bilities of a woman, in this particular, are very great ; 
for the habits and liabilities of those under her care, 
will very much depend on her opinions and practice. 

It is a point fully established by experience, that 
the full developement of the human body, and the 
vigorous exercise of all its functions, can be secured 
without the use of stimulating drinks. It is, therefore, 
perfectly safe, to bring up children never to use them ; 
no hazard being incurred, by such a course. 

It is also found, by experience, that there are two 
evils incurred, by the use of stimulating drinks. The 
first, is, their positive effect on the human system. 
Their peculiarity consists in so exciting the nervous 
systemj that all the functions of the body are accel- 
erated, and the fluids are caused to move quicker than 
at their natural speed. This incueased motion of the 
animal fluids, always produces an agreeable effect on 
the mind. The intellect is invigorated, the imagina- 



ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 107 

tion is excited, the spirits are enlivened; and these 
effects are so agreeable, that all mankind, after having 
once experienced them, feel a great desire for their 
repetition. 

But this temporary invigoration of the system, is 
always followed by a diminution of the powers of the 
stimulated organs ; so that, though in all cases this 
reaction may not be perceptible, it is invariably the 
result. It may be set down as the unchangeable rule 
of physiology, that stimulating drinks (except in cases 
of disease) deduct from the powers of the constitution, 
in exactly the proportion in which they operate to pro- 
duce temporary invigoration. 

The second evil, is, the temptation which always 
attends the use of stimulants. Their effect on the 
system is so agreeable, and the evils resulting are so 
imperceptible and distant, that there is a constant ten- 
dency to increase such excitement, both in frequency 
and power. And the more the system is thus reduced 
in strength, the more craving is the desire for that 
which imparts a temporary invigoration. This process 
of increasing debility and increasing craving for the 
stimulus that removes it, often goes to such an extreme, 
that the passion is perfectly uncontrollable, and mind 
and body perish under this baleful habit. 

In this Country, there are five forms in which the 
use of such stimulants is common ; namely, alcoholic 
drinks, tea, coffee, opium mixtures, and tobacco. These 
are all alike, in the main peculiarity of imparting that 
extra stimulus to the system, which tends to exhaust its 
powers. 

Multitudes in this Nation are in the habitual use of 
some one of these stimulants ; and each person defends 
the indulgence by these arguments : 

First, that the desire for stimulants is a natural pro- 
pensity, implanted in man's nature, as is manifest from 
the universal tendency to such indulgences, in every 
nation. From this, it is inferred, that it is an innocent 
desire, which ought to be gratified, to some extent, and 



108 ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 

that the aim should be, to keep it within the hmits of 
temperance, instead of attempting to exterminate a 
natural propensity. 

This is an argument, which, if true, makes it equally 
proper to use opium, brandy, tea, or tobacco, as stimu- 
lating principles, provided they are used temperately. 
But, if it be granted that perfect health and strength 
can be gained and secured without these stimulants, 
and that their peculiar effect is to diminish the powei 
of the system, in exactly the same proportion as they 
stimulate it, then there is no such thing as a temperate 
use, unless they are so diluted, as to destroy any stimu- 
lating power ; and in this form, they are seldom desired. 
The other argument for their use, is, that they are 
among the good things provided by the Creator, for our 
gratification ; that, like all other blessings, they are ex- 
posed to abuse and excess ; and that we should rather 
seek to regulate their use, than to banish them entirely. 
This argument is based on the assumption, that they 
are, like healthful foods and drinks, necessary to life and 
health, and injurious only by excess. But this is not 
true ; for, whenever they are used in any such strength 
as to be a gratification, they operate, to a greater or less 
extent, as stimulants; and, to just such extent, they 
wear out the powers of the constitution ; and it is abun- 
dantly proved, that they are not, like food and drink, 
necessary to health. Such articles are designed for med- 
icine, and not for common use. There can b ^ no ar- 
gument framed to defend the use of one of thom, which 
will not equally defend all. That men have a love for 
being stimulated, after they have once felt the pleasura- 
ble excitement, and that Providence has provided the 
means for securing it, are arguments as much in favor 
of alcohol, opium, and tobacco, as of coffee and tea. 
All that can be said in favor of the last-mentioned fa- 
vorite beverages, is, that the danger in their use is not 
so great. Let any one, who defends one kind of stimu- 
lating drink, remember, then, that he uses an argument, 
which, if it be allowed that stimulants are not needed, 

4 



ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 109 

and are injurious, will equally defend all kinds; and 
that all which can be said in defence of tea and coffee, 
is, that they may be used, so weak, as to do no harm, 
and that they actually have done less harm than some 
of the other stimulating narcotics. 

The writer is of opinion, that tea and coffee are a 
most extensive cause of much of the nervous debility 
and suffering endured by American women ; and that 
relinquishing such drinks would save an immense amount 
of such suffering. But there is little probabiUty that 
the present generation will make so decided a change 
in their habits, as to give up these beverages ; and the 
subject is presented rather in reference to forming the 
habits of children. 

It is a fact, that tea and coffee are, at first, seldom or 
never agreeable to children. It is the mixture of njilk, 
sugar, and water, that reconciles them to a taste, which 
in this manner gradually becomes agreeable. Now, 
suppose that those who provide for a family conclude 
that it is not their duty to give up entirely the use of 
stimulating drinks, may not the case appear different, in 
regard to teaching their children to love such drinks ? 
Let the matter be regarded thus : — The experiments 
of physiologists all prove, that stimulants are not need- 
ful to health, and that, as the general rule, they tend to 
debilitate the constitution. Is it right, then, for a parent 
to tempt a child to drink what is not needful, when 
there is a probability that it will prove, to some extent, 
an undermining drain on the constitution ? Some con- 
stitutions can bear much less excitement than others ; 
and, in every family of children, there is usually one, or 
more, of delicate organization, and consequently pecu- 
liarly exposed to dangers from this source. It is this 
child who ordinarily becomes the victim to stimulating 
drinks. The tea and coffee which the parents and the 
healthier children can use without immediate injury, 
gradually sap the energies of the feebler child, who 
proves either an early victim, or a living martyr to all 
the sufferings that debilitated nerves inflict. Can it be 

10 D. E. 



110 ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. 

right, to lead children, where all allow that there is some 
danger, and where, in many cases, disease and death are 
met, when another path is known to be perfectly safe ? 

Of the stimulating drinks in common use, black tea 
is least injurious, because its flavor is so strong, in com- 
parison with its narcotic principle, that one who uses it, 
is much less liable to excess. Children can be trained 
to love milk and water sweetened with sugar, so that it 
will always be a pleasant beverage ; or, if there are ex- 
ceptions to the rule, they will be few. Water is an 
tinfailing resort. Every one loves it, and it is perfect- 
ly healthful. 

The impression, common in this Country, that warm 
drinks, especially in Winter, are more healthful than 
cold, is not warranted by any experience, nor by the 
laws of the physical system. At dinner, cold drinks 
are universal, and no one deems them injurious. It is 
only at the other two meals that they are supposed to 
be hurtful. 

There is no doubt that warm drinks are healthful, 
and more agreeable than cold, at certain times and sea- 
sons ; but it is equally true, that drinks above blood 
heat are not healthful. If any person should hold a 
finger iii hot water, for a considerable time, twice every 
day, it would be found that the finger would gradually 
grow weaker. The frequent apphcation of the stimu- 
lus of heat, like all other stimulants, eventually causes 
debility If, therefore, a person is in the habit of drink- 
ing hot drinks, twice a day, the teeth, throat, and 
stomach are gradually debihtated. This, most proba- 
bly, IS one of the causes of an early decay of the teeth, 
which is observed to be much more common among 
American ladies, than among those in European coun- 
tries. 

It has been stated to the writer, by an intelligent 
traveller who had visited Mexico, that it was rare to 
meet an individual with even a tolerable set of teeth ; 
and that almost every grown person, he met in the 
street, had merely remnants of teeth. On inquiry into 



ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS. Ill 

the customs of the Country, it was found, that it was 
the universal practice to take their usual beverage at 
almost the boiling point ; and this, doubtless, was the 
chief cause of the almost entire want of teeth in that 
Country. In the United States, it cannot be doubted 
that much evil is done, in this way, by hot drinks. 
Most tea-drinkers consider tea as ruined, if it slands 
until it reaches the healthful temperature for drink. 

The following extract from Dr. Andrew Combe, pre- 
sents the opinion of most intelligent medical men, on 
this subject.* 

" Water is a safe drink for all constitutions, provided 
it be resorted to in obedience to the dictates of natural 
thirst, only, and not of habit. Unless the desire for it 
is felt, there is no occasion for its use during a meal." 

" The primary effect of all distilled and fermented 
liquors, is, to stimulate the nervous system and quicken 
the circulation. In infancy and childhood, the circula- 
tion is rapid, and easily excited ; and the nervous sys- 
tem is strongly acted upon, even by the slightest external 
impressions. Hence slight causes of irritation readily 
excite febrile and convulsive disorders. In youth, the 
natural tendency of the constitution is still to excite- 
ment ; and consequently, as a general rule, the stimulus 
of fermented hquors is injurious." 

These remarks show, that parents, who find that 
stimulating drinks are not injurious to themselves, may 
mistake in inferring, from this, that they will not be in- 
jurious to their children. 

Dr. Combe continues thus : " In mature age, when 
digestion is good and the system in full vigor, if the 
mode of life be not too exhausting, the nervous func- 
tions and general circulation are in their best condition, 
and require no stimulus for their support. The bodily 
energy is then easily sustained, by nutritious food and a 
regular regimen, and consequ^tly artificial excitement 

* The writer would here remark, in reference to extracts made from 
various authors, that, for the sake of abridging, she has often left out 
parts of a paragraph, but never so as to modify the meaning of the 
author. Some ideas, not connected with the subject in hand, are 
omitted, b»j* nf»n« are altered. 



112 ON CLOTHING. 

only increases the wasting of the natural strength. In 
old age, when the powers of life begin to fail, moderate 
stimulus may be used with evident advantage." 

It may be asked, in this connection, why the stimu- 
lus of animal food is not to be regarded in the same 
light, as that of stimulating drinks. In reply, a very 
essential difference may be pointed out. Animal food 
furnishes nutriment to the organs which it stimulates, 
but stimulating drinks excite the organs to quickened 
action, without affording any nourishment. 

It has been supposed, by some, that tea and coffee 
have, at least, a degree of nourishing power. But 
it is proved, that it is the milk and sugar, and not the 
main portion of the drink, which imparts the nourish- 
ment. Tea has not one particle of nourishing proper- 
ties ; and what Httle exists in the coffee-berry, is lost by 
roasting it in the usual mode. All that these articles 
do, is simply to stimulate, ivithout nourishing. 

Recent discoveries in the healing art have proved 
that cold water has a most powerful and yet very safe 
influence in restoring health in many diseases. It has 
been proved that the free drinking of cold water, at 
any time except v^hen the stomach is loaded with 
food, is very promotive of health. Habits of costive- 
ness may often be remedied by drinking two glasses 
of cold water and then taking a walk, following this 
by two glasses of the same on returning. This must be 
done before breakfast. To this may be added a loosen- 
ing diet of cooked fruit, and bread of unbolted wheat. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



ON CLOTHING. 



It appears, by calculations made from bills of mor- 
tality, that one quarter of the human race perishes 
in infancy. This is a fact not in accordance with 
the analogy of Nature. No such mortality prevails 



ON CLOTHING. 113 

among the young of animals; it does not appear to 
be the design of the Creator ; and it must be owing 
to causes which can be removed. Medical men agree 
in the opinion, that a great portion of this mortality, is 
owing to mismanagement, in reference to fresh air, 
food, and clothing. 

At birth, the circulation is chiefly in the vessels of 
the skin ; for the liver and stomach, being feeble in ac- 
tion, demand less blood, and it resorts to the surface. 
If, therefore, an infant be exposed to cold, the blood is 
driven inward, by the contracting of the blood-vessels 
in the skin ; and, the internal organs being thus over- 
stimulated, bowel complaints, croup, convulsions, or 
some other evil, ensues. This shows the sad mistake 
of parents, who plunge infants in cold water to strength- 
en their constitution ; and teaches, that infants should 
be washed in warm water, and in a warm room. Some 
have constitutions strong enough to bear mismanagement 
in these respects ; but many fail in consequence of it. 

Hence we see the importance of dressing infants 
warmly, and protecting them from exposure to a cold 
temperature. It is for this purpose, that mothers, now, 
very generally, cover the arms and necks of infants, 
especially in Winter. Fathers and mothers, if they 
were obliged to go with bare arms and necks, even in 
moderate weather, would often shiver with cold ; and 
yet they have a power of constitution which would sub- 
ject them to far less, hazard and discomfort, than a deli- 
cate infant must experience from a similar exposure. 
This mode of dressing infants, with bare necks and 
arms, has arisen from the common impression, that they 
have a power of resisting cold superior to older persons. 
This is a mistake ; for the experiments of medical men 
have established the fact, that the power of producing 
heat is least in the period of infancy. 

Extensive investigations have been made in France, 

in reference to this point. It is there required, in some 

districts, that every infant, at birth, be carried to the 

office of the maire, \mayor,\ to be registered. It is 

10* D. E. 



114 ON CLOTHING. 

found, in these districts, that the deaths of newly-born 
infants, are much more numerous in the cold, than in 
the warm, months ; and that a much greater proportion 
of such deaths occurs among those who reside at a dis- 
tance from the office of the maire, than among those in 
its vicinity. This proves, that exposure to cold has 
much to do with the continuance of infant hfe. 

But it is as dangerous to go to the other extreme, and 
keep the body too warm. The skin, when kept at too 
high a temperature, is relaxed and weakened by too 
profuse perspiration, and becomes more sensitive, and 
more readily affected by every change of temperature. 
This increases the liabilities to sudden colds; and it 
frequently happens, that the children, who are most 
carefully guarded from cold, are the ones most liable to 
take sudden and dangerous chills. The reason is, that, 
by the too great accumulation of clothing, the skin is too 
much excited, and the blood is withdrawn from the in- 
ternal organs, thus weakening them, while the skin 
itself is debilitated by the same process. 

The rule of safety, is, so to cover the body, as to 
keep it entirely warm, but not so as to induce perspira- 
tion in any part. The perspiration induced by exercise 
is healthful, because it increases the appetite ; but the 
perspiration produced by excess of clothing is debili- 
tating. This shows the importance of adjusting beds 
and their covering to the season. Featherbeds are un- 
healthful in warm weather, because they induce perspi- 
ration ; and in all cases, those, who have the care of 
children, should proportion their covering by night to 
the season of the year. Infants and children should 
never be so clothed, as either to feel chilly, or to induce 
perspiration. 

The gi-eatest trouble, in this respect, to those who 
have the care of children, is owing to their throwing off 
their covering in the night. The best guard, against 
such exposures, is a nightgown, of the warmest and 
thickest material, made like pantaloons at the lower part, 
and the legs long, so that they can be tied over the feet. 



ON CLOTHING. 115 

This makes less covering needful, and saves the child 
from excessive cold vi^hen it is thrown off. 

The clothing ought always to be proportioned to the 
constitution and habits. A person of strong constitu- 
tion, who takes much exercise, needs less clothing than 
one of delicate and sedentary habits. According to 
this rule, women need much thicker and warmer cloth- 
ing, when they go out, than men. But how different 
are our customs, from what sound wisdom dictates! 
Women go out with thin stockings, thin shoes, and 
open necks, when men are protected by thick woollen 
hose and boots, and their whole body encased in many 
folds of flannel and broadcloth. 

On the subject of wearing woolens next the skin, the 
medical profession are changing their opinions. Here- 
tofore it has been considered important for young chil- 
dren and invahds to wear flannel next the skin, but 
now it is believed that the constant friction of the flan- 
nel tends to debilitate the skin, and that the good to be 
secured by wearing flannel, without this evil, is gained 
by having it over an under-garment of cotton. Wear- 
ing flannel next the skin, through the night, is especial- 
ly injurious, and therefore the woolen night-gowns of 
young children and invalids should never be worn next 
the skin. It has often been found that persons who have 
suffered from rheumatism, and on this account have 
worn flannel next the skin, have been relieved from 
this disease by simply leaving off the flannel. 

The best protection against sudden changes, and 
against the malaria of disease or bad climate, is to 
strengthen the skin by frequent ablutions of the whole 
body in cold water. All persons, by a gradual process, 
can accustom themselves to this, without any danger, 
and with immense benefits. Cold bathing should al- 
ways be followed by exercise, continued until a glow 
is produced. It never should be taken till three hours 
after eating. Infants should gradually be accustomed 
to cold water after the second month, and all young chil- 
dren should be washed all over in cold water every day. 

But the practice, by which females probably suffer 



116 ON CLOTHING. 

most, is, the use of tight dresses. Much has been said 
against the use of corsets by ladies. But these may be 
worn with perfect safety, and be left off, and still injury, 
such as they often produce, be equally felt. It is the con- 
striction of dress, that is to be feared, and not any par- 
ticular article that produces it. A frock, or a belt, may 
be so tight, as to be even worse than a corset, which 
would more equally divide the compression. 

So long as it is the fashion to admire, as models of 
elegance, the wasp-like figures which are presented at 
the rooms of mantuamakers and milliners, there will be 
hundreds of foolish women, who will risk their lives 
and health to secure some resemblance to these de- 
formities of the human frame. But it is believed, that 
all sensible women, when they fairly understand the 
evils which result from tight dressing, and learn the real 
model of taste and beauty for a perfect female form, 
will never risk their own health, or the health of their 
daughters, in efforts to secure one which is as much at 
variance with good taste, as it is with good health. ' 

Such female figures as our print-shops present, are 
made, not by the hand of the Author of all grace and 
beauty, but by the murderous contrivances of the corset- 
shop ; and the more a woman learns the true rules of 
grace and beauty for the female form, the more her 
taste will revolt from such ridiculous distortions. The 
folly of the Chinese belle, who totters on two useless 
deformities, is nothing, compared to that of the Ameri- 
can belle, who impedes all the internal organs in the 
discharge of their functions, that she may have a slen 
der waist. 

It was shown, in the article on the bones and mus 
cles, that exercise was indispensable to their growth and 
strength. If any muscles are left unemployed, they 
diminish in size and strength. The girding of tight 
dresses operates thus on the muscles of the body. If 
an article, like corsets, is made to hold up the body, 
then those muscles, which are designed for this purpose, 
are released from duty, and grow weak; so that, after 



ON CLOTHING. 117 

this nas been continued for some time, leaving off the 
unnatural support produces a feeling of weakness. 
Thus a person will complain of feehng so weak and 
unsupported, without corsets, as to be uncomfortable. 
This is entirely owing to the disuse of those muscles, 
which corsets throw out of employ. 

Another effect of tight dress, is, to stop or impede 
the office of the lungs. Unless the chest can expand, 
fully, and with perfect ease, a portion of the lungs is 
not filled with air, and thus the full purification of the 
blood is prevented. This movement of the lungs, when 
they are fully inflated, increases the peristaltic move-i 
ment of the stomach and bowels, and promotes diges- 
tion ; any constriction of the waist tends to impede this 
important operation, and indigestion, with all its attend- 
ant evils, is often the result. 

The rule of safety, in regard to the tightness of dress, 
is this. Every person should be dressed so loosely, 
that, when sitting in the posture used in sewing, reading, 
or study, the lungs can he as fully and as easily in- 
flated, as they are without clothing. Many a woman 
thinks she dresses loosely, because, when she stands 
up, her clothing does not confine her chest. This is 
not a fair test. It is in the position most used when 
engaged in common employments, that we are to judge 
of the constriction of dress. Let every woman, then, 
bear in mind, that, just so long as her dress and posi- 
tion oppose any resistance to the motion of her chest, 
in just such proportion her blood is unpurified, and her 
vital organs are debilitated. 

The English ladies set our countrywomen a good 
example, in accommodating their dress to times and 
seasons. The richest and noblest among them wear 
warm cotton hose and thick shoes, when they walk for 
exercise ; and would deem it vulgar to appear, as many 
of our ladies do, with thin hose and shoes, in damp or 
cold weather. Any mode of dress, not suited to the 
employment, the age, the season, or the means of the 
wearer, is in bad taste. 



n8 ON CLEANLINESS. 



CHAPTER IX. 



ON CLEANLINESS. 



The importance of cleanliness, in person and dress, 
can never be fully realized, by persons who are ignorant 
of the construction of the skin, and of the influence 
which its treatment has on the health of the body. 
Persons deficient in such knowledge, frequently sneer 
at what they deem the foolish and fidgety particularity 
of others, whose frequent ablutions and changes of 
clothing, exceed their own measure of importance. 

The popular maxim,. that " dirt is healthy," has prob- 
ably arisen from the fact, that playing in the open air is 
very beneficial to the health of children, who thus get 
dirt on their persons and clothes. But it is the fresh 
air and exercise, and not the dirt, which promotes the 
health. 

In a previous article, it was shown, that the lungs, 
bowels, kidneys, and skin, were the organs employed 
in throwing off* those waste and noxious parts of the 
food not employed in nourishing the body. Of thisj 
the skin has the largest duty to perform ; throwing off", 
at least, twenty ounces every twenty-four hours, by 
means of insensible perspiration. When exercise sets 
the blood in quicker motion, it ministers its supplies 
faster, and there is consequently a greater residuum to 
be thrown oflf by the skin; and then the perspiration 
becomes so abundant as to be perceptible. In this 
state, if a sudden chill take place, the blood-vessels of 
the skin contract, the blood is driven from the surface, 
and the internal organs are taxed with a double duty. 
If the constitution be a strong one, these organs march 
on and perform the labor exacted. But if any of these 
organs be debilitated, the weakest one generally gives 
way, and some disease ensues. 

One of the most frequent illustrations of this recipro- 



ON CLEANLINESS. 119 

cated action, is afforded by a convivial meeting in cold 
weather. The heat of the room, the food, and the ex- 
citement, quicken the circulation, and perspiration is 
evolved. When the company passes into the cold air, 
a sudden revulsion takes place. The increased circu- 
lation continues, for some time after ; but the skin being 
cooled, the blood retreats, and the internal organs are 
obliged to perform the duties of the skin as well as their 
own. Then, in case the lungs are the weakest organ, 
the mucous secretion becomes excessive ; so that it 
would fill up the cells, and stop the breathing, were it 
not for the spasmodic effort called coughing, by which 
this substance is thrown out. In case the nerves are 
the weakest part of the system, such an exposure would 
result in pains in the head or teeth, or in some other 
nervous ailment. If the muscles be the weakest part, 
rheumatic affections will ensue ; and if the bowels or 
kidneys be weakest, some disorder in their functions 
will result. 

But it is found, that the closing of the pores of the 
skin with other substances, tends to a similar result on 
the internal organs. In this situation, the skin is un- 
able perfectly to perform its functions, and either the 
blood remains to a certain extent unpurified, or else 
the internal organs have an unnatural duty to perform. 
Either of these results tends to produce disease, and 
the gradual decay of the vital powers. 

Moreover, it has been shown, that the skin has the 
power of absorbing into the blood particles retained on 
its surface. In consequence of these peculiarities, the 
skin of the whole body needs to be washed, every day. 
This process removes from the pores the matter exhaled 
from the blood, and also that collected from the atmos- 
phere and other bodies. If this process be not often 
performed, the pores of the skin fill up with the redun- 
dant matter expelled, and being pressed, by the clothing, 
to the surface of the body, the skin is both interrupted 
in its exhaling process, and its absorbents take back into 
the system portions of the noxious matter. Thus the 



120 ON CLEANLINESS. 

blood is not relieved to the extent designed, while it re- 
ceives back noxious particles, which are thus carried to 
the lungs, liver, and every part of the system. 

This is the reason why the articles worn next to the 
skin should often be changed ; and why it is recom- 
mended that persons should not sleep in the article 
they wear next the skin through the day. The alternate 
change and airing of the articles worn next the body by 
day or night, is a practice very favorable to the health 
of the skin. The fresh air has the power of removing 
much of the noxious effluvia received from the body by 
the clothing. It is with reference to this, that on leav- 
ing a bed, its covering should be thrown open and 
exposed to the fresh air. 

The benefit arising from a proper care of the skin, is 
the reason why bathing has been so extensively prac- 
tised by civilized nations. The Greeks and Romans 
considered bathing as indispensable to daily comfort, 
as much so, as their meals ; and public baths were 
provided for all classes. In European countries, this 
practice is very prevalent, but there is no civilized na- 
tion which pays so little regard to the rules of health, 
on this subject, as our own. To wash the face, feet, 
hands, and neck, is the extent of the ablutions practised 
by perhaps the majority of our people. 

All persons m health can use the cold bath with great 
benefit if they follow it with brisk exercise, and even 
invalids, by a gradual process, can accustom them- 
selves to this use of cold water without risk, provided 
exercise be taken immediately after. The shower bath 
is not good for the young nor for nervous persons. If 
it is useful, it can be known by an invigorated feeling, 
and a warm glow on the skin ; but if, instead of this, 
there be a feeling of debility, and the hands and feet 
become cold, it is a certain sign that this kind of bath- 
ing is injurious. The best way to commence cold bath- 
ing is to put the water at 72° Fahrenheit, and then low- 
er it one degree every two or three days, till it is at 
60°, or even colder. After bathing, the body should 



ON CLEANLINESS. 121 

be rubbed with a brush or coarse towel, to remove 
the light scales of scarfskin which adhere to it, and 
also to promote a healthful excitement. 

A bath should never be taken till three hours after 
eating, as it interrupts the process of digestion, by with- 
drawing the blood from the stomach to the surface. 
The cold bath never should be taken when a person 
feels chilly. Neither should it be taken when a per- 
son is suffering great exhaustion from fatigue. The 
best wav is to take it when the skin is warm from the 
bed or from gentle exercise. The common opinion 
that it is dangerous to take a cold bath when in a per- 
spiration is utterly fallacious. The skin is never so abia 
to resist cold as when in a glow of heat. This is the 
reason why the Swedes and Russians can rush, reek- 
ing, out of their steam baths, and throw themselves into 
the snow, and not only escape injury, but feel invigora- 
ted. It is for a similar reason that we suffer less in going 
into the cold from a warm room, with our body entire- 
ly warm, than when we go out somewhat chilled. When 
the skin is warm, the circulation is active on the sur- 
face, and the cold does not so reduce its temperature 
but that increased exercise will keep up its warmth. 

When families have no bathing establishment, every 
member should wash the whole person with cold wa- 
ter immediately on rising, and then take a brisk walk 
before breakfast. It is especially important that chil- 
dren have the perspiration and other impurities, which 
their exercise and sports have occasioned, removed from 
their skin before going to bed. The hours of sleep are 
those when the body most freely exhales the waste mat- 
ter of the system, and all the pores should be properly 
freed from impediments to this healthful operation. 
For this purpose, a large tin wash-pan should be kept 
for children, just large enough, at bottom, for them to 
stand in, and flaring outwardj so as to be very broad at 
top. A child can then be placed in it, standing, and 
washed with a sponge, without wetting the floor. Being 
small at bottom, it is better than a tub ; it is not only 
smaller, but lighter, and requires less water. 

11 D. F.. 



122 ON EARLY RISING. 

These remarks indicate the wisdom of those parents, 
who habitually wash their children, all over, before they 
go to bed. The chance of life and health, to such chil- 
dren, is greatly increased by this practice ; and no doubt 
much of the suffering of childhood, from cutaneous 
eruptions, weak eyes, earache, colds, and fevers, is owing 
to a neglect of the skin. 

The care of the teeth should be made habitual to 
children, not merely as promoting an agreeable appear- 
ance, but as a needful preservative. The saliva contains 
tartar, an earthy substance, which is deposited on the 
teeth, and destroys both their beauty and health. This 
can be prevented, by the use of the brush, night and 
morning. But, if this be neglected, the deposite be- 
comes hard, and can be removed only by the dentist. 
If suffered to remain, it tends to destroy the health of 
the gums ; they gradually decay, and thus the roots of 
the teeth become bare, and they often drop out. 

When children are shedding their first set of teeth, 
care should be taken, to remove them as soon as they 
become loose ; otherwise the new teeth will grow awry. 
When persons have defective teeth, they can often be 
saved, by having them filled by a dentist. This also 
will frequently prevent the toothache. 

Children should be taught to take proper care of their 
nails. Long and dirty nails have a disagreeable appear- 
ance. When children wash, in the morning, they 
should be supplied with an instrument to clean the nails, 
and be required to use it. 



CHAPTER X. 



ON EARLY RISING. 



There is no practice, which has been more exten« 
sively eulogized, in all ages, than early rising ; and this 
universal impression, is an indication that it is founded 



ON EARLY PaSING. 123 

on true pliilosophy. For, it is rarely the case, that the 
common sense of mankind fastens on a practice, as 
really beneficial, especially one that demands self-denial, 
without some substantial reason. 

This practice, which may justly be called a domestic 
virtue, is one, which has a peculiar claim to be styled 
American and democratic. The distinctive mark of 
aristocratic nations, is, a disregard of the great mass, 
and a disproportionate regard for the interests of certain 
privileged orders. All the customs and habits of such 
a nation, are, to a greater or less extent, regulated by 
this principle. Now the mass of any nation must 
always consist of persons who labor at occupations 
which demand the light of day. But in aristocratic 
countries, especially in. England, labor is regarded as 
the mark of the lower classes, and indolence is consid- 
ered as one mark of a gentleman. This impression has 
gradually and imperceptibly, to a great extent, regu- 
lated their customs, so that, even in their hours of meals 
and repose, the higher orders aim at being different and 
distinct from those, who, by laborious pursuits, are 
placed below them. From this circumstance, while the 
lower orders labor by day, and sleep at night, the rich, 
the noble, and the honored, sleep by day, and follow 
their pursuits and pleasures by night. It will be found, 
that the aristocracy of London breakfast near mid-day, 
dine after dark, visit and go to Parliament between ten 
and twelve at night, and retire to sleep towards morn- 
ing. In consequence of this, the subordinate classes, 
who aim at gentility, gradually fall into the same 
practice. The influence of this custom extends across 
the ocean, and here, in this democratic land, we And 
many, who measure their grade of gentility by the late 
hour at which they arrive at a party. And this aristo- 
cratic tendency is growing upon us, so that, throughout 
the Nation, the hours for visiting and retiring are con- 
stantly becoming later, while the hours for rising cor- 
respond in lateness. 

The question, then, is one which appeals to American 



124 ON EARLY RISING. 

women, as a matter of patriotism ; as having a bearing 
on those great principles of democracy, which we con- 
ceive to be equally the principles of Christianity. Shall 
we form our customs on the principle that labor is de- 
grading, and indolence genteel ? Shall we assume, by 
our practic^e, that the interests of the great mass are to 
be sacrificed for the pleasures and honors of a privileged 
few ? Shall we ape the customs of aristocratic lands, 
in those very practices which result from principles and 
institutions that we condemn? Shall we not rather 
take the place to which we are entitled, as the leaders, 
rather than the followers, in the customs of society, 
turn back the tide of aristocratic inroads, and carry 
through the whole, not only of civil and political, but 
of social and domestic, life, the true principles of demo- 
cratic freedom and equality? The following consid- 
erations may serve to strengthen an affirmative decision. 

The first, relates to the health of a family. It is a 
universal law of physiology, that all living things flourish 
best in the light. Vegetables, in a dark cellar, grow 
pale and spindling,* and children, brought up in mines, 
are wan and stinted. This universal law, indicates the 
folly of turning day into night, thus losing the genial 
influence, which the light of day produces on all ani- 
mated creation. 

There is another phenomenon in the physiology of 
Nature, which equally condemns this practice. It has 
been shown, that the purification of the blood, in the 
lungs, is secured, by the oxygen of the atmosphere ab- 
sorbing its carbon and hydrogen. This combination 
forms carbonic acid and water, which are expired from 
our lungs into the atmosphere. Now all the vegetable 
world undergoes a similar process. In the light of day, 
all the leaves of vegetables absorb carbon and expire 
oxygen, thus supplying the air with its vital principle, 
and withdrawing the more deleterious element. But, 
when the light is withdrawn, this process is reversed, 

* Shooting into a long, small stalk or root. 



ON EARLY RISING. 125 

and all vegetables exhale carbonic acid, and inspire tlie 
oxygen of the air. Thus it appears, that the atmosphere 
of day is much more healthful than that of the night, 
especially out of doors. 

Moreover, when the body is fatigued, it is much 
more liable to deleterious influences, from noxious par- 
ticles in the atmosphere, vrhich may be absorbed by 
the skin or the lungs. In consequence of this, the last 
hours of daily labor are more likely to be those of risk, 
especially to delicate constitutions. This is a proper 
reason for retiring to the house and to Slumber, at an 
early hour, that the body may not be exposed to the 
most risk, when, after the exertions of the day, it is 
least able to bear it. 

The observations of medical men, whose inquiries 
have been directed to this point, have decided, that 
from six to eight hours, is the amount of sleep demand- 
ed by persons in health. Some constitutions require as 
much as (eight, and others no more than six, hours of 
repose. But eight hours is the maximum for all per- 
sons in ordinary health, with ordinary occupations. In 
cases of extra physical exertions, or the debility of 
disease, or a decayed constitution, more than this is 
required. Let eight hours, then, be regarded as the 
ordinary period required for sleep, by an industrious 
people, like the Americans. According to this, the 
practice of rising between four and five, and retiring 
between nine and ten, in Summer, would secure most 
of the sunlight, and expose us the least to that period 
of the atmosphere, when it is most noxious. In Win 
ter, the night air is less deleterious, because the. frost 
binds noxious exhalations, and vegetation ceases its in- 
spiring and expiring process ; and, moreover, as the 
constitution is more tried, in cold, than in warm, 
weather, and as in cold weather the body exhales less 
during the hours of sleep, it is not so injurious to pro- 
tract our slumbers beyond the proper period, as it is in 
the warm months. But in Winter, it is best for grown 
persons, in health, to rise as soon as they can see to 
1 1* D. E. 



126 OR EARLY RISING. 

dress, and retire so as not to allow more than eight, 
hours for sleep. 

It thus appears, that the laws of our political con- 
dition, the laws of the natural world, and the constitu- 
tion of our bodies, alike demand that we rise with the 
light of day to prosecute our employments, and that we 
Yetire within doors, when this light is withdrawn. 

In regard to the effects of protracting the time spent 
in repose, many extensive and satisfactory investigations 
have been made. It has been shown, that, during 
sleep, the body perspires most freely, while yet neither 
food nor exercise are ministering to its wants. Of 
course, if we continue our slumbers, beyond the time 
required to restore the body to its usual vigor, there is 
an unperceived undermining of the constitution, by this 
protracted and debilitating exhalation. This process, 
in a course of years, renders the body delicate, and less 
able to withstand disease; and in the result shortens 
life. Sir John Sinclair, who has written a large work 
on the Causes of Longevity, states, as one result of his 
extensive investigations, that he has never yet heard or 
read of a single case of great longevity, where the indi- 
vidual was not an early riser. He says, that he has 
found cases, in which the individual has violated some 
one of all the other laws of health, and yet lived to 
great age ; but never a single instance, in which any 
constitution has withstood that undermining, conse- 
quent on protracting the hours of repose beyond the 
demands of the system. 

Another reason for early rising, is, that it is indispen- 
sable to a systematic and well-regulated family. At 
whatever hour the parents retire, children and do- 
mestics, wearied by play or labor, must retire early. 
Children usually awake with the dawn of light, and 
commence their play, while domestics usually prefer 
the freshness of morning for their labors. If, then, the 
parents rise at a late hour, they either induce a habit 
of protracting sleep in their children and domestics, or 
else the family is up, and at their pursuits, while their 



ON EARLY RISING. 127 

supervisors are in bed. Any woman, who asserts that 
her children and domestics, in the first hours of day, 
whGn their spirits are freshest, will be as well regu- 
lated without her presence, as with it, confesses that, 
which surely is little for her credit. It is believed, that 
any candid woman, whatever may be her excuse for 
late rising, will concede, that, if she could rise early, it 
would be for the advantage of her family. A late 
breakfast puts back the work, through the whole day, 
for every member of a family ; and, if the parents thus 
occasion the loss of an hour or two, to each individual, 
who, but for their delay in the morning, would be use- 
fully employed, they, alone, are responsible for all this 
waste of time. Is it, said, that those, who wish to rise 
early, can go to their employments before breakfast ? it 
may be replied, that, in most cases, it is not safe to use 
the eyes or the muscles in the morning, till the losses 
of the night have been repaired by food. In addition 
to this, it may be urged, that, where the parents set an 
example of the violation of the rules of health and in- 
dustry, their influence tends in the wrong direction ; so 
that whatever waste of time is induced, by a practice 
which they thus uphold, must be set down to their 
account. 

But the practice of early rising has a relation to the 
general interests of the social community, as well as to 
that of each distinct family. All that great portion of 
the community, who are employed in business and 
labor, find it needful to rise early; and all their hours 
of meals, and their appointments for business or pleas- 
ure, must be accommodated to these arrangements. 
Now, if a small portion of the community estabhsh 
very different hours, it makes a kind of jostling, in all 
the concerns and interests of society. The various 
appointments for the public, such as meetings, schools, 
and business hours, must be accommodated to the mass, 
and not to individuals. The few, then, who establish 
domestic habits at variance with the majority, are either 
constantly interrupted in their own arrangements, or 



1^8 ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 

else are interfering with the rights and interests of 
others. This is exemplified in the case of schools. In 
famihes where late rising is practised, either hurry, 
irregularity, and neglect, are engendered in the family, 
or else the interests of the school, and thus of the com- 
munity, are sacrificed. In this, and many other con- 
cerns, it can be shown, that the well-being of the bulk 
of the people, is, to a greater or less extent, impaired 
by this aristocratic practice. Let any teacher select 
the unpunctuai scholars, — a class who most seriously 
interfere with the interests of the schopl ; — and let men 
of business select those who cause them most waste of 
time and vexation, by unpunctuality ; and it will be 
found, that they are among the late risers, and rarely 
among those who rise early. Thus, it is manifest, that 
late rising not only injures the person and family which 
practise it, but interferes with the rights and conve- 
nience of the community. 



CHAPTER XI. 



ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 



In the preceding chapters, we have noticed the va- 
rious causes, which, one or all, operate to produce that 
melancholy delicacy and decay of the female constitu- 
tion, which are the occasion of so much physical and 
mental suffering throughout this Country. 

These, in a more condensed form, may be enumer- 
ated thus: 

A want of exercise, inducing softness in the bones, 
weakness in the muscles, inactivity in the digestive 
organs, and general debihty in the nervous system : A 
neglect of the care of the skin, whereby the blood has 
not been properly purified, and the internal organs have 
been weakened : A violation of the laws of health, in 
regard to food, by eating too much, too fast, and too 



ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 129 

often ; by using stimulating food and drinks ; by using 
them too warm or too cold ; and by eating that which 
the power of the stomach is not sufficient to digest : A 
neglect of the laws of health, in regard to clothing, by 
dressing too tight, and by wearing too little covering, 
in cold and damp weather, and especially by not 
sufficiently protecting the feet: A neglect to gain a 
proper supply of pure air, in sleeping apartments and 
schoolrooms, and too great a confinement to the house : 
The pursuit of exciting amusements at unseasonable 
hours, and the many exposures involved at such times : 
And lastly, sleeping by day, instead of by night, and pro- 
tracting the hours of sleep, beyond the period of repose 
demanded for rest ; thus exhausting, instead of recruit- 
ing, the energies of the system. , 

But all the other causes, combined, probably, do not 
produce one half the evils, which result from a want of 
proper exercise. A person who keeps all the functions 
of the system in full play, by the active and frequent 
use of every muscle, especially if it be in the open air, 
gains a power of constitution, which can resist many 
evils that would follow from the other neglects and 
risks detailed. This being the case, there can be no 
subject, more important for mothers and young ladies 
to understand, than the influence on the health, both 
of body and mind, of the neglect or abuse of the mus- 
cular system. 

It has been shown, in the previous pages, that all the 
muscles have nerves and blood-vessels, running in larger 
trunks, or minute branches, to every portion of the 
body. The experiments of Sir Charles Bell and others, 
have developed the curious fact, that each apparently 
single nerve, in reality consists of two distinct portions, 
running together in the same covering. One portion, is 
the nerve of sensation or feeling, the other, the nerve 
of motion. The nerves of sensation are those which 
are affected by the emotions and volitions of the mind ; 
and the nerves of motion are those which impart 
moving power to the muscles. Experiments show, 



130 ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 

that, where the nerves issue from the spine, the nerve 
of sensation may be cut off without severing the nerve 
of motion, and then the parts, to which this nerve ex- 
tends, lose the power of feeling, while the power of 
motion continues ; and so, on the other hand, the nerve 
of motion may be divided, and, the nerve of sensation 
remaining uninjured, the power of feeling is retained, 
and the power of motion is lost. 

In certain nervous diseases, sometimes a limb loses 
its power of feeling, and yet retains the power of mo- 
tion ; in other cases, the power of motion is lost, and 
the power of sensation is retained; and in other cases, 
still, when a limb is paralysed, both the power of motion 
and of sensation are lost. 

Now, the nerves, like all other parts of the body, 
gain and lose strength, according as they are exercised. 
If they have too much, or too little, exercise, they lose 
strength ; if they are exercised to a proper degree, they 
gain strength. When the mind is continuously excited, 
by business, study, or the imagination, the nerves of 
feeling are kept in constant action, while the nerves of 
motion are unemployed. If this is continued, for a long 
time, the nerves of sensation lose their strength, from 
over action, and the nierves of motion lose their power, 
from inactivity. In consequence, there is a morbid ex- 
citability of the nervous, and a debility of the mus- 
cular, system, which make all exertion irksome and 
wearisome. The only mode of preserving the health of 
these systems, is, to keep up in them an equilibrium of 
action. For this purpose, occupations must be sought, 
which exercise the muscles, and interest the mind ; and 
thus the equal action of both kinds of nerves is secured. 
This shows why exercise is so much more healthful and 
invigorating, when the mind is interested, than when it 
is not. As an illustration, let a person go a shopping, 
with a friend, and have nothing to do, but look on ; how 
soon do the continuous walking and standing weary! 
But suppose one, thus wearied, hears of the arrival of a 
very de9.r friend : she can instantly walk off a mile or 



ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 131 

two, to meet her, without the least feehng of fatigue. 
By this is shown the importance of furnishing, for young 
persons, exercise in which they will take an interest. 
Long and formal walks, merely for exercise, though 
they do some good, in securing fresh air and some ex- 
ercise of the muscles, would be of triple benefit, if 
changed to amusing sports, or to the cultivation of 
Sruits and flowers, in which it is impossible to engage, 
vvithout acquiring a great interest. It shows, also, why 
A is far better to trust to useful domestic exercise, at 
home, than to send a young person out to walk, for the 
mere purpose of exercise. Young girls can seldom be 
made to reahze the value of health, and the need of 
exercise to secure it, so as to feel much interest in 
walking abroad, when they have no other object. But, 
if they are brought up to minister to the comfort and 
enjoyment of themselves and others, by performing 
domestic duties, they will constantly be interested and 
cheered in their exercise, by the feehng of usefulness, 
and the consciousness of having performed their duty. 

There are few young persons, it is hoped, who are 
brought up with such miserable habits of selfishness and 
indolence, that they cannot be made to feel happier, by 
the consciousness of being usefully employed. And 
those who have never been accustomed to think or care 
for any one but themselves, and who seem to feel httle 
pleasure in making themselves useful, by wise and proper 
influences, can often be gradually awakened to the new 
pleasure of benevolent exertion to promote the comfort 
and enjoyment of others. And the more this sacred and 
elevating kind of enjoyment is tasted, the greater is the 
relish induced. Other enjoyments, often cloy ; but the 
heavenly pleasure, secured by virtuous industry and be- 
nevolence, while it satisfies, at the time, awakens fresh 
desires for so ennobling a good. 

But, besides the favorable influence on the nervous 

and muscular system, thus gained, it has been shown, 

hat exercise imparts fresh strength and vitality to all 

parts of the body. The exertion of the muscles quick- 



132 ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 

ens the flow of the blood, which thus ministers its 
suppKes faster to every part of the body, and, of course, 
loses a portion of its nourishing quahties. When this 
is the case, the stomach issues its mandate of hunger, 
calling for new supplies. When these are furnished, 
the action of the muscles again hastens a full supply to 
every organ, and thus the nerves, the muscles, the 
bones, the skin, and all the internal organs, are invigor- 
ated, and the whole body developes its powers, in fair 
proportions, fresh strength and full beauty. All the 
cosmetics of trade, all the labors of mantuamakers, mil- 
liners, makers of corsets, shoemakers, and hairdressers, 
could never confer so clear and pure a skin, so fresh a 
color, so finely moulded a form, and such cheerful 
health and spirits, as would be secured by training a 
child to obey the laws of the benevolent Creator, in the 
appropriate employment of body and mind in useful 
domestic exercise. And the present habits of the 
wealthy, and even of those without wealth, which con- 
demn young girls so exclusively to books or sedentary 
pursuits, are as destructive to beauty and grace, as they 
are to health and happiness. 

Every allowance should be made for the mistakes of 
mothers and teachers, to whom the knowledge w^hich 
would have saved them from the evils of such a course 
has never been furnished ; but as information, on these 
matters, is every year becoming more abundant, it is 
to be hoped, that the next generation, at least, may be 
saved from the evils which afflict those now on the stage. 
What a change would be made in the happiness of this 
Country, if all the pale and delicate young girls should 
become blooming, healthful, and active, and all the en- 
feebled and care-worn mothers should be transformed 
into such fresh, active, healthful, and energetic matrons, 
as are so frequently found in our mother land ! 

It has been stated, that the excessive use of the 
muscles, as much as their inactivity, tends to weaken 
them. Nothing is more painful, than the keeping a 
muscle constantly on the stretch, without any relaxa- 



ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 133 

tion or change. This can be reahzed, by holding out 
an arm, perpendicularly to the body, for ten or fifteen 
minutes, if any one can so long bear the pain. Of 
course, confinement to one position, for a great length 
of time, tends to weaken the muscles thus strained. 

This shows the evil of confining young children to 
their seats, in the schoolroom, so much and so long 
as is often done. Having no backs to their seats, as 
is generally the case, the muscles, which are employed 
in holding up the body, are kept in a state of constant 
tension, till they grow feeble from overworking. Then, 
the child begins to grow crooked, and the parents, to 
remedy the evil, sometimes put on bracers or corsets. 
These, instead of doing any good, serve to prevent 
the use of those muscles, which, if properly exercised, 
would hold the body straight ; and thus they grow still 
weaker, from entire inacti\^ty. If a parent perceives 
that a child is growing crooked, the proper remedy 
is, to withdraw it from all pursuits which tax one par- 
ticular set of muscles, and turn it out to exercise in 
sports, or in gardening, in the fresh air, when all the 
muscles will be used, and the whole system strength- 
ened. Or, if this cannot be done, sweeping, dusting, 
running of errands, and many household employments, 
which involve lifting, stooping, bending, and walking, 
are quite as good, and, on some accounts, better, pro- 
vided the house is properly supphed with fresh air. 

Where persons have formed habits of inactivity,- 
some caution is necessary, in attempting a change ; 
this must be made gradually ; and the muscles must 
never be excessively fatigued at any time. If this 
change be not thus gradually made, the weakness, at 
first caused by inactivity, will be increased by excessive 
exertion. A distinguished medical gentleman gives 
this rule, to direct us in regard to the amount of fa- 
tigue, which is safe and useful. A person is never 
too much fatigued, if one night of repose gives suffi- 
cient rest, and restores the usual strength. But, if the 
sleep is disturbed, and the person wakes with a feeling 

12 D. K. 



134 ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 

of weariness and languor, it is a sure indication that 
the exercise has been excessive. No more fatigue, 
then, should be allowed, than one night's rest will 
remedy. 

Some persons object to sweeping, on account of the 
dust inhaled. But free ventilation, frequent sweeping, 
and the use of damp sand, or damp Indian meal, or 
damp tea leaves, for carpets, will secure a more clear 
atmosphere than is often found in the streets of cities. 
And the mother, who will hire domestics, to take away 
this and other domestic employments, which would 
secure to her daughters, health, grace, beauty, and 
domestic virtues, and the young ladies, who consent 
to be deprived of these advantages, will probably live 
to mourn over the languor, discouragement, pain, and 
sorrow, which will come with ill health, as the almost 
inevitable result. 

The following are extracts from ' The Young La- 
dies' Friend,' on this subject: — 

" Whether rich or poor, young or old, married or 
single, a woman is always liable to be called to the 
performance of every kind of domestic duty, as well 
as to be placed at the head of a family ; and nothing, 
short of a practical knowledge of the details of house- 
keeping, can ever make those duties easy, or render 
her competent to direct others in the performance of 
them. 

"All moral writers on female character, treat of 
Domestic Economy as an indispensable part of female 
education ; and this, too, in the old countries of Eu- 
rope, where an abundant population, and the institu- 
tions of society, render it easy to secure the services 
of faithful domestics." 

" All female characters that are held up to admira- 
tion, whether in fiction or biography, will be found to 
possess these domestic accomplishments ; and, if they 
are considered indispensable in the Old World, how 
much more are they needed, in this land of inde- 
pendence, where riches cannot exempt the mistress of 



ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE. 135 

a family from the difficulty of procuring efficient aid, 
and where perpetual change of domestics, renders per- 
petual instruction and superintendence necessary. 

" Since, then, the details of good housekeeping must 
be included in a good female education, it is very de- 
sirable that they should be acquired when young, and 
so practised as to become easy, and to be performed 
dexterously and expeditiously." 

" The elegant and accomplished Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu, who figured in the fashionable, as well as 
the literary, circles of her time, has said, that 'the 
most minute details of household economy become 
elegant and refined, when they are ennobled by senti- 
ment ; ' and they are truly ennobled, when we do them 
either from a sense of duty, or consideration for a 
parent, or love to a husband. ' To furnish a room,' 
continues this lady, ' is no longer a commonplace affair, 
shared with upholsterers and cabinet-makers ; it is dec 
orating the place where I am to meet a friend or lover 
To order dinner is not merely arranging a meal with 
my cook ; it is preparing refreshment for him whom 
I love. These necessary occupations, viewed in this 
light, by a person capable of strong attachment, are 
so many pleasures, and afford her far more delight, 
than the games and shows which constitute the amuse- 
ments of the world.' 

" Such is the testimony of a titled lady of the last 
century, to the sentiment that may be made to mingle 
in the most homely occupations. I will now quote 
that of a modern female writer and traveller, who, in 
her pleasant book, called ' Six Weeks on the Loire,' 
has thus described the housewifery of the daughter of 
a French nobleman, residing in a superb chateau on 
that river. The travellers had just arrived, and been 
introduced, when the following scene took place. 

" ' The bill of fare for dinner was discussed in my 
presence, and settled, sans fagon* with that delight- 

* Without formality, or useless ceremony. 



136 ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

ful frankness and gayety, which, in the French char- 
acter, gives a charm to the most trifling occurrence. 
Mademoiselle Louise then begged me to excuse her for 
half an hour, as she was going to make some creams, 
and some pastilles.^ I requested that I might accom- 
pany her, and also render myself useful ; we accord- 
ingly went together to the dairy. I made tarts a VAn- 
glaise,-\ whilst she made confections and bonbons,'^ 
and all manner of pretty things, with as much ease 
as if she had never done any thing else, and as much 
grace as she displayed in the saloon. I could not help 
thinking, as I looked at her, with her servants about 
her, all cheerful, respectful, and anxious to attend upon 
her, how much better it would be for the young ladies 
in England, if they would occasionally return to the 
habits of their grandmammas, and mingle the animated 
and endearing occupations of domestic life, and the 
modest manners and social amusements of home, with 
the perpetual practising on harps and pianos, and the 
incessant efforts at display, and search after gayety, 
which, at the present day, render them any thing but 
what an amiable man, of a reflecting mind and dehcate 
sentiments, would desire in the woman he might wish 
to select as the companion of his life.' " 



CHAPTER XII. 

ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

GooD-MANNERs are the expressions of benevolence in 
personal intercourse, by which we endeavor to promote 
the comfort and enjoyment of others, and to avoid all 
that gives needless uneasiness. It is the exterior ex- 
hibition of the Divine precept, which requires us to do 

* Rolls of paste, or pastry, or sugarplums, 

t According to the English fashion. 

t Nice things or dainties, such as sweetmeale. 



ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 137 

to others, as we would that they should do to us. It 
is saying, by our deportment, to all around, that we 
consider their feeUngs, tastes, and convenience, as equal 
in value to our own. 

Good-manners lead us to avoid all practices which 
offend the taste of others; all violations of the con- 
ventional rules of propriety; all rude and disrespect- 
ful language and deportment ; and all remarks, which 
would tend to wound the feehngs of another. 

There is a serious defect, in the manners of the 
American people, especially in the free States, which 
can never be efficiently remedied, except in the do- 
mestic circle, and during early life. It is a deficiency 
in the free expression of kindly feelings and sympa- 
thetic emotions, and a want of courtesy in deportment. 
The causes, which have led to this result, may easily 
be traced. 

The forefathers of this Nation, to a wide extent, 
were men who were driven from their native land, by 
laws and customs which they believed to be opposed 
both to civil and religious freedom. The sufferings 
they were called to endure, the subduing of those 
gentler feelings which bind us to country, kindred, and 
home, and the constant subordination of the passions 
to stern principle, induced characters of great firmness 
and self-control. They gave up the comforts and re- 
finements of a civihzed country, and came, as pilgrims, 
to a hard soil, a cold clime, and a heathen shore. 
They were continually forced to encounter danger, 
privations, sickness, loneliness, and death ; and all 
these, their religion taught them to meet with calm- 
ness, fortitude, and submission. And thus it became 
the custom and habit of the whole mass, to repress, 
rather than to encourage, the expression of feeling. 

Persons who are called to constant and protracted 
suffering and privation, are forced to subdue and con- 
ceal emotion ; for the free expression of it would 
double their own suffering, and increase the sufferings 
of others. Those, only, who are free from care and 
12* D. E. 



138 ON. DOME STIC MANNERS. 

anxiety, and whose minds are mainly occupied by 
cheerful emotions, are at full liberty to unveil their 
feelings. 

It was under such stern and rigorous discipline, that 
the first children in New England were reared ; and 
the manners and habits of parents are usually, to a 
great extent, transmitted to children. Thus it comes 
to pass, that the descendants of the Puritans, now 
scattered over every part of the Nation, are predis- 
posed to conceal the gentler emotions, while their man- 
ners are calm, decided, and cold, rather than free and 
impulsive. Of course, there are very many exceptions 
to these predominating results. 

The causes, to which we may attribute a general 
want of courtesy in manners, are certain incidental 
results of our democratic institutions. Our ancestors, 
and their descendants, have constantly been combating 
the aristocratic principle, which would exalt one class 
of men at the expense of another. They have had 
to contend with this principle, not only in civil, but 
in social, life. Almost every American, in his own 
person, as well as in behalf of his class, has had to 
assume and defend the main principle of democracy, — 
that every man's feelings and interests are equal in 
value to those of every other man. But, in doing this, 
there has been some want of clear discrimination. 
Because claims, based on distinctions of mere birth, 
fortune, or position, were found to be injurious, many 
have gone to the extreme of inferring that all dis- 
tinctions, involving subordination, are useless. Such, 
would regard children as equals to parents, pupils 
to teachers, domestics to their employers, and subjects 
to magistrates ; and that, too, in all respects. 

The fact, that certain grades of superiority and sub- 
ordination are needful, both for individual and public 
benefit, has not been clearly discerned ; and there has 
been a gradual tendency to an extreme, which has 
sensibly afiected our manners. All the proprieties and 
courtesies, which depend on the recognition of the 



ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 139 

relative duties of superior and subordinate, have been 
warred upon ; and thus we see, to an increasing ex- 
tent, disrespectful treatment of parents, from children ; 
of teachers, from pupils ; of employers, from domestics ; 
and of the aged, from the young. In all classes and 
circles, there is a gradual decay in courtesy of address. 

In cases, too, where kindness is rendered, it is often 
accompanied with a cold, unsympathizing manner, 
which greatly lessens its value, while kindness cr polite- 
ness is received in a similar style of coolness, as if it 
were but the payment of a just due. 

It is owing to these causes, that the American peo- 
ple, especially the inhabitants of New England, do not 
do themselves justice. For, while those, who are near 
enough to learn their real character and feelings, can 
discern the most generous impulses, and the most kind- 
ly sympathies, they are so veiled, in a composed and 
indifferent demeanor, as to be almost entirely concealed 
from strangers. 

These defects in our national manners, it especially 
falls to the care of mothers, and all who have charge 
of the young, to rectify ; and if they seriously under- 
take the matter, and wisely adapt means to, ends, these 
defects will be remedied. With reference to this ob- 
ject, the following ideas are suggested. 

The law of Christianity and of democracy, which 
teaches that all men are born equal, and that their 
interests and feelings should be regarded as of equal 
value, seems to be adopted in aristocratic circles, with 
exclusive reference to the class in which the individual 
moves. The courtly gentleman, addresses all of his 
own class with politeness and respect ; and, in all his 
actions, seems to allow that the feelings and conve- 
nience of others are to be regarded, the same as his 
own. But his demeanor to those of inferior station, 
is not based on the same rule. 

Among those, who make up aristocratic circles, such 
as are above them, are deemed of superior, and such 
as are below, of inferior, value. Thus, if a young, 



140 ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

ignorant, and vicious coxcomb, happens to be bom a 
lord, the aged, the virtuous, the learned, and the well- 
bred, of another class, must give his convenience the 
precedence, and must address him in terms of respect. 
So, when a man of noble birth is thrown among the 
lower classes, he demeans himself in a style, which, 
to persons of his own class, would be deemed the 
height of assumption and rudeness. 

Now, the principles of democracy require, that the 
same courtesy, which we accord to our own circle, 
shall be extended to every class and condition ; and 
that distinctions, of superiority and subordination, shall 
depend, not on accidents of birth, fortune, or occupa- 
tion, but solely on those relations, which the good 
of all classes equally require. The distinctions de- 
manded, in a democratic state, are simply those, which 
result from relations, that are common to every class, 
and are for the benefit of all. 

It is for the benefit of every class, that children be 
subordinate to parents, pupils to teachers, the employed 
to their employers, and subjects to magistrates. In 
addition to this, it is for the general wellbeing, that 
the comfort or convenience of the delicate and feeble, 
should be preferred to that of the strong and healthy, 
who would suffer less by aiiy deprivation, and that 
precedence should be given to their elders, by the 
young, and that reverence should be given to the 
hoary head. 

The rules of good-breeding, in a democratic state, 
must be founded on these principles. It is, indeed, 
assumed, that the value of the happiness of each indi- 
vidual, is the same as that of every other; but, as 
there must be occasions, where there are advantages 
which all cannot enjoy, there must be general rules 
for regulating a selection. Otherwise, there would 
be constant scrambling, among those of equal claims, 
and brute force must be the final resort ; in which 
case, the strongest would have the best of every 
thing. The democratic rule, then, is, that superiors, 



ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 141 

in age, station, or office, have precedence of subordi- 
nates ; age and feebleness, of youth and strength ; and 
the feebler sex, of more vigorous man.* 

There is, also, a style of deportment and address, 
which is appropriate to these different relations. It is 
suitable for a superior to secure comphance with his 
wishes, from those subordinate to him, by commands ; 
but a subordinate must secure compliance with his 
wishes, from a superior, by requests. It is suitable for 
a parent, teacher, or employer, to admonish for neglect 
of duty ; but not for an inferior to adopt such a course 
towards a superior. It is suitable for a superior to take 
precedence of a subordinate, without any remark ; but 
not for an inferior, without previously asking leave, or 
offering an apology. It is proper for a superior to use 
language and manners of freedom and familiarity, which 
would be improper from a subordinate to a superior. 

The want of due regard to these proprieties, occa- 
sions the chief defect in American manners. It is very 
common to hear children talk to their parents, in a 
style proper only between companions and equals ; so, 
also, the young address their elders, those employed, 
their employers, and domestics, the members of the 
family and their visiters, in a style, which is inappropri- 
ate to their relative positions. A respectful address is 
required not merely towards superiors ; every person 
desires to be treated with courtesy and respect, and 
therefore, the law of benevolence demands such de- 
meanor, towards all whom we meet in the social inter- 
course of life. "Be ye courteous," is the direction of 
the Apostle in reference to our treatment of all. 

Good-manners can be successfully cultivated, only in 
early life, and in the domestic circle. There is nothing 
which depends so much upon hahit, as the constantly 

* The universal practice of this Nation, in thus giving precedence 
to woman, has been severely commented on by Miss Martineau and 
some others, who would transfer all the business of the other sex to 
women, and then have them treated like men. May this evidence 
of our superior civilisation and Christianity increase, rather than 
diminish . 



142 ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

recurring proprieties of good-breeding ; and, if a child 
grows up without forming such habits, it is very rarely 
the case that they can be formed at a later period. 
The feeling, that it is of little consequence how we be- 
have at home, if we conduct properly abroad, is a very 
fallacious one. Persons, who are careless and ill bred 
at home, may imagine that they can assume good- 
manners abroad; but they mistake. Fixed habits of 
tone, manner, language, and movements, cannot be 
suddenly altered ; and those who are illbred at home, 
even when they try to hide their bad habits, are sure to 
violate many of the obvious rules of propriety, and yet 
be unconscious of it. 

And there is nothing, which would so effectually re- 
move prejudice against our democratic institutions, as 
the general cultivation of good-breeding in the domes- 
tic circle. Good-manners are the exterior of benevo- 
lence, the minute and often recurring exhibitions of 
" peace and good-will ; " and the nation, as well as the 
individual, which most excels in the external, as well 
as the internal, principle, will be most respected and 
beloved. 

The following are the leading points, which claim 
attention from those who have the care of the young. 

In the first place, in the family, there should be re- 
quired, a strict attention to the rules of precedence, 
and those modes of address appropriate to the various 
relations to be sustained. Children should always be 
required to offer their superiors, in age or station, the 
precedence in all comforts and conveniences, and 
always address them in a respectful tone and manner. 
The custom of adding « Sir," or "Ma'am," to "Yes," 
or " No," is valuable, as a perpetual indication of a re- 
spectful recognition of superiority. It is now going out 
of fashion, even among the most wellbred people; 
probably from a want of consideration of its impor- 
tance. Every remnant of courtesy of address, in our 
customs, should be carefully cherished, by all who feel 
a value for the proprieties of good-breeding. 



ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 143 

If parents allow their children to talk to them, and 
to the grown persons in the family,, in the same style in 
which they address each other, it will be vain to hope 
for the courtesy of manner and tone, which good-breed- 
ing demands in the general intercourse of society. In 
a large family, where the elder children are grown up, 
and the younger are small, it is important to require the 
latter to treat the elder as superiors. There are none, 
so ready as young children to assume airs of equality ; 
and, if they are allowed to treat one class of superiors 
in age and character disrespectfully, they will soon use 
the privilege universally. This is the reason, why the 
youngest children of a family are most apt to be pert, 
forward, and unmannerly. 

Another point to be aimed at, is, to require children 
always to acknowledge every act of kindness and atten- 
tion, either by words or manner. If they are so trained 
as always to make grateful acknowledgements, when 
receiving favors, one of the objectionable features in 
American manners will be avoided. 

Again, children should be required to ask leave, 
whenever they wish to gratify curiosity, or use an arti- 
cle which belongs to another. And if cases occur, 
when they cannot comply with the rules of good-breed- 
ing, as, for instance, when they must step between a 
person and the fire, or take the chair of an older person, 
they should be required either to ask leave, or to offer 
an apology. 

There is another point of good-breeding, which can- 
not, in all cases, be understood and applied by children, 
in its widest extent. It is that, which requires us to 
avoid all remarks which tend to embarrass, vex, mortify, 
or in any way wound the feehngs, of another. To 
notice personal defects; to allude to others' faults, or 
the faults of their friends ; to speak disparagingly of the 
sect or party to which a person belongs ; to be inatten- 
tive, when addressed in conversation ; to contradict 
flatly ; to speak in contemptuous tones of opinions ex- 
pres;^ed by another ;-— all these^ are violations of the 



144 ON D03IESTIC MANNERS. 

rules of good-breeding, which children should be taught 
to regard. Under this head, comes the practice of 
whispering, and staring about, when a teacher, or lec- 
turer, or clergyman, is addressing a class or audience. 
Such inattention, is practically saying, that what the 
person is uttering is not worth attending to ; and per- 
sons of real good-breeding always avoid it. Loud 
talking and laughing, in a large assembly, even when 
no exercises are going on; yawning and gaping in 
company ; and not looking in the face a person who 
is addressing you, are deemed marks of ill-breeding. 

Another branch of good-manners, relates to the 
duties of hospitality. Politeness requires us to welcome 
visiters with cordiality ; to offer them the best accom- 
modations; to address conversation to them; and to 
express, by tone and manner, kindness and respect. 
Offering the hand to all visiters, at one's own house, is 
a courteous and hospitable custom ; and a cordial shake 
of the hand, when friends meet, would abate much of 
the coldness of manner ascribed to Americans. 

The last point of good-breeding, to be noticed, refers 
to the conventional rules of propriety and good taste. 
Of these, the first class relates to the avoidance of all 
disgusting or offensive personal habits, such as fingering 
the hair ; cleaning the teeth Or nails ; picking the nose ; 
spitting on carpets ; snuffing, instead of using a handker- 
chief, or using the article in an offensive manner ; lifting 
up the boots or shoes, as some men do, to tend them 
on the knee, or to finger them ; — all these tricks, either 
at home or in society, children should be taught to 
avoid. 

Another branch, under this head, may be called tahle 
manners. To persons of good-breeding, nothing is 
more annoying, than violating the conventional pro- 
prieties of the table. Reaching over another person's 
plate ; standing up, to reach distant articles, instead of 
asking to have them passed ; using one's own knife, 
and spoon, for butter, salt, or sugar, when it is the 
custom of the family to provide separate utensils for the 



ON DOMlESllO MANNERS. ■ 145 

purpose ; setting cups, with tea dripping from them, on 
the tablecloth, instead of the mats or small plates fur- 
nished ; using the tablecloth, instead of the napkins ; 
eating fast, and in a noisy manner ; putting large pieces • 
in the mouth; looking and eating as if very hungry, 
or as if anxious to get at certain dishes ; sitting at too 
great a distance from the table, and dropping food.; 
laying the knife and fork on the tablecloth, instead of 
on the bread, or the edge of the plate ;■ — all these par- 
ticulars, children should be taught to avoid. It is 
always desirable, too, to require children, when at table 
with grown persons, to be silent, except when addressed 
by others; or else their chattering will interrupt the 
conversation and comfort of their elders. They should 
always be required, too, to wait, in silence, till all the 
older persons are helped. 

All these things should be taught to children, gradu- 
ally, and with great patience and gentleness. Some 
parents, with whom good-manners is a great object, are 
in danger of making their children perpetually uncom- 
fortable, by suddenly surrounding them with so many 
rules, that they must inevitably violate some one or 
other, a great part of the time. It is much better to 
begin with a few rules,. and be steady and persevering 
with these, till a habit is formed, and then take a few 
more, thus making the process easy and gradual. Oth- 
erwise, the temper of children will be injured; or, 
hopeless of fulfilling so many requisitions, they will be- 
come reckless and indifferent to all. 

But, in reference to those who have enjoyed advan- ';■>* 

tages for the cultivation of good-manners, and who '' 

duly estimate its importance, one caution is necessary. 
Those, who never have had such habits formed in 
youth, are under disadvantages, which no benevolence 
of temper can remedy. They may often violate the 
tastes and feelings of others, not from a want of proper 
regard for them, but from ignorance of custom, or want 
of habit, or abstraction of mind, or from other causes, 
which demand forbearance and sympathy, rather than 
13 ^ D. K, 



tf 



146 ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 

displeasure. An ability to bear patiently with defects 
in manners, and to make candid and considerate allow- 
ance for a want of advantages, or for peculiarities in 
'mental habits, is one mark of the benevolence of real 
good-breeding. 

The advocates of monarchical and aristocratic insti- 
tutions, have always had great plausibility given to their 
views, by the seeming tendencies to insubordination 
and bad-manners, of our institutions. And it has been 
too indiscriminately conceded, by the defenders of the 
latter, that such are these tendencies, and that the 
offensive points, in American manners, are the neces- 
sary result of democratic principles. 

But it is believed, that both facts and reasoning are 
in opposition to this opinion. The following extract 
from the work of De Tocqueville, exhibits the opinion 
of an impartial observer, when comparing American 
manners with those of the English, who are confessedly 
the most aristocratic of all people. 

He previously remarks on the tendency of aristocra- 
cy to make men more sympathizing with persons of I 
their own peculiar class, and less so towards those of 
lower degree ; and he then contrasts American manners 
with the English, claiming that the Americans are much 
the most affable, mild, and social. " In America, where 
the privileges of birth never existed, and where riches 
confer no peculiar rights on their possessors, men ac- 
quainted with each other are very ready to frequent the 
same places, and find neither peril nor advantage in 
the free interchange of their thoughts. If they meet, 
by accident, they neither seek nor avoid intercourse ; 
their manner is therefore natural, frank, and open." 
^' If their demeanor is often cold and serious, it is never 
haughty or constrained." But an "aristocratic pride 
is still extremely great among the English ; and, as the | 
limits of aristocracy are ill-defined, every body lives in 
constant dread, lest advantage should be taken of his 
familiarity. Unable to judge, at once, of the social po- 
sition of those he meets, an Englishman prudently 



* ON DOMESTIC MANNERS. 147 

avoids all contact with them. Men are afraid, lest 
some slight service rendered should draw them into an 
unsuitable acquaintance ; they dread civihties, and they 
avoid the obtrusive gratitude of a stranger, as much as 
his hatred," 

Thus, fads seem to show that when the most aristo- 
cratic nation in the world is compared, as to manners, 
with the most democratic, the judgement of strangerfli 
is in favor of the latter. 

And if good-manners are the outward exhibition of 
the democratic principle of impartial benevolence and 
equal rights, surely the nation which adopts this rule, 
both in social and civil life, is the most likely to secure 
the desirable exterior. The aristocrat, by his princi- 
ples, extends the exterior of impartial benevolence to 
his own class, only ; the democratic principle, reouires 
it to be extended to all. 

There is reason, therefore, to hope and expect more 
refined and polished manners in America, than in any 
other land; while all the developements of taste and 
refinement, such as poetry, music, painting, sculpture, 
and architecture, it may be expected, will come to a 
higher state of perfection, here, than in any other 
nation. 

If this Country increases in virtue and intelligence, 
as it may, there is no end to the wealth which will pour 
in as the result of our resources of climate, soil, and 
navigation, and the skill, industry, energy, and enter- 
prise, of our countrymen. This wealth, if used as intel- 
ligence and virtue dictate, will furnish the means for 
a. superior education to all classes, and every facility for 
the refinement of taste, intellect, and feeling. 

Moreover, in this Country, labor is ceasing to be the 
badge of a lower class ; so that already it is disreputable 
for a man to be " a! lazy gentleman." And this feeling 
must increase, till there is such an equalisation of labor, 
as will afford all the time needful for every class to im- 
prove the many advantages offered to them. Already, 
in Boston, through the munificence of some of her 



148 ON THE PRESERVATION OF * 

citizens, there are literary and scientific advantages, of- 
fered to all classes, rarely enjoyed elsewhere. In Cin- 
cinnati, too, the advantages of education, now offered 
to the poorest classes, without charge, surpass what, 
some years ago, most wealthy men could purchase, for 
any price. And it is believed, that a time will come, 
when the poorest boy in America can secure advan- 
tages, which will equal what the heir of the proudest 
peerage can now command. 

The records of the courts of France and Germany, 
(as detailed by the Duchess of Orleans,) in and suc- 
ceeding the brilliant reign of Louis the Fourteenth, — ^a 
period which was deemed the acme of elegance and 
refinement, — exhibit a grossness, a vulgarity, and a 
coarseness, not to be found among the lowest of our 
respectable poor. And the biography of Beau Nash, 
who attempted to reform the manners of the gentry, in 
the times of Q,ueen Anne, exhibits violations of the rules 
of decency among the aristocracy, which the commonest 
yeoman of this Land would feel disgraced in perpe- 
trating. 

This shows, that our lowest classes, at this period, 
are more refined, than were the highest in aristocratic 
lands, a hundred years ago ; and another century may 
show the lowest classes, in wealth, in this Country, at- 
taining as high a polish, as adorns those who now are 
leaders of good-manners in the courts of kings. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

ON THE PRESERVATION OF A GOOD TEMPER IN A 
HOUSEKEEPER. 

There is nothing, which has a more abiding influ- 
ence on the happiness of a family, than the preservation 
of equable and cheerful temper and tones in the house- 
keeper. A woman, who is habitually gentle, sympa- 



A GOOD TEMPER IN A HOUSEKEEPER. 149 

thizing, forbearing, and cheerful, carries an atmosphere 
about her, which imparts a soothing and sustaining in- 
fluence, and renders it easier for all to do right, under 
her administration, than in any other situation. 

The writer -has known families, where the mother's 
presence seemed the sunshine of the circle around her ; 
imparting a cheering and vivifying power, scarcely real- 
ized, till it was withdrawn. Every one, without think- 
ing of it, or knowing why it was so, experienced a 
peaceful and invigorating influence, as soon as he en- 
tered the sphere illumined by her smile, and sustained 
by her cheering kindness and sympathy. On the con- 
trary, many a good housekeeper, (good in every respect 
but this,) by wearing a countenance of anxiety and dis- 
satisfaction, and by indulging in the frequent use of 
sharp and reprehensive tones, more than destroys all 
the comfort which otherwise would result from her sys- 
tem, neatness, and economy. 

There is a secret, social sympathy, which every mind, 
to a greater or less degree, experiences with the feelings 
of those around, as they are manifested by the coun- 
tenance and voice. A sorrowful, a discontented, or an 
angry, countenance, produces a silent, sympathetic in- 
fluence, imparting a sombre shade to the mind, while 
tones of anger or complaint still more effectually jar 
the spirits. 

No person can maintain a quiet and cheerful frame 
of mind, while tones of discontent and displeasure are 
sounding on the ear. Wq may gTadually accustom 
ourselves to the evil, till it is partially diminished ; but 
it always is an evil, which greatly interferes with the 
enjoyment of the family state. There are sometimes 
cases, where the entrance of the mistress of a family 
seems to awaken a slight apprehension, in every mind 
around, as if each felt in danger of a reproof, for some- 
thing either perpetrated or neglected. A woman, who 
should go around her house with a small stinging snap- 
per, which she habitually applied to those whom she 
met, would be encountered with feelings very much like 
13* D. E. 



150 ON THE PRESERVATION OF 

to those which are experienced by the inmates of a fam- 
ily, where the mistress often uses her countenance and 
voice, to inflict similar penalties for duties neglected. 

Yet, there are many allowances to be made for house 
keepers, who sometimes imperceptibly and unconscious- 
ly fall into such habits. A woman, who attempts to 
carry out any plans of system, order, and economy, and 
who has her feelings and habits conformed to certain 
rules, is constantly liable to have her plans crossed, and 
her taste violated, by the inexperience or inattention of 
those about her. And no housekeeper, whatever may 
be her habits, can escape the frequent recurrence of 
negligence or mistake, which interferes with her plans. 
It is probable, that there is no class of persons, in the 
world, who have such incessant trials of temper, and 
temptations to be fretful, as American housekeepers. 
For a housekeeper's business is not, like that of the 
other sex, limited to a particular department, for which 
previous preparation is made. It consists of ten thou- 
sand little disconnected items, which can never be so 
systematically arranged, that there is no daily josthng, 
somewhere. And in the best-regulated families, it is 
not unfrequently the case, that some act of forgetful- 
ness or carelessness, from some member, will disarrange 
the business of the whole day, so that every hour will 
bring renewed occasion for annoyance. And the more 
strongly a woman realizes the value of time, and the 
importance of system and order, the more will she be 
tempted to irritability and complaint. 

The following considerations, may aid in preparing a 
woman to meet such daily crosses, with even a cheerful 
temper and tones. 

In the first place, a woman, who has charge of a large 
household, should regard her duties as dignified, im- 
portant, and difficult. The mind is so made, as to be 
elevated and cheered by a sense of far-reaching influ- 
ence and usefulness. A woman, who feels that she is 
a cipher, and that it makes little difference how she 
performs her duties, has far less to sustain and invigor- 



A GOOD TEMPER IN A HOUSEKEEPER. 151 

ate her, than one, who truly estimates the importance 
of her station. A man, who feels that the destinies of 
a nation are turning on the judgement and skill with 
which he plans and executes, has a pressure of motive, 
and an elevation of feeling, which are great safeguards 
from all that is low, trivial, and degrading. 

So, an American mother and housekeeper, who looks 
at her position in the aspect presented in the previous 
pages, and who rightly estimates the long train of influ- 
ences which will pass down to thousands, whose desti- 
nies, from generation to generation, will be modified by 
those decisions of her will, which regulated the temper, 
principles, and habits, of her family, must be elevated 
above petty temptations, which would otherwise as 
sail her. 

Again, a housekeeper should feel that she really has 
great difficulties to meet and overcome. A person, 
who wrongly thinks there is little danger, can never 
maintain so faithful a guard, as one who rightly esti- 
mates the temptations which beset her. Nor can one, 
who thinks that they are trifling difliculties which she 
has to encounter, and trivial temptations, to which she 
must yield, so much enjoy the just reward of conscious 
virtue and self-control, as one who takes an opposite 
view of the subject. 

A third method, is, for a woman deliberately to cal- 
culate on having her best-arranged plans interfered 
with, very often ; and to be in such a state of prepara- 
tion, that the evil will not come unawares. So compli- 
cated are the pursuits, and so diverse the habits of the 
various members of a family, that it is almost impossible 
for every one to avoid interfering with the plans and 
taste of a housekeeper, in some one point or another. 
It is, therefore, most wise, for a woman to keep the loins 
of her mind ever girt, to meet such collisions with a 
cheerful and quiet spirit. 

Another important rule, is, to form all plans and ar- 
rangements in consistency with the means at command, 
and the character of those around. A woman, who has 



152 ON THE PRESERVATION OF 

a heedless husband, and young children, and incompe- 
tent domestics, ought not to make such plans, as one 
may properly form, who will not, in so many directions, 
meet embarrassment. She must aim at just so much 
as she can probably secure, and no more ; and thus she 
will usually escape much temptation, and much of the 
irritation of disappointment. 

The fifth, and a very important, consideration, is, 
that system, economy, and neatness, are valuable, only so 
far as they tend to promote the comfort and well-being 
of those affected. Some women seem to act under the 
impression, that these advantages must be secured, at 
all events, even if the comfort of the family be the 
sacrifice. True, it is v<ery important that children grow 
up in habits of system, neatness, and order ; and it is 
very desirable that the mother give them every incentive, 
both by precept and example : but it is still more im- 
portant, that they gTow up with amiable tempers, that 
they learn to nieet the crosses of life with patience and 
cheerfulness ; and nothing has a greater influence to se- 
cure this, than a mother's example. Whenever, there- 
fore, a woman cannot accomplish her plans of neatness 
and order, without injury to her own temper, or to the 
temper of others, she ought to modify and reduce them, 
until she can. 

The sixth method, relates to the government of the 
tones of voice. In many cases, when a woman's do- 
mestic arrangements are suddenly and seriously crossed, 
it is impossible not to feel some irritation. But it Z5 al- 
ways possible to refrain from angry tones. A woman 
can resolve, that, whatever happens, she will not speak, 
till she can do it in a calm and gentle manner. Perfect 
silence is a safe resort, when such control cannot be at 
tained, as enables a person to speak calmly ; and this 
determination, persevered in, will eventually be crowned 
with success. 

Many persons seem to imagine, that tones of anger 
are needful, in order to secure prompt obedience. But 
observation has convinced the writer that they are never 



A GOOD TEMPER IN A HOUSEKEEPER, 153 

necessary; that in all cases, reproof, administered in 
calm tones, would be better. A case will be given in 
illustration. 

A young girl had been repeatedly charged to avoid a 
certain arrangement in cooking. On one day, when 
company was invited to dine, the direction was forgot- 
ten, and the consequence was, an accident, which dis- 
arranged every tiling, seriously injured the principal 
dish, and delayed dinner for an hour. The mistress of 
the family entered the kitchen, just as it occurred, and, 
at a glance, saw the extent of the mischief. For a 
moment, her eyes flashed, and her cheeks glowed ; but 
she held her peace. After a minute or so, she gave di- 
rections, in a calm voice, as to the best mode of re- 
trieving the evil, and then left, without a word said to 
the offender. ' 

After the company left, she sent for the girl, alone, 
and in a calm and kind manner pointed out the aggra- 
vations of the case, and described the trouble which 
had been caused to her husband, her visiters, and her- 
self. She then portrayed the future evils which would 
result from such habits of neglect and inattention, and 
the modes of attempting to overcome them ; and then 
offered a reward for the future, if, in a given time, she 
succeeded in improving in this respect. Not a tone of 
anger was uttered ; and yet the severest scolding of a 
practised Xantippe could not have secured such con- 
trition, and determination to reform, as was gained by 
this method. 

But similar negligence is often visited by a continuous 
stream of complaint and reproof, which, in most cases, 
is met, either by sullen silence, or impertinent retort, 
while anger prevents any contrition, or any resolution 
of future amendment. 

It is very certain, that some ladies do carry forward 
^ most efficient government, both of children and do- 
mestics, without employing tones of anger ; and there- 
fore they are not indispensable, nor on any account 
desirable. 



154 ON THJE PRESERVATION OF GOOD TEMPER. 

Though some ladies, of intelligence and refinement, 
do fall unconsciously into such a practice, it is certainly 
very unlady-like, and in very bad taste, to scold; and 
the further a woman departs from all approach to it, the 
more perfectly she sustains her character as a lady. 

Another method of securing equanimity, amid the 
trials of domestic life, is, to cultivate a habit of making 
allowances for the difficulties, ignorance, or temptations, 
of those who violate rule or neglect duty. It is vain, 
and most unreasonable, to expect the consideration and 
care of a mature mind, in childhood and youth ; or that 
persons, of such limited advantages as most domestics 
have enjoyed, should practise proper self-control, and 
possess proper habits and principles. 

Every parent, and every employer, needs daily to 
cultivate the spirit expressed in the Divine prayer, " for 
give us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass 
against us." The same allowances and forbearance, 
which we supplicate from our Heavenly Father, and 
desire from our fellow-men, in reference to our own 
deficiencies, we should constantly aim to extend to all, 
who cross our feelings and interfere with our plans. 

The last, and most important, mode of securing a 
placid and cheerful temper and tones, is, by a right 
view of the doctrine of a superintending Providence. 
All persons are too much in the habit of regarding the 
more important events of fife, as exclusively under the 
control of Perfect Wisdom. But the fall of a sparrow, 
or the loss of a hair, they do not feel to be equally the 
result of His directing agency. In consequence of this. 
Christian persons, who aim at perfect and cheerful sub- 
mission to heavy afflictions, and who succeed, to the 
edification of all about them, are sometimes sadly de- 
ficient under petty crosses. If a beloved child be laid 
in the grave, even if its death resulted from the care- 
lessness of a domestic, or of a physician, the eye is 
turned from the subordinate agent, to the Supreme 
Guardian of all, and to Him they bow, without mur- 
mur or complaint. But if a pudding be burnt, or a 



ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 155 

room badly swept, or an errand forgotten, then vexa- 
tion and complaint are allowed, just as if these events 
were not appointed by Perfect Wisdom, as much as the 
sorer chastisement. 

A woman, therefore, needs to cultivate the habitual 
feehng, that all the events of her nursery and kitchen, 
are brought about by the permission of our Heavenly 
Father, and that fretfulness or complaint, in regard to 
these, is, in fact, complaining and disputing at the ap- 
pointments of God, and is really as sinful, as unsub- 
missive murmurs amid the sorer chastisements of His 
hand. And a woman, who cultivates this habit of re- 
ferring all the minor trials of life to the wise and be- 
nevolent agency of a Heavenly Parent, and daily seeks 
His sympathy and aid, to enable her to meet them with 
a quiet and cheerful spirit, will soon find it the peren- 
nial spring of abiding peace and content. \ 



CHAPTER XIV. 

ON HABITS OP SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

The discussion of the question of the equality of the 
sexes, in intellectual capacity, seems frivolous and use- 
less, both because it can never be decided, and because 
there would be no possible advantage in the decision. 
But one topic, which is often drawn into this discussion, 
is of far more consequence ; and that is, the relative 
importance and difficulty of the duties a woman is called 
to perform. 

It is generally assumed, and almost as generally con- 
ceded, that woman's business and cares are contracted 
and trivial ; and that the proper discharge of her duties, 
demands far less expansion of mind and vigor of intel- 
lect, than the pursuits of the other sex. This idea has 
prevailed, because women, as a mass, have never been 
educated with reference to their most important duties ; 



156 ON Habits of system and order. 

while that portion of their employments, which is of 
least value, has been regarded as the chief, if not the 
sole, concern of a woman. The covering of the body, 
the conveniences of residences, and the gratification of 
the appetite, have been too much regarded as the sole 
objects, on which her intellectual powers are to be ex- 
ercised. 

But, as society gTadually shakes off the remnants of 
barbarism, and the intellectual and moral interests of 
man rise, in estimation, above the merely sensual, a 
truer estimate is formed of woman's duties, and of the 
measure of intellect requisite for the proper discharge 
of them. Let any man, of sense and discernment, be- 
come the member of a large household, in which, a 
well-educated and pious woman is endeavoring system- 
atically to discharge her multiform duties ; let him fully 
comprehend all her cares, difficulties, and perplexities ; 
and it is probable he would coincide in the opinion, that 
no statesman, at the head of a nation's affairs, had more 
frequent calls for wisdom, firmness, tact, discrimination, 
prudence, and versatility of talent, than such a woman. 

She has a husband, to whose peculiar tastes and hab- 
its she must accommodate herself; she has children, 
whose health she must guard, whose physical constitu- 
tions she must study and develope, whose temper and 
habits she must regulate, whose principles she must 
form, whose pursuits she rhust direct. She has con- 
stantly changing domestics, with all varieties of temper 
and habits, whom she must govern, instruct, and direct ; 
she is required to regulate the finances of the domestic 
state, and constantly to adapt expenditures to the means 
and to the relative claims of each department. She 
has the direction of the kitchen, where ignorance, for 
getfulness, and awkwardness, are to be so regulated, 
that the various operations shall each start at the right 
time, and all be in completeness at the same given hour. 
She has the claims of society to meet, calls to receive 
and return, and the duties of hospitahty to sustain. She 
has the poor to relieve ; benevolent societies to aid ; 



N HABITS QF SYSTEM ANt> OUDE^. 157 

the schools of her children to inquire and decide about ; 
the care of the sick ; the nursing of infancy ; and the 
endless miscellany of odd items, constantly recurring in 
a large family. 

Surely, it is a pernicious and mistaken idea, that the 
duties, which tax a woman's mind, are petty, trivial, or 
unworthy of the highest grade of intellect and moral 
worth. Instead of allowing this feeling, every woman 
[Should imbibe, from early youth, the impression, that 
she is training for the discharge of the most important, 
the most difficult, and the most sacred and interesting 
duties that can possibly employ the highest intellect. 
She ought to feel, that her station and responsibilities, 
in the great drama of life, are second to none, either as 
viewed by her Maker, or in the estimation of all minds 
whose judgement is most worthy of respect. 

She, who is the mother and housekeeper in a large 
family, is the sovereign of an empire, demanding more 
varied cares, and involving more difficult duties, than 
are really exacted of her, who, while she wears the 
crown, and professedly regulates the interests of the 
greatest nation on earth, finds abundant leisure for 
theatres, balls, horseraces, and every gay pursuit. 

There is no one thing, more necessary to a house- 
keeper, in performing her varied duties, than a habit of 
system and order ; and yet, the peculiarly desultory na- 
ture of women's pursuits, and the embarrassments re- 
sulting from the state of domestic service in this 
Country, render it very difficult to form such a habit. 
But it is sometimes the case, that women, who could 
and would carry forward a systematic plan of domestic 
economy, do not attempt it, simply from a want of 
knowledge of the various modes of introducing it. It 
is with reference to such, that various modes of securing 
system and order, which the writer has seen adopted, 
will be pointed out. 

A wise economy is nowhere more conspicuous, than 
in the right apportionment of time to different pursuits. 
There are duties of a. religious, intellectual, social, and 
14 B. E. 



158 ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

domestic, nature, each having different relative claims 
on attention. Unless a person has some general plan 
of apportioning these claims, some will intrench on 
others, and some, it is probable, will be entirely ex- 
cluded. Thus, some find religious, social, and domes- 
tic, duties, so numerous, that no time is given to intel- 
lectual improvement. Others, find either social, or 
benevolent, or religious, interests, excluded by the ex 
tent and variety of other engagements. 

It is wise, therefore, for all persons to devise a gen- 
eral plan, which they will at least keep in view, and 
aim to accomplish, and by which, a proper proportion 
of time shall be secured, for all the duties of life. 

In forming such a plan, every woman must accom- 
modate herself to the peculiarities of her situation. If 
she has a large family, and a small income, she must 
devote far more time to the simple duty of providing 
food and raiment, than would be right were she in af- 
fluence, and with a small family. It is impossible, 
therefore, to draw out any general plan, which all can 
adopt. But there are some general principles, which 
ought to be the guiding rules, when a woman arranges 
her domestic employments. These principles are to be 
based on Christianity, which teaches us to " seek first 
the kingdom of God," and to deem food, raiment, and 
the. conveniences of hfe, as of secondary account. 
Every woman, then, ought to start with the assumption, 
that religion is of more consequence than any worldly 
concern, and that, whatever else may be sacrificed, this, 
shall be the leading object, in all her arrangements, in 
respect to time, money, and attention. It is also one 
of the plainest requisitions of Christianity, that we de- 
vote some of our time and eflforts, to the comfort and 
improvement of others. There is no duty, so con- 
stantly enforced, both in the Old and New Testament 
as the duty of charity, in dispensing to those, who are 
destitute of the blessings we enjoy. In selecting ob- 
jects of charity, the same rule applies to others, as to 
ourselves ; their moral and religious interests are of the 



ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 159 

highest moment, and for them, as well as for ourselves, 
we are to '^ seek first the kingdom of God." 

Another general principle, is, that our intellectual and 
social interests are to be preferred, to the mere gratifi- 
cation of taste or appetite, A portion of time, there- 
fore, must be devoted to the cultivation of the intellect 
and the social affections. 

Another, is, that the mere gratification of appetite, is 
to be placed last in our estimate ; so that, when a ques- 
tion arises, as to which shall be sacrificed, some intel- 
lectual, moral, or social, advantage, or some gratification 
of sense, we should invariably sacrifice the last. 

Another, is, that, as health is indispensable to the 
discharge of every duty, nothing, which sacrifices that 
blessing, is to be allowed, in order to gain any other 
advantage or enjoyment. There are emergencies, when 
it is right to risk health and life, to save ourselves and 
others from greater evils ; but these are exceptions, 
which do not mihtate against the general rule. Many 
persons imagine, that, if they violate the laws of health, 
in performing religious or domestic duties, they are 
guiltless before God. But such greatly mistake. We 
as directly violate the law, " thou shalt not kill," when 
we do what tends to risk or shorten our own life, as if 
we should intentionally run a dagger into a neighbor. 
True, we may escape any fatal or permanently injurious 
effects, and so may a dagger or bullet miss the miark, 
or do only transient injury. But this, in either case, 
makes the sin none the less. The life and happiness 
of all His creatures are dear to our Creator ; and He is 
as much displeased, when we injure our own interests, 
as when we injure those of others. The idea, there- 
fore, that we are excusable, if we harm no one but our- 
selves, is false and pernicious. These, then, are the 
general principles, to guide a woman in systematizing 
her duties and pursuits. 

The Creator of all things, is a Being of perfect sys- 
tem and order ; and, to aid us in our duty, in this 
respect, He has divided our time, by a regularly return- 



160 ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER* 

ing day of rest from worldly business. In following 
this example, the intervening six days may be subdi- 
vided to secure similar benefits. In doing this, a certain 
portion of time must be given to procure the means of 
livelihood, and for preparing food, raiment, and dwell- 
ings. To these objects, some must devote more, and 
others less, attention. The remainder of time not 
necessarily thus employed, might be divided somewhat 
in this manner: The leisure of two afternoons and 
evenings, could be devoted to religious and benevolent 
objects, such as religious meetings, charitable associa 
tions, school visiting, and attention to the sick and poor 
The leisure of two other days, might be devoted to 
intellectual improvement, and the pursuits of taste. 
The leisure of another day, might be devoted to social 
enjoyments, in making or receiving visits; and that 
of another, to miscellaneous domestic pursuits, not in- 
cluded in the other particulars. 

It is probable, that few persons could carry out such 
an arrangement, very strictly ; but every one can make 
a systematic apportionment of time, and at least aim 
at accomplishing it ; and they can also compare the 
time which they actually devote to these different ob- 
jects, with such a general outline, for the purpose of 
modifying any mistaken proportions. 

Without attempting any such systematic employment 
of time, and carrying it out, so far as they can control 
circumstances, most women are rather driven along, by 
the daily occurrences of life, so that, instead of being 
the intelligent regulators of their own time, they are 
the mere sport of circumstances. There is nothing, 
which so distinctly marks the difference between weak 
and strong minds, as the fact, whether they control cir- 
cumstances, or circumstances control them. 

It is very much to be feared, that the apportionment 
of time, actually made by most women, exactly inverts 
the order, required by reason and Christianity. Thus, 
the furnishing a needless variety of food, the conve- 
niences of dwellings, and the adornments of dress, 



6n habits of system and order. 161 

often take a larger portion of time, than is given to 
any other object. Next after this, comes intellectu- 
al improvement ; and, last of all, benevolence and 
religion. 

It may be urged, that it is indispensable for most 
persons to give more time to earn a livelihood, and to 
prepare food, raiment, and dwellings, than to any other 
object. But it may be asked, how much of the time, 
devoted to these objects, is employed in preparing 
varieties of food, not necessary, but rather injurious, 
and how much is spent for those parts of dress and 
furniture not indispensable, and merely ornamental? 
Let a woman subtract from her domestic employments, 
all the time, given to pursuits which are of no use, 
except as they gratify a taste for ornament, or minister 
increased varieties, to tempt the appetite, and she will 
find, that much, which she calls " domestic duties," and 
which prevent her attention to intellectual, benevolent, 
and religious, objects, should be called by a very differ- 
ent name. No woman has a right to give up atten- 
tion to the higher interests of herself and others, for the 
ornaments of taste, or the gratification of the palate. 
To a certain extent, these lower objects are lawful and 
desirable ; but, when they intrude on nobler interests, 
they become selfish and degrading. Every woman 
then, when employing her hands, in ornamenting her 
person, her children, or her house, ought to calculate, 
whether she has devoted as much time, to the intellec- 
tual and moral wants of herself and others. If she has 
not, she may know that she is doing wrong, and that 
her system, for apportioning her time and pursuits, 
should be altered. 

Some persons, endeavor to systematize their pursuits, 
by apportioning them to particular hours of each day. 
For example, a certain period before breakfast, is given 
to devotional duties ; after breakfast, certain hours are 
devoted to exercise and domestic employments; other 
hours, to sewings or reading, or visiting; and others, 
to benevolent duties. But, in most cases, A is more 
14* D- F. 



162 ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

difficult to systematize the hours of each day, than it is 
to secure some regular division of the week. 

In regard to the minutiae of domestic arrangements, 
the writer has known the following methods to be 
adopted. Monday, with some of the best housekeepers, 
is devoted to preparing for the labors of the week. 
Any extra cooking, the purchasing of articles to be used 
during the week, the assorting of clothes for the wash, 
and mending such as would be injured without ;— 
these, and similar items, belong to this day. Tuesday 
is devoted to washing, and Wednesday to ironing. On 
Thursday, the ironing is finished off, the clothes are 
folded and put away, and all articles, which need 
mending, are put in the mending basket, and attended 
to. Friday is devoted to sweeping and housecleaning. 
On Saturday, and especially the last Saturday of every 
month, every department is put in order; the castors 
and table furniture are regulated, the pantry and cellar 
inspected, the trunks, drawers, and closets arranged, 
and every thing about the house, put in order for Sun- 
day. All the cooking, needed for Sunday, is also pre- 
pared. By this regular recurrence of a particular time, 
for inspecting every thing, nothing is forgotten till 
ruined by neglect. 

Another mode of systematizing, relates to providing 
proper supplies of conveniences, and proper places in 
which to keep them. Thus, some ladies keep a large 
closet, in which are placed the tubs, pails, dippers, 
soap-dishes, starch, bluing, clothes-line, clothes-pins, 
and every other article used in washing ; and in the 
same, or another, place, are kept every convenience for 
ironing. In the sewing department, a trunk, with suit- 
able partitions, is provided, in which are placed, each 
in its proper place, white thread of all sizes, colored 
thread, yarns for mending, colored and black sewing- 
silks and twist, tapes and bobbins of all sizes, white 
and colored welting-cords, silk braids and cords, nee- 
dles of all sizes, papers of pins, remnants of linen and 
colored cambric, a supply of all kinds of buttons used 



ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 163 

m the family, black and white hooks and eyes, a yard 
measure, and all the patterns used in cutting and fitting. 
These are done up in separate parcels, and labelled. 
In another trunk, are kept all pieces used in mending, 
arranged in order, so that any article can be found, 
without loss of time. A trunk, like the first mentioned, 
will save many steps, and often much time and per- 
plexity ; while by purchasing articles thus by the quan- 
tity, they come much cheaper, than if bought in little 
portions as they are wanted. Such a trunk should be 
kept locked, and a smaller supply, for current use, re- 
tained in a work-basket. 

A full supply of all conveniences in the kitchen and 
cellar, and a place appointed for each article, very 
much facihtates domestic labor. For want of this, 
much vexation and loss of time is occasioned, while 
seeking vessels in use, or in cleansing those employed 
by different persons, for various purposes. It would be 
far better, for a lady to give up some expensive article, 
in the parlor, and apply the money, thus saved, for 
kitchen conveniences, than to have a stinted supply, 
where the most labor is to be performed. If our 
Countrywomen would devote more to comfort and 
convenience, and less to show, it would be a great 
improvement. Expensive mirrors and pier-tables in 
the parlor, and an unpainted, gloomy, ill-furnished 
kitchen, not unfrequently are found under the same 
roof. 

Another important item, in systematic economy, is, 
the apportioning of regular employment to the various 
members of a family. If a housekeeper can secure 
the cooperation of all her family, she will find, that 
" many hands make light work." There is no greater 
mistake, than in bringing up children to feel that they 
must be taken care of, and waited on, by others, with- 
out any corresponding obligations on their part. The 
extent, to which young children can be made useful, 
in a family, would seem surprising, to those who have 
never seen a systematic and regular plan for securing 



164 0]Sr HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

their services. The writer has been in a family, vvhere 
a httle girl, of eight or nine years of age, washed and 
dressed herself and young brother, and made their 
small beds, before breakfast, set and cleared all the 
tables, at meals, with a httle help from a grown person 
in moving tables and spreading cloths, while all the 
dusting of parlors and chambers was also neatly per- 
formed by her. A brother, of ten years old, brought 
in and piled all the wood, used in the kitchen and 
parlor, brushed the boots and shoes, neatly, went on 
errands, and took all the care of the poultry. They 
were children, whose parents could afford to hire ser- 
vants to do this, but who chose to have their children 
grow up healthy and industrious, while proper instruc- 
tion, system, and encouragement, made these services 
rather a pleasure, than otherwise, to the children. 

Some parents pay their children for such services ; 
but this is hazardous, as tending to make them feel 
that they are not bound to be helpful without pay, 
and also as tending to produce a hoarding, money- 
making spirit. But, where children have no hoarding 
propensities, and need to acquire a sense of the value 
of property, it may be well to let them earn money, 
for some extra services, rather as a favor. When this 
is done, they should be taught to spend it for others, 
as well as for themselves ; and in this way, a generous 
and liberal spirit will be cultivated. 

There are some mothers, who take pains to teach 
their boys most of the domestic arts, which their sisters 
learn. The writer has seen boys, mending their own 
garments, and aiding their mother or sisters in the 
kitchen, with great skill and adroitness ; and at an 
early age, they usually very much relish joining in such 
occupations. The sons of such mothers, in their col- 
lege hfe, or in roaming about the world, or in nursing 
a sick wife or infant, find occasion to bless the fore- 
thought and kindness, which prepared them for such 
emergencies. Few things are in worse taste, than for 
a man needlessly to busy himself in women's work ; 



ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 165 

and yet a man never appears in a more interesting 
attitude, than when, by skill in such matters, he can 
save a mother or wife from care and suffering. The 
more a boy is taught to use his hands, in every variety 
of domestic employment, the more his faculties, both 
of mind and body, are developed ; for mechanical pur- 
suits exercise the intellect, as well as the hands. The 
early training of New-England boys, in which they 
turn their hand to almost every thing, is one great 
reason of the quick perceptions, versatility of mind, 
and mechanical skill, for which that portion of our 
Countrymen is distinguished. 

The writer has known one mode . of systematizing 
tlie aid of the older children in a family, which, in 
some cases of very large families, it may be well to 
imitate. In the case referred to, when the oldest 
daughter was eight or nine years old, an infant sister 
was given to her, as her special charge. She tended 
it, made and mended its clothes, taught it to read, and 
was its nurse and guardian, through all its childhood. 
Another infant was given to the next daughter, and 
thus the children were all paired in this interesting 
relation. In addition to the relief thus afforded to the 
mother, the elder children were in this way qualified 
for their future domestic relations, and both older and 
younger bound to each other by peculiar ties of tender- 
ness and gratitude. 

In offering these examples, of various modes of sys- 
tematizing, one suggestion may be worthy of attention. 
It is not unfrequently the case, that ladies, who find 
themselves cumbered with oppressive cares, after read- 
ing remarks on the benefits of system, immediately 
commence the task of arranging their pursuits, with 
great vigor and hope. They divide the day into regu- 
lar periods, and give each hour its duty ; they system- 
atize their work, and endeavor to bring every thing 
into a regular routine. But, in a short time, they find 
themselves baffled, discouraged, and disheartened, and 
finally relapse into their former desultory ways, in 



166 ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. 

a sort of resigned despair. The difficulty, in such 
cases, is, that they attempt too much at a time. There 
is nothing, which so much depends upon hahit, as a 
systematic mode of performing duty ; and, where no 
such habit has been formed, it is impossible for a nov- 
ice to start, at once, into a universal mode of system- 
atizing, which none but an adept could carry through. 
The only way for such persons, is, to begin with a little 
at a time. Let them select some three or four things, 
and resolutely attempt to conquer at these points. In 
time, a habit will be formed, of doing a few things at 
regular periods, and in a systematic way. Then it will 
be easy to add a few more ; and thus, by a gradual 
process, the object can be secured, which it would be 
vain to attempt, by a more summary course. Early 
rising is almost an indispensable condition to success, 
in such an effort ; but, where a woman lacks either the 
health or the energy to secure a period for devotional 
duties before breakfast, let her select that hour of the 
day, in which she will be least liable to interruption, 
and let her then seek strength and wisdom from the 
only true Source. At this time, let her take a pen, 
and make a hst of all the things which she considers 
as duties. Then, let a calculation be made, whether 
there be time enough, in the day or the week, for all 
these duties. If there be not, let the least important 
be stricken from the list, as not being duties, and 
which must be omitted. In doing this, let a woman 
remember, that, though " what we shall eat, and what 
we shall drink, and wherewithal we shall be clothed," 
are matters requiring due attention, they are very apt 
to obtain a wrong relative importance, while social, in- 
tellectual, and moral, interests, receive too little regard. 
In this Country, eating, dressing, and household 
furniture and ornaments, take far too large a place in 
the estimate of relative importance ; and it is probable, 
that most women could modify their views and prac- 
tice, so as to come nearer to the Saviour's require- 
ments. No woman has a right to put a stitch of orna 



ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 167 

ment on any article of dress or furniture, or to provide 
one superfluity in food, until she is sure she can secure 
time for all her social, intellectual, benevolent, and re- 
ligious, duties. If a woman will take the trouble to 
make such a calculation as this, she will usually find 
that she has time enough, to perform all her duties 
easily and well. 

It is impossible, for a conscientious woman to secure 
that peaceful mind, and cheerful enjoyment of life, 
which all should seek, who is constantly finding her 
duties jarring with each other, and much remaining 
undone, which she feels that she ought to do. In con- 
sequence of this, there will be a secret uneasiness, 
which will throw a shade over the whole current of 
life, never to be removed, till she so efficiently defines 
and regulates her duties, that she can fulfil them all. 

And here the writer would urge upon young ladies, 
the importance of forming habits of system, while un- 
embarrassed with those multiplied cares, which will 
make the task so much more difficult and hopeless. 
Every young lady can systematize her pursuits, to a 
certain extent. She can have a particular day for 
mending her wardrobe, and for arranging her trunks, 
closets, and drawers. She can keep her workbasket, 
her desk at school, and all her other conveniences, in 
their proper places, and in regular order. She can 
have regular periods for reading, walking, visiting, 
study, and domestic pursuits. And, by following this 
method, in youth, she will form a taste for regularity, 
and a habit of system, which will prove a blessing to 
her, through fife. 



CHAPTER XV. 

ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 



It is probable, that there is no point of duty, where 
conscientious persons differ more in opinion, or where 
they find it more difficult to form discriminating and 



%* 



168 ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

decided views, than on the matter of charity. That 
we are bound to give some of our time, money, and 
efforts, to reheve the destitute, all allow. But, as to 
how much we are to give, and on whom our charities 
shall be bestowed, many a reflecting mind has been at 
a loss. Yet it seems very desirable, that, in reference 
to a duty so constantly and so strenuously urged by the 
Supreme Ruler, we should be able so to fix metes and 
bounds, as to keep a conscience void of offence, and to 
free the mind from disquieting fears of deficiency. 
. The writer has found no other topic of investigation 
so beset with difiiculty, and so absolutely without the 
range of definite rules, which can apply to all, in all 
circumstances. But on this, as on a previous topic, 
there seem to be general principles, by the aid of which, 
any candid mind, sincerely desirous of obeying the 
commands of Christ, however much self-denial may be 
involved, can arrive at definite conclusions, as to its 
own individual obligations, so that, when these are 
fulfilled, the mind may be at peace. 

But, for a mind that is worldly, living mainly to seek 
its own pleasures, instead of living to please God, no 
principles can be so fixed, as not to leave a ready 
escape from all obligation. Such minds, either by in 
dolence (and consequent ignorance) or by sophistry, 
will convince themselves, that a life of engrossing self- 
indulgence, with perhaps the gift of a few dollars, and 
a few hours, of time, may suffice, to fulfil the requi- 
sitions of the Eternal Judge. 
, For such minds, no reasonings will avail, till the 
heart is so changed, that, to learn the will and follow 
the example of Jesus Christ, become the leading objects 
of interest and effort. It is to aid those, who profess 
to possess this temper of mind, that the following sug 
gestions are offered. 

The first consideration, which gives definiteness to 
this subject, is, a correct view of the object for which 
we are placed in this world. A great many even of 
professed Christians, seem to be acting on the suppo- 
j^ition, that the object of life is to secure as much as 



ON GIVJXG IN CHARITY. 169 

possible of all the various enjoyments placed within 
reach. Not so, teaches reason or revelation. From 
these, we learn, that, though the happiness of His crea- 
tures, is the end for which God created and sustains 
them, yet, that this happiness depends, not on the 
various modes of gratification put within our reach, but 
mainly on character, A man may possess all the re- 
sources for enjoyment which this world can afford, and 
yet feel that " all is vanity and vexation of spirit," and 
that he is supremely wretched. Another, may be in 
want of all things, and yet possess that living spring of 
benevolence, faith, and hope, which will make an Eden 
of the darkest prison. 

In order to be perfectly happy, man must attain that 
character, which Christ exhibited ; and the nearer he ap- 
proaches it, the more will happiness reign in his breast. 

But what was the grand pecuharity of the character 
of Christ ? It was self-denying benevolerice. He came 
not to " seek His own ;" He " went about doing good," 
and this was His " meat and drink ;" that is, it was this 
which sustained the health and life of His mind, as food 
and drink sustain the health and life of the body. Now, 
the mind of man is so made, that it can gradually be 
transformed into the same likeness. A selfish being, 
who, for a whole life, has been nourishing habits of in- 
dolent self-indulgence, can, by taking Christ as his ex- 
ample, by communion with Him, and by daily striving 
to imitate His character and conduct, form such a 
temper of mind, that "doing good" will become the 
chief and highest source of enjoyment. And this 
heavenly principle will grow stronger and stronger, 
until self-denial loses the more painful part of its char- 
acter, and then, living to malce happiness, will be so 
delightful and absorbing a pursuit, that all exertions, 
regarded as the means to this end, will be like the joy- 
ous efforts of men, when they strive for a prize or a 
crown, with the full hope of success. 

In this view of the subject, efforts and self-denial, for 
the good of others, are to be regarded, not merely as 
15 ]>. IS 



•^f 



170 ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

duties enjoined for the benefit of others, but as the 
moral training indispensable to the formation of that 
character, on which depends our own happiness. This 
view, exhibits the full meaning of the Saviour's declara- 
tion, " how hardly shall they that have riches enter into 
the kingdom of God ! " He had before taught, that 
vthe kingdom of Heaven consisted, not in such enjoy-' 
ments as the worldly seek, but, in the temper of self- 
denying benevolence, like His own ; and, as the rich 
have far gi-eater temptations to indolent self-indulgence, 
they are far less likely to acquire this temper, than 
those, who, by limited means, are inured to some de- 
gree of self-denial. 

But, on this point, one important distinction needs 
to be made ; and that is, between the self-denial, which 
has no other aim than mere self-mortification, and that, 
which is exercised to secure greater good to ourselves 
and others. The first is the foundation of monasticism, 
penances, and all other forms of asceticism ; the^latter, 
only, is that which Christianity requires. 

A second consideration, which may give definiteness 
to this subject, is, that the formation of a perfect char- 
acter, involves, not the extermination of any principles 
of our nature, but rather the regulating of them, ac- 
cording to the rules of reason and religion ; so that the 
lower propensities shall always be kept subordinate to 
nobler principles. Thus, we are not to aim at destroy- 
ing our appetites, or at needlessly denying them, but 
rather so to regulate them, that they shall best secure 
the objects for which they were implanted. We are 
not to annihilate the love of praise and admiration ; but 
so to control it, that the favor of God shall be regarded 
more than the estimation of men. We are not to ex- 
tirpate the principle of curiosity, which leads us to 
acquire knowledge ; but so to direct it, that all our ac- 
quisitions shall be useful and not frivolous or injurious. 
And thus, with all the principles of the mind, God has 
implanted no desires in our constitution, which are evil 
and pernicious. On the contrary, all our constitutional 



Jtai 



ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 171 

propensities, either of mind or body, He designed we 
should gratify, whenever no evils would thence result, 
either to ourselves or others. Such passions as envy 
ambition, pride, revenge, and hatred, are to be extermi- 
nated ; for they are either excesses or excrescences • 
not created by God, but rather the result of our own 
neglect to form habits of benevolence and self-control. 

In deciding the rules of our conduct, therefore, w(? 
are ever to bear in mind, that the developement of the 
nobler principles, and the subjugation of inferior pro- 
pensities to them, is to be the main object of effort, 
both for ourselves and for others. And, in conformity 
with this, in all our plans, we are to place religious and 
moral interests as first in estimation, our social and in- 
tellectual interests, next, and our physical gratifications, 
as subordinate to all. 

A third consideration, is, that, though the means for 
sustaining fife and health are to be regarded as necessa- 
ries, without which no other duties can be performed, 
yet, that a very large portion of the time, spent by 
most persons, in easy circumstances, for food, raiment, 
and dweUings, are for mere superfluities, which are 
right, when they do not involve the sacrifice of higher in- 
terests, and wrong, when they do. Life and health can 
be sustained in the humblest dwellings, with the plain- 
est dress, and the simplest food ; and, after taking from 
our means, what is necessary for life and health, the 
remainder is to be so divided, that the larger portion 
shall be given to supply the moral and intellectual 
wants of ourselves and others, and the smaller share to 
procure those additional gratifications, of taste and 
appetite, which are desirable, but not indispensable. 
Mankind, thus far, have never made this apportionment 
of their means ; yet, just as fast as they have risen from 
a savage state, mere physical wants have been made, 
to an increasing extent, subordinate to higher objects. 

Another very important consideration, is, that, in 
urging the duty of charity, and the prior claims of 
moral and religious objects, no rule of duty should be 



172 ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

maintained, which it would not be right and wise for 
all to follow. And we are to test the wisdom of any 
general rule, by inquiring what would be the result, if 
all mankind should practise according to it. In view 
of this, we are enabled to judge of the correctness of 
those, who maintain, that, to be consistent, men believ- 
ing in the eternal destruction of all those of our race 
who are not brought under the influence of the Chris- 
tian system, should give up, not merely the elegances, 
but all the superfluities, of hfe, and devote the whole 
of their means, not indispensable to life and health, for 
the propagation of Christianity. But, if this is the duty 
of any, it is the duty of all ; and we are to inquire what 
would be the result, if all conscientious persons gave up 
the use of all superfluities. Suppose, that two millions 
of the people in the United States, were conscientious 
persons, and relinquished the use of every thing not 
absolutely necessary to life and health. It would in- 
stantly throw out of employment one half of the whole 
community. The manufacturers, mechanics, merchants, 
agriculturists, and all the agencies they employ, would 
be beggared, and one half of those not reduced to 
poverty, would be obliged to spend all their extra 
means, in simply supplying necessaries to the other 
half. The use of superfluities, therefore, to a certain 
extent, is as indispensable to promote industry, virtue, 
and religion, as any direct giving of money or time ; 
and it is owing entirely to a want of reflection, and of 
comprehensive views, that any men ever make so great 
a mistake, as is here exhibited. 

Instead, then, of urging a rule of duty which is at 
once irrational and impracticable, there is another 
course, which commends itself to the understandings 
of all. For whatever may be the practice, of intelligent 
men, they universally concede the principle, that our 
physical gratifications should always be made subordi- 
nate to social, intellectual, and moral, advantages. And 
all that is required, for the advancement of our whole 
race to the most perfect state of society, is, simply, that 



ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 173 

men should act in agreement with this principle. And, 
if only a very small portion, of the most intelligent of 
our race, should act according to this rule, under the 
control of Christian benevolence, the immense supplies, 
furnished, for the general good, would be far beyond 
what any would imagine, who had never made any 
calculations on the subject. In this Nation, alone, sup- 
pose the one million and more, of professed followers 
of Christ, should give a larger portion of their means, 
for the social, intellectual, and moral, wants of man- 
kind, than for the superfluities that minister to taste, 
convenience, and appetite ; it would be enough to fur- 
nish all the schools, colleges. Bibles, ministers, and mis- 
sionaries, that the whole world could demand ; or, at 
least, it would be far more, than properly qualified 
agents to administer it, could employ. 

But, it may be objected, that, though this view is 
one, which, in the abstract, looks plausible and rational, 
not one in a thousand, can practically adopt it. How 
few keep any account, at all, of their current expenses ! 
How impossible it is, to determine, exactly, what are 
necessaries, and what are superfluities ! And in regard 
to women, how few have the control of an income, so 
as not to be bound by the wishes of a parent or a 
husband ! 

In reference to these difficulties, the first remark is, 
that we are never under obligations to do, what is en- 
tirely out of our power, so that those persons, who have 
no power to regulate their expenses or their charities, 
are under no sort of obligation to attempt it. The 
second remark is, that, when a rule of duty is discov- 
ered, we are bound to aim at it, and to fulfil it, just so 
far as we can. We have no right to throw it aside, 
because we shall find some difficult cases, when we 
come to apply it. The third remark is, that no person 
can tell how much can be done, till a faithful trial has 
been made. If a woman has never kept any accounts, 
nor attempted to regulate her expenditures by the right 
i^ule, nor used her influence with those that control her 
15* D. E. 



174 ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

plans, to secure this object, she has no right to say how 
much she can, or cannot, do, till after a fair trial has 
been made. 

In attempting such a trial, the following method can 
be taken. Let a woman keep an account of all she 
spends, for herself and her family, for a year, arranging 
the items under three general heads. Under the first, 
put all articles for food, raiment, rent, wages, and all 
conveniences. Under the second, place all sums paid 
in securing an education, and books, and other intellec- 
tual advantages. Under the third head, place all that 
is spent for benevolence and religion. At the end of 
the year, the first and largest account will show the 
mixed items of necessaries and superfluities, which can 
be arranged, so as to gain some sort of idea how much 
has been spent for superfluities, and how much for ne- 
cessaries. Then, by comparing what is spent for super- 
fluities, with what is spent for intellectual and moral 
advantages, data will be gained, for judging of the past, 
and regulating the future. 

Does a woman say she cannot do this ? let her in- 
quire, whether the offer of a thousand dollars, as a 
reward for attempting it one year, would not make her 
undertake to do it; and, if so, let her decide, in her 
own mind, which is most valuable, a clear conscience, 
and the approbation of God, in this effort to do His 
will, or one 'thousand dollars. And let her do it, with 
this warning of the Saviour before her eyes, — "No 
man can serve two masters." " Ye cannot serve God 
and Mammon." 

Is it objected. How can we decide between superflui- 
ties and necessaries, in this Hst ? it is replied, that we 
are not required to judge exactly, in all cases. Our 
duty is, to use the means in our power to assist us in 
forming a correct judgement ; to seek the Divine aid in 
freeing our minds from indolence and selfishness ; and 
then to judge, as well as we can, in our endeavors 
rightly to apportion and regulate our expenses. Many 
persons seem to feel that they are bound to do better 



ON GIVING IN CHARlTy. l^Sl* 

than they know how. But God is not so hard a Mas- 
ter ; and, after we have used all proper means to learn 
the right v/ay, if v/e then follow it, according to our 
ability, we do wrong to feel misgivings, or to blame our- 
selves, if results come out differently from what seems 
desirable. The results of our actions, alone, can never 
prove us deserving of blame. For men are often so 
placed, that, owing to lack of intellect or means, it is 
impossible for them to decide correctly. To use all the 
means of knowledge within our reach, and then to 
judge, with a candid and conscientious spirit, is all that 
God requires ; and, when we have done this, and the 
event seems to come out wrong, we should never wish 
that we had decided otherwise. For it is the same as 
wishing tlmt we had not followed the dictates of judge- 
ment and conscience. As this is a world designed for 
discipline and trial, untoward events are never to be 
construed as indications of the obhquity of our past 
decisions. 

But it is probable, that a great portion of the women 
of this Nation, cannot secure any such systematic mode 
of regulating their expenses. To such, the writer 
would propose one inquiry ; cannot you calculate how 
much time and money you spend for what is merely or- 
namental, and not necessary, for yourself, your children, 
and your house ? Cannot you compare this with the 
time and money you spend for intellectual and benevo- 
lent purposes? and will not this shov/ the need of some 
change ? In making this examination, is not this brief 
rule, deducible from the principles before laid down, 
the one which should regulate you? Every person 
does right, in spending some portion of time and means 
m securing the conveniences and adornments of taste ; 
but the amount should never exceed what is spent in 
securing our own moral and intellectual improvement, 
nor exceed what is spent in benevolent efforts to supply 
the physical and moral wants of our fellow-men. 

In making an examination on this subject, it is some- 
times the case, that a woman will count among the 



176 ON GIVING IN CHAIUTY. 

necessaries of life, all the various modes of adorning the 
person or house, practised in the circle in which she 
moves ; and, after enumerating the many duties which 
demand attention, counting these as a part, she will 
come to the conclusion, that she has no time, and but 
little money, to devote to personal improvement, or to 
benevolent enterprises. This surely is not in agreement 
with the requirements of the Saviour, who calls on us 
to seek for others, as well as ourselves, first of all, " the 
kingdom of God, and His righteousness." 

In order to act in accordance with the rule here pre- 
sented, it is true, that many would be obliged to give 
up the idea of conforming to the notions and customs 
of those, with whom they associate, and compelled to 
adopt the maxim, " be not conformed to this world." 
In many cases, it would involve an entire change in the 
style of living. And the writer has the happiness of 
knowing more cases than one, where persons, who have 
come to similar views, on this subject, have given up 
large and expensive establishments, disposed of their 
carriages, dismissed a portion of their domestics, and 
modified all their expenditures, that they might keep a 
pure conscience, and regulate their charities more ac- 
cording to the requirements of Christianity. And there 
are persons, well known in the religious world, who 
save themselves all labor of minute calculation, by de- 
voting so large a portion of their time and means to 
benevolent objects, that they find no difficulty in know- 
ing that they give more for religious, benevolent, and 
intellectual, purposes, than for superfluities. 

In deciding what particular objects shall receive our 
benefactions, there are also general principles to guide 
us. The first, is that presented by our Saviour, when, 
after urging the great law of benevolence. He was 
asked, " and who is my neighbor ? " His reply, in the 
parable of ' the Good Samaritan,' teaches us, that any 
human being, whose wants are brought to our knowl- 
edge, is our neighbor. The wounded man was not 
only a stranger, but he belonged to a foreign nation, 



ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 177 

peculiarly hated ; and he had no claim, except that his 
wants were brought to the knowledge of the wayfaring 
man. From this, we learn, that the destitute, of all 
nations, become our neighbors, as soon as their wants 
are brought to our knowledge. 

Another general principle, is this, that those who are 
most in need, must be relieved, in preference to those 
who are less destitute. On this principle, it is, that we 
think the followers of Christ should give more to supply 
those who are suffering for want of the bread of eter- 
nal Hfe, than for those who are deprived of physical 
enjoyments. And another reason for this preference, 
is, the fact, that many, who give in charity, have made 
such imperfect advances in civilization and Christianity, 
that the intellectual and moral wants of our race make 
but a feeble impression on the mind. Relate a pitiful 
tale of a family, reduced to live, for weeks, on potatoes, 
only, and many a mind would awake to deep sympathy, 
and stretch forth the hand of charity. But describe 
cases, where the immortal mind is pining in stupidity 
and ignorance, or racked with the fever of baleful pas- 
sions, and how small the number, so elevated in senti 
ment, and so enlarged in their views, as to appreciate 
and sympathize in these far greater misfortunes ! The 
intellectual and moral wants of our fellow-men, there- 
fore, should claim the first place in our attention, both 
because they are most important, and because they are 
most neglected. 

Another consideration, to be borne in mind, is, that, 
in this Country, there is much less real need of charity, 
in supplying physical necessities, than is generally sup- 
jposed, by those who have not learned the more excel- 
lent way. This Land is so abundant in supplies, and 
labor is in such demand, that every healthy person can 
earn a comfortable support. And if all the poor were 
instantly made virtuous, it is probable that there would 
be no physical wants, which could not readily be sup- 
plied by the immediate friends of each sufferer. The 
sick, the aged, and the orphan, would be the only ob- 



178 ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 

jects of charity. In this view of the case, the primary 
effort, in reUeving the poor, should be, to furnish them 
the means of earning their own support, and to supply 
them with those moral influences, which are most ef- 
fectual in securing virtue and industry. 

Another point to be attended to, is, the importance 
of maintaining a system of associated charities. There 
is no point, in which the economy of charity has more 
improved, than in the present mode of combining many 
small contributions, for sustaining enlarged and system- 
atic plans of charity. If all the half-dollars, which are 
now contributed to aid in organized systems of charity, 
were returned to the donors, to be applied by the agency 
and discretion of each, thousands and thousands of the 
treasures, now employed to promote the moral and in- 
tellectual wants of mankind, would become entirely 
useless. In a democracy, like ours, where few are very 
rich, and the majority are in comfortable circumstances, 
this collecting and dispensing of drops and rills, is the 
mode, by which, in imitation of Nature, the dews and 
showers are to distil on parched and desert lands. And 
every person, while earning a pittance to unite with 
many more, may be cheered with the consciousness of 
sustaining a grand system of operations, which must 
have the most decided influence, in raising all mankind 
to that perfect state of society, which Christianity is 
designed to secure. 

Another consideration, relates to the indiscriminate 
bestowal of charity. Persons, who have taken pains to 
inform themselves, and who devote their whole time to 
dispensing charities, unite in declaring, that this is one 
of the most fruitful sources of indolence, vice, andr 
poverty. From several of these, the writer has learned, 
that, by their own personal investigations, they have as- 
certained, that there are large establishments of idle and 
wicked persons, in most of our cities, who associate 
together, to support themselves by every species of im- 
position. They hire large houses, and hve in constant 
jioting, on the means thus obtained. Among them, are 



ON GIVING IN CHARITY. 179 

women who have, or who hire the use of, infant chil- 
dren ; others, who are Wind, or maimed, or deformed, 
or who can adroitly feign such infirmities, and, by these 
means of exciting pity, and by artful tales of wo, they 
collect alms, both in city and country, to spend in all 
manner of gross and guilty indulgences. Meantime, 
many persons, finding themselves often duped by im- 
postors, refuse to give at all ; and thus many benefac- 
tions are withdrawn, which a wise economy in charity 
would have secured. For this, and other reasons, it is 
wise and merciful, to adopt the general rule, never to 
give aims, till we have had some opportunity of knowing 
how they will be spent. There are exceptions to this, 
as to every general rule, which a person of discretion 
can determine. But the practice, so common among 
benevolent persons, of giving, at least a trifle, to all who 
ask, lest, perchance, they may turn away some, who are 
really sufferers, is one, which causes more sin and mis- 
ery than it cures. 

The writer has never known any system for dis- 
pensing charity, so successful, as the one which, in 
many places, has been adopted in connection with the 
distribution of tracts. By this method, a town or city 
is divided into districts ; and each district is committed 
to the care of two ladies, whose duty it is, to call on 
each family and leave a tract, and make that the occa- 
sion for entering into conversation, and learning the 
situation of ail residents in the district. By this 
method, the ignorant, the vicious, and the poor, are 
discovered, and their physical, intellectual, and moral, 
wants, are investigated. In some places, where the 
writer has resided or visited, each person retained the 
same district, year after year, so that every poor family 
in the place was under the watch and care of some in- 
telligent and benevolent lady, who used all her influence 
to secure a proper education for the children, to furnish 
them with suitable reading, to encourage habits of in- 
dustry and economy, and to secure regular attendance 
on public religious instruction. Thus, the rich and the 



180 ON ECONOMY OF TIME. 

poor were brought in contact, in a way advantageous 
to both parties ; and, if such a system could be univer- 
sally adopted, more would be done for the prevention 
of poverty and vice, than all the wealth of the Nation 
could avail for their relief. But this plan cannot be 
successfully carried out, in this manner, unless there is 
a large proportion of intelligent, benevolent, and self- 
denying, persons ; and the mere distribution of tracts, 
without the other parts of the plan, is of very little 
avail. 

But there is one species of charity, which needs 
especial consideration. It is that, which induces us 
to refrain from judging of the means and the relative 
charities of other persons. There have been such in- 
distinct notions, and so many different standards of 
duty, on this subject, that it is rare for two persons to 
think exactly alike, in regard to the rule of duty. Each 
person is bound to inquire and judge for himself, as to 
his own duty or deficiencies ; but as both the resources, 
and the amount of the actual charities, of other men 
are beyond our ken, it is as indecorous, as it is unchari- 
table, to sit in judgement on their decisions. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

ON ECONOMY OP TIME AND EXPENSES. 

On Economy of Time. 

The value of time, and our obligation to spend 
every hour for some useful end, are what few minds 
properly realize. And those, who have the highest 
sense of their obligations in this respect, sometimes 
greatly misjudge in their estimate of what are useful 
and proper modes of employing time. This arises from 
limited views of the importance of some pursuits, which 
they would deem frivolous and useless, but which are, 



ON ECONOMY OF TIME. 181 

in reality, necessary to preserve the health of body and 
mind, and those social affections, which it is very im- 
portant to cherish. Christianity teaches, that, for all 
the time afforded us, we must give account to God ; 
and that we have no right to waste a single hour. But 
time, which is spent in rest or amusement, is often as 
usefully employed, as if it were devoted to labor or de- 
votion. In employing our time, we are to make suita- 
ble allowance for sleep, for preparing and taking food, 
for securing the means of a livelihood, for intellectual 
improvement, for exercise and amusement, for social 
enjoyments, and for benevolent and religious duties. 
And it is the right apportionment of time, to these 
various duties, which constitutes its true economy. 

In making this apportionment, we are bound by the 
same rules, as relate to the use of property. We are 
to employ whatever portion is necessary to sustain life 
and health, as the first duty ; and the remainder we are 
so to apportion, that our highest interests, shall receive 
the greatest allotment, and our physical gratifications, 
the least. 

The laws of the Supreme Ruler, when He became 
the civil as well as the religious Head of the Jewish 
theocracy, furnish an example, which it would be well 
for all attentively to consider, when forming plans for 
the apportionment of time and property. To properly 
estimate this example, it must be borne in mind, that 
the main object of God, was, to preserve His religion 
among the Jewish nation ; and that they were not re- 
quired to take any means to propagate it among other 
nations, as Christians are now required to extend Chris- 
tianity. So low were they, in the scale of civilization 
and mental developement, that a system, which con- 
fined them to one spot, as an agricultural people, and 
prevented their growing very rich, or having extensive 
commerce with other nations, was indispensable to pre- 
vent their relapsing into the low idolatries and vices of 
the nations around them. 

The proportion of time and property, which every 

■■■M 16 D. E. 



182 ON ECONOMY OF TIME. 

Jew was required to devote to intellectual, benevolent, 
and religious purposes, was as follows : 

In regard to property, they were required to give 
one tenth of all their yearly income, to support the 
Levites, the priests, and the religious service. Next, 
they were required to give the first fruits of all their 
corn, wine, oil, and fruits, and the first-born of all their 
cattle, for the Lord's treasury, to be employed for the 
priests, the widow, the fatherless, and the stranger. 
The first-born, also, of their children, were the Lord's, 
and were to be redeemed by a specified sum, paid into 
the sacred treasury. Besides this, they were required 
to bring a freewill offering to God, every time, they 
went up to the three great yearly festivals. In addition 
to this, regular yearly sacrifices, of cattle and fowls, 
were required of each family, and occasional sacrifices 
for certain sins or ceremonial impurities. In reaping 
their fields, they were required to leave unreaped, for 
the poor, the corners ; not to glean their fields, olive- 
yards, or vineyards ; and, if a sheaf was left, by mistake, 
they were not to return for it, but leave it for the poor. 
When a man sent away a servant, he was thus charged: 
" Furnish him liberally out of thy flock, and out of thy 
floor, and out of thy wine-press." When a poor man 
came to borrow money, they were forbidden to deny 
him, or to take any interest; and if, at the sabbatical, 
or seventh, year, he could not pay, the debt was to be 
cancelled. And to this command, is added the signifi- 
cant caution, " Beware that there be not a thought in 
thy wicked heart, saying, the seventh year, the year of 
release, is at hand; and thine eye be evil against thy 
poor brother, and thou givest him nought ; and he cry 
unto the Lord against thee, and it be sin unto thee. 
Thou shalt surely give him," "because that for this 
thing the Lord thy God shall bless thee in all thy works, 
and in all that thou puttest thine hand unto." Besides 
this, the Levites were distributed through the land, with 
the intention that they should be instructers and priests 
in every part of the nation. Thus, one twelfth of the 



ON ECONOMY OF TIME. 183 

people were set apart, having no landed property, to be 
priests and teachers ; and the other tribes were required 
to support them liberally. 

In regard to the time taken from secular pursuits, for 
the support of religion, an equally liberal amount was 
demanded. In the first place, one seventh part of their 
time was taken for the weekly sabbath, when no kind 
of work was to be done. Then the whole nation were 
required to meet, at the appointed place, three times a 
year, which, including their journeys, and stay there, 
occupied eight weeks, or another seventh part of 
their time. Then the sabbatical year, when no agri- 
cultural labor was to be done, took another seventh 
of their time from their regular pursuits, as they were 
an agricultural people. This was the amount of time 
and property demanded by God, simply to sustain 
religion and morality within the bounds of that nation. 
Christianity demands the spread of its blessings to all 
mankind, and so the restrictions laid on the Jews are 
withheld, and all our wealth and time, not needful for 
our own best interest, is to be employed in improving 
the condition of our fellow-men. 

In deciding respecting the rectitude of our pursuits, 
we are bound to aim at some practical good, as the 
ultimate object. With every duty of this hfe, our 
benevolent Creator has connected some species of 
enjoyment, to draw us to perform it. Thus, the palate 
is gratified, by performing the duty of nourishing our 
bodies ; the principle of curiosity is gratified, in pur- 
suing useful knowledge ; the desire of approbation is 
gratified, when we perform benevolent and social du 
ties ; and every other duty has an alluring enjoyment 
connected with it. But the great mistake of mankind 
has consisted in seeking the pleasures, connected with 
these duties, as the sole aim, without reference to the 
main end that should be held in view, and to which 
the enjoyment should be made subservient. Thus, 
men seek to gratify the palate, without reference to 
the question whether the body is properly nourished; 



184 ON ECONOMY OF TIME. 

and follow after knowledge, without inquiring whether 
It ministers to good or evil. 

But, in gratifying the implanted desires of our na- 
ture, we are bound so to restrain ourselves, by reason 
and conscience, as always to seek the main objects of 
existence — the highest good of ourselves and others ; 
and never to sacrifice this, for the mere gratification of 
our sensual desires. We are to giatify appetite, just 
so far as is consistent with health and usefulness ; and 
the desire for knowledge, just so far as will enable us 
to do most good by our influence and efforts ; and no 
farther. We are to seek social intercourse, to that 
extent, which will best promote domestic enjoyment 
and kindly feelings among neighbors and friends ; and 
we are to pursue exercise and amusement, only so far 
as will best sustain the vigor of body and mind. For 
the right apportionment of time, to these and various 
other duties, we are to give an account to our Creator 
and final Judge. 

Instead of attempting to give any very specific rules 
on this subject, some modes of economizing time will 
be suggested. The most powerful of all agencies, in 
this matter, is, that habit of system and order, in all 
our pursuits, which has been already pointed out. It 
is probable, that a regular and systematic employment 
of time, will enable a person to accomplish thrice the 
amount of labor, that could otherwise be performed. 

Another mode of economizing time, is, by uniting 
several objects in one employment. Thus, exercise, 
or charitable efforts, can be united with social enjoy- 
ments, as is done in associations for sewing, or visiting 
the poor. Instruction and amusement can also be 
combined. Pursuits like music, gardening, drawing, 
botany, and the hke, unite intellectual improvement 
with amusement, social enjoyment, and exercise. 

With housekeepers, and others whose employments 
are various and desultory, much time can be saved by 
preparing employments for little intervals of leisure. 
Thus, some ladies make ready, and keep in the parlor, 



ON ECONOMT IN EXPENSES. 185 

light work, to take up when detained there ; some 
keep a book at hand, in the nursery, to read while 
holding or sitting by a sleeping infant. One of the 
most popular female poets of our Country very often 
shows her friends, at their calls, that the thread of the 
knitting, never need interfere with the thread of agree- 
able discourse. 

It would be astonishing, to one who had never tried 
the experiment, how much can be accomplished, by a 
little planning and forethought, in thus finding employ- 
ment for odd intervals of time. 

But, besides economizing our own time, we are 
bound to use our influence and example to promote 
the discharge of the same duty by others. A woman 
is under obligations so to arrange the hours and pur- 
suits of her family, as to promote systematic and habit- 
ual industry ; and if, by late breakfasts, irregular hours 
for meals, and other hinderances of this kind, she in- 
terferes with, or refrains from promoting regular indus- 
try in, others, she is accountable to God for all the 
waste of time consequent on her negligence. The 
mere example of system and industry, in a house- 
keeper, has a wonderful influence in promoting the 
same virtuous habit in others. 

On Economy in Expenses. 

It is impossible for a woman to practise a wise 
economy in expenditures, unless she is taught how 
to do it, either by a course of experiments, or by the 
instruction of those who have had experience. It is 
amusing to notice the various, and oftentimes contra- 
dictory, notions of economy, among judicious and ex- 
perienced housekeepers ; for there is probably no econ- 
omist, who would not be deemed lavish or wasteful, 
in some respects, by another and equally experienced 
and judicious person, who, in some different points, 
would herself be as much condemned by the other. 
These diversities are occasioned by dissimilar early 
habits, and by the different relative value assigned, by 
16* D. E. 



186 ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 

each, to the various modes of enjoyment, for which 
money is expended. 

But, though there may be much disagreement in 
minor matters, there are certain general principles, 
which all unite in sanctioning. The first, is, that care 
be taken to know the amount of income and of cur- 
rent expenses, so that the proper relative proportion 
be preserved, and the expenditures never exceed the 
means. Few women can do this, thoroughly, without 
keeping regular accounts. The habits of this Nation, 
especially among business-men, are so desultory, and 
the current expenses of a family, in many points, are 
so much more under the control of the man than of 
the woman, that many women, who are disposed to 
be systematic in this matter, cannot follow their wishes. 
But there are often cases, when much is left undone 
in this particular, simply because no effort is made. 
Yet every woman is bound to do as much as is in her 
power, to accomplish a systematic mode of expendi- 
ture, and the regulation of it by Christian principles. 

The following are examples of different methods 
which have been adopted, for securing a proper ad- 
justment of expenses to the means. 

The first, is that of a lady, who kept a large board- 
ing-house, in one of our cities. Every evening, before 
retiring, she took an account of the expenses of the 
day; and this usually occupied her not more than 
fifteen minutes, at a time. On each Saturday, she 
made an inventory of the stores on hand, and of the 
daily expenses, and also of what was due to her ; and 
then made an exact estimate of her expenditures and 
profits. This, after the first two or three weeks, never 
took more than an hour, at the close of the week. 
Thus, by a very little time, regularly devoted to this 
object, she knew, accurately, her income, expenditures, 
and profits. 

Another friend of the writer, fives on a regular sala- 
ry. The method adopted, in this case, is to calculate 
ir^ what the salarv amounts, each week. Then an 



ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 187 

account is kept, of what is paid out, each week, for 
rent, fuel, wages, and food. This amount of each 
week is deducted from the weekly income. The re- 
mainders of each week are added, at the close of a 
month, as the stock from which is to be taken, the 
dress, furniture, books, travelling expenses, charities, 
and all other expenditures. 

Another lady, whose husband is a lawyer, divides 
t|ie year into four quarters, and the income into four 
equal parts. She then makes her plans, so that the 
expenses of one quarter shall never infringe on the 
income of another. So resolute is she, in carrying 
out this determination, that if, by any mischance, she 
is in want of articles before the close of a quarter, 
which she has not the means for providing, she will 
subject herself to temporary inconvenience, by waiting, 
rather than violate her rule. 

Another lady, whose husband is engaged in a busi- 
ness, which he thinks makes it impossible for him to 
know what his yearly income will be, took this meth- 
od : — She kept an account of all her disbursements, 
for one year. This she submitted to her husband, and 
obtained his consent, that the same sum should be 
under her control, the coming year, for similar pur- 
poses, with the understanding, that she might modify 
future apportionments, in any way her judgement and 
conscience might approve. 

A great deal of uneasiness and discomfort is caused, 
to both husband and wife, in many cases, by an entire 
want of system and forethought, in arranging expenses. 
Both keep buying what they think they need, without 
any calculation as to how matters are coming out, and 
with a sort of dread of running in debt, all the time 
harassing them. Such never know the comfort of 
independence. But, if a man or woman will only 
calculate what their income is, and then plan so as to 
know that they are all the time hving within it, they 
secure one of the greatest comforts, which wealth ever 
bestows, and what many of the rich, who live in a 



188 ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 

loose and careless way, never enjoy. It is not so 
much the amount of income, as the regular and correct 
apportionment of expenses, that makes a family truly 
comfortable. A man, with ten thousand a year, is 
often more harassed, for want of money, than the sys- 
tematic economist, who supports a family on only six 
hundred a year. And the inspired command, " Owe 
no man any thing," can never be conscientiously ob- 
served, without a systematic adaptation of expenses to 
means. 

As it is very important that young ladies should learn 
systematic economy, in expenses, it will be a great 
benefit, for every young girl to begin, at twelve or thir- 
teen years of age, to make her own purchases, and 
keep her accounts, under the guidance of her mother, 
or some other friend. And if parents would ascertain 
the actual expense of a daughter's clothing, for a year, 
and give the sum to her, in quarterly payments, re- 
quiring a regular account, it would be of great benefit 
in preparing her for future duties. How else are young 
ladies to learn to make purchases properly, and to be 
systematic and economical? The art of system and 
economy can no more come by intuition, than the art 
of watchmaking or bookkeeping; and how strange it 
appears, that so many young ladies take charge of a 
husband's establishment, without having had either in- 
struction or experience in one of the most important 
duties of their station! 

The second general principle of economy, is, that, in 
apportioning an income, among various objects, the 
most important should receive the largest supply, and 
that all retrenchments be made in matters of less im- 
portance. In a previous chapter, some general princi- 
ples have been presented, to guide in this duty. Some 
additional hints will here be added, on the same topic. 

In regard to dress and furniture, much want of 
judgement and good taste is often seen, in purchasing 
some expensive article, which is not at all in keeping 
with the other articles connected with it. Thus, a 



ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 189 

large sideboard, or elegant mirror, or sofa, which would 
be suitable only for a large establishment, with other 
rich furniture, is crowded into too small a room, with 
coarse and cheap articles around it. So, also, some- 
times a parlor, and company-chamber, will be furnished 
in a style suitable only for the wealthy, while the table 
will be supplied with shabby Hnen, and imperfect 
crockery, and every other part of the house will look, 
in comparison with these fine rooms, mean and nig- 
gardly. It is not at all uncommon, to find very .showy 
and expensive articles in the part of the house visible to 
strangers, when the children's rooms, kitchen, and other 
back portions, are on an entirely different scale. 

So in regard to dress, a lady will sometimes purchase 
an elegant and expensive article, which, instead of at- 
tracting admiration from the eye of taste, will merely 
serve as a decoy to the painful contrast of all other 
parts of the dress. A woman of real good taste and 
discretion, will strive to maintain a relative consistency 
between all departments, and not, in one quarter, live 
on a scale fitted only to the rich, and in another, on 
one appropriate only to the poor. 

Another mistake in economy, is often made, by some 
of the best-educated and most intelligent of mothers. 
Such will often be found spending day after day at 
needlework, when, with a comparatively small sum, 
this labor could be obtained of those who need the 
money, which such work would procure for them. 
Meantime, the daughters of the family, whom the 
mother is quahfied to educate, or so nearly quahfied, 
that she could readily keep ahead of her children, are 
sent to expensive boarding-schools, where their delicate 
frames, their pliant minds, and their moral and re- 
ligious interests, are relinquished to the hands of 
strangers. And the expense, thus incurred, would 
serve to pay the hire of every thing the mother can d y 
in sewing, four or five times over. The same want of 
economy is shown in communities, where, instead of 
establishing a good female school in their vicinity, the 



190 ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 

men of wealth send their daughters abroad, at double 
the expense, to be either educated or spoiled, as the 
case may be. 

Another species of poor economy, is manifested in 
neglecting to acquire and apply mechanical skill, which, 
in consequence, has to be hired from others. Thus, 
all the plain sewing will be done by the mother and 
daughters, while all that requires skill will be hired. 
Instead of this, others take pains to have their daugh- 
ters instructed in mantuamaking, and the simpler parts 
of millinery, so that the plain work is given to the poor, 
who need it, and the more expensive and tasteful 
operations are performed in the family. The writer 
knows ladies, who not only make their own dresses, 
but also their caps, bonnets, and artificial flowers. 

Some persons make miscalculations in economy, by 
habitually looking up cheap articles, while others go to 
the opposite extreme, and always buy the best of every 
thing. Those ladies, who are considered the best 
economists, do not adopt either method. In regard to 
cheap goods, the fading colors, the damages discovered 
in use, the poorness of material, and the extra sewing 
demanded to replace articles lost by such causes, 
usually render them very dear, in the end. On the 
other hand, though some articles, of the most ex- 
pensive kind, wear longest and best, yet, as a general 
rule, articles at medium prices do the best service. 
This is true of table and bed linens, broadcloths, shirt- 
ings, and the like ; though, even in these cases, it is 
often found, that the coarsest and cheapest last the 
longest. 

Buying by wholesale, and keeping a large supply on 
hand, are economical only in large families, where the 
mistress is careful ; but in other cases, the hazards of 
accident, and the temptation to a lavish use, will make 
the loss outrun the profits. 

There is one mode of economizing, which, it is hoped, 
will every year grow more rare ; and that is, making 
penurious savings, by getting the poor to work as cheap 



ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 191 

as possible. Many amiable and benevolent women 
have done this, on principle, vi^ithout reflecting on the 
want of Christian charity thus displayed. Let every 
woman, in making bargains with the poor, conceive 
herself placed in the same circmnstances, toiling hour 
after hour, and day after day, for a small sum, and 
then deal with others as she would be dealt by in such 
a situation. Liberal prices, and prompt payment, should 
be an invariable maxim, in deahng with the poor. 

The third general principle of economy, is, that all 
articles should be so used, and taken care of, as to 
secure the longest service, with the least waste. Under 
this head, come many particulars in regard to the use 
and preservation of articles, which will be found more 
in detail in succeeding chapters. It may be proper, 
however, here to refer to one very common impression, 
as to the relative obligation of the poor and the rich in 
regard to economy. Many seem to suppose, that those 
who are wealthy, have a right to be lavish and negli- 
gent in the care of expenses. But this surely is a great 
mistake. Property is a talent, given by God, to spend 
for the welfare of mankind ; and the needless waste of 
it, is as wrong in the rich, as it is in the poor. The 
rich are under obligations to apportion their income, to 
the various objects demanding attention, by the same 
rule as all others ; and if this will allow them to spend 
more for superfluities than those of smaller means, it 
never makes it right to misuse or waste any of the 
bounties of Providence. Whatever is no longer wanted 
for their own enjoyment, should be carefully saved, to 
add to the enjoyment of others. 

It is not always that men understand the economy 
of Providence, in that unequal distribution of property, 
which, even under the most perfect form of govern- 
ment, will always exist. Many, looking at the present 
state of things, imagine that the rich, if they acted in 
strict conformity to the law of benevolence, would share 
all their property with their suffering fellow-men. But 
such do not take into account, the inspired declaration. 



192 ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 

that " a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of 
the things which he possesseth," or, in other words, 
life is made valuable, not by great possessions, but by 
such a character as prepares a man to enjoy what he 
holds. God perceives that human character can be 
most improved, by that kind of disciphne, which exists, 
when there is something valuable to be gained by in- 
dustrious efforts. This stimulus to industry could 
never exist, in a community where all are just alike, 
as it does in a state of society where every man sees, 
possessed by others, enjoyments, which he desires, and 
may secure by effort and industry. So, in a community 
where all are alike as to property, there would be no 
chance to gain that noblest of all attainments, a habit 
of self-denying benevolence, which toils for the good 
of others, and takes from one's own store, to increase 
the enjoyments of another. 

Instead, then, of the stagnation, both of industry 
and of benevolence, which would follow the universal 
and equable distribution of property, one class of men, 
by superior advantages of birth, or intellect, or patron- 
age, come into possession of a great amount of capital. 
With these means, they are enabled, by study, reading, 
and travel, to secure expansion of mind, and just views 
of the relative advantages of moral, intellectual, and 
physical enjoyments. At the same time, Christianity 
imposes obligations, corresponding with the increase 
of advantages and means. The rich are not at liberty 
to spend their treasures for themselves, alone. Their 
wealth is given, by God, to be employed for the best 
good of mankind ; and their intellectual advantages 
are designed, primarily, to enable them to judge cor- 
rectly, in employing their means most wisely for the 
general good. 

Now, suppose a man of wealth inherits ten thou- 
sand acres of real estate : it is not his duty to divide 
it among his poor neighbors and tenants. If he took 
this course, it is probable, that most of them would 
spend all in thriftless waste and indolence, ot in mere 



ON ECONOJIY IN EXPENSES. 193 

physical enjoyments. Instead, then, of thus putting 
his capital out of his hands, he is bound to retain, and 
so to employ, it, as to raise his neighbors and tenants 
to such a state of virtue and intelligence, that they can 
secure far more, by their own efforts and industry, than 
he, by dividing his capital, could bestow upon them. 

In this view of the subject, it is manifest, that the 
unequal distribution of property is no evil. The great 
difficulty is, that so large a portion of those who hold 
much capital, instead of using their various advantages 
for the greatest good of those around them, employ 
the chief of them for mere selfish indulgences ; thus 
inflicting as much mischief on themselves, as results to 
others from their culpable neglect. A great portion 
of the rich seem to be acting on the principle, that the 
more God bestows on them, the less are they under 
obligation to practise any self-denial, in fulfilling his 
benevolent plan of raising our race to intelligence and 
holiness. 

There are not a few, who seem to imagine that it is 
a >mark of gentility to be careless of expenses. But 
this notion, is owing to a want of knowledge of the 
world. As a general fact, it will be found, that persons 
of rank and wealth, abroad, are much more likely to 
be systematic and economical, than persons of inferior 
standing in these respects. Even the most frivolous, 
among the rich and great, are often found practising 
a rigid economy, in certain respects, in order to secure 
gratifications in another direction. And it will be 
found so common, among persons of vulgar minds, 
and little education, and less sense, to make a display 
of profusion and indifference to expense, as a mark 
of their claims to gentility, that the really genteel look 
upon it rather as a mark of low breeding. So that 
the sort of feeling, which some persons cherish, as if 
it were a degradation to be careful of small sums, and 
to be attentive to relative prices, in making purchases, 
is founded on mistaken notions of gentility and pro- 
priety. 

17 D. E 



194 ON ECONOMY IN EXPENSES. 

But one caution is needful, in regard to anothei 
extreme. When a lady of wealth, is seen roaming 
about in search of cheaper articles, or trying to beat 
down a shopkeeper, or making a close bargain with 
those she employs, the impropriety is glaring to all 
minds. A person of wealth has no occasion to spend 
time in looking for extra cheap articles ; her time 
could be more profitably employed in distributing to 
the wants of others. And the practice of beating 
down tradespeople, is vulgar and degrading, in any 
one. A woman, after a little inquiry, can ascertain 
what is the fair and common price of things ; and 
if she is charged an exorbitant sum, she can decline 
taking the article. If the price be a fair one, it is 
not becoming in her to search for another article which 
is below the regular charge. If € woman finds that 
she is in a store where they charge high prices, expect- 
ing to be beat down, she can mention, that she wishes 
to know the lowest price, as it is contrary to her prin- 
ciples to beat down charges. 

There is one inconsistency, worthy of notice, which 
is found among that class, who are ambitious of being 
ranked among the aristocracy of society. It has been 
remarked, that, in the real aristocracy of other lands, 
it is much more common, than with us, to practise 
systematic economy. And such do not hesitate to say 
so, when they cannot afford certain indulgences. This 
practice descends to subordinate grades ; so that for- 
eign ladies, when they come to reside among us, sel- 
dom hesitate in assigning the true reason, when they 
cannot afTord any gratification. But in this Country, 
it will be found, that many, who are most fond of 
copying aristocratic examples, are, on this point, rather 
with the vulgar. Not a few of those young persons, 
who begin life with parlors and dresses in a style fitting 
only to established wealth, go into expenses, which 
they can ill afford ; and are ashamed even to allow, 
that they are restrained from any expense, by motives 
of economy. Such a confession is never extorted, 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 195 

except by some call of benevolence ; and then, they 
are very ready to declare that they cannot afford to 
bestow even a pittance. In such cases, it would seem 
as if the direct opposite of Christianity had gained pos- 
session of their tastes and opinions. They are ashamed 
to appear to deny themselves ; but are very far from 
having any shame in denying the calls of benevolence. 



CHAPTER XVII. 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 



There is such an intimate connection between the 
body and mind, that the health of one, cannot be pre- 
served, without a proper care of the other. And it is 
from a neglect of this principle, that some of the most 
exemplary and conscientious persons in the world, 
suffer a thousand mental agonies, from a diseased state 
of body, while others ruin the health of the body, by 
neglecting the proper care of the mind. When the 
brain is excited, by stimulating drinks taken into the 
stomach, it produces a corresponding excitement of the 
mental faculties. The reason, the imagination, and all 
the powers, are stimulated to preternatural vigor and 
activity. In like manner, when the mind is excited by 
earnest intellectual effort, or by strong passions, the 
brain is equally excited, and the blood rushes to the 
head. Sir Astley Cooper records, that, in examining 
the brain of a young man who had lost a portion of his 
skull, whenever " he was agitated, by some opposition 
to his wishes," "the blood was sent, with increased 
force, to his brain," and the pulsations "became fre- 
quent and violent." The same effect was produced by 
any intellectual effort ; and the flushed countenance, 
which attends earnest study or strong emotions of fear, 
shame, or anger, is an external indication of the suflused 
state of the brain from such causes. 



196 ON HEALTH OF MIND. 

In exhibiting the causes, which injure the health of 
the mind, they will be found to be partly physical, 
partly intellectual, and partly moral. 

The first cause of mental disease and suffering, is 
not unfrequently found in the want of a proper supply 
of duly oxygenized blood. It has been shown, that the 
blood, in passing through the lungs, is purified, by the 
oxygen of the air combining with the superabundant 
hydrogen and carbon of the venous blood, thus forming 
carbonic acid and water, which are expired into the 
atmosphere. Every pair of lungs is constantly with- 
drawing from the surrounding atmosphere its healthful 
principle, and returning one, which is injurious to hu- 
man life. 

When, by confinement, and this process, the atmos- 
phere is deprived of its appropriate supply of oxygen, 
the purification of the blood is interrupted, and it passes, 
without being properly prepared, into the brain, pro- 
ducing languor, restlessness, and inability to exercise 
the intellect and feelings. Whenever, therefore, per- 
sons sleep in a close apartment, or remain, for a length 
of time, in a crowded or ill-ventilated room, a most per- 
nicious influence is exerted on the brain, and, through 
this, on the mind. A person, who is often exposed to 
such influences, can never enjoy that elasticity and 
vigor of mind, which is one of the chief indications of 
its health. This is the reason, why all rooms for re- 
ligious meetings, and all schoolrooms, and sleeping 
apartments, should be so contrived, as to secure a con- 
stant supply of fresh air from without. The minister, 
who preaches in a crowded and ill-ventilated apart- 
ment, loses much of his power to feel and to speak, 
while the audience are equally reduced, in their capa- 
bility of attending. The teacher, who confines children 
in a close apartment, diminishes their ability to study, 
or to attend to his instructions. And the person, who 
habitually sleeps in a close room, impairs his mental 
energies, in a similar degree. It is not unfrequently 
the case, that depression of spirits, and stupor of intel- 
lect, are occasioned solely by inattention to this subject 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 197 

Another cause of mental disease, is, the excessive 
exercise of the intellect or feelings. If the eye is taxed, 
beyond its strength, by protracted use, its blood-vessels 
become gorged, and the bloodshot appearance v^arns 
of the excess and the need of rest. The brain is 
affected, in a similar manner, by excessive use, though 
the suftering and inflamed organ cannot make its 
appeal to the eye. But there are some indications, 
which ought never to be misunderstood or disregarded. 
In cases of pupils, at school or at college, a diseased 
state, from over action, is often manifested by increased 
clearness of mind, and ease and vigor of mental action 
In one instance, known to the writer, a most exemplary 
and industrious pupil, anxious to improve every hour, 
and ignorant or unmindful of the laws of health, first 
manifested the diseased state of her brain and mind, by 
demands for more studies, and a sudden and earnest 
activity in planning modes of improvement for herself 
and others. When warned of her danger, she pro- 
tested that she never was better, in her life ; that she 
took regular exercise, in the open air, went to bed in 
season, slept soundly, and felt perfectly well ; that her 
mind was never before so bright and clear, and study 
never so easy and delightful. And at this time, she 
was on the verge of derangement, from which she was 
saved only by an entire cessation of all her intellectual 
efforts. 

A similar case occurred, under the eye of the writer, 
from over-excited feelings. It was during a time of 
unusual religious interest in the community, and the 
mental disease was first manifested, by the pupil bring- 
ing her Hymn-book or Bible to the class-room, and 
making it her constant resort, in every interval of 
school duty. It finally became impossible to convince 
her, that it was her duty to attend to any thing else ; 
her conscience became morbidly sensitive, her per- 
ceptions indistinct, her deductions unreasonable, and 
nothing, but entire change of scene, exercise, and 
amusement, saved her. When the health of the brain 
17* D. E. 



198 ON HEALTH OF MIND. 

was restored, she found that she could attend to the 
" one thing needful," not only without interruption of 
duty, or injury of health, but rather so as to promote 
both. Clergymen and teachers need most carefully to 
notice and guard against the danger here alluded to. 

Any such attention to religion, as prevents the per- 
formance of daily duties and needful relaxation, is 
dangerous, as tending to produce such a state of the 
brain, as makes it impossible to feel or judge correctly. 
And when any morbid and unreasonable pertinacity 
appears, much exercise, and engagement in other in- 
teresting pursuits, should be urged, as the only mode 
of securing the religious benefits aimed at. And 
whenever any mind is oppressed with care, anxiety, 
or sorrow, the amount of active exercise in the fresh 
air should be greatly increased, that the action of the 
muscles may withdraw the blood, which, in such sea- 
sons, is constantly tending too much to the brain. 

There has been a most appalling amount of suffering, 
derangement, disease, and death, occasioned by a want 
of attention to this subject, in teachers and parents. 
Uncommon precocity in children is usually the result of 
an unhealthy state of the brain ; and, in such ' cases, 
medical men would now direct, that the wonderful child 
should be deprived of all books and study, and turned 
to play or work in the fresh air. Instead of this, parents 
frequently add fuel to the fever of the brain, by supplying 
constant mental stimulus, until the victim finds refuge in 
idiocy or an early grave. Where such fatal results do 
not occur, the brain, in many cases, is so weakened, that 
the prodigy of infancy sinks below the medium of intel- 
lectual powers in afterlife. In our colleges, too, many 
of the most promising minds sink to an early grave, or 
drag out a miserable existence, from this same cause. 
And it is an evil, as yet little alleviated by the increase 
of physiological knowledge. Every college and pro- 
fessional school, and every seminary for young ladies, 
needs a medical man, not only to lecture on physiology 
and the laws of health, but empowered, in his official 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 199 

capacity, to investigate the case of every pupil, and, 
by authority, to restrain him to such a course of study, 
exercise, and repose, as his physical system requires. 
The writer has found, by experience, that, in a large 
institution, there is one class of pupils w^ho need to be 
restrained, by penalties, from late hours and excessive 
study, as much as another class need stimulus to in- 
dustry. 

Under the head of excessive mental action, must 
be placed the indulgence of the imagination in novel 
reading and castle building. This kind of stimulus, 
unless counterbalanced by physical exercise, not only 
vi^astes time and energies, but undermines the vigor of 
the nervous system. The imagination vi^as designed, 
by our kind Creator^ as the charm and stimulus to 
animate to benevolent activity ; and its perverted exer- 
cise seldom fails to bring the appropriate penalty. 

A third cause of mental disease, is, the want of 
the appropriate exercise of the various faculties of the 
mind. On this point. Dr. Combe remarks, " We have 
seen, that, by disuse, muscle becomes emaciated, bone 
softens, blood-vessels are obUterated, and nerves lose 
their characteristic structure. The brain is no excep- 
tion to this general rule. Of it, also, the tone is im- 
paired by permanent inactivity, and it becomes less 
fit to manifest the mental powers with readiness and 
energy." It is " the withdrawal of the stimulus neces- 
sary for its healthy exercise, which renders solitary con- 
finement so severe a punishment, even to the most 
daring minds. It is a lower degree of the same cause, 
which renders continuous seclusion from society so 
injurious, to both mental and bodily health." 

" Inactivity of intellect and of feeling is a very fre- 
quent predisposing cause of every form of nervous 
disease. For demonstrative evidence of this position, 
we have only to look at the numerous victims to be 
found, among persons who have no call to exertion in 
gaining the means of subsistence, and no objects of 
interest on which to exercise their mental faculties 



200 ON HEALTH OF MIND. 

and who consequently sink into a state of mental sloth 
and nervous weakness." " If we look abroad upon 
society, we shall find innumerable examples of mental 
and nervous debility from this cause. When a person 
of some mental capacity is confined, for a long time, 
to an unvarying round of employment, which affords 
neither scope nor stimulus for one half of his faculties, 
and, from want of education or society, has no exter- 
nal resources ; his mental powers, for want of exercise, 
become blunted, and his perceptions slow and dull." 
" The intellect and feelings, not being provided with 
interests external to themselves, must either become 
inactive and weak, or work upon themselves and be- 
come diseased." 

" The most frequent victims of this kind of predis- 
position, are females of the middle and higher ranks^ 
especially those of a nervous constitution and good 
natural abilities ; but who, from an ill-directed educa- 
tion, possess nothing more solid than mere accomplish- 
ments, and have no materials of thought," and no 
" occupation to excite interest or demand attention." 
" The liability of such persons to melancholy, hysteria, 
hypochondriasis, and other varieties of mental distress, 
really depends on a state of irritabihty of brain, in- 
duced by imperfect exercise." 

These remarks, of a medical man, illustrate the prin- 
ciples before indicated ; — namely, that the demand of 
Christianity, that we live to promote the general happi- 
ness, and not merely for selfish indulgence, has for its 
aim, not only the general good, but the highest happi- 
ness, of the individual of whom it is required. 

A person possessed of wealth, who has nothing more 
noble to engage his attention, than seeking his own 
personal enjoyment, subjects his mental powers and 
moral feelings to a degree of inactivity, utterly at war 
with health of mind. And the greater the capacities, 
the greater are the sufferings which result from this 
cause. Any one, who has read the misanthropic wail- 
ings of Lord Byron, has seen the necessary result of 



ON HEALTBT OF MINO. 201 

great and noble powers bereft of their appropriate 
exercise, and, in consequence, becoming sources of the 
keenest sufFerting. 

It is this view of the subject, which has often 
awakened feelings of sorrow and anxiety in the mind 
of the writer, while aiding in the developement and 
education of superior female minds, in the wealthier 
circles. Not because there are not noble objects foi 
interest and effort, abundant, and within reach of such 
minds ; but because long-estabhshed custom has made 
it seem so Quixotic, to the majority, even of the pro- 
fessed followers of Christ, for a woman of wealth to 
practise any great self-denial, that few have indepen- 
dence of mind and Christian principle sufficient to 
overcome such an influence. The more a mind has 
its powers developed, the more does it aspire and pine 
after some object worthy of its energies and affections ; 
and they are commonplace and phlegmatic characters, 
who are most free from such deep-seated wants. Many 
a young woman, of fine genius and elevated sentiment, 
finds a charm in Lord Byron's writings, because they 
present a glowing picture of what, to a certain extent, 
must be felt by every well-developed mind, which has 
no nobler object in life, than the pursuit of its own 
gratification. 

If young ladies of wealth could pursue their educa- 
tion, under the full conviction that the increase of their 
powers and advantages increased their obligations to 
use all for the good of society, and vt^ith some plan of 
benevolent enterprise in view, what new motives of 
interest would be added to their daily pursuits ! And 
what blessed results would follow, to our beloved Coun- 
try, if all well-educated females carried out the prin- 
ciples of Christianity, in the exercise of their developed 
powers I 

It is cheering to know, that there are women, among 
the most intelligent and wealthy, who can be presented 
as examples of what may be done, when there is a 
heart to do. A pupil of the writer is among this num- 



202 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 



ber, who, though a rich heiress, immediately, on the 
close of her school-life, commenced a course of self- 
denying benevolence, in the cause of education. She 
determined to secure a superior female institution, in 
her native place, which should extend the benefits of 
the best education to all in that vicinity, at a moderate 
charge. Finding no teacher on the ground, prepared 
to take the lead, and though herself a timid and retir- 
ing character, she began, with the aid of the governess 
in her mother's family, a daily school, superintending 
all, and teaching six hours a day. The liberal-minded 
and intelligent mother cooperated, and the result is a 
flourishing female seminary, with a large and beautiful 
and well-furnished building; the greater part of the 
means being supplied by the mother, and almost all 
by the members of that family connection. And both 
these ladies will testify, that no time or money, spent 
for any other object, has ever secured to them more 
real and abiding enjoyment, than witnessing the results 
of this successful and benevolent enterprise, which, for 
years to come, will pour forth blessings on society. 

Another lady could be pointed out, who, possessing 
some property, went into a new western village, built 
and furnished her schooihouse, and established herself 
there, to aid in raising a community from ignorance 
and gross worldliness, to intelligence and virtue. And 
in repeated instances, among the friends and pupils of 
the writer, young ladies have left wealthy homes, and 
affectionate friends, to find nobler enjoyments, in be- 
nevolent and active exertions to extend intelligence 
and virtue, where such disinterested laborers were 
needed. In other cases, where it was not practicable 
to leave home, well-educated young ladies have inter- 
ested themselves in common schools in the vicinity, 
aiding the teachers, by their sympathy, counsel, and 
personal assistance. 

Other ladies, of property and standing, having fam- 
ilies to educate, and being well qualified for such du- 
ties, have relinquished a large portion of domestic labor 



ON HEALTH OF MIND. 203 

and superintendence, which humbler minds could be 
hired to perform, devoted themselves to the education 
of their children, and received others, less fortunate, 
to share with their own these superior advantages. 
But, so long as the feeling widely exists, that the in- 
crease of God's bounties diminishes the obligations of 
self-denyilig service for the good of mankind, so long 
will well-educated women, in easy circumstances, shrink 
from such confinement and exertion. 

It is believed, however, that there are many benevo- 
lent and intelligent women, in this Country, who would 
gladly engage in such enterprises, were there any ap- 
propriate way within their reach. And it is a question, 
well deserving consideration, among those who guide 
the public mind in benevolent enterprises, whether some 
organization is not demanded, which shall bring the 
whole community to act systematically, in voluntary 
associations, to extend a proper education to every child 
in this Nation, and to bring into activity all the female 
enterprise and benevolence now lying dormant, for 
want of proper facilities to exercise them. There are 
hundreds of villages, which need teachers, and that 
would support them, if they were on the spot, but 
which never will send for them. And there are hun- 
dreds of females, now unemployed, who would teach, 
if a proper place, and home, and support, and escort, 
were provided for them. And there needs to be some 
enlarged and systematic plan, conducted by wise and 
efficient men, to secure these objects. 

Could such a plan, as the one suggested, be carried 
out, it is believed that many female minds, now suffer- 
mg, from diseases occasioned by want of appropriate 
objects for their energies, would be relieved. The 
duties of a teacher exercise every intellectual faculty, to 
its full extent ; while, in this benevolent service, all the 
social, moral, and benevolent, emotions, are kept in full 
play. The happiest persons the writer has ever known, 
—those who could say that they were as happy as they 
wished to be, in this world, (and she has seen such,)— 
were persons engaged in this employment. 



204 ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

The indications of a diseased mind, owing to a want 
of the pro{)er exercise of its powers, are, apathy, discon- 
tent, a restless longing for excitement, a craving for 
unattainable good, a diseased and morbid action of the 
imagination, dissatisfaction with the world, and factitious 
interest in trifles which the mind feels to be unworthy 
of its powers. Such minds sometimes seek alleviation 
in exciting amusements ; others resort to the grosser 
enjoyments of sense. Oppressed with the extremes of 
languor, or over-excitement, or apathy, the body fails 
under the wearing process, and adds new causes of suf- 
fering to the mind. Such, the compassionate Saviour 
calls to his service, in these appropriate terms : " Come 
unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I 
will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn 
of Me," " and ye shall find rest unto your souls." 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

There is no point, where the women of this Coun 
try need more wisdom, patience, principle, and self- 
control, than in relation to those whom they employ in 
domestic service. The subject is attended with many 
difficulties, which powerfully influence the happiness 
of families ; and the following suggestions are offered, 
to aid in securing right opinions and practice. 

One consideration, which it would be well to bear in 
mind, on this subject, is, that a large portion of the 
peculiar trials, which American women suffer from this 
source, are the necessary evils connected with our most 
valuable civil blessings. Every blessing of this life in- 
volves some attendant liability to evil, from the same 
source ; and, in this case, while we rejoice at a state of 
society, which so much raises the condition and advan- 
tages of our sex, the evils involved should be regarded 



ON THE CAHE OF fiOMfiSTlCS. 205 

as more than repaid, by the compensating benefits. If 
we cannot secure the cringing, submissive, well-trained, 
servants of aristocratic lands, let us be consoled that 
we thus escape from the untold miseries and oppression, 
which always attend that state of society. 

Instead, then, of complaining that we cannot have 
our own peculiar advantages, and those of other nations, 
too, or imagining how much better off we should be, if 
things were different from what they are, it is much 
wiser and more Christianhke to strive cheerfully to con- 
form to actual circumstances ; and, after remedying all 
that we can control, patiently to submit to what is 
beyond our power. If domestics are found to be in- 
competent, unstable, and unconformed to their station, 
it is Perfect Wisdom which appoints these trials, to 
teach us patience, fortitude, and self-control ; and, if 
the discipline is met, in a proper spirit, it will prove a 
blessing, rather than an evil. 

But, to judge correctly in regard to some of the evils 
involved in the state of domestic service, in this Coun- 
try, we should endeavor to conceive ourselves placed 
in the situation of those, of whom complaint is made, 
that we may not expect, from them, any more than it 
would seem right should be exacted from us, in similar 
circumstances. 

It is sometimes urged, against domestics, that they 
exact exorbitant wages. But what is the rule of rec- 
titude, on this subject ? Is it not the universal law of 
labor and of trade, that an article is to be valued, ac- 
cording to its scarcity and the demand ? When wheat 
is scarce, the farmer raises his price ; and when a me- 
chanic offers services, difficult to be obtained, he makes 
a corresponding increase of price. And why is it not 
right, for domestics to act according to a rule, allowed 
to be correct in reference to all other trades and profes- 
sions? It is a fact, that really good domestic, service 
must continue to increase in value, just in proportion m 
this Country waxes rich and prosperous ; thus making 
the proportion of those, who wish to hire labor, rela 
18 D. E. 



Si06 ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

lively greater, and the number of those, wilHng to go 
to service, less. 

Money enables the rich to gain many advantages, 
which those of more limited circumstances cannot se- 
cure. One of these, is, securing good domestics, by 
offering high wages ; and this, as the scarcity of this 
class increases, will serve constantly to raise the price 
of service. It is right for domestics to charge the 
market value, and this value is always decided by the 
scarcity of the article and the amount of demand. 
Right views of this subject, will sometimes serve to 
diminish hard feelings towards those, who would oth- 
erwise be wrongfully regarded as unreasonable and 
exacting. 

Another complaint against domestics, is, that of in- 
stability and discontent, leading to perpetual change. 
But in reference to this, let a mother or daughter con- 
ceive of their own circumstances as so changed, that 
the daughter must go out to service. Suppose a place 
is engaged, and it is then found that she must sleep in 
a comfortless garret ; and that, when a new domestic 
comes, perhaps a coarse and dirty foreigner, she must 
share her bed with her. Another place is offered, 
where she can have a comfortable room, and an agree- 
able room-mate ; in such a case, would not both mother 
and daughter think it right to change ? 

Or, suppose, on trial, it was found that the lady of 
the house was fretful, or exacting, and hard to please ; 
or, that her children were so ungoverned, as to be per- 
petual vexations ; or, that the work was so heavy, that 
no time was allowed for relaxation and the care of a 
wardrobe ; — and another place offers, where these evils 
can be escaped : would not mother and daughter here 
think it right to change ? And is it not right for do- 
mestics, as well as their employers, to seek places, 
where they can be most comfortable ? 

In some cases, this instability and love of change 
would be remedied, if employers would take more pains 
to make a residence with them agreeable ; and to attach 



ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 207 

domestics to the family, by feelings of gratitude and 
affection. There are ladies,, even where well-qualified 
domestics are most rare, who seldom find any trouble 
in keeping good and steady ones. And the reason is, 
that their domestics know they cannot better their con- 
dition, by any change within reach. It is not merely 
by giving them comfortable rooms, and good food, and 
presents, and privileges, that the attachment of domes- 
tics is secured ; it is by the manifestation of a friendly 
and benevolent interest in theii- comfort and improve- 
ment. This is exhibited, in bearing patiently with their 
faults; in kindly teaching them how to improve; in 
showing them how to make and take proper care of 
their clothes; in guarding their health; in teaching 
them to read, if necessary, and supplying them with 
proper books ; and, in short, by endeavoring, so far as 
may be, to supply the place of parents. It is seldom 
that such a course would fail to secure steady service, 
and such affection and gratitude, that even higher 
wages would be ineffectual to tempt them away. 
There would probably be some cases of ungrateful re- 
turns ; but there is no doubt that the course indicated, 
if generally pursued, would very much lessen the evil 
in question. 

Another subject of complaint, in regard to domestics, 
is, their pride, insubordination, and spirit not con- 
formed to their condition. They are not willing to be 
called servants; in some places, they claim a seat, at 
meals, with the family; they imitate a style of dress 
unbecoming their condition ; and their manners and 
address are rude and disrespectful. That these evils 
are very common, among this class of persons, cannot 
be denied ; the only question is, how can they best be 
met and remedied. 

In regard to the common feeling among domestics, 
which is pained and offended by being called "ser- 
vants," there is need of some consideration and allow- 
ance. It should be remembered, that, in this Country, 
children, from their earliest years, are trained to abhor 



208 ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

slavery, in reference to themselves, as the greatest of 
all possible shame and degradation. They are per- 
petually hearing orations, songs, and compositions of 
all sorts, which set forth the honor and dignity of free- 
men, and heap scorn and contempt on all who would 
be so mean as to be slaves. Now the term servant, 
and the duties it involves, are, in the minds of many 
persons, nearly the same as those of slave. And there 
are few minds, entirely free from associations which 
make servitude a degradation. It is not always pride, 
then, which makes this term so offensive. It is a con- 
sequence of that noble and generous spirit of freedom, 
which every American draws from his mother's breast, 
and which ought to be respected, rather than despised. 
In order to be respected, by others, we must respect 
ourselves ; and sometimes the ruder classes of society 
make claims, deemed forw^ard and offensive, when, with 
their views, such a position seems indispensable to pre- 
serve a proper self-respect. 

Where an excessive sensibility on this subject exists, 
and forward and disrespectful manners result from it, 
the best remedy is, a kind attempt to give correct views, 
such as better-educated minds are best able to attain. 
It should be sliown to them, that, in this Country, labor 
has ceased to be degrading, in any class ; that, in all 
classes, different grades of subordination must exist; 
and that it is no more degrading, for a domestic to re- 
gard the heads of a family as superiors in station, and 
treat them with becoming respect, than it is for chil- 
dren to do the same, or for men to treat their rulers 
with respect and deference. They should be taught, 
that domestics use a different entrance to the house, 
and sit at a distinct table, not because they are inferior 
beings, but because this is the best method of securing 
neatness, order, and convenience. They can be shown, 
if it is attempted in a proper spirit and manner, that 
these very regulations really tend to their own ease and 
comfort, as well as to that of the family. 

The writer has known a case, where the lady of the 



ON THE CARE OT DOMESTICS. 209 

family, for the sake of convincing her domestic of the 
truth of these views, allowed her to follow her own 
notions, for a short time, and join the family at meals. 
It was merely required, as a condition, that she should 
always dress her hair as the pther ladies did, and 
appear in a clean dress, and abide by all the rules of 
propriety at table, which the rest were required to prac- 
tise, and which were duly detailed. The experiment 
was tried, two or three times ; and, although the domes- 
tic was treated with studious politeness and kindness, 
she soon felt that she should be much more comforta- 
ble in the kitchen, where she could talk, eat, and dress, 
as she pleased. A reasonable domestic can also be 
made to feel the propriety of allowing opportunity for 
the family to talk freely of their private affairs, when 
they meet at meals, as they never could do, if restrained 
by the constant presence of a stranger. Such views, 
presented in a kind and considerate manner, will often 
entirely change the views of a domestic, who is sensi- 
tive on such subjects. 

When a domestic is forward and bold in manners, 
and disrespectful in address, a similar course can be 
pursued. It can be shown, that those, who are among 
the best-bred and genteel, have courteous and respect- 
ful manners and language to all they meet, while many, 
who have wealth, are regarded as vulgar, because they 
exhibit rude and disrespectful manners. The very 
term, gentleman, indicates the refinement and delicacy 
of address, which distinguishes the high-bred from the 
coarse and vulgar. 

In regard to appropriate dress, in most cases it is 
difficult for an employer to interfere, directly, with com- 
ments or advice. The most successful mode, is, to 
offer some service in mending or making a wardrobe, 
and when a confidence in the kindness of feeling is 
thus gained, remarks and suggestions will generally be 
properly received, and new views of propriety and 
economy can be imparted. In some cases, it may be 
well for an employer ,-^who, from appearances, antici- 
18* D. E. 



210 ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

pates difficulty of this kind, — in making the agreement, 
to state that she wishes to have the room, person, and 
dress of her domestics kept neat, and in order, and 
that she expects to remind them of their duty, in this 
particuhir, if it is neglected. Domestics are very apt to 
neglect the care of their own chambers and clothing ; 
and such habits have a most pernicious influence on 
their wellbeing, and on that of their children in future 
domestic life. An employer, then, is bound to exercise 
a parental care over them, in these respects. 

In regard to the great deficiencies of domestics, in 
qualifications for their duties, much patience and be- 
nevolence are required. Multitudes have never been 
taught to do their work properly ; and, in such cases, 
how unreasonable it would be to expect it of them ! 
Most persons, of this class, depend, for their knowledge 
in domestic affairs, not on their parents, who are usu- 
ally unqualified to instruct them, but on their employ- 
ers ; and if they live in a family where nothing is done 
neatly and properly, they have no chance to learn how 
to perform their duties well. When a lady finds that 
she must employ a domestic who is ignorant, awkward, 
and careless, her first effort should be, to make all 
proper allowance for past want of instruction, and the 
next, to remedy the evil, by kind and patient teaching. 
In doing this, it should ever be borne in mind, that 
nothing is more difficult, than to change old habits, and 
to learn to be thoughtful and considerate. And a 
woman must make up her mind to tell the same thing 
" over and over again," and yet not lose her patience. 
[t will often save much vexation, if, on the arrival of a 
new domestic, the mistress of the family, or a daughter, 
will, for two or three days, go round with the novice, 
and show the exact manner in which it is expected 
the work will be done. And this, also, it may be well 
to specify in the agreement, as some domestics would 
otherwise resent such a supervision. 

But it is often remarked, that, after a woman has 
taken all this pains to instruct a domestic, and make 



ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS. 211 

her a good one, some other person will offer higher 
wages, and she will leave. This, doubtless, is a sore 
trial ; but, if such efforts were made in the true spirit of 
benevolence, the lady will still have her reward, in the 
consciousness that she has contributed to the welfare 
of society, by making one more good domestic, and 
one more comfortable family where that domestic is 
employed ; and if the latter becomes the mother of a 
family, a whole circle of children will share in the 
benefit. 

There is one great mistake, not* unfrequently made, 
in the management both of domestics and of children ; 
and that is, in supposing that the way to cure defects, 
is by finding fault as each faihng occurs. But, instead 
of this being true, in many cases the directly opposite 
course is the best ; while, in all instances, much good 
judgement is required, in order- to decide when to 
notice faults, and when to let them pass unnoticed. 
There are some minds, very sensitive, easily discour- 
aged, and infirm of purpose. Such persons, when they 
have formed habits of negligence, haste, and awkward- 
ness, often need expressions of sympathy and encour- 
agement, rather than reproof. They have usually been 
found fault with, so much, that they have become either 
hardened or desponding ; and it is often the case, that 
a few words of commendation will awaken fresh efforts 
and renewed hope. In almost every case, words of 
kindness, confidence, and encouragement, should be 
mingled with the needful admonitions or reproof. 

It is a good rule, in reference to this point, to fore- 
warn, instead of finding fault. Thus, when a thing has 
been done wrong, let it pass unnoticed, till it is to be 
done again ; and then, a simple request, to have it done 
in the right way, will secure quite as much, and proba- 
bly more, wiUing effort, than a reproof administered for 
neglect. Some persons seem to take it for granted, 
that young and inexperienced minds are bound to have 
all the forethought and discretion of mature persons ; 
and freely express wonder and disgust, when mishaps 



212 ON THfi CARE OF DOMESTICS. 

occur for want of these traits. But it would be far 
better to save from mistake or forgetfulness, by previous 
caution and care on the part of those who have gained 
experience and forethought ; and thus many occasions 
of complaint and ill-humor will be avoided. 

Those, who fill the places of heads of families, are 
not very apt to think how painful it is, to be chided for 
neglect of duty, or for faults of character. If they 
would sometimes imagine themselves in the place of 
those whom they control, with some person daily ad- 
ministering reproof to them, in the same tone and style 
as they employ to those who are under them, it might 
serve as a useful check to their chidings. It is often 
the case, that persons, who are most strict and exacting, 
and least able to make allowances and receive pallia- 
tions, are themselves peculiarly sensitive to any thing 
which implies that they are in fault. By such, the 
spirit implied in the Divine petition, " forgive us our 
trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us," 
needs especially to be cherished. 

One other consideration, is very important. There 
is no duty, more binding on Christians, than that of 
patience and meekness under provocations and disap- 
pointment. Now, the tendency of every sensitive 
mind, when thwarted in its wishes, is, to complain and 
find fault, and that often in tones of fretfulness or 
anger. But there are few domestics, who have not 
heard enough of the Bible, to know that angry or fret- 
ful fault-finding, from the mistress of a family, when 
her work is not done to suit her, is not in asreement 
with the precepts of Christ. They notice and feel the 
inconsistency ; and every woman, when she gives way 
to feelings of anger and impatience, at the faults of 
those around her, lowers herself in their respect, while 
her own conscience, unless very much blinded, cannot 
but suffer a wound. 

There are some women, who, in the main, are amia- 
ble, who seem impressed with the idea, that it is their 
ofiice and duty to find fault with their domestics, 



ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 



2l3 



whenever any thing is not exactly right, and follow 
their fancied calling without the least appearance of 
tenderness or sympathy, as if the objects of their disci- 
pline were stocks or stones. The writer once heard a 
domestic, describing her situation in a family which she 
had left, make this remark of her past employer : " She 
was a very good housekeeper, allowed good wages, and 
gave us many privileges and presents ; but if we ever 
did any thing wrong, she always talked to us just as if 
she thought ive had no feelings, and I never was so un- 
happy in my life, as while living with her." And this 
was said of a kind-hearted and conscientious woman, 
by .a very reasonable and amiable domestic. 

Every Vi^oman, who has the care of domestics, should 
cultivate a habit of regarding them with that sympathy 
and forbearance, which she would wish for herself or 
her daughters, if deprived of parents, fortune, and 
home. The fewer advantages they have enjoyed, and 
the greater difficulties of temper or of habit they have 
to contend with, the more claims they have on com- 
passionate forbearance. They ought ever to be looked 
upon, not as the mere ministers to our comfort and 
convenience, but as the humbler and more neglected 
children of our Heavenly Father, whom He has sent to 
claim our sympathy and aid.* 



CHAPTER XIX. 

ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 

Every young lady ought to learn how to take proper 
care of an infant; for, even if she is never to become 
the responsible guardian of a nursery, she will often 

* The excellent little work of Miss Sedgwick, entitled ' Live, and 
Let Live,' contains many valuable and useful hints, conveyed in a 
most pleasing- narrative form, vtrhich every housekeeper would do 
well to read. The writer also begs leave to mention a work of her 
own, entitled, ' Letters to Persons engaged in Domestic Service.* 



214 ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 

be in situations where she can render benevolent aid to 
otliers, in this most fatiguing and anxious duty. 

The writer has known instances, in which young 
ladies, who, liaving been trained, by their mothers, 
properly to perform this duty, were, in some cases, 
the means of saving the lives of infants, and in others, 
of relieving, by their benevolent aid, sick mothers, from 
intolerable care and anguish. 

On this point, Dr. Combe remarks, "All women 
are not destined, in the course of Nature, to become 
mothers ; but how very small is the number of those, 
wlio are unconnected, by family ties, friendship, or 
sympathy, with the children of others ! How very few 
are there, who, at some time or other of their Hves, would 
not find their usefulness and happiness increased, by the 
possession of a kind of knowledge, intimately allied to 
their best feelings and affections ! And how important 
is it, to the mother herself, that her efforts should be 
seconded by intelligent, instead of ignorant, assistants ! " 

In order to be prepared for such benevolent minis- 
tries, every young lady should improve the opportunity, 
whenever it is afforded her, for learning how to wash, 
dress, and tend, a young infant; and whenever she 
meets with such a work as Dr. Combe's, on the man- 
agement of infants, she ought to read it, and remember 
its contents. 

It was the design of the author, to fill this chapter 
chiefly with extracts from various medical writers, 
giving some of the most important directions on this 
subject ; but finding these extracts too prolix for a work 
of this kind, she has condensed them into a shorter 
compass. Some are quoted verbatim, and some are 
abridged, chiefly from the writings of Doctors Combe, 
Bell, and Eberle, who are among the most approved 
writers on this subject. 

" Nearly one half of the deaths, occurring during the 
first two years of existence, are ascribable to misman- 
agement, and to errors in diet. At birth, the stomach 
is feeble, and as yet unaccustomed to food ; its cravings 



ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 215 

are consequently easily satisfied, and frequently re- 
newed." "At that early age, there ought to be no 
fixed time for giving nourishment. The stomach can- 
not be thus satisfied." " The active call of the infant 
is a sign, which needs never be mistaken." 

But care must be taken to determine between the 
crying of pain or uneasiness, and the call for food ; and 
the practice of giving an infant food, to stop its cries, is 
often the means of increasing its sufferings. After a 
child has satisfied its hunger, from two to four hours 
should intervene, before another supply is given. 

"At birth, the stomach and bowels, never having 
been used, contain a quantity of mucous secretion, 
which requires to be removed. To effect this. Nature 
•has rendered the first portions of the mother's milk 
purposely watery and laxative. I\urses, however, dis- 
trusting Nature, often hasten to administer some active 
purgative ; and the cons'jquence often is, irritation in 
the stomach and bowels, not easily subdiied." It is 
only where the child is deprived of its mother's milk, as 
the first food, that some gentle laxative should be given. 

" It is a common mistake, to suppose, that, because 
a woman is nursing, she ought to live very fully, and 
to add an allowance of wine, porter, or other fermented 
liquor, to her usual diet. The only result of this plan, 
is, to cause an unnatural fulness in the system, which 
places the nurse on the brink of disease, and retards, 
rather than increases, the food of the infant. More 
will be gained by the observance of the ordinary laws 
of health, than by any foolish deviation, founded on 
ignorance." 

There is no point, on which medical men so em- 
phatically lift the voice of warning, as in reference to 
administering medicines to infants. It is so difliicult to 
discover what is the matter with an infant, its frame is 
so delicate and so susceptible, and slight causes have 
such a powerful influence, that it requires the utmost 
skill and judgement to ascertain what would be proper 
medicines, and the proper quantity to be given. 



216 ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 

Says Dr. Combe, -'That there are cases, in which 
active means must be promptly used, to save the child, 
is perfectly true. But it is not less certain, that these 
are cases, of which no mother or nurse ought to attempt 
the treatment. As a general rule, where the child is 
well managed, medicine, of any kind, is very rarely re- 
quired ; and if disease were more generally regarded in 
its true ligiit, not as something thrust into the system, 
which requires to be expelled by force, but as an aber- 
ration from a natural mode of action, produced by some 
external cause, we should be in less haste to attack it by 
medicine, and more watchful in its prevention. Ac- 
cordingly, where a constant demand for medicine exists 
in a nursery, the mother may rest assured, that there is 
something essentially wrong in the treatment of her 
children. 

" Much havoc is made among infants, by the abuse 
of calomel and other medicines, which procure momen- 
tary relief, but end by producing incurable disease ; and 
it has often excited my astonishment, to see how reck- 
lessly remedies of this kind are had recourse to, on the 
most trifling occasions, by mothers and nurses, who 
would be horrified, if they knew the nature of the 
power they are wielding, and the extent of injury they 
are inflicting." 

Instead, then, of depending on medicine, for the 
preservation of the health and life of an infant, the fol- 
lowing precautions and preventives should be adopted. 

Take particular care of the food of an infant. If it 
is nourished by the mother, her own diet should be 
simple, nourishing, and temperate. If the child be 
brought up by hand, the milk of a new-milch cow, 
mixed with one third water, and sweetened a little witli 
white sugar, should be the only food given, until the 
teeth come. This is more suitable, than any prepara- 
tions of flour or arrow-root, the nourishment of which 
is too highly concentrated. Never give a child breads 
cake, or meat, before the teeth appear. If the food ap- 
pear to distress the child, after eating, first ascertain if 



*\ 



ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 21T 

the milk be really from a new-milch cow, as it may 
otherwise be too old. Learn, also, whether the cow 
fives on proper food. Cows that are fed on still-slops, 
as is often the case in cities, furnish milk which is very 
unhealthful. 

Be sure and keep a good supply of pure and fresh 
air, in the nursery. On this point. Dr. Bell remarks, 
respecting rooms constructed without fireplaces, and 
without doors or windows to let in pure air, from with- 
out, '•' The sufferings of children of feeble constitutions, 
are increased, beyond measure, by such lodgings as 
these. An action, brought hij the Commonwealth, ought 
to lie against those persons, who build houses for sale 
or rent, in which rooms are so constructed as not to 
allow of free ventilation; and a writ of lunacy taken 
out against those, who, with the common-sense experi- 
ence which all have on this head, should spend any 
portion of their time, still more, should sleep, in rooms 
thus nearly air-tight." 

After it is a month or two old, take an infant out to 
walk, or ride, in a little wagon, every fair and warm 
day ; but be very careful that its feet, and every part 
of its body, are kept warm : and be sure that its eyes 
are well protected from the light. Weak eyes, and 
sometimes blindness, are caused by neglecting this pre- 
caution. Keep the head of an infant cool, never allow- 
ing too warm bonnets, nor permitting it to sink into 
soft pillows, when asleep. Keeping an infant's head 
too warm, very much increases nervous irritability ; and 
this is the reason why medical men forbid the use of 
caps for infants. But the head of an infant should, 
especially while sleeping, be protected from draughts 
of air, and from getting cold. 

Be very careful of the skin of an infant, as notl|ing 
tends so effectually to prevent disease. For this end, 
it should be washed all over, every morning, and then 
gentle friction should be applied, with the hand, to the 
back, stomach, bowels, and limbs. The head should 
be thoroughly washed, every day, and then brushed 

At? Jjif Ki^ 



5218 ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 

with a soft hair-brush, or combed with a fine comb. 
If, by neglect, dirt accumulates under the hair, apply, 
with the finger, the yolk of an egg, and then the fine 
comb will remove it all, without any trouble. 

Dress the infant, so that it will be always warm, but 
not so as to cause perspiration. Be sure and keep its 
feet always warm ; and, for this end, often v/arm them at 
a fire, and use long dresses. Keep the neck and arms 
covered. For this purpose, wrappers, open in front, 
made high in the neck, with long sleeves, to put on 
over the frock, are now very fashionable. 

It is better for both mother and child, that it should 
not sleep on the mother's arm, at night, unless the 
weather be extremely cold. This practice keeps the 
child too warm, and leads it to seek food too frequent- 
ly. A child should ordinarily take nourishment but 
twice in the night. A crib beside the mother, with a 
plenty of warm and light covering, is best for the child ; 
but the mother must be sure that it is always kept warm. 
Never cover a child's head, so that it will inhale the air 
of its own lungs. In very warm weather, especially in 
cities, gi-eat pains should be taken, to find fresh and 
cool air, by rides and sailing. Walks in a public 
square, in the cool of the morning, and frequent ex- 
cursions in ferry or steam-boats, would often save a long 
bill for medical attendance. In hot nights, the windows 
s-hould be kept open, and the infant laid on a mattress, 
or on folded blankets. A bit of straw matting, laid 
over a featherbed, and covered with the under sheet, 
makes a very cool bed for an infant. 

Cool bathing, in hot weather, is very useful ; but the 
water should be very little cooler than the skin of the 
child. When the constitution is delicate, the water 
shcmld be slightly warmed. Simply sponging the body, 
freely, in a tub, answers the same purpose as a regular 
• bath. In very warm weather, this should be done two 
or three times a day, always waiting two or three hours 
after food has been given. 

" When the stomach is peculiarly irritable, (from 



ON THE CARE OF INFANTS. 219 

teething,) it is of paramount necessity to withhold all 
the nostrums which have been so falsely lauded as 
* sovereign cures for cholera infantum.^ The true 
restoratives, to a child threatened with disease, are, 
cool air, cool bathing, and cool drinks of simple water, 
in addition to proper food, at stated intervals." Do not 
take the advice of mothers, who tell of this, that, and 
the other thing, which have proved excellent remedies 
in their experience. Children have different constitu- 
tions, and there are multitudes of different causes for 
their sickness ; and what might cure one child, might 
kill another, which appeared to have the same complamt. 
A mother should go on the general rule, of giving an 
infant very little medicine, and then only by the di- 
rection of a discreet and experienced physician. And 
there are cases, when, according to the views of the 
most distinguished and competent practitioners, physi- 
cians themselves are much too free in using medicineSj 
instead of adopting preventive measures. 

Do not allow a child to form such habits, that it will 
not be quiet, unless tended and amused. A healthy 
child should be accustomed to lie or sit in its cradle, 
much of the time ; but it should occasionally be taken 
up, and tossed, or carried about, for exercise and 
amusement. An infant should be encouraged to creep, 
as an exercise very strengthening and useful. If the 
mother fears the soiling of its nice dresses, she can 
keep a long slip or apron, which will entirely cover the 
dress, and can be removed, when the child is taken in 
the arms. A child should not be allowed, when quite 
young, to bear its weight on its feet, very long at a time, 
as this tends to weaken and distort the limbs. 

Many mothers, with a little painstaking, succeed in 
putting their infants, while awake, into their cradle, at 
regular hours, for sleep, and induce regularity in other 
habits, which saves much trouble. In doing this, a* 
child may cry, at first, a great deal ; but for a healthy 
child, this use of the lungs does no harm, and tends 
rather to strengthen, than to injure, them. A child who 



2-20 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

is trained to lie or sit, and amuse itself, is happier than 
one who is carried and tended a great deal, and thus 
rendered restless and uneasy when not so indulged. 



CHAPTER XX. 

ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

In regard to the physical education of children, Dr. 
Clarke, Physician inordinary to the Queen of England, 
expresses views, on one point, in which most physicians 
would coincide. He says, " There is no greater error 
in the management of children, than that of giving 
them animal diet very early. By persevering in the use 
of an overstimulating diet, the digestive organs become 
irritated, and the various secretions, immediately con- 
nected v/ith, and necessary to, digestion, are diminished, 
especially the biliary secretion. Children, so fed, become 
very liable to attacks of fever, and of inflammation, 
affecting, particularly, the mucous membranes ; and 
measles, and the other diseases incident to childhood, 
are generally severe in their attack." 

There are some popular notions on the subject of the 
use of animal food, which need to be corrected. 

One mistake, is, in supposing that the formation 
of the human teeth and stomach indicate that man was 
designed to feed on flesh. Linnaeus says, that the or- 
ganization of man, when compared with other animals, 
shows, that " fruits and esculent vegetables constitute 
his most suitable food." Baron Cuvier, the highest au- 
thority on comparative anatomy, says, " the natural food 
of man, judging from his structure, appears to consist 
of fruits, roots, and other succulent parts of vegetables." 

Another common mistake, is, that the stimulus of 
animal food is necessary for the full developement of 
the physical and intellectual powers. This notion is 
disproved by facts. The inhabitants of Lapland and 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 221 

Kamtschatka, who live altogether on animal food, are 
among the smallest, weakest, and most timid, of races. 
But the Scotch Highlanders, who, in a very cold climate, 
live almost exclusively on milk and vegetable diet, are 
among the bravest, largest, and most athletic, of men. 
The South-Sea Islanders, who live almost exclusively 
on fruits and vegetables, are said to be altogether su- 
perior to English sailors, in strength and agility. An 
intelligent gentleman, who spent many months in 
Siberia, testifies, that no exiles endure the climate 
better than those, who have all their lives been accus- 
tomed to a vegetable diet. The stoutest and largest 
tribes in Africa, live solely on vegetable diet, and the 
bright, intelligent, and active Arabs, hve entirely on milk 
and vegetables. 

The popular notion is, that animal food is more 
nourishing than vegetable ; but on this point, scientific 
men hold different opinions. Experiments, repeatedly 
made by some chemists, seem to prove the contrary. 
Tables have been prepared, showing the amount of 
nutriment in each kind of food, by which it would 
appear, that, while beef contains thirty-five per cent, 
of nutritious matter, wheat-bread and rice contain 
from eighty to ninety-five per cent. The supposed 
mistake is attributed to the fact, that, on account of 
the stimulating nature of animal food, it digests easier 
and more quickly than vegetables. Many physicians, 
however, among them, Dr. Combe,* are of opinion, that 
animal food " contains a greater quantity of nutriment 
in a given bulk, than either herbaceous or farinaceous 
food." In some diseases, too, meat is better for the 
stomach than vegetables. 

The largest proportion of those, who have been re- 
markable for having lived to the greatest age, were per- 
sons, whose diet was almost exclusively vegetables ; and 
it is a wellknown fact, that the pulse of a hardy and 
robust man, who lives on simple vegetable diet, is from 

* See his ' Physiology of Digestion considered with relation to the 
Principles of Dietetics,' issued by the Publishers of this work. 
19* D. E. 



222 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

ten to twenty beats less in a minute, than that of men 
who live on a mixed diet. 

In regard to the intellect, Dr. FrankHn asserted, from 
experience, that an exclusively vegetable diet "pro- 
motes clearness of ideas and quickness of perception ; 
and is to be preferred, by all who labor with the mind." 
The mightiest efforts of Sir Isaac Newton, were per- 
formed, while nourished only by bread and water. 
Many other men, distinguished by intellectual vigor, 
give similar testimony. These facts show that animal 
food is not needful, to secure the perfect developement 
of mind or body.* 

The result of the treatment of the inmates of the 
Orphan Asylum, at Albany, is one, upon which all, 
who have the care of young children, should deeply 
ponder. During the first six years of the existence of 
this Institution, its average number of children was 
eighty. For the first three years, their diet was meat 
once a day, fine bread, rice, Indian puddings, vegeta- 
bles, fruit, and milk. Considerable attention was given 
to clothing, fresh air, and exercise ; and they were 
bathed once in three weeks. During these three years, 
from four to six children, and sometimes more, vv^ere 
continually on the sick-list ; one or two assistant nurses 
were necessary ; a physician was called, two or three 
times a week ; and, in this time, there were between 
thirty and forty deaths. At the end of this period, the 
management was changed, in these respects : — daily 
ablutions of the whole body were practised ; bread of 
unbolted flour was substituted for that of fine wheat ; 
and all animal food was banished. More attention also 
was paid to clothing, bedding, fresh air, and exercise. 
The result was, that the nursery was vacated ; the nurse 
and physician were no longer needed ; and, for two years, 
not a single case of sickness or death occurred. The 

* Tlie writer is not an advocate for total abstinence from animal 
food. She coincides with the best authorities, in thinking that adulta 
eat too mucli ; that children, while growing, should eat very little 
and quite young children, none at all. 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 223 

third year, also, there were no deaths, except those of 
two idiots and one other child, all of whom were new 
inmates, who had not been subjected to this treatment. 
The teachers of the children also testified, that there 
was a manifest increase of intellectual vigor and ac- 
tivity, while there was much less irritability of temper. 

Let parents, nurses, and teachers, reflect on the 
above statement, and bear in mind, that stupidity of 
intellect, and irritability of temper, as well as ill health, 
are often caused by the mismanagement of the nursery, 
in regard to the physical training of children. There 
is probably no practice, more deleterious, than that of 
allowing children to eat at short intervals, through the 
day. As the stomach is thus kept constantly at work, 
with no time for repose, its functions are deranged, and 
a weak or disordered stomach is the frequent result. 
Children should be required to keep cakes, nuts, and 
other good things which they may have to eat, till just 
before a meal, and then they will form a part of their 
regular supply. This is better, than to wait till after 
their hunger is satisfied by food, when they will eat 
their niceties merely to gratify the palate, and thus 
overload the stomach. 

In regard to the intellectual training of young 
children, some modification in the common practice 
is necessary, with reference to their physical wellbeing. 
More care is needful, in providing well-ventilated 
schoolrooms, and in securing more time for sports in 
the open air, during school hours. It is very important, 
to most mothers, that their young children should be 
removed from their care, during the six school hours ; 
and it is very useful, to quite young children, to be sub- 
jected to the discipline of a school, and to intercourse 
with other children of their own age. And, with a 
suitable teacher, it is no matter how early children are 
sent to school, provided their health is not endangered, 
by impure air, too much confinement, and too great 
mental stimulus. 

In regard to the formation of the moral character, it 



224 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

has been too much the case, that the discipHne of the 
nursery lias consisted of disconnected efforts to make 
children either do, or refrain from doing, certain par- 
ticular acts. Do this, and be rewarded; do that, and 
be punished ; is the ordinary routine of family govern- 
ment. 

But children can be very early taught, that their hap 
piness, both now and hereafter, depends on the forma 
tion of habits of submission, self-denial, and benevolence. 
And all the disciphne of the nursery can be conducted 
by the parents, not only with this general aim in their 
own minds, but ^.Iso with the same object daily set be- 
fore the minds of the children. Whenever their wishes 
are crossed, or their wills subdued, they can be taught, 
that all this is done, not merely to please the parent, or 
to secure some good to themselves or to others ; but as 
a part of that merciful training, which is designed to 
form such a character, and such habits, that they can 
hereafter find their chief happiness in giving up their 
will to God, and in living to do good to others, instead 
of living merely to please themselves. 

It can be pointed out to them, that they must always 
submit their will to the will of God, or else be con- 
tinually miserable. It can be shown, how in the 
nursery, and in the school, and through all future 
days, a child must practise the giving up of his will 
and wishes, when they interfere with the rights and 
comfort of others ; and how important it is, early to 
learn to do this, so that it will, by habit, become easy 
and agreeable. It can be shown, how children, who 
are indulged in all their wishes, and who are never ac- 
customed to any self-denial, always find it hard to re- 
frain from what injures themselves and others. It can 
be shown, also, how important it is, for every person, to 
form such habits of benevolence, towards others, that 
self-denial, in doing good, will become easy. 

Parents have learned, by experience, that children 
can be constrained, by authority and penalties, to exer- 
cise self-denial, for their own good, till a habit is formed, 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 225 

which makes the duty comparatively easy. For example, 
welltrained children can be accustomed to deny them- 
selves tempting articles of food, which are injurious, 
until the practice ceases to be painful and difficult. 
Whereas, an indulged child would be thrown into fits 
of anger or discontent, when its wishes were crossed, by 
restraints of this kind. 

But it has not been so readily discerned, that the 
same method is needful, in order to form a habit of 
self-denial, in doing good to others. It has been sup- 
posed, that, while children must be forced, by authority, 
to be self-denying and prudent, in regard to their own 
happiness, it may properly be left to their own discre- 
tion, whether they will practise any self-denial in doing 
good to others. But the more difficult a duty is, the 
greater is the need of parental authority, in forming a 
habit, which will make that duty easy. 

In order to secure this, some parents turn their ear- 
liest efforts to this object. They require the young 
child always to offer to others a part of every thing 
which it receives ; always to comply with all reasonable 
requests of others for service ; and often to practise little 
acts of self-denial, in order to secure some enjoyment 
for others. If one child receives a present of some 
nicety, he is required to share it with all his brothers 
and sisters. If one asks his brother to help him in 
some sport, and is met with a denial, the parent re- 
quires the unwilling child to act benevolently, and give 
up some of his time to increase his brother's enjoyment. 
Of course, in such an effort as this, discretion must be 
used, as to the frequency and extent of the exercise of 
authority, to induce a habit of benevolence. But, where 
parents deliberately aim at such an object, and wisely 
conduct their instructions and discipline to secure it, 
very much will be accomplished. 

Religious influence should be brought to bear directly 
upon this point. In the very beginning of religious in- 
struction, Jesus Christ should be presented to the child, 
as that great and good Being, who came into this 



226 ON THE MANAGEBfENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

world to teach children how to be happy, both here and 
hereafter. He, who made it His meat and drink to do 
the will of His Heavenly Father ; who, in the humblest 
station, and most destitute condition, denied Himself, 
daily, and went about doing good ; should constantly 
be presented as the object of their imitation. And as 
nothing so strongly influences the minds of children, as 
the sympathy and example of a present friend, all those, 
who believe Him to be an ever-present Saviour, should 
avail themselves of this powerful aid. Under such 
training, Jesus Christ should be constantly presented 
to them, as their ever-watchful, tender, and sympa- 
thizfng friend. If the abstract idea of an unembodied 
Spirit with the majestic attributes of Deity, be diflicult 
for the mind of infancy to grasp, the simple, the gentle, 
the lovely, character of Christ, is exactly adapted to the 
wants and comprehension of a child. In this view, 
how touching is the language of the Saviour, to His 
misjudging disciples, " Suffer the little children to come 
unto me ! " 

In regard to forming habits of obedience, there have 
been two extremes, both of which need to be shunned. 
One is, a stern and unsympathizing maintenance of 
parental authority, demanding perfect and constant 
obedience, without any attempt to convince a child of 
the propriety and benevolence of the requisitions, and 
without any manifestation of sympathy and tenderness 
for the pain and difficulties which are to be met. 
Under such discipline, children grow up to fear their 
parents, rather than to love and trust them ; while some 
of the most valuable principles of character, are chilled, 
or forever blasted. 

In shunning this danger, other parents pass to the 
ojjposite extreme. They put themselves too much on 
the footing of equals with their children, as if little were 
due to superiority of relation, age, and experience. 
Nothing is exacted, without the implied concession 
that the child is to be a judge of the propriety of the 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 227 

requisition ; and reason and persuasion are employed, 
where simple command and obedience would be far 
better. This system produces a most pernicious in- 
fluence. Children soon perceive the position, thus 
allowed them, and take every advantage of it. They 
soon learn to dispute parental requirements, acquire 
habits of forwardness and conceit, assume disrespectful 
manners and address, maintain their views with perti- 
nacity, and yield to authority with ill-humor and re- 
sentment, as if their rights were infringed. 

The medium course, is, for the parent to take the 
attitude of a superior, in age, knowledge, and relation, 
who has a perfect right to control every action of the 
child, and that, too, without giving any reason for the 
requisitions. " Obey, because your parent commands" 
is always a proper and sufficient reason. 

But care should be taken, to convince the child that 
the parent is conducting a course of discipline, designed 
to make him happy ; and in forming habits of impli- 
cit obedience, self-denial, and benevolence, the child 
should have the reasons for most requisitions kindly 
stated ; never, however, on the demand of it, from 
the child, as a right, but as an act of kindness from the 
parent. 

It is impossible to govern children properly, especially 
those of strong and sensitive feelings, without a con- 
stant effort to appreciate the value which they attach 
to their enjoyments and pursuits. A lady, of great 
strength of mind and sensibility, once told the writer, 
that one of the most acute periods of suffering, in her 
whole life, was occasioned by the burning up of some 
milkweed-silk, by her mother. The child had found, 
for the first time, some of this shining and beautiful 
substance ; was filled with delight at her discovery ; 
was arranging it in parcels; planning its future uses, 
and her pleasure in showing it to her companions, — 
when her mother, finding it strewed over the carpet, 
hastily swept it into the fire, and that, too, with so in- 
different an air, that the child fled away, almost dis- 



223 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

tracted with grief and disappointment. The mother 
little reaUzed the pain she had inflicted, but the child 
felt the unkindness, so severely, that for several days 
' her mother was an object almost of aversion. 

While, therefore, the parent needs to parry on a 
steady course, which will obhge the child always to 
give up its will, whenever its Own good, or the greater 
claims of others, require it, this should be constantly 
connected with the expression of a tender sympathy, 
for the trials and disappointments thus inflicted. Those, 
who will join with children, and help them along in 
their sports, will learn, by this mode, to understand the 
feelings and interests of childhood ; while, at the same 
time, they secure a degree of confidence and affection, 
which cannot be gained so easily, in any other way. 
And it is to be regretted, that parents so often relin- 
quish this most powerful mode of influence, to domes- 
tics and playmates, who often use it in the most per- 
nicious manner. In joining in such sports, older 
persons should never relinquish the attitude of supe- 
riors, or allow disrespectful manners or address. And 
respectful deportment is never more cheerfully accorded, 
than in seasons, when young hearts are pleased, and 
made grateful, by having their tastes and enjoyments so 
efficiently promoted. 

Next to the want of all government, the two most 
fruitful sources of evil to children, are, unsteadiness in 
government, and over-government. Most of the cases, 
hi which the children of sensible and conscientious 
parents turn out badly, result from one or the other of 
these causes. In cases of unsteady government, either 
one parent is very strict, severe, and unbending, and 
the other excessively indulgent, or else the parents are 
sometimes very strict and decided, and at other times 
allow disobedience to go unpunished. In such cases, 
children, never knowing exactly when they can escape 
with impunity, are constantly tempted to make the 
trial. 

The bad effects of this, can be better appreciated, bj 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 229 

reference to one important principle of the mind. It 
is found to be universally true^ that, when any object 
of desire is put entirely beyond the reach of hope or 
expectation, the mind very soon ceases to long for it, 
and turns to other objects of pursuit. But, so long as 
the mind is hoping for some good, and making efforts 
to obtain it, any opposition excites irritable feelings. 
Let the object be put entirely beyond all hope, and this 
irritation soon ceases. In consequence of this principle, 
those children, who are under the care of persons of 
steady and decided government, know, that whenever 
a thing is forbidden or denied, it is out of the reach of 
hope ; the desire, therefore, soon ceases, and they turn to 
other objects. But the children of undecided, or of 
over-indulgent parents, never enjoy this preserving aid. 
When a thing is denied, they never know but either 
coaxing may win it, or disobedience secure it without 
any penalty, and so they are kept in that state of hope 
and anxiety, which produces irritation, and tempts to 
insubordination. The children of very indulgent pa- 
rents, and of those who are undecided and unsteady 
in government, are very apt to become fretful, irritable, 
and fractious. 

Another class of persons, in shunning this evil, go to 
the other extreme, and are very strict and pertinacious, 
in regard to every requisition. With them, fault-find- 
ing and penalties abound, until the children are either 
hardened into indifference of feeling, and obtuseness of 
conscience, or else become excessively irritable, or mis- 
anthropic. 

It demands great wisdom, patience, and self-control, 
to escape these two extremes. In aiming at this, there 
are parents, who have found the following maxims of 
ver)" great value. First, Avoid, as much as possible, 
the multiplication of rules and absolute commands. 
Instead of this, take the attitude of advisers. " My 
child, this is improper, I wish you would remember not 
to do it." This mode of address answers for all the 
little acts of heedlessness, awkwardness, or ill-manners, 

20 D. E. 



\ 



230 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

SO frequently occurring, with children. There are 
cases, when direct and distinct commands are needful ; 
and, in such cases, a penalty for disobedience should 
be as steady and sure as the laws of Nature. Where 
such steadiness, and certainty of penalty, attend dis- 
obedience, children no more think of disobeying, than 
they do of putting their fingers in a burning candle. 

The next maxim, is. Govern by rewards, more 
than by penalties. Such faults as wilful disobedience, 
lying, dishonesty, and indecent or profane language, 
should be punished with severe penalties, after a child 
has been fully instructed in the evil of such practices. 
But all the constantly-recurring faults of the nursery, 
such as ill-humor, quarrelling, carelessness, and ill- 
manners, may, in a great many cases, be regulated by 
gentle and kind remonstrances, and by the offer of 
some reward for persevering efforts to form a good 
habit. It is very injurious and degrading to any mind, 
to be kept under the constant fear of penalties. Love 
and hope are the principles that should be mainly rehed 
on, in forming the habits of childhood. 

Another maxim, and perhaps the most difficult, is. 
Do not govern by the aid of severe and angry tones. 
A sinde example will be given to illustrate this maxim. 
A child is disposed to talk and amuse itself, at table. 
The mother requests it to be silent, except when need- 
ing to ask for food, or when spoken to by its older 
friends. It constantly forgets. The mother, instead 
of rebuking, in an impatient tone, says, '' My child, you 
must remember not to talk. I will remind you of it four 
times more, and after that, whenever you forget, you 
must leave the table, and wait till we are done." If 
the mother is steady in her government, it is not prob- 
able that slie will have to apply this slight penalty more 
than once or twice. This method is far more effectual, 
than the use of sharp and severe tones, to secure atten- 
tion and recollection, and often answers the purpose, as 
well as offering some reward. 

The writer has been in some families, where the 



OTSI THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 231 

most efficient and steady government has been sus- 
tained, without the use of a cross or angry tone ; and 
m others, where a far less efficient disciphne was kept 
up, by frequent severe rebukes and angry remon- 
strances. In the first case, the children followed the 
example set them, and seldom used severe tones to 
each other ; in the latter, the method employed by the 
parents, was imitated by the children ; and cross words 
and angry tones resounded from morning till night, in 
every portion of the household. 

Another important maxim, is, Try to keep children 
in a happy state of mind. Every one knows, by expe- 
rience, that it is easier to do right, and submit to rule, 
when cheerful and happy, than when irritated. This 
is peculiarly true of children ; and a wise mother, when 
she finds her child fretful and impatient, and thus con- 
stantly doing wrong, will often remedy the whole dif- 
ficulty, by telling some amusing story, or by getting the 
child engaged in some amusing sport. This strongly 
shows the importance of learning to govern children 
without the employment of angry tones, which always 
produce irritation. 

Children of active, heedless temperament, or those 
who are odd, awkward, or unsuitable, in their remarks 
and deportment, are often essentially injured, by a want 
of patience and self-control in those who govern them. 
Such children, often possess a morbid sensibility, which 
they strive to conceal, or a desire of love and approba- 
tion, which preys like a famine on the soul. And yet, 
they become objects of ridicule and rebuke, to almost 
every member of the family, until their sensibilities are 
tortured into obtuseness or misanthropy. Such chil 
dren, above all others, need tenderness and sympathy. 
A thousand instances of mistake or forgetfulness should 
be passed over, in silence, while opportunities for com- 
mendation and encouragement should be diligently 
sought. 

In regard to the formation of habits of self-denial, in 
childhood, it is astonishing to see how parents, who are 



232 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 

very sensible, often seem to regard this matter. Instead 
of inuring their cliildren to this duty, in early life, so 
that by habit it may be made easy in after-days, they 
seem to be studiously seeking to cut them oft', from 
every chance to secure such a preparation. Every 
wish of the child is studiously gratified ; and, virhere a 
necessity exists, of crossing its wishes, some compen- 
sating pleasure is offered, in return. Such parents, 
often maintain that nothing shall be put on their table, 
which their children may not join them in eating. But 
where, so easily and surely as at the daily meal, can that 
habit of self-denial be formed, which is so needful in gov- 
erning the appetites, and which children must acquire, 
or be ruined ? The food which is proper for grown 
persons, is often unsuitable for children ; and this is 
a sufficient reason for accustoming them to see others 
partake of delicacies, which they must not share. Re- 
quiring children to wait till others are helped, and to 
refrain from conversation at table, except when ad- 
dressed by their elders, is another mode of forming 
habits of self-denial and self-control. Requiring them 
to help others, first, and to offer the best to others, has 
a similar influence. 

In forming the moral habits of children, it is wise to 
take into account the peculiar temptations to which 
they are to be exposed. The people of this Nation are 
eminently a traflicking people ; and the present standard 
of honesty, as to trade and debts, is very low, and every 
year seems sinking still lower. It is, therefore, pre- 
eminently important, that children should be trained to 
strict honesty, both in word and deed. It is not merely 
teaching children to avoid absolute lying, which is 
needed. All kinds of deceit should be guarded against ; 
and all kinds of little dishonest practices be strenuously 
opposed. A child should be brought up with the de- 
termined principle, never to run in debt, but to be con- 
tent to live in an humbler way, in order to secure that 
true independence, which should be the noblest dis- 
tinction of an American citizen. 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN. 233 

There is no more important duty, devolving upon a 
mother, than the cultivation of habits of modesty and 
propriety in young children. All indecorous words or 
deportment, should be carefully restrained ; and delicacy 
and reserve studiously cherished. It is a common no- 
tion, that it is important to secure these virtues to one 
sex, more than to the other ; and, by a strange' incon- 
sistency, the sex most exposed to danger, is the one 
selected as least needing care. But a wise mother will 
be especially careful, that her sons are trained to modesty 
and purity of mind. 

But few mothers are sufficiently aware of the dread- 
ful penalties which often result from indulged impurity?* 
of thought. If children, in future life, can be preserved 
from licentious associates, it is supposed that their safety 
is secured. But the records of our insane retreats, and 
the pages of medical writers, teach, that even in solitude, 
and without being aware of the sin or the danger, chil- 
dren may inflict evils on themselves, which not unfre- 
quently terminate in disease, delirium, and death. 
Every mother and every teacher, therefore, carefully 
avoiding all explanation of the mystery, should teach 
the young, that the indulgence of impure thoughts and 
actions, is visited by the most awful and terrific penal- 
ties. Disclosing the details of vice, in order to awaken 
dread of its penalties, is a most dangerous experiment, 
and often leads to the vety evils feared. The attempts 
made, in late years, to guard children from future dan- 
gers, by circulating papers, and books of warning and 
information, have led to such frightful results, that it is 
hoped the experiment will never again be pursued. 
The safest course, is, to cultivate habits of modesty and 
delicacy, and to teach, that all impure thoughts, words, 
and actions, are forbidden by God, and are often visited 
by the most dreadful punishment. At the same time, 
it is important for mothers to protect the young mind 
from false notions of delicacy. It should be shown, 
that whatever is necessary, to save from suffering or 
danger, must be met, without shame or aversion ; and 
20* D. E. 



234 ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 

that all, which God has instituted, is wise, and right, 
and pure. 

It is in reference to these dangers, that mothers and 
teachers siiould carefully guard the young from those 
highly-wrought fictions, which lead the imagination 
astray ; and especially from that class of licentious 
works, made interesting by genius and taste, which 
have flooded this Country, and which are often found 
on the parlor table, even of moral and Christian people. 
Of this class, the writings of Bulwer stand conspicuous. 
The only diflference, between some of his works and 
the obscene prints, for vending which men suffer the 
penalties of the law, is, that the last are so gross, as to 
revolt the taste and startle the mind to resistance, while 
Bulwer presents the same ideas, so clothed in the fas- 
cinations of taste and genius, as most insidiously to 
seduce the unwary. It seems to be the chief aim of 
this licentious writer, to make thieves, murderers, and 
adulterers, appear beautiful, refined, and interesting. 
It is time that all virtuous persons in the community 
should rise in indignation, not only against the writers, 
but the venders of such poison. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 

Every woman who has the care of young children, 
or of a large family, is frequently called upon, to advise 
what shall be done, for some one who is indisposed ; 
and often, in circumstances where she must trust solely 
to her own judgement. In such cases, some err, by 
neglecting to do any thing at all, till the patient is quite 
sick ; but a still greater number err, from excessive and 
injurious dosing. 

The two great causes of the ordinary slight attacks 
of illness, in a family, are, sudden chills, which close 



ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 235 

tlie pores of the skin, and thus affect the throat, lungs, 
or bowels ; and the excessive or improper use of food. 
In most cases, of illness from the first cause, bathing 
the feet, and some aperient drink to induce perspiration, 
are suitable remedies. A slight cathartic, also, is often 
serviceable. In case of illness from improper food, or 
sxcess in eating, fasting, for one or two meals, to give 
the system time and chance to relieve itself, is the 
safest remedy. Sometimes, a gentle cathartic may be 
aeedful ; but it is best first to try fasting. 

The following extract from a discourse of Dr. Burne, 
Defore the London Medical Society, contains important 
information. " In civilized life, the causes, which are 
most generally and continually operating in the produc- 
tion of diseases, are, afiections of the mind, improper 
diet, and retention of the intestinal excretions. The 
undue retention of excrementitious matter, allows of the 
absorption of its more liquid parts, which is a cause of 
great impurity to the blood, and the excretions, thus 
rendered hard and knotty, act more or less as extrane- 
ous substances, and, by their irritation, produce a de- 
termination of blood to the intestines and to the neigh 
boring viscera, which ultimately ends in inflammation. 
It also has a great effect on the whole system ; causes 
a determination of blood to the head, which oppresses 
the brain and dejects the mind ; deranges the functions 
of the stomach ; causes flatulency ; and produces a 
general state of discomfort." 

Dr. Combe remarks, on this subject, " In the natural 
and healthy state, under a proper system of diet, and 
with sufficient exercise, the bowels are relieved regular- 
ly, once every day." Habit " is powerful in modifying 
the result, and in sustaining healthy action when once 
fairly established. Hence the obvious advantage of 
observing as much regularity, in relieving the system, 
as in taking our meals." It is often the case that so- 
liciting Nature at a regular period, once a day, will 
remedy constipation, without medicine, and induce a 
regular and healthy state of the bowels. " When, 



236 ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 

however, as most frequently happens, the constipation 
arises from the absence of all assistance from the ab- 
dominal and respiratory muscles, the first step to be 
taken, is, again to solicit their aid ; first, by remov- 
ing all impediments to free respiration, such as stays, 
waistbands and belts ; secondly, by resorting to such 
active exercises, as shall call the muscles into full and 
regular action ; and, lastly, by proportioning the quan- 
tity of food to the wants of the system, and the con- 
dition of the digestive organs. If we employ these 
means, systematically and perseveringly, we shall rarely 
fail in at last restoring the healthy action of the bowels, 
with little aid from medicine. But if we neglect these 
modes, we may go on, for years, adding pill to pill, and 
dose to dose, without ever attaining the end at which 
we aim." There is no point, in which a woman needs 
more knowledge and discretion, than in administering 
remedies for what seem slight attacks, which are not 
supposed to require the attention of a physician. It is 
httle realized, that purgative drugs are unnatural modes 
of stimulating the internal organs, tending to exhaust 
them of their secretions, and to debihtate and disturb 
the animal economy. For this reason, they should be 
used as little as possible ; and fasting, and perspiration, 
and the other methods pointed out, should always be 
first resorted to. When medicine must be given, it 
should be borne in mind, that there are various clashes 
of purgatives, which produce very diverse effects. 
Some, Uke salts, operate to thin the blood, and re- 
duce the system; others are stimulating; and others 
have a peculiar operation on certain organs. Of course, 
great discrimination and knowledge is needed, in order 
to select the kind, which is suitable to the particular 
disease, or to the particular cons^titution of the invalid. 
This shows the folly of using the many kinds of pills, 
and other quack medicines, where no knowledge can 
be had of their composition. Pills which are good for 
one kind of disease, might operate as poison in another 
state of the system. It is wise to keep always on hand 



ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 237 

some simple cathartic, for family use, in slight attacks ; 
and always to resort to medical advice, whenever pow- 
erful remedies seem to be demanded.* It is very com- 
mon, in cases of colds which affect the lungs or throat, 
to continue to try one dose after another, for relief. It 
will be well to bear in mind, at such times, that all 
which goes into the stomach, must be first absorbed 
into the blood, before it can reach the diseased part ; 
and that there is some danger of injuring the stomach, 
or other parts of the system, by such a variety of doses, 
many of which, it is probable, will be directly contra- 
dictory in their nature, and thus neutralize any supposed 
benefit they might separately impart. 

It is very unwise, to tempt the appetite of a person 
who is indisposed. The cessation of appetite is the 
warning of Nature, that the system is in such a state, 
that food cannot be digested. « 

The following suggestions may be found useful, in 
regard to nursing the sick. As nothing contributes 
more to the restoration of health, than pure air, it 
should be a primary object, to keep a sick-room well 
ventilated. At least twice in the twenty-four hours, 
the patient should be well covered, and fresh air freely 
admitted from out of doors. After this, if need be, 
the room should be restored to a proper temperature, 
by the aid of a fire. Bedding and clothing should 
also be well aired, and frequently changed; as the 
exhalations from the body, in sickness, are peculiarly 
deleterious. Frequent ablutions, of the whole body, if 
possible, are very useful ; and for these, warm water 
may be employed. 

* The following electuary, by a distinguished physician, is used by 
many friends of the writer, as a standing resort, in cases of constipa- 
tion, or where a gentle cathartic is needed. One recommendation of 
it, is, that children always love it, and eat the pills as " good plums." 

Two ounces of powdered Senna ; one ounce of Gream of Tartar ; 
one ounce of Sulphur ; mixed with sufficient Confection of Senna, 
to form an electuary. Make this into pills, of the size of peas, and 
give a young child two or three, as the case may be. Taking three 
pills, every night, will generally relieve constipation in an adult. 



M'SS ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 

The following, are useful directions foi drecsing a 
blister. Spread thinly, on a linen cloth, an ointment, 
composed of one third of beeswax to two thirds of 
tallow ; lay this upon a linen cloth, folded many times. 
With a sharp pair of scissors, make an aperture in the 
lower part of the bag of water, with a little hole, above, 
to give it vent. Break the raised skin as little as pos- 
sible. Lay on the cloth, spread as directed. The blis- 
ter, at first, should be dressed as often as three times in 
a day, and the dressing renewed each time. 

A. sick-room should always be kept very neat, and in 
perfect order ; and all haste, noise, and bustle, should 
be avoided. In order to secure neatness, order, and 
quiet, in case of long illness, the following arrange- 
ments should be made. Keep a large box for fuel, 
which will need to be filled only twice in twenty-four 
hours. Provide, also, and keep in the room, or an ad- 
jacent closet, a small teakettle, a saucepan, a pail 
of water, for drinks and ablutions, a pitcher, a covered 
porringer, two pint bowls, two tumblers, two cups and 
saucers, two wine glasses, two large and two small 
spoons ; also, a dish in which to wash these articles ; a 
good supply of towels, and a broom. Keep a slop- 
bucket, near by, to receive the wash of the room. 
Procuring all these articles at once, will save much 
noise and confusion. 

Whenever medicine or food is given, spread a clean 
towel over the person or bedclothing, and get a clean 
handkerchief, as nothing is more annoying to a weak 
stomach, than the stickiness and soihng produced by 
medicine and food. Keep the fireplace neat, and al- 
ways wash all articles, and put them in order, as soon 
as they are out of use. 

A sick person has nothing to do, but look about the 
room ; and when every thing is neat and in order, a 
feeling of comfort is induced, while disorder, filth, and 
neglect, are constant objects of annoyance, which, if 
not complained of, are yet felt. 



ON THE CARE OF THE SICK. 239 

Always prepare food for the sick, in the neatest and 
most careful manner. It is in sickness, that the senses 
of smell and taste are most susceptible of annoyance ; 
and often, little mistakes or negligences, in preparing 
food, will take away all appetite. 

Food for the sick, should be cooked on coals, that no 
smoke may have access to it ; and great care must be 
taken, to prevent any adherence to the bottom, as this 
always gives a disagreeable taste. 

Keeping clean handkerchiefs and towels at hand, 
cooling the pillows, sponging the hands with water, 
swabbing the mouth with a clean linen rag, on the end 
of a stick, are modes of increasing the comfort of the 
sick. Always throw a shawl over a sick person, when 
raised up. 

Be careful to understand a physician's directions, and 
to ohey them implicitly. If it be supposed that any other 
person knows better about the case, than the physician, 
dismiss the physician, and employ that person in his 
stead. 

In nursing the sick, always speak gently and cheer- 
ingly ; and, while you express sympathy for their pain 
and trials, stimulate them to bear all with fortitude, and 
with resignation to Him who has appointed the trial. 
Offer to read the Bible, or other devotional books, 
whenever, it is suitable, and will not . be deemed ob- 
trusive. 

It is always best to consult the physician, as to where 
medicines shall be purchased, and to show the articles 
to him before using them, as great impositions are prac- 
tised in selling old, useless, and adulterated drugs. Al- 
ways put labels on vials of medicine, and keep them 
out of the reach of children. 

Be careful to label all powders, and particularly all 
white powders ; as many poisonous medicines, in this 
form, are easily mistaken for others which are harmless. 



240 ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES. 

When serious accidents occur, medical aid should 
be immediately procured. Till that can be done, the 
following directions may be useful. 

When a child has any thing in its throat, first try, 
with the finger, to get the article up. If this cannot 
be done, push it down into the stomach, with a smooth 
elastic stick. If the article be a pin, sharp bone, glass, 
or other cutting substance, give an emetic which will 
immediately operate. 

In the case of a common cut, bind the lips of the 
wound together, with a rag, and put nothing else on 
If the cut be large, and so situated that rags will not 
bind it together, use sticking plaster, cut in strips and 
laid obliquely across the cut. Sometimes it is needful 
to take a stitch, with a needle and thread, on each lip 
of the wound, and draw the two sides together. 

If an artery be cut, it must be immediately tied up, 
or the person will bleed to death. The blood from an 
artery is of a bright red color, and spirts out, in regular 
jets, at each beat of the heart. Take up the bleeding 
end of the artery, and hold it, or tie it up, till a surgeon 
comes. When the artery cannot be found, and in all 
cases of bad cuts on any of the limbs, apply compres- 
sion ; when it can be done, tie a very tight bandage 
above the wound, if it be below the heart, and below if 
the wound be above the heart. Put a stick into the 
band, and twist it as tight as can be borne, till sur- 
gical aid be obtained. 

Batlie bad bruises in hot water, or hot spirits, or a 
decoction of bitter herbs. Entire rest, is the remedy 
for sprains. Bathing in warm water, or warm whiskey 
is very useful. A sprained leg should be kept in a 
horizontal position, on a bed or sofa. 

When a leg is broken, tie it to the other leg, to keep 



ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES. 241 

it still ; and, if possible, get a surgeon, before the limb 
swells. Bind a broken arm to a piece of shingle, and 
keep it still, till it is set. 

In case of a*blow on the head, or a fall, causing in- 
sensibiUty, use a mustard paste on the back of the neck 
and pit of the stomach, and rub the body with spirits. 
After the circulation is restored, bleeding is often ne- 
cessary ; but it is very dangerous to attempt it before. 

In cases of bad burns, where the skin is taken off, 
the great aim should be, to keep the injured part from 
tilt air. For this purpose, sprinkle on flour, or apply 
a hniment, made of linseed oil and lime-water, in equal 
quantities. Sweet-oil, on cotton, is good, and with 
laudanum, alleviates pain : but many skins cannot bear 
the application of raw cotton, which is sometimes very 
good. When a dressing is put on, do not remove it, as 
it will be sure to protract the cure, by admitting the air. 

In case of drowning, lay the person in a warm bed, 
or on blankets, on the right side, with the head raised, 
and a little inclined forward. Clear the mouth with 
the fingers, and cautiously apply hartshorn to the nose. 
Raise the heat of the body, by bottles of warm water 
applied to the pit of the stomach, armpits, groins, and 
soles of the feet. Apply friction to the whole body, 
with w^rm hands and cloths dipped in warm spirits of 
camphor. Endeavor to produce the natural action of 
the lungs, by introducing the nose of a bellows into 
one nostril and closing the other, at the same time 
pressing on the throat, to close the gullet. When the 
lungs are thus inflated, press gently on the breast and 
belly, and continue the process, for a long time. Cases 
have been known, where eflbrte have been protracted 
eight or ten hours, without effect, and then have proved 
successful. Rolling the body on a barrel, suspending 
it by the heels, giving injections of tobacco, and many 
other practices, which have been common, are highly 
injurious. After signs of life appear, give small quan- 
tities of wine, or spirits and water. 

In cases of poisoning, from corrosive sublimate, beat 

21 D» E. 



242 ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES. 

up the whites of twelve eggs, mix them in two quarts 
of water, and give a tumbler full every three minutes, 
till vomiting is produced. This is the surest remedy. 
When tliis is not at hand, fill the stomadh, in like man- 
ner, with any mucilaginous substance, such as gum 
and water, flaxseed, or slippery-elm-bark tea. Flour 
and water, or sugar and water, in great quantities, are 
next best ; and if none of these be at hand, give co- 
pious draughts of water alone. 

In case of poisoning from arsenic, cobalt, or any such 
mineral, administer, as soon as possible, large quanti- 
ties of lime-water and sugared-water, of warm, or even 
of cold water, or of flaxseed tea, or some other muci- 
laginous drink, to distend the stomach and produce 
immediate vomiting, and thereby eject the poison. 

If opium, or any of its preparations, has been taken, 
in dangerous quantities, induce vomiting, without a 
moment's unnecessary delay, by giving, immediately, in 
a small quantity of water, ten grains of ipecac, and ten 
grains of sulphate of zinc, (white vitriol, which is the 
most prompt emetic known,) and repeat the dose 
every fifteen minutes, till the stomach is entirely emp- 
tied. Where white vitriol is not at hand, substitute 
three or four grains of blue vitriol, (sulphate of copper.) 
When the stomach is emptied, but not before, give, 
every ten minutes, alternately, a cup of acid drink, and 
a cup of very strong coffee, made by pouring a pint of 
boiling water on a quarter of a pound of ground burnt 
coffee, and letting it stand ten minutes, and then strain- 
ing it. Continue these drinks, till the danger is over. 
Dash cold water on the head, apply friction to the 
body, and keep the person in constant motion, to pre- 
vent sleep. 

If any kind of acid be taken, in poisonous quantities, 
give strong pearlash-water. If ley, or pearlash, or any 
alkali be taken, give sv/eet-oil ; or, if this be wanting, 
lamp-oil ; or, if neither be at hand, give vinegar, freely. 
In case of stupefaction, from the fumes of charcoal, 
or from entering a well, limekiln, or coal mine, exp<xse 



ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES. 243 

the person to cold air, lying on his back, dash cold 
water on the head and breast, and rub the body with 
spirits of camphor, vinegar, or Cologne water. Apply 
mustard paste to. the pit of the stomach, and use friction 
on the hands, feet, and whole length of the back bone. 
Give some acid drink, and, when the person revives, 
place him in a warm bed, in fresh air. Be prompt and 
persevering. 

In case of bleeding at the lungs, or stomach, or 
throat, give a teaspoonful of dry salt, and repeat it 
often. For bleeding at the nose, pour cold water on 
the back of the neck, keeping the head elevated. 

If a person be struck with lightning, throw pailfuls 
of cold water on the head and body, and apply mustard 
poultices on the stomach, with friction of the whole 
body, and inflation of the lungs. When no other 
emetic can be found, pounded mustard seed, taken a 
teaspoonful at a time, will answer. The ground mus- 
tard is not so effectual, but will do. 

In case of fire, wrap a woollen blanket about you, to 
protect from the fire. If the staircases are on fire, 
tie the corners of the sheets together, very firmly, fasten 
one end to the bedstead, draw it to the window, and 
let yourself down. Never read in bed, lest you fall 
asleep, and the bed be set on fire. If your clothes get 
on fire, never run, but lie down, and roll about till you 
can reach a bed or carpet to wrap yourself in, and thus 
put out the fire. Keep young children in woollen 
dresses, to save them from the risk of fire. 

In thunderstorms, shut the doors and windows. 
The safest part of a room, is its centre ; and where 
there is a featherbed in the apartment, that will be 
found the most secure resting-place. 

A lightning rod, if it be well pointed, and run deep 
into the earth, is a certain protection to a circle around 
it, whose diameter equals the height of the rod above 
the highest chimney. But it protects no further than 
this extent. 



244 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 

Whenever the laws of body and mind are properly 
understood, it will be allowed, that every person needs 
some kind of recreation ; and that, by seeking it, the 
body is strengthened, the mind is invigorated, and all our 
duties are more cheerfully and successfully performed. 

Children, whose bodies are rapidly growing, and 
whose nervous system is tender and excitable, need 
much more amusement, than persons of mature age. 
Persons, also, who are oppressed with great responsi- 
bilities and duties, or who are taxed by great intellectual 
or moral excitement, need recreations which secure 
physical exercise, and draw off the mind from absorbing 
interests. Unfortunately, such persons are those who 
least resort to amusements, while the idle, gay, and 
thoughtless, seek those which are needless, and for 
which useful occupation would be a most beneficial 
substitute. 

As the only legitimate object of amusements, is, to 
prepare mind and body for the proper discharge of duty, 
any protracting of such as interfere with regular em- 
ployments, or induce excessive fatigue, or weary the 
mind, or invade the proper hours for repose, must be 
sinful. 

In deciding what should be selected, and what avoid- 
ed, the following rules are binding. In the first place, 
no amusements, which inflict needless pain, should ever 
be allowed. All tricks which cause fright, or vexation, 
and all sports, which involve suflfering to animals, should 
be utterly forbidden. Hunting and fishing, for mere 
sport, can never be justified. If a man can convince 
his children, that he follows these pursuits to giiin 
food or health, and not for amusement, his example 
may not be very injurious. But, when children see 



ANB SOCIAL DUTIES. 245 

grown persons kill and frighten animals, for sport, 
habits of cruelty, rather than feehngs of tenderness and 
benevolence, are induced. 

In the next place, we should seek no recreations, 
which endanger life, or interfere with important duties. 
As the only legitimate object of amusements, is to pro- 
mote health, and prepare for more serious duties, select- 
ing those which have a directly opposite tendency, can- 
not be justified. Of course, if a person feel that the 
previous day's diversions have shortened the hours of 
needful repose, or induced a lassitude of mind or body, 
instead of invigorating them, it is certain that an evil 
has been done, which should never be repeated. 

A third rule, is, to avoid those amusements, which 
experience has shown to be so exciting, and connected 
with so many temptations, as to be pernicious in ten- 
dency, both to the individual and to the community. 
It is on this ground, that horse-racing and circus-riding 
are excluded. Not because there is any thing positively 
wrong, in having men and horses run, and perform feats 
of agility, or in persons looking on for the diversion ; 
but because experience has shown so many evils con- 
nected with these recreations, that they should be re- 
linquished. So with theatres. The enacting of char- 
acters, and the amusement thus afforded, in itself may 
be harmless ; and possibly, in certain cases, might be 
useful : but experience has shown so many evils to re- 
sult from this source, that it is deemed wrong to patro- 
nize it. So, also, with those exciting games of chance, 
which are employed in gambling. 

Under the same head, comes dancing, in the estima- 
tion of the great majority of the religious world. Still, 
there are many intelligent, excellent, and conscientious 
persons, who hold a contrary opinion. Such maintain, 
that it is an innocent and healthful amusement, tending 
to promote ease of manners, cheerfulness, social affec- 
tion, and health of mind and body ; that evils are in- 
volved only in its excess ; that, like food, study, or 
religious excitement, it is only wrong, when not prop- 
21* D. E. 



246 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

erly regulated ; and that, if serious and intelligent 
people would strive to regulate, rather than banish, this 
amusement, much more good would be secured. 

On the other side, it is objected, not that dancing is 
a sin, in itself considered, for it was once a part of 
sacred worship ; not that it would be objectionable, if 
it were properly regulated ; not that it does not tend, 
when used in a proper manner, to health of body and 
mind, to grace of manners, and to social enjoyment : 
all these things are conceded. But it is objected to, on 
the same ground as horse-racing, card-playing, and 
theatrical entertainments ; that we are to look at amuse- 
ments as they are, and not as they might be. Horse- 
races might be so managed, as not to involve cruelty, 
gambling, drunkenness, and every other vice. And so 
might theatres and cards. And if serious and intelh- 
gent persons, undertook to patronize these, in order to 
regulate them, perhaps they would be somewhat raised 
from the depths, to which they are now sunk. But 
such persons, know, that, with the weak sense of moral 
obligation existing in the mass of society, and the im- 
perfect ideas mankind have of the proper use of amuse- 
ments, and the little self-control, which men, or women, 
or children, practise, these will not, in fact, be thus 
regulated. And they believe dancing to be liable to 
the same objections. 

As this recreation is actually conducted, it does not 
tend to produce health of body or mind, but directly 
the contrary. If young and old went out to dance 
together, in the open air, as the French peasants do, it 
would be a very different sort of amusement, from that 
which is witnessed, in a room, furnished with many 
lights, and filled with guests, both expending the 
healthful part of the atmosphere, where the young col- 
lect, in their tightest dresses, to protract, for several 
hours, a kind of physical exertion, which is not habitual 
to them. During this process, the blood is made to 
circulate more swiftly tlian ordinary, in circumstances 
where it is less perfectly oxygenized than health re- 



AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 247 

quires ; the pores of the skin are excited by heat and 
exercise ; the stomach is loaded with indigestible 
articles, and the quiet, needful to digestion, withheld ; 
the diversion is protracted beyond the usual hour for 
repose ; and then, when the skin is made the most 
highly susceptible to damps and miasms, the company 
pass from a warm room to the cold night-air. It is 
probable, that no single amusement can be pointed out, 
combining so many injurious particulars, as this, which 
is so often defended as a healthful one. Even if 
parents, who train their children to dance, can keep 
them from public bails, (which is seldom the case,) 
dancing in private parlors is subject to nearly all the 
same mischievous influences. 

As to the claim of social benefits, — when a dancing- 
party occupies the parlors, and the music begins, most 
of the conversation ceases ; while the young prepare 
themselves for future sickness, and the old look smi- 
lingly on. 

As to the claim for ease and grace of manners, — 
all that is gained, by this practice, can be better se- 
cured, by Calisthenics, which, in all its parts, em- 
braces a much more perfect system, both of healthful 
exercise, graceful movement, and pleasing carriage. 

The writer v/as once inclined to the common opin- 
ion, that dancing was harmless, and might be properly 
regulated ; and she allowed a fair trial to be made, 
under her auspices, by its advocates. The result was, a 
full conviction, that it secured no good effect, which could 
not be better gained another way ; that it involved the 
most pernicious evils to health, character, and happi- 
ness ; and that those parents were wise, who brought 
up their children with the full understanding that they 
were neither to learn nor to practise the art. In the 
fifteen years, during which she has had the care of 
young ladies, she has never known any case, where 
learning this art, and following the amusement, did not 
have a bad effect, either on the habits, the intellect, the 
feelings, or the health. Those young ladies, who are 



248 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

brought up with less exciting recreations, are uniformly 
likely to be the most contented and most useful, while 
those, who enter the path to which this diversion leads, 
acquire a relish and desire for high excitement, which 
make the more steady and quiet pursuits and enjoy- 
ments of home, comparatively tasteless. This, the 
writer believes to be generally the case, though not in- 
variably so ; for there are exceptions to all general 
rules. 

In reference to these exciting amusements, so hable 
to danger and excess, parents are bound to regard the 
principle, which is involved in the petition, " Lead us 
not into temptation." Would it not be inconsistent, 
to teach this prayer, to the lisping tongue of childhood, 
and then send it to the dancing-master, to acquire a 
love for a diversion, which leads to constant temptations 
that so few find strength to resist ? 

It is encouraging, to those who take this view of the 
subject, to find how fast the most serious and intelligent 
portion of the community is coming to a similar result. 
Twenty-five years ago, dancing was universally prac- 
tised by the young, as a matter of course, in every part 
of the Nation. Now, in those parts of the Country, 
where religion and intelligence are most extensively 
diffused, it is almost impossible to get up a ball, among 
the more refined classes of the community. The amuse- 
ment is fast leaving this rank in society, to remain as a 
resource for those, whose grade of intelligence and 
refinement does not relish more elevated recreations. 
Still, as there is great diversity of opinion, among per- 
sons of equal worth and intelligence, a spirit of candor 
and courtesy should be practised, on both sides. The 
sneer at bigotry and narrowness of views, on one side, 
and the uncharitable implication of want of piety, or 
sense, on the other, are equally illbred and unchristian. 
Truth, on this subject, is best promoted, not by ill- 
natured crimination and rebuke, but by calm reason, 
generous candor, forbearance, and kindness. 

There is another species of amusement, which a 



AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 249 

large portion of the religious world have been accus- 
tomed to put under the same condemnation as the pre- 
ceding. This is novel^reading. The confusion and 
difference of opinion On this subject, have arisen from 
a want of clear and definite distinctions. Now, as it 
is impossible to define what are novels and what are 
not, so as to include one class of fictitious writings and 
exclude every other, it is impossible to lay down any 
rule respecting them. The discussion, in fact, turns on 
the use of those works of imagination, which belong to 
the class of narratives. That this species of reading, is 
not only lawful, but necessary and useful, is settled by 
Divine examples, in the parables and allegories of 
Scripture. Of course, the question must be, what 
kind of fabulous writings must be avoided^ and what 
allowed. In deciding this, no specific rules can be 
given ; but it must be a matter to be regulated by the 
nature and circumstances of each case. No works of 
fiction, which tend to throw the allurements of taste and 
genius around vice and crime, should ever be tolerated ; 
and all that tend to give false viows of life and duty^ 
should also be banished. Of those, which are written 
for mere amusement, presenting scenes and events that 
are interesting and exciting, and having no bad moral 
influence, much must depend on character and circum- 
stances. Some minds are torpid and phlegmatic, and 
need to have the imagination stimulated : such would 
be benefitted by this kind of reading. Others have 
quick and active imaginations, and would be as much 
injured. Some persons are often so engaged in ab- 
sorbing interests, that any thing innocent, which will 
for a short time draw oflf the mind, is of the nature of 
a medicine ; and, in such cases, this kind of reading is 
useful. 

There is need, also, that some men should keep a 
supervision of the current literature of the day, as guar- 
dians, to warn others of danger. For this purpose, it 
ia more suitable for editorsy clergymen, and teachers^ to 



250 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

read indiscriminately, than for any otlier class of per- 
sons ; for they are the guardians of the public weal, in 
matters of literature, and should be prepared to advise 
parents and young persons of the evils in one direction 
and the good in another. In doing this, however, they 
are bound to go on the same principles which regulate 
physicians, when they visit infected districts, — using 
every precaution to prevent injury to themselves ; hav- 
ing as little to do with pernicious exposures, as a be- 
nevolent regard to others will allow ; and faithfully 
employing all the knowledge and opportunities, thus 
gained, for warning and preserving others. There is 
much danger, in taking this course, that men will seek 
the excitement of the imagination, for the mere pleas- 
ure it affords, under the plea of preparing to serve the 
public, when this is neither the aim nor the result. 

In regard to the use of such works, by the young, as 
a general rule, they ought not to be allowed to any, ex- 
cept those of a dull and phlegmatic temperament, until 
the sohd parts of education are secured, and a taste for 
more elevated reading is acquired. If these stimulating 
condiments in literature be freely used, in youth, all 
relish for more solid reading, will, in a majority of 
cases, be destroyed. If parents succeed in securing 
habits of cheerful and implicit obedience, it will be very 
easy to regulate this matter, by prohibiting the reading 
of any story-book, until the consent of the parent is 
obtained. 

It is not unfrequently the case, that advocates for 
dancing, and the other more exciting amusements, 
speak as if those, who were more strict in these mat- 
ters, were aiming to deprive the young of all diversions ; 
just as if, when cards, theatres, and dancing, are cut 
off, nothing remains but serious and severe duties. 
Perhaps there has been some just ground of objection 
to the course often pursued by parents, in neglecting 
to provide agr(!eable and suitable substitutes, for the 
amusements denied ; but, there is a great abundance 



AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 251 

of safe, healthful, and delightful, recreations, which all 
parents may secure for their children. Some of these 
will here be pointed 'out. 

One of the most useful and important, is, the cultiva- 
tion of flowers and fruits. This, especially for the 
daughters of a family, is greatly promotive of health 
and amusement. It is with the hope, that many young 
ladies, whose habits are now so formed, that they can 
never be induced to a course of active domestic exer- 
cise, so long as their parents are able to hire domestics, 
may yet be led to an employment, which will tend to 
secure health and vigor of constitution, that so much 
space is given, in this work, to directions for the culti- 
vation of fruits and flowers. It would be a most desira- 
ble improvement, if all female schools could be furnished 
with suitable grounds, and instruments, for the cultiva- 
tion of fruits and flowers, and every inducement offered, 
to engage the young ladies in this pursuit. No father, 
Vi^ho wishes to have his daughters grow up to be health- 
ful women, can take a surer method to secure this end. 
Let him set apart a portion of his yard and garden, for 
fruits and flowers, and see that the soil is well prepared 
and dug over, and all the rest may be committed to 
the care of the children. These would need to be 
provided with a light hoe and rake, a dibble, or garden 
trowel, a watering-pot, and means and opportunities 
for securing seeds, roots, buds, and grafts, all which 
might be done at a trifling expense. Then, with prop- 
er encouragement,, and by the aid of such directions 
as are contained in this work, every man, who has 
even half an acre, could secure a small Eden around 
his premises. 

In pursuing this amusement, children can also be led 
to acquire many useful habits. Early rising would, in 
many cases, be thus secured ; and if they were required 
to keep their walks and borders free from weeds and 
rubbish, habits of order and neatness would be induced. 
Benevolent and social feelings could also be cultivated, 
by influencing children to share their fruits and flowers 



252 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

with friends and neighbors, as well as to distribute roots 
and seeds to those, who have not the means of procuring 
them. A woman or a child, by giving seeds, or slips, 
or roots, to a washerwoman, or a farmer's boy, thus 
exciting them to love and cultivate fruits and flowers, 
awakens a new and refining source of enjoyment in 
minds, which have few resources more elevated than 
mere physical enjoyments. Our Saviour directs, in 
making feasts, to call, not the rich, who can recompense 
again, but the poor, who can make no returns. So 
children should be taught to dispense their little treas- 
ures, not alone to companions and friends, who will 
probably return similar favors ; but to those who have 
no means of making any return. If the rich, who ac- 
quire a love for the enjoyments of taste, and have the 
means to gratify it, would aim to extend, among the 
poor, the cheap and simple enjoyment of fruits and 
flowers, our Country would soon literally " blossom as 
the rose." 

If the ladies of a neighborhood would unite small 
contributions, and send a list of flower-seeds and roots 
to some respectable and honest florist, who would not 
be likely to turn them oflf with trash, they could divide 
these among themselves, so as to secure an abundant 
variety, at a very small expense. A bag of flower-seeds, 
which can be obtained, at wholesale, for four cents, 
would abundantly supply a whole neighborhood ; and, 
by the gathering of seeds, in the Autumn, could be 
perpetuated. 

Another very elevating and delightful recreation, for 
the young, is found in music. Here, the writer would 
protest against the common practice, in many families, 
of having the daughters learn to play on the piano, 
whether they have a taste and an ear for music, or not 
A young lady, who cannot sing, and has no great fond 
ness for music, does nothing but waste time, money^ 
and patience, in learning to play on the piano. But 
all children can be taught to sing, in early childhood, 
if the scientific mode of teaching music, in schools, could 



AND SOCIAL DUTtES. 253; 

be introduced, as it is in Prussia, Germany, and Switzer- 
land. Then, young children could read and sing music, 
as easily as they can read language ; and might take 
any tune, dividing themselves into bands, and sing off, 
at sight, the endless variety of music which is prepared. 
And if parents of wealth would take pains to have 
teachers qualified for the purpose, as they may be at the 
Boston Academy, and other similar institutions, who 
should teach all the young children in the community, 
much would be done for the happiness and elevation 
of the rising generation. This is an amusement, which 
children relish, in the highest degree ; and which they 
can enjoy, at home, in the fields, and in visits abroad. 

Another domestic amusement, is, the collecting of 
shells, plants, and specimens in geology and mineralogy, 
for the formation of cabinets. If intelligent parents 
would procure the simpler works which have been 
prepared for the young, and study them, with their 
children, a taste for such recreations would soon be 
developed. The writer has seen young boys, of eight 
and ten years of age, gathering and cleaning shells from 
rivers, and collecting plants, and mineralogical speci- 
mens, with a delight, bordering on ecstasy ; and there 
are few, if any, who, by proper influences, would not 
find this a source of ceaseless delight and improvement. 

Another resource, for family diversion, is to be found 
in the various games played by children, and in which 
the joining of older members of the family is always a 
great advantage to both parties. All medical men unite, 
in declaring that nothing is more beneficial to health, 
than hearty laughter ; and surely our benevolent Creator 
would not have provided risibles, and made it a source 
of health and enjoyment to use them, if it were a sin 
so to do. There has been a tendency to asceticism, on 
this subject, which needs to be removed. Such com- 
mands, as forbid foolish laughing and jesting, " which 
are not convenient ; " and which forbid all idle words, 
and vain conversation, cannot apply to any thing, ex- 
cept what is foolish, vain, and useless. But jokes, 

22 D. E. 



254 ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS 

laughter, and sports, when used in such a degree as 
tends only to promote health, social feelings, and hap- 
piness, are neither vain, foohsh, nor " not convenient." 
It is the excess of these things, and not the moderate 
use of them, which Scripture forbids. The prevailing 
temper of the mind, should be cheerful, yet serious ; 
but there are times, when relaxation and laughter are 
proper for all. There is nothing better for this end, 
than that parents and older persons should join in the 
sports of childhood. Mature minds can always make 
such diversions more entertaining to children, and can 
exert a healthful moral influence over their minds ; and, 
at the same time, can gain exercise and amusement for 
themselves. How lamentable, that so many fathers, 
who could be thus useful and happy with their children, 
throw away such opportunities, and wear out soul and 
body, in the pursuit of gain or fame ! 

Another resource for children, is in the exercise of 
mechanical skill. Fathers, by providing tools for their 
boys, and showing them how to make wheelbarrows, 
carts, sleds, and various other articles, contribute both 
to the physical, moral, and social, improvement of their 
children. And in regard to little daughters, much more 
can be done, in this way, than many would imagine. 
The writer, blessed with the example of a most ingeni- 
ous and industrious mother, had not only learned, be- 
fore the age of twelve, to make dolls, of various sorts 
and sizes, but to cut and fit and sew every article, that 
belongs to a doll's wardrobe. This, which was done 
for mere amusement, secured such a facihty in mechan- 
ical pursuits, that, ever afterward, the cutting and fitting 
of any article of dress, for either sex, was accomplished 
with entire ease. 

When a little girl first begins to sew, her mother can 
promise her a small bed and pillows, as soon as she has 
sewed a patch quilt for them ; and then a bedstead, as 
soon as she has sewed the sheets and cases for pil- 
lows ; and then a large doll to dress, as soon as she has 
made the under garments ; and thus go on, till the 



AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 255 

whole contents of the baby-house are earned by the 
needle and skill of its little owner. Thus, the task of 
learning to sew, will become a pleasure ; and every 
new toy will be earned by useful exertion. A little 
girl can be taught, by the aid of patterns prepared for 
the purpose, to cut and fit all articles necessary for her 
doll. She can also be provided with a httle wash-tub, 
and irons, to wash and iron, and thus keep in proper 
order a complete miniature domestic establishment. 

Besides these recreations, there are the enjoyments 
secured in walking, riding, visiting, and many others 
which need not be recounted. Children, if trained to 
be healthful and industrious, will never fail to discover 
resources of amusement ; while their guardians should 
lend their aid to guide and restrain them from excess. 

There is need of a very great change of opinion and 
practice, in this NatioUj in regard to the subject of 
social and domestic duties. Many sensible and con- 
scientious men, spend all their time, abroad, in business, 
except, perhaps, an hour or so at night, when they are 
so fatigued, as to be unfitted for any social or intellec- 
tual enjoyment. And some of the most conscientious 
men in the Country, will add, to their professional 
business, public or benevolent enterprises, which de- 
mand time, effort, and money; and then excuse them- 
selves for neglecting all care of their children, and 
efforts for their own intellectual improvement, or for 
the improvement of their families, by the plea, that 
they have no time for it. All this, arises from the want 
of correct notions of the binding obligation of our 
social and domestic duties. The main object of life, 
is not to secure the various gratifications of appetite or 
taste, but to form such a character, for ourselves and 
others, as will secure the greatest amount of present 
and future happiness. It is of far more consequence, 
then, that parents should be intelligent, social, affec- 
tionate, and agreeable, at home, and to their friends, 
than that they should earn money enough to live in a 
large house, and have handsome furniture. It is far 



256" ON DOMESTIC ARIUSEMENTS 

more needful, for children, that a father should attend 
to the formation of their character and habits, and aid 
in developing their social, intellectual, and moral na- 
ture, than it is, that he should earn money to furnish 
them with handsome clothes, and a variety of tempting 
food. 

It will be wise for those parents, who find little time 
to attend to their children, or to seek amusement and 
enjoyment in the domestic and social circle, because 
their time is so much occupied with public cares or 
benevolent objects, to inquire, whether their first duty 
is not to train up their own families, to be useful mem- 
bers of society. A man, who neglects the mind and 
morals of his children, to take care of the public, is in 
great danger of coming under a similar condemnation, 
to that of him, who, neglecting to provide for his own 
household, has " denied the faith, and is worse than an 
infidel." 

There are husbands and fathers, who conscientiously 
subtract time from their business, to spend at home, in 
reading with their wives and children, and in domestic 
amusements which at once refresh and improve. The 
children of such parents will grow up with a love of 
home and kindred, which will be the greatest safeguard 
against future temptations, as well as the purest source 
of earthly enjoyment. 

There are families, also, who make it a definite ob- 
ject to keep up family attachments, after the children 
are scattered abroad; and, in some cases, secure the 
means for doing this, by saving money, which would 
otherwise have been spent for superfluities of food or 
dress. Some families have adopted, for this end, a prac- 
tice, which if widely imitated, would be productive of 
extensive benefit. The method is this. On the first 
day of each month, some member of the family, at each 
extreme point of dispersion, takes a folio sheet, and 
fills a part of a page. This is sealed and mailed to the 
next family, who read it, add another contribution, and 
then mail it to the next. Thus the family circular. 



AND SOCIAL DUTIES. 257 

once a month, goes from each extreme, to all the mem- 
bers of a widely-dispersed family, and each member 
becomes a sharer in the joys, sorrows, plans, and pur- 
suits, of all the rest. At the same time, frequent fam- 
ily meetings are sought ; and the expense, thus incurred, 
is cheerfully met by retrenchments in other directions. 
The sacrifice of some unnecessary physical indulgence, 
(such, for instance, as the use of tea and coffee,) will 
often purchase many social and domestic enjoyments, a 
thousand times more elevating and delightful, than the 
retrenched luxury. 

There is no social duty, which the Supreme Law- 
giver more strenuously urges, than hospitaUty and kind- 
ness to strangers, who are classed with the widow and 
the fatherless, as the special objects of Divine tender- 
ness. There are some reasons, why this duty peculiarly 
demands attention from the American people. 

Reverses of fortune, in this land, are so frequent and 
unexpected, and the habits of the people are so migra- 
tory, that there are very many in every part of the Coun- 
try, who, having seen all their temporal plans and hopes 
crushed, are now pining among strangers, bereft of 
wonted comforts, without friends, and without the 
sympathy and society, so needful to wounded spirits. 
Such, too frequently, sojourn long and lonely, with no 
comforter but Him who "knoweth the heart of i^ 
stranger." 

Whenever, therefore, new comers enter a commu 
nity, inquiry should immediately be made, whether the} 
have friends and associates, to render sympathy ana 
kind attentions ; and, when there is any need for it, the 
ministries of kind neighborhood should immediately be 
offered. And it should be remembered, that the first 
days of a stranger's sojourn, are the most dreary, and 
that civility and kindness are doubled in value, by being 
offered at an early period. 

In social gatherings, the claims of the stranger are 
too apt to be forgotten ; especially, in cases where there 
are no peculiar attractions of personal appearance, oi 
22* D. E. 



258 ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 

talents, or high standing. Such a one should be treated 
with attention, because he is a stranger ; and when 
communities learn to act more from principle, and less 
from selfish impulse, on this subject, the sacred claims 
of the stranger will be less frequently forgotten. 

The most agi*eeable hospitahty, to visiters, who be- 
come inmates of a family, is, that which puts them 
entirely at ease. This can never be the case, where 
the guest perceives that the order of family arrange- 
ments is essentially altered, and that tune, comfort, and 
convenience are sacrificed, for his accommodation. 

Offering the best to visiters, showing a polite regard 
to every wish expressed, and giving precedence to 
them, in all matters of comfort and convenience, can 
be easily combined with the easy freedom which makes 
the stranger feel at home ; and this is the perfection of 
hospitable entertainment. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 

There is no point of domestic economy, which 
more seriously involves the health and daily comfort 
of American women, than the proper construction of 
houses. There are five particulars, to which attention 
should be given, in building a house ; namely, economy 
of labor, economy of money, economy of health, econ- 
omy of comfort, and good taste. Some particulars will 
here be pointed out, under each of these heads. 

The first, respects economy of labor. In deciding 
upon the size and style of a house, the health and 
capacity of the housekeeper, and the probabilities of 
securing proper domestics, ought to be the very first 
consideration. If a man be uncertain as to his means 
for hiring service, or if he have a feeble wife, and be 
where properly-qualified domestics are scarce, it is very 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 259 

poor economy to build a large house, or to live in a 
style which demands much labor. Every room in a 
house adds to the expense involved in finishing and 
furnishing it, and to the amount of labor spent in 
sweeping, dusting, cleaning floors^ paint, and windows, 
and taking care of, and repairing, its furniture. Double 
the size of a house, and you double the labor of taking 
care of it, and so, vice versa. There is, in this Country, 
a very great want of calculation and economy, in this 
matter. 

The arrangement of rooms, and the proper supply 
of conveniences, are other points, in which, economy of 
labor and comfort is often disregarded. For example, a 
kitchen will be in one story, a sitting-room in another, 
and the nursery in a third. Nothing is more injurious, 
to a feeble woman, than going up and down stairs ; and 
yet, in order to gain two large parlors, to show to a few 
friends, or to strangers, immense sacrifices of health, 
comfort, and money, are made. If it be possible, the 
nursery, sitting-parlor, and kitchen, ought always to be 
on the same floor. 

The position of wells and cisterns, and the modes of 
raising and carrying water, are other particulars, in 
which, economy of labor and comfort is sadly neg- 
lected. With half the expense usually devoted to a 
sideboard or sofa, the water used from a well or cistern 
can be so conducted, as that, by simply turning a cock, 
it will flow to the place where it is to be used. 

A want of economy, in labor and in money, is often 
seen in the shape and arrangement of houses, and in 
the style of ornaments and furniture. A perfect square, 
encloses more rooms, at less expense, than any other 
shape ; while it has less surface exposed to external 
cold, and can be most easily warmed and ventilated. 
And the farther a house is removed from this shape, the 
more the expense is increased. Wings and kitchens 
built out, beyond a house, very much increase expense, 
both in building and warming them. 

Piazzas and porticoes are very expensive ; and their 



260 ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 

cost would secure far more comfort, if devoted to ad- 
ditional nursery or kitchen conveniences. Many kinds 
of porticoes cost as much as one additional room in the 
house. Houses can be so constructed, that one stair- 
case will answer for both kitchen and parlour use, as 
may be seen in the engraving on page 269, (Fig. 27.) 
This saves the expense and labor usually devoted to a 
large hall and front staircase. 

Much money is often worse than wasted, by finical 
ornaments, which are fast going out of fashion. One 
of the largest, most beautiful, and agreeable, houses, the 
writer was ever in, was finished with doors, windows, 
and fireplaces, in even a plainer style than any given in 
the subsequent drawings. 

The position of fireplaces has much to do with econ- 
omy of expense in warming a house. Where the fire- 
place is in an outer wall, one third of the heat passes 
out of doors, which would be retained in the house, if 
the chimney were within the rooms. A house, con- 
trived like the one represented in the engraving on 
page 272, (Fig. 32,) which can be heated by a stove 
or chimney at X, may be warmed with less fuel than 
one of any other construction.* 

Economy of health is often disregarded, by placing 
wells, cisterns, and privies, so that persons, in the perspi- 
ration of labor, or the debility of disease, are obliged to 
go out of doors in all weathers. Figure 35, on page 276, 
shows the proper arrangement of such conveniences. 
The placing of an outside door, for common use, in a 
sitting-room, as is frequent at the West and South, is 
detrimental to health. In such cases, children, in their 
sports, or persons who labor, are thrown into perspira- 
tion, by exercise, the door is thrown open, a chill en- 
sues, and fever, bowel complaints, or bilious attacks, 

* Many houses are now heated, by a furnace in the cellar, which 
receives pure air from out of doors, heats it, and sends it into several 
rooms, while water is evaporated to prevent the air from becoming dry. 
The most perfect one tlie writer has seen, is constructed by Mr. 
Fowler, of Hartford. This method secures well-ventilated rof)ins, 
and is very economical, where several rooms are to be warmed 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 261 

are the result. A long window, extending down to the 
floor, which can be used as a door, in Summer, and be 
tightly closed, at the bottom, in Winter, secures all the 
benefits, without the evils, of an outside door. 

Constructing houses, without open fireplaces in 
chambers, or any other mode of ventilation, is another 
sad violation of the economy of health. Feeble con- 
stitutions in children, and ill health to domestics, are 
often caused by this folly. 

The economy of comfort is often violated, by arrange- 
ments made for domestics. Many a woman has been 
left to endure much hard labor and perplexity, because 
she chose to have money spent on handsome parlors 
and chambers, for company, which should have been 
devoted to providing a comfortable kitchen and cham- 
bers for domestics. Cramping the conveniences and 
comfort of a family, in order to secure elegant rooms, 
to show to company, is a weakness and folly, w^hich it 
is hoped will every year become less common. 

l^he construction of houses with reference to good 
taste, is a desirable, though less important, item. The 
beauty of a house depends very much upon propriety 
of proportions, color, and ornament. And it is al- 
ways as cheap, and generally cheaper, to build a house 
in agreement with the rules of good taste, than to build 
an awkward and ill-proportioned one. 

Plans of Houses and Domestic Conveniences. 

The following plans are designed chiefly for persons 
in moderate circumstances, and have especial reference 
to young housekeepers. 

Every year, as the prosperity of this Nation increases, 
good domestics will decrease, and young mothers are 
hereafter to be called to superintend and perform all 
branches of domestic business, to nurse children, direct 
ignorant domestics, attend the sick, entertain company, 
and fulfil all other family duties ; and this, too, in a 
majority of cases, with delicate constitutions, or impaired 
health. Every man, therefore, in forming plans for a 



262 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



future residence, and every woman who has any influ- 
ence in deciding such matters, ought to make these 
probabihties the chief basis of their calculations.* 



Fig. 17. 




Fig. 18. 
Gronnd-plan. 




a, Porch. 
ib, Parlor, 15 by leJ 
feet. 

c, Dining-room, 
1^ 15 by 16 feet. 
1 d, d, Small Bed- 
'^ rooms. 

e, Stairs. 

/,/,/, Closets. 
I g, Pantry. 
I //, Store-closet. 
I i, z, i, Fireplaces. 
I j, Kitchen. 
I k, Bedpress. 

z, Cellar door. 



^/) 10 

Scale of Feet. 



tlrl±lit±a 



• Those, who are amateurs in architecture, in judging of these de- 
signs, must take into consideration, that this is a work on domestic 
economy, and that matters of taste, have necessarily been made 
subordinate to points, involving economy of health, comfort, and 
expense. Still, it is beliovcd, tlat good taste has been essentially 
preserved, in most of these designs. 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



263 



The plan, exhibited in Figures 17, and 18, is that of 
a cottage, whose chief exterior beauty is its fine pro- 
portions. It should be painted white. 

Fig. 17, is the elevation, or the front view of the ex- 
terior. Fig. 18, is the ground-plan, in which, an entire 
break in the wall, represents a door, and a break with a 
line across it, a window. When a cross x is put by a 
door, it indicates into which room the door swings, and 
where the hinges should be put, as the comfort of a 
fireside very much depends on the way in which the 
doors are hung. A scale of measurement is given at 
the bottom of the drawings, by which, the size of all 
parts can be measured. The ten small divisions, are 
each one foot. The longest divisions are ten feet each. 
' In the ground-plan, (Fig. 18,) a, is the porch, which 
projects enough to afford an entrance to the two adja- 
cent rooms, and thus avoids the evil of an outside door 
to a sitting-room. If a door be wanted in these 
rooms, the front windows can be made to extend 
down to the floor, so as to serve as doors in Summer, 
and be tightly closed in Winter. The parlor, h, has 
the bedpress, 1c, and the closet, /, adjoining it. Figure 
19 is intended to represent this side of the room. 



Fig. 19. 




M 9 



8 7 6 5 ± 3 & 

Scale of Feet for ciie D^joih. 



\ 
264 ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 

The two large doors, in the centre, open into the bed- 
press, and one of the smaller ones into the closet, /. 
The other, can either be a false door, in order to secure 
symmetry, or else a real one, opening into the kitch- 
en,;. 

A room, thus arranged, can be made to serve as a 
genteel parlor, for company, during the day, when all 
these doors can be closed. At night, the doors of the 
bedpress being opened, it is changed to an airy bed- 
room, while the closets, /,/, serve to conceal all ac- 
commodations pertaining to a bedroom. The bedpress 
is just large enough to receive a bed ; and under it, if 
need be, might be placed a trucklebed, for young 
children. The eating-room, c, has the small bedroom, 
d, adjoining it, which, by leaving the door open, at night, ' 
will be sufficiently airy for a sleeping-room. The 
kitchen, j, has a smaller bedroom, d, attached to it, 
which will hold a narrow single bed for a domestic ; 
and, if need be, a narrow trucklebed under it, for a 
child. The staircase to the garret, can either be placed 
in the eating-room, or in the small entry. A plan for 
back accommodations is shown in Fig. 35, (page 
276.) These should be placed in the rear of the 
kitchen, so as not to cover the window. 

A house hke this, will conveniently accommodate 
a family of six or eight persons ; but some economy 
and contrivance will be needed, in storing away articles 
of dress and bedclothing. For this end, in the bed 
press, k, of the parlor, b, (Fig. 18,) a wide shelf may 
be placed, two feet from the ceiling, where winter bed- 
ding, or folded clothing, can be stowed, while a short 
curtain in front, hung from the wall, will give a tidy 
look, and keep out dust. Under this shelf, if need be, 
pegs can be placed, to hold other articles ; and a cur- 
tain be hung from the edge of the shelf, to conceal and 
protect them. Both the closets, /, /, should have 
shelves and drawers. The garret can have a window 
inserted in the roof, and thus be made serviceable for 
storage. 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROUSES. 265 

Fi?. 20. 







3 



Figure 20 represents a fireplace and mantelpiece, in 
a style corresponding with the doors. ^ 

Such a cottage as this, could be built for from five 
hundred to nine hundred dollars, according as the ex- 
pense of labor in the place, and the excellence of the 
materials and labor, may vary. 



Fig. 21. 




Figures 21 and 22, show the elevation and ground- 
plan of a cottage, in which the rooms are rather more 
agreeably arranged, than in the former plan. The 
elevation, (Fig. 21,) has a piazza, running across the 
whole from. This would cost nearly two hundred 
dollars ; and, for this sum, another story might be add- 
ed. An architect told the writer, that he could build 



266 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



the two-story house, (Fig. 23 and 24,) without a piaz- 
za, for the same sum, as this cottage, with one. This 
shows the poor economy of these appendages. 

The ground-plan, (Fig. 22,) will be understood, from 
tJie explanation appended to it. 



Fitr. 22. 







H^ JMiM^iiMJ^ P^» 



a 



^3" 



30 



ZO 10 

Scale of Feet. 



o, Porch. 

ft, Entry. 

e, Stairs. 

d, Parlor, 16 by 20 feet. 

«, Dining-room, 16 by 16 feet. 

/, Kitchen. 



g-> g^ g> Bedpresses. 

A, A, /i, A, Closets. 

i, Store-closet. 

J, Back entry and Sink. 

p, Cellar stairs. 

o, o, o, Fireplaces. 



The parlor, d, is designed to have the doors (shown 
in Fig. 19) placed at the end, where is the bedpress, g. 
This will make it a handsome parlor, bv day, and yet 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



267 



allow it to be used as a bedroom, at night. The bed- 
presses, in the other rooms, can have less expensive 
doors. A window is put in each bedpress, to secure 
proper ventilation. These should be opened, to air 
the bed, on leaving it. These can be fitted up with 
shelves, pegs, and curtains, as before described. If the 
elevation of the first cottage be preferred to this, as 
being less expensive, it can be used, by altering it a 
little ; thus, instead of the projection for the entry, 
make a slight projection, of the width of one brick, 
to preserve the same general outside appearance. Let 
the windows extend down to the floor, and the beauty 
of symmetry will also be preserved. 



Fig. 23. 
Ground-plan. 




^0 10 

Scale of Feet. 



a, Entry. 
\z mm^M'////M i, b, Stairs 
■"ll c, Parlor, 16 
/ I by 20 feet. 

d, Kitchen, 
14 byl4 feet. 

e, Storecloset. 
/, Pantry. 
g, Sinkroom. 
h, Closet. 
i, i, Fire- 
places. 

n, Cellar door. 
0, Oven. 
^ y, Furnace. 
m-H-H-H-H z, Sink. 



Fig. 24. 
Second Story. 




Stairs. 
Passage. 

c, c, c, Bed 
rooms. 

i^ (2, (f, d^ 
Closets. 

c, e, Fire- 
places. 

y, Nursery. 

g Room for 
young 
children. 



268 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



The plans, shown in Fig. 23 and 24, are designed 
for families, where most domestic labor is to be done 
without the aid of domestics. The parlor, c, is for a 
sitting-room, and for company. The room, d, is the 
eating-room ; where, also, the ironing and other nicer 
family work can be done. In the small room, g, either 
an oven and boiler, or a cooking-stove, can be placed. 
The elevation, shown in Fig. 25, is designed for the 
front of this house. 

Fig. 25. 




|ill l ! !! ! ' ? '!T 'l !!;!! TI '''l! ! l! lim ' ^:l ! l ! :i!::i lll ! l!l!II IM I ll l!lllli ! l'' S i !i; : ! !! l!ll 'l l« ^ 

—zzzzz jiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiitiwiii 



mwi iii i i iii ii iii iiii jMlliMil ii ii i iiii iiiii i iinii 



%mi& 





spf 



Y\s. 26. 




ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES 



269 



Figures 27 and 28, are plans of a two-story house, on 
a larger scale, with a concealed staircase, for front and 
back use. The elevation. Fig. 26, is designed for this 
plan. 



Fig. 27. 
Ground-plan. 




i, &, Entry. 

c, Stairs. 

d, Parlor, 16 by 20 feet. 

e, Dining-room, 15 by 16 
feet. 

/, Kitchen, 15 by 16 feet. 

g, g, g^ Closets. 

h, Store-closet. 

2, Back entry. 

j, Pantry. 

k, k, k, Fireplaces. 

X, Cellar stairs. 



Fig. 28. 
Second Story. 




a, a, fit, fl, Bedrooms. 

b, Stairs. 

c, c, c^ Closets. 

d, Passage. 

e, e, e, Fireplaces. 
7/, Garret stairs. 



^2.^* 



270 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



Fig. 29. 
Ground-floor. 







c, Parlor, 17 
by 17 feet. 

d, Dining, 
room, 13 by 
15 feet. 

c, Parlor or 
Bedroom, 17 
by 17 feet. 
I /, Kitchen, 19 
' by J 7 feet. 



J /t. Store-closet. 
i, h i, Closets. 

«,rt,?z,w, Fire- 
places. 

0, Folding- 
doors. 

/?, Pegs for 
over-gar- 
ments. 

z, Cellar stairs 



Ficr. 30. 
Second Story, 




a, a, a, a, a^ 

Bedrooms, 
i, Stairs. 
^ — ~vv.^ ^^ Passage. 

^ILs ^ J4 d, d. d, d, 

I Closets, 
e, e, e, e, Fire- 
places. 



Figures 29 and 30, are plans for a larger house, 
which can have either of the elevations, Fig. 25 or 26^ 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



271 



adapted to it. These also have a concealed staircase, 
tor front and back use. If a nursery, or bedroom, is 
wished, on the ground-floor, the back parlor, e, can be 
taken ; in which case, the closets, ^, i, are very useful. 
To prevent noise from reaching the front parlor, two 
gets of folding-doors, each side of the passage, o, could 
be placed. With this arrangement, these rooms could 
be used, sometimes as two parlors, opening into each 
other, by folding doors, and at other times, as a nursery 
and parlor. In this plan, the storeroom, h, and china- 
closet, i, between the kitchen and eating-room, are a 
great convenience. 

Figures 31 and 32, present the plan of a Gothic 
cottage, which secures the most economy of Jahor and 
expense, with the greatest amount of convenience and 
comfort, which the writer has ever seen. 



Fts.Bi. 




10 20 

Scale of Feet. 



The elevation, (Fig. 31,) exhibits the front view. It 
has a recess in the central part, under which, is the 
door, with a wmdow on each side of it. This forms a 
piazza ; and into this, and a similar one at the back of 
the house, the two centre parlors open. 



5272 ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES 

Fig. 32. 




In the centre of the house, (see Fig. 32,) are the 
two parlors, b and c ; the back one to be used as an 
eating-room. At X, can be placed, either a chimney, 
with doors on each side of the fireplace, or, (which is 
the most agi-eeable,) folding-doors, which can be thrown 
open in Summer, thus making a large saloon, through 
the house, from one piazza to the other. In this case, 
the parlors are warmed by a large stove, set near the 
folding-doors, which would easily warm both parlors 
and one or two adjacent rooms. In Winter, the out- 
side doors, opening to the piazzas, should be fastened 
and calked, and the side entry, at d, be used. At e, 
is the nursery, with the bedpress, g, which, being closed 
by day, makes a retired parlor for the mother. At ?i, 
is the children's playroom and sleeping-room, adjoining 
the njother's room. At Jc, is the kitchen, adjacent to 
the eating-room, with the storeroom, e, and the closets, 
m, m, one for the eating room, and one for the kitchen 
utensils. At i, is a parlor, which can be used for a 
study or library, by the master of the family ; while the 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 273 

adjacent bedpress, j, renders it a convenient lodging- 
room, for guests. Another lodging-room, is at h ; and 
in the attic, is space enough for several comfortable 
lodging-rooms. A window in the roof, on the front 
and back, like the one on Wadsworth's Cottage, (Fig. 
33,) could be placed over the front door, to light the 
chambers in the attic. A double roof in the attic, with 
ti current of air between, secures cool chambers. The 
closets are marked o, and the fireplaces p. The stairs 
to the attic are at q. By this arrangement, the house- 
keeper has her parlor, sleeping-room, nursery, and 
kitchen, on the same floor, while the rooms with bed- 
presses, enable her to increase either parlors or lodging- 
rooms, at pleasure, without involving the care of a very 
large and expensive house. 

Figure 33, is the representation of a cottage, built by 
Daniel Wads worth, Esq., in the vicinity of Hartford, 
Connecticut ; and is on a plan, which, though much 
smaller, is very similar to the plan represented in Fig. 
32. It serves to show the manner in which the I'oofs 
should be arranged, in Fig. 31, which, being seen ex- 
actly in front, does not give any idea of the mode of 
this arrangement. The elevation of Wadsworth's cot- 
tage, could be taken for the ground-plan shown in Fig. 
32, if it be preferred to the other. 

Both this cottage, and all the other plans, require a 
woodhouse, and the conveniences connected with it, 
which are represented in Fig. 35, (page 276.) For 
these Gothic cottages, an appendage of this sort should 
be in keeping with the rest, having windows, like those 
in the little Summer-house in the drawing, and battle- 
ments, as on the top of the wings of the barn. The 
ornaments on the front of the cottage, and the pillars 
of the portico, made simply of the trunks of small 
trees, give a beautiful rural finish, and their expense is 
trifling. In this picture, the trees could not be placed 
as they are in reality, because they would hide the 
buildings. 



274 ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 




ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



275 



In arranging yards and grounds, the house should be 
set back, as in the drawing of Wadsworth's cottage ; 
and, instead of planting shade-trees in straight lines, or 
scattering them about, as single trees, they should be 
arranged in clusters, with large openings for turf, flow- 
ers, and shrubbery, which never flourish well under the 
shade and dropping of trees. This also secures spots 
of dark and cool shade, even when trees are young. 

In arranging shade-trees tastefully around such a 
place, a large cluster might be placed on each side of 
the gate ; another on the circular grass-plot, at the side 
of the house ; another at a front corner ; and another 
at a back corner. Shrubbery, along the walks, and on 
the circular plot, in front, and flowers close to the 
house, would look well. The barn, also, should have 
clusters of trees near it ; and occasional single trees, 
on the lawn, would give the graceful ease and variety 
seen in nature. 

Figure 34, represents the accommodations for securing 
water with the least labor. It is designed for a well or 
cistern under ground. The reservoir, R, may be a 
half hogshead, or something larger, which may be filled 
once a day, from the pump, by a man, or boy. 

Fig. 34. 




P, Pump. L, Steps to use when pumping. i2, Reservoir. 0, 
Brickwork to raise the Reservoir. B, A large Boiler. F, Furnace, 
beneath the Boiler. C, Conductor of cold water. H, Conductor of 
ho: water. K, Cock for letting cold water into the Boiler. S, Pipe 
to conduct cold water to a cock over the kitchen sink. T, Bathing- 
tub, which receives cold water from the Conductor, C, and hot water 
from the Conductor, H. W, Partition separating the Bathing-room 
from the Wash-room. Y, Cock to draw off hot water. Z, Plug to 
let off the water from the Bathing-tub into a drain. 



276 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



The conductor, C, should be a lead pipe, which, in- 
stead of going over the boiler, should be bent along 
behind it. From S, a branch sets off, which conducts 
the cold water to the sink in the kitchen, where it dis- 
charges with a cock. H, is a conductor from the lower 
part of the boiler, made of copper, or some metal not 
melted by great heat ; and at Y, a cock is placed, to 
draw off hot water. Then the conductor passes to the 
bathing-tub, where is another cock. At Z, the water 
is let off from the bathing-tub. By this arrangement, 
great quantities of hot and cold water can be used, 
with no labor in carrying, and with very little labor in 
raising it. 

In case a cistern is built above ground, it can be 
placed as the reservoir is, and then all the labor of 
pumping is saved. 



Fig. 35. 



^ y<^\\s^it^^■^«;^w^^^^^^ ■ w>^\'^\\^■^W!^^ 



G 



B 



A C JD 



E 




H 



\.'^^ki^XiSiiAi~s^f/SSg^S/if;SS^'m^^^^>i:^i^ 



\w^.. 



I . A^ Boiler and 
_J nace. 
|p JB, Bathing-rot 

C, Reservoir. 

D, Pump. 

--T7 £, Wash-form 
Li F, Sink. 

G, Kitchen. 

JFf, Woodpile. 

/, Large doors. 
J i, i, Bins for coa 
ashes. 

0, Window. 
[j; P, P. Privies. 
r": T, Bathing-tub 
f-\ F, Door. 



ur 



fc±±±±i±±±zi± 



Scale of Feet. 



Fig. 35, is the plan of a building for back-dooi 
accommodations. At A^ C, D, E, are accommoda 
tions shown in Fig. 34. The bathing-room is adjacent 
to the boiler and reservoir, to receive the water. The 
privy, P, P, should have two apartments, as indispensa- 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



277 



ble to healthful habits in a family. A window should 
be placed at O, and a door, with springs or a weight 
to keep it shut, should be at V. Keeping the window 
open, and the door shut, will prevent any disagreeable 
effects in the house. At G, is the kitchen, and at F, 
the sink, which should have a conductor and cock from 
the reservoir. H, is the place for wood, where it 
should in Summer be stored for Winter. A bin, for 
coal, and also a brick receiver, for ashes, should be in 
this part. Every woman should use her influence to 
secure all these conveniences ; even if it involves the 
sacrifice of the piazza, or " the best parlor." 



Fig. 36. 



[ ixxx>s^yx><5ooll 



' X/N/V./y \/\''\ 



><xx>>\>>><.X.X>< 



On 




S/N-'X/s 



^v\;\/\ x ><'QN>v\i 



X^/\/ 

^VXy' N 

XXX 
VvV 

Cx/x/x 
yx/x./ 
<^\/x/\ 



^ 



/xXX 

<XX> 




, X-^ V\>s/|| 

<XXXW> 



.x>o= 
>xx> 

>><x> 



/\/x/xAX X X XV 

<>6bb<>^$<xxi 



X Xi'X^X/'X/'N/-X/\XXi 

>(5(S><xx>ooX< 

vWX^''\^x/\A/x/ 

X X XX'^'x "^ ^' '^"^^^•'' "^ 

><xxx><><>^>oc 
o<x99<xxxx) 

V ^■'^ / x/\ / \ / X XX X 

o<xxxxvxx\> 



X XV x A./ X / x/x ,/\X 
\XxXxVxX./xX) 

CXXXxxwOo i 

(Xyw^^XX) 

()<S<<XXXXXX., 
K^XVXXXvXX^ 



£-- ^ Ft. 

7/rr/;..-. 

Front View. 



— ->i 



.:>. 



Sidie View. 



Fig. 36, is a latticed portico, which is cheap, and 
answers all the purposes of a more expensive one. It 
should be solid, overhead, to turn off the rain, and 
creepers should be trained over it. A simple latticed 

24 !>• E 



278 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 



arch, over a door, covered with creepers, is very cheap, 
and serves instead of an expensive portico. 



I 



Fig. 37. 




C, Parlor ceiling. 



Kj Kitchen ceiling. 



Fig. 37, represents a sliding closet, or dumb ivaiter, 
a convenience which saves much labor, when the 
kitchen is in the basement. The two closets should 
be made wide, and broad enough to receive a common 
waiter. The chain, or rope, which passes over the 
wiieels, should branch, at X, so as to keep the closet 
from rubbing in its movements, when the dishes are 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES. 279 

not set exactly in the middle, or are of unequal weights. 
By this method, almost every thing needed to pass be- 
tween the kitchen and parlor can be sent up and down, 
without any steps. If the kitchen is not directly under 
the eating-room, the sliding closet can be placed in the 
vicinity of one or both. Where the place is not wide 
enough for two closets like these, they can be made 
wider than they are long, say one foot and six inches 
long, and three feet wide. A strip of wood, an inch 
broad, should be fastened on the front and back of the 
shelves, to prevent the dishes from being broken when 
they are set on carelessly. 

There is nothing, which so much improves the ap- 
pearance of a house and the premises, as painting or 
whitewashing the tenements and fences. The follow- 
ing receipts for whitewashing, answer the same purpose 
for wood, brick, and stone, as oil-paint, and are much 
cheaper. The first, is the receipt used for the Presi- 
dent's house, at Washington, improved by further ex- 
periments. The second, is a cheaper one, which the 
writer has known to succeed, in a variety of cases, 
lasting as long, and looking as well, as white oil-paint. 

Receipt. 

Take half a bushel of unslacked lime, and slack it 
with boiling water, covering it, during the process. 
Strain it, and add a peck of salt, dissolved in warm 
water ; three pounds of ground rice, boiled to a thin 
paste, put in boihng hot ; half a pound of powdered 
Spanish whiting ; and a pound of clear glue, dissolved 
in warm water. Mix, and let it stand several days. 
Heat it in a kettle, on a portable furnace, and apply 
it as hot as possible, with a painter's or whitewash- 
brush. 

Another. 

Make whitewash, in the usual way, except that the 
water used should be hot, and nearly saturated with 
salt. Then stir in four handfuls of fine sand, to make 



230 ON FIRES AND LIGHTS 

it thick like cream. Coloring matter can be added to 
both, making a light stone-color, a cream-color, or a 
light buff, which are most suitable for buildings 



CHAPTER XXV. 



ON FIRES AND LIGHTS. 



A SHALLOW fireplace saves wood, and gives out more 
heat than a deeper one. A false back, of brick, may 
be put up in a deep fireplace. Hooks, for holding up 
the shovel and tongs, a hearth-brush and bellows, and 
brass knobs to hang them on, should be furnished to 
every fireplace. An iron bar, across the andirons, aids 
in keeping the fire safe, and in good order. Steel fur- 
niture is more genteel, and more easily kept in order, 
than that made of brass. 

Use green wood, for logs, and mix green and dry 
wood for the fire ; and then the woodpile will last 
much longer. Walnut, maple, hickory, and oak, wood, 
are best, chestnut or hemlock is bad, because it snaps. | 

Do not buy a load, in which there are many crooked 
sticks. Learn how to measure and calculate the solid 
contents of a load, so as not to be cheated. Have all 
your wood split, and piled under cover, for Winter. 
Have the green wood logs in one pile, dry wood in 
another, oven-wood in another, kindlings and chips in 
another, and a supply of charcoal to use for broiling 
and ironing, in another place. Have a brick bin, for 
ashes, and never allow them to be put in wood. When 
quitting fires, at night, never leave a burning stick 
across the andirons, nor on its end, without quenching 
it. See that no fire adheres to the broom or brush ; 
remove all articles from the fire, and have two pails, 
filled with water, in the kitchen, where they will not 
freeze. 



ON FIRES AND LIGHTS. 281 



Stoves and Grates. 



Rooms, heated by stoves, should always have some 
opening for the admission of fresh air, or they vi^ill be 
injurious to health. The dryness of the air, w^hich they 
occasion, should be remedied, either by placing a ves- 
sel, filled with water, on the stove, or by hooking a long 
and narrow pan, filled with water, in front of the grate ; 
otherwise, the lungs or eyes may be injured. A large 
number of plants in a room, prevents this dryness of the 
air. Openings for pipes, through floors, partitions, 
or fireboards, should be surrounded by tin, to prevent 
their taking fire. Lengthening a pipe, will increase its 
draught. 

P'or those, who use anthracite coal, that which is 
broken or screened, is best for grates, and the nut-coal, 
for small stoves. Three tons are sufficient, in the Mid- 
dle States, and four tons in the Northern, to keep one 
fire through the Winter. That which is bright, hard, 
and clean, is best ; and that which is soft, porous, and 
covered with damp dust, is poor. It will be well to pro- 
vide two barrels of charcoal, for kindling, to every ton 
of anthracite coal. Grates, for bituminous coal, should 
have a flue nearly as deep as the grate ; and the bars 
should be round, and not close together. The better 
draught there is, the less coal-dust is made. Every 
grate should be furnished with a poker, shovel, tongs, 
blower, coal-scuttle, and holder for the blower. The 
latter may be made of woollen, covered with old silk, 
and hung near the fire. 

Coal-stoves should be carefully put up, as cracks, in 
the pipe, especially in sleeping rooms, are dangerous. 

On Lights. 

Lamps are better than candles, as they give a steadier 
light, and do not scatter grease, like tallow candles. 
The best oil, is clear, and nearly colorless. Winter- 
strained oil should be used in cold weather. Lard is a 
good substitute for oil, for astral and other large lamps. 

24* D. E. 



282 ON FIRES AND LIGHTS. 

It is cheaper, burns clearer, and has a less disagreeable 
smell. It will not burn so well in small lamps, as in 
large ones. Melt it every morning, in an old pitcher, 
kept for the purpose. Oil, long kept, grows thick, and 
does not burn well. It is therefore best not to buy it 
in large quantities. It should never be left standing in 
lamps, for several days, as this spoils it, and often injures 
the lamps. Camphine is a kind of oil manufactured in 
New York, which does not smell disagreeably, nor make 
grease-spots, and gives a brighter light than the best 
oil. Cleanse the insides of lamps and oil-cans, with 
pearlash-water. Be careful to drain them well, and not 
to let any gilding, or bronze, be injured by the pearlash- 
water coming in contact with it. Put one table-spoonful 
of pearlash to one quart of water. 

The care of lamps requires so much attention and 
discretion, that many ladies choose to do this work, 
themselves, rather than trust it with domestics. To do 
it properly, provide the following things : — An old 
waiter, to hold all the articles used ; a lamp-filler, with 
a spout, small at the end, and turned up to prevent oil 
from dripping; a ball of wickyarn, and a basket to 
hold it ; a lamp-trimmer, made for the purpose, or a 
pair of sharp scissors ; a small soap-cup and soap ; some 
pearlash, in a broad-mouthed bottle ; and several soft 
cloths, to wash the articles, and towels, to wipe them. 
If every thing, after being used, is cleansed from oil, 
and then kept neatly, it will not be so unpleasant a task, 
as it usually is, to take care of lamps. 

Wash the shade of an astral lamp, once a week, and 
the glass chimney oftener. Take the lamp to pieces, 
and cleanse it, once a month. Keep dry fingers, in 
trimming lamps. To raise the wick of an astral lamp, 
turn it to the right ; to lower it, turn it to the left. 
Trim it, after it has been once used ; and, in lighting 
it, raise it to the proper height, as soon as may be, or 
it will either smoke, or form a crust. Renew the wick, 
when only an inch and a half long. Close-woven 
wicks are better than those which are loose. Dipping 



ON FIRES AND LIGHTS. 283 

wicks in vinegar, makes them burn clearer than they 
otherwise would. Plain shades do not injure the eyes, 
like cut ones ; and prints and pictures appear better by 
them, than by the others. Lamps should be lighted 
with a strip of folded or rolled paper, kept on the 
mantelpiece. Weak eyes should always be shaded 
from the lights. Small screens, made for the purpose, 
should be kept at hand. A person with weak eyes, 
can use them, safely, much longer, when they are 
shaded from the glare of the hght, than if they are not 
so. Fill the entry-lamp, every day, and cleanse and 
fill night-lanterns, twice^a week, if used often. Pro- 
vide small, one-wicked lamps, to carry about ; and 
broad-bottomed lamps, for the kitchen, as these are not 
easily upset. 

A good night-lamp is made, with a small one-wicked 
lamp and a roll of tin to set over it. Have some holes 
made in the bottom of this cover, and it can then be 
used to heat articles. Very cheap floating tapers, can 
be bought, to burn in a teacup of oil through the night. 

Wickyarn, drawn repeatedly through melted wax, till 
stiff and smooth, makes a good taper, for use in seal- 
ing letters. It can be twined in fanciful forms, and 
kept on the writing-table. 

To make Candles. 

The nicest candles, are run in moulds. For this 
purpose, melt together one quarter of a pound of white 
wax, one quarter of an ounce of camphor, two ounces 
of alum, and ten ounces of suet or mutton tallow. Soak 
the wicks, in lime-water and saltpetre, and, when dry, 
fix them in the moulds, and pour in the melted tallow. 
Let them remain one night, t® cool, then warm them, a 
little, to loosen them, draw them out, and, when hard, 
put them in a box, in a dry and cool place 

To make dipped candles, cut the wicks of the right 
length, double them over rods, and twist them. They 
should first be dipped in lime-water, or vinegar, and 
dried. Melt the tallow in a large kettle, filling it 



284 ON WASHING. 

to the top with hot water, when the tallow is melted 
Put in wax, and powdered alum, to harden them. 
Keep the tallow hot, over a portable furnace, and fill 
up the kettle, with hot water, as fast as the tallow is 
used up. Lay two long strips of narrow board, on 
which to hang the rods ; and set flat pans under, on 
the floor, to catch the grease. Take several rods at 
once, and wet the wicks in the tallow ; and, when cool, 
straighten and smooth them. Then dip them, as fast as 
they cool, until they become of the proper size. Plunge 
them obliquely, and not perpendicularly ; and when 
the bottoms are too large, hold them in the hot grease, 
till a part melts ofl*. Let them remain one night, to 
cool ; then cut off* the bottoms, and keep them in a dry, 
cool place. Cheap lights are made, by dipping rushes 
in tallow. 



CHAPTER XXVL 

ON WASHING. 

There is nothing, which tends more effectually to 
secure good washing, than a full supply of all conveni- 
ences ; and among these, none is more important, than 
an abundance of warm and cold water : but, if this be 
obtained, and heated, at a great expense of time and 
labor, it will be used in stinted measure. The accom- 
modations described on page 275, (Fig. 34,) are verj 
convenient in this respect. 

Articles to be provided for Washing. 

A plenty of soft water is a very important item. 
When this cannot be had, ley or soda can be put in 
hard water, to soften it ; care being used not to put in 
so much, as to injure the hands and clothes. Two 
wash-forms are needed ; one for the two tubs in which 
to put the suds, and the other for blueing and starching- 
tubs. Four tubs, of different sizes, are necessary ; also, 



9 ON v/AsniNG. 285 

a large wooden dipper, (as metal is apt to rust ;) two or 
three pails ; a grooved wash-board ; a clothes-line, (sea- 
grass, or horse-hair is best;) a wash-stick to move 
clothes, when boiling, and a wooden fork to take them 
out. Soap-dishes, made to hook on the tubs, save soap 
and time. Provide, also, a clothes-bag, in which to 
boil clothes ; an indigo-bag, of double flannel ; a starch- 
strainer, of coarse linen ; a bottle of ox-gall for calicoes ; 
a supply of starch, neither sour nor musty ; several 
dozens of clothes-pins, which are cleft sticks, used to 
fasten clothes on the line ; a bottle of dissolved gum 
Arabic ; two clothes-baskets ; and a brass or copper 
kettle, for boiling clothes, as iron is apt to rust. A 
closet, for keeping all these things, is a great conveni- 
ence. It may be made six feet high, three feet deep, 
and four feet wide. The tubs and pails can be set on 
the bottom of this, on their sides, one within another. 
Four feet from the bottom, have a shelf placed, on 
which to put the basket of clothes-pins, the line, soap- 
dishes, dipper, and clothes-fork. Above this, have 
another shelf, for the bottles, boxes, &c. The shelves 
should reach out only half way from the back, and nails 
should be put at the sides, for hanging the wash-stick, 
clothes-bag, starch-bag, and indigo-bag. The ironing- 
conveniences might be kept in the same closet, by hav- 
ing the lower shelf raised a little, and putting a deep 
drawer under it, to hold the ironing-sheets, holders, &c. 
A lock and key should be put on the closet. If the 
mistress of the family requests the washerwoman to 
notify her, when she is through, and then ascertains 
if all these articles are put in their places, it will prove 
useful. Tubs, pails, and all hooped wooden ware, 
should be kept out of the sun, and in a cool place, or 
they will fall to pieces. 

Common Mode of Washing. 

Assort the clothes, and put them in soak, the night 
before. Never pour hot water on them, as it sets the 
dirt. In assorting clothes, put the flannels in one lot. 



286 ON WASHING. ^ 

the colored clothes in another, the coarse white ones 
in a third, and the fine clothes in a fourth lot. Wash 
the fine clothes in one tub of suds ; and throw them, 
when wrung, into another. Then wash them, in the 
second suds, turning them wrong side out. Put them 
in the boiling-bag, and boil them in strong suds, for half 
an hour, and not much more. Move them, while boiling, 
with the clothes-stick. Take them out of the boiling- 
bag, and put them into a tub of water, and rub the 
dirtiest places, again, if need be. Throw them into the 
rinsing-water, and then wring them out, and put them 
into the blueing-water. Put the articles to be stiflfened, 
into a clothes-basket, by themselves, and, just before 
hanging out, dip them in starch, clapping it in, so 
as to have them equally stiff, in all parts. Hang white 
clothes in the sun, and colored ones, (wrong side out,) 
in the shade. Fasten them with clothes-pins. Then 
wash the coarser white articles, in the same manner. 
Then wash the colored clothes. These must not be 
soaked, nor have ley or soda put in the water, and they 
ought not to lie wet long before hanging out, as it in- 
jures their colors. Beefs-gall, one spoonful to two 
pailfuls of suds, improves cahcoes. Lastly, wash the 
flannels, in suds as hot as the hand can bear. Never 
rub on soap, as this shrinks them in spots. Wring them 
out of the first suds, and throw them into another tub 
of hot suds, turning them wrong side out. Then throw 
them into hot blueing-water. Do not put blueing into 
suds, as it makes specks in the flannel. Never leave 
flannels long in water, nor put them in cold or luke- 
warm water. Before hanging them out, shake and 
stretch them. Some housekeepers have a close closet, 
made with slats across the top. On these slats, they 
put their flannels, when ready to hang out, and then 
burn brimstone under them, for ten minutes. It is but 
little trouble, and keeps the flannels *as white as new. 
Wash the colored flannels, and hose, after the white, 
adding more hot water. Some persons dry woollen 
hose on stocking-boards, shaped like a foot and leg, 



I 



ON WASHING. ^^Bl 

With Strings to tie them on the line. This keeps them 
from shrinking, and makes them look better than if 
ironed. It is also less work, than to iron them properly. 

Bedding should be washed in long days, and in hot 
weather. Pound blankets in two different tubs or bar- 
rels of hot suds, first well mixing the soap and water. 
Rinse in hot suds; and, after wringing, let two persons 
shake them thoroughly, and then hang them out. If 
not dry, at night, fold them, and hang them out the 
next morning. Bedquilts should be pounded in warm 
suds ; and, after rinsing, be wrung as dry as possible. 
Bolsters and pillows can be pounded in hot suds, without 
taking out the feathers, rinsing them in fair water. It 
is usually best, however, for nice feathers, to take them 
out, wash them, and dry them on a garret floor. Cotton 
comforters should have the cases taken off and washed. 
Wash bedticks, after the feathers are removed, like 
other things. Empty straw beds once a year. 

The following cautions, in regard to calicoes, are use- 
ful. Never wash them in very warm water ; and 
change the water, when it appears dingy, or the light 
parts will look dirty. Never rub on soap ; but remove 
grease with French chalk, starch, magnesia, or Wil- 
mington clay. Make starch for them, with coffee- 
water, to prevent any whitish appearance. Glue is 
good for stiffening calicoes. When laid aside, not to 
be used, all stiffening should be washed out, or they 
will often be injured. Never let calicoes freeze, in dry- 
ing. Some persons use bran-water, (four quarts of 
wheat-bran to two pails of water,) and no soap, for cal- 
icoes ; washing and rinsing in the bran-water. Potato- 
water is equally good. Take eight peeled and grated 
potatoes to one gallon of water. 

Soda - Washing. 

A very great saving in labor is secured, by soda-wash' 
ing. There have been mistakes made in receipts, and 
in modes of doing it, which have caused a prejudice 
against it ; but if the soap be rightly made, and rightly 



288 ON WASHING. 

used, it certainly saves one half the labor and time of 
ordinanj washing. 

Receipt for Soda-Soap. 

Take eight pounds of bar-soap, eight pounds of coarse 
soda, (the sub-carbonate.) ten gallons of soft water, 
boiled two hours, stirring it often. This is to be cooled, 
and set away for use. In washing, take a pound of 
this soap, to the largest pail of water, and heat till it 
boils. Having previously soaked the white clothes, in 
ivarm, not hot, water, put them in this boiling mixture, 
and let them boil one hour and no more. Take them out, 
draining them well, and put them in a tub, half full of 
soft water. Turn them wrong side out; rub the soiled 
places, till they look clean ; then put them into blue 
rinsing-water, and wring them out. They are then 
ready to hang out. Some persons use another rinsing- 
water. The colored clothes and flannels must not be 
washed in this way. The fine clothes may be first 
boiled in this water ; it may then be used for coarser 
clothes ; and afterward, the brown towels, and other 
articles of that nature, may be boiled in the same w^atcr. 
After this, the water which remains, is still useful, for 
washing floors ; and then, the suds is a good manure to 
put around plants. 

It is best to prepare, at once, the whole quantity of 
water to be used. Take out about one third, and set it 
by ; and every time a fresh supply of clothes is put in, 
use a portion of this, to supply the waste of a former 
boiling. 

Modes of Washing Various Articles. 

Brown Linens, or Muslins, of tea, drab, or olive, 
colors, look best, washed in hay-water. Put in hay 
enough, to , color the water like new brown linen. 
Wash them first in lukewarm, fair water, without soap, 
(removing grease with French chalk,) then wash and 
rinse them in the hay-water. 

Nankeens look best, washed in suds, with a teacup 



ON WASHING. 2S9 

of ley added for each pailful. Iron on the wrong side. 
Soak new nankeens in ley, for one night, and it sets the 
color perfectly. 

Woollen Table -Covers and M^oollen Shaivls, may 
be washed thus: Remove grease as before directed. 
If there be stains in the articles, take them out with 
spirits of hartshorn. Wash the things in two portions 
of hot suds, made of white soap. Do not wring them, 
but fold them and press the water out, catching it in a 
tub^ under a table. Shake, stretch, and dry, neither 
by the sun nor a fire, and do not let them freeze, in 
drying. Sprinkle them three hours before ironing, and 
fold and roll them tight. Iron them heavily on the wrong 
side. Woollen yarn, should be washed in very hot water, 
putting in a teacupful of ley, and no soap, to half a pail- 
ful of water. Rinse till the water comes off clear. 

New Black Worsted and Woolle'n, Hose, should be 
soaked all night, and washed in hot suds, with beefs- 
gall, a tablespoonful to half a pail of water. Rinse till 
no color comes out. Iron on the wrong side. 

To Cleanse Gentlemen's Broadcloths. The common 
mode, is, to shake, and brush the articles, and rip out 
linings and pockets ; then to wash them in strong suds, 
adding a teacupful of ley, using white soap for light 
cloth ; rolling and then pressing, instead of wringing, 
them ; when dry, sprinkhng them, and letting them He all 
night ; and ironing on the wrong side, or with a thin dark 
cloth over the article, until perfectly dry. But a far 
better way, which the writer has repeatedly tried, with 
unfailing success, is the following : Take one beefs-gall, 
half a pound of salaeratus, and four gallons of warm 
water. Lay the article on a table, and scour it thor- 
oughly, in every part, with a . clothes-brush, dipped in 
this mixture. The collar of a coat, and the grease-spots, 
(previously marked by stitches of white thread,) must 
be repeatedly brushed. Then, take the article, and 
rinse it up and down in the mixture. Then, rinse it 
up and down in a tub of soft cold water. Then, with- 
out wringing or pressing, hang U to drain and dry, 
25 D. IS 



290 ON WASHING. 

Fasten a coat up by the collar. When perfectly dry, 
it is sometimes the case, with coats, that nothing more 
is needed. In other cases, it is necessary to dampen 
the parts, which look wrinkled, v/ith a sponge, and 
either pull them smooth, with the fingers, or press them 
with an iron, having a piece of bombazine, or thin 
woollen cloth, between the iron and the article. 

To manufacture Lei/, Soap, Starchy and other Articles used 

in Washing. 

To jnake Ley. Provide a large tub, made of pine 
or ash, and set it on a form, so high, that a tub can 
stand under it. Make a hole, an inch in diameter, 
near the bottom, on one side. Lay bricks, inside, about 
this hole, and straw over them. To every seven 
bushels of ashes, add two gallons of un slacked lime, and 
throw in the ashes and lime in alternate layers. While 
putting in the ashes and lime, pour on boiling water, 
using three or four pailfuls. After this, add a pailful 
of cold soft water, once an hour, till all the ashes appear 
to be well soaked. Catch the drippings, in a tub, and 
try its strength with an egg. If the egg rise so as to 
show a circle as large as a ten cent piece, the strength 
is right; if it rise higher, the ley must be weak- 
ened by water ; if not so high, the ashes are not 
good, and the whole process must be repeated, putting 
in fresh ashes, and running the weak ley through the 
new ashes, with some additional water. Q^iiick-ley is 
made by pouring one gallon of boiling soft water on 
three quarts of ashes, and straining it. Oak ashes are 
best. 

To make Soft- Soap. Save all drippings and fat, 
melt them, and set them away, in cakes. Some per- 
sons keep, for soap-grease, a half barrel, with weak ley 
in it, and a cover over it. To make soft-soap, take 
the proportion of one pailful of ley to three pounds of 
fat. Melt the fat, and pour in the ley, by degrees. 
Boil it steadily, through the day, till it is ropy. If no\ 
boiled enough, on cooling, it will turn to ley and sedi 4. 



ON WASHING. 29\ 

nient. While boiling, there should always be a little 
oil on the surface. If this does not appear, add more 
grease. If there is too much grease, on cooling, it will 
rise, and can be skimmed off. Try it, by cooling a 
small quantity. When it appears like gelly, on becox^^iug 
cold, it is done. It must then be put in a cool pla^c 
and often stirred. 

. To make cold Soft-Soap, melt thirty pounds of grease 
put it in a barrel, add four pailfuls of strong ley, anc 
stir it up thoroughly. Then gradually add more ley 
till the barrel is nearly full, and the soap looks about right. 

To make Potash-Soap, melt thirty-nine pounds of 
grease, and put it in a barrel. Take twenty-nine 
pounds of light ash-colored potash, (the reddish- 
colored will spoil the soap,) and pour hot water on it ; 
then pour it off into the grease, stirring it well. Con- 
tinue thus, till all the potash is melted. Add one pail- 
ful of cold water, stirring it a great deal, every day, till 
the barrel be full, and then it is done. This is the 
cheapest and best kind of soap. It is best to sell ashes 
and buy potash. The soap is better, if it stand a year 
before it is used ; therefore make two barrels at once. 

To make Hard White Soap, take fifteen pounds of 
lard, or suet ; and, when boiling, add, slowly, five 
gallons of ley, mixed with one gallon of water. Cool 
a small portion ; and, if no gi*ease rise, it is done : 
if grease do rise, add ley, and boil till no grease rises. 
Then add three quarts of fine salt, and boil it ; if this 
do not harden well, on cooling, add more salt. Cool 
it, and if it is to be perfumed, melt it next day, put in 
the perfume, and then run it in moulds, or cut it in 
cakes. Common Hard Soap, is made in the same way, 
by using common fat. 

To manufacture Starch, cleanse a peck of unground 
wheat, and soak it, for several days, in soft water. 
When quite soft, remove the husks, with the hand, and 
the soft parts will settle. Pour off the water, and re- 
place it, every day, with that which is fresh, stirring it 
well. When, after stirring and settling, the water is 



i292 ON STARCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 

clear, it is done. Then strain off the water, and dry 
the starch, for several days, in the sun. If the water be 
permitted to remain too long, it sours, and the starch ia 
poor. If the starch be not well dried, it grows musty. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

ON STAUCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 

To prepare Starch. Take four tablespoonfuls of 
starch ; put in as much water ; and rub it, till all lumps are 
removed. Then, add half a cup of cold water. Pour 
this into a quart of boiling water, and boil it for half an 
hour, adding a piece of spermaceti, or a lump of salt, 
or sugar, as large as a hazelnut. Strain it, and put in 
a very little blueing. Thin it with hot water. 

Glue and Gum-Starch. Put a piece of glue, four 
inches square, into three quarts of water, boil it, and 
keep it in a bottle, corked up. Dissolve four ounces 
of gum Arabic, in a quart of hot water, and set it 
away, in a bottle, corked. Use the glue for calicoes, 
and the gum for silks and muslins, both to be mixed 
with water, at discretion. 

Beefs-Gall. Send a junk-bottle to the butcher, 
and have several gall-bladders emptied into it. Keep 
it salted, and in a cool place. Some persons perfume 
it ; but fresh air removes the unpleasant smell which it 
gives, when used for clothes. 

Directions for Starching Muslins and Laces. 

Many ladies clap muslins, then dry them, and after- 
wards sprinkle them. This saves time. Others clap 
them, till nearly dry, then fold and cover, and then iron 
them. Iron wrought muslins on soft flannel, and on 
the wrong side. 

To do up Laces, nicely, sew a clean piece of muslin 
around a long bottle, and roll the lace on it ; Dulling 



ON STARCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 293 

out the edge, and rolling it so that the edge will turn 
in, and be covered, as you roll. Fill the bottle with 
water, and then boil it, for an hour, in a suds made with 
white soap. Rinse it in fair water, a little blued ; dry 
it in the sun ; and, if any stiffening is wished, use thin 
starch, or gum Arabic. When dry, fold and press it, 
between white papers, in a large book. It improves 
the lace, to wet it with sweet-oil, after it is rolled on the 
bottle, and before boiling in the suds. Blond laces 
can be whitened, by roUing them on a bottle, in this 
way, and then setting the bpttle in the sun, in a dish of 
cold suds made with white soap, wetting it thoroughly, 
and changing the suds, every day. Do this, for a week 
or more ; then rinse, in fair water ; dry it on the bottle, 
in the sun ; and stiffen it with white gum Arabic. Lay 
it away in loose folds. Lace veils can be whitened, by 
laying them in flat dishes, in suds made with white 
soap ; then rinsing, and stiffening them with gum 
Arabic, stretching them, and pinning them on a sheet, 
to dry. 

ON IRONING. 

Articles to he provided for Ironing. 

A settee, or settle, made so that it can be used for an 
ironing- table, is a great convenience. It may be made 
of pine, and of the following dimensions : length, five 
feet and six inches ; width of the seat, one foot and nine 
inches ; height of the seat, one foot and three inches ; 
height of the sides, (or arms of the seat,) two feet and four 
inches ; height of the back, five feet and three inches. 
The back should be made with hinges, of the height of 
the sides or arms, so that it can be turned down, and rest 
on them, and thus become an ironing-table. The back 
IS 10 be fastened up, behind, with long iron hooks and 
staples. The seat should be made with two lids, open- 
ing into two boxes, or partitions, in one of which, can 
be kept the ironing-sheets and holders, and in the other, 
the other articles used in ironing. It can be stained 
of a cherry-color ; put on casters, so as to move easily ; 
25* D. E 



294 ON STARCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 

and be provided with two cushions, stuffed with hay 
and covered witli dark woollen. It thus serves as a 
comfortable seat, for Winter, protecting the back from 
cold. 

Where a settee, of this description, is not provided, a 
large ironing-board, made so as not to warp, should be 
kept, and used only for this purpose, to be laid, when 
used, on a table. Provide, also, the following articles : 
A woollen ironing-blanket, and a linen or cotton sheet, 
to spread over it ; a large fire, of charcoal and hard 
wood, (unless furnaces or stoves are used ;) a hearth, 
free from cinders and ashes, a piece of sheet-iron, in 
front of the fire, on which to set the irons, while heat- 
ing; (this last saves many black spots from careless 
ironers ;) three or four holders, made of woollen, and 
covered with old silk, as these do not easily take fire ; 
two iron rings, or iron-stands, on which to set the irons, 
and small pieces of board to put under them, to prevent 
scorching the sheet ; hnen or cotton wipers ; and a piece 
of beeswax, to rub on the irons when they are smoked. 
There should be, at least, three irons for each person 
ironing, and a small and large clothes-frame, on which 
to air the fine and coarse clothes. 

A bosom-board, on which to iron shirt-bosoms, should 
be made, one foot and a half long, and nine inches 
wide, and covered with white flannel. A skirt-board 
on which to iron frock-skirts, should be made, five feet 
long, and two feet wide at one end, tapering to one 
foot and three inches wide, at the other end. This 
should be covered with flannel ; and will save much 
trouble, in ironing nice dresses. The large end may 
be put on the table, and the other, on the back of a 
chair. Both these boards should have cotton covers, 
made to fit them ; and these should be changed and 
w^ashed, when dirty. These boards are often useful, 
when articles are to be ironed or pressed, in a chamber 
or parlor. Provide, also, a press-board, for broadcloth, 
two feet long, and four inches wide at one end, taper- 
ins: to three inches wide, at the other. 



ON STARCHING, IRONING, AND CLEANSING. 295 

A fluting-iron, called, also, a patent Italian iron, 
saves much labor, in ironing ruffles neatly. A crimp- 
ing-iron, will crimp ruffles beautifully, with very little 
time or trouble. Care must be used, with the latter, or 
it will cut the ruffles. A trial should be made, with 
old muslins ; and, when the iron is screwed in the right 
place, it must be so kept, and not altered without leave 
from the housekeeper. If the lady of the house will 
provide all these articles, see that the fires are properly 
made, the ironing-sheets evenly put on and properly pin- 
ned, the clothes-frames dusted, and all articles kept in their 
places, she will do much towards securing good ironing. 

On Sprinkling, Folding, and Ironing. 

Wipe the dust from the ironing-board, and lay it 
down, to receive the clothes, which should be sprinkled 
with clear water, and laid in separate piles, one of 
colored, one of common, and one of fine articles, and one 
of flannels. Fold the fine things, and roll them in a 
towel, and then fold the rest, turning them all right side 
outward. The colored clothes should be laid separate 
from the rest, and ought not to he long damp, as it in- 
jures the colors. The sheets and table linen should be 
shaken, stretched, and folded, by two persons. Iron lace 
and needle-work on the wrong side, and carry them away, 
as soon as dry. Iron calicoes with irons which are not 
very hot, and generally on the right side, as they thus 
keep clean for a longer time. In ironing a frock, first 
do the waist, then the sleeves, then the skirt. Keep 
the skirt rolled, while ironing the other parts, and set a 
chair, to hold the sleeves, while ironing the skirt, unless a 
skirt-board be used. In ironing a shirt, first do the back, 
then the sleeves, then the collar and bosom, and then 
the front. Iron silk on the wrong side, when quite 
damp, with an iron which is not very hot. Light 
colors are apt to change and fade. Iron velvetj by 
turning up the face of the iron, and after dampening 
the wrong side of the velvet, draw it over the face of 
the iron, holding it straight, and not biased 



296 ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DTEINO. 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 

To Wliiten Articles J and Remove Stains from them. 

Wet white clothes in suds, and lay them on the 
grass, in the sun. Lay muslins in suds made with 
white soap, in a flat dish ; set this in the sun, changing 
the suds, every day. Whiten tow-cloth, or brown 
linen, by keeping it in ley, through the night, laying it 
out in the sun, and wetting it with fair water, as fast as 
it dries. 

Scorched articles can often be whitened again, by 
laying them in the sun, wet with suds. Where this 
does not answer, put a pound of white soap in a gallon 
of milk, and boil the article in it. Another method, is, 
to chop and extract the juice from two onions, and boil 
this with half a pint of vinegar, an ounce of white soap, 
and two ounces of fuller's earth. Spread this, when 
cool, on the scorched part, and, when dry, wash it off, in 
fair water. Mildew may be removed, by dipping the 
article in sour buttermilk, laying it in the sun, and, 
after it is white, rinsing it in fair water. Soap and 
chalk are also good ; also, soap and starch, adding half 
as much salt as there is starch, together with the juice 
of a lemon. Stains in linen can often be removed, by 
rubbing on soft soap, then putting on a starch paste 
and drying in the sun, renewing it several times. Wash 
off all the soap and starch, in cold, fair water. 

Mixtures for Removing Stains and Grease, 

Stain-Mixture. Half an ounce of oxalic acid, in p 
pint of soft water. This can be kept in a corked bottle 
and is infallible in removing iron-rust, and ink-stains 
It is very poisonous. The article must be spread with 
this mixture over the steam of hot water, and wet 
several times. This will also remove indelible ink. 



ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 297 

The article must be washed, or the mixture will in- 
jure it. 

Another Stain-Mixture is made, by mixing one ounce 
of sal ammoniac, one ounce of salt of tartar, and one 
pint of soft water. 

To remove Grease. Mix four ounces of fuller's 
earth, half an ounce of pearlash, and lemon-juice 
enough to make a stiff paste, which can be dried in 
balls, and kept for use. Wet the greased spot with 
cold water, rub it with the ball, dry it, and then rinse it 
with fair cold water. This is for white articles. For 
silks, and worsteds, use French chalk, which can be 
procured of the apothecaries. That which is soft and 
white, is best. Scrape it on the greased spot, and let it 
lie for a day and night. Then renew it, till the spot 
disappears. Wilmington clay-balls, are equally good. 
Ink-spots can often be removed from white clothes, 
by rubbing on common tallow, leaving it for a day or 
two, and then washing, as usual. Grease can be taken 
out of wall-paper, by making a paste of potter's clay, 
water and ox-gall, and spreading it on the paper. 
When dry, renew it, till the spot disappears. 

Stains on floors, from soot, or stove-pipes, can be 
removed, by washing the spot in sulphuric acid and 
water. Stains, in colored silk dresses, can often be 
removed, by pure water. Those made by acids, tea, 
wine, and fruits, can often be removed, by spirits of 
hartshorn, diluted with an equal quantity of water. 
Sometimes, it must be repeated, several times. 

Tar, Pitch, and Turpentine, can be removed, by 
putting the spot in sweet-oil, or by spreading tallow on 
it, and letting it remain for twenty-four hours. Then, 
if the article be linen or cotton, wash it, as usual ; if it 
be silk or worsted, rub it with ether, or spirits of wine. 

Lamp- Oil can be removed, from floors, carpets, and 
other articles, by spreading upon the stain a paste, made 
of fuller's earth or potter's clay, and renewing it, when 
dry, till the stain is removed. If gall be put into the 
paste, it will preserve the colors from injury. When 



298 ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 

the stain has been removed, carefully brush off the 
paste, with a soft brush. 

OiJ-Paint can be removed, by rubbing it with very 
pure spirits of turpentine. The impure spirit leaves a 
grease-spot. Wax can be removed, by scraping it off, 
and then holding a red-hot poker near the spot. Sper- 
maceti may be removed by scraping it off, then putting 
a paper over the spot, and applying a warm iron. If 
this does not answer, rub on spirits of wine. 

Ink'Stains, in carpets and woollen table-covers, 
can be removed, by washing the spot in a liquid, com- 
posed of one teaspoonful of oxalic acid dissolved in a 
teacupful of warm (not hot) water, and then rinsing in 
cold water. 

Stains on Varnished Articles, which are caused by 
cups of hot water, can be removed, by rubbing them 
with lamp-oil, and then with alcohol. Ink-stains can 
be taken out of mahogany, by one teaspoonful of oil 
of vitriol mixed with one tablespoonful of water, or by 
oxalic acid and water. These must be brushed over 
quickly, and then washed off with milk. 

Modes of Cleansing Various Articles. 

Silk Handkerchiefs and Ribands can be cleansed, 
by using French chalk to take out the grease, and then 
sponging them, on both sides, with lukewarm fair water. 
Stiffen them with gum Arabic, and press them between 
white paper, with an iron not very hot. A table- 
spoonful of spirits of wine to three quarts of water, 
improves it. 

Silk Hose, or Silk Gloves, should be washed in warm 
suds made with white soap, and rinsed in cold water ; 
they should then be stretched and rubbed, with a hard- 
rolled flannel, till they are quite dry. Ironing them, 
very much injures their looks. Wash-leather articles 
should have the grease removed from them, by French 
chalk, or magnesia; they should then be washed in 
warm suds, and rinsed in cold water. White Kid 
Gloves should have the grease removed from them, as 



ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 209 

above directed. They should then be brushed, with a 
soft brush, and a mixture of fuller's earth and mag- 
nesia. In an hour after, rub them with flannel, dipped 
in bran and powdered whiting. Colored or HosMti's 
gloves can be cleansed very nicely by diluted spirits of 
hartshorn, put on with a w^oollen cloth, and rubbed 
from wrist to fingers. Hang them for several days in 
the air, and all the unpleasant smell will be removed. 
Gentlemen^s white g-loves should be washed with a 
sponge, in white-soapsuds ; then wiped, and dried on 
the hands. Swanks-down tippets, and capes, should be 
washed in white-soapsuds, squeezing, and not rub- 
bing them; then rinse them in two waters, and shake 
and stretch them while drying. Ostrich feathers can 
also be thus washed. Stiffen them, with starch, wet in 
€old water and not boiled. Shake them in the air, till 
nearly dry, then hold them before the fire, and curl 
them with dull scissors, giving each fibre a twitch, turn- 
ing it inward, and holding it so for a moment. 

Straw and Leghorn Mats, can be cleansed, by simply 
washing them in white-soapsuds. Remove grease, by 
French chalk, and stains, by diluted oxaUc acid, or 
cream of tartar. The oxalic acid is best, but must be 
instantly w^ashed off. To whiten them, drive nails in a 
barrel, near its bottom, so that cords can be stretched 
across. On these cords, tie the bonnet, wet with suds, 
(having first removed the grease, stains, and dirt.) 
Then invert the barrel, over a dish of coals, on which 
roll brimstone is slowly burning. Put a chip under one 
side of the barrel, to admit the air. Continue this, till 
the bonnet is white ; then hang it in the air, (when the 
weather is not damp,) till the smell is removed. Then 
stiffen it with a solution of isinglass or gum Arabic, 
put on the inside, with a sponge. Press the crown, on 
a block, and the rest on a board, on the right side, put- 
ting muslin between the iron and straw, and pressing 
hard. Be careful not to make it too stiff. First, stiffen 
a small piece, for trial. 



300 ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, AND DYEING. 



ON COLORING. 



Precautions and Preparations. 

All the articles must be entirely free from grease or 
oil, and also, in most cases, from soapsuds. Make 
light dyes in brass, and dark ones in iron, vessels. Al- 
ways wet the articles, in fair water, before dyeing. 
Always carefully strain the dye. If the color be too 
light, dry and then dip the article again. Stir the 
article well in the dye, lifting it up often. Remove 
any previous color, by boiling in suds, or, what is bet- 
ter, in the soda mixture used for washing. 

Pink Dye. Buy a saucer of carmine, at an apoth- 
ecary's. With it, you will find directions for its use. 
This is cheap, easy to use, and beautiful. Balm blos- 
soms and Bergamot blossoms, with a little cream of 
tartar in the water, make a pretty pink. 

Red Dye. Take half a pound of wheat bran, three 
ounces of powdered alum, and two gallons of soft 
water. Boil these in a brass vessel, and add an ounce 
of cream of tartar, and an ounce of cochineal, tied up 
together in a bag. Boil the mixture for fifteen minutes, 
then strain it, and dip the articles. Brazil wood, set 
with alum, makes another red dye. 

Yellow Dye. Fustic, turmeric powder, saffron, 
barberry-bush, peach-leaves, or marigold flowers, make 
a yellow dye. Set the dye with alum, putting a piece 
the size of a large hazelnut to each quart of water. 

Light Blue Dye, for silks and woollens, is made with 
the ' blue composition,' to be procured of the hat- 
makers ; fifteen drops to a quart of water. Articles 
dipped in this, must be thoroughly rinsed. For a 
dark blue, boil four ounces of copperas in two gallons 
of water. Dip the articles in this, and then in a strong 
decoction of logwood, boiled and strained. Then 
wash them thoroughly in soapsuds. 

Green Dye. First color the article yellow ; and 



ON WHITENING, CLEANSING, ANB DYEING. 301 

then, if it be silk or woollen, dip it in ' blue composi 
tion.' Instead of ironing, rub it with flannel, while 
drying. 

Salmon Color is made by boiling arnotto or anotta in 
soapsuds. 

Buff Color is made by putting one teacupful of pot 
ash, tied in a bag, in two gallons of hot (not boiling) 
water, and adding an ounce of arnotto, also in a bag, 
keeping it in for half an hour. First, wet the article 
in strong potash-water. Dry and then rinse in soap- 
suds. Birch bark and alum also make a buff". Black 
alder, set with ley, makes an orange color. 

Dove and Slate Colors, of all shades, are made by 
boiling, in an iron vessel, a teacupful of black tea, with 
a teaspoonful of copperas. Dilute this, till you get the 
shade wanted. Purple sugar-paper, boiled, and set 
with alum, makes a similar color. 

Brown Dye. Boil half a pound of camwood (in a 
bag) in two gallons of water, for fifteen minutes. Wet 
the articles, and boil them for a few minutes in the dye. 
White-walnut bark, the bark of sour sumach, or of 
white maple, set with alum., make a brown color. 

Black Dye. Let one pound of chopped logwood 
remain all night in one gallon of vinegar. Then boil 
them, and put in a piece of copperas, as large as a 
hen's egg. Wet the articles in warm water, and put 
them in the dyCj boiling and stirring them for fifteen 
minutes. Dry them, then wet them in warm water, 
and dip them again. Repeat the process, till the arti- 
cles are black enough. Wash them in suds, and rinse 
them till the water comes off clear. Iron nails, boiled 
in vinegar, make a black dye, which is good for restor- 
ing rusty black silks. 

Olive Color. Boil fustic and yellow-oak bark to- 
gether. The more fustic, the brighter the olive ; the 
more oak bark, the darker the shade. Set the light 
shade with a few drops of oil of vitriol, and the dark 
shade with copperas. 

26 D. £. 






302 ON THE CARE OF PARLORS. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

ON THE CARE OF PARLORS. 

In selecting the furniture of parlors, some reference 
should be had to correspondence of shades and colors. 
Curtains should be darker than the walls ; and, if the 
walls and carpets be light, the chairs should be dark, 
and vice versa. Pictures always look best on light 
walls. 

In selecting carpets, for rooms much used, it is poor 
economy to buy cheap ones. Ingrain carpets, of close 
texture, and the three-ply carpets, are best for common 
use. Brmsels carpets do not wear so long as the three- 
ply ones, because they cannot be turned. Wilton 
carpets wear badly, and Venetians are good only for 
halls and stairs. 

In selecting colors, avoid those in which there are 
any black threads ; as they are always rotten. The 
most tasteful carpets, are those, which are made of va- 
rious shades of the same color, or of all shades of only 
two colors ; such as brown and yellow, or blue and 
buff, or salmon and green, or all shades of green, or of 
brown. All very dark shades should be brown or 
green, but not black. 

In laying down carpets, it is a bad practice to put 
straw under them, as this makes them wear out in spots. 
Straw matting, laid under carpets, makes them last 
much longer, as it is smooth and even, and the dust 
sifts through it. In buying carpets, always get a few 
yards over, to allow for waste in matching figures. 

In cutting carpets, make them three or four inches 
shorter than the room, to allow for stretching. Begin 
to cut in the middle of a figure, and it will usually 
match better. Many carpets match in two different 
ways, and care must be taken to' get the right one. 
Sew a caroet on the wrong side, with double waxed 



# 



, ON THE CARE OF PARLORS. 303 

thread, and with the ball-stitch. This is done by taking 
a stitch on the breadth next you, pointing the needle 
towards you ; and then taking a stitch on the other 
breadth, pointing the needle from you. Draw the 
thread tightly, but not so as to pucker. In fitting a 
breadth to the hearth, cut shts in the right place, and 
turn the piece under. Bind the whole of the carpet, 
with carpet-binding, nail it with tacks, having bits of 
leather under the heads. To stretch the carpet, use a 
carpet-fork, which is a long stick, ending with notched 
tin, like saw-teeth. This is put in the edge of the 
carpet, and pushed by one person, while the nail is 
driven by another. Cover blocks, or bricks, with car- 
peting, like that of the room, and put them behind 
tables, doors, sofas, &c., to preserve the walls from 
injury, by knocking, or by the dusting-cloth. 

Cheap footstools, made of a square plank, covered 
with tow-cloth, stuffed, and then covered with carpet- 
ing, with worsted handles, look very well. Sweep 
carpets as seldom as possible, as it wears them out. 
To shake them often, is good economy. In cleaning 
carpets, use damp tea leaves, or wet Indian meal, 
throwing it about, and rubbing it over with the broom. 
The latter, is very good for cleansing carpets made dingy 
by coal-dust. In brushing carpets in ordinary use, 
it will be found very convenient to use a large flat dust- 
pan, with a perpendicular handle a yard high, put on 
so that the pan will stand alone. This can be carried 
about, and used without stooping, brushing dust into it 
with a common broom. The pan must be very large, 
or it will be upset. 

When carpets are taken up, they should be hung on 
a hne, or laid on long grass, and whipped, first on one 
side, and then on the other, with pliant whips. If laid 
aside, they should be sewed up tight, in hnen, having 
snuff or tobacco put along all the crevices where moths 
could enter. Shaking pepper, from a pepper-box, 
round the edge of the floor, under a carpet, prevents 
the access of moths. 






304 ON THE CARE OF PARLORS. 

Carpets can be best washed on the floor, thus : First 
shake them ; and tlien, after cleaning the floor, stretch 
and nail them upon it. Then scrub them in cold soap- 
suds, having half a teacupful of ox-gall to a bucket of 
water. Then wash off the suds, with a cloth, in fair 
water. Set open the doors and windows, for two days 
or more. Imperial Brussels, Venetian, ingrain, and 
three-ply, carpets, can be washed thus ; but Wilton, and 
other plush-carpets, cannot. Before washing them, take 
out grease, with a paste, made of potter's clay, ox-gall, 
and water. 

Straw matting is best for chambers and Summer 
parlors. The checked, of two colors, is not so good 
to wear. The best, is the cheapest in the end. When 
washed, it should be done with salt water, wiping it 
dry ; but frequent washing injures it. Bind matting 
with cotton binding. Sew breadths together like car 
peting. In joining the ends of pieces, ravel out a 
part, and tie the threads together, turning under a little 
of each piece, and then, laying the ends close, nail 
them down, with nails having kid under their heads. 

In hanging pictures, put them so that the lower part 
shall be opposite the eye. Cleanse the glass of pictures 
with whiting, as water endangers the pictures. Gilt 
frames can be much better preserved by putting on a 
coat of copal varnish, which, with proper brushes, can 
be bought of carriage or cabinet-makers. When dry, 
it can be washed with fair water. Wash the brush in 
spirits of turpentine. 

Curtains, ottomans, and sofas covered with worsted, 
can be cleansed, by wheat-bran, rubbed on with flan- 
nel. Dust Venetian Winds with feather brushes. Buy 
light-colored ones, as the green are going out of fash- 
ion. Strips of linen or cotton, on rollers and pulleys, 
are much in use, to shut out the sun from curtains and 
carpets. Paper curtains, pasted on old cotton, are good 
for chambers. Put them on rollers, having cords nailed 
to them, so that when the curtain falls, the cord will be 
wound up. Then, by pulling the cord, the curtain 
will be rolle<l up. 



ON THE GARE OF PARLORS. 305 

Mahogany furniture should be made in the Spring, 
and stand some months before it is used, or it will 
shrink and warp. Varnished furniture should be 
rubbed only with silk, except occasionally, when a 
little sweet-oil should be rubbed over, and wiped off 
carefully. For unvarnished furniture, use beeswax, a 
little softened with sweet-oil ; rub it in with a hard 
brush, and polish with woollen and silk rags. Some 
persons rub in hnseed-oil ; others mix beeswax with a 
little spirits of turpentine and rosin, making it so that 
it can be put on with a sponge, and wiped off with a 
soft rag. Others, keep in a bottle the following 
mixture ; two ounces of spirits of turpentine, four 
tablespoonfuls of sweet-oil, and one quart of milk. 
This is applied with a sponge, and wiped off with a 
linen rag. 

Hearths and jambs, of brick, look best painted over 
with blacklead, mixed with soft-soap. Wash the bricks 
which are nearest the fire with redding and milk, using 
a painter's brush. A sheet of zinc, covering the whole 
hearth, is cheap, saves work, and looks very well. A 
tinman can fit it properly. 

Stone hearths should be rubbed with a paste of pow- 
dered stone, (to be procured of the stonecutters,) and 
then brushed with a stiff brush. Kitchen-hearths, of 
stone, are improved by rubbing in lamp-oil. 

Stains can be removed from marble, by oxalic acid 
and water, or oil of vitriol and water, left on fifteen 
minutes, and then rubbed dry. Gray marble is im- 
proved by linseed-oil. Grease can be taken from mar- 
ble, by ox-gall and potter's clay wet with soapsuds, (a 
gill of each.) It is better to add, also, a gill of spirits 
of turpentine. It improves the looks of marble, to 
cover it with this mixture, leaving it two days, and then 
rubbing it off. 

Unless a parlor is in constant use, it is best to sweep 
it only once a week, and at other times use a whisk- 
broom and dust-pan. When a parlor with handsome 
furniture is to be swept, cover the sofas, centre table, 
26* D. E. 



306 ON THE CARE OF 

piano, books, and mantelpiece, with old cottons, kept 
for the purpose. Remove the rugs, and shake them, 
and clean the jambs, hearth, and fire-furniture. Then 
sweep the room, moving every article. Dust the fur- 
niture, with a dust-brush and a piece of old silk. A 
painter's brush should be kept, to remove dust from 
ledges and crevices. The dust-cloths should be often 
shaken and washed, or else they will soil the walls and 
furniture when they are used. Dust ornaments, and 
fine books, with feather brushes, kept for the purpose. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

ON THE CARE OF BREAKFAST AND DINING-ROOMS. 

An eating-room should have in it a large closet, with 
drawers and shelves, in which should be kept all the 
articles used at meals. This, if possible, should com- 
municate with the kitchen, by a sliding window, or by 
a door, and have in it a window, and also a small sink, 
made of marble or lined with zinc, which will be a 
great convenience for washing nice articles. If there 
be a dumb-waiter, it is best to have it connected with 
such a closet. It may be so contrived, that, when it is 
down, it shall form part of the closet floor. 

A table-rug, or crumb-cloth, is useful to save carpets 
from injury. Booking, or baize, is best. Always spread 
the same side up, or the carpet will be soiled by the 
rug. Table-mats are needful, to prevent injury to the 
table from the warm dishes. Teacup-mats, or small 
plates, are useful to save the table-cloths from dripping 
tea or coffee. Butter-knives, for the butter-plate, and 
salt-spoons, for salt-dishes, are designed to prevent 
those disgusting marks which are made, when persons 
use their own knives, to take salt or butter. A sugar- 
spoon should be kept in or by the sugar-dish, for the 
same purpose. Table-napkins, of diaper, are often laid 



BREAKFAST AND DINING-ROOMS. 307 

by each person's plate, for use during the meal, to save 
the tablecloth and pocket-handkerchief. To preserve 
the same napkin for the same person, each member of 
the family has a given number, and the napkins are 
numbefod to correspond, or else are slipped into ivory 
rings, which are numbered. A stranger has a clean one, 
at each meal. Tablecloths should be well starched, and 
ironed on the right side, and always, when taken off, 
folded in the ironed creases. Doilies are colored nap- 
kins, which, when fruit is offered, should always be fur- 
nished, to prevent a person from staining a nice handker- 
chief, or permitting the fruit-juice to dry on the fingers. 

Casters and salt-stands should be put in order, every 
morning, when washing the breakfast things. Always, if 
possible, provide fine and dry table-salt, as many persons 
are much disgusted with that which is dark, damp, and 
coarse. Be careful to keep salad-oil closely corked, or 
it will grow rancid. Never leave the salt-spoons in the 
salt, ndr the mustard-spoon in the mustard, as they are 
thereby injured. Wipe them, immediately after the 
meal. 

For table-furniture, French china is deemed the 
nicest, but it is liable to the objection of having plates, 
so made, that salt, butter, and similar articles, will not 
lodge on the edge, but slip into the centre. Select 
knives and forks, which have weights in the handles, 
so that, when laid down, they will not touch the table. 
Those with rivetted handles last longer than any others. 
Horn handles (except buckhorn) are very poor. The 
best are cheapest in the end. Knives should be sharp- 
ened once a month, unless they are kept sharp by the 
mode of scouring. 

On Setting Tables. 

Neat housekeepers observe the manner in which a 
table is set more than any thing else ; and to a person 
of good taste, few things are more annoying, than to see 
the table placed askew ; the tablecloth soiled, rumpled, 
and put on awry ; the plates, knives, and dishes thrown 



308 ON THK CARE OP 

about, without any order ; the pitchers soiled on the 
outside, and sometimes within ; the tumblers dim ; the 
caster out of order ; the butter pitched on the plate, 
without any symmetry ; the salt coarse, damp, and dark ; 
the bread cut in a mixture of junks and slices ; the 
dishes of food set on at random, and without mats ; tne 
knives dark or rusty, and their handles greasy ; the 
tea-furniture all out of order, and every thing in similar 
style. And yet, many of these negligences will be met 
with, at the tables of persons who call themselves' well 
bred, and who have wealth enough to make much out- 
side show. One reason for this, is, the great difficulty 
of finding domestics, who will attend to these things in 
a proper manner, and who, after they have been re- 
peatedly instructed, will not neglect nor forget what 
has been said to them. The writer has known cases, 
where much has been gained by placing the following 
rules in plain sight, in the place where the articles for 
setting tables are kept. 

Rules for setting a Table. 

1. Lay the rug square with the room, and also smooth 
and even ; then set the table also square with the room, 
and see that the legs are in the right position to support 
the leaves. 

2. Lay the tablecloth square with the table, right 
side up, smooth, and even. 

3. Put on the teatray (for breakfast or tea) square 
with the table ; set the cups and saucers at the front 
side of the teatray, and the sugar, slop-bowls, and cream- 
cup, at the back side. Lay the sugar-spoon or tongs 
on the sugar-bowl. 

4. Lay the plates around the table, at equal intervals, 
and the knives and forks at regular distances, each in 
the same particular manner, with a cup-mat, or cup- 
plate, to each, and a napkin at the right side of each 
person. 

5. If meat be used, set the caster and salt-cellars in 
the centre of the table ; then lay mats for the dishes. 



BREAKFAST AND DINING-ROOMS. 309 

^nd place the carving-knife and fork and steel by the 
master of the house. Set the butter on two plates, 
one on either side, with a butter-knife by each. 

6. Set the tea or coffee-pot on a mat, at the right 
hand of the teatray, (if there be not room upon it.) 
Then place the chairs around the table, and call the 
family. 

For Dinner. 

1. Place the rug, table, tablecloth, plates, knives and 
forks, and napkins, as before directed, with a tumbler 
by each plate. In cold weather, set the plates where 
they will be warmed. 

^. Put the caster in the centre, and the salt-stands 
at two oblique corners, of the table, the latter between 
two large spoons crossed. If more spoons be needed, 
lay them on each side of the caster, crossed. Set the 
pitcher on a mat, either at a side-table, pr, when 
there is no waiter, on the dining-table. Water looks 
best in glass decanters. 

3. Set the bread on the table, when there is no 
waiter. Some take a fork, and lay a piece on the nap- 
kin or tumbler by each plate. Others keep it in a 
tray, covered with a white napkin to keep off flies. 
Bread for dinner is often cut in small junks, and not in 
slices. 

4. Set the principal dish before the master of the 
house, and the other dishes in a regular manner. Put 
the carving-knife, fork, and steel, by the principal dish, 
and also a knife-rest, if one be used. 

5. Put a small knife and fork by the pickles, and 
also by any other dishes which need them. Then place 
the chairs. 

On Waiting at Table. 

A domestic, who waits on the table, should be required 
to keep the hair and hands in neat order, and have on 
a clean apron. A small tea-tray should be used to carry 
cups and plates. The waiter should announce the meal 
(when ready) to the mistress of the family, then stand 



310 ON THE CARE OF 

by the eating-room door, till all are in, then close the 
door, and step to the left side of the lady of the house. 
When all are seated, the waiter should remove the 
covers, taking care first to invert them, so as not to 
drop the steam on the tablecloth or guests. In pre- 
senting articles, go to the left side of the person. In 
pouring water never entirely fill the tumbler. The 
waiter should notice when bread or water is wanting, 
and hand it without being called. When plates are 
changed, be careful not to drop knives or forks. Brush 
off crumbs, with a crumb-brush, into a small waiter. 
When there is no domestic waiter, a hght table 
should be set at the left side of the mistress of the 
house, on which the bread, water, and other articles 
not in immediate use, can be placed. 

On Carving and Helping at Table. 

It is considered an accomplishment for a lady to 
know how to carve well, at her own table. It is not 
proper to stand in carving. The carving-knife should 
be sharp and thin. To carve fowls, (which should 
always be laid with the breast uppermost,) place the 
fork in the breast, and take off the wings and legs 
without turning the fowl ; then cut out the merry 
thought, cut slices from the breast, take out the collar 
bone, cut off the side pieces, and then cut the carcass 
in two. Divide the joints in the leg of a turkey. 

In helping the guests, when no choice is expressed, 
give a piece of both the white and dark meat, with 
some of the stuffing. Inquire whether the guest will 
be helped to each kind of vegetable, and put the gravy 
on the plate, and not on any article of food. 

In carving a sirloin, cut thin slices from the side 
next to you, (it must be put on the dish with the tender- 
loin underneath ;) then turn it, and cut from the tender- 
loin. Help the guest to both kinds. 

In carving a leg of mutton, or a ham, begin by cutting 
across the middle, to the bone. Cut a tongue across, 
and not lengthwise, and help from the middle part. 



CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS. 311 

Carve a forequarter of Iamb, by separating the 
shoulder from the ribs, and then dividing the ribs. 
To carve a loin of veal, begin at the smaller end and 
separate the ribs. Help each one to a piece of the kidney 
and its fat. Carve pork and mutton in the same way. 

To carve a fillet of veal, begin at the top, and help 
to the stuffing with each slice. In a breast of veal, 
separate the breast and brisket, and then cut them up, 
asldng which part is preferred. In carving a pig, it is 
customary to divide it, and take off the head, before it 
comes to the table ; as, to many persons, the head is 
very revolting. Cut off the limbs, and divide the ribs. 
In carving venison, make a deep incision down to the 
bone, to let out the juices ; then turn the broad end of 
the haunch towards you, cutting deep, in thin slices. 
For a saddle of venison, cut from the tail towards the 
other end, on each side, in thin slices. Warm plates 
are very necessary, with venison and mutton, and in 
Winter, are desirable for all meats. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

ON THE CARE OF CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS. 

Every mistress of a family should see, not only that 
all sleeping-rooms in her house can he well ventilated at 
night, but that they actually are so. Where there is no 
open fireplace to admit the pure air from the exterior, 
a door should be left open into an entry, or room where 
fresh air is admitted ; or else a small opening should 
be made in a window, taking care not to allow a 
draught of air to cross the bed. The debility of 
childhood, the lassitude of domestics, and the ill-health 
of families, are often caused by neglecting to provide a 
supply of pure air. Straw matting is best for a cham- 
ber carpet, and strips of woollen carpeting may be laid 



312 ON THE CARE Or 

by the side of the bed. Where chambers have no 
closets, a tvardrohe is indispensable. This is a move- 
able closet, with doors, divided, by a perpendicular par- 
tition, into two apartments. In one division, rows of 
hooks are placed, on which to hang dresses. The 
other division is fitted up with shelves, for other uses. 
Some are made with drawers at the bottom for shoes, 
and such like articles. A low square box, set on casters, 
with a cushion on the top, and a drawer on one side to 
put shoes in, is a great convenience in dressing the feet. 
An old champaigne basket, fitted up with a cushion on 
the lid, and a valance fastened to it to cover the sides, 
can be used for the same purpose. 

A comfortable couch, for chambers and sitting-rooms, 
can be made by a common carpenter, at a small expense. 
Have a frame made (like the annexed engraving, Fig. 
38,) of common stuff, six feet long, twenty-eight inches 
wide, and twelve inches high. It must be made thus 
low, because the casters and cushions will raise it several 
inches. Have the sloping side-piece, a, and head-piece, 
b, sawed out of a board ; nail brown linen on them, and 
stuff them with soft hay or hair. Let these be screwed 
to the frame, and covered with furniture patch. Then 
let slats be nailed across the bottom, as at c, c, four 
inches apart. This will cost two or three dollars. 
Then make a thick cushion, of hay or straw, with side 
strips, like a mattress, and lay this for the under-cushion. 
To put over this, make a thinner cushion, of hair, cover 
it with furniture-calico, and fasten to it a valance reach- 
ing to the floor. Then make two square pillows, and 
cover them with calico, like the rest. Both the cush- 
ions should be stitched through like mattresses. 

Vis. 28. 




CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS. 313 

The writer has seen a couch of this kind, in a com 
mon parlor, which cost less than eight dollars, was 
much admired, and was a constant comfort to the 
feeble mother, as well as many other members of the 
family. 

Another convenience, for a room where sewing is 
done in Summer, is a fancy-jar, set in one corner, to 
receive clippings, and any other rubbish. It can be 
covered with prints, or paintings, and varnished ; and 
then looks very prettily. 

The trunks in a chamber can be improved in looks 
and comfort, by making cushions of the same size and 
shape, stuffed with hay and covered with chintz, with 
a frill reaching nearly to the floor. 

Every bedchamber should have a washstand, bowl, 
pitcher, and tumbler, with a washbucket under the 
stand, to receive slops. A light screen, made like a 
clothes-frame, and covered with paper or chintz, should 
be furnished for bedrooms occupied by two persons, 
so that ablutions can be performed in privacy. It can 
be ornamented, so as to look well anywhere. A little 
frame, or towel-horse, by the washstand, on which to 
dry towels, is a convenience. A washstand should be 
furnished with a sponge or washcloth, and a small 
towel, for wiping the basin after using it. This should 
be hung on the washstand or towel-horse, for constant 
use. A soap-dish, and a dish for toothbrushes, are neat 
and convenient, and each person should be furnished 
with two towels ; one for the feet, and one for other 
purposes. 

It is in good taste to have the curtains, bedquilt, val- 
ance, and window-curtains, of similar materials. In 
making featherbeds, side-pieces should be put in, like 
those of mattresses, and the bed should be well filled, 
so that a person will not be buried in a hollow, which is 
not healthful, save in extremely cold weather. Feather- 
beds should never be used, except in cold weather. At 
other times, a thin mattress of hair, cotton and moss, or 
straw, should be put over them. A simple strip of 
27 0, E. 



314 ON THE CARE Or 

broad straw matting, spread over a featherbed, answers 
the same purpose. Nothing is more debihtating, than, 
in warm weather, to sleep with a featherbed pressing 
round the greater part of the body. Pillows stuffed 
with papers an inch square, are good for Summer, es- 
pecially for young children, whose heads should be kept 
cool. The cheapest and best covering of a bed, for 
Winter, is a cotton comforter, made to contain three or 
four pounds of cotton, laid in batts or sheets, between 
covers tacked together at regular intervals. They 
should be three yards square, and less cotton should be 
put at the sides that are tucked in. It is better to have 
two thin comforters, to each bed, than one thick one ; 
as then the covering can be regulated according to 
the weather. 

Few domestics will make a bed properly, without 
much attention from the mistress of the family. The 
following directions should be given to those who do 
this work. 

Open the windows, and lay off the bed-covering, on 
two chairs, at the foot of the bed. After the bed is 
well aired, shake the feathers, from each corner to the 
middle ; then take up the middle, anc shake it well, 
and turn the bed over. Then push the feathers in 
place, making the head higher than the foot, and the 
sides even, and as high as the middle part. Then put 
on the bolster and the under sheet, so that the wrong 
side of the sheet shall go next the bed, and the maMng 
come at the head, tucking in all around. Then put 
on the pillows, even, so that the open ends shall come 
to the sides of the bed, and then spread on the upper 
sheet, so that the wrong side shall be next the blankets, 
and the marked end at the head. This arrangement 
of sheets is to prevent the part where the feet lie from 
being reversed, so as to come to the face, and also to 
prevent the parts soiled by the body from coming to 
the bed tick and blankets. Then put on the other 
covering, except the outer one. tucking in all around, 
and then turn over the upper sheet, at the head, so as 



CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS. 315 

to show a part of the pillows. When the pillow-cases 
are clean and smooth, they look best outside of the 
cover, but not otherwise. Then draw the hand along 
the side of the pillows, to make an even indentation, 
and then smooth and shape the whole outside. A nice 
housekeeper always notices the manner in which a Ded 
is made ; and in some parts of the Country, it is ysk^ 
to see this work properly performed. 

The writer would here urge every mistress of ? 
family, who keeps more than one domestic, to provide 
them with single beds, that they mav not be obliged to 
sleep with all the changing domestics, who come and 
go so often. Where the room is too small for two 
beds, a narrow truckle-bed under another, will answer. 
Domestics should be furnished with washing conve- 
niences in their chambers, and be encouraged to keep 
their persons and rooms neat and in order. 

On PacJdng and Storing Articles. 

Fold a gentleman's coat, thus : — ^Lay it on a table 
or bed, the inside downward, and unroll the collar. 
Double each sleeve once, making the crease at the 
elbow, and laying them so as to make the fewest 
wrinkles, and parallel with the skirts. Turn the fronts 
over the back and sleeves, and then turn up the skirts, 
making all as smooth as possible. 

Fold a shirt, thus : — One that has a bosom-piece in- 
serted, lay on a bed, bosom downward. Fold each 
sleeve twice, and lay it parallel with the sides of the 
shirt. Turn the two sides, with the sleeves, over the 
middle part, and then turn up the bottom, with two 
folds. This makes the collar and bosom lie, unpressed, 
on the outside. 

Fold a frock thus :— Lay its front downward, so as to 
make the first creases in folding come in the side breadths. 
To do this, find the middle of the side breadths by first put- 
ting the middle of the front and back breadths together. 
Next, fold over the side creases so as just to meet the slit 
behind. ^ Then fold the skirt again, so as to make the backs 



316 ON THE CARE OF THE 

lie together within and the fronts without. Then arrange 
the waist and sleeves, and fold the skirt around them. 

In packing trunks, for travelling, put all heavy 
articles at the bottom, covered with paper, which 
should not be printed, as the ink rubs off. Put coats 
and pantaloons into linen cases,, made for the purpose, 
and furnished with strings. Fill all crevices with small 
articles : as, if a trunk is not full, nor tightly packed, 
its contents will be shaken about, and get injured. A 
thin box, the exact size of the trunk, wath a lid, and cov- 
ered with brown linen, is a great convenience, to set in- 
side.on the top of the trunk, to contain hght articles which 
would be injured by tight packing. Have straps, with 
buckles, fastened to the inside, near the bottom, long 
enough to come up and buckle over this box. By this 
means, when a trunk is not quite full, this box can be 
strapped over so tight, as to keep the articles from 
rubbing. Under-clothing packs closer, by being rolled 
tightly, instead of being folded. 

Bonnet-boxes, made of light wood, with a lock and 
key, are better than the paper bandboxes so annoying 
to travellers. Carpet bags are very useful, to carry the 
articles to be used on a journey. The best ones have 
sides inserted, iron rims, and a lock and key. A large 
silk travelling-bag, with a double hnen lining, in which 
are stitched receptacles for toothbrush, combs, and other 
small articles, is a very convenient article for use when 
traveHing. 

A bonnet-cover, made of some thin material, like a 
large hood with a cape, is useful to draw over the bon- 
net and neck, to keep off dust, sun, and sparks from a 
steam engine. Green veils are very apt to stain bon- 
nets, when damp. 

In packing household furniture, for moving, have 
each box numbered, and then have a book, in which, 
lis each box is packed, note down the number of the 
box, and the order in which its contents are packed, as 
this will save much labor and perplexity when unpack- 
ing. In packing china and glass, wrap each article, 



KITCHEN, CELLAR, AND STOREROOM. 311 

separately, in paper, and put soft hay or straw at bot- 
tom and all around each. Put the heaviest articles 
at the bottom ; and on the top of the box, write, " This 
side up." 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

ON THE CARE OF THE KITCHEN, CELLAR, AND STOREROOM. 

If parents wish their daughters to grow up with good 
domestic habits, they should have, as one means of secur- 
ing this result, a neat and cheerful kitchen. A kitchen 
should always, if possible, be entirely above ground, 
and well lighted. It should have a large sink, with a 
drain running under ground, so that all the premises 
may be kept sweet and clean. If flowers and shrubs 
be cultivated, around the doors and windows, and 
the yard near them be kept well turfed, it will add 
very much* to their agreeable appearance. The walls 
should often be cleaned and whitewashed, to promote 
a neat look and pure air. The floor of a kitchen 
should be painted, or, which is better, covered with an 
oilcloth. To procure a kitchen oilcloth as cheaply as 
possible, buy cheap tow cloth, and fit it to the size and 
shape of the kitchen. Then have it stretched, and 
nailed to the south side of the barn, and, with a brush, 
cover it with a coat of thin rye paste. When this is 
dry, put on a coat of yellow paint, and let it dry for a 
fortnight. It is safest to first try the paint, and see if it 
dries well, as some paint never will dry. Then put on 
a second coat, and at the end of another fortnight, a 
third coat. Then let it hang two months, and it will 
last, uninjured, for many years. The longer the paint is 
left to dry, the better. If varnished, it will last much longer. 

A sink should be scalded out every day, and occa- 
sionally with hot ley. On nails, over the sink, should 
be hung three good dish-cloths, hemmed, and furnished 
with loops; one for dishes not greasy, one for greasy 
27* ^' i- 



318 ON THE CARE OF THE 

dishes, and one for washing pots and kettles. These 
should be put in the wash every week. The lady who in- 
sists upon this, will not be annoyed by having her dishes 
washed with dark, musty, and greasy, rags, as is. too 
frequently the case. 

Under the sink should be kept a slop-pail ; and, on 
a shelf by it, a soap-dish and two water-pails. A large 
boiler, of warm soft water, should always be kept over 
the fire, well covered, and a hearth-broom and bellows 
be hung near the fire. A clock is a very important 
article in the kitchen, in order to secure regularity at 
meals. 

On Washing Dishes. 

No item of domestic labor is so frequently done in a 
negligent manner, by domestics, as this. A full supply 
of conveniences, will do much toward a remedy of this 
evil. A swab, made of strips of linen, tied to a stick, 
is useful to wash nice dishes, especially small, deep 
articles. Two or three towels, and three dish-cloths, 
should be used. Two large tin tubs, painted on the 
outside, should be provided ; one for washing, and one 
for rinsing; also, a large old waiter, on which to drain 
the dishes. A soap-dish, with hard soap, and a fork, 
with which to use it, a slop-pail, and two pails for 
water, should also be furnished. Then, if there be 
danger of neglect, the following rules for washing 
dishes, legibly written, may be hung up by the sink, 
and it will aid in promoting the desired care and neat- 
ness. 

Rules for Washing Dishes. 

1. Scrape the dishes, putting away any food which 
may remain on them, and which it may be proper to 
save for future use. Put grease into the grease-pot, 
and whatever else may be on the plates, into the slop- 
pail. Save tea-leaves, for sweeping. Set all the dishes, 
when scraped, in regular piles ; the smallest at the top. 

2. Put the nicest articles in the wash-dish, and wash 
them in hot suds, with the swab or nicest dish-cloth. 
Wipe all metal articles, as soon as they are washed. 



KITCHEN, CELLARj AND STOREROOM. 319 

Put all the rest into the rinsing-dish, which should be 
filled with hot water. When they are taken out, lay 
them to drain on the waiter. Then rinse the dish- 
cloth, and, hang it up, wipe the articles washed, and 
put them in their places. 

3. Pour in more hot water, wash the greasy dishes 
with the dish-cloth made for them; rinse them, and 
set them to drain. Wipe them, and set them away. 
Wash the knives and forks, being careful that the 
handles are never put in water ; vvipe them, and then 
lay them in a knife-dish, to be scoured. 

4. Take a fresh supply of clean suds, in which, wash 
the milk-pans, buckets, and tins. Then rinse and hang 
up this dish-cloth, and take the other; with which, 
wash the roaster, gridiron, pots, and kettles. Then 
wash and rinse the dish-cloth, and hang it up. Empty 
the slop-bucket and scald it. Dry metal teapots and 
tins before the fire. Then put the fireplace in order, 
and sweep and dust the kitchen. 

Some persons keep a deep and narrow vessel, in 
which to wash knives with a swab, so that a careless 
domestic cannot lay them in the water while washing 
them. This article can be carried into the eating-rooni, 
to receive the knives and forks, when they are taken 
from the table. 

Kitchen Furniture. 

Croclcery. Brown earthen pans are said to be best, 
for milk and for cooking. Tin pans are lighter, and 
more convenient, but are too cold for many purposes. 
Tall earthen jars, with covers, are good to hold butter, 
salt, lard, &c. Acids should never be put into the red 
earthen u^are, as there is a poisonous ingredient in the 
glazing, which the acid takes off. Stone ware is better, 
and stronger, and safer, every way, than any other kind. 

Iron Ware. Many kitchens are very imperfectly 
supplied with the requisite conveniences for cooking. 
Y/hen a person has sufficient means, the following 
articles are all desirable. A nest of iron pots, of dif- 



3^ ON THE CARE OF THE 

ferent sizes, (they should be slowly heated, when new ;) 
a long iron fork, to take out articles from boiling water; 
an iron hook, with a handle, to lift pots from the crane ; 
a large and small gridiron, with grooved bars, and a 
trench to catch the grease ; a Dutch oven, called, also, 
a bakepan ; two skillets, of different sizes, and a spider, 
or flat skillet, for frying; a griddle, a waffle-iron, tin 
and iron bake and bread-pans ; two ladles, of different 
sizes ; a skimmer ; iron skewers ; a toasting-iron ; two 
teakettles, one small and one large one ; two brass 
kettles, of different sizes, for soap-boiling, &c. Iron 
kettles, lined with porcelain, are better for preserves. 
The German are the best. Too hot a fire will crack 
them, but with care in this respect, they will last for 
many years. 

Portable furnaces, of iron or clay, are very useful, in 
Summer, in w^ashing, ironing, and stewing, or making 
preserves. If used in the house, a strong draught must 
be made, to prevent the deleterious effects of the char- 
coal. A box and mill, for spice, pepper, and coffee, are 
needful to those who use these articles. Strong knives 
and forks, a sharp carving-knife, an iron cleaver and 
board, a fine saw, steelyards, chopping-tray and knife, 
an apple-parer, steel for sharpening knives, sugar-nip- 
pers, a dozen iron spoons, also a large iron one with a 
long handle, six or eight flatirons, one of them very 
small, two iron-stands, a ruffle-iron, a crimping-iron, are 
also desirable. 

Tin Ware. Bread-pans, large and small pattypans, 
cake-pans, with a centre tube to insure their baking 
well, pie-dishes, (of block-tin,) a covered butter-kettle, 
covered kettles to hold berries, two sauce-pans,, a large 
oil-can, (with a cock,) a lamp-filler, a lantern, broad- 
bottomed candlesticks for the kitchen, a candle-box, a 
funnel or tunnel, a reflector, for baking warm cakes, 
an oven or tin-kitchen, an apple-corer, an apple-roaster, 
an egg-boiler, two sugar-scoops, and flour and meal- 
scoop, a set of mugs, three dippers, a pint, quart, and 
gallon measure, a set of scales and weights, three or 
four nail«! nainted on the outside, a slon-bucket with a 



KITCHEN; CELLAR, AND STOREROOM. 321 

tight cover, painted on the outside, a milk-strainer, a 
gravy-strainer, a colander, a dredging-box, a pepper- 
box, a large and small grater, a box, in which to keep 
cheese, also a large one for cake, and a still larger one 
for bread, with tight covers. Bread, cake, and cheese, 
shut up in this way, will not grow dry as in the open air. 

Wooden Ware. A nest of tubs, a set of pails and 
bowls, a large and small sieve, a beetle for mashing po- 
tatoes, a spad or stick for stirring butter and sugar, a 
bread-board, for moulding bread and making piecrust, 
a coifee-stick, a clothes-stick, a mush-stick, a meat- 
beetle to pound tough meat, an egg-beater, a ladle for 
working butter, a bread-trough, (for a large family.) 
flour-buckets, with lids to hold sifted flour and Indian 
meal, salt-boxes, sugar-boxes, starch and indigo-boxes, 
spice-boxes, a bosom-board, a skirt-board, a large 
ironing-board, two or three clothes-frames, and six 
dozen clothes-pins. 

Basket Ware. Baskets, of all sizes, for eggs, fruit, 
marketing, clothes, &c. ; also chip-baskets. When 
often used, they should be washed in hot suds. 

Other Articles. Every kitchen needs a box con- 
taining balls of brown thread and twine, a large and 
small darning needle, rolls of waste-paper and old 
linen and cotton, and a supply of common holders. 
There should also be another box, containing a ham- 
mer, carpet-tacks, and nails of all sizes, a carpet-claw^ 
screws and a screw-driver, pincers, gimlets of several 
sizes, a bed-screw, a small saw, two chisels, (one to use 
for button-holes in broadcloth,) two awls, and two files. 

In a drawer, or cupboard, should be placed, cotton 
tablecloths, for kitchen use, riice crash towels, for 
tumblers, marked, T T ; coarser towels, for dishes, 
marked, T ; six large roller-towels ; a dozen hand- 
towels, marked, H T ; and a dozen hemmed dish- 
cloths, with loops. Also, two thick linen pudding or 
dumpling-cloths, a gelly-bag, made of white flannel, 
to strain gelly^ a starch-strainer, and a bag for boiling 
clothes. 



3i>2 ON THE CARE OF THE 

In a closet, should be kept, arranged in order, the 
following articles : the dust-pan, dust-brush, and dust- 
ing-cloths, old flannel and cotton for scouring and 
rubbing, sponges for washing windows and looking- 
glasses, a long brush for cobwebs, and another for 
washing the outside of windows, whisk-brooms, com- 
mon brooms, a coat-broom or brush, a whitewash-brush, 
a stove-brush, shoebrushes and blacking, articles for 
cleaning tin and silver, leather for cleaning metals, 
bottles containing stain-mixtures, and other articles 
used in cleansing. 

ON THE CARE OF THE CELLAR. 

A cellar should often be whitewashed, to keep it 
sweet. It should have a drain, to keep it perfectly 
dry, as standing water, in a cellar, is a sure cause of 
disease in a family. It is very dangerous to leave de- 
cayed vegetables in a cellar. Many a fever has been 
caused, by the poisonous miasm thus generated. The 
following articles are desirable in a cellar: a safe, or 
moveable closet, with sides of wire or perforated tin, 
in which cold meats, cream, and other articles should 
be kept ; (if ants be troublesome, set the legs in tin 
cups of water ;) a refrigerator, or large wooden box, on 
feet, with a lining of tin or zinc, and a space between 
the tin and wood filled with powdered charcoal, having 
at the bottom, a place for ice, a drain to carry off the 
water, and also moveable shelves and partitions. In 
this, articles are kept cool. It should be cleaned, once 
a week. Filtering jars, to purify water, should also be 
kept in the cellar. Fish and cabbages, in a cellar, are 
apt to scent a house, and give a bad taste to other 
articles. 

STOREROOM. 

Every house needs a storeroom, in which to keep 
tea, coffee, sugar, rice, candles, &.c. It should be fur- 
pished with jars, having labels, a large spoon, a fork, 
sugar and flour-scoops, a towel, and a dish-cloth. 



ON KITCHEN, CELLAR, AND STOREROOM. 323 

Modes of destroying Insects and Vermin. 

Bed-hugs should be kept away, by filling every chink 
in the bedstead with putty, and, if it be old, painting it 
over. Of all the mixtures for killing them, corrosive 
sublimate and alcohol is the surest. This is a strong 
poison. 

CocJcroaches may be destroyed, by pouring boiling 
water into their haunts, or setting a mixture of 
arsenic, mixed with Indian meal and molasses, where 
they are found. Chloride of lime and sweetened 
water will also poison them. 

Fleas. If a dog be infested with these insects, put 
him in a tub of warm soapsuds, and they will rise to 
the surface. Take them off, and burn them. Strong 
perfumes, about the person, diminish their attacks. 
When caught between the fingers, plunge them in 
water, or they will escape. 

CricJcets. Scalding, and sprinkhng Scotch snuff 
about the haunts of these insects, are remedies for the 
annoyance caused by them. 

Flies can be killed, in great quantities, by placing 
about the house vessels, filled with sweetened water 
and cobalt. Six cents worth of cobalt is enough for a 
pint of water. It is very poisonous. 

Musquitoes. Close nets around a bed, are the only 
sure protection at night, against these insects. Spirit 
of hartshorn is the best antidote for their bite. Salt 
and water is good. 

Red or Black Ants may be driven away, by scalding 
their haunts, and putting Scotch snuff wherever they 
go for food. Set the legs of closets and safes in pans 
of water, and they cannot get at them. 

Moths. Airing clothes does not destroy moths, but 
laying them in a hot sun does. If articles be tightly 
sewed up in linen, and fine tobacco be put about 
them, it is a sure protection. This should be done 
in April. 

Rats md Mice, A good cat is the best remedy foi 



324 ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

these annoyances. Equal quantities of hemlock, (or 
cicuta,) and old cheese, will poison them, but this 
renders the house liable to the inconvenience of a bad 
smell. This evil, however, may be lessened, by placing 
a dish, containing oil of vitriol poured on saltpetre, 
where the smell is most annoying. Chloride of lime 
and water is also good. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

Every young girl should be taught to do the follow- 
ing kinds of stitch, with propriety. Over-stitch, hem- 
ming, running, felling, stitching, back-stitch and run, 
buttonhole-stitch, chain-stitch, whipping, darning, gath- 
ering, and cross-stitch. 

In doing over-stitch, the edges should always be first 
fitted, either with pins or basting, to prevent puckering. 
In turning wide hems, a paper measure should be used, 
to make them even. Tucks, also, should be regulated 
by a paper measure. A fell should be turned, before 
the edges are put together, and the seam should be 
over-sewed, before felling. All biased or goring seams 
should be felled. For stitching, draw a thread, and 
take up two or three threads at a stitch. 

In making buttonholes, it is best to have a pair of 
scissors, made for the purpose, which cut very neatly. 
For broadcloth, a chisel and board are better. The 
best stitch is made by putting in the needle, and then 
turning the thread around it, near the eye. This is 
better tlian to draw the needle through, and then take 
up a loop. A thread should first be put across each 
side of the buttonhole, and also a stay-thread, or bar, 
at each end. before working it. In working the button- 
hole, keep the stay-thread as far from the edge as pos- 
sible. A small bar should be worked at each end 



ON SEWING, CUtttNG, AND MENDING. 325 

Whipping is done better by sewing over, and not under. 
The roll should be as fine as possible, the stitches short, 
the thread strong, and in sewing, every gather should 
be taken up. 

The rule for gathering, in shirts, is, to draw a thread, 
and then take up two threads and skip four. In darn- 
ing, after the perpendicular threads are run, the cross- 
ing threads should interlace, exactly, taking one thread 
and leaving one, like woven threads. 

The neatest sewers always fit and baste their work, 
before sewing ; and they say they always save time in 
the end, by so doing, as they never have to pick out 
work, on account of mistakes. 

It is wise to sew closely and tightly all new garments, 
which will never be altered in shape ; bat some are 
more nice than wise, in sewing frocks, and old gar- 
ments, in the same style. However, this is the least 
common extreme. It is much more frequently the case, 
that articles, which ought to be strongly and neatly 
made, are sewed, so that a nice sewer would rather 
pick out the threads and sew over again, than to be 
annoyed with the sight of grinning stitches, and vexed 
with constant rips. 

WorlcbasJcets. It is Very important to neatness, com- 
fort, and success in sewing, that a lady's workbasket 
should be properly fitted up. The following articles 
are needful to the mistress of a family : a large basket, 
to hold work ; having in it, fastened, a smaller basket, 
or box, containing a needle-book, in which are needles 
of every size, both blunts and sharps, with a larger 
number of those sizes most used ; also, small and large 
darning-needles, for woollen, cotton, and silk ; two tape- 
needles, large and small ; nice scissors, for fine work ; 
button-hole scissors ; an emery-bag ; two balls of white 
and yellow wax ; and two thimbles, in case one should 
be mislaid. When a person is troubled with damp 
fingers, a lump of soft chalk, in a paper, is useful, to 
rub on the ends of the fingers. 

Besides this box, keep in the basket, common scis- 
28 D, ^ 



326 ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

sors ; small shears ; a bag containing tapes, of all colors 
and sizes, done up in rolls ; bags, one, containing spools 
of white, and another of colored, cotton thread, and 
another for silks, wound on spools or papers ; a box or 
bag for nice buttons, and another for more common 
ones ; a bag containing silk braid, welting cords, and 
galloon binding. Small rolls of pieces of white and 
brown linen and cotton, are also often needed. A 
brick pincushion is a great convenience, in sewing, and 
better than screw-cushions. It is made by covering 
half a brick with cloth, putting a cushion on the top, 
and covering it tastefully. It is very useful to hold pins 
and needles, while sewing, and to fasten long seams 
w^hen basting and sewing. 

To make a Frock. The best way for a novice, is, 
to get a dress fitted (not sewed) at the best mantua- 
maker's. Then take out a sleeve, rip it to pieces, and 
cut out a pattern. Then take out half of the waist, (it 
must have a seam in front,) and cut out a pattern of the 
back and fore-body, both hning and outer part. In 
cutting the patterns, iron the pieces, smooth, let the 
paper be stiff, and, with a pin, prick holes in the paper, 
to show the gore in front, and the depth of the seams. 
With a pen and ink, draw lines from each pinhole, to 
preserve this mark. Then baste the parts together 
again, in doing which, the unbasted half will serve as 
a pattern. When this is done, a lady of common in- 
genuity can cut and fit a dress, by these patterns. If 
the waist of a dress be too tight, the seam under the 
arm must be let out ; and in cutting a dress, an al- 
lowance should be made, for letting it out, if needful, 
at this seam. The lining of the fore-body must be bi- 
ased. 

The linings for the waists of dresses should be 
stiffened cotton or hnen. In cutting bias-pieces, for 
trimming, they will not set well, unless they are exact. 
In cutting them, use a long rule, and a lead pencil or 
piece of chalk. Welting-cords should be covered with 
bias-pieces ; and it saves time, in many cases, to baste 



ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 327 

on the welting-cord, at the same time that you cover it. 
The best way to put on hooks and eyes, is to sew them 
on double broad tape, and then sew this on the frock - 
Hning. They can then be moved easily, and do not 
show where they are sewed on. 

In cutting a sleeve, double it biased. The skirts 
of dresses look badly, if not full; and in putting on 
lining, at the bottom, be careful to have it a very little 
fuller than the dress, or it will shrink, and look badly. 
All thin silks look much better with lining, and last 
much longer, as do aprons, also. In putting a lining 
to a dress, baste it on each separate breadth, and sew it 
in at the seams, and it looks much better than to have 
it fastened only at the bottom. Make notches in sel- 
vedge, to prevent it from drawing up the breadth. 
Dresses, which are to be washed, should not be 
lined. 

Figured silks do not generally wear well, if the 
figure be large and satin-like. Black and plain-colored 
silks can be tested, by procuring samples, and making 
creases in them ; fold the creases in a bunch, and rub 
them against a rough surface, of moreen or carpeting. 
Those which are poor, will soon wear off, at the creases. 
Plaids look becoming, for tall women, as they shorten 
the appearance of the figure. Stripes look becoming, 
on a large person, as they reduce the apparent size. 
Pale persons should not wear blue or green, and 
brunettes should not wear light delicate colors, except 
shades of buff*, fawn, or straw color. Pearl white 
is not good for any complexion. Dead white and 
black look becoming on almost all persons It is best 
to try colors, by candle-light, for evening dresses ; as 
some colors, which look very handsome in the daylight, 
are very homely when seen by candle-light. Never 
cut a dress low in the neck, as this shows that a 
woman is not properly instructed in the rules of mod- 
esty and decorum, or that she has not sense enough to 
regard them. Never be in haste to be first in a fash- 
ion, and never go to the extremes. 



^128 ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

In buying linen, seek for that which has a round 
close thread, and is perfectly white ; for, if it be not 
white, at first, it will never afterwards become so. 
Much that is called linen, at the shops, is half cotton, 
and does not wear so well as cotton alone. Cheap 
linens are usually of this kind. It is difficult to discover 
which are all linen ; but the best way, is, to find a lot, 
presumed to be good, take a sample, wash it, and ravel 
it. If this be good, the rest of the same lot will prob- 
ably be so. If you cannot do this, draw a thread, each 
way, and if both appear equally strong, it is probably 
all linen. Linen and cotton must be put in clean 
water, and boiled, to get out the starch, and ther> 
ironed. A long piece of linen, a yard wide, will, with 
care and calculation, make eight shirts. In cutting it, 
take a shirt of the right size, as a guide, in fitting and 
basting. Bosom-pieces, false collars, &c. must be cut 
and fitted, by a pattern which suits the person for whom 
the articles are designed. Gentlemen's night-shirts are 
made like other shirts, except that they are longer. 
In cutting chemises, if the cotton or linen is a yard 
wide, cut off small half gores, at the top of the breadths, 
and set them on the bottom. Use a long rule and a 
pencil, in cutting gores. In cutting cotton, which is 
quite wide, a seam can be saved, by cutting out two at 
once, in this manner : — cut ofT three breadths, and, 
with a long rule artd a pencil, mark and cut off the 
gores, thus : from one breadth, cut off two gores, the 
whole length, each gore one fourth of the breadth, at 
the bottom, and tapering off to a point, at the top. 
The other two breadths are to have a gore cut ofi' from 
each, which is one fourth wide at top, and two fourths 
at bottom. Arrange these pieces right, and they will 
make two chemises, one having four seams, and the 
other three. This is a much easier way of cutting, 
than sewing the three breadths together, in bag-fashion, 
as is often done. The biased, or goring seams, must 
always be felled. The sleeves and neck can be cut 
according to the taste of the wearer, by another chemise 



6j!( sbWing, cutting, and Miiiit>im, 329 

for a pattern. There should be a lining around the 
armholes, and stays at all corners. Six yards, of yard 
width, will make two chemises. 

Old silk dresses, quilted for skirts, are very service 
able. White flannel is soiled so easily, and shrinks so 
much in washing, that it is a good plan to color it a 
light dove-color, according to the receipt given on page 
301. Cotton flannel, dyed thus, is also good for com- 
mon skirts. In making up flannel, back-stitch and run 
the seams, and then cross-stitch them open. Nice 
flannel, for infants, can be ornamented, with very httle 
expense of time, by turning up the hdm, on the right 
side, and making a little vine at the edge, with saddler's 
silk. The stitch of the vine is a modification of 
buttonhole-stitch. 

Long night gowns are best, cut a Httle goring. It re- 
quires five yards, for a long nightgown, and two and a 
half for a short one. Linen nightcaps wear longer than 
cotton ones, and do not, like them, turn yellow. They 
should be ruffled with linen, as cotton borders will not 
last so long as the cap. A double-quilted wrapper is a 
great comfort, in case of sickness. It may be made 
of two old dresses. It should not be cut full, but 
rather like a gentleman's study-gown, having no gathers 
or plaits, but large enough to sUp oflf and on with ease. 
A double gown, of calico, is also very useful. Most 
articles of dress, for grown persons or children, require 
patterns. 

Bedding. The best beds, are thick hair mattresses, 
which, for persons in health, are good for Winter as 
well as Summer use. Mattresses may also be made of 
husks, dried and drawn into shreds ; also, of alternate 
layers of cotton and moss. The most profitable sheet- 
ing, is the Russian, which will last three times as long 
as any other. It is never perfectly white. Unbleached 
cotton is good for Winter. It is poor economy to 
make narrow and short sheets, as children and domes- 
tics will always slip them off*, and soil the bedtick and 
bolster. They should be three yards long, and two 

28* D. E. 



330 ON SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING. 

and a half wide, so that they can be tucked in all 
around. All bed-linen should be marked and num- 
bered, so that a bed can always be made properly, and 
all missing articles be known. 

Mending. Silk dresses will last much longer, by rip- 
ping out the sleeves, when thin, and changing the arms, 
and also the breadths of the skirt. Tumbled black silk, 
which is old and rusty, should be dipped in water, then 
be drained for a few minutes, without squeezing or 
pressing, and then ironed. Cold tea is better than 
water. Sheets, when worn thin in the middle, should be 
ripped, and the»other edges sewed together. Window- 
curtains last much longer, if lined, as the sun fades and 
rots them. Broadcloth should be cut with reference 
to the way the nap runs. When pantaloons are thin, 
it is best to newly seat them, cutting the piece inserted 
in a curve, as corners are difficult to fit. When the 
knees are thin, it is a case of domestic surgery, which 
demands amputation. This is performed, by cutting off 
both legs, some distance above the knees, and then 
changing the legs. Take care to cut them off exactly 
of the same length, or in the exchange they will not 
fit. This method brings the worn spot under the knees, 
and the seam looks much better than a patch and darn. 
Hose can be cut down, when the feet are worn. Take 
an old stocking, and cut it up for a pattern. Make 
the heel short. In sewing, turn each edge, and run it 
down, and then sew over the edges. This is better 
than to stitch and then cross-stitch. Run thin places 
in stockings, and it will save darning a hole. If shoes 
are worn through on the sides, in the upper-leather, 
slip pieces of broadcloth under, and sew them around 
the holes. If, in sewing, the thread kinks, break it off 
and begin at the other end. In using spool-cotton, 
thread the needle with the end which comes off first, 
and not the end where you break it off. This often 
prevents kinks. 



ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 331 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 

ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 

The authorities consulted in the preparation of this 
and kindred chapters, are, Loudon's Encyclopaedia of 
Gardening, Bridgeman's Young Gardener, Hovey's 
Magazine of Horticulture, the writings of Judge Buel,* 
and Downing's Landscape Gardening. 

On the Preparation of Soil. 

If the garden soil be clayey, and adhesive, put on 
a covering of sand, three inches thick, and the same 
depth of well-rotted manure. Spade it in, as deep as 
possible, and mix it well. If the soil be sandy and 
loose, spade in clay and ashes. Ashes are good for all 
kinds of soil, as they loosen those which are close, hold 
moisture in those which are sandy, and destroy insects. 
The best kind of soil, is that, which will hold water 
the longest, without becoming hard, when dry. 

To prepare Soil for Pot-plants, take one fourth part 
of common soil, one fourth part of well-decayed ma- 
nure, and one half of vegetable mould, from the woods, 
or from a chip-yard. Break up the manure, fine, and 
sift it through a lime-screen, (or coarse wire sieve.) 
These materials must be thoroughly mixed. When 
the common soil which is used, is adhesive, and, indeed, 
in most other cases, it is necessary to add sand, the pro- 
portion of which, must depend on the nature of the soil. 

On the Preparation of a Hot Bed, Dig a pit, six 
feet long, five feet wide, and thirty inches deep. Make 
a frame, of the same size, with the back two feet high, 
the front fifteen inches, and the sides sloped from the 
back to the front. Make two sashes, each three feet 

* His ' Farmers' Companion ' was written expressly for the larger 
, series of ' The School Library,' issued by the pubhshers of this 
volume. 



■* 
332 ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS* * 

by five, with the panes of glass lapping like shingles, 
instead of having cross bars. Set the frame over the 
pit, which should then be filled with fresh horse-dung, 
which has not Iain long, nor been sodden by water 
Tread it down, hard, then put into the frame, light, and 
very rich soil, ten or twelve inches deep, and cover it 
with the sashes, for two or three days. Then stir the 
soil, and sow the seeds in shallow drills, placing sticks 
by them, to mark the different kinds. Keep the frame 
covered with the glass, whenever it is cold enough to 
chill the plants ; but at all other times, admit fresh air, 
which is indispensable to their health. When the sun 
is quite warm, raise the glasses, enough to admit air, 
and cover them with matting or blankets, or else the 
sun may kill the young plants. Water the bed at 
evening, with water which has stood all day, or, if it be 
fresh drawn, add a little warm water. If there be* too 
much heat in the bed, so as to scorch or wither the 
plants, make deep holes, with stakes, and fill them up 
when the heat is reduced. In very cold nights, cover 
the box with straw. 

On Planting Flower Seeds. 

Break up the soil, till it is very soft, and free from 
lumps. Rub that nearest the surface, between the 
hands, to make it fine. Make a circular drill, a foot in 
diameter. For seeds as large as sweet peas, it should 
be half an inch deep. The smallest seeds must be 
planted very near the surface, and a very little fine 
earth be sifted over them. Seeds are to be planted 
either deeper or nearer the surface, according to their 
size. After covering them with soil, beat them down 
with a trowel, so as to make the earth as compact as it 
is after a heavy shower. Set up a stick, in the middle 
of the circle, with the name of the plant heavily writ- 
ten upon it, with a dark lead pencil. This remains 
more permanent, if white lead be first rubbed over the 
surface. Never plant, when the soil is very wet. In 
very dry times, water the seeds at night Never use' 



ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 333 

very cold water. When the seeds are small, many 
should be planted together, that they may assist each 
other in breaking the soil. When the plants are an 
inch high, thin them out, leaving only one or two, if 
the plant be a large one, like the Balsam ; five or six, 
when it is of a medium size ; and eighteen or twenty 
of the smaller size. Transplanting, retards the growth 
of a plant about a fortnight. It is best to plant at 
two different times, lest the first planting should fail, 
owing to wet or cold weather. * 

To Plant Garden Seeds. 

Make the beds a yard wide ; lay across them a 
board, a yard long and a foot wide, and, with a stick, 
make a furrow, on each side of it, one inch deep. 
Scatter the seeds in this furrow, and cover them. 
Then lay the board over them and step on it, to press 
down the earth. When the plants are an inch high, 
thin them out, leaving spaces proportioned to their 
sizes. Seeds of a similar species, such as melons and 
squashes, should not be planted very near to each other, 
as this causes them to degenerate. The same kinds of 
vegetables should not be planted in the sanje place, for 
two years in succession. 

On Transplanting. 

Transplant at evening, or, which is better, just before 
a shower. Take a round stick, sharpened at the point, 
and make openings to receive the plants. Set them a 
very little deeper than they were before, and press the 
soil firmly round them. Then water them, and cover 
them for three or four days, taking care that sufficient 
air be admitted. If the plant can be removed, without 
disturbing the soil around the root, it will not be at all 
retarded, by transplanting. Never remove leaves and 
branches, unless a part of the roots be lost. 

To Re-pot House-Plants. 
Renew the soil, every year, soon after the time 



334 ON THE CAllE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 

of blossoming. Prepare soil, as previously directed. 
Loosen the earth from the pot, by passing a knife 
around the sides. Turn the plant upside down, and 
remove the pot. Then remove all the matted fibres at 
the bottom, and all the earth, except that which adheres 
to the roots. From woody plants, like roses, shake off 
all the earth. Take the new pot, and put a piece of 
broken earthen-ware over the hole at the bottom ; and 
then, holding the plant in the proper position, shake in 
the earth, around it. Then pour in water, to settle the 
earth, and heap on fresh soil, till the pot is even full. 
Small pots are considered better than large ones, as 
the roots are not so likely to rot, from excess of moisture. 

On the Laying out of Yards and Gardens. 

In planting trees, in a yard, they should be arranged 
in groups, and never planted in straight lines, nor 
sprinkled about, as solitary trees. The object of this 
arrangement, is, to imitate Nature, and secure some 
spots of dense shade and some of cleared turf. In 
yards which are covered with turf, beds can be cut out 
of it, and raised for flowers. A trench should be made 
around, to prevent the grass from running on them. 
These beds can be made in the shape of crescents, 
ovals, or other fanciful forms, of which, the figure 
below is one specimen. 



In laying out beds, in gardens and yards, a very pret- 
ty bordering can be made, by planting them with com- 
mon flax seed, in a line about three inches from the 
edge. This can be trimmed, with shears, when it 
grows too high. 



ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 335 

On the Cultivation of Bulbs, and Tuberous Moots. 

For planting the Amaryllis, take one third part of 
leaf mould, half as much sand, and the remainder, 
earth from under fresh grass sods. Plant them in May 
The bulb should not be set more than half its depth in 
the ground. 

The Anemone and Ranunculus are medium, or half- 
hardy, roots. They should be planted in soil which is 
enriched with cowdung, and the beds should be raised 
only an inch from the walk. They must be planted in 
October, in drills, two inches deep, the claws of the 
roots downward, and be shaded when they begin to 
bud. 

The Crocus must be planted in October, two inches 
deep, and four inches apart. In measuring the depth, 
always calculate from the top of the bulb. 

Croivn Imperial, This must be planted in Septem- 
ber, three or four inches deep ; and need not be taken 
up but once in three years. 

Gladiolus. Those who have greenhouses, or pits, 
plant the Gladiolus in October, and preserve it in pots 
through the Winter. Those who have not these con- 
veniences, may plant these bulbs late in April. The 
earth must be composed of one half common soil, 
one fourth leaf mould, and one fourth sand. Plant 
them about an inch deep. 

Hyacinths should be planted in October, eight inches 
apart, and three or four inches deep, in a rich soil. 

Jonquilles should be planted in October, two inches 
deep, in a rich soil, and should not be taken up oftener 
than once in three years. 

Narcissus. This should be planted in October, four 
inches deep ; covered, through the Winter, with straw 
and leaves, six inches thick ; and uncovered in the 
middle of March. 

Oxalis. Plant this in September, in a soil, composed 
of two thirds common earth, and one third leaf mould. 
The old bulb dies after blossoming, and is succeeded 
by a new one. 



336 ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 

Plant Tulips, in rich soil, in October, three inches 
deep. 

Plant Tuberoses late in April, in a rich, sandy soil. 
They are delicate plants, and should be covered, in case 
of frosts. 

Daffodils should be planted two inches deep. 

When bulbs have done flowering, and their leaves 
begin to decay, they should be taken up and dried, and 
kept in a dry place, till October, when they are to be 
replanted, taking off* the offsets, and putting them in 
a bed by themselves. 

Bulbs which blossom in water, or are in any other 
way forced to bloom out of season, are so much ex- 
hausted by it, that it takes them two or three years to 
recover their beauty. 

Dahlias. Dig a hole, a foot and a half deep ; fill it 
with very light, loose, and rich, soil ; and drive in a 
stake, a yard and a half high, to which, to tie the future 
plants. Then set in the root, so that it shall be an inch 
below the soil, where the sprout starts. When the 
plants are two feet high, tie them to the stakes, and 
take off* some of the lower side-shoots. Continue to 
tie them, as their growth advances. If the roots are 
planted in the open borders, without any previous 
growth, it should be done as early as the first of May, 
and they should be covered from the frosts. When 
they are brought forward, in pots or hot-beds, they 
should be put out, in the middle of June. It is said, 
by gardeners, that late planting, is better than early, for 
producing perfect flowers. In the Autumn, after the 
frosts have destroyed the tops, let the roots remain 
awhile in the ground, to ripen ; then dig them up, and 
pack them away, in some place where they will neither 
mould, from dampness, nor freeze. In the Spring, these 
roots will throw out sprouts, and must then be divided, 
so as to leave a good shoot, attached to a piece of the 
tuber or old stem, and each shoot will make a new 
plant. It is stated, that if the shoots themselves, with- 
out any root, be planted in light soil, covered with a 



ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 337 

)eH-glass, or large tumbler, and carefully watered, they 
will produce plants superior to those with roots. 

Animals 

These are flowers which' last only one season. They 
should be so planted, that the tallest may be in the 
middle of a bed, and the shortest at the edges ; and 
flowers of a similar color should not be planted adjacent 
lo each other. 

The following is a list of some of the handsomest 
Annuals, arranged with reference to their color and 
height. Those with a star before them, do best when 
sowed in the Autumn. Those with ir. after them, are 
trailing plants. 

SIX INCHES TO ONE FOOT HIGH. 

White. Ice Plant, Sweet Alyssum, White Lep- 
tosiphon. Walker's Schizopetalon, Blumenbachia in- 
signis, * Candytuft. 

Yellow. * Yellow Chryseis or Eschscholtzia, Sanvi- 
talia procumbens, tr., Musk-flowered Mimuius. 

Rose. Many-flowered Catchfly, Rose-colored Ver- 
bena, tr. 

Red. * Chinese Annual Pink, Virginian Stock, Ca- 
landrinia Speciosa. 

Blue. Graceful Lobelia, Nemophfla insignis, Clin- 
tonia pulchella, Clintonia elegans, Nolana atriphci- 
io\m,tr., Anagallis indica, Commelina coslestis, Grove 
Love, Pimpernel (blue.) 

Varying Colors. * Heart's Ease, or Pansy, Dwarf 
Love in a Mist, * Rose Campion. 

ONE FOOT TO EIGHTEEN INCHES HIGH. 

White. Venus's Looking Glass, Priest's Schizanthus, 
Sweet-scented Stevia, White Evening Primrose. 

Yellow. Drummond's Coreopsis, * New Dark Core- 
opsis, Golden Hawkweed, Dracopis amplexicaulis, Drum- 
mond's Primrose, Cladanthus arabicus, Peroffsky's Ery- 
simum. 

29 p* E. 



^38 ON THE CARE OF YARDS ANI> GARDENS. 

Rose. Drummond's Phlox, Rodanthe, Rose-colored 
Nonea, Clarkia rosea, Silene Tenorei, Silene armeria. 

Red. Crimson Coxcomb, Silene pendula, Crimson 
Dew Plant, tr. 

Scarlet. Cacalia coccinea, Flos Adonis, Scarlet 
Zinnia, Mexican Cuphea. 

Liloc and Purple. Clarkia elegans, Clarkia pulchella, 
* Purple Candytuft, * Purple Petunia, ir., * Crimson 
Candytuft, Double Purple Jacobsea, Leptosiphon an- 
drosaceus, all the varieties of Schizanthus, Veined Ver- 
bena, tr., * Purple eternal Flower. 

Blue. Ageratum Mexicanum, * Giiia capitata, Span- 
ish Nigella, Blue Eutoca, Dwarf Convolvulus, Didiscus 
coeruleus. 

Lilac, Purple, or Blue and White. Collinsia bicolor, 
Gilia tricolor. 

Very Dark. Lotus Jacobgeus, Salpiglossis, Scabious. 

Colors varying. German iVster, Balsam, Rocket 
Larkspur, Ten-week Stock, Poppy. 

JEKfHTEEN INCHES TO TWO FEET. 

fVhite. * White Petunia, tr., White Clarkia, Double 
White Jacobsea, Love in a Mist. 

Red. *Lavatera trimestris, Red Zinnia, Malva 
miniata. 

Lilac and Purple. Globe Amaranthus, Purple Sweet 
Sultan, Sweet Scabious, Purple Zinnia, Prince's Feather, 
Large Blue Lupine, * Catchfly. 

TWO FEET AND UPWARDS. 

White. Winged Ammobium, * White Lavatera, 
White Sweet Sultan, *New White Eternal Flower, 
White Helicrysum, * White Larkspur. 

Yellow. Golden Bartonia, * Golden Coreopsis, Yel- 
low Sweet Sultan, African Marigold, Yellow Argemone, 
French Marigold, Yellow Coxcomb, Yellow Hibiscus. 

The Malope grandiflora and the Cleome are fine tall 
animals. 



ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 339 

Climbing Plants. 

The followina: are the most beautiful annual climbers : 
Crimson, and White, Cypress Vine ; White, and Bull 
Thunbergia ; Scarlet Flowering Bean ; Hyacinth Bean 
Loasa ; Morning- Glory ; Crimson, and Spotted, Nas 
ttirtium ; Balloon Vine ; Sweet Pea ; Tangier Pea 
Lord Anson's Pea ; Climbing Cobsea ; Pink, and White 
Maurandia. 

The following are the most valuable perenniar 
cliinhers : Sweet--«cented Monthly Honeysuckle ; Yel- 
low, White, and Coral Honeysuckles ; Purple Glycine : 
Clematis ; Bitter Sweet : Trumoet Creeper. 

The Everlasting Pea is a beautiful perennial climber. 
The Climbing Cob^ea, and Passion Flower, are also 
beautiful perennials, but must be protacted in Winter. 

Perenniah. 

Those who cannot afford every year to devote the 
time necessary to the raising of annuals, will do well to 
supply their borders with perennials. The following 19 
a list of some of those generally preferred. 

Adonis, yellow ; Columbine, all colors ; Alyssunii 
yellow ; Asclepias, orange and purple ; Bee Lark- 
spur, blue ; Perennial Larkspur, all colors ; Cardinal 
Flower, scarlet ; Chinese Pink, various colors ; Clove 
Pink ; Foxglove, purple and white ; Gentian, purple 
and yellow ; Hollyhock, various colors ; * Lily of the 
Valley ; American Phlox, various colors ; Scarlet Lych- 
nis ; Monkshood, white and blue ; * Spirea, white and 
pink ; * Ragged Robin, pink ; Rudbeckia, yellow and 
purple ; Sweet William, in variety. Those marked 
with a star cannot be obtained from seed, but must be 
propagated by roots, layers, &c. 

Herbaceous Roots. 

These are such as die to the root, in the Fall, and 
come up again in the Spring, such as Pseonies, crimson, 
white, sweet-scented, and straw-colored; Artemisia, 



310 ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. 

of many colors ; White and Purple Fleur-de-lis ; Wiiite, 
Tiger, Fire, and other Lilies ; Little Blue Iris ; Chrys- 
anthemums, &c. These are propagated by dividing 
the roots. 

Shrubs. 

The following are the finest Shrubs for yards : Li- 
lacs, (which, by budding, can have white and purple 
on the same tree,) Double Syringas, Double Althteas, 
Corchorus Japonicus, Snow-berry, Double-flowering 
Almond, Pyrus Japonica, Common Barberry, Burning 
Bush, Rose Acacia, Yellow Laburnum. The following 
are the finest Roses : Moss Rose, White, and Red ; 
Double and Single Yellow Rose, (the last needs a 
gravelly soil and northern exposure ;) Yellow Multi- 
flora ; La Belle Afrieana ; Small Eglantine, for borders ; 
Champney's Blush Rose ; Noisette ; Greville, (very 
fine ;) Damask ; Blush, Wliite, and Cabbage Roses. 
Moss Roses, when budded on other rose bushes, last 
only three years. 

. Shade Trees. The following are among the finest: 
Mountain Ash ; Ailanthus, or Tree of Heaven, (grows 
very fast ;) Tuhp Tree ; Linden ; Elm ; Locust ; Ma- 
ple ; Dog Wood ; Horse Chestnut ; Catalpa ; Hemlock ; 
Silver Fir; and Cedar. These should be grouped, in 
such a manner that trees of different shades of green, 
and of different heights, should stand in the same 
group. 

The Autumn is the best time for transplanting trees. 
Take as much of the root, as possible, especially the 
little fibres, which should never become dry. If kept 
long, before they are set out, put wet moss around 
them, and water them. Dig holes, larger than the ex- 
tent of the roots ; let one person hold the tree in its 
former position, and another place the roots, carefully, 
as they were before, cutting off any broken or wounded 
root. Be careful not to let the tree be more than an 
inch deeper than it was before. Let the soil be soft, 
and well manured ; shake the tree, as the soil is shaken 



ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 34 . 

in, that it may mix well among the small fibres. Do 
not tread the earth down, while filhng the hole ; but, 
when it is full, raise a slight mound, of, say, four inches, 
and then tread it down. Make a little basin, two inches 
deep, around the stem, to hold water, and fill it. Never 
cut off leaves nor branches, unless some of the roots are 
lost. Tie the trees to a stake, and they will be more 
likely to live. Water them often. 

On the Care of House-Plants. 

The soil of house-plant? should be renewed every 
year;, as previously directed. In Winter, they should 
be kept as dry as they can be without wilting. Many 
house-plants are injured by giving them too much 
water, when they have little light and fresh air. This 
makes them grow spindling. The more fresh air, 
warmth, and light, they have, the more water is needed. 
They ought not to be kept very warm in Winter, nor 
exposed to great changes of atmosphere. Forty degrees 
is a proper temperature for plants in Winter, when they 
have little sun and air. When plants have become 
spindling, cut off their heads, entirely, and cover the 
pot in the earth, where it has the morning sun, only. 
A new and flourishing* head will spring out. Few 
house-plants can bear the sun at noon. When insects 
infest plants, set them in a closet, or under a barrel, 
and burn tobacco. The smoke kills any insect envel- 
oped in it. When plants are frozen, cold water, and a 
gradual restoration of warmth, are the best remedies. 
Never use very cold water for plants, at any season. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 

Bulbous roots are propagated by ofTsets ; some 
growing on the top, others around the sides. Many 

29* D. E. 



342 ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 

plants are propagated by cutting off twigs, and setting 
them in earth, so that two or three eyes are covered. 
To do this, select a side shoot, ten inches long, two 
inches of it, being of the preceding year's growth, and 
the rest, the growth of the season when it is set out. 
Do this, when the sap is running, and put a piece of 
crockery at the bottom of the shoot, when it is buried. 
One eye, at least, must be under the soil. Water it, 
and shade it in hot weather. Plants are also propa- 
gated by layers. To do this, take a shoot, which comes 
up near the root, bend it down, so as to bring several 
eyes under the soil, leaving the top above ground. 
If tlie shoot be cut half tlirough, in a slanting direction, 
at one of these eyes, before burying it, the result is 
more certain. Roses, honeysuckles, and many other 
shrubs, are readily propagated thus. They Vv^ill gen- 
erally take root, by being simply buried ; but cutting 
them, as here directed, is the best method. Layers are 
more certain than cuttings. For all woody plants, bud- 
ding and grafting are favorite methods of propagation. 
In all such plants, there is an outer and inner bark; 
the latter containing the sap vessels, in which the nour- 
ishment of the tree ascends. 

The success of grafting, or inoculating, consists in so 
pkcing the bud or graft, that the sap vessels of tlie 
inner bark shall exactly join those of the plant into 
which they are grafted, so that the sap may pass from 
one into the other. 

The following are directions for budding, which may 
be performed at any time from July to September. 

Select a smooth place, on the stock into which you 
are to insert the bud. Make a horizontal cut, across 
the rind, through to the firm wood ; and from the mid- 
dle of tliis, make a slit downward, perpendicularly, an 
inch or more long, through to the wood. Raise the 
bark of the stock, on each side of the perpendicular 
cut, for the admission of the bud, as is shown in the 
annexed engraving, (Fig. 40.) Then take a shoot of 
this year's growth, and slice from it a bud, taking an 



ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 



343 



inch below and an inch above it, and some portion of 
the wood under it. Then carefully shp off the woody 
part, under the bud. Examine whether the eye or gem 
of the bud be perfect. If a Httle hole appears in that 
part, the bud has lost its root, and another must be se- 
lected. Insert the bud, so that a, of the bud, sliall 
pass to a, of the stock ; then b, of the bud, must be 
cut off, to match the cut, b^ in the stock, and fitted ex- 
actly to it, as it is this alone which insures success. 
Bind the parts, with fresh bass, or woollen yarn, be- 
ginning a little below the bottom of the perpendicular 
slit, and winding it closely round every part, except 
just over the eye of the bud, until you arrive above 
the horizontal cut. Do not bind it too tightly, but 
just sufficient to exclude air, sun, and wet. This is to 
be removed, after the bud is firmly fixed, and begins 



to grow. 



Fi2. 40. 




Seed-fruit can be budded into any other seed-fruit, 
and stone-fruit into any other stone-fruit; but stone 
and seed-fruits, cannot be thus mingled. 



344 



ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 



Rose bushes can have a variety of kinds budded into 
the sane stock. Hardy roots are the best stocks. The 
branc/i above the bud, must be cut off, the next March 
or Aoril after the bud is put in. Apples and pears, are 
more easily propagated by ingrafting, than by budding. 

Ingrafting is a similar process to budding, with this 
advantage ; that it can be performed on large trees, 
whereas budding can be applied only on small ones. 
The two common kinds of ingrafting, are whip-grafting, 
and split-grafting. The first kind is for young trees, 
and the other for large ones. 

The time for ingrafting, is from May to October. 
The cuttings must be taken from horizontal shoots, be- 
tween Christmas and March, and kept in a damp cellar. 
In performing the operation, cut off, in a sloping direc- 
tion, (as seen in Fig. 41,) the tree or limb to be grafted. 



Fis-. 41. 




Then cut ofT, in a corresponding slant, the slip to be 
grafted on. Then put them together, so Uiat the ini>^r 



ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 



345 



bark of each shall match, exactly, on one side, and tie 
them firmly together, with woollen yarn. It is not es- 
sential that both be of equal size ; if the bark of each 
meet together exactly on one side, it answers the 
purpose. But the two must not differ much, in size. 
The slope should be an inch and a half, or more, in 
length. After they are tied together, the place should 
be covered with a salve or composition of beeswax and 
rosin. A mixture of clay and cowdung will answer the 
same purpose. This last must be tied on with a cloth. 
Grafting is more convenient than budding, as grafts can 
be sent from a great distance ; whereas buds must be 
taken in July or August, from a shoot of the present 
year's growth, and cannot be sent to any great distance. 



Fig. 42. 




This engraving, (Fig. 42,) exhibits the mode called 
stock-grafting ; a, being the limb of a large tree which 
is sawed off and split, and is to be held open by a small 
wedge, till the grafts are put in. A graft, inserted in 
the limb, is shown at h, and at c, is one not inserted, but 
designed to be put in at d, as two grafts can be put into 
a large stock. In inserting the graft, be careful to 
make the edge of the inner bark of the graft meet ex- 
actly the edge of the inner bark of the stock ; for on 
this, success depends. After the grafts are put in, the 
wedge must be withdrawn, and the whole of the stock 



346 ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS. 

be covered with the thick salve or composition before 
mentioned, reaching from where the grafts are inserted, 
to the bottom of the sht. Be careful not to knock or 
move the grafts, after they are put in. 

Pruning. 

The following rules for pruning, are from a distin- 
guished horticulturist. Prune off all dead wood, and 
all the little twigs on the main limbs. Retrench 
branches, so as to give light and ventilation to the in- 
terior of the tree. Select the straight and perpen- 
dicular shoots, which give little or no fruit, while those 
which are most nearly horizontal, and somewhat curv- 
ing, give fruit abundantly, and of good quality. Supef- 
jfluous and ill-placed buds may be rubbed off, at any 
time ; and no buds, pushing out after Midsummer, 
should be spared. In choosing between shoots to be 
retained, preserve the lowest placed ; and, on lateral 
shoots, those which are nearest the origin. When 
branches cross each other, so as to rub, remove one or 
the other. Remove all suckers from the roots of trees 
or shrubs. Prune after the sap is in full circulation, 
(except in the case of grapes,) as the wounds then heal 
best. Some think it best to prune before the sap be- 
gins to run. Pruning-shears, and a pruning-pole, with 
a chisel at the end, can be procured of those who deal 
in agricultural utensils. 

Thinning. 

As it is the office of the leaves to absorb nourishment 
from the atmosphere, they should never be removed, 
except to mature the wood or fruit. In doing this, re- 
move such leaves as shade the fruit, as soon as it is 
ready to ripen. To do it earlier, impairs the growth. 
Do it gradually, at two different times. Thinning the 
fruit is important, as tending to increase its size and 
flavor, and also to promote the longevity of the tree. 
If the fruit be thickly set, take off one half, at the time 
of setting. Revise in .Tune, and then in July, taking 
off all that may be spared. On^ very large apple to 



ON I'HE CULTIVATION OF FRUIT. 347 

every square foot, is a rule that may be a sort of 
^uide, in other cases. According to this, two hundred 
large apples would be allowed to a tree, whose extent 
is fifteen feet by twelve. If any person think this thin- 
ning excessive, let him try two similar trees, and thin 
one as directed, and leave the other unthinned. It will 
De found that the thinned tree will produce an equal 
weight, and fruit of much finer flavor. 



CHAPTER XXXVl. 

ON THE CULTIVATION OF FRUlT. 

By a little attention to this matter, a lady, with the 
help of her children, can obtain a rich abundance of all 
kinds of fruit. The writer has resided in families, 
where little boys, of eight, ten, and twelve years old, 
amused themselves, under the direction of their mother, 
in planting walnuts, chestnuts, and hazelnuts, for future 
time ; as well as in planting and inoculating young 
fruit-trees, of all descriptions. A mother, who will take 
pains to inspire a love for such pursuits, in her children, 
and who will aid and superintend them, will save them 
from many temptations ; and, at a trifling expense, se- 
cure to them and herself a rich reward, in the choicest 
fruits. The information given in this work, on this 
subject, may be relied on, as sanctioned by the most 
experienced nursery-men. 

The soil, for a nursery, should be rich, well dug, 
dressed with well-decayed manure, free from weeds, 
and protected from cold winds. Fruit seeds should be 
planted in the Autumn, an inch and a half or two 
inches deep, in ridges four or five feet apart, pressing 
the earth firmly over the seeds. While growing, they 
should be thinned out, leaving the best ones a foot and 
a iialf apart. The soil should be kept loose, soft, and 
free from weeds. They should be inoculated or in- 



34S ON THE CULTIVATION OF FRUIT. 

grafted, when of the size of a pipe stem ; and in a year 
after this, may be transplanted to their permanent 
stand. Peach trees sometimes bear in two years from 
budding, and in four year? from plantings if well kept. 

In a year after transplanting, take pains to train the 
head aright. Straight, upright branches, produce gour- 
mands, or twigs bearing only leaves. The side branches, 
which are angular or curved, y^eld the most fruit. For 
this reason, the limbs should he trained in curves, and 
perpendicular twigs should be cut off, if there be need 
of pruning. The last of June is the time for this. 
Grass should never be allowed to ^row within four 
feet of a large tree ; and the soil should be kept loose, 
to admit air to the roots. Trees m orchards should' 
be twenty-five feet apart. The soil under the top soil, 
has much to do with the health of trees. If it be what 
is called hard-pan, the trees will deteriorate. Trees 
need to be manured, and to have the soil kept open 
and free from weeds. 

Filberts can be raised in any part of this Country. 
Figs can be raised in the Middle States. For this 
purpose, in the Autumn, loosen the roots, on one side, 
and bend the tree down to the earth, on the other ; then 
cover it with a mound of straw, earth, and boards ; and 
early in the Spring raise it up, and cover the roots. 
Currants grow well in any but a wet soil. They are 
propagated by cuttings. The old wood should be 
thinned in the Fall, and manure be put on. They can 
be trained into small trees. Gooseberries are propa- 
gated by layers and cuttings. They are best, when 
kept from suckers and trained like trees. One third 
of the old wood should be removed every Autumn. 
Rnspbcrries do best, when shaded during a part of the 
day. They are propagated by layers, slips, and suckers. 
There is one kind, which bears monthly. Strawberries 
require a hght soil and vegetable manure. They 
should be transplanted in April or September, and be 
set eight inches apart, in rows nine inches asunder, and 
in beds which are two feet wide, with narrow allcya 



ON THE CULTIVATION" OF FRUIT. 349 

between them. A part of these plants are non-hearers. 
These have large flowers, with showy stamens and high 
black anthers. The bearers have short stamens, a great 
number of pistils, and the flowers are every way less 
showy. In blossom-time, pull out all the non-bearers 
Some think it best to leave one non-bearer to every 
twelve bearers ; but others pull them all out. Many 
beds never produce any fruit, because all the plants in 
them are non-bearers. Weeds should be kept from 
the vines. When the vines are matted with young 
plants, the best way is to dig over the beds, in cross 
lines, so as to leave some of the plants standing in little 
squares, while the rest are turned under the soil. This 
should be done over a second time in the same year. 

Grapes. To raise this fruit, manure the soil, and 
keep it soft, and free from weeds. A gravelly or sandy 
soil, and a south exposure, are best. Transplant the 
vines in the early Spring, or, better, in the Fall. 
Prune them, the first year, so as to have only two main 
branches, taking ofl* all other shoots, as fast as they 
come. In November, cut ofFalKof these two branches, 
except four eyes. The second year, in the Spring, 
loosen the earth around the roots, and allow only two 
branches to grow, and every month, take off* all side 
shoots. When they are very strong, preserve only a 
part, and cut off" the rest in the Fall. In November, 
cut off* all the two • main stems, except eight eyes 
After the second year no more pruning is needed, ex- 
cept to reduce the side shoots, for the purpose of in- 
creasing the fruit. All the pruning of grapes, (except 
nipping side shoots,) must be done when the sap is not 
running, or they will bleed to death. Train them on 
poles, or lattices, to expose them to the air and sun 
Cover tender vines in the Autumn. Grapes are prop- 
agated by cuttings, layers, and seeds. For cuttings, 
select, in the Autumn, well-ripened wood, of the former 
year, and take five joints for each. Bury them, till 
April ; then soak them, for some hours, and set them 
out, aslant, so that all the eyes but one shall be covered 

80 D. £. 



350 ON THE cui.tit AtiON OF fRtirr. 



To Preserve Fruit. 

Raspberries and Strawberries can be preserved, in 
perfect flavor, in the following manner. Take a pound 
of nice sifted sugar for each pound of fruit. Put them 
in alternate layers, of fruit and sugar, till the jar is en- 
tirely full, then cork it, and seal it air tight. 

Currants and Gooseberries may be perfectly preserved 
thus. Gather them, when dry, selecting only the solid 
ones. Take off the stalks, and put them in dry junk- 
bottles. Set them, uncorked, in a kettle of water, and 
slowly raise it to boiling heat, in order to drive the air 
out of the bottles. Then take out the bottles, cork 
them, and seal them aii tight. Keep them in a dry 
place, where they will not freeze. The success of this 
method depends on excluding air and water. 

Apples, Grapes, and such like fruit can be preserved, 
by packing them, when dry and solid, in dry sand or 
sawdust, putting alternate layers of fruit and sawdust 
or sand. Some sawdust gives a bad flavor to the fruit. 

Modes of Preserving Fruit Trees. 

Heaps of ashes, or tanner's bark, around peach trees, 
prevent the attack of the worm. ' The yellows, is a dis- 
ease of peach trees, which is spread by the pollen of the 
blossom. When a tree begins to turn yellow, take it 
away, with all its roots, before it blossoms again, or it will 
infect other trees. Planting tansy around the roots of 
fruit trees, is a sure protection against worms, as it pre- 
vents the moth from depositing her egg. Equal quanti- 
ties of salt and saltpetre, put around the trunk of a peach 
tree, half a pound to a tree, improves the size and flavor 
of the fruit. Apply this about the first of April, and if 
any trees have worms already in them, put on half the 
quantity, in addition, in June. To young trees, just set 
out, apply one ounce, in April, and another in June, 
close to the stem. Sandy soil is best for peaches. 

Apple trees are preserved from insects, by a wash of 
strong ley to the body and limbs, which, if old, siiould 



MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 351 

be first scraped. Caterpillars should be removed, by 
cutting down their nests in a damp day. Boring a hole 
in a tree infested with worms, and filling it with sulphur, 
will often drive them off immediately. 

The fire-blight, or brulure, in pear trees, can be 
stopped, by cutting off* all the blighted branches. It is 
supposed, by some, to be owing to an excess of sap, 
which is remedied by diminishing the roots* 

The curcuUo, which destroys plums, and other stone 
fruit, can be checked only by gathering up all the fruit 
that falls, (which contains their eggs,) and destroying 
it. The canker-worm can be checked, by applying a 
bandage around the body of the tree, and every even- 
ing smearing it with fresh tar. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 

Every woman should know how to direct in regard 
to the proper care of domestic animals, as they often 
suffer from the negligence of domestics. 

The following information, in reference to the care 
of a horse and cow, may be useful. A stable should not 
be very light nor very dark ; its floor should be either 
plank or soil, as brick or stone pavements injure the 
feet. It should be well cleaned, every morning. A 
norse, kept in a stable, should be rubbed and brushed 
every day. A stable-horse needs as much daily exer- 
cise as trotting three miles will give him. Food or 
drink should never be given, when a horse is very warm 
with exercise, as it causes disease. A horse should be 
fed, three times a day. Hay, sheaf-oats, shorts, corn- 
meal, and bran, are the best food for horses. When a 
horse is travelling, order six quarts of oats in the morn- 
ing, four at noon, and six at night, and direct that 
neither food nor water be given till he is cool. 



352 MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 

Keep a horse's legs free from mud, or disease will 
often result from the neglect. A horse, much used, 
should be shod as often as once in two months. Fish- 
oil and strong perfumes, on the skin, keep flies from 
annoying a horse. Some horses are made fractious by 
having the check-rein so tight as to weary the muscles. 

A cow should be watered three times a day, and fed 
with hay, potatoes, carrots, and boiled corn. Turnips 
and cabbages give a bad taste to the milk. Give a 
handful of salt to a cow, twice a week, and occasionally 
give the same quantity to a horse. Let them drink 
pure water. A well-fed cow gives double the milk that 
she will if not fed well. A cow should go unmilked, 
for two months before calving, and her milk should 
not be used till four days after. The calf must run 
with the cow for four days, and then be shut from 
her, except thrice a day, when it should take as much 
food as it wants, and then the cow should be milked 
clean. 

Hens sit twenty days, and should be well fed and 
watered, during this time. The first food for chickens 
should be coarse dry meal. Cold and damp weather is 
bad for all young fowls, and they should be well pro- 
tected from it. Pepper-berries are good for fowls which 
have diseases caused by damp and cold weather. 

In Winter, much fuel may be saved, and comfort 
secured, by stuffing cotton into all cracks about the 
windows and the surbases of rooms, and by listing the 
doors. Cover strips of wood with baize, and nail them 
tight against a door, on the casing. 

The following are the causes of smoky chimneys. 
Short and broad flues, running up straight, as a narrow 
flue, with a bend in it, draws best. Large openings, at 
the top, draw the wind down, and should be remedied, 
by having the summits made tapering. A house higher 
than a chimney near it, sometimes makes the chimney 
smoke, and the evil should be remedied, by raising the 
chimney. Too large a throat to the fireplace, some- 
times causes a chimney to smoke, and can be reme 



MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS. 353 

died, by a false back, or by lowering the front, with 
sheet iron. Shallow fireplaces give out more heat, and 
draw as well, as deep ones. 

House-cleaning should be done in dry warm weather. 
Several friends of the writer maintain, that cleaning 
paint, and windows, and floors, in hard, cold water, 
without any soap, using a flannel wash-cloth, is much 
better than using warm suds. It is worth trying. 
In cleaning in the common way, sponges are best for 
windows, and clean water only should be used. They 
should be first wiped with linen, and then with old silk. 
The outside of windows should be washed with a long 
brush, made for the purpose ; and they should be rinsed, 
by throwing upon them water, containing a little salt- 
petre. 

When inviting company, mention, in the note, the 
day of the month and week, and the hour for coming. 
Provide a place for ladies to dress their hair, with a 
glass, pins, and combs. A pitcher of cold water, and a 
tumbler, should be added. When the company is small, 
it IS becoming a common method for the table to be set 
at one end of the room, the lady of the house to pour 
out tea, and the gentlemen of the party to w^ait on 
the ladies and themselves. When tea is sent round, 
always send a teapot of hot water to weaken it, and a 
slop-bowl, or else many persons will drink their tea 
much stronger than they wish. 

Let it ever be remembered, that the burning of lights 
and the breath of guests, are constantly exhausting the 
air of its healthful principle ; therefore avoid crowding 
many guests into one room. Do not tempt the palate 
by a great variety of unhealthful dainties. H^ve a 
warm room for departing guests, that they may not 
become chilled before they go out. 

A parlor should be furnished with candle and fire 
screens, for those who have weak eyes ; and if, at table, 
a person sits with the back near the fire, a screen should 
be hung on the back of the chair, as it is very injurious 
to the whole system to have the back heated. 

30* D. F 



354 MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS, 

Pretty baskets, for flowers or fruits, on centra tables, 
can be made thus. Knit, with coarse needles, all the 
various shades of green and brown, into a squaie piece. 
Press it with a hot iron, and then ravel it out. Buy a 
pretty shaped wicker basket, or make one of stiff milli- 
net, or thin pasteboard, cut the worsted into bunches, 
and sew them on, to resemble moss. , Then line the 
basket, and set a cup or dish of water in it, to hold 
flowers, or use it for a fruit-basket. Handsome fire- 
boards are made, by nailing black foundation-muslin to 
a frame the size of the fireplace ; and then cutting out 
flowers, from wall-paper, and pasting them on the mus- 
lin, according to the fancy. 

India rubber, melted in lamp-oil, and brushed over 
common shoes, keeps water out, perfectly. Keep small 
whisk brooms, wherever gentlemen hang their clothes, 
both up stairs and down, and get them to use them if 
you can. 

Boil new earthen in bran-water, putting the articles 
in, when cold. Do the same with porcelain kettles. 
Never leave wooden vessels out of doors, as they fall to 
pieces. In Winter, lift the handle of a pump, and 
cover it with blankets, to keep it from freezing. 

Broken earthen and china, can often be mended, by 
tying it up, and boiling it in milk. Diamond cement, 
when genuine, is very effectual for the same purpose. 
Old putty can be softened by muriatic acid. Nail slats 
across nursery windows. Scatter ashes on slippery ice, 
at the door ; or rather, remove it. Clarify impure 
water with powdered alum, a teaspoonful to a barrel 



NOTE. 855* 



NOTE. 

A volume, entitled Miss Beecher^s Domestk Receipt Book, ipntiTp^iveA 
by the author of this work, under the supervision of several experi- 
enced housekeepers, is designed as a Supplement to this treatise on 
Domestic Economy. The following Preface and Analysis of the Con- 
tents will indicate its design more fully : 

Preface (for Miss Beechefs Domestic Keceipt Book.) 

The following objects are aimed at in this work : 

First, to furnish an original collection of receipts, which shall em- 
brace a great variety of simple and well-cooked dishes, designed for 
every-day comfort and enjoyment. 

Second, to include in the collection only such receipts as have been 
tested by superior housekeepers, and warranted to he the best. It is 
not a book made up in any department by copyirtg from other hooks, 
but entirely from the experience of the best practical housekeepers. 

Third, to express every receipt in language which is short, simple, 
and perspicuous, and yet to give all directions so minutely as that 
the book can be kept in the kitchen, and be used by any domestic 
who can read, as a guide in every one of her employments in the 
kitchen. 

Fourth^ to furnish such directions in regard to small dinner-parties 
and evening company as will enable any young housekeeper to per- 
form her part, on such occasions, with ease, comfort, and success. 

Fifth, to present a good supply of the rich and elegant dishes de- 
manded at such entertainments, and yet to set forth so large and 
tempting a variety of what is safe, healthful, and good, in connexion 
with such warnings and suggestions as it is hoped may avail to pro- 
mote a more healthful fashion in regard both to entertainments and 
to daily table supplies^ No book of this kind will sell without an ad- 
equate supply of the rich articles which custom requires, and in fur- 
nishing them, the writer has aimed to follow the example of Provi- 
dence, which scatters profusely both good and ill, and combines there- 
with the caution alike of experience, revelation, and conscience, 
*' choose ye that which is good, that ye and your seed may live." 

Sixth, in the work on Domestic Economy, together with this, to 
which it is a Supplement, the writer has atternpted to secure, in a 
cheap and popular form, for Arnerican housekeepers, a work similar 
to an English work which she has examined, entitled the Encyclopee- 
dia of Domestic Economy^ by Thomas Webster and Mrs. Parkes, con- 
taining over twelve hundred octavo pages of closely-printed matter, 
treating on every department of Domestic Economy; a work which 
will be found much more useful to English women, who have a plenty 
of money and well-trained servants, than to American housekeepers. 
It is believed that most in that work which would be of any practical 
use to American housekeepers, will he found in this work and the 
Domestic Economy. 

Lastly, the writer has aitned to avoid the defects complained of by 
most housekeepers in regard to works of this description issued in 
this country, or sent from England, such as that, in some cases, the 
receipts are so rich as to be both expensive and unhealthful ; in others, 
-.V " ' ''- —• -^^a CO vaimely expressed as to be very imperfect guides ; in 



356* NOTE. 

others, that the processes are so elaborate and fussing as to make 
double the work that is needful ; and in others, that the topics are so 
limited that some departments are entirely omitted, and all are in- 
complete. 

In accomplishing thes6 objects, the writer has received contribu 
lions of the pen, and verbal communications from some of the most 
judicious and practical housekeepers, in almost every section of this 
country. 

The following embraces most of the topics contained in this work. 

Suggestions to young housekeepers in regard to style, furniture, 
and domestic arrangements. 

Suggestions in regard to different modes to be pursued both with 
foreign and American domestics. 

On providing a proper supply of family stores, on the economical 
care and use of them, and on the furniture and arrangement of a 
store-closet. 

On providing a proper supply of utensils to be used in cooking, with 
drawings to illustrate. 

On the proper construction of ovens, and directions for heating 
and managing them. 

Directions lor securing good yeast and good bread. 

Advice in regard to marketing, the purchase of wood, &c. 

Receipts for breakfast dishes, biscuits, warm cakes, tea cakes, &c 

Receipts for puddings,- cakes, pies, preserves, pickles, sauces, cat- 
sups, and also for cooking all the various kinds of meats, soups, and 
vegetables. 

The above receipts are arranged so that the more healthful and sim- 
ple ones are put in one portion, and the richer ones in another. 

Healthful and favourite articles of food for young children. 

Receipts for a variety of temperance drinks. 

Directions for making tea, coffee, chocolate, and other warm drinks. 

Directions for cutting up meats, and for sailing down, corning, cu- 
ring, and smoking. 

IJirections for making butter and cheese, as furnished by a practi- 
cal and scientific manufacturer of the same, of Goshen, Conn., that 
land of rich butter and cheese. 

A guide to a selection of a regular course of family dishes, which 
will embrace a successive variety, and unite convenience with good taste 
and comfortable living. 

Receipts for articles for the sick, and drawings of conveniences for 
their comfort and relief 

Receipts for articles for evening parties and dinner parties, with 
drawings to show the proper manner of setting tables, and of supply- 
ing and arranging dishes, both on these, and on ordinary occasions. 

An outline of arrangements for a family in moderate circumstances, 
embracing the systematic details of work for each domestic, and the 
proper mode of doing it, as furnished by an accomplished housekeeper. 

Remarks on the different nature of food and drinks, and their re- 
lation to ihe^Taws of health. 

Suggestions to the domestics of a family, designed to promote a 
proper appreciation of the dignity and importance of their station, and 
a cheerful and faithful performance of their duties. 

Miscellaneous suggestions and receipts. 



A GLOSSARY 

V 

op SUCH WORDS AND PHRASES AS MAY NOT EASILY BE 
UNDERSTOOD BY THE YOUNG READER. 

[Many words, not Contained in this Glossary, will be found ex- 
plained m the body of the Work, in the places where they first occur, 
r or these, see Index.] 

■Academy, the Boston, an association in Boston, established for the pur- 
pose of promoting the study and culture of the art of music. 

Action brought by the Commomoealth, a prosecution conducted in the 
name of the public, or by the authority of the State. 

Mcoholic, made of, or containing, alcohol, an inflammable liquid, 
which is the basis of ardent spirits.. 

Mkali, (plural alkalies,) a chemical substance, which has the property 
of combining with, and neutralizing the properties of, acids, pro- 
ducing salts by the combination. Alkalies chamre most of the 
vegetable blues and purples to green, red to purple" and yellow to 
brown. Caustic alkali, an alkali deprived of all impurities, being 
thereby rendered more caustic and violent in its operation. This 
term is usually applied to pure potash. Fixed alkali, an alkali that 
emits no characteristic smell, and cannot be volatilized or evaporated 
without great dilficulty. Potash and soda are called the fixed alka- 
lies. Soda IS also called sl fossil, or mineral, alkali, and potash, the 
vegetable alkali. Volatile alkali, an elastic, transparent, colorless, 
and consequently invisible gas,, known by the name of ammonia, or 
ammoniacal gas. The odor of spirits of hartshorn is caused bv 
this gas. '' 

anglo-American, English-American, relating to Americans descended 
from English ancestors. 

Jlnne, Oueen, a Queen of England, who reigned from A. D. 1702 to 
1714. She was the daughter of James II., and succeeded to the 
throne on the death of William III. She died, August 1, 1714 in 
the fiftieth year of her age. She was not a woman of very great 
mtellect; but was deservedly popular, throughout her reign, being 
a model of conjugal and maternal duty, and always intendincr to xio 
good. She was honored with the title of ' Good Queen Anne, 
which showed the opinion entertained of her virtues by the people. 

£notta, Jnnoito, Jlrnotta, ox Rocou, a soft, brownish-red substance, 
prepared from the reddish pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree, 
which grows in the West Indies, Guiana, and ether parts of South 
America, called the Bixa orellana. It is used as a dye. ' 

Anther, that part of the stamen of a flower which contains the pol- 
len or farina, a sort of mealy powder or dust, which is necessary 
to the production of the flower. 

Anthracite, one of the most valuable kinds of mineral coal, containing 
no bitumen. It is very abundant in the United States. 

Aperient^ opening. 



356 GLOSSARY. 

Jlpph'Corcr, an Instrument lately invented for the purp6Re of divesting 
apples of tlieir cores 

.firiiljlcj gum, see Gum .Irahic. 

Arclneology, a discourse or treatise on antiquities. 

Arnotto, see Anotta. 

JrroiD-rout, a white powder, obtained irom the fecula or starch of 
several species of tuberous plants in the East and West Indies, 
Bermuda, and other places. That from Bermuda is most highly 
esteemed. It is used as an article for the table, in the form of 
puddings ; and also as a highly-nutritive, easily-digested, and 
agreeable, foorl, for invalids. It derives its name irom having been 
originally uted by the Indians, as a remedy for the poison of their 
arrows, by mashing and applying it to the wound. 

^rUculatiiig process, the protuberance, or projecting part of a bone, 
by which it is so joined to another bone, as to enable the two to 
move upon each other. 

isrcticism, the state of an ascetic, or hermit, who flies from society 
and lives in retirement, or who practises a greater degree of morti- 
fication and austerity than others do, or who inflicts extraordinary 
severities upon himself. 

istrui lump, a lamp, the principle of which was invented by Benja- 
min Thompson, (a native of Massachusetts, and afterwards Count 
Rumford,) in which the oil is contained in a large horizontal ring, 
having, at the centre, a burner, which communicates with the ring 
by tubes. The ring is placed a little below the level of the flame, 
and, from its large surface, affords a supply of oil for many hours. 

Astute, shrewd. 

Auld Rubin Gray, a celebrated Scotch song, in which a young woman 
laments her having married an old rich man, whom she did not 
love, for the sake of providing for her poor parents. 

Auricles, (from a Latin word, signifying the ear,) the name given to 
two appendages of the heart, from their fancied resemblance to 
the ear. 

Baglivi, (George,) an eminent physician, who was born at Ragusa, 
in. IGbS, and was educated at Naples and Paris. Pope Clement 
XIV., on the ground of his great merit, appointed him, while a 
very young man. Professor of Anatomy and Surgery in the Col- 
lege of Sapienza, at Rome. He wrote several works, and did much 
to promote the cause of medical science. He died, A. D. 1706. 

Bass, or bass wood, a large forest tree of America, sometimes called 
the lime-tree. The wood is white and soft, and the bark is some- 
times used for bandages, as mentioned in page 343. 

Beau jXask, see JVnsk. 

Bell, Sir Charles, a celebrated surgeon, who was born in Edinburgh, 
in the year 1778. He commenced his career in London, in ]8(J6, 
as a lecturer on Anatomy and Surgery. In 1830, he received the 
honors of knighthood, and in 1836 was appointed Professor of Sur- 
gery in the College of Edinburgh. He died near Worcester, in 
England, April 2I», 1842. His writings are very numerous, and 
have been much celebrated. Among the most important of these, 
to general readers, are, his Illustrations of Paley's Natural Theol- 
ogy, (which work forms the second and third volumes of the larger 
series of ' The School Librarv.' issued by the Publishers of this 
volume,) and his treatise on '■ The Hand, its Mechanism, and 
Vital Endowments, as cv'mcing Design.' 



GLOSSARY. 357 

B^rgamot, a fruit, which was originally produced by ingrafting a 

branch of a citron or lemon tree, upon the stock of a peculiar kind 

of pear, called the bergamot pear. 
Biased, cut diagonally from one corner to another of a square or rect- 
angular piece of cloth. Bias j'ieces, triangular pieces cut as above 

mentioned. 
Bituminous, containing bitumen, which is an inflammable mineral 

substance, resembling tar or pitch in its properties and uses. 

Among different bituminous substances, the names naphtha and 

petroleum have been given to those which are fluid ; maltha, to 

that which has the consistence of pitch; and asphaltum, to that 

which is solid. 
Blight, a disease in plants, by which they are blasted, or prevented 

from producing fruit. 
Blond Luce, lace made of silk. 
Blood heat, the temperature which the blood is always found to main 

tain, or ninety-eight degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer. 
Blue vitriol, sulphate of copper. See Sulphate. 
Blunts, needles of a short and thick shape, distinguished from Sharps^ 

which are long and slender. 
Bocking, a kind of thin carpeting, or coarse baize. 
Boston Academy, see Acadeitiy. 
Botany, (from a Greek word, signifying an herb,) a knowledge of 

plants ; the science which treats of plants. 
Brazil wood, the central part, or heart, of a large tree which grows in 

Brazil, called the Ccesalpinia echinata. It produces very lively and 

beautiful red tints, but they are not permanent. 
Bronze, a metallic composition, consisting of copper and tin. 
Bridure, a French term, denoting a burning or scalding ; a blasting 

of plants. 
Brussels, (carpet,) a kind of carpeting, so called from the city of Brus- 
sels, in Europe. Its basis is composed of a warp and woof of strong 

linen threads, with the warp of which are intermixed about five 

times the quantity of woollen threads, of different colors. 
Bulb, a root with a round body, like the onion, turnip, or hyacinth. 

Bulbous, having a bulb. 
Byi-an, (George Gordon.) Lord, a celebrated Poet, who was born in 

London, January 22. 1788, and died in Missolonghi, in Greece, 

April 18 1824. 
Calisthenics, see page 56, note. 
Camwood, a dyewood, procured from a leguminous (or pod-bearing) 

tree, growing on the Western Coast of Africa, and called Baphia 

nitida. 
Cankerworm, a worm which is very destructive to trees and plants. 

It springs from an egg deposited by a miller that issues from the 

ground, and in some years destroys the leaves and fruit of apple 

and other trees. 
Carbon, a simple inflammable body, forming the principal part of wood 

and coal, and the whole of the diamond. 
Carbonic acid, a compound gas, consisting of carbon and oxygen. It 

has lately been obtained in a solid form. 
Carmine, a crimson color, the most beautiful of all the reds. It is 

prepared from a decoction of the powdered cochineal insect, to 

which alum and other substances are added. 



358 GLOSSARY. 

Castci', a small phial or vessel for the table, in which to put vinfe<rar, 
imistard, pepper, &c. 

Chancellor of Uic ExcJteqvcr, the h'\ghest judge of the law; the prin- 
cipal financial minister of a government, and the one who manages 
its revenue. 

C/iatc(ni, a castle, a mansion. 

Ckcinbtrij, the science which treats of the elementary constituents of 
bodies. 

Chinese hclle^ deformities of. In China, it is the fashion to compress 
the feet of female infants, to prevent their growth ; in consecpience 
of which, the feet of all the I'emales of Cliina are distorted, and so 
small, that the individuals cannot walk with ease. 

Chloride^ a compound of chlorine and some other substance. Chlorine 
is a simple substance, formerly called oxymuriatic acid. In its 
pure stale, it is a gas, of green color, (hence its name, from a Greek 
word, signifying green.) Like oxygen, it supports the combustion 
of some inflammable substances. Chloride of lime is a compound ol 
clilorine and lime. 

Cholera infinlum^ a bowel complaint, to which infants are subject. 

Chijlc, a white juice, ibrmcd from the chyme, and consisting of the 
finer and more nutritious parts of the food. It is afterwards con- 
verted into blood. 

Chytne^ the result of the first process which food undergoes in t?ie 
stomach, previously to its being converted into chyle. 

Cicuta, the common American Hemlock, an annual plant of four or 
five fi*et in height, and found commonly along walls and fences, 
and about old ruins and buildings. ' It is a virulent poison, as well as 
one of the most nnportant and valuable medicinal vegetables. It is 
a very different plant from the Hemlock tree, or Pinus Canadensis. 

Clarhe, (Sir Charles Mansfield,) Dr., a distinguished English physi- 
cian and surgeon, wiio was born in London, May 28, 178'2. He 
was appointed Physician to Queen Adelaide, wife of King William 
IV., m Ib'.iO, and in 1831, he was created a baronet, He is the 
autlior of several valuable medical works. 

Cobalt, a brittle metal, of a reddish-gray color and weak metallic lus- 
tre, used in coloring glass. It is not easily melted nor oxidized in 
the air. 

Cochineal, a color procured from the cochineal insect, (or Coccvs cadi,) 
whicli feeds upon the leaves of several species of the plant called 
cactus, and which is supposed to derive its coloring matter from its 
food. Its natural color is crimson ; but by the addition of a prepara- 
tion of potash, it yields a rich scarlet dye. 

Cologne water, a fragrant perfume, which derives its name from hav- 
ing been originally made in the city of Cologne, which is situated 
on the River Rhine, in Germany. The best kind is stlU procured 
from that city. 

Comparatice unatormj, the science which has for its object a compari- 
son of the anatomy, structure, and functions, of the various organs 
of animals, plants, «fcc., with those of the human body. 

Confection, a sweetmeat; a preparation of fruit witJi sugar; also a 
preparation of medicine with lioney, sirup, or similar saccharine sub- 
stance, for the purpose of disguising the unpleasant taste of the 
medicine. 

Cooper, Sir Jistley Paston, a celebrated English surgeon, who was 
born at Brooke, in Norfolk county, England, August 23, 1768, and 



GLOSSARY. 359' 

oommenced the practice of Surgery in London, m 179^. He waa 
appointed Surgeon to King George IV., in 1827, was created a 
baronet in 182f, and died February 12, 1841. He was the author 
of many valuable works. 

Copal, a hard, shining, transparent resin, of a light citron color, 
brought, originally, trom Spanish America, and now almost wholly 
from the East Indies. It is principally employed in the preparation 
of copal varnish. 

Copper, sulphate of, see Sulphate of copper. 

Copperas, (sulphate of iron, or green vitriol,) a bright green mineral 
substance, formed by the decomposition of a peculiar ore of iron, 
called pyrites, which is a sulphuret of iron. It is first in the 
form of a greenish-white powder, or crust, which is dissolved 
in water, and beautiful green crystals of copperas are obtained by 
evaporation. It is principally used in dyeing, and in making black 
ink. Its solution, mixed with a decoction of oak bark, produces a 
black color. 

Coronary, relating to a crown or garland. In anatomy, it is applied 
to arteries which encompass the heart, in the manner, as it is fan- 
cied, of a garland. 

Corrosive sublimate, a poisonous substance, composed of chlorine and 
quicksilver. 

Cosmetics, preparations which some people foolishly think will pre- 
serve and beautify the skin. 

Cream of tartar, see Tartar. 

Crimping-iron, an instrument for crimping or curling ruffles, &c. 

Curculio, a weevil or worm, which affects the fruit of the plum tree, 
and sometimes that of the apple tree, causing the unripe fruit to fall 
to the ground. 

Curvature of the spine, see pdiges 80, 81. 

Cuvier, Baron, the most eminent naturalist of the present age, was 
born, A. D. 1769, and died, A. D. 1832. He was Professor of Nat- 
ural History in the College of France, and held v^arious important 
posts under the French Government, at different times. His works 
on Natural History are of the greatest value. • 

Cynosure, the star near the North Pole, by which sailors steer. It 
is used, in a figurative sense, as synonymous with pole-star, or 
guide. 

De Tocqueville, see Tocqueville, 

Diamond cement, a cement sold in the shops, and used for mending 
broken glass, and similar articles. 

Drab, a thick woollen cloth, of a light brown or dun color. The 
name is sometimes used for the color itself. 

Dredging-box, a box with holes in the top, used to sift or scatter flour 
on meat, v/hen roasting. 

Drill, (in husbandry,) to sow grain in roms', drills, or channels; the 
row of grain so sowed. 

Duchess of Orleans, see Orleans. 

The East, and the Eastern States, those of the United States sit- 
uated in the north-east part of the Country, including Maine, 
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and 
Vermont. 

Electuary, a mixture, consisting of medicinal substances, especially dry 
powders, combined with honey or sirup, in order to render them 
less unpleasant to the taste, and more convenient for internal usje. 
3J 



360 GLOSSARY. 

Elevation, (of a house,) a plan, representing the upright view of a 

house, as a ground-plan shows its appearance on the ground. 

Euclid, a celebrated niatlieniatician, who was born in Alexandria, in 
Egypt, about two hundred and eighty years belbre Christ. He dis- 
tinguished himself by his writings on music and geometry. The 
most celebrated of his works, is his ' Elements of Geometry,' which 
is in use at the present day. He established a school at Alexandria, 
which became so fatuous, that, from his tin)e to the conquest of 
Alexandria by the Saracens, (A. D. 646,) no mathematician was 
found, who had not studied at Alexandria. Ptolemy, King of 
Egypt, was one of his pupils ; and it was to a question of this 
King, whether there were not a shorter way of coming at Geom- 
etry, than by the study of his Elements, that Euclid made the 
celebrated answer, "There is no royal way. or path, to Geometry." 

Equator^ or equinoctial line, an imaginary line passing round "the 
earth, from east to west, and directly under the sun, which always 
shines nearly perpendicularly down upon all countries situated near 
the equator. 

Evolve, to throw off, to discharge. 

Exchequer^ a court in England, in which the Chancellor presides, and 
where the revenues of, and debts due to, tine King are recovered. 
This court was originally established by King William, (called ' the 
Conqueror,') who died A. D. 1087 ; and its name is derived from a 
checkered cloth, (French echiquier, a chess-board, checker- work,) 
on the table. 

Excretion, something discharged from the body, a separation of animal 
matters. 

Excrementitious, consisting of matter excreted from the body ; contain- 
ing excrements. 

Fahrenheit, (Gabriel Daniel,) a celebrated natural philosopher, who 
was born at Dantzic, A. D. 1G86. He made great improvements 
in the thermometer ; and his name is sometimes used for that in- 
strument. 

Farinaceous, mealy, tasting like meal. 

To Fell, to turn down, on the wrong side, the raw edges of a seam, 
after it has been stitched, run, or sewed, and then to hem or sew 
it to the cloth. 

Festivals, of the Jews, the three great annual. These were, the Feast 
of the Passover, that of Pentecost, and that of Tabernacles ; on oc- 
casion of which, all the males of the Nation were required to visit 
the Temple at Jerusalem, in whatever part of the Country they 
mio'ht reside. See Exodus xxiii. 14, 17, xxxiv. 23, Leviticus xxiii. 
4, Deuteronomy xvi. 16. The Passover was kept in commemoration 
of the deliverance of the Israelites from Egypt, and was so named, 
becr.use, the night before their departure, the destroying angel, 
■ whf» slew all the first-born of the Egyptians, passed over the houses 
of the Israelites, without entering them. See Exodus xii. The 
Feast cf Pentecost v/as so called, Irom a word meaning the fiftieth, 
because it wa^ celebrated on the fiftieth day after the Passover, and 
W5^s instituted in commemoration of the giving of the Law from 
Mv unt Sinai, on the fiftieth day from the departure out of Egypt. 
It \« also called the Feast of Weeks, because it was kept seven 
wet ks after the Passover. See Exodus xxxiv. 22, Leviticus xxiii. 
15 — 21, Deuteronomy xvi. 9, 10. The Feast of Tabernacles, or 
Feast of Tentj, was so called, because it was celebrated under tents 
or tabernacles of green boughs ; and was designed to commemorat© 



GLOSS ART. 3G1 

their dwelling in tents, during their passage through the wilderness, 
At this Feast, they also returned thanks to God, for the fruits of the 
earth, after they had been gathered. See Exodus xxiii. 16, Leviti- 
cus xxiii. 34 — 44, Deuteronomy xvi. 13, and also St. John vii. 2. 

Fire blight, a disease in the pear, and some other fruit trees, in which 
they appear burnt, as if by fire. It is supposed, by some, to be 
caused by an insect others suppose it to be caused by an over^ 
abundance of sap. 

Fluting-iron, an instrument for making flutes, channels, furrows, oi 
hollows, in ruffles, &c. 

Foundation muslin, a nice kind of buckram, stiff and white, used foi 
the foundation or basis of bonnets, &c. 

Free States, those States in which slavery is not allowed, as distin- 
guished from Slave States, in which slavery does exist. 

French chalk, a variety of the mineral called talc, unctuous to the 
touch, of a greenish color, glossy, soft, and easily scratched, and 
leaving a silvery line, when drawn on paper. It is used for mark- 
ing on cloth, and extracting grease-spots. 

TuUer's earth, a species of clay, remarkable for its property of ab- 
sorbing oil ; for which reason it is valuable for extracting grease 
from cloth, &c. It is used by fullers, in scouring and cleansing 
cloth, whence its name. 

Fustic, the wood of a tree which grows in the West Indies, called 
Morus tinctoria. It affords a durable, but not very brilliant, yellow 
dye, and is also used in producing some greens and drab colors. 

Gastric, (from the Greek yaori^q, gaster, the belly,) belonging or re- 
lating to the belly, or stomach. Gastric juice, the fluid which dis- 
solves the food in the stomach. It is limpid, like watei, of a saltish 
taste, and without odor. 

Geology, the science which treats of the earth, as composed of rocks 
and stones. 

Gore, a triangular piece of cloth. Goring, cut in a trianpilar shape. 

Gothic, a peculiar and strongly-marked style of architecture, some- 
times called the ecclesiastical style, because it is most frequently 
used in cathedrals, churches, abbeys, and other religious edifices. 
Its principle seems to have originated in the imitation of groves 
and bowers, under which the ancients performed their sacred 
rites ; its clustered pillars and pointed arches very well represent- 
ing the trunks of trees and their interlocking branches. 

Gourmand, or Gormand, a glutton, a greedy eater. In agriculture, it 
is applied to twigs which take up the sap, but bear only leaves. 

Green vitriol, see Copperas. 

Griddle, an iron pan, of a peculiarly broad and shallow construction, 
used for baking cakes. 

Chround-plan, the map or plan of the lower floor of any building, in 
which the various apartments, windows, doors, fireplaces, and 
other things, are represented, like the rivers, towns, mountains, 
roads, &c., on a map. 

Gum Arabic, a vegetable juice which exudes through the bark of the 
Acacia, Mimosa nilotica, and some other similar trees, growing in 
Arabia, Egypt, Senegal, and Central Africa It is the purest of all 
gums. 

Hardpan, the hard, unbroken layer of earth, below the mould or cul- 
tivated soil. 

Hartshorn, (spirits of,) a volatile alkali, originally prepared from the 



362 GLOSSART. 

horns of the stag or hart, but now procured from various otiier 
substances. It is known by the name of ammonia, or spirits of 
ammonia. 

Hemlock, see Cicuta. 

Horticulturist, one skilled in horticulture, or the art of cultivating 
gardens , horticulture being to the garden, what agriculture is to 
the farm, the application of labor and science to a limited spot, 
for convenience, for profit, or for ornament, — though implying a 
higher state of cultivation, than is common in agriculture. It in- 
cludes the cultivation of culinary vegetables and of fruits, and 
forcing or exotic gardening, as far as respects useful products. 

Hos/iin's gloves, gloves made by a person named Hoskin, whose 
manufacture was formerly much celebrated. 

Hydrogen, a very light, inflammable gas, of which water is, in part, 
composed. It is used to inflate balloons. 

Hypochondriasis, melancholy, dejection, a disorder of the imagination, 
in which the person supposes he is afflicted with various diseases. 

Hysteria, or hysterics, a spasmodic, convulsive afiection of the nerves, 
to which women are subject. It is somewhat similar to hypochon- 
driasis in men. 

Ingrain, a kind of carpeting, in which the tlireads are dyed in the 
grain, or raw material, before manufacture. 

Ipecac, (an abbreviation of ipecacuanha,) an Indian medicinal plant, 
acting as an emetic. 

Isinglass, a fine kind of gelatin, or glue, prepared from the swimming- 
bladders of fishes, used as a cement, and also as an ingredient in 
food and medicine. The name is sometimes applied to a trans- 
parent mineral substance called mica. 

Kamtscha dales, inhabitants of Kamtschatka, a large peninsula situ- 
ated on the northeastern coast of Asia, having the North Pacific 
Ocean on the east. It is remarkable for its extreme cold, which is 
heightened by a range of very lofty mountains, extending the 
whole length of the peninsula, several of which are volcanic. It 
is very deficient in vegetable productions, but produces a great 
variety of animals, from which the richest and most valuable furs 
are procured. The inhabitants are in general below the common 
height, but have broad shoulders and large heads. It is under the 
dominion of Russia. 

Kink, a knotty twist in a thread or rope. 

Lapland, a country at the extreme north part of Europe, where it is 
very cold. It contains lofty mountains, some of which are covered 
with perpetual snow and ice. 

Latin, the language of the Latins, or inhabitants of Latium, the principal 
country of ancient Italy. After the building of Rome, that city 
became the capital of the whole country. 

Leguminous, pod-bearing. 

Lent, a fast of the Christian Church, (lasting forty days, froin Ash 
Wednesday to Easter,) in commemoration of our Saviour's miracu- 
lous fast of forty days and forty nights, in the wilderness. The 
word Lent means spring ; this fast always occurring at that season 
of the year. 

Levite, one of the tribe of Levi, the son of Jacob, which tribe was set 
apart from the others, to minister in the services of the Tabernacle, 
and the Temple at Jerusalem. The Priests were taken from this 
tribe. See Numbers i. 47 — 53. 



* GLOSSARY. 363 

Ley, water which has percolated through ashes, earth, or other sub- 
stances, dissolving and imbibing a part of their contents. It is 
generally spelled tie, or lye. 

Linnceus, (Charles,) a native of Sweden, and the most celebrated 

' naturalist of his age. He was born May 13, 1707, and died Janu- 
ary 11, 1778. His life was devoted to the study of natural history. 
The science of botany, in particular, is greatly indebted to his la- 
bors. His ' Amcenitates Academiccs ' (Academical Recreations) is a 
collection of the dissertations of his pupils, edited by himself; a 
work rich in matters relating to the history and habits of plants. 
He was the first who arranged Natural History into a regular sys- 
tem, which has been generally called by his name. His proper 
name was Linne, 

Lobe, a division, a distinct part; generally applied to the two divisions 
of the lungs. 

Log Cabin, a cabin or house built of logs, as is generally the case in 
newly-settled countries. 

Loire, the largest river of France, being about five hundred and fifty 
miles in length. It rises in the mountains of Cevennes, and empties 
into the Atlantic Ocean, about forty miles below the city of Nantes. 
It divides France into tv/o almost equal parts. 

London Medical Society, a distinguished association, formed in 1773. 
It has published some valuable volumes of its Transactions. It has 
a library, of about 40,000 volumes, which is kept in a house pre- 
sented to the Society, in 1788, by the celebrated Dr. LettSom, who 
was one of its first members. 

Louis XIV., a celebrated King of France and Navarre, who was born 
Sept. 5, 1638, and died Sept. 1, 1715. His mother having before had 
no children, though she had been married twenty-two years, his birth 
was considered as a particular favor from heaven, and he was called 
the ' Gift of God.' He is sometimes styled * Louis the Great,' and 
his reign is celebrated as an era of magnificence and learning, and 
is notorious as a period of licentiousness. He left behind him 
monuments of unprecedented splendor and expense, consisting of 
palaces, gardens, and other like works. 

Lumbar, (from the Latin lumbus, the loin,) relating or pertaining to 
the loins. 

Lunacy, writ of, a judicial proceeding, to ascertain whether a person 
be a lunatic. 

Mademoiselle, the French word for Miss, a young girl. 

Magnesia, a light and white alkaline earth, which enters into the 
composition of many rocks, communicating to them a greasy or 
soapy feeling, and a striped texture, with sometimes a greenish 
color. 

Malaria, (Italian, maVaria, had air,) a noxious vapor or exhalation ; a 
state of the atmosphere or soil, or both, which, in certain regions, 
and in warm weather, produces fever, sometimes of great violence. 

Mammon, riches, the Syrian god of riches. See .St. Luke, xvi. 11, 
13, St. Matthew, vi. 24. 

Martineau, (Harriet,) a woman who has become somewhat celebrated 
by her book of travels in the United States, and by other works. 

Mexico, a country situated southwest of the United States, and ex- 
tending to the Pacific Ocean. 

Miasms, such particles or atoms, as are supposed to arise from dis- 
tempered, putrefying, or poisonous bodies. 



364 GLOSSARY. 

Michilimackinac, or Mackinac^ (now frequentljjr corrupted into Mack 
inaic, wliicli is the usual pronunciation of the name,) a military 
post in the State of Michigan, situated upon an island about nine 
miles in circuit, in the strait which connects Lakes Michigan and 
Huron. It is mucli resorted to by Indians and iur traders. TJxe 
higiiest summit of the island is about three hundred feet above the 
lakes, and commands an extensive view of them. 

Midsummer, with us, the time when the sun arrives at bis greatest 
distance from the equator, or about the twenty -first of June, 
called, also, the summer solstice, (from 'the Latin sol, the sun, 
and sto, to stop or stand still,) because, when the sun reaches 
this point, he seems to stand still for some time, and then ap- 
pears to retrace his steps. The days are then longer than at 
any other time. 

Migrate, to remove from one place to another j to cliange residence. 

MUdew, a disease of plants ; a mould, spot, or stain, in paper, cloths, 
&c., caused by moisture. 

Militate, to oppose, to operate against. 

Milliiict, a coarse kind of stiff muslin, formerly used for the founda- 
tion or basis of bonnets, &c. 

Mineralogy, a science which treats of the inorganic natural substances 
found upon or in the earth, such as earths, salts, metals, &c., and 
whicii are called by the general name of minerals. 

Minutiae, the smallest particulars. 

Monasticism, monastic life ; religiously recluse life, in a monastery, 
or house of religious retirement. 

Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley, one of the most celebrated among the 
female literary characters of England. She was daughter of Eve- 
lyn, Duke of Kingston, and was born about 1690, at Thoresby, in 
England. She displayed uncommon abilities, at a very early age, 
and was educated by the best masters in the English, Latin, Greek, 
and French, languages. She accompanied her husband (Edward 
Wortley Montagu) on an embassy to Constantinople, and her cor- 
respondence with her friends was published and much admired. 
She introduced the practice of inoculation for the smallpox into 
England, which proved of great benefit to millions. She died at 
the age of seventy-two, A. D. ]762. 

Moral Philosophy, the science which treats of the motives and rules 
of human actions, and of the ends to which they ought to te di- 
rected. 

Moreen, a kind of woollen stuff used for curtains, covers of cushions, 
bed hangings, &c. 

Mucous, having the nature of mucus, a glutinous, sticky, thready, 
transparent fluid, of a salt savor, produced by different membranes 
of the body, and serving to protect the membranes and other in- 
ternal parts against the action of the air, food, &c. The fluid of 
the mouth and nose is mucus. 

Mucous membrane, that membrane which lines the mouth, nose, in- 
testines, and other open cavities of the body. 

Muriatic acid, an acid, composed of chlorine and hydrogen, called 
also, hydrochloric acid, and spirit of salt. 

Mush-stick, a stick to use in stirring mush, which is corn meal boiled, 
in water. 

Kankeen, or Kankin, a light cotton cloth, originally brought from 
Nankin, in China, whence its name. 



GLOSSARY. 365 

JVa5/i, (Ri<:hard,) commonly called Beau JVash, or King of Bath, a 
celebrated leader of the fashions in England. He was born at 
Swansea, in South Wales, October 8, 1674, and died in the city of 
Bath, (England,) February 3, 1761. 

JYaturaL History, the history of animals, plants, and minerals. 

Natural Plulosophy, the science which treats of the powers of Nature, 
the properties of natural bodies, and their action one upon another. 
It is sometimes called physics. 

J^ew-milck cow, a cow which has recently calved, 

Kewtoa, (Sir Isaac,) an eminent English philosopher and mathemati- 
cian, who was born on Christmas day, 1642, and died March 20, 
1727. He was much distinguished for his very important discove- 
ries in Optics and other branches of Natural Philosophy. See the 
first volume of ' Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties,' forming 
the fourteenth volume of 'The School Librarv,' Larger Series. 

JYoii-bearers, plants which bear no flowers nor fruit. 

J^ortltern States, those of the United States situated in the Northern 
and Eastern part of the Country. 

Ordinary, see Physician in Ordinary. 

Oil of Vitriol, (sulphuric acid, or vitriolic acid,) an acid composed of 
oxygen and sulphur. 

Orleans, (Elizabeth Charlotte de Baviere,) Duchess of, second wife of 
Philippe, the brother of Louis XIV., was born at Heidelberg, May 
26, 1652, and died at the palace of St. Cloud, in taris, December 8, 
1722. She was author of several works; among which were. Me 
uioirs, and Anv'fcdotes, of the Court of Louis XIV. 

Ottoman, a kind of hassock, or thick mat, for kneeling upon; so called, 
from being used by the Ottomans or Turks. 

Oxalic acid, a vegetable acid, which exists in sorrel. 

Oxide, a compound (which is not acid) of a substance with oxygen; 
for example, oxide of iron, or rust of metals. 

Oxidize, to combine oxygen with a body without producing acidity. 

Oxygen, vital air, a simple and very important substance, which exists 
in tJie atmosphere, and supports the breathing of animals and the 
burning of combustibles. It was called oxygen, from two Greek 
words, signifying to produce acid, from its power of giving acidity 
to many compounds in which it predominates. 

Oxygenized, combined with oxygen. 

Pancreas, a gland within the abdomen, just below and behind the 
stomach, and providing a fluid to assist digestion. In animals, it is 
called the sweet-bread. Pancreatic, belonging to the pancreas. 

Parterre, a level division of ground, a flower garden. 

Pearlash, the common name for impure carbonate of potash, which, 
in a purer form, is called Sal ceratiis. 

Peristaltic, worm-like. 

Philosophy, see Intellectual, Moral, and JVatural. 

Physician in Ordinary to the Queen, the Physician who attends the 
Queen in ordinary cases of illness. 

Pistil, that part of a flower, generally in the centre, composed of 
the germ, style, and stigma, which receives the pollen or fertilizing 
dust of the stamens. 

Pitt, William, h celebrated English statesman, son of the Earl of 
Chatham. He was born, May 28, 1759, and at the age of twenty- 
three, was made Chancellor of the Exchequer, and soon aflerward, 
Prime Minister. He died, January 23, 1806. 

31* D. E, 



366 GLOSSARY. 

Political Economy, the science which treats of the general causes 
atiecting the production, distribution, and consumption, of articles 
of exchangeable value, in reference to their effects upon national 
wealth and welfare. 

Pollen, the fertilizing dust of flowers, produced by the stamens, and 
falling upon the pistils, in order to render a flower capable of pro- 
ducing fruit or seed. 

Potter's claij, the clay used in making articles of pottery. 

Prairie, a French word, signifying vieadoio. In the United States, it 
is applied to the remarkable natural meadows, or plains, which are 
found in the Western States. In some of these vast and nearly 
level plains, the traveller may Avander for days, without meeting 
with wood or water, and see no object rising above the plane of the 
horizon. They are very fertile. 

Prime Minister, the person appointed by the ruler of a nation to have 
the chief direction and management of the public affairs. 

Process, a protuberance, or projecting part of a bone. 

Pulmonary, belonging to, or affecting, the lungs. Pulmonary artery, 
an artery which passes through the lungs, being divided ^into seve- 
ral branches, which form a beautiful network over the air-vessels, 
and finally empty themselves into the left auricle of the heart. 

Puritans, a sect, which professed to follow the pure word of God, in 
opposition to ti'aditions, human constitutions, and other authorities. 
In the reign of Queen Elizabeth, part of the Protestants were de- 
sirous of introducing a simpler, and, as they considered it, a purer, 
form of church government and worship, than that established by 
law ; from which circumstance, they were called Puritans. In pro- 
cess of time, this party increased in numbers, and openly broke off 
from the Church, laying aside the English liturgy, and adopting a 
service-book published at Geneva, by the disciples of Calvin. 
They were treated with great rigor by the Government, and many of 
them left the kingdom and settled in Holland. Finding themselves 
not so eligibly situated in that Country, as they had expected to be, 
a portion of them embarked for America, and v.'ere the first settlers 
of New England. 

Quixotic, al)surd, romantic, ridiculous ; from Don Quixote, the hero of 
a celebrated fictitious work, written by Cervantes, a distinguished 
Spanish writer, and intended to reform the tastes and opinions of 
his countrymen. 

Reeking, smoking, emitting vapor. 

Residuum, the remainder, or part which remains. 

Routine, a round, or course of engagements, business, pleasure, &c. 

To Run a seam, to lay the two edges of a seam together, and pass the 
threaded needle out and in, with small stitches, a few threads be- 
low the edge, and on a line with it. 

To Run a stocking, to pass a thread of yarn, with a needle, straight 

ji»41ong each row of the stocking, as far as is desired, taking up one 
loop and missing two or three, until the row is completed, so as to 
double the thickness at the part which is run. 

Sabbatical year, evory seventh year, among the Jews, which was a 
year of rest for the land, when it was to be left without culture. 

"it^In this year, all debts were to be remitted, and slaves set at liberty. 

-''See Exodus xxi. 2, xxiii. 10, Leviticus xxv. 2,3, &c., Deuteronomy 

(bsv. 12, and other similar passages. 
Sal aratus, see Pearlash. 



GLOSSARY. 36T 

Sal ammomac^ a salt, called also muriate of ammonia, which derives 
its name from a district in Libya, Egypt, where there was a tem- 
ple of Jupiter Ammon, and where this salt was found. 

Sc&tch Highlanders^ inhabitants of the Highlands of Scotland. 

Selvedge^ the edge of cloth, a border. Improperly written selvage. 

Service-book^ a book prescribing the order of public services in a 
church or congregation. 

Sharps^ see Blunts. 

Shorts, the coarser part of wheat bran. 

Shrubbery, a plantation of shrubs. 

Siberia, a large country in the extreme northern part of Asia, haviiig 
the Frozen Ocean on the north, and the Pacific Ocean on the east, 

■ and forming a part of the Russian empire. The northern part is 
extremely cold, almost uncultivated, and contains but few inhabit- 
ants. It furnishes fine skins, and some of the most valuable furs 
in the world. It also contains rich mines of iron and copper, and 
several kinds of precious stones. 

Sinclair, Sir John, of whom it was said, " There is no greater name 
in the annals of agriculture, than his," was born in Caithness, Scot- 
land, May 10, 1754, and became a member of the British Parlia- 
ment in 1780. He was strongly opposed to the measures of the 
British Government towards America, which produced the Amer- 
ican Revolution. He was author of many valuable publications, 
on various subjects. He died December 21, 1835. 

Sirloin, the loin of beef. The appqllation ' Sir ' is the title of a 
knight, or baronet ; and has been added to the word ' loin,' when 
applied to beef, because a Kir^g of England, in a freak of good hu- 
mor, once conferred the honor of knighthood upon a loin of beef. 

Slack, to loosen, to relax, to deprive of cohesion. 

Soda, an alkali, usually obtained from the ashes of marine plants. 

To Spade, to throw out earth with a spade. 

Spermaceti, an oily substance, found in the head of a species of whale, 
called the spermaceti whale. 

Spindling, see page 124, 

Spinous process, a process or bony protuberance, resembling a spine or 
thorn, whence it derives its name. 

Spool, a piece of cane or reed, or a hollow cylinder of wood, with a 
ridge at each end, used to wind yarn and thread upon. 

Sta,men, (plural stamens and stamina,) in 2ceaving, the warp, the 
thread, any thing made of threads. In botany, that part of a flow- 
er, on which the artificial classification is founded, consisting of the 
filament or stalk, and the anther, which contains the pollen, or 
fructifying powder. 

Stigma, (plural stigmas and stigmata,) the summit or top of the pistil 
of a flower. 

Style, or Stile, the part of the pistil between the germ and the stigma. 

Sub-carbonate, an imperfect carbonate. 

Sulphates, Sulphats, Sulphites, salts formed by the combination of 
some base with sulphuric acid, as Sulphate of copper, (blue vitriol, 
or blue stone,) a combination of sulphuric acid with copper. 
Sulphate of iron, copperas, or green vitriol. Sulphate of lime, gyp- 
sum, or plaster of Paris. Sulphate of magnesia, Epsom salts. 
Sulphate of potash, a chemical salt, composed of sulphuric acid and 
potash. Sulphate of soduy Glauber's salts. Sulphate of zinc, white 
vitriol. 



368 GLOSSARY. 

Sulphuret, a combination of an alkaline earth or metal with sulphur 

as, SuJphurct of iron, a combination of iron and sulphur. 
Sulphuric acid, oil of vitriol, vitriolic acid. 
Suture, a sewing ; the uniting of parts by stitching; the seam or joint 

which unites the flat bones of the skull, which are notclied like the 

teeth of a saw, and the notches, being united together, present the 

appearance of a seam. 
Tartar, a substance, deposited on the inside of wine casks, consisting 

chiefly of tartaric acid and potass. Cream of tartar, the crude tar- 
tar separated from all its impurities, by being dissolved in water and 

then crystallized, when it becomes a perfectly white powder. 
Tartaric acid, a vegetable acid vi^hich exists in the grape. 
Technologij, a description of the arts, considered generally, in their 

theory and practice, as connected with moral, political, and physical 

science. 
Three great Jewish yearly festivals, see Festivals. 
Three-ply, or triple ingrain, a kind of carpeting, in which the threads 

are woven in such a manner as to make three thicknesses of the cloth. 
Tic douloureux, a painful affection of tlie nerves, mostly those of the 

face. 
Tocqueville, (Alexis de,) a celebrated living statesman and writer of 

France, and author of volumes on the Political Condition, and the 

Penitentiaries, of the United States, and other works. 
Trachea, the windpipe, so named (from a Greek word signifying 

rough) from the roughness, or inequalities, of the cartilages of which 

it is formed. 
Truckle-bed, or trundle-bed, a bed that runs on wheels. 
Tuber, a solid, fleshy, roundish root, like the potato. Ttiberous, thick 

and fleshy ; composed of, or having, tubers. 
Tucks, (improperly tacks,) folds in garments. 
Turmeric, the root of a plant called Curcuma longa, a native of the 

East Indies, used as a yellow dye. 
Twaddle, idle, foolish talk, or conversation. 
Unbolted, unsifted. 
Unslached, not loosened, or deprived of cohesion. Lime, when it has 

been slacked, crumbles to powder, from being deprived of cohesion. 
Valance, the drapery or fringe hanging round the cover of a bed, 

couch, or other similar article. 
Vascular, relating to, or full of, vessels. 
Venetian, a kind of carpeting, composed of a striped woollen warp on 

a thick woof of linen thread. 
Verisimilitude, probability, resemblance to truth. 
Verbatim, word for word. 
Vice versa, the side being changed, or the question reversed, or the 

terms being exchanged. 
Viscera, (plural of viscus,) organs contained in the abdomen and in 

the chest. 
Vitriol, a compound mineral salt, of a very caustic taste. Blue vitriol^ 

sulphate of copper. Green vitriol, see Copperas. Oil of vitriol, s\x\- 

phuric acid. JVhite vitriol, s\i\pha.ie of 7.\nc. 
Waffle-iron, an iron utensil for the purpose of baking waffles, which 

are thin and soft cakes indented by the iron in which they are baked. 
Washlcather, a soft, pliable leather, dressed with oil, and in sucli a way, 

that it msy' be washed, without shrinking. It is used for various 

articles of dress, as under-shirts, drawers, &c., and also for rubbing 



GLOSSARY. 369 

silver, and other articles having a high polish. The article known, 
in commerce, as chamois, or shammy, leather, is also called wash- 
leather. 

Welting cord, a cord sewed into the welt or border of a garment. 

The (Vest, or Western World. When used in Europe, or in distinc- 
tion from the Eastern World, it means America. When used in 
this Country, the West refers to the Western States of the Union. 
Western Wilds, the wild, thinly-settled lands of the Western States. 

White vitriol, see Zinc. 

Wilton carpet, a kind of carpets, made in England, and so called from 
the place which is the chief seat of their manufacture. They are 
woollen velvets, with variegated colors. 

Writ of lunacy, see Lunacy. 

Xantippe,the wife of Socrates, noted for her violent temper and scold- 
ing propensities. The name is frequently applied to a shrew, or 
peevish, turbulent, scolding woman. 

Zinc, a blueish-white metal, which is used as a constituent of brass, 
and some other alloys. Sulphate of zinc, or White vitriol^ a combina- 
tion of zinc with sulphuric acid. 



edo 



-iImiv/ bdUfi'. 






INDEX. 



■ '■J'.r.- k:o ■\'i(\ii'. 'ij^^rtlo,- 

^^A«!^6rb^n«s'(^thfe'Bkfe, 9S, 119. 

Accidents and antidotes, 240. 
"Accounts, p4. 186. By girls, 188. 
''Ae{as,-819. ■ ^ ' 

Africans, diet of, 221. 

Air, evils of the want of pure, 91, 
129, 196, 311. Exercise m the, 
129, 133. For infants, 217, 218. 
Of sick-rooms, 237. Dancing 
in the, 246. See Ventilation. 

Albany Orphan Asylum, 222. 

Alcoholic drinks, 107. See Stim- 
ulating. 

Alton, account of the Monticello 
Female Seminary at, 54. 

Amaryllis, 3.35. 

America, anticipations as to, 36. 
Conspicuous station of, 36. 
Changeableness in the con- 
ditions in, 40, 46, 48, 257. La- 
bor in, 147. 

American women, peculiar re- 
sponsibilities of, 25. Rights 
and privileges of, 27. Their 
distinct line of duty, 28, 32, 33. 
Influence of, on America, 32, 
33. Their equality, 33. Fan-' 
cied wrongs of, 33. Part-to be 
acted by, 36. Influence of, in 
the world, 37, 38. Difficulties 
peculiar to, 3d ; as housekeep- 
ers, 39, 151 , 204 ; from delicacy 
of constitution, 41, 45, 47, 128. 
Few perfectly healthy, 43. 
Causes of unhealthy, 43, 128; 
mental excitement, 43 ; their 
sense of their responsibilities, 
44 ; too little out-door exercise, 
44. Bad early training of, 45. 
Exposures of, in newly-settled 
countries, 46. De Tocqueville 



describes, in the West, 46. In 
the East and in the West, com- 
pared, 47. Should oppose the 
feeling that labor is degrading, 
61. Precedence given to, by 
the other sex, 141. Housekeep- 
ing by, 151. Time and money 
spent by, for the ornamental, 
175. See Daughters, Females, 
Mothers, and Women. 

Amusements, 244, 250. 

Anemone, 335. 

Anger, on silence in, 152. See 
Temper, and Tones. 

Animal food, 99, ] 00. For young 
children, 220. Nourishment or^ 
221. See Food. 

Animals, cruelty to, in sport, 244, 
246. 

Annual flowers, 337. 

Anthracite coal, 281. 

Ants, red and black, 323. 

Anxiety, a countenance of, 149. 

Appetites, gratification of the, 159, 
171, 172. Pvule as to, 184. 

Apple trees, preserving from in- 
sects, 350. 

Apportionment of time, 157, 160, 
181. By regular division of 
work, 162. Jewish, 181. 

Aristocracy, English, 27, 123 
The prejudice of, as to labor, 
6t, 123. Distinguishing mark 
of, 123. On aping the, 124. 
Courtesy of, limited, 1 39. Man- 
ners of democracy and, 146 
On economy among the, 194 
Domestics of, 205. 

Arm, muscles of the, 74, 75. 

Arsenic, poisoning from, 242. 

Arteries, tying up, 240. 

Associated charities, 178. 



INDEX. 



Association, in Illinois, for educa- 
ting poor females, 59. For ed- 
ucation at large, 203. 

Astral lamps, 282. 

B. 

Back-door accommodations, 276. 

Baglivi, on health during Lent, 
100. 

Balls, 247, 248. 

Bargains, on making, 190, 194. 

Baskets, 321. For centre tables, 
354. 

Bath, on using the, 120. 

Bathing infants, 21 7. See Wash- 
ing. 

Bathing-rooms, 276. 

Beating down prices, 190, 194. 

Beaumont, Dr., experiments by, 
on the digestibility of food, 104, 
note. 

Beauty, effect of exercise on, 132. 

Bed-bugs, 323. 

Bedrooms, care of, 311. 

Beds and bedding, 114, 313, 329. 
Washing, 287. On making, 
314. 

Beefs-gall, uses of, 286, 289. To 
prepare, 292. 

Bell, Sir Charles, on nerves, 129. 

Benevolence, happiness of, 131. 
See Charity. 

Bile, 89. 

Bituminous coal, 281. 

Black ants, 323. 

Black tea, 110. 

Bleeding at the lungs, 243. 

Blindness, guarding against, 217, 
283. 

Blisters, on dressing, 238. 

Blood, details as to the circulation 
of the, 83. Effect of daylight 
on the, 124; of exercise, 132. 
Crowded to the brain, when one 
is excited, 195. When a cause 
of mental disease, 196. Stop- 
ping, 240, 243. When dancing, 
246. See Circulation. 

Blood-vessels, 81. 

Blows on the head, 241. 

Boarding-houses, plan as to ex- 
penses of, 186. 

Boarding schools, curvature of 
the spine common at, 41 . See 
Female seminaries. 
32 



Boards for ironing, 294. 

Body, change and renovation of 
the, 91. Connection of mind 
and, 195. See Mind. 

Boldness in domestics, 209. 

Bones, described, 69. 

Books, on teaching domestic econ- 
omy from, 65. 

Bosom-boards, 294. 

Boston, scientific and literary ad- 
vantages in, 147. 

Bowels, 235, 237, note. 

Boys, small, made useful, 164. 
Domestic arts taught to, 164. 
See Children. 

Brain, excitement of the, 195. 
Over-action of the, 197. 

Breakfast, 103. On late, 127. 
On the care of, and of dining- 
rooms, 306. 

Broadcloths, cleansing, 289. 

Broken limbs, 240. 

Brown linens, washing, 288. 

Bruises, 240. 

Budding, hints on, 342. 

Bulbs, 335. 

Bulwer's novels, 234. 

Burne, Dr., cited, 235. 

Burns, treatment of, 241. 

Buttonholes, 324. 

Byron, Lo^, 200, 201. 

C. 

Cakes, keeping till meal time, 223. 

Calicoes, washing, 286, 287. Iron- 
ing, 295. 

Calisthenics, 56, 247. 

Candles, 281. To make, 283. 

Caps for infants, 217. 

Carpets, hints as to, 302. 

Carving, 310. 

Castle building, 199. 

Cathartics, 235, 237. 

Catholics, health of, during Lent, 
100. 

Cellars, vegetables in dark, 124, 
On the care of, 322. 

Chambers, care of, 31 1 . Couches 
for, 312. Furniture for, 313. 

'Character, attention to, at school, 
58. Dependence of happiness 
on, 169. Self-denying benevo 
lence of Christ's, 169. 

(pharcoal, 242, 281. 

Charity, 131. On giving in, 158 



INDEX. 



JJifliculty respecting, 167. Gen 
eral principles respecting, 168. 
Objects tor receiving, 176. For 
souls ol'men, 177. By furnish- 
ing the poor with means of 
earning support, I7d. Associa- 
tions for, J 76. Indiscriminate 
bestowal of, 178. Benefit of 
tracts in distributing, 17i). On 
judging of otJier j)eople's, 181). 
Union of, with social enjoy- 
ments, |S4. 

Cheap articles, hints on, 190, H)4. 

Children, washing, 121, 122. Liv- 
ing in tiie dark, 124. Early re- 
tiring and rising of, 126. Cul- 
tivation of good manners in, 
141,142. Too great familiarity 
with, 143, 226. Should ac- 
knowledge acts of kindness, 
143; ask leave to use ot'>ere' 
articles, 143; avoid "^ounoii:?^ 
others' feelings, ^-^S- To he 
taught to keep silence, "P-JS, 2S0. 
Do not surround with toe many 
rules, 145. On making allow- 
ances for, 154. Waiting on, 1 63 
On making useful, 163, 252. 
On paying, for services, 164, 
230. On giving younger, to 
older, 165. Precocity in, 198. 
Eating too often, 223. To be 
guarded as to honesty, deceit, 
and running in debt, 232. Shar- 
ing fruits and flowers, 251. See 
Boys, Female, Girls, andYoung 
children. 

Chinmeys, smoky, 352. 

Christ's character, 169. 

Christianity, principles of, identi- 
cal with democratic, 25, 34. 

Churches, ill-ventilated, 196. 

Chyle, 89. Converted into arte- 
rial blood, 90. From animal 
and other food, 99. 

Cincinnati, education in, 148. 

Circulation, in the skin of infants, 
113. Effect of cold on, 113, 
118,119. .S'cc Blood. 

Clark, Dr., on animal diet for 
very young children, 220. 

Cleaning carpets, 303. 

Cleanliness, on realizing the im- 
portance o£f 118. Ot the sick, 
238. 



Cleansing articles, 293. 

Climbing plants, 339. 

Closets, of conveniences, 162. 
Sliding, 278. For washing 
utensils, 285. In eating-rooms, 
306. In kitchens, 322. 

Clotiiing and clotlies, 112. Defi- 
ciency ol, 113, I2.^ Excess of, 
1 14. Rule as to, 1 14. Flannel, 
114, 115. Of men and women, 
compared, 115. Example of 
English women as to, 117. On 
changing, next to the body, 120. 
Girls buying their own, 188. 
On inconsistent, 189. On wash- 
ing, 2j5. Ironing, 295. Whiten- 
ing, 2;)6. Cleansing, 298. 
Coloring, 300. See Dress, a7id 
Tight dressing 

Coal, 281. 

Coats, on folding, 315. 

Cobalt, poisoning from, 242. 

Cockroaches, 323. 

Coffee, see Tea. 

Cold, on exposure to, 113, 113. 
Effect of, on infants, 114. 

Cold and hot, food, 103. Drinks, 
110. 

Collecting of specimens, 253. 

Colleges, on the endowment of, 
51. On physicians in, 198. 

Colors, coloring and, 300. For 
different complexions, 327. 

Combe, Andrew, on drinks, 111. 
On exercising the brain, 199. 
On infants, 214. On animal 
food, 221. 

Complexions, colors for the differ- 
ent, 327. 

Condiments in food, 99 

Constipation, 235, 237, note. 

Constitution, delicacy of, in Amer- 
ican females, 41, 45, 47 ; causes 
of it, 45, 1 28. On early attention 
to the, 49. Duties of wealthy 
mothers, respecting their chil- 
dren's, 50. Effect of stimula- 
ting drinks on the, 107. 

Conveniences, on providing, 162. 
For cooking, 319. See Closets. 

Convivial meetings, on exposures 
after, 119, 247. 

Cooking, food made unhealthy by. 
99, iG^l. Conveniences wanted 
for, 319. 

D. E. 



INDEX. 



Cooper, Sir Astley, cited, 195. 
Corrosive sublimate, poisoning 

from, 241. 
Corsets, 116. 
Couches, cheap, 312. 
Courtesy, want of,l 37, 141 ; causes 

of it, 138, 148. See Democracy. 
Cows, to take care of, 352. 
Creeping of infants, 219. 
Cribs for infants, 218. 
Crickets, 323. 
Crockery, 319. 
Crocus, 335. 
Crown Imperial, 335. 
Cruelty in amusements, 244, 246. 
Crying of infants, 219. 
Curculios, 351. 
Currants, 348, 350. 
Curtains, 302, 304. 
Curvature, see Spine. 
Cuts, remedies for, 240. 
Cutting and sewing, 324, 328. 
Cuvier, cited, 220. 

D. 

Daffodils, 336. 

Dahlias, 336. 

Dancing, 245, 246. 

Daughters, on schooling, 48. On 
keeping, as domestic assistants, 
60. Educated to domestic work, 
67. See Female, an^d. Girls. 

Day, on converting jnto night, 
123. Influence of, on vegeta 
bles and blood, 124. 

Debt, on running into, 232. 

Democracy, principles of, identi- 
cal with Christian, 25, 34. Ten- 
dencies of, as to the female sex, 
27. On progress towards, 34. 
On what the success of, de- 
pends, 36. Of early rising, 123. 
Courtesy of manners and, 138, 
140, 146. 

Derangement, from over-excite- 
ment, 197. 

Diet, see Food. 

Difficulties, peculiar to American 
women, 38. On estimating 
them justly, 39, 151. Remedies 
for, 48, 151. 

Digestion, organs of respiration 
and, 87. Details respecting, 94. 
Articles easiest for, 101, 104. 
Experiments respecting, 104. 



Bulk of food necessary to, 105. 
Impeded by bathing, 121. 

Dining-rooms, care of, 306. 

Dinner, setting table for, 309. 

Dirt not healthy, 118. 

Dish-cloths, 317. 

Dishes, on washing, 318. 

Dolls, benefits from, 254. 

Domestic amusements, 244. 

Domestic exercise, 128. 

Domestic Economy, on raising, as 
a science, 50, 67. Reasons for 
introducing, into school, 63. On 
-teaching, iirom books, 65. In- 
dispensable part of education, 
134. 

Domestic education, importance 
of, in childhood, 48. On early 
training in, 49, 60, 67. On giv- 
ing mornings to, 49. In the 
Monticello Female Seminary, 
54. Should alternate with stud- 
ies, 60. Sufferings for want of, 
63. Many mothers unqualified 
to teach, 65. Dignity of, 67,135. 

Domestics, peculiar difficulties as 
to, in America, 40, 204. Duties 
to be done by daughters, and not 
by, 50. Blessing of a dearth 
of, 50. Without, 64. On mak- 
ing allowances for, 154, 210, 
212. Care of, 204. Of aristo- 
cratic lands, 205. Placing our- 
selves in their situation, 205, 
206. Exorbitant wages of, 205. 
Instability and discontent of, 
and the remedy, 206. Pride 
and insubordination of, and the 
remedy, 207, 208. On calling 
them servants, 207. Admitted 
to the table, 209. Bold and for- 
ward, 209. Dress and rooms 
of, 209, 210. Deficiencies of, 
and the remedies, 210. Getting 
away, 211. Finding fault with, 
211. Patience with, 212. Re- 
gard to, in construction of 
houses, 261. Beds for, 315. 
Doors, outside, 260, 263. 
Dress, too much attention to, 166. 
Inconsistency in, 189. Of do- 
mestics, 209. See Clothing. 
Dresses, for the domestic duties of 
school girls, 55. Colors for, 327. 
See Clothing. 



INDEX. 



Drink, during meal-time, 103. 
Drinksj on healtlitul, 106. 
Drowning, 241. 
Dumb-waiters, 27S, 306. 
Dusting, 304, 306. 
Duties, enjoyments connected 
with, 183. 

E. 

Early rising, 122. Democratic, 
123. Reasons for, 124. Time 
for, 126. Longevity and, 126. 
Effects of, on a family, 126 ; on 
tiie community, 127 ; on sys- 
tematic duty, 166. 

Earthen ware, 319. ' 

Eating, intemperance m, 94, 95. 
At any time, 96. Too fast, 101. 
Should not be followed by ex- 
ercise, 102; nor bathing, 121. 
See Food. 

Eating-rooms, care of, 306. 

Economy, on domestic, 152. Ex- 
travagance changed for, 176. 
Contradictory ideas as to, 185. 
General principles as to, 186. 
Relative obligations of rich and 
poor as to, 191. Neglect as to, 
193. Of the aristocracy, 194. 

Education in America, 147. As- 
sociations for, 203. See Female, 
and Monticello. 

Employment, for the different di- 
visions of a week, 162. On reg- 
ular, for all the family, 163. 

Enjoyments, see Amusements, and 
Happiness. 

Equality, on democratic, 25. See 
Democracy, Sexes, and Wo- 
men. 

Establishments, expensive, given 
up, 176. 

Exercise, comparative, of Ameri- 
can women and others, 44. 
Neglect of, 50, 244. Method 
for securing, at the Monticello 
Female Seminary, 54. Indis- 
pensable to the health of the 
several parts of the human 
frame, 73, 97. Of the muscles, 
76, 78, 97, 116, 128, 129. Ef- 
fect of want of, on the spine, 
78, 80. Food to be graduated 
bv, 97. After eating, bad, 102. 
Evils of want of, 129. On fur- 
nishing interesting, 131 . Walk- 



ing for, 131. In useful employ- 
ments, 131. Excessive, 132. 
Rule as to, 133. On excessive, 
of the mind and feelings, 197. 
Of the brain, 199. 

Exhalations from the skin, 92. 

Expenses, on keeping account of, 
173, J 74. Economy in, 185, 193. 
On graduating, by the income, 
186. On gentility in being care- 
less of, 193. On extravagajice 
in, 194. See Economy. 

Eyes, screening, frt»m light, 217, 
283. 



Family, on early rising in the, 
126. Fathers neglecting the, 
255. On attachments of, 256. 

Fasting in sickness, 235. 

Fathers neglecting home, 255 

Fault-finding, 211. 

Featherbeds, 114, 313. 

Feelings, inactivity of the, 199. 

Feet, on protecting the, 115, 117, 
129. Keeping those of infants, 
warm, 217. Bathing, for a 
cold, 235. 

Female association for educating 
poor females, 59. 

Female education, advantages for, 
in America, 43. Objects to be 
attended to, in, 48, 49. Impor- 
tance of mathematics in, 56. 
Should be conducted by fe- 
males, 58. Present waste in 
conducting, 60. See School. 

Female seminaries, on the endow- 
ment of, 51. Importance of, 52. 
Defects of, 53. Suitable, 53. 
M-onticello Female Seminary, 
described, 54. Division of la 
bor and responsibility in, 58. 
Requirement for admission to 
' the Monticello, 59. On pro- 
viding, 61, 68. Reasons for in- 
troducing the study of domestic 
economy into, 63. Establish- 
ment of, by a wealthy female 
202. Should have gardens 
251. 

Females, influence of, on the char- 
acter of the young, 37. Building 
schoolbouses, 202. See Ameri- 
can women. Girls, and Women 

Filberts, 348. 



INOJJX. 



Finding fault, 211. 

Finger nails, 122, 144. 

Fire, -escaping from, 243. 

Fireplaces and fires, 260, 265, 280, 
311. 

Fishing, 244. 

Flannel, 114. Utility of, 115. On 
washing, 285, 286. 

Fleas, 323. 

Flies, on destroying, 323. 

Flower baskets, 354. 

Flower seeds, on planting, 332. 

Flowers, 251, 335. Arranging, 
337. 

Fluids, on taking, 103, 104. 

Folding articles, 315. 

Follicles of the skin, 93. 

Food, on the conversion of, into 
nourishment, 87. Responsibili- 
ty as to, in a family, 94. On 
taking too much, 94, 95, 128. 
On one kind of, for each meal, 
95. Should be taken at proper 
times, 96. Strong laboring men 
need most, 96. Quantity of, to 
be graduated by exercise, 97. 
On the quality of, 98. Stimula- 
ting, 99. Animal and vegetable, 
99, 100, 220, 221. Kinds of, most 
easily digested, 101, 104, 105. 
Injurious, from bad cooking,101 . 
On eating, too fast, 101, 128. 
On exercise after taking, 102. 
On hot and cold, 103. Highly 
concentrated, ] 04. Certain bulk 
of, necessary to digestion, 105. 
For infants, 214, 216. For 
nurses, 215. Sickness from im- 
proper, 235. Preparing, for the 
sick, 239. 

Footstools, 303. 

Foreigners, employed as domes- 
tics, 40. 

Forewarning domestics, 211. ' 

Forwardness of domestics, 209. 

Franklin, Benjamin, diet of, 222. 

Frocks, to make, 326. 

Fruit, on the cultivation of, 251, 
347. To preserve, 350. 

Fuel, hints as to, 280. 

Furnaces, 260, note. 

Furniture, on costly, 163, 167., 
On inconsistent, 188. On se- 
lecting, 302. Packing of, for 
moving, 316. Kitchen, 319. 



G. 

Games of children, 253. 

Garden seeds, to plant, 333. 

Gardening, 331. 

Gardens, at female institutions, 
251. On laying out, 334. 

Gas, antidote for, 242. 

Gastric juice, 88, 94. 

Gathering, in shirts, 325. 

Girls, on sending, to school, 48, 60 
Should assist their mothers ear- 
ly, 49. Education of, at the 
IVIonticello Female Seminary, 
54. Confinement of, in school, 
133. Small, made useful, 164. 
Forming habits of system, 167 ; 
of making purchases and keep- 
ing accounts, 188. Effects of ex- 
citement on, 197. Taking care 
of infants by, 214. See Daugh- 
ters, and Females. 

Gladiolus, 335. 

Gloves, cleansing, 298. 

Godfrey, Benjamin, Female Sem- 
inary endowed by, 54. 

Gooseberries, .348, 350. 

Gothic cottage, 271. 

Government of children, 226. 
Unsteadiness in, and over-gov- 
ernment, 228. Maxims on, 229. 
See Children, Subordination, 
and Young children. 

Grafting, 344. 

Grapes, 349, 350 

Grates, 281. 

Gratifications, on physical, 159, 
171, 172. 

Grease-spots, 289, 297, 298. In 
carpets, 304. 

Greeks and Romans, bathing by 
120. 

H. 

Habit, in a system of duty, 166. 

Handkerchiefs, cleansing, 298. 

Happiness, dependence of, on 
character, 169. On living to 
make, 169, 200. Connected 
with duties, 183. 

Hard-soap, to make, 291. 

Head, blows on the, 241. 

Headache, 78, 95. 

Health, delicacy and infrequency 
of, in American women, 41, 45 
Effect of mental excitement on 



INDEX. 



43 ; of a high sense of responsi- 
bility, «&x.,44 ; of want of out- 
door exercise, 44 ; of bad early 
training, 45 ; of exposures in 
newly-settled countries, 46. 
On preparation for a rational 
care of, in a fiimily, 68, 69. 
Connection of exercise and, 73, 
76, 76, 97, 133; of the quantity 
of food and, 1'4, 95, 100; of the 
quility, tlrf. Of Catholics dur- 
inar Lent, 100. Not from dirt, 
118. Etfect of early rising on, 
1*2.5. On the duty of sacrificing, 
159. Causes wiiich injure the 
mind's, 196. Amusements and, 
245. Laughter and, 253. Re- 
gard to, in constructing houses, 
lii60. Ventilation and, 311. Con- 
nection of, with cellars, 322. 
See Air, Exercise, and Sick- 
ness. 

Hearths, 305 

Hearts, different, 84. Cause of 
their throbbing, 90. 

Heat of the body, regulated by the 
skin, 92. 

Heating houses, 260. 

Help, see Domestics. 

Helping at table, 310. 

Herbaceous roots, 339. 

Horse-racing, 245, 246. 

Horses, care of, 351, 

Hose, on washing, 286, 289. 

Hospitality, on manifesting, 144. 
To strangers, 257. 

Hot and cold food and drinks, 
103, 110. 

Hot-beds, 331 . 

House-cleaning, 353. 

Housekeepers, difficulties peculiar 
to American women as, 30. 
Preservation of good temper in, 
148, 150. Allowances to be 
made for, 150. Necessity of 
a habit of system and order 
in, 157. General principles 
for, 158. Plans by, for sav- 
ing time, 184. See American 
women. 

Housekeeping, on a knowledge 
of, 134. Dignity and difficulty 
of, 150, 157. See Labor. 

House-plants, to repot, J33. Care 
of, 341. 

32* 



Houses, on the constructi(m of, 
258. Regard to econtjiny of la- 
bor in, 258 ; to water, 259, 275 , 
to heating, 260 ; to economy of 
health, 260 ; to domestics, 261 ; 
to good taste, 261. Plans of, and 
of domestic conveniences, 261 
Shade-trees around, 275. BacJc- 
door accommodations to, 276. 

Hunger, 94, 132. As a guide for 
taking food, 97. • 

Hunting, 244. 

Hyacintlis, 335. 



Illinois, female association in, for 
educating poor females, 59. 
See Alton. 

Imagination, 199. Works of, 249. 
See Novel reading. 

Impostors, soliciting charity, 178. 

Impurity of thought, 233. 

Income, see Expenses. 

Indigestion, 101. See Health. 

Infants, mortality among, 112 
114, 214. Too cold, lls! 
Plunging, in cold water, 113. 
Registrations of, 113. On giv- 
ing, to the older children, 165. 
Use of, to elicit charity, 179. 
Importance of knowing how to 
take care of, 213. Combe, 
Bell, and Eberle on, cited, 214. 
Food for, 214, 216, 218. Med- 
icines for, 215, 216, 218, 219. 
Pure air for, 217, 218. ^ Keep- 
ing warm, 217, 218. Keeping 
their heads cool, 217. Bathincr, 
217, 218. Nostrums for, 219. 
Unquiet, 219. To creep, 219 
Standing, 219. Crying, 219. 
See Children, and Mortality. 
^Ingrafting, 344. 
*Ink-stains, 298. 

Insects, on destroymg, 323. Pre- 
serving apple trees from, 3.50. 

Institutions, see Female semina- 
ries, and School. 

Intelligence, dependence of de- 
mocracy on, 36. 

Intemperance, H. Martineau on, 
criticized, 30, note. In eating, 
94, 95. In drinking, 106. Fe 
male responsibility as to, 100. 

Invitations, 353. 

D. E. 



IlfDEX. 



Ironing, articles to be provided for, 
2.93. Settee for, 2U3. Boards 
for, 294. Hints on, 295. 

Iron- ware, 319. 



Jewish use of time, 182. 
Jokes, 253. 
Jonquilles, 335. 

K. 
Kitchens, 163, 259. On taking 

care of, 317. Floors of, 317. 

Oilcloths for, 317. Furniture 

for, 319. 
Knitting, to employ time, 185. 
Knives and forks, 307. 



Labelling powders, 239. 

Labor, nobility of, 55, 147. On 
opposing the idea of the degra- 
dation of, 61, 123, 124. Not 
inconsistent with delicacy, 62, 
On economy of, in houses, 258. 

Laces, doing up of, 292. 

Lamps, 281. Care of, 282. 

Laplanders and their food, 220. 

Lard, used for oil, 281. 

Latticed portico, 277. 

Laughter, 253. 

Laws, necessity of a system of, 25. 

Leghorn hats, 299. 

Lent, health during, 100. 

Ley, to make, 290. 

Life, object of, 168. 

Light, effects of, 124. Screenmg 
eyes from, 217, 283. 

Lightning, 243. 

Lightning rods, 243. 

Lights, 281. 

Limbs of trees, on training, 348. 

Linens, 288, 328. 

Linneeus, cited, 220. 

Liquids, on taking, 103, 104. 

Literature, guarding, 249. 

Longevity, Sinclair on, 126. 
From vegetable diet, 221 

Louis XIV., manners of his age, 
148. 

Lungs, 89. Effects of tight-dress- 
ing on the, 90, 117. Bleeding 
at the, 243. 

Luxuries, see Superfluities. 



M. 

Mahogany furniture, 305. 

Manners, good, 136. Amencan 
defect in, and cause of it, 137. 
Of the Puritans and their pos- 
terity, 137. Principles respect- 
ing, 140. Proprieties in, 141. 
On cultivation of, 141. At 
home, 142. Leading points as 
to, claiming attention, 142. 
Children to be taught, 143. On 
conventional, 144. At table, 
144. Charity for bad, 145. Of 
the age of Louis XIV., 148. 
See Children. 

Marble, stains on, 305. 

Martineau, Harriet, criticized, 30, 
note^ 141, note.. 

Mathematics, importance of, in a 
female education, 56. 

Mattresses, 312, 329. 

Meals, should be five hours apart, 
96. On the nature of the, 103. 
Time of English, 123. 

Meat, on eating, 99, 100. See 
Animal food, and Food. 

Mechanical amusements, 2.54. 

Medical men needed in literary 
institutions, 198. 

Medicines, on giving, to infants, 
215. On administering, 236, 

238. Different effects of dif- 
ferent, 236. On purchasing, 

239. Labelling, 239. 

Men, engaged in women's work, 
164,165. 

Mending, 330. 

Mental excitement, effect of, on 
health, 43. On reducing youth- 
ful, 48, 49. On invigorating, 
56. Effect of, on the mind, 
197. See Mind. 

Mexicans, teeth of, 110. 

Mice, .323. 

Mildew, removing, 296. 

Milk, for infants, 216, 217. 

Milkweed-silk, 227. 

Mind, connection of body and, 
195. Causes which injure the 
health of the, 196. On inactiv- 
ity of, 1 99. Indications of dis- 
eased, 204. See Health, and 
Mental excitement. 

Mineralogical collections, 253. 

Modesty in children, 233. 



INDEX. 



Mo. ey, children's earning, 164. 

Montagu, Lady Mary VVortley, 
cited, 1155. 

Monticello Female Seminary, ac- 
count of, 54. System of stud- 
ies tliere, 57. Eftbrt made 
there to cure defects of char- 
acter and habits, 58. 

Morals, American, 29. Depend- 
ence of democracy on, 36. At- 
tention to, in the Monticello 
Female Seminary, 58. In chil- 
dren, 2'SS. Sec Children, and 
Young children. 

Mortality, amonir infants, 112, 
114. Causes of it, 214. At 
the Albany Orphan Asylum, 
222. Sec Infants. 

Mothers, sutterings of American, 
42. The great objects for, in 
educating their daughters, 48. 
Influence of wealthy, 50. 
Should raise the science of 
domestic economy, 51. Few, 
qualified to teach domestic 
economy, 65. Influence of, 
149, 151. Teaching boys do- 
mestic arts, 164. See American 
women, and Women. 

Moths, 323. 

Muscles, 74. Exercise of the, 
76, 78, 97, 116, 129. Excessive 
exercise of, 132. 

Music, 58, 252. 

Muslins, on washing, 288. Starch- 
ing, 292. 

Musquitoes, 323. 

N. 

Nails, cleaning, 122, 144. 

Wankeens, on washing, 288. 

Napkins, table, 3U7. 

Narcissus, Ii35. 

Nash, Beau, biography of, 148. 

Neatness, in house-keeping, 152. 
Of sick-rooms, 2138. See Clean- 
liness. 

Needle-work, bad economy in,189. 

Nerves, 76. Ramilications of the, 
78. Health of, dependent on 
muscular exercise, 78, 130. 
Function of, in the stomach, 
87. Excited by stimulating 
drinks, 106, 111. Two kinds 
of, 129. On cutting off, 130. 



Exercise and inactivity of, 130 

Debility of, J 30, 199. 
New Englanders, one cause of 

their tact, 165. 
Newton, Sir Isaac, diet of, 222. 
Night, converting, into day, 123. 
Night-gowns, 114, 329. 
Nia:ht-lamps, 283. 
No>el reading, 199, 234, 249. 
Nursery, discipline of the, 224, 

230. 
Nursery, soil for a, 347. 
Nursing, on food while, 215. Of 

the sick, 237. 

O. 

Obedience of children, 226. See 

Children, and Government. 
Objects of charity, 176. 
Oil, 281. Taking out, 297. 
Oilcloths, for kitchens, 317. 
Opium, absorbed by the skin, 93. 

Antidote for, 242. 
Order, on a habit of, 157. 
Ornaments, 166. Time and moii- 

ey spent for, 175, 259. 
Orphan Asylum at Albany, 222. 
Ostrich feathers, washing, 299. 
Outhouses, 276. 
Over-government, 228, 229. See 

Children, and Government. 

P. 

Packing, of trunks, 316. Of fur- 
niture for moving, 316. 

Pain, amusements causing, 244. 

Paint-spots, 298. 

Pantaloons, on mending, 330. 

Parents, exercising of authority 
by, 226. Should provide amuse- 
ments, 250. Joining in chil- 
dren's sports, 254. 

Parlors, kitchens and, 163, 259 
Light work in, to save time, 184 
Inconsistently furnishe<i, 189 
On the care of, 302. On select 
ing furniture for, 302. Sweep 
ing, .305. Screens in, 353. 

Parties, invitations to, 353. 

Passions, the, 170. See Temper. 

Peach trees, 350. 

Pereimial plants, 339. 

Peristaltic motion, 87, 96, 102. 

Perspiration, 92, 93. Demands 
supply of food, 96. From exer- 



INDEX. 



eise, healthful, 114. During 
sleep, 126. On inducing, 235, 
236. 

Physical education, see Exercise, 
and Health. 

Physicians, obeying, 239. 

Piano, playing on the, 252. 

Pictures, 302, 304. 

Pills, 236, 237, note. 

Pitch, on removing, 297. 

Plans, for apportioning time, 158, 
160. For duties, 162, 166, 167. 
For saving time, 184. For ex- 
penses, 186. Of houses, 261. 

Planting flower seeds, 332. 

^'lants, collecting, 253. In rooms 
with stoves, 281. Soil for, 
331. Propagation of, 341. See 
Flowers, and Seedu. 

r'oisoning, 241. 

i-'oliteness, see Courtesy, and 
Manners. 

Poor, Mosaic laws as to. the, 182 
On work for the, 189, 190 
Liberal prices and prompt pay 
ment to the, 191. See Charity 

Pores, closing the, 119. See Skin 

Portico, latticed, 277. 

Positions, effects of, 73, 80. 

Potash-soap, 291. 

Pot-plants, soil for, 331. 

Pots, transplanting from, 333. 

Powders, labelling, 239. 

Precocity in children, 198. 

Privies, 276. 

Propagation of plants, 341. 

Propensities, 170. 

Property, Jews' use of, 182. Un- 
equal distribution of, 191. On 
sharing, 191. On using, prop- 
erly, 193. 

Pruning, 346. 

Pumps, 275. 

Punctuality, and want of it, 128. 
In paying the poor, 191. 

Purchases, on making, 193, 194. 

Puritans, manners of the, 137. 



Quality of food, 98. 
Quantity of food, see Food. 



R. 
Ranunculus, 335. 
Rats, 323 



Red ants, 323. ^ 

Registrations of births, 113. 

Religion, perversion of, 198. 

Religious excitement, 197. 

Respect, American want of, 139, 
141. Should be required at 
home, 142. See Courtesy. 

Respiration, organs of, 87. 

Rewards, governing by, 230. 

Roman Catholics, health of, dur- 
ing Lent, 100.' 

Romans, see Greeks. 

Rooms, arrangement of, 259. 

Running into debt, 232. 

S. 
St. Martin, Alexis, experiments 

on, respecting food, 104. 
Salary, plan as to using, 186. 
Salt, "for bleeding, 243. 
Salts, 236. 
School, hints on, 48, 223. Too 

much required in, 49. On 

keeping, only in the afternoon, 

49. On sending young chil- 
dren to, 223. 
Schoolrooms and schoolhouses, 

133. Not ventilated, 196, 223. 

Built by a lady in the West, 

202. See Female. 
Scolds, 149, 154. 
Scotch Highlanders, 221. 
Screens, in parlors, 353. See Eyes. 
Secret vice, 233. 
Sedgwick, Miss, her Live and 

Let Live, 213, note. 
Seeds, on planting, 332, 333. Of 

fruit, on planting, 347. 
Self-denial, happiness of, 169. 

Distinction as to, 170. Of 

wealthy women, 201, 202. In 

children, 224, 232. 
Servants, on calling domestics, 

207. See Domestics. 
Services, paying children for, 164. 
Settees for ironing, 293. 
Setting tables, 307. Rules for, 

308. ■ 
Sewing, by girls, 254. Hints on, 

324. 
Sewing- trunks, 162. 
Sexes, M. De Tocqueville on the, 

28. Distinct lines of action for 

the, 28, 32, 33. American 

equality of, 33. 



INDEX. 



Shade-tree^ 275, n40. 

Shells, collecting, 253. 

Shirts, folding, 315. Making, 

Shrubs, for yards, 340. 

Sickness, oii ignorance and inex- 
perience in time of, 6S. On 
nursing in, 237. From chills 
and food, 231). Remedies for 
slight, 240. 56'c Health. 

Sick-rooms, hints on, 237. Fur- 
niture for, 238. 

Silence, ciiildren to keep, 145, 
23i». When in anger, 152. 

Silks, on cleansing, 21)8. 

Sinclair, Sir John, on longevity 
and early rising, 126. 

Sinks, 277, 317. 

Six Weeks on the Loire, cited, 
135. 

Skeleton, cut of the, 70. 

Skin, described, 1)1. Function of 
the, 91. Waste matter from 
the, 92, 118. Regulates the 
heat of the body, 92. Absorb- 
ent vessels of the, 93, 119. Fol- 
licles of the, 93. The organ 
of touch, 93. Circulation in 
the, in infants, 113. Effect 
of cold on the circulation in 
the, 1 1 3, 1 18, 119. Bathing in- 
fants', 217. 

Sleep, amount of, required, 125. 
On protracting, 126. In clo<!e 
apartments, V.}6, 217, 311. See 
Ventilation. 

Sliding closets, 27S. 

Smoky chimneys, 352. 

Snow, bathing in, 121. 

Soaj), soda, 288. Soft, 290. Pot- 
ash, 2.)1. Hard, 291. 

Social intercourse, 184. 

Soda-soap, 288. 

Soda- washing, 287. 

Soil, on the preparation of, 331. 
For a nursery, 347. 

Soups, 104, 105. 

South-Sea Islanders, 221 . 

Specimens, collecting, 253. 

Spine, frequency of the disease 
of the, 4 1 , causes, 73, 133. Cut 
of the, 77. Curvature of the, 
80. Difference between a nat- 
ural and distorted, 80. 

Spitting on carpets, 144. 



Spots, removing, 289, 297, 298. 

Sprains, 240. 
I Stam-mixture, 296. 

Stains, removing, from clothes, 
296 ; from marble, 305. 

Starch, to make, 291. To pre- 
pare, 292. 

Starching, hints on, 292. 

Stimulating drinks, no need of, 
106, 1U9,°111. Excite the ner- 
vous system, 106, 109, 111. De- 
bilitate the constitution, 107. 
Temptation from using, 107. 
Five forms of using, 107. Rea- 
sons for using, considered, 107. 
Dr. Combe on, 11]. If good 
for parents, may not be for chil- 
dren, 111. Compared with an- 
imal food, 112. 

Stimulating food, 99. See Ani- 
mal food, and Food 

Stock-grafting, 345. 

Stockings, on washing, 286, 289. 

Stomach, 87. Peristaltic motion 
of the, 87, 96, 102. Effects on, 
of too much food, 94, 95. Rule 
for the labor and repose of the, 
96. Power of accommodation 
in the, 102. Wants rest, 223. 

Storerooms, 271, 322. 

Stoves, 281. 

Strangers, hospitality to, 257. 

Strawberries, 348. 

Straw hats, 299. 

Straw matting, 304. 311. 

Studies, at the Monticello Female 
Seminary, 57. Pursued at ran- 
dom, 60, 68. 

Subordination, social, 26. Fe- 
male, in America, 27, 29, 32. 
Of children and others, 140, 
224. Sec Government. 

Superfluities, 163. Duty as to, 
171 — 173. On determining re- 
specting, 173. 

Sweeping, 134. Of carpets, 303. 
Of parlors, 305. 

Sympathy, on silent social, 149. 

System, continual change and 
renovation of the human, 91. 
In housekeeping, 152. On hab- 
its of, 155. By dividing the 
week, 162. In proper conve- 
niences, 162. On attempting 
too much, at once, 166. On 



INDEX. 



commencing, while young, 167. 
In time, 184. 

T. 

Table, furniture for a, 306. On 
setting, 307 ; rules for, 308. 
Carving and helping at, 310. 

Table manners, 144. 

Table-mats, 306. 

Tapers, 283. 

Tar, on removing, 297. 

Tea, coffee and, on the use of, 
107, 108. Cause nervous de- 
bility, 109. Love of, not nat- 
ural, 109. If good for adults, 
may not be. for children, 109. 
Black, least injurious, 110. No 
nourishment in, 112. See Stim- 
ulating. 

Teachers, 202, 203. 

Teeth, effects of hot drink on, 110. 
Care of, 122, 144. 

Teething of infants, 219. 

Temper, on the preservation of 
good, in a housekeeper, 148 } 
hints for it, 150. Making al- 
lowances for, in others, 154. 
See Passions. 

Temptations, amusements with, 
245, 248. 

Tendons, 75. 

Theatres, 245. 

Thinning plants, 346. 

Thoughts, on pure, 233. 

Throat, things in the, 240. 

Thunderstorms, 243. 

Tic douloureux, 78. 

Tight dressing, 80, 90, 129. Evils 
of, 116. Rule as to, 117 

Time, on apportioning, 157, 160, 
181, 184. On saving, 161, 184. 
Errors as to employing, 180. 
Devoted by Jews to religion, 
183. 

Tin ware, 320. 

Tocqueville, M. De, on the sexes 
in America, 28. On progress 
in nations towards democracy, 
34. On female hardships in 
the West, 46. On aristocratic 
and democratic manners, 146. 

Tones of voice, 148. On govern- 
ing the, 152; Governing by 
angry, 230. Effects of angry, 
on children, 231. 



Towels, 321. 

Tracts and charity, 179. 

Transplanting, 333, 340. 

Travelling-bags, 316. 

Trees, about houses, 275. On 

planting, 334. Shade, 340. On 

transplanting, 340. Pruning 

and thinning, 346. 
Trials, see Difficulties. 
Trunks, sewing, 162. In cham 

bers, 313. Packing of, 316. 
Tuberous roots, 335. 
Tulips, 336. 
Turpentine, on removing, 297. 

U. 

Unbolted flour, 105, 

V. 

Vegetable food, 99, 100, 220, 221. 
See Animal food, and Food. 

Vegetables, effect of light and 
darkness on, J 24. 

Veils, whitening, 293. 

Ventilation, importance of, 49, 
196, 217, 311. Of sleeping- 
rooms, 129, 196, 311. Of school- 
rooms, 223. Of sick-rooms, 237. 
In construction of houses, 261, 
264. Where stoves are used, 
281. See Air. 

Vermin, on destroying, 323. 

Vertebrae, 72. 

Virtue, see Morals. 

Vulgar habits, 144. 

W. 

Wadsworth's cottage, 273, 274. 

Wages, exorbitant, of domestics, 
205. Offering higher, 21J . 

Waiting at table, 309. 

Walking for exercise, 131. 

Wardrobes, 312. 

Washing, of clothes done by pu- 
pils, 55. Of the body, 92, 93, 
119,121. Of children, 121, 122. 
Water for, 284. Articles to be 
provided for, 284. Common 
mode of, 285. Of calicoes, 287. 
Soda- washing, 287. Of various 
articles, 288. Of carpets, 304. 
Of dishes, 318. See Bathing. 

Wash-pans for children, 121. 

Waste matter, from the skm 92, 
118. 



INDEX. 



m 



Of 



Water, protection against, in the 
skin, ;)3. On drinking. 111. 
Drinking too niucli, 112. Plun- 
ging infants in cold, 113. 6'ec 
Drinks, and Stimulating. 

Wealthy mothers, influence of 
their example, 4t). 

Wells, remedy for air in, 242. 
Remarks on, 259, 275. 

West, on female hardships 
the, 46. 

Wheat, unbolted, 105. 

Whitening, of lace veils, 293. 
other articles, 296. 

Whitewashing, 279. 

Wicks, 262. 

Winter, air and sleep in, 125. 

Women, European contempt for, 
30. American esteem for, 30. 
Influence of, on individuals 
and nations, 37. Exercise taken 
by English, 45. Responsible- 
ness of, 52. Eating without 
being hungry, 98. Responsi- 
bility of, as to intemperance, 
106. Precedence given to, in 
America, 141. Importance and 
difficulty of their duties, 155. 
General principles for, 158; 
frequent inversion of them, 160. 



Men engaged in their work, 
164, 165. On their keeping 
accounts -of expenditures, 173, 
174. Imagining themselves do- 
mestics, 205. See American 
women. 

Wood, for fuel, 280. 

Wooden ware, 321. 

Woodhouses, 273, 276, 277. 

Woollens, on washing, 289 

Workbaskets, 325. 



Yellows, the, 350. 

Young children, female influence 
on their character, 37. Misman- 
agement of, 43. Management 
of, 42, 220. Animal food for, 220. 
At the Albany Orphan Asylum, 
222. Intellectual and moral 
training of, 223. Three habits 
for, 224. On distancing, 226. 
On appreciating their enjoy- 
ments and pursuits, 227. Keep- 
ing them happy, 231. On rid- 
iculing, 231. Modesty and pro- 
priety in, 233. Impurity of 
thought in, 233. 

Young Ladies' Friend, cited, 134 



MISS BEECHER'S 



DOMESTIC RECEIPT BOOK. 



MISS BEECHER'S 



DOMESTIC RECEIPT BOOK: 



DESIGNED AS A 



SUPPLEMENT 



TO HER 



TREATISE ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY 



THIRD EDITION. 



NEW YORK: 
HARPER & BROTHERS, 82 CLIFF STREET, 

1848. 



Entered, according to. Act of Congress, in the year 1846, by 

Harper & Brothers, 
In the Clerk's Office of the Southern District of New- York 



PREFACE. 



The following objects are aimed at in this work : 

First, to furnish an original collection of receipts, which 
shall embrace a great variety of simple and well-cooked 
dishes, designed for every-day comfort and enjoyment. 

Second, to include in the collection only such receipts as 
have been tested by superior housekeepers, and warranted 
to be the best. It is not a book made up in any department 
by copying from other books, but entirely from the experi- 
ence of the best practical housekeepers. 

Third, to express every receipt in language which is short, 
simple, and perspicuous, and yet to give all directions so 
minutely as that the book can be kept in the kitchen, and 
be used by any domestic who can read, as a guide in every 
one of her employments in the kitchen. 

Fourth, to furnish such directions in regard to small din- 
ner-pariies and evening company as will enable any young 
housekeeper to perform her part, on such occasions, with 
ease, comfort, and success. 

Fifth, to present a good supply of the rich and elegant 
dishes demanded at entertainments, and yet to set forth a 
large variety of what is both healthful and good, in con- 
nexion with warnings and suggestions which it is hoped 
may avail to promote a mo/e healthful fashion in regard 
both to entertainments and to daily table supplies. No 
book of this kind will sell without receipts for the rich ar- 
ticles which custom requires, and in furnishing them, the 
writer has aimed to follow the example of Providence, which 
scatters profusely both good and ill, and combines therewith 
the caution alike of experience, revelation, and conscience, 
" choose ye that which is good, that ye and your seed may 
live." 

Sixth, in the work on Domestic Economy, together with 



IV PREFACE. 



this, to which it is a Supplement, the writer has attempted to 
secure in a cheap and popular form, for American house- 
keepers, a work similar to an English work which she has 
examined, entitled the Encydopccdia of Domes lie Economy^ 
by Thomas Webster and Mrs. Parkes, containing over 
twelve hundred octavo pages of closely-printed matter, treat- 
ing on every department of Domestic Economy ; a work 
which will be found much more useful to English women, 
who have a plenty of money and well-trained servants, than 
to American housekeepers. It is believed that most, in that 
work, which would be of any practical use to American 
housekeepers, will be found in this work and the Domestic 
Economy. 

Lastly, the writer has aimed to avoid the defects complain- 
ed of by most housekeepers in regard to works of this descrip- 
tion, issued in this country, or sent from England, such as 
that, in some cases, the receipts are so rich as to be both ex- 
pensive and unhealthful ; in others, that they are so vaguely 
expressed as to be very imperfect guides ; in others, that 
the processes are so elaborate and fussirig as to make double 
the work that is needful ; and in others, that the topics are 
so limited that some departments are entirely omitted, and 
all are incomplete. 

In accomplishing these objects, the writer has received 
contributions of the pen, and verbal communications, from 
some of the most judicious and practical housekeepers, in 
almost every section of this country. 



CONTENTS. 



CAAPTER I. 



ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 

Nourishing and unstimulatmg Food. Nourishing and stimulating 
. food. Food that stimulates without nourishing. Food that is en- 
tirely "[Indigestible. Food that is unhealthful in nature, or made 
so by cooking. Liquid aliments, or drinks. Other liquid ali- 
ments, or drinks, ______-_-i 



CHAPTER II. 



MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 

Selection" and uses of meats. Modes of cooking and using the dif- 
ferent parts of animals. Beef Veal. Mutton. Pork. Mar- 
keting. On the Cure of Meats. Directions for cutting up a Hog. 
To try out Lard. Directions for salting down Pork. Mr. H. H.'s 
Receipt for Curing Hams. To prepare Cases for Sausages. 
Sausage Meat. Bologna Sausages. Another Receipt for Sausage 
Meat. Pickle for Beef, Pork, Tongues, or Hung Beef Another 
by measure, and with less trouble. To salt down Beef to keep the 
year round. To Cleanse Calf's Head and Feet. To Prepare 
Rennet, __-_26 



CHAPTER III. 

BOILED MEATS. 

To cook a Ham (very fine). Smoked Boiled Tongues, A la Mode 
Beef Another k la Mode Beef To Boil a Leg of Veal or Mut- 
ton. Pot Pie, of Beef, Veal, or Chicken. Calf s Head. Curried 
Dishes. To Prepare Curry Powder. . Veal Stew. Another Veal 
Stew (very fine). To Stew Birds. A fine Mutton Stew. A Sau- 
sage Stew. To Bake Beef Beef, or Mutton and Potatoe Pie, 
To Cook Pigeons. Beef or Veal Stewed with Apples (very good). 
To Boil a Turkey. To Boil Corned Beef, ...-.% 



n CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 



ROASTED AND BAKED BIEATS. 

Greneral Remarks. Roast Beef. Roast Lamb. Roast Mutton. 
Roast Veal. To Roast a Fillet or Leg of Veal. Baked, or Roast- 
ed Pi(T. To Roast a Sparc Rib. Roast Turkey. Roast Goose. 
Roast^Chickens. Roast Ducks. Mutton and Beef Pie. Chicken 
Pie. Mutton Haricot. To Cook a Shoulder of Lamb. Rice 
Chicken Pie. Potatoe Pie, - - - ... - - 43 



CHAPTER V. 



FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 

General Remarks. A nice Way of Cooking Calf's or Pig's Liver. 
Fried Veal Cutlets. Fricassee Chickens. Meats Warmed over. 
A nice Way of Cooking Cold Meats. A Hash of Cold Meat for 
Dinner (very good). Cold Meat Turnovers. Head Cheese. 
Souse. Tripe. Force Meat Balls (another Hash.) To Prepare 
Cold Beef Steaks. A nice Way of Cooking Cold Boiled Ham. 
Another way of Cooking Cold Ham. A Veal Hash. Veal Balls 
(another Hash). Broiled Meats. General Remarks. Broiled Ham. 
Broiled Veal Cutlets. Broiled Mutton Chops. Broiled Pork 
Steaks. Beef Steaks. Beef Liver. To Poach Eggs. To Boil 
Eggs. A Salt Relish. Egg Frizzle (very good). Frizzled Beef 
Veal Cheese. A Codfish Relish. Another Way. Salt Her- 
rings, . - - 



CHAPTER VI. 

SOUPS. 



CHAPTER VII. 

FISH. 



Directions for making Chowder. To Fry Fish. To Boil Fish. 
To Broil Fish. Baked Fish. Cod Sounds and Tongues. To 
Cook Salt Codfish. To Cook Cold Codfish. To Cook Oysters. 



50 



French Vegetable Soup. Plain Calf's Head Soup. An Excellent 
Simple Mutton Soup. Pea Soup. Portable Soup. A Rich Mock 
Turtle Soup. Another Dry Pea Soup. Clam Soup. Oyster 
Soup. Veal Soup. Macaroni Soup (Mrs. F.'s Receipt). South- 
ern Gumbo (Mrs. L.'s Receipt). Giblet Soup, - - - 57 



CONTENTS. Vil 

Lobsters. Scolloped Oysters, Pickled Oysters, To Crimp Fresh 
Fish. To Cook Eels. To Cook Scollops, A Good Way of Using 
Cold Fresh Fish. To Cook Clams, 62 



CHAPTER VIII. 

ON THE PREPARATION OF HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAUCES. 

To prepare Gravy for a Cold Beef Hash, or Steak Hash. Gravy 
for a Mutton Hash, or Venison Hash. To prepare a Veal Hash, 
Common Gravies. Drawn Butter, or Melted Butter. Another 
Mode of preparing Draw^n Butter. Drawn Meat Gravies, or 
Brown Gravies. Nice Article to use for Gravy, or Soup. Burnt 
Butter for Fish, or Eggs. Sauce for Salad, or Fish. Wine Sauce 
for Mutton or Venison. Oyster Sauce. Lobster Sauce. Apple 
Sauce. Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowls. Celery Vinegar. Es- 
sence of Celery, to flavor Soup. Herb Spirit. Soup Powder. 
Soy. Tomato Catsup. Mushroom Catsup. Walnut Catsup, - 66 



CHAPTER IX. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes. Boiled Potatoes. Other Modes of Cooking Potatoes. 
Turnips, Asparagus, Beets. Parsnips and Carrots. Onions. 
Jerusalem Artichokes. Squashes. Cabbage and Cauhflowers. 
Peas. Sweet Corn. Succatosh. Beans. Egg Plant. Baked 
Beans. Tomatoes. Greens. Cucumbers. Macaroni. Another • 
Way. To Cook Hominy. Macaroni Pudding, to eat with Meat. 
Salad. Mode of Dressing Salad. Mushroom. Celeriac, Sal- 
sify, or Vegetable Oyster. Southern Mode of Cooking Rice. 
Common Mode of Cooking Rice. Best Mode of Cooking Toma- 
toes, Sweet Potatoes. Artichokes, Stewed Egg Plant, - 73 



CHAPTER X. 

OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

On Constructing and Heating an Oven, How to know when an 
Oven is at the right Heat, How to know when Bread is Sour, 
or Heavy, How to treat Bread when taken from the Oven, 
Yeast, Potatoe Yeast. Home-made Yeast, which will keep good 
a Month. Home-brewed Yeast more easily made. Hard Yeast, 
Rubs, or Flour Hard Yeast. Milk Yeast. Wheat Bread of Distil- 
lery, or Brewer's Yeast. Wheat Bread of Home-brev^ed Yeast. 
Baker's Bread. Wheat Bread of Potatoe Yeast. Potatoe Bread. 
Cream Tartar Bread. Eastern Brown Bread. Rye Bread. Rice 
Bread. — No, I. Rice Bread, — No. 2, Apple Bread.. Pumpkin 



VUl CONTENTS. 

Bread. Walnut Hill's Brown Bread. French Rolls, or Twists. 
Raised Biscuit. Very Nice Rusk. Potatoe Biscuit. Crackers. 
Hard Biscuit. Sour Milk Biscuit. A good Way to use Sour Bread, 83 



CHAPTER XI. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

General Directions for Griddle and other Breakfast Cakes. Buck- 
wheat Cakes wet with Water. Extempore Buckwheat Cakes. 
Buckwheat Cakes wet with Milk. Griddle Cakes of Unbolted 
Wheat. Best Rice Griddle Cakes. A very delicate Omelet. 
Wheat Waffles. Miss B.'s Waffles (without yeast). Rice Waf- 
fles. Good Cakes for Tea, or Breakfast. Fried Rice for Break- 
fast. Fried Hominy. Rye Drop Cake (excellent). Wheat Drop 
Cake. Corn Griddle Cakes with Yeast. Pilgrim Cake. Sour 
Milk Corn Cake. Corn Muffins (from the South). Corn Griddle 
Cakes with Eggs. Sachem's Head Corn Cake. Royal Crumpets. 
Bachelor's Corn Cake. Mrs. W.'s Corn Cake. Corn Muffins. 
Savoy Biscuit. Cream Cakes. Wheat Muffins. Albany Break- 
fast Cakes. Sally Lunn. Cream Tea Cakes. Buttermilk Short 
Cakes. Wafers. Pennsylvania Flannel Cakes. Kentucky Corn 
Dodgers. Ohio Corn Cake. Scarborough Puffs. Cream Griddle 
Cjikes. Crumpets. Fine Cottage Cheese, - - - - 94 



CHAPTER Xn. 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

General Directions in regard to Puddings and Custards. Little 
Girl's Pie. Little Boy's Pudding. Children's Fruit Dumpling. 
Birth-day Pudding. Children's Boiled Fruit Pudding. Englisn 
Curd Pie. Fruit Fritters. Common Apple Pie. Plain Custard. 
A Richer Custard. Another Custard. Mush, or Hasty Pudding. 
Stale Bread Fritters (fine). To prepare Rennet. Rennet Cus- 
tard. Bird's Nest Pudding. A Minute Pudding of Potatoe Starch. 
Tapioca Pudding. Sago Pudding. Cocoanut Pudding (Plain). 
New England Squash, or Pumpkin Pie. Ripe Fruit Pies. Bat- 
ter Pudding. Mock Cream. Bread Pudding. Sunderland Pud- 
ding. An Excellent Apple Pie. Boiled Apple Pudding. Spiced 
Apple Tarts. Boiled Indian Pudding. Baked Indian Pudding. 
Rice Balls, or German Pudding. Apple Custard. Rhubarb Pie. 
Plain Macaroni or Vcrmacclli Puddings. Green Corn Pudding. 
Bread Pudding for Invalids, or Young Children. Plain Rice 
Pudding, without Eggs. Another Sago Pudding. Oat Meal 
Mush. Modes of Preparing Apples for the Table. Fruit Cus- 
tards. Modes of Preparing Rice for the Dinner or Tea Table. 
Rice and Meat Pudding. Modes of preparing Dishes with Dry 
Bread, or Pread so old aa to be not good for the table, - - 104 



CONTENTS. IX 

CHAPTER XIII. 

RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Ellen's Pudding, or Rhubarb Tart. Nottingham Pudding. Rice 
Plum Pudding. Eve's Pudding (the best kind). Baked English 
Plum Pudding. A Boiled English Plum Pudding. Almond 
Cheese Cake. Cocoanut Pudding. Arrowroot Pudding. Ground 
Rice*Pudding. Mrs. O.'s Pumpkin Pie. Cracker Plum Pudding 
(excellent). Minced Pie. Marlborough Pudding. Orange, or 
Lemon Pudding. Sweet Potatoe Pudding. Q,uince Pudding. 
Paste for Puddings and Pies. Healthful Pie Crusts. Paste made 
with Butter. Directions for making Paste. Puff Paste. Sauces 
for Puddings. Liquid Sauce. Hard Sauce. A Healthful Pud- 
ding Sauce. An excellent Sauce for Boiled Rice, . . . 121 

CHAPTER XIV. 

PLAIN CAKES. 

General Directions for Making Cake. Rose Butter. Directions for 
Cleansing Currants. Frosting for Cake. Cake Frosting (an- 
other, which is harder). Good Child's Cake. Ginger Snaps. 
Child's Feather Cake. Best Molasses Gingerbread. Sponge 
Gingerbread. Cider Cake. Cup Cake without Eggs, Cream 
Cake without Eggs. Cream Tartar Cake, without Eggs. Fruit 
Cake without Eggs. Drop Cake. Sugar Gingerbread (rich). 
Sugar Gingerbread (plainer). Sponge Cake. Bridget's Bread 
Cake (excellent). Doughnuts. Cookies (plain). French Cake. 
Walnut Hill's Doughnuts. Cocoanut Cup Cake. Cocoanut 
Sponge Cake. Lemon Cake. — No. 1. Gingernuts, Honey- 
Cake. New Year's Cookies. Boston Cream Cake. Almond, 
Hickory, or Cocoanut Cake. Caraway Cakes. Fruit Drop Cakes. 
Dr. B.'s Loaf Cake. Fancy Cakes. Fried Curd Cakes. Wine 
Cake. Egg Rusk. Citron Tea Cakes. French Biscuit (Mrs. 
Dr. C), - - - - 130 

CHAPTER XV. 

RICH CAKES. 

Old Hartford Election Cake (100 years old\ Raised Loaf Cake. 
Mrs. H.'s Raised Wedding Cake (very fine). Yeast for the above 
Cake. Fruit Cake, or Black Cake. Pound Cake. French Loaf 
Cake. Portugal Cake. Golden Cake. Silver Cake. Shrews- 
bury Cake. Queen's Cake. Crullars. Lemon Cake. — No. 3. 
Almond Cake. Lemon Drop Cakes. Jelly Cake. Cocoanut 
Drops, Sugar Drops, 146 



^gtk 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



# 



General Directions for making Preserves and Jellies. To Clarify 
Syrup tor Sweetmeats. Brandy Peaches. Peaches (not very 
rich). Peaches (very elegant). To preserve Quinces Whole. 
Quince Jelly. Calf's Foot Jelly. To preserve Apples. Pear. 
Pineapple (very fine). Purple Plum. — No. 1. To preserve 
Oranges. Purple Plum. — No. 2. White, or Green Plum. Cit- 
ron JNIelon. Strawberries. Blackberry Jam. To preserve Cur- 
rants to eat with Meat. Cherries. Currants. Raspberry Jam. — 
No. 1. Raspberry Jam. — No. 2. Currant Jelly. Quince Mar- 
malade. Preserved Watermelon Rinds. Preserved Pumpkin, - 153 



CHAPTER XVn, 

PICKLES. 

To Pickle Tomatoes. To Pickle Peaches. To Pickle Peppers. To 
Pickle Nasturtions. To Pickle Onions. To Pickle Gherkins. 
To Pickle Mushrooms. To Pickle Cucumbers. Pickled Walnuts, 
Mangoes. Fine Pickled Cabbage. An excellent Way of Prepa- 
ring Tomatoes to eat with Meat. To Pickle Martinoes. A con- 
venient Way to Pickle Cucumbers. Indiana Pickles. To Pickle 
Cauliflower, or Brocoli, »______ 165 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS AND EVENING PARTIES. 

Ice Cream. Directions for freezing Ice Cream. Philadelphia Ice 
Cream. Another Ice Cream. Strawberry Ice Cream. Ice Cream 
without Cream. Fruit Ice Cream. Rich Custards. Wine Cream 
Custard. Almond Custard, A Cream for Stewed Fruit. Cur- 
rant, Raspberry, or Strawberry Whisk. Lemonade Ice, and other 
Ices, Lemon and Orange Cream. Vanilla Cream. A Charlotte 
Russe. A Plainer Charlotte Russe, A Superior Omelette Soufiee, 
Almond Cheese Cake, Flummery. Chicken Salad. Gelatine, 
or American Isinglass Jelly. Oranges in Jelly. Jelly Tarts, 
Sweet Paste Jelly Tarts. An Apple Lemon Pudding. Buttermilk 
Pop. Wheat Flour Blanc Mange. Orange Marmalade. A sim- 
ple Lemon Jelly (easily made). Cranberry. Fruits Preserved 
without Cooking. Apple Ice (very fine). Lemon, or Orange Ice 
Cream. Cream Tarts. Whip Syllabub. Trifles. Nothings. 
Apple Snow. Iced Fruit. Ornamental Froth. To Clarify Isin- 
glass. Blanc Mange. Calf's Foot Blanc Mange. Variegated 
Blanc Mange. Jaune Mange. Ivory Dust Jelly. Apple Jelly, 



AtA-. 



CONTENTS. XI 

Another Lemon Jelly. Orange Jelly. Floating Island, An- 
other Syllabub. An Ornamental Dish. Carrageen Blanc Mange 
(Irish Moss). A Dish of Snow. To Clarify Sugar. To Prepare 
Sugar for Candies. Sugar Kisses, Almond Macaroons. Filbert 
Macaroons, Cocoanut Drops. Candied Fruits, Another Way. 
To make an Ornamental Pyramid for a Table, - _ _ 165 

CHAPTER XIX. 

TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

Ginger Beer Powders, and Soda Powders. Currant Ice Water. 
Sarsaparilla Mead. Effervescing Fruit Drinks. Effervescing 
Jelly Drinks, Summer Beverage, Simple Ginger Beer. Orange, 
or Lemon Syrup. Acid Fruit Syrups. Imitation Lemon Syrup- 
Superior Ginger Beer. Lemon Sherbet. Orange Sherbet. Sliam 
Champagne. Coffee. Fish Skin for Coffee. Chocolate. Cecoa 
and Shells. Tea. Ochra, Children's Drinks. White Tea, 
Boy's Coffee. Strawberry Vinegar. Royal Strawberry Acid. 
Delicious Milk Lemonade. Poitable Lemonade, - - - 183 

CHAPTER XX. 

RECEIPTS FOR FOOD AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 

Gfeneral Remarks on the Preparation of Articles for the Sick, An 
Excellent Relish for a Convalescent, Several Ways of Preparing 
Chickens for the Sick. Milk Porridge. Rice Gruel, and Oatmeal 
Gruel. Arrowroot and Tapioca Gruels. Dropped Egg. Wheat 
Gruel for Young Children with weak stomachs, or for Invalids. 
Another Panada. Herb Drinks. Other Simple Drinks. Cream 
Tartar Whey. Simple Wine Whey. A great Favorite with In- 
valids. A New Way of making Barley Water. Panada. Arrow- 
root Blanc Mange. Rice Flour Blanc Mange. Another Receipt 
for American Isinglass Jelly. Tapioca Jelly. Caudle. Sago 
Jelly. Spiced Chocolate. Barley Water. Water Gruel. Beef 
Tea. Tomato Syrup. Arrowroot Custard for Invalids. Sago for 
Invalids. Rice Jelly. Sassafras Jelly. Buttermilk Whey. Alum 
Whey. Another Wine Whey. Mulled Wine, Tamarind Whey. 
Egg Tea and Egg Coffee (very fine). Cranberry Tea. Apple 
Tea. Egg and Milk. Sago Milk Tapioca Milk. Bread and 
Milk. Egg Gruel. Ground Rice Gruel. Oatmeal Gruel, Sim- 
ple Barley Water. Compound Barley Water. Cream Tartar 
Beverage. Seidlitz Powders. Blackberry Syrup, for Cholera and 
Summer Complaint. Remarks on the Combinations of Cooking, 191 

CHAPTER XXI, 

ON MAKING BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

Articles used in Making Cheese, Mode of Preparing the Rennet. 
To Make Cheese, To Scald the Curd, Directions for making 
Butter. « - - - 204 



p 



Xn CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XXII. 
ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES FOR THE SICK, - - 209 

CHAPTER XXIII. 
THE PROVIDING AND CARE OF FAMILY STORES, - - 217 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

SUGGESTIONS IN REFERENCE TO PROVIDING A SUCCESSIVE 
VARIETY OF FOOD. 

Directions for Preserving Fruits and Vegetables, - - » 223 

CHAPTER XXV. 
ON BREAD MAKING, - - - - - - 227 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER AND EVENING PARTIES. 

Setting the Table. Taking up the Dinner. Tea Parties and Even- 
ing Company, ---------- 234 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

ON SETTING TABLES, AND PREPARING VARIOUS ARTICLES 

OF FOOD FOR THE TABLE, - - - - - 243 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

ON SYSTEMATIC FAMILY ARRANGEMENT, AND MODE OF DOING 

WORK. 

Directions for the Cook. Directions for the Chambermaid. Odds 
and Ends, 247 



CONTENTS. xiii 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

ON A PROPER SUPPLY OF UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES FOR 
HOUSEKEEPING. 

Kitchen Furniture, --------- 352 



CHAPTER XXX. , 

SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO HIRED SERVICE, n - 269 

CHAPTER XXXI. 
ON THE STYLE OF LIVING AND EXPENSES, - - 273 

CHAPTER XXXII. 

WORDS OF COMFORT FOR A DISCOURAGED HOUSEKEEPER, 276 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 
FRIENDLY COUNSELS FOR DOMESTICS, - - - 380 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 

MISCELLANEOUS ADVICE, AND SUPPLEMENTARY RECEIPTS. 

Weights and Measures. Avoirdupois Weight. Apothecaries' Weight. 
On Purchasing Wood. Items of Advice. To make nice Crayons 
for Blackboards. Some excellent Cheap Dishes. Stewed Beef. 
Tomato Beef. A good Way to use Cold Rice. To prepare Good 
Toast. A Good Pudding. Loaf Pudding. A Plain Lemon Pud- 
ding. An Excellent Indian Pudding vs-ithout Eggs. Pork and 
Potato Balls. Oyster Pie. Green Corn Patties (like Oysters). 
Ohio Wedding Cake (Mrs. K.). Best Way of making Corn Cakes 
of all Sorts. Molasses Candy. To make Simple Cerate. Best 
Remedy for Burns. Ginger Tea. Indian Bannock. Egg and 
Bread. Floating Island. A New Mode of cooking Cucumbers, 283 

2 



THE 



DOMESTIC RECEIPT BOOK. 



CHAPTER I. 

ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 

A WORK has recently been republished in this country, 
entitled, " A Treatise on Food and Diet ; hy Dr. J. 
Pereira. Edited hy Dr. Charles A. LeeP " The 
author of this work," says Dr. Lee, "is well known 
throughout Europe and America, as one of the most 
learned, scientific, and practical men of the age ; — a 
physician of great experience and accurate observation, 
and a highly successful writer. To the medical profes- 
sion he is most favorably known as the author of the 
best work on the Materia Medica which has appeared 
in our lano;uagfe." 

This work contains the principles discovered by Lei- 
big, Dumas, and Brossingault, and applies them practi- 
cally to the subject of the proper selection of food. All 
the opinions, expressed in what follows, are sanctioned 
by the above work, by Dr. Gombe, and by most of the 
distinguished practitioners of our age and country. 

Li selecting food, with reference to health, the follow 
ing principles must be borne in mind. 

First, that there are general rules in regard to health- 
ful food and drink, which have been established, not by 
a few, but by thousands and thousands of experiments, 
through many ages, and in ajii immense variety of cir- 
cumstances. It is these ^eat frinciples, which must 



2 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

be the main dependance of every mother and house- 
keeper, to ffuide her in selecting healthful food and drinks 
for her children and family. These rules are furnished 
by medical writers atid practitioners. 

Secondly, there are occasional exceptions to these gen- 
eral rules,' and when such occur, two errors should be 
avoided. One is, giving up all confidence in the deduc- 
tions of a wide experience, established by extensive ex- 
periments, and assuming that we have no rules at all, 
and that every person must follow the guidance of mere 
appetite, or his own Hmited experience. The other is, 
making the exception into a general rule, and maintain- 
ing that every person must conform to it. 

For example, it is found by general experience, that 
milk is a very safe and healthful article of food, and that 
alcoholic drinks are very unhealthful. But there are 
cases w4iich seem to be exceptions to this rule ; for some 
children never can eat milk without being made sick, 
and there are cases know^n where men have hved to a, 
very advanced age and in perfect health, w4io have daily 
used alcoholic drinks, even to the point of intoxication. 

Still, it is very unwise to throw av/ay the general rule 
and say, that it is just as well for children to drink alco- 
holic drinks as to use milk, — and as unwise to claim 
that every person must give up the use of milk because 
a few are injured by it. 

The true method is, to take the general rules obtained 
by abundant experience for our guide, and when any 
exceptions are found, to regard them as exceptions^ 
which do not vacate the general rule, nor make it need- 
ful to conform all other cases to this exception. 

It will be the object of what follows, to point out the 
general rules, which are to regulate in the selection of 
drinks and diet, leaving it to each individual to ascer- 
tain, by experiments, what are, and what are not the ex- 
ceptions. 

In the first place, then, it is a general rule that man 
needs a variety of aliment, so that it is unfavorable to 
health ,to be confined to only one kind of food. 

The various textures q{ the humaai body are com- 



WITH REFERENCE tO HEALTH. 3 

posed of chemical compounds, which differ from each 
other, both as to ingredients, and as to modes of combi- 
nation. It is true, that every portion of the body may 
be resolved to a few simple elements, of which oxygen, 
hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen are the chief. But the 
bodily organs have not the power of forming all the va- 
rious animal tissues from these simple elements. In- 
stead of this, they must be introduced into the body in 
various complex and different combinations, as they ex- 
ist in the forms of gluten, fibrine, albumen, caseine, and 
other animal and vegetable compounds. 

Thus the sugar, starch, and oils, found in certain 
kinds of food, supply the carbon which sustain the com- 
bustion ever carried on in the lungs by the process of 
breathing, and which is the grand source of animal heat. 
On the contrary, the blood, muscles, skin, cartilages, 
and other parts of the body, are daily nourished and re- 
newed, some by the gluten contained in wheat, others 
by the albumen of eggs, others by the caseine of milk, 
and others by the fibrine of animals. All these are 
found in a great variety of articles used as food. When 
received into the stomach, the organs of digestion and 
assimilation prepare, and then carry them, each to its 
own appropriate organ, and then the excreting organs 
throw off the surplus. 

In order, then, to have every portion of the body prop- 
erly developed, it is necessary to take such a variety of 
food, that from one source or another, every organ of the 
body shall be sustained by its appropriate nourishment. 
The experiments which prove this, have been conducted 
on a great scale, and the method and results are detailed 
in the work of Dr. Pereira. 

This fact exhibits one cause of the craving, sometimes 
felt for certain kinds of food, which usually is the call 
of nature for some ingredient, that the daily round of 
aliment does not supply. The statistics furnished in the 
work of Dr. Pereira, from various armies, prisons, alms- 
houses, and asylums, show, that, where many hundreds 
are fed on the same diet, the general health of the mul- 
titude ig better sustained by a considerable variety and 



4 ON SELECTING POOD AND DRINKS 

occasional changes, than by a more restricted selection. 
Experiments on dogs and other animals, also, have been 
tried on a large scale, which prove that there is no kind 
of food, which, alone, will preserve full and perfect health ; 
while every kind (except the food containing gluten^ 
which is the chief ingredient of wheat and other bread- 
stuffs), when given exclusively, eventually destroys life. 
The exclusive use of wheat bread and potatoes, as found 
by experiment, will sustain life and health more per- 
fectly, for a great length of time, than any other kinds 
of food. 

The above fact is a striking exhibition of the benefi- 
cence of Providence, in providing such an immense va- 
riety of articles of food. And no less so is the instinct 
of appetite, which demands not onl}^ a variety, but is 
wearied with one unchanging round. 

Having ascertained that it is needful to health, that a 
due variet}^ of food should be secured, we next proceed 
to examine the principles that are to guide us in the se- 
lection. 

It is found that the articles used for food and drink 
may be arranged in the following classes : — 

First, articles that furnish no other stimulation to the 
animal functions than is secured by the fresh supply of 
nutrition. All food that nourishes the body, in one 
sense, may be called stimulating, inasmuch as it imparts 
renewed energies to the various bodily functions. In 
this sense even bread is a stimulant. But the more com- 
mon idea attached to the word stimulant is, that it is a 
principle which imparts a speed and energy to the organs 
of the system above the ordinary point secured by per- 
fect and appropriate nourishment. The first class, then, 
are those articles that Serve to nourish and develop per- 
fectly every animal function, but do not increase the 
strength and speed of organic action above the point of 
full nourishment. The bread-stuffs, vegetables, fruits, 
sugar, salt, acid drinks, and water are of this class. 

Secondly, those articles, which serve to nourish per- 
fectly all the animal system, and at the same time in- 
crease the strength and speed of all functional action. 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 5 

All animal food is of this class. All physiologists and 
medical men agree in the fact, that the pulse and ail 
the organs of the body, are not only nourished, but are 
quickened in action by animal food, while speed and 
force are reduced by confining the diet to farinaceous, 
vegetable, and fruit diet. 

Thirdly, those articles which impart no nourishment 
at all to the body, but act solely to stimulate all the or- 
gans to preternatural action. AlcohoHc drinks, condi 
ments, and aromatic oils are of this description. 

Fourthly, articles that are neither nourishing nor stim- 
iilating, but pass out of the system entirely undigested 
and unassimilated. The bran of coarse bread is an ex- 
ample. 

Fifthly, articles that, either from their nature or modes 
of combination and cooking, are difficult of digestion, 
unhealthful, and, of course, tend to weaken the organic 
powers by excessive or unnatural action. Animal oils, 
either cooked or rancid, and many articles badly cooked, 
are of this kind. 

NOURISHING AND UNSTIMULATING FOOD. 

The following presents a list of the articles which are 
found to be healthful and nourishing, and not stimula- 
ting, except as they supply the nourishment needed by 
the various bodily functions. 

The first and most important of these are called the 
farinaceous substances. Of these, wheat stands at the 
head, as the most nutritive, safe, and acceptable diet to 
all classes and in all circumstances. This can be used 
in the form of bread, every day, through a whole life, 
without cloying the appetite, and to an extent which 
can be said of no other food. 

Wheat is prepared in several forms, the principal of 
which are the common Fine Wheat Flour, the Unbolted, 
or Graham Elour, and Macaroni, VermiceUi, and Cag- 
liari Pastes. The last are flour paste prepared, or cut 
into various shapes and dried. 

Wheat flour is made into bread of two kinds, the fer- 

1* 



6 ON SELECTING FOOT) AND DRInSS 

mented, or spongy breads, and the unfermented, or hard 
breads. 

The spons^y breads are made by using either yeast, 
or the combination of an acid and alkah. In yeast 
bread, the fermentation of the particles of diffused yeast 
evohe carbonic acid. This expands the flour in a spongy 
form, in which it is retained by the tenacity of the glu- 
ten of the flour, until baking hardens it. Corn meal 
and some other bread-stuffs cannot be raised thus, be- 
cause they do not contain gluten sufl[icient to hold the 
carbonic acid as it evolves. 

When an alkali and acid are used to raise bread, 
their combination evolves carbonic acid by a more sud- 
den process than the yeast fermentation. The lightness 
produced by eggs is ovi^ing to their adhesive porosity 
when beaten and mixed with flour and baked. 

Bread is also made of rice, rye, Indian meal, and bar- 
ley. These varieties of bread-stuffs are useful in various 
ways. In cases when persons are troubled with loose- 
ness of bowels, rice bread, rice gruel, and rice water for 
drink, prevent the necessity of resorting to medicine. 
In cases where the opposite difficulty exists, a diet of 
unbolted wheat, or rye mush with salt and molasses 
will remedy the evil. These articles also can, all of 
them, be formed into a great variety of combinations 
that are at once healthful, and acceptable to the palate. 

The next class of healthful and unstimulating articles 
are the amylaceous^ or starchy articles of diet. Of these 
Sago, Tapioca, Arrow Root, and the Lichens, are those 
in most frequent use. These are nourishing and re- 
markably easy of digestion. They are very much used 
for invalids, and for young children when first weaned. 

The next most valuable articles of food are the vege- 
tahles. Of these the Potato is at once the most health- 
ful, and most universally relished. In the form of 
Starch, it makes, when cooked, a hght and agreeable 
article for the sick, and is convenient to housekeepers as 
forming a fine minute pudding to meet an emergency. 

Of the great variety of vegetables that are furnished 
at market, or from our gardens, almost all are palatable 



WITH REFERENCE TO ^kl/fSL. t 

and healthful to a stomach that is strong. Peas, Beans, 
Onions, and cooked Cabbage and Turnips, usually are 
not good for persons whose powers of digestion have been 
weakened. 

The next most valuable articles of food are the Fruits. 
Almost all kinds of fruit, when fully ripe, are healthful 
to those who are not suffering fi'om weakness of diges- 
tion. Grapes, Apples, Peaches, Strawberries, Raspber- 
ries, and Currants, are least likely to prove injurious. 
The skins and seeds of all fruits consist of woody matter, 
that is perfectly undigestibl^ '^i.^ ...juld never be taken 
in large quantities. It is the skins and seeds of the 
grape that make raisins so often injurious to young chil- 
dren. If the skins and stones can be removed, nothirig 
can be found that is more safe and healthful, in moder- 
ate quantities, than raisins and grapes. 

The next articles of healthful unstimulating food are 
the Saccharine substances, Sugar, Molasses, and Honey. 
On this point, Dr. Pereira remarks, "The injurious ef- 
fects which have been ascribed to sugar are more imagi- 
nary than real. The fondness of children for saccharine 
substances may be regarded as a natural instinct; since 
nature, by placing it in the mother's milk, evidently in- 
tended it to form a part of their nourishment. Instead, 
therefore, of repressing this appetite for sugar, it ought 
rather to be gratified in moderation. The popular no- 
tion, of its having a tendency to injure the teeth, is to- 
tally unfounded. During the sugar seasoii of the West 
Indies, every negro on the plantations, every •aniiiial, and 
even the dogs, grow fat. And no people bh earth have 
finer teeth than the negroes of Jamaica. It is probable 
that this erroneous notion has been propagated by fru- 
gal housewives, in order to deter children from indulging 
in an expensive luxury. Sugar is readily digested by a 
healthy stomach. In dyspeptics, it is apt to give rise to 
flatulence and acidity of stomach." 

These remarks, without other considerations, may lead 
to erroneous conclusions. There is no doubt that both 
children and adults are often injured by the use of sugar, 
but it is not because it is unhealthful in its nature, but 



^ ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

because it is used in excess or in an improper manner. 
In the *' Domestic Economy," pg. 105, it is shown that 
hlglili/ concentrated food is not favorable to digestion, 
because it cannot be properly acted on by the muscular 
contractions of the stomach, and is not so minutely di- 
vided as to enable the gastric juice to act properly. Now 
Sugar, Candy, and the like, are highly concentrated 
nourishment, and should not be used except wlien mixed 
with other food. The reason, then, why children are 
injured by sugar is, that they eat it too frequently, in too 
large quantities, and unmixed with other food. A stick 
or two of pure candy, eaten with crackers or bread, never 
would injure any healthy child. It is too often the case, 
that candies are mixed with unhealthful coloring mat- 
ter, or with nuts and other oily substances, that make 
them injurious. 

The next article of healthful, unstimulating food, is 
jellies and freserved fruits. As it has been shown 
that uncooked fruits and sugar are both healthful, it may 
not seem surprising that jellies and fruits cooked in su- 
gar, when eaten moderately, with bread or crackers, are 
regarded as among the most nourishing and healthful 
of all aliments. When they prove injurious, it is owing 
either to the fact that they are taken alone, or with rich 
cream, or else are taken in too great quantities. Eaten 
moderately, as a part of a meal, they are safe and nour- 
ishing to all, except persons of jDoor digestion. Healthful 
stomachs need not be governed by rules demanded by 
the invalid, which has too often been attempted. 

The preceding presents a vast variety of articles suit- 
able for food, containing in abundance all the principlef^ 
demanded for the perfect development of all the animal 
functions, and which physiologists and medical men uni- 
tedly allow to be healthful. These can be combined by 
the cook in an endless variety of agreeable dishes, in- 
volving no risk to a healthful stomach, wiien taken in 
proper quantities and in a proper time and manner. 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH.. 9 

NOURISHING AND STIMULATING- FOOD. 

The second general division of food, embraces articles 
which serve perfectly to nourish and develop every an- 
imal organ, but, at the same time, increase the speed and 
strength of all functional action beyond the point which 
is attained by the system, when fully and perfectly nour- 
ished by vegetables, fruits, and bread-stuffs. There is 
no dispute among physiologists and physicians as to the 
fact, that animal food produces chyle which is more 
stimulating to the various organs, than that which is 
formed from an exclusive vegetable diet. The only 
question debated is, whether this increase of stimulus 
is favorable, or unfavorable to health and long life. 

Those who maintain that it is unfavorable, say, that 
all other things being equal, that machine must wear 
out the soonest which works the fastest; that, it is 
proved, both by analysis and by facts, that a vegeta- 
ble diet contains every principle needed for the perfect 
development of the whole bodily system, as much so as 
animal food ; and that the only difference is the stimida- 
tion in the animal food, v/hich makes the system work 
faster, and of course, wear out sooner. 

To this it is replied, that the exact point of stimula- 
tion, which is most safe and healthful, cannot be deter- 
mined, and that it is as correct to assume, that to be the 
proper medium, which is secured by a mixed diet, as to 
assume that the proper point is that, which is secured by 
an exclusive vegetable diet. Moreover, the fact that the 
teeth and digestive organs of man, which seem to be 
fitted both for vegetable and animal food, and the fact 
that the supplies of food on the earth make it needful 
to adopt sometimes animal, and sometimes vegetable diet, 
and sometimes a mixture of both, furnish an a priori 
argument in favor of a mixed diet. 

In deciding which kinds of animal food are most 
healthful, several particulars are to be regarded. The 
flesh of young animals is more tender than that of the 
old ones, but yet they usually are not so easily digested. 
Beef, and Mutton, and Venison, when tender, are con- 



10 ON SfiLECTIXG FOOD AND DRINKS 

sidered the meats which are most easily digested, and 
best for weak stomachs. Venison is more stimulating 
than Beef and Mutton. These meats, when tough, are 
not so easily digested as when tender. 

All meats are made more tender and digestible by 
hanging. 

Solid meats, properly cooked, are more easily digested 
than soups and broths. For it is found that these liquids 
are never digested till the water is absorbed, leaving a 
solid mass more undigestible than was the solid meat. 
When useful to invalids, it is because they supply the 
loss of the withdrawn fluids of the body, but not because 
more easily digested. The white meats, such as Chicken 
and Veal, are best for invalids, because less stimulating 
than dark meats. 

Liver contains so much oil that it is not good for inva- 
lids or dyspeptics. 

The digestibility and healthfulness of meat depends 
very much upon the mode of cooking. Boiled meats are 
most easily digested, when properly boiled. Roasting, 
broiling, and baking, are healthful modes of cooking, but 
frying is a very pernicious mode of preparing meats, 
the reason of which will be explained hereafter. 

Though there is a disagreement of opinion among 
practitioners and physiologists, as to the propriety of 
using any animal food, they are all agreed in regard to 
certain general principles that should regulate its use. 
They are as follows : — Less animal food should be used 
in warm climates than in cold, and less, also, in summer 
than in winter. The reason of this is, that heat is stim- 
ulating to the system, and as meat diet is also stimula- 
ting, when heat increases, meat, as a diet, should de- 
crease, or fevers may ensue. 

Another principle is, that the proportions of meat diet 
should depend somewhat on the constitution and circum- 
stances. When a person is of full habit, or inclined to 
inflammatory attacks of any kind, the proportion of ani- 
mal food should be much less than in other cases. 

On the contrary, when there is a state of the system 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. ll 

that demands gentle stimulus, an increase of meat diet 
is sometimes useful. 

Persons subject to cutaneous eruptions are sometimes 
entirely cured by long abstinence from animal food, and 
all kinds of oily substances. 

FOOD THAT STIMULATES WITHOUT NOURISHING. 

The articles which come under this head, a-re usually 
called the condiments. In regard to these, Dr. Pereira 
remarks, — 

" The relish for flavoring, or seasoning ingredients, 
manifested by almost every person, would lead us to sup- 
pose that these substances serve some useful purpose 
beyond that of merely gratifying the palate. At pres- 
ent, however, we have no evidence that they do. They 
stimulate, but do not seem to nourish. The volatile 
oil they contain is absorbed, and then thrown out of the 
system, still possessing its characteristic odor." 

The articles used for food of this kind, are the sweet 
herbs employed for seasoning, such as Thyme, Summer 
Savory, and the like, and the spices, such as Cloves, Cin- 
namon, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Ginger. Mustard, Horse- 
radish, Water Cresses, Garlic, and Onions, contain these 
stimulating oils, combined with some nourishing food. 

" Condiments," says Dr. Beaumont, " particularly 
those of a spicy kind, are non-essential to the process of 
digestion in a healthy state of the system. They afford 
no nutrition. Though they may assist the action of a 
debilitate stomach for a time, their Continual use ne^er 
fails to produce an indirect debility of that organ. They 
affect it as alcohol and other stimulatits do- — the present 
relief afforded is at the expense of futiire suffering. 
Salt and Yinegar are exceptiotis when Used in modera- 
tion. They both assist in digestion, Viriegar by rendering 
muscular fibre more tender, and both together, by pro- 
ducing a fluid having some analogy to the gastric juice.'' 

FOOD THAT IS ENTIRELY UN DIGESTIBLE. 

There is no kind of food used which consists exclu- 
sively of indigestible matter. But it often is the case, 



12 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

that a certain amount of indigestible matter is mixed 
with nourishing food, and serves, by its mechanical aid, 
to promote the healthful action of* the stomach and 
bowels. This is the reason why unbolted flour is deemed 
more healthful than fine flour, and is consequently pre- 
ferred for dyspeptics. But where there is too great a 
quantity of such indigestible matter, or where it is not 
properly combined with digestible food, it proves inju- 
rious and often dangerous. This is the case when the 
skins and seeds of fruits are swallowed, which always 
pass ofi' entirely undigested. 

FOOD THAT IS UNHEALTHFUL IN NATURE, OR MADE SO BY 

COOKING. 

The most injurious food, of any in common use, is the 
animal oils, and articles cooked with them. On this 
subject, Dr. Pereira remarks : — " Fixed oil, or fat, is 
more difficult of digestion, and more obnoxious to the 
stomach, than any other alimentary principle. Indeed, 
in concealed forms, I believe it will be found to be the 
oflfending ingiedient in nine-tenths of the dishes which 
disturb weak stomachs. Many dyspeptics who avoid 
fat meat, butter, and oil, unwittingly eat it in some con- 
cealed form. Liver, the yolk of eggs, and brains, such 
individuals should eschew, as they abound in oily mat- 
ter." 

"The influence of heat on fatty substances effects 
chemical changes, whereby they are rendered more dif- 
ficult of digestion, and more obnoxious to the stomach. 
Hence those culinary operations in which fat or oil is 
subjected to high temperatures, are objectionable." 

" Fixed oils give ofiT, while boiling, carbonic acid, an 
inflammable va})or, and an acrid oil, called Acroleon, while 
the fatty acids of the oil are, in part, set free. It has 
always appeared to me that cooked butter proves more 
obnoxious to the stomach than cooked Olive oil. This 
I ascribe to the facility with which, under the influence 
of heat, the acrid, volatile acids of butter are set free. 
The fat of aalt pork and bacon is less injurious to some 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 13 

dyspeptics than fresh animal fats. This must depend 
on some change effected by curing." 

" In many dyspeptics, fat does not become properly 
chymified. It floats on the stomach in the form of an 
oily pellicle, becoming odorous, and sometimes highly 
rancid, and in this state excites heartburn, disagreeable 
nausea, eructations, and sometimes vomiting. It ap- 
pears to me, that the greater tendency which some oily 
substances have than others to disturb the stomach, de- 
pends on the greater facility with which they evolve 
volatile, fatty acids, which are for the most part exceed- 
ingly acrid and irritating. The distressing feelings ex- 
cited in many dyspeptics by mutton fat, butter, and fish 
oils, are, in this way, readily accounted ifor. Butter con- 
tairis no less than three volatile, fatty acids, namely — 
the butyric, capric, and caproic. Fats, by exposure to 
the air, become rancid, and in this state are exceedingly 
obnoxious to the digestive organs. Their injurious 
qualities depend on the presence of volatile acids, and in 
part also on non-acid substances." 

These statements show the reasons why the fried 
food of all kinds is injurious. Fat is an unhealthful ali- 
ment, and when heated becomes still more so. This 
mode of cooking, then, should be given up by every 
housekeeper, who intends to take all reasonable means 
of preserving the health of her family. There are an 
abundance of other modes of preparing food, without re- 
sorting to one which involves danger, especially to chil- 
dren and invalids, whose powers of digestion are feeble. 

The most common modes of preparing unhealthful 
food, is by frying food, and by furnishing bread that is 
heavy ^ or sour^ or so newly baked, as to become clammy 
and indigestible when chewed. Though there are many 
stomachs that can for a long time take such food with- 
out trouble, it always is injurious to weak stomachs,, and 
often renders a healthful stomach a weak one. A 
housekeeper that will always keep a suppl}^ of sweet, , 
light bread on her table, and avoid oily dishes, oily cook- 
ing, and condiments, will double the chances of good 
health for her family. 

2 



14 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

Minuteness of division is a great aid to easy digestion. 
For this reason food slioiild be well chewed before swal- 
lowing, not only to divide it minutely, but to mix it with 
the saliva, which aids in digestion. 

The cooking of food, in most cases, does not alter its 
nature ; it only renders it more tender, and thus more 
easily divided and digested. 

When a person is feverish and loathes food, it should 
never be given, as the stomach has not sufficient gastric 
juice to secure its digestion. The practice of tempting 
the sick by favorite articles, should therefore be avoided. 

LIQUID ALIMENTS, OR DRINKS. 

" Water,'^ says Dr. Pereira, " is probably the natural 
drink of all adults. It serves several important purposes 
in the animal economy : — firstly, it repairs the loss of the 
aqueous part of the blood, caused by evaporation, and 
the action of the secreting and exhaling organs ; second- 
ly, it is a solvent of various alimentary substances, and, 
therefore, assists the stomach in digestion, though, if 
taken in very large quantities, it may have an opposite 
effect, by diluting the gastric juice ; thirdly, it is a nutri- 
tive agent, that is, it assists in the formation of the solid 
parts of the body." 

The health of communities and of individuals is often 
affected by the nature of the water used for drink, and 
it is therefore important to know how to secure pure and 
good water. 

Rain water is the purest of all water, purer than the 
best ijpring water. Of course every person who fears 
that the water used is the cause of any evil, can obtain 
that which is known to be pure and good. The cheap- 
est mode of obtaining good rain water, is to have a large 
cistern dug in the vicinity of some large building, with 
conducting spouts. This can be lined with water lime, 
and the water thus obtained, when cooled with ice, is as 
pure as any that can be found. 

A distinguished medical writer. Dr. Cheyne, remark- 
ing on the effects of foreign substances in water, states 
these facts : — 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 15 

" At the Nottingham Assizes, July, 1836, it was 
proved on trial, at which I was a witness, that dysen- 
tery, in an aggravated form, was caused in cattle by the 
use of water contaminated with putrescent vegetable 
matter, produced by the refuse of a starch manufactory. 
The fish were destroyed, and all the animals that drank 
of this water became seriously ill, and many died. It 
was shown, also, that the mortahty was in proportion to 
the quantity of starch made at different times, and that 
when the putrescent matter (of the manufactory) was 
not allowed to pass to the brook, the fish and frogs re- 
turned, and the mortality ceased among the cattle." 

Dr. Barry, an English physician, states, that when 
the troops at Cork were supphed with water from the 
river Lee, which, in passing through the city, is rendered 
unfit for drinking by the influx from sewers, Mr. Bell 
suspected that a dysentery, prevailing at the time, arose 
from this cause. Upon assuming the care of the troops, 
he had a number of water carts to bring water from a 
spring, and did not allow the use of river water, and very 
shortly the dysentery disappeared. 

Sir James McGregor states, that, at one time in the 
Spanish war, when during three months 20,000 dead 
bodies were interred at Ciudad Rodrigo, all those exposed 
to emanations from the soil, and who were obliged to 
use water from sunken wells, were affected by low ma- 
lignant fevers, or dysenteries. 

This shows that burying in large towns affects the 
health of the inhabitants, first by emanations from the 
soil, and secondly by poisoning the water percolating 
through that soil. 

Many such facts as these, show the importance of 
keeping wells and cisterns from the drainings of sinks, 
barn-yards, and from decayed dead animals. And it is 
probable that much sickness in families and commur»i- 
ties has been caused by neglecting to preserve the water 
pure, that is used for ddnk and cooking. 

Water is sometimes rendered un healthful by being 
conducted through lead pipes, or kept in lead reservoirs, 
or vessels. It is found that the purer the water, the 



16 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

more easily it is affected by the lead through which it 
passes. When the water has certain neutral salts in it, 
they are deposited on the surface of the lead, and thus 
protect from its poisonous influence. Immersing a very 
bright piece of lead for some hours in water, will show 
whether it is safe to use lead in conducting the water. 
If the lead is tarnished, it proves that the water exerts a 
solvent power, and that it is unsafe to employ lead in 
carrying the water. 

The continued use of water containing lead, gives 
rise to the lead cholic^ or painter'' s cholic, and if the 
water is still drank, palsy succeeds. One indication of 
this disease is a narrow leaden blue line on the edge of 
the gums of the front teeth. 

The following are methods to be employed in purify- 
ing water : — 

The most thorough and effectual way of obtaining 
perfectly pure water, from that which is noxious, is, to 
distill it, collecting only the steam. 

In cases where water is injured by the presence of 
animal or vegetable matter, boiling sometimes removes 
much of the evil. 

Two grains of powdered alum to every quart of 
water, will often serve to remove many impurities. 

Filtering through fine sand and powdered charcoal, 
removes all animal and vegetable substances which are 
not held in chemical solution. 

Sea water serves both as a cathartic and emetic, and 
the only mode of obtaining pure water from it is by dis- 
tillation. 

The impure water used often at sea, is owing wholly 
to the casks in which it is carried. When new, the 
water imbibes vegetable ingredients from the cask, which 
become putrid. Water, if carried to sea in iron casks, if 
good and pure, always continues so. Cistern water is 
often impure, when held in new wooden cisterns, owing 
to vegetable matter absorbed by the water. 

Dr. Lee remarks, " We are satisfied that impure 
water is more frequently the cause of disease than is 
generally supposed. It has been thought that decaying 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 17 

vegetable matter, received into the stomach, was innox- 
ious, owing to the antiseptic properties of the gastric 
juice. But this opinion is evidently erroneous. An 
immense number of facts could be adduced, to show that 
this is the frequent cause of disease. The British army 
* Medical Reports,' and our own Medical Journals, con- 
tain many facts of a similar kind. The fever which 
carried off so many of the United States Dragoons, on a 
visit to the Pawnees, was occasioned chiefly by drink- 
ing stagnant water, filled with animal and vegetable 
matter. We know that calculus diseases are most 
frequent in countries that abound in hme water." 

OTHER LIQUID ALIMENTS, OR DRINKS. 

The other drinks in most common use are arranged 
thus, — 

1. The Mucilaginous J Farinaceous^ or Saccharine 
drinks. 

These are water chiefly, with substances slightly nu- 
tritive, softening, and soothing. Toast water ^ Sugar 
water^ Rice water., Barley water., and the various 
Gruels, are of this kind. 

2. The Aromatic and Astringent drinks. 

These include Tea, Coffee, Chicory, Chocolate, and 
Cocoa. 

The following remarks on these drinks are taken 
from the work of Dr. Pereira. 

" The peculiar flavor of tea depends upon the vola- 
tile oil, which has the taste and smell of tea. Alone^ it 
acts as a narcotic, but when combined (as in tea) with 
tanain, it acts as a diuretic and diaphoretic (i. e. to 
promote the flow of urine and perspiration). Its astrin- 
gency, proved by its chemical properties, depends upon 
the presence of tannin. Of this quality we may bene- 
ficially avail ourselves in some cases of poisoning, as by 
poisonous mushrooms, by opium, or laudanum." 

" The peculiar influence of tea, especially the green 
variety, over the nervous system, depends upon the veg- 
etable oil referred to. The influence is analogous to 

9* 



18 ON SELECTING FOOD AN6 DRINKS 

that of foxglove ; for both green tea and foxglove oc- 
casion watchfulness, and act as sedatives on the heart 
and bloodvessels. Strong green tea produces, on some 
constitutions, usually those popularly known as nervous, 
very severe effects. It gives rise to tremor, anxiety, 
sleeplessness, and most distressing feelings." 

"As a dihient and sedative, tea is well adapted to fe- 
brile and inflammatory disorders. To its sedative influ- 
ence should be ascribed the relief of headache sometimes 
experienced." 

On this subject, Dr. Lee remarks, " Green tea un- 
doubtedly possesses very active medicinal properties ; for 
a very strong decoction of it, or the extract, speedily de- 
stroys life in the inferior animals, even when given in 
very small doses. The strongly marked eflfects of tea 
upon persons of a highly nervous temperament, in caus- 
ing wakefulness, tremors, palpitations, and other distress- 
ing feelings, prove, also, that it is an agent of considera- 
ble power. It not unfrequently occasions vertigo, and 
sick headache, together with a sinking sensation at the 
pit of the stomach, shortly after eating. It is also op- 
posed to active nutrition, and should, therefore, be used 
with great moderation by those who are thin in flesh. 
From its astringent properties it often is useful in a re- 
laxed state of bowels." 

" We are satisfied that green tea does not, in any 
case, form a salubrious beverage to people in health, and 
should give place to milk, milk and water, black tea, 
milk and sugar, which, when taken tepid, form very 
agreeable and healthy drinks." 

Coffee. " The infusion, or decoction of coffee, forms 
a well known favorite beverage. Like tea, it dimin- 
ishes the disposition to sleep, and hence it is often re- 
sorted to by those who desire nocturnal study. It may 
also be used to counteract the stupor induced by of)ium, 
alcoholic drinks, and other narcotics. In some constitu- 
tions it acts as a mild laxative, yet it is usually described 
as producing constipation. The immoderate use of 
coffee produces various nervous diseases, such as anx- 



iety, tremor, disordered vision, palpitation, and feverish- 
ness." 

Chicory, or Succory. This is the roasted root of the 
Wild Endive, or Wild Succory. It is prepared like cof- 
fee, and some prefer its flavor to that of coffee. 

Chocolate. This is prepared by roasting the seeds 
of the Cacoa, or Cocoa, then grinding them and forming 
them into cakes. "Chocolate, though devoid of the 
disagreeable qualities of tea and coffee, which disturb 
the nervous functions, yet is difficult of digestion, on 
account of the large quantity of oil which it contains, 
and is, therefore, very apt to disturb the stomach of 
dyspeptics." 

Cocoa. This is made of the nuts and husks of the 
cocoa, roasted and ground, and is somewhat less oily 
than chocolate, and being rather astringent, is adapted 
to looseness of the bowels. The shells alone are often 
used to make a drink, which is less rich than the Cocoa, 
and especially adapted to weak digestive powers. 

The seeds of the vegetable called Ochra, roasted and 
prepared like coffee, are said to equal it in flavor. 

3. Acidulous Drinks. 

" The employment of vegetable acid, as an aliment, 
is necessary to health. It seems pretty clearly estab- 
lished, that complete and prolonged abstinence from 
succulent vegetables, or fruits, or their preserved juices, 
as articles of food, is a cause of scurvy." 

" Water, sharpened with vegetable acids, oftentimes 
proves a most refreshing beverage, allaying thirst, and 
moderating excessive heat. Yarious acids form cooling, 
refreshing, and antiscorbutic drinks, and are well adapted 
for hot seasons, and for febrile and inflammatory cases." 

These drinks are prepared by dissolving vegetable 
acids or acidulous salts in water, sweetening and flavor- 
ing it. Also, by decoctions of acid fruits, which promote 
secretions in the alimentary canal, and act as laxa- 
tives. 

The carbonated or effervescing drinks belong to this 
class. They owe their sparkling briskness to carbonic 
acid gas confined in the liquid. 



20 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

f 

4. Drinks containing Gelatine and Osmazome. 
Gelatine is that part of animal and vegetable matter 

that forms jelly. 

Osmazome is that principle in meats which impart 
their flavor. 

Beef Tea, Mutton, Veal, and Chicken Broths are the 
principal drinks of this description, and usually are pre- 
pared for invalids. 

5. Emulsive^ or Milky Drinks. 

Animal milk is the principal drink of this class, and 
as this is the aliment of a large portion of young chil- 
dren, the necessity of guarding against abuses connected 
with the supplies furnished should be generally known. 

A great portion of the milk furnished in New York 
and other large cities, is obtained from cows fed on dis- 
tillery slops, and crowded in filthy pens, without regard 
to ventilation or cleanliness. Thus deprived of pure air 
and exercise, and fed with unhealthy food, their milk 
becomes diseased, and is the cause of extensive mortality 
among young children. Many cows, also, are fed on 
decayed vegetables, and the sour and putrid offals of 
kitchens, and these, also, become thus diseased. 

A work on this subject, by R. M. Hartly, Esq., of New 
York, has been published, which contains these facts. 
Of five hundred dairies near New York and Brooklyn, 
all, except five or six, feed their cows on distillery slops. 
And the reason is, that it yields more milk at a cheaper 
rate than any other food. But it soon destroys the health 
of the animals, and after most of their fluids are, by this 
process, changed to unhealthy milk, and the cows be- 
come diseased, they are sent to a cattle market and a 
new supply obtained. 

The physicians in New York, in a body, have testi- 
fied to the unhealthiness of this practice, but as yet no 
inspectors have been secured to preserve the pubhc from 
this danger, while the great mass of the people are igno- 
rant or negligent on the subject. Chemists have ana- 
lyzed this unhcalthful milk, and find that, while pure 
milk is alkaline, slop milk is acid, and also contains less 
than half the nourishment contained in pure milk. 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 21 

Scarcely any cream rises on slop milk, and what does 
collect can never be turned into butter ; but, by churn- 
ing, only changes to froth. We have inspectors of flour, 
meat, fish, and most other food, and every town and 
city supplied by milk carts ought to have inspectors of 
milk ; and where this is not done, every mistress of a 
family should narrowly watch her supphes of milk, and 
ascertain the mode in which the cows are fed. 

In cases where children, or adults, find that milk 
troubles the stomach, it is often owing to its richness^ 
and water should then be mixed with it. Infants gen- 
erally require diluted milk, a httle sweetened, as cow's 
milk is, when good, considerably richer than mother's 
milk. The fact that oil is placed among the articles 
most difficult to digest, shows the mistake of many, who 
give diluted cream instead of milk, supposing it to be 
better for infants. In all ordinary cases, where an in- 
fant is deprived of the mother's nourishment, the milk 
of a new milch cow, diluted with one-third, or one-fourth 
water, and sweetened a little with white sugar, is the 
safest substitute. Sometimes oat-meal gruel, or arrow- 
root, are found to agree better with the child's peculiar 
constitution. 

6. Alcoholic Drinks. 

Beer, Wine, Cider, and Distilled Liquors, are the chief 
of the alcohohc drinks. 

" To persons in health," says Dr. Pereira, in his 
" Elements of Materia Medica," " the dietical employ- 
ment of wine is either useless or pernicious." Dr. Beau- 
mont, in his celebrated experiments on St. Martin,* 
found that wines, as well as distilled spirits, invariably 
interfered with the regularity and completeness of diges- 
tion, and always produced morbid changes in the mu- 
cous membrane of the stomach. And this, too, was the 
case when neither unpleasant feelings nor diminished 
appetite indicated such an effect. 

* This case of St. Martin's referred to, was that of a soldier, who by 
a gun shot, had an opening made into his stomach, which healed np, 
leaving so large an orifice, that all the process of digestion could be ex- 
amined, after he was restored to perfect health. 



22 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

Dr. Bell, of Philadelphia, remarks' thus : " The re- 
corded experience of iiieii in all siluatious and cUmates, 
under all kinds of labor and exposure, prove that absti- 
nence from alcoholic drinks gives increased ability to go 
through the labors of the farm and the workshop, to re- 
sist heat and cold, to encounter hardships oa sea and 
land, beyond what has ever been done imder the unnat- 
ural excitement of alcohol, followed, as it is, by depression 
and debility, if not by fever and disease. The observa- 
tion and testimony of naval and military surgeons and 
commanders are adverse to the issue of alcoholic drinks 
to men in the army and navy." 

The reports from all our chief state prisons also prove 
that intemperate men can be instantly deprived of all 
alcoholic drinks, not only without danger, but with an 
immediate improvement of the health. 

Wine is often useful as a medicine, under the direc- 
tion of a physician, but its stimulating, alcoholic princi- 
ple, makes it an improper agent to be drank in health. 
The same is true of cider and strong beer. Some wine, 
beer, and cider drinkers do, by the force of a good con- 
stitution, live to a good old age, and so do some persons, 
also, who Hve in districts infected by a malaria, which 
destroys the health and life of thousands. But these 
exceptions do not prove that either wine, or malaria are 
favorable to health, or long life. They are only excep 
tions to a general rule. 

Meantime, the general rule is estabhshed by an in- 
credible amount of experience and testimony, that alco 
holic drinks, in no cases, are needed by those in health, 
and that the indulgence in drinking them awakens a 
gnawing thirst and longing for them, that leads the vast 
majority of those who use them, to disease, debility, pov- 
erty, folly, crime, and death. 



In this detail of the various drinks that may be used 
by man, we find that pure water is always satisfying, 
safe, and sufficient. We find that acid and effervescing 
drinks, so acceptable in hot weather, are also demanded 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 2JJ 

by the system, and are safe and healthful. We find 
that milk and broths are also healthful and nourishing. 

Black tea, also, when taken weak and not above 
blood heat, is a perfectly safe and agreeable warm drink. 

Chocolate and cocoa are nourishing and safe to per- 
sons who can bear the oil they contain ; and shells are 
perfectly healthful and safe to all. 

In the vast variety of drinks provided for man, we 
find very few that are not safe and healthful. Green 
tea and coffee, as ordinarily used, are very injurious to 
very many constitutions. They contain but very little 
nourishment, except what is added by the milk and su- 
gar, and training a family of children to love them (for 
no child loves them till trained to do it) is making it 
probable that all of them will be less healthful and com- 
fortable, and certain that some will bie great sufferers. 
Training children to drink tea and coffee is as unreason- 
able and unchristian, as training them to drink foxglove 
and opium would be — the only difference is, that in one 
case it is customary, and the other it is not ; and custom 
makes a practice appear less foolish and sinful. 

There is no need, at this period of the world, to point 
out the wickedness and folly of training children to love 
alcoholic drinks. 

In regard to the use of green tea and coffee, one sug- 
gestion will be offered. These are drinks which contain 
very little nourishment, and their effect is to stimulate 
the nervous system without nourishing it. They are, 
also, usually drank hot, and heat also is a stimulant to 
the nerves of the mouth, teeth, throat, and stomach, in 
ducing consequent reacting debiUty. For it is the un- 
varying law of the nervous system, that the reacting 
debility is always in exact proportion to the degree of 
stimulation. 

It is in vain to expect that the great multitudes, who 
have been accustomed, from childhood, to drink hot tea 
and coffee, once, twice,, and sometimes thrice a day, will 
give up such a favorite practice. But it is hoped that 
some may be induced to modify their course, by redu- 
cing the strength and the k^at of their daily potations. 



24 ON SELECTING FOOD AND DRINKS 

It will be found by housekeepers that, if once a month 
the daily quantity of tea, or coffee is slightly reduced, 
the taste will imperceptibly accommodate ; and that, in 
the course of six or eight months, the habits of a family, 
by these slight monthly variations, may be changed so 
as that, eventually, they will love weak tea and coffee fl" 
much as they once loved the strong. 

Young housekeepers, who are just beginning to rear 
a family of children, will perhaps permit one plea for the 
young beings, whose fate in life so much depends on 
their piiysical training. It is the weak and delicate chil- 
dren who are the sufferers, where the habits of a family 
lead them to love stimulating drinks. The strong and 
healthy children may escape unharmed, the whole evil 
falls on those, who are least able to bear it. Oh mother, 
save the weak lambs of your fold ! Save them from 
those untold agonies that result from rasped and debili- 
tated nerves, worn out by unheal thful stimulus ! And 
set before your household the Divine injunction — " We, 
then, that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the 
weak, and not to please ourselves." 

In regard to the selection of food, a housekeeper can 
have small excuse for ever risking the health of her fam- 
ily by providing unhealthy food, or cooking it in an un- 
healthful manner. Innumerable dishes, and enough to 
furnish a new variety for every day of the year, can be 
made of food that is safe and healthful, and cooked in a 
healthful manner. 

Avoid condiments^ fats, and food cooked in fats, 
and always provide light and sioeet yeast bread, 
is the rule which shuts out almost everything that is 
pernicious to health, and leaves an immense variety from 
which to select what is both healthful and grateful to 
the palate. 

There are some directions in regard to times and man- 
ner of taking food, that are given more at large, with the 
reasons for them, in the " Domestic Economy," but 
which will briefly be referred to, because so important. 

Eating too fast is unhealthful, because the food is not 
properly masticated, or mixed with the saliva, nor has 



WITH REFERENCE TO HEALTH. 25 

the stomach sufficient time to perform its office on the 
last portion swallowed before another enters. 

Eating too often is unhealthful, because it is weaken- 
ing and injurious to mix friesh food with that which is 
partly digested, and because the stomach needs rest af- 
ter the labor of digesting a meal. In grown persons 
four or five hours should intervene between each meal. 
Children, who are growing fast, need a luncheon of sim- 
ple bread between meals. 

Eating too much is unhealthful, because the stomach 
can properly digest only that amount which is needed 
to nourisii the S3^stem. The rest is thrown off undi- 
gested, or crowded into parts of the system where it is 
injurious. 

. Eating food w^hen too hot is injurious, as weakening the 
nerves of the teeth and stomach by the stimulus of heat. 

Eating highly seasoned food is unhealthful, because 
it stimulates too much, provokes the appetite too much, 
and often is indigestible. 

Badly cooked food is unhealthful, because it is indi- 
gestible, and in other ways injurious. 

Excessive fatigue weakens the power of digestion, 
a,nd in such cases, a meal should be delayed till a little 
rest is gained. 

Bathing should never follow a meal, as it withdraws 
the blood and nervous vigor demanded for digestion, 
from the stomach to the skin. 

Violent exercise should not follow a full meal, as 
that also withdraws the blood and nervous energies from 
the stomach to the muscles. 

Water, and other drinks, should never be taken in 
large quantities, either with, or immediately after a meal, 
as they dilute the gastric juice, and tend to prevent per- 
fect digestion. But it is proper to drink a moderate 
quantity of Uquid while eating. 

Where there is a strong constitution and much exer- 
cise in the open air, children and adults may sometimes 
violate these and all other laws of health, and yet remain 
strong and well. 

But all, and especially those, who have delicate con- 

3 



26 



MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 



stitutions, and are deprived of fresh air and exercise, 
will have health and strength increased and prolonged 
by attending to these rules. 



CHAPTER II. 

MARKETING CARE AND tJSES OF MEATS. 

Beef, 

Fig. 1. 




1. Cheek. 2. Neck. 3. Chuck Rib, or Shoulder having four Ribs. 

4. Front of the Shoulder, or Shoulder Clod, sometimes called Brisket. 

5. Back of the Shoulder. 6. Fore Shin, or Leg. 7, 7. Plate pieces ; the 
front one is the Brisket, and the back one is the Flank, and is divided 
again into the Thick Flank, or Upper Sirloin, and the Lower Fiank. 
8. Standing Ribs, divided into First, Second, and Third Cuts. The First 
Cut is next to the Sirloin, and is the best. 9. Sirloin. 10. Sirloin Steak. 
IL Rump, or Etch Bone. 12. Round, or Buttock. 13. Leg, or Hind 
Shank. 

Veal, 

Pig. 2. 




1. Head and Pluck. 2. Rack and Neck. 3. Shoulder. 
Shank, or Knuckle. 5. Breast. 6. Loin. 7. Fillet, or Leg. 
Shank, or Knuckle. 



4. Fore 
8. Hind 



MAEKETING — CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 

Mutton^ 

Fig. 3. 



27 




1. Shoulder. 2,2. Neck, or Rack. 3. Loin. 4. Leg. 5. Breast 

A Chine is two Loins. 

A Saddle of Mutton is two Legs and two Loins. 




1. Leg. 2. Hind Loin. 3. Fore Loin. 4. Spare Rib. 5. Hand. 
;6. Spring. 

A Lamb h divided into two fore quarters and two hind quarters. 

Venison. In this country nothing is used but the hind quarter. Two 
legs and two loins are called a Saddle. 

SELECTIO'N AND USES OF MEATS. 

In selecting beef, the best parts are cut from the thick 
portion, from the shoulder to the rump, and these are 
the most expensive parts, including sirloin, sirloin steaks, 
and first, second, and third cuts of the fore quarter. 
The best steaks are made by sawing up these pieces. 
Steaks from the round or buttock are tougher and not 
so sweet as steaks from rib pieces. The best steaks are 
from the sirloin and sirloin steak. Steaks that have 
large bits of bone should be cheaper, as the bone is so 



28 MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 

much loss. A roasting piece cut close to the fore shoul- 
der is always tough and poor. Tough steaks must be 
pounded with a steak hammer. 

MODES OF COOKING AND USING THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF 

ANIMALS. 

Beef. 

The Sirloin is to be roasted, and it is considered the 
best piece for steaks. The piece next forward of the Sir- 
loin is about as good as any for roasting. 

The Rump is to be corned, or cooked a la mode. 

The Round is used for corning, or a la mode. 

The Edge or Etch Bone is corned, or for soup. 

The Hock or Shin is used for soups. 

The Rih pieces of the fore quarter are used as roast- 
ing pieces. The first cut, which is next the Sirloin, is 
the iDest, and the others are better for corning. 

The Head is used for mince pies, and the Tongue 
for smoking. The Legs are used for soups. 

The remaining pieces are used for salting down, stews, 
soups, and mince pies, according to various tastes. 

The Tallow is to be tried up for candles. 

Veal. 

The Loin is used for roasting. 

The Fillet (which is the leg and hind flank) is used 
for cutlets, or to stuff and boil, or to stuff and roast. 

The Chump end of the loin is used for roasting. 

The Knuckles are used for broths. 

The Neck is used for stews, pot pies, and broths, as 
are most of the remaining pieces. 

Many persons roast the fore quarter, which is divided 
into two pieces, called the brisket, or breast, and the rack. 

Mutton. 

The Leg is boiled, or stuffed and roasted. 
The Loin is roasted. 
The rest are for boiling, or corning. 
The Loin is chopped into pieces for broiling, calleo 
Mutton Chops. 



MAEKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 29 



The Leg is often cut into slices and broiled. 
Many cure and smoke the leg, and call it smoked 
venison. 

Pork. 

The Shoulder and Ham are used for smoking. 

The Spare Rib is used for roasting, and often is used 
as including all the ribs. 

The Shoulder sometimes is corned and boiled. 

That which is to be salted down must have all the 
lean taken out; which is to be used for sausages, or 
broiling. 

The Feet use for jelly, head cheese, and souse. 

MARKETING. 

In selecting Fish^ take those that are firm and thick, 
having stiff fins and bright scales, the gills bright red, 
and the eyes full and prominent. When Fish are long 
out of water they grow soft, the fins bend easily, the 
scales are dim, the gills grow dark, and the eyes sink 
and shrink away. Be sure and have them dressed im- 
mediately, sprinkle them with salt, and use them, if pos- 
sible, the same day. In warm weather put them in ice, 
or corning, for the next day. Shell Fish can be decided 
upon only by the smell. Lobsters are not good unless 
alive, or else boiled before offered for sale. They are 
black when ahve, and red when boiled. When to be 
boiled, they are to be put alive into boiling water, which 
is the quickest and least cruel way to end life. 

In selecting Beef^ take that which has a coarse, loose 
grain, which easily yields to the pressure of finger, 
or knife ; which is a purplish red, and has whitish fat. 
Ox Beef is best. If the lean is purplish and the fat very 
yellow, it is bad Beef. If it is coarse-grained and hard 
to break or cut, it is tough. Stall-fed has fighter fat 
than grass-fed Beef. 

If meat is frozen, lay it in cold water to thaw. A 
piece of ten pounds, or more, will require all ni^ht to 
thaw. Beef and Mutton improve by keeping. Meat i» 
better for not being frozen, except fresh Pork. 

3* 



30 MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 

In selecting Veal, take that which is firm and dry, 
and the joints stiff, having the lean a dehcate red, the 
kidney covered with fat, and the fat very white. If you 
buy the head, see that the eyes are plump and lively, 
and not dull and sunk in the head. If you buy the 
legs, get those which are not skinned, as the skin is 
good for jelly, or soup. 

In choosing Mutton, take that which is bright red 
and close grain, with firm and white fat. The meat 
should feel tender and springy on pressure. Notice the 
vein in the neck of the fore quarter, which should be a 
fine blue. 

In selecting Pork, if young, the lean can easily be 
broken when pinched, and the skin can be indented by 
nipping with the fingers. The fat also will be white 
and soft. Thin rind is best. 

In selecting Hams, run a knife along the bone, and 
if it comes out clean, the ham is good, but if it comes 
out smeared, it is spoilt. Good Bacon has white fat and 
the lean adheres closely to the bone. If the Bacon has 
yellow streaks, it is rusty, and not fit to use. 

In selecting Poultry, choose those that are full grown, 
but not old. When young and fresh killed, the skin is 
thin and tender, the joints not very stiff, and the eyes 
full and bright. The breast bone shows the age, as it 
easily yields to pressure if young, and is tough when 
old. If young, you can with a pin easily tear the skin. 
A goose, when old, has red and hairy legs, but when 
young, they are yellow and have few hairs. The pin- 
feathers are the roots of feathers, which break off and 
remain in the skin, and always indicate a young bird. 
When very neatly dressed they are all pulled out. 

Poultry and birds ought to be killed by having the 
neck cut off, and then hung up by the legs to bleed 
freely. This makes the flesh white and more healthfu. 

ON THE CARE OF MEATS. 

Beef and Mutton are improved by keeping as long as 
they remain sweet. If meat begins to taint, wash it 



MARKETING— ^CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 31 

and rub it with powdered charcoal and it removes the 
taint. Sometimes rubbing with salt will cure it. 

Corn-fed Pork is best. Pork made by still-house slops 
is almost poisonous, and hogs that live on oifal never 
furnish healthful food. 

Measely Pork has kernels in it, and is unhealthful. 

A thick skin shows that the Pork is old, and that it 
requires more time to boil. 

If your Pork is very salt, soak it some hours. 

Take all the kernels out, that you will find in the 
round, and thick end of the flank of Beef, and in the fat, 
and fill the holes with salt. This will preserve it longer. 

Salt your meat, in summer, as soon as you receive it. 

A pound and a half of salt rubbed into twenty-five 
pounds of Beef, will corn it so as to last several days, in 
ordinary warm weather. 

Do not let Pork freeze, if you intend to salt it. 

Too much saltpetre spoils Beef 

In winter, meat is kept finely, if well packed in snow, 
without salting. 

Directions for cutting up a Hog. 

Split the Hog through the spine, take off each half of 
the head behind the ear, then take off a piece front of 
the shoulder and next the head, say four or five pounds, 
for sausages. 

Then take out the leaf which lies around the kid- 
neys, for lard. 

Then, with a knife, cut out the whole mass of the 
lean meat, except what belongs to the shoulder and the 
ham. 

Then take oflf the ham and the shoulder. Then take 
out all the fat to be used for lard, which is the loose 
piece, directly in front of the ham. 

Next cut off a narrow strip from the spring, or belly, 
for sausage meat. Cut up the remainder, which is clear 
Pork, for salting, in four or five strips of nearly equal 
width. Take off the cheek, or jowl, of the head for 
smoking with the ham ; and use the upper part for boil- 
ing, baking, or head cheese. 



32 MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 

The feet are boiled and then fried, or used for jelly. 
It is most economical to try up the thin flabby pieces for 
lard to cook with. 

The leaf fat try by itself, for the nicest cooking. 

Clean all the intestines of the fat for lard. That 
which does not readily separate from the larger intes- 
tuics use for soap grease. 

Of the insides, the hver, heart, sweet-breads, and kid- 
neys, are sometimes used for broiling or frying. The 
smaller intestines are used for sausage cases. 

In salting down, leave out the bloody and lean por- 
tions, and use them for sausages. 

To try out Lard. 

Take what is called the leaves and take off all the 
«kin, cut it into pieces an inch square, put it into a clean 
pot over a slow lire, and try it till the scraps look a red- 
dish brown, taking great care not to let it burn, w^hich 
would spoil the whole. Then strain it through a strong 
cloth, into a stone pot, and set it away for use. 

Take the fat to which the smaller intestines are at- 
tached (not the large ones), and the flabby pieces of pork 
not fit for saltingytry these in the same way, and set 
the fat thus obtained where it will freeze, and by spring 
the strong taste will be gone, and then it can be used 
for frying. A tea-cup of water prevents burning while 
trying. 

Directions for salting down pork. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep. 
Put down one layer of Pork, and cover that with salt, 
half an inch thick. Continue thus till the barrel is full. 
Then pour in as much strong pickle as the barrel will 
receive. Always see that the Pork does not rise above 
the brine. When a wliite scum, or bloody-looking mat- 
ter rises on the top, scald the brine and add more salt. 

Leave out bloody and lean pieces for sausages. 

Pack as tight as possible, the rind next the barrel ; 
and let it be always kept under the brine. Some use a 



MARKETING— CARE , AND USES QF . MEATS. 2(3 

stone for this purpose. In salting down a new supply, 
take the old brine, boil it down and remove all the 
scum, and then use it to pour over the Pork. 

Mr, H. ffs Receipt for Curing Hams. 

Take an ounce of saltpetre for each ham, and one 
pint of molasses to every pound of saltpetre. 

Then take a quarter of a pound of common salt for 
every pint of molasses used. 

Heat the mixture till it nearly boils, and smear the 
meat side with it, keeping the mixture hot and rubbing 
it in well, especially around the bones and recesses. 

Let the hams lie after this from four to seven days, 
according to the size of the hams. 

Then place them in a salt pickle, strong enough to 
bear an e^g^ for three weeks. Then soak eight hours 
in fresh water. 

Then hang in the kitchen, or other more convenient 
place to dry, for a fortnight. Then smoke from three to 
five days, or till well smoked. 

Then wrap them up in strong tar paper, tying it close. 

Then tie them tight in bags of coarse unbleached cot- 
ton, stuffing in shavings, so that no part of the paper 
touches the cotton. Hang them near the roof in a gar- 
ret, and they will never give you any trouble.* 

To prepare Cases for Sausages. 

Empty the cases, taking care not to tear them. Wash 
them thoroughly, and cut into lengths of two yards each. 
Then take a candle rod, and fastening one end of a case 
to the top of it, turn the case inside outward. When 
all are turned, wash very thoroughly and scrape them 
with a scraper made for the purpose, keeping them in 
warm water till ready to scrape. Throw them into salt 
and water to soak till used. It is a very difficult job to 
scrape them clean without tearing them. When fin- 
ished they look transparent and very thin. 

* Saleratus, the same quantity instead of saltpetre, makes the ham sweeter and 
more tender. The best way to pack is in a^hes, taking care not to let it touch tho 
hams, which must be wrapped in paper. 



34 MARKETING CARE AND tJSKS OF MEATS. 

Saitsas^e Meat. 

Take one-third fat and two-thirds lean pork and chop 
them, and then to every twelve pounds of meat, add 
twelve large even spoonfuls of pounded salt, nine of 
sifted sage, and six of sifted black pepper. Some like a 
little summer savory. Keep them in a cool and dry place. 

Bologna Sausages. 
Take equal portions of veal, pork, and ham, chop 
them fine, season with sweet herbs and pepper, put them 
in cases, boil them till tender, and then dry them. 

Another Receipt for Sausage Meat. 

To twenty-five pounds of chopped meat, which should 
be one-third fat and two-thirds lean, put twenty spoon- 
fuls of sage, twenty-five of salt, ten of pepper, and four 
of summer savory. 

Pickle for Beef Pork, Tongues, or Hung Beef. 

Mix, in four gallons of water, a pound and a half of 
sugar or molasses, and of saltpetre two ounces. If it is 
to last a month or two, put in six pounds of salt ; if you 
wish to keep it over the summer, use nine pounds of salt. 
Boil all together gently, and skim, and then let it cool. 

Put the meat in the vessel in which it is to stand, 
pour the pickle on the meat till it is covered, and keep 
it for family use. 

Once in two months boil and skim the pickle, and 
throw in two ounces of sugar and half a pound of salt. 

When tongues and hung beef are taken out, wash 
and dry the pieces, put them in paper bags and hang in 
a dry, warm place. In very hot weather, rub the meat 
well with salt before it is put in the pickle, and let it He 
three hours for the bloody portion to run out. Too much 
saltpetre is injurious.* 

Another by measure, and with less trouble. 

For every gallon of cold water, use a quart of rock 
salt, a tablespoon heaping full of saltpetre, six heaping ta- 

• In all these receipts the same quantity of saleratus in place of the saltpetre ii9 better 



MARKETING CARE AND USES OF MEATS. 35 

blespoonfuls of brown sugar, and two quarts of blown salt. 
No boiling is needed ; keep it as long as there is salt un- 
dissolved at the bottom. When scum rises scald it, and 
add more sugar, salt, and saltpetre. Keep weights on 
the meat to keep it under. 

In very hot weather fresh meat will often spoil if it is 
put in cold pickle. At such times put the meat into hot 
pickle and boil it for twenty minutes, and the meat will 
keep a month or more. If you save the pickle, add a 
little moi'e salt to it. 

To salt down Beef to keep the year round. 

To one hundred pounds of beef, take four quarts of 
rock salt pounded very fine, four oimces of saltpetre 
made very fine, four pounds of brown sugar, all well 
mixed. 

Scatter some over the bottom of the barrel, lay down 
one layer, and over that scatter the proportion of salt be- 
longing to such a portion of the meat, allowing rather 
the most to the top layers. Pack all down very close, 
and if any scum should rise, sprinkle a pint or more of 
salt over the top. 

To Cleanse Calfs Head and Feet. 

Wash clean, and sprinkle pounded rosin over the hair, 
dip in boiling water and take out immediately, and then 
scrape them clean. Then soak them in water four days, 
changing the water every day. 

To Prepare Rennet. 

Take the stomach of 3^. new^-killed calf, and do not 
wash it, as it weakens the gastric juice. Hang it in a 
cool and diy place five days or so, then turn the inside 
out and slip off the curds with the hand. Then fill it 
with salt, with a little saltpetre mixed in, and lay it in a 
stone pot, pouring on a teaspoonful of vinegar, and sprin- 
kling on a handful of salt. Cover it closely and keep 
for use. 



36 BOILED MEATS. 

After six weeks, take a piece four inches square and 
put it in a bottle with five gills of cold water and two 
gills of rose brandy, stop it close, and shake it when you 
use it. A tablespoonful is enough for a quart of milk. 



CHAPTER III. 



BOILED MEATS. 



In boiling meats it is important to keep the water 
constantly boiUng, otherwise the meat will soak up the 
water. 

If it is necessary to add more water, be careful that it 
be boiling water. 

Be careful to remove the scum, especially when it 
first begins to boil, and a little salt thrown in aids in 
raising the scum. 

Put salt meat into cold water, let it heat very gradu- 
ally forty minutes or so. Fresh meat must be put into 
boiling water. Allow about twenty Tumutes for boiling 
for each pound of fresh meat, and twenty-four for salt 
meats. 

Do not let the meat remain long, after it is done, as it in- 
jures it. Put a plate in the bottom to prevent the part 
that touches from cooking too much. 

Be sure not to let the fire get hot, so as to make a 
hard boiling, especially at first. The more gently meat 
boils the more tender it is, and the more perfectly the 
savory portion is developed and retained. If the meat 
is fat, skim it and save the fat for other purposes. 

Put salt into the water about in the proportion of a 
great spoonful to a gallon. 

To cook a Ham {very fine). 

Boil a common-sized ham four or five hours, then 
skin the whole and fit it for the table ; then set it in an 
oven for half an hour, then cover it thickly with pound- 



BOILED MEATS. 3f 

ed rusk or bread crumbs, and set it back for half an 
hour. 

Boiled ham is always improved by setting it into an 
oven for near an hour, till much of the fat fries out, and 
this also makes it more tender. Save the fat for frying 
meat. 

Smoked Boiled Tongues. 

Soak them in cold water all night, then wash them 
and boil for four or five hours, according to the size. 
When cooked, take off the skin and garnish with parsley. 

A la Mode Beef. 

Take a round of beef, cut it full of holes entirely 
through it, roll strips of raw salt pork in a seasoning 
made of thyme, cloves, and pepper and salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of each ; then draw these strips through the 
holes in the beef 

Put some small onions, say half a dozen, with a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter into a sauce-pan with two great 
spoonfuls of milk and stew them till soft, put your beef 
and these onions in a pot, (you can stew the onions in 
the pot instead of the sauce-pan if you prefer it,) pour on 
hot water just enough to cover it, and let it cook slowly 
four or five hours. Just before taking it up, add a pint 
of wine, either Port or Claret. The onions can be cooked 
separately if preferred. 

Another a la Mode Beef. 

If you have about five pounds of beef, take one pound 
of bread, soak it in water, pour off the water and mash 
it fine, adding a bit of butter the size of half a hen's ^gg^ 
salt, mace, pepper, cloves, half a teaspoonful each, 
pounded fine. 

Mix all with a tablespoonful of flour and two eggs. 

Then cut holes through the beef and put in half of 
this seasoning, and put it in a bake-pan with boiling 
water enough to cover it. 

Put the pan lid, heated, over it, and a few coals on it, 

'" 4 ■ 



38 BOILED MEATS. 

and let it stew two hours, then take it up and spread the 
other half of the dressing on the top, and add butter the 
size of a hen's egg, heat the pan hd again hot enough 
to brown the dressing, and let it stew again an hour and 
a half. 

When taken up, if the gravy is not thick enough, add 
a teaspoonful of tiour wet up in cold water, then add a 
couple of glasses of white wine to the gravy, and a bit 
of butter as large as a walnut. 

To Boil a Leg of Veal or Mutton. 

Make a stuffing of bread, and a quarter as much of 
salt pork, chopped fine and seasoned with sweet herbs, 
pepper and salt. Make deep gashes, or what is better, 
take out the bone with a carving knife, and fill up with 
stuffing, and sew up the opening with strong thread. 
When there is a flap of flesh, lap it over the opening 
and sew it down. 

Put it into a large pot and fill it with water, putting 
in a tablespoonful of salt, and let it simmer slowly three 
hours. If it is needful to add water, pour in boiling 
water. When it is done take it up, and save the broth 
for next day's dinner. 

Pot Pie, of Beef Veal, or Chicken. 

The best way to make the crust is as follows. Peel, 
boil, and mash a dozen potatoes, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, two great spoonfuls of butter, and half a cup of 
milk, or cream. Then stiffen it with flour, till you can 
roll it. Be sure to get all the lumps out of the potatoes. 
Some persons leave out the butter. 

Some roll butter into the dough of bread, others make 
a raised biscuit with but little shortening, others make a 
plain pie crust. But none are so good and healthful as 
the potato crust. 

To prepare the meat, first fry half a dozen slices of 
salt pork, and then cut up the meat and pork, and boil 
them in just water enough to cover them, till the meat 
is nearly cooked. Then peel a dozen potatoes, and slice 



BOILED MEATS. 39 

them thin. Then roll the crust half an inch thick, and 
cut it into oblong" pieces. Then put alternate layers of 
crust, potatoes, and meat, till all is used. The meat 
must have salt and pepper sprinkled over each layer. 
The top and bottom layer must be crust. Lastly, pour 
on the liquor in which the meat was boiled, until it just 
covers the whole, and let it simmer till the top crust is 
well cooked, say half or three quarters of an hour. If 
you have occasion to add more liquor, or water, it must 
be boiling hot, or the crust will be spoilt. The excel- 
lence of this pie depends on having light crust, and there- 
fore the meat must first be nearly cooked before putting 
it in the pie, and the crust must be in only just long 
enough to cook, or it will be clammy and hard. When 
nearly done, the crust can be browned, with hot coals 
on a bake-lid. Great care is needed not to burn the 
crust, which should not be put where the fire reached 
the pot on the bottom. 

Calfs Head. 

Take out the brains and boil the head, feet, and lights, 
in salted water, just enough to cover them, about two 
hours. When they have boiled nearly an hour and a 
half, tie the brains in a cloth and put them in to boil 
with the rest. They should be skinned, and soaked 
half an hour in cold water. When the two hours have 
expired, take up the whole, and mash the brains fine, 
and season them with bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and a 
glass of Port or Claret, and use them for sauce. Let 
the liquor remain for a soup the next day. It serves 
more handsomely to remove all the bones. 

r Curried Dishes. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable for curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joints. Put a lit- 
tle butter in a stew-pan with the chickens, pour on a 
part of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, enough 
nearly to cover it, and let it stew twenty minutes more. 

Prepare the curry thus : for four pounds of meat, take 
a tablespoonful of curry powder, a tea-cup of hailed rice, 



40 BOILED MEATS. 

a tablespoonful of flour, and another of melted butter, a 
tea-cup of the Uquor, and half a teaspoonful of salt, mix 
them, and pour them over the meat and let it stew ten 
minutes more. 

Rice should be boiled for an accompaniment. 

To Prepare Curry Powder. 

One ounce of ginger, one ounce of mustard, one of 
pepper, three of coriander seed, three of tumeric, half an 
ounce of cardamums, quarter of an ounce of Cayenne pep- 
per, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, and quarter of an 
ounce of cummin seed. Pound them fine, sift them, 
and cork them tight in a bottle. 

Veal Stew. 

Cut four pounds of veal into pieces three inches long 
and an inch thick, put it into the pot with water enough 
to cover it, and rise an inch over. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt, and put in four or five good slices of salt pork, 
and half a tea-cup of rice, butter the size of a hen's egg^ 
and season with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, and let it 
simmer slowly till the rice is quite soft^ allowing half an 
hour to heat and an hour to simmer. If there is too Ht- 
tle water, pour in boiling water. 

Adding a little curry turns it into a dish of curried 
veal, of which many are very fond. Be sure and skina 
it well, just before it begins to simmer. 

Another Veal Stew {very fine). 

Cut four pounds of veal into strips three inches long 
and an inch thick, peel twelve large potatoes and cut 
them into slices an inch thick, then spread a layer of 
veal on the bottom of the pot, and sprinkle a little salt 
and a very little pepper over it, then put a layer of pota- 
toes, then a layer of veal seasoned as before. Use up 
the veal thus, and over the last layer of veal put a layer 
of slices of salt pork, and over the whole a layer of po- 
tatoes. Pour in water till it rises an inch over the whole, 
and cover it as close as possible, heat it fifteen minutes 
and simmer it an hour. . 



BOILED, MEATS. 41 

Ten minutes before taking up, put in butter the size 
of a hen's egg, stir in a thin batter made of two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Many add sweet herbs to the salt 
and pepper. 

To /Stew Birds. 

Wash and stuff them with bread crumbs, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, butter, or chopped salt pork, and fasten 
them tight. Line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, add 
a quart of ^vater and a bit of butter the size of a goose 
eggj or else four slices of salt pork. 

Add, if you like, sliced onions and sweet herbs, and 
mace. Stew till tender, then take them up and strain 
the gravy over them. Add boiling water if the liquor 
is too much reduced. 

A fine Mutton Stew. 

Take three quarts of peeled and sliced potatoes, three 
large onions, peeled and sliced, and mutton and ham 
cut into slices. Make layers first of potatoes, salted, and 
then with the mutton, sprinkled with salt, pepper, gravy, 
or butter, and mushroom or tomato catsup, two tea-cups 
of water, and the ham in small quantities. Cover tight 
and stew for an hour and a half Watch, and add boil- 
ing water if needed, as there must be a good supply of 
gravy at the bottom. 

A Sausage Stew. 

Make a thick layer of slices of peeled potatoes, put on 
a little salt, and then cut up sausages over the potatoes. 
Continue alternate layers of potatoes and sausages, the 
top layer being potatoes, pour in a little water and some 
gravy, or butter, and if you have bits of ham mix them 
with the sausages. 

To Bake Beef. 

Take ten pounds of the buttock, rub it with salt and 
let it He a day or two, then wash it, and make openings 
in the beef and insert bits of salt pork dipped in a mix- 
ture of powdered pepper, cloves, and fine minced onions, 

4* 



1 



42 BOILED MEATS. 

cover it, and let it bake four or five hours. Put a pint 
of water and teaspoonful of salt in the baking pan and 
baste occasionally. Make a gravy of the drippings. 

Beef^ or Muttoii and Potato Pie. 

Take a deep dish, butter it, and put in it a layer of 
mashed potatoes, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt and 
minced onions. Take slices of beef, or mutton, and sea- 
son them with pepper and salt, lay them with small bits 
of salt pork over the potatoes. Then fill the dish with 
alternate layers, as above described, having the upper 
one potatoes. Bake an hour, or an hour and a half 

To Cook Pigeons. 

Pigeons are good stuffed and roasted, or baked. They 
are better stewed thus : — Stuff" them like turkeys, put 
them in a pot, breast downwards, and cover them with 
salted water an inch above the top, and simmer them 
two hours if tender, and three if tough. When nearly 
done, stir in a bit of butter the size of a goose t^g^ for 
every dozen pigeons. Take them up and add a httle 
flour paste to the gravy, with salt and pepper, and pour 
some of it over them, and put the rest in a gravy dish. 

Beef^ or Veal Stewed with Apples {very good). 

Rub a stew-pan with butter, cut the meat in thin 
slices, and put in, with pepper, salt, and apple sliced fine ; 
some would add a little onion. Cover it tight, and stew 
till tender. 

To Boil a Turkey, 

Make a stuffing for the craw, of chopped bread and 
butter, cream, oysters, and the yolks of eggs. Sew it in, 
and dredge flour over the turkey, and put it to boil in 
cold water, with a spoonful of salt in it, and enough water 
to cover it well. Let it simmer for two hours and a half, 
or if small, less time. Skim it while boiling. It looks 
nicer if wrapped in a cloth dredged with flour. 

Serve it with drawn butter, in which are put some 
oysters. 



I 



ROASTED AND BAKBD MEATS. 4^ 

To Boil Corned Beef. 

Put the beef in water enough to cover it, and let it 
heat slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to take off 
the grease. Many think it much improved by boiling 
potatoes, turnips, and cabbage with it. In this case the 
vegetables must be peeled, and all the grease carefully 
skimmed as fast as it rises. Allow about twenty min- 
utes of boiling for each pound of meat. 



CHAPTER IV. 

lOASTED AND BAKED MEATS. 

General Remarks. 



Be sure you have your spit and tin oven very clean 
and bright, and for this end wash them, if possible, be- 
fore they get cold. If they stand, pour boihng water on 
to them. 

Have a fire so large as to extend half a foot beyond 
the roaster each side. 

When meat is thin and tender, have a small, brisk 
fire. When your meat is large, and requires long roast- 
ing, have large solid wood, kindled with charcoal and 
small sticks. Set the meat, at first, some distance from 
the place where it is to roast, so as to have it heat 
through gradually, and then move it up to roast. 

Slow roasting, especially at first, and still more for 
large pieces, is very important. 

Allow about fifteen minutes for each pound of most 
kinds of meat, and if it is cold weather, or the meat 
fresh killed, more time is required, probably twenty min- 
utes for each pound. 

When the meat is nearly done, stir up the fire to 
brown it. The meat should be basted a good deal, es- 
pecially the first part of the time. 



44 ROASTED AND BAKED MEATS. 

Let meat be spitted so as to be equally balanced. 
When the meat is nearly done, the steam from it will 
be drawn toward the fire. 

A pale brown is the proper color for a roast. 

Some dredge on flour and baste, a short time before 
roasted meats are done. 

Whenever fresh lard is used instead of butter, in the 
dripping-pan, or to rub on meats, more salt must be used. 

Flour thickening in gravies must be wet up with very 
little water till the lumps are out, and then made thin. 
Never dredge flour into gravies, as it makes lumps. 
Strain all gravies. 

Roast Beef. 

The sirloin, and the first and second cuts of the rack, 
are the best roasting pieces. 

Rub it with salt ; set the bony side to the fire to heat 
awhile, then turn it, and have a strong fire ; and if thick, 
allow fifteen minutes to the pound ; if thin, allowahttle less. 
If fresh killed, or if it is very cold, allow a little more 
time. Half an hour before it is done, pour off the gravy, 
thicken it with brown flour, and season it with salt and 
pepper. It is the fashion to serve roast beef with no 
other gravy than the juice of the meat. 

Roast Lamh. 

The fore and hind quarter of lamb are used for roast- 
ing. Rub on a little softened butter, and then some 
salt and pepper, heat the bony side first, then turn 
and roast by a brisk fire, allowing about fifteen min- 
utes to a pound, and rather more if fresh killed, or the 
weather cold. Put a pint of water and a teaspoonful of 
salt in tbe dripping-pan, and a httle lard, or butter. 
Lamb is to be cooked thoroughly. 

The following is a very excellent sauce for roast lamb. 
Pick, wash, and shred fine, some fresh mint, put on it a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; 
or, chop some hard pickles to the size of capers, and put 
them to half a pint of melted butter, and a teaspoonful 
of vinegar. 



ROASTED AND BAKED MEATS. 45 

Roast Mutton. 

The saddle, shoulder, and leg are used for roasting. 

Rub the mutton with butter, and then with salt and 
pepper, and some add pounded allspice, or cloves. Put 
butter, or lard, in the dripping-pan, with a quart of 
water, or a pint for a small piece, and baste it often. 
Set the bony side toward the fire, at some distance, that 
it may heat through before roasting. Allow about a 
quarter of an hour for every pound. Mutton should be 
cooked rare. 

Make a brown gravy, and serve it with currant jelly. 

Roast Veal. 

The loin is the best for roasting, the breast and rack 
the next best. Wash the piece to be roasted in cold 
water, rub a little butter softened over it, and then some 
pepper and salt, put a pint or more water in the dripping- 
pan, and unless there is a good deal of fat, a bit of lard, 
or butter, and baste often. Set the bony side first to the 
fire to heat. Allow twenty minutes for every pound, 
and if cold, or fresh killed, a little more. Veal should 
be cooked very thoroughly. In roasting any part except 
the loin, cut slits in the veal and draw through the bits 
of salt pork, which, while roasting, impart a flavor to 
the veal. 

To Roast a Fillet or Leg of Veal. 

Cut off the shank bone of a leg of veal, and cut gashes 
in what remains. Make a dressing of chopped raw salt 
pork, salt, pepper, sweet herbs and bread crumbs, or use 
butter instead of pork. Stuff the openings in the meat 
with the dressing, put it in a bake-pan with water, just 
enough to cover it, and let it bake, say two hours for 
six. pounds. Or put it in a tin oven, and roast it two or 
three hours, according to the size. 

Baked, or Roasted Pig. 

Take a pig that weighs from seven to twelve pounds, 
and as much as five weeks old. Wash it thoroughly 



4G ROASTED AND BAKED MEATS. 

outside and inside. Take any fresh cold meat, say one 
pound, and a quarter of a pound of salt pork, and twice 
as much bread as you have meat. 

Chop the bread by itself, and chop the meat and pork 
fine and mix all together, adding sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt, half a tea-cup of butter, and one egg. Stuff the pig 
with it, and sew it up tight. Take off the legs at the 
middle joint. Put it into a dripping-pan with cross-bars 
or a grate to hold it up, and with the legs tied, and pour 
into the pan a pint of water and set it in the oven. As 
soon as it begins to cook, swab it with salt and water, 
and then in fifteen minutes do it again. If it bhsters it 
is cooking too fast ; swab it, and diminish the heat. It 
must bake, if weighing twelve pounds, three hours. 
When nearly done, rub it with butter. When taken 
out set it for three minutes in the cold, to make it crisp. 

To Roast a Spare Rib. 

Rub with salt, pepper, and powdered sage. Put the 
bone side to warm slowly. Dredge on a little flour, and 
put a little salted water and butter into the dripping- 
pan, and baste with it. If large, it requires three hours ; 
if small, only one to cook it. Pork must be cooked slow- 
ly and very thoroughly. 

Roast Turkey. 

Wash the outside and inside very clean. Take bread 
crumbs, grated or chopped, about enough to fill the tur- 
key, chop a bit of salt pork, the size of a good e,gg^ 
and mix it in, wiXh. butter, the size of an egg^ pepper, 
salt, and sweet herbs to your taste. Then beat up an 
egg and work in. Fill the crop and the body, sew 
them up, and tie the legs and wings, and spit them. 
Set it where it will gradually heat, and turn it once or 
twice, while heating, for fifteen minutes. Then put it 
up to the fire, and allow about twenty-five minutes for 
each pound. Turkey must be cooked very thorough- 
ly. It must roast slowly at first, and be often basted 
with butter on a fork. Dredge it with flour just be- 
fore taking it up, and let it brown. 



ROASTED AND BAKED MEATS. 4^7 

Put the inwards in a skillet to boil for two hours, chop 
them up, season them, use the liquor they are boiled in 
for gravy, and thicken it with brown flour, and a bit of 
butter, the size of a hen's egg. This is the giblet sauce. 
Take the drippings, say half a pint, thickened with a 
paste, made of a tablespoonful of brown, or white flour, 
and let it simmer five minutes, and then use it for thin 
gravy. 

Moast Goose. 

A goose should be roasted in the same manner as a 
turkey. It is better to make the stuffing of mashed po- 
tatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, sage, and onions, to the 
taste. Apple sauce is good to serve with it. Allow fif- 
teen minutes to a pound, for a goslin, and twenty or 
more for an older one. Goose should be cooked rare. 

Roast Chickens. 

Wash them clean outside and inside, stuff them as 
directed for turkeys, baste them with butter, lard, or 
drippings, and roast them about an hour. Chickens 
should be cooked thoroughly. Stew the inwards till ten- 
der, and till there is but little water, chop them and 
mix in gravy fiom the dripping-pan, thicken with brown 
flour, and season with salt, pepper, and butter. Cran- 
berry, or new-made apple sauce, is good with them. 

Roast Ducks. 

Wash the ducks, and stuff them with a dressing made 
with mashed potatoes, wet with milk, and chopped 
onions, sage, pepper, salt, and a little butter, to suit your 
taste. Reserve the inwards to make the gravy, as is 
directed for turkeys, except it should be seasoned with 
sage and chopped onions. They will cook in about an 
hour. Ducks are to be cooked rare. Baste them with 
salt water, and before taking up, dredge on a little flour 
and let it brown. 

Green peas and stewed cranberries are good accompa- 
niments. 

Canvass-back ducks are cooked without stuffing. 



48 ROASTED AND BAKED MEATS. ^ 

Wild ducks must be soaked in salt and water the night 
previous, to remove the fishy taste, and then in the morn- 
ing put in fresh water, which should be changed once 
or twice. 

Mutton and Beef Pie. 

Line a dish with a crust made of potatoes, as directed 
in the Chicken Pot Pie. Broil the meat ten minutes, 
after pounding it till the fibres are broken. Cut the 
meat tliin, and put it in layers, with thin slices of broil- 
ed salt pork, season with butter, the size of a hen's tgg^ 
salt, pepper, (and either wine or catsup, if hked) ; put in 
water till it nearly covers the meat, and dredge in con- 
siderable flour, cover it with the paste, and bake it an 
hour and a half if quite thick. Cold meats are good 
cooked over in this way. Cut a slit in the centre of the 
cover. 

Chicken Pie. 

Joint and boil two chickens in salted water, just enough 
to cover them, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Line 
a dish with raised or potato crust, or pie crust, then put 
the chicken in layers, with thin slices of broiled pork, 
butter, the size of a goose egg^ cut in small pieces. 
Put in enough of hquor, in which the meat was boil- 
ed, to reach the surface, salt and pepper each layer,, 
dredge in a little flour, and cover all with a light, thick 
orust. Ornament the top with the crust, and bake 
about one hour in a hot oven. Make a small slit in the 
centre of the crust. If it begins to scorch, lay a paper 
over a short time. 

Mutton Haricot. 

Make a rich gravy by boihng the coarser parts for the 
liquor, and seasoning with pepper, spice, and catsup. 
Cut into the gravy, carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, 
boiled tender ; then broil the mutton, first seasoning it 
with salt and pepper, put them into the gravy, and stew 
all about ten minutes. Garnish with small pickles. 



EOASTED AND BAKED MEATS. ^ 

To Cook a Shoulder of Lamh. 

Check the shoulder with cuts an inch deep, rub on 
first butter, then salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, over these 
put the yolk of an egg and bread crumbs, and then bake 
or roast it a light brown. Make a gravy of the drip- 
pings, seasoning with pepper, salt, and tomato catsup, 
and also the grated rind and juice of a lemon ; thicken 
with a very httle flour. 

Rice Chicken Pie. 

Line a pudding dish with slices of broiled ham, cut up a 
boiled chicken, and nearly fill the dish, filling in with 
gravy or melted butter ; add minced onions if you like, 
or a little cuxxy powder, which is better. Then pile 
boiled rice to fill all interstices, and cover the top quite 
thick. Bake it for half or three quarters of an hour. 

Potato Pie. 

Take mashed potatoes, seasoned with salt, butter, and 
milk, and line a baking dish. Lay upon it slices of 
cold meats of any kind with salt, pepper, catsup, and 
butter, or gravy. Put on another layer of potatoes, and 
then another of cold meat as before. Lastly, on the top 
put a cover of potatoes. 

Bake it till it is thoroughly warmed through, and 
serve it in the dish in which it is baked, setting it in, or 
upon another. 

5 



50 FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 



CHAPTER.V. 

% 

FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 

General Remarks. 

It is best to fry in lard not salted, and this is better 
than butter. Mutton and beef suet are good for frying. 
When the lard seems hot, try it by throwing in a bit of 
bread. When taking up fried articles, drain off the fat 
on a wire sieve. 

A nice Way of Cooking Calf's or Pig^s Liver. 

Cut it in slices half an inch thick, pour on boiling wa- 
ter and then pour it off entirely ^ then let the liver brown 
in its own juices, turning it till it looks brown on both 
sides. Take it up and pour into the frying-pan enough 
cold water to make as much gravy as you wish ; then 
sliver in onion, cut fine, add a little salt and nutmeg, and 
a bit of butter to season it, let it boil up once, then put 
back the Uver for a minute, and then set it on the table. 

Fried Veal Cutlets. 

Take half a pint of milk, add a well-beaten egg^ and 
flour enough to make a batter. Fry the veal brown in 
some sweet lard, then dip it in the batter and fry again 
till brown. Drop in some spoonfuls of batter, to fry after 
the veal is taken up, and put them on the top of the veal. 
Then put a little thin flour paste into the gravy, adding salt 
and pepper, and after one boil, pour it over the whole. 
The veal must be cut quite thin, and it should cook 
nearly an hour in the whole. 

Fricassee Chickens. 

Wash the chickens and divide them into pieces, put 
them in a pot, or stew-pan, with several slices of salt 



FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 51 

ham, or pork, and sprinkle each layer with salt and pep- 
per ; cover them with water, and let them simmer till 
tender, keeping them covered. Then take them up, 
and mix with the gravy a piece of butter the size of a 
hen's egg, and a paste made of two teaspoonfuls of flour 
wet up with the gravy. Put back the chickens and let 
them stew five minutes. Then spread crackers, or toasted 
bread, on the platter, put the chickens on it, and pour the 
gravy over. 

In case it is wished to have them browned, take them out 
when nearly cooked and fry them in butter till brown, 
or pour off all the liquid and fry them in the pot. 

Meats Warmed over. 

Cold beef is best made into pies as in a foregoing re- 
ceipt. Veal is best made into hashes, or force meat, as in 
following receipts. If it is liked more simply cooked, chop 
it fine, put in water just enough to moisten it, butter, salt, 
pepper, and a little juice of a lemon. Some like a little 
lemon rind grated in. Heat it through, but do not let it 
fry. Put it on buttered toast, and garnish it with slices 
of lemon. 

Cold salted, or fresh beef are good chopped fine with pep- 
per, salt, and catsup, and water enough to moisten a little. 
Add some butter just before taking it up, and do not let it 
fry, only heat it hot. It injures cooked meat to cook it 
again. Cold fowls make a nice dish to have them cut 
up in mouthfuls, add some of the gravy and giblet sauce, 
a little butter and pepper, and then heat them through. 

A nice Way of Cooking Cold Meats. 

Chop the meat fine, add salt, pepper, a little onion, or 
else tomato catsup, fill a tin bread pan one-third full, cov- 
er it over with boiled potatoes salted and mashed with 
cream or milk, lay bits of butter on the top and set it 
into a Dutch, or stove oven, for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

A Hash of Cold Meat for Dinner {very good). 
Peel six large tomatoes and one onion, and slice them. 



52 FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 

Add a spoonful of sugar, salt and pepper, and a bit of 
butter the size of a hen's egg, and half a pint of cold 
water. Shave up the meat into small bits, as thin as 
thick pasteboard. Dredge flour over it, say two tea- 
spoonfuls, or a little less. Simmer the meat with all 
the rest for o?ie hour, and then serve it, and it is very fine. 
Dried tomatoes can be used. When you have no to- 
matoes, make a gravy with water, pepper, salt, and but- 
ter, or cold gravy : slice an onion in it, add tomato cat- 
sup (two or tliree spoonfuls), and then prepare the meat 
as above, and simmer it in this gravy one hour. 

Cold Meat Turnovers. 

Roll out wheat dough very thin, and put in it, like a 
turnover, cold meat chopped fine, and seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, catsup, and sweet herbs. Make small ones, and 
fry them in lard till the dough is well cooked. 

Head Cheese. 

Boil in salted water the ears, skin, and feet of pigs till 
ihe meat drops from the bones ; chop it like sausage meat. 
Season the liquor with pepper, salt, cloves, nutmeg, and 
cinnamon, or with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, mix the 
meat with it, and while hot tie it in a strong bag and 
keep a heavy stone upon it until quite cold. 

Souse. 

Cleanse pigs' ears and feet and soak them a week in 
salt and water, changing the water every other day. 
Boil eight or ten hours till tender. When cold put on 
salt, and pour on hot spiced vinegar. Fry them in lard. 

Tripe. 

Scrape and scour it thoroughly, soak it in salt and wa- 
ter a week, changing it every other day. Boil it eight 
or ten hours, till tender ; then pour on spiced hot vinegar^ 
or fry or broil it. 

Force Meat Balls {another Hash.) 
Chop cold veal fine with one-fourth as much sah 



FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 53 

pork. Season with salt, pepper^ and sweet herbs. Make 
them into balls and fry them brown. 

To Prepare Cold Beef Steaks. 

Put a fine minced onion into a stew-pan, and add half 
a dozen cbves and as many pepper corns, pour on a cof- 
fee cup of boiUng water, and add three large spoonfuls of 
butter, or some gravy. Ijet it simmer ten minutes. Then 
cut up the beef in mouthfuls and put into this gravy to 
simmer four or five minutes, till heated through, but do 
not let it cook any more, as it is not healthful. 

Three large tomatoes stewed with the onion improves 
this. 

A nice Way of Cooking Cold Boiled Ham. 

Make quite a thin batter of flour, water, and eggs, with 
a little salt. Pour the batter over the bottom of a Dutch 
oven, or frying-pan, which has a very little hot butter, or 
lard in it ; say three great spoonfuls. Let the batter be 
no thicker on the bottom than a straw ; let it fry a cou- 
ple of minutes and then cover the batter with very thin 
slices of ham, and pour a thin cover of batter over them. 
Let it fry till the bottom looks a yellowish brown (have 
a hot fire), then cut it into squares, or into triangular 
quarters, or eighths, and turn it with a knife, and let it 
fry till the other side is browned. 

Another Way of Cooking Cold Ham. 

Cut up all the bits and ends, put them in a fi"ying, or 
sauce pan, with a very little water and some butter. 
When, warmed through, break in some eggs and stir 
them up with the ham until the Qgg is hardened. 

A Veal Hash. 

Cut up cooked veal into strips, flour them and fry them 
to a light brown, in butter. Then take them up and 
mix as much hot water as there is gravy, add a little flour 
paste, season with salt, pepper, catsup, and lemon-juice, 
then add the meat and heat it hot. 

6* 



54 FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 

Veal Balls {another Hash). 

Chop the cold veal fine, removing hard portions, add 
as much bread crumbs as there is of meat, and half as much 
broiled salt pork chopped fine. Moisten all with a glass 
of white wine if you like it, put in two eggs, and season 
with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, and a little nutmeg. Form 
them into balls and fry in butter. 

BROILED MEATS. 

General Remarks. 

It is best to oil the bars of the gridiron with suet and 
also warm them before putting the meat on. Chalk is 
sometimes rubbed on to the gridiron, when fish is to be 
broiled. It is desirable to keep a gridiron expressly for 
fish, otherwise meat is often made to taste fishy. 

Broiled Hani. 

Cut the ham into thin slices, and broil it very quickly 
over a hot fire, then put on butter and a little pepper. 

Broiled Veal Cutlets. 

Cut the veal into slices a quarter of an inch thick, lay 
them on the gridiron with an equal number of slices of salt 
pork beside them. When cooked, put the veal on to the 
dish, butter, salt, and pepper it well, and lay the salt pork 
on the top of it. Yeal needs to broil a good while, till it 
looks done when cut open. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 

These must be broiled over a quick fire and not cook- 
ed so much as veal. 

Broiled Pork Steaks. 

These must be cut rather thin, broiled quick, and 
very thoroughly. 

Beef Steaks. 
Those from the sirloin are best, those from the shoul- 



FRIED AND BROILED MEATiS, 65 

der clod and round are not so good, but cheaper. Meat, if 
tough, is made more tender by pounding, if it is done 
very thoroughly, so as to break the fibres. Cut the 
steaks from half an inch to an inch thick. Broil on hot 
coals, and the quicker it is done the better. Ten or 
twelve minutes is enough time. Turn it four or five 
times, and when done put on butter, salt, and if you like 
pepper, and on both sides. Do not let your butter be 
turned to oil before putting it on. It is best to have beef 
tongs to turn beef, as pricking it lets out the juices. 
Often turning prevents the surface from hardening and 
cooks it more equally. 

Beef Liver. 

Cut it in slices half an inch thick, pour boiling water on 
it, broil it with some thin slices of salt pork dipped in 
flour ; then cut the liver and pork up into mouthfuls, 
put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, pepper, and 
salt, and stew them three or four minutes. 

To Poach Eggs. 

Beat the eggs to a froth, pour them into a buttered 
tin, set it on coals, add salt and butter, stir till cooked, 
and then put it on to buttered toast. 

To Boil Eggs. 

Put them into boiling water and allow three minutes 
if you wish only the white hardened, and five minutes 
if you wish them hard. Another and more delicate way 
is to break them into boiling water and let them boil 
three or four minutes. Then take them up with a 
skimmer, draining them well, and lay them on buttered 
toast, and spread a little butter on them. 

Another, and the best way to boil them when in the 
shell, is to pour on boihng water and let them stand five 
minutes. Then pour it off and pour on more boiling 
water, and let them stand five minutes longer. 

This is the way in which they are cooked in q^^ boil- 
ers, which are set upon the table. 



66 FRIED AND BROILED MEATS. 

A Salt Relish. 

Cut salt pork into thin slices, fry them till crisp, take 
them out and pour a little water to the fat, dredge in a 
little flour, and put in a httle pepper. Then cut up the 
pork in mouthfuls and put to this gravy. 

Egg Frizzle {very good). 

Pour boiling water on to salt, smoked beef slivered. 
Pour off the water and then frizzle it in the frying-pan 
with butter. When done, break in two or three eggs, 
and stir it till the Qgg is hardened. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Sliver smoked beef, pour on boiling water to freshen 
it, then pour off the water and frizzle the beef in butter. 

Veal Cheese. 

Prepare equal quantities of sliced boiled veal and 
smoked tongue, boiled, skinned, and sliced. 

Pound each separately in a mortar, moistening with 
butter as you proceed. 

Then take a stone jar, or tin can, and mix them in it, 
so that it will, when cut, look mottled and variegated. 
Press it hard and pour on melted butter. Keep it cover- 
ed in a dry place. To be used at tea in slices. 

A Codfish Relish. 

Take thin slivers of codfish, lay them on hot coals, 
and when a yellowish brown, set them on the table. 

Another Way. 

SHver the codfish fine, pour on boiling water, drain it 
off, and add butter, and a very little pepper, and heat 
them three or four minutes, but do not let them fry. 

Salt Herrings. 

Heat them on a gridiron, remove the skin, and then 
set them on the table. 



SOOTS. 5T 



CHAPTER VI. 

SOUPS. 

The delicate and proper blending of savors is the 
chief art of good soup-making. 

Be sure and skim the grease off the soup when it first 
boils, or it will not become clear. Throw in a little salt 
to bring up the scum. Remove all the grease. 

Be sure and simmer softly^ and never let a soup boil 
hard. 

Put the meat into cold water, and let it grow warm 
slowly. This dissolves the gelatine, allows the albumen 
to disengage, and the scum to rise, and diffuses the sa- 
vory part of the meat. But if the soup is over a hot fire 
the albumen coagulates and hardens the meat, prevents 
the water from penetrating, and the savory part from 
disengaging itself. Thus the broth will be without fla- 
vor, and the meat tough. Allow about two tablespoon- 
fills of salt to four quarts of soup, where there are many 
vegetables, and one and a half where there are few. 

Be sure not to leave any fat floating on the surface. 

A quart of water, or a little less, to a pound of meat 
is a good rule. 

Soup made of uncooked meat is as good the second 
day, if heated to the boiling point. 
1^ If more water is needed, use boiling hot water, as cold 

or lukewarm spoils the soup. 

It is thought that potato water is unhealthy; and 
therefore do not boil potatoes in soup, but boil elsewhere, 
and add them when nearly cooked. 

The water in which poultry, or fresh meat is boiled 
should be saved for gravies, or soup, the next day. If 
you do not need it, give it to the poor. 

Keep the vessel covered tight in which you boil soup, 
that the flavor be not lost. 



58 SOUPS. 

Never leave soup in ruetal pots, as sometimes a fam- 
ily is thus poisoned. 

Thickened soups require more seasoning ; nearly dou- 
ble the quantity used for thin soups. 

French Vegetable Soup. 

Take a leg of lamb, of moderate size, and four quarts 
water. Of potatoes, carrots, cabbage, onions, tomatoes, 
and turnips take a tea-cup full of each, chopped fine. 
Salt and black pepper to your taste. 

Wash the lamb, and put it into the four quarts of cold 
water. When the scum rises take it off carefully with 
a skimmer. After having pared and chopped the vege- 
tables, put them into the soup. Carrots require the most 
boiling, and should be put in first ; onions require the 
least boiling, and are to be put in the last. 

This soup requires about three hours to boil. 

Plain Calfs Head Soup. 

Boil the head and feet in just water enough to cover 
them ; when tender take out the bones, cut in small 
pieces, and season with marjoram, thyme, cloves, salt, 
and pepper. 

Put all into a pot, with the liquor, and four spoonfuls 
of thin batter, stew gently an hour, then, just as you take it 
up, add two or three glasses of Port wine, and the yolks 
of eggs boiled hard. 

An Excellent Simple Mutton Soup. 

Put a piece of the fore quarter of mutton into salted 
water, enough to more than cover it, and simmer it slow- 
ly two hours. Then peel a dozen turnips, and six to- 
matoes, and quarter them, and boil them with the mut- 
ton till just tender enough to eat. Thicken the soup 
with pearl barley. Some add sliced tomatoes, or the 
juice and rind of a lemon. Use half a tea-cup of rice if 
you have no pearl barley. 

Pea Soup. 

Soak dry peas over night, putting a quart of water to 
«ach quart of peas. Next morning boil them an hour 



SOUPS. ' <'^ 

in this water, and ten minutes before the hour expires 
put in a teaspoonful of saleratus. Change them to fresh 
water, put in a pound of salt pork, and boil three or four 
hours, till the peas are soft. Green peas need no soak- 
ing, and must boil not more than an hour. When ta- 
ken up, add butter. 

Portable Soup. 

Boil down the meat to a thick jelly, season it highly 
with salt, spices, and wine, or brandy ; when cold, cut it 
in square inches, and dry them in the sun. Keep them 
in a tight tin vessel, and when you use them put a quart 
of boiling water to one, or two of the cakes, which should 
be one inch square, and the fourth of an inch thick. 
Tegetables can be added. 

A Rich Mock Turtle Soup. 

Divide the lower from the upper part of a calf's head, 
and put both in a gallon of water, and boil till tender. 

Strain the liquor, and let it stand till the next day, 
and then take off the fat. Three quarters of an hour 
before serving it, hang it over the fire and season it with 
pepper, salt, mace; cloves, and sweet herbs, tied up in a 
small bag ; add half a pint of rich gravy. Darken it 
with fried sugar, or browned flour ; add the juice of two 
lemons, the yolks of eight eggs, boiled hard, and force 
meat balls. Just before taking up, pour in half a pint 
of wine. 

Another Dry Pea Soup. 

Soak the peas over night. Put a pound and a half 
of split peas into four quarts of water, with roast beef, or 
mutton bones, and a ham bone, or slices of ham. Add 
two heads of celery and two onions, and stew slowly till 
the peas are soft. Then strain the peas through a coarse 
sieve, and put them back and season to your taste with 
pepper and salt. Let it boil one hour longer. When 
you have no celery use a teaspoonful of essence of celery, 
or a spoonful of celery vinegar. 



60 SOUPS. 

Clam Soup. 

Wash a peck of clams and boil them in a pint of water, 
till those on the top open and they come out easily. Strain 
the liquor, and add a quart of milk. When it just boils 
thicken with two and a half spoonfuls of flour, worked 
into three of butter, with pepper, mace, and other spices 
to your taste. It is better without spice. 

Oyster Soup. 

Put a gallon of water to a knuckle of veal, boil it to 
two quarts, strain and add the juice of the oysters you 
are to use. Add pepper and salt to your taste. Fifteen 
minutes before taking it up, put in the oysters. Ten 
minutes before taking upj put in eight rolled crackers, 
and after it stops boiling, add half a pint of milk. 

Veal Soup. 

Take the knuckle and put it into salted water, enough 
to cover it, and also put in a pound of ham. TV hen it 
is boiled very tender take up the meat, and strain the 
soup, and add a head of celery, cut small, one onion, a 
turnip and carrot sUced, four sliced tomatoes, a dozen 
corns of pepper, and salt to your taste. Thicken with 
three great spoonfuls of rice, or vermicelli, or a thin flour 
paste. Simmer it gently till all the vegetables are done. 

Almost any kind of meat can be made into soup, by 
taking the broth, and adding various kinds of seasoning 
and thickening; such as tomatoes, ochra, vermiceUi, 
sweet herbs, and vegetables, and in such proportions as 
each one likes best. The preceding kinds of soup will 
be a guide as to proportions. 

Macaroni Soup {Mrs. F.^s Receipt). 

Take six pounds of beef, and put it into four quarts of 
water, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, and a 
head of celery. Boil it down three or four hours slowly, 
till there is about two quarts of water, and let it cool. 
Next day take off the grease, without shaking the sedi- 
ment, and pour it off into the kettle, half an hour before 
dinner (leaving the sediment out), and add salt to suit 



SOUPS. 61 

the taste, a pint of macaroni, broken into inch pieces, 
and a tablespoonfiil and a half of tomato catsup. 

Southern Gumbo {Mrs. LJs Receipt). 

This is a favorite dish at the South and West, and is 
made in a variety of ways. The following is a very fine 
receipt, furnished by a lady, who has had an extensive 
opportunity for selection. 

Fry one chicken, when cut up, to a light brown, and 
also two slices of bacon. Pour on to them three quarts 
of boiling water. Add one onion and some sweet herbs, 
tied in a rag. Simmer them gently three hours and a 
half. Strain off the liquor, take off the fat, and then put 
the ham and chicken, cut into small pieces, into the li- 
quor. Add half a tea-cup of ochre^ cut up ; if dry, the 
same quantity ; also half a tea-cup of rice. Boil all half 
an hour, and just before serving add a glass of wine and 
a dozen oysters, with their juice. Ochra is a fine vege- 
table, especially for soups, and is easily cultivated. It is 
sliced and dried for soups in winter. 

Gihlet Soup. 

Take the feet, neck, pinions, and giblets of two fowls, 
and add a pound and a half of veal, and a slice of lean 
ham. Pour on three quarts of cold water, and boil gent- 
ly till the meat is very soil. Strain off the hquor, and, 
when cold, take off the fat. Cut the giblets and meat 
into half-inch pieces ; add a tablespoonful of flour with 
one of butter, and some of the soup to thin it. Then 
put into the soup the butter and meat, with some sweet 
herbs tied in a bag, with salt to your taste. Boil it half 
an hour and it is done. 

6 



62 FISH. 



CHAPTER VII. 

FISH. 

Put fish into cold water to boil. 

Remove any mud taste by soaking in strong salt and 
water. 

It is cooked enough when it easily cleaves from the 
bone, and is injured by cooking longer. 

Put a napkin under, to absorb dampness, when boiled 
fish is laid on the dish. 

To fry, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and use lard, 
not butter. Garnish with parsley. 

Halibut is best cut in slices, and fried, or broiled. Bass 
are good every way. Black fish are best broiled or fried. 
Shad are best broiled, and sprinkle them with salt some 
hours before broiling. Salt shad and mackerel must be 
soaked over night for broiling. Sturgeons are best fried ; 
the part near the tail is best for this. 

Directions for fiiakiiig Choioder. 

The best fish for chowder are haddock and striped 
bass. Cut the fish in pieces of an inch thick, and two 
inches square. Take six or eight good-sized slices of 
salt pork, and put in the bottom of an iron pot, and 
fry them in the pot till crisped. Take out the pork, 
leaving the fat. Chop the pork fine. Put in the pot a 
layer of fish, a layer of split crackers, some of the chop- 
ped pork, black and red pepper, and chopped onion, then 
another layer of fish, split crackers, and seasoning. This 
do till you have used your fish. Then just cover the 
fish with water, and stew slowly till the fish is perfectly 
tender. Take out the fish, and put it in the dish in which 
you mean to serve it ; set it to keep warm. Thickea 
the gravy with pounded cracker ; add, if you like, mush- 
room catsup and Port wine. Boil the gravy up once, 



FISH. 63 

and pour over the fish ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, 
and garnish with sUces of lemon. 

If not salt enough from the pork, more must be ad- 
ded. 

To Fry Fish. 

Fry some sHces of salt pork, say a slice for each pound, 
and when brown take them up, and add lard enough to 
cover the fish. Skim it well, and have it hot, then dip 
the fish in flour, without salting it, and fry a light brown. 
Then take the fish up, and add to the gravy a httle 
flour paste, pepper, salt ; also wine, catsup, and spices, if 
you hke. Put the fish and pork on a dish, and, after 
one boil, pour this gravy over the whole. 

Fish are good dipped first in egg and then in Indian 
meal, or cracker crumbs and egg, previous to frying. 

To Boil Fish. 

Fill the fish with a stuffing of chopped salt pork, and 
bread, or bread and butter, seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, and sew it up. Then sew it into a cloth, or you 
cannot take it up well. Put it in cold water, with wa- 
ter enough to cover it, salted at the rate of a teaspoonful 
of salt to each pound of fish, add about three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Boil it slowly for twenty or thirty min- 
utes, or till the fin is easily drawn out. Serve with drawn 
butter and eggs, with capers or nasturtions in it. 

Fish can be baked in the same way, except sewing it 
up in a cloth. Instead of this, cover it with egg and 
cracker, or bread crumbs. 

To Broil Fish. 

Salt fish must be soaked several hours before broiling. 
Rub suet on the bars of your gridiron, then put the fish 
flesh side down (some say skin side down, as it saves 
the juices better), and broil till nearly cooked through 
Then lay a dish on it, and turn the fish by inverting the 
gridiron over the dish. Broil slowly, and never pile broiled 
fish one above another on the dish. 



64 FISH. 

Baked Fish. 

Cod, bass, and shad are good for baking. Stuff them 
with a seasoning made of bread crumbs or crackers, but- 
ter, sah, pepper, and, if you hke, spices. Put the fish in 
a bake-pan, with a tea-cup of water, and a bit of butter, 
and bake from forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Cod Sounds and Tongues, 

Soak them four hours in blood-warm water, then 
scrape oflf" the skin, cut them up, and stew them in a Ut- 
tle milk till tender. Just before taking up stir in butter, 
and a little flour paste, and scatter cold boiled eggs cut 
up over them. 

To Cook Salt Codfish. 

Soak the fish in a pailful of water all night. Then 
hang it in a good deal of water where it will be kept 
warm. Put one even great spoonful of saleratus in the 
water. (This last softens it as nothing else will do.) 
Change the water an hour before dinner, and hang it 
where it will get scalding hot. It must not boil, but 
only simmer. Take it up into a napkin, so as to keep 
it dry and hot. 

To Cook Cold Codfish. 

Mash boiled potatoes, mash the fish and mix with 
them, adding some cream or milk, and a little pepper, 
make them into round cakes an inch thick, and fry 
them in fresh lard. 

To Cook Oysters. 

Oysters are best roasted in the shell, convex side 
downward, to hold the juices, and cooked till they will 
open well. They are good also cooked in a batter 
made by adding wheat flour to the juice till it is a bat- 
ter, and adding two eggs and a salt spoonM of salt. 
Fry in hot lard to a hght brown. 

Lobsters. 
These must never be cooked after they are dead. 



FISH. 65 

Put them alive into boiling water, and boil them till the 
email joints come off easily. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

Take the oysters from the liquor, and place some at 
the bottom of the dish, then grate some bread over them, 
a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and cloves. Add another 
laying of oysters, and the seasoning, a little butter, and 
a glass of wine. Cover the whole with grated bread, 
and bake half an hour, or perhaps a little more. There 
will be liquor enough without adding any water or 
oyster broth. 

Pickled Oysters. 

After taking out the oysters, to each quart of liquor 
put a teaspoon ful of pepper, two blades of mace, three 
tablespoonfuls of white wine, and four of vinegar, also 
a tablespoonful of salt. Simmer the oysters in this five 
minutes, then take them out and put in jars, then boil 
the pickle, skim it, and pour it over them. 

To Crimp Fresh Fish. 

Cut in slices and lay them for three hours in salt and 
water, and a glass of vinegar, then fry or broil theita. 

To Cook Eels. 

Dress them, lay them open flat, rub them with salt 
and pepper, cut them in short pieces, and broil them. 
Small ones are best skinned and fried. 

To Cook Scollops. 

Boil them, take out the hearts (which is the only part 
^ used), dip them in flour and fry browir in lard, or stew 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little water. 

A Good Way of Using Cold Fresh Fish. 

Take cold cooked fish, chop it with bread crumbs^ 
pepper, salt, and boiled salt pork, or ham ; season with 
salt, pepper, catsup, or wine. Mould into balls with egg 
and bread crumbs, and fry in lard. 

6* 



66 ON THE PREPARATION OF 

To Cook Clams. 

Thin-edged clams are the best ones. Roast them in 
a pan over a hot fire, or in a hot oven, placing them so 
as to save the juice. When they open, empty the juice 
into a sauce-pan, and add the clams with butter, pepper, 
and very little salt. 

To boil them, put them in a pot with a very Uttle 
water, and so as to save their juices. Proceed as above, 
and lay buttered toast in the dish when you take them 
up. Clams are good put into a batter and fried. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

ON THE PREPARATION OF HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAUCES. 

There is nothing worse for the health, or for the pal- 
ate, than a poor hash, while a good hash is not only a 
favorite dish in most families, but an essential article of 
economy and convenience. For this reason, a separate 
article is devoted to this subject. 

The following are the ways in which hashes are 
spoilt. 

The first is by cooking them. Meat, when once 
cooked, should only be heated. If it is again stewed or 
fried, it tends to make it hard and tough, and diminish- 
es its flavor. 

The second is by frying the butter or gravy in 
which they are prepared. It has been shown that this 
is very injurious to the healthfulness of food. Butter 
and oils may be m>elted without changing their nature, 
but when cooked, they become much more indigestible 
and injurious to weak stomachs. 

The third mode of injuring hashes is by putting in 
flour in such ways that it is not properly cooked. Flour 
dredged on to hashes while they are cooking generally 
imparts the raw taste of dough. 



HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAUCES.. 6f 

The fourth mode is by putting in so much water as 
to make them vapid, or else so much grease as to make 
them gross. 

The fifth is by seasoning them with so Httle care, that 
they either have very httle savory taste, or else are so 
hot with pepper and spice as to be unhealthy. 

If a housekeeper will follow these directions, or give 
them to a cook who will follow them exactly, she will 
always have good and healthful hashes. 

To prepare Gravy for a Cold Beef Hash, or Steak 

Hash. 

For a small dish for six persons, put a tea-cup and a 
half of boiling water into a small sauce-pan, and make a 
thin paste with a heaping tea spoonful of flour, wet with 
a great spoonful of cold water. Stir it in, and boil it three 
minutes. Then put in half a teaspoonful of black pep- 
per and rather more salt, and let it stand where it will be 
kept hot, but not boihng, till fifteen minutes before it is 
to be used. 

Then cut the beef into half-inch mouthfuls and take 
as many mouthfuls of cold boiled potato, and half as 
many of cold turnip. Put these all together into a tin 
pan the size of a dining plate. Then stir in two great 
spoonfuls of butter into the gravy till melted, and. if you 
like tomato catsup, add a great spoonful, and pour it 
over the hash, and cover it with a plate and let it heat 
on the stove, or trivet, ten minutes, and then serve it. 

If the hash is made without vegetables, take only a 
tea-cup full of water, and a teaspoonful of flour, and 
a little less pepper and salt. 

If you have the beef gravy of yesterday, use it instead 
of butter, and put in less pepper, salt, butter, and wa- 
ter. 

If tomatoes are liked, peel and slice two large ones, 
and add with the potatoes and turnips. 

Let a housekeeper try this, and then vary it to her 
own taste, or the taste of her family, and then write 
the exact proportions for the use of all the future cooks 
of her family. 



68 ON THE PREPARATION OF 

Gravy for a Mutton Hash^ or Venison Hash. 

For a dish for six persons, take a tea-cup and a half 
of boiling water, and slice fine one small onion (say one 
an inch in diameter) into it, to give a shght flavor of 
onion, and thus hide the strong mutton taste. Mix a 
thin paste made with a heaping teaspoonful of flour, wet 
with a great spoonful of water, stir it in, and let it boil 
three minutes, adding a half a teaspoonful of black pep- 
per, and rather more salt. Then set it where it will keep 
hot, but not boil, till wanted. 

Cut the mutton into half-inch mouthfuls, leaving out 
most of the fat. Cut up the same nmnberof mouthfuls 
of cold boiled potatoes, and half as much cold boiled tur- 
nips, and slice in two large peeled tomatoes, or cold boiled 
parsnip, or both. Mix them in a tin pan the size of a 
dining plate, stir two great spoonfuls of butter into the 
gravy, and, if you like, a great spoonful of tomato cat- 
sup, and pour it on to the hash. Cover it with a plate, 
and set it to heat ten minutes on the stove, or on a trivet 
over coals. 

If you do not put in vegetables, take less water, salt, 
and pepper. If you do not put in onion, put in a wine- 
glass of currant, plum, or grape jelly, or squeeze in some 
lemon juice when you add the butter, and leave out the 
catsup, or not, as you like. Modify to suit your taste, 
and then write the proportions exactly, for all future 
cooks of your family. 

To j)repare a Veal Hash. 

Take a tea-cup of boiling water in a sauce-pan, and 
mix in an even teaspoonful of flour wet with a spoonful 
of cold water, and let it boil five minutes. Then add, 
not quite half a teaspoonful of black pepper, as much 
salt, and two great spoonfuls of butter, and set it where 
it will keep hot, but not boil. 

Chop the veal very fine, and mix with it, while chop- 
ping, half as much stale bread crumbs. Put it in a tin 
pan and pour the gravy on to it, and let it heat on a 
btove or trivet ten minutes. 



HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAUCES. 69- 

Toast some bread and cut it into triangular pieces, and 
lay it on the bottom of a dish. Spread the hash over, 
and pour on the gravy. Cut slices of lemon to lay on 
the top and around the edge of the platter. 

If you like a seasoning of sweet herbs with this hash, 
the nicest way is to tie some in a rag and boil it in the 
water of the gravy when you first mix it. 

Common Gravies. 

Pour out the drippings of the tin roaster through a 
gravy strainer, into a pan, and set it away till cold. 
Next day, scrape the sediment from the bottom and then 
use it to make gravy in place of butter, for hashes. 
Mutton drippings must never be used for cooking. 

It is not fashionable to have gravy made for roast beef 
or mutton, as the juice of the meat is preferred, which, 
on the plate, is mixed with catsup or whatever is prefer- 
red. 

Gravies for poultry are made as directed in the article 
on roasting meats. 

Drawn hutter is the foundation of most common 
gravies, and is to be prepared in either of the two ways 
described below. 

Drawn Butter^ or Melted Butter. 

Rub in two teaspoonfuls of flour into a quarter of a 
pound of butter. Add five tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Set it into boiling water and let it melt, and heat until 
it begins to simmer, and it is done. Never simmer it on 
coals, as it fries the oil and spoils it. Be careful not to 
have the flour in lumps. If it is to be used with fish, 
put in chopped eggs and nasturtions, or capers. 

If used with boiled fowl, put in oysters while it is sim- 
mering, and let them heat through. 

Another Mode of freparirtg Drawn Butter. 

Make three teaspoonfuls of flour into a thin batter, 
and stir it into a tea-cup of boiling water in a sauce -pan, 
and let it boil five minutes. Then take it oflj and cut 
up a quarter of a pound of butter into pieces, and put in 



70 ON THE PREPARATION OF 

and keep it hot till it is melted. This is the easiest way, 
and if it is for very rich cooking more butter may be ad- 
ded. 

Drawn Meat Gravies^ or Brown Gravies. 

Put into a sauce-pan fresh meat cut in small pieces, 
seasoned with salt and pepper and a bit of butter, and 
heat it half an hour, till brown, stirring so that it shall 
not stick. 

Pour on boiling water, a pint for each pound — sim- 
mer three hours and skim it well. Settle and strain it, 
and set it aside to use. Thicken, when you need it, 
with brown flour, a teaspoonful to a half pint. 

A Nice Article to use for Gravy ^ or Soup. 

Take butter the size of an Qgg^ add a tablespoonful 
of sugar, put it in a skillet, and stir it till a dark brown, 
then dredge in flour, and use it to darken gravy or soup. 

Burnt Butter for Fish, or Eggs. 

Heat two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, till a dark 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and half a dozen shakes from the pepper 
box. 

Sauce for Salad, or Fish. 

Take the yolk of two eggs boiled hard, mash them 
with a mustard spoonful of mustard, a little black pep- 
per, a little salt, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and 
three of vinegar. A tablespoonful of catsup would im- 
prove it for many. 

Wine Sauce for Mutton, or Veiiison. 

Take half a pint of the liquor in w^hich the meat was 
cooked, and when boiling, put in pepper, salt, currant 
jelly, and wine to your taste ; add about a teaspoonful 
of scorched flour, mixed with a little water. 

Oyster Sauce. 
Take a pint of oyster juice, add a little salt and pep- 
per, and a stick of mace, boil it five minutes, and then 
add two teaspoonfuls of flour, wet up in half a tea-cup 



m 



HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAUCES. 71 

of milk. Let this boil two minutes, then put in the 
oysters and a bit of butter the size of an egg ; in two 
minutes take them up. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Mix in six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, the yolks of two 
boiled eggs, sorne of the lobster spawn, a mustard spoon- 
ful of mustard, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil or melted 
butter, and a little salt and pepper. 

Apple Sauce. 

Boil peeled and quartered tart apples, and put in but- 
ter and sugar to your taste. If boiled in cider with quin- 
ces, it will keep a long time. The fresh-made is best. 

Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowls. 
Take four or five celery heads, and cut up all but the 
green tops into small pieces, and boil it in half a pint of 
water till tender. Mix two teaspoonfuls of flour with a 
little milk and put in, with a salt spoonful of salt, and 
butter the size of an Qgg. When it boils, take it up. 

Celery Vinegar. 

This is fine to keep in the castor stand. Pound two 
gills of celery seed, and add sharp vinegar. Shake every 
day for a week or two. The flavor of sweet herbs and 
sage can be obtained by pouring vinegar on to them, and 
for three successive days taking them out, and putting 
in a fresh supply of herbs. It must be kept corked and 
sealed. 

Essence of Celery , to flavor Soup. 

Bruise celery seed, and steep it in brandy for a fort- 
night. An ounce to half a pint of brandy is enough. 
Half a teaspoonful will flavor soup. 

Herb Spirit. 

It is convenient sometimes to use herb spirit instead 
of the herbs. It is made thus. Take all the sweet 
herbs, as thyme, marjoram, sweet basil, and summer 
savory, dry, pound, sift, and steep in brandy for a fort- 
night ; an ounce to half a pint. 



* 



72 HASHES, GRAVIES, AND SAtTClS. 

Soup Powder. 

The following is a very convenient article for soups. 
Dry, pound, and sift the following ingredients together. 
Take one ounce each, of lemon, thyme, basil, sweet 
marjoram, summer savory, and dried lemon peel, with 
two ounces of dried parsley, and a few dried celery seeds. 
Bottle it tight. Horseradish can be sliced thin, dried 
and pounded, and kept in a bottle for use. Mushrooms 
can be dried in a moderately warm oven, then powdered 
with a little mace and pepper, and kept to season soup 
or sauces. 

Soy. 

One pound of salt, two pounds of sugar, fried half an 
hour over a slow fire, then add three pints of boiling 
water, half a pint of essence of anchovies, a dozen cloves, 
and some sweet herbs. Boil till the salt dissolves, then 
strain and bottle it. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, let them stand un 
til you can rub off the skin, then cover them with salt, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
them, and to two quarts put three ounces of cloves, two 
ounces of pepper, two nutmegs. Boil half an hour, then 
add a pint of wine. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Put the mushrooms in layers, with salt sprinkled ovei 
each layer, and let them stand four days. Then mash 
them fine, and to every quart add two-thirds of a tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, and boil it in a stone jar set in 
boiling water two hours. Strain it without squeezing, 
boil the liquor, let it stand to cool and settle, then bottle, 
cork, and seal it, and set it in a cool place. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Bruise ten dozen young walnuts, add a quart of vinegar, 
and three-fourths of a pound of fine salt. Let them stand 
two weeks, stirring every day. Strain off the liquor, 



VEGETABLES. 7^ 

and add half an ounce of black pepper whole, thirty- 
cloves, half an ounce of bruised nutmeg, half an ounce 
of ginger, and four sticks of mace. Boil the whole an 
hour, then strain and bottle tight. 



CHAPTER IX. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes. 



The great art of cooking potatoes is. to take them 
up as soon as they are done. Of course it is important 
to begin to cook them at the proper time. 

When boiled, baked, fried, or steamed, they are ren- 
dered watery by continuing to cook them after they reach 
the proper point. For this reason, potatoes, to bake or 
boil, should be selected so as to have them nearly the 
same size. Begin with the largest first, and continue to 
select the largest till all are gone. Be careful that the 
water does not stop boiling, as thus the potatoes will be 
watery. Never boil them very hard, as it breaks them. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Wash, but do not cut them. Put them in boiling 
water, having only a small quantity more than enough 
to cover them. Put salt in, say a great spoonful to half 
a pailful of potatoes. Boil them moderately ; when near- 
ly done, let them simmer slowly, and when cooked (as is 
discovered, not by their cracking, but by a fork) pour off 
the water, and let them stand till dry. Medium-sized 
potatoes, when young, will cook in from twenty to thirty 
minutes ; when old, it requires double the time. When 
peeled they boil fifteen minutes quicker. Old potatoes, 
in the spring, are improved by soaking in water all 
night. 

7 



74 VEGETADLES. 

Other Modes of Cooking Potatoes. 

After boiling and peeling them, divide them and lay 
them on a gridiron to brown. Or when cold, the day 
after boiling, cut them in slices, and cook them on a 
griddle, with just enough lard to make them brown, or 
you can brown them on a gridiron. 

Another pretty mode for a fancy dish is, to peel large 
potatoes and then cut them round and round in shavings, 
as you pare an apple. Fry them with clean sweet lard 
in a frying-pan, till brown, stirring them to brown alike, 
drain them on a sieve, and after sprinkhng a little fine 
salt over them, place them on the table. 

Another tasteful mode is, after boiUng and peehng 
them, to flour them, then dip them in the yolk of an eg^^ 
and roll them in fine bread crumbs. Then fry them till 
brown and they look very handsomely, and are excel- 
lent to the taste. Fry them without this preparation 
and they are very nice. 

When potatoes become old, mash them fine, season 
with salt and butter, and a little cream or milk, place 
them in a dish, smoothing and shaping the lop hand- 
somely, and making checks with a knife ; then brown 
them in a stove, or range-oven, and they are excellent. 
These can also be made into l3alls, dipped in ^^^ and 
crumbs, and fried as directed above, and they look very 
handsomely. 

Potatoes, when roasted, should be very carefully 
washed and rinsed, and then roasted in a Dutch oven, 
or stove oven. Notice, lest they be put in too soon, and 
thus be made watery by cooking too long. 

The following is a very nice way of preparing pota- 
toes for breakfast. Peel them, and cut them in very 
thin slices into a very Httle boiling water, so httle that it 
will be evaporated when they are cooked. At this pointj 
add salt to your taste, some cream, or if you have not 
cream put in a very little milk and a bit of butter. A 
little practice will make this a very favorite dish in any 
family. The art is, to cook the potatoes with very little 
water, so that it will be evaporated at the time the pota- 



VEGETABLES. 75 

toes are done. They must be stirred while cooking occa- 
sionally. 

Another mode is, to mash the potatoes and add salt, 
butter, and a little cream, and set them away. Then 
cut them in slices, and fry for breakfast. 

Many think the following the best way of boiling po- 
tatoes. Peel them, and soak in cold water two hours. 
Boil in just enough water to cover them. When about 
done, pour off the water, and let them steam five minutes 
uncovered. 

Turnips. 

Boil turnips in a vessel by themselves. Try them 
with a fork, and if sweet and good, send them to the ta- 
ble when taken up. If watery, mash them, wring them 
in a cloth, and add salt and butter, and if the sweetness 
is gone, add a little white sugar, and they will be as 
good as new. Boil them in a good deal of water, with 
salt in it. If they boil too long, they lose their sweetness 
and become bitter. An hour is the medium time re- 
quired. 

Asparagus. 

Keep it cool and moist on the cellar bottom till wanted. 

Throw it into cold water, cut off all that is tough, tie 
it in small bundles. Boil it in salted warm water for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, having only just enough to 
cover the asparagus. When done, take it up with a 
skimmer, lay it on buttered toast, and put butter on 
it. Then pour on the water in which you boiled the 
asparagus. 

Beets. 

Beets must not be cut, as this makes them lose their 
sweetness. Salt the water, and boil them in summer 
an hour, and in winter three hours. 

Parsnips and Carrots. 

Parsnips and carrots must be split, or else the outside 
is done too much before the inside is cooked sufficiently. 
Salt the water, and boil them when young half an hour, 



76 VEGETABLES. 

and two hours when old. Boil enough to have some to 
slice and fry for the next day's dinner or breakfast, as 
they are much the best cooked in this way. 

Onio7is. 

Select the white kind, peel them and put them in 
boiling milk, a little salted, and boil them from half to 
three quarters of an hour. When taken up, drain in a 
colander, pour a Uttle melted butter over them, or put 
on cold butter. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Scrape them, and put them in boiling salted water. 
Boil large ones about two hours, then take them up and 
butter them. 

Squashes. 

Summer squashes boil whole, when very young. 
When older, quarter them, and take out the seeds. Put 
them into boiling salted water ; when done, squeeze out 
the water by wringing in a cloth, and add butter and 
salt to your taste. 

The neck part of the winter squash is the best ; cut 
it into slices, peel it, boil it in salted water till tender, then 
drain off the water, and serve it without mashing, or, if 
preferred, wring it and season with butter and salt. 
What is left over is excellent /riec? for next day's break- 
fast or dinner. It must be in slices, and not mashed. 
Save the water in which they are boiled, to make yeast 
or brown bread, for which it is excellent. 

Cabbage and Cauliflowers. 

Take off the outer leaves of a cabbage, cut the stalky 
part in quarters, down to the centre, put it in boiling 
salted water, and boil them from half an hour to an hour. 
Cabbages, like turnips, must have a good deal of water, 
or they will taste strong. 

For cauliflowers, cut ofT all the leaves but the small 
ones mixed with the head, and boil in salted water till 
it is tender. Some wrap some of the large leaves around 



VEGETABLES. 77 

the head, and tie them on, and when cooked throw aside 
the leaves. Drain the cauliflower with a skimmer and 
eat it with drawn butter. 



Most vegetables must be put in water only sufficient 
to cover them, allowing a Httle more for evaporation. 
Strong vegetables like turnips, cabbage, and some of the 
greens, require a good deal of water. 

Peas. 

Boil in salted Avater a little more than enough to cover 
them from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to their 
age. Add salt and butter, and boil up once. When 
old, they are improved by putting a very little saleratus 
into the water, say a quarter of a teaspoonful to half a 
peck of shelled peas. 

Sweet Corn. 

If it is to be boiled on the cob, put it in salted boiling wa- 
ter, and let it cook from twenty minutes to three quarters of 
an hour after it begins to boil, according to the age of 
the corn. 

tSuccatosh. 

If you wish to make succatosh, boil the beans from 
half to three quarters of an hour, in water a little salt, 
meantime cutting off the corn and throwing the cobs to 
boil with the beans. Take care not to cut too close to 
the cob, as it imparts a bad taste. When the beans have 
boiled the time above mentioned, take out the cobs, and 
add the corn, and let the whole boil from fifteen to twen- 
ty minutes, for young corn, and longer for older corn. 
Make the proportions two-thirds corn and one-third beans. 
Where you have a mess amounting to two quarts of 
corn and one quart of beans, take two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, wet it into a thin paste, and stir it into the succatosh, 
and let it boil up for five minutes. Then lay some but- 
ter in a dishj take it up into it, and add more salt if 

need be. 

7* 



78 VEGETABLES. 

Beans. 

Throw them into salted boiUiig water, and cook them 
from an hour to an Jiour and a half, according to the 
age. A little saleratus improves them when old ; a piece 
as big as a pea will do. If you put in too much, the 
skins will slip oil*. 

Egg Plant. 

Boil them in a good deal of water a few minutes, to 
get out the bitter taste, then cut them in slices, and 
sprinkle a little salt on them. Then fry them brown in 
lard or butter. If they are fried on a griddle, with only 
butter enough to keep them from sticking, they are bet- 
ter than when more butter is used. 

Baked Beans. 

Pick over the beans the night before, and put them 
in warm water to soak, where they will be kept warm 
all night. Next morning pour off the water, and pour 
on boiling water, and let them stand and simmer till the 
beans are soft, and putting in with them a nice piece of 
pork, the skin gashed. Put them into the deep dish in 
which they are to bake, having water just enough to 
cover them. Bury the pork in the middle, so that the 
top will be even with the surface. All the garden beans 
are better for baking than the common field bean. They 
must bake in a moderately hot oven from two to three 
hours. 

Tomatoes. 

Pour on scalding water, and let them remain in it two 
minutes, to loosen the skins. Peel them, and put them 
in a stew-pan with a little salt and butter, and let them 
stew half an hour, and then pour them on to buttered 
toast. 

Another Way. — Peel them, put them in a deep dish, 
put salt and pe|)per, and a httle butter over them, then 
make a layer of bread crumbs, or pounded crackers, then 
make another layer of tomatoes, and over these another 
layer of crumbs, till the dish is filled. The top layer 



VEQETABLES. 79 

must be crumbs. Some persons put nutmeg and sugar 
with the other seasoning. Bake three quarters of an 
hour, or more, according to the size. 

Another Way. — Peel them, put them in a stew-pan 
with some salt, boil them nearly half an hour, then put 
into them three or four beaten eggs, and more salt if 
needed, and very httle pepper. Many would add a few 
small slices of onion; Most who have tried this last are 
very fond of it. 

Greens. 

Beet tops, turnip tops, spinach, cabbage sprouts, dan- 
delions, cowshps, all these boil in salted water till they 
are tender, then drain in a colander, pressing hard. 
Chop them a little, and warm them in a sauce-pan, with 
a little butter. 

Lay them on buttered toast, and if you Hke, garnish 
them with hard-boiled egg^ cut in slices. If not fresh, 
soak them half an hour in salt and water. 

Cucumbers. 

The chief art of preparing cucumbers consists in ma- 
king them cool and crisp. This is done by putting them 
in cold water for half an hour, and then cut them in thin 
slices into cold water. Then drain them in a colander, 
and season them with pepper, salt, and vinegar. 

Cucumbers are very nice cooked in this way. Peel 
and cut them into quarters, take out the seeds, and boil 
them hke asparagus. Put them on to buttered toast, and 
put a little butter over them. 

Macaroni. 

Mix a pint of milk, and a pint of water, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; put in two ounces of macaroni, and 
boil till the liquor is wasted and the macaroni tender. 
Put on butter, or pour over some gravy. Cut the mac- 
aroni in pieces of three or four inches, in order to help 
it out more conveniently. 

Another Way. 

Simmer it in thin gravy ; when tender lay it in a dish, 



)S0 VEGETABLES. 

and grate on it old cheese, and over that grated bread. 
Pour over it melted butter, and set in a Dutch oven till 
of a brown color. 

To Cook Hominy. 

Wash in several waters, and boil it five hours, allow 
ing two quarts of water, and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
to every quart of hominy. Drain it through a colander, 
and add butter and salt, if needed. The small-grained 
requires less water and time. 

Macaroni Puddings to eat with Meat. 

Simmer a quarter of a pound of macaroni in plenty 
of water, until it is tender. Strain off the water, and 
add a pint of milk or cream, an ounce of grated cheese, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Mix well together, and strew 
over the top two ounces of grated cheese and crumbs of 
bread. Brown it well, in baking, on the top. It will 
bake in a quick oven in half an hour. It is appropriate 
to be eaten with boiled ham, or forms a course by itself, 
after meat. 

Salad. 

Salad, to be in perfection, should be fresh gathered, 
and put into salted cold water, which will remove all in- 
sects. Let them stand half an hour, and then drain 
them thoroughly. 

Mode of Dressing Salad. 

Take the yolks of one or two eggs boiled hard, mash 
them fine, mix with them pepper, salt, mustard, oil, and 
vinegar to your taste. Then cut up the salad, and mix 
it with this preparation. This is usually done at table. 

Mushroom. 

Cut off the lower part of the stem, peel them, and put 
them in a sauce-pan, with just water enough to prevent 
their burning at the bottom, put in a httle salt, and shake 
them occasionally while cooking, to prevent burning. 
When tender, add butter, salt, and pepper to your taste, 



VEGETABLES. 61 

and wine and spice, if you like them. Serve them on 
buttered toast. 

Celeriac. 

This is very good, and but little known. It resem 
bles celery in flavor, and is much more easily cultivated 
Scrape and cut the roots in slices. Boil them very ten 
der, drain off the water, add a little salt, and turn in just 
milk enough to cover them. Then take them up and 
add a little butter. 

falsify, or Vegetable Oyster. 

Boil it till tender, then pour off the water, and add a 
little milk, and a Httle salt and butter. 

Another Way. — Parboil it, scraping off the outside, cut 
it in slices, dip it into beaten egg and fine bread crumbs, 
and fry it in lard. 

Another Way. — Make a batter of wheat flour, milk 
and eggs, and a little salt. Cut the salsify in slices ; af- 
ter it is boiled tender, put it in the batter, and drop this 
mixture into hot fat by the spoonful. Cook them a light 
brown. 

Southern Mode of Cooking Rice. 

Pick over the rice, and wash it in cold water. To 
a pint of rice, put three quarts of boiling water, and 
half a teaspoon ful of salt. Boil it just seventeen min- 
utes from the time it fairly begins to boil. Then turn 
off all the water, and set it over a moderate fire, with 
the lid off, to steam fifteen minutes. Great care must 
be taken to be accurate. The rice water poured off is 
good to stiffen muslins. 

Common Mode of Cooking Rice. 

To a pint of clean rice, put three quarts of cold water 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil it fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, then pour off the water, add milk and some cream, 
and let it boil a few minutes longer. It should not be 
so soft as to lose its form. 

In case you wish to fry it next morning, boil it long- 



'82 VEGETABLES. 

er in the water, and omit the milk, or not, as you please. 
It is always a good plan to boil a good deal, so as to 
have it next day for griddle cakes, or to cut in slices 
and fry. 

Best Mode of Cooking Tomatoes. 

This vegetable is much improved by cooking a long 
time. 

Immediately after breakfast, begin by boiling two 
onions. If they are not Uked, omit this part ; but it is 
best to make the trial, as some can eat this, who cannot 
take onions any other way comfortably. 

Pour boiling water over a dozen large tomatoes, and 
peel them. Cut them into a stew-pan ; add a tea-cup 
and a half of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of black pep- 
per, a tablespoonful of salt, four tablespoon fu Is of butter, 
and also the cooked onion. Set them where they will 
stew very slowly all the forenoon, the longer the better. 
Fifteen minutes before serving them, beat up six eggs, 
and add, and give them a good boil, stirring all the time. 
(Indiana Receipt.) 

Sweet Potatoes. 

The best way to cook sweet potatoes is to bake them 
with their skins on. When boiled, the largest should 
be put in first, so as to have all cook alike. Drain them 
and dry them, then peel them. They are excellent 
sliced and fried for breakfast next day ; much better than 
at first. 

Artichokes. 

Boil them till tender, drain them, and serve them 
with melted butter. 

Stewed Egg Plant. 

Take the purple kind, stew till soft, take off the skin, 
mash it with butter and sweet herbs, grate bread over 
the top, and bake it till brown. 



OVENS, YEASTj BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 8? 



CHAPTER X. 

OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCIJIT. 

On Constructing and Heating an Oven. 

The best ovens are usually made thus. After the 
arch is formed, four or five bushels of ashes are spread 
over it, and then a covering of charcoal over that, then 
another layer of bricks over all. The use of this is, that 
the ashes become heated, and the charcoal being a non- 
conductor, the heat is retained much longer. In such 
an oven, cake and pies can be baked after the bread is 
taken out, and then custards after them. Sometimes 
four bakings are done in succession. 

The first time an oven is used, it should be heated 
the day previous for half a day, and the oven lid kept 
up after the fire is out, till heated for baking. 

As there is so little discretion to be found in those who 
heat ovens, the housekeeper will save much trouble and 
mortification by this arrangement. Have oven wood 
prepared of sticks of equal size and length. Find, by 
trial, how many are required to heat the oven, and then 
require that just that number be used, and no more. 

The fire must be made the back side of the oven, and 
the oven must be heated so hot as to allow it to be clo- 
sed fifteen minutes after clearing, before the heat is redu- 
ced enough to use it. This is called soaking. If it is 
burnt down entirely to ashes, the oven may be used as 
soon as cleared, 

How to know when an Oven is at the right Heat. 

An experienced cook will know without rules. For a 
novice, the following rules are of some use in determin- 
ing. If the black spots in the oven are not burnt oflf, it 
is not hot, as the bricks must all look red. If you sprin- 
kle flour on the bottom, and it burns quickly, it is too hot. 



84 OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

If you cannot hold your hand in longer than to count 
twenty moderately, it is hot enough. 

If you can count thirty moderately, it is not hot enough 
for bread. 

These last are not very accurate tests, as the power to 
bear heat is so diverse in different persons ; but they are 
as good rules as can be given, where there has been no 
experience. 

How to knoio when Bread is Sour, or Heavy, 

If the bread is sour, on opening it quick and deeply 
with your fingers, and applying the nose to the opening, 
a tingling and sour odor escapes. This is remedied by 
taking a teaspoonful of saleratus, for every four quarts 
of flour, very thoroughly dissolved in hot water, which is 
to be put in a hole made in the middle, and very thorough- 
ly kneaded in, or there will be yellow streaks. 

If the bread is light and not sour, it will, on opening 
it deep and suddenly, send forth a pungent and brisk, 
but not a sour odor, and it will look full of holes, like 
sponge. Some may mistake the smell of light bread for 
that of sour bread, but a Httle practice will show the dif- 
ference very plainly. 

If the bread is light before the oven is ready, knead it 
a Httle without adding flour, and set it in a cool place. 

If it rises too much, it loses all sweetness, and noth- 
ing but care and experience will prevent this. The best 
of flour will not make sweet bread, if it is allowed to rise 
too much, even when no sourness is induced. 

How to treat Bread when taken from the Oven. 

Never set it flat on a table, as it sweats the bottom, 
and ac(iuires a bad taste from the table. 

Always take it out of the tins, and set it up end way, 
leaning against something. 

If it has a thick, hard crust, wrap it in a cloth wrung 
out of cold water. 

Keep it in a tin box, in a cool place, where it will not 
freeze. 



OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 85 

Yeast. 

The article in which yeast is kept must, when new 
yeast is made, or fresh yeast bought, be scalded and 
emptied, and then have a salt spoonful of saleratus put 
in, and be rinsed out again with warm water. If it is glass, 
rinsing twice with warm water will answer. Junk bot- 
tles are best for holding yeast, because they can be cork- 
ed tight, and easily cleansed. 

Potato Yeast. 

By those who use potato yeast, it is regarded as much 
the best, as it raises bread quicker than common home- 
brewed yeast, and, best of all, never imparts the sharp, 
disagreeable yeast taste to bread or cake, often given by 
hop yeast. 

Mash half a dozen peeled boiled potatoes, and mix in 
a handful of wheat fluur, and two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
and after putting it through a colander, add hot water 
till it is a batter. When blood warm, put in half a tea- 
cup of distillery yeast, or twice as much potato, or other 
home-brewed. When raised, keep it corked tight, and 
make it new very often in hot weather. If made with 
hop water, it will keep much longer. 

Home-made Yeast, which will keep Good a Month. 

Four quarts of water, two handfuls of hops, eight 
peeled potatoes, sliced, all boiled soft, mixed and strain- 
ed through a sieve. To this, add a batter, made one- 
third of Indian, and two-thirds of rye, in a pint of cold 
water, and then boil the whole ten minutes. When 
cool as new milk, add a tea-cup of molasses, a table- 
spoonful of ginger, and a tea-cup of distillery yeast, or 
twice as much home-brewed. 

Home-brewed Yeast more easily/ made. 

Boil a handful of hops half an hour in three pints of 
water. Pour half of it, boiling hot, through a sieve, on 
to nine spoonfuls of flour, mix, and then add the rest 
of the hop water. Add a spoonful of salt, half a cup of 
molasses, and when blood warm,, a cup of yeast. 

8 



86 OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

Hard Yeast. 

This often is very convenient, especially for hot weath- 
er, when it is difficult to keep yeast. 

Take some of the best yeast you can make, and thick- 
en it with Indian meal, and if you have rye, add a little 
to make it adhere better. Make it into cakes an inch 
thick, and three inches by two in size, and dry it in a 
drying wind, but not it the sun. Keep it tied in a bag, 
in a dry, cool place, where it will not freeze. 

One of these cakes is enough for four quarts of flour. 
When you wish to use it, put it to soak in milk or wa- 
ter for several hours, and then use it like other yeast. 

RubSy or Flour Hard Yeast. 

This is better than hard yeast made with Indian. 

Take two quarts of best home-brewed yeast, and a 
tablespoonful of salt, and mix in wheat flour, so that it 
will be in hard lumps. Set it in a dry, warm place (but 
not in the sun) till quite dry. Then leave out the fine 
parts to use the next baking, and put up the lumps in 
a bag, and hang it in a dry place. 

In using this yeast, take a pint of the rubs for six 
quarts of flour, and let it soak from noon till night. 
Then wet up the bread to bake next day. 

Brewer's and distillery yeast cannot be trusted to make 
hard yeast. Home-brewed is the best, and some house- 
keepers say, the only yeast for this purpose. 

Milk Yeast, 

One pint of new milk, and one teaspoonful of fine salt. 
One large spoonful of flour. Mix, and keep it blood 
warm an hour. Use twice as much as the common 
yeast. Bread soon spoils made of this. 

Wheat Bread of Distillery , or Brewer^s Yeast. 

Take eight quarts of flour, and two of milk, a table- 
i^poonful of salt, a gill and a half of distillery yeast, and 
sometimes rather more, if not first rate. Take double 
the quantity of home-brewed yeast. 



OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 87 

Sift the flour, then make an opening in the middle, 
pour in a part of the wetting, and put in the salt. Then 
mix in a good part of the flour. Then pour in the yeast, 
and mix it well, then add the rest of the wetting, using 
up the flour so as to make a stiff' dough. Knead it half 
an hour, till it cleaves clean from the hand. 

This cannot be wet over night, as, if the yeast is good, 
it will lise in one or two hours. 

Some persons Uke bread best wet with water, but most 
very much prefer bread wet with milk. If you have 
skimmed milk, warm it with a small bit of butter, and 
it is nearly as good as new milk. 

You need about a quart of wetting to four quarts of 
flour. Each quart of flour makes a common-sized 
loaf 

Wheat Bread of Home-brewed Yeast. 

Sift eight quarts of flour into the kneading tray, make 
a deep hole in the middle, pour into it a pint of yeast, 
mixed with a pint of lukewarm water, and then work 
up this with the surrounding flour, till it makes a thick 
batter. Then scatter a handful of flour over this bat- 
ter, lay a warm cloth over the whole, and set it in a 
warm place. This is called sponge. 

When the sponge is risen so as to make cracks in the 
flour over it (which will be in from three to five hours), 
then scatter over it two tablespoonfuls of salt, and put in 
about two quarts of wetting, warm, but not hot enough to 
scald the yeast, and sufficient to wet it. Be careful not 
to put in too much of the wetting at once. 

Knead the whole thoroughly for as much as half an 
hour, then form it into a round mass, scatter a httle flour 
over it, cover it, and set it to rise in a warm place. It 
usually will take about one quart of wetting to four 
quarts of flour. 

In winter, it is best to put the bread in sponge over 
night, when it must be kept warm all night. In sum- 
mer it can be put in sponge early in the morning, for if 
made over night, it would become sour. 



ft8 OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

Baker^s Bread, 

Take a gill of distillery yeast, or twice as much fresh 
home-brewed yeast, add a quart of warm (not hot) wa- 
ter, and flour enough to make a thin batter, and let it 
rise in a warm place all night. This is the sponge. 

Next day, put seven quarts of sifted flour into the 
kneading tray, make a hole in the centre, and pour in 
the sponge. I'hen dissolve a bit of volatile salts, and a 
bit of alum, each the size of a hickory-nut, and finely 
powdered, in a little cold water, and add it, with a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of salt, to the sponge, and also a quart 
more of blood- warm water. 

AVork up the flour and wetting to a dough, knead it 
well, divide it into three or four loaves, prick it with a 
fork, put it in buttered pans, and let it rise one hour, and 
then bake it about an hour. Add more flour, or more 
water, as you find the dough too stiflT, or too soft. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus can be used instead of the 
volatile salts and alum, but it is not so good. 

Wheat Bread of Potato Yeast. 

This is made like bread made with home-brewed 
yeast, except that you may put in almost any quantity 
of the potato yeast without injury. Those w^ho use po- 
tato yeast like it much better than any other. The 
only objection to it is, that in summer it must be made 
often, as it wall not keep sweet long. But it is very 
easily renewed. The chief advantage is, that it rises 
quick, and never gives the sharp and peculiar taste so 
often imparted to l3read and cake by all yeast made with 
hops. 

Potato Bread. 

Rub a dozen peeled and boiled potatoes through a very 
coarse sieve, and mix with them twice the quantity of 
flour, mixing very thoroughly. Put in a cofiee-cup full 
of home-brewed, or of potato yeast, or half as much of dis- 
tillery yeast, also a teaspoonful of salt. Add whatever 
water may be needed to make a dough as stift" as for 
common flour bread. 



OYENS, YEAST, BBEAD, AH© BISCmT. §9 

An ounce or two of butter rubbed into the flour, and 
an egg beat and put into the yeast, and you can have 
fine roils, or warm cal?:e3 for breakfast. 

This kind of bread is very moist, and keeps well. 

Cream Tartar Bread. 

Three pints of dried flour, measured after sifting. 

Two cups of milk. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

One teaspoonful of soda (Super Carbonate). 

Two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Dissolve the soda in half a tea-cup of hot water, am 
put it with the salt into the milk. Mix the cream tar 
tar very thoroughly in the flour : the whole success de 
pends OQ this. Just as you are ready to bake, pour in 
the milk, knead it up sufficiently to mix it well, and 
then put it in the oven as quick as possible. Add either 
more flour or more wetting, if needed, to make dough to 
'mould. Work in half a cup of butter after it is wet, and 
it makes good short biscuit. 

Eastern Brown Bread. 

One quart of rye. 

Two quarts of Indian meal : if fresh and sweet, do not 
scald it ; if not, scald it. 

Half a tea-cup of molasses. 

Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 

One teaspoonful of saleratus. 

A tea-cup of home-brewed yeast, or half as much dis- 
tillery yeast. 

Make it as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon with 
warm water. Let it rise from night till morning. Then 
put it in a large deep pan, and smooth the top with the 
hand dipped in cold water, and let it stand a while. Bake 
five or six hours. If put in late in the day, let it remain 
all night in the oven. 

Rj/e Bread. 
A quart of water, and as much milk. 
Two teaspoonfuls of salt, and a tea-cup of Indian 
meal. 

8* 



96 OVBNS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

A tea-cup full of home-brewed yeast, or half as much 
distillery yeast. 

Make it as stiff as wheat bread, with rye flour. 

Rice Bread. — No. 1. 

One pint of rice, boiled till soft. 
Two quarts of rice flour, or wheat flour. 
A teaspoonful of salt. 

A tea-cup of home-brewed, or half as much distillery 
yeast. 

Milk to make it so as to mould like wheat bread. 

Rice Bread. — No. 2. 

Three half pints of ground rice. 

Two teaspoonfuls (not heaping) of salt. 

Two gills of home-brewed yeast. 

Three quarts of milk, or milk and water. Mix the 
rice with cold milk and water to a thin gruel, and boil 
it three minutes. Then stir in wheat flour till as 
stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. When blood warm, 
add the j^east. This keeps moist longer than No. 1. 

Bread of Unbolted Wheat, or Graham Bread. 

Three pints of warm water. 

One tea-cup of Indian meal, and one of wheat flour. 

Three great spoonfuls of molasses, or a tea-cup of 
brown sugar. 

One teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of salera- 
tus, dissoh^ed in a httle hot water. 

One tea-cup of yeast. 

Mix the above, and stir in enough unbolted wheat 
flour to make it as stiff as you can work with a spoon. 
Some put in enough to mould it to loaves. Try both. 
If made with home-brewed yeast, put it to rise over 
night. If with distillery yeast, make it in the morning, 
and bake when light. 

In loaves the ordinaiy size, bake one hour and a half. 

Apple Bread. 
Mix stewed and strained apple, or grated apple un- 



OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 9'^ 

cooked, with an equal quantity of wheat flour ; add 
yeast enough to raise it, and mix sugar with the apple, 
enough to make it quite sweet. Make it in loaves, and 
bake it an hour and a half, like other bread. 

Pumpkin Bread. 

Stew and strain some pumpkin, stiffen it with Indian 
meal, add salt and yeast, and it makes a most excellent 
kind of bread. 

Walnut HilVs Brown Bread. 

One quart of sour milk, and one teaspoonful of salt. 

One teaspoonful of pulverized saleratus, and one tea- 
cup of molasses put into the milk. 

Thicken with unbolted wheat, and bake immediately, 
and you have first-rate bread, with very little trouble. 

French Rolls, or Twists. 

One quart of lukewarm milk. 

One teaspoonful of salt. 

A large tea-cup of home-brewed yeast, or half as much 
distillery yeast. 

Flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

Set it to rise, and when very light, work in one egg and 
two spoonfuls of butter, and knead in flour till stiff 
enough to roll. 

Let it rise again, and when very light, roll out, cut in 
strips, and braid it. Bake thirty minutes on buttered 
tins. 

Yorkshire Raised Biscuit. 

Make a batter with flour and one pint of milk scald- 
ing hot. When milk warm add one teacup of home- 
brewed yeast, (potato is best,) and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

Let it rise till very hght, then add two-thirds of a tea- 
spoonful of soda, two eggs, and a great spoonful of 
melted butter. Add flour enough to make it not very 
stiff, but just so as to mould it. Make it into small 
round cakes, and let it rise fifteen minutes. 



92 OVENS, YEAST, BREAD, AND BISCUIT. 

Yery Nice Rusk. 

One pint of milk. 

One coffee-cup of yeast. (Potato is best.) 

Four eggs. 

Flour enough to make it as thick as you can stir with 
a spoon. 

Let it rise till very light, but be sure it is not sour ; 
if it is, work in half a teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved 
in a wine-glass of warm water. 

When thus light, work together three quarters of a 
pound of sugar and nine ounces of butter ; add more 
flour, if needed, to make it stiff enough to mould. Let 
it rise again, and when very light, mould it into small 
cakes. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven, and after 
taking it out, mix a little milk and sugar, and brush 
over the rusk, while hot, with a small swab of hnen tied 
to a stick, and dry it in the oven. When you have 
weighed these proportions once, then measure the quan- 
tity, so as to save the trouble of weighing afterward. 
Write the measures in your receipt-book, lest you forget. 

Potato Biscuit. 

Twelve pared potatoes, boiled soft and mashed fine, 
and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Put all through a col- 
ander. 

Mix the potatoes and milk, add half a tea-cup of yeast, 
and flour enough to mould them well. Then work 
in a cup of butter. When risen, mould them into small 
cakes, then let them stand in buttered pans fifteen min- 
utes before baking. 

Crackers. 

One quart of flour, with two ounces of butter rubbed in. 

One teaspoonful of saleratus in a wine-glass of warm 
water. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt, and milk enough to roll it 
out. 

Beat it half an hour with a pestle, cut it in thin round 
cakes, prick them, and set them in the oven when other 
things are taken out. Let them bake till crisp. 



OVENS, Yeast, bread, and biscuit. 93 

Hard Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Four great spoonfuls of butter, rubbed into two-thirds 
of the flour. 

■ Wet it up with milk till a dough ; roll it out again 
and again, sprinkling on the reserved flour, till all is 
used. Cut into round cakes, and bake in a quick oven 
on buttered tins. 

Sour Milk Biscuit. 

A pint and a half of sour milk, or buttermilk. 

Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Two teaspoonfuls of saleratus, dissolved in four great 
spoonfuls of hot water. 

Mix the milk in flour till nearly stiff enough to roll, 
then put in the saleratus, and add more flour. Mould 
up quickly, and bake immediately. 

Shortening for raised biscuit or cake should always be 
worked in after it is wet up. 

A good Way to use Sour Bread. 

When a batch of bread is sour, let it stand till verp 
light, and use it to make biscuit for tea or breakfast, 
thus : 

Work into a portion of it, saleratus dissolved in warm 
water, enough to sweeten it, and a little shortening, and 
mould it into small biscuits, bake it, and it is uncom- 
monly good. It is so much liked that some persons allow 
bread to turn sour for the purpose. Bread can be kept 
on hand for this use any length of time. 



W' BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



CHAPTER XI. 

BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

General Directions for Griddle and other Break- 
fast Cakes. 

The best method of greasing a griddle is, to take a 
bit of salt pork, and rub over with a fork. This pre- 
vents adhesion, and yet does not allow the fat to soak 
into what is to be cooked. 

In putting cakes on to griddles, be careful to form 
them a regular round shape, and put on only one at 
each dip, and so as not to spill between the cakes. 

In frying mush, cold rice slices, and hominy cakes, 
cut them half an inch thick, and fry in fresh lard, with 
enough to brown them handsomely. Make the slices 
smooth and regular. 

Buckwheat Cakes wet with Water. 

Take a quart of buckwheat flour, and nearly an even 
tablespoonful of salt. Stir in warm water, till it is the 
consistency of thin batter. Beat it thoroughly. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of yeast, if distillery, or twice as much 
if home-brewed. 

Set the batter where it will be a little warm through 
the night. Some persons never stir them after they have 
risen, but take them out carefully with a large spoon. 

Add a teaspoonful of pearlash in the morning, if they 
are sour. Sift it over the surface, and stir it well. 

Some persons like to add one or two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, to give them a brown color, and more sweet- 
ness of taste. 

Extemj)ore Buckwheat Cakes. 
Three pints of buckwheat. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 95 

One teaspoonful carbonate of soda, dissolved in watei 
enough to make a batter, and when mixed, add a tea- 
spoonful of tartaric acid, dissolved in a few spoonfuls of 
hot water. Mix it in, and bake immediately. 

Use salt pork to grease the griddle. 

Buckwheat Cakes wet with Milk. 

One quart of flour, and in winter stir in lukewarm 
milk, till it is a thin batter, and beat it thoroughly, ad- 
ding nearly an even tablespoonful of salt. 

Add a small tea-cup of Indian meal, two tablespoon- 
fuls of distillery yeast, or a good deal more if home-brew- 
ed ; say half a tea-cup full. Set it where it will keep 
warm all night, and in the morning add a teaspoonful 
of saleratus, sifted over the top, and well stirred in. If 
sour, add more saleratus. This is the best kind of buck- 
wheat cakes. 

Griddle Cakes of Unbolted Wheat. 

A quart of unbolted wheat, and a teaspoonful of salt. 
Wet it up with water, or sweet milk, in which is dis- 
solved a teaspoonful of saleratus. Add three spoonfuls 
of molasses. Some raise this with yeast, and leave out 
the saleratus. Sour milk and saleratus are not as good 
for unbolted as for fine flour. 

These are better and more healthful cakes than 
buckwheat. 

Best Rice Griddle Cakes. 

A pint and a half of solid cold boiled rice, put the 
night before in a pint of water or milk to soak. 

One quart of milk, added the next morning. 

One quart of flour stirred into the rice and milk. 

Two eggs, well beaten. 

Half a teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little hot 
water. 

One teaspoonful of salt. Bake on a griddle. 

Stale, or rusked bread in fine crumbs, are very nice 
made into griddle cakes by the above rule ; or they can 



96 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

be mixed with the rice. The rice must be well salted 
when boiled. • 

A very delicate Omelet. 

Six eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and the 
yolks well Ijeaten. 

A tea-cup full of warm milk, with a tablespoonful of 
butter melted in it. 

A tablespoonful of flour, wet to a paste with a Uttle 
of the milk and poured to the milk. 

A teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. 

Mix all except the whites ; add those last ; bake im- 
mediately, in a flat pan, or spider, on coals, and when 
the bottom is done, raise it up towards the fire, and bake 
the top, or cover with an iron sheet, and put coals on it. 
The remnants of ham, cut fine and added, improve 
this. Some Uke sweet herbs added, and some fine-cut 
onion. 

Wheat Waffles. 

One quart of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

One quart of milk, with a tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter in it, and mixed with the flour gradually, so as not 
to have lumps. 

Three tablespoonfuls of distillery yeast. When rais- 
ed, two well-beaten eggs. 

Bake in waflfle irons well oiled with lard each time 
they are used. Lay one side on coals, and in about two 
minutes turn the other side to the coals. 

Miss B.^s Waffles {without yeast). 

One quart of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

One quart of sour milk, with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter melted in it. 

Five well-beaten eggs. A teaspoonful or more of sal- 
eratus, enough to sweeten the milk. Baked in waflie 
irons. 

Some like one tea-cup full of sugar added. 

Rice Waffles. 
A quart of milk. 



BREAKFAST Ax\D TEA CAKES. 97 

A tea-cup of solid boiled rice, soaked three hours in 
half the milk. 

A pint and a half of wheat flour, or rice flour. 
Three well-beaten eggs. Bake in waffle irons. 
The rice must be salted enough when boiled. 

Good Cakes for Tea^ or Breakfast. 

One pint of milk, and a salt spoonful of salt. 

One teaspoonful of molasses, and a great spoonful of 
butter. 

One Qgg well beaten, and two tablespoon fuls of dis- 
tillery yeast, or twice as much home-brewed. 

Stir the ingredients into flour enough to make a stifl* 
batter. 

Let it rise all night, or if for tea, about five hours. 
Add a salt spoonful of saleratus just before baking it, dis- 
solved in w^arm water. 

Bake in shallow pans, in a quick oven, half an hour. 

Fried Rice for Breakfast. 

Boil the rice quite soft the day before, so that it will 
adhere well. For breakfast, cut it in slices an inch thick, 
cook it on a griddle, with enough sweet lard to fry it 
brown. Cold mush is good in the same way. 

It must be salted properly when boiling. 

Fried Hominy. 

When cold hominy is left of the previous day, it is very 
good wet up with an egg and a little flour, and fried. 

Rye Drop Cake [excellent). 

One pint of milk, and three eggs. 
A tablespoonful of sugar, and a salt spoonful of salt. 
Stir in rye flour, till about the consistency of pancakes. 
Bake in buttered cups, or saucers, half an hour. 

Wheat Drop Cake. 

One pint of milk, and a little cream. 
Three eggs, and a salt spoonful of salt. 



98 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

With these materials make a thick batter of wheat 
flour, or unbolted flour. Drop on tins, and bake about 
twenty minutes. If unbolted flour is used, add a great 
spoonful of molasses. 

Corn Griddle Cakes with Yeast. 

Three coflfee-cups of Indian meal, sifted. 

One coffee-cup of either rye meal, Graham flour, or 
flne flour. 

Two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and a salt spoonful of 
salt. 

Wet at night with sour milk or water, as thick as pan- 
cakes, and in the morning add one teaspoonful of pearl- 
ash. 

Bake on a griddle. If Graham flour is used, add a 
very little molasses. 

Pilgrim Cake. 

Rub two spoonfuls of butter into a quart of flour, and 
wet it to dough with cold water. Rake open a place 
in the hottest part of the hearth, roll out the dough into 
a cake an inch thick, flour it well both sides, and lay 
it on hot ashes. Cover it Avith hot ashes, and then 
with coals. When cooked, wipe off the ashes, and it 
will be very sweet and good. 

The Kentucky corn cake, and common dough, can 
be baked the same way. This method was used by 
our pilgrim and pioneer forefathers. 

Sour Milk Corn Cake. 

One quart of sour milk, or buttermilk. 

A large teaspoonful of pearlash. 

A teaspoonful of salt. 

Stir the milk into the meal enough to make a stifT bat- 
ter, over night. In the morning dissolve the pearlash in 
warm water. Stir it up quickly, and bake it in shallow 
pans. 

If the milk is sweet, it should be made sour by adding 
to it a tablespoon ful of vinegar. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 99 

Corn Muffins [from the South). 

One pint of sifted meal, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Two tablespoonfuls of melted lard. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus, in two great spoonfuls of 
hot water. 

Wet the above with sour milk, as thick as for mush or 
hasty pudding, and bake in buttered rings on a buttered 
tin. 

Cor7i Griddle Cakes with Eggs. 

Turn one quart of boiling milk, or water, on to a pint 
of Indian meal. 

When lukewarm, add three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
three eggs well beaten, and a teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
on a griddle. 

Sachem^s Head Corn Cake. 

One quart sifted Indian meal, and a teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Three pints of scalded milk cooled^ and a teaspoonful 
of saleratus, dissolved in two spoonfuls of hot water, and 
put into it. 

Beat eight eggs, and mix all together. Bake one 
hour in pans, like sponge cake. 

It looks, when broken, like sponge cake, and is very 
fine. If the whites are cut to a froth, and put in, just as it 
goes to bake, it improves it very much. Some think 
this improved by adding a tea-cup of sugar. Much de- 
pends on the baking, and if you fail, it is probably 
owing to the baking. 

Royal Crum,pets. 

Three tea-cups of raised dough. . 
Four great spoonfuls of melted butter, worked into the 
dough. 

Three well-beaten eggs. 

One tea-cup of rolled sugar, beaten into the eggs. 
Turn it into buttered pans, and bake twenty minutes. 
Some like them better without the sugar. 



100 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Bachclor^s Corn Cake. 

A pint of sifted corn meal, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

Two spoonfuls of butter, and a quarter of a cup of 
cream. 

Two eggs well beaten. 

Add milk, till it is a thin fritter batter, and bake in 
deep tin pans. Beat it well, and bake with a quick 
heat, and it rises like pound cake. 

Mrs. W:s Corn Cake. 

One pint of milk, and one pint of cream. 

Two eggs, well beaten, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little hot 
water. 

Indian meal, enough to make a thick batter. 

Throw the salt into the meal. Then stir in the milk 
and cream slowly. Beat the eggs, and add them. Add 
the saleratus last. Bake it one hour in shallow pans, 
well buttered. 

Corn Muffins. 

One quart of Indian meal,, sifted. 

A heaping spoonful of butter. 

One quart of milk, and a salt spoonful of salt. 

Two tablespoonfuls of distillery yeast, and one of mo- 
lasses. 

Let it rise four or five hours. Bake in muffin rings. 

The same will answer to bake in shallow pans, like 
corn cake. Bake one hour. 

Graham, or unbolted flour, is good made by this re- 
ceipt. 

Savoy Biscuit. 

Beat six eggs into one pound of sugar, until white. 
Grate the outside of a lemon into it, mix in three quar- 
ters of a pound of flour, and drop them on buttered paper, 
a spoonful at a time. 

Cream Cakes. 
One quart of cream. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 101 

One quart of sifted flour. 
One salt spoon of salt. 

A wine-glass of distillery yeast, or twice as much 
home-brewed. 

When quite light, bake in cups, or muffin rings. 

Wheat Muffins. 

One pint of milk, and two eggs. 

One tablespoonful of yeastj and a salt spoonful of salt. 
'Mix these ingredients with sufficient flour to make a 
thick batier. Let it rise four or Ave hours, and bake in 
muffin rings. This can be made of unbolted flour, ad- 
ding two great spoonfuls of molasses, and it is very fine. 

Albany Breakfast Cakes. 

Ten well-beaten eggs. 

Three pints of milk, blood warm. 

A quarter of a pound of melted butter, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a spoonful 
of hot water. 

Make a thick batter with white Indian meal, and 
bake in buttered tins, an inch thick when put in. Bake 
thirty or forty minutes, in a quick oven. 

Sally Lunn. 

Seven cups of sifted flour. 

Half a tea-cup of butter, warmed in a pint of milk. 

One salt spoonful of salt, and three well-beaten eggs. 

Two tablespoon fuls brewer's yeast. If the yeast is 
home-made, use twice as much. 

Pour this into square pans, to rise, and then bake it 
before it sours. 

With brewer's, or distillery yeast, it will rise in two or 
three hours, and must not be made over night. With 
home-brewed yeast, it rises in four or five hours. 

Cream Tea Cakes. 
One quart of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. 



102 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

One pint of sour cream, and half a tea-cup of melted 
butter. 

Half a teaspoonful of saleratus, in a spoonful of hot 
water. 

Mix lightly in dough, to mould in small cakes and 
bake in bultered tins. 

Buttermilk Short Cakes. 

Two quarts of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

Rub in two tea-cups full of soft butter, or lard, or beef 
drippings. 

Work it up into a paste, with sour milk or butter- 
milk, and add a heaping teaspoonful of saleratus, dis- 
solved in a spoonful ol" hot water. 

Make a soft dough, and mould it into cakes, and bake 
it in buttered tins. If the shortening is fresh, add an- 
other teaspoonful of salt. 

Wafers. 

Two tablespoon fuls of rolled white sugar. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

One coffee-cup of flour, and essence of lemon, or rose 
water to flavor. 

Add milk enough for a thick batter, bake in wafer 
irons, buttered, and then strew on white sugar. 

Pennsylvania Flannel Cakes. 

One quart of milk, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Three eggs, the whites beaten sepaiately to a stiff 
froth. 

Mix the milk, salt, and yolks, stir in flour till a bat- 
ter is made, suitable for griddle cakes. Then, when 
ready to bake, stir in the whites. 

Rye Jlour is very fine, used in this way, instead of 
wheat, i3ut the cakes adhere so much that it is difficult 
to bake them. Many love them much better than the 
wheat. 

Kentucky Corn Dodgers. 

Three pints of imsifted yellow corn meal. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 103 

One tablespoonful (heaped) of lard.. 
One pint of milk. 

Work it well, and bake in cakes the size of the hand, 
and an inch thick. 

Ohio Corn Cake. 

One pint of thick sour cream, and one quart of milk, 
or buttermilk. If cream cannot be got, add a table- 
spoonful of melted lard, or butter. 

Dissolve enough saleratus in the above to sweeten it, 
and thicken with yellow corn meal to the consistency of 
pound cake. Put it in buttered pans, an inch thick, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Scarborough Puffs. 

Take one pint of new milk, and boil it. Take out 
one cup full, and stir in to it flour enough to make a thick 
batter. Pour this into the hoiling milk. Stir and boil 
until the whole is thick enough to hold a silver spoon 
standing upright. Then take it from the fire, and stir 
in six eggs, one by one. Add a teaspoonful of salt, and 
less than a tablespoonful of butter. Drop them by the 
spoonful into boiling lard, and fry Hke doughnuts. 
Grate on the outside sugar and spice. — (Maine Receipt.) 

Cream Griddle Cakes. 

One pint of thick cream, and a pint of milk. 

Three eggs, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

Make a batter of fine flour, and bake on a griddle. 

Crumpets. 

A quart of warm milk, and a teaspoonful of salt. 

Half a gill of distillery yeast, and flour enough for a 
natter, not very stiff. 

When hght, add half a cup of melted butter, or a cup 
of rich cream, let it stand twenty minutes, and then bake 
it as muffins, or in cups. 



104 PLAi:< PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Fine Cottage Cheese. 

Let the milk be turned by rennet, or by setting it in 
a warm place. It must not be heated, as the oily parts 
will then pass off, and the richness is lost. When fully 
turned, put it in a coarse linen bag, and hang it to 
drain several hours, till all the whey is out. Then mash 
it fine, salt it to the taste, and thin it with good cream, 
or add but little cream and roll it into balls. When thin, 
it is very fine with preserves or sugared fruit. 

It also makes a fine pudding, by thinning it with 
milk, and adding eggs and sugar, and spice to the taste, 
and baking it. Many persons use milk when turned 
for a dessert, putting on sugar and spice. Children are 
fond of it. 



CHAPTER XII. 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 



Creneral Directions in regard to Puddings and 

Custards. 

Make pudding-bags of thick close sheeting, to shut 
out the water. Before putting in the pudding, put the 
bag in water, and wring it out, then flour the inside 
thoroughly. In tying it, leave room to swell ; flour and 
Indian need a good deal, and are hard and heavy if 
cramped. 

Put an old plate in the bottom of the pot, to keep the 
bag from burning to the pot. Turn the pudding afier it 
has been in five minutes, to keep the heavy parts from 
settling. Keep the pudding covered with water, and do 
not let it stop boiling, as this will tend to make it water 
soaked. Fill up with boiling water, as cold would spoil 
the pudding. Dip the bag a moment in cold water, just 
before turning out the pudding. 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 105 

Avoid stale eggs. When eggs are used, the whites 
should be beat separately, and put in the last thing. In 
many cases, success depends upon this. Never put eggs 
into very hot milk, as it will poach them. Wash the 
salt out of butter used to butter pans, as otherwise it im- 
parts a bad taste to the outside. 

Put almonds in hot water till you are ready to blanch, 
or skin them, and put orange, or rose water with them 
when you pound them, to prevent adhesion. Boil cus- 
tards in a vessel set in boihng water. 

Little GirVs Pie. 

Take a deep dish, the size of a soup plate, fill it, heap- 
ing, with peeled tart apples, cored and quartered ; pour 
over it one tea-cup of molasses, and three great spoon- 
fuls of sugar, dredge over this a considerable quantity of 
flour, enough to thicken the syrup a good deal. Cover 
it with a crust made of cream, if you have it, if not, com- 
mon dough, with butter worked in, or plain pie crust, 
and lap the edge over the dish, and pinch it down tight, 
to keep the syrup from running out. Bake about an 
hour and a half. Make several at once, as they keep 
well. 

Little Boy^s Pudding, 

One tea-cup of rice. 

One tea-cup of sugar. 

One half tea-cup of butter. 

One quart of milk. 

Nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt to the taste. 

Put the butter in melted, and mix all in a pudding 
dish, and bake it two hours, stirring it frequently} until 
the rice is swollen. 

This is good made without butter. 

Children's Fruit Dumpling. 

Invert a plate in a preserve kettle, or an iron or brass 
kettle. Put in a quart or more of sliced apples or pears. 
Put in no water or sugar, but simply roll out some com- 



106 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

mon dough an inch thick, and just large enough to cov- 
er them, "and hang it over the fire fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. When the fiuit is cooked the dough will have 
risen to a fine putf, and also be cooked. There must 
not be any thing laid on the top of the dough to prevent 
it from rising, but the kettle may be covered. When it is 
done, take olf the dough cover, with a fork and skimmer, 
put it on to a plate, pour the fruit into a round dish, put 
the cover on, and eat it with a sweet sauce. It is more 
healthful, and much better than dumplings boiled the 
common way. 

Birth-day Pudding. 

Butter a deep dish, and lay in slices of bread and but- 
ter, wet with milk, and upon these sliced tart apples, 
sweetened and spiced. Then lay on another layer of 
bread and butter and apples, and continue thus till the 
dish is filled. Let the top layer be bread and butter, 
and dip it in milk, turning the buttered side down. Any 
other kind of fruit will answer as well. Put a plate on 
the top, and bake two hours, then take it off and bake 
another hour. 

Children's Boiled Fruit Pudding. 

Take light dough and work in a little butter, roll it out 
into a very thin large layer, not a quarter of an inch 
thick: Cover it thick with strawberries, and put on 
sugar, roll it up tight, double it once or twice and fasten 
up the ends. Tie it up in a bag, giving it room to 
swell. Eat it with butter, or sauce not very sweet. 

Blackberries, whortleberries, raspberries, apples, and 
peaches, all make excellent puddings in the same way. 

English Curd Pie. 

One quart of milk. 

A bit of rennet to curdle it. 

Press out the whey, and put into the curds three eggs, 
a nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Bake it in 
paste, like custard. 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 107 

Fruit Fritters. 

A pint of milk. 

A pint and a half of flour. 

Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Six eggs, and a pint of cream if you have it ; if not, 
a pint of milk with a little butter melted in it. 

Mix with this, either blackberries, raspberiies, currants, 
gooseberries, or sliced apples or peaches, and fry it in 
small cakes in sweet lard. Eat with a sauce of butter 
beat with sugar, and flavored with wine or nutmeg, or 
grated lemon peel. 

Common Apple Pie. 

Pare your apples, and cut them from the core. Line 
your dishes with paste, and put in the apple ; cover and 
bake until the fruit is tender. Then take them from the 
oven, remove the upper crust, and put in sugar and nut- 
meg, cinnamon or rose water to your taste ; a bit of 
sweet butter improves them. Also, to put in a Kttle orange 
peel before they are baked, makes a pleasant variety. 
Common apple pies are very good to stew, sweeten, and 
flavor the apple before they are put into the oven. Many 
prefer the seasoning baked in. All apple pies are much 
nicer if the apple is grated and then seasoned. 

Plain. Custard. 

Boil half a dozen peach leaves, or the rind of a lemon, 
or a vanilla bean in a quart of milk ; when it is flavor- 
ed, pour into it a paste made by a tablespoonful of rice 
flour, or: common flour, wet up with two spoonfuls of 
cold milk, and stir it till it boils again. Then beat up 
four eggs and put in, and sweeten it to your taste, and 
pour it out for pies or pudding. 

A Richer Custard. 

Beat to a froth six eggs and three spoonfuls sifted 
sugar, add it to a quart of milk, flavor it to your taste, 
and pour it out into cups, or pie plates. 



.-r 



108 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Another Custard. 

Boil six peach leaves, or a lemon peel, in a quart of 
milk, till it is flavored ; cool it, add three spoonfuls of 
suo"ar, and five egcrs beaten to a froth. Put the custard 
into a tin pail, set it in boiling water, and stir it till cook- 
ed enough. Then turn it into cups, or, if preferred, it 
can be baked. 

Mush, or Hasty Pudding. 

Wet up the Indian meal in cold water, till there are 
no kimps, stir it gradually into boiling water which has 
been salted, till so thick that the stick will stand in it. 
Boil slowly, and so as not to burn, stirring often. Two 
or three hours' boiling is needed. Pour it into a broad, 
deep dish, let it grow cold, cut it into slices half an inch 
thick, flour them, and fry them on a griddle with a httle 
lard, or bake, them in a stove oven. 

Stale Bread Fritters {fine). 

Cut stale bread in thick slices, and put it to soak for 
several hours in cold milk. 

Then fry it in sweet lard, and eat it with sugar, or 
molasses, or a sweet sauce. To make it more delicate, 
take off the crusts. 

To prepare Rennet. 

Put three inches square of calf's rennet to a pint of 
wine, and set it away for use. Three tablespoon fuls 
will serve to curdle a quart of milk. 

Re7inet Custard. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of rennet wine to a quart of 
milk, and add four or five great spoonfuls of white sugar, 
flavor it with wine, or lemon, or rose water. It must be 
eaten in an hour or it will turn to curds. 

Bird^s Nest Pudding. 
Pare tart, well-flavored apples, scoop out the cores 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 109 

without dividing the apple, put them in a deep dish with 
a small bit of mace, and a spoonful of sugar in the open- 
ing of each apple. Pour in water enough to cook them ; 
when soft, pour over them an unbaked custard, so as 
just to cover them, and bake till the custard is done. 

A Minute Pudding of Potato Starch. 

Four heaped tablespoon fuls of potato flour. 

Three eggs, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

One quart of milk. 

Boil the milk, reserving a little to moisten the flour. 
Stir the flour to a paste, perfectly smooth, with the re- 
served milk, and put it into the boiling milk. Add the 
eggs well beaten, let it boil till very thick, which will be 
in two or three minutes, then pour into a dish and serve 
with liquid sauce. After the milk boils, the pudding 
must be stirred every moment till done. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak eight tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a quart of warm 
milk till soft, then add two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, five eggs well beaten, spice, sugar, and wine to your 
taste. Bake in a buttered dish, without any lining. 

Sago Pudding. 

Cleanse the sago in hot water, and boil half a pound 
in a quart of milk with a stick of mace or cinnamon, 
stirring very often, lest it burn. When soft, take out 
the spice and add half a cup of melted butter, four heap- 
ing spoonfuls of sugar, six eggs, and,* if you like, some 
Zante currants, strewed on just as it is going into the 
oven. 

Cocoanut Pudding (Plain). 

One quart of milk. 
Five eggs. 

One cocoanut, grated. 

The eggs and sugar ai-e beaten together, and stiiTed 

10 



110 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

into the milk when hot. Strain the milk and eggs, and 
add the cocoanut, with nutmeg to the taste. Bake 
about twenty ninutes like puddings. 

New England Squash, or Pumpkin Pie. 

Take a pumpkin, or winter squash, cut in pieces, take 
off the rind and remove the seeds, and boil it until tender, 
then rub it through a sieve. When cold, add to it milk 
to thin it, and to each quart of milk three well-beaten 
eggs. Sugar, cinnamon, and ginger to your taste. The 
quantity of milk must depend upon the size and quality 
of the squash. 

These pies require a moderate heat, and must be 
baked until the centre is firm. 

Ripe Fruit Pies. 

Peachy Cherry^ Plum, Currant, and Strawberry. 
— Line your dish with paste. After picking over and 
washing the fruit carefully (peaches must be pared, and 
the rest picked from the stem), place a layer of fruit and 
a layer of sugar in your dish, until it is well filled, then 
cover it with paste, and trim the edge neatly, and prick 
the cover. Fruit pies require about an hour to bake in 
a thoroughly heated oven. 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart of milk. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Nine eggs. 

A teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks thoroughly, stir in the flour, and add 
the milk slowly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth 
and add the last thing. Tie in a floured bag, and put 
it in boiling water, and boil two hour's. Allow room to 
swell. 

Mock Cream. 

Beat three eggs well, and add three heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of sifted flour. Stir it into a pint and a half of boil- 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. Ill 

ing milk, add a salt-spoon of salt, and sugar to your 
taste. Flavor with rose water, or essence of lemon. 
This can be used for cream cakes, or pastry. 

Bread Pudding. 

Three pints of boiled milk. 

Eleven ounces of grated bread. 

Half a pound of sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

Five eggs. 

Pour the boiling milk over the bread, stir the butter 
and sugar well together, and put them into the bread 
and milk. When cool enough, add the eggs, well beaten. 
Three quarters of an hour will bake it. 

A richer pudding may be made from the above recipe 
by using twice as much butter and eggs. 

/Sunderland Pudding- 
Six eggs. 

Three spoonfuls of flour. 
One pint of milk. A pinch of salt. 
Beat the yolks well, and mix them smoothly with the 
flour, then add the milk. Lastly, whip the whites to a 
stiff froth, work them in, and bake immediately. 
To be eaten with a liquid sauce. 

An Excellent Aj)ple Pie. 

Take fair apples ; pare, core, and quarter them. 

Take four tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar to a pie. 

Put into a preserving pan, with the sugar, water 
enough to make a thin syrup ; throw in a few blades of 
mace, boil the apple in the syrup until tender, a httle at 
a time, so as not to break the pieces. Take them out 
with care, and lay them in soup dishes. 

When you have preserved apple enough for your num- 
ber of pies, add to the remainder of the syrup, cinnamon 
and rose water, or any other spice, enough to flavor it 
well, and divide it among the pies. Make a good paste, 
and line the rim of the dishes, and then cover them, leaving 



112 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

the pies without an under crust. Bake them a light 
brown. 

Boiled Apple Pudding. 

One quarter of a pound of butter. 

One pound of flour. 

Two dozen apples. 

Make a plain paste of the flour and butter. Sprinkle 
your pudding-bag with flour, roll the paste thin, and lay 
inside of the bag, and fill the crust with apples nicely 
pared and cored. Draw the crust together, and cut off 
any extra paste about the folds ; tie the bag tight, and 
put it into boihng water. Boil it two hours. A layer 
of rice, nicely picked and washed, sprinkled inside tlie 
bag, instead of crust, makes a very good pudding, called 
an Avalanche. 

Common dough rolled out makes a fine crust for the 
above, especially with a httle butter worked in it. It is 
more healthful than the unleavened crust. 

Spiced Apple Tarts. 

Rub stewed or baked apples through a sieve, sweeten 
them, and add powdered mace and cinnamon enough to 
flavor them. If the apples are not very tart, squeeze in 
the juice of a lemon. Some persons like the peel of the 
lemon grated into it. Line soup dishes with a light crust, 
double on the rim, and fill ihem and bake them until the 
crust is done. Little bars of crust, a quarter of an inch 
in width, crossed on the top of the tart before it is baked, 
is ornamental. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Three pints of milk. 

Ten heaping tablespoon fuls of sifted Indian meal. 

Half a pint of molasses. 

Two eggs. 

Scald the meal with the milk, add the molasses, and 
a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the eggs when it is cool 
enough not to scald them. Put in a tablespoonful of 



PLAIN PUDDINGS ANI) PIES. 113 

ginger. Tie the bag so that it will be about two-thirds 
full of the pudding, in order to give room to swell. The 
longer it is boiled the better. Some like a little chopped 
suet with the above. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Three pints of milk. 

Ten heaping tablespoonfuls of Indian meal. 

Three gills of molasses. 

A piece of butter, as large as a hen's egg. 

Scald the meal with the milk, and stir in the butter 
and molasses, and bake four or five hours. Some add a 
little chopped suet in place of the butter. 

Rice BallSj or German Pudding. 

Two tea-cups of rice. 

One quart of milk. 

Pour ounces of sugiar. 

One wine-glass of wine. 

Spice to the taste. 

Wash the rice carefully, and throw it in a pan of boil- 
ing salted water. Let it boil very fast seventeen min- 
utes, then pour off the water, and in its place put one- 
third of the milk, and a stick of cinnamon. Let it boil 
till it is as thick as very stiff hasty pudding, then put in 
half the sugar ; fill small tea-cups with this rice, and set 
them to cool. When cool, turn out the rice on to a 
large dish, pour over it a syllabub (not whipped), made of 
the remaining milk and sugar, with the wine. It is 
still better made with a syllabub of rich cream, and 
whipped. 

Apple Custard. 

Take half a dozen very tart apples, and take off the 
skin and cores. Cook them till they begin to be soft, in 
half a tea-cup of water. Then put them in a pudding 
dish, and sugar them. Then beat eight eggs with four 
spoonfuls of sugar, mix it with three pints of milk ; pour 
it over the apples, and bake for about half an hour. 

10* 



114 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

RJniharh Pie. 

Cut the stalks of the rhubarb into small pieces, and 
stew them with some lemon peel till tender. Strain 
them, sweeten to your taste, and add as many eggs as 
you can afford. Line pie plates with paste, and bake it 
like tarts, without upper crust. 

Plain Macaroni or Vermacelli Puddings. 

Put two ounces of macaroni, or vermacelli, into a pint 
of milk, and simmer until tender. Flavor it by putting 
in two or three sticks of cinnamon while boiling, or some 
other spice when done. Then beat up three eggs, mix 
in an ounce of sugar, half a pint of milk, and a glass 
of wine. Add these to the macaroni or vermaceUi, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Twelve ears of corn, grated. Sweet corn is best. 
One pint and a half of milk. 
Four well-beaten eggs. 
One tea-cup and a half of sugar. 
Mix the above, and bake it three hours in a buttered 
dish. More sugar is needed if common corn is used. 

Bread Pudding for Invalids, or Young Children. 

Grate half a pound of stale bread, add a pinch of salt, 
and pour on a pint of hot milk, and let it soak half 
an hour. Add two well-beaten eggs, put it in a covered 
basin just large enough to hold it, tie it in a pudding 
cloth, and boil it half an hour ; or put it in a buttered pan 
in an oven, and bake it that time. Make a sauce of 
thin sweet cream, sweetened with sugar, and flavored 
with rose water or nutmeg. 

Plain Rice Pudding, without Eggs. 

Mix half a pint of rice into a quart of rich milk, or 
cream and milk. Add half a pint of sugar and nutmeg, 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 115 

and powdered cinnamon. Bake it two hours or more, 
till the rice is quite soft. It is good cold. 

Another Sago Pudding. 

Six tablespoonfuls of sago, soaked two hours in cold 
water, and then boiled soft in a quart of milk. Add four 
spoonfuls of butter, and six spoonfuls of sugar beat- 
en into the yolks of six or eight eggs. Add currants or 
chopped raisins dredged with flour, and nutmeg, and cin- 
namon, or a grated lemon peel and juice. Bake it in a 
buttered dish three quarters of an hour. It is good 
cold. 



Note. — All custards are much improved by a little 
salt^ say a small half teaspoonful to a quart of milk. 
In all the preceding receipts, where no butter is used, a 
little salt must be put in, say a small half teaspoonful 
to each quart. Many puddings are greatly injured by 
neglecting it. 

Oat Meal Mush. 

This is made just like Indian mush, and is called 
Bourgoo. 

Modes of Preparing Apples for the Table. 

Pippins are the best apples for cooking. 

1. Put them in a tin pan, and bake them in a reflect- 
or or stove, or range oven, or a Dutch oven. Try them 
with a fork, and when done, put them on a dish, and 
if sour fruit, grate white sugar over them. Sweet ones 
need to bake much longer than sour. Serve them in a 
saucer with cream, or a thin custard. 

2. Take tart and large apples, and peel them ; take 
the cores out with an apple corer, put them in a tin, and 
fill the openings with sugar, and a small bit of orange or 
lemon peel, or a bit of cinnamon. Scatter sugar over 
the top, and bake till done, but not till they lose their 
shape. Try with a fork. 



118 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

3. Peel large tart, apples, and take out the cores with the 
apple corer. Put them in a Dutch oven, or preserving 
kettle, and simmer them till cooked through. Then 
take tliem out and put into the kettle a pint of the vva 
ter in which the\^ were boiled; and beat the white of an 
egg and stir in. Then throw in three or four cups of nice 
brown sugar, and let it boil up, and skim it till clear. 
Then put in the apples, and let them boil up for live 
minutes or more. Then put them in a dish for tea, and 
serve with cream if you have it; if not, take a pint or 
pint and a half of rich milk in a sauce-pan, and beat up 
two eggs, and stir in and cook it in a tin pail in boihng 
water, and serve it hke cream to eat with the apple. 

4. Peel large tart apples, put them in a tin pan with 
sugar in the openings, and bits of lemon or orange peel, 
or cinnamon, to flavor and scatter sugar over. Bake till 
soft, then put them in a dish, and pour over them a cus- 
tard made of four eggs and a quart of milk. 

5. Peel tart apples, and grate them in a dish, and 
grate in as much stale bread. Beat up two eggs in a 
pint or pint and a half of milk, and make it quite sweet, 
and flavor with rose water, or grated lemon, or orange 
peel, and pour it in and mix it well. Then bake it, and 
eat it either as a pudding for dinner, or as an article for 
the tea-table, to be eaten cold and with cream. If you 
have quinces, grate in one-third quince, and add more 
sugar, and it is a great improvement. Various berries 
can be stewed and mixed with bread crumbs, and cook- 
ed in this way. 

6. Peel apples (or prepare any other fruit), and put them 
in layers in a stone or earthen jar with a small mouth. 
Intermix quinces if you have them. Scatter sugar be- 
tween each layer in abundance. Cover the mouth with 
wheat dough, and set the jar in with the bread, and let 
it remain all night, and it make-s a most healthful and 
delicious dish. Some place raw rice in alternate layers 
with the fruit. Children are very fond of this dish thus 
prepared with rice, and it is very little trouble, and no- 
thing can be more healthful. 

7. Peel and core apples (or take peaches, or pears, or 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 117 

damsons), and allow half a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Clarify the sugar, by adding water and the beaten 
white of an egg, and stirring and skimming it. Boil the 
fruit in the syrup all day very slowly, mashing and stir- 
ring often, till it is a thick, smooth paste. If it has skins 
in it, it must be strained through a colander. Put it in 
buttered pans to cool. Then lay it in a dry, cool place. 
It can be cut in slices for the tea-table. Quinces make 
the best. Apples, with the juice and some of the peel of 
lemons or oranges, are fine. This is called Fruit Cheese. 

8. Boil down new sweet cider to one half the original 
quantity. Stew peeled and cored apples, with one quar- 
ter as many quinces, in this cider, till it is a very dark 
color. If Well boiled, it will keep a year in jars, and 
is called Apple Butter. 

' 9. The following mode of cooking dried fruits is the 
best. Take dried peaches, quinces, or apples, and put 
them to swell in cold water for several hours. Peaches 
must be veri/ thoroughly washed. Then put them into 
a stewing kettle, with a great deal of water, and a pint 
of brown sugar to each pound of fruit. Cover them, and 
let them simmer veri/ slowly for several hours, till the 
water is boiled down to as much liquid as you wish. 

Peaches have a finer flavor when dried with the skin 
on, as fully ripe peaches cannot be pared and dried. 
"When finely flavored, peaches have a solid pulp ; when 
ripe they should be pared and then dried, and such are 
much the best for cooking in the above way. 

They will, when cooked thus, be preferred by every 
body to the finest and most expensive sweetmeats. 

10. The following is the best and cheapest method of 
making the finest Apple Jelly. Grapes and damsons 
can be made the same way. 

Take the best pippins, and wipe them, taking out 
stem and eye. Cut them in thin slices, without paring 
or quartering, as the chief flavor is in the peel, and the 
jelly part is in the cores. 

Put them in a preserving kettle, and put in just water 
enough to cover them, and boil them very soft. Then 
mash and strain through a jelly-bag made of coarse flan- 



118 PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

iiel. Put the liquid into the kettle, with a pint of brown 
sugar to each pint of the liquid, and add the juice and 
rind of a lemon cut in slices. Beat up the white of one 
egg, and stir in very thoroughly. Boil up three times, 
throwing in some cold water to stop it from running over. 
Then let it stand quiet on the hearth half an hour. 
Try it, and if not hard enough, let it boil till it will turn 
to jelly on cooling. Then skim off the scum, and pour 
off the clear jelly, and strain the sediment through the 
jelly-bag. Then put it in glasses. It can be boiled 
down, and make elegant apple candy. 

Grapes and damsons should have water put in when 
first boiled, as the flavor is thus more perfectly extracted. 
Frost grapes make an elegant jelly, as do the wild 
plum, by this method. In summer these jellies are fine 
for effervescing drinks, with some good wine vinegar 
mixed with them. 

Fruit Custards. 

A pint and a half of fruit stewed and strained, cooled 
and sweetened. 

Six eggs well beaten, and stirred into a quart of milk. 

Mix the above and flavor with spice, and bake in cups 
or a deep dish twenty minutes, or half an hour, accord- 
ing to the size. It is good cold. 

It may be boiled in a tin pail in boiling water. 

Modes of })reparing Rice for the Dinner or Tea 

Table. 

Pick over and wash the rice, and boil it fifteen min- 
utes in water with salt in it. Rice is very poor unless 
the salt is cooked into it. Then pour off the water, and 
pour in good ricli milk, and let it simmer slowly till the 
rice is soft. There should be milk just sufficient to make 
the rice of a pudding consistency, so that it can be put in 
cups and turned out without losing its form. 

1. Fill a tea-cup with this rice, and invert it in a platter 
or shallow large pudding dish, and fill the dish with cups 
of rice inverted. On the summit of each mound thus 
made, make an opening with a teaspoon, and lay a pile 



PLAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. Il9 

of jelly or sweetmeats. Then pour into the dish a cus- 
tard made of two eggs and a pint of milk, boiled in a tin 
pail in boiling water. This looks very pretty, and is ex- 
cellent. 

If you have cream, take half milk and half cream, 
and pour into the dish, instead of the custard. 

2. Put the rice into a large bowl, and press it down 
hard. Then invert the bowl in a pudding dish, and 
empty the rice, so as to leave it in the shape of the bowl. 
Make, at regular distances, openings in the rice, and lay 
in them jelly, or sweetmeats. Help some of the rice and 
sweetmeats to each person in a saucer, and have a small 
pitcher of sweetened cream, flavored with wine and nut- 
meg, and pour some into each saucer. Or prepare a 
thin custard of two eggs to a pint of milk, boiling it in a 
tin pail in boiling water. 

3. Set the rice away till cold. Then cut it into slices 
half an inch thick. Put a layer of rice in the bottom of 
a soup plate, and cover it with stewed apple, or jelly, or 
sweetmeats half an inch thick. Continue thus, with al- 
ternate layers of rice and jelly (or other cooked fruit) till 
it is as high as you wish. Then cut the edges around 
smooth and even, so as to show the stripes of fruit and 
rice, smooth it on the top, and grate on white sugar, or 
nutmeg. 

Help it in saucers, and have cream, or a thin boiled 
custard, to pour on to it. If you wish to ornament it a 
good deal, get colored sugar plums of various sizes, and 
put them in fanciful arrangements on the top. 

4. Set away boiled rice till it is cold, and so solid as to 
cut in slices. Then lay in a buttered deep pudding dish 
alternate layers of this rice, half an inch thick, and stew- 
ed or grated apple. Add sugar enough to sweeten it, and 
spice grated or sifted on each layer of fruit. When piled 
up as high as you wish, cover with rice, smooth it with 
a spoon dipped in milk, and bake it from half to three 
quarters of an hour. If the apples are grated raw, you 
must bake three quarters of an hour. When it is done, 
grate white sugar over the top, and eat it for a pudding. 



120 ?LAIN PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Pears, plums, peaches, quinces, and all the small bei- 
ries can be stew ed and used with rice in this way. 

Rice can l)e made into rice avalanches and snow-halls^ 
by taking a pudding cloth and llouring it, and laying raio 
rice over it an inch thick, and then put pared and cored fruit 
on it and draw it up and tie it so that the rice will cook 
around the fruit. Tie it tight, allowing a little room 
for the rice to swell. Make several small ones in this 
w^ay, and they are called snoto-balls. These are eaten 
with cream sweetened and spiced, or with hard or soft 
pudding sauces. 

Rice and Meat Pudding. 
Take any kind of cold meat, and chop it fine, with 
cold ham, or cold salt pork. Season it to your taste with 
salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, a little butter, and stir in 
two eggs. Then make alternate layers of cold boiled 
rice and this mixture, and bake half an hour. Or make 
it into cakes with the rice and fry it. 

Modes of preparing Dishes with Dry Breads or 
Bread so old as to he not good for the tahle. 

Put all dry bits of crust and crumbs, and leavings 
of the table, in a tin pan. When the bread is drawn, set 
it in the oven, and let it stand all night. It is, when 
pounded, called rusk crumhs, and is good to eat in milk, 
and also in these ways. 

1. IVke apple sauce or stewed pears, or peaches, or 
any kind of small berries, and mix them with equal 
quantities of rusk crumbs. Make a custard of four eggs 
to a quart of milk, sweetening it very sweet. Mix it 
with the bread crumbs and fruit, and bake it twenty 
minutes, as a pudding. 

2. Make a custard with four eggs to a quart of milk, 
thicken it with rusk crumbs, and bake it twenty min- 
utes, and eat it with pudding sauce, flavored with wine 
and nutmeg. 

3. Take any kind of cold meats, chop them fine with 
cold ham, or cold salt pork. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and mix in two eggs and a little butter. Mix this 



RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 121 

up with bread crumbs or rusk crumbs, and bake it like 
a pudding. Or put it in a skillet, and warm it like hash. 
Or put it into balls, and flatten it and fry it like forced 
meat balls. 

4. Soak dry bread crumbs in milk till quite soft. 
Then beat up three eggs and stir in, and put in sliced 
and peeled apples, or any kind of berries. Flour a pud- 
ding cloth, and tie it up and boil it half or three quarters 
of an hour, according to the size. 

This pudding does not swell in boiUng. Eat with 
sauce. 

5. Take stale bread and crumble it fine, and mix it 
with egg and a little milk, and boil it in a large pudding 
cloth, or put it around small peeled apples, and boil it for 
dumplings in several smaller cloths. 

6. Take bread crumbs, or rusk crumbs, and mix them 
with eggs and milk, and bake them for griddle cakes. If 
you have raspberries, blackberries, whortleberries, straw- 
berries, or ripe currants, put them in and then thicken with 
a little flour, so as to make drop cakes, and bake them (a 
large spoonful at a time), on a griddle, as drop cakes. 
Or put them in muffin rings, and bake them. Eat with 
butter and sugar, or with pudding sauces. 



CHAPTER XIIL 

RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Ellen^s Pudding, or Rhubarb Tart. 

One pint of stewed pie plant. 
Four ounces of sugar. 
One half pint of cream. 
Two ounces of pounded cracker. 
Three eggs. 

Stew the pie plant, and rub it through a sieve. Beat 
the eggs well, and mix with the sugar and cream. Stir 

11 



122 RICH PUDDINGS AND PlfiS. 

the cracker crumbs into the fruit, and add the other in- 
gredients. Line your plate with a moderately rich paste, 
and bake half an hour. 

Nottingham Pudding. 

One pint of sifted flour. 

Three gills of milk. 

One gill of rich cream. 

Six apples. ,, 

Four eggs. 

A salt spoonful of salt. 

Pare the apples, and take out the core without cutting 
the apple. Mix the batter very smooth, and pour over 
the apples. Eat with liquid sauce. This pudding re- 
quires an hour to bake. 

Rice Plum Pudding. 

Three gills of rice. 

One quarter of a pound of butter. 

One quarter of a pound of sugar. 

One quart of milk. 

A teaspoonful of salt. 

Six eggs. 

A pound and a half of stoned raisins or currants. 

Half a tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

A Uttle rose water, and one nutmeg. 

Boil the rice with lemon peel in the milk, till soft. 
Mix the butter, sugar, and eggs. Dredge the fruit with 
flour, and put in with the spice the last thing. Bake an 
Jiour and a half. 

Eve^s Pudding (the best kind). 

Half a pound of beef suet, .nnd half a teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Half a pound of pared and chopped apples. 

Half a pound of sugar. 

Half a pound of flour. 

Half a pund of stoned raisins, dredged with flour. 

Five eggs. A grated nutmeg. A gleiss of brandy. 



'> 



RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 123 

Chop and mix the suet and apples. Beat the sugar 
into the yolks of the eggs. Mix all, putting in the 
whites cut to a stiff froth just before going into the oven. 
Bake two hours. 

Baked English Plum Pudding. 

A quarter of a pound of suet, chopped first, and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Half of a pound of bread crumbs. 

Half of a pound of stoned raisins, wet and dredged 
with flour. 

Half of a pound of currants. 

Half of a pound of sugar. 

Three ounces of citron. 

Milk, and six eggs. 

Pour enough scalded milk on to the bread crumbs to 
swell them ; when cold, add the other ingredients. If it 
is too stiff, thin it with milk ; if it is too thin, add more 
bread crumbs. Then add two grated nutmegs, a table- 
spoonful of mace and cinnamon, and half a gill of bran- 
dy. Bake two hours. 

A Boiled English Plum Pudding. 

One pound of currants. ■^■ 

One pound of stoned raisins, dredged with flour. 

Half a pound of beef suet, chopped fine*, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

One pound of bread crumbs. 

One-fourth of a pound of citron. 

Eight eggs. 

Half a pint of milk, and one gill of wine, or brandy. 

A heaping coffee cup of sugar, and mace and nutmeg 
to your taste. 

Eaten with a sauce of butter, sugar, and wine. 

It requires six or seven hours to boil, and must be turn- 
ed several times. 

In both these puddings, cut the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, and put in the last thing. 



124 RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Almond Cheese Cake. 

Beat eight eggs, and stir them into a quart of boiling 
milk, and boil to curds. Press the curds dry, and add 
two cups of cream, six heaping spoonfuls of sugar, and 
a teaspoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon. 

Then stir in three ounces of blanched almonds, beat 
to a thin paste with rose water, and a few bitter almonds, 
or peachnuts, beat with them. Lastly, put in half a 
pound of stoned raisins, cut up, and dredged with flour, 
and bake immediately, half an hour. 

Some persons make the curd with rennet, and then 
add the eggs and other articles. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Three quarters of a pound of grated cocoanut. 

One quarter of a pound of butter. 

One pound of sugar. 

One half pint of cream. 

Nine eggs. 

One gill of rose water. 

Stir the butter and sugar as for cake, add the eggs 
well beaten. Grate the cocoanuts, and stir it in with 
the butter and eggs. Put in the other ingredients, and 
bake with or without a crust. 

It requires three quarters of an hour for baking. 
Some persons grate in stale rusk, or sponge cake. 

Arrowroot Puddmg. 

Take four tea-cups of arrowroot, and mix it with a 
pint of cold milk. Boil another pint of milk, flavoring 
it with cinnamon, or peach leaves, or lemon peel. Stir 
the arrowroot into this boiling milk. When cold, add 
the yolks of six eggs beaten into four ounces of sugar. 
Last of all, add the whites cut to a stiff froth, and bake 
in a buttered dish an hour. Ornament the top with 
sweetmeats, or citron cut up. 

Ground Rice Pudding. 
Make a batter of a quarter of a pound of ground rice, 



KICK FUDPINGS AND PIES. 125 

Stirred into a pint of cold milk. Pour it into tliree pints 
of boiling milk, and let it boil three minutes. Mix three 
spoonfuls of butter with four ounces of sugar, and the 
yolks of eight eggs, and put to the rice. When cool, 
strain through a sieve. Flavor with nutmeg and essence 
of lemon, or boil lemon peel in the milk. Add the whites 
of the eggs last, cut to a stiff froth, and also the juice of 
a lemon. Ornament with jelly. 

Mrs. O.^s Pumpkin Pie. 

One quart of strained pumpkin, or squash. 
Two quarts of milk, and a pint of cream. 
One teaspoonful of salt, and four of ginger. 
Two teaspoonfuls of pounded cinnamon. 
Two teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, and two of mace. 
Ten well-beaten eggs, and sugar to your taste. 
Bake with a bottom crust and rim, till it is solid in the 
centre. 

Cracker Plum Pudding {excellent). 

Take eight Boston soda crackers, five pints of milk, 
and one dozen eggs. 

Make a very sweet custard, and put into it a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. 

Split the crackers, and butter them very thick. 

Put a layer of raisins on the bottom of a large pud- 
ding dish, and then a layer of crackers, and pour on a 
little of the custard when warm, and after soaking a lit- 
tle put on a thick layer of raisins, pressing them into the 
crackers with a knife. Then put on another layer of 
crackers, custard, and fruit, and proceed thus till you 
have four layers. Then pour over the whole enough 
custard to rise even with the crackers. It is best made 
over night, so that the crackers may soak. Bake from 
an hour and a half to two hours. During the first half 
hour, pour on, at three different times, a httle of the cus- 
tard, thinned with milk, to prevent the top from being 
hard and dry. If it browns fast, cover with paper. 

Bread and butter pudding is made in a similar man- 

11* 




126 EICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

ner, except the custard need not be cooked when pour- 
ed i|;i, and the fruit may be left out. 

Minced Pie. 

Two pounds and a half of tongue, or lean beef. 

A pound and a half of suet. 

Eight good-sized apples. 

Two pounds of raisins. 

Two pounds of sugar. 

Two gills of rose water. 

One quart of wine. 

Salt, mace, cloves, and cinnamon, to the taste. 

Boil the meat, and chop very fine. Chop the suet and 
apples very fine. Stone the raisins, cutting each into 
four pieces. Dissolve the sugar in the wine and rose 
water, and mix all well together with the spices. Twice 
this quantity of apple improves the pies, making them 
less rich. Line your plates with a rich paste, fill, cover, 
and bake. Measure the spices used, to save tasting next 
time, and to prevent mistakes. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Six tart apples. 

Six ounces of sifted sugar. 

Six ounces of butter, or a pint of thick cream. 

Six eggs. 

The grated peel of one lemon, and half the juice. 

Grate the apples after paring and coring them. Stir 
together the butter and sugar as for cake. Then add the 
other ingredients, and bake in a rich paste. Some per- 
sons grate in crackers, and add rose water and nutmeg. 
It is much better to grate than to stew the apples, for 
this and all pies. 

Orange^ or Lemon Pudding. 

L 

Two large lemons, or oranges. 
One pound of loaf sugar. 
Four ounces of butter. 
One pint of cream. 
Nine eggs. 



# 



RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 127 

A little rose water. 

Grate the yellow part of the peel of the fruit, squeeze 
the juice, mix the butter and sugar thoroughly together, 
beat the eggs well. Mix all the ingredients except the 
juice, which must not be added until ready to bake. 
Line your dishes with a rich paste, and fill and bake three 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

Grate half a pound of parboiled sweet potatoes, and 
stir to a cream six ounces of sugar and six of butter, and 
then add the beaten yolks of eight eggs. 

Mix the above, and add the grated peel and juice of 
a lemon, a glass of wine, and a grated nutmeg. 

The last thing, put in the whites of the eggs beat to a 
stiff froth. 

Common potatoes and carrots may be made as above, 
only they are to be boiled soft, and put through a colan- 
der, and more sugar used. 

Quince Pudding. 

Peel and grate six large quinces. Add half a pint of 
cream, half a pound of sugar, and six well-beaten eggs. 
Flavor with rose water, and bake in a buttered dish three 
quarters of an hour. 

PASTE FOR PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

This is an article which, if the laws of health were 
obeyed, would be banished from every table, for it unites 
the three evils of animal fat, cooked animal fat. and 
heavy bread. Nothing in the whole range of cooking is 
more indigestible than rich pie crust, especially when, as 
bottom crust, jt is made still worse, by being soaked, or 
slack baked. Still, as this work does not profess to leave 
out unhealthy dishes, but only to set forth an abundance 
of healthful ones, and the reasons for preferring them, 
the best directions will be given for making the best 
kinds of paste. 



128 RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Healthful Pie Crusts, 

Good crusts for plain pies are made by wetting up the 
crust with rich milk turned sour, and sweetened with 
saleratus. Still better crusts are made of sour cream 
sweetened with saleratus. 

Mealy potatoes boiled in salted water, and mixed with 
tlie same quantity of flour, and wet with sour milk 
sweetened with saleratus, make a good crust. 

Good light bread rolled thin, makes a good crust for 
pandowdy, or pan pie, and also for the upper crust of 
fruit pies, to be made without bottom crusts. 

Paste made with Butter. 

Yery plain paste is made by taking a quarter of a 
pound of butter for every pound of flour. Still rich- 
er allows three quarters of a pound of butter to a pound 
of flour. Very rich paste has a pound of butter to a 
pound of flour. 

Directions for making Paste. 

Take a quarter of the butter to be used, rub it 
thoroughly into the flour, and wet it with cold wa- 
ter to a stiff paste. 

Next dredge the board thick with flour, and cut up 
the remainder of the butter into thin slices, and lay them 
upon the flour, and dredge flour over thick, and then roll 
out the butter into thin sheets and lay it aside. 

Then roll out the paste thin, cover it with a sheet of 
this rolled butter, dredge on more flour, fold it up, and 
roll it out, and then repeat the process till all the butter 
is used up. 

Paste should be made as quick and as cold as possible. 
Some use a marble table in order to keep it cold. Roll 
from you every time. 

Puff Paste. 

Dissolve a bit of sal volatile, the size of a hickory- 
nut, in cold water. Take three quarters of a pound 
of butter for every quart of flour, and rub in one quar- 
ter of the butter, and wet it up with cold water, add- 



RICH PUDDINGS AND PIES. 129 

ing the salts when cool. Roll all the rest of the butter 
into sheets as directed above. Roll the paste three times, 
each time laying over it one-third of the butter sheets, and 
dredging on flour, as directed above. In rolling it, always 
xoW from you, and not towards you. 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Liquid Sauce, 

Six tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Ten tablespoonfuls of water. 

Four tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Two tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Nutmeg, or lemon, or orange peel, or rose water, to 
flavor. 

Heat the water and sugar very hot. Stir in the but- 
ter till it is melted, but be careful not to let it boil. Add 
the wine and nutmeg just before it is used. 

Hard Sauce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Ten tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Work this till white, then add wine and spice to your 
taste. 

A Healthful Pudding Sauce. 

Boil in half a pint of water, some orange or lemon 
peel, or peach leaves. Take them out and pour in a 
thin paste, made with two spoonfuls of flour, and boil 
five minutes. Then put in a pint of brown sugar, and 
let it boil. Then put in two spoonfuls of butter, and a 
glass of wine, and take it up before it boils. 

An excellent Sauce for Boiled Rice. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs into sugar enough to 
make it quite sweet. Add a tea-cup of cream, and the 
grated peel and juice of two lemons. When lemons can- 
not be had, use dried lemon peel, and a httle tartaric 
acid. This is a good sauce for other puddings, especial- 
ly for the starch minute pudding* 



180 PLAIN CAKES. 

The first receipt for whip syllabub furnishes a very 
delicate sauce for a delicate pudding, such as the one 
made of potato starch. 

Sweetened cream flavored with grated lemon peel or 
nutmeg is a fine pudding sauce. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

PLAIN CAKES. 



General Directions for Making Cake. 

Tie up your hair so that none can fall, put on a long- 
sleeved apron, have the kitchen put in order, and then 
arrange all the articles and utensils you will have occa- 
sion to use. 

If you aie a systematic and thrifty housekeeper, you 
will have your sugar pounded, all your spices ready 
prepared in boxes, or bottles, your saleratus sifted, 
your currants washed and dried, your ginger sifted, and 
your weights, measures, and utensils all in their place 
and in order. 

Butter your tins before beginning to make the cake, 
so as not to stop for the purpose. It saves much trouble 
to have your receipt book so arranged that you can 
measure instead of weighing. This can be done by 
weighing the first time, and then have a small measure 
cup, and fill it with each ingredient you have weighed. 
Then note it down in your receipt book, and ever after 
use the same measure cup. 

Alio ays sift your flour, for neither bread nor cake 
should be made with unsifted flour, not merely because 
there may be dirt in it, but because packing injures its 
lightness, and sifting restores it, and makes bread and 
cake lighter. 

The day before you wish to make cake, stone your 
raisins, and blanch your almonds, by pouring hot water 



PLAIN CAKES. 131 

on them, to take off the skins, and then throwing them 
into coki water to whiten them. When ready to make 
your cake, grate your lemon or orange peel. Next weigh 
your butter and cut it in pieces, and put it where it will 
soften, but not melt. Then butter your tins. Next, 
stir the butter to a cream, and then add the sugar, and 
work till white. Next, beat the yolks of the eggs, strain 
them, and put them to the sugar and butter. Mean- 
time another person should beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and put them in. Then add the spices and flour, 
and last of all the fruit, as directed below. 

Do not use the hand to make cake, but a wood spoon 
or spad. Earthen is best to make cake in. 

In receipts where milk is used, never mix sweet and 
sour milk, as it makes cake heavy, even when either 
alone would not do it. 

Butter in the least degree strong, spoils cake. 

Try w^hether cake is done by piercing it with a broom 
splinter, and if nothing adheres it is done. 

An oven, to bake cake well, must have a good heat at 
bottom, and not be too hot on the top, or the cake will be 
heavy. As these receipts have all been proved, if they 
fail to make good cake, the fault is probably in the 
baking. 

Cake that is to be frosted, should be baked in pans 
with perpendicular instead of slanting sides. Line them 
with buttered paper, the salt soaked out of the butter. 
If the oven proves too hot, cover the top with paper be- 
fore it hardens, or the cake will be heavy. 

The best way to put in fruit is to sprinkle flour over 
it, then put in a layer of cake at the bottom, half an inch 
thick, then a layer of fruit, taking care that it does not 
touch the sides of the pan, and thus dry up ; then a lit- 
tle more cake, then another layer of fruit, and thus till 
the cake is three inches thick (not more), and let the top 
layer be cake. 

Always dissolve saleratus, or sal volatile, in hot water, 
as milk does not perfectly dissolve it, and thus there will 
be yellow specks made. 



132 PLAIN CAKES. 

, Make your eggs cold, and whisk till they will stand 
in a heap. 

Volatile alkali the size of a hickory-nut, and a bit of 
alum of equal size, powdered and dissolved in cold water, 
will ensure light bread or cake. 

A quick oven is so hot that you can count moderately 
only twenty ; and a slow one allows you to count thirty, 
while you hold your hand in it. 

All cake without yeast should have the flour put in 
quickly, just as it goes into the oven. 

Keep cake in a tin box, or in a stone jar wrapped in 
clean hnen. 

Rose Butter. 

Take a glass jar, put on the bottom a layer of butter, 
and each day put in rose leaves, adding layers of but- 
ter, and when full, cover tight, and use the butter for ar- 
ticles to be flavored with rose water. 

Directions for Cleansing Currants, 

Put them in warm, not hot water, and rub them 
thoroughly. Take out all but the bottom part into an- 
other pail of water. Then rinse those remaining in the 
bottom of the first water, through two or three waters. 
as this part contains most of the impure parts. Then 
put them into the other pail with the first portion, and 
rinse all very thoroughly. Take them out with the 
hands, drain them on a sieve, and spread them on 
a clean large cloth on a table. Rub them dry with the 
ends of the cloth, and then sit down and pull off the good 
ones into a dish in your lap, and push the poor ones 
aside, being careful to look for the little stones. Spread 
them to dry on a board, or large dishes, and set them ii? 
the sun, or any warm place, to dry. Then tie them up 
in a jar for future use. 

Frosting for Cake. * 

For the whites of every two eggs, take a quarter of 9 
pound of sifted loaf sugar. Some use only one egg iof 
this quantity of sugar. 



PLAIN CAKES. 133 

Make the eggs cold in cold water, and free them from 
all of the yolk. Beat the whites in a cool place, till a 
very stiff froth. Sift the sugar, and beat it in until you 
can pile it in a heap. Flavor with lemon or rose wa- 
ter. Allow two whites for each common-sized loaf. 
Spread on with a knife, after the cake is cool, and then 
smooth with another knife dipped in water. Set it in 
a warm place to diy. The ornamental filagree work on 
frosting is easily done by using a small syringe. Draw 
it full of the above frosting, and as you press it out 
make figures to your taste. It must not be put on till 
the frosting of the cake is hardened. 

Cake Frosting {another^ which is harder). 

To the white of each egg^ put one heaping teaspoon- 
ful of starch, and nine heaping teaspoonfuls of sifted 
white sugar. 

Cut the whites to a stiff froth, mix the sugar and starch, 
and stir in gradually ; continue to stir ten minutes after it 
is mixed, add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and flavor it 
with rose water. Put it on with a knife when the cake 
has stood out of the oven twenty minutes, and then set 
it in a cool place to harden. Allow the whites of three 
eggs for two cakes of common size. 

Good Child's Cake. 

Three cups raised dough. 

One cup of molasses. 

The juice and grated rind of a lemon, or one nut- 
meg. 

Half a cup of melted butter, put with the molasses. 

Two well-beaten eggs. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus in two spoonfuls of hot 
wateV. 
i Work all together, put into buttered pans, and set into 
th6 oven immediately. 

Put in the lemon juice just before you put it in the 
pans. 

If you do not have leifiori juice, add a great spoonful 

12 



134 PLAIN CAKES. 

of sharp vinegar, after working the ingredients together, 
and just before putting it into pans. The lemon juice 
must be added the last minute. Some think this is im- 
proved by standing to rise fifteen minutes. Try and 
see. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of molasses. 

Half a cup of sugar. 

Half a cup of butter. 

Half a cup of warm water, the butter melted with it. 

A small teaspoonful of pearlash, dissolved in the wa- 
ter. 

Two tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

The dough should be stiff; knead it well, and roll 
into sheets, cut into round cakes, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Child's Feather Cake. ^ 

Three cups of light dough. 

Two cups rolled sugar. 

Three well-beaten eggs, mixed with the sugar and 
butter. 

Half a cup of warm milk, or a little less. 

One teaspoonful of saleratus in two great spoonfuls of 
water, and put in the milk. 

One cup of melted butter, worked into the sugar. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon. 

Work all together, adding the lemon juice just before 
putting it in buttered pans. If you have no lemons, use 
one nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of sharp vinegar, ad- 
ded just before putting it in pans. One and a half, if 
the vinegar is weak. Some think this improved by 
standing to rise fifteen minutes. Try it. 

Best Molasses Gingerbread. 

One even tablespoonful of strong ginger, and two if 
weak. 

A gill and a half of milk. 

One heaping teaspoonful saleratus, very fine, dissolv- 



I 



PLAIN CAKES. 135 

ed in a tablespoonful of hot water, and put into the 
milk. 

Half a pint of molasses, and a small tea-cup full of 
butter. 

Take three pints of flour, and rub the butter and gin- 
ger into it thoroughly. Then make a hole in the mid- 
dle, and pour in the molasses and milk, and begin mix- 
ing in the flour, and while doing this, put in a great 
spoonful of strong vinegar, and if it is weak, a little more. 
If not stiff enough to roll out, add a little more flour. 
Roll it into cards an inch thick, and put it into two but- 
tered square pans. Bake it in a flat tin pan, and put it, 
if the oven is quite hot, on a muflSn ring, to keep it from 
burning at the bottom, and allow from twenty-five to 
thirty minutes for baking. When done, set it on its 
edge, or on a sieve, to cool. 

Sponge Gingerbread. 

One cup of sour milk. 

One cup of molasses. 

A half a cup of butter. 

Two eggs. 

One and a half teaspoonf ul of saleratus. 

One great spoonful of ginger. 

Flour to make it thick as pound-cake. 

Put the butter, molasses, and ginger together, and 
make them quite warm, then add the milk, flour and 
saleratus, and bake as soon as possible. 

Cider Cake, 

One tea-cup of butter. 

Three tea-cups of sugar. 

Two tea-cups of sifted flour. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus in two great spoonfuls of 
water. 

A grated nutmeg, and half a tea-cup of milk, with 
the saleratus in it. Make a hole in the flour, and put in 
all the ingredients, and while mixing them, add a tea- 
cup of cider and four more cups of flour. 



136 PLAIN CAKES. 

Cup Cake without Eggs. 

One cup of butter. 

Two cups of sugar. 

One cup of sour cream, or sour milk. 

Sal volatile, tlie size of a small nutmeg, or a teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus, dissolved in cold water. 

A gill of brandy or wine, half a grated nutmeg, and a 
teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 

Flour enough for a stiff batter. 

Put in buttered pans an inch thick, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Cream Cake without Eggs. 

Four cups of flour. 

Three cups of sugar. 

One cup of butter. 

Two cups of sour cream. 

Two teaspoonfuls of sal volatile, or three of saleratus, 
dissolved in a little cold water. 

A teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and half a grated 
nutmeg. 

Work the butter and sugar together, add the cream 
and spice, and put all into a hole in the middle of the 
flour. Then add the sal volatile, or saleratus. Mix 
quick and thoroughly, and set in the oven immediately. 

Cream Tartar Cake, without Eggs. 

Three pints of sifted flour, measured after sifting. 

One teaspoonful super carbonate of soda. 

A salt spoonful of salt. 

Two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

A cup and a half of milk. • 

A pint of rolled sugar. 

Mix the cream tartar thoroughly with the flour, and 
add grated lemon peel, or nutmeg ; then dissolve the 
soda in two great spoonfuls of hot water, and put it with 
the sugar to the milk. When dissolved, wet it up as 
quick as possible, but so as to mix very thoroughly. 



PLAIN CAKES. 137 

Roll it out, cut into round cakes, and bake immediate- 
ly. It must be as soft as can be rolled. Add a little 
more flour, if needful ; bake in a quick oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Try more than once, as you may fail 
at first. When you get the knack it is easy, sure, and 
very good. 

Fruit Cake without Eggs. 

Two pounds of flour. 

One and three quarter pounds of sugar. 

One pint of milk. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

One and a half teaspoonfuls of soda, or saleratus, or 
two of sal volatile, dissolved in a little hot water. 

•One nutmeg, one pound of raisins, and one wine-glass 
of brandy. This makes three loaves. 

Warm the milk, and add the butter and salt to it. 
Work the butter and sugar to a cream, and then add 
the milk, then the flour^ then the saleratus, and lastly 
the spice and fruit. 

Drop Cake. 

Four and a half tea-cups of flour. 

Two and a half tea-cups of sugar. 

Half a cup of butter, and five eggs. 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; beat the yolks 
and whites separately ; add the yolks, then the whites, 
then the flour. Drop them on a buttered tin, and sprin- 
kle caraway sugar plums on the top. 

Sugar Gingerbread {rich). 

One pound of sugar. 
One pound of sifted flour. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Six eggs. 

Two even tablespoonfuls of ginger. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, add the eggs well 

12* 



138 PLAIN CAKES. ^ 

beaten, the flour and ginger, and bake in two square 
tin sheets. 

Sugar Gingerbread [plainer). 

Two cups of sugar. 

One cup of butter, rubbed with the sugar. 

One cup of milk. 

Two eggs. 

One teaspoonftil of pearlash in hot water. 

Three tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

Five cups of flour. 

Make it a soft dough, and add more flour if needed. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs. 

The weight of ten in powdered l©af sugar. 

The weight of six in sifted flour. 

The grated peel, and half the juice of one lemon. 

Stir the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, until very 
light, then add the whites of the eggs, after they are 
beaten to a stiff froth, stir lightly together, flavor with 
the lemoU; sprinkle in the flour just before it is to be put 
into the oven, stirring it in as quickly as possible. 

Bake in two square tin pans, the bottom and sides of 
which should be covered with white paper, well but- 
tered. 

Weigh it once, then get the measure of the propor- 
tions, to save the trouble of weighing afterward. 

The secret of making good sponge cake Hes in putting 
the flour in the last minute before it goes into the oven, 
and having a good bake. 

Bridget's Bread Cake (excellent). 

Three cups of dough, very hght. 

Three cups of sugar. 

One cup of butter. 

Three eggs. A nutmeg. Raisins. 



PLAIN CAKES. 139 

One teaspcx)iiful of pearlash, dissolved in a little hot 
water. 

Rub the butier and sugar together, add the eggs and 
spice, and mix all thoroughly with the dough. Beat it 
welJ, and pour into the pans. It will do to bake it im- 
mediately, but the cake will be lighter if it stands a short 
time to rise, before putting it into the oven. It is an ex- 
cellent cake for common use. 

It is very important that the ingredients should be 
thoroughly mixed with the dough. 

Doughnuts. 

One pound of butter. 

One pound and three quarters of sugar, worked with 
the butter. 

Three pints of milk. 

Four eggs. 

One pint of yeast, if home-made, or half a pint of dis- 
tillery yeast. 

Mace and cinnamon to the taste. 

Flour enough to make the dough stiff as biscuit. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, add the other in- 
gredients, and set the dough in a warm place to rise. 
When thoroughly Ught, roll into sheets, cut with a sharp 
knife into diamond-shaped pieces, and boil them in fresh 
lard. Use a good deal of lard, and have it sufficiently 
hot, or the cake will absorb the fat. 

Cookies {plain). 

Two cups of sugar. 

One cup of butter, worked into the sugar. 

One cup of milk. * 

Two eggs. 

Caraway seeds. 

A small teaspoonful of pearlash, dissolved in a little 
hot water. 

Flour sufficient to roll. 

The dough should be well kneaded before it is rolled 
into sheets. 



140 PLAIN CAKES. 

French Cake, 

Five cups of flour. 

Two cups of powdered sugar. 

Half a cup of butter. 

One cup of milk. 

One wine-glass of wine. 

Three eggs. Spice to the taste. 

A teaspoonful of pearlash. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the milk, 
part of the flour, and the pearl-ash dissolved in wine ; 
afterward the remainder of the flour and the eggs. The 
yolks are to be beaten separately, and the whites beaten 
and put in the last thing. Bake in two square tin pans. 

Walnut HilVs Doughnuts. 

One tea-cup of sour cream, or milk. 

Two tea-cups of sugar. 

One tea-cup of butter. 

Four eggs, and one nutmeg. 

Two teaspoonfuls of saleratus. 

Flour enough to roll. 

Cut into diamond cakes, and boil in hot lard. 

Cocoanut Cup Cake. 

Two cups of rolled white sugar, and one and a half of 
butter. 

One cup of milk, and a teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in hot water. 

Four eggs well beaten, and a nutmeg. Or flavor 
with rose water. ^ 

The white part of one cocoanut, grated 

Flour enough to make a stiff" batter. 

Beat it well, put it in buttered tins, an inch thick, in 
a quick oven, and when done, frost it, and cut it in 
square pieces. 

Cocoanut Sponge Cake. 

One grated cocoanut, the outer part peeled off. 
A teaspoonful of salt, and half a grated nutmeg. 



PLAIN CAKES. 141 

A pint of sifted white sugar. 

Six eggs, the yolks beat and strained, the whites cut 
to a stiff froth. 

One teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 

A half a pint of sifted flour. 

Mix the yolks and the sugar, and then the other in- 
gredients, except the whites and the flour. Just as you 
are ready to put the cake in the oven, put in the whites, 
then add the flour by degrees, and stir only just enough 
to mix it ; then put it on buttered paper in cake pans, 
and set it in. Have a quick oven, but take care not to 
have the top harden quick. Cover with paper if there 
is any danger. 

Lemon Cake. — No. 1. 

Pour tumblers of flour. 

Two and a hdXi oi powdered white sugar. 

Three quarters of a tumbler of butter. 

One tumbler of milk, two lemons, three eggs, and one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda. Saleratus will do, but is 
not so good as soda. 

This serves for two square loaves. Dissolve the soda 
in the milk, beat the yolks, and strain them. Cut the 
whites to a stiff froth, work the butter and sugar till they 
look like cream, then add the yolks, then the milk, then the 
whites of eggs, and then the flour. When thoroughly 
mixed, grate in the peel of one lemon, and squeeze in 
the juice of two, and this must not be done till it is ready 
to set immediately into the oven. 

A tumbler and a half of currants improves this cake. 
Put them in with the- lemon juice. 

This is delicious when first baked, but will not keep 
so well as No. 2, which is richer. 

Gingernuts. 

Six pounds of flour. 

One pound and a quarter of butter, rubbed into the 
sugar. 

One pound and three quarters of sugar. 
One quart of molasses. 



142 PLAIN CAKES. 

Four ounces of ginger, one nutmeg, and some cinna- 
mon. 

The dough should be stiff, and then kneaded hard for 
a long time. Cut into small cakes. They will keep 
good, closely covered in a stone jar, for many months. 

Honey Cake. 

One quart of strained honey. 

Half a pint of sugar. 

Half a pint of melted butter. 

A teaspoon ful of saleratus, dissolved in half a tea-cup 
of warm water. 

Half a nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of ginger. 

Mix the above, and then work in sifted flour till you 
can roll it. Cut it into thin cakes, and bake it on but- 
tered tins, in a quick oven. 

New Year's Cookies. 

One pound of butter. 

A pound and three quarters of sugar. 

Two teaspoonfuls of saleratus, in a pint of milk (but- 
termilk is better). 

Mix the butter and sugar to a cream, and add the 
milk and saleratus. Then beat three eggs, and add, 
and grate in one nutmeg. Rub in a heaping tablespoon 
of caraway seed. Add flour enough to roll. Make it 
one quarter of an inch in thickness, and bake imme' 
diately in a quick oven. 

Boston Cream Cake. 

One pint of butter rubbed into one quart of flour. 

One quart of hot water, with the butter and flour stir- 
red in. 

When cool, break in from six to twelve eggs, as you 
can afford. 

If needed, add flour till thick enough to drop on but- 
tered tins in round cakes, the size of a tea-cup. 

When baked, open and fill with soft custard, or mock 
cream. 



PLAIN CAKES. 143 

Almond^ Hickory, or Cocoanut Cake. 

Half a pound of flour. Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

One pound of sugar. 

One tea-cup of sour cream, or sour milk, or buttermilk. 

Four eggs, and lemon, or any other flavor to youi 
taste. 

A teaspoonful of saleratus, or better, a bit of sal vola^ 
tile, the size of a nutmeg, dissolved in two spoonfuls of 
hot water. 

Mix the above thoroughly, then grate in the white 
part of a cocoanut, or stir in half a pint of chopped hick- 
ory-nuts, chopped fine, or put in a pound of blanched al- 
monds, pounded, but not to a paste. Put it in buttered 
pans, an inch and a half thick, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Caraway Cakes. 

Two quarts of flour. 

One cup of butter. 

One quart of rolled sugar. 

Half a pint of caraway seeds. 

A teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 

Mix the sugar and butter to a cream, add the other 
materials, roll out, and cut into square cakes, and crimp 
the edges. 

Sal volatile the size of a nutmeg, dissolved in a little 
hot water, improves this. 

Fruit Drop Cakes. 

Two pounds of flour. 

One pound of butter. 

One pound of currants. 

One pound of sugar. Three eggs. 

A teaspoonful each, of rose water, and essence of lem- 
on, and a gill of brandy. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the eggs, 
and add them. Then put in the other articles. Strew 



144 PLAIN CAKES. 

tin sheets with flour and powdered sugar, and then drop 
on in small cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 

Dr. BJs Loaf Cake. 

Two pounds of dried and sifted flour. 

A pint of new milk, blood warm. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

Three quarters of a pound of sugar. 

A pint of home-brewed yeast, or half as much distil- 
lery yeast. 

Three eggs, and one pound of stoned raisins. 

A glass of wine and a nutmeg. 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream, and then rub 
them well into the flour. Then add the other things, 
and let it rise over night. Bake an hour and a half, in 
a slack oven. Put the fruit in as directed in the receipt 
for raised loaf cake. 

Fancy Cakes. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs into half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar. Add a httle less than a half a pound of 
flour. Beat fifteen minutes, and then put in some es- 
sence of lemon, and the whites of the eggs cut to a stiff 
froth. Bake in small patties, and put sugar plums on 
the top. 

Fried Curd Cakes. 

Stir four well-beaten eggs into a quart of boiling milk. 
Make it very sweet, and cool it. Then stir in two even 
tea-cups full of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of essence of lem- 
on, and two more well-beaten eggs. Fry these in sweet 
butter as drop cakes. 

Wine Cake. 

Put six ounces of sugar into a pint of wine, and make 
it boiUng hot. When blood warm, pour it on to six 
well-beaten eggs, and stir in a quarter of a pound of sift- 
ed flour. Beat it well, and bake immediately in a quick 
oven. 



PLAIN CAKES. 145 

Egg Rusk. 

Melt three ounces of butter into a pint of milk. Beat 
six eggs into a quarter of a pound of sugar. Mix these 
with flour enough for a batter, and add a gill of 
distillery yeast, and half a teaspoonful of salt. When 
light, add flour enough to make a dough stiff enough to 
mould. Make them into small cakes, and let them rise 
in a warm place while the oven is heating. 

Citron Tea Cakes. 

One tea-cup of sugar. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter. 

Two cups of flour. 

A bit of volatile salts, the size of a nutmeg, dissolved 
in hot water (the same quantity of alum dissolved with 
it, improves it), and put to half a cup of milk. 

Beat till light, then add a teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon, and small thin strips of citron, or candied lemon 
peel. 

Bake in shallow pans, or small patties. 

French Biscuit {Mrs. Dr. C). 

Six pounds of flour. 

One pint and a half of new milk. 

Six ounces of butter. 

A cup and a half of sugar. 

A teaspoonful of salt. 

Six eggs, and half a pint of distillery yeast, or twice 
as much home-brewed. 

Melt the butter in the milk, and beat the eggs. Then 
add all the ingredients, set it to rise, and when very 
light, mould it into small biscuits, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

13 



146 BICH CAKES. 



CHAPTER XV. 

RICH CAKES. 

Old Hartford Election Cake (100 i/ears old). 

Five pounds of dried and sifted flour. 

Two pounds of butter. 

Two pounds of sugar. 

Three gills of distillery yeast, or twice the quantity of 
home-brewed. 

Four eggs. 

A gill of wine and a gill of brandy. 

Half an ounce of nutmegs, and two pounds of fruit. 

A quart of milk. 

Rub the butter very fine into the flour, add half 
the sugar, then the yeast, then half the milk, hot in 
winter, and blood warm in summer, then the eggs well 
beaten, the wine, and the remainder of the milk. Beat 
it well, and let it stand to rise all night. Beat it well in 
the morning, adding the brandy, the sugar, and the 
spice. Let it rise three or four hours? till very light. 
When you put the wood into the oven, put the cake in 
buttered pans, and put in the fruit as directed previously. 
If you wish it richer, add a pound of citron. 

Raised Loaf Cuke. 

Six pounds of dried and sifted flour. 

Three pounds of sugar. 

Two pounds and a half of butter. 

Four eggs, and two pounds of raisins. 

Four nutmegs. 

Two gills of wine, and two gills of brandy. 

In the afternoon, mix the butter and sugar, take half 
of it and rub into the flour ; take about a quart of milk, 
blood warm, put the yeast into the flour, then wet it up. 



"^''hen fully light, add the rest of the butter emd sugar, 
beat the eggs, and put then) in, apd set the whole to 
rise till morning. Add the brandy, wine, and spice, in 
the morning, aiad put it in the pans. The frqjt is to be 
added in this way: — First dredge it with flour, then 
put in enough eake to cover the bottom of the pans, 
then sprinkle some fruit, and do not let any of it 
rest against the pan, as it bijirns, and is thus wasted. 
Then continue to add a layer of fruit and a layer of 
cake, having no fruit o^ the top. This saves those 
that usually burn pn the pan, aiaid ^^cur^s a more eqqal 
distribution. 

Mrs. Ws Jiaised Wedding- Cake {very fine). 

Nine pounds of dried and sifted iour. 
Four and a half pounds of white sugar. 
Four and a half pounds of butter. 
Two quarts of scalded milk. 
One quart of the yeast, fresh made as below. 
Six eggs. 

Six pounds of raisins. 
Two pounds of citron. 
One ounce of mace. 
One gill of brandy. 
One gill of wine. 

Put the ingredients together as directed in the Rais- 
ed Loaf Cake, 

Yeast for the above Cake. 

Nine large potatoes, peeled, boiled, and mashed fine. 

One quart of water, a very small pinch of hops. 

Boil all together, strain through a sieve, add a small 
tea-cup of flour, and, when blood warm, half a pint of 
distillery yeast, or twice as much home-brewed. Strain 
again, and let it work till very light and foaming. 

Fruit Cake, or Black Cake. 
One pound of powdered white sugar. 
Three quarters of a pound of butter. 
One pound of flour, sifted. 



148 EICH CAKES. 

Twelve eggs. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned, and part of them chop- 
ped. 

Two pounds of currants, carefully cleaned. 

Half a pound of citron, cut into strips. 

A quarter of an ounce each, of cinnamon, nutmegs, and 
cloves, mixed. 

One wine-glass of wine, and one wine-glass of brandy. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the yolks 
of the eggs, part of the flour, the spice, and the whites 
of the eggs well beaten, then add the remainder of the 
flour, and the wine and brandy. Mix all thoroughly 
together. Cover the bottom and sides of two square 
tin pans with white paper, well, buttered, pour the mix- 
ture in, adding the fruit as formerly directed, first dredg- 
ing it with flour, and bake four hours. After it is taken 
from the oven, and a httle cooled, ice it thickly. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of powdered loaf sugar. 

One pound of sifted flour. 

Three quarters of a pound of fresh butter. 

Eight eggs, and one nutmeg. 

Rub the butter and sugar together until very light, 
then add the yolks of the eggs, the spice, and part of the 
flour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, and 
stir in with the remainder of the flour. Mix all well to- 
gether, and bake in small tins, icing the cakes when 
they are a Httle warm. 

French Loaf Cake. 

Five cups of powdered sugar. 

Three cups of fresh butter. 

Two cups of milk. 

Six eggs. 

Ten cups of dried and sifted flour. 

One wine-glass of wine, one wine-glass of brandy. 

Three nutmegs, a small teaspoonful of pearlash. 

One pound of raisins, a Quarter of a pound of citron. 



KICH CAKES, 149 

Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, then add part of 
the flour, with the milk a little warm, and the beaten yolks 
of the eggs. Then add, with the remainder of the flour, 
the whites of the eggs well beaten, the spice, wine, bran- 
dy, and pearlash. Mix all thoroughly together, add the 
fruit, as you put it into the pans. This will make four 
loaves. Bake about an hour, and then ice them. 

Portugal Cake. 

One pound powdered loaf sugar. 

One pound of dried and sifted flour. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Eight eggs. 

Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, or white wine. 

One pound of fruit. 

One nutmeff. 

One and a half pounds of almonds, weighed before 
shelling. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the whites 
and yolks of the eggs separately. Then, by degrees, put 
in the flour, and add the lemon juice last, stirring all 
lightly together. If almonds are to be used, they should 
be blanched. Pound the almonds, or cut into shreds. 

Golden Cake. 

This and the following cake are named from gold and 
silver, on account of their color as well as their excellence. 

They should be made together, so as to use both por- 
tions of the eggs. 

To make golden cake^ take 

One pound of flour, dried and sifted. 

One pound of sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter. 

The yolks of fourteen eggs. 

The yellow part of two lemons grated, and the juice 
also. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and add the 
yolks, well beaten and strained. Then add the lemon 
peel and flour, and a teaspoonful of sal volatile, dissolved 

13* 



150 RICH CAlSSS, 

in a little hot water. Beat it well, and just before put- 
ting it into the oven add the lemon juice, beating it in 
very thoroughly. 

Bake in square flat pans, ice it thickly, and cut it in 
square pieces. It looks finely on a dish with the silver cake. 

Silver Cake. 

One pound of sugar. 

Three quarters of a pouM of dried and sifted flour 

Six ounces of butter. 

Mace and citron. 

The whites of fourteen eggs. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add the whites 
cut to a stiff froth, and then the flour. It is a beautiful- 
looking cake. 

Shrewsbury Cake. 

One pound of dried and sifted flour. 

Three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Five eggs. 

Rose water, or grated lemon peel. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. Then add the 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, and add 
the flour. 

Queen^s Cake. 

One pound of dried and sifted flour. 

One pound of sugar. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Four eggs. One nutmeg. 

One gill of wine. 

One gill of brandy. 

One gill of thin cream. 

One pound of fruit. 

Rub the butter and sugar together. Beat separately 
the yolks and whites of the eggs. Mix all the ingre- 
dients, except the flour and fruit, which must be put in 
just before putting in the oven. This makes two three- 
pint pans fuU. It requires one hour and a half to bake. 



RICH CAEES. 151 

CruUars. 

Five cups of flour. 

One cup of butter. 

Two cups of sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One spoonful of rose viratet. Nutmeg. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, the 
whites and yolks beaten Separately, then the flour. Roll 
into a sheet about half an inch thick, cut this with a 
jagging-iron into long narrow strips. Twist them into 
various shapes, and fry them in hot lard, of a light 
brown. The ifat must be abundant in quantity, and 
very hot, to prevent the lard from soaking into the cake. 

Lemon Cake. — No. 2. 

One pound of dried and sifted flour. 

One pound of sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter. 

Seven eggs. 

The juice of one lemon, and the peel of two. 

This makes two loaves. 

Beat and strain the yolks, cut the Whites hard, work 
the butter and sugar to a cream. Fruit if wished. A 
tumbler and a half of currants is enough. 

This is richer than No. 1, and keeps well. 

Ahnond Cake. 

One pound of sifted sugat. 

The yolks of twelve eggs, beat and mixed with the 
sugar. 

The whites of nine eggs, added to the aboVe ih a stiff 
froth. 

A pound of dried and sifted flour, mixed after the above 
has been stirred ten minutes. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, and half a dozen bit- 
ter ones, blanched and pounded with rose water to a 
cream. 

Six tablespoonfuls of thick cream. 



t 

152 RICH CAK£S. 

Use the reserved whites of eggs for frosting. 

This makes one large, or two small loaves. ' - 

• Lemon Drop Cakes. 

Three heaping tablespoonfuls of sifted white sugar. 
A tablespoonful of sifted flour. t' 

« The grated rinds of three lemons. ^^ 

The white of one egg well beaten ; all mixed. 
Drop on buttered paper, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Jelly Cake. 

^Half a pound of sifted white sugar. 

Six ounces of butter. 

Eight eggs, w^hites beat to a stiff froth. Yolks beat 
and strained. 

Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

One pound of dried and sifted flour. 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream. Add the 
eggs, then the flour, and then the lemon juice. Butter 
tin scolloped pans, and put in this a quarter of an inch 
thick. Bake a light brown, and pile them in layers, 
with jelly or marmelade between. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound grated cocoanut, only the white part. 

One pound sifted white sugar. 

The whites of six eggs, cut to a stiff froth. 

You must have enough whites of eggs to wet the 
whole stiff. 

Drop on buttered plates the size of a cent, and bake 
immediately. 

Sugar Drops. 

Twelve spoonfuls of butter. 
Twenty-four spoonfuls of sifted white sugar. 
A pint of sifted flour. 

Half a nutmeg, and three eggs, the whites beaten 
eeparately. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 153 

Mix the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, 
then the flour, drop on buttered tins, and put sugar plums 
on the top. Bake ten or fifteen minutes. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

General Directions/or making Preserves and Jellies. 

Gather fruit when it is dry. 

Long boiling hardens the fruit. 

Pour boiling water over the sieves used, and wring 
out jelly-bags in hot water the moment you are to use 
them. 

Do not squeeze while straining through jelly-bags. 

Let the pots and jars containing sweetmeats just made 
remain uncovered three days. 

Lay brandy papers over the top, cover them tight, and 
seal them, or, what is best of all, soak a split bladder 
and tie it tight over them. In drying, it will shrink so 
as to be perfectly air-tight. 

Keep them in a dry, but not warm place. 

A thick leathery mould helps to preserve fruit, but 
when mould appears in specks, the preserves must be 
scalded in a warm oven, or be set into hot water, which 
then must boil till the preserves are scalded. 

Always keep watch of preserves which are not sealed, 
especially in warm and damp weather. The only sure 
way to keep them without risk or care, is to make them 
with enough sugar and seal them, or tie bladder covers 
over. 

To Clarify Syrup for Sweetmeats. 

For each pound of sugar, allow half a pint of water. 
For every three pounds of sugar, allow the white of 
one egg. 



154 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Mix when cold, boil a few minutes, and skim it. Let 
it stand ten minutes, and skim it, then strain it. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Prick the peaches with a needle, put them into a ket- 
tle with cold water, scald them until sufficiently soft to 
be penetrated with a straw. Take half a pound of su- 
gar to every pound of peach ; make the syrup with the 
sugar, and while it is a little warm, mix two-thirds as 
much of white brandy with it, put the fruit into jars, 
and pour the syrup over it. The late white cUngstones 
are the best to use. 

Peaches {not very rich). 

To six pounds of fruit, put five of sugar. Make the 
syrup. Boil the fruit in the syrup till it is clear. If the 
fruit is ripe, half an hour will cook it sufficiently. 

Peaches (very elegant). 

First take out the stones, then pare them. To every 
pound of peaches, allow one-third of a pound of sugar. 
Make a thin syrup, boil the peaches in the syrup till ten- 
der, but not till they break. Put them into a bowl, and 
pour the syrup over them. Put them in a dry, cool 
place, and let them stand two days. Then make a new 
rich syrup, allowing three quarters of a pound of sugar 
to one of fruit. Drain the peaches from the first syrup, 
and boil them until they are clear, in the last syrup. 
The first syrup must not be added, but may be used foif 
any other purpose you please, as it is somewhat bitter. 
The large white clingstones are the best. 

To preserve Quinces Whole. 

Select the largest and fairest quinces (as the pooret 
ones will answer for jelly). Take out the cores and 
pare them. Boil the quinces in water till tender. Take 
them out separately on a platter. To each pound of 
quince, allow a pound of siigar. Make the syrup, then 
boil the quinces in the syrup until clear. 



PKESERVES AND JELLIES. 1^6 

Qfuinte Jelly. 

Rub the quinces with a cloth, until perfectly smooth. 
Remove the cores, cut them into small pieces, pack them 
tight in your kettle, pour cold water on them until it is 
on a level with the fruit, but not to cover it ; boil titl^ 
very soft, but not till they break. 

Then dip off all the liquor you can, then put the 
fiuit into a sieve, and press it, and drain off all the re- 
maining liquor. 

Then to a pint of the liquor add a pound of sugar, and 
boil it fifteen minutes. Pour it, as soon as cool, into 
small jars, or tumblers. Let it stand in the sun a few 
days, till it begins to dry on the top. It will coritinue to 
harden after it is piit up. 

Calf's Foot Jelly, 

To four nicely-cleaned calf's feet, put four quarts of 
Water ; let it simmer gently till reduced to two quarts, 
theii strain it, and let it stand all night, l^hen take off 
all the fat and sediment, rhelt it, add the juice, and put 
in the peel of three lemons, and a pint of wine, the whites 
of four eggs, three sticks of cinna'",ion, and sugar to your 
taste. Boil ten minutes, then sKim out the spice and 
lemon peel, and strain it. 

The American gelatiiie, now very common, makes as 
good jelly, with far less trouble, and in using it you orily 
need to dissolve it in hot water, arid then sweeten and 
flavor it. 

To preserve Apples, 

Take only tarf and well-flavored apples, peel, and 
take out the cores without dividing them, and then 
parboil them. Make the syrup' with the apple water, 
allowing three quarters of a pound of white sugar to 
etery pound of ajjples, and boil! sonle lemon peel and 
juice in the syrup. Podr the syrup, wliile boiling, on 
to the appfes, turn them gently while cooking, arid 
only let the syri^ siftimei', ad hard! boiling breaks the 



156 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

fruit. Take it out when the apple is tender through. 
At the end of a week boil them once more in the syrup. 

Pear. 

Take out the cores, cut off the stems, and pare them. 
Boil the pears in water, till they are tender. Watch 
them, that they do not break. Lay them separately on 
a platter as you take them out. To each pound of fruit, 
take a pound of sugar. Make the syrup, and boil the 
fruit in the syrup till clear. 

Pineapple [very fine). 

Pare and grate the pineapple. Take an equal quan- 
tity of fruit and sugar. Boil them slowly in a sauce- 
pan for half an hour. 

Purple Plum. — No. 1. 

Make a rich syrup. Boil the plums in the syrup very 
gently till they begin to crack open. Then take them 
from the syrup into a jar, and pour the syrup over them. 
Let them stand a few days, and then boil them a sec- 
ond time, very gently. 

To preserve Oranges. 

Boil the oranges in soft water till you can run a straw 
through the skin. 

Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit, take the oranges from the water, and 
pour over them the hot syrup, and let them stand in it 
one night. Next day, boil them in the syrup till it is 
thick and clear. Then take them up, and strain the 
syrup on to them. 

Purple Plum.— No. 2. 

Take an equal weight of fruit, and nice brown su- 
gar. Take a clean stone jar, put in a layer of fruit and 
a layer of sugar, till all is in. Cover them tightly with 
dough, or other tight cover, and put them in a brick 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 16T 

oven after you have baked in it. If you bake in the 
morning, put the plums in the oven at evening, and 
let them remain till the next morning. When you 
bake again, set them in the oven as before. Uncover 
them, and stir them carefully with a spoon, and so as 
not to break them. Set them in the oven thus the 
third time, and they will be sufficiently cooked. 

White, or Green Plum. 

' Put each one into boiling water, and rub off the skin. 
Allow a pound of fruit to a pound of sugar. Make a 
syrup of sugar and water. Boil the fruit in the syrup 
until clear, about twenty minutes. Let the syrup be 
cold before you pour it over the fruit. They can be 
preserved without taking off the skins, by pricking 
them. Some of the kernels of the stones boiled in give 
a pleasant flavor. 

Citron Melon. 

Two fresh lemons to a pound of melon. Let the su- 
gar be equal in weight to the lemon and melon. Take 
out the pulp of the melon, and cut it in thin shces, and 
boil it in fair water till tender. Take it out and boil 
the lemon in the same water about twenty minutes. 
Take out the lemon, add the sugar, and, if necessary, a 
little more water. Let it boil. When clear, add the mel- 
on, and let it boil a few minutes. 



•) 



Strawberries. 

Look them over with care. Weigh a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit. Put a layer of fruit on the bot- 
tom of the preserving kettle, then a layer of sugar, and so 
on till all is in the pan. Boil them about fifteen minutes. 
Put them in bottles, hot, and seal them. Then put 
them in a box, and fill it in with dry sand. The flavor of 
the fruit is preserved more perfectly, by simply packing 
the fruit and sugar in alternate layers, and sealing the 

14 



168 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

jar, without cooking. But the preserves do not look bo 
well. 

Blackberry Jam. 

Allow three quarters of a pound of brown sugar to a 
pound of fruit. Boil the fruit half an hour, then add 
the sugar, and boil all together ten minutes. 

To preserve Currants to eat with Meat. 

Strip them from the stem. Boil them an hour, and then 
to a pound of the fruit, add a pound of brown sugar. Boil 
all together fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Cherries. 

Take out the stones. To a pound of fruit, allow a 
pound of sugar. Put a layer of fruit on the bottom of 
the preserving kettle, then a layer of sugar, and continue 
thus till all are put in. Boil till clear. Put them in bottles, 
hot, and seal them. Keep them in dry sand. 

Currants. 

Strip them from the stems. Allow a pound of sugar 
to a pound of currants. Boil them together ten minutes. 
Take them from the syrup, and let the syrup boil twen- 
ty minutes, and pour it on the fruit. Put them in small 
jars, or tumblers, and let them stand in the sun a few 
days. 

Raspberry Jam. — No. 1. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Press 
them with a spoon, in an earthen dish. Add the sugar, 
and boil all together fifteen minutes. 

Raspberry Jam,. — No. 2. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Boil 
the fruit half an hour, or till the seeds are soft. Strain 
one quarter of the fruit, and throw away the seeds. 
Add the sugar, and boil the whole ten minutes. A lit- 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

tie curratit juice gives it a pleasant flavor, and when 
that is used, an equal quantity of sugar must be added. 

Currant Jelly. 

Pick over the currants with care. Put them in a 
stbrie jar, and set it into a kettle of boiling water. Let 
it boil till the fruit is very soft. Strain it through a 
sieve. Then run the juice through a jelly-bag. Put a 
pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and boil it together 
^6' minutes. Set it in the sun a few days; 

Qumce Marmalade. 

Rub the quinces with a cloth, cut them in quarters'. 
Put them on the fire with a little water, and stew them 
till they are sufficiently tender to rub them through a 
sieve. When strained, put a pound of brown sugar to 
a pound of the pulp. Set it on the fire, and let it cook 
Slowly. To ascertain when it is done, take out a little 
and let it get cold, and if it cuts srnoothly it is done. 

Crab-apple marmalade is made in the same way. 

Crab-apple jelly is made like quince jelly. 

Most other ifruits are preserved so much like the pre- 
ceding, that it is needless to give any more particular 
directions, than to say that a pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit is the general rule for all preserves that are to be 
kept through warm weather, and a long time. 

Preserved Watermelon Rinds. 

This is a fine article to keep well without trouble for a 
long time. Peel the melon, and boil it in just enongh 
water to cover it till it is soft, trying with a fork. (If you 
wish it green, put green vine leaves above and below 
each layer, and scatter powdered alum, less than half a 
teaspoonful to each pound.) 

Allow a pound and a half of sugar to each pound 6f 
rind, and clarify it as directed previously. 

Simmer the rinds two hours in this syrup, and flavoi* 
it with lemon peel grated and tied in a bag. Then put 
the melon in a tureen^ and boil the syru|> tii it looks 



160 PICKLES. 

thick, and pour it over. Next day, give the syrup an- 
other boiling, and put the juice of one lemon to each 
quart of syrup. Take care not to make it bitter by too 
much of the peel. 

Citrons are preserved in the same manner. Both 
these keep through hot weather with very Uttle care in 
sealing and keeping. 

Preserved Pumpkin, 

Cut a thick yellow pumpkin, peeled, into strips two 
inches wide, and five or six long. 

Take a pound of white sugar for each pound of fruit, 
and scatter it over the fruit, and pour on two wine-glass- 
es of lemon juice for each pound of pumpkin. 

Next day, put the parings of one or two lemons with 
the fruit and sugar, and boil the whole three quarters of 
an hour, or long enough to make it tender and clear 
without breaking. Lay the pumpkin to cool, strain the 
syrup, and then pour it on to the pumpkin. 

If there is too much lemon peel, it will be bitter. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

PICKLES. 

Do not keep pickles in common earthen Avare, as the 
glazing contains lead, and combines with the vinegar. 

Vinegar for pickling should be sharp, but not the 
sharpest kind, as it injures the pickles. If you use cop- 
per, bell metal, or brass vessels for pickling, never allow 
the vinegar to cool in them, as it then is poisonous. Add 
a tablespoon ful of alum and a tea-cup of salt to each 
IJiree gallons of vinegar, and tie up a bag with pepper, 
ginger-root, and spices of all sorts in it, and you have 
vinegar prepared for any kind of common pickling. 

Keep pickles only in wood, or stone ware. 



PICKLES. 161 

Anything that has held grease will spoil pickles. 

Stir pickles occasionally, and if there are soft ones, 
take them out and scald the vinegar, and pour it hot 
over the pickles. Keep enough vinegar to cover them 
vi^ell. If it is weak, take fresh vinegar, and pour on hot. 
Do not boil vinegar or spice over five minutes. 

To Pickle Tomatoes. 

As you gather them, throw them into cold vinegar. 
When you have enough, take them out, and scald some 
spices tied in a bag, in good vinegar, and pour it hot 
over them. 

To Pickle Peaches. 

Take ripe but hard peaches, wipe off the down, stick 
a few cloves into them, and lay them in cold spiced vin- 
egar. In three months they will be sufficiently pickled, 
and also retain much of their natural flavor. 

To Pickle Peppers. 

Take green peppers, take the seeds out carefully, so 
as not to mangle them, soak them nine days in salt and 
water, changing it every day, and keep them in a warm 
place. Stuff them with chopped cabbage, seasoned with 
cloves, cinnamon, and mace ; put them in cold spiced 
vinegar. 

To Pickle Nasturtions. 

Soak them three days in salt and water as you col- 
lect them, changing it once in three days, and when 
you have enough, pour off the brine, and pour on scald- 
ing hot vinegar. 

To Pickle Onions. 

Peel, and boil in milk and water ten minutes, drain 
off the milk and water, and pour scalding spiced vinegar 
on to them. 

14* 



162 PICKLES. 

To Pickle Gherkins. 

Keep them in strong brine till they are yellow, then 
take them out and turn on hot spiced vinegar, and keep 
them in it in a warm place, till they turn green. Then 
turn off the vinegar, and add a fresh supply of hot, spi- 
ced vinegar. 

To Pickle Mushrooms. 

Stew them in salted water, just enough to keep them 
from sticking. When tender, pour off the water, and 
pour on hot spiced vinegar. Then cork them tight if 
you wish to keep them long. Poison ones will turn 
black if an onion is stewed with them, and then all 
must be thrown away. 

To Pickle Cucumbers, 

Wash the cucumbers in cold water, being careful not 
to bruise, or break them. Make a brine of rock, or 
blown salt (rock is the best), strong enough to bear up 
an Q^gg^ or potato, and of sufficient quantity to cover the 
cucumbers. 

Put them into an oaken tub, or stone- ware jar, and 
pour the brine over them. In twenty-four hours, they 
should be stirred up frorh the bottom with the hand. 
The third day pour off the brine, scald it, and pour it 
over the cucumbers. Let them stand in the brine nine 
days, scalding it every third day, as described above. 
Then take the cucumbers into a tub, rinse them in cold 
water, and if they are too salt, let them stand in it a 
few hours. Drain them from the water, put them back 
into the tub or jar, which must be washed clean from 
the brine. Scald vinegar sufficient to cover them, and 
pour it upon them. Cover them tight, and in a week they 
will be ready for use. If spice is wanted, it may be tied 
in a linen cloth, and put into the jar with the pickles, or 
scalded with the vinegar, and the bag thrown into the 
pickle jar. If a white scum rises, take it off and scald 
the vinegar, and pour it back. A small lump of alum 



ticklM, 163 

added t6 the vinegar, improves the hardness of the cu- 
cumbers. 

Pickled Walnuts. 

Take a hundred nuts, an ounce of cloves, an ounce 
of allspice, an ounce of nutmeg, an ounce of whole pep- 
per, an ounce of race ginger, an ounce of horseradish, half 
pint of mustard seed, tied in a bag, and four cloves of 
garlic. 

Wipe the nuts, prick with a pin, and put them in a 
pot, sprinkling the spice as you lay them in ; then add 
two tablespoonfuls of salt ; boil sufficient vinegar to fill 
the pot, and pour it over the nuts and spice. Cover the 
jar close, and keep it for a year, when the pickles 
will be ready for use. 

Butternuts may be made in the same manner, if they 
are taken when green, and soft enough to be stuck 
through with the head of a pin. Put them for a week 
or two in weak brine, changing it occasionally. Before 
putting in the brine, rub them about with a broom in 
brine to cleanse the skins. Then proceed as for the 
walnuts. 

The vinegar makes an excellent catsup. 

Mangoes. 

Take the latest growth of young muskmelons, take 
out a small bit from one side, and empty them. Scrape 
the outside smooth, and soak them four days in strong 
salt and water. If you wish to green theni, put vine 
leaves over and under, with bits of alum, and steam 
them a while. Then powder cloves, pepper, and nut- 
meg in equal portions, and sprinkle on the inside, and 
fill them with strips of horseradish, small bits of cala- 
mus, bits of cinnamon and mace, a clove or two, a very 
small onion, nasturtions, and then American mustard- 
seed to fill the crevices. Put back the piece cut out, and 
sew it on, and then sew the mango in cotton cloth. 
Lay all in a stone jar, the cut side upward. 

Boil sharp vinegar a few minutes, with half a tea-cup 
of salt, and a tablespoonful of Etlum to three gallohs^ of 



164 PICKLES. 

vinegar, and turn it on to the melons. Keep dried bar 
berries for garnishes, and when you use them turn a Ut 
tie of the above vinegar of the mangoes heated boiling 
hot on to them, and let them swell a few hours. Shced 
and salted cabbage with this vinegar poured on hot is 
very good. 

Fine Pickled Cabbage. 

Shred red and white cabbage, spread it in layers in a 
stone jar, with salt over each layer. Put two spoonfuls 
of whole black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, 
cloves, and cinnamon, in a bag, and scald them in two 
quarts of vinegar, and pour the vinegar over the cab- 
bage, and cover it tight. Use it in two days after. 

An excellent Way of Preparing Tomatoes to eat 

with Meat. 

Peel and slice ripe tomatoes, sprinkling on a little salt 
as you proceed. Drain off the juice, and pour on hot 
spiced vinegar. 

To Pickle Martinoes. 

Gather them when you can run a pin head into 
them, and after wiping them, keep them ten days in 
weak brine, changing it every other day. Then wipe 
them, and pour over boiling spiced vinegar. In four 
weeks they will be ready for use. It is a fine pickle. 

A convenient Way to Pickle CucuTnbers. 

Put some spiced vinegar in a jar, with a little salt in it. 

p]very time you gather a mess, pour boiling vinegar 
on them, with a little alum in it. Then put them in 
the spiced vinegar. Keep the same vinegar for scald- 
ing all. When you have enough, take all from the 
spiced vinegar, and scald in the alum vinegar two or 
three minutes, till green, and then put them back in 
the spiced vinegar. 

hidiana Pickles. 
Take green tomatoes, and slice them. Put them in 



ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS, ETC, 165 

a basket to drain in layers, with salt scattered over them, 
say a tea-cup full to each gallon. Next day, slice one 
quarter the quantity of onions, and lay the onions and 
tomatoes in alternate layers in a jar, with spices inter- 
vening. Then fill the jar with cold vinegar. Toma- 
toes picked as they ripen, and just thrown into cold 
spiced vinegar, are a fine pickle, and made with very 
little trouble. 

To Pickle Cauliflower^ or Brocoli. 

Keep them twenty-four hours in strong brine, and 
then take them out and heat the brine, and pour it on 
scalding hot, and let them stand till next day. Drain 
them, and throw them into spiced vinegar. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS AND EVENING PARTIES. 

Ice Cream. 

One quart of milk. 

One and a half tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. 

The grated peel of two lemons. 

One quart of thick cream. 

Wet the arrowroot with a little cold milk, and add it to 
the quart of milk when boiling hot; sweeten it very 
sweet with white sugar, put in the grated lemon peel, 
boil the whole, and strain it into the quart of cream. 
When partly frozen, add the juice of the two lemons. 
Twice this quantity is enough for thirty-five persons. 
Find the quantity of sugar that suits you by measure, 
and then you can use this every time, without tasting. 
Some add whites of eggs, others think it just as good 
without. It must be made very sweet, as it loses much 
by freezing. 



109 AETICLES FOE ^ESSJSRTS 

Directions for freezing Ice Cream. 

If you have no apparatus for the purpose (which is 
almost indispensable), put the cream into a tin pail with 
a very tight cover, mix equal (uantities of snow and 
blown salt (not the coarse salt), or of pounded ice and salt, 
in a tub, and put it as high as the pail, or freezer ; 
turn the pail or freezer half round and back again with 
one hand, for half an hour, or longer, if you want it very 
nice. Three quarters of an hour steadily, will make it 
good enough. While doing this, stop four or five times, 
and mix the frozen part with the rest, the last time very 
thoroughly, and then the lemon juice must be put in. 
Then cover the freezer tight with snow and salt till it is 
wanted. The mixture must be perfectly cool before be- 
ing put in the freezer. Renew the snow and salt while 
shaking, so as to have it kept tight to the sides of the 
freezer. A hole in the tub holding the freezing mixture 
to let off the water, is a great advantage. In a tin pail 
it would take much longer to freeze than in the freezer, 
probably nearly twice as long, or one hour and a half. 
A long stick, like a coffee stick, should be used in scra- 
ping the ice from the sides. Iron spoons will be affected 
by the lemon juice, and give a bad taste. 

In taking it out for use, first wipe off every particle of 
the freezing mixture dry, then with a knife loosen the 
sides, then invert the freezer upon the dish in which the ice 
is to be served, and apply two towels rung out of hot 
water to the bottom part, and the whole will slide out in 
the shape of a cyhnder. 

If you wish to put it into moulds, pour it into them 
when the cream is frozen sufficiently, and then cover 
the moulds in the snow and salt till they are wanted. 
Dip the moulds in warm water to make the ice slip out 
easily. 

If you wish to have a freezer made, send the follow- 
ing directions to a tinner. 

Make a tin cylinder box, eighteen inches high and 
eight inches in diameter at the bottom, and a trifle lar- 
ger at the top, so that the frozen cream will slip out easier. 



• AND EVENING PARTIES. .IST 

Have a cover made with a rim to lap over three inc|ies, 
and fitted tight. Let there be a rourid handle fastened to 
the lid, an inch in diameter, and reaching nearly across, 
to take hold of, to stir the cream. This will cost from 
fifty to seventy-five cents. 

The tub holding the ice and freezer should have a 
hole in the bottom, to let the water run off, and through the 
whole process the ice must be close packed the whoje 
depth of the freezer. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of milk (cream when you have it). 

Three tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. 

The whites of eight eggs well beaten. 

One pound of powdered sugar. 

Boil the milk, thicken it with the arrowroot, add the 
sugar, and pour the whole upon the eggs. If you wish 
it flavored with vanilla, split half a bean, and boil it in 
the milk. 

Another Ic& Cream. 

Three quarts of milk. 

Two pounds and a half of powdered sugar. 

Twelve eggs, well beaten. 

Mix all together in a tin pail, add one vanilla bean 
(split), then put the pail into a kettle of boiling water, and 
stir the custard all the time, until it is quite thick. After it 
is cooled, add two quarts of rich cream, and then freeze it. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Rub a pint of ripe strawberries through a sieve, add 
a pint of cream, and four ounces of powdered sugar, ^nd 
freeze it. 

Ice Cream without Cream. 

A vanilla bean, or a lemon rind, is first boiled in ^ 
quart of milk. Take out the bean qr peel, and add tfee 
yolks of four pggs, h^^^t^m w4\' )Sf at it scalding hpt, 



168 ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

but do not boil it, stirring in white sugar till very sweet. 
When cold, freeze it. 

Fruit Ice Cream, 

Make rich boiled custard, and mash into it the soft ripe 
fruit, or the grated or cooked hard fruit, or grated pineap- 
ples. Rub all through a sieve, sweeten it very sweet, and 
freeze it. Ciuince, apple, pear, peach, strawberry, and 
raspberry, are all good for this purpose. 

Rich Custards. 

One quart of cream. 

The yolks of six eggs. 

Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 

A small pinch of salt. 

Two tablespoon fuls of brandy. 

One spoonful of peach water. 

Half a tablespoonful of lemon brandy. 

An ounce of blanched almonds, pounded to a paste. 

Mix tlie cream with the sugar, and the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten, scald them together in a tin pail in 
boiling water, stirring all the time, until sufficiently 
thick. When cool, add the other ingredients, and pour 
into custard cups. 

Wine Cream Custard, 

Sweeten a pint of cream with sifted sugar, heat it, stir 
in white wine till it curdles, add rose water, or grated 
lemon peel in a bag, heated in the milk. Turn it into 
cups. 

Or, mix a pint of milk with the pint of cream, add 
five beaten eggs, a spoonful of flour wet with milk, and 
sugar to your taste. Bake this in cups, or pie plates. 

Almond Custard. 

Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
a few of the bitter. Boil them five minutes in a quart 
of milk, sweeten to your taste, and when blood warm, 
Btir in the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 169 

four. Heal it, and stir till it thickens, then pour info 
cups. Cut the reserved whites to a stiff froth, and put 
on the top. 

A Cream for Stewed Fruit. 

Boil two or three peach leaves, or a vanilla bean, in a 
quart of cream, or milk, till flavored. Strain and sweet- 
en it, mix it with the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; 
then, while heating it, add the whites cut to a froth. 
When it thickens, take it up. When cool, pour it over 
the fruit, or preserves. 

Currant, Raspberry, or Strawberry Whisk. 

Put three gills of the juice of the fruit to ten ounces 
of crushed sugar, add the juice of a lemon, and a pint 
and a half of cream. Whisk it till quite thick, and serve 
it in jelly glasses, or a glass dish. 

Lemonade Ice, and other Ices. 

To a quart of lemonade, add the whites of six eggs, 
cut to a froth, and freeze it. The juices of any fruit, 
sweetened and watered, may be prepared in the same 
way, and are very fine. 

Lem^on and Orange Cream,. 

Grate the outer part of the rind of eight oranges, or 
lemons, into a pint of cold water, and let it stand from 
night till morning. Add the juice of two dozen of the 
fruit, and another pint of cold water. Beat the yolks of 
six eggs, and add the whites of sixteen eggs, cut to a 
stiff froth. Strain the juice into the Qgg. Set it over 
the fire, and stir in fine white sugar, till quite sweet. 
When it begins to thicken, take it off, and stir till it 
is cold. Serve it in glasses, or freeze it. 

Vanilla Cream. 

Boil a vanilla bean in a quart of rich milk, till flavor- 
ed to your taste. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and stir 
in, then sweeten well, and lastly, add the whites of the 

15 



170 ^ ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

eggs, cut to a stiff froth. Boil till it begins to thicken, 
then stir till cold, and serve in glasses, or freeze it. 

^4 Charlotte Russe. 

Half a pint of milk, and half a vanilla bean boiled in 
it, and then cooled and strained. 

Four beaten yolks of eggs, and a quarter of a pound 
of powdered loaf sugar stirred into the milk. Simmer 
five minutes, and cool it. 

An ounce of Russia isinglass boiled in a pint of wa- 
ter till reduced one half, and strained into the above cus 
tard. 

Whip a rich cream to a froth, and stir into the cus- 
tard. 

The preceding is for the custard that is to fill the 
form. 

Prepare the form thus : — Take a large round, or oval 
sponge cake, three or four inches thick, with perpendic- 
ular sides. Cut off the bottom about an inch thick, or 
a Httle less, and then turn it bottom upwards into a form 
of the same size and shape. Then dig out the cake till 
it is a sliell, an inch thick, or less. Fill the opening 
with the custard, and cover it with the slice cut from 
the bottom. Then set it into a tub of pounded ice and 
salt, for forty minutes, being careful not to get any on 
to the cake. When ready to use it, turn it out of the 
form on to a flat oval dish, and ornament the top with 
frosting, or syringe on it candy sugar, in fanciful forms. 
This can be made by fitting slices of sponge cake nicely 
into a form, instead of using a whole cake. 

A Plainer Charlotte Russe. 

Half an ounce of Russia isinglass, or a little more. 

Half a pint of milk, and a pint of thick cream. 

Four eggs. Three ounces sifted white sugar. 

A gill and a half of white wine. 

Boil the isinglass in the milk, flavoring with vanilla 
or lemon. Stir the sugar into the yolks of the eggs. 
Put the wine to the cream, and beat them to a froth. 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 171 

Then strain the isinglass into the yolks, thent add the 
cream and wine, and last of all the whites of the eggs 
cut to a stiff froth. Then line a dish with sponge cake, 
making the pieces adhere with whites of eggs, and pour 
in the above. 

A Superior Omelette JSouflee. 

Take eight eggs. Put the whites on one plate, and 
the yolks on another (two persons do it better than one) ; 
beat up the whites to a perfect froth, and at the same 
time stir the yolks with finely-powdered sugar, flavored 
with a Httle lemon peel, grated. Then, while stirring 
the whites, pour the yolks into the w^hites, stir them a 
little (but not beat them). Then pour all on a round 
tin plate, and put it in the oven ; when it begins to rise 
a little, draw it to the mouth of the oven, and with a 
spoon pile it up in a pyramidal shape, and leave it a few 
minutes longer in the oven. The whole baking requires 
but three or four minutes, and should be done just as 
wanted for the table. 

Almond Cheese Cake. 

Three well-beaten eggs. 

A pint of new milk, boiling while the eggs are mix- 
ed in. 

Half a glass of wine, poured in while boiling. 

On adding the wdne, take it from the fire, strain off 
the whey, and put to the curds sifted white sugar, 
to your taste, three eggs, well beaten, a teaspoonful 
of rose water, half a pound of sweet almonds, and a doz- 
en of bitter ones, all blanched and pounded, and sixteen 
even spoonfuls of melted butter. Pour this into patties 
lined with thin pastry. Ornament the top with Zante 
currants, and almonds cut in thin slips. Bake as soon as 
done. 

Flumm^ery. 

Cut sponge cake into thin slices, and line a deep dish. 
Make it moist with white wine ; make a rich custard, 



172 ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

using only the yolks of the eggs. When cool, turn it 
into the dish, and cut the whites to a stiff froth, and put 
on the top. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cut the white meat of chickens into small bits, the 
size of peas. 

Chop the white parts of celery nearly as small. 

Prepare a dressing thus : — 

Rub the yolks of hard-boiled eggs smooth, to each 
yolk put half a teaspoonful of mustard, the same quan- 
tity of salt, a tablespoonful of oil, and a wine-glass of 
vinegar. Mix the chicken and celery in a large bowl, 
and pour over this dressing. 

The dressing must not be put on till just before it is 
used. Bread and butter and crackers are served with it. 

Gelatine^ or American Isinglass Jelly. 

Two ounces of American isinglass, or gelatine. * 

One quart of boiling water. 

A pint and a half of white wine. 

The whites of three eggs. 

Soak the gum in cold water half an hour. Then 
take it from the water, and pour on the quart of boiling I 

water. When cooled, add the grated rind of one lemon, 
and the juice of two, and a pound and a half of loaf su- 
gar. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and stir them in, and let the whole boil till the egg is 
well mixed, but do not stir while it boils. Strain through 
a jelly-bag, and then add the wine. 

Wine jelly is made thus, except that half a pint more 
of wine is added. 

In cold weather, a pint more of water may be added. 
This jelly can be colored by beet juice, saffron, or indigo, 
for fancy dishes. 

Oranges in Jelly. 

Peel and divide into halves several small-size oranges ; 
boil them in water till a straw will pierce them, then put 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 173 

them into a syrup made of half a pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit, and boil the oranges in it till clear. Then 
stir in an ounce, or more, of clarified isinglass, and let it 
boil a little while. Take the oranges into a dish, and 
strain the jelly over. Lemons may be done the same 
way. 

Jelly Tarts. 

One pound of sifted flour. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter, rubbed in well. 

Wet it up with about a pint of cold water, in which a 
bit of sal volatile, the size of a large pea dissolved in 
a Httle cold water, has been put. Beat the whole with a 
rolling-pin, cut it into round cakes, wet the tops with 
beaten e^gg, and strew on fine white sugar. Bake in a 
quick oven, and when done put a spoonful of jelly in the 
centre of each. 

Sweet Paste Jelly Tarts. 

A pint of dried and sifted flour. 

A pint of sifted sugar. 

Two-thirds of a pint of sweet butter. 

A bit of sal volatile, the size of two large peas, dissolv- 
ed in a tablespoonful of cold water. 

Mix the butter and sugar to a cream, work in the 
flour, add the sal volatile, and cold water, if needed, for 
making a paste to roll. Beat the whole with a rolling- 
pin, roll it half an inch thick, cut it with a tumbler, wet 
the tops with milk, put them on buttered tins into a 
quick oven, and when done, heap a spoonful of jelly on 
the centre of each. 

They are excellent for a dessert, or for evening parties. 

An Apple Lemon Pudding. 

Six spoonfuls of grated, or of cooked and strained ap- 
ple. Three lemons, pulp, rind, and juice, all grated. 
Half a pound of melted butter. Sugar to the taste. 
Seven eggs, well beaten. 

Mix, and bake with or without paste. It can be made 

15* 



174 ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

Still plainer by using nine spoonfuls of apple, one lemon, 
two-thirds of a cup full of butter, and three eggs. 

Buttermilk Pop. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a tea-cup of flour, wet it 
up to a thin paste with cold buttermilk, and pour it into 
tw^o quarts of boiling fresh buttermilk. Salt to the 
taste. 

Wheat Flour Blanc Mange. 

Wet up six tablespoonfuls of flour to a thin paste, 
with cold milk, and stir it into a pint of boiling milk. 
Flavor with lemon peel, or peach leaves boiled in the 
milk. Add a pinch of salt, cool it in a mould, and eat 
with sweetened cream and sweetmeats. 

Orange Marnielade. 

Take two lemons, and a dozen oranges ; grate the 
yellow part of all the oranges but five, and set it aside. 
Make a clear syrup of an equal \veight of sugar. Clear 
the oranges of rind and seeds, and put them with the 
grated rinds into the syrup, and boil about twenty min- 
utes, till it is a transparent mass. 

A Simple Lem^on Jelly [easily m^ade). 

One ounce of cooper's isinglass. A pound and a halt 
of loaf sugar. Three lemons, pulp, skin, and juice, 
grated. 

Pour a quart of boiling water on to the isinglass, add 
the rest, mix and strain it, then add a glass of wine, 
and pour it to cool in some regular form. If the lemons 
are not fresh, add a httle cream of tartar, or tartaric acid. 
American gelatine is used for this. 

Cranberry. 

Pour boiling water on them, and then you can easi- 
ly separate the good and the bad. Boil them in a very 
little water till soft, then sweeten to your taste. If you 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 175 

wish a jelly take a portion and strain through a fine 
sieve. 

Fruits Preserved without Cooking. 

Pineapples peeled and cut in thin slices, with layers 
of sugar under and over each slice, will keep without 
cooking, and the flavor is fully preserved. Use a pound 
and a half of sugar for each pound of fruit. 

(Quinces peeled and boiled soft, and then laid in sugar, 
pound to a pound, in the same way, are very beautiful. 

Apple Ice {very fine). 

Take finely-flavored apples^ grate them fine, and then 
make them very sweet, and freeze them. It is very de- 
licious. 

Pears, peaches, or quinces, also are fine either grated 
fine or stewed and run through a sieve, then sweetened 
very sweet and frozen. The flavor is much better pre- 
served when grated than when cooked. 

Lemon, or Orange Ice Cream. 

Squeeze a dozen lemons, and make the juice thick 
with sugar ; then stir in slowly three quarts of cream, 
and freeze it. Oranges require less sugar. 

Cream Tarts. 

One pound of sifted flour, and a salt spoon of salt. 

A quarter of a pound of rolled sugar. 

A quarter of a pound of butter, and one beaten egg. 

Sal volatile the size of a nutmeg, dissolved in a spoon- 
ful of cold water. Mix the above, and wet up with cold 
water, and line some small patties, or tartlet pans. Bake 
in a quick oven, then fill with mock cream, sprinkle 
on powdered sugar, put them back into the oven a few 
minutes till a little browned. 



Whip Syllabub. 

One pint of cream. 

Sifted white sugar to your taste. 

Half a tumbler of white wine. 



176 ARTICLES FOR CESSERTS 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Beat all to a stiff froth. 

Trifles. 

One well-beaten egg, and one tablespoonful of sugar. 

A salt spoonful of salt, and flour enough for a stiff 
dough. 

Cut it in thin round cakes, and fry in lard ; when they 
rise to the surface and are turned over, they are done. 
Drain on a sieve, and put jam or jelly on the centre of 
each. 

Nothings. 

Three well-beaten eggs, a salt spoonful of salt, and 
flour enough for a very stiff paste. Roll and cut into 
very thin cakes, fry them Hke trifles, and put two to- 
gether with jam, or jelly betweeri. 

Apple Snow. 

Put twelve very tart apples in cold water over a slow 
fire. When soft, take away the skins and cores, and 
mix in a pint of sifted white sugar ; beat the whites of 
twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and then add them to the 
apples and sugar. Put it in a dessert dish, and orna- 
ment with myrtle and box. 

Iced Fruit. 

•^ke fine bunches of currants on the stalk, dip them 
in well-beaten whites of eggs, lay them on a sieve and sift 
white sugar over them, and set them in a warm pkce to 
dry. 

Ornamental Froth. 

The whites of four eggs in a stiff froth, put into the 
syrup of preserved raspberries, or strawberries, beaten 
well together, and turned over ice cream, or blanc mange. 
Make white froth to combine with the colored in fanci- 
ful ways. It can be put on the top of boiling milk, and 
hardened to keep its form. 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 177 

To Clarify Isinglass. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a cup of boiling wa- 
ter, take off the scum, and drain through a coarse cloth. 
Jellies, candies, and blanc mange should be done in brass, 
and stirred with silver. 

Blanc Mange. 

A pint of cream, and a quart of boiled milk. 

An ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, stirred into 
the milk. Sugar to your taste. 

A teaspoonful of fine salt. 

Flavor with lemon, or orange, or rose water. 

Let it boil, stirring it well, then strain into moulds 

Three ounces of almonds pounded to a paste and ad- 
ded while boiling, is an improvement. Or filberts, or 
hickory-nuts, can be skinned and used thus. 

It can be flavored by boiling in it a vanilla bean, or a 
stick of cinnamon. Save the bean to use again. 

Calfs Foot Blanc Mange, 

Take a pint of calf's foot jelly, or American isinglass 
jelly, and put it in a sauce-pan, with the beaten yolks of 
six eggs, and stir till it begins to boil. Then sweeten 
and flavor to your taste ; set it in a pan of cold water, 
and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent curdling, and when 
it begins to thicken, put it into moulds. 

Variegated Blanc Mange. 

For evening parties a pretty ornamental vaiiety can 
be made thus. 

Color the blanc mange in separate parcels, red, with 
juice of boiled beets, or cochineal ; yellow, with saffron ; 
and blue, with indigo. 

Put in a layer of white, and when cool, a layer of 
another color, and thus as many as you like. You can 
arrange it in moulds thus, or in a dish, and when cold 
cut it in fanciful shapes. 



178 ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

Jaune Mange. 

Boil an ounce of isinglass in a little more than half a 
pint of water, till dissolved; strain it, add the juice and 
a little of the grated rind of two oranges, a gill of white 
wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten and strained, and 
sugar to your taste. Stir over a gentle fire till it just 
boils, and then strain into a mould. 

Ivory Dust Jelly, 

Boil a pound of the dust in five pints of water, till re- 
duced to one quart, strain it, add a quart more of water, 
boil till a stiff jelly, then add lemon, or orange juice and 
rinS, and sugar to your taste, and strain into moulds. 

Apple Jelly. 

Boil tart, peeled apples in a httle water; till glutinous, 
strain out the juice, and put a pound of white sugar to 
a pint of the juice. Flavor to your taste, boil till a good 
jelly, and then put it into moulds. 

Another Lemon Jelly. 

Take the clear juice of twelve lemons, and a pound of 
fine loaf sugar, and a quart of water. For each quart 
of the above mixture, put in an ounce of clarified isin- 
glass, let it boil up once, and strain into moulds. If not 
stiff enough, add more isinglass, and boil again. 
*» 

Orange Jelly. 

The juice of nine oranges and three lemons. 

The grated rind of one lemon, and one orange, pared 
thin. 

Two quarts of water, and four ounces of isinglass, 
broken up and boiled in it to a jelly. 

Add the above, and sweeten to your taste. Then add 
the whites of eight eggs, well beaten to a stiff froth, and 
boil ten minutes, strain and put into moulds, first dip- 
ped in cold water. When perfectly cold, dip the mould 
in warm water, and turn on to a glass dish. 



AND EVENlNa PARTIES. • 179 

Floating Island. 

Beat the j^olks of six eggs with the juice of four 
lemons, sweeten it to your taste, and stir it into a quart 
of boihng milk till it thickens, then pour it into a dish. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a stitf froth, and put it 
on the top of the cream, 

Aiiother Syllahuh. 

The juice and grated outer skin of a large lemon. 
Four glasses of white wine. 
A quarter of a pound of sifted white sugar. 
Mix the above, and let them stand some hours. 
Then whip it, adding a pint of thick cream, and the 
whites of two eggs cut to a froth. 

An OrnaTnental Dish. 

Pare and core, without splitting, some small-sized tart 
apples, and boil them very gently with one lemon for 
every six apples, till a straw will pass through them. 

Make a syrup of half a pound of white sugar for each 
pound of apples, put the apples unbroken, and the lemons 
sliced, into the syrup, and boil gently till the apples look 
clear. Then take them up carefully, so as not to break 
them, and add an ounce, or more, of clarified isinglass to 
the syrup, and let it boil up. Then lay a slice of lemon 
on each apple, and strain the syrup over them. 

Carrageen Blanc Mange [Irish Moss). 

Take one tea-cup full of Carrageen^ or Irish moss, af- 
ter it has been carefully picked over. Wash it thorough- 
ly in pearlash water, to take out the saline taste ; then 
rinse it in several waters, put it in a tin pail, and pour 
to it a quart of milk. Set the pail, closely covered, into 
a kettle of boiling water. Let it stand until the moss 
thickens the milk, then strain through a fine sieve, sweet- 
en with powdered loaf sugar, and flavor with rose or 
lemon. Wet the moulds in cold water, then pour in the 
blanc mange, and set it in a cool place. In two, or 
three hours, or when quite firm, it may be used. Loos- 



180 ARTICLES FOR DESSERTS 

en the edges from the moulds, and then turn it out upon 
china or glass plates. It may be served with powdered 
sugar and cream. 

A Dish of Snoio. 

Grate the white part of cocoanut, put it in a glas3 
dish and serve with currant or cranberry jellies 

To Clarify Sugar. 

Take four pounds of sugar, and break it up. 

Whisk the white of an egg, and put it with a tum- 
blerful of water into a preserving pan, and add water 
gradually, till you have two quarts, stirring well. When 
there is a good frothing, throw in the sugar, boil moder- 
ately, and skim it. If the sugar rises to run over, throw 
in a httle cold water, and then skim it, as it is then still. 
Repeat this, and when no more scum rises, strain the 
sugar for use. 

To Prepare Sugar for Candies. 

Put a coffee cup of water for each pound of sugar, 
into a brass, or copper kettle, over a slow fire. Put in, 
for each pound, say half a sheet of isinglass, and half a 
teaspoonful of gum-arabic, dissolved together. Skim off 
all impurities, and flavor to your taste. 

All sugar for candy is prepared thus, and then boiled 
till, when drawn into strings and cooled, it snaps like 
glass. 

A httle hot rum, or vinegar, must be put to loaf sugar 
candy, to prevent its being too brittle. 

Candies made thus, can be colored with boiled beet 
juice, saffron, and indigo, and it can be twisted, rolled, 
and cut into any forms. 

It can have cocoanut, almonds, hickory-nuts, Brazil, or 
peanuts, sliced, or chopped and put in. 

It can be flavored with vanilla, rose, lemon, orange, 
cloves, cinnamon, or anything you please. 

Sugar Kisses. 
Whisk four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in 



AND Evening parties,! 181 

half a pound of sifted white sugar, and flavor it as you 
hke. 

Lay it, when stiff, in heaps, on white paper, each the 
shape and size of half an eggj and an inch apart. Place 
thera on a board which is half an inch thick, and put 
them into a hot oven. When they turn a little yellow- 
ish, slip off the paper on to a table, and let them cool five 
minutes. Then slip off two of the kisses with a knife, 
and join the bottom parts together which touched the 
paper, and they, if pressed gently, will adhere. Then 
lay them on a plate, and continue till all are thus pre- 
pared. These look handsomely, and are very delicate 
and good. 

Almond Macaroons. 

Half a pound of almonds blanched, and pounded with 
a teaspoonful of essence of lemon till a smooth paste. 

Add an equal quantity of sifted white sugar, and the 
beaten whites of two eggs. Work well together with a 
spoon. 

' Dip your hand in water, and work them into balls 
the size of a nutmeg, lay them on white paper, an inch 
apart ; then dip your hand in water, and smooth them. 
Put them in a cool oven for three quarters of an hour. 

Cocoanut can be grated and used in place of the al- 
monds, and thus make cocoanut macaroons. 

Filbert Macaroons. 

Heat a quarter of a pound of filbert meats till the skin 
will rub off, and when cold pound them, and make a 
paste with a little white of an egg, add a quarter of a 
pound of white sifted sugar, and the white of an egg ; 
when well mixed, bake them Hke almond macaroons. 

Flour macaroons look as well, and are nearly as good. 
To make them, work a pint of sifted white sugar into 
one beaten egg, till a smooth paste, and add a Httle sifted 
flour, so as to mould it in your hands. Flavor with es- 
sence of lemon, or rose water, and proceed as with al- 
mond macaroons. 

16 



182 ARTICLES 5OR DESSERTS AND EVENING PARTIES. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

The white part of a cocoanut, grated. 

The whites of four eggs, well beaten. 

Half a pound of sifted w^hite sugar. 

Flavor with rose water, or essence of lemon. 

Mix all as thick as can be stirred, lay in heaps an inch 
apart, on paper, and on a baking tin ; put them in a 
quick oven, and take them out when they begin to look 
yellowish. 

Candied Fruits. 

Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to candy 
thickness, and then dry it. Grapes and some other fruits 
may be dipped in uncooked, and then dried, and they 
are fine. 

Another Way. 

Take it from the syrup, when preserved, dip it in pow- 
dered sugar, and set it on a sieve in an oven to dry. 

To make an Ornamental Pyramid for a Table. 

Boil loaf sugar as for candy, and rub it over a stiff 
form, made for the purpose, of stiff paper, which must be 
well buttered. Set it on a table, and begin at the bot- 
tom, and stick on to this frame, with the sugar, a row of 
macaroons, kisses, or other ornamental articles, and con- 
tinue till the whole is covered. When cold, draw out 
the pasteboard form, and set the pyramid in the centre 
of the table with a small bit of wax candle burning wTith 
It, and it looks very beautifully. 



TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 183 



CHAPTER XIX. 



TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 



The advocates of entire abstinence from intoxica- 
ting drinks seem to be divided into three classes. One 
class consider it to be a sin in itself, to take anything 
that contains the intoxicating principle. 

Another class adopt the temperance pledge on the 
principle urged by St. Paul in 1 Cor. 8 : 13, and engage 
not to use intoxicating drinks as a beverage, nor to of- 
fier them to others, and maintain that though neither 
their pledge nor divine command requires more than this, 
yet that, to avoid the appear ajice of evil, they will not 
use any kind of alcoholic Hquors for any purpose. Such 
will not employ it in cooking, nor keep it in their houses. 

The third class believe that the wisest course is to 
adopt the pledge " not to use, or offer to others intoxica- 
ting drinks as a heveragej'' and strictly to adhere, both to 
the spirit and letter of this pledge, but not to go beyond 
it. Such think it proper to use wine and brandy in 
cooking, and occasionally for medicinal purposes, and 
suppose that the cause of temperance will be best pro- 
moted by going no farther. The writer belongs to this 
last class, and therefore has not deemed it desirable to 
omit or alter receipts in which wine and brandy are em- 
ployed for cooking 

It has now become almost universal, in the medical 
profession, to maintain the principle, that alcoholic drinks, 
except as medicine, are never needful, but as the gene- 
ral rule, are always injurious. And they consider that 
those cases where the use of them seems to involve no 
evil, should be regarded as owing to the fact that a strong 
constitution, or some peculiarity of temperament, can oc- 
casionally resist the evil influence for a certain length of 



184 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

time, just as some persons, by similar causes, are sustain- 
ed in health in a malaria district. 

But none can tell how long a good constitution will re- 
sist tiie baleful operation of alcohol or malaria, nor are 
these exceptions any argument in favor either of in- 
toxicating drinks or a pestilential atmosphere. 

The great abundance of dehcious and healthful drinks 
that are within reach, leaves no excuse for resorting to 
such as are pernicious. The following receipts furnish 
a great variety, and many of them are very easily and 
cheaply obtained. 

In regard to effervescing drinks. Dr. Pereira remarks : 

" Water charged with carbonic acid forms a cool and 
refreshing beverage. It acts as a diaphoretic and diu- 
retic (i. e., to promote perspiration and the healthful actiou 
of the kidneys), and is a most valuable agent for check- 
ing nausea and vomiting. When it contains bicarbo- 
nate of soda in solution, it proves antacid, and is a most 
valuable beverage for persons afflicted with calculi in the 
bladder." 

The following receipts may be tried in succession, and 
some among them will suit the taste of every one. Some 
of the receipts for drinks for the sick are also very fine 
for common use. 

Gijiger Beer Powders, and Soda Poivders. 

Put into blue papers, thirty grains to each paper, of 
bicarbonate of soda, five grains of powdered ginger, and a 
drachm of white powdered sugar. Put into white papers, 
twenty-five grains to each, of powdered tartaric acid. 

Put one i)aper of each kind to half a pint of water. 
The common soda powders of the shops are hke the 
above, when the sugar and ginger are omitted. 

Soda powders can be kept on hand, and the water in 
which they are used can be flavored with any kind of 
syrup or tincture, and thus make a fine drink for hot 
weather. 

Currant Ice Water. 
Press the juice from ripe currants, strain it, and put a 



TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 185 

pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Put it into bottles, 
cork and seal it, and keep it in a cool, dry place. When 
wanted, mix it with ice water for a drink. Or put wa- 
ter with it, make it very sweet, and freeze it. Freez- 
ing always takes away much of the sweetness. 

The juices of other acid fruits can be used in the same 
way. 

iSarsaparilla Mead. 

One pound of Spanish sarsaparilla. Boil it in four 
gallons of water five hours, and add enough water to 
have two gallons. Add sixteen pounds of sugar, and 
ten ounces of tartaric acid. 

To make a tumbler of it, take half a wine-glass of the 
above, and then fill witti water, and put in half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

Effervescing Fruit Drinks. 

Tery fine drinks for summer are prepared by putting 
strawberries, raspberries, or blackberries into good vine- 
gar and then straining it off, and adding a new supply of 
fruit till enough flavor is secured, as directed in Stj-aw- 
berry Yinegar. Keep the vinegar bottled, and in hot 
weather use it thus. Dissolve half a teaspoonful or less 
of saleratus, or soda in a tumbler, very httle water till 
the lumps are all out. Then fill the tumbler two- thirds 
full of water, and then add the fruit vinegar. If several 
are to drink, put the soda, or saleratus into the pitcher, 
and then put the fiuit vinegar into each tumbler, and 
pour the alkali water from the pitcher into each tum- 
bler, as each person is all ready to drink, as delay 
spoils it. 

Effervescing Jelly Drinks. ^ 

When jams or jelUes are too old to be good for table 
use, mi^ them with good vinegar, and then use them 
with soda, or saleratus, as directed above. 

Summer Beverage. 

Ten drops of oil of sassafras. Ten drops of oil of 

16* 



186 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

spruce. Ten drops of oil of wintergreen. Two quarts 
of boiling water poured on to two great spoonfuls of 
cream tartar. Then add eight quarts of cold water, 
the oils, three gills of distillery yeast (or twice as much 
home-brewed), and sweeten it to the taste. In twenty- 
four hours, bottle it, and it is a delicious bevereige. 

Simple Ginger Beer. 

One great spoonful of ginger and one of cream tartar. 
One pint of home-brewed yeast and one pint of molas- 
ses. Six quarts of water. When it begins to ferment 
bottle it, and it will be ready for use in eight hours. 

Orange^ or Lemon Syr%ip. 

Put a pound and a half of white sugar to each pint 
of juice, add some of tne peel, boil ten minutes, then 
strain and cork it. It makes a fine beverage, and is 
useful to flavor pies and puddings. 

Acid Fruit Syrups. 

The juice of any acid fruit can be made into a syrup 
by the above receipt, using only a pound of sugar for 
each pint of juice, and kept on hand for summer drink. 

Imitation Lemon Syrup. 

Four ounces tartaric acid, powdered. Two drachms 
oil of lemon. This can be kept in a vial for a month, 
and then must be renewed. A tablespoonful put to 
water sweetened with loaf sugar, makes six glasses of 
lemonade. 

Superior Ginger Beer, 

Ten pounds of sugar. , 

Nine ounces of lemon juice. 

Half a pound of honey. 

Eleven ounces bruised ginger root. 

Nine gallons of water. Three pints of yeast. 

Boil the ginger half an hour in a gallon and a half of 



189 

TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

water, then add the rest of the water and the other in- 
gredients, and strain it when cold, add the white of 
one egg beaten, and half an ounce of essence of lemon. 
Let it stand four days then bottle it, and it will keep 
good many months. 

Lemon Sherbet 4 

Dissolve a pound and a half of loaf sugar in one 
quart of water, add the juice of ten lemons, press the 
lemons so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil of 
the rind, and let the skins remain a while in the water 
and sugar. Strain through a sieve, and then freeze it 
like ice cream. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Take the juice of a dozen oranges, and pour a pint 
of boiling water on the peel, and let it stand, covered, 
half an hour. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of 
water, skim, and then add the juice and the water in 
the peel to the sugar. Strain it and cool it with ice, 
or freeze it. The juice of two lemons and a little more 
sugar improves it. 

Sham Cham^pagne, 

One lemon sliced. 

A tablespoonful of tartaric acid. 

One ounce of race ginger. 

One pound and a half of sugar. 

Two gallons and a half of boiling water poured on to 
the above. When blood warm, add a gill of distillery 
yeast, or twice as much of home-brewed. Let it stand 
in the sun through the day. When cold in the even^ 
ing, cork and wire it. In two days it is ready for use 

Coffee. 

Mocha and Old Java are the best, and time improves 
all kinds. Dry it a long time before roasting. Roast it 
quick, stirring constantly, or it will taste raw and bit 



188 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

ter. When roasted, put in a bit of butter the size of a 
chestnut. Keep it shut up close, or it loses its strength 
and tiavor. Never grind it till you want to use it, as" 
it loses flavor by standing. 

To prepare it, put two great spoonfuls to each pint 
of water, mix it with the white, yolk, and shell of an 
eo-ffj pour on hot, but not boiling water, and boil it not 
over ten minutes. Take it off, pour in half a tea-cup 
of cold water, and in five minutes pour it off without 
shaking. When eggs are scarce, clear with fish skin, 
as below. Boiled milk improves both tea and coffee, 
but must be boiled separately. Much coffee is spoiled 
by being burned black instead of brown, and by being 
burned unequally, some too much and some too little. 
Constant care and stirring are indispensable. 

Fish Skin for Coffee, 

Take the skin of a mild codfish which has not been 
soaked, rinse and then dry it in a warm oven, after 
bread is drawn. Cut it in inch squares. One of these 
serves for two quarts of coffee, and is put in the first 
thinsr. 



Chocolate. 



Allow three large spoonfuls of scraped chocolate to 
each pint of water, or take off an inch of the cake for 
each quart of water, boil it half an hour, and do not boil 
the milk in it, but add it when wanted. 

Cocoa and Shells. 

Dry the nut in a warm oven after bread is drawn, 
pound it, and put an ounce to each pint of water. Boil 
an hour, and do not add milk till it is used. If shells 
are used, soak them over night, then boil them an hour 
in the same water. Put in as much as you like. Boil 
cocoa and chocolate the day before, cool and take off 
the oil, and then heat for use, and it is as good, and 
more healthful. 



TEMPERANCE DEINKS. 189 

Tea. 

The old-fashioned rule to put one teaspoonful for 
each person, is not proper, as thus fifty persons would 
require fifty teaspoonfuls, which is enormous. Every 
person must be guided by taste in this matter. Tea is 
spoilt unless the water is boiling when it is made. Black 
tea improves by boiling, but green is injured by it. 

Ochra. 

It is said that the seeds of ochra burnt like coffee, 
make a beverage almost exactly like it. 

Children's Drinks. 

There are drinks easily prepared for children, which 
they love much better than tea and coffee, for no child 
at first loves these drinks till trained to it: As their 
older friends are served with green and black tea, there 
is a white tea to offer them, which they will always 
prefer, if properly trained, and it is always healthful. 

White Tea. 

Put two teaspoonfuls of sugar into half a cup of good 
milk, and fill it with boiling water. 

Bop's Coffee. 

Crumb bread, or dry toast, into a bowl. 

Put on a plenty of sugar, or molasses. 

Put in one half milk and one half boiling water. 

To be eaten with a spoon, or drank if preferred. 

Molasses for sweetening is preferred by most children. 

Strawherry Vinegar. 

Put four pounds very ripe strawberries, nicely dressed, 
to three quarts of the best vinegar, and let them stand 
three, or four days. Then drain the vinegar through a 
jelly-bag, and pour it on to the same quantity of fruit. 
Repeat the process in three days a third time. 



190 TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 

Finally, to each pound of the liquor thus obtained, 
add one pomid of fine sugar. Bottle it and let it stand 
covered, but not tight corked, a week; then cork it 
tight, and set it in a dry and cool place, where it will 
not freeze. Raspberry vinegar can be made in the 
same way. 

Royal Strawberry Acid. 

Take three pounds of ripe strawberries, two ounces 
of citric acid, and one quart of spring water. Dissolve 
the acid in the water and pour it on to the strawberries, 
and let them stand in a cool place twenty-four hours. 
Then drain the liquid off and pour it on to three pounds 
more of strawberries, and let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Then add to the liquid its own weight of sugar, boil it 
three or four minutes (in a porcelain lined preserve kettle, 
lest metal may affect the taste), and when cool, cork it 
in bottles lightly for three days, and then tight, and seal 
them. Keep it in a dry and cool place, where it will 
not freeze. It is very delicious for the sick, or the well. 

Delicious Milk Lemonade. 

Pour a pint of boiling water on to six ounces of loaf 
sugar, add a quarter of a pint of lemon juice, and half 
the quantity of good sherry wine. Then add three 
quarters of a pint of cold milk, and strain the whole, to 
make it nice and clear. 

Portable Lemonade. 

Mix strained lemon juice with loaf sugar, in the pro- 
portion of four large lemons to a pound, or as much as 
it will hold in solution ; grate the rind of the lemons 
into this, and preserve this in a jar. If this is too sweet, 
add a little citric acid. Use a tablespoonful to a tum- 
bler of water. 



RECEIPTS FOR FOOD AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 191 



CHAPTER XX. 

RECEIPTS FOR FOOD AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 

General Remarks on the Preparation of Articles for 

the tSlck. 

Always have everything you use very sweet and 
clean, as the sense of taste and smell are very sensitive 
in sickness. Never cook articles for the sick over a 
smoke or blaze, as you will thus impart a smoky taste. 
When the mixture is thick, stir often to prevent burn- 
ing. Be very careful, in putting in seasoning, not to 
put in too Tnuch, as it is easy to add, but not to subtract. 

The nicest way to flavor with orange or lemon peel, 
is to rub loaf sugar on the peel till the oil is absorbed 
into it, and then use the sugar to flavor and sweeten. 
Herbs and spice, when boiled to flavor, should be tied in 
a rag, as they will not then burn on to the vessel at the 
edges. 

Always have a shawl at hand, also a clean towel, a 
clean handkerchief, and a small waiter when you pre- 
sent food or drink. Many of the articles for desserts and 
evening parties are good for the sick. 

An Excellent Relish for a Convalescent. 

Cut some codfish to bits the size of a pea, and boil it 
a minute in water to fieshen it. Pour oflf all the water, 
and add some cream and a little pepper. 

Split and toast a Boston cracker, and put the above 
upon it. Milk with a little butter may be used instead 
of cream. 

Ham or smoked beef may be prepared in the same 
way. For a variety, beat up an Qgg and stir it in, in- 
stead of cream, or with the cream. 



192 RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

These preparations are also good for a relish for a 
family at breakfast or tea. 

Several Ways of Preparing Chickens for the Sick. 

Chicken tea is made by boiling any part of the chick- 
en, and using tlie broth weak with only a Uttle salt. 

Chicken hroth is made by boiling a chicken a good 
deal, and skimming very thoroughly and seasoning 
with salt. A Httle rice, or pearl barley improves it, or 
a little parsley may be used to flavor it. 

Chicken panada is made by pounding some of the 
meat of boiled chicken in a mortar, with a little broth, 
and also a little salt and nutmeg. Then pour in a lit- 
tle broth and boil it five minutes. It should be a thick 
broth. 

Milk Porridge. 

Make a thin batter with Indian meal and wheat 
flour, a spoonful of each, and pour it into a quart of 
boiling milk and water, equal portions of each. Salt 
it to the taste. Boil ten minutes. 

Rice Gruelj and Oatmeal Gruel. 

Make a thin paste of ground rice or Indian meal, and 
pour into boihng water, or boihng milk and water. Let 
the rice boil up once, but the corn meal must boil half 
an hour. Season with salt, sugar, and nutmeg. A 
little cream is a great improvement. 

Arrowroot and Tapioca Gruels. 

Jamaica arrowroot is the best. Make a thin paste, 
and pour into boiling water, and flavot with sugar, salt, 
and nutmeg. A little lemon juice improves it. 

Tapioca must be soaked in twice the quantity of wa- 
ter over night, then add milk and water, and boil till it 
is soft. Flavor as above. 

Dropped Egg. 

Salt some boiling water, and drop in it a raw e^gg out 



AND DRINKS FOR TttE SICK. 193 

of the shell, taking- care not to break the yolk ; take it 
up as soon as the white is hardened. Dip some toast in 
hot water, and put salt or butter on to it, and lay the 
egg on the top. 

Wheat Gruel for Young Children with weak stom- 
achs, or for Invalids. 

Tie half a pint of wheat flour in thick cotton, and 
boil it three or four hours ; then dry the lump and grate 
it when 3^ou use it^ Prepare a gruel of it by making a 
thin paste, and pouring it into boiling milk and water, 
and flavor with salt. This is good for teething children. 

Another Panada. 

Boil a mixture of one-fourth wine, and three-fourths 
water, and flavor it with nutmeg or lemon. Stir in 
grated bread or crackers, and let it boil up once. 

Herb Drinks. 

Balm tea is often much relished by the sick. Sage 
tea also is good. Balm, sage, and sorrel, mixed with 
sliced lemon and boiling water poured on, and then 
sweetened, is a fine drink. Pennyroyal makes a good 
drink to promote perspiration. 

Herb drinks must often be renewed, as they grow in- 
sipid by standing. 

Other Simple Drinks. 

Pour boiling water on to tamarinds, or mashed cran- 
berries, or mashed whortleberries, then pour ofl" the wa- 
ter and sweeten it. Add a little w4ne if allowed. 

Toast bread very brown, and put it in cold water, and 
it is often relished. Pour boiling water on to bread 
toasted very brown, and boil it a minutte, then strain it, 
and add a little cream and sugar. Make a tea of parch- 
ed corn pounded, and add sugar and oream. 

Cream Tartar Whey, 

Warm a pint of fresh milk, when scalding hot, stir in 

17 



194 RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

a teaspoonful of cream tartar, and if this does not turn 
it, add more, till it does. Strain it, and sweeten with 
loaf sugar. Those who cannot eat wine whey can eat 
this without trouble, and it is good in fevers. 

Simple Wine Whey. 

Mix equal quantities of water, milk, and white wine. 
Warm the milk and water, and then add the wine. 
Sweeeten it to the taste. 

A great Favorite loith Invalids. 

Take one third brisk cider and two thirds water, 
sweeten it, and crumb in toasted bread, or toasted 
crackers, and grate on nutmeg. Acid jellies will answer 
for this, when cider cannot be obtained. 

A New Way of making Barley Water. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley into a quart 
jug, two great spoonfuls of white sugar, a small pinch 
of salt, a small bit of orange, or lemon peel, and a glass 
of calve's foot jelly, and then fill the jug with boiling 
water. Shake it, and then let it stand till quite cold. 
It is best made over night, to use next day. When the 
liquor is all poured off, it may be filled again with boil- 
ing water, and it is again very good. 

Panada. 

Take two crackers, pour on boiling water, and let it 
simmer five minutes ; beat up an egg. sweeten and fla- 
vor it to your taste, and then put the cracker to it. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot to one quart 
of milk, and a pinch of salt. Scald the milk, sweeten 
it, and then stir in the arrowroot, which must first be 
wet up with some of the milk. Let it boil up once. 
Orange water, rose water, or lemon peel, can be used tci 
flavor it. Pour it into moulds to cool. 



AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 195 

Rice Flour Blanc Mange. 

Four tablespoonfuls of ground rice and a pinch of 
salt wet up with a little milk and stirred into a quart 
of boiling milk. Rub the rind of a lemon with hard, re- 
fined sugar, till all the oil is absorbed, and use the su- 
gar to sweeten to your taste. Boil, stirring well, for 
eight minutes ; then cool it, and add the whites of three 
eggs cut to a froth. Put it on to the fire, and stir con- 
stantly till boiling hot, then turn it into moulds, or cups, 
and let it stand till cold. 

Another Receipt for American Isinglass Jelly. 

One ounce of gelatine, or American isinglass. 

Three pints of boiling water. 

A pound and a half of loaf sugar. 

Three lemons, cut in sHces, leaving out the peel of 
one. 

The whites of four eggs, cut to a stiff froth. 

Soak the isinglass half an hour in cold water, then 
take it out and pour on the boihng water. When cool, 
add the sugar, lemon, and whites of eggs ; boil all three 
or four minutes, then strain through a jelly-bag, and 
add wine to your taste. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

One cup full of tapioca. 

Wash it two or three times, soak it in water, for five 
or six hours. Then simmer it in the same water in 
which it has been soaked, with a pinch of salt and bits of 
fresh lemon peel, until it becomes transparent. Then 
add lemon juice, wine, and loaf sugar to flavor it. Let 
all simmer well togethei-, then pour into glasses to cool. 

Caudle 

To rice, or water gruel, add a wine-glass of wine, or 
ale, and season with nutmeg and sugar. 

Sago Jelly. 
Soak a tea-cup full of sago in cold water, half an hour, 



l9b RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

then pour off the water, and add fresh, and soak it 
another half hour ; and then boil it slowly with a pinch 
of salt, a stick of cinnamon, or a bit of orange, or lem- 
on peel, stirring constantly. When thickened, add wine 
and white sugar to suit the taste, and let it boil a 
minute ; then turn it into cups. 

Spiced Chocolate. 

One quart of milk. 

Two squares of chocolate. 

One stick of cinnamon. 

A httle nutmeg. 

Grate the chocolate. Boil the milk, reserving a little 
cold to moisten the chocolate, which must be mixed 
perfectly smooth to a thin paste. When the milk boils 
(in which the cinnamon must be put when cold, and 
boil in it), stir in the chocolate, and let it boil up quickly, 
then pour into a pitcher, and grate on the nutmeg. 
Rich cream added to the milk, will improve it. 

Barley Water. 

Put two ounces of pearl barley to half a pint of boil- 
ing water, and let it simmer five minutes ; pour off the 
water, and add two quarts of boiUng water, add two 
ounces sliced figs, two of stoned raisins, and boil till it is 
reduced to a quart. Strain it for drink. 

Water Gruel. 

To two quarts of boiling water, add one gill of In- 
dian meal and a heaped tablespoonful of flour, made 
into a paste and stirred in the water. Let it boil slow- 
ly twenty minutes. Salt, sugar, and nutmeg to the 
taste. 

Oatmeal makes a fine gruel in the same way. 

Beef Tea. 

Broil a pound of tender, juicy beef ten minutes, salt 
and pepper it, cut it in small pieces, pour on a pint of 



AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 197 

boiling water, steep it half an hour, and then pour it off 
to drink. Another way is slower, but better. Cut the 
beef in small pieces, fill a junk J30ttle with them, and 
keep it five hours in boiling water. Then pour out, and 
season the juice thus obtained. 

Tomato Syru'p. 

Express the juice of ripe tomatoes, and put a pound 
of sugar to each quart of the juice, put it in bottles, and 
set it aside. In a few weeks it will have the appear- 
ance and flavor of pure wine of the best kind, and mix- 
ed with water is a delightful beverage for the sick. 
No alcohol is needed to preserve it. 

The medical properties of the tomato are in high re- 
pute, and it is supposed that this syrup retains all that 
is contained in the fruit. 

Arrowroot Custard for Invalids. 

One tablespoonful of arrowroot. 

One pint of milk. One egg. 

One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Mix the arrowroot with a little of the cold milk, 
put the milk into a sauce-pan over the fire, and when it 
boils, stir in the arrowroot and the egg and sugar, well 
beaten together. Let it scald, and pour into cups to 
cool. A little cinnamon boiled in the milk flavors it 
pleasantly. 

Sago for Invalids. 

Wash one large spoonful of sago, boil it in a little 
water, With a pinch of salt and one or two sticks of cin- 
namon, until it looks clear ; then add a pint of milk, 
boil all well together, and sweeten with loaf sugar. 

Rice Jelly. 

Make a thin paste of two ounces of rice flour, and 
three ounces of loaf sugar, and boil them in a quart of 
water till transparent. Flavor with rose, orange, or 

17* 



198 RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

cinnamon water. It can be made also by boiling whole 
rice long and slowly. A pinch of salt improves it. 

Sassafras Jelly. 

Take the pith of sassafras boughs, break it in small 
pieces, and let it soak in cold water till the water be- 
comes glutinous. It has the flavor of sassafras, and is 
much relished by the sick, and is also good nourish- 
ment. 

Buttermilk Whey. 

One quart of good buttermilk. When boiling, beat 
up the yolk of an egg^ and stir in, and, if it can be al- 
lowed, some thick cream, or a little butter. Then beat 
the white to a stiff froth and stir in. Sugar and spice 
if liked. 

Alum Whey. 

Mix half an ounce of pounded alum with one pint of 
milk. Strain it, and add sugar and nutmeg to the 
whey. It is good in cases of hemorrhages, and some- 
times for colic. 

Another Wine Whey. 

One pint of boiling milk. 

Two wine-glasses of wine. 

Boil them one moment, stirring. 

Take out the curd, and sweeten and flavor the whey. 

Mulled Wine. 

One pint of wine and one pint of water. 
Beat eight eggs and add to the above, while boiling, 
stirring rapidly. As soon as it begins to boil it is done. 

Tainarind Whey. 

Mix an ounce of tamarind pulp with a pint of milk, 
strain it, and add a little white sugar to the whey. 



AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 19& 

Egg Tea and Egg Coffee [very fine). 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a great spoonful of 
sugar, and put it to a tea-cup of cold tea or cold coffee. 
Add a half a tea-cup of water, cold in summer and boil- 
ing in winter, and as much cream. Then whip the 
white of the q^^ to a stiff froth and stir it in. It is very 
much rehshed by invalids. 

Cranberry Tea. 

Wash ripe cranberries, mash them, pour boihng 
water on them, and then strain off the water and 
sweeten it, and grate on nutmeg. 

Apple Tea. 

Take good pippins, shce them thin, pour on boiling 
water, and let it stand some time. Pour off the water, 
and sweeten and flavor it. 

Egg and Milk. 

Beat the yolk of an egg into a great spoonful of 
white sugar, or more. Add a coffee cup of good milk, 
then beat the w^hite of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir 
it in. A little wine, or nutmeg to flavor it. 

Sago Milk. 

Soak one ounce of sago in a pint of cold water an 
hour. Pour off the water, and add a pint and a half of 
new milk. Simmer it slowly till the sago and milk .are 
well mixed. Flavor with sugar, nutmeg, and wine. 

I Tapioca Milk. 

Made like sago milk, only not boiled so long. 

Bread and Milk. 

Take a slice of good bread and soak it in milk, and 
then put on a little butter, and it is often very accept- 
able to the sick. In some cases sprinkle a httle salt on 
instead of butter. 



200 RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

Egg Gruel. 

Beat the yoik of an egg with a spoonful of white sugar, 
and then beat the white separately, to a stiff froth. Pour 
water when boihng to the yolk, then stir in the white 
and add spice, or any seasoning, to suit the taste. 
When a person has taken a violent cold, after being 
warm in bed give this as hot as it can be taken, and it 
is often a perfect cure. 

Ground Rice Gruel. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of ground rice, and a pinch 
of salt, and mix it with milk enough for a thin batter. 
Stir it with a pint of boiling water, or boiling milk, and 
flavor with sugar and spice. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Four tablespoonfuls of grits (coarse oatmeal) and a 
pinch of salt, into a pint of boiling water. Strain and 
flavor it while warm. 

Or, take fine oatmeal and make a thin batter with a 
little cold water, and pour it into a sauce-pan of boihng 
water. 

Simple Barley Water. 

Take two ounces and a half of pearl barley, cleanse 
it, and boil it ten minutes in half a pint of water. Strain 
out this water and add two quarts of boihng water, and 
boil it down to one quart. Then strain it, and flavor it 
with slices of lemon and sugar, or sugar and nutmeg. 

This is very acceptable to the sick in fevers. 

Compound Barley Water. 

Take two pints of simple barley water, a pint of hot 
water, two and a half ounces of shced figs, half an 
ounce of liquorice root sliced and bruised, and two 
ounces and a half of raisins. Boil all down to two pints, 
and strain it. This is slightly aperient. 



AN© PRINKS FOR THE SICK. 201' 

Cream Tartar Beverage. 

Take two even teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and pour 
on a pint of boiling water, and flavor it with white sugar 
and lemon peel to suit the taste. If this is too acid, add 
more h oiling water, as cold, or lukewarm water, is not 
so good. 

Seidlitz Powders. 

Two drachms of Rochelle salts, and two scruples of 
bicarbonate of soda, in a white paper ; thirty-five grains 
of tartaric acid in a blue one. 

Dissolve that in the white paper in nearly half a 
tumbler of water, then add the other powder, dissolved 
in another half tumbler of water. 

Syrup mixed with the water makes it more agree- 
able. It it a gentle laxative. 

Blackberry Syrup ^ for Cholera and Summer Com- 
plaint. 

Two quarts of blackberry juice. 
One pound of loaf sugar. 
Half an ounce of nutmegs. 
A quarter of an ounce of cloves. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon. 
Half an ounce of allspice. 

Pulverize the spice, and boil all for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. When cold, add a pint of brandy. 

Remarks on the Combi?iations of Cooking. 

The preceding receipts have been tested by the best 
housekeepers. In reviewing them, it will be seen that 
there are several ways of combining the various articles,, 
all of which have, in the hands of good housekeepers, 
proved successful. Still it will be found that some meth- 
ods are more successful than others. 

In most cases, the receipts have heen written as given 
by the ladies, who endorse them as the best. But it is 
believed that the following general rules will enable a 
housekeeper to modify some of them to advantage. 



202 RECEIPTS FOR FOOD 

In using the whites of eggs, it is found, as shown by 
several receipts, that various combinations are much 
lighter when they are cut to a froth, and put in the last 
thing. This is so in batter puddings, and several other 
receipts. It seems, therefore, probable that in all cases, 
cake and pies, and puddings that will allow it, will be 
lighter by adding the cut whites of the eggs the last iiiin- 
ute before cooking. Sponge cake especially w^ould most 
probably be most easily made light by this method. 

In using alkalies with acids to raise mixtures, the 
poorest is pearlash, the next best is saleratus ; bicarbo- 
nate of soda is still better, and sal volatile is best of all. 

But one thing must be remembered in reference to 
sal volatile, and that is, that the hghtness made by it is 
owing to the disengagement of the gas by heat. It is 
mixed with the flour, and when set in the oven, the heat 
volatihzes and expels the gas, and thus the lightness is in- 
duced. Of course hot water must not be used to dissolve 
it, as it would expel much of the gas. Sal volatile must 
be kept powdered, and closely confined in glass bottles 
with ground glass stoppers. It is certain to make any 
mixture light that can be raised by anything. 

Cream tartar is best bought in lumps, and then pul- 
verized and kept corked. 

When saleratus is used with sour milk or buttermilk, 
the flour should be wet up with the sour milk, and then 
the alkali dissolved, and worked in. This makes the 
effervescence take place in the mixtnre ; whereas, if the 
alkali is put into the sour liquid, much of the carbonic 
acid generated is lost before it reaches the flour. 

In all cases, then, where saleratus is used with acid 
welting, it would seem best to wet up the flour with at 
least a part of the sour liquid, before putting in the al- 
kaU. 

When the alkali is a light powder, it may sometimes 
be mixed thoroughly with the flour, and then the sour 
liquid be mixed in. The experiment can be made by 
any who like to learn the result. A lady who under- 
stands chemistry may often improve her receipts by ap- 
plying chemical principles. All the lightness made by 



AND DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 203 

an acid and an alkali is owing to the disengagement of 
carbonic acid, which is retained by the gluten of the 
flour. Of course, then, that mode is best which secures 
most effectually all the carbonic acid generated by the 
combination. 

Cooking is often much improved by a judicious use 
of sugar or molasses. Thus, in soups, a very little su 
gar, say half a teaspoonful to the quart, gives body to the 
soup, and just about as much sweetness as is found in the 
juices of the best and sweetest kinds of meat. It is 
very good when the meats used are of inferior kind, 
and destitute of sweetness. So in preparing vegetables 
that are destitute of sweetness, a little sugar is a great 
improvement. Mashed turnips, squash, and pumpkin, 
are all of them much improved by extracting all the wa- 
ter, and adding a little sugar, especially so when they 
are poor. 

A little molasses always improves all bread or cakes 
made of unbolted wheat or rye. 

A little lard or butter always improves cakes made of 
Indian meal, as it makes them light and tender. 

The careful use of salt is very important in cooking. 
Everything is better to have the salt cooked in it, but 
there should always be a little less salt than most would 
like, as it is easy for those who wish more to add it, but 
none can subtract it. 

When the shortening is butter, no salt is needed in 
cakes and puddings, but in all combinations that have no 
salt in shortening, it must be added. A little salt in 
sponge cake, custards, and the articles used for desserts, 
made of gelatine, rice, sago, and tapioca, is a great im- 
provement, giving both body and flavor. 



204 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

ON MAKING BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

The directions in this article were given by a prac- 
tical amateur cheese-maker of Goshen, Conn., a place 
distinguished all over the nation for the finest butter 
and cheese. 

Articles used in Making Cheese. 

The articles used in making cheese are, a large tub, 
painted inside and outside, to hold the milk, a large 
brass kettle to heat it, a cheese basket, cheese hooks, 
cheese ladders, strainers of loose linen cloth, and a 
cheese press. 

It is indispensable that all the articles used be first 
washed thoroughly, then scalded, and then dried thor- 
oughly, before putting away. 

Mode of Preparing the Rennet. 

Do not remove any part of the curd that may be 
found in the rennet (which is the stomach of a calf), as 
it is the best part. Take out everything mixed with 
the curd in the stomach. Soak the rennet in a quart 
of water, then hang it to dry, where flies will not reach 
it, and keep the water bottled for use. Rennet differs in 
strength, so that no precise rule can be given for quan- 
tity, but say about half a tea-cup full to two pails of milk. 

To Make Cheese. 

Strain the milk into the tub, keeping in all the cream. 
Heat a portion, and then add it to the cold, till the whole is 
raised to 98"" or 100° Fahrenheit ; no more and no less. 
Then put in the rennet, stirring well, and take enough 



JL, 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 205 

to have the curd form well in an hour. If it does not 
form well, more must be stirred in. 

When the curd is formed, cut it in small checks to th 
bottom, and then break it gently with a skimmer, to make 
the whey separate. If this is not done gently, the milk 
runs off, the whey turns white, and the cheese is inju- 
red. The greener the whey, the better the cheese. 

When the whey is separated, set the basket over the tub, 
spread the strainer over, and dip the curd into it, occa- 
sionally lifting the corners to hasten the draining. 

Then draw up the corners, twist them, and set a stone 
on, to press out the whey for ten minutes. Then again 
cut up the curd, and press it again as before. Con- 
tinue thus till it is thoroughly drained. Then press it 
all into some regular form, and in cool weather it may 
stand till next morning for more cheese to be added. 
But if the weather is hot, it must be scalded the first 
day. 

To Scald the Curd. 

Cut, or chop the curd into cakes the fourth of an 
inch in size, put it in the strainer, and immerse it 
in the brass kettle of warm water, enough to cover it. 
Then raise the temperature to 105°. Stir it well till 
warmed through, say half an hour. Then gradually 
add cold water, till reduced to 88° or 90°. Then 
drain the curd thoroughly as before, and salt it, al- 
lowing four ounces of salt to every ten pounds of curd, 
and mixing very thoroughly. Then put it into the 
small strainers, and then into the cheese hoops, laying 
the strainer over smoothly, and placing the follower on 
it. Put it to press, and let it remain two days. When 
taken from the press, grease it with common butter or 
butter made of whey cream, and set it on a shelf in a 
dark, cool room. Grease and turn it every day till firm, 
and for six months grease and turn it often. 

If the cheese is to be colored, boil anatto with ley, 
and put to the milk with the rennet. To make sage 
cheese, put ih sage juice (some add to the sage spin- 
ach juice) when you put in the rennet. Sew strips of 
strong cotton around large cheeses, when taken from 

18 



206 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

the press, to preserve their form. In fly time, put cay- 
enne pepper in the butter you rub on. 

Stilton cheese is made of milk enriched by cream, 
and of a small size. 

Cottage cheese is made by pressing the curds of milk, 
and when free from whey, adding cream or butter and 
salt. 

Welsh rabbit is made by melting cheese and adding 
wine and other seasoning. 

Old and dry cheese is very good grated and mixed 
with a Httle brandy, just enough to wet it up. 

Directions for making Butter. 

Two particulars are indispensable to success in mat- 
ing good butter ; the first is, that the churning be fre- 
quent, so that the cream will not grow bitter, or sour ; 
and the second is cleanliness in all the implements an 
processes connected with it. 

In hot weather it is important to keep the milk, cream, 
and butter as cool as possible. For this purpose, those 
who have no ice-house, or very cool milk-room, hang 
their cream down a well. In winter it is needful to raise 
the temperature of the cream a little, while churning, 
but care must be taken to do it very slightly, or the but- 
ter is injured. The best way is to warm the churn, and 
churn in a warm room. 

After the weather gets cold, the cream rises more per- 
fectly after allowing the milk to stand say ten or eleven 
hours, to set it over a furnace a while till it is warmed 
through, but not heated hot enough to boil. Then take 
it back, let it stand eleven hours longer, and skim it. 
This secures more, and better cream. 

In hot weather, set the churn into a tub of cold wa- 
ter, and churn steadily, as stopping puts back the pro- 
cess, and injures the butter. In hot weather, do not 
churn very fast, as it makes soft butter. When the but- 
ter has come, collect it in a wooden bowl, which is the 
best article to work it in, having first scalded it, and then 
put it in cold water till cold. Do not use the hand in 
working over butter, as it injures it so much that a high 



BUTTER AND CHEESE. 207 

er price is often paid for butter made without using the 
hand. 

A wooden spad made for the purpose is the proper ar- 
ticle for working over butter. 

As soon as the butter is put in the bowl, pour in as 
much of the coldest water as will allow you to work the 
butter, and keep adding and pouring off cold water, as 
you work it, until the water will run off clear. It is con- 
tinuing this process until all the buttermilk is extracted, 
which alone will secure butter that will keep good and 
sweet. Water hastens the process, but butter keeps 
longer not to have it used. 

No precise direction can be given for salting, as tastes 
vary so much in regard to this. It is a good way to no- 
tice the proportions which are most agreeable, and note 
the measure, and then measure ever after. 

In salting down in firkins, use the nicest rock salt, as 
much depends on the nature of the salt. The firkins 
must be very thoroughly seasoned, and the bottom cov- 
ered with salt, and the sides rubbed with it. Pack the 
butter in layers, with salt between. After a few days, 
the butter will shrink from the sides, and then the space 
must be filled with new and nice brine. Muslin spread 
under and over the layer of salt, between the layers of 
butter is a good plan, as it saves the butter. 

It is said that butter will be preserved sweet a long 
time for journeys, or voyages, by working into it very 
thoroughly a mixture composed of one-fourth salt, one- 
fourth saltpetre, and two-fourths white sugar. 

In large dairies, the milk is churned soon after it is 
taken from the cow. 

The quaUty of butter depends very much upon the 
kind of cows. Those who give a great deal of milk, are 
usually small and thin. Every cow should have a tea- 
cup full of salt each week, and must be well fed. Green 
cornstalks and carrots, are excellent for cows. Turnips, 
cabbage, and parsnips spoil the milk. The waste of 
the kitchen, with a quart of corn meal, and as much 
hay as she will eat daily, is good fare. Skimmed milk 
for drink is good, and if it is refused, withhold water, and 



208 BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

the cow will learn to love it. Milk three times a day, 
and you get much more cream ; stripping must be done 
thoroughly, or you lose cream, and dry up the cow. 
Never make a cow run, as it injures the milk. Use tin 
vessels for milk. 

A stoneware churn is best, and a tin one is better 
than wood. Keep milk in a cool place, where air cir- 
culates freely ; close air spoils milk and cream. Never 
stir milk after it is set, as it stops the rising of the cream. 
Skim milk as soon as it becomes loppard. Put a httle 
ice in each pan in hot weather, and you get more cream. 
In skimming milk, do not scrape off the hardest portion 
that adheres to the pan, as it injures the butter. Put 
a spoonful of salt to each pailful of milk (except what is 
for family use), and it makes the butter sweeter, and 
come easier. Salt your cream as you gather it, and it 
keeps better, and makes sweeter butter. In hot weath- 
er churn in the coolest part of the day, and in a cool 
place, and do not shut the air out of the churn, as it is 
necessary to make the butter come. Butter is best, to 
work it enough the first time. Never work it three 
times. It will keep better to work out the buttermilk 
without putting in water. The more entirely it is freed 
from buttermilk, the longer it will keep sweet. 

A good brine is made for butter by dissolving a quart 
of fine salt, a pound of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of 
saltpetre in two quarts of water, and then strain it on 
to the butter. Packed butter is most perfectly preserved 
sweet by setting the firkin into a larger firkin, and fill- 
ing in with good brine, and covering it. Butter will 
keep sweet a year thus. 

Buttermilk kept in potter's ware dissolves the glazing, 
and becomes poisonous. 

Never scald strainers or milky vessels till thoroughly 
washed, as the milk or cream put in them will be in- 
jured by it. The best way to scald such vessels is to 
plunge them all over into scalding water, and then every 
spot is scalded. 

Butter will sometimes not come because the air is toa 
much excluded from the churn. 



i 



ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES FOR THE SICK. 209 



CHAPTER XXII. 

ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES FOR THE SICK. 

" In some maladies," says Dr. Pereira, " as fevers 
and acute inflammatory diseases, an almost unlimited 
use of fluids is admitted, under the names of slops ^ thin 
diet, fever diet, broth diet, &c. They quench thirst, 
lessen the stimulating- quality of the blood, increase its 
fluidity, and promote the actions of the secreting organs. 
They are sometimes useful, also, in lessening the irrita- 
ting contents of the alimentary canal." 

" But in some maladies it is necessary to restrict the 
quantity of fluids taken, or, in other words, to employ a 
drj/ dietJ^ 

As it is so customary for invalids to throng to watering 
places, the following remarks contain very important 
cautions. 

" The Congress Water at Saratoga," says Dr. Lee, 
" though it possesses active medical qualities, yet, except 
in diseases attended with inflammatory action, seldom 
occasions unpleasant consequences, unless drank in very 
large quantities, when it often causes serious, if not dan- 
gerous effects." Dr. Steel, a physician who has devoted 
much attention to this subject, remarks, " About three 
pints should be taken, an hour or two before breakfast, 
and be followed by exerci^, to produce a cathartic effect. 
Where more is needed for this effect, add a teaspoonful 
or two of Epsom salts to the first tumbler. It should 
not be drank at all during the remainder of the day by 
those who wish to experience the full benefit of its use. 
It would be better for those whose complaints render them 
fit subjects for its administration, if the fountain should 
be locked up, and no one suffered to approach it after the 
hour of nine or ten in the morning." 

It is probable that multitudes who frequent mineral 

18* 



210 ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES 

springs, not only lose all benefit, but suffer injury by the 
excessive use of the water. Such waters should, by in- 
valids, be taken under the direction of a physician well 
acquainted with their nature and uses. 

Alcoholic drinks should never be given to the sick, ex- 
cept by direction of a physician, as they are powerful 
medical agents, and in some cases would increase dis- 
ease. 

The acid drinks are ordinarily those most relished by 
the sick, and they are, usually, very serviceable, espe- 
cially in febrile and other inflammatory attacks. Ice 
cream and drinks are good for the sick, especially in 
fevers. 

When a person is debihtated by sickness, the stomach 
should never be loaded with rich food. Nor should the 
palate be tempted by favorite articles, when no appetite 
for food exists, as this is the indication of nature that the 
stomach is in no order to digest food. 

Dr. Lee remarks, " We regard rice as the most valu- 
able of all the articles of food, in cases of the derange- 
ment of the digestive organs. It nourishes, while it soothes 
the irritable mucous membrane, and while it supports 
strength, never seems to aggravate the existing disease. 
For acute, or chronic affections of the alimentary canal, 
rice water for drink, and rice jelly for food, seem peculiar- 
ly well adapted, and appear to exert a specific influence 
in bringing about a recovery. These preparations are 
invaluable also in convalescence from acute fevers and 
other maladies, and in the summer complaints of young 
children." 

" Isinglass is a very pure form of gelatine, and dis- 
solved in milk, sweetened and flavored, is taken with 
advantage by convalescents when recovering from de- 
bihty." 

Cod sounds, and the American gelatine, are equally 
good. Calve's foot jelly, blanc mange, and other gelat- 
inous food, are among the best kinds of nourishment, 
especially in cases of cholera infantum. The slight 
quantity of spice or Wine used to flavor such articles, ex- 
cept in peculiar cases, cannot do any injury. 



FOR THE SICK. 211 

Buttered toast, either dry or dipped, rarely is a suitable 
article for the sick, as melted oils are very difficult of di- 
gestion. Where there are strong powers of digestion, it 
may be proper. 

Many cases of illness, among both adults and children, 
are readily cured by abstinence from all food. Head- 
aches, disordered stomachs, and many other attacks, are 
caused, often, by violating the rules of health laid down in 
the preceding chapter, and in consequence, some part of the 
system is overloaded, or some of the organs are clogged. 
Omitting one, two, or three meals, as the case may be, 
gives the system a chance to rest, and thus to gain 
strength, and allows the clogged organs to dispose of 
their burdens. The practice of giving drugs to "clear 
out the stomach," though it may afford the needed re- 
lief, always weakens the system, while abstinence se- 
cures the good result, and yet does no injury. 

Said a young gentleman to a distinguished medical 
practitioner of Philadelphia, — " Doctor, what do you do 
for yourself, when you. have a turn of headache, or other 
sHght attack ?" " Go without my dinner," was the re- 
ply. " Well, if that v^U not do, what do you do then ?" 
" Go without my supper," was the answer. " But if that 
does not cure you, what then ?" " Go without my 
breakfast. We physicians seldom take medicines our- 
selves, or use them in our families, for we know that 
starving is better, but we cannot make our patients be- 
lieve it." 

Many cases of slight indisposition are cured by a 
change of diet. Thus, if a person suffers from consti- 
pation, and, as the consequence, has headaches, slight at- 
tacks of fever, or dyspepsia, the cause often may be re- 
moved: by eating rye mush and molasses for breakfast, 
brown bread, baked apples, an(J other fruits. 

In cases of diarrhoea, rice water for drink, and rice 
pudding or jelly, will often remove the evil. 

In cases of long-continued confinement from sickness, 
it is very desirable to have a good variety of articles for 
the sick, as the invaUd is wearied with the same round, 



212 ARTICLES AI^D CONVENIENCES ' 

and perhaps may be suiTering for some ingredient of 
food, which is not found in the articles provided. 

For tliis reason, a large number of receipts of articles 
for the sick have been provided in this work. In pre- 
paring them, great care should be used to have every 
article employed clean and pure, and to prevent any 
burning in cooking, as the sensibilities of the sick to bad 
tastes and smells are very acute. 

It is often the case in dyspepsia and cholera infantum, 
that jellies of American gelatine are very much better 
than any preparations of farinaceous food, being much 
more easily digested. 

It would be a happy thing for the sick, and a most 
benevolent custom, if the young ladies of a place should 
practise cooking the various articles for the sick, and car- 
rying tbem to invalids as an offering of kindness and 
sympathy. It would be twice a blessing, first to the 
invalid, and quite as much to the young benefactress. 

There are many little comforts and alleviations for 
the sick, which should be carefully attended to, which 
are particularly pointed out m the chapter on the Care of 
the Sick, in the Domestic Economy. Such, for exam- 
ple, as keeping a room neat, clean, and in perfect or- 
der, having every article in use sweet and clean, keep- 
ing a good supply of cool water, providing pleasant per- 
fumes, lemons, flowers, and other objects agreeable to the 
senses, speaking softly, kindly, and cheerfully, and read- 
ing the Bible and other cheering books of the kind, when- 
ever it will be acceptable. Be careful to change the lin- 
en next the skin, and the bed linen, often. Be sure to 
ventilate the room thoroughly, two or three times a day, 
as pure air is a great restorative of health and strength. 
Wash the skin often, as it has a great tendency to re- 
store health, and never, except in very peculiar cases, 
can do any harm. 

Always request a physician to write all his directions, 
that no mistake may be made, and nothing be forgotten. 
Always inquire of him as to the exact mode of prepar- 
ing every article ordered, and never venture to alter, 
or omit, what he directs, unless you are sure that you 



FOR THE SICK. 



213f 



are better qualified to practise than he, in which case 
he should be dismissed, and you should assume his 
duties. 

Always keep all medicines in papers and vials, label- 
led^ that poisons be not given by mistake, or other inju- 
rious articles used. 

The drawing at Fig. 5 represents a contrivance for 
the sick, which ought to be prepared in every village, to 
rent out to those who need it. 



Fig. 5. 




It is called the Water Bed, or Hydrostatic Couch, 
and is made at an expense of from twelve to fifteen dol- 
lars. The object of it is to relieve the sufferings of those 
who, from extreme emaciation, or from ulcers, or bed 
sores, are great sufferers from the pressure of the bed on 
these sore places. This kind of bed proves a great re- 
lief from this kind of suffering. 

It consists of a wooden box, six feet long, and two feet 
and a half wide at the top, and the sides gradually sloping 
inward, making it fourteen inches deep. This is lined 
with sheet zinc, to make it water tight. Over this is 
thrown, and fastened to the edge of the box, a sheet of 
thick India rubber, water-proof cloth, large enough for 
an entire lining to the inside of the box. The edges 
of it are first made to adhere to the upper edge of the 
box with spirit varnish, and then a thin strip of board is 
nailed on, to fasten it firml)^, and make it water tight. 
Near the bottom, at A, is a hole and plug, to let off" 
water ; and at B, a tin tube, soldered in the upper part 
of the outside, to pour water in. When used, the box 
is to be filled half full of water, about blood warmth. 
Then a woollen blanket and pillow are laid upon the In- 



214 ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES 

dia rubber cloth, and the patient laid on them, and he 
will float as he would in water, and there will be no 
pressure on any part of the body greater than is felt 
when the body is in water. 

This is important for all who suffer from bed sores, or 
sloughing in protracted fevers, from diseases in the hip- 
joint, from diseases of the spine, lingering consumption, 
and all diseases that compel to a protracted recumbent 
position. None but those who have seen, or experien- 
ced the relief and comfort secured to sufferers by this bed, 
can conceive of its value. The writer saw the case of a 
young man, who was enduring indescribable tortures 
with the most dreadful ulcers all over his body, and who 
had for several days and nights been unable to sleep, 
from extreme suffering. This bed was made for him, 
as an experiment, after trying every other mode of re- 
lief in vain. It was placed by his bedside, and the wa- 
ter poured in, and then his friends raised him with the 
greatest care in a blanket, and laid him on it. Instant- 
ly his groans ceased, an expression of relief and delight 
stole over his countenance, and exhausted nature sunk 
instantly into the most peaceful and protracted slumbers. 
And ever after, he was reheved from his former suffer- 
ings. Every hospital, every alms-house, and every vil- 
lage should have the means of obtaining such a bed for 
the many classes of sufferers who would thus find relief, 
and it is woman who should interest herself to secure 
such a comfort for the sick, who especially are commend- 
ed to her benevolent ministries. 




The drawing, AA, is the outline of a sick couch, such 
as would prove a great comfort in every family, and at 



FOR THE SICK. 215 

a small expense. The following are the dimensions . — • 
Length of seat inside, six feet three inches ; breadth, 
twenty-eight inches ; height of the seat from the floor, 
thirteen inches. The swing frame, dd^ is three feet long, 
and is fastened three feet from the head-board by a very 
large pin or screw. The seat should be of sacking, and a 
thick hair mattrass, or cushion for a bed or cushion and 
be divided into two parts, where the swing frame is 
fastened. The frame is fastened by large screws at^. 
The supporter, ee, is fastened by large and strong hinges 
to the upper part of the frame, and is moved into the notch- 
es made in the frame of the seat. When in the notch 
a, the frame is very low ; when in notch 6, it is higher ; 
and when at c, it is as high as is needful to raise the 
sick. A piece of sacking is to be fastened over the frame, 
leaving it loose, especially at the top, and leaving a space 
at 0, so as to give room for a pillow, and so that the head 
can be thrown a little back. The frame and supporter 
must be thick and strong. When not in use for the 
sick, the frame can be laid down, and the cushion laid 
over it, and then with a frill fastened in front, it makes 
a good-looking and most comfortable chamber couch, or 
a lolling sofa for a sitting-room. 

Such a couch saves much labor to friends and nurses, 
because it is so low, so easily moved, and the nurse can 
go around it and work on both sides so easily, while the 
frame raises the patient with great ease and comfort. It 
would be a good plan to engage some carpenter or cabi- 
net-maker, in every village, to provide such an article to 
to rent out, and probably it would be in constant de- 
mand. 

The frame, supporter, hinges, and screws, must be 
very strong, or they will break. 

Fig. 6 represents a contrivance for securing exercise 
in the open air for invalids, which would often prove con- 
venient and agreeable. 

Such an article can be easily made of the broken toy 
of a child, called a velocipede, or the back wheels of a 
child's wagon. Nothing but shafts are needed, and a 
common rocking-chair, with a foot-board nailed across 



216 ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES FOR THE SICK. 

Fig. 6. 




the front rocker, on which to rest the feet. The chair 
is then slipped along back to the axle of the wheels, so that 
the shafts, when raised, are under the seat, and lift it up. 
In this way an invalid can be rolled through yards and 
gardens with very little effort, and with great comfort 
and relief to the imprisoned sufferer, who perhaps can 
ride in no other way. 

There is no way of relieving the weariness and nerv- 
ousness of an invalid more effectually than by rubbing 
the limbs and arms with the bare hand of a healthful 
person. 

Those who believe in animal magnetism would say, 
that by this method, the well person imparts a portion 
of the magnetism of a healthful body to aid in restoring 
the sick. Those who do not believe in it, will say that 
it soothes and strengthens the nerves. Either way, 
it is a great comfort to a suffering invalid. 

It is unhealthful to sleep with a sick person, especial- 
ly one who has lung complaints, as the breath and efflu- 
via from the skin sometimes communicate disease, even 
in complaints not contagious. Young children should 
not sleep with the aged, because their healthful fluids 
will be absorbed. 



THE PROVIDING AND CARE OF FAMILY STORES. 217 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

THE PROVIDING AND CARE OF FAMILY STORES. 

The art of keeping a good table, consists, not in load- 
ing on- a variety at each rneal, but rather in securing a 
successive variety, a table neatly and tastefully set, and 
everything that is on it, cooked in the best manner. 

There are some families who provide an abundance 
of the most expensive and choice articles, and spare no 
expenses in any respect, who yet have everything cook- 
ed in such a miserable way, and a table set in so slov- 
enly a manner, that a person accustomed to a really 
good table, can scarcely taste a morsel with any enjoy- 
ment. , 

On the contrary, there are many tables where the 
closest economy is practised, and yet the table-cloth is so 
white and smooth, the dishes, silver, glass, and other ta- 
ble articles so bright, and arranged with such propriety, 
the bread so white, light, and sweet, the butter so beau- 
tiful, and every other article of food so well cooked, and 
so neatly and tastefully served, that everything seems 
good, and pleases both the eye and the palate. 

A habit of doing everything in the best manner, is 
of unspeakable importance to a housekeeper, and every 
woman ought to aim at it, however great the difficulties 
she may have to meet. If a young housekeeper com- 
mences with a determination to try to do everything in 
the best manner, and perseveres in the effort, meeting 
all obstacles with patient cheerfulness, not only the mor- 
al, but the intellectual tone of her mind is elevated by 
the attempt. Although she may meet many insupera- 
ble difficulties, and may never reach the standard at 
which she aims, the simple effort, persevered in, will 
have an elevating influence on her character, while at 
the same time she actually will reach a point of excel- 

19 



218 THE PROVIDIMG AND CARS 

lence far ahead of those who, discouraged by many ob- 
stacles, give up in despair, and resolve to make no more 
efforts, and let things go as they will. The grand dis- 
tinction between a noble and an ignoble mind is, that 
one will control circumstances ; the other yields, and al- 
lows circumstances to control her. 

It should be borne in mind, that the constitution of 
man demands a variety of food, and that it is just as 
cheap to keep on hand a good variety of materials in the 
store-closet, so as to make a frequent change, as it is to 
buy one or two articles at once, and live on them ex- 
clusively, till every person is tired of them, and then buy 
two or tbree more of another kind. 

It is too frequently the case, that families fall into 
a very hmited round of articles, and continue the same 
course from one year to anotlier, when there is a much 
greater variety within reach, of articles which are just 
as cheap and easily obtained, and yet remain unthought 
of and untouched. 

A thrifty and generous provider, will see that her 
store-closet is furnished with such a variety of articles, 
that successive chansres can be made, and for a srood lenfrth 
of time. To aid in this, a slight sketch of a well-provi- 
ded store-closet will be given, with a description of the 
manner in which each article shoidd be stored and kept, 
in order to avoid waste and injury. To this will be add- 
ed, modes of securing a successive variety, within the 
reach of all in moderate circumstances. 

It is best to have a store-closet open from a kitchen, 
because the kitciien fire keeps the atmosphere dry, and 
this prevents the articles stored from moulding, and other 
injury from dampness. Yet it must not be kept warm, 
as there are many articles which are injured by warmth. 

A cool and dry place is indispensable for a store-room, 
and a small window over the door, and another opening 
out-doors, is a great advantage, by securing coolness, 
and a circulation of fresh air. 

Flour should be kept in a barrel, \\\\.h. a flour scoop 
to dip it, a sieve to sift it, and a pan to hold the sifted 
llour, either in the barrel, or close at hand. The barrel 



OF FAMILY STOUES. 219 

should have a tight cover to keep out mice and ver- 
min. It is best, when it can be conveniently done, 
to find, by trial, a lot of fiist-rate flour, and then buy a 
year's supply. But this should not be done, unless there 
are accommodations for keeping it dry and cool, and 
protecting it from vermin. 

Unbolted flour should be stored in barrels, and al- 
ways be kept on hand, as regularly as fine flour. 

Indian meal should be purchased in small quanti- 
ties, say fifteen or twenty pounds at a time, and be kept 
in a covered tub or keg. When new and sweet, it 
should not be scalded, but when not perfectly fresh and 
good when used, it is improved by scalding. It must be 
kept very cool and dry, and if occasionally stirred, is pre- 
served more surely from growing sour or musty. 

Rye should be bought in small quantities, say forty 
or fifty pounds at a time, and be kept in a keg, or half 
barrel with a cover. 

Buckwheat^ Rice, Hominy, and Ground Rice, 
must be purchased in small quantities, and kept in cov- 
ered kegs, or tubs. Several of these articles are infest- 
ed w^th smaU black insects, and examination must oc- 
casionally be made for them. 

Arrowroot, Tapioca, Sago, Pearl Barley, ATneri- 
can Isinglass, Macaroni, Vermacelli, and Oatm,eal, 
are all articles which help to make an agreeable variety, 
and it is just as cheap to buy a small quantity of each, as 
it is to buy a larger quantity of t\vo or three articles. 
Eight or ten pounds of each of these articles of food can 
be stored in covered jars, or covered wood boxes, and 
then they are always at hand to help make a variety. 
All of them are very healthful food, and help to form 
many delightful dishes for desserts. Some of the most 
healthful puddings are those made of rice, tapioca, 
sago, and macaroni, while isinglass, or American gela- 
tine, form elegant articles for desserts, and is also excel- 
lent for the sick. 

Sugars should not be bought by the barrel, as the 
brown is apt to turn to molasses, and run out on to the 
floor. It is best to keep four qualities of sugar on hand. 



220 THE PROVIDING AND CARE 

Refined loaf for tea, crushed sugar for the nicest pre- 
serves and to use with fruit, nice brown sugar for coffee, 
and common brown for cooking and more common use. 
The loaf can be stored in the papers, on a shelf. The 
others should be kept in close covered kegs, or covered 
wooden articles made for the purpose. 

Butter must be kept in the dryest and coldest place 
you can find, in vesselsof either stone, earthen, or wood, 
and never in tin. 

Lard and Drippings must be kept in a dry. cold 
place, and should not be salted. Usually the cellar is 
the best place for them. Earthen, or stone jars are the 
best to store them in. 

Salt must be kept in the dryest place that can be 
found. Rock salt is the best for table salt. It should 
be washed, dried, pounded, sifted, and stored in a glass 
jar, and covered close. It is common to find it growing 
damp in the salt stands for the table. It should then 
be set by the fire to dry, and afterwards be reduced to 
fine powder again. Nothing is more disagreeable than 
coarse or damp salt on a table. 

Vinegar is best made of wine, or cider. Buy a keg, 
or half banel of it, and set it in the cellar, and then keep 
a supply for the castors in a junk bottle in the kitchen. 
If too strong, it eats the pickles. 

Pickles never must be kept in glazed ware, as the 
vinegar forms a poisonous compound with the glazing. 

Oil must be kept in the cellar. Winter straified 
must be got in cold weather, as the summer strained 
will not burn except in warm weather. The best of 
lard oil is preferred to every other by those who use it. 
Some lard oil is very poor. 

Molasses, if bought by the barrel, or half barrel, 
should be kept in the cellar. Sugar bakers' is best 
for the table, and Porto Rico for cooking. If bought in 
small quantities, it should be kept in a demijohn. No 
vessel should be corked or bunged, if filled with molasses, 
as it will swell, and burst the vessel, or run over. 

Hard Soap should be bought by large quantity, and 
laid to harden on a shelf, in a very dry place. It is 



OF FAMILY STORES. 221 

much more economical to buy hard, than soft soap, as 
those who use soft soap are very apt to waste it in using 
it, as they cannot do with hard soap. 

Starch it is best to buy by a large quantity. It comes 
very nicely put up in papers, a pound or two in each 
paper, and packed in a box. Starch, which by the single 
pound is five cents a pound, if bought by the box, is only 
three cents a pound, and this makes a good deal of dif- 
ference, in a large family, by the year. The high-priced 
starch is cheapest in the end. 

Indigo is not always good. When a good lot is 
found by trial, it is best to get enough for a year or two, 
and store it in a tight tin box. 

Coffee it is best to buy by the bag, as it improves by 
keeping. Let it hang in the bag, in a dry place, and it 
loses its rank smell and taste. 

Tea^ if bought by the box, is about five cents a pound 
cheaper than by small quantities. If well put up in box- 
es hned with lead, it keeps perfectly. But put up in 
paper, it soon loses its flavor. It therefore should, if in 
small quantities, be put in glass, or tin, and shut tight. 

Saleratus should be bought in small quantities, then 
powdered, sifted, and kept tight corked in a large mouth 
glass bottle. 

It grows damp if exposed to the air, and then cannot 
be used properly. 

Raisins should not be bought in large quantities, as 
they are injured by time. It is best to buy the small 
boxes. 

Currants for cake should be prepared as directed for 
cake, and set by for use in a jar. 

Lemon and Orange Peel sliould be dried, pounded, 
and set up in corked glass jars. - 

Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Cloves, Mace, and Allspice, 
should be pounded fine, and corked tight in small glass 
bottles with mouths large enough for a junk bottle cork, 
and then put in a tight tin box, made for the purpose. 
Or they can be put in small tin boxes with tight covers. 
Essences are as good as spices. 

Sweet Herbs should be dried, and the stalks thrown 

19* 



222 THE PROVIDING AND CARE OF FAMILY STORES. 

away, and the rest be kept in corked large mouth bottles, 
or small tin boxes. 

Cream Tartar^ Citric and Tartaric Acids, Bicar- 
bonate of Soda, and Essences, should be kept in cork- 
ed glass jars. Sal volatile must be kept in a large-mouth 
bottle, with a ground glass stopper to make it air-tight. 
Use cold water in dissolving it. It must be powdeied. 

Preserves and Jellies should be kept in glass or stone, 
in a cool, dry place, well sealed, or tied with bladder cov- 
ers. If properly made, and thus put up, they never will 
ferment. If it is difficult to find a cool, dry place, pack 
the jars in a box, and fill the interstices with sand, very 
thoroughly dried. It is best to put jellies in tumblers, 
or small glass jars, so as to open only a small quantity 
at a time. 

The most easy way of keeping Harris perfectly is to 
wrap and tie them in paper, and pack them in boxes or 
barrels with ashes. The ashes must fill all interstices, 
but nuist not touch the hams, as it absorbs the fat. It 
is much less labor, and quite as certain a mode as the 
one previously mentioned. It keeps them sweet, and 
protects from all kinds of insects. 

After smoked beef, or ham, are cut, hang them in a 
coarse linen bag in the cellar, and tie it up to keep out 
flies. 

Keep Cheese in a cool, dry place, and after it is cut, 
wrap it in a linen cloth, and keep it in a tight tin box. 

Keep Bread in a tin covered box, and it will keep 
fresh and good longer than if left exposed to the air. 

Cake also should be kept in a tight tin box. Tin 
boxes made with covers like trunks, with handles at the 
ends, are best for bread and cake. 

Smoked herring keep in the cellar. 

Codfish is improved by changing it, once in a while, 
back and forth from garret to cellar. Some dislike to 
have it in the house anywhere. 

All salted provision must be watched, and kept un- 
der the brine. When the brine looks bloody, or smells 
badly, it must be scalded, and more salt put to it, and 
poured over the meat. 



A SUCCESSIVE VARIETY OF FOOD. 228 

Salt fish barrels must not be kept near other food, as 
they impart a fishy smell and taste to it. 

Cabbages B.nd Tur7iips in the cellar often impart 
a bad smell to a house. All decayed vegetable matter 
should be kept out of a cellar, as it creates a miasma, 
that sometimes causes the most fatal diseases. There- 
fore, always take care of the vegetable bins, and have all 
that are decaying removed. 

A cellar should be whitewashed often, to keep it sweet 
and clean. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

SUGGESTIONS IN REFERENCE TO PROVIDING A SUCCESSIVE 
VARIETY OF FOOD. 

By a little skill and calculation, a housekeeper may 
contrive to keep a constant change of agreeable varie- 
ties on her table, and that, too, without violating the 
rules either of health or economy. Some suggestions 
will be offered to aid in this object. 

In the first place, much can be effected by keeping 
on hand a good supply of the various bread-stuffs. 
Good raised bread, of fine flour, must be the grand 
staple, but this may, every day, be accompanied with 
varieties of bread made of unbolted flour, or rye and In- 
dian, or Indian alone, or potato and apple bread, or 
rice bread, or the various biscuits and rusk. It will be 
found that these are ail more acceptable, if there are oc- 
casional changes, than if any one of them is dontinued 
a long time. 

All the dough of these different kinds of bread, when 
light, can, with very little trouble, be made into drop 
cakes, or griddle cakes for breakfast, or tea, by adding 
some milk and eggs, and in some cases a little melted 
lard. 



224 SUGGESTIONS IN REFERENCE TO 

Very fine common cake is also easily made, at every 
baking, by taking some of the dough of bread and 
working in sugar, butter, and eggs, by the receipt given 
for Bread Cake and Child's Feather Cake. These can 
be made more or less sweet and rich at pleasme. 

In the next place, a good supply oi fruit in the gar- 
den, and stored in the cellar, enables a housekeeper to 
keep up a constant variet}^ The directions given under 
the head of Modes of Preparing Apples for the Tea 
Table, will be found very useful for this purpose, while 
those for preparing Rice and Dry Bread are equally 
serviceable in helping out a cheap and convenient 
variety. There are some cheap dishes at the end also, 
which are very good, and easily made. 

The directions for preparing Hashes, also, are rec- 
ommended as a mode of economizing, that is very ac- 
ceptable when properl)?^ done. The little relishes ob- 
tained in summer from the garden, are very service- 
able in securing varieties. Among these may be men- 
tioned cucumbers, radishes, cabbage sprouts, Jerusalem 
artichokes, and tomatoes, all of which are very fine 
eaten \\A\\\ salt and vines-ar. 

Mush, hominy, tapioca, and rice cooked, and then, 
when cold, fried on a griddle, are great favorites. If 
salt pork rinds are used to grease the griddle, there will 
be so little fat used, that no injury to the most dehcate 
stomachs can result from this mode of cooking. 

In winter, the breakfast-table and tea-table can be 
supplied by a most inviting variety of muffins, griddle 
cakes, drop cakes, and waffles made of rice, corn meal, 
and unbolted flour, all of which are very healthful and 
very agreeable to the palate. 

One mode of securing a good variety, in those months 
in spring when fruits and vegetables fail, is by a 
wise providence in drying and preserving fruits and 
vegetables. The following directions will aid in this 
particular. 

Directions for Preserving Frnits and Vegetables. 

Blackberries, whortleberries, currants, raspberries, 



PEOVIDING A SUCCESSIVE VARIETY OF FOOD. 225 

peaches, plums, apples, pears, and quinces, can all be 
preserved by drying them in the sun, and then storing 
them in bags in a cool, dry place. 

Green currants, and green gooseberries, can be pre- 
served thus. Gather them when perfectly dry, put 
them into very dry junk bottles, free from stems and 
eyes, set the bottles uncorked into a kettle of cold water, 
and then make the water boil. Then cork the bottles (the 
fruit should come up to the cork), and seal them with 
bee's wax and rosin. Store them in a dry, cool place, 
where they will not freeze. Everything depends on 
success in excluding air and water. Putting them in 
boxes, and fiihng the interstices wdth dry sand, is the 
surest mode of storing the bottles. 

There is a receipt for Preserving Pruit in Water, 
that has found its way into many receipt books, which 
seems to the writer to be a dangerous and useless one, 
and never should be tried. 

It directs that fruit be put in bottles, then water pour- 
ed in, and then the bottles corked tight, and the cork 
tied. Then the bottles are to be set in a kettle of wa- 
ter, which is to be heated till it boils. Of course this 
must burst the bottles, or throw out the corks. 

It is probable that the design of some plan of this sort 
was to exclude all air from the fruit. This could be 
done by setting the bottles filled with fruit and water, 
imcorked, in a kettle of water, and making the water 
boil. Then cork the bottles and seal them, and the w^a- 
ter will remain, but all air will be excluded. The wri- 
ter never has seen a person who has tried this method, 
and perhaps it may be one in which fruit can be pre- 
served. 

Peach Leather is much relished by invalids, and is 
prepared thus. Squeeze out the pulp of ver}^ ripe 
peaches, and spread it half an inch thick on plates or 
shingles, and let it dry till quite hard and tough. Then 
roll it up in layers, with clean paper between. 

Tomato Leather can be made in the same way. 
But the following is the best mode of preserving toma- 
toes. Pour boiling water on to the ripe tomatoes, and peel 



226 A SUCCESSIVE VARIETY OF FOOD. 

them. Boil them till reduced to half the original quan- 
tity, throwing in. at first, a tea-cup of sugar and a large 
spoonful of salt for every gallon. When reduced to one 
half the quantity, spread it on flat dishes half an inch 
thick, and dry it eight or ten days in the sun, and air. 
Then put it in layers, with paper between. In pre- 
paring it for table, stew it slowly in a good deal of 
water, adding bread crumbs and seasoning. 

Some persons dry them in a brick oven instead of the 
sun. A quicker, but not so nice a way, is simply to cut 
them in two without peeUng, and dry them in the oven. 

Tomato Figs are prepared thus: — Scald and peel 
them, and then boil them in one-third the weight of su- 
gar, till they are penetrated by it. Then flatten and 
dry them in the sun, occasionally turning them and 
sprinkling with sugar. When dry, pack them in layers, 
with sugar sprinkled between. 

Green Corn can be preserved by simply turning 
back the husk, all but the last thin layer, and then 
hanging it in the sun, or a very warm room. When it 
is to be used, boil it till soft, and then cut it off* the cob 
and mix it with butter, and add, if you like, dried Lima 
beans cooked soft, in another vessel. The summer sweet 
corn is the proper kind to dry. Lima beans can be 
dried in the sun when young and tender. They are 
good to bake, when dried after they are ripe. 

Another mode is to parboil sweet corn, cut it from the 
cobs, and dry it in the sun. Then store it in a dry, cool 
place, in a bag. 

Another way is to take oflf all the husks but the thin 
one next the corn ; tie this over the corn tight, and pack 
it in salt. 

Try each of these ways, and make succotash with 
dried Lima beans, adding a little cream to the broth. If 
done right, it is excellent in winter. In cutting corn 
from cobs, in all cases take care not to cut off any cob, 
as it gives a bad taste. 

Peas, also, are good to dry, and make a fine dish 
thus. Take six or eight pounds of corned beef, put it 
in a large pot and fill it with water, and put in two quarts 



01^ BREAD MAKING. 227 

of dried peas. Let them boil till soft, and then add the 
sweet herb seasoning, or take it up without any other 
seasoning than a little pepper and the salt of the meat. 

Beef, cooked thus, is excellent when cold, and the 
pea soup, thus made, is highly rehshed. No dish is 
cheaper, or more easily prepared. 

Pumpkins and squashes can be peeled and cut in 
strips and dried in the sun. 

The stalks of rhubarb or the pie plant can be sliv- 
ered fine and dried in the sun for winter use. 

A housekeeper who will take pains to have these 
things done in the proper season, and well stored, will 
always keep an inviting table, in those months when 
others so much complain that they can find no variety. 

It is a good plan for a housekeeper the first day, or 
week of every month, to make a calculation of her bill 
of fare for that month, going over such a receipt-book 
as this, and ascertaining how many of the varieties of- 
fered she can secure. At the same time she can be 
laying in stores of articles for future use. System in 
this matter is of essential service. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

ON BREAD MAKING. 

Few housekeepers are aware of their responsibility 
m reference to the bread furnished for their family. As 
this is the principal article of food, there is no one thing 
on which the health of a family, especially of young 
children, is more dependant. 

Baker's bread is often made of musty, sour, or other 
Dad flour, which is made to look light, and the bad 
taste removed by unhealthy drugs. Of course, to the 
evil of unhealthy flour, is added unhealthy drugs, aijd 
there is no mode of discovering the imposition, 



228 ox BREAD MAKING. 

The only safe mode is, to have all bread made in the 
family, and to take all needful care that it shall uni- 
formly be good. 

Bread made of salt^ or milk risings, is good only the 
first day, and to those accustomed to good yeast breadj 
it is offensive to the smell, and not acceptable to the 
palate. 

Bread made of sour milk, or buttermilk and an alkali, 
or made by mixing cream tartar in the flour, and an 
alkali in the wetting, is good as an occasional resort, in 
emergencies, when good yeast cannot be preserved, oi 
when there is not time to wait for yeast rising. 

But, as the ordinary bread for continued daily use, 
it is expensive, and not healthful or good like yeast 
bread. Some persons suffer from sore mouths and dis- 
ordered stomachs, in consequence of eating it. Some- 
times this is owing to the imperfect mixture of the ma- 
terials. When the cream tartar is not very thorough- 
ly mixed with the flour, or when the alkali is not prop- 
erly dissolved and thoroughly mixed, or when there is 
too much of either, the skin of the mouth and stomach 
are affected by the bread. 

Tlie only kind of bread which is always good for the 
health, and always acceptable to every palate, is sweet, 
well-raised, home-made yeast bread. The best kind 
of home-made yeast bread is an article of luxury to be 
found upon very few tables, and those who enjoy this 
comfort, know that there is no food upon earth, which 
is so good, or the loss of which is so much regretted. 

In order to secure such bread, these three things are 
indispensable, viz. : good flour, good yeast, and good 
care. 

In order to secure good flour, it is best to try it by 
tasting it, and you ordinarily can detect sourness or 
must. Buy a small quantity, and then, if it is found to 
be very superior, and it can be done conveniently, it is 
well to provide enough of it to last till the next crop of 
wheat affords new flour, when another supply for a 
year can be secured. Flour stored in barrels needs no 
other care than putting it in a cool, dry place, where it 



ON BREAD MAKING. 229 

is well protected from rats and cockroaches. A tight 
covered box made of thick plank, large enough to hold 
several barrels, with shelves to hold smaller supplies of 
other bread-stuffs, with a door in one side shutting very 
tight, is a perfect protection from rats, mice, and cock 
roaches. 

Good flour has a yellowish tinge, and when pressed 
tio^ht in the hand, retains the creases of the skin im- 
pressed on it. Poor flour is not thus adhesive ; it can 
be blown about readily, and sometimes has a dingy 
look, as if ashes were mixed with it. 

When good flour is found, notice the brand, and 
seek the same next time. It is sometimes the case, 
however, that bad flour is passed off, by putting on the 
brands of persons who have gained a name as makers 
of superior flour. The only sure way is to try a small 
sample, and then get a larger supply, if it is good, from 
the same stock. 

Grown wheat makes dough that is runny, and can- 
not be well moulded, or make g"ood bread. This can 
be discovered only by trial. Smutty wheat makes 
flour that is very un healthful. 

Flour always should be sifted before using it, to re- 
store the lightness destroyed by packing, as well as to 
remove impurities. Bread is also more sure to be light, 
if the flour is heated before wetting. This can be done, 
by setting the kneading trough aslant before the fire, 
stirring it a little as it is warming. When bread proves to 
be bad, examine the yeast, and see also whether the oven 
bakes properly. If both are as they should be, and the 
bread is still poor, then the fault is in the flour, and it 
should be sent back and another supply obtained. 
And in buying flour, this liberty should always be se- 
cured, even if a higher price is the condition. No econ- 
omy is so false as to try to save by means of bad bread. 
Medicine and doctors' bills soon show the folly of it. 

Good yeast is as indispensable to good bread as 
good flour. Of the receipts given in this book, the one 
which will keep a month is the best. The one which 

20 



230 ON BREAD MAKING. 

is made with fewer materials will not keep so well, but 
is more easily made. 

In hot weather, when it is difficult to keep yeast, the 
hard yeast will be a great convenience. Some house- 
keejDers who have tried both, prefer the flour hard yeast 
to that which is made with Indian meal, as it does not 
turn sour, as Indian does. Home-brewed yeast must 
be used for hard yeast, and not distillery or brewer's. 
Yeast, when it is good, is all in a foam, or else has large 
beads on the surface, and its smell is brisk and pun- 
gent, but not sour. When poor, it sometimes smells sour, 
sometimes looks watery, and the sediment sinks to the 
bottom, and it has no froth or beads. Sometimes, 
when yeast does not look very good, it is improved by 
adding a tea-cup, or so, of flour, and two or three great 
spoonfuls of molasses, and setting it in a warm place to 
rise. Yeast must be kept in stone, or glass, with a 
tight cork, and the thing in which it is kept should 
often be scalded, and then warm water with a half tea- 
spoonful of saleratus be put in it, to stand a while. 
Then rinse it with cold water. Sour yeast cannot be 
made good by saleratus. 

The last grand essential to good bread is good care. 
Unless the cook can be fully trusted, the mistress of a 
family must take this care upon herself. She must, 
if needful, stand by and see that the bread is wet right, 
that the yeast is good, that the bread is put where it is 
warm enough, that it does not rise too long, so as to 
lose its sweetness (which is often the case before it be- 
gins to turn sour), that it is moulded aright, that the 
oven is at the right heat, and that it is taken out at the 
right time, and then that it is put in the right place, 
and not set flat on to a greasy table, or painted shelf, 
to imbibe a bad taste. 

Perhaps it may be thought that all this is a great 
drudgery, but it is worse drudgery to have sickly chil- 
dren, and a peevish husband, made so by having all the 
nerves of their stomachs rasped with sour, or heavy bread. 
A woman should be ashamed to have poor bread, far 
more so, than to speak bad grammar, or to have a dress 



ON BKEAD MAKING. 231 

out of the fashion. It is true, that, by accident, the 
best of housekeepers will now and then have poor bread, 
but then it is an accident, and one that rarely happens. 
When it is very frequently the case that a housekeeper 
has poor bread, she may set herself down as a slack 
haked and negligent housekeeper. 

It is very desirable that every family should have a 
constant supply of bread made of unbolted flour, or of 
rye and Indian. Most persons like to eat of it occasion- 
ally, and it tends to promote health. Warm cakes also, 
made of unbolted flour, are very excellent, and ser- 
viceable to health. The receipts for these articles 
in this work are first-rate. Warm raised bread cakes, 
of fine wheat, are not so healthy for breakfast, as 
those made of unbolted flour, Indian meal, rice, or 
tapioca. Griddle cakes, muffins, and waffles, made 
of these last articles, are more healthful than those made 
of fine wheat. If eaten at the right temperature (not 
above blood heat), and with but little butter, they are 
safe and harmless. Unbolted flour is good in almost 
any receipt in which fine flour is to be used, and many 
very much prefer it for all kinds of warm cakes. Brown 
bread, when light, makes good drop cakes, or good grid- 
dle cakes, by adding a little watei: or milk, and some 
eggs, and in some cases, a spoonful or two of molasses. 
Many cases are on record, of great changes for the bet- 
ter, in the health of individuals and communities, by 
the habitual use of food made of unbolted flour. 

The style in which bread is prepared for the table, is 
a matter to be carefully attended to. In moulding up 
loaves and small cakes, do not leave lumps and loose 
flour adhering to the outside, but work them in thorough- 
ly, so as to have the cake look fair and smooth. Wipe 
off" flour from the outside before carrying to the table. 
Buttered pans are better than floured ones, because the 
cakes cleave oflf cleaner. When soda and saleratus are 
used, work it in thoroughly, or you will have those yel- 
low spots and streaks, which look so disgusting, and show 
a slovenly negligence. 

In the receipts for making bread, no particular direc- 



232 ON BREAD MAKING. 

tioii is o^iven in resraid to the time bread should f?tand 
after it is moulded and put in pani^, because here is the 
point where observation and discretion are so indispensa- 
ble, and rules are unavaihnj^ without. In hot weather, 
when the yeast is very good, and the bread very liglit, it 
must not stand over lifteen minutes after it is moulded, 
before setting in. If it is cold weather, and the yeast is 
less active, or the bread not perfectly raised, it may some- 
times stand an hour in the pans without injury. 

When it is risen in the pans so as to crack, it is ready 
for the oven, and if it stands after this it loses sweetness, 
and then turns sour. A great deal of bread is spoiled by 
standing too long after it is put in the pans. The only 
way to prevent this is for the housekeeper to ascertain, 
by experiment, how soon her yeast ordinarily raises 
bread to the right point, so as to make that full lightness 
which does not destroy the sweetness of the flour, and 
yet is complete. When this is secured, the bread should 
not stand more than fifteen minutes after moulding, un- 
less it is very cold weather. Those who trust entirely 
to raising the bread after it is put into the pans, are much 
less likely to have the best kind of bread, and far more 
risk is run than in the way here given. 

In summer, if the milk is not new, it should be scald- 
ed, or the bread will turn sour by keeping. Bread is 
never as good which has turned sour, and been sweeten- 
ed with saleratus, as if it had risen only just enough. h\ 
using saleratus, take a teaspoonful to each quart of wet- 
ting used ; or, which is the same thing, a teaspoonful to 
four quarts of flour. 

The proportion of yeast is about a tablespoonful of 
brewer's or distiller's yeast for every quart of wetting, or 
twice as much home-brewed yeast. In warm weather, 
pour the wetting boiling hot into the flour, and the bread 
keeps better. But be careful not to kill the yeast by put- 
ting it in before the mixture is sufficiently cooled. About 
blond wannth is the right temperature. 

The eastern brown bread rises faster than the wlieat 
bread, and in hot weather cannot be made over niffht ; 



ON BREAD MAKING. 283 

and if made with other bread, must be set to rise in a 
cool place. 

It is always best to keep bread several hours before 
eating, until it can be cut without making it clammy. 
Biscuits, and small cakes of bread, are best baked in the 
morning to use for tea, and in the evening for breakfast. 
When cake is to be made of bread dough, it ought to be 
wfet up with milk. 

Most of the rules which have been given in other 
books for making cream tartar bread and cakes allow 
too much of the acid and alkali, and this affects the 
health. 

Three pmts of flour to one teaspoonful of soda and 
two of cream tartar is about right. Domestics are often 
careless in getting right proportions, and thus health is 
injured. It is probable that this can be remedied by get- 
ting an apothecary to combine the two powders in the 
right proportions when very dry, and keeping them in 
a glass bottle, with a ground glass stopper, so as to be 
air-tight. The dampness of the air would make them 
combine, and neutralize them. There are yeast pow- 
ders for sale of this kind. The way to use them is 
first to mix them thoroughly in the flour, and then put 
in the wetting. 

In regard to yeast, the distillery rises fastest, the brew- 
er's nearly as fast, and the home-brewed slowest of all. 
Sometimes distillery yeast will raise bread in an hour. 
Every housekeeper must learn by trial the time neces- 
sary to raise bread, and by this calculate the time to put 
her oven heating. 

For large loaves of bread or cake, the oven must be 
heated with hard wood, so as to soak thoroughly. For 
smaller things lighter wood is as good, and more eco- 
nomical. After a housekeeper has tried her oven, her 
yeast, and her oven wood, she can make out very mi- 
nute directions for her domestics. But with poor domes- 
tics she ordinarily will need to persevere in superintend- 
ing this matter herself, if she^ would always have good 
bread. 

20* 



294 DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER AND EVENING PARTIES. 

The following directions for a dinner-party are de- 
signed for a young and inexperienced housekeeperj in 
moderate circumstances, who receives visiters at her ta- 
ble from the most wealthy circles. 

They are not intended for what would be called a 
stylish dinner-party, but what in New York, Philadel- 
phia, and Boston, in the most respectable society, would 
be called a plain, substantial dinner, and as complete 
and extensive as any young housekeeper, w4th the 
ordinary supply of domestics, ought to attempt any- 
where. Anything much more elaborate than this, 
usually demands the services of a professed cook. The 
details will be given with great minuteness, that a nov- 
ice may know exactly what to do in every particular. 

It is generally the case, that, at dinner-parties for gen- 
tlemen, no ladies are present but those who are mem- 
bers of the family. The gentleman of the house in- 
vites his friends the day previous, and then gives notice 
to his wife who are to come, and consults with her as to 
the articles to be provided, which of course he aids in 
purchasing. 

The housekeeper then makes a list of all the articles 
to be used, either for table furniture or cooking, and then 
examines her cupboard, store-closet, and cellar, to see if 
everything is at hand and in order. All the glass and 
silver to be used is put in readiness, and the castors, salts, 
and everything of the kind arranged properly. In order 
to be more definite, the exact dishes to be provided will 
be supposed to be these: 

Soup. Fish. A boiled ham. A boiled turkey, with 
oyster sauce. Three roasted ducks, and a dish of scol- 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 235 

loped oysters. Potatoes, Parsnips, Turnips, and Celery. 
For dessert, Pudding", Pastry, Fruit, and Coffee. 

This will make a dinner for about ten or twelve per- 
sons. The pastry should be baked the day before, and 
the soup boiled down. 

In the morning of the day for the dinner-party, every 
article should be on hand from market, and the cook 
have extra help, so as to get breakfast and the dishes 
out of the way early. 

Then, the first thing, let her stuff and truss the tur- 
key and ducks, and set them away to use when the 
time comes. Be sure that they are trussed so that the 
legs and wings will be tight to the body, and not come 
sprawling on to the table. 

Suppose the dinner hour be three o'clock, as this is 
the earliest hour at which such a dinner could be com- 
fortably prepared. 

At niae o'clock, let the ham be washed, and put to 
boil. Then let the vegetables be prepared, ready for 
cooking. Next prepare the pudding. The pastry ought 
to be baked the day before. If not, it should be done 
very early in the morning, and be out of the way. 

The pudding should be one of those put in the list of 
rich puddings, which does not require long baking or 
boihng. The receipt will be the guide as to time 
for cooking it. Next, prepare the oysters. One large 
cannister (or three pints) will be needed for the dish of 
scolloped oysters,- and a small cannister (or a pint) will 
be needed for the sauce for the turkey. This last is 
simply drawn butter, wdth the oysters put in it, and sim- 
mered a few minutes. Be sure and follow the receipt 
for drawn butter exactly, as cooks are very apt to spoil 
this kind of sauce. 

Put the turkey to boil at one, if it is tender, as it 
ought to be, and sooner, if it is not. Put the ducks to 
roast at two. Ducks are best cooked rare, but the tur- 
key must be boiled through entirely, so that all parts 
look the same color when carved. 

The gravy for the ducks, and the drawn butter, must 
be prepared half an hour before taking up dinner. The 



236 DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER 

fish must be put to boil in a fish kettle. The time 
depends on the size. 

I'he soup should be boiled down the day before. Let 
it be, for example, the receipt named Macaroni Souj). 
In this case, any convenient time before dinner-time, 
put the macaroni to boil in a sauce-pan by itself, and 
when cooked enough, set it aside. Then, just before 
dinner is to be served, pour the cold soup into the kettle, 
add the seasoning and macaroni, and give it such a heat 
as just boils it for a minute or two, and then it is ready 
to serve. 

The vegetables should be put to boil at such times as 
will have them cooked just right at the dinner hour, 
and this the housekeeper must calculate, according to 
their size and age. 

Unless there is an experienced cook, who can be 
trusted with everything, the lady of the house must 
superintend herself in the kitchen, until it is time for 
her to dress ; and as the company will not arrive till the 
hour appointed, she can, by arranging her dress, all but 
the finish, remain until it is nearly time to send up the 
dinner. 

Setting the Table. 

The table should be set early in the forenoon, by the 
waiter, under the direction of the lady of the house, and 
in the manner exhibited in Fig. 7. 

The table rug must first be laid exactly square with 
the room, and the tables also set exactly parallel with 
the sides of the room. If the tables are handsome ones, 
put on two white table-cloths, one above the other. If 
the tables are not handsome, cover them with a colored 
table-cloth, and put two white ones over. 

Then set the castors in the exact centre of the table. 
Some prefer to have them on aside-table, and the wait- 
er carry them around, but the table looks better to have 
them put in the centre. If they are put on the side- 
table, the celery stand may be placed, in the centre of 
the table. 

Next place the plates and knives as in Fig. 7, with a 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 237 

napkin and tumbler at the right of each plate, as in the 
drawing. If it is cold weather, set the plates to warm, 
and leave them till wanted. Set the salt stands at the 
four corners, with two large spoons crossed by each, as 
in the drawing. 

Then place table-mats in the places where the dish- 
es are to be set. The host is to be seated at one end, 
and the hostess at the other, and at their plates put two 
knives and two forks. Put a carving knife and fork, 
and carver stand, at each place where a dish is to be 
carved. Put the jelly and pickles at diagonal corners, 
as marked on the drawing. If wine is to be used, put 
two wine-glasses by each tumbler. Just before dinner 
is to be served, a bit of bread, cut thick, is to be laid with 
a fork on each napkin. 

Then prepare the side-table thus : 
, As the party, including host and hostess, will be 
twelve, there must be one dozen soup plates, and one doz- 
en silver spoons. Then there must be two dozen large 
knives, and three dozen large plates, besides those on 
the table. This is to allow one plate for fish, and two 
for two changes of meat for each guest. Some would 
provide more. Then, there must be three dozen dessert 
plates, and two dozen dessert knives and forks. One 
dozen saucers, and one dozen dessert spoons. One or 
two extra of each kind, and three or four extra nap- 
kins, should be added for emergencies. (At a side stand, 
or closet, should be placed, at dinner-time, a wash dish 
of hot water, and two or three wiping towels.) 

On the side- table, also, is to be placed all articles to 
be used in helping the dessert ; and unless there is 
a convenient closet for the purpose, the dessert itself 
must be set there, and covered with napkins. 

All the dishes and plates to be used, except those for 
desserts and soups, must, in cold weather, be set to 
warm by the waiter. If coffee is to be served at the 
dinner- table, the furniture for this must be put on the 
side-table, or in an adjacent room, or closet. 



238 DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER 

Taking up the Dinner. 

Such a dinner as this cannot usually be prepared and 
served easily, without two to cook and serve in the 
kitchen, and two waiters in the dining-room. One 
waiter will answer, if he is experienced and expert in 
such matters. 

When the hour for dinner arrives, let the cook first 
take up the soup and fish. The soup and soup plates 
are to be set by the hostess, and the spoons laid near. 
Potatoes and drawn butter, or fish sauce, are to be sent 
up with fish. 

The fish is to be set before the host, and the fish 
knife and sauce placed by it, and then the waiter is to 
inform the lady of the house that dinner is ready. She 
rises, and informs her husband, or the guests, that din- 
ner is ready, and then the gentleman for whom the 
party is made, or some other one of the invited guests, 
conducts the lady to the table, and takes his seat at the 
first plate at her right hand. She then helps the soup, 
beginning at the right, and passing it around in order, 
without inquiring whether each one wishes it. If any 
one prefers fish, he passes the soup to the next. Mean- 
time the host either helps the fish to all who wish it, or 
leaves it covered till the soup is removed, and the plates 
changed. The plates for fish are set on, around the 
table, and the soup plates are set on to them, while soup 
is served. 

While soup and fish are served above, the cook be- 
low proceeds thus : — The ham can be taken up some 
time before dinner, prepared for the table, and set aside, 
covered, as it is not injured by standing. Of course this 
is done at any convenient time. The turkey and ducks 
may first be taken up, prepared for table, and then cov- 
ered, and set where they will be kept warm. Then the 
gravies and drawn butter are to be put in the gravy 
boats. The vegetables must be taken up the last thing, 
and the potatoes last of all as the excellence of all de- 
pends on their being served hot, especially potatoes. 
Some would prepare a dish of mashed potatoes, but this 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 289 

increases the complexity of the business, which should, 
as much as possible, be avoided. 

After soup and fish, and the plates are removed by 
the waiters above, and clean plates put around, wine or 
conversation will fill up the time, while the meats are 
brought on, which are to be placed on the table, cover- 
ed, and in the order marked in the drawing. Fig. 7. 

When all are prepared, the host gives a sign to the 
waiters, and the covers are all to be removed, and so 
adroitly that no steam be spilt on the table-cloth or 
guests. To do this, the covers must be first inverted, 
holding them directly over the dishes they cover ^ and 
this the hostess must teach the waiter to do beforehand, 
if need be. He is to be taught, also, to offer each article 
to guests on their 7e/if side, to observe when guests have 
done eating, and then to change their plate, knife, and 
fork, and never to speak except to answer questions, or 
to offer the articles he serves. 

The host carves the dish before him. The hostess 
helps the dish opposite to her, and the gentlemen guests 
carve the dishes opposite to them. As soon as ready to 
help, the lady asks the gentleman at her right to what 
he will be helped, and never makes excuses for, or 
praises any particular dish. The host commences at 
his right hand, and does the same, till all are helped. 
Every person begins to eat as soon as helped. The 
waiters are to observe if bread, water, or anything is 
wanting to any guest, and offer a supply. The hostess 
should, if possible, be at ease, so as to converse, and if 
she has occasion to direct the waiters (which, by pre- 
vious instructions, should be avoided), she should do it 
as quietly and easily as possible. After all the guests 
are helped, the host helps the hostess, and then himself. 

If wine is used, it is served by the host immediately 
after soup and fish, and any other times during the 
dinner he chooses. If the lady of the house is asked to 
drink wine, it is deemed uncourteous to refuse. She is 
expected to have a little poured into her glass, and raise 
it to her lips, looking at and slightly bowing to the 
guest who makes the request, and as soon as he has fill- 



Q40 DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER 

ed his glass. Whenever any other makes the same 
request, a very httle wine is to be poured into her glass, 
as the ceremony is incomplete without this. 

After any guest has finished eating, the waiter is 
to change his plate, knife, and fork, and the host or 
hostess asks to what he will be helped. 

Soon after all the guests are done eating meats, the 
hostess directs the waiter, and every article is removed 
from the table, and the upper table-cloth taken off. 
Then the dessert knives, forks, and plates are set around, 
and the dessert is placed on the table. The pudding is 
to be set on a mat, before the hostess, and the dish of 
cheese before the host, and the pastry arranged in some 
regular order on the table, with knives and forks to 
help. These are divided and distributed by the host 
and hostess, assisted by the guests. 

When these are finished, everything is removed again, 
and the other table-cloth taken off, leaving the bare ta- 
ble, or the colored cloth. Then the fruit is set on. 
After fruit, the coffee is brought to the table, or the 
company retire to the drawing-room, and take their 
coffee there. 



Such a dinner-party as the above, may be got up 
and carried through comfortably by a housekeeper, if 
she is provided with an experienced cook and well- 
trained waiter. But without these, it is absolute 
cruelty for a husband to urge, or even to allow his wife 
to go through all the toil, anxiety, and effort needful for 
such an affair. 

In all cases, it would be more consistent with the 
laws of health, and thus with the laws of God, to have 
a dinner including far less variety, and it is hoped that 
as true Christianity and true refinement advance, that 
the reform in regard to eating will advance, Hke the 
temperance reform in regard to drinking. 

When men become so refined and cultivated, that 
they can supply wit and good sense, instead of the 
overflows induced by the excitement of wine, diluted by 



AND EVENING PARTIES. 241 

the stupidity resulting from excess in eating, a house- 
keeper will find the giving of a dinner-party a very dif- 
ferent matter from what it ordinarily is found to be. 
As dining parties are often conducted, the number, and 
variety, and character of the dishes offered, tempt to an 
excess, which overloads the stomach, and thus stupifies 
the brain ; so that all the wit and brilhancy that is ob- 
tained, is the simple product of vinous fermentation. 

Tea Parties and Evening Comjpany. 

In one respect, fashion has aided to relieve a house- 
keeper of much care in providing evening entertain- 
ments. It is now fashionable to spread a table for 
evening parties, and not to serve tea and coffee, as was 
formerly done. As this is the easiest, and most ration- 
al way of entertaining evening company, no other 
method will be so minutely described. 

If a lady designs to invite from forty to sixty friends 
to pass the evening, or even to have a much larger com- 
pany invited, the following would be called a plain but 
genteel arrangement, for company in New York, Phila- 
delphia, or any of out large cities. 

Set a long table in the dining-room, and cover it with 
a handsome damask cloth. Set some high article con- 
taining flowers, or some ornamental article, in the cen- 
tre. Set Champagne glasses with flowers at each cor- 
ner. Set loaves of cake at regular distances, and dis- 
pose in some regular order about the table, preserves, 
jellies, lemonade, and any other articles that may be 
selected from the abundant variety offered in the collec- 
tion of Receipts for Evening Parties in this book. 

Where a very large company is to be collected, and a 
larger treat is thought to be required, then a long table 
is set in the centre of the room, as above, and on it are 
placed cakes, pastry, jellies, and confectionary. Then 
smaller tables are set each side of a mantle, or in cor- 
ners, one of which is furnished with sandwiches, oysters, 
salad, celery, and wine, and the other with coffee, choco- 
late, and lemonade. Sometimes all are placed on one 

21 



242 DIRECTIONS FOR DINNER AND EVENING PARTIES. 

long table, and in this case, cakes, jellies, and confec- 
tionary are put in the centre, coffee and lemonade at 
one end, and oysters, sandwiches, celery, and wines at 
the other. A great deal of taste may l3e displayed in 
preparing and arranging such a table. 

As it is often the case, that the old mode of serving 
tea and coffee will be resorted to, one modification is 
proposed, which decreases the labour and anxiety to the 
housekeeper, and increases the enjoyment of the com- 
pany. It is this. Set a table in one of the parlors, and 
cover it with a damask cloth. Let the tea and coffee 
be served at this table, the lady of the house presiding. 
Then let the gentlemen wait upon the ladies around 
the room, and then help themselves. This is particu- 
larly convenient when it is difficult to get good waiters. 

Most of the articles used for evening parties (with 
the exception of rich cakes, wine, and high-seasoned 
chicken salad) are not unhealthful, if taken moderately. 

When these parties break up at seasonable hours, 
they may prove one of the most rational and harmless 
modes of securing social enjoyment ; but when connect- 
ed with highly exciting amusements, and late hours, 
they are sure to wear upon the constitution and health, 
and rational and conscientious persons, for these and 
other reasons, will avoid them. 



ON SETTING TABLES, ETC. 243 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

ON SETTING TABLES, AND PREPARING VARIOUS ARTICLES OP 
FOOD FOR THE TABLE. 

To a person accustoiied to a good table, the manner 
in which the table is set, and the mode in which 
food is prepared and set on, has a great influence, not 
only on the eye, but the appetite. A housekeeper ought, 
therefore, to attend carefully to these particulars. 

The table-cloth should always be white, and well 
washed and ironed. When taken from the table, it 
should be folded in the ironed creases, and some heavy 
article laid on it. A heavy bit of plank, smoothed and 
kept for the purpose, is useful. By this method, the 
table-cloth looks tidy much longer than when it is less 
carefully laid aside. 

Where table napkins are used, care should be taken 
to keep the same one to each person, and in laying 
them aside, they should be folded so as to hide the soil- 
ed places, and laid under pressure. 

The table-cloth should always be put on square, and 
right side upward. The articles of furniture should be 
placed as exhibited in figures 7 and 8. 

The bread for breakfast and tea should be cut in 
even, regular slices^ not over a fourth of an inch thick, 
and all crumbs removed from the bread plate. They 
should be piled in a regular form, and if the slices are 
large, they should be divided. 

The butter should be cooled in cold water, if not al- 
ready hard, and then cut into a smooth and regular 
form, and a butter knife be laid by the plate, to be used 
for no other purpose but to help the butter. 

Small mats, or cup plates, should be placed at each 
plate, to receive the tea-cup, when it would otherwise be 
set upon the table-cloth and stain it. 



244 



ON SETTING TABLE, AND 



Fig. 7. 



°Ql/0 D Q^;QI 



® ® 




CD 






of lOa lOa Oslo 8 



A, Castors. 

B, Boiled Turkey. 

C, Oyster Sauce. 

D, Roasted Ducks. 

E, Gravy for Ducks. 



F, Scolloped Oysters. 

G, Boiled Ham. 
H. Potatoes. 

I, Turnips. 

S, Celery. 



K, Parsnips. 
PP, Pickles. 
JJ, JeUy. 
X, Host. 
Y, Hostess. 



A Big. 8. 


c 

so 


(o)®® 

@® 

o 


O 

o o 


on 

oo 


Voo^ O 




Oa Oa 


Os 



All the flour should be wiped from small cakes, and 
the crumbs be kept from the bread plate. 

In preparing dishes for the dinner-table, all water 



PREPARING ARTICLES FOR THE TABLE. 245 

should be carefully drained from vegetables, and the 
edges of the platters and dishes should be made perfect- 
ly clean and neat. 

All soiled spots should be removed from the outside of 
pitchers, gravy boats, and every article used on the ta- 
ble ; the handles of the knives and forks must be clean, 
and the knives bright and sharp. 

In winter, the plates, and all the dishes used, both for 
meat and vegetables, should be set to the fire to warm, 
when the table is being set, as cold plates and dishes 
cool the vegetables, gravy, and meats, which by many 
is deemed a great injury. 

Cucumbers, when prepared for table, should be laid 
in cold water for an hour or two to cool, and then be 
peeled and cut into fresh cold water. Then they should 
be drained, and brought to the table, and seasoned the 
last thing. 

The water should be drained thoroughly from all 
greens and salads. 

There are certain articles which are usually set on 
together, because it is the fashion^ or because they are 
suited to each other. 

Thus with strong-flavored meats^ like mutton, goose, 
and duck, it is customary to serve the strong-flavored 
vegetables, such as onions and turnips. Thus, turnips 
are put in mutton broth, and served with mutton, and 
onions are used to stuff geese and ducks. But onions 
are usually banished from the table and from cooking, 
on account of the disagreeable flavor they impart to the 
atmosphere and breath. 

Boiled Poultry should be accompanied with boiled 
ham, or tongue. 

Boiled Rice is served with poultry as a vegetable. 

Jelly is served with mutton, venison, and roasted 
meats, and is used in the gravies for hashes. 

Fresh Pork requires some acid sauce, such as cran- 
berry, or tart apple sauce. 

Drawn Butter^ prepared as in the receipt, with eggs 
in it, is used with boiled fowls and boiled fish. 

Pickles are served especially with fish, and Soy is a 

21* 



246 ON SETTING TABLES, ETC. 

fashionable sauce for fish, which is mixed on the plate 
with drawn butter. 

There are modes oi garnishing dishes, and prepar- 
ing them for table, which give an air of taste and re- 
finement, that pleases the eye. 

Thus, in preparing a dish of fricasseed fowls, or stew- 
ed fowls, or cold fowls warmed over, small cups of boil- 
ed rice can be laid inverted around the edge of the plat- 
■ ?,r, to eat with the meat. 

Sweetbreads fried brown in lard, and laid around such 
a dish, give it a tasteful look. 

On Broiled Ham, or Veal, eggs boiled, or fried and 
laid, one on each piece, look well. 

Greens and Asparagus should be well drained, and 
laid on buttered toast, and then slices of boiled eggs be 
laid on the top, and around. 

Hashes, and preparations of pig's and calve's head 
and feet, should be laid on toast, and garnished with 
round slices of lemon. 

Curled Parsley, or Common Parsley, is a pretty 
garnish, to be fastened to the shank of a ham, to con- 
ceal the bone, and laid around the dish holding it. It 
looks well laid around any dish of cold slices of tongue, 
ham, or meat of any kind. 

The proper mode of setting a dinner-table is shown 
at Fig. 7, and the proper way of setting a tea-table is 
shown at Fig. 8. In this drawing of a tea-table, small- 
sized plates are set around, with a knife, napkin, and 
cup plate laid by each, in a regular manner, while the 
articles of food are to be set, also, in regular order. On 
the waiter are placed the tea-cups and saucers, sugar 
bowl, slop bowl, cream cup, and two or three articles for 
tea, coffee, and water, a& the case may be. This draw- 
hg may aid some housekeepers in teaching a domestic 
low to set a tea-table, as the picture will assist the mem- 
)ry in some cases. On the dinner table, by each plate, 
;s a knife, fork, napkin, and tumbler : on the tea-table, 
by each plate is a knife, napkin, and small cup-plate. 



SYSTEMATIC FAMILY ARRANGEMENT, ETC. 247 



CHAPTER XXVIIL 

ON SYSTEMATIC FAMILY ARRANGEMENT, AND MODE OF DOING 

WORK. 

Nothing secures ease and success in housekeeping so 
efficiently as system in arranging work. In order to aid 
those who are novices in these matters, the following out- 
lines are furnished by an accomplished housekeeper. 
They are the details of family work, in a family of ten 
persons, where a cook, chambermaid, and boy, are all the 
domestics employed, and where the style of living is plain, 
but every way comfortable. The mistress of this fami- 
ly arranges the work for each domestic, and writes it on 
a large card, which is suspended in the kitchen for gui- 
dance and reference. On hiring a new cook, or cham- 
bermaid, these details are read to her, and the agree- 
ment made, with a full understanding, on both sides, of 
what is expected. The following is copied, verbatim, 
from these cards prepared for the cook and chamber- 
maid. 

Directions for the Cook. 

Sunday. — Rise as early as on other days. No work is 
to be done that can be properly avoided. 

Monday. — Rise early in hot weather, to have the 
cool of the day for work. Try to have everything done 
in the best manner. See that the clothes hne is brought 
in at night, and the clothes pins counted and put in the 
bag. Put the tubs, barrel, and pails used, on the cellar 
bottom. 

Inquire every night, before going to bed, respecting 
breakfast, so as to make preparation beforehand. 

Tuesday. — Clean the kitchen and sink-room. Bake, 
and fold the clothes to iron the next day. 



248 SYSTEMATIC FAMILY ARRANGEMENT, 

« 

Wednesday. — Rise early in warm weather, so as to 
iron in the cool of the day. 

Thursday. — Fold off the clothes. No other special 
work. 

Friday. — Clean all the closets, the kitchen windows, 
the cellar stairs, and the privies. Try up all the grease, 
and put it away for use. 

Saturday. — Bake, and prepare a dinner for Sunday. 

Every day but Monday, wipe the shelves in the pan- 
try and kitchen closet. 

Be careful to have clean dish towels, and never use 
them for other purposes. 

Keep a good supply of holders, both for cooking and 
ironing, and keep them hung up when not in use. 

Keep your boiler for dish water covered. 

Sweep and dust the kitchen every day. 

Never throw dirt, bones, or paper around the doors or 
yard. 

Never give or lend what belongs to the family with- 
out leave. 

Try to keep everything neat, clean, and in order. 

Have a time for everything ^ a place for every^ 
thing, and everything in its place. 

The hour for going to bed is ten o'clock. Those 
who work hard should go to bed early, or else health 
and eyesight will fail. 

Directions for the Chambermaid. 

Sweep the sitting-room before breakfast on Tuesdays 
and Saturdays. 

Wednesday, give all the chambers a thorough sweep- 
ing, and wash down the stairs. 

Thursday, sweep the bedroom and nursery, and wipe 
the paint. Put up the clean clothes, after the cook folds 
them. 

Friday, wash the windows and the piazzas. 

Saturday, sweep the chambers, wash the bowls and 
pitchers in hot suds, and scald the other vessels, unless 
they are washed in hot suds daily, when they will not 
need it. 



AND MODE OF DOING WORK. 249 

After doing the daily chamber- work, collect the lampa 
and fix them in this manner : > 5 

First pick up the wicks, and cut them off square 
(and for this purpose keep sharp scissors), then clean all 
the black sediment from the tubes. Wash them in suds 
as hot as you can bear your hand in, and wipe them 
dry with a cloth kept clean for the purpose, and used 
for nothing else. Be careful not to fill them full, lest 
the oil swell and run over. Screw them very tight, and 
see that the little air-hole is kept open, or the lamp will 
not burn. 

Wash the outside of the oil filler, and wipe the scis- 
sors clean. Wash the cloths used in fresh, clean suds, 
dry them, and then put them in their place. Wipe the 
basin used, and put it in its place. 

After cleaning the lamps, wash and scour the knives, 
thus : 

Wash them first, and be careful not to put the han- 
dles in the water. Wipe them dry, and then scour them 
with Bath brick, and a cork dipped in soft soap. Nev- 
er rub a knife on a board in scouring it, as it wears it 
out very fast. 

After scouring, do not wash them, but wipe them 
with a dry cloth, and be careful to get the brick out 
from between the fork tines. Use a small stick prepa- 
red for the purpose. If the handles are soiled by scour- 
ing, wipe them with a damp cloth. 

Lay the large knives in one side of the knife basket, 
and the small ones the other side, and put the handles of 
the knives one way, and the handles of the forks the 
opposite way. 

Always fill the boiler after you take out dish water, 
lest the cook be disturbed by your neglecting it. 

Arrange the china-closet in order, after putting up 
the breakfast dishes. Dishes not often used must be 
wiped when used. 

In doing chamber-work, turn up the vallance of the 
beds, set the windows open, brush down cobwebs, move 
every moveable article, to sjweep under it, and sweep 
with short strokes. 



250 SYSTEMATIC FAMILY ARRANGEMENT, 

Always hang the cloths kept for wiping bowls and 
pitchers on the towel frames, and use them for nothing 
else. 

Have a dust cloth with a loop for every room, and 
put it in the wash once a fortnight. 

Wash the breakfast dishes thus : — Rinse the cups, 
scrape the plates very clean, put the bits of butter on 
the butter plate, and empty all the slops into the slop 
bowl, and then empty it. 

First wash the glass things with a swab in suds, as 
hot as possible, wiping each one as soon as taken out 
of the water. When glass is very cold, put a little warm 
water in it before putting it into the hot suds, or you 
will crack it. 

Next wash the silver and Britannia, wiping each as 
soon as taken out. Then wash the other articles. 

Keep the castors bright and clean, and well filled. 
Wipe the salt spoons dry, and do not lay them so as to 
touch the salt. If the salt is damp, take it out and 
dry it, mashing it to powder. 

Wipe off the china-closet shelves every day, and Sat- 
urdays wash them. 

Rub the silver and Britannia every Saturday, after 
washing them. 



In the Domestic Economy, at p. 318, will be found di- 
rections for washing dishes in the kitchen, which are to 
be hung over the sink. 

Every family must vary somew^iat from all others in 
its routine of family work, and it often is the case, that 
such written directions will be of little or no use to do- 
mestics. But the fact of having them written, and the 
reading of them over to all new-comers, as what is ex- 
pected of them, and occasional reference to them, as 
what was agreed on when making the bargain, often 
will be of much service. And it is an aid to the house- 
keeper herself, who is liable to forget many things in 
teaching new-comers their duties. 



AND MODE OF DOING WORK. 25], 

Odds and Ends. 

There are certain odds and ends, where every house- 
keeper will gain much by having a regular time to 
attend to them. Let this time be the last Saturday 
forenoon in every month, or any other time more agree- 
able, but let there be a regular fixed time once a 
month, in which the housekeeper will attend to the fol- 
lowing things : 

First, go around to every room, drawer, and closet in 
the house, and see what is out of order, and what needs 
to be done, and make arrangements as to time and 
manner of doing it. 

Second, examine the store-closet, and see if there is 
a proper supply of all articles needed there. 

Third, go to the cellar, and see if the salted provis- 
ion, vegetables, pickles, vinegar, and all other articles 
stored in the cellar are in proper order, and examine all 
the preserves and jellies. 

Fourth, examine the trunk, or closet of family linen, 
and see what needs to be repaired and renewed. 

Fifth, see if there is a supply of dish towels, dish 
cloths, bags, holders, floor cloths, dust cloths, wrapping 
paper, twine, lamp-wicks, and all other articles needed 
in kitchen work. 

Sixth, count over the spoons, knives, and forks, and 
examine all the various household utensils, to see what 
need replacing, and what should be repaired. 

A housekeeper who will have a regular time for at- 
tending to these particulars, will find her whole family 
machinery moving easily and well ; but one who does 
not, will constantly be finding something out of joint, 
and an unquiet, secret apprehension of duties left un- 
done, or forgotten, which no other method will so eflfect- 
ually remove. 

A housekeeper will often be much annoyed by the 
accumulation of articles not immediately needed, that 
must be saved for future use. The following method, 
adopted by a thrifty housekeeper, may be imitated with 
advantage. She bought some cheap calico, and made 



252 UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 

bags of various sizes, and wrote the following labels 
with indelible ink on a bit of broad tape, and sewed 
them on one side of the bags : — Old Linens ; Old 
Cottons ; Old Black Silks ; Old Colored Silks; 
Old Stockings ; Old Colored Woollens ; Old Flan- 
nels ; New Linen ; New Cotton ; New Woolle7is ; 
Nev) Silks ; Pieces of Dresses ; Pieces of Boys'' 
Clothes J <fcc. These bags were hung around a closet, 
and filled with the above articles, and then it was 
known where to look for each, and where to put each 
when not in use. 

Another excellent plan is for a housekeeper once a 
month to make out a hill of fare for the four weeks to 
come. To do this, let her look over this book, and find 
out what kind of dishes the season of the year and her 
own stores will enable her to provide, and then make 
out a fist of the dishes she will provide through the 
month, so as to have an agreeable variety for breakfasts, 
dinners, and suppers. Some systematic arrangement 
of this kind at regular periods will secure great comfort 
and enjoyment to a family. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

ON A PROPER SUPPLY OF UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES FOR 
HOUSEKEEPING. 

What is the proper supply of kitchen utensils, de- 
pends very much on the style of living adopted, and on 
the character of the domestics employed. Where a per- 
son's means are small, there must be a sacrifice of time 
and convenience to save expense ; and where domestics 
are in such habits that no proper care will be taken of 
utensils, the supply must be more limited. 

But where a housekeeper has abundant means, and 
where she can, by a reasonable effort, secure proper 
attention to the care of utensils, it greatly contributes 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 253 

to the ease and success of housekeeping to have a full 
supply of them. And there is much economy, both of 
time and comfort, in securing such a supply. Where 
there are a few utensils, and these are to be used for a 
great variety of purposes, there is a loss of time in stop- 
ping to dean articles used for one thing, when wanted 
for another ; there is a loss of time in running about to 
look for them ; and there is a loss of /> alienee in finding 
them out of the way at just the wrong time, so that 
good success is often thus entirely prevented. 

Moreover, many processes of cooking and housekeep- 
ing are performed with much more success, when the 
cook is well provided with suitable utensils ; while the 
use of the same article for various kinds of dishes, or 
for different modes of cooking, often destroys the deli- 
cate flavor of food, and makes all dishes taste very much 
alike. This is the case often, in steam and canal boats, 
where every article on the table seems to have imbi- 
bed one and the same flavor; 

In pointing out the various conveniences to be used 
in housekeeping, reference will be had to those chiefly 
who have means to purchase everything they deem 
useful, and also who can obtain such domestics, that 
proper care will be taken of whatever is provided. 

In the Domestic Economy at p. 319, is a list em- 
bracing a full supply of all those articles which 
some of the best housekeepers in our country deem 
useful and desirable, for the various processes of house- 
keeping, in a family of medium size, and of abundant 
means ; where everything is done for comfort^ and no- 
thing for show. 

Kitchen Furniture. 

The kitchen floor should be covered with an oil cloth. 
Carpets, or bits of carpet, are not so good, because of the 
grease and filth that must accumulate in them, and the 
labor of sweeping, shaking, and cleansing them. No- 
thing is cleansed so easily as an oil cloth, and it is much 
better than a painted floor, because it can be removed to 
be painted. 

22 



254 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 



If the cook is troubled with cold feet in winter, small 
bits of carpeting can be laid where she sits and stands 
the most. Otherwise they had better be kept out of the 
kitchen. 

Directions for preparing a kitchen oil cloth will be 
found page 317 of the Domestic Economy. 

There should always be a clock in the kitchen, as in- 
dispensable to success in cooking, and regularity of 
meals. 

Two tables, a large one for cooking, and a small one 
for meals, should be provided. 

Besides this, a settee ironing-table is a very great com- 
fort and convenience, which is represented at Pig. 9, and 
is a better pattern than the one described in the Domes- 
tic Economy. 

Fig. 9. 




The back is made to turn on pivots at CO, and rests 
when turned on the sides. At AA, are projections, with a 
hole that meets the holes in the sides at BB, and then 
the peg at E is put in to hold it firmly. The box, or 
seat, is divided into two parts, with lids at DD, and in these 
boxes are kept, on one side the ironing sheet, wipers and 
holders, and on the other side, the irons, rings, (fee, used 
in ironing. When the back is not used for ironing, it is 
put down, and the article is a good settee, and if provi- 
ded with cushions, is as comfortable as most parlor sofas. 
It can be put on castors, and have handles at the sides, 
and then it can be moved up to the fire winter evenings 
for use ; the back serving both to reflect the warmth of 
the fire^ and to keep oflf draughts of air. 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



255 



The following are the dimensions. Length, six feet. 
Width of seat, twenty inches. Height of seat, four- 
teen inches. Height of back, from the bottom, four 
feet. This makes the width of the table when it is 
turned down. Height of the ends where the table rests 
when turned over, two feet six inches. 

In some families, it is sometimes necessary to have a 
domestic sleep in the kitchen. In this case, a hunk set- 
tee^ like the one which is represented as open at Fig. 10, 
is very convenient. 

Fig. 10. 




The following are the dimensions. Six feet long. 
Seat two feet wide, and sixteen inches high. The 
parts c c pass within the ends d d. The seat a, when 
it is shut up, rests on the ledge that runs along the back 
at b. The bed and bed-clothing are at the bottom of 
the box, and are shut up in it by day. 

At Fig. 11 is represented a kitchen table, with shelves 
and drawers fastened over it, which, if made and fur- 
nished in the manner described, every housekeeper 
would find an invaluable aid to system, and it would 
save many steps, and much inconvenience. The shelves 
are to be nailed or screwed on the wall at a convenient 
height over the table. 



256 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 
Fig. 11 





^t.— 

If 
If 




%ia. 



The following are the dimerxsions of the two articles. 

Tahle. — Six feet long. Three feet two inches broad. 
Thirty inches high* The top to project only two inch- 
es over the frame. The box divided by three drawers. 
Two of the drawers divided by partitions into three 
equal parts, as seen by the dotted lines in the drawing. 

The shelves over the table are three feet in height, 
three feet six inches wide, and a foot deep. The draw- 
.ers are four incnes deep, and the part above the drawers 
is divided by me slielves into three equal portions. It 
is better to have two doors in front of the shelves to shut 
the dust out. Some would prefer a curtain to slide on 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 257 

an iron wire. At A is hung the salt box, made with a 
lid, and at B is the coffee mill, and the other side the 
soap dish is at C. 

To furnish this complete, there should be tin boxes 
made with tight lapping covers, like that at Fig. 12, 
and of three sizes. The largest should be eight inches 
in height, and three and a half in diameter. The next 
size should be six inches high and three inches in diam- 
eter. The next should be four inches high and two 
inches in diameter. These can all be made at a tiriner's 
for a small sum. In the largest size put two kinds of 
sugar, and the starch. In the medium size keep tea and 
coffee, table salt and ginger. In the smallest size keep 
cream tartar, indigo, mustard, sweet herbs, and spices. 
In junk bottles, keep a supply of vinegar, molasses, and 
catsup. In a wide-mouth glass jar, with tight glass 
stopper, keep soda, or saleratus. Write labels and paste 
on to each, and arrange them on these shelves in one 
division. On the shelves of the other division, put the 
following articles : — those that can be suspended, hang 
on nails at the side, over the shelves. A dredging box, 
kitchen pepper box, two-sized graters, two small sieves, 
a bottle brush, a vial tunnel, a larger tunnel, a quart, 
pint, and gill measure, a gravy strainer, a corkscrew, 
half a dozen bowls, as many cups, saucers, and two 
small pitchers. On the top of the shelves put the spice 
mill, and the balance and weights. Fig. 16 shows the 
best kind. In one of the drawers of the shelves, put 
needles, thread, twine, wax, and bits of cotton and linen. 
In the other drawer put the Receipt Book, bits of paper 
and pencil for writing notes and memoranda, an account 
book, and a pen and ink. 

In the table drawer which is not subdivided, put these 
articles : — Rolling-pin, griddle spad, iron meat fork, cof- 
fee stick, mush stick, gridiron scraper, skewers, saw knife, 
chopping knife, egg and cake beaters, apple corer, pota- 
to beetle, meat hammer, butter spad, whetstone. 

In the middle drawer, put, in the front part, the kitch- 
en knives and forks, and carver, the iron spoons, and 
other spoons used in the kitchen. In the centre part of 

22* 



258 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 



this drawer put the kitchen table-cloths, and in the back 
part, the bags for all kinds of family uses, the pudding 
cloths, jelly strainer, and starch strainers. 

In the other drawer, keep in one division, the clean 
dish cloths and towels ; in another, the roller and tum- 
bler towels, and in another the clean lamp towels, and 
a good supply of holders and dust cloths. Let the cleav- 
er and board be kept on the top of the shelves. 

By this arrangement the cook will find every article 
she has occasion to use close at hand, and when she 
washes dishes, her towels and soap, and the place where 
to lay up all utensils as she washes them, are in imme- 
diate reach. No one knows, without trial, how many 
steps are saved, and how much confusion and waste 
avoided, by such an arrangement. And the expense 
for securing it is a trifle, far less than is often spent for 
some showy but useless article for the parlor. 

Another arrangement is a great aid to system and 
order. Have a closet made as represented at Fig. 13. 

Fig. 13. 




In these partitions place these articles, the largest in the 
largest part, and hanging all that can be suspended, on 
pegs. A large and small clothes frame. A skirt board. 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



259 



A bosom board. A press board. A yard stick. Three 
or four brooras. A floor brush for sweeping oil cloths and 
painted floors. A cobweb brush. A long brush to wash 
windows outside. A carpet stretcher. A whitewash 
brush. A long-handle upright dust pan, and a common 
dust pan. A rag bag. Scrubbing brushes. 

In the part with shelves, place, in the upper partitions, 
in one, the shoes, brushes, and blacking. In another, 
articles for cleaning brass and silver. In another, spon- 
ges, rags, and stain mixtures. In the next division, be- 
low, put the lamps and candlesticks, and the waiter 
containing all the articles used in cleaning lamps. 

At the bottom of this closet, keep a box containing the 
following articles : — A hammer, a small saw, three sizes 
of gimlets, papers of tacks, nails, screws, two chisels, a 
bedscrew, a carpet claw. 

In another box, keep old newspaper, wrapping paper, 
and a large ball of twine. 

Have a clothes broom and clothes brush hung here, 
and keep the table-rug here. 

All other articles in common use are to be kept in the 
pantry, or china closet, or in the pot closet. 

By thus arranging articles together in one place, and 
with so complete an assortment, much time and many 
steps are saved, while they are preserved in good order. 
A housekeeper who chooses to do without some of these 
conveniences, and spend the money saved in parlor 
adornments, has a right to do so, and others 4iave a right 
to think she in this shoNvs herself deficient in good sense. 

The accompanying drawings are designed to show 
some of the most convenient kitchen and other utensils. 

Fig. 14. 




260 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 



Fig. 14 represents a Tin Baker ^ or Reflector. The 
iron hooks running out in front, fit it to use with grates. 
It can be made without them, or made so that they can 
be drawn out and put in. This bakes bread, cakes, 
apples, (fee, as well as an oven. 

Fig. 15. 




Fig. 15, called a Footman^ is made of brass, or sheet 
iron, and is used with a grate, to heat irons, and for 
other purposes. 

Fig. 16. 




Fig. 16 is the best kind of Balances to use in weigh- 
ing cake, and for other purposes. 

Fig. 17. 




FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



261 



Pig. 17 is a tall-handle Dust Pan. The pan is half 
a yard in length, ten inches in width, and the handle 
two feet high, and set up perpendicularly. It is a very 
economical arrangement to save carpets and labor, as it 
is set down in spots, and the common broom used to 
throw the dust and rubbing from the carpet on to it, in- 
stead of brushing them all across the carpet. 



Fig. 18. 




Fig. 18 is a Saw Knife, being a saw on one side, 
and a knife on the other. It is very useful in preparing 
meats. 

Fig. 19. 




Fig. 19 is a Lemon /Squeezer. At A is a concave 
place with holes bored through. At B is a convex pro- 
jection to fit into the concave portion, and here the half 
lemon is put to be squeezed. 



Fig. 21,- 



Fig. S50. 




Fig. 20, a Case for lampUghters. It is made of tin, 
like a tumbler, with a lid fastened at the top by a hinge. 
It stands in the parlor, to receive the remnants of ex- 
tinguished lamplighters and matches, to prevent smoke 



262 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 



and rubbish, and is a great convenience. It can be 
made for a trifle at a tinner's. 

Fig. 21 is a tin Match ^afe, v^^hich should be hung 
in the kitchen, and the matches be kept in it. It is 
not only convenient, but important for safety. 

Fig. 22. 



VwV 



Fig. 22 is a Meat Mallet, or beef steak hammer. 
It is a block of wood six inches square, cut in checks, 
so as to make sharp points on the face, and is used to 
make tough steaks more tender. 



Fig. 23. 




Fig. 23 is an Egg Beater. It is made of iron wire, 
fastened to a tin handle. It is fine for beating eggs and 
cake, and saves labor. The tin should be six inches 
long and an inch wide. 



Fig. 24. 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



263 



Fig. 24 is a small brush, useful to dust ledges in par- 
lors, and the frames of windows. 



Fig. 25. 



Fig. 25 is SLii Apple Cover. It is a scroll of tin sol- 
dered together, about seven inches long, an inch in di- 
ameter at the largest end, and tapering to half an inch 
at the smaller end, where it is cut off obliquely. It costs 
but a dime, and every housekeeper can have one made 
at a tinner's, and needs one. 

Fig. 26. 



Fig. 26 is a Gridiron Scraper. It is fitted to the 
bars of gridirons that have scooped bars. It has a con- 
vex scraper on one end of the transverse piece of iron, 
and a concave one at the other, so as to fit both sides of 
the gridiron bars. 

Fig. 27. 




Fig. 27 shows the best shape for a Rolling Pin, 



^64 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 



Fig. 28. 




J 




Fig. 28 shows a Fish Kettle, with the strainer drawn 
out above it. It should be large enough to use some- 
times for boiling a ham. This and the sauce pans fol- 
lowing can be used on a cooking stove, or be set on a 
trivet when an open fire is used. 



Fig. 29. 




Fig. 29 is a Preserving Kettle with a cover. 

Fig. 30. 




Fig. 30 is another Preserving Kettle, without a cov- 
er. The advantage of these is, that they are shallow, 
80 that the fruit wUl not need to be piled. The cover 



FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



^4 



preserves the flavor more perfectly. The best are of 
copper or bell metal. Porcelain ones are apt to crack. 



Fig; 31. 




Pig. 31 is a Cast Iron Sauce-pan^ lined with tin. 

Fig. 32. * 




Fig. 32 is a Tin Sauce-pan. 

Fig. 33, 




Fig. 33 is a Copper Sauce-pan. 

Every housekeeper needs at least four different sizes 
of sauce-pans. The copper ones are the best, and most 
durable. The iron lined with tin the next best. The 
tin are the poorest. 



266 



UTENSILS AND CONVENIENCES 
Fig. 34. 



;l 




Fig. 34 is a Trivet, and is very useful in heating 
articles over coals to prevent burning. Three or four 
of different sizes are needed with an open fire. Food 
cooked for the sick demands them. 



Fig. 35. 




Fig. 35 is a Tin Bonnet, and is very useful to keep 
articles warm, to roast apples, to warm plates, &c. 
Two or three will be kept in constant use when it is 
found how useful they are. 



Fig. 36. 



as 

w 



: ^i S? -f^fi 



Fig. 36 is a brush to clean bottles, made of bristles 
twisted into wire. 

Fig. 37. 








TOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



S6T: 



prFig. 37 is a Tin j^afe. It is to be made five feet 
high, five feet wide, a division iii the middle, and three 
shelves each side. Two doors in front, with a lock and 
key, and all the panels of perforated tin. It is very use- 
ful to preserve food in hot weather, and to protect it also 
from mice. 

Refrigerators are very excellent to keep meat, but- 
ter, milk, and cream, during- hot weather. They are 
made in a superior manner, and kept for sale, but the 
following is a mode of securing a cheap one. 

Take a barrel and bore holes in the bottom. Lay 
some small sticks crossing, and set a half barrel within, 
with holes bored in the bottom. Nail list along the 
edge of each, and make a cover to lay on each, so that 
the cover resting on the hst will make it very close. 
Then put ice into the inner one, and the water will fil- 
ter through the holes in the bottom, and while the ice is 
preserved, it will make the inner half barrel a perfect re- 
frigerator. Those who buy ice every day will find this 
a great convenience if they have no other refrigerator 

Fig. 38, 




Fig. 38 represents an excellent pattern for a tSofa 
Bedsteadj such as a common carpenter can make. Its 
dimensions are as follows : — Length, six feet. Width, 
two feet two inches. Height of the seat from the floor, 
fifteen inches. Height of the back and sides from the 
seat, eighteen inches. The seat is a frame with slats to 
be laid across lengthwise^ as this gives more ease than 
crosswise slats. The back is a frame, with slats cross- 
wise, with two frame legs^ as at A and B, swinging on 



268 ARTICLES AND CONVENIENCES 

hinges, and when pulled out they serve to support the 
back. The back is hooked up to the sides, and when 
laid down rests on the frame legs A B. These legs turn 
with pintles, or wood hinges. The ends of the sofa 
have grooved slides for the head and footboards to shde 
in, as at C C, and have brown linen nailed on both in- 
side and outside, on which to fasten the sofa cover. Two 
thick cushions of hair, or of moss and cotton, are made, 
one to serve for the seat, one to set up against the back. 
These serve for the bed when the back is laid down. A 
frill is fastened around the frame of the seat, and the 
box D, underneath, is to hold the bedclothes, and runs 
on castors, as also does the sofa. 

Fig. 39. 




Fig. 39 is a very convenient and cheap article for a 
light seat to use in a chamber, or in gardening. It is 
made just like a cross bedstead or cot, with a bit of stair 
carpeting used as the seat. Handles fastened to it make 
it more convenient to carry about, as it can be doubled 
up, and taken in one hand. These are the dimensions : 
Sticks for the seat, one foot long. Sticks for the legs, one 
foot six inches long. 

Fig. 40. 




Fig. 40 is an article for a bedchamber, and remark- 
ably convenient for dressing the feet. In one drawer 
are kept stockings of all sorts, and in the other shoes ; 
it has a cushion and handles, and is set on castors. It 
is to stand by the bedside, and a person can change the 
dress of the feet with the greatest comfort and conve- 
nience. These are the dimensions : — Twenty inches 
square and twelve inches high from castors to cushion. 



FOR HOUSEKEEPINS. 269 

Housekeepers are much troubled to keep dippers in 
order. The only sure mode is to have two made of 
copper^ with iron handles fastened on very tight, one to 
hold a pint, and another two or three quarts. These 
will never rust or leak, and may be kept for years. Let 
them be hung by the fire. Keep trivets on which to 
set kettles over coals, so as not to burn the articles while 
cooking. 

The most successful mode of securing the proper care 
of utensils, is to make a definite agreement with the 
cook, on hiring her, that after dinner, she shall examine 
kitchen, cellar, and pantry, and wash every article that 
needs cleansing ; and that once a month she shall scour 
all that need scouring. Then, at least once a week, 
and once a month, the housekeeper should examine her- 
fSelf whether this agreement is fulfilled. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO HIRED SERVICE. 

There is no subject on which young housekeepers 
need wisdom and instruction more, than in regard to the 
managemeyit of domestics, and therefore some far- 
ther suggestions will be offered, in addition to those pre- 
sented in the Domestic Economy. 

Success in the management of domestics very much 
depends upon the manners of a housekeeper towards 
them. And here, two extremes are to be avoided. One 
is a severe and imperious mode of giving orders and find- 
ing fault, which is inconsistent both with lady-like good 
breeding, and with a truly amiable character. Few do- 
mestics, especially American domestics, will long submit 
to it, and mdny a good one has been lost, simply by the 
influence of this unfortunate manner. 

The other extreme is apt to result from the great dif- 

23* 



270 SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD 

ficiilty of retaining good domestics. In cases where this 
is experienced, there is a habilily of becoming so fearful 
of displeasing one who is found to be good, that, imper- 
ceptibly, the relation is changed, and the domestic be- 
.conies the mistress. A housekeeper thus described this 
cliange in one whom she hired : '• The first year she 
was an excellent servant; the second year, she w^as a 
kind mistress ; the third year, she was an intolerable ty- 
rant !" 

There is no domestic so good that she will not be in- 
jured by perceiving that, through dependance upon her, 
and a fear of losing her services, the mistress of the fam- 
ily gives up her proper authority and control. 

The happy medium is secured, by a course of real 
kindness in manner and treatment, attended with the 
manifestation of a calm determination, that the plans 
and will of the housekeeper, and not of the domestic, 
shall control the family arrangements. 

When a good domestic first begins to insist that her 
views and notions shall be regarded, rather than those 
of the housekeeper, a kind but firm stand must be taken. 
A frank conversation should be sought, at a time when 
nothing has occurred to ruffle the temper on either side. 
Then the housekeeper can inquire what would be the 
view taken of this matter in case the domestic herself 
should become a housekeeper, and hire a person to help 
her ; and when the matter is set before her mind in this 
light, let the "golden rule" be applied, and ask her 
whether she is not disposed to render to her present em- 
ployer what she herself would ask from a domestic in 
similar circumstances. 

Much trouble of this kind is saved by hiring persoi;kS 
on trials in order to ascertain whether they are willing 
and able to do the work of the family in the manner 
which the housekeeper wishes ; and in this case, such 
written cards as have been exhibited in previous pages 
can be read, or some member of the family can go around 
for a day or two, and show how everything is to be done. 

There is no department of domestic life where a wo- 
man's temper and patience are so sorely tried, as in the 



,*o TO HIKED SERVICS> 2T'l 

incompetence and constant changes of domestics. And 
therefore, there is no place where a reasonable and Chris- 
tian woman will be more watchful, careful, and conscien- 
^tious. 

The cultivation oi patience will be much promoted 
by keeping in mind these considerations in reference to 
the incompetence and other faiUngs of those who are 
hired. 

In the first place, consider that the great object of life 
to us is not enjoyment^ but the formation of a right 
character ; that such a character cannot be formed, ex- 
cept by discipline, and that the trials and difficulties of 
don;iestic Hfe, if met in a proper spirit and manner, will, 
in the end, prove blessings rather than evils, by secu- 
ring a measure of elevation, dignity, patience, self-control, 
and benevolence, that could be gained by no other 
methods. The comfort gained by these virtues, and the 
rewards they bring, both in this and in a future life, are 
a thousand-fold richer than the easy, indolent life of in- 
dulgence, which we should choose for ourselves. 

In the next place, instead of allowing the mind to 
dwell on the faults of those who minister to our com- 
fort and convenience, cultivate a habit of making every 
possible, benevolent allowance and palhation. Say to 
yourself — " Poor girl' ! she has never been instructed, 
either by parents or employers. Nobody has felt any in- 
terest in the formation of her habits, or kindly sought to 
rectify her faults. Why should I expect her to do those 
things well which no one has taken any care to teach 
her ? She has no parent or friend now to aid her but 
myself. Let me bear her faults patiently, and kindly 
try to cure them." 

If a woman will cultivate the spirit expressed in such 
language, if she will benevolently seek the best good of 
those she employs, if she will interest herself in giving 
them instruction, if they need it, and good books to read 
if they are already qualified to understand them, if she 
will manifest a desire to have them made comfortable in 
the kitchen, and in their chambers, she certainly will 
receive her reward, and that in many ways. She will 



Q73 SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD 

be improving her own character, she will set a good ex- 
ample to her family, and in the end, she will do some- 
thing, and in some cases mwc/i, to improve the charac- 
ter and services of those whom she hires. And the good 
done in this way goes down from generation to genera- 
tion, and goes also into the eternal world, to be known 
and rejoiced in, when every earthly good has come to 
an end. 

It is sometimes the case, that the constant change of 
domestics, and the HabiUty thus to have dishonest ones, 
makes it needful to keep stores under lock and key. 
This measure is often very offensive to those who are 
hired, as it is regarded by them as an evidence both of 
closeness and of suspicion of their honesty. 

In such cases, it is a good plan, when first making an 
agreement with a domestic, to state the case in this way. 
That you have had dishonest persons in the family, and 
that when theft is committed, it is always a cause of dis- 
quiet to honest persons, because it exposes them to sus- 
picion. You can then state your reasons as two-fold : 
one to protect yourself from pilfering w^hen you take en- 
tire strangers, and the other is to protect honest persons 
from being suspected. When the matter is thus pre- 
sented, at first hiring a person, no offence will be taken 
afterwards. 

In some portions of our country, the great influx of 
foreigners of another language and another faith, and 
the ready entrance they find as domestics into American 
famihes, impose peculiar trials and peculiar duties on 
American housekeepers. In reference to such, it is no 
less our interest than our duty to cultivate a spirit of 
kindness, patience, and sympathy. 

Especially should this be manifested in reference to 
their religion. However wrong, or however pernicious 
we may regard their system of faith, we should remem- 
ber, that they have been trained to beheve that it is 
what God commands them to obey, and so long as they 
do beheve this, we should respect them for their conscien- 
tious scruples, and not try to tempt them to do what 
they suppose to be wrong. If we lead an ignorant and 



TO HIRED SERVME. 273 

feeble mind to do what it believes to be wrong, in regard 
to the most sacred of all duties, those owed to God, how 
can we expect them to be faithful to us ? 

The only lawful way to benefit those whom we re- 
gard as in an error, is, not to tempt them to do what 
they believe to be wrong, but to give them the li^ht of 
knowledge^ so that they may be qualified to judge for 
themselves. And the way to make them willing to re- 
ceive this light, is to he kind to them. We should take 
care that their feelings and prejudices should in no way 
be abused, and that they be treated as we should wish 
to be, if thrown as strangers into a strange land, among 
a people of diflferent customs and faith, and away from 
parents, home, and friends. 

Remember that our Master, who is in heaven, espe- 
cially claims to be the God of the widow, the fatherless, 
and the stranger^ and has commanded, " If a stranger 
sojourn with you in your land, ye shall not vex him, but 
the stranger that dwelleth among you shall be unto you 
as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thy- 
self" 

There is one rule, which every housekeeper will find 
of incalculable value, not only in the case of domestics, 
but in the management of children, and that is, never to 
find fault at the time that a wrong thing is done. 
Wait until you are unexcited yourself, and until the vexa- 
tion of the offender is also past, and then, when there is 
danger of a similar offence, /ore^^?ar/^, and point out the 
evils already done for want of proper care in this respects 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

ON THE STYLE OF LIVING AND EXPENSES. 

This work is designed primarily for young and in- 
experienced housekeepers, and the following suggestions 



'274 THE STYLE OF LIVING 

are presented as the advice of many judicious and expe- 
rienced matrons in our country, to their young country- 
women, who are to follow them in the trying duties 
of houselteeping. 

Nothing in this country is a greater source of suffer- 
ing to housekeepers, than had taste in their style of liv- 
ing and expenditure. Good taste is that nice percep- 
tion of fitness and propriety which leads a person to say 
and do whatever is suitable and appropriate in all pos- 
sible circumstances. Such good taste is ordinarily the 
result of good feehngs and well-cultivated mind, and an 
acquaintance with the world. Yet this correct taste is 
sometimes found in minds that have enjoyed but few 
advantages, but by nature are endowed with refined 
feelings and good common sense. 

Where this good taste exists, it leads a woman to wnsh 
to have her house, furniture, and style of living, in all its 
parts, exactly conformed to her m^eans, and her situa- 
Hon. If she is not rich, she will not wish to have a 
house, or furniture, or dress like those who are rich, and 
will find a pride and pleasure in making a small house, 
plain furniture, simple dress, and an economical table, 
so neat, and orderly, and comfortable, and tasteful, as to 
ensure comfort and satisfaction to all around her. If 
she cannot command good domestics, nor live comforta- 
bly in a house, and with furniture which requires them, 
she will aim to alter the style of her establishment, and 
adopt one which can be thoroughly and successfull)'' 
carried out by such domestics as she can obtain. 

Where good domestics are scarce, it is a very great 
mistake to attempt to live in a large house. The la- 
bor of house cleaning, and window cleaning, the sweep- 
ing, the care of furniture, and many other items of la- 
bor, are much increased by enlarging the size of the 
house. In the country, where good help is scarce, a 
house on the plan of one of the cottages drawn in the 
Domestic Economy, with bed presses instead of cham- 
bers, will be found to be a great saving of labor, and the 
expense that might be incurred in building, furnishing, 
and taking care of chambers, can be laid out in making" 



|[</5 AND- EXPENSES. 275 

conveniences for carrying water, and furnishing the 
kitchen properly. The drawings for this purpose in the 
Domestic Economy will be found useful in this respect. 

In cities, nothing is more pernicious to a housekeeper's 
health, than going up and down stairs, aud a woman 
who has good taste and good sense, will not, for the sake 
of show, keep two parlors on the ground floor and her 
nursery above and kitchen below. One of these parlors 
will be taken for her nursery and bedroom, even should 
all her acquaintance wonder how it can be, that a 
wife and mother should think her health and duties of 
more importance than two dark parlors shut up for 
company. 

When a woman has good sense and good taste, these 
are some of the things she will not do. 

She will not be so anxious to obtain admission into 
any circle as to seek it by a conformity to its fashions, 
which will involve her in labor, or expenses that lessen 
domestic comfort, or are inappropriate to her income. 

. She will not be particularly anxious to know what the 
fashion is, in dress and furniture, nor give up any im- 
portant duty or pursuit to conform to it. Nor will she 
be disturbed if found deficient in these particulars, nor 
disturb others by making apologies, or giving reasons. 

She will not, while all that is i7i sight to visiters, or 
to out-door observers, is in complete order, and in ex- 
pensive style, have her underclothing, her bedroom, her 
kitchen, and her nursery ill furnished, and all in disor- 
der. She will not attempt to show that she is genteel, 
and belongs to the aristocracy, by a display of profusion, 
by talking as if she was indifferent to the cost of things, 
or by seeming ashamed to economize. These things 
are marks of a vulgar, unrefined person, that fancies 
that it is money, and not character, that makes the 
lady. And by persons of education and refinement, 
such things are always regarded as indicating a vulgar, 
uncultivated mind. 

Let a young housekeeper, then, adopt these maxims 
as her guide in regulating the style of her dressy fufni^ 
ture, table, and the size of her house. 



276 WORDS OF COMFORT FOR 

Do not begin housekeeping in the style in which you 
should end it, but begin on a plain and small scale, and 
increase your expenditures as your experience and means 
are increased. 

Be determined to live within yoiu* income, and in 
such a style that you can secure time to improve your 
own mind, and impart some of your own advantages to 
others. 

Try to secure syinmetry in your dress, furniture, style 
of living, and charities. That is, do not be profuse in 
one direction, and close and pinching in another. 

Cultivate a taste for intellectual pleasures, hoTne 
pleasures, and the pleasures of benevolence. 

Have some regular plan for the employment of your 
time, and in this plan have chief reference to making 
home pleasant to your husband and children. It will 
save them from a thousand snares, and you from many 
sorrows. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

WORDS OF COMFORT FOR A DISCOURAGED HOUSEKEEPER. 

There is no doubt of the fact, that American house- 
keepers have far greater trials and difficulties to meet 
than those of any other nation. And it is probable that 
many of those who may read over the methods of thrift 
and economy adopted by some of the best housekeepers 
in our land, and detailed in this work, will with a 
sigh exclaim, that it is impossible for them even to at- 
tempt any such plans. 

Others may be stimulated by the advice and exam 
pies presented, and may start off with nmch hope and 
courage, to carry out a plan of great excellence and ap- 
propriateness, and after trying a while, will become dis- 



A DISCOURAGED HOUSEKEEPER. 277 

couraged by the thousand obstacles in their way, and 
give up in despair. 

A still greater number will like their own way best, 
and think it is folly to attempt to change. 

For those who wish they could become systematic, neat, 
and thorough housekeepers, and would hke to follow out 
successfully the suggestions found in this work, and for 
those who have tried, or will try, and find themselves 
baffled and discouraged, these words of comfort are of- 
fered. ■ 

Perhaps you find yourself encompassed by such sort 
of trials as these. Your house is inconvenient, or desti- 
tute of those facilities for doing work well which you 
need, and you cannot command the means to supply 
these deficiencies. Your domestics are so imperfectly 
qualified that they never can do anything just right, 
unless you stand by and attend to everything yourself, 
and you cannot be present in parlor, nursery, and kitch- 
en all at once. Perhaps you are frequently left without 
any cook, or without a chambermaid, and sometimes 
without any hands but your own to do the work, and 
there is constant jostling and change from this cause. 
And perhaps you cannot get supplies, either from gar- 
den or market, such as you need, and all your calcula- 
tions fail in that direction. 

And perhaps your children are sickly, and rob you 
of rest by night, or your health is so poor that you feel 
no energy, or spirits to make exertions. And perhaps 
you never have had any training in domestic affairs, and 
cannot understand how to work yourself, nor how to di- 
rect others. And when you go for aid to experienced 
housekeepers, or cookery books, you are met by such 
sort of directions as these : " Take a pinch of this, and a 
little of that, and considerable of the other, and cook 
them till they are done about rightP And when you can- 
not succeed in following such indefinite instructions, you 
find your neighbors and husband wondering how it is, 
that when you have one, two, or three domestics, there 
should be so much difficulty about housekeeping, and 
such constant trouble, and miscalculation, and mistake, 

24 



278 WORDS OF COMFORT FOE 

And then, perhaps, you lose your patience and your tem- 
per, and blame others, and others blame you, and so 
everything seems to be in a snarl. 

Now the first thing" to be said for your comfort is, that 
you really have great trials to meet ; trials that entitle 
you to pity and sympathy, while it is the fault of others 
more than your own, that you are in this very painful 
and difficult situation. You have been as cruelly treat- 
ed as the Israelites were by Pharaoh, when he demand- 
ed bricks without furnishing the means to make them. 

You are like a young, inexperienced lad, who is re- 
quired to superintend all the complicated machinery of 
a manufactory, which he never was trained to under- 
stand, and on penalty of losing reputation, health, and 
all he values most. 

Neither your parents, teachers, or husband have train' 
ed you for the place you fill, nor furnished you with the 
knowledge or assistance needed to enable you to meet 
all the complicated and untried duties of your lot. A 
young woman who has never had the care of a child, 
never done housework, never learned the numberless 
processes that are indispensable to keep domestic afi'airs 
in regular order, never done anything but attend to books, 
drawing, and music, at school, and visiting and com- 
pany after she left school, such an one is as unprepared 
to take charge of a nursery, kitchen, and family estab- 
lishment, as she is to take charge of a man-of-war. 
And the chief blame rests with those who placed her so 
unprepared in such trying circumstances. Therefore, 
you have a right to feel that a large part of these evils 
are more your misfortune than your fault, and that they 
entitle you to sympathy rather than blame. 

The next word of comfort is, the assurance that you 
can do every one of your duties, and do them well, and 
the following is the method by which you can do it. 
In the first place, make up your mind that it never is 
your duty to do anything more than you can^ or in any 
better manner than the best you can. And whenever 
you have done the best you can, you have done well^ 



A DISCOURAGED HOUSEKEEPER. 279 

and it is all that man should require, and certainly all 
that your Heavenly Father does require. 

The next thing is, for you to make out an inventory 
of all the things ihdii need to be done, in your whole es- 
tabhshment. Then calculate what things you find you 
cannot do, and strike them off the list, as what are not 
among your duties. Of those that remain, select a cer- 
tain number that you think you can do exactly as they 
need to be done, and among these be sure that you put 
the making oi good bread. This every housekeeper 
can do, if she will only determine to do it. 

Make a selection of certain things that you will 'per- 
severe in having done as well as they can be done, smd 
let these be only so many as you feel sure you can suc- 
ceed in attempting. Then make up your mind that all 
the rest must go along as they do, until you get more 
time, strength, and experience, to increase the list of 
things that you determine shall always be well done. 

By this course, you will have the comfort of feeling 
that in some respects you are as good a housekeeper as 
you can be, while there will be a cheering progress in 
gaining on all that portion of your affairs, that are left 
at loose ends. You will be able to measure a gradual 
advance, and be encouraged by success. Many house- 
keepers fail entirely, by expecting to do everything well 
at first, when neither their knowledge or strength is 
adequate, and so they fail everywhere, and finally give up 
in despair. 

Are you not only a housekeeper, but a mother ? Oh, 
sacred and beautiful name ! how many cares and res- 
ponsibilities are associated with it ! And how many el- 
evating and sublime anticipations and hopes are given 
to inspire, and to cheer ! You are training young minds 
whose plastic texture will receive and retain every im- 
pression you make, who will imitate your feelings, tastes, 
habits, and opinions, and who will transmit what they 
receive from you to their children, to pass again to the 
next generation, and then to the next, until a whole na- 
tion will have received its character and destiny from 
ymir hands ! No imperial queen ever stood in a more 



280 FRIENDLY COUNSELS 

sublime and responsible position than you now occupy, 
in the eye of Him who reads the end from the begin- 
ning, and who is appointing ail the trials and discipUne 
of your lot, not for purposes which are visible to your 
hmited ken, but in view of all the consequences that are 
to result from the character which you form, and are to 
trajismit to your posterity ! 

Remember, then, that you have a Father in heaven, 
who sympathizes in all your cares, pities your griefs, 
makes allowances for your defects, and is endeavoring 
by trials, as well as by blessings, to fit you for the right 
fulfilment of your high and holy calling. 



CHAPTER XXXni. 

FRIENDLY COUNSELS FOR DOMESTICS. 

My friends, you fill a very important and respectable 
station. The duties committed to you by God are very 
apt to be considered of small account, but they are in- 
deed most solemn and important. 

On your faithfulness and kindness depends the com- 
fort of a whole family, and on you often depends the 
character and happiness of a whole flock of children. 
If you do your part faithfully in assisting the mother to 
carry forward her plans, she will be able to train them 
aright. If you fail to perform your part, she will be per- 
plexed, discouraged, and disabled, and everything will 
go wrong. 

Every person finds troubles and trials in their lot, and 
so you must find them in yours. But trials are sent by 
God, not for evil, but for good, so that we, by patiently 
bearing them, and by striving to improve under them, 
may grow wiser and better, and thus more happy than 
we could be without them. 

Whenever, therefore, anything vexes, or troubles you, 



FOK DOMESTICS. 281 

comfort yourselves by thinking that it is designed for 
your good, and reap at least one benefit, by bearing it 
with patience and cheerfulness. 

In all your deaUngs with those who employ you, try 
to follow " the golden rule^^^ and do by them as you 
will wish to have others do by you, when you are the 
mistress of a family, and hire others to help you. 

Do you find that many things are uncomfortable and 
impleasant in your present lot? Remember that you 
never can find a place in this world where everything 
will be just as you want it, and that it is a bad thing 
for you, as well as for your employers, to keep roving 
about from one place to another. Stay where you are, 
and try to make those things that trouble you more tol- 
erable, by enduring them with patience. Do not fret 
and be angry at your emplo37^ers when they oppose your 
wishes, but wait until you feel in better humor, and 
then tell them what troubles you, and what you wish 
they would alter, and in a kind and respectful way, and 
you will be ten times more likely to gain what you de- 
sire. 

Do you think that you are found fault with too much, 
and that your employer is so hard to please that you 
wish to change for another ? Perhaps you do not know 
how often you do things different from what she wishes, 
when she does not complain. Perhaps she tells you 
only just what she thinks she ought to do, for your good. 
Perhaps she does not know that she does find fault a 
great deal, or that Her manner is an unpleasant one. 
Perhaps she has a great many cares and troubles that 
you know not of, which try her nerves, and make her 
feel very irritable, and thus speak hastily when she does 
not intend it. 

Be patient with her failings, if you think you see any, 
just as you wish to have her bear with your faults, when 
they trouble her. If you find your patience failing, it 
may be well in some cases, to say to your employer, that 
you should do better, if she would find fault less, and 
praise you more when you do well. But never say any- 

24* 



28*2 FRIENDLY COUNSELS FOR DOMESTICS. 

thing of this kind when you are angry yourself, or when 
you see that she is displeased. 

Be careful, in all your dealings with children, always 
to speak the truth, and never let them hear from you 
any filthy or wicked language. Never promise to do a 
thing and then hreak your word, for this teaches them 
to break promises. Never tell them frightful stories, or 
try to make them mind you by saying what is not true. 
Never help them conceal what they have done that is 
wrong, but try to persuade them to confess their faults. 

Never take the least thing that does not belong to you, 
and never tempt children to give you what does not be- 
long to them. 

Never tell tales out of the family, nor tell to your em- 
ployers the bad things you have seen, or heard in other 
families, for this is mean and ungenerous. 

Do not spend your money for useless and expensive 
things, but learn to be economical and prudent, that you 
may be preparing to be a good housekeeper, wife, and 
mother, if ever you have a family of your own. 

Do not form a habit of roaming about to see company, 
but be industrious in hours not employed for those who 
hire you, in mending and making your own clothes. 

Take care and keep your person clean, and your hair 
and clothes in order, and have your chamber always 
neat and tidy. 

Do not be rude and boisterous in manners, but always 
speak politely to all, especially to those who em ploy you. 

Do not waste any of the provisions, or property of 
your employers, nor let it spoil by neglect, and never 
lend or give away anything belonging to the family 
without leave. 

Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 

Read your Bible daily, and try to obey its teachings. 

Pray to God to forgive your past sins, and to help you 
keep all his commands, and live every day so that you 
will not be afraid to die. 



MISCELLANEOUS ADVICE, EtC 2S3 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

MISCELLANEOUS ADVICE, AND SUPPLEMENTARY RECEIPTS. 

Weights and Measures. 
■ It is a good plan to have a particular measure cup 
kept for the purpose, and after once weighing all those 
receipts that are given by weight, to measure the quan- 
tity by this cup, and then write the measures in your 
receipt book, and keep the cup only for this purpose. 
The following is some guide in judging of the relative 
proportion between measures and weights. 

A quart of flour, or of sifted loaf sugar, or of softened 
butter, each weigh about a pound. The flour, if sifted, 
must be heaped. 

A pint equals eight ounces. 

A half a pint equals four ounces. 

One gill equals two ounces. 

Half a gill equals one ounce. 

A quart of brown sugai', or of Indian meal, equals a 
pound and two ounces of the same. 

One great spoonful of flour, loaf sugar, or of melted 
butter, equals a quarter of an ounce of the same. It 
should be a little heaped. 

Four spoonfuls equal an ounce, or half a gill. 

Eight spoonfuls equal one gill. 

Sixteen spoonfuls equal half a pint. 

Spoons ditfer so much in size that this is an uncertain 
guide. 

A medium-sized teaspoon holds sixty drops of water. 

Ten eggs usually weigh a pound. 

Four gills make a pint. 

Two pints make a quart. 

Four quarts make a gallon. 

Eight quarts make a peck. 

Four pecks make a bushel. 



284 MISCELLANEOUS ADVICE, AND 

Avoirdupois Weight. 

Sixteen drachms make an ounce. 
Sixteen ounces make a pound. 
Twenty-eight pounds make a quarter. 
Four quarters make a hundred. 
Twenty hundred make a ton. 

Ajyothecaries' Weight. 

Twenty grains make a scruple. 
Three scruples make a drachm. 
Eight drachms make an ounce. 
Twelve ounces make a pound. 

On Purchasing Wood. 

Wood that is straight and solid makes more in a load, 
and is the most profitable. 

A cord of small crooked sticks does not contain half 
the wood there is in a load of solid logs. 

The best wood for fires is the hickory, hard maple, 
white ash, black birch, yellow birch, beech, yellow oak, 
and locust. The best are placed first. 

The following are inferior in quahty. Elm, soft ma- 
ple, white birch, pepperage, and pine. 

The following are not fit to burn, either because they 
snap, or will not burn. Chestnut, butternut, cedar, sas- 
afras, red oak, and buckeye. 

Any person can learn to distinguish each kind by a little 
attention and instruction. 

Wood is bought by measurement. A cord of wood is 
8 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4 feet high. 

To know the amount of a load, multiply the length 
by the breadth, and the product by the height, and you 
have the number of square feet. If it is 128 feet, it is 
a cord. i 

Items of Advice. 

If you keep an account of your stores, and the dates 
when they are bought, you can know exactly how fast 
they are used, and when they are wasted, or stolen. 



SUPPLEMENTARY RECEIPTS. 285 ■ 

Stale bread is improved by steaming it half an hour 
or more. 

Grate up dry cheese, and cheese crusts, moisten it with 
wine or brandy, and keep it in a jar for use. It is bet- 
ter than at first. 

Boil old earthen soaked with grease in hot ley, and it 
will cleanse it. 

Wheat should always be washed before grinding. 

When you clean house, begin with the highest rooms 
first, so that clean rooms be not soiled when done. 

Repair house linen, turn sheets, and wash bedclothes 
in summer. 

Clean house in the fall instead of spring, and you get 
rid of all the filth made by flies. But when you burn 
bituminous coal, spring is the proper time for house 
cleaning. 

Keep coarse mats on the kitchen table for keeping it ^ 
clean. 

Use a coarse apron and gloves for cleaning grates. 
Have coal cinders sifted, and save the coarse part to burn 
again. 

Buy your wood in August and September, when it; 
usually is cheapest and plenty. 

Have the backs of your chimneys kept clean by sweep- 
ing. 

Never try a new dish for company. 

To purify water, put common charcoal pounded in a 
common flower-pot, and fine sand over it, and let the 
water trickle through. Or, take an old sieve, and fill it 
with sand and pounded charcoal, and strain the water, 
and then cool it with ice. 

Keep a receipt book for yourself, and write in it the 
improvements of your own experience. 

Keep bits of potter's clay in the house, to use for a 
paste to extract grease from carpets, floors, and broad-, 
cloths. 

Dry bran around grapes and other fruit preserves it; 

All fat should be tried up once a week, for cooking, 
or soap grease. Good fat saves butter. 

When a stove-pipe or other iron is cracked, make; as 



286 MISCELLANEOUS ADVICE, AND 

cement with ashes, salt, and water, and it will stop the 
opening. 

Faded colors often are improved by strong salt and 
water. 

Sal volatile, or spirits of hartshorn, will restore colors 
taken out by acids. 

Eggs are preserved longer by packing them close, 
standing on their small ends. Another way is to pack 
them in fine salt, small end down. Another way is to 
pack them, small end down, and then pour on them a 
mixture of four quarts of cold water, four quarts of un- 
slacked lime, two ounces of salt, and two ounces of 
cream-tartar. This will serve for nine dozen eggs. 
Try all these ways. 

Rancid butter is said, by good judges, to be restored 
thus : — Put fifteen drops of chloride of lime to a pint of 
water, and work the butter in it till every particle has 
come in contact with the water. Then work it over in 
fair cold water. 

Indelible Ink is thus prepared : — Buy three drachms 
of nitrate of silver, and put it in a vial with two spoon- 
fuls of water. Let it stand a few days, then color it with 
a little ink, and add a tablespoonful of brandy. The 
preparation is made of strong pearlash water, stiffened 
with gum-arabic, and colored with red wafers. 

Buy cheap red wafers, and scatter them about, and 
cockroaches will eat them and be destroyed. The roots 
of black hellebore scattered in their haunts is an infal- 
lible remedy. 

Cold cream for sore hps, is made by mixing two 
ounces of oil of almonds, one ounce of spermaceti, one 
drachm of white wax, and melting them together, ad- 
ding rose water to perfume them. 

Jelly-bags should be made of flannel, and pudding 
cloths of thick linen, with strings sewed on to them. 

Rose leaves should be gathered and preserved by 
crowding them into a jar with brandy, to use for cooking. 

Potato starch is made by grating peeled potatoes, 
and rubbing them in water. Then pour ofT the water, 
after stirring it, and dry what sinks to the bottom. 



SUJPLEMENTARY KECEIPTS. 25S7: 

Orange and lemon peel can be saved thus :— Dry it 
in an oven, pound it, and then bottle it close. 

Orange or lemon water is prepared thus :— Pound 
the fresh skins in a mortar, pour in boiling water, cover 
close, and when cold bottle close. Or use wine or 
brandy. 

Cologne water is made thus : — Buy at the apotheca- 
ry's one drachm each of oil of lavender, oil of lemon, oil 
of rosemary, and oil of cinnamon. Add two drachms of 
oil of bera^amot. Mix in a vial, and add a pint of alco- 
hol. 

When Pearlash or Saleratus becomes damp, dis- 
solve it in as much water as will just entirely dissolve it, 
and no more. A tablespoonful of this equals a teaspoon- 
ful of the solid. Keep it corked in a junk bottle. 

The following is a very useful receipt for children who 
go to school where blackboards are used. 

To make nice Crayons for Blackboards. 

These directions are given by Prof. Turner, of the 
American Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, as follows : 

" Take 5 pounds of Paris white, 1 pound of Wheat 
flour, wet with water, and knead it well ; make it so 
stiff that it will not stick to the table, but not so stiff as 
to crumble and fall to pieces when it is rolled under the 
hand. 

" To roll out the crayons to the proper size, two boards 
are needed, one to roll them on ; the other to roll them 
with. The first should be a smooth pine board three 
feet long and nine inches wide. The other should also 
be pine, a foot long and nine inches wide, having nailed 
on the under side near each edge a slip of wood one- 
third of an inch thick, in order to raise it so much above 
the under board as that the crayon, when brought to its 
proper size, may lie between them without being flat- 
tened. 

" The mass is rolled into a ball, and slices are cut from 
one side of it about one- third of an inch thick : these 
slices are again cut into strips about four inches long and 



288 CHEAP DISHES. 

one-third of an inch wide, and rolled separately between 
these boards until smooth and round. 

" Near at liand should be another board 3 feet long and 
4 inches wide, across which each crayon, as it is made, 
should be laid, so that the ends may project on each 
side — the crayons should be laid in close contact, and 
straight. When the board is filled, the ends should all 
be trimmed oft* so as to make the crayons as long as the 
width of the board. It is then laid in the sun, if in hot 
weather, or if in winter, near a stove or fireplace, where 
the crayons may dry gradually, which will require 
twelve hours. When thoroughly dry they are fit for 
use. 

" An experienced hand will make 150 in an hour.'' 
Young boys can make them and sell to their compan 
ions. 



SOME EXCELLENT CHEAP DISHES. 

Stewed Beef. 

Take a shank or hock of beef, with all the meat 
belonging to it, and put it into a pot full of water early 
in the morning and throw in a tablespoonful of salt. Let 
it simmer very slowly, till the beef is soft, and cleaves 
from the bone, and the water is reduced to about two 
quarts. Then peel some potatoes, and cut them in 
quarters, and throw in with two teaspoonfuls of black 
pepper, two of sweet marjoram, and two of thyme, or 
summer savory. Add some celery flavor or sauce, and 
more salt if it requires it. Stew until the potatoes are 
cooked enough, but not till they are mashed. Then take 
dry bread, and throw in, breaking it into small pieces, 
and when soaked, take up the whole and serve it, and 
everybody will say it is about the best dish they ever 
tasted. 

Those who love onions slice in three or four with the 
potatoes. Rice can be put in instead of bread. 



CHEAP DISHES. 289 

Tomato Beef. 

Stew a shank or hock of beef as above, except you 
put in nine or ten peeled tomatoes instead of potatoes 
and sweet herbs, and also leave out the bread. Some 
would add a little chopped onion. This is excellent 
and a very healthful mode of preparing beef, especially 
if it is tough. 

A good Way to use Cold ^ice. 

Heat the rice in milk, add a well-beaten egg or two, 
a little salt, butter, and sugar, let it boil up once, and 
then grate on nutmeg. 

To prepare Good Toast. 

Toast the bread very quick, dip each slice in boiling 
water as soon as you have toasted it, and then lay thin 
bits of butter over. Cover and keep hot as you proceed. 
A tin bonnet is very useful for this. Make milk toast 
in the same way, keeping the milk at nearly boiling 
heat. It is better to spread the butter thin on to the 
toast after it is dipped in hot milk, than to melt it in it. 

A Good Pudding. 

Line a buttered dish with slices of wheat bread, first 
dipped in milk. Fill the dish with sliced apple, and add 
sugar and spice. Cover with slices of bread soaked in 
milk, cover close with a plate, and bake three hours. 

Loaf Pudding. 

When bread is too stale, put a loaf in a pudding-bag 
and boil it in salted water an hour and a half, and eat 
it with hard pudding sauce. 

A Plain Lemon Pudding. 

Nine spoonfuls of grated apple, one grated lemon, 
(peel and pulp,) half a cup of butter, and three eggs. 
Mix and bake, with or without a crust, about an hour. 
Cream improves it. 

25 



290 CHEAP DISHES. 

An Excellent Indiaii Pudding without Eggs. 

Take seven heaping spoonfuls of Indian meal, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, two spoonfuls of butter or sweet 
lard, a teacup of molasses, and two teaspoonfuls of gin- 
ger or cinnamon, to the taste. Pour into these a quart 
of milk while boiling hot. Mix well, and put it in a 
buttered dish. Just as you set it in the oven stir in a 
teacup of cold water, which will produce the same effect 
as eggs. Bake three quarters of an hour, in a dish that 
will not spread it out thin. 

Pork and Potato Balls, 

Take one-third chopped salt pork or ham, either raw 
or cooked, and two-thirds of cold cooked potatoes chop- 
ped fine. Mix them up with egg^ a little salt and pep- 
per, and then make into balls and fry, or merely cook 
in a skillet. 

Chop cold potatoes fine, and then add some pork fat 
and a little pepper, salt, and water, and warm slowly, 
and it is very good. 

Oyster Pie, 

Make a crust by working flour into mashed boiled 
potatoes with a little salt. Line a deep dish with it, in- 
vert a small teacup in the middle to hold the juice in and 
to hold up the upper crust. Put in the oysters with a 
little pepper and butter, and dredge in some flour. 
Cover with crust, make a large slit on the top, and bake 
an hour. 

Green Corn Patties {like Oysters). 

Twelve ears of sweet com grated. (Yellow corn will 
do, but not so well.) 

One teasponful of salt and one of pepper. 

One egg beaten into two tablespoonfiils of flour. 

Mix, make into small cakes, and fry brown in butter 
or sweet lard. 



CHEAP DISHES. 291 

Ohio Wedding Cake {Mrs. K.), 

Two pounds of flour. 

One pound of butter. 

One pound of sugar — brown is best. 

Two pounds of currants or one of raisins. 

Ten eggs. 

Two teacups of molasses. 

One gill of wine, and one of brandy. 

One gill of cream, spice and citron to the taste. 

Mix the butter and sugar, add the molasses, then the 
beaten yolks of eggs, then the flour, then the spice, 
wine, and cream, then the whites of the eggs in a stiff 
froth. Put in the fruit in the manner previously di- 
rected, and the citron with it at the same time. This 
is a very fine cake. 

Best Way of making Corn Cakes of all Sorts. 

There is often a sharp and strong taste to corn meal, 
which is remedied by wetting it up the day before it is 
used. The best kind of corn cakes are made by wet- 
ting up a large quantity of Indian meal with milk, 
and letting it stand for several days. Take a quan- 
tity of it, and first make it as thin as you want, either 
for griddle cakes, or drop cakes, or thicker cakes. Add 
salt and a spoonful of melted t)utter or lard for every 
quart, also sugar to your taste. A little always im- 
proves all corn cakes. Then dissolve soda or saleratus, 
a teaspoonful for each quart. If it is very sour it will 
want more, and tasting is the surest guide. Just as 
you are ready to bake, stir in enough saleratus to 
sweeten it, and stir quickly and only long enough to 
mix it well, and then hake immediately in buttered 
tins. 

Domestics often use too much saleratus, which is bad 
for the stomach, and the housekeeper should ascertain 
by trial the right quantity, and then direct to have it 
carefully measured every time. Corn cakes, made as 
above, just thick enough to form into round cakes half 
an inch thick and baked on a griddle, are excellent. 



292 CHEAP DISHES. 

Molasses Candy, 

As all children are fond of this article, the following 
directions may be acceptable. Boil the molasses (ma- 
ple is the best) till it will, if dropped in cold water, be- 
come crisp. Then, for each quart, put into it an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little warm wa- 
ter, and stir it till well mixed. This makes it tender 
and crisp. Take a part and cool it in a buttered pan, to 
work white and draw into sticks. Into the remainder 
stir roasted corn, either pounded or whole, or peanuts or 
almonds, or walnuts or hazelnuts. 

Whole Popped corn made into cakes with candy 
is excellent. Roasted corn pounded and mixed with 
half the quantity of maple sugar is good, and some eat 
it thus in milk. 

To make Simple Cerate, 

Melt together equal quantities of white wax and sper- 
maceti, and then add an equal quantity of sweet oil, or 
a little more. 

Never use rancid oil. 

Best Remedy for Burns. 

Pound and sift wood soot^ and mix it with sweet lard, 
and apply it, spread on linen rags. It will ease a burn 
quicker than anything. If the skin is off, the great 
thing is to keep it covered close from the air, If the 
burns are large and bad, give salts or cream tartar as a 
cathartic. 

Ginger Tea, 

Pour half a pint of boiling water on to a teaspooriful 
of ginger ; add sugar and milk to the taste. 

Indian Bannock. 

Take one pint of Indian meal, and stir into it a pint 
of sour milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a spoonful of 
molasses, and a spoonful of melted butter. Beat two eggs 
and add, and then stir in a puit of wheat flour. Then 



CHEAP DISHES. 293 

thin it with milk to the consistency of drop cakes, and 
when ready to bake, stir in a heaping teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in hot water. Pour into square but- 
tered tins an inch thick, and bake fifteen minutes. 

Egg and Bread. 

Put bread crumbs into a sauce pan, with cream, salt, 
and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. When the 
bread has absorbed the cream, break in eight eggs and 
fry it like an omelet, or bake it in buttered tins, or muf- 
fin rings. 

Floating Island. 

Beat the whites of eggs till very stiff, then put in one 
tablespoonful of some acid jelly for each white, and beat 
it a good while. Boil rich sweetened milk, and put it 
in a glass dish, and when cold, put the jelly and eggs 
on the top. 

A New Mode of cooking Cucumbers. 

Pare them, cut them in quarters lengthwise, dip them 
in corn meal or wheat flour, pepper and salt them, and 
then fry them brown, and they are very fine. 

Tapioca Pudding without Eggs or Milk, the 
Queen of all Puddings. 

Put a teacup of Tapioca and a teaspoonful of salt 
into a pint and-a-half of water, and let them stand five 
hours, where it will be quite warm, but will not cook. 
Two hours before dinner peel six apples, and take out 
the cores without dividing the apples. Put them in a 
pudding-dish, and fill the holes with sugar in which is 
grated a little nutmeg or lemon peel. Add a teacup of 
water, and bake one hour, turning the apples to prevent 
their drying. When the apples are quite soft, pour over 
them the tapioca, and bake one hour. 

To be eaten with hard sauce of butter and sugar. 
Sago can be used instead of Tapioca. 



IN D E X. 



Page 

A. 

Abstinence, its uses 211 

Acid Drinks, remarks 210 

Acidulous Drinks, remarks 19 

Advice respecting Tea and Coffee 23 

Albany Breakfast Cakes 101 

Alcoholic Drinks, remarks 21 

Alkalies, directions for using ... 202 

Allspice, to store 221 

Alum Whey, for the sick 198 

American Isinglass Jelly 195 

Amylaceous or Starchy Articles 

ofDiet-... 6 

Animal Food, Directions 10 

Apple Corer 263 

Apple Custard 113 

Apple Dumpling 105 

Apple Fritters 107 

Apple Ice (vei-y fine) 175 

Apple Jelly (best way) 117 

Apple Jelly 178 

Apple Lemon Pudding (very fine) 173 

Apple Snow 176 

Apple Tea 199 

Apples, ten different Modes of 



preparing 



115 



Arrangement, systematic, of Fam- 
ily Work 247 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 194 

Arrowroot Custard, for Invalids . . 194 

Arrowroot Gruel 192 

Arrowroot, how to store it 219 

Arrowroot Pudding 124 

Artichokes, common ^^ 

Artichokes, Jerusalem 76 

Asparagus ^5 

B. 

Bags, Jelly, to make 286 

Balances, best kind 260 



Paga 

Bannock, Indian 292 

Barley, Pearl, how to store it . .- 219 

Barley Water, another 196 

B arley Water, common 200 

B arley Water, compound 200 

Barley Water, new Way 194 

Beans, baked 78 

Beans, to Cook 73 

Beans, to dry, best kind 226 

Beef a-la-Mode 37 

Beef and Potato Pie 42 

Beef, Boiling 36 

Beef, Corned, to Boil 43 

Beef, Corned, and cooked with 

dry Peas 226 

Beef, different Pieces 28 

B eef Hash, Cold Steak Hash ... 67 

Beef Liver, to Broil 55 

BeefPie 48 

Beef, salting down 35 

Beef, selecting 29 

Beef Steaks, to Broil 54 

Beef Steaks, to warm over 53 

Beef, stewed (very fine) 288 

Beef stewed with Apples 42 

Beef with Tomatoes (Cold Meat) 51 

Beef Tea 196 

Beef, toBake 41 

Beef, to Roast 44 

B eef. Tomato (very fine) 289 

Beer, Ginger, two kinds 186 

Beets, to Cook • 75 

Beverage, Summer 185 

Biscuits, French (Mrs. Dr. C.'s.) . 145 

Biscuits, Hard 93 

Biscuits, Potato 92 

Biscuits, Savoy 100 

Biscuits, Sour Bread 93 

Biscuits, Sour Milk 93 

Biscuits (Yorkshire, very fine) .. 91 



296 



INDEX 



Bird's-nest Pudding 

Birds, to Stew 

Blackberry Syrup 

Bianc Mange, Arrowroot 

Blauc Mange, Calf s Foot and va- 
riegated 

Blanc Mange, Irish Moss, or Car- 
rageen 

Blanc Mange, Rice Flour 

Blanc Mange, Wheat Flour 

Bran, to preserve Fruit 

Bread, Apple 

Bread, Baker's 

Bread, Baker's, remarks about.. 

Bread Cake (Bridget's) 

Bread, Cream Tartar 

Bread, dry and old, six Ways of 
using 

Bread, duty of House-keepers in 
regard to 

Bread, Eastern Brown 

Bread and Eggs (very good) 

Bread, Graham, or unboltedWheat 

Bread Pudding 

Bread, Pumpkin 

Bread, Potato 

Bread, raising in pans, remarks 
about 

Bread, Baker's, remai-ks about.. 

Bread, Rice, two kinds 

Bread, Rye 

Bread, stale, how to improve . .. 

Bread, stale, Pudding 

Bread-stufi's, remarks about 

Bread, the only healthy kind 

Bread, to know when Sour 

Bread, to prepare for Table 

Bread, to store 

Bread, three things indispensable 
to good 

Bread, treatment of 

Bread, Walnut Hill's, Brown 

Bread, Wheat, with distillery 
Yeast 

Bread, Wheat, with Home-brew- 
ed Yeast 

Broiled Meats 

Buckwheat, how to store 



lOti 



41 
2U1 
194 

177 

179 
195 
176 

285 

90 

88 

227 

138 

89 

120 

227 
89 

293 
90 

111 
91 
88 

232 

227 

90 

89 

285 

289 

223 

228 

84 

231 

222 

228 
84 
91 

86 

87 
54 



P«g« 



Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, three 

kinds 94 

Burns, to Cure 292 

Butter, Browned, for Gravies and 

Soups 70 

Butter, Burned, for Fish and Eggs 70 
Butter, Drawn or Melted, two 

ways 69 

Butter, how to store it 220 

Butter, Rancid, to restore 286 

B utter, Rose, for Cake 1 32 

Butter, to make 204 

Buttermilk Pop 174 

Buttermilk Whey 198 



Cabbage, to cook 76 

Cabbage, to store 223 

Cakes, Plain 130 

Cake, Almond, Hickory, or Co- 

coanut 143 

Cake. Bridget's Bread 138 

Cake, Caraway 143 

Cake, Child's Feather 134 

Cake, Cider 135 

Cake, Citron Tea ] 45 

Cake, Cocoanut Cup 140 

Cake, Cocoanut Sponge 140 

Cake, Cookies (plain) 139 

Cake, Cream, Boston 142 

Cake, Cream Tartar, withoutEggs 136 
Cake, Cream, without Eggs. .... 136 

Cake, Cup, without Eggs 136 

Cake, Directions for making 130 

Cake, Directions for storing 222 

Cake, Doughnut 139 

Cake, Drop 137 

Cake, Egg Rusk 145 

Cake, Fancy 1 44 

Cake, French 140 

Cake, French Biscuit (Mrs. Dr. 

C.'s) 145 

Cake, Fried Curd 144 

Cake, Fruit Drop 143 

Cake, Fruit, without Eggs 137 

Cake, Gingernuts 141 

Cake, Ginger Snaps 134 



I 



219|Cake, good Child's 133 



-%nd£x. 



297 



(5ake; Honey.. ii*li^.;;^Hi. - 

Cake, Lemon, No. 1 :.... 

Cake, L emon. No. 2 (rich) ^ . 

Cake, Loaf (Dr.B.'s) 

Cake, Molasses Gingerbread, best 

Cake, New Year, Cookies 

Cake, Sponge 

Cake, Sponge, Gingerbread 

Cake, Sugar, Gingerbread (plain) 

Cake, Sugar, Gingerbread (rich). 

Cake, Walnut Hill's Doughnut - 

Cake, Wine 

Cakes, Rich . 

Cake, Almond - • - 

Cake, Cocoanut Drop — 

Cake, Crullers . . 

Cake, French Loaf 

Cake, Fruit or Black 

Cake, Golden 

Cake, Hartford Election. ... 

Cake, Jelly 

Cake, Lemon (No. 2) 

Cake, Lemon Drop 

Cake, Portugal 

Cake, Pound — • 

Cake, Clueen's 

Cake, Raised Loaf 

Cake, Raised Wedding (Mrs. 
H.'s) 

Cake, Shrewsbury 

Cake, Silver 

Cake, Sugar Drop 

Calf's Foot Blanc Mange - 

Calf's Head Mock Turtle Soup . 

Calf's Head Soup 

Calf's Head, to clean 

Calf's Head, to cook 

Candies, Sugar, to prepare for .. 

Candied Fruits 

Candy, Molasses, to make 

Carrageen Blanc Mange 

Care and Uses of Meats . . . . 

Case for L amplighters 

Catsup, Tomato, Walnut, Mush- 
room 

Caudle 

Cauliilower 

Celeriac . - ■ 



Pag'ej Pag* 

142 Celery Sauce, Vinegar, and Es- 

141 sence , 71 

151 Cerate, Simple, to make 292 

144 Chambermaid, Directions for a.. 267 

134 Champagne, Sham 187 

142 Charlotte Russe, two kinds 170 

138 Cheese Cake, Almond 124 

135 Cheese Cakes ^ . ^ 171 

138 Cheese, Cottage (fine) 104 

137 Cheese, Fruit 117 

140 Cheese, Stilton 206 

144 Cheese, to make 204 

146 Cheese, to preserve in Brandy.. 285 

151 Cheese, to store 222 

152 Cheese, Veal... 56 

151 Chicken Pie 48 

148 Chicken Salad 172 

147 Chickens, to Fricassee 50 

149 Chickens, to Roast. 47 

146 Chicken Teaj Broth, and Panada, 

152 for the Sick 192 

151 Children's Drinks 189 

152 Children's White Tea, Boys' Cof- 

149 fee 189 

148 Chimney Back, Advice about . .. 285 

150 Chocolate - 188 

146 Chocolate, Spiced 196 

Chowder 62 

147 Chump end of Loin of Veal 29 

150 Cinnamon, to store 221 

150 Citric Acid, to store 222 

152 Clam Soup 60 

177 Clams, to cook 66 

59 Classes of Food and Drink 4 

58 Cleaning House Advice 285 

35 Cleansing old Earthen-ware 285 

39 Clover, to store 221 

180 Cockroaches, to destroy 286 

182 Cocoa and Shells 188 

292 Cocoanut Cup Cake 140 

179 Cocoanut Drops 152 

26 Cocoanut Drops, another 182 

261 Cocoanut Pudding (rich) 124 

Cocoanut Pudding, another (plain) 110 

72 Cocoanut Sponge Cake 140 

295 Cod Fish, Cold, cooked over 64 

76 Cod Fish, to store 222 

Sllcod Fish, to boil 64 



298 



INDEX. 



Page 

Cod Sounds and Tongues 64 

Coffee 87 

Coffee, Egg in 199 

Coffee, Fish Skin for 188 

Coffee, to make 187 

Coffee, to store it 221 

Cold Cream for Sore Lips 286 

Cologne Water, to make 287 

Combinations of Cooking 201 

Convalescent, a Relish for a 191 

Cook, Directions for a 247 

Corer, Apple 263 

Com Cake, Bachelor's 100 

Corn Cake, Sachem's Head 99 

Corn Cake, Sour Milk 98 

Corn Cakes, best way of making 291 

Corn Cakes, Ohio 103 

Corn Dodgers, Kentucky 102 

Corn, Green, Patties 290 

Corn, Green, to preserve and diy 226 

Corn Griddle Cakes (Eggs) 99 

Corn Griddle Cakes (Yeast) 98 

Corn Meal Pudding (fine, without 

Eggs) 290 

Corn Muffins 100 

Corn Muffins, from the South 99 

Corn Muffins (Mrs.W.'s) 100 

Corned B eef cooked with dry Peas 226 

Couch for the Sick 215 

Cow, how to Feed and Milk 207 

Crackers 92 

Cranberry 174 

Cranberr>' Tea 199 

Craving for Food, its cause 3 

Crayons for Blackboard 287 

Cream Cake without Eggs 136 

Cream Cakes 100 

Cream Cakes, Boston 142 

Cream for stewed Fruit 169 

Cream, Ice. (See Ice Cream.) 

Cream, Lemon and Orange 169 

Cream, Mock 110 

Cream Tartar Beverage 201 

Cream Tartar Bread 89 

Cream Tartar Bread, best Direc- 
tions 233 

Cream Tartar Cake without Eggs 136 
Creaju Tartar, Directions for ... . 2U2 



Page 
Cream Tartar, to store 222 

Cream Tartar Whey 193 

Cream Tarts 175 

Cream Tea Cakes 101 

Cream, Vanilla 169 

Cnimpets 103 

Crumpets, Royal 99 

Cucumbers 79 

Cucumbers, new way to cook . .. 293 

Currants, cleansing 132 

Currants, to store 221 

Carried Dishes 39 

CuiTy Powder, to prepare 40 

Custard, Almond 168 

Custard, Apple 113 

Custard, Arrowroot, for the Sick. 197 

Custard, Directions for salting .. 115 

Custard, Fruit 118 

Custard, Plain and Richer 107 

Custard, Rennet, and another. .. 108 

Custard, very rich .,. . 168 

Custard, Wine Cream 168 

D. 

DiaiThoea, Cure for 211 

Diet, Change of, its uses 211 

Digestion, what promotes it 14 

Dinner and Evening Parties, Di- 
rections for 234 

Dinner, taking up 238 

Dish of Snow 180 

Domestics, Counsels for 280 

Dough, to make into Drop Cakes 223 

Dried Fruits, to Cook 1 17 

Drinks, Aromatic, Astringent, &c. 17 

Drinks for the Sick 191 

Drinks, Hei'b and Simple 193 

Drinks, Temperance 183 

Drop Cakes, Wheat and Rye 97 

Drying Fruits, Modes of 224 

Ducks, to Roast 47 

Dumpling, Children's Fruit 105 

Dust Brush, small 262 

Dust Pan, large upright 260 

E. 

Edge or Etch Bone 28 

Egg and Milk 199 



INDEX. 



303 



Page 

Pie, English Curd 106 

Pie, Little Girl's 105 

Pie, Ripe Fruit 110 

Pie, Rhubai-b 114 

Pudding, Apple Custard 113 

Pudding, Baked Indian 113 

Pudding, Batter, Plain 110 

Pudding, Bird's-nest 108 

Pudding, Birth-day 106 

Pudding, Boiled Apple 112 

Pudding, Boiled Indian 112 

Pudding, Bourgoo, or Oat Meal 

Mush 115 

Pudding, Bread Ill 

Pudding, Bi-ead, for Invalids 114 

Pudding, Children's Boiled Fruit 106 
Pudding, Children's Fruit Dump- 
ling 105 

Pudding, Cocoanut 109 

Pudding, Fruit, Fritters 107 

Padding, Fritters of Stale Bread 

(finef 108 

Pudding, German, or Rice Balls 113 

Pudding, Green Corn 114 

Pudding, Indian, without Eggs 

(fine) 290 

Pudding, Lemon, Plain and Good 289 

Pudding, Little Boy's 105 

Pudding, Macaroni, or Vermacelli 114 
Pudding, Minute, of Potato Starch 119 

Pudding, Mush, or Hasty 108 

Pudding, Rice, without Eggs 114 

Pudding, Sago 109 

Pudding, Sago, another 115 

Pudding, Squash, or Pumpkin. .. 110 

Pudding, Sunderland Ill 

Pudding, Tapioca, with Eggs and 

Milkl 109 

Pudding, Tapioca, without Eggs 

and Milk (best of all Puddings) 293 

Puddings and Pies, Rich 121 

Pie, Minced 126 

Pie, Pumpkin, Mrs. O.'s 125 

Pudding, Almond Cheese Cake . 124 

Pudding, Arrowroot 124 

Pudding, Cocoanut 124 

Pudding, Cracker Plum (very 

fine) 125 



Pudding, Ellen's Rhubarb (very 

fine) 121 

Pudding, English Plum, Baked.. 123 
Pudding, English Plum, Boiled.. 123 

Pudding, Eve's (very fine) 122 

Pudding, Ground Rice 124 

Pudding, HoUingham 122 

Pudding, Marlborough. i 126 

Pudding, Orange or Lemon 126 

Pudding, duince 127 

Pudding, Rice Plum 122 

Pudding, Sweet Potato or Carrot 127 

PuiFs, Scarborough 103 

Pumpkins, to dry 227 

Purifying Water 16 

a 

duinces, to preserve 154 

Gluince Marmalade 159 

n. 

Raisins, to store 221 

Receipt Book, Advice about 285 

Rennet, to Prepare 35, 108, 204 

Rennet, Custard., 108 

Relish, Codfish 56 

Relish, Codfish, another 56 

ReHsh, Salt 55 

Rib 28 

Rice, a good way to fix when 

cold 289 

Rice and Meat Pudding 120 

Rice Bread, two kinds 90 

Rice, common and Southern 

Mode of Cooking 81 

Rice, Four Modes of Cooking. .. 119 
Rice, Fried, for Breakfast...... 97 

Rice, Ground, Gruel 200 

Rice, Ground, Pudding 124 

Rice Gruel 192 

Rice Jelly 197 

Rice, to Cook over 224 

Roasted and Baked Meats. .. 43 

Roast Beef 44 

Roast Chickens 47 

Roast Ducks 47 

Roast Goose 47 

Roast Lamb 44 



S04 



INVtX. 



Koast Lamb 

Roast Mutton 

Roast Pig 

Roast Spare Rib 

Roast Turkey 

Bxjast Veal 

Rolling Pin 

Rose Leaves, to presei-ve 

Rhubarb Pie 

Rhubarb Pudding 

Rhubarb, to Dry 

Rules in regard to selecting Food 

Rump or Round 

Husk 

Rye Bread 

Rye, care of 

Rye Drop Cakes (excellent) 

Rye Griddle Cakes, Pennsylvania 

S. 

Saccharine Food 

Sago for Invalids 

Sago, how to store 

Sago Jelly 

Sago Pudding . . ..•. . ... 109, 

Salad, Sauce for ... 

Salad, to Dress 

Saleratus, Advice about 

Saleratus, to store 

Sally Luun 

Salt, Directions about 

Salt, how to store it 

Salted Provisions, to store 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster 

Sal Volatile, important Direc- 
tions regarding 

Sal Volatile, Colors Restored by 

Sarsaparilla Mead 

Sassafras Jelly 

Sauce-pans 

Sauces, Directions for 

Sauce, Apple 

Saace, Celery 

Sauce for Boiled Rice 

Sauce, Hard 

Sauce, Healthful Padding 

Sauce, Liquid 

Bauce, Lobster 



44 

45 

45 

46 

46 

45 

263 

286 

114 

121 

227 

2 

28 
92 
89 

219 
97 

102 



7 

197 

219 

195 

115 

70 

8] 

287 

221 

101 

203 

220 

22 

81 

202 

286 

185 

198 

265 

66 

71 

71 

129 

129 

129 

129 

71 



Page 
Sauce of Whip Syllabub 130 

Sauce, Oyster 70 

Sauce, Salad or Fish 70 

Sauce, Wine, for Mutton or Veni- 
son 70 

Sausages, another Receipt for .. 34 

Sausages, Bologna 34 

Sausages, preparing Cases for.. 33 
Sausages, preparing Meat for... 34 

Sausages, to Stew 41 

Savoy Biscuit 100 

Saw Knife 261 

Scarborough Puffs 103 

Scollops, to Cook 65 

Seidlitz Powders 201 

Selection and Uses of Meats 27 

Servants, suggestions about 269 

Setting Tables 236,263 

Sham Champagne 187 

Shells 188 

Sherbet, Orange and Lemon 187 

Shoulder and Ham of Pork 29 

Sick Chair *... 216 

Sick Couch 214 

Sick, Food and Drink for the 191 

Sifting Flour, Importance of ... . 229 

Sirloin 28 

Soap, Directions for storing 220 

Soda Bread, best Directions 233 

Soda Powders 184 

Soda Saleratus, Sal volatile 202 

Soda, to store 222 

Sofa Bedstead 267 

Soup, Directions for 57 

Soup, Calf's Head, Plain 58 

Soup, Clam 60 

Soup, Dry Pea 59 

Soup, Dry Pea and Corned Beef 

(very fine) 226 

Soup, French Vegetable 53 

Soup, Giblet 61 

Soup, Macaroni 60 

Soup, Mock Turtle 59 

Soup, Mutton 58 

Soup, Oyster 60 

Soup, Pea 58 

Soup, Portable 59 

Soup Powders 78 



lisrfiiix. 



305 



Soup, Southern Gambo 

Soup, Veal 

Souse - 

Soy - V 

Spare Rib 

Spare Rib, to Roast 

Spiced Chocolate 

Squashes, to Cook 

Squashes, to Dry 

Squeezer, Lemon... — 

Starch, Directions for storing 

Starcli, Potato, Minute Padding . 

Starch, to make 

Stool, Garden and Chamber. . . . . 

Store-room, best place for a 

Stove Pipes, to Mend 

Strawbeny, Acid, Royal 

Strawberries, to Preserve 

Strawberry Vinegar 

Style of Living and Expenses .. 

Succatosh 

Sugar for Candies 

Sugar, how to store it 

Sugar Kisses 

Sugar, to Clarify 

Sugar, when it improves Cooking 

Sweet Corn 

Sweet Potato Pudding ......... 

Sweet Potatoes, to Cook 

Syllabub, Whip 

Syllabub, Whip, another 

Syrup, Blackberry 

Syrup, to Clarify 

Syrup, Tomato 

T. 

Table, setting 

Tapioca Gruel 

Tapicoa, how to store it 

Tapioca Jelly 

Tapioca Pudding, with Eggs 

Tapioca Pudding, without Eggs 

and Milk (very fine) 

Tartaric Acid, to store 

Tarts, Cream 

Tarts, Spiced Apple 

Tea and Breakfast Cakes 

Tea, Beef. 



Pase 
61 

60 

52 

72 

29 

46 

196 

76 

227 

261 

221 

109 

286 

268 

218 

285 

190 

157 

189 

273 

77 

180 

219 

180 

180 

203 

77 

127 

82 

175 

179 

201 

153 

197 



Page 

Tea, its Properties..... ........ 17 

Tea, to make 189 

Tea, to store 221 

Tin Baker and Reflector ... 259 

Toast and Cider, a favorite, for 

Invalids 194 

Toast, best Way to make. ...... 289 

Tomato Catsup 72 

Tomato Figs 226 

Tomato Leather 225 

Tomato Syrup 197 

Tomatoes, best Mode to Cook. .. 82 
Tomatoes, stewed Beef (very fine) 289 

Tomatoes, to Cook. 78 

Tomatoes, to Pickle 161 

Tongues, to Boil... 37 

Tongues, to Pickle ............. 34 

Trifles 176 

Tripe .^ 52 

Trivet '... 267 

Turkey, to Boil 42 

Turkey, to prepare, for Dinner 

Party 235 

Turkey, to Roast . 46 

Turnips, to Cook 75 

Turnips, to store.. -. .....'. ..... '22!3 

Turnovers, of Cold Meat ........ 52 

Turtle Soup, Mock 59 

U. 

Unbolted Flour, remarks about . 224 
Unbolted Flour, why healthful 12, 231 
Unhealthful Food, by Cooking .. 12 
Utensils, Kitchen v 252 



236 Variety of Food, how to provide a 223 

192 Variety of Food needful 3 

219 Veal, its Uses 28 

195 Veal, a Leg of, to Boil 38 

109 Veal, a Leg or Fillet of, to Roast 45 

Veal Balls 54 

293 Veal Cheese 56 

222 Veal Cutlets, Broiled 54 

175 Veal Cutlets, Fried 50 

112 Veal, Force Meat Balls of, Cold. 52 

97 Veal Hash 68 

1961 Veal Pot Pie 38 

S6* 



306 



INDEX. 



Pape 

Veal, tx) Roast 45 

Veal, to select 30 

Veal Soup 60 

Veal, to stew, two ways 40 

Veal stewed with Apples 42 

Vegetable Oysters or Salsify, to 

Cook 81 

Vegetables, Directions for Cook- 
ing 73 

Vegetables, other Directions .... 77 

Venison Hash 68 

Vermacelli, how to store it 219 

Vermacelli Pudding 114 

Vinegar, Celery 71 

Vinegar, how to store it 220 

Volatile, Sal, how kept 222 

Volatile, Sal, important Directions 202 

W. 

Wafers 102 

Waffles, Miss B.'s 96 

Waffles,Rice 96 

Waffles, Wheat 96 

Walnut Catsup 71 

Walnuts, to Pickle 163 

Water 14 

Water Bed 213 

Water, Causes that Injure 75 



Page 

Water, Congress, Directions about 209 

Water Gruel 196 

Water, to Purify 16, 285 

Wedding Cake, Ohio 291 

Weights and Measures 283 

Welsh Rabbit 206 

Wheat, Grown, Runoy, Smutty. 229 

Whey, Alum 198 

Whey, Buttermilk 198 

Whey, Simple Wine 194 

Whey, Tamarind 198 

Whey, Wine, another 198 

Whip Syllabub 175 

Whip Syllabub, another 179 

Whites of Eggs, Directions for.. 202 

Wine, Mulled 198 

Wine Whey 194 

Wood, Advice about Purchasing 284 
Wood, when to Buy 285 

Y. 

Yeast, Hard, two kinds 86 

Yeast, Home-brewed, two kinds 85 

Yeast, how kept 85 

Yeast, Milk 86 

Yeast, Potato 85 

Yeast, Potato (the best receipt) . 147 

Yorkshire Biscuit 91 



i 



# 



