Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^/. ys/s^ 



I .^v. 



*.*ji«-.;..-- .« 



iry 



/ 




A 



A ROMANCE 
OF A MINCE-PIE; 

AN INCIDENT IN THE UFB OF JOHN CHIRBUP, 
OF FOKTT-WIHKS, PABTtll-COOK AND C 



BY ANGUS B ItEAC 




WITH SUMEE01I8 IUXSTRATI0N3 BT PHIZ. 
LONDON : D. BOGUE, 8« FL^Kl ^T'fiSS:^. 



i? 



r;i 



LONDON: 

▼nSTBLLT BXITHKIIS 4ND CO. rRINTBU AND ENnRAfCMf 

rBTCRBOKOUOH COURTi rUCBT STRBKT. 



A ROMANCE 
OF A MINCE-PIE. 




■^^ N B (faiet, quaint 
T may almost say 
uudiBcoTered nook 
of Merry England 
lies a humble little 
borougb not men 
tioned in any sche- 
dule of the Reform 
Bill. To get to It, 
you must leave all main dusty roads — tiia igcv 
jected railway there itaa uev«t -nsftis., »s&. "&>» 



6 A ROMANCE OF 

chainnaii of the enterprising company now lives 
in the Capecure at Boulogne-sur-Mer — and betake 
yourself to wandering cross ways of very uncertain 
length, which lead through quiet fields, and fat 
loamy meadows, and by primitive farm houses, 
until you see, peering above the trees, a grey 
battered-looking steeple, very much the worse 
for wear, surmounted by a weather-cock, which, 
in consequence either of rust or a remarkable 
prevalence of westerly winds, has looked steadily 
towards the setting sun for a quarter of a century. 
The steeple and the weather-cock are the steeple 
and weather-cock of the town of Forty-winks. 

Proceeding onwards, you mark a scattered cot- 
tage or two, then a row of almshouses, then a pump. 
After this you turn the comer by the stocks — the 
May-pole is just opposite — into the High Street. 
You are now in Forty-winks. To the right you 
will behold the Lamb Inn and Hotel : observe the 
scattered market carts which stand before it. That 
building on the left, raised upon smouldering stone 
pillars, is the Town Hall. T!\ie ToaxV'eX \^ Wld 



A MINCE-PIE. 7 

beneath it every Tuesday; and the Corporation, 
\?hich consists of a mayor, a mace, two aldermen, 
and a beadle, meet in the damp white-washed 
room above, as often as may be necessaiy, for the 
discussion of the financial or general policy of 
Forty-winks. 

As I said, it is a quiet, easy-going place. People 
look from windows at a foot passenger, as they would 
do at a chaise and pair in more lively towns. 
Sometimes you might drop a piji from a second 
floor, and hear its tiny tinkle upon the pavement. 
The grocer and the draper and the baker dose half 
the day in their shops, or chat listlessly each from 
his respective door. Children principally abound 
in the tortuous passages which branch from the 
High Street, leading amongst irregular rows of 
cottages to the outskirts of Forty-winks, where 
green patches of cheerful garden-ground begin to 
penetrate and intersect the straggling limbs of the 
little town, and then gradually to introduce them 
to the open fields. 

At No. 10 High Street — liXiet^^^^^'Kas^'^'^^ 



8 A ROUANCE OF 

but I am counting from the Cross, northwards — 
tbere is a shop, oTor nbich is placed tluB sign, 
John Cbibrup, Pastri-cook and Cobfectiokeb. 




Mr. Chirrup was, and I believe is still, a little 
fat man, of easy and festive disposition, inclined to 
a good dinner, and to a snug nap after it. He is 



A MINCE-PIE. 9 

very popular in Forty-winks, not only by reason of 
his pastry, which is positively the staple of the 
place, but on account of his merry good-heartedness. 
Indeed, the fat sweetness of his condiments appear 
to have entered into the man's nature. He has 
been heard to say that if he had his will, the world 
should be one great plum-cake, and all the men and 
women kings and queens, in rich robes of dainty 
sugar. Every evening Mr. Chirrup takes his place 
near the fire in the public room at the Lamb. The 
bell-pull hangs at his elbow, and when any of the 
company require a replenished pipe or glass, they 
say — the phrase is stereotyped in Forty- winks — 
"Mr. Chirrup, would you oblige?" on which Mr. 
Chirrup always responds, ** Too happy ;" and jerks 
the bell with a radiant countenance. 

I have said that Chirrup lives at No. 10 High 
Street. He is a bachelor, but a niecfe, Pattie Chir- 
rup, at the opening of our story a pretty, thought- 
less, little human doll of sixteen or thereby, cheers 
his solitude. No. 10 is, as may be conceived by 
ingenious minds, next to No, 11. '^of^V^xia*^'?^ 




in feet appear one, separated from Nos. 9 and 12 
by a lane on one hand, and a bit of waste grou^ 
— where they are going to erect either a Meet 
nica' Institute or a Gas Worka— oq &« ofc' 



A HINCE-PIE. 11 

Behind Nos. 10 and 11 there are narrow strips 
of garden. 

The name engraved upon the dirty hrass door- 
plate of No. 11, Chirrup's neighbour's house, is 
Snitch. The gentleman answering to this appella- 
tion is also a bachelor ; but lives perfectly alone, 
doing his own cooking, and, as has been suspected 
from the cut of his ungainly, ill put on clothes, his 
own tailoring also. Snitch is a snarling, sulky, 
ill-tempered man. Had he been a poet or a gentle- 
man, he would have been a misanthrope, a recluse, 
a lofty-minded being, turning with disdain from 
the vulgar attributes of the vulgar herd. But as 
he could neither write — or at all events did not 
try — a Childe Harold, a Manfred, or a Giaour — 
people contented themselves with thinking him 
simply an ill-conditioned, peevish, unamiable, man, 
possibly troubled with the bile. 

Snitch had no acquaintances in Forty-winks, 
but he always attended funerals, and generally 
wore a dress of rusty black. He was the terror oC 
all the children in. lYie ^\afife. ^^ ^wJs.^ s^kx^s^ 



14 A ROMANCE OF 

habit of nocturnal yelping, out of spite to humanity 
in genercJ. At all events, Angel commenced 
business every evening at bed-time. His kennel 
was in the back garden ; and just as the lights were 
disappearing from bed-room windows, he poked his 
head out of his wooden habitation, and howled, 
whined, barked, and yelped by turns, sometimes 
until dawn, sometimes until breakfast time. 

The whole population of course suffered from 
Angel, but Chirrup, owing to his proximity, was 
the greatest martyr. I have said that Chirrup 
loved good eating and good sleeping, like a sensible 
man as he was. Angel interfered little with the 
one, but he completely spoiled the other. Half-a- 
dozen times did the justly indignant pastry-cook 
complain to Snitch, who merely grinned and rubbed 
his hands in his pockets. 

" I don't keep you from yelping at the Lamb," 
said Snitch ; ** why should you keep my dog from 
yelping in my garden ?" 

Chirrup threatened to indict master and dog 
nuisaacea; but somehow the Forty-winkians we 



A MINCE-PIE. 15 

lot a litigious people, and Chirrup was naturallj 
ndolent, so the threat remained a threat, and 
iothing else. Angel yelped and yelped : Chirrup 
jot up half-a-dozen times in the night — his hed- 
•oom window overlooked the garden — and by turns 
;oaxed and stormed at the implacable uisturber of 
lis rest. Once or twice the confectioner tried the 
effects of bribery and corruption, flinging a piece or 
wo of mouldy pastry to the cur. Angel greedily 
Levoured the mess, and then barked for more ; so 
t became evident to Chirrup that if he were to 
dlence the dog by keeping him eating, he must 
levote every pie, pudding, tart, lollipop, and con- 

• 

ection in his shop to the purpose. So he gave over 
ihe attempt, and Angel persevered in his mal- 
>ractices. Every night at the Lamb, Chirrup re- 
ailed his griefs. He was getting quite pale from 
vant of sleep. Occasionally, under the influence 
»f an extra pipe or an extra glass, he would threaten 
o kick Snitch and throttle his dog next day ; but 
vhen the morning came, he never took any overt 
\tep in the matter, and at m^\. K\y^^^s»5^'^^^**=^^ 



16 A ROMANCE OP 

Chirrup tossed restlessly between the blankets as 
before. 

So stood matters when Christmas was approach- 
ing. Now, Chirrup was famed for his mince-pies 
Christmas would not, in Forty-winks, have been 
Christmas without Chirrup's mince-pies. They 
were looked upon as parts of the solemnities of the 
season, and the demand was universal. 

One night, after the pastry-cook had gone 
through a hard day's work in the preparation of his 
first batch of pies, he appeared in his usual place 
at the Lamb. 

** You're not looking well. Chirrup, this even- 
ing," said Bob Tanks, the grocer, one of his 

cronies. 

» 

** Why, you see, Mr. Tanks," replied the con- 
fectioner, "a good ten hours' work before a hot 
oven, in a tolerable floury atmosphere, don't im- 
prove a man's complexion." 

" And that 's true," said Groats the baker. '* It 
takes a good night's sleep after that — it does." 
"A good night's sleep T excAaam^^ ^\ivit 



A MINCE-PIE. 17 

" All ! it's very easy to speak — it is ; but it's little 
sleep I *11 have this blessed night ; for that « 
dog " 

"He barks yet, does he?" inquired Tanks, 
-who lived at the other end of the town. " Well, 
IVe sometimes thought I heer'd him, and so *as 
the missus." 

" Bark !" exclaimed Chirrup, " bark ! I believe 
you. I never see such a bom devil for noise." 

" Why don't you give him a mince-pie or two?" 
demanded Tanks. " He'd eat them.'* 

" Would'nt he !" said Chirrup. " Yes, and then 
growl for more." 

" Not if you made them right," hinted Tanks. 

** Make 'em right !" ejaculated the pastry-cook. 
** If I make my mince-pies right, eh ?" ' 

** You see," said Tanks, gravely, ** there 's two 
ways o' makin' pies : one way for Christians, as is 
good customers, and another way for curs, as is 
rum customers. There is some things — as a dog 
don*t bark arter eating them, " 

*• Mr. Chirrup, would you o\i\\%t&T^ %«v^ "^^ 



18 A BX)MANCE OF A MINCE-PIeJ 

baker, who haying been engaged in a polemical 
discussion with certain of the company, had heard 
nothing of Tanks s advice. 

'* Too happy," mechanically responded Chirrup, 
and then, after jerking the bell, he pondered upon 
the grocer's worda and remained in a wrapt state, 
similar to Macbeth's condition after meeting the 
witches. 



CHAPTER II. 




HERE are two drag 
gists shops m Fortv 
wmks one of them 
an establishment " 
in the main street 
witb a splendid pio 
ture connected with 
the Pharmaceutical 
College m the win 

dow ; the other, a dingy little shop, in a secondaiy 

lane, faced bj the high blank vra\l of the garden 

of the Grange. 

Into this shop Mr. Chirrup bent his fiirtJTe wa;;-. 

the forenoon after the toTwatMSMso. «. <!M.'V«ssla- 



20 A ROMANCE OF 

The proprietor was making pills by the help of a 
fluted brass machine, which divided a roll of nasty 
brown paste into pellets of the requisite size. " Mr. 
Chirrup, sir, and is it you ?" said the druggist, 
•* You don't mean to say you want physic ?" 

"No, no,'* replied Chirrup, hastily; "never 
took any since I was a boy, and don't mean to begin. 
I — I— want — the fact is," and Chirrup could not 
help a little hesitation from being visible in his 
manner, " I want some arsenic." 

" Not for the mince-pies ?" observed the drug- 
gist, joldngly. 

Mr. Chirrup took an involuntary step back, and 
then replied miyestically, " No nonsense, if you 
please, sir. Give me what I want, and ask no 
questions." 

This outbreak was so unlike the pastry-cook's 
general suavity of manner, that the druggist fixed 
a keen look upon him. 

" Rats," stammered Chirrup, " rats." 

"Ah!" said the proprietor of the shop, anc 
without another word he went to & drawer, too' 



A MiNCE-pn:« 21 

out a quantity of white powder, weighed it, made 
it up into a small packet, and handed it over to his 
customer, who paid the demanded price ; and, bidding 
an awkward good-day to the vendor, left the shop. 
Mr. Chirrup took a circuitous route home, and 
went round the comers carefully, for he had a sort 
of indefinable lurking apprehension of Snitch's 
wrath, now that he carried what he trusted would 
be the seasoning of Angel's last meal in his pocket. 
He reached his shop, however, unmolested, and 
entering it dismissed Pattie, who presided in his 
absence, to dress herself for the day. The pastry- 
cook then selected one of the most tempting mince- 
pies from the shelf, and after glancing uneasily 
around, retreated to the desk, which was at- the end 
of the counter, and screened by a bit of brown cot- 
ton from vulgar gaze. Chirrup was about to poison 
a dog — a filthy, unbearable cur ; yet so placid was 
his nature, so milky his blood, that he experienced 
about as much trepidation as many a man would 
feel before administering the same fatal dose to & 
fellow-creature. 



29 A ROMANCE OF 

The pastry-cook undid the little packet of \vhite 
powder, and placed it beside the mince-pie upon 
the desk. Then opening the latter carefully with a 
breakfieist knife, he looked first at the tempting food, 
and then at the deadly poison. It appeared such a 
fearful thing to mix the one with the other. Had it 
been a bit of meat or bread, he thought he should 
not have minded. Dogs and men eat bread and 
meat ; but mince-pie is peculiarly a human dish, 
and a Christmas dish. Chirrup's hand trembled 
as he took a pinch of the powder and held it above 
the savoury fruit, tucked in between blankets of 
pastry. He paused long, looking vacantly out 
of the window between a jar of mixed confec- 
tions and a box of peppermint lozenges. 

•* Oh ! — — oh ! " sobbed a boy's voice i 
the street. 

Chirrup started, and presently Tommy Saw^ 
—he knew him well — came limping and hopp 
along on the opposite pavement, rubbing his 
while Angel appeared walking deliberately ' 
Uckivg his lips. 




The pastry-cook no longer heHtaWd. Witli a 
olerabl; profuse hniid he sprinkled the arsenic 
iver the savouiy contents of the mince-pie ; ami 
hen hastily flinging the remainder of the drug into 
lie fire, covered the deadly pasty with its saucei- 
ike top, and was in the act of depositing it in a 
ock-up drawer, when Pattie's head was popped into 
he shop, and Pattie's voice exclaimed, " Uncle !" 

"Well," ejaculated Chirnip, jumping up with 
I nervous start, the fatal mince-pie in his hand, 
'Who's there, eh?" 



A ROXAKCE or 




" Law '." stud Pallie, " I declare you 're getti 
quite nervous, uncle, I onl j wanted jou to do 1 
bottom hook of mj' dress ; IVe broken all my m 
trying to do it." They are a primitive people 
Forty-winks. 

The pastry-cook glanced irresolutely arom 
Ho evidently did not like to loch up the mince- 
ie&jv iis niece ; so, after a moment' a VwiW* 



be said, "Well, then, make haat£, you baggage!" 
and depositing the deadly pasty upon the counter, 
followed Pattie through the glass door which led to 
the parlour. 




Mr. Chirrup before leaving the shop 3id not 
look into the street, otherwise he would have seen 
a shabby hungry-like boy flattening his nose against 
one of the windows, and industrioualy contemplat- 
ing the good things in them. Ttis young gentle- 
man had observed the mince-pie laid upon the 
counter, had marked the 
retreat of the msster of 
the shop, and after waiting 
for a second to give him 




}air, sprang into the deserted warehouse, snat 
i^P the coveted pasty, and 'waa m ftift »>A a 



appearing over tfae threshold as Mr. Chirrup 
ihoned flgaitt at the glass door. 

The flurried tradesman caught a momentaij. 
glimpse of on uplifted leg vaniahing round his door 
posts. His eye instinctively fell upon the counter : 
the mince-pie was gone. Mr. Chirrup was not 
^ven to gymnastics, but he vaulted into the public 




28 A BOKANCE OF 

part of Uie shop, and rushed into the street. T 
same leg he had seen a moment before was ji 
visible at the comer where High Street is int< 
sected by Cross Lane ; and down the lane in qu< 
tion went Mr. Chirrup in hot pursuit. He w 
always fated to be just too late. The narrow stre 
where he had bought the poison ran at right angl 
to Cross Lane, and parallel with the High Strei 
At the comer Mr. Chirrup obtained the same n: 
mentary glimpse of the thiefs limb as he h 
caught twice before ; but when he himself arrive 
at the same point, not a being was visible. Ch 
rup's heart sunk within him. He cast a despa: 
ing glance up and down the street, and th< 
mechanically followed in the direction in which t 
unhappy amateur of mince-pies had disappeare 
Tins course led him by the shop where he hi 
purchased the arsenic. The druggist stood at tl 
door, and saw Chirrup run hatless and breathle 
by, the pastry-cook not having the heart or tl 
time to stop to ask a single question. 

**0b, Lord I'* soliloquised t\ie ^\ll-\aakei 



A mxcE riE. 




here 'b a job t Why did I give him that arsenic ? 
e 'a been and poisoned some one, that 's clear. I 
ight have known what he wanted it for by his 
antter. They 'II bang him, they 're safe to do that ; 
id me, they 'U make me an aciieBanT; '\K&>T%'^a% 



30 A ROMANCE OF 

fact I 'm a done man — done !" And so sajing, 
the horrified druggist retired into his shop. 

Meantime Chirrup, utterly at fault, ran distract- 
edly up one lane and down another. His proceed- 
ings were of course not unobserved. Wondering 
faces appeared at the windows — ^hurrying forms 
emerged from hastily opened doors. Half-a-dozen 
times was the pastry-cook entreated to stop and 
tell who or what he was running after, but he re- 
plied not a word ; and at length, utterly baffled and 
worn out, he walked slowly back to his shop, fol- 
lowed by an escort of wondering boys, whom Chir 
rup, suddenly turning upon the threshold, ordere 
away, in a tone they had never before heard usi 
by the good-natured little confectioner. But o 
or two of the grown-up people of the place, v 
had cautiously followed in the rear, remarked 1 
livid was Chirrup's cheek, and how wild 
excited was his eye. 

Pattie was in the shop when he enf 
** Uncle, imcle !" she exclaimed, " what ever 
matter? Do you know that ^ou "w^te ia 



A MINCE -PIE. SI 

huny that you stuck the book in the hem, and not 
in the eye ?'* 

** Go down stairs !" said Chirrup, in a voice 
which blanched the cheeks of his niece, who obeyed 
without speaking. 

Chirrup sat down again at his desk, with his 

« 

hands clenched upon the ledger before him. For 
a moment or two there was a dead silence. His 
eyes wandered vacantly round the shop ; they fell 
upon the shelf of mince-pies ; and as he jerked his 
head in the opposite direction, his glance caught 
hardly less assuring object. Upon the pavement 
before the shop sat Angel, more hideous than ever, 
his little bleared eyes appearing to Mr. Chirrup to 
be winking upon him between the confection bottles. 

The poor psis try-cook groaned audibly. ** And 
for you,*' he murmured, " for you I 'm a murderer. 
For you I *11 have taken the life of a fellow-creature 
— a sinful one, but still a fellow-creature. Oh 
dear ! Oh dear ! I wonder if he *s alive yet." 

And so saying Chirrup's head fell heavily upon 
the desk, and he remained motionle^^, "Sa ^"^a. 



82 A ROMANCE OF 

roused by the noise of footsteps and a gradng 
voice, and starting up with a quickened inspiration, 
he saw the ugly face of Snitch gazing at him, over 
the screen of the desk. 

For a moment the two men looked at each 
other. Chirrup's face was as white as paper, tears 
were flowing down his cheeks, the facial muscles 
were rigid, and the eyes had a wild stare. 

" So," said Snitch very slowly, ** so." Chir- 
rup's legs appeared to twitch under him, and a cold 
hand seemed to clasp his heart. In a moment the 
blood rushed through him, like a cataract, and, as 
he started up, his face was purple. 

"What is it?" he rather screamed than 
said. 

"Oh, ah! nothing," drawled Snitch. "Have 
you anything to say about my dog ?" 

" No, no, no,** exclaimed the pastry-cook. 

" That 's lucky," drawled Snitch, " I thought 
you had." 

" What do you want? quick ! " shouted the con- 
/bcidoner. 



A MINCE-PIE. 33 

" Only one of your famous mince-pies," re 
sponded the other. 

It was the first time Snitch had ever asked for 
such a thing, and Chirrup thought that he laid a 
significant emphasis upon the " famous." The 
poor fellow sunk hackwards on his stool, and glared 
upon his customer, who gazed at him in turn as 
though he would look into his very soul. Snitch 
spoke at last, 

" There 's something the matter with you," he 
said, with more apparent feeling than could have 
been looked for ; ** 1 11 call again." Then he fixed a 
second long look upon the pallid, working face 
before him, and whistling for Angel, left the 
shop. 

Chirrup followed him with his eyes until he 
disappeared, and then struck the desk a violent 
blow with his clenched fist. " He knows it," he 
muttered ; "in half an hour all Forty- winks will 
know it. What will they say at the Lamb to- 
night. No one will believe my story. Poison a 
dog with a mince-pie, and l\iftu \ei«:^^ S^» ^"«^ ^^^s^a 



34 A ROMANCE OF 

counter — no, no ! And then my hesitating, and 
going to the out-of-the-way shop to buy the arsenic ; 
and my running out like a madman after nobody 
knows what ! I 'm lost, lost, lost ! Pity and look 
down on me ! I *m lost !" 

At this moment a man entered the shop ; 
Chirrup recognised the pale fece of the druggist of 
the back street. 

" Don't say I sold you the arsenic, and 1 *11 not 
denounce you for the murder," he said in a hoarse 
whisper. 

The pastry-cook moved his lips, but no sound 
passed them. 

" I 'm a man with a young family,** pleaded 
the druggist, always in the same horrible whisper ; 
** I love my wife ! I do ; I was in the wrong to sell 
you the poison ; but, my children, my children ! if 
I am transported they will die in the workhouse, 
I know they will. Confess, but spare me." 

Chirrup could only wave his hand; and the 

msm vanished from the shop, taking, however, a 

couple of tsxts m'th him, and dis^\a"5\iv%\\i««i^^«a. 



A MWCE-P!E. 35 

he reached the street, as though to satisfy eveiy- 
hody as to the cause of his visit to the pastry- 
cook's. 

The self-condemned poisoner sat for two or 
three minutes speechless ; at length he found his 
voice. 

" I shall be hanged, hanged, hanged, by the 
neck imtil I am dead ; and the Lord have mercy 
upon my soul," he groaned, unconsciously repeat- 
ing part of the terrible phraseology of the extreme 
sentence of the law. Then he paused ; suddenly 
his eye brightened. " I shall not be hanged," he 
cried; " no, no, there is the Slush," and he rose 
from his seat and wiped the cold sweat from his 
forehead. 

At this moment the glass door opened, and 
Pattie looked timidly into the shop. The eyes of 
the uncle and niece met. 

** Go away," he said; '* Go away, good girl; go, 
do go I ' 

" But imcle, uncle, I am frightened ; oh tell 
me, has anything happenei*^^' 



86 A ROMANCE OF 

**I can't tell her," muttetfed Chirrup; and 

then he murmured aloud, '* No, no, child, nothing. 

Go into the parlour, and I '11 come to you — or stay, 

I *m not well, I shall go out into the air for a little ; 

when I go, come and mind the shop ; I '11 he haclb 
presently." 

Fattie withdrew with anything hut a satisfied 

•countenance ; and her uncle hastily seizing a piece 

of paper, scribbled in almost illegible characten 

the following note : — 

" I confess the poisoning, but I did not mean 
it. I am the victim of circumstances. I 'U he 
found in the Slush. Don't think too ill of me. 
I could not bear to die on the gallows. I leave my 
all to my niece Pattie ; and I hope Govemmenf 
won't interfere 

"John Chirrup." 

This incoherent epistle the almost paralysed 

man folded with trembling hands, and then, taking 

vp the pen, he sought to address it. His mind 

appeared for the moment to Yiave \rfx. "Vjccoi^ isst hA 



paused and squeezed his forehead nith his left 
hand, as though he would recall the name he wished 
to trace ; and then, as if unable to succeed, he 
uttered a despairing exclamation, wrote rapidly tho 
words, " To Any One," flung the letter thus com- 
prehensively addressed upon the counter, and call- 
ing, " Pattie, Pattie, mind the shop," tottered out 
and walked rapidly towards the spot where the 
bridge crosses the Slush, just above a deep black 
pool, bordered with rank water-weeds, and known 
aa the " Drowned Man's Hole," 




CHAPTER III- 



FTER Sniich had 

left tbe pastiy 

cook's shop, h< 

toward! 

hauat J 




OF A MIHCE-PIE. 38 

wrought out and now ovei^rown with furze and 
brushwood. Mr. Snitch, walking sofily as was his 
habit, observed, in the quany-hole in question, a 
lean Tagrant-looking boy, sitting on a big atone, 
and lookii^ with eager eyes upon a plump mlnce- 
pie. Suddenly the juvenile started up, looked 
anxiously round, and appeared to listen intently. 
Snitch slid noiselessly behind a. stunted bush, eni 
watched. Apparently the boy's alarm was ground- 
less, for he resumed his seat, gloated upon the 
pastry which he held in hand, and then nused it 
to bis mouth. 

Snitch, never remaikably amiable, hnpponod at 

isparticular moment to be even more ill-tempered 

n uaual ; for he wsia curious to know the cause 

■e he had just seen in Uie stniets, 

) lay hiiiwelf under the obligation 

thereforo sneaked up iH'hind the 

i lliat voung gentloinun was in 

r of pretty capacious jaws 

, the pie was rudely snatched out 

kd staviniftw^ KniXwiVv-wft's^^''-. 




40 A ROMANCE OF 

the Tagrant found himself face to face with 
Snitch. 

"It would have been so nice, would'nt it?" 
drawled the owner of Angel, in his most provoking 
tones. He expected a burst of indignant outcry 
from the despoiled one, but the boy uttered not a 
sound. He cast a quick suspicious glance about, 
however, and so did Snitch ; for hardened as he 
was, he would have been ashamed at having been 
caught in such a contemptible piece of petty tyranny. 
But nobody was in sight. 

" Do you like mince-pies, my poor boy ?" taunted 
Snitch. " Why don't you cry for it, eh ?" 

The person addressed, however, probably had 
his own reasons for making no noise about the out- 
^ rage ; for, after a moment's pause, he darted away 

at fuU speed, closely pursued by Angel, who always 
followed any retreating object with cannibalistic 
designs, leaving the astonished Snitch with the 

mince-pie in his hand. 

" Hallo ! hallo !" he shouted to his dog ; " seize 
J^ioi, boy, seize him I" 



A MINCE-PIE. 41 

Angel required little such encouragement. He 
was close at the boy's heels as the latter rounded 
a distant comer of the lane ; they both disappeared, 
therefore, nearly at the same moment ; but a loud 
cry, which was heard a minute after, followed by the 
re-appearance of Angel, licking his lips after his 
usual fashion on such occasions, sufl&ciently ex- 
plained the issue of the chase to Mr. Snitch, who 
laughed to himself, put the pie into his pocket, and 
then slowly retraced his steps to No. 10 High 
Street. 

In the meantime poor Pattie was left alone in 
the shop, bewildered and afraid. Curious faces 
passed and repassed upon the pavement, and peeped 
in at the door, and through the windows. The 
girl's heart beat until she herself heard it ; she 
had never before known other than mere childish 
griefs, but she had now an awful consciousness that 
something incredibly fearful had happened. Twice 
did she essay to gain the street to make inquiries, 
but her knees shook, and her heart got sick, so she 
sat down again. 



42 A fi011AHC£ UP 

Suddenly the door was darkened by the p 

eenceof Mrs. Groats, the baker'awife. Pattie ri 
mechanically as to attend upon a customer. M 
Groats stood at the counter and eyed the girl w 




a gaze of mingled curiosity and hearty pity. H 

Groata had the faults and the virtues of worn 

kind. She had entered the shop to see Pattjt 

perMpa to pick up any Uulft oii \iMtiE«! 



A MINCE-PIE. 43 

of what was wrong — perhaps to indulge in the 
luxury of witnessing and comforting another's woe ; 
but however that may have been, the pallid fright- 
ened face of the girl checked any outpouring either 
of vulgar curiosity or commonplace sympathy, and 
the baker's wife stood motionless before the con- 
fectioner's niece. 

"What can I serve you with?" said Pattie. 
Familiar as was the phrase, the low peculiar tone 
with which it was uttered, made Mrs. Groat start 
and tremble. She hurriedly named some trifling 
article of pastry ; but, immediately checking herself, 
said that it would do to-morrow, and hurried from 
the shop. The baker's wife had unconsciously paid 
a tribute to the majesty of woe. 

Pattie stood and looked vacantly in the direction 
in which the would-be customer had disappeared. 
It was evident that something terrible was wrong. 
Her uncle — where was her uncle, her loved, her 
only relative? she threw her hands aloft wildly, 
a choaking something rose in her throat, then a 
burst of tears came to hex ie\\fei> %xv^ ^'^V^aSO^ssst 



44 A ROMANCE OF 

head upon the counter and wept. Suddenly she 
started up — an idea had flashed across her. She 
was in the act of rushing to the desk when her eye 
caught the note lying upon the counter, and with a 
cry of eagerness she darted upon it, and snatching 

it up, read the desperate inscription, " To Any One." 

" To any one " — what despair was there in the 
J words 1 No fondness, no love, no rememhrance oi 

her. It was evidently her uncle's last words, and 
they were addressed " to any one." She held the 
Tj note in her hand, her eyes rivetted upon the super- 

scription, her limbs motionless as paralysed. At 
that moment some one entered ; she knew it waa 
not her uncle's step, and did not look up until she 
was startled by Snitch's voice. 

" Chirrup not come back yet ? " he growled. 
Pattie mechanically held the note out to Snitch. 
She had forgotten her old enemy. In the extremity 
of her distress all men became equal. 

Switch took it. " To Any One," he said. 

Pattie nodded, and looked at him with a lustre- 
less eye. 



" As you don't seem to have opened it," he 
said I suppose you count yourself no one ; 
well I m not so modest ; " and be unfolded 
the paper Btarting backwards as he read the first 
sentence 

Peevish sulkj cross and bilious as Snitch 



/fj*«?*ia 




40 A ROMANCE OF 

was, there was something so awful and unexpectec 
in the words he saw hefore him, that he could have 
wished the whole affair a dream. This feeling 
lasted but for a moment. His mind, once openec 
to the appalling depth of the calamity, began tx. 
I take a morbid interest, then a horrible eiyojment 

^ m the catastrophe ; and when, on a sign fron 

Pattie, he read the note aloud, he accentuated ever 
i. syllable — ramming them, so to speak, like bodkini 

I into Pattie s shrinking soul, 

i When he had finished there was a pause 

I Pattie sat, like a marble statue, tearless and un 

' moved. There are some moments of deep distrea 

which do the work of years on the human soul 
There are instants of fearful feeling which develoj 
powers, produce purity, purge away follies and 
vain affections, as flame cleanses metal. Pattie'i 
mind was imdergoing the terrible ordeal. Snitcl 
absolutely grew frightened as he gazed on her ; sh( 
was awfully beautiful in her pallor. Her hail 
appeared as if it rustled and rose upwards; her eyei 
slione like balls ofhre, yet never moNfe^ox ^ra^^s^ 






A MINCE-PIE. 47 

her nostrils only heaved and dilated ; her teeth 
were clenched — ^you could hear them grinding in the 
silence. The soul of the girl was passing into the 
soul of the woman. 

At length Pattie started up, and flinging her 
arms over her head, cried with a terrible voice, " I 
do not believe it ! " 

" Here is his writing," said Snitch, " and signed 
John Chirrup ; I know the loop of the J. I 'm 
sorry for it ; I should not have thought it." 

There was another pause, which was broken by 
the noise of many voices and approaching footsteps. 
They C6une nearer and nearer, and then there 
appeared a disorderly crowd, who flocked round the 
shop-door, all shouting and asking hurried ques- 
tions, and leaping on each others' shoulders to gaze 
upon some one in the middle. In a moment the 
grand centre of the attraction appeared. Chirrup, 
his clothes streaming with water, his face blue and 
haggard, tottered into the shop, supported by two 
men. 

"Look arter your uucVe, Mha"^^' ^"sA ^^^ ^ 



48 A ROMANCE OF 

them, addressing Pattie, roughly, bat not disrespect* 
fully. " We 're afeared that he 's taken bad here," 
and the speaker tapped his forehead. 

" Me and my mate, Miss," said Chirrup's other 
supporter, *' was a-hauling the siene in the Dead- 
man's Hole, when we see Mr. Chirrup a-coming 
along the bridge like a raging madman. Mate, 

I 

sez I, do you see that ere, sez I, when afore 
the words were out of my mouth, danged if the 
gen'lm'n had n't jumped over the parapet into the 
river." 

** Lucky thing, Miss, our punt was a-nigh,'* in- 
terrupted the first of Chirrup's preservers. ** As it 
was, he tried hard to get to the bottom, but we 
teuk him out a'most in spite of himself." 

" And brought him home ; and it *s our advice. 
Miss, to send for a doctor, and not lose no time, 
which is precious." This was said by the fisherman 
No. 2, the gentlemen in fact appearing to relieve 
each other regularly in narrating the untoward tale. 
All this time Chirrup sat motionless upon a 
chair into which he had sunk, an^ xoat^^ ^^s^s^d 



A MINCE-PD5. 49 

with a semi-vajcant look from one speaker to the 
other. 

Pattie hastily offered the men money andthanks» 
and whispered them for Heaven's sake to clear 
the shop. This they were not long in effecting, par- 
ticularly as Angel joined his energies to theirs, until 
everybody was in the street but his coadjutors, 
when he attacked and drove them out too. 

Snitch then shut the door ; and, after a fearhil 
pause, said to Chirrup — holding the. note in hisi 
hand — 

"Is it true?" 

The greatest painter who ever handled a brush 
would have failed, had he attempted to pourtray thd 
awful anxiety of Pattie s face as she leaned forward 
to hear the reply. 

" I— I — did not mean to — though I did it," was 
the not over-intelligible reply, gasped, rather than 
spoken, by Chirrup. 

Pattie wrung her hands, and despair twitched 
all her features, leaving them if possible more 
.pallid than before. 



50 A ROMANCE OF 

Snitch muttered something ahout his duty U 
society. 

** Listen ! I 11 explain — I *U try to explain, 
stammered poor Chirrup. 

- " Explain ! explain ! " snarled Snitch ; ** explaii 
poisoning and murdering. No, you will explaii 
them to the judge and the jury." 

" The — the — force of circumstances," groane< 
the pastry-cook; and then he stretched out hii 
arms as though he would embrace his niece. Ai 
hi almost imperceptible gesture forbade him. 

This was the crowning blow; the poor felloi 
sank again back in the chair, and said in an almos 
inaudible voice, " Go for the oflGlcers." 

Snitch looked round ; uncle and niece appearei 
like unbreathing statues, and without anothe 
word he left the shop. His return was almos 
immediate, and he was accompanied by Gabri€ 
Clinch, the one town-ofl&cer, policeman, gaolei 
and turnkey of Forty-winks, who had instinc 
tiveljr smelt out something in his way, an 
Iiad met Snitch almost on. tk^ \iKS«^';^^ «& 



A MINCE- PIE. 51 

learned in two words the nature of the supposed 
crime. 

When Chirrup saw Clinch he rose mechani- 
cally, and Pattie squeezed her shut hands till the 
nails touched the quick. A mist came over her 
eyes. Nature was giving way. She heard a voice 
say, " Here 's a bad job ;" and she heard her uncle 
reply, " I am ready." Then came a shuffling of 
feet. The mist appeared to clear away before her, 
and she saw that the shop was empty. With a 
shriek which was heard over half Forty-winks, her 
senses left her, and she fell like a bundle of rags 
upon the floor. 

Fortunately help was near. Worthy Mrs. 
Groats, with plenteous tears, and innumerable 
" Who 'd ha' thought it's," was putting the still 
insensible girl to bed, while Mr. Clinch was locking 
up her uncle, in a sort of half cell half lumber- 
room, behind the Town Hall. 



\>^ 




CHAPTER IV. 

T> UMOUR'S proverbially multitudinouB tongues 
"*•*' never wt^ged faster or went further than they 
did in the village of Forty-winks the afternoon of 
Mr. CMmjp's arrest. That event might have taken 
j>/sc0 about two o'clock. By Visit ^ast X-wo"A-«w 



A ROMANCE OF A MINCE-PIE^ 63 

discovered that the pastry<cook had poisoned a man 
and his wife; hy three that he had sent a man, 
his wife, and his children, out of the world. In 
another half hour two families had been murdered ; 
and by dinner time it was popularly reported that 
everybody who had died in Forty- winks for the last 
six months owed their decease to the machinations 
of the awful criminal Chirrup. The excitement 
increased momentarily. At five o'clock it was an- 
nounced on good grounds that the confectioner had 
entered into a contract with a wholesale London 
chemist for regular supplies of arsenic and prussio 
acid ; and Doctor Druggum's assistant, who was an 
oracle at the Lamb, horrified all his hearers by 
long dissertations upon the poisoners of the middle 
ages, upon the Marchioness of Brinvilliers, and the 
qualities of briscine and aqua tofana. New proofs 
of the guilt of the unhappy Chirrup of course came 
to light every moment. It was wonderful how brim- 
ful people's memories became of suspicious circum* 
stances. Smith stated that he did not know how 
it was, but that he had ne^et Yi^*^^ ^Owa^ \aas4.. 



54 A ROlfANCE OF 

Brown recollected that he had always felt a cold 
shudder whenever he came near him. Thomson 
said that he had always suspected that there was 
something wrong ; and Johnson added that such 
had ever been his feelings, although he had never 
told anybody. Mr. Higgins, the parish clerk, 
thought the catastrophe an awful instance of human 
depravity; but he had all along suspected that 
nothing good would come of Chirrup's going to & 
dissenting chapel — a position which Mr. Wiggins, 
an eminent ofl&ce-bearer in the Little BethsedaNew 
Light Chapel, in Cross Lane, controverted with 
such zeal and vehemence, that the two champions 
of rival systems had nearly brought their dispute 
to the ancient ordeal of trial by combat, when the 
whole room were awed by the announcement, made 
on unknown but implicitly believed authority, that 
Chirrup had entered into an awful scheme for 
poisoning all Forty-winks, and that every bit of 
pastry which had issued that morning from his 
shop had been seasoned, some with quick, some 
vfitb slow, but all with deadly ^o\aoxL. 



A MINCE-PIE. 65 

There was a horrible pause in the public room 
of the Lamb at this annoimcement, and not long 
after it a young man, with light hair, cold grey 
stony eyes, and a face swollen and pimpled by that 
saddest of habits, youthful intemperance, quietly 
rose and glided out of the room. Nobody observed 
his departure, and in a few moments the broken 
conversation was renewed, but in a subdued and 
whispering tone. 

Mention has been made in a former part of this 
history of a certain high blank wall, which shut out 
from vulgar view the garden of the Grange. The 
Grange was an ugly ancient red brick mansion, 
built possibly in the days of Queen Anne, with 
numerous small windows, a high steep tiled roof, 
a strong battalion of chimney pots, and a big hall 
door, sheltered by a species of clumsy canopy of 
rudely carved oak, and approached by a flight of bro 
ken and weed-grown steps, flanked by massive iron 
railings. Altogether, the place was very like those 
dreary architectural decorations which abound in 
samplers, placed above the letteta oC tij^a ^^<^ca!w^^ 



66 A ROMANCE OF 

and supported on either hand by an army of worsted 
figures. There was a patch of grass before the 
house, around which grew, out of the weedy and 
neglected ground, some fine old horse chestnuts, 
overshadowing a mass of tangled shrubbeiy and 
undergrowth. 

The Grange was inhabited but by three persons, 
the proprietor, his son, and an old mal6 servant 
Neither the first nor the last of these ever crossed 
the threshold of the grounds. Glimpses might be 
sometimes caught of their grey heads at the win- 
dows, and occasionally, during a summer afternoon, 
two shabby-looking old men were visible, sunning 
themselves on a bench which was placed along a 
wall, or tottering backwards and forwards on the 
weedy gravel before the door. It would be diffi- 
cult to tell from their dress, or from their manner 
to each other, which was the master and which the 
servant. They seemed to have outlived all such 
distinctions of rank, and, as the grave opened wider 
and wider before them, to be preparing to descend 
into it as brotbera in a common maahocyd. 




The third penonage of this mysterious house- 
hold was the young man I have just mentioned as 
havii^ left the public room of the Lamb, upon the 
receipt of the horrifying intelligence of Chirrup's 
wholesale designs against the Uvea of the popula- 
tion of FoTtj-wtnks. This man, who waa the son 
and heir of the proprietor of the Orange, was known 
by the appellation of Yomhj 'HBKia.— >sa %&«=! 



being sometimes termed "Old Martin," some- 
times, in a still less complimentary fashion, "Old 
MIbof Martin," and sometimes the "8a|uire." 
Young Martin bore in Forty-winks the Teiy well- 
deserved character of a worthless and diBBipat«d 
man, with hardly one good point about him. 




A MINCE-PIE. b9 

Although the heir-apparent to the Grange with its 
appertaining lands, which formed a small but valu- 
able estate, he was seldom or never to be seen 
beneath any respectable roof in Forty-winks, and 
even in the public room of the Lamb he was as 
much shunned £ind neglected as a man could be 
without receiving the positive cut-direct. His chief 
associate was a fellow who bore no enviable reputa- 
tion, and who gained a living nominally as a dog- 
fancier and a horse-doctor ; but who added to these 
crafts certain accomplishments which he deemed it 
prudent to keep under the rose, whereof night- 
poaching with nets and dog-stealing were said not 
to be the most culpable. Young Martin was, how- 
ever, tolerably popular amongst the tribe of hostlers 
and stable boys. He was always ready to toss a 
helper for a pint of ale, and passed much of his 
time in smoking in inn-yards and stables. He 
kept a horse of his own, too — ^a blood mare ; was a 
fearless rider ; and, after he had steadied his arm 
with a couple of small glasses of brown brandy, a 
dead shot. Add to these accom^\i^\v\syeis^^^^^S^Sii^ 



A HOUAKCE OF 




in the breeding and crossing of teniera and b 
dogs, a competent knowledge of the odds, and so 
talent for making up a betting-book, and you h 
B notion of the character of Young Mardn, thel 
of the Grange. 

His accomplishments, however, were very mi 
iept under bj the rigid rule oi \aa Mqbi'* hoi: 



A MINOE-PtE. 61 

hold. The squire, if not an actual miser, was a 
hard, griping, eccentric old man. He allowed his 
son to keep a horse on the condition that he should 
he his dwn groom. This, Young Martin, who, as we 
know, had tastes smacking rather of the stahle than 
the drawing-room, readily consented to, and days 
frequently passed over without the father and son 
meeting — the former passing nearly all his time in 
company with Crooks, his old servitor, with whom 
he also took his meals ; the son alloying the de* 
lightful society of his own set in Forty-winks, or in 
any of the heer houses in the neighbourhood. 

As may be imagined, old Martin was reputed 
to be enormously wealthy. His rents were regu- 
larly paid, and as regularly deposited in the county 
bank, a branch of which had premises, an agent, 
and a couple of clerks in the High Street of Forty- 
winks. The son, of course, looked eagerly for the 
moment when Death, stalking into the gloomy old 
Grange, would strike the old man down, and leave 
him undisputed heir of the house, the estate, and 
the accumulated treasures \iea"5^ w^ Vj ^^3^ ^^^^k^^ 



62 A ROMANCE OF 

possessor. He had already formed his plans for 
action after the happy event> and made no scrapie 
of talking them over with the dog-fancier and other 
gentlemen of kindred tastes and sentiments ; the 
conversation, which was usually held over flowing 
mugs of alO) being generally terminated by a toast, 
expressive of the earnest hope and prayer of the 
company that the old Squire might make as speedy 
as possible an exit from this world of sin and 
suffering. 

Such, then, was the younger Mr. Martin, such 
were his tastes, and such his position in his family 
circle. He had been listening with vulgar curiosity 
to the details of alleged crimes, brought by open- 
mouthed relators, eaxjh one improving uponhis neigh- 
hour's version, into the excited parlour of the 
Lamb. He had been drinking ale, when suddenly 
he started slightly, his hands involuntarily 
clenched, his mouth opened, a glare of baleful 
light passed through his bleared, fishy eyes, and 
he remained sunk in thought. The company 
talked noiailjr, but he did tio\» \i^^^ ^«ai^ -wad 



A MI^CE-FIE. 63 

was in bis turn unnoticed. All at once he pushed 
aside the half-finished mug of ale, and called 
for brandy. 

" Warm with, sir?" asked the waiter. 
" Neat,** said Martin ; " a quartern." 
The liquor was brought, and he drank it slowly, 
glass after glass. It was then that, after a short 
pause, he left the room, and took his way to the 
Grange. Martin had been drinking freely before 
he called for the brandy ; but the strong spirit did 
not appear to have produced any additional effect 
upon his seasoned composition. 

" It makes me bold, though," he murmured to 
himself; " bold and steady — bold and steady." 

It had been dark for about an hour, and the 
streets of Forty- winks were almost deserted. The 
shops, too, appeared to be left to themselves ; for 
owners and customers were alike discussing the 
events of the day by their fire-sides. Chirrup s 
shop was dark and closed — a precaution taken by 
Mrs. Groats in consequence of a strong demonstra- 
tion of a popular intention oi \>x^«i!iKai^'viwi"w»^ss^%* 



64 A ROMANCE OF 

Martin, therefore, reached the gate of the grounds 
hefore the Grange without having encountered a 
mortal. He took a key from his pocket, opened a 
little wicket by the side of the carriage entry, and 
walked hastily towards the house. Then, and not 
until then, as though he had been afraid even to 
think to himself in the public streets, did the con- 
fused and black imaginings of his mind take a 
settled form and purpose. 

" I *11 do it," he muttered. " If I wait a dozen 
of years my father may not die, and I can never 
expect the ghost of a chance like this again. No* 
body can know, nobody can accuse. Chirrup has 
poisoned half thje town ; why should he not have 
poisoned the old man also ? But, besides, it won't 
be me after all. I know they got some thin^ from 
his shop to-day. I did not recommend them ; 1 
did not bring them ; I did not make them eat 'em^ 
They *11 do it of their own free will, and I won't 
interfere, that 's all. If a man falls into a riveri 
and 1 don't pull him out, it 's not murder. No 
mor0 is this. By Jove, I'm *m XxM^isil^'^tBjV lad 



A MINCE-FIE. 6ft 

le a fool if I did not avail myself of it. There 's 

cs, to be sure. His death will do me no good ; 

3 save him, would be to spoil all. No, no. 

bey are so fond of each other, let them go 

her:' 

lius reasoning — thus attempting to shift from 

i)lf die moral as well as the legal guilt of the 

; which he had made up his mind to commit, 

g Martin reached the Hall door, and by means 

; latch-key immediately entered, drawing bolt 

Bstening chain behind him, as if possessed by 

stinctive fear of the deed being interrupted. 

Id Martin dined late, and avaricious and saving 

was, liked to dine comfortably. Consequently, 

andiworks of Chirrup were no strangers to his 

Indeed, that very morning poor Pattie had 

yed a certain tart to the Grange, which had 

received at the outer gate by Crooks, and had 

3en unnoticed by the son and heir as he went 

upon his usual pursuits. 

'ith the step of a thief and a murderer, Young 

Q ascended the ample «tjake»&^ na\3[ns^\^^ \s^ 

11 



// 



t>(* A ROMANCE OF 

the dining-room. He felt that he was pale, ai 
that his hair was bristling upwards ; but the spir. 
which he had dnmk in part sustained him ; ai 
though a cold sweat started out upon his brow, '. 
experienced little trepidation and no remorse. I 
knew that he should feel both the next day ; but i 
argued that that should not stop his present resol 
— a resolve which, once reduced to action, wou 
open to him in a moment the career for which ] 
had so long been sighing. 

Half-way up the stairs he threw off his boot 
and then groped his way silently onwards. T] 
door of the apartment which his father and the o 
servant generally used as an eating and sittii 
room was ajar, and he heard their voices in carele 
conversation, mingled with the usual dinner clatt 
of knives and forks. A moment more, and he w 
kneeling on the landing-place, peeping through t] 
chink between the lintel and the half-opened doc 
His breath came thick and iast, and he had 
steady himself by placing one hand upon the floe 
as he gazed upon his intended \\ct.\TQ&, 




They aatin a large, loftv, wainscotted old room, 
ita scanty, antique, and uncomfortable looking fur- 
niture dimly discernible by the fitful blinks of a 
small fire, and the Bmuky light of a single candle, 
which watered and eddied in the draughts. A 
small round table was drawn up close to the grate. 
The master sat in a well-worn arm-chtur. tlie serv- 
ing man upon a stool, which evidently appertained 
to a battered old spinet nhich stood in a comer. 
The difference in point of seat was not the only 
one which served to roark the relative positions of 
the patron and dependant, BafotaOtW^Aast&si -»■>.». 



68 A ROMANCE OP 

placed a silver goblet of ale ; before Crooks stood 
a pewter mug, foaming with the same nut-brown 
draught. 

But it was rather what they ate, than what they 
drank, that interested Young Martin. In fact, the 
substantials of the dinner appeared to have been 
just remoYed by Crooks, who set upon the table a 
dish which he had fetched from the sideboard. The 
heir recognised the tart which Pattie had brought 
to the Grange ; and as he glared upon it he grasped 
the region of the heart, as though to prevent its 
beatings from revealing the awful secret. 

Meanwhile the old man divided the &ital 
pastry. 

" Chirrup is a great man for paste," he ob- 
served, as he loaded his plate with a liberal portion, 
and passed the dish to his favoured servant. 

" It is very good, sir, very good," said Crooks; 
" too good for me. I only wish my young mastej 
was here to share it." 

"Your young master!" repeated the squir 
and there was a concentrated \)iU;eniQi^ m VaatAT 



A MINCE-PIE. 69 

" A profligate, Crooks ; a low-minded, low-living, 
low-loving vagabond. He will never be your 
master!*' 

Young Martin's hands clenched, and his teeth 
closed. 

" Do you think," resumed his father, " that he 
shall have the Grange lands, Crooks, to feast and 
to flEitten on with poachers and dog-fanciers ? No. 
Thank God ! my father broke the entail, and his 
grandson shall feel the sweets of the process. My 
mind is made up. The Grange shall go to the 
County Hospital Better to aid the stricken poor, 
than to feed the heartless profligate." 

" But, sir — but, my master — " Crooks ventured 
to intercede 

" Be silent," said the Squire. " He has carved 
out his own fate." 

There was a moment's pause. 

•* Eat, man, eat !" said Old Martin, imperiously ; 
and with clenched teeth and glaring eyes his son 
beheld master and man partake of the first morsel 
of the fatal pastry. For an instant a ^oodimj^iiLsfa 



70 A ROMANCE OF '' 

flashed upon his soul. His tongue stirred to utter 
a warning cry, and his muscles moved as though 
they would involuntarily bear him on to interrupt 
the deadly repast. It was but for a moment. He 
repulsed the good angel as though it had been an 
evil spirit. The words of the old man ringing in 
his ears drowned the soul-heard whisper, which 
thrilled for a moment through his being. ** Dis- 
inherit me !" he murmured. " Aha ! is it come to 
that? Then, eat, eat, eat!" Then a horrid sort 
of fascination seemed to seize him. He was not 
conscious of breathing, he was rooted as by a waking 
nightmare to the spot ; and with his eyes glued to 
the small aperture through which he gazed, he 
watched the consumption of the fatal viand. Both 
master and man, old as they were, eat heartily ; and 
it was not imtil a tolerably large portion of the 
pastry had disappeared that Young Martin felt the 
awful guilt of the murderer settle upon his soul. 
It came on, so to speak, slowly. It was not as 
though a blow had been struck — one final and fatal 
/ 7..,./ ;,^^,, infficted. The damnm^ cotisiciQua- 



A MINCE-PIS. 71 

ness of his sin rose up gradually in his mind ; a 
cold hand appeared slowly but surely to gather 
round his heart; he became faint and sick; his 
sight failed him; and it was by a tremendous 
effort that he rose from his stooping posture and 
staggered down the stairs. 

In the hall he stopped to listen. He heard the 
old man cough, and the echoes of the long stQl 
house, multiplied and repeated the sound. 

"The death rattle," he muttered; and with a 
trembling hand he undid the fastenings of the door, 
and fled out into the open night. Once clear of 
the outer gate, he walked quickly towards the High 
Street, As he went he passed a feeble wavering 
lamp which showed him his shadow blackening the 
uneven way. He stopped and looked at it. "1 
am a parricide," he muttered, " but my shadow is 
unchanged ; why then should my face be altered ?" 
and then he proceeded rapidly along. Before 
clearing the dark lEine in which the Grange was 
situated, a long low howl struck his ear. He 
involuntarily paused and a\iooW mXJa. i'e«x> ^^ ^<5ssjl 



72 A ROMANCE OP 

and wailing was the sound. '* It *s only that 
damned dog of Snitcb*s/* he murmured, and quickly 
passed on. 

The Lamb was the first place he entered. He 
thought it as well to prevent the slightest breath 
of suspicion, and therefore walked into the public 
room, which he had quitted not much more than an 
hour before. 

**Ah, Martin, back again; well, any more 
news ?" said Mr. Groats, the baker. 

The man addressed made a mighty effort, and 
answered calmly — 

" I did n't hear any : I have not been home ; 
only up at Bob Hurry's." This was his dog-fancy- 
ing friend. 

** Well, as I was saying," resumed a voice from 
near the fire-place, which Young Martin knew to 
belong to the fussy doctor's assistant; "Well, 
fiom what we hear, prussic acid is the drug which 
has been used by that unhappy man, Chirrup 
Now, the effects of prussic acid are well known 
It is a quick as well as a deadV^ w^oiv. v and tb 



A MINCE-PIE. 73 

first sign of its taking effect is sometimes an invo- 
luntary scream ; sometimes a hollow cough-like 
noise appearing to proceed from the involuntary 
but simultaneous action of the lungs and the 
muscles of the thorax." 

" I have heard it," were the words, or 
at all events the thought, which rose up in 
Martin's mind, and without saying a syllable 
he slunk out, and proceeded to another tavern 
in which he was well known, and where he 
would be little likely to hear a dissertation 
upon the properties of either briscine, prussic 
acid, or aqua tofana. 

A group of his stable friends were seated at the 
board, and they welcomed him with noisy acclama- 
tions. The wretched man called for spirits, drank 
deeply, talked loudly, laughed boisterously, and 
was all the while guessing in his inmost soul in 
what parts of the room the bodies of his father and 
old Crooks were lying. 

The more he drank to drive the fancy away, 
the more it settled upon him, \wi\A!L^W^^g5cs.\Na 




found himself coiijuritig up the semblance of tbe 
bodies in tbe room in which he sat. 

" Could I but speak of them," he inwardly 
soliloquised ; " could I but keep talking ; could I 
but j>relend to cry over them, all would bo well ; 
but 'tial — Kjjself must^vefliealaim." 



A MINCE-PIE. ^75 

He called for spirits ; drank glass after glass 
to screw his courage to the sticking point ; and then, 
managing to take leave of the rabble by whom he 
was surrounded, walkfed, in a half-resolute, half- 
stupified state of mind, to the Grange. 

He paused before the gate to summon up his scat- 
tered faculties, but he was too much agitated effectu- 
ally to use the key of the wicket which he possessed ; 
although, after mechanically ringing the bell, he 
continued to attempt to open the gate himseK. 

The click produced by the sudden unshooting 
of the hasp from within, made him start back- 
wards, and at the same moment the door opened 
the sudden flash of a lamp flickered through the 
gloom, and Young Martin saw two dark shadowy 
forms and two pale faces — the faces of his father 
and his father's servitor, whom he believed that he 
had left in the agonies of death. 

With an inarticulate yell he staggered back and 
fell upon the road. 

"He is drunk," said Old Martin, "Let him 



re 



I ROUANCE OF A UIHCE-PIE. 



The door was closed, the bolt was shot, the 
light vanished, and the drear wind of December 
howled amongst the leafless trees and over the 
insenaible body of the murderer in mind, who lay 
motionless upon the stones. 



iSs-'^^^ 



m! 





CHAPTER V. 



"jirEANTlME night crept slowly on, and the two 
-"-^ good-hearted gossips, Mrs. Groats and Mra. 
Tanks, Btill sat by the bed-side of poor Pattie. 
The girl had been, in their own phrase, "out of 
one fit into another" for hours, but these ner- 
vous struggles had gradually subsided, and the 
pastiy-cook'a niece had at length sunk into a sort 
of stupor, half doze, haU faint. 



78 A ROMANCE CMf 

The women talked in whispers, looking fear 
fully around the room, which was lighted onl^ 
by one flickering candle. The heart-broken gir 
lay almost motionless and partially undresse( 
upon the bed ; her face damp and pallid ; he: 
lips sometimes moving, as though she mutterec 
to herself; her eyes partly open, but glazec 
and dull; and her little foot, agitated probably 
by some nervous twitching of the muscles, beat 
ing a sort of mechanical tattoo on one of th( 
bed-posts. 

From time to time the attendant women would 
look earnestly at her, and ask her how she felt, and 
try to raise her head to a more easy position upon 
the pUlow. Once a faint smile of thanks seemed 
to pass across her face, and opening her eyes she 
fixed them gratefully upon her kind nurses. Then 
in a moment a shuddering consciousness of what 
had happened appeared to flash across her. She 
quickly hid her face with her hands, and her whole 
frame became agitated by a renewal of the hysteric 



A MINCE-PIE. tif 

At length, as I have said, they abated, and the 
girl lay in a sort of life-in- death state. 

" They *11 hang him," whispered Mrs. Groats 
to her colleague in the watch; '* they *11 hang him, 
depend upon it." 

" It seems a dream," responded the lady ad- 
dressed. ** Such a peticklar kind man too he 
always looked. It was no later nor Tuesday that 
he patted our Johnny upon the head, gave him a 
lollipop, and told him to be a good boy." 

'* Then you may be a thankful woman," said 
Mrs. Groats solemnly; "you may be a thankful 
woman, Mrs. Tanks, that Johnny is not lying 
screwed down this very minute." 

"Lor* a' mercy," said the grocer's wife, instinc- 
tively rising as if to hurry home in case Johnny 
should have been taken with some desperate symp- 
tom since she had left him at tea time, and then 
resuming her seat as she recalled to mind his 
flourishing condition all day ; " Lor* a* mercy, 
Mrs. Groats, how you do frighten a body to 
be sure.*' 



80 A ROMANCE OF 

The baker's vrife was as good-natured a person 
as need be. She was utterly shocked at Chirrup's 
supposed crime, and sincerely felt for his unpro- 
tected niece ; but, like many other folks, she took a 
morbid pleasure in prating about other people's 
misfortunes, and making all manner of dismal 
gratuitous suppositions about them. 

" He 11 be hanged," she repeated, " next 
'sizes." 

"If it was anything but murder," whispered 
Mrs. Tanks. " Really I can hardly bring myself 
to believe it yet. Now, if it was Snitch, for in- 
tance, I should not have wondered." 

" I don't know," said Mrs. Groats, solemnly; 
" it 's your quiet sleek men that are sometimes the 
most dangerous. There *s no trusting any of 
them." 

*' But that poor child there," whispered Mrs. 

Tanks, looking at Pattie ; " God help her, what 

is to become of her — without a penny, and almost 

without a friend. Who will marry a girl whose 

uncle has been iianged?" 



A lONCB-PIE. 81 

" She must leave the country," said Mrs. 
Groats decidedly. 

" She need not leave it, so long as she wishes 
to stay, and so long as we have a roof over our 
heads,'* said the kind-hearted partner of the 
grocer of Forty-winks. 

" I don*t know,*' whispered Mrs. Groats. 
•' We all know what a spirit Pattie had. I don't 
think she *d take assistance from any one here ; 
and if she would, it is my opinion that she will not 
need it long. Did you ever see sudi a change in 
any mortal, as a few hours have made in her ?" 

The woman was right. The rosy-cheeked, 
happy-looking damsel of the morning, lay upon 
her little bed, as pale, as broken, and seemingly 
as helpless, as if a long and withering sickness 
had kept her there for weeks. 

The two women gazed in silence on the white 
face, and the twitching limbs. No sound, except 
the low sobs with which the invalid drew her 
breath, was stirring in the chamber. Without, 
the night-wind came sighing in fitful Tna«5ia> 



I 



82 A ROMANCE OF 

every now and then rustling, with a low rattle, 
the leafless branches of the trees. 

All at once, a loud unearthly howl broke the 
monotony of these dreary soimds. 

" What *s that?" said both the attendants, in a 
breath. 

*' It came from behind the house/' whispered 
Mrs. Groats. '* God be about us ! it was a fear^ 
some yell.** 

"Nonsense!" said her companion, obviously 
reassured by an idea which struck her ; " it is just 
that nasty brute of a dog, that Snitch keeps — ^ 
I do declare — I think on purpose to annoy the 
neighbourhood." 

And so Mrs. Groats and Mrs. Tanks drew 
aside the window-blind, and looked out. The 
back door, leading from Snitch's kitchen to the 
garden, was open, and a red gleam of light fell 
through it upon the trampled muddy ground, 
showing Angel's kennel, and Angel' himself, se- 
curely chained to his wooden dwelling ; but leap- 
jng, straining, and struggling in his bonds, as if 



A MINCE-PIE. 83 

to get at something tantalisinglj placed just 
beyond the scope of his chain. In another moment 
the women could distinguish in the gloom the 
figure of Snitch himself, evidently tempting the 
dog with some dainty, which he allowed him to 
sniff, but not to bite. What the cate was, the 
observers could not well make out ; but it appeared 
to be something round, or oval — very much the 
shape, in fact, of a mince-pie. At length, Snitch, 
with a dry, rattling laugh, placed the morsel on 
the ground, just beyond the dog's reach, and then 
retreated in-doors. 

" Now, did you ever see the likes of that ?" 
demanded Mrs. Groats. " The brute is bad 
enough, but the man is worse." 

" I suppose," replied her companion, " that 
he *s tempting the animal, just to make it howl ; 
it has been uncommonly quiet till now." 

Whether such had or had not been Mr. 
Snitch's intention, it is impossible now to say ; 
but at all events, the effect of his proceedings was, 
to cause Angel, in his wrath, t/ti ^^'^wa Ni^^ \issss^- 



84 A ROUAKCE OP 

bourhood viith a voluble eeries of howls, Bcreamed 
in his very loudest and veiy highest key. 

" Ugh ! the brute," said Mrs. Groate, return- 
ing to the fire-side ; "if Chirrup had only poisoned 

him instead of a human Eh ! — eh ! — eh 1 — 

what's that r 

The latter exclamation was occasioned by a 




A MINCE-PIE. 85 

movement of Pattie*s. As if struck by an electric 
shock, the girl started up in her bed, and then 
bounded on the floor. The two women fairly fled 
to different corners of the room, so sudden and 
unexpected was the manoeuvre, leaving Pattie, her 
long hair waving round her pale face, in the centre 
of the apartment. 

** Who is dead ? who is it that my uncle has 
poisoned ?" she screamed rather than said. 

Now, it is possible that many of my readers 
may ask how it happened that this question was 
not put before. I reply to their demand, in Scotch 
fashion, by putting another. Do they know 
the nature of a panic ? How often do we hear of 
a blind, instinctive, impulsive, epidemic terror, 
taking sudden hold of a squadron of warriors, and 
setting them all to the right about, at double 
quick time, perhaps without a man of them hav- 
ing any definite notion of where he is running to, 
or what he is running from. The impulse of imi- 
tation is strong in men — as in sheep. Let one 
passenger stare up at t\ie ^imaxxieviV\sL ^ot^^«s^^^> 



86 A ROMAliClS OF 

and half the street will join him, ^rithout a single 
lady or gentleman of them all being the least 
aware what the interesting object may be at which 
he or she is gazing. 

Forty-winks was seized by some such panic — 
some such imitatiye impulse. Chirrup believed 
himself a poisoner. He confessed it. Others 
believed it too. Why should they not ? The vaguest 
and wildest rumours flew about. Now, one mair 
was said to be the victim — now, another ; now, two 
men — now, four. It was nobody's business to trace 
out the truth. The judicial examination would 
take place next day. Every one knew that the 
actual facts would then be ascertained, and every 
one was fain to wait until they were. 

Every one, except Pattie. Mrs. Groats and 
Mrs. Tanks gazed at her in bewilderment, and 
replied not. She repeated the question — 

" Who is dead ? who is it that my uncle has 
poisoned ?" 

At length, Mrs. Groats collected her scattered 
wits to reply. 



A MINOS-PIE. i67 

'* She 's mmdering,*' thought that good lady ; 
and then said in a coaxing voice, 

<' Gome dear, come — ^you will go to bed again 
— ^won't you ? — there *s a love." 

" Who is dead ? tell me — tell me. His name 
— his name," shrieked Pattie. 

** No — ^now — my poor dear,** whimpered Mrs. 
Tanks, making a step in advance, with outstretched 
arms ; " no — no — come, you must not think of it 
— tiy to get some rest — do try." 

** Who is dead ?" screamed the girl ; " I will 
know — who ?** 

The matrons looked at each other, and Pattie 
looked at them. There was a moment's silence 
within the chamber, broken but by AngeVs howl- 
ing without. Then Pattie began deliberately, but 
with slightly trembling fingers, to dress herself. 

" What — what are you doing?" ejaculated the 
baker's wife. 

" Where — where are you going ?" stammered 
the grocer's wife. 

" To the mayor's," adaLlcJ«5ea<^«^^«^- 



88 A BOMANGE OF 

'*To the mayor's?" screamed the women to 
gether. 

Pattie tied her bomiet on her head — the 
matrons made as though they would oppose her 
exit. 

" Do not stop me, if you please," said the girl 
They were simple words these, hut hoth Mrs. 
Tanks and Mrs. Groats declared long afterwards 
that they would never forget them. Perhaps it 
was the way in which they were S£iid that made 
them memorable. At all events, the gossips 
shrunk silently aside, and Pattie passed between 
them. '* You may come after me if you like," she 
said, and then issued into the street, and without 
another word her friends followed her. 

Mrs. Groats, however, lingered for a moment ; 
as she passed through the shop her eye fell upon one 
of these long wooden spade-like utensils which are 
used by bakers and pastry-cooks for depositing in 
and withdrawing bread, pies, and so forth from their 
ovens. A malicious idea sparkled in her eye. She 
tooA It up, went straight to the \)aG\5L -j^x^ \ieii\. 



A IflNCE-PIE. 89 

over the paling which separated Chirrup's ground 
from Snitch's, and pushed the substance which 
Angel was howling to get at within his reach. 
The dog fastened on it with a growl, and began to 
devour it greedily. 

" Drat that Snitch," said Mrs. Groats, " and 
his dog too; I wish it was poisoned with all my 
heart." And then she rejpiued her friend with all 
convenient speed. 



CHAPTEE VI. 




R. John Fuzz. 
the mayor of 



g lived hwd 
by in a big 
bouse in tt>e 
HighStieet 
^ He was just 
sitting down 
with his 
', lady mayor- 

I bis friendi 
Alderman 
Bumptioai 

„^.»»«.»en« for*, officii »»»»»- 



acu£Bii^ of feet was beard upon the stairs, mingled 
with shrill objurgations from female voices — then 
the door was flung nolentl; open, and Pattie stood 
before them. The party shrank back aghast. 

" Mr. Fuzz," said Pattie, " mj uncle is in 
prison for murder — whom has be mui'dered?" 

Tbemenin office looked at eacholher and made 
no reply. At lengtb the mayor s^wke : " M j girl," 




92 A ROMANCE OF 

said he, *^ you must be aware that this is not the time 
for judicial business. To-morrow at ten o*c " 

** Whom, whom has he murdered ?" was the 
firm reply. 

** I repeat,** said the mayor, ** that to-mor- 



row ** 



** To-morrow will not do. This night — 
this hour — this minute — I must know. I am my 

uncle's only friend — he is mine. You are the 
mayor of this town — ^you have him in custody; 
deny me — put me off — at your peril ; here I stand 
—here I will stand — imtil I know whose life my 
uncle has taken.** 

** Why— child — child," interposed Mrs. Fuzz. 

" I wajs a child this morning, I am a woman 
now,** said Pattie. "Whom has my uncle murdered?** 

The party looked at each other. ** Commit 
her,** said Bumptious, who was a man of few words 
— at all events few good ones. 

** I really know not what to say,** stammered 
Crumble. Poor gentleman, it was a common case 
nith him. 



A MINCE-PIE. 03 

" If you can't tell what crime has been com- 
mitted," said Pattie, '* how do you know that a 
crime has been committed at all ? Tell me who 
has been poisoned, or let my uncle go." 

" Really," said the mayor, " this is very embar- 
rassing.*' And the scene was getting more embar- 
rassing still, for the news of Pattie's proceeding, 
disseminated in tlie first instance by Mesdames 
Groats and Tanks, had gone like wildfire through 
Forty- winks, and very speedily drew a goodly crowd of 
the inhabitants towards the mayoral mansion. The 
foremost of these, finding the door hospitably open 
— for the girl who had answered Pattie's summons 
had engaged in single combat with her all the way 
up stairs, and then, being utterly routed and dis- 
comfited by the visitor's determination to see her 
master, had wisely lingered by the parlour door, 
to hear and see as much as possible — the first 
comers, I repeat, regarding the open door as a tacit 
invitation to enter, had availed themselves of it, 
and before Mr. Mayor had determined how ta 
act, the room was fairly iTONeAfe^Vj ^\sxssssis»'^^s^^2^- 



94 A ROMANCE OF 

winkians, a vast reserve of whom throngod the 
staircase. 

" Really," repeated Mr. Fuzz, ** this is embar- 
rassing to the last degree." 

"Who is it that has been poisoned?" re-de- 
manded Pattie. 

And the crowd took up the question, and echoed 
"Who, aye, who?" 

Then there was a pause. 

" It only flashed on me," said Pattie, " a little 
ago, that no one had told me who the victim was. 
I asked — ^nobody could tell me then ; I ask again 
— nobody can tell me now. May it not be a mis- 
take from beginning to end ?" 

" A mistake ! pooh, pooh, impossible ; did not 
the man himself confess it ?" said Bumptious. 

" Confess what ?" echoed Pattie. 

" Poisoning," said the mayor. 

" Who ?" re-demanded the girl. 

There was another pause. It was broken by a 
voice in the crowd. 
"If nobody Anows who iti8aa\ia&\iftetv^>aeaed, 



A MINCE-PIE. 96 

•why don't you go and ask Chirrup hisself who he 
has pisened ?** 

This sensible suggestion was acted upon ; and 
in a moment the whole party were on their march 
towards the Town Hall, lamps and torches having 
been forthcoming with a rapidity truly marvellous. 
Certainly the proceeding was somewhat irregular ; 
but then, as great events call forth great men, so 
do unprecedented events give birth to others as 
unprecedented as themselves. 

On their way to the Town Hall, the procession 
swelled fast in numbers. Pattie particularly ob- 
served two men who joined it — the one was Snitch, 
who had been probably called forth by the un- 
wonted uproar in the street ; the other was Young 
Martin. Snitch preserved his usual look of grim 
taciturnity ; Young Martin was ghastly pale, stag- 
gered in his gait, and seemed bent upon working 
himself into the centre of the crowd. 

In a few minutes they were in the Town Hall. 
It was a damp, cold-looking, paltry room, with a 
long table and benches langedL ^q^tcl ^^ ^^\>^xfe• 



96 A ROMANCE OF 

At the upper end was a small dais, whereon wai 
placed a desk, and three Windsor arm-chairs, ia 
which the mayor and the aldermen without mon 
ado ensconced themselves. The mayoress, whc 
was a kind little body, encircled Pattie's waist witl 
her arm, as she stood beside her husband. 

" Bring out the prisoner, Clinch," said the 
mayor, looking about him at the extraordinary court 
he was presiding over. And in truth the scene 
was a strange one. The crowd of anxious flacei 
which swarmed before him, fitfully shown by flaring 
torches, the light of which danced and flickered on 
the damp walls — ^the utter absence of anything 
like judicial formality, consequent upon the strange- 
ness of the proceedings — ^and the interest, the 
intense interest manifested in every gesture and in 
every face — all this made up a very unusual and 
very striking spectacle. 

" Silence ! silence !** A stir at the lower end 

of the hall : Clinch was bringing in his prisoner. 

A dozen torches were flashed, so as to fling theii 

light upon the criminal. Hia \\\Aft Tssvmd &oe 



,^Eis pale and ghflstlf , and Clinch And a enbordinate 
were abided to support him. He clasped hia 
hands once or twice, but 
his eyes never left the 
floor. Ohihowgreatwaa 
the revolatJonafewhouTB 
had wrought in the jolly, 
jovial Chirrup. 

" John Chirrup, listen 
" to me," said the mayor. 
The pastry-cook faintly 
^nodded. 

■' Certain circum- 
Btances in your c-ase have, at the instance of your 
niece, induced me ta accede to this singuloriy 
irregular proceeding." 

"Scandalous! scandalous 1" muttered Bump- 
tious. 

" I don't know what to think of it," said 
Gumble. 

"Now Ust^Q !" resumed Mr. Fuzz. "You 
have confessed to poisoning; whodid^ou.^uun^'t" 




1)8 A ROMANCE OF 

The head of a pin alone might have been heard 
to tinkle on the floor, in the silence which 
ensued. 

" Who did you poison ?" 
. Chirrup's voice was at length heard — "A boy." 

There was a general groan. Fattie stood like 
a marble statue. 

The mayor glanced at the aldermen. 

" I thought so," said Bumptious. 

" I don't know what to think," responded 
Gamble. 

" Who was he ?" asked the mayor. 

" I don't know," stammered the pastry-cook. 

*' By heavens !" shouted Fuzz, " this is the 
most wonderful case of poisoning I ever heard of. 
Nobody in the town seems killed, and the poisoner 
don't know his o^n victim." 

" He was a stranger," gasped Chirrup. 

" Ah !" said the mayor. 

A low murmur went through the crowd. 

''How did he get the poison ?" 
"/b a mince-pie" 



A MmCE-PIE. 99 

Another murmur, louder than the first. 

" Then, you confess it ?*' 

" I confess having been the means of putting 
a fellow-creature to death, but I deny having pur- 
posely poisoned him." 

A third murmur, but different in tone from 
the others. 

" You gave him the pie?" 

" No— he stole it." 

" Ha !" exclaimed Snitch ; ** what like was 
he— eh?" 

" A vagrant-looking boy," said Chirrup. 

" My dog ! my dog !" exclaimed Snitch. 

" I know it — I know it all," screamed a 
woman's voice in the crowd. " Let him off — he 's 
innocent — he *s innocent — I knew it — I said it — 
wait — wait." 

And a female suddenly tore her way out of 
the hall. 

" Who is that?" demanded the lord mayor. 

** I rather think, my lord," said Mr. Groats, 
'* that it *s my missus, mj \Qt^.y 



w 



100 A BOUAHCe OF 

" Most estraordinaiy busineea tltis," excl^med 
Bumptious. 

" I don't know nbat to tlunk," said Onmble. 
"We must proceed with th& examination" 
reaumed the iiia3n>r with dignity. 
" Certainly," said Bumptious. 
" I think as you think," said Gnml^le. 
" Well, Ghimip, attend," proceeded Mr. Fuzz, 
in a loud voioe ; "describe the 
victim of your villany." 
"He has four l^s, and 
> tail at ail to speak of," 




and it w 



^H /') V" I \ "Who is that— what is 

]^H C| ''' < that?" roared the mayor. 

Vk w*k^ V " ^^ ^'"''^' ^ ^^ it ^ 

^^S f^ f) ™y missus," said the be- 

wildered Mr. Groats. 
Tb6re tma & great stir at the lower end of the 
Asll, and many voices cried aloud. 




" Here he is— here 'a the boy," 

" Boy in your teeih !" shouted the honest Mrs. 
GroaU; "here's the only thing that has been 
killed to-day in Forty-winks," and she awung upon 
the table the body of the defimct " Angel," 

"My dog — my dog 1" groaned Snitch, &lling 
with his head upon the table ; " did I take the 
accursed pie ttom the blackguard who stole it, 
that you should be the tuAxmV 



I ROUAKCE OF 




Youdid youdid' screamed Chirrup. "Then, 

hurrah ! hurrah ' I mumocent Nobody's been 

killed! Hurrah!" 

" Hurrah," shouted the crowd, " hurrah !" 
Pattie raised her anna and eyes to heayen. 

" Uncle," she shrieked — " uncle !" 

The people instinctively opened a lane between 

them, and in a moment they were in each other's 

"Suirab !" shouted the oroyiA ogeim^ 



A MINOE-PIE. 103 

"Order, order," cried the mayor. "The ex- 
mination is not over yet." 

Chirrup looked up. 

" You put poison in a mince-pie ?" said Fuzz. 

" I did." 

" For whom did you intend it?" 

" For the beast that has got it." . 

" Then the vagrant boy stole it ; Snitch took it 
fom him ; and the dog got it after all." 

"That's it, that's it," screamed Mrs. Groats. 

Chirrup made the poisoned pie ; the boy stole it 

rom him ; Snitch robbed the boy, then tempted the 

ogwith it, and I shoved it within the brute's reach." 

" Set Chirrup free," said the mayor. " Snitch, 
ou have committed a robbery, but have prevented 
homicide. Go home. The dog ought to have 
een killed before. I congratulate the community 
a it's being dead now. Chirrup, shake hands, 
'ou may be proud of your niece. Gentlemen, we 
ill give three cheers for Chirrup and his niece." 

And they were given, and that lustily. 

" The court is over," mdAk^ xftss^^st. 



104 A ROMANCE OF A MINCE-PIE. 

That night there were happy hearts in Fortj- 
winks ; but there were three happier than all the 
rest. Two I need not mention — Pattie's and 
Chirrup's. 

The third was Young Martin's. 

The " poison night," as it was long called in 
the little town, changed his character, and purged 
his soul. 

In the silence of his chamber he knelt and 
prayed. 

** I was a murderer in thought and will ; Chir- 
rup but deemed he was an accidental poisoner. 
May I live an altered man to thank God for His 
great mercy." 

And he did live, an altered man, a good man, 
and a meek and humbled man. The old gentleman 
altered his will in his son's favour ; and the father 
was still alive when Martin, then the loved and 
honoured heir to the Grange, took Pattie to wife, 
and Chirrup danced merrily at the wedding. 



ViMeteUy BnMkW A Co. Piintei* imd Ea«t»,vw«, V»l\*fc«^wfc\. 



'.V- ,* 







