Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



r 




A TREATISE 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN 



BT 



WILLIAM HENRY ROBERTSON, M.D., 

PHTSICIAN TO THE BUXTON BATH CHA&ITT. 



KE-WBITTEN AND MUCH ENLARGED^-xT> \ 



■'■■■:y 



n 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 

VOLUME II. 



LONDON: 
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO. 

MDCCCXLTIII. 



XiOHDOV: 
BBAOBURT ANB ITAITS, TBIirTXBS, WamVBIARB 



CONTENTS OP VOL II. 



CHAPTER III. 



\?' 



<) 



ON MUSCULAR EXERCISE. 

PAOC 

Muscular Action ...... 1 

Alimentary and Organic Expenditure caused by Muscular 
Action . ...... .2 

Mechanical Effect of Muscular Action . . . 5 

Effect of Muscular Exercise on Nutrition . . .7 

Effect of Muscular Exercise on Respiration . . . 10 

Effect of Muscular Exercise on Sensation . .11 

All the Muscles should be used . . 12 

Comparison of the different kinds of Exercise . .13 

Exercise of the Arms 
Hand-Swing ..... 

Dumb-Bells ..... 

Hindostanee Gubs .... 

Skipping Rope .... 

Muscular Exercise neglected in an especial degree by Women 
Deductions as to Hereditary Predisposition to Physical and Con- 
stitutional Characters ; and the consequent Healthiness or 
otherwise, of the System ; as illustrating and enforcing the 
importance of Muscular Exercise . .18 

Peculiar Importance of Exercise during the years of growth . 23 
Dancing, as a means of Exercise . . . . 25 

Exercise in the Open Air * . . 2(> 

Walking . . . . . . . 27 

Walking versvs Carriage Exercise . . .29 

Riding • • • . . . 32 

SuMl^ng . , • . . . . .33 

Exercise of the Voice . . . . . . 34 

Strictures on the Use of Wind Instruments . . . ZB 



13 
U 
15 
16 
16 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



Adaptation of Muscular Exercise to Mental Character 

to Age 
to Sex . . . . 

to Habits 

to Strength • 

Effect of Mind on the Degree and Effects of Muscular Exercise 

Quotation from Dr. Combe, as to the Effect of Constitutional 

Strength, Habits of Life, &c., on the Degree of Muscular 

Exercise ....... 

Adaptation of Muscular Exercise to different Morbid Conditions 
of the System . . . . . . . 

Quotation from Sir Benjamin Brodie, as to the Adaptation of 
Muscular Exercise to Disease .... 

Effects of Systematic Training, in illustration of the Importance 
and Effects of Muscular Exercise . . . . 

Summary of the Observations on Muscular Exercise 



PAGB 

41 
43 

45 
46 
47 
48 



51 
52 
53 

e\ 

64 



CHAPTER IV. 

ON VENTILATION, CLIMATE, AND CHANGE OF AIR. 

Importance of Ventilation . . . . . 67 

Constituents of Atmospheric Air . . .67 

Respiration . . . . . . . . 69 

Animal Heat . . . . . .71 

Effects of Respirati(m on the Air . . . . . 72 

Effects of Respiration on the Blood . . . .74 

Sanatory and Morbific Effeets of Req)iration . . . 75 

Sanatory Effects of Drainage, Sewerage, &c. . . .76 

Street- Ventilation . . . . . . . 78 

Intramural Sepulture . . . . .79 

Ventilation of Dwelling-Houses . . . . 81 

Effect of Ventilation and Drainage on the Relative Mortality of 

Town and Country . . . . . .83 

Sanatory Improvement of Towns . . . . . 85 

Quotation from Mr. Farr, as to the Waste of Health and Life- 
Expectancy, from Neglect of Public Hygiene . . .86 
Degree of Ventilation required . . . . . 87 

Effect of Ventilation on Health . . . .89 

Reference to Parliamentary Inquiries . . 90 

Effect of Ventilation on Life-Expectancy .92 

Effect of Ventilation on Disease . . . 93 



CONTENTS. VU 

PAOB 

Quotation from Dr. Reid, as to the Degree of Ventilation 

required . * .94 

Ventilation of Public Buildings . . . . 95 

Some Effects of Deficient Ventilation . . . .97 

Facts and Arguments about Ventilation . . 98 

Farther Quotation from Dr. Reid . . .102 

Combustion a Cause of Atmospheric Deterioration . . .103 

Effects of Heated Rooms ..... 105 

Strictures on the Use of Gas as a means of Ulnmination in 

Apartments . . . . 107 

Situation of the Bed-room that should be preferred * . .108 

Strictures on fieating Beds by means of Warming-pans, &c. . 108 
Adjustment of the Temperature of Apartments . .109 

Mutual Connection between Ventilation and Temperature .110 
The more prominent conditions which inflnenoe and modify 

different Climates . . . . ..Ill 

Effect of Climate on the Duration of Human life .112 

Effect of relative Elevation above the Level of the Sea on Climate 114 
Effect of the Ocean on Climate . . . . 117 

Effect of Geological Formation on Climate . .124 

Effect of Valleys on Climate . . . . 1 25 

Effect of the Prevailing Winds on Climate . . .126 

Effect of Seasons on Climate . . . . . 127 

Effect of Vegetation on Climate . . . .131 

Effect of Drainage on Climate . . . . . 132 

Sanatory Effect of the Character and Amount of Supplies of 

Water ........ 133 

Elffect of Insect Life on Human Health . . . 137 

Summary of the Physical Conditions affecting Climate . . 1 38 

Sanatory Reports on Climate . . . . 140 

Therapeutic Effects of Climate . . .141 

Climates of the Coast of England . . . . . 141 

Inland Climates of England . , . . . I44 

Climates of the more important Places in the South of France 145 
Climates of Italy : Pisa, Rome, and Naples . . . . 146 

Climates of the Islands in the Mediterranean . 147 

Climate of Eg5T>t . . . . . . . 152 

Climates of the Americas, &c. . . . .154 

Climate of Madeira . . . . . . 1 55 

Change of Air : its Hygienic and Therapeutic Effects . .157 

Circumstances determining the Degree and the Character of 

Change of Air to be prescribed . . . . 158 



VUl CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Sanatory Effects of TrayeUing . , . .162 

Quotation from Dr. James Johnson . . . 162 



CHAPTER V. 

ON THE HYGIENIC EFFECTS OF CLOTHING, 

Functions of the Skin : Cutaneous and Pulmonary Exhalations 168 
Experiments of M. Seguin . .168 

Experiments of Dr. Southwood Smith . . . . 170 

Effects of the Cutaneous and Pulmonary Exhalations . .171 

Sympathetic Relation between the Function of the >Skin, and 

those of the Internal Organs and Membranes . .172 

Relative Powers as Conductors of Heat, of the different Materials 

used for the Manufacture of Articles of Clothing . .174 

Electrical Phenomena of the Human Body . . . . 176 

Relative Value of Silk, Flannel, Leather, Calico, Linen, as the 

Material for the Under-Garment . .180 

Dr. James Johnson on the Hygienic Effects of Certain Inter- 
tropical Costumes . . . . . 184 

Use of Fur, Fleecy Hosiery, &c. . . .188 

Clothing of the Feet : Strictures on the Use of Thin-soled Shoes 189 
Strictures on some inconsiderate Customs as to Female Dress . 191 
Deficient and Excessive Clothing . . . 192 

Strictures on the Use of Stays ..... 194 

Effects of Tight Lacing . . . 196 

Suggestions about Stays . . .197 

Influence of Bed and Bed-Clothes, as to Health and Disease . 198 
Radiation of Heat ...... 201 

Colour of the Clothes : its Effect on the Degree of Protection 

afforded to the Temperature of the System . . . 203 

Effect of Radiation, as evidenced in the rate of Cooling of Liquids 
contained in vessels of different kinds . . . 204 

CHAPTER VI. 

ON BATHING, ABLUTION, ETC. 

Means of Adaptation of the Human Body to Different Degrees 
of External Temperature . . . . 206 

Experiments of Sir Charles Blagden, Dr. Delaroche, &c., on the 
Endurance by the Human System of Extreme Degrees of 
Elevated Temperature ..... 207 



CONTENTS. 



IX 



PAO< 

Therapentic Importance of the Skm . . . 210 

Effect of External Temperature on the Skin . . .213 

Effect of Immersion of the Human Body in Cold Water . 214 

C(mditions of a due Degree of R^ Action, on Using the Cold- 
Bath . . . . . . . 216 

Case of Dr. Cnrrie ...... 217 

Use of the Cold-Bath in certain Disordered ConditionB of the 
System ........ 220 

Swimming, &c. ....... 221 

Warm-Bath . 222 

Use of Baths in Turkey . . . . .224 

Egypt . . . . 225 

India ... . . .227 

Russia . . . . 228 

Rules for Bathing ...... 229 

YapomvBath . . . . 230 

Saltr Water Bath , . . . . .231 

Sea-Bathing ... . . . . 231 

Hip-Bath . . . . . . .232 

Shower-Bath . . . . . . 233 

Affusion of Water, of any required Temperature, over the 
Body . . . . . . .233 

Douches ........ 234 

Sponging the Surface of the Body .... 235 

Friction of the Surface . . . . . 235 

The Baths and Appliances of the Hydropathists . 236 

loduretted Baths . . . . . . 237 

Nitro-Muriatic Acid Baths ..... 238 

Analogy between the Effect of Water of different Temperatures 
on the Skin and on the Stomach .... 239 

The Bathing and Ablution of Infiants and Children . . 242 



CHAPTER VII. 

ON MINERAL WATERS. 

Distinctive Character of Mineral Waters . . . 245 

Source of the Water of Mineral Springs . . . 246 

Origin of the Heat of Thermal Springs .... 247 
Diffufflon of the Mineral Waters . . . . . 248 

Deductions from Analyses of Mineral Waters . . . 249 

Saline Mineral Waters : Cheltenham, Leamington, Harrogate, 



X CONTENTS. 

PAOS 

Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Epsom, Scarborough^ Seidlitz, Seydchttts, 
PUllna, MArienbad, &c. . . . . . . 252 

Stdphureons Mineral Waters: Harrogate^ Aix-la-Chapelle^ 
Moffisbt,&c. . . . . . . .252 

Carbonated Mineral Waters : Seltzer, Pyrmont, Pougnes, Mont 
d' Or, Vichi, Carlsbad, Ilkeston, &c. . . . . 253 

Chalybeate Mineral Waters : Tunbridge, Cheltenham, Leaming- 
ton, Harrogate, Buxton, Spa, &c. .... 255 

Thermal Mineral Waters : Matlock, Buxton, Bath, Bristol, 
Bareges, Aix, Aix-la-Chapelle, Carlsbad, Wiesbaden, Baden, 
Baden Baden, Vichi, Ems, TopUtz, Schlangenbad, Lucca, &c. 257 
Peak of Derbyshire ....... 261 

. 262 

. . 263 

. 263 

. . 264 

. 264 

. . 264 

Sources of the English Mineral 

. 265 
. . 266 
. 267 
. . 268 
Harrogate Waters . . . . . . 268 

Stimulating Effects of Mineral Waters . . . . 270 

Inferential Suggestions, as to the Medicinal Treatment of Chronic 
Diseases ....... 271 

Artificial Mineral Waters . . . . . 273 



CHAPTER VIII. 

ON SLEEP. 

Theory of Sleep ....... 277 

Varying Need of Sleep . . . . . 279 

Perfect Sleep . . . .282 

Imperfect Sleep . . • . . 283 

Dreaming ....... 283 

Sleep-Walking 286 

Assumptions of Mesmerism ..... 286 

Respective Effect of Mental and Bodily Exercise on the Need 
of Sleep . * p . . . • 288 



Buxton Waters 
Matlock Waters 
Bakewell Waters 
Stony-Middleton Waters 
Bath Waters . 
Clifton Waters 
Greological Summary as to 

Springs 
Cheltenham Waters . 
Leamington Waters 
Tunbridge Waters* . 



CONTENTS, XI 



Effect of Habit, &c., on the Need of Sleep 
Effect of Constitational Strength on the Need of Sleep 
Effect of Health on the Need of Sleep 
Effect of Dietary on the Need of Sleep 
Usual Time required for Sleep . 
Effect of Exercise of the Mind, and of its Emotions, 
oieep •••••• 

Effect of Sensation on Sleep 

Effect of Digestion on Sleep .... 

Effect of the Circulation on Sleep 

Effect of Secretion on Sleep .... 

Some Remedies for Wakefulness 

Leves Somni Immerentibos hand facile Concessi . . . 303 



PAOI 

. 289 
. . 291 

. 291 
. . 291 

. 292 
on the 
. . 294 

/295 
. . 297 

. 301 
. . 302 

. 303 



CHAPTER IX. 

ON THE EFFECT OF OCCUPATIONS UPON HEALTH. 

Paramount Influences of Locality, Ventilation, Drainage, Tem- 
perance, &c., on the Healtli . . . • . 305 
Paramount Causes of the Differing Mortality of the several 
classes of the People ...... 307 

Effect of Factories, &c., on the Health of Artisans . . . 309 

Employment of Children : its Consequences . .310 

Effect of Confinement, Sedentary Occupation, and Constrained 
Position, on the Health . . . . . . 312 

E£f^ of Over-Exertion and Prolonged Labour . . .313 

Effect of Undue Use of the Voice . . . . 313 

Effect of Undue Use of the Eyes . . . .314 

Effect of Damp Places of Work, &c. . . « . 314 

Effect of Heated Places of Work . . . .314 

Effect of Inhalation of Dust, consequent on the Employ- 
ment . . . . . . . . 315 

Grinders' Asthma ...... 316 

Masons' Phthisis . . . . . . 319 

Effect of Exposure to Weather on Health . . . 320 

Effect of Night- Work on Health . . . . . 321 

Effect of the Sea-faring Life on Health . . . .321 

Effect of Lead, Mercury, &c., on the Health of Artisans . . 323 
Importance of the Manly Sports, Public Pleasure-Grounds, &c., 
to the Health and Well-being of the Sedentary and Operative 
Classes of the People ...... 325 



Xll 



COVTBNT8. 



CHAPTER X. 



ON MENTAL CULTURE. 

PAOB 

Early Edncation . . . . . 329 

Claesification and Relative Development of the Automatic, 
Motor, Sentient, and Mental Powers .... 332 

InmmteriaHty of Mind . . . . 333 

Undue Use of Mind . . . . . 334 

Mental Torpor of Infancy . . . 335 

Gradual Development of the Powers and Faculties . 336 

Early Culture of the Moral Faculties . . 338 

Early Self-Culture of the Intellect . . .339 

Moral and Intellectual Discipline . . 341 

Precocity .... ... 343 

Premature Use of Mind ...... 344 

Physiological and Hygienic Effects of Mental Culture . 346 

Relative Effect of the Deficient, the Just, or the Excessive Use 
of the Propensities, Sentiments, and Intellectual Faculties, 
severally ....... 347 

Historical Illustrations . . . 351 

Conclusion .... ... 352 



ERRATA. 
VoL I., page 182, line 4 from bottom, /or « Prouf s," read** Prousf s.'' 
Vol. I., page 318, line 5 frfxm to^, for '* ten," read ^ sixteen." 



A TREATISE 



ON 



DIET AND REGIMEN. 



CHAPTER m. 

On Muscular Exercise. — Muscular Action. — Expenditure caused by 
Muscular Action. — Mechanical Effect of Muscular Action. — 
Effect of Muscular Exercise on Nutrition. — Effect of Muscular 
Exercise on Respiration. — Importance of using all the Muscles. — 
Different Means of Muscular Exercise: Hand-Swings^ Dumb- 
Bell% Hindostanee Clubs, the SMpping-Rope. — Exercise Neg- 
lected in an especial degree by Women. — Deductions as to Here- 
ditary Predisposition to Physical and Constitutional Characters, 
and the consequent Healthiness or otherwise of the system, as 
illustrating and enforcing the importance of Muscular Exercise. 
— Peculiar Importance of Exercise in the Years of Growth. — 
Dancing, as a means of Exercise. — Use all the Muscles. — Exer- 
cise in the Open Air to be preferred. — Walking. — Walking 
versus Carriage-Exercise. — Elding. — Sailing. — Exercise of the 
Voice. — Adaptation of Exercise to Mental Character, Age, Sex, 
Habits, and Strength. — Effect of Mind on the Degree and Effects 
of Muscular Exercise. — Adaptation of Exercise to different Mor- 
bid Conditions of the System. — Effects of Systematic Training, 
in illustration of the Importance and Influence of Muscular 
Exercise. — Summary. 

MusouLAB action forms one of the principal 
sources of expenditure to the animal economy. The 

VOL II. B 



2 MUSCULAR ACTION. 

contraction of the fibres of the muscles of the body 
involves a proportional waste or expenditure of certain 
of their organic atoms^ the resolution of such atoms 
into new and simpler forms of composition^ and 
(having thus ceased to be an integrant part of the 
living system) the necessity of their excretion from 
the body ; the loss thus sustained being compensated 
by the introduction of new organisable atoms^ by 
means of the digestive or assimilating functions. 
The moving apparatus of the body is only second to 
the Ainction of respiration in the amount of its 
expenditure ; and yet much of the expenditure occa- 
sioned by muscular contraction appears to subserve 
immediately the respiratory function^ by enabling 
the oxygen to derive the necessary carbon^ in some 
degree^ from the detached and excrementitious 
atoms of the living organism. Much of the carbon 
required for the calorifiant wants of the system 
appears^ however, to be derived directly from the 
alimentary supplies, and their instant decomposition, 
and the consumption of their constituent carbon; 
and thus, although demanding and using the larger 
proportion of the alimentary supplies, the function of 
respiration does not appear to involve by any means 
so large a direct expenditure of the already organised 
atoms of the body, as results from the action of the 
muscular system. It is indeed true, that, if such 
aliment is not afforded to the body, as is capable of 
famishing carbon to the function of respiration with- 
out the complete disintegration of its atoms, and the 
disengagement of a large proportion of nitrogen, 



EXPENDITURE CAUSED BY MUSCULAR ACTION. 3 

muscular action may become almost needful to the 
calorifiant wants of the system^ and largely subser- 
vient to them. Under such circumstances^ muscular 
action may be greatly useful to the general economy 
of the body^ not only by the expenditure and removal 
of the waste and redundant matters^ but by a direct 
ministration of the needful carbon for the respiratory 
wants. When the carbon required for the purposes 
of respiration is in a great degree supplied by the 
use of non-azotised articles of food^ muscular action 
becomes less needful as regards this particular ; and 
its principal use may be^ to ensure such an expenditure 
of the waste of the body^ as may effect the timely 
renewal of the organic atoms^ and secure the in- 
tegrity and soundness of all the organs and structures^ 
— and^ moreover^ such an expenditure^ as may obviate 
either local or general plethora^ . and maintain the 
due balance of the different bodily functions. 

Muscular action^ involving the contraction of 
fibres^ and consequent movement of attached or 
adjacent parts or structures^ comprises all the appa- 
ratus of movement possessed by the animal machine^ 
and includes the muscles of involuntary as well as 
those of voluntary motion. It is principally to the 
effects of the exercise of the voluntary muscles^ that I 
am now about to refer. It may be useful to attempt 
to specify more particularly the effects on the economy 
of the system, of the exercise of the voluntary muscles, 
preliminary to a practical consideration of the various 
kinds of exercise, and their adaptation to the various 
and varying requirements and conditions of the body. 

b2 



4 EXPENDITURE CAUSED BT MUSCULAR ACTION. 

Exercise (the movement of any port of the body 
at the command of the will) is produced by contrac- 
tion of the muscles of voluntary motion^ and their 
alternate relaxation. For^ although muscular con- 
traction may be considered to be exercise^ in the 
strict sense of the word; and although, when not 
alternated with relaxation^ such contraction consti- 
tutes the most fatiguing way in which the muscles 
can be made use of; yet^ in the more ordinary 
sense, muscular exercise implies a series of conse- 
cutive movements, involving and produced by alter- 
nating contraction and relaxation of the muscular 
fibres. So true is it, that muscular contraction^ with- 
out such intervals of relaxation, is especially fatiguing 
(a fact, however, of which any one may be convinced, 
by attempting to hold the arms extended for more 
than a very few minutes at a time), that the extensor 
muscles are less powerful than the flexor muscles of 
the limbs, in order to secure the more complete 
repose of the body when not engaged in active 
exertion. 

The use of the muscles of voluntary motion must 
be preceded by so much of nervous influence being 
directed to them, as may serve the purpose of a 
stimulus to the fibres called into action; and this 
must involve a corresponding expenditure of nervous 
power, and a corresponding and simultaneous expen- 
diture of the organised atoms of the nervous system 
itself: a preliminary condition, and source of addi- 
tional expenditure, beyond that involved in the 
muscular contraction, which has been already noticed. 



MECHANICAL EFFECT OF MUSCULAR ACTION. 5 

Every action of the animal economy occasions an ex- 
penditure of some portion of its living organism ; the 
atoms so expended undergoing important chemical 
changes; and either becoming directly excrementi- 
tious,— or ministering, in the first instance, to the 
formation of secretions, which have ulterior uses to 
subserve,— or being resolved into nitrogenised matter, 
which becomes effete, and carbonaceous matter, which 
ministers to the demands of respiration. 

Muscular contraction affects and alters the relative 
position and form of the fibres, in regard to one 
another, and in regard to the surrounding parts. 
The length of the muscle is diminished, and its width 
is increased; and a large amount of pressure is 
thereby exerted on the interstitial spaces between 
the fibres, and on the structures immediately around 
them. The mechanical effect of this pressure on all 
the capillary vessels, so liberally, minutely, and uni- 
versally interspersed and distributed through all the 
tissues and structures, — constituting in fact a very 
large proportion of their substance, and filled with a 
fluid which is impelled a tergo by the action of the 
heart, and the contractile or elastic action of the 
larger arteries, to move in one direction, viz. fipom 
the heart to the minutest ramifications of the arterial 
system, where these infinitely small branches termi- 
nate in the veins, — ^must be to aid in driving the 
current of blood onward more rapidly in its destined 
course, to quicken the action of the vessels of the 
part by the extra stimulus of the more rapid current 
of blood, and to increase the amount of whatever 



6 MECHANICAL EFFECT OF MUSCULAR ACTION. 

vital processes are accomplished in the respective 
structures by the passage of the blood through them^ 
and by the chemical alterations in the blood which 
occur in its transmission through and from the 
arterial into the venous capiQaries; these changes 
embracing the disengagement of certain of the organ- 
isable atoms from the current of the circulation^ and 
their deposition and conversion into such portions of 
the organism as require additions or repair^ from the 
expenditure that is consequent upon every action 
and process of the economy, — ^the removal of the 
expended atom8,-the fonnation of any reqnired new 
combinations of their elements, or of the elements 
of the blood itself, for ulterior uses in the system 
(secretion), — ^the taking away of such effete matters 
as have, as soon as possible, to be removed and con- 
veyed out of the body (excretion), — ^and the conver- 
sion of the arterial into venous blood, involving the 
combination of oxygen (obtained by respiration, and 
carried to the capillaries in the red particles of the 
blood) with the carbon (obtained from the destruc- 
tion of tissue, or directly from the food), and the 
proportional evolution of heat. It follows from 
this, that, among the necessary results of muscular 
exercise, the powers of the nervous system are by 
so much expended, — ^the expenditure of nitrogen is 
by so much increased, — the circulation of the blood 
is by so much quickened, or at least rendered more 
energetic, — ^the secretions and excretions are pro- 
moted, — the waste and expenditure of the system in 
these ways largely added to, — and the animal heat 



EFFECT OF EXERCISE ON NUTRITION. 7 

augmented ; and all this^ on intelligible and admitted 
principles. 

The muscular fibres made use of are increased in 
size and power^ in some degree of proportion to the 
amount of use made of them ; all the vital processes 
going on in their tissue more rapidly^ as well those 
of production as those of expenditure. And not only 
are the organic processes performed more quickly and 
vigorously in the tissue of the moving fibres them- 
selves, or in the structures that are in their imme- 
diate vicinity; but all the processes of the economy^ 
remote as well as contiguous, — ^the power and quick- 
ness of the general circulation of the blood; the 
equal distribution of the blood throughout the 
system ; the amount of secretion and excretion from 
it^ — are, as has been said, all added to. . And thus^ 
the vigorous action of the secreting otgims of the 
stomachy and the consequent healthiness of the 
gastric and peptic secretions, — ^thus, thi^.-due solution 
and chymification of the food, — ^thus^ the character 
and amount of the hepatic secretion^ — ^thus, the 
healthiness and amount of mucus secreted from the 
whole lining membrane of the food and air passages, 
— thus^ the separation of the chyle from the chyme, 
— thus, the conveyance of the chyle, by means of the 
lacteals and thoracic duct, to the subclavian vein, 
and the compensation, by the addition of newly- 
organised atoms, for the expenditure of the system, 
—all come to be indirectly promoted by muscular 
exercise of the trunk and extremities. In the same 
way, the action of the skin, the kidneys, and other 



8 EFFECT OF EXEBCISE ON NUTRITION. 

emunctories of the body, is promoted by the quick- 
ened and more efficient passage of blood through 
their several textures ; and muscular exercise is made 
to subserve, in a large degree, not only the expen- 
diture and reproduction of the moving apparatus 
itself, but the wear and tear, and renewal, of every 
part of the system. But even this is not all the good 
effect of muscular exercise; for, as a consequence of 
this, the circulation of the blood being equalised, 
partial distributions of it and local congestions are 
prevented. This effect is very much promoted by 
the effect of exercise in determining the blood to the 
whole of the surface of the body, — ^independently of 
the ulterior and important influence of the augmented 
secretion from the skin on the expenditure of the 
system. It is needfdl to add to all that has been 
stated, that, by the increased rapidity with which the 
blood is made to circulate through the vessels of the 
brain, the tone and capabilities of the mind itself, by 
virtue of the marvellous and inexplicable connection 
and mutual dependance of mind and body, may be 
said to be increased ; and, if this be aided by the will 
and effort of the individual, muscular exercise may 
be considered to play some part in quickening and 
strengthening even the faculties of the mind, or at 
least their capabilities of sustained exertion; and, 
even without any effort on the part of the individual, 
the effect of muscular exercise on the physical con- 
dition of the brain, leads very notoriously to the 
removal of such mental gloom and despondency, as, 
in so large a proportion of the cases in which they 



EFFECT OF EXERCISE ON NUTRITION. 9 

occur, are dependent on certain derangements of the 
physical condition of the brain — irregular distribution 
of blood, local congestion, or interrupted circulation 
firom functional sluggishness, — and man may often be 
Hterally said to walk away from his cares, and secure, 
by the mere exercise of his limbs, bright and happy 
thoughts and feelings. 

Muscular exercise is enabled to influence the 
circulation of the blood, and promote aQ its ulterior 
uses in the economy, not only by its direct effect 
on the arterial system, and the influence of the 
mechanical pressure of the contracting fibres on the 
contained and contiguous arterial capillaries, but, 
in some degree, likewise, by reason of the veins 
being to some considerable extent provided with 
valves, particularly those veins which have to carry 
the blood in a direction opposite to that of its gra- 
vity. The consequence of this is, that external 
pressure on these vessels assists in propelling the 
contents onwards, — ^the valves preventing their retro- 
gression, as the vis k tergo does in the case of the 
arteries. The thoracic duct is, moreover, likewise 
furnished with these valves^ at short distances ; and 
thus, every movement of the trunk of the body, 
every full respiration, may be readily conceived to 
influence and promote the passage of the chyle 
through the lymphatic system, and cause it to be 
conveyed more quickly and readily to the current of 
the circulation. 

The expenditure of azotised matter produced by 
all the processes of the animal economy, and the 

b3 



10 EFFECT OF EXERCISE ON RESPIRATION. 

large degree in which this is increased by muscular 
exercise^ become important among the reasons for 
attention to this as a means of healthy as a direct 
and powerful agent in carrying away effete mat- 
ters from the system^ and promoting the efficient 
compensation for the alimentation of the body. 

The effect of muscular exercise on the great 
process of respiration, remains to be mentioned 
among its causes of powerful action on the economy. 
Perhaps, in consequence of the greater velocity, or 
the greater volume, in which exercise causes the 
blood to be driven through the tissue of the 
lungs, — stimulating, as this may be inferred to do, 
the nerves that minister to the purposes of respira- 
tion, — the respirations become, in a degree cor- 
responding to the quickened or more energetic 
circulation of the blood, more quick and more deep ; 
and the oxygenation of the blood is in the same 
ratio promoted, the consumption of carbon increased, 
and the animal heat maintained, and more tho- 
roughly diffused through the distant parts, and to 
the surface of the body. The marked effect of mus- 
cular exercise in increasing the heart's action, either 
as to its quickness, or its power, or both, and in stimu- 
lating to more energetic action the muscles concerned 
in respiration, although perhaps mainly explicable on 
the principle of the more rapid return of blood to the 
heart, may likewise be partly referred to the general 
effect of increased capillary circulation on the whole 
of the fibrous tissues, and the consequent stimulus to 
all the moving apparatus, whether directly voluntaiy 



EFFE^ OF EXBBaiSB ON SENSATION. 11 

or otherwise, to an increased exertion ; and to this 
probable influence, may be referred some of the good 
effects of ekeccifie on the organs of secretion and 
excretion. 

But muscular exercise is a direct source of pleasure 
to every one not suffering from diseased action. 
Every one must have felt this. The effect of using 
the muscles of voluntary motion, when all the pro- 
cesses of the economy are being justly and healthily 
performed, is to impart a marked and grateful stimulus 
to the sentient nerves of the part, and a correspond- 
ing and grateful stimulus to the nervous system 
generally, sufBiciently noticeable by the mind when 
studious of its analysis, and always ministering 
indirectly to the happiness of the individual, colour- 
ing and brightening the thoughts and feelings. So 
much is this believed to be the case by some, that it 
has been asserted — a man may use his limbs too 
much to leave him in the enjoyment of his fullest 
capability of pure and abstract thought, and to the 
extent of making him unduly imaginative. Although 
this may well be matter of doubt, the fact and its 
wise and benevolent intention remain unaffected: 
that man derives an immediate pleasurable sensation 
from using his voluntary muscles, which not only 
gives to labour a zest, and even to monotonous 
movements some degree of enjoyment, but produces 
a redaction on the mind itself; embellishing a life of 
virtuous toil with a degree of physical enjoyment, 
and mental energy, buoyancy, and hopeful light- 
heartedness, that can never be afforded in a like 



12 ALL THE MUSCLES SHOULD BE USED. 

degree to the drones — ^the mere "firuges consmnere 
nati^^ — of the human hive.* 

To be thus largely useful to the well-being of the 
economy^ the exercise must not be confined to any 
set or series of muscular moYcments ; but^ as far as 
possible^ should bring into play all the moving 
powers of the body. It may be said^ in general 
termSj that the greater the number of muscles con- 
cerned in the exercise^ and the more completely it 

• ^<The first physicians by debauch were made ; 
Excess began, and sloth sustains the trade. 

By chase our long-liv'd fathers eam'd their food ; 
Toil strung the nerves and purified the blood ; 
But we, their sons, a pamper'd race of men. 
Are dwindled down to ihree<«core years and ten. 
Better to sweat in fields for health unboughty 
Than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught. 
The wise for cure on exercise depend, 
God never made his work for man to mend." 

Dbtdgn. 

<^ There is a story in the Arabian Nights' Tales, of a king who had 
long languished under an ill habit of body, and had taken abundance 
of remedies to no purpose. At length, says the fable^ a physician 
cured him by the following method : he took an hollow ball of wood, 
and filled it with several drugs ; after which he closed it up so artifi- 
cially that nothing appeared. He likewise took a mall, and after having 
hollowed the handle, and that part which strikes the ball, he inclosed 
in them several drugs after the same manner as in the baU itself. 
He then ordered the sultan, who was his patient, to exercise himself 
early in the morning with these rightly prepared instruments, until 
such time as he should sweat : when, as the story goes, the virtue of 
the medicaments perspiring through the wood had so good an influ- 
ence on the sultan*s constitution, that they cured him of an indispo- 
sition which all the compositions he had taken inwardly had not been 
able to remove. This Eastern allegory is finely contrived to show 
how beneficial bodily labour is to health, and that exercise is the 
most effectual physic." — Spectator, No. 195. 



HAND-SWING. 13 

involyes the full contraction of each muscle, the more 
influential wiU the exercise be. 

The practical deductions from this remark are 
many. Riding on horseback is shewn to be a more 
important agent than being drawn in a carriage; 
walking to have more effect on the system than 
riding; quick walking than slow; running than 
either. A combination of several of these^ — ^as each 
has its favourite sets of muscles, which it uses most, — 
is more influential than any one by itself. It fol- 
lows^ moreover^ that exercise of the arms is only 
second in importance to that of the legs ; and^ con- 
sequently^ that some simple gymnastics, such as 
raising the body from the ground by grasping a 
suspended cord, or a fixed transverse pole, with the 
hands, — or even swinging the arms round like the 
sails of a windmiQ, — or thrusting them backwards 
and forwards, — ^is an excellent auxiliary to walking 
exercise, or to running, and one which most men 
of sedentary habits ought to have recourse to, if aU 
the purposes are to be fulfilled which exercise is 
capable of subserving in the economy. 

What is called the hand-swing, or triangle, forms an 
excellent mode of exercise for the arms. It consists 
simply of two ropes, secured together at one end to a 
transverse beam of the ceiling of a room, or to a simi- 
lar beam placed between the walls of the play-ground, 
the other extremities of the ropes being connected 
securely by a cross-bar of wood for the hands to 
grasp ; the apparatus being fixed at such a height, 
that the bar of wood is only just within reach of the 



14 DUMB-BELLS. 

raised hands^ when the person stands on tip-toe. 
The exercise is, to swing by grasping the cross-bar 
with both hands. The apparatus may be removed 
and fixed again with much readiness, if the upper 
ends of the ropes, where they are £Etstened together, 
are securely attached to a strong iron ring, which 
may be fixed at pleasure to an equally strong hook, 
firmly screwed into the beam. The hand-swing not 
only furnishes a useful means of exercising the 
arms, but calls into action to a very efficient degree 
all the muscles of the back; and it is therefore adapted 
in an especial manner to the cases of most growing 
girls, in whom the spinal muscles so peculiarly require 
to be exercised and strengthened. 

Dumb-bells, of a weight proportioned to the 
strength, are useful means of exercising the arms; 
giving an incentive to the exercise, and adding to 
its degree. Much harm has, however, been done, 
and dumb-bells have fallen into very unmerited dis- 
repute, by having been used of too great a weight 
for the strength of the individual. Some may justi- 
fiably make use of them, when of the weight of 
ten, or even twelve pounds each ; whereas a weight 
of two or three pounds each may be quite heavy 
enough for those who are weak, or who are quite 
unaccustomed to use them. In this latter case, the 
weight of the dumb-bells used may be slowly and 
gradually increased. But the risk of using them of 
too great a weight, and consequently overtasking 
the muscles made use of, perhaps straining them to 
an injurious degree, and possibly inducing some 



HIND08TANEB CLUBS. 15 

degree of spinal irritation^ with all its disturbing^ and 
perhaps lingering and troublesome consequences^ — 
independently of the risk of producing disorder in 
the hings or the hearty by the interrupted respiration 
which violent muscular effort is apt to involve, or by 
the excessive stimulus of the heart's action which it 
sometimes proves to be, — should be borne ever in 
mind, as reasons for caution in the degree to which 
gymnastic exercises of any kind are allowed to be 
carried. 

Hindostahee clubs form another and very admir- 
able mode of exercising the arms. They are made of 
wood. Those from which I take the measurement 
are twenty-five inches long, three inches and a half 
in diameter at one end, and about one inch and a 
half at the other ; the broad end being loaded with 
lead to any required degree. The clubs measured, 
weigh four poimds and three quarters each. It 
might be well to begin with using clubs of half this 
weight, and possibly of somewhat less length; and 
the weight and length might be increased according 
to the ascertained or augmenting power of the user. 
The exercise is — ^to stand perfectly erect, the feet 
close together, the shoulders thrown back, and with 
a dnb in each hand, grasped by the narrow extre- 
mity, to swing the clubs alternately over and aroimd 
the back of the head, for fifty or a hundred times ; 
this being probably repeated three or four times a 
day. This is an admirable means of exercise for the 
muscles of the upper part of the body ; including, as 
it does, exercise of the muscles of the neck, chest. 



16 SKIFFING-BOFE. 

back^ shoulders^ and arms. It seems to call more 
muscles into exercise than the use of the dumb-bells. 
These clubs, however, and dumb-bells, and most such 
means of adding to the artificial modes of exercise, 
are apt to do harm, and have no doubt in this way 
fallen into discredit, when the degree of the exercise 
and its duration are not adapted to the age and 
strength of the individual, and to the nature of the 
case. All violent exercises, — imder which head, gym- 
nastics of all kinds must be necessarily classed, — 
should be strictly forbidden, when there is even a 
suspicion of any organic disease, and must be attended 
with positive risk under circumstances of undoubted 
structural change in any of the great organs. 

The skipping-rope, discarded, with her other toys, 
by the yo^g girl when entei;mg, perhaps prema: 
turely, on her womanhood, might be justifiably con- 
tinued as a valuable article in the boudoir of her 
earlier adult life. It is one of the best kinds of 
gymnastic exercise, — calling into action almost every 
muscle in the body. 

There are few women who do not neglect exercise. 
Men have, for the most part, some necessary out- 
of-door occupation ; and they almost universally walk 
more than women. Thousands upon thousands of 
Englishwomen never cross the thresholds of their 
houses ofkener than once a week, and then it is 
probably to attend the public worship of their 
Maker; and it is seldom, that, in towns, the dis- 
tance to the church or the chapel is such, as to 
occupy more than ten minutes in going thither. What 
is and must be the consequence of this ? Breathing 



EXEBCISE NEGLECTED BT WOMEN. 17 

eyer^ from week to week^ and from year to year^ the 
tempered^ and perhaps ill-ventilated^ and by so much 
mephitic^ air of the dwelling, — ^never using so much 
muscular exercise, either in degree or duration, as 
quickens the hearths action by a single throb, or aids 
in any apparent and material degree the action of 
the extreme capillaries, — deriving no assistance from 
this most efficient of all the expending agents in 
effecting the detachment and removal of the effete 
matters of the system, — can we wonder that plethora, 
or that congestion, or that a languid circulation, or 
that a want of tone and vigour in the capillaries, or 
that defective assimilation of the alimentary supplies, 
or that deranged frmction and eventual disease, 
should be developed; favoured as such results are, 
by conditions of life and habits so foreign to those 
organic laws, in accordance with which the organisa- 
tion was originally put together ? Can we wonder 
at the dyspepsia, or the hysteria, the susceptibility 
to cold, the morbid sensibility of system, the slug- 
gish organs, the favoured disposition to phthisis or to 
disease of the heart, the frequent derangement of the 
uterine functions, the possible barrenness of the 
married life, the abortions which so often enfeeble 
and disturb the system, and pave the way to so much 
evil ; or that the children springing from so neglected 
a physique, should be feeble and sickly, either to be 
early freed from the miseries of a weakly and delicate 
existence, or (with difficulty reared) carrying the 
mischief through unborn generations, by producing 
in their turn an offspring with debility for their 



18 DEDUCTIONS AS TO HEBEDITABY PREDISPOSITION. 

inheritance. And debility^ proving ever an initiative 
or strong predisposing cause of disease^ may form the 
great means by which the predisposition to disease is 
justifiably said to become hereditary. 

The extent to which the predisposition to different 
diseases is thus heritable^ might have been expected 
k priori^ or at least in some degree expected^ by the 
remarkable extent to which physical characters are 
handed down from generation to generation. Thus, 
we see features, expression of countenance, com- 
plexion, tone of voice, capacity of chest, breadth 
of shoulders, gait, and gestures, transmitted from 
parents to children. A well-known and remarkable 
case of this kind occurred in Suffolk, in the course 
of the last century. A boy, fourteen years old, 
named Edward Lambert, bom in that county, was 
exhibited to the Royal Society, in 1731. The skin 
is said to have been as though studded with warts 
of a dark brown colour, and cylindrical figure, some 
of them having an elevation of one inch, growing 
quite close to one another, and so stiff and elastic, 
that when the hand was drawn over them they made 
a rustling noise. In the Philosophical Transactions 
for 1755, there is a further account of the same indi- 
vidual, who had then six children, all having the 
same extraordinary condition of the skin as Lambert 
himself. In 180S, a description of one of these 
children, then an adult, was published, with engrav- 
^gs, by Tilesius ; and in the year 1821, an individual 
of the third generation, lineally descended from 
Lambert, was exhibited in London, whose skin, on 



DEDUCTIONS AS TO HERBDITART PREDISPOSITION. 19 

the unquestioiiable authority of Dr. Bostock^ exactly 
resembled the original description in the Philoso* 
phical Transactions and the plates of Tilesius. The 
case is known as that of the Porcupine Family. But 
this instance is only singular from the extraordinary 
character and degree of the diseased state. Not 
only the colour, but other structural and functional 
peculiarities of the skin, are likewise found to be 
deriyed from one or other of the parents; and a 
tendency to scurfiness, to eruptive conditions, to 
a dry or a very freely-acting skin, to a skin with 
a glistening and stretched look, or one that is 
wrinkled even in early life, are sufficiently noticeable 
among the physical peculiarities handed down from 
parent to child. Dr. Pritchard gives an amusing 
instance, in his B;esearches into the Physical History 
of Man, of the transmissibility of a peculiarity of 
feature from generation to generation. He says, 
'^ Dr. Gregory related to his numerous students, in 
order to convince them of the resemblance between 
children and parents, both with respect to external 
and internal structure, that, having been once called 
to a distant part of Scotland to visit a rich nobleman, 
he discovered in the configuration of his nose an 
exact resemblance to that of the Grand Chancellor 
of Scotland in the reign of Charles I, as represented 
in his portraits. On taking a walk through the 
village after dinner, the doctor recognised the same 
nose in several individuals among the country people ; 
and the nobleman's steward, who accompanied him, 
informed him that all the persons he had seen were 



20 DEDUCTIONS AS TO HEREDITARY PREDISPOSITION. 

descended from the illegitimate children of the 
Grand Chancellor/^ The thick lip of the Imperial 
Family of Austria is said to have been derived from 
the marriage of the Emperor Maximilian with Mary 
of Burgundy^ and to be still visible in the family 
after the lapse of three centuries. The eye of our 
own royal stock of the Stuarts^ — ^and it might be 
safely added^ the prevailing features of their cha- 
racters^ mental as well as bodily^ — affords another 
remarkable instance of the transmissibility of pecu- 
liarities from generation to generation. ''In this 
way," says Dr. Gregory, in his '' Conspectus MedicinsB 
Theoreticae" — I have ventured to translate the passage 
— " parents often live after death in their offspring. 
Of a certainty, children are like their parents, not 
only as to features and the form of their bodies, but 
as to the disposition, as to the virtues and vices, of 
their minds. The imperious Claudian fEunily long 
flourished in Rome; a family which produced the 
tearless Tiberius, the most fearful of tyrants; a 
family which gave birth to the inhuman Caligula, 
and to Claudius, and, after a lapse of six himdred 
years, to Nero." And Horace says, and says truly, — 

" Fortes creantur fortibus et bonis : 
Est in jurencis, est in equis patram 
Virtus : nee imbellem feroces 
Progenerant aquilse columbam." 

Carminum, Lib. iv., Od. 4. 

The degree to which the peculiarities are trans- 
missible to the offspring, must be largely influenced 
by the amount of antagonism to them that may be 



DEDUCTIONS AS TO HEBEDITABT PREDISPOSITION. 21 

presented by those of the other parent. Hence may 
arise some part of the admitted great importance of 
avoiding successive intermarriages among the mem- 
bers of the same fietmily ; adding^ as this does, to the 
risk of the prevailing peculiarity becoming excessive, 
and leading to disease. The value of judicious inter- 
marriages with uncoimected families, in increasing 
the probable duration of families, their chances of 
healthiness and of distinction, can hardly be exagge- 
rated. K all such care has been neglected, when 
care had been practicable, or where strong consti- 
tutional peculiarities had rendered care peculiarly 
necessary, the development of organic defects, of 
debile conditions, of disease, in the offspring, — either 
congenital, or arising afterwards from comparatively 
unimportant exciting causes,^-occurs too often, to 
fail in proving the reality and importance of heredi- 
tary predisposition. And scrofula, in all its forms, 
may often be shown to be the direct result of dis- 
obedience to the organic laws, by intermarriages 
among the members of the same family; or the 
infraction of these laws may equally lead to heredi- 
tary predisposition in the offspring, when it consists 
in the intemperance and debauchery of one or more 
generations, or where the circumstances of the parents' 
lives have been characterised by poverty, insufficient 
food, want of cleanliness, deficient exercise, or (its 
apparent opposite) extreme toil, or defective ventila- 
tion of the house, or miasmatous or other depressing 
influences of the locality, in which they have spent 
their lives. And mania, and its minor type, epilepsy. 



iZ IMPORTANCE OF EXERCISE TO CHILDREN. 

— ^and gout, rheumatism, fee, — serve to swell the cata- 
logue of diseases, to which hereditary bias may give 
the tendency; a tendency easily acted upon, and 
readily converted into disease. The dwarfed condi* 
tion of the existing aristocracy in one of the conti- 
nental nations, has been often referred to, as one of 
the strongest illustrations of transmissible constitu- 
tional peculiarity, and the disadvantage of repeated 
intermarriages; and the strong national characters 
stamped on the Celt, the Saxon, the Gaul, the Greek, 
the Arab, the Tartar, and many et-ceteras of the 
families of the earth, — characters including the 
average height, the form of the features, the relative 
development of the cerebral, animal, and motor 
organs, — characters including the prevailing bias of 
the mind, and distinguishing peculiarities of creative 
effort, — are magnificent examples of the same great 
fact. Who can doubt the strong distinguishing 
characters of the Saxon race, who regards the posi- 
tion of England in the present day, with her steady 
rise among the nations of the world, and her people 
giving, from her small island-home, laws, influence, 
civilisation, enterprise, intellect, and Christianity, to 
a large share of the habitable globe? 

The direct and practical bearings of these facts, 
and their importance to the existing and future races 
of mankind, may prove excuse enough for the fore- 
going observations on a subject, less immediately, as 
it might seem, relevant to the consideration of mus- 
cular exercise. But exercise, by strengthening the 
generalsy stem, thus comes to act, in an important 



THE EXERCISE OF CHILDREN. 23 

degree^ not only upon the health of the body^ and 
the probable expectation of life of the individual, 
but on the chances of a healthy and well-developed 
offspring. How important an element of what is 
called physical education, this view of the subject 
shows muscular exerdse to be, is evident ; how pecu- 
harly important muscular exercise may be in the 
case of girls, is a reasonable inference I 

This fact can hardly be too often or too strongly 
impressed on the minds of parents and teachers. It 
is not enough — ^it does not constitute the whole of 
their duty to the young and growing population — 
that they be carefully, steadily, and efficiently pro- 
vided with food and clothing, and the comforts of 
life ; it is not enough, that they have provided for 
them, the means of religious, moral, and intellec- 
tual enlightenment and progress, — ^and that these 
great pabula mentis are supplied in quantity and 
kind, suitable to the varying age and mental strength 
and growing capabilities; it is not enough, unless 
the means have been afforded of using the limbs and 
the trunk of the body extensively and sufficiently in 
muscular exerdse, — and this done in such a way, as 
to secure the appJrtioxuBg of such exercise, in degree 
and character, to the peculiarities and wants of the 
economy, — extensively using the different muscles, 
and calling them into a degree of exercise that is 
sufficiently energetic. Healthy manhood and woman- 
hood cannot result from a childhood, that has not 
been permitted and encouraged to the exercise of 
the muscles, during at least one or two hours of every 



24 THE EXERCISE OF CHILDREN. 

day ; for^ at all ages^ health must be worked for ; and 
health and bodily exercise cannot be separated jGrom 
one another. And such exercise must not be re- 
stricted to the quiet and partial muscular movements 
required in the act of walking; although this is not 
to be neglected^ inasmuch as change of air^ exposxire 
to the direct rays of the sun^ and to an unbreathed 
and imdeteriorated atmosphere^ is necessary. But^ 
in addition to this^ such exercise must be made use 
of^ as calls into action the muscles of the arms^ 
shoulders^ back^ &c.^ as is the case in the games and 
sports of boyhood^ or in the use of the skipping-rope^ 
battle-door and shuttle-cock^ and other less rough 
means of effecting the same end^ had recourse to in 
the girPs play-ground or school-room. How often 
and strongly should it be said to all concerned 
in this great question — ^all the muscles of the body 
must be called into regular use^ if muscular exercise 
is to be as usefal to the health and well-being of the 
general system^ as it is capable of being. At the 
same time^ the importance of making this great means 
of health a sport and enjoyment^ and by no means a 
task or a troublesome duty^ — a relaxation of mind^ 
and not a tedious addition to the scholastic forms and 
prescribed ordmances,-may be, in some instances, 
justifiably adverted to. Can anything be much more 
unreasonable^ or less likely to fulfil its purpose^ than 
to see the hours of play and of relaxation of mind^ 
which might be passed in gleeful and active games^ 
as cricket and the like^ spent in making lads of 
imequal strength strive to accomplish the same violent 



DANCING, AS AN EXEKCISE. 25 

gymnastic efforts, with all the set and regulated 
formalities, and the same straggle for reward or 
distinction, and fear of disgrace, that animates the 
school hours? Can anything be less likely to 
form active and strong women in after-life, than 
the staid and frigid processions of boarding-school 
misses, that are enconntered so often in the public 
streets ? 

A few words may be offered in this place, in favour 
of dancing, as an exercise, and as a school-room 
recreation. Exercising so many muscles otherwise 
httle nsed, — exercising them fully and duly, and 
withont violence, — exercising them to the cheering 
influence of music, — exercising them in forms of 
grace and beauty, — dancing may be made an impor- 
tant and valuable part of the physical education, and 
as such should be spoken of and promoted by the 
powerful voice of the medical public. The balanced 
action of the opposing muscles, the active use of the 
different articulations, the extensive and varied action 
of the spinal muscles, effected by dancing, — and the 
degree to which the mental excitement produced by 
it enables the exercise to be made use of without 
undue fatigue, — are strong reasons for so decided and 
fiivourable an opinion; and this, without obtrusive 
interference with opinions as to the propriety or 
otherwise of carrying the practice of dancing to an 
excess in the after-life, and making it the plea (oat 
late hours, &c. Let people think as they will of 
public balls, or even of private balls : with the con- 
scientious opinions of others it is not my wish nor 

VOL. II. c 



26 EXERCISE FBEFEBABLE IN THE OPEN AIR. 

intention to interfere : but to dancing in the school- 
room^ or among the members of the family circle^ 
few will object ; and it is not too much to say^ that, 
if dancing could be made a daily — ^not nightly — exer- 
cise, among the people of all classes, the healthiness 
and the expectation of life, as well as its happiness, 
would be increased. 

The importance of exercising duly and regularly 
all the muscles of the body, cannot be too much or 
too strongly insisted on. It may be said emphatically, 
that workmen at laborious trades are generally un- 
healthy. This must, of course, in great part be 
attributedtothe taintedand impure atmosphere, which 
they are still so often doomed to breathe ,* but there 
is no doubt that much of it is owing to the muscles 
being so very partially exercised. In most such 
trades, the muscles of the arms are almost exclusively 
made use of, those of the lower limbs being little 
exercised. The labour may be great, and even un- 
duly fatiguing, but all the muscles are not adequately 
used; and even although a man may have to wield a 
hammer weighing twenty or thirty pounds during 
several hours of every day, that will probably not be 
sufficient for the requirements of the economy and 
the maintenance of health. For this, such other exer- 
cise must be used, as calls the lower limbs into action ; 
and it may be needless to add, that, in order to 
correct, as far as may be, the eflfect of the impure or 
confined air of the workshop, such exercise should be 
taken in the open air. 

It may be sometimes wisely remembered, that 



WALKING. 27 

exercise usually does most good, if the situation in 
which it is taken is elevated, and if the air is dry, 
and rather cold than warm. The sufficiently obvious 
explanations of this, — firom a dry air containing a 
lai^er percentage of oxygen, — firom its causing a 
larger combustion of carbon, — ^firom its carrying off 
more readily the vapours exhaled firom the lungs and 
skin, — firom its stimulant effect on the vessels of the 
hning membrane of the air-passages, and on those of 
theskin, — are so many reasons, why this rule, although 
general, and as such useful, is not without many and 
impoTtant exceptions. Such an air would be mani- 
festly objectionable in such cases as would be unduly 
stimulated by it ; in such cases as could not resist 
the effect of the abstract dryness of air of an elevated 
district, or would suffer firom the increased pulmonary 
effort involved in the extra consumption of carbon. 
Cases of general and great debility, firom whatever 
cause, and many cases of phthisis, are among the 
evident illustrations of the conditions of system, in 
which an elevated district of country might be wisely 
objected to. 

Of all kinds of exercise, walking is that which is 
the most universally attainable, and at the same time 
the best. Calling so many muscles into action, and 
especially those of the lower extremities, of which 
the circulation is apt to be more languidly and imper- 
fectly performed, firom the degree of resistance pre- 
sented by the force of gravity to the return of the 
blood to the heart, — calling, moreover, so much of 
the moving apparatus of the body into reciprocal and 

c2 



28 WALKING. 

balanced action^ flexor and extensor muscles being 
correspondingly exercised^ — ^walking is undoubtedly 
the best of all exercises for the purposes of health ; 
independently of its secondary and by no means little 
useful effect, of carrying the respiratory organs into 
the fte» ..a y^J.^ ex^Tk. ^ to 
the extraordinary, and (at least in the colder and 
temperate countries of the earth) the healthful influ- 
ence, of the direct rays of the sun. 

The degree of the exercise must, of course, vary with 
the age, condition, and habits, of the individual; but 
the degree of exerdse that is in most cases serviceable, 
is generally much underrated. Two miles a day is 
the minimum distance, which a person of moderate 
health and strength ought to walk. If the powers 
of the system increase, or are stronger to begin with, 
the minimum ought to be four miles. The object 
should be, in most cases, to walk the four miles in an 
hour; and the invalid, beginning perhaps by walking 
a mile, or a mile and a half, in an hour, might ffra- 
dually increase his rate of walking, until he had 
accomplished this end. Quick walking calls more 
muscles into action than slow walking does, and is 
therefore better. The muscles of the back and trunk, 
neck and arms, are comparatively very little used in 
slow walking. A person can hardly walk quickly, 
without using them to a very considerable degree. 
It is a maxim so sound and important as to deserve 
frequent repetition, that the greater the number of 
the muscles used, the more advantageous will be the 
exercise. 



WALKING V. CABBIA6B-EXEBCI8E. 29 

The majority of people are wont to think too much 
of the other kinds of locomotive exercise^ — as car- 
nage-exercise^ riding on horseback^ and sailings — 
aad too little of walking. 

Carriage-exercise is of passive^ rather than active 
character; — ^thanks to the perfection with which car- 
riages are built^ and the excellence of the springs on 
which they are himg, and the smoothness and hard- 
ness of our roads ! — and is rather to be esteemed as 
a means of breathing the fresh and open air^ than as 
a means of exercising the muscles of the body. The 
degree of exercise that is afforded by riding in a 
carriage, is indeed very trifling, and should never be 
relied on as a means of promoting the expenditure of 
the system. 

The invalid just arisen from the bed of sickness, is 
usually re-introduced into the open air by carriage- 
exercise. This may not be improper if the carriage 
is a close one ; but if it is an open vehicle, it is almost 
invariably to be condemned. The action of the heart 
and arteries being enfeebled by disease, the blood is 
driven languidly through the system ; and the rapidly 
successive appHcations of cold air to the surface of 
the body, involved in the quick progress of the vehicle, 
— the system being, moreover, at the time, in a state 
almost that of absolute rest, — easily check the circu- 
lation of the blood through the vessels of the skin, 
by which the internal organs are apt to become 
unduly loaded with blood, congestion is risked, and 
a relapse into disease not unfrequently results. The 
degree of rapidity with which the air surrounding 



80 WALKING t;. CABBIAOE-EXEBCISE. 

the body is changed^ necessarily and greatly ministers 
to this risk. The air immediately surrounding the 
body getting warmed^ if the individual is stationary, 
protects him somewhat from the colder air which is 
exterior to it. The less frequently this outer gar- 
ment is changed, the less heat is taken from the 
body.* The risk of the body being unduly chilled, 
is thus much less when the body is mored slowly 
through the air; and at the same time, in walking, 
no matter how gentle or how slow, some aid is 
afforded by the muscular contractions, to the weak 
and languidly-acting heart and blood-vessels, and 
risk from the chilling and depressing influence of 
the cold proportionably lessened. So firmly impressed 
am I with the importauce of attention to this, that, 
if the strength is at all equal to it, I always advise 
my patients, when going out the first four or five 
times after an illness, to prefer gentle walking, even 

* It may be needless to say, that this depends on one of the simplest 
of chemical laws. If a wet cloth is hmig in dry air, the more dry the 
air, the more quickly will the cloth lose its moisture by eyaporation. 
If a ball, heated, say to 600% is exposed to the cooling influence of 
air at the temperature of 60% it will at first cool very rapidly ; but 
the nearer its temperature approaches to that of the air which sur- 
rounds it, the more slowly will it lose its heat. Its temperature will 
yery rapidly faU from GOO"" to SOO"* ; less rapidly from SOO*" to ISO"" ; 
and, oTory succeeding degree, its rate of cooling will be stiU slower 
and slower. The more quickly the air around it is changed, — ^in 
other words, the colder the air which surrounds it, the greater the 
difference between its temperature and that of the air, — ^the more 
quickly does it cool. The drier the air around a wet substanoe, the 
more quickly will that substance lose its moisture ; the more damp 
the air, the less readily does it acquire or imbibe moisture, and the 
more slowly will the substance dry. 



WALKING t;. CARBIAOE-EXEBCISE. SI 

if only a few yards, to any kind of less active exer- 
cise. Indeed, if the patient cannot walk thns much, 
and if the inability to do so is the effect of general 
debility, it may be well made a matter for thought 
and doubt as to the propriety of exposing the surface 
of the body to the open air at all. I may just men- 
tion here, although the remark would be better placed 
in a subsequent chapter, that, in the cases of such 
great debility, I have usually found much advantage 
in beginning with fiictions of the surface, as with a 
flesh-brush, — at first gentle, and only used for a short 
time, — ^then, used more vigorously, and for a longer 
period ; following this up, after it has been persevered 
in for a longer or shorter time, according to the 
nature of the case, by sponging the surface with 
warm, water, of course continuing the Motion; after- 
wards, gradually lowering the temperature of the 
water, and increasing the degree of the friction. By 
such meaoB, iu a time ofteTvery short, and to I 
degree almost incredible, and, if prudently managed, 
with scarcely any check or interruption, the patient 
has recovered strength, and been enabled to walk 
more and more strongly, and prepared for exposure 
to the natural temperature of the air without risk. 

From what has now been said, another observation 
might be inferred ; yet, perhaps, the mention of it 
may not be quite superfluous. The convalescent 
should never stand still when out of doors taking his 
exercise. It is a rule which should be impressed on 
the mind of every man just recovered from disease, 
on first committing his system to the ruder embraces 



32 BIDINO. 

of the open air — ^he ought always to keep moving. 
I have known many a distressing ease of relapse into 
disease produced by the kind sympathy of fiiends^ 
meeting an invalid^ and stopping to inquire after his 
health. 

Biding on horseback^ much less passive in its 
character than carriage-exercise^ is an admirable 
auxiliary to walkings in the maintenance of healthy 
and in securing the due expenditure of the system. 
It calls into action many muscles that are Kttle used 
in walking, and is by so much subservient to the great 
purpose of exercising all the muscles. The peculiar 
movements of the body in ridings particularly the 
considerable use made of the abdominal muscles^ has 
a marked stimulant effect on the functions of the 
viscera^ and becomes often eminently useful in hepatic 
cases, and cases of sluggish action of the bowels. 
The remarkably good effect of horse-exercise, on the 
minor degrees and on the more chronic stage of 
muscular relaxation of the spinal column, evidently 
dependant on the gentle and equable use of import- 
ant muscles of the back, which are otherwise little 
used, is generally known and fully admitted, and 
constitutes an important part of the treatment of 
such cases. It is impossible not to notice, moreover, 
in speaking of the advantages of horse-exercise, its 
exhilarating and diverting effect on the mind, — 
and the bracing effect on the vessels of the air pas- 
sages and of the surface, of carrying the body so 
rapidly through the air ; while undue depression of 
the circulation &om this is prevented, by the degree 



SAILING. 33 

of muscular exercise involved in the necessary move- 
ments. 

Sailing has long been lauded as an admirable 
remedy, in many, and espedaUy in pulmonary, com- 
plaints; and its good ejQEects have been attributed 
chiefly to the motion of the vessel. I have come, 
nolens volens, to a different conclusion. The air far 
out at sea is excessively pure, so far as being free 
from possible miasmatous matters; its temperature 
is remarkably uniform; its character is very pecu- 
har, frx>m being to such a degree charged with saline 
matters, and to the same degree with iodine, and 
probably other agents of equally powerful action on 
the human system ; the mental excitement is very 
great, from the novelty of everjrthing around the 
invalid, — ^the bustle and cheerfulness of everything 
and every one he sees ; the necessarily regular hours 
for the meals ; the early going to bed ; the separation 
from perhaps desponding friends ; the removal from 
the ordinary sources of care and anxiety; the escape 
from heated rooms, and an atmosphere that is me- 
phitic in an at least corresponding degree ; the conse- 
quences, at least probable, of getting rid completely of 
all congestive disturbance, by the sea-sickness ; the 
stimulant action of the saline and iodised atmosphere, 
and the consequent activity of the absorbents, — 
when all conjoined, are surely enough to explain any 
and every change in the state of the invalid, the 
altered relations of all the processes of his system, 
and any resulting improvement in his health, without 
having recourse to the mere movement of the ship 

c3 



S4r EXBBCISE OF THE VOICE. 

as a means of accounting for them. It is probable, 
indeed, that the important action of a sea-vojage on 
the glandular system, and its beneficial effects on the 
many forms of scrofdla^ and even more particularly 
in pulmonary cases, is mainly due to the absorption 
of iodine from the sea air, and the steady introduc- 
tion of this great agent into the system, in a form 
Uttle likely to derange the organs of assimilation, 
or irritate the mucous passages. And, accordingly, 
a sea-voyage has prolonged many a hfe, and even 
brought back health and vigour to many a system, 
that had appeared beyond all reach of remedy, and 
out of the pale of earthly hope. It is a question for 
careful consideration and judgment, whether the 
general strength, or the local malady, may not have 
become so far impaired, or have attained so extreme 
a stage, as to render the chances of benefit less 
than the risk is great, of injury, and the aggravation 
of suffering, and the shortening of life, from the 
fatigues, and the primary derangements, of so great 
a change of life or circumstances as a sea-voyage 
involves. 

There is one kind of exercise, that has not often 
been mentioned, nor even been thought of, as a 
means of expenditure and of health, as a means of 
giving tone to the parts made use of, and of dimi- 
nishing the risk of their becoming enfeebled, and 
therefore by so much more prone to take on morbid 
action : I mean, exercise of the lungs and the muscles 
of the chest and windpipe, in speaking, singing, 
reading aloud, &c. Such exercise may, however, be 



EXERCISE OF THE VOICE. 35 

made a very important means of health, a con- 
siderable source of expenditure, and a valuable 
agent in developing and giving strength to struc- 
tures of the first value to health, which are largely 
susceptible of morbid action, and the direct or 
indirect diseases of which constitute a fearful item 
in the mortality of most nations. ''Whatever 
kind of employment or mode of life,'^ says Dr. 
Carswell, in his valuable article on Tubercle, in 
the Cyclopsedia of Practical Medicine, ''necessi- 
tates or facilitates an active and ample display of 
the respiratory function, is generally admitted as 
a powerfal means of preventing the occurrence of 
tubercular phthisis.^' After mentioning the fact, 
that children are much less often the victims of 
puhnonary consumption than adults. Dr. Carswell 
Bays, that he is disposed to attribute this " to the 
much greater activity of the lungs in children than 
in adults ; we mean that kind of activity of these 
organs in children, which is the consequence of 
ahnost continued change of place and position of 
the body. Bunning, leaping, tumbling, wrestling, 
and the numerous little gesticulations, in which the 
upper extremities and muscles of the chest, shoulders, 
aud neck, are called into play in every possible 
direction, and to the utmost of their extent, demand 
of necessity the most active co-operation of the 
lungs; thereby rendering the accumulation of the 
tuberculous matter in the air-cells and bronchi 
much less likely to take place in children than in 
adults, placed as the latter are, both by habit and 



S6 XZE&CISE OF THE VOICE. 

occupation^ in opposite circumstances/' This is a 
valuable opinion ; but it will be observed, that I am 
arguing in behalf of a more direct use of the voice, 
as a means of expenditure and of strength to the 
system, and to the organs of respiration. One of 
the greatest things to be attended to in every kind 
of exercise, is to proportion it to the strength and 
the constitution of individuals. So proportioned, 
the exercise of the voice is no mean auxiliary to the 
exercise of the muscles concerned in the movements 
of the limbs; and, as has been said, may be fairly 
regarded as being a remarkably efficient means of 
giving additional strength to the respiratory organs, 
and of diminishing the risk of pulmonary disease. 
So important and so great do I consider this 
influence to be, that I think it would be well if 
it were made a prominent feature in the physical 
education of youth. It would be well, if children 
were encouraged in their vocal ebullitions of bois- 
terous merriment. But I think it would be parti- 
cularly well, if they were early exercised in the great 
art of reading aloud, not merely to the extent that 
may be at present practised in schools, but for longer 
periods of every day, — ^periods proportioned in length 
to the individual powers, and to the age, — and 
repeated at longer or shorter intervals, according 
to these circumstances, — and with the defined object 
of giving tone to the respiratory organs, and of 
adding to the development and capacity of the chest. 
It needs no pointing out, that this might be so 
managed, as to be in little or no degree looked upon 



EXERCISE OF THE VOICE. 87 

as an irksome task; that the subjects selected for 
such exercise, might be as much varied in their 
character, and be as amusing, as might be necessary 
to relieve it from such a possible consequence. Were 
young people, in their days of childhood, allowed to 
laugh, shout, &x;., at proper times, without restraint ; 
were they, in their days of girlhood or boyhood, 
made to read aloud, for such periods, and at such 
intervals of time, as could be done without undue 
expenditure, and perceptible fiitigue, — ^not only would 
a good use be made of the precious hours of lifers 
morning, in storing the mind with valuable matter, 
and strengthening it with soundest exercise, but the 
delicate tissue of the lungs would acquire a degree 
of firmness, the respiration an amount of freedom, 
and the voice a capacity, that would be a great 
means of averting the pulmonary complaints, with 
all their fatal consequences, that are so fearfully rife 
from the age of puberty upwards. In the later years 
of girlhood or boyhood, say from twelve years old 
upwards, prepared for it by such previous exercise, 
the lungs might with propriety be still further used, 
in singing, &c. ; while, without such preparation, this 
severer exercise of the respiratory organs is but too 
often followed by such marks of pulmonary derange- 
ment, as are only the harbingers of confirmed 
phthisis. In truth, accustomed to speak low as 
children, and but little used to reading aloud as girls 
and boys, the lungs are then often, for the first 
time, actively exercised; and the result is, irritation 
and consequent inflammation of their substance or 



88 EXERCISE OP THE VOICE. 

their membranes^ and the development of latent 
tuberchSy — ^which might never have been formed^ or 
never have been allowed to accumulate^ had the 
exercise of the respiratory organs been efficient and 
regular from the earlier periods of life. 

In the years of growth^ the due development of 
the different parts of the body, a development to 
be mainly secured or aided by the exercise of the 
different parts, is the great object to be aimed at; 
the expenditure of the system is almost necessarily 
adequate to the ingesta; the additional supplies 
being used for the purposes of growth. But when 
the body and its several parts have attained their 

volume, the expenditure is no longer duly secured ; 
and can only be so by regular and efficient exercise, 
which fulfils this valuable intention, in addition to 
that of promoting the power and healthiness of the 
part exercised, — ^provided the exercise be not greater 
than the structure can endure without undue 
exhaustion. Thus, however feeble the organs of 
respiration may be, and, consequently, however 
desirable additional tone might be as a means of 
health and longevity, the degree of the exercise 
must be apportioned to the degree of the local 
power, or it becomes hurtfdl instead of beneficial. 
And, however valuable as a means of expenditure 
to the system, exercise of the lungs, by speaking, 
reading aloud, or singing, might be, the usefulness, 
and even safety of this depends, of course, neces- 
sarily, on the power, and the development, and 



STRICTURES ON THE USE OF WIND-INSTBUMENTS. 39 

the capability of enduring the exercise without 
injury^ that those organs may possess. 

Enough of this. The subject is^ in my opinion^ 
of the first importance. Medical men could hardly 
be more usefully occupied, than in the promotion 
of these means of aiding in the development, and 
adding to the vigour, of the pulmonary organs, — 
and in pointing out the exercise of the voice, as one 
of the ways, by which the due expenditure of the 
system might, in after life, be most usefully secured. 
And on the responsible watchfulness of the medical 
attendant, must rest the propriety of allowing this to 
be made a means of exercise in any degree, in the 
case of those who may be already invalided, and even 
of those who have a strong hereditary Kability to 
pulmonary complaints. 

I may be allowed to say a few words on the 
common practice of putting a flute, or other wind- 
instrument, into the hands of boys. I believe that, 
as a general rule, the practice is not judicious ; and 
it is the less so, in proportion to the original delicacy 
of the boy's constitution, and in proportion as the 
several circumstances of his physical education have 
been neglected, or been unavailingly attended to. 
Every thing that has had, directly or indirectly, the 
effect of relaxihg or weakening the powers of his 
body, must, of course, be a direct reason for not 
allowing him to exercise Ins lungs to any unusual 
extent, or in any unusual way. The time, and the 
earliest time, when such should begin to use them, 
and then only with much care and watchfulness, is 



40 ADAPTATION 07 EXEBCISE. 

when the chest is fully formed^ the body has attained 
its full growth^ and the fibres and tissues have 
acquired the firmness of perfect manhood. Of course^ 
the more that the lungs have been actively exercised 
in early life^ the less, cateris parilms, will be the 
risk of allowing young lads to play on wind-instru- 
ments. 

How extraordinary these statements and notions 
read by the side of the well-known crudity, so boldly 
advanced in a certain work, that the exercise of the 
lungs, and dilatation of the air-cells, by blowing 
through tubes, may be capable of being a remedial 
measure in cases of existing tubercular degeneration 
of the pulmonary tissues I How strange, that such 
a doctrine should have been quoted without disap- 
probation, in a recent translation of a standard work 
on the diseases of the chest I How extreme exercise 
of a diseased and vital structure can be curative, or 
even safe, is more than reason can explain, or, I 
will venture to add, than experience can justify. 
It would be Kttle less imreasonable, to prescribe a 
course of hill-climbing and violent gymnastics to 
a man with valvular disease of the heart, or of 
leaping and jumping to a sufferer from disease of 
the knee joint. 

A neglect of apportioning the kind, and the degree 
of exercise, to the powers, and constitution, and other 
peculiarities of the individual's physical state, is pro- 
bably the reason why the whole value of exercise, as 
a remedy for, and a preventive against disease, is so 
seldom derived, and perhaps so seldom apprehended 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE. 41 

Is not exercise often enjoined^ with so little refer- 
ence to the patient's constitution^ to his habits 
of life^ and even sometimes to the nature of his 
complaints^ that a certain daily mileage of walk- 
ings or the use of dumb-bells of undefined weight 
for an indefinite time^ are the doubtfully useful, 
because the ad libitum prescriptions : the medicine 
being good, and adapted to the case^ but the doses 
left to the chapter of accidents?* Such a pro- 
ceeding is manifestly imreasonable, and must be 
injurious. 

The character of people's minds differs so much^ 
that the kind of exercise, to render the prescription 
palatable, and therefore give it all possible chance of 
being adopted and persevered in, must be adapted 
thereto. There are some, with minds of so grave 
and staid a character, that to recommend to such 
the skipping-rope, the battledore and shuttlecock, 
or any other of what are ordinarily used and thought 
of as playthings, might be construed by such persons 
into an insult, and would probably be treated with 
contempt; and most assuredly, the injunction would 
never be attended to by them ; and yet these indi- 
viduals might be induced to ride on horseback, or 

* ^ That which is conducing to one man, in one case, the same is 
oppofite to another. An ass and a mule went laden over a brook, 
the one with salt, the other with wool. The mule's pack was wet by 
chance, the salt melted, his burden the lighter, and he thereby much 
eased. He told the ass, who, thinking to speed as well, wet his pack 
Hkewise at the next water ; but it was much the heavier, he quite 
tired. So one thing may be good and bad to seyeral parties, upon 
diyers occasions." — Burton. 



42 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE. 

to use the Hindostanee clubs^ or, in fact, to do 
aaything else which would not, according to their 
ideas, seem to have anything childish or ridiculons 
attached to it. There are, on the other hand, persons 
of a different mental temperament, who could not be 
induced to take any kind of exercise, with sufficient 
regularity, or to a sufficient degree, that does not 
involve something playful to the mind's notions; 
something which their buoyant and laughter-loving 
minds can unrestrainedly enjoy; something which 
they cannot look upon in the light of a toil, or a 
necessity, but which carries along with it a remi- 
niscence of their days of childhood, and, in fact, 
brings back the feelings that they then had. Such 
persons may even be induced to use a skipping- 
rope, and to play at battledore and shuttlecock, 
or to enter, with heart and soul, into a game at 
^' catch me catch can/' It need not be said, how 
important, and, indeed, needful, attention to this 
matter is, in prescribing different kinds of exercise. 
The selection and adaptation of means of exercise 
within doors to different circumstances, is at once 
more important and more difficult, from the fact, 
that exercise is more apt to be neglected in wet and 
cold weather, and that the means of exercise within 
doors are more restricted. Those already mentioned, 
giving dancing a very honourable place among them, 
— ^and a nice quiet game, especially suited to girls, 
played with sticks and small hoops, called '^Les 
Graces,'' — and all the many games playable with a 
ball, — are the more important of these. Out of 



ADAPTATION OP EXEBCI8E TO AGE. 43 

doors^ we hare hoops and trap-ball for the younger, 
and cricket for children of maturer growth ; besides 
many others, that will readily suggest themselves to 
the mind. Of course, none of these are ever to be 
thought of as substitutes for walking or riding. 
They do not afford the change of air, which is so 
importantly useful to health. But they are valuable 
auxiliaries to the mere locomotive exercises; and 
especially from involving some degree of running, 
and more active movements, with all the good effect 
of these on the healthy system, in adding to the 
general tone and promoting expenditure. 

The age of individuals renders discrimination and 
modification necessary, as to the modes and degree 
of exercise that may be recommended. It would 
seldom be wise to advise the same kind of exercise 
to the elderly father or mother of a family, that 
might be recommended properly enough for his or 
her children or grand-children. The muscles cannot, 
in advanced life, be exercised so much or so long, as 
they could be safely used at an earlier period ; nor 
can the organs so well bear, as they could have done 
in former years, the sudden and large influx of 
blood, that violent exercise necessarily causes. The 
walls of the blood-vessels are harder and denser, 
while their power of contracting upon their contents 
is materially diminished. There is, therefore, greater 
risk of inducing congestions of blood, and even 
hsemorrhage, than there is in yoimg people, from 
the more violent exercises; and any such exercise 
may be highly improper and dangerous, and even 



44 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO AGE. 

very active exercise be unsafe, under such drcum- 
stances; and more particularly^ if the individual 
have been unused for many years to make such 
severe exertion. The boy or the girl may run, jump, 
leap, or undergo any such violent exerdse, with- 
out any risk, unless where there is some evident 
local or general delicacy to act as a sufficient and 
sufficiently evident prohibition. The youth, trained 
to the habitual and free use of his muscles, can 
hardly suffer from any muscular exertion that he is 
capable of making. In such, the blood-vessels yield 
to a sudden influx of blood ; they contract vigorously 
upon it, and drive it onwards ; and the sole effect is 
a general quickening of the circulation, without local 
congestion in any organ or structure. This state of 
things commonly lasts for many years ; but, towards 
middle life, the man is less fitted for this ; he does 
it with more inconvenience, and his doing so is 
attended with more risk. He may be stronger than 
at any former period of his life ; he may lift a greater 
weight with greater ease ; he may be able to walk or 
ride further without fatigue, than he could ever have 
done previously ; but this is not the question. He 
can endure fatigue better; his muscles are stronger 
and more firmly knit ; but the several parts of his 
system have a less power of accommodation; they 
less readily adapt themselves to any sudden or great 
changes; a sudden and considerable rush of blood 
into any part, is less easily made room for, and less 
quickly got rid of; and, although such a man can 
take more exercise with less inconvenience, yet 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE TO SEX. 45 

violent exercise is attended with more risk. As 
jears pass on^ and the man gets older^ this state of 
things increases ; the blood-vessels yield less and less^ 
their elasticity diminishes more and more^ and violent 
exercise is taken with greater and greater risk^ until 
it becomes impossible^ or^ of necessity^ dangerous. 

The sex^ too^ is a matter that should be attended 
to^ in estimating the kind and the degree of the 
exercise to be undergone. Girls and boys may be 
said to be nearly on a par until the age of ten or 
eleven years ; but there is, even before that time, a 
difference between them ; a difference as to strength 
and power. The boy will bear more exercise, and 
usually wiU bear more violent exercise, than the girl, 
without inconvenience. After the age of puberty, 
this difference becomes greater and more manifest. 
In general, young women, particularly if in a station 
of life where little or no personal exertion has been 
necessary, shoTild not, without much caution, be 
allowed to take long-continued or violent exercise. 
It is evidently well, to begin by making the girl walk 
gradually more and more every day, — always keeping 
the degree to which this is carried, within the powers 
of the individual; then, to make her swing her arms 
to and fro, for a longer or shorter time; then, by 
degrees, to have this done longer at a time, and more 
rapidly; and then, and not till then, to allow a more 
active and violent kind of exercise. The already 
mentioned game, ^'Les Graces,^^ might be a gentle 
introduction to the latter ; and afterwards the skip- 
ping-rope might be tried, and used at separate, and 



46 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO HABITS. 

at first shorty intervals during the day. With boys, 
lads^ and young men^ less caution and preparation 
are in general necessary; but among them^ such 
caution is required in the case of the delicate — ^those 
that have lax fibres and weakly constitutions. For 
such it is necessary, and perhaps for aU it is well, to 
begin with a daily, systematic, and judicious degree 
of walking ; adding to this, after a longer or shorter 
time, any simple exercise of the arms; and to this, 
the use of dumb-bells, climbing up a rope by the 
hands, or any other similar and active kind of mus- 
cular exertion. 

The habits of the individual, and his or her usual 
employment, must be considered, in estimating the 
kind of exercise they should use, and the degree to 
which it ought to be carried. The more sedentary 
the occupation, the less varied and more uniform the 
habits, the more cautiously and gradually ought 
exercise to be made use of. I had lately (1885) two 
patients, one an engineer, the other a slater, both 
men of active habits, and both of them having had 
employments in which a good deal of muscular exer- 
tion was used habitually. For them both, exercise 
in the open air was a primary and essential ingre- 
dient in the treatment. I advised them to walk a 
great deal in the open air. One of them, to my 
astonishment, walked sixteen miles a day regularly 
without inconvenience ; the other could walk twenty- 
four miles without feeling tired! How marked is 
the distinction between these men and a tailor or 
a shoemaker; who, seldom moving from his shop- 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCI8E TO STBENOTH. 47 

board or his last^ and perhaps only removing thence 
to his lodging and his bed, finds every^ however 
triflings degree of exercise fatiguing^ and cannot, 
without difficulty, walk more than a mile or two a 
day. This must be attended to in prescribing exer- 
cise, both as to its kind and its degree. But it should 
at the same time be remembered, as an aphorism 
to which the exceptions are few, that the more the 
exercise fatigues, the more necessary is its use. 

The strength of the individual must, as has more 
than once been said, be constantly regarded with 
reference to the amount of exerdse to be taken, 
and the degree to which it should be active or violent. 
K the kind and the degree of exercise be not propor- 
tioned to the individual's strength, it is worse than 
useless, for it does harm. If it be not sufficient, the 
individual had better, in general, not take it at all. 
The life of the strictly sedentary is, it is true, almost 
always shortened: but that life is often passed in 
.Jcte .».,.im^ of ^d .nd kod,, ».a di«» 
seizes on its victim, debilitated by his habits, and 
rapidly carries off its prey. But if the individual 
use a little, but an insufficient degree of exertion, a 
restless irritability of mind and body commonly 
makes its appearance, which embitters life more than 
pain, more than disease, and prepares the system to 
receive the inroads of the maladies to which it is 
predisposed. If the exercise be excessive, it debili- 
tates instead of strengthening; it takes from, instead 
of adding to the powers; and is in itself a fertile 
predisponent to disease. 



48 EFFECT OF MIND ON EXEBCISE. 

The degree of strengtli or power that exercise re- 
quires and exhausts^ depends as much on its violence 
or activity as on its duration. The weak should 
walk at first slowly — ^move saunteringly along ; gra- 
dually^ as the strength improves^ increasing the 
distance walked over, and the rate of motion. 

Both the extent to which exercise should be car- 
ried^ and its activity^ must always be proportioned to, 
and kept within^ the individual's powers^ to be pro- 
ductive of real benefit to the health. Exerdse should 
be daily carried to the confines of fatigue, but it 
should never produce absolute weanness.* 

The degree to which the mind is occupied, has 
much to do with the amount of exercise that may 
be taken without fatigue ; and, it may be added, has 
much to do with the amount of benefit that will be 
derived from it. Give an individual an object to 
walk for — ^to visit a patient, or a client, or a cus- 
tomer, — or to collect plants, or minerals, or insects, — 
or let him be accompanied by a cheerful and faTniliar 
friend, — and miles will be passed over almost insen- 
sibly, and a long walk taken probably with less sense 
of fatigue, than a short walk would have been under 
different circumstances. If people are so unfortunate^ 
as to have no business or professional necessity, to 
make them take exercise in the open air, and furnish 

* '* Exercitationis autem plemmque finis ease debet sador, aat 
cert^ lassitudo, quee citra fiatigatioiiem sit : idqne ipsnm, modo 
minus, modo magis faciendum est Ac ne his quidem, athletarum 
exemplo, yel oerta esse lex, yel immodicus esse labor debet" — 
Cblsus, lib. i., cap. 2. 



EFFECT OF MIND ON EXEBCISE. 49 

the mental stimulus whicli would make the mus- 
cular effort easy to them^ they might very wisely try 
to discover some such object that would not be 
unworthy of their native and acquired intellectual 
faculties and endowments. To many such people^ 
some little attention to entomology^ or botany^ or 
mineralogy^ or geology^ might be doubly valuable ; 
as the collection of specimens for the herbarium and 
the cabinet would supply the mental incentive to 
take the exercise which health demands^ and the 
conjoining the mental and the bodily exercise would 
unquestionably much enhance the value of the 
hitter. 

A love of sport — shootings huntings coursing^ &;c. 
—is in this way highly useful to many^ who, per- 
haps not accustomed to more intellectual pursuits, 
might hardly be induced by anything else to undergo 
active or laborious exercise. Yet with such an incen- 
tive, I have known an individual rise from his bed 
long before daybreak, and walk— perhaps beating 
fiirze-bushes half the time — ^with little intermission, 
during ten hours, and much of the distance over 
ploughed land ; while a pound or two of dirt was 
adhering to his shoes, and each step must have been 
taken with more than twice the exertion that walking 
on a pavement, or on an ordinary foot-path, involves. 
The mental zest is indeed a great requisite, in ren- 
dering muscular exercise as useful to the system as 
it may be ; and hence the sports of the field may 
he deserving of all praise, in cases where other 

VOL. II. D 



50 EFFECT OF MIND ON EXERCISE. 

incentives to active out-of-door exercise are wanting. 
The great evil of these pursuits^ as regards the question 
of health; is their being probably in most cases too 
severe^ and their being so irregularly made use of. 
A man who leads a life that is otherwise perhaps 
essentially sedentary^ during a few weeks of the year 
rides over so many miles of country^ and at such a 
rapid pace^ at the heels of a pack of hounds^ as to 
exhaust the powers of himself and his horses^ and 
this probably two, or at most three, days a week ;— or 
he toils for a few days or weeks of the year on foot, 
in the pursuit of grouse, partridges, or pheasants ; — 
or he seeks the banks of some rocky-bedded stream, 
with his rod and his flies, to spend hour after hour 
in practising the patient art of old Walton, but this 
only during a few weeks of the year ; — and the rest 
of his time is spent as usual, perhaps ministering 
very insufl&ciently to the expenditure of the system, 
to the tone of the muscles, to the equalising of the 
circulation, by the use of his limbs. It is regular 
and moderate exercise, that health requires and 
demands of us. Habit may reconcile the system for 
a time, even to a life that is absolutely sedentary. 
But exercise, carried at one time much beyond the 
confines of fatigue, and to the probable degree of 
great physical exhaustion, — ^this being taken at long 
and uncertain intervab, which are probably charac- 
terised by little of laborious muscular effort, — cannot 
be supported on any principle of reasonableness, as 
regards the health of the economy; unless in so far 



EFFECT OF MIND ON EXEBCISE. 51 

as it supplies the mental stimulus^ so much required 
and so useful^ in aiding the good effects of bodily 
exercise on the system.* 

• The late Dr. Combe, whose death, at so compaiatiTely early an 
age, will be most deplored, on public gromids, by those who are most 
fiuniliar with his admirable writings, — ^in his work on <* Physiology 
applied to Health and Education," handles this subject with his usual 
ability. ^ In summer, walking excursions to the Highlands of Scotland 
are common among the youth of our cities, and when proportioned 
in extent to the constitution and prerious habits of the indiyidual, 
nothing can be more adTsntageous and delightful. But not a season 
passes in which health is not sacrificed and life lost by young men 
imprudently exceeding their natural powers, and undertaking jour- 
neys for which they are totaOy unfitted. It is no unusual thing for 
youths^ still weak from rapid growth, and perhaps accustomed to the 
desk, to set out in high spirits at the rate of twenty-five or thirty 
miles a day, on a walking excuraon, and (in consequence of carrying 
exerdse, for days in succession, to the third degree, or that in which 
wute exceeds mUriUon), to come home so much worn out and debili- 
tated that they never recover. Young soldiers, when youth is scarcely 
finished, are weU known to die in great numbers, when exposed to 
long and heavy marches, particularly when food is at the time scanty. 
Violent exercise is not less pernicious, and, as well remarked by Dr. 
Johnson, ' it did great harm even when nations were more in a state 
of nature than they now are. Galen, in his discourse on Thrasibulus, 
inveighs against the athletic practices of the gymnasium. A smart 
walk of a mile is to a valetudinarian, what a grievous wrestle would 
be to an athletic. If we trace those dreadful aneurismal affections of 
the heart and arteries in early life, we shall find their origins in 
violent exercise or sudden over-exertion, in nine cases out of ten, 
when age and ossification are Jiot concerned.' Even a single day of 
exoeasiye fatigue will sometimes suffice to interrupt growth and pro- 
duce permanent bad health ; and I know one instance of a strong 
young man, who brought on a severe illness and permanent debility, 
by sudden return to hard exercise for a single day, although for some 
years before he had been accustomed to every species of muscular 
exertion in running, leaping, and swimming. Many young men 
hurry on the premature development of consumption by excessive 
fatigue during the shooting season, in cases where, by prudent ma- 
nagement, they might have escaped it for years, if not altogether. The 

d2 



52 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO DISEASE. 

It need hardly be added^ that^ in the selection of 
any kind of exercise for those who are decidedly 
invalided^ its adaptation, in kind and degree, to the 
nature of the complaint the patient is snjBPering from, 
should be especially attended to. It might seem 
to be evident enough, that when there is a much 
deranged or a diseased condition of any of the great 
organs, in the head, chest, or abdomen, any kind of 
violent exercise would be highly improper, and 
perhaps full of immediate risk; — ^that a disordered 
state of some of these organs admits of a nearer 
approach to violent exercise, than such a state of 
some of the other organs : for instance, that in many 
cases of disordered lungs, or liver, exercise on horse- 
back is of the greatest use, and is perfectly safe ; 
while in many cases of disease of the encephalon or 
of the heart, exercise of so active a kind would be 
attended with considerable danger, and these cases 
would probably be most benefited by quiet and 
gentle walking, or by riding in an easy and open 
carriage ; — ^that, in spinal cases, of severe character 
and degree, on the other hand, any sitting or stand- 
ing posture might be very injurious ; and a vehicle 
long enough to enable the patient to He down on 

principle already laid down, if not exceeding the point at which 
exercise promotes rmtrition cmd i/ncrectses strengthy will serre as a safe 
guide on all occasions, and indicate the rate at which it may be 
extended. Old sportsm^i know the rule by experience, and generally 
prepare themselves for the moors, by several weeks of previous 
training. The science and judgment which fox-hunters display in 
preparing their horses for their future exertions in coursing are 
well known, and might be still more usefully applied by their riders, 
to the training of their own families." 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE TO DISEASE. 53 

a mattress^ with curtains^ or glazed panels^ that 
might be closed or opened at pleasure^ so affording 
the invalid the benefit of exposure to the open air, 
and sufficient change of air, together with that of the 
perfectly passive exercise of the easy and rocking 
motion, might be the most suitable means of afford- 
ing the needful exercise ; — ^and, yet, although these 
matters are fully known and recognised, and many 
simQar practical facts are scattered through medical 
works, and are matters of commonest observation, it 
is nevertheless quite true, that this question is much 
neglected in practice ; and particulars as to the kind 
of exercise that should be made use of, and the extent 
to which it should be carried, if seldom asked for, are 
unquestionably as seldom entered into. It is quite 
certain that this should not be the case. Sir Benjamin 
Brodie, in some hints and suggestions as to the ma- 
nagement and treatment of cases of distortion of the 
spine not connected with caries,* at once illustrates 
the importance of exercise as a remedial agent, andhow 
much may be done by the exertion of his information 
and practised judgment on the part of the medical 
man, to guide and regulate the kind and degree of 
the exercise made use of. He says, " With a view 
to strengthen in particular the muscles of the back, 
particular exercises may be had recourse to; and 
many kinds of exercise have been contrived for this 
purpose. All climbing exercises are useful in this 
respect, bringing all the muscles of the spine into 

* Vide Lamcety January 2, 1847. 



54 ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE TO DISEASE. 

vigorons action. They are at the same time beneficial 
in another way^ the weight of the lower limbs tend- 
ing to elongate and strengthen the column of the 
vertebrse. A rope with worsted wound round it^ 
that it may not hnrt the hands, may be suspended 
from the ceiling, and the patient will soon become 
a dexterous climber. There are often two or three 
girls in a family for whom this exercise will be bene- 
ficial ; and that which would be a tedious and irksome 
task to a girl alone, will become an amusement when 
pursued in the company of others of her own age. 
The hand-swing affords a very useful exercise in 
these cases abo. This is a triangle composed of 
a double rope, with a cross-bar of wood forming the 
base of the triangle, suspended from the ceiling at 
such a height, that the individual who uses it can 
just reach the cross-bar with her hands as she stands 
on tip-toe. She is to hold the bar with both her 
hands, and swing with her feet raised a little from 
the ground.* The effect of this exercise also is to 
bring the muscles of the spine into action, at the 
same time that the weight of the lower limbs operate 
in the same manner as when she climbs a rope. At 
first, probably, she will not be able to continue to 
use the hand-swing for more than a few seconds at 
a time ; but as she grows stronger, she will swing for 
a much longer period. Another mode of exercising, 
and thus strengthening, the muscles of the back, is 
the following. Let one pulley be fixed to the ceUing, 

• Vide supra, page 13. 



ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO DISEASE. 55 

and another to the floor. Let a small rope pass over 
the upper pulley^ and under the lower pulley, a box 
containing a light weight being fastened to that end 
of the rope which is nearest to the upper pulley, and 
a handle to that which is nearest to the lower pulley. 
The patient, standing with her tajce towards the 
pulleys, is to raise and lower the weight, holding the 
handle in both her hands. The effort used in raising 
the weight necessarily calls the muscles of the back 
into action, and as the patient becomes accustomed 
to it, the required effort may be increased by putting 
an additional weight into the box. This exercise 
may be varied by taking off the handle, and fixing 
the rope to a bandage fastened round the head, so 
that the weight is raised by the action of the muscles 
of the neck and back, without the aid of the arms. 
The latter method of using the pulleys, however, is 
wearisome to the patient, and, practically, much less 
useful than the other. I offer these as examples of 
the kind of exercise which may be supposed to be 
espedally adapted to cases in which there is defi- 
ciency of power in the musdes of the spine. Under- 
standing what is required, you may easily invent 
others equally efficacious. Those which I have 
described have the advantage of simplicity, and of 
being easily adopted in a private house. One or the 
other may be had recourse to according to circum- 
stances; and it is better that the patient should 
practise her exercises at different periods of the day, 
rather than be exhausted by practising them for a 



56 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO DISEASE. 

very long time at any one period. Anything like 
over-exertion should be carefully avoided." 

How different this^ in sound principle^ and in cor- 
rect pathology^ and treatment founded on physiology^ 
from the older management^ or rather mismanage- 
ment^ of such cases as these^ by steel supports resting 
on the pelvis^ extending to the axillae^ and sometimes 
to the occiput^ by which the straightness and strength 
of the spinal column were endeavoured to be restored^ 
in defiance of the physiological law. — ^that muscles are 
powerful for their offices in the economy, in pro- 
portion to the health of the system generally^ and 
to the degree of use which is made of them ! How 
different is this^ from the absurd contrivances^ even 
now not discarded universally^ by which it has 
been endeavoured to maintain or restore the straight- 
ness of the spinal column by attaching weights to 
the shoTilders; or to secure an erect carriage^ and 
drooping shoulders, and a flat back^ by an apparatus 
with arm-holes^ which fitted on to the shoulders^ 
and was tightly laced between the scapulse; — ^how 
different from another of the means that used to 
be so commonly had recourse to^ of effecting 
these same intentions : putting a weighty which 
might be considerable or might be small^ on the 
top of the head^ which^ according to circumstances, 
was to be worn and maintained in its place during 
a certaiiL time of every day, or carried a longer 
or shorter distance, — the maintaining the head 
duly level being of course necessary, to prevent the 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE TO DISEASE. 57 

weight from falling ; the parties not considering^ that 
the head might be kept duly levels and the weight 
maintained in its position^ while the middle and 
lower part of the spinal column might be in a 
position as far as possible removed from a straight 
line ! But not only was this so far wrong and 
irrational: it involved the further absurd condition 
that the spine is a column without curves^ whereas 
its curvatures forward and backwards are consi- 
derable in the cervical^ the dorsal^ and the lumbar 
regions ; — ^the crowning error of all being, however, 
that the extra pressure from above downwards, could 
only tend to increase any existing tendency to curva- 
ture, from general weakness of system, or from local 
debility or disease of the muscular ligaments or bones 
of the spinal column ! How different this, it may be 
added, to the injunction so often given by mothers 
and governesses, to sit quite straight, and to maintain 
this position during all the hours of the day, that are 
not considered to be stolen from the primary duties 
of acquiring education and the accomplishments, to 
be devoted to the routine walk for the so-considered 
secondary purposes of health. This said straight posi- 
tion has been, moreover, perseveringly and resolutely 
striven for, in no few cases, by making these victims 
of physiological ignorance and medical supineness, sit 
on benches of studious narrowness, — and, of course, 
without the excuse or opportunity of resting the spine 
against any support for the back. It has been but 
too often forgotten, at least practically forgotten, 
that the muscles of the spine are at least in passive 

d3 



58 ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISE TO DISEASE. 

exercise^ — ^both in antagonism to the corresponding 
•muscles of the other side of the column^ and in 
maintaining the body in the vertical position^ — ^when 
the individual is sitting or standings or otherwise 
than in the horizontal posture; and therefore that 
even long sitting, without enforcing the sitting in 
any constrained or painful position, may be an undue 
tax on those muscles, in the feeble, — ^and more espe- 
cially during the years of growth or of development ; 
that to minister to the healthiness of the general 
system, to promote the vigour of the muscular system 
generally, is essential to their being kept in a state 
of health and strength; and, moreover, that these 
muscles must not be unwisely used at the expense of 
the general vigour of the economy, or, sooner or later, 
not only will that vigour suffer, but the muscles which 
support the vertebral column will eventually become 
impaired, and spinal curvature necessanly foUow. 
It must be added to this, to complete the truth- 
fulness of the picture, and illustrate fully the amount 
of wrong done by ignorance to the physiques, and 
the chances of health i,nd life, of the yotmg and 
growing, that the mischief of keeping the spinal 
muscles in a state of forced and exhausting effort 
is necessarily and much increased, if, by position or 
otherwise, the use of one set of the muscles is enforced 
in an especial degree : a result manifestly consequent 
on protracted leaning to one side, or stooping over a 
table, desk, or work-frame ; and that thus, the long 
and sedulous performance upon the harp or piano, the 
length of time devoted to writing, accounts, drawing, 



ADAPTATION OF EXEBCISB TO DISEASE. 59 

mapping, stitching, '^knitting, netting, and knotting/' 
'' cTocIieV or the embroidery firame, may be, by so 
mnch, laying up evils for the after-life, tax greater 
than any personal or social advantage to be obtained 
by so much time, labour, and efforts, devoted to the 
acquisition of information, or the attainment of ever 
so high a degree of skill in such several accom- 
plishments. Perhaps most of the good sought to be 
realised, without any of the evil, might be gained, 
by varying frequently the several duties, and conse- 
quently changing the position: not allowing more 
than perhaps half an hour at a time to be devoted 
to any one of the scholastic duties ; but, above all, 
by seeing that these duties are proportioned to the 
physical powers of the pupil, — and that, at the same 
time, the means of health, by out-of-door and general 
exercise, are as much thought of, and as diligently 
studied and practised, as the development of the 
mind's powers and capabilities, or the securing the 
full development, and the educated and practised 
movements, of the muscles of the fingers. 

That curious-looking machine, the chamber-horse, 
or invalid's horse : consiBting of a seat, supported 
upon springs, by means of which, aided only by the 
exertions of the body and the arms, a certain degree 
of movement and exercise of the whole body is 
secured, often subserves a very useful purpose in the 
case of invalids, who are unable to leave the house, 
and to whom the use of their lower limbs may be, 
for many reasons, prohibited, or prove to be insuffi- 
cient for the purposes of exercise. But it is probable. 



60 ADAPTATION OF EXERCISE TO DISEASE. 

after all^ that more useful exercise of the different 
parts of the body^ and exercise more easily adapted 
to the nature of the case and the powers of the 
patient^ may be obtained by a due adjustment of 
weights of different degrees^ and pulleys in different 
directions^ than by any oth^ means of exercise ob- 
tainable within doors. As mentioned in the quota- 
tion from Sir Benjamin Brodie^s lecture^ by means 
al a pulley of adequate size^ securely screwed into 
a beam of the ceiling of the room — bed-room^ 
dressing-room^ school-room^ play-room^ or hall^ or 
garden-house^ as may be^ — and another pulley 
screwed into the floor immediately beneatii it^ — 
and a strong rope of adjusted size^ from the fric- 
tion of which the hands may be sufficiently pro- 
tected by thick gloves, — almost any variety or 
degree of exercise may be obtained: fastening a 
weight of properly considered size to the one end of 
the rope, and passing the rope over one or both 
pulleys, and over the upper, or lower pulleys in the 
first instance, according to the direction of the force 
sought to be employed, and the sets of muscles espe- 
cially required to be called into exercise. But medical 
men should feel, that to carry this out advantage- 
ously,— or even safely, in the case of the invalided, — 
their judgment and personal observation and watch- 
ing are essentially needful. A sufficiently convenient 
arrangement is, to have two pulleys screwed into a 
beam of the ceiling of a room, three or four feet apart 
from one another, and corresponding pulleys screwed 
into the floor immediately beneath them. A rope, 



SYSTEMATIC MU8CULAH EXEHCI8E. 61 

to which a weight of desired size is securely &stened^ 
is carried from the weight which lies on the floor oyer 
one of the pulleys screwed into the ceilings and 
under the corresponding pulley screwed into the floor 
beneath it; the second weight of the same size is 
fastened to a similar rope^ and this rope is passed 
over and under the two other pulleys ; the party sits 
or stands in the space between the ropes and pairs 
of pulleys^ — ^and either raises the weights by taking 
hold of the middle of the ropes and depressing the 
arms and trunk of the body^ — or raises the weights by 
taking the end of the ropes after they have passed 
under the lower puUeys^ and raising the bent body 
and depressed arms and shoulders. A useful exercise 
for those who are much crippled and almost confined 
to the chair^ is to have a perfectly smooth and roimd 
bg of wood^ about two or three feet long^ and from 
six to twelve inches in diameter^ — ^to use this as a 
footstool^ at any time^ — ^but frequently to roll it 
backward and forward by moving the legs and 
feet. In cases of stiffness or contraction of the 
knees or ankles^ this exercise will be found to be 
peculiarly useful. 

The remarkable results of a system of trainings 
deserve to be adduced in confirmation of the effects 
produced by muscular exercise on the animal economy. 
This system is called into requisition^ when men^ 
horses, dogs, &c., are required to make imusual exer- 
tions, and display the utmost activity, or the greatest 
strength, they are severally capable of. The effect of a 
prescribed and regulated diet, and of breathing a pure 



62 SYSTEMATIC MUSCULAR EXERCISE. 

xnoimtain air^botli of which are insisted upon as essen- 
tial matters by all the authorities on the subject^ need 
not be undervalued^ because muscular exercise is con- 
sidered to be the most important item in every system 
of training. Stipulating that the place selected for 
the training have a pure air^ — and that it should be, 
when possible, in a mountain district, — ^the trainer en- 
joins, that his chent should be fed, almost exclusively, 
upon animal food and stale bread. He is restricted 
to three nominal meals a day ; but nearly all the 
day^s nourishment is taken at the breakfast and the 
dinner. The breakfast, at eight o^clock, a. m., con- 
sists of beef or mutton, with stale bread or biscuit, and 
a restricted quantity of liquid. The dinner, at two 
o^clock, p. m., consists of steak, chops, roasted meat, or 
legs of fowls, and stale bread, with a little beer, or wine 
and water, — ^without spirits, on any pretence what- 
ever. The use of supper at all is not'recommended ; 
but a biscuit and a little cold meat are allowed, if par- 
ticularly wished for, at eight, p. m., — two hours before 
going to bed. No meat is allowed but beef, mutton, or 
poultry; and the two former are more strongly advised. 
The meat must be roasted or boiled; and it is said to be 
desirable that it be made use of under-done. The 
person in the course of training must leave his bed at 
five o^clock in the morning, in the summer, and as 
soon as it is light in the winter; and he is then 
exercised, during three or four hours, in running, 
walking, leaping, riding, or in more than one of these 
ways. Between the breakfast and the dinner, he is 
again exercised, either in the same way, or in boxing, 



SYSTEMATIC MUSCULAR EXEHCI8E. 63 

baU-playing^ or with dumb-bells^ or in throwing the 
quoits. Again^ after dinner, or between the dinner 
and bed-time^ he has to walk^ run^ or ride; and 
always to the extent of inducing a marked degree of 
perspiration. In these ways^ with this amount of 
steadUy foUowed-up exercise, graduaUy commenced, 
and eventually carried to so great a degree, — ^with 
this highly nutritious diet, in which there is little or 
no stimulating drink allowed, and no recent vege- 
tables, and no fat, and very little salt, and no article 
of food that is of difficult digestion, — ^and with the aid 
of free exposure, during so many hours of every day, 
to a fresh and pure air,— and with a limitation of seven 
hours for sleep, which is to be taken on a hard bed, — 
and with frequent frictions of the surface of the body, if 
required to remove the redundant perspiration, — ^the 
most astonishing results are found to be obtainable. 
In periods of from three weeks to as many months, 
men with flabby and tremulous limbs, who can 
undergo but little muscular exertion without extreme 
fatigue, whose skins are blotched and pimpled from 
dissipation or irregular habits, who become giddy 
upon slight exertion, whose breathing becomes 
oppressed and difficult on their attempting to make 
any slight degree of imusual muscular effort, such 
men become, imder such a discipliued system of 
training, ruddy in complexion, clear in their skins, 
with their limbs free from tremor, their muscles hard 
and firm, and capable of undergoing violent and long- 
continued exertions, without giddiness or any per- 
ceptible disturbance of the breathing. It is difficult 



64 SUMMARY. 

to over-estimate the importance of such residts^ 
or the proof thej afford of the Talue and effects of 
muscular exercise^ or the utility of turning such facts 
to a better account^ than in preparing a jockey to 
mount and ride a horse over a given distance in the 
shortest possible space of time. It cannot be doubted^ 
that a modification of the system of training might 
be often most usefully directed in many cases of 
deranged healthy with the strongest probability of 
great and durable advantage; and the facts are^ 
therefore^ well worthy of attentive consideration. 

In conclusion^ as regards muscular exercise^ I would 
add^ that the healthiness of the mental powers^ — ^their 
capability of high andnobleaspirations^ — ^their aptness 
for deep thought or improving study^ — depends so 
much on the health of the body^ on the regular dis- 
charge of its every function^ as to form in itself^ 
perhaps^ the strongest motive for giving attention to 
the means by which such a condition of the bodily 
functions may be maintained or restored : — 

*' Corpus enim male si valeat, parere nequibit 
Prseceptis animi, magna et preclara jubentis/' 

As there is no means of effecting this^ of such universal 
applicability^ or so uniformly efficacious^ as bodily 
exercise, — so ought bodily exercise to be cultivated, if 
for this reason only, by every one who thinks that 
all things should be made subservient to the mind's 
improvement. 

By way of summary, it may be said that exercise 
is serviceable, in proportion to the number of muscles 



SUMMARY. 65 

which are called into action bj it; in proportion to 
the degree to which each muscle is contracted; in 
proportion to the duration of the exercise; in pro- 
portion to the purity^ the dryness^ and the suitable 
temperature^ of the air which is breathed at the time 
of taking the exercise ; in proportion to the nervous 
and vascular powers being otherwise unexhausted or 
nnengrossed^ and therefore the exercise being taken 
neither immediately before nor soon after a meal; 
and in proportion to the regularity with which the 
exercise is made use of. 



CHAPTER IV. 

On VentilatioD, Glimatey and Change of Air. — ^Ventilation. — Consti- 
taents of Atmospheric Air. — Respiration* — Animal Heat. — 
Effects of Respiration on the Blood. — Sanatory and Morbific 
Effects of Respiration. — Sanatory Effects of Drainage, &c — 
Street-Ventilation. — Intra-mural Sepulture. — Ventilation of 
Dwelling-Houses. — ^Ventilation of Roonub — Relatiye Mortality 
of Town and Country. — Sanatory Improvement of Towns. — Mr. 
Farr, on the Health of Towns. — Degree of Ventilation Required. 
— Effect of Ventilation on Health. — Reference to Parliamentary 
Inquiries. — Effect of Ventilation on life-Expectancy. — Effect of 
Ventilation on Disease. — Dr. Reid, on the Degree of Ventila- 
tion. — ^Ventilation of Public Buildings. — Some Effects of Deficient 
Ventilation. — Facts and Arguments about Ventilation. — Combus- 
tion a Cause of Atmospheric Deterioration, and the Practical 
Inferences. — Effects of Heated Rooms. — Strictures on the Use 
of Gas as the means of Illumination in Apartments. — Situation 
of the Bed-Room to be preferred. — ^Temperature of Apartments. 
— Climate. — Effect of Climate on the Duration of Human Life. — 
Effect of Elevation on Climate. — Effect of the Ocean on Climate. 
— Climate affected by Hills and Valleys, by Seasons, by Vegeta- 
tion and Drainage, &c. — The Climates of different Localities : 
their Therapeutical Effects. — Change of Air: its important 
Influence on the System. — Hygienic Effect of Travelling. 

Ventilation, climate, and change of air, important 
as is their investigation in an inquiry into the physical 
conditions necessary to health, may be included 
without disadvantage under the same section, — 
embraced as they are in the comprehensive qnestion 
of the effects of the atmosphere on the animal system. 



CONSTITUENTS OP ATMOSPHERIC AIE. 67 

the physiological effects produced by it on the blood, 
its influence in the production of the animal heat, 
its effect in carrying off a large quantity of carbon 
from the body, and the influence which interference 
with these great processes on the one hand, or their 
promotion on the other, exercises on the health of 
man, on his expectation of life, and on the causes 
and preyention or removal of disease. 

The importance of yentilation,-— of a sufliciently 
Sequent change of the air of our towns and our 
dwellings, to preserve it in an adequately pure state 
for the purposes of life, and the maintenance of 
health, and the prevention of disease, — is probably 
second to that of no single subject included in the 
general elements of hygiene ; and it is as true, that 
no subject has been proved to have been so little 
attended to, and that on so single question has 
neglect been followed by such marked and inju- 
rious consequences to the physical well-being, and 
indirectly to the moral well-being, of the human race. 

Atmospheric air consists of oxygen and nitrogen. 
These elementary gases are not, in all probability, 
in a state of chemical combination, but are simply 
mixed together. The probable uses of this simple 
mixture of these gases, in promoting the rapid and 
sanatory diffusion of any excess of either gas, or of 
any foreign gaseous substance, throughout the atmo- 
sphere, without reference to rarity, or density, or 
temperature, deserve to be noticed. There is, besides 
the oxygen and hydrogen, a small proportion of 
carbonic acid, always present in atmospheric air. 



68 CONSTITUENTS OF ATMOSPHERIC AIR. 

computed to amount to but ^ p'o 6^ h port by weight* 
Tbis proportion of carbonic add is due to tbe mutual 
action and relation of animal and yegetable life ; the 
animal organism throwing off carbonic acid^ and the 
yegetable organism consuming it ; their antagonistic 
influence maintaining the proportion of carbonic acid 
at the same point ; and the rapid diffusion of uncom- 
bined and mixed gases^ causing the air that travels 
over large tracts of uninhabited country^ covered 
with a dense and gigantic vegetation, to be inappre- 
ciably different from the air that has passed over a 
fully peopled district. It should be added, although 
it seems to be of no practical importance, that the 
air of the atmosphere appears to contain a uniform 
proportion of ammonia : this proportion is even less 
than that of the carbonic acid. The chemical pro- 
perties of the air are chiefly those of the oxygen 
which it contains, so far diluted by four times its bulk 
of nitrogen : that is, one hundred volumes of the air 
contain eighty parts of nitrogen and twenty parts of 
oxygen. By weight, the proportions are nearly two 
equivalents of nitrogen to one equivalent of oxygen. 
The air is a supporter of combustion and of respira- 
tion by virtue of the oxygen it contains; in both 
these important processes converting carbon into car- 
bonic acid, with the attendant effect of a proportionate 
elevation of temperature. The effect of the nitrogen 
as to combustion and respiration, seems to be merely 
the dilution of the oxygen, and to diminish accord- 
ingly the rapidity of these great processes. The 
elasticity of the air; its density — 100 cubic inches 



BE8PIEATI0X. 69 

weighing about SI grains; its general pressure on 
the sur&oe of the earth — ^a column of air with a base 
equal to a square inch^ and of the whole weight of 
the atmosphere^ weighing 141bs., and pressing on 
the surfjEU^ to that amount; the diminution of the 
density of the air in the more elevated parts of earth 
surface^ — and the effect of this on its character 
and influences — are some of the more prominent 
of the physical characters^ uses^ and effects of the 
atmospheric air. 

In respiration^ the air inspired^ consisting^ as has 
been said^ of two equivalents of nitrogen and one 
equivalent of oxygen, undergoes a great and impor- 
tant change. A larger or smaller proportion of the 
oxygen disappears, and is replaced usually by an equal 
volume of carbonic acid, which is expired along with 
the unaltered nitrogen, and a considerable quantity 
of watery vapour. The effect of this upon the con- 
dition of the drculating blood is very great. The 
dark-coloured venous blood, returned &om the system 
to the lungs, imdergoes a great change : its colour is 
brightened; its globules have absorbed the oxygen 
of the inspired air, and parted with the carbonic add 
they had been previously charged with, which has 
been removed from the economy by the act of respira- 
tion. The absorption of the oxygen by means of 
the globules, gives to arterial blood its florid colour, 
which it may be made to lose artificially, out of the 
body, by the action of carbonic add; and this may 
be again separated from the blood, and its bright 
colour restored, by the action of oxygen, which is 



7 RESPIRATION. 

likewise attended^ as in the lungs^ with the separa- 
tion of the carbonic add. It seems to be ascertained 
that this remarkable property of absorbing oxygen 
possessed by the bloody is due to its globular consti- 
tution; and it is probable that the absorbent power 
of the blood-globules for oxygen^ is owing to the 
presence of a certain proportion of iron, which be- 
comes thus more or less oxydised. As carbonic acid 
appears to contain its own volume of oxygen, the fact 
that the proportion of carbonic acid evolved is exactly 
equal in volume to that of the oxygen absorbed, 
seems to admit of being readily explained. The 
globules of the blood, thus conveying oxygen through 
the arterial system to all the parts of the ^.TiiTni^ l 
economy^ yield it up, in passing through the capil- 
lary vessels, to certain of the bodily constituents. In 
the case of certain of the fully organised particles, 
this expenditure may determine their separation firom 
the living structure, and solution in the blood, pre- 
paratory to their removal from the system ; in the 
case of recently organised alimentary matters not 
yet developed into vital tissue, it may interfere with 
this further development, and make immediate use 
of them, for the consumption of the oxygen and 
consequent evolution of temperature, or for the ulte- 
rior purpose of using the oxydised compound in some 
of the processes of secretion. However obtained, 
the oxygen of the arterial globules finds carbon on 
which to act, either in the blood itself, or in the 
tissues it permeates, and thus promotes the expendi- 
ture of effete matters that are no longer wanted in 



ANIMAL HEAT. 71 

the economy^ aids in the great immediate or secondary 
purposes of secretion, and maintains the body at the 
elevated temperature which is essential to life. 

A temperature that is more or less elevated above 
that of the surrounding atmosphere, seems to be 
essential to life in all animals. In birds, the tem- 
perature is higher than in any other class of animals. 
According to Tiedemann, the temperature of birds 
ranges from 100° to upwards of 111 degrees. In the 
mammalia, on the same authority, it is from 97° or 
98° in the horse, to 104° in the sheep, and 105° or 
106° in the bat. In the cetacea, the temperature is 
much the same as in the other mammalia, — ^ranging 
in the different species from between 95° and 96° in 
the porpoise, to 104° in the Greenland whale. The 
temperature of the amphibia does not differ so much 
from that of the surrounding medium, being from 4° 
to 10° higher than that of the medium lived in, — the 
temperature of the animals being greater in wanner 
than in colder air. Even in what are peculiarly 
considered to be cold-blooded animals, as fishes, the 
animal temperature seems to be from 3° to 7° above 
that of the surroimding water. 

The temperature of the animal system appears to be 
intimately connected with the nimiber of the blood- 
corpuscles, as well as with the rapidity of the circula- 
tion, although more closely with the latter than with 
the former. Whether the theory of Baron Liebig, 
that the elevated temperature of the anunal system 
depends upon the corpuscles of the blood convey- 
ing the oxygen to the capillaries, by means of the 



72 EFFECTS OF RESPIRATION ON THE AIR. 

conversion of the iron they contain into the state of 
peroxyde^-— or that of M. Mulder^ that this absorption 
of oxygen depends on the oxydation of the protein 
compounds introduced into the system by the pro- 
cesses of nutrition, — ^be or be not the correct explana- 
tion of the great fact, can signify very little, farther 
than to show the difficulty and intricacy besetting 
such questions as these. It is enough to have it 
admitted, that oxygen is absorbed by the blood in 
its passage through the lungs, — ^that it is conveyed 
to the capiQary vessels of the different parts of the 
body, — ^that there it acts upon the compounds of 
carbon, — that in consequence of their combination, 
heat ia evolved, and at all the different parts of the 
body, — and that the carbonic add thus formed^ is 
conveyed to the lungs, and disengaged by expiration, 
unless what may have escaped, combined or uncom* 
bined, in the different excretions, or by the various 
means of egress afforded to it through the tissues of 
the body. 

The effect of the nitrogen in the atmospheric air, 
appears then to be simply negative; acting as a 
diluent to the oxygen, and diminishing its power as 
a disintegrant and stimulant to the system. As has 
been said, moreover, the change effected in the blood 
by the respiratory process, appears to be almost 
entirely confined to the corpuscles. The respiration 
is effected in man and the mammalia, by the dilatation 
and contraction of the cavity of the thorax. The 
capacity of the chest being enlarged by the flattening 
of the diaphragm and elevation of the ribs, the air 



EFFECTS OF BESFIBATION ON THE AIR. 73 

rashes in to restore the atmospheric equilibrium,— the 
yolnme of the lungs is by so much enlarged, — and the 
air is freely distributed throughout the pulmonary pa- 
renchyma, by the countless and minute ramifications 
of the air-tubes, which terminate in minute vesicular 
dilatations, the walls of which are covered with a 
capillary net-work of blood-vessels. It has been 
calculated, that the whole internal sur&ce of this 
membrane, through which the air and the blood are 
thus brought into such extensive and intimate rela- 
tion, amounts to 1400 square feet, — ^that the lungs 
contain, after the strongest expiration 35 cubic 
inches of air, after an ordinary expiration 108 cubic 
mches, and after a very full inspiration 240 cubic 
inches, — ^that the amoimt of air changed at every 
respiration, amounts to from 10 to 13 cubic inches, 
being probably the half, are rather more than the 
half, of the whole of the air admitted at every in- 
spiration, which is calculated to be, according to 
individual stature, from 15 to 25 cubic inches, — ^that 
the quantity of air respired in the 24 hours, 
may be from 400,000 to 500,000 cubic inches, — 
that women expire less carbonic acid than men, — ^that 
the quantity of carbonic add expired, is greater in 
proportion to the greater vigour of the system, unless 
under some peculiar circumstances of diseased action, 
^hat it increases with age to the 40th or 45th 
year, and then diminishes, — ^that the quantity of 
carbon expired is diminished by hunger and rest, and 
increased by the opposite conditions, — and that it is 
greater in the day than in the night. The quantity 

VOL. II. B 



74 EFFECTS OF RESPIRATION ON THE BLOOD. 

of carbon expired is yariously stated by different 
experimenters^ but may probably be about 150 grains 
per hour, — allowing for variations in the same indi- 
yidual at different times^ and, in different indiTiduals^ 
for age, size, and other circumstances. 

The inspired air is first warmed, then saturated 
with moiature, then exposed to the large surface of 
the moistened air-cells at the extremities of the air- 
tubes. The nitrogen of the inspired air remaining 
essentially unchanged, — ^the oxygen being to some 
extent exchanged for carbonic add, as it would 
seem by a simple membranous diffdsion, — ^the blood 
corpuscles absorb the oxygen; and as by its means, 
in the course of its circulation through the system, 
carbon becomes converted into carbonic acid, the 
blood at length returns to the lungs surcharged 
with this compoimd of carbon and oxygen. The 
moistened membrane of the air-cells offers little or 
no impediment to the action of the air on the blood : 
the permeability of membrane is well known; gases 
are foimd to permeate even dead membrane with 
considerable readiness ; and blood is said to be 
susceptible to atmospheric iofluences, even when 
removed from the system, and enclosed in a 
moistened bladder. 

The expired air contains a considerable proportion 
of watery vapour, which may possibly be formed 
during the more perfect organisation of the alimentary 
atoms, which may be attended with the disengage- 
ment of a definite proportion of the component water. 
Or it may be, in whole or in part, a consequence of 



SANATO&T EFFECTS OF BESPIBATIOK. 75 

the exposure of so large a siu&ce of moistened mem- 
brane to the action of the air. The quantity of 
water thus conreyed out of the system is too variously 
estimated by different experimeutersy to afford any 
satisfactory conclusion respecting it. The lowest 
calculation gives it at nearly 3000 grains of water in 
the a hours. 

All these facts only serve to show how important 
a share in the economy of the system^ is performed 
by the process of respiration, — ^how vast must be the 
influence thus exerted^ on the life and well-being of 
mankind^ — and how important an agent the respira- 
tion may be, in conducing to the health, or in under- 
mining the powers and shortening the duration of 
the vital processes. And, accordingly, not only is it 
quite true, that diseases of the lungs constitute a 
large proportion of the general mortality, but it is 
likewise true that, by breathing tainted air, by acci- 
dental, or occasional, or habitual exposure to an 
impure atmosphere, — as evidenced in the important 
dass of diseases admitted to be infectious, and in the 
immediate influence frequently consequent on expo- 
sure to concentrated and noxious effluvia, or in the 
eventual consequence of breathing an atmosphere 
characterised by the modified impurity caused by a 
concentrated population, or defective ventilation, 
drainage, or sewerage, — a far larger number of 
people are prematurely destroyed, a far larger nimiber 
of years are subtracted from the just duration of 
human life, than can be laid to the charge of all 
the vice, immorality, and several wrongs to the 

E 2 



76 SANATOBT EFFECTS OF DRAINAGE^ ETC. 

indiyidual organisations^ that affect the life^ degrade 
the physical strength and character^ or derange the 
physical usefulness^ of the human race. 

On this view of this question^ the subjects of 
drainage and sewerage rise into a degree of sanatory 
importance^ which is greater than could have been 
readily preconceived, and which I believe can hardly 
be exaggerated. This importance, which may be less 
appreciable in degree when a dwelling-house is de- 
tached, and remote from other habitations, must rise 
immensely in extent and character when several 
houses come to be placed side by side, and still more 
when acres or miles are covered, and perhaps thickly 
covered, with densely-peopled dwellings. How far 
this has been attended to or otherwise. Parliamentary 
Reports have of late years only too fiilly demon- 
strated ; and the fact that by these means the atten- 
tion of the public has been in some degree aroused, 
and some few steps taken in different towns and 
districts in the right direction, for the removal of 
such abuses of the life-probability and health of the 
people, has only served to show how much remains 
to be done, and how difficult it is to move people to 
put themselves to temporary inconvenience, or to 
undergo any considerable amount of expense, or to 
subject themselves to the necessity of some immediate 
exertion, when the question is not one that immedi- 
ately and sensibly affects the individuals, and does 
not interfere at once with the appliances and means 
of existence. What can be said to the facts, that 
one half of the mortality of England is directly 






"^ 



^ 






8ANATOBT EFFECTS OF DRAINAGE, ETC. 77 

referable to diseases of the respiratory organs ; and 
that the half of the remaining mortality, or, in round 
numbers, one fourth of the whole, is referable to 
epidemic, endemic, and contagions diseases, which 
are so intimately connected with the condition of 
the atmosphere; the remaining fourth of the whole 
mortaUtjr having to be divided among the diseases 
of the brain and the nervous system, and the diseases 
of the digestive organs, — ^numbers of which would no 
doubt owe their predisposing causes, to the disturbed 
and cachectic condition induced by a continued 
respiration of a vitiated atmosphere ? Let the reader 
refer to the several Sanatory Reports that have been 
issued by the authority of Parliament within the last 
few years, including the Reports of the Registrar- 
General, — ^let him study the startling tables of dis- 
eases and their mortality contained in those reports, 
—and then trace so many of those diseases, as he 
will find himself compelled to do, with all their sad 
consequences in the diminished expectancy of life, 
in the deaths of the middle-aged, and consequent 
reduction of the growing and the helpless to orphan- 
age and poverty, to the neglect of drainage and of 
sewerage, to imperfect ventilation of streets and 
dwellings, — and see how fever may be mapped as to 
the streets and districts attacked, by the imperfect 
condition of the sewers, — and see how the mortality 
of towns over that of the rural districts is needlessly 
and wantonly increased, — and see how, even in rural 
districts, fever is engendered and continued by the 
putrid emanations &om neglected and uncovered 



78 STREET- VENTILATION. 

ordure^ and needless collections of stagnant waters 
charged with animal and vegetable decomposition^ — 
and thus see^ how a village^ or a parish^ may become 
as remarkable for the amonnt and character of its 
mortality^ as the xinventilated gaols nsed to be in 
the last and preceding centuries^ — and then try to 
think how important must be the condition of the 
respiratory organs^ and how important must be the 
purity of the respired air^ to the health and life- 
expectancy of the population ! 

Supposing the primary conditions of drainage and 
sewerage to be secured^ and to be in a state of fdllest 
efficiency, — ^and this would very soon be the case if 
medical men would but bestir themselves to draw 
public attention to these questions^ to their fearful 
and perhaps incalculable importance, and supposing 
that every householder were at once bent on exerting 
his social power in securing these great essentials to 
his chances of health and life and those of his children, 
— ^and to use his individual power by removing to a 
well-sewered and drained district, no matter at what 
immediate pecuniary risk or sacrifice, under the con- 
viction that the alternative is a fearful probability, — 
the next great question becomes that of a thorough 
street-ventilation, to be secured by having the streets 
as wide, as a needful economy of space and pre- 
viously existing circumstances will admit, by having 
the roadways and footpaths as clear as may be, by 
having the roadways sufficiently arched, guttered, 
and drained by gratings, and the footpaths so inclined 
as to prevent the formation of puddles and the 



INTBA-MX7BAL SEPULTURE. 79 

lodgment of impurities. Thus^ the question would be 
reduced to that of house-yentilation ; a matter little 
less neglected than the more widely spreading erils 
already spoken of^ and one that is only of importance 
second to them. 

There is^ indeed^ one question that should be 
referred to^ in this sketch of the comprehensive ques- 
tion of the causes and effects of a vitiated atmo* 
sphere on the economy of healthy viz.^ the deleterious 
influence of the interment of the dead in crowded 
churchyards^ that are surrounded by the abodes of 
the hying : a practice which^ however it may har- 
monise with the feelings^ from long-continued custom, 
is quite indefensible, and not justifiable on any pre- 
text whatever. By circumstances that are perhaps 
characteristic of this country, this great sanatory 
question has been kept in abeyance, and subjected 
to some degree of sufficiently important prejudice. 
By having become mixed up with sectarian feelings, 
with attempts to remove the performance of the last 
duties and offices of the dead from the controul of 
the clergy of the Established Church, by the opening 
of unconsecrated grounds for the purpose of inter- 
ments; the prejudiced feeling being added to by 
the circumstance, that these cemeteries have been 
formed with the capital of public companies, sub- 
scribed with the avowed object of realising a profit on 
such investment ; a strong and not altogether unrea- 
sonable degree of feeling has arisen in the mind 
of many, in favour of intra-mural sepulture. But 
the great sanatory object must be sooner or later 



80 INTBA-MUBAL 8EFULTUBE. 

obtained without any attendant evil ; the liying and 
the nsefiil members of the world^s family cannot be 
suffered to continue^ year after year^ damaged in 
healthy and curtailed in duration of life^ for the pur- 
pose of enabling the dead to be interred in any par- 
ticular place^ no matter in what degree sanctioned 
by usage or by feeling. The whole good sought for 
may be attained^ by the due consecration of ground^ 
the property of the public^ in places sufBlciently far 
removed from human habitations^ or from a densely 
peopled district^ to do away with evil results to the 
public health; and this, with the fullest sanction and 
guidance of the constituted ecclesiastical authorities, 
and every reverential respect and attention that is 
at present shewn to the remains of the departed. 
It might be said, with much more real respect to 
those remains, if only one-half of the statements and 
evidence brought forward by Mr. Walker, in his 
great and untiring efforts in this important sanatory 
cause, were shewn to be true ; — ^if, in the crowded 
churchyards, and in the towns almost all the 
churchyards are crowded, the corpses are only 
covered over with a thin layer of earth, as a pretext 
for interment ; to be torn, within a few months or 
years, from their receptacles, mangled and cut to 
pieces, and thus made to occupy the least possible 
space; the cofiins being destroyed, and the coffin- 
furniture sold for the value of the metal ; — ^while 
the injury done to the health of the neighbouring 
population from the emanations of the grave- 
yards, — an injury sufficiently shewn and proved 



VENTILATION OF DWELLING-HOUSES. 81 

by Mr. Chadwick^s able report, — ^might be wholly 
arrested. 

As regards the general ventilatioii of dwelling- 
houses, — ^how little the sanatory importance of the 
subject has been understood, and how great the 
indifference respecting it, are proved by facts as 
striking, as those which appertain to the more 
wide questions of drainage and sewerage. Look at 
the numbers of people who are living in cellars, in 
some of the greatest and wealthiest towns ; — look at 
the facts as to the crowding of such cellars with 
inmates : places that must be imperfectly lighted, if 
lighted at all, by the sun ; that must be imperfectly 
ventilated, even if a partial current of air through 
them be established from the door to the fire-place ; 
that must be damp and noisome from unavoidable 
circumstances, independently of the polluted atmo- 
sphere, breathed over and over again by their 
wretched inmates ; — carry the mind upward to the 
rooms, crowded and close, of a class next above that 
of the occupants of cellars, and find the numbers 
who occupy the same small room ; — and thence go 
to the crowded workshops, reeking with the com- 
mingled results of imperfect ventilation, or if not so 
far neglected, marked by a distinct sense of close- 
ness and mal-odorous character; — and thence pro- 
ceed to the over-heated and over-crowded apart- 
ments of warehouses and ffictories; — and thence, 
ascending still in the social scale, follow the member 
of the middle classes to his close apartment, to his 
bed-room, probably with a low ceiling, with closely 

E 3 



82 YENTILATION OF ROOMS. 

fitting windows^ with a small fire-place^ probably 
robbed of all its ventilating advantages by what is 
called a fire-board being tightly fitted into it^ or by a 
sack full of straw being stuffed up the chimney that 
is gmltless of afire; the room being crammed with 
furniture, aud made comfortable (?) with much of 
woollen fabrics, as carpets, curtains, &c., which serve 
as reservoirs for the dampness of the air, whether 
derived from his own pulmonary and cutaneous 
exhalations, or simply from the humidity of the 
climate or the season; — ^and thence gather how 
little ventilation is understood, or how little of prac- 
tical good any knowledge of its principles has thus 
&r contributed. And this may be carried upward, 
as far as larger dwellings, and wider streets or spa- 
cious squares enable it to be thus extended, to the 
houses of the wealthy; and the degree to which 
the free ventilation of houses and rooms is neglected, 
be found to afford grounds enough for animad- 
version, — ^and especially as regards the dormitory, 
the ventilation of which, shut up as man is in it for 
so many hours of the twenty-four, is necessarily 
more important than the ventilation of the sitting- 
rooms. 

The rapidity with which the air of a room becomes 
vitiated, unless due ventilation is secured, is easily 
calculated, by knowing that 16 cubic inches of air 
are deteriorated, on the average, by every respiration, 
and that about 20 such respirations are taken in the 
minute ; rendering the quantity of air that is to all 
intents damaged for the uses of the economy in the 



HBLATIVB MORTALITY OF TOWN AND C0T7NTEY. 83 

minute and the hour^ a matter of simple calculation. 
Even in this view^ the effect of confining a single 
indiyidual in a carefully shut up apartment of small 
dimensions^ during many successive hours^ is obvious 
enough. But to this must be added, the effect of the 
laj^e quantity of watery vapour exhaled from the 
lungs, which is sufficiently demonstrated in cold 
weather by the condensation on the bed-room win- 
dows ; and still farther evidenced by the dampness 
of woollen articles of furniture or clothing, which have 
remained all night in a closely shut up and occupied 
bed-room. Nor is this all : the secretions from the 
skin must form part of the account ; and not only as 
regards the amount of aqueous matter thus excreted, 
but as regards the other more directly injurious 
matters, by which, in an imperfectly ventilated room, 
the air becomes perceptibly tainted, and by which 
every building that is occupied by large numbers 
of people, however carefully ventilated, becomes per- 
ceptibly offensive to an olfactory apparatus that has 
not been blunted by usage, and is to some extent 
injurious to the health of the occupants, and found 
to be so by the registration reports. 

It is indeed impossible to learn, that the deaths 
from a given population, referred to the heads of epi- 
demic, endemic, and contagious diseases, are almost 
double, and in some years more than double, in city 
districts, than in rural districts, — ^that, in the case of 
sporadic diseases, the excess of mortality in the town 
population over that of the country population, is in 
nearly the same fearful ratio, — ^without becoming 



86 MR. FABB^ ON THE HEALTH OF TOWNS. 

altogether removed^ from the pent-up-life in cities : 
a disease^ which^ if now as fatal as it was in some of 
the early years of the 17th century, might multiply 
the mortality of London alone by not less than thirty 
times. There can be no doubt, that the mortality 
and the expectation of life, in the worst districts, and 
the least densely peopled parts of the crowded cities, 
might, by full sanatory regulations, be reduced at 
least down to that of the most £a.youred of the town 
districts, — ^and that the mortality of these better town 
districts might be reduced to a point much nearer to 
that of the rural districts than at present obtains ; 
and medical men wiU not have done their duty to the 
public, whose inertness is principally owing to igno- 
rance, until this becomes the common conviction of 
the people and their rulers, aud every eiBFort is in 
fullest operation to determine its truth. The state- 
ments made, in Mr. Parr's own words, in the Appen- 
dix to the First Annual Report of the Begistrar- 
Oeneral, are more extraordinary and positive evi- 
dences of how much might be done to ameliorate the 
condition of many of the inhabitants of cities^ than 
almost anything which could be advanced on the sub- 
ject. Mr. Farr says, '^ The annual rate of mortality 
in some districts will be found to be 4 per cent., in 
others 2 per cent. ; in other words, the people in one 
set of circumstances live 60 years, while in another 
set of circumstances, which the registration will indi- 
cate, they do not live more than 25 years. In these 
wretched districts, nearly 8 per cent, are constantly 
sick, and the energy of the whole population is 



DEOBEB OF VBNTILATION &EQUIBED. 87 

irithered to the roots. Their arms are weak^ their 
bodies wasted, and their sensations embittered by 
privation and suffering. Half the life is passed in 
infimcy^ sickness^ and dependent helplessness. In 
exhibiting the high mortality^ the diseases by which 
it is occasioned^ and the exciting causes of disease^ 
the abstract of the registers will prove^ that while 
a part of the sickness is inevitable^ and a part can 
ovlj be expected to disappear before progressive 
social amelioration^ a considerable proportion of the 
siekness and deaths may be suppressed by the general 
adoption of hygienic measures which are in actual 
but partial operation. It may be affirmed without 
great risk of exaggeration^ that it is possible to reduce 
the annual deaths in England and Wales by 30^000^ 
and to increase the vigour (may I not add the indus- 
try and wealth?) of the population in an equal pro- 
portion ; for diseases are the iron index of misery^ 
which recedes before strength^ healthy and happiness^ 
as the mortality declines.'' 

Supposing^ as appears to have been proved^ that 
man respires^ on an average^ twenty times in a 
nunute^ and that at every respiration he inhales 16 
cubic inches of air^ of the 820 cubic inches thus 
passed through the lungs^ 32 cubic inches of oxygen 
are consumed. Of every 22i grains of carbonic acid 
expired^ about 6^ grains may be said to be carbon^ 
the remainder being oxygen ; and it has been inferred^ 
by simple calculation from these premisesj that a man 
inhales during the 24 hours about 266 cubic feet of 
air, weighing 201bs.^ — ^that he consumes 27 cubic feet 



88 REQUIRED DEGREE OF VENTILATION. 

of oxygen, weighing about 2^ lbs., — ^that the carbonic 
acid expired weighs at least 2^ lbs., of which 11 
ounces are carbon and the remainder oxygen. Some 
have computed the weight of carbon expired dally 
to be considerably less than this: as Uttle as 7 
ounces j but it seems probable that 11 ounces of 
carbon are not more than are expired daily from the 
lungs, on an average of the whole population. To 
this account must be added, the disengagement of 
upwards of half a pint of water in the air expired. 
The amount of ventilation necessary for the purposes 
of health, must be such as will secure to the system 
the proportion of oxygen required to maintain the 
elevated temperature of the body, and to carry oflF the 
carbonic acid, and as will serve to remove the aqueous 
exhalation from the lungs. The amount of ventilation, 
the rapidity of the change of the air, must be greater, 
in direct proportion to the quickness with which the 
air is vitiated, either by the number of people occupy- 
ing a given space, or by the consumption of oxygen 
by means of fires or otherwise. The importance of 
ventilation is likewise greater when the air is warm, 
than when it is cold, for the reason that warm air is 
by so much rarefied, and contains a correspondingly 
smaller proportion of oxygen in a given volume. It 
is quite evident how important the question of venti- 
lation must be in the between-decks of ships of war, 
where as many as 500 men are sometimes crowded 
together on the same deck, the hammocks being 
slung as close to one another as can by possibility be 
accomplished. The importance of ventilation is great 



EFFECT OF VENTILATION ON HEALTH. 89 

in such a case as this^ where^ from circamstances^ 
the other conditions of life are for the most part 
peculiarly those of health : where the diet^ and the 
temperance^ and the cleanliness^ and the regular 
exercise^ and the freedom from mental anxiety^ and 
the excitement of duty^ are all so strongly in the 
favour of the individual. The importance of 
ventilation is great^ and very great^ in the crowded 
barrack-room of the West Indies^ where heat and 
malaria contribute so fearfully to the amount of 
liability to disease^ that the average proportion of 
cases of illness is double that which obtains among 
the troops employed in these temperate regions^ and 
the general fatality of the cases is found to be no 
less than trebled. And^ even in these fearful circum- 
stances^ ventilation of the dormitories has donemuch^ — 
and mighty if carried out folly, do more, — ^to lessen the 
amount of the sickness and mortality. But, at home, 
in the United Eongdom^ in the classes of people that 
are less subject to the wholesome controul and kind 
superintendence of those above them in the social 
scale, — where the day^s wants are not so statedly 
ministered to, and their supply is perhaps subject to 
much vicissitude, and is often and for long periods 
reduced below the physical requirements of the 
system, — ^where intemperance so often helps to 
derange the organism, — the value of ventilation, 
as a means of public health, becomes even more 
conspicuous and important, and strikingly deserving 
of the attention of the philanthropist. Free venti- 
lation may be the single means within the gift of 



90 BPFBCT OF VENTILATION ON HEALTH. 

the public^ by which the physical lot of our poorer 
fellow-subjects may be ameliorated; and it may 
be the efficient means by which fever, with all 
its suffering and its £Eitali1y, is kept away, — ^the 
means by which the energies of the system are 
maintained in the best state for the maintenance 
of health and life, . on a minimum of food. Be- 
spiring an impure atmosphere deranges the func- 
tions of the economy, — ^interferes with the processes 
of assimiktion and expenditure,— prevents the best 
use being made of the alimentary supplies, be they 
small or great, — depresses the nervous energies, — 
and predisposes to disease from any exciting cause, 
whether calculate4 to induce sporadic, endemic, or 
epidemic disease. It may occur to any one who 
thinks on this subject, how much more good, real 
lasting good, might often be done to the wretched 
inhabitants of the crowded room by an improved 
ventilation, than by the eleemosynary charity which 
is so often and so grossly misused. 

In the evidence as to the workshops, those used 
by tiulors especially, the 8to)iige8t proofi were given 
in the parliamentary inquiry, as to the extent and 
the evil influence of deficient ventilation; the shops 
being thus rendered so close and so hot, by the 
animal heat, the uncarried off pulmonary and other 
exhalations, the high temperature of the stoves for 
heating the irons used in the business and of the 
irons themselves, that, even in summer, the tem- 
perature of the shop has been ascertained to be 
twenty or thirty degrees higher than that of the 



KEFBBENCE TO 7ABLIAMENTABT INQUIRIES. 91 

external air^ — ^tbat the men have been covered with 
a profuse perspiration^ — ^that^ in a large shop^ forty 
or fifty pounds^ worth of Ught-eoloured goods have 
been damaged by the damp hands of the men in 
a single season^ — ^that so much exhaustion has 
been induced^ that numbers have been unable 
to stay out the hours^ and been obliged to leave 
earUer, — ^that the appetite became impaired^ — ^that 
the use of stimulants^ to an extent destructive of 
healthy became gradually more and more neces- 
sary^ or seemed to be so^ — ^that ardent spirits were 
taken the first thing in the morning before food 
could be eaten^ and drams of spirits were taken 
at three stated times afterwards during the day. 
It appeared^ that the expectation of life was thus 
diminished by at least one-third. Moreover^ in 
the case of milliners and dress-makers, from the 
same cause in a great degree — deficient ventila- 
tion of the work-rooms, although partly, no doubt, 
from late hours, and deficient sleep, and defective or 
improper nourishment, and neglected out-of-door 
exercise, the probable duration of hfe was curtailed 
to the same extent. Add to these great instances, 
that of the wretched weavers, whose habits or pre- 
judices lead them to exclude purposely as much air as 
possible, from the work-room, from the opinion that 
it damages the costly fabrics they are doomed to 
manufacture at the cost and sacrifice of earth's 
chiefest blessings, — or that of the miner, not only 
robbed of the Ught of day, and to some degree of the 
free ventilation of the air, during his hours of labour 



92 EFFECT OF VENTILATION ON LIFE-EXFECTANCT. 

undej^round^ but often lodged in miserable and 
nnyentilated and oyer-^rowded places^ in the lodging* 
bouses in which he finds quarters during the nighty — 
or^ in fine^ that of the great masses of the labouring 
poor^ at least of those living in the towns^ who are 
crowded into rooms that are unaired^ and little if at 
all visited by sunshine^ not to speak of their being 
surrounded by other sources of impurity and disease^ 
— and can we wonder at exhaustion and pallor^ or 
even blame unpityingly^ or without much qualifi- 
cation^ the sad abuse of stimulants^ which so aggra- 
vates eventually all the other evils, — can we wonder 
at visitations of epidemic disease, at the greater 
number of cases of severe sporadic disease, — can we 
wonder at the much shortened life, at the accessions 
to the numbers of the widows and the orphans, at 
over-burdened pauper-lists, or at any amount of 
destitution or immorality? Too much cannot be 
said or thought about the effect of ventilation, in 
increasing the expectation of life, in raising the value 
and character of existence, in improving the phy- 
sical condition, and with it to some necessary extent, 
the moral character, of the masses of a city-popu- 
lation. In many of the great factories, and in 
pubUc hospitals, much has been done in this way, — 
and too much praise cannot be bestowed upon those 
by whom the poor and the afOticted have been cared 
for in this essential particular; but the good may be 
carried farther, with much additional advantage, in 
the majority even of these more enlightened instances 
of philosophic endeavour ; and it must be extended 



EFFECT OF VENTILATION ON DISEASE. 93 

to the smaller workshop and workroom^ to the poor 
man^s dwelling and his dormitory^ if all the good is 
to be deriyed from an acquaintance with the useful- 
ness of a full and free yentilation^ that we are entitled 
to expect from it. The amount of good from what 
has been done^ is large beyond any preconception 
that could have been entertained ; — ^the diminished 
mortality of the sick in the hospitals^ — ^the improved 
healthy and greater aptitude and quickness at their 
work, of the operatives in the factories^ — ^have been 
the rapid and extensive consequences of every step 
in advance that has been taken in this matter. And 
it should be borne in mind by all who draw together 
numbers of people into lai^e buildings^ — ^whether 
from a philanthropic wish to cure their ailments^ — or 
from a selfish wish to support paupers at the cheapest 
rate,— or from the mercenary wish, using the expres- 
sion in no invidious sense, to increase their own 
commercial gains, — ^that it is their bare duty to 
provide that this is not followed by any injurious 
consequences to those, who are the creatures of their 
benevolence, or the tools of their aggrandisement ; — 
that there is ever much risk of injury to individual 
health, by collecting large numbers of people into 
the same building, for any lengthened period of 
time; — and that this risk is only to be pre- 
vented, by adopting the fullest means of satisfactory 
ventilation, to carry off the concentrated animal 
miasms which are so detrimental to health and to 
life, whether acting insidiously and gradually, pro- 
ducing cachexia with all its consequent morbid 



94 DK. BBID, ON THE DEGREE OP VENTILATION. 

states, or rapidly engendering endemic or epidemic 

disease. 

The calculations, as to what is to be considered 
an adequate supply of firesh air for every individual 
occupying an apartment, have varied a good deal. 
The comparatively low estimate of Mr. Tredgold, 
states that there should be 4 cubic feet of fresh air per 
minute, for each individual ; whereas Dr. Beid seems 
to think that not less than 10 cubic feet per minute 
is only an adequate supply for every person. ''In 
a room,*' says Dr. Reid, " 12 feet square and 12 feet 
high, containrug, therefore, 1728 cubic feet of air, 
there are ten persons who respire the whole air in 
the room in 15-|- hours, and require a complete 
charge every 17 minutes in order to supply them 
with 10 cubic feet per minute. Such a change 
might be eflfected by the ingress and egress of air 
through apertures, 1 square foot in area, at the rate 
of 100 feet per minute, or 1-f mile per hour. In 
the same manner, in a church, 80 feet long, 50 feet 
wide, and 40 feet high, containing therefore 160,000 
cubic feet, there may be 1000 persons. For their 
supply there would be required a change every 
16 minutes, or about 20 tons of fresh air every 
hour.'** Inhabited rooms should then either be 
large and lofty, in order to contain such a number 
of cubic feet of air, in proportion to the number of 
its occupants, as will secure the maintenance of the 
atmosphere in a state of adequate purity, by means 

* Dr. Keid's << Illustrations of the Theory and Practice of Ventila- 
tion." 



VENTILATION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 95 

of a gentle cnirent of air passing in and out of the 
apartment; or if the rooms are smaller^ or the 
number of occupants greater^ the currents of air in 
and out of the room must be more rapid, or the 
ventilation must be defective^ and the condition of 
body and mind must suffer in the same proportion. 
The quotation from Dr. Beid furnishes numerical 
data, that are probably sufficient guides as £Eur as 
figures can be so ; the truth beings howeyer, that^ in 
the first instance, the sensations of a person unac- 
costomed to respire a vitiated atmosphere, — and, 
in the second place, the physical condition of the 
miserable and habitual victims to the use of an 
impure air, afford indications that cannot be mis- 
taken. It is probable that none of the public places, 
in which the people of this country are collected 
together in considerable numbers, the larger and 
loftier churches alone excepted, have an internal 
area that is sufficient for the respiratory uses of the 
numbers of persons assembled, without so rapid a 
current of air through them, as to form a serious 
inconvenience, if not to become in itself a direct 
source of evil, to those who are within the influence 
of such currents. These remarks apply to theatres, 
baU-rooms, courts of law, public dining-rooms, and 
other familiar instances of much frequented or 
crowded public places; and the hieadache, and the 
general sense of lassitude, so commonly experienced, 
especially by the more feeble, and those particularly 
in whom the respiratory fdnction is performed less 
porously and ftdly, and in whom the blood is 



96 VENTILATION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 

therefore most easily deteriorated beyond the phy- 
sical sufferance of the economy^ are the fiEumliar 
examples of this fact. Such consequences are suffi- 
ciently undesirable^ and^ under some circumstances^ 
may not be unattended with immediate or remote 
risk to healthy or even life ; as^ when many days or 
nights are passed in an atmosphere so vitiated in its 
character^ or when the general powers of the system 
are enfeebled^ or when the respiratory organs in 
particular are disordered^ or prone to become so; 
or^ in another way^ by the heat of so many living fur- 
naces being so inefficiently carried off^ — ^the pulmo- 
nary exhalations^ and those firom the skin^ increasing 
the humidity of the air^ and by the consequent risk 
of a sudden and great chilling of the system on 
re-exposure to the external air^ — ^the nervous and 
vascular powers being in an unfit state to restore 
promptly the equilibrium of the circulation^ from the 
depression and exhaustion that attend the imperfect 
oxygenation of the blood. Such evils as these are so 
evident and so easily obviated^ that it is wonderful 
to find how little they are considered in providing 
accommodation for large assemblies^ even of the 
wealthy and intelligent classes of the community. 
The architect is indeed unworthy of public con- 
fidencCj and unfitted for the execution of his com- 
monest duty^ to whom the area necessary for the 
respiration of any required number of people, and 
the minimum current of air to be maintained through 
it for the respiratory wants of its occupants, are 
not primary considerations and familiar ideas. The 



SOME EFFECTS OF DEFICIENT VENTILATION. 97 

current of air from without^ should generally be admit - 
ted either by numerous small openings in the dif- 
ferent sides of the apartments^ so as to lessen the risk 
of danger to any of the occupants firom the draught 
of air^ or it should be admitted at a place where the 
people are not within its more immediate influence. 
K the external air is too cold^ it may be warmed^ — ^if 
too warm, it may be cooled, — ^Lf too dry or too damp, 
these conditions may be modified without difficulty, 
by simple chemical and mechanical contrivances. 
Under some circumstances, such contrivances may 
be useful and even necessary ; but the best of all 
means of ventilation,' must yield to that of making 
rooms of so sufficient an area, in proportion to the 
nninber of persons they are meant to contain, as 
will secure an efficient supply of unvitiated air to 
every individual, at the expense of the slowest current 
of air from without being admitted into the apart- 
ment. It is of course understood, that this applies 
particularly to the buildings of these colder lati- 
tudes; and that it applies to the living-rooms and 
dormitories of the dwelling-house, as well as to public 
buildings and public rooms. 

One great practical disadvantage of deficient ven- 
tilation in the dwellings and sleeping-rooms of the 
people, is that the feelings so soon get reconciled, and 
more than reconciled, to the close and unwholesome 
atmosphere, — ^that the warmth, the sense of lassitude, 
the dreamy faculties, are not apt to be regarded as 
evils by the children of poverty and toil, — ^that the 
opening of a casement, or the enlargement of a flue, 

VOL. II. F 



98 WACn AND ABGUMXNTS ABOUT VENTILATION. 

or the insertion of a circular ventilator in a window- 
pane, or the removal of a brick finom the wall over 
the door-way, makes more exertion^ more self-disci- 
pline, more food, and more fdel in cold weather, 
needful to immediate comfort; and ignorance and 
habit are the sulky and obstinate antagonists to be 
encountered, on the yery threshold of philantliropic 
endeavours to ameliorate the condition. But fever, 
in its major or its minor types and phases, — but the 
needlessly lai^ mortality of the cities, — ^but the waste 
of life, in infancy from cachexia, in early maturity 
from phtlusiB, in middle life from this and the many 
other forms of sporadic disease, and at all ages fit>m 
epidemic visitations, — are not to be lessened in degree, 
much less put an end to altogether, without securing 
to every one, by day and by night, asleep or awake, 
from infancy to the ''last scene of all,^' an adequate 
and fdU supply of unvitiated air for the due oxygena- 
tion of the blood, with all its important effects on 
the animal economy. 

It may indeed be said, that the alimentary wants 
are directly proportioned to the degree to which the 
carbon of the system is expended by the amount of 
oxygen that is respired, — ^that people who are in- 
habiting an apartment that is inadequately ventilated, 
not only consume, but actually expend and require, 
less food, than those who are living in a pure and 
efficiently changed atmosphere ; and it might be, 
although unwisely, inferred, that poverty, and the 
scanty meals of crude and coarse food, ought to be 
connected, as they are so commonly, with close and 



FACTS AND ARGUMENTS ABOUT VENTILATION. 99 

imperfectly ventilated dweUings. But history does 
not tell lis, that the means of subsistence of any 
people^ or class of people^ has been proportioned to 
their wants, nor to the fadlity with which they could 
be obtained, — ^but that they have been proportioned 
to the energy and individual effort directed to that 
end. History does not tell us, that any advantage 
is to be gained by accommodating the different cir- 
cumstances which makeup the physical conditions of 
existence, to the low standard of any one of those 
drcumstances ; but, on the contrary, that such a 
course has been only followed by the farther and 
&rther depreciation of the social condition, and the 
farther degradation of the people or the class. 
Permit the refuse of a town to be collected, sifted, 
divided into ashes and bones and rags and bits of 
iron, and other similar articles, and vended as such 
for various purposes of manufacture, &c., by the 
poorest and lowest class of the people, instead of 
having all such refuse matters carried off in sewers, 
or removed by public scavengers; and although it 
might appear, that some means of subsistence would 
be thus afforded to a class who badly want it, yet in 
the practical working of the question, these circiun- 
stances really produce a class of people lower than 
the class which was previously the lowest, — a class 
steeped in a degree of misery and squalor and disease, 
greater and deeper than had been known before; 
and that which might have seemed to be humane, 
has been proved to be, in truth, a great wrong done 
to the class sought to be protected. Allow the house- 

F 2 



100 FACTS AND ARGUMENTS ABOUT YENTILATION. 

less wanderers to find a nightly shelter in the dry 
arches of the metropolitan bridges ; or let miserable 
outcasts dig holes and form cavern-like habitations in 
the sides of barren hills ; or let them take possession 
of waste lands^ and erect wretched^ mud-walled^ and 
heath-coTcred^ windowless and flueless hovels^ to 
shield them from the rougher blasts and keener cold 
of winds and seasons ; and^ in the same way as in 
the other instances^ the numbers of such wretched 
beings are added to^ in the direct proportion that 
such fadhties are afforded. Give to such classes of 
any people^ food and shelter of any kind^ however 
insufficient and however miserable^ with so much less 
of need for inmiediate efforts^ or immediate and steady 
exertions ; and such class becomes^ in the same pro- 
portion^ multiplied^ — ^and in the same proportion, 
farther degraded in the social scale. If a man can 
live, and his wife and children can live, — ^keep body 
and soul together, — ^by comparatively little labour, 
and only occasional exertions, as for instance by the 
cultivation of a potato-patch, it may be in vain that 
we expect or hope that he will farther exert his 
powers, and strive to earn a better cot, or warmer 
clothing, or a better diet, for himself and his family. 
Every advance in the use and enjoyment of the com- 
forts, luxuries, and embellishments of life, becomes a 
moral engine for the elevation of character and the 
promotion of industry, as well as a means of physical 
good— of making men healthier, stronger, and longer- 
lived. In the most fertile regions of the world, where 
the climate and the soil afford all the physical condi- 



FACTS AND ARGUMENTS ABOUT VENTILATION. 101 

tions for the supply of man's wants^ it is by no means 
the case that the population is by so much raised 
above the condition of those^ who have to struggle for 
the means of life in colder clunates and more barren 
lands. On the contrary^ it is under these latter cir- 
cumstances^ that the regenerators and colonisers of 
the world, — the authors of civilisation, the elevators of 
man's social condition, the peoples that have cradled 
science and art and learning and high morality, — 
have been produced; and from generation to genera- 
tion, by steady and unavoidable efforts, and a conse- 
quently exercised advance of their cerebral organisa- 
tion, have been farther and farther enabled to pro- 
mote their ovm immediate benefit, and to add to the 
hopes and expectations of the whole human race. 
But, indeed, all experience goes to prove the same 
thing I and it were truly a false conclusion, to suppose 
that, because improved ventilation would add to the 
alimentary wants of the system, therefore the poorest 
class should be left in their close and ill-ventUated 
abodes. And this, even on the simple and broad 
principle that has been advanced, and independently 
of the facts which had been previously cited, which 
show that, although defective ventilation expends less 
of the materials of the body, and permits man to 
hold life at a less cost of aliment, yet there is involved 
a lower physical condition in the same proportion, a 
less power of resisting the common predisposing and 
exciting causes of disease, and therefore a greater 
liability to disease, and a greater proportional mor- 
tality from diseases when they do occur, than would 



102 QUOTATION FBOK DS. SEID^S WORK* 

otherwise obtain; and tliis, it is to be observed^ 
independently of the certainty with which the causes 
of epidemic and endemic diseases are thus pro- 
duced^ or are strengthened in their character^ — ^and 
independently of the additions thus made to the 
sufferings and mortality of the class, and to the 
disease and mortality of all ranks and classes of the 
people. 

" If we look/* says Dr. Beid, " to the fact, that less 
than half a cubic foot of air passes through the lungs 
of an adult in a minute, this estimate (of the air neces- 
sary for the purposes of the system — ^ten cubic feet 
per minute) may at first appear exoessiye ; but if we 
remember, that, at each expiration, a quantity of 
air is emitted which mingles with an additional 
portion of air exceeding largely its own bulk, and 
that there are twenty such respirations per minute, 
while provision is also required for the air that affects 
the surface of the body, and for the endless yariety 
of minor effects produced by fomiture, lighting, 
heating, refreshments, &c., where no peculiar adap- 
tations for these purposes have been introduced 
beyond those usually observed, it will be seen that 
the estimate is by no means immoderate. The real 
question is, not what the constitution can bear, but 
that amount which is conveniently accessible in ordi- 
nary habitations, and which is essential for the wants 
of the system. The power of the system in accom- 
modating itself to peculiar circumstances, is very 
great. The amount of opium, wine, tobacco, ardent 
spirits, and other substances, which some individuals 



COMBUSTION DETERI0EATE8 THE AIR. 103 

can habituate themselves to^ though only at the 
expense of impairing their constitutions^ is no less 
remarkable than the varieties of atmosphere^ loaded 
with impurities, in which others can breathe, and 
even work for years continuously. Perhaps the 
most singular instance of this kind, exclusive of 
those met with in polar regions, and in a rude state 
of society, is to be seen in mines, where it is fre- 
quently common for the men to work in an atmo- 
sphere too impure to permit a common candle to 
bum, though an oil lamp, in consequence of its 
greater tenacity of combustion, may be maintained in 
action without difBiculty. But numerous individuals 
faint in an atmosphere far less impure than that of 
some coal-mines, and even death has been considered 
to have ensued in some instances from vitiated air, 
though it was not sufficiently impure to extinguish 
a candle, no impurity but carbonic acid being known 
to have been present.*^ 

The condition of the air as to drjmess and moisture, 
affects very much the supply required by the system. 
The dry air carries off readily and rapidly the neces- 
sary exhalations from the lungs and from the skin, 
by so much relieving the system from matters sought 
to be removed from it ; while the oxygen of the air 
and the circulating fluids of the body are, by so 
much, more completely allowed to produce the 
necessary re-action. 

The effect of a burning lamp or candle on the 
atmosphere of apartments, in consuming the oxygen 
and evolving carbonic acid, is sufficiently considerable 



104 COMBUSTION DETERIORATES THE AIR. 

in its degree^ to make it of importance tliat the 
supply of air in a room^ should be such as to allow 
for this^ in proportion to the degree of artificial 
illumination; and such should not be made use of 
in a dormitory^ unless it is of ample dimensions, 
or fuUy ventilated in proportion to the number of its 
occupants. 

The effect of a fire in an open fire-place^ if the 
fire is of moderate size^ and the room proportionably 
large^ is favourable to ventilation^ by causing a cur- 
rent of air through the room^ from the door or the 
windows to the chimney. The poUcy of this, how- 
ever, depends entirely on the due adjustment of the 
question, as to the size of the fire and the dimensions 
of the apartment ; and, unless the coldness of the 
weather be very severe in degree, or the individual 
be of such delicate habit of body, that much would 
be risked by exposure to aa unwarmed air, or uiJess 
the room be very large, and admits of the most satis- 
factory degree of ventilation, a bed-room without a 
fire should be always preferred. If free ingress of air 
is secured, and the size of the room or the smallness 
of the fire, renders the risk of the air of the apartment 
becoming unduly heated, so small as not to be worth 
considering, the effect of an open fire in any room 
must be, to promote the current of air through it, and 
to subserve the purposes of ventilation. Even if 
there be no fire in the grate, the long open flue 
must afford a valuable channel for the passage of 
air ; and a fire-place with an open chimney, should 
accordingly be provided in every room of every house, 



EFFECTS OF HEATED ROOMS. 105 

and more especially in every sleeping-room. Stoves 
or braziers^ for the burning of cliarcoal or other fuel 
that produces no visible or irritating smoke during 
combustion^ are too manifestly dangerous and unphi- 
losophical, to require more than a passing word of 
caution. Where open fire-places can be had^ as in 
Great Britain^ and coals or wood in sufficient quan- 
tity^ a stove without adequate flue or chimney should 
never be seen. 

Booms^ and especially sleeping-rooms^ should on 
no account be unduly heated. The effect of this in 
rarefying the air^ has been mentioned ; but^ moreover^ 
the system of the occupant becomes heated^ and the 
vessels of the skin excited^ — ^and the result is, either 
an excessive secretion from the surface of the body, 
and consequent and probably injurious exhaustion, 
or a hot, dry, and feverish skin, — ^andthe &rther con- 
sequence is, increased action of the organs of circula- 
tion, undue fulness of the vessels, and undue pressure 
on the nervous system, with the effect of rendering 
the sleep either lethargic and unrefreshing, or dis- 
turbed and interrupted by the general excitability of 
the system. Such effects of an overheated atmo- 
sphere on the bodily conditions, are sufficiently 
familiar. Even in the sitting-room, although for 
obvious reasons it is less marked in its degree, an 
overheated atmosphere commonly induces a percep- 
tible sense of oppression in the breathing, succeeded 
by a feeling of drowsiness and torpor, which, if not 
relieved, is either followed by a deep and heavy 
sleep, or by restlessness and nervous irritability, to 

f3 



106 VENTILATION OF THE BED-ROOM. 

be succeeded by languor and exhaustion. Such 
effects must be familiar to all who have ever occu- 
pied an unduly heated bed-room. 

The air of the bed-room ought^ then, to be kept 
at as low a temperature, as is consistent with the 
feelings aud the health; aud means ought always 
to be in operation, by which a constant and sufficient 
change of the air may be secured. In some cases, 
the open fire-place, whether with a fire in the grate 
or without one, may be sufficient to attain this end ; 
aud in other cases, the partial opening of a window 
at the top, or a circular ventilator in one of the 
window-panes, may be necessary. 

For the purpose of securing the adequate venti- 
lation of the bed-room, there should be as little of 
drapery and curtains about the bed as possible, and 
the tester of the bed should generally be as lofly as 
the room itself, — if indeed curtains and tester may 
not be whoUy dispensed with. If the bed-room is 
not of adequately large dimensios to justify them, 
no tester ought to be allowed, and no more of either 
curtains or drapery than may be requisite to obviate 
the risk firom any current of air, that is found likely 
to influence the occupant of the bed. There can be 
no doubt, that furniture of all Idnds interferes in a 
greater or less degree with ventilation ; and the fact 
may judiciously influence the extent to which it is 
admitted into bed-rooms ; and it should be remem- 
bered particularly, that all woollen articles, as car- 
pets, absorb the moisture from the expired air, or in 
damp weather from the atmosphere, rendering the 



STRICTURES ON THE USE OF GAS IN APARTMENTS. 107 

air of the room by so much less pure and more 
rekdng^ — ^aud that such fabrics should be dispensed 
with in sleeping-rooms^ as far as comfort and oon- 
yenience will permit. 

The great degree to which gas is made use of as 
the means of illumination in bed-rooms^ makes it 
necessary to animadvert upon and condemn the prac- 
tice in a pointed manner. Indeed^ the use of gas at 
all in dweUing-houses^ unless in passages or lobbies, 
or in very large and lofty and amply ventilated apart- 
ments, can hardly be too strongly condemned. In 
itself a poison, coal-gas cannot be burned in any 
hitherto contrived way, without allowing some portion 
of it to escape unconsumed ; and if this is permitted 
to diffuse itself through the apartment, however much 
it may become diluted, it must be in some greater 
or less degree noxious and objectionable. I have 
repeatedly known bad effects to be produced by this; 
and indeed, have repeatedly experienced them. Even 
in the theatre and the ball-room most persons must 
have felt the headache, giddiness, and sense of faint- 
ness, which this unconsumed gas occasions. The 
effect produced by breathing carburetted hydrogen, 
however much diluted, night after night, during sleep, 
may be more insidious and less perceptible, but can- 
not be eventually less important. If the unconsumed 
gas is carried off by special means, and not allowed 
to enter the apartment, or to be mixed with its air, 
the objections to gas as a means of iUuminating 
the dwelling and sleeping apartments, are of course 
done away with. This appears to be very efficiently 



108 SITUATION OF BED-BOOM. 

done^ in the case of the exclusive gas-burners^ so fully 
described in Dr. Beid's work. 

The bed-room ought seldom to be on the ground- 
floor of the house ; and it should generally be on the 
first floor of the house^ rather than the second. It 
should be, in fact, sufficiently remoyed firom the influ- 
ence of dampness, or any exhalation from the ground, 
and yet as far as possible away from the varying 
temperature, inseparable from being near to the roof 
of the dwelling. This is necessarily the more impor- 
tant, the greater the influence of the sun^s rays. For 
the same reason, it may be sometimes advisable that 
the bed-room should not be on the sunny side of the 
house. 

Before leaving this particular subject, it may be 
right to mention the common practice of having the 
bed artificially heated, — by means of a warming-pan, 
containing burning coals, or burning charcoal, or a 
heated iron chain. Unless under very particular 
circumstances of debility, and deficient calorifient 
power of the system, this must be as unnecessary 
a custom, as it must always have a relaxing and 
debilitating tendency. Even when temporarily indi- 
cated by morbid conditions, the indication and 
necessity should be sought to be removed by such 
means as a regulated diet, temperance, daily exer- 
cise, if possible in the open air, Mction, &c. ; and 
the artificially heated bed may be often at once dis- 
pensed with, by the use, temporary or otherwise, of 
the old-fashioned expedient of a bottle filled with hot 
water, or a heated brick, placed next to the feet in 



TEMPERATURE OF ROOMS. 109 

bed; and tliis may be sometimes wisely assisted, 
by suggesting the use of calico instead of linen 
sheets. 

The importance of a due adjustment of the tem- 
perature of the sitting-room^ is only second to that 
of such careful regulation as to the heat of the bed- 
room. A temperature of 50° of Fahrenheit's scale^ 
is generally sufficiently high for the air of the bed- 
room ; and that of the sitting-room may be usually 
10° or even 15° higher than this. The cooler the air 
of the sitting-room^ consistently with the mainte- 
nance of the due temperature of the surface and 
extremities of the body, the better; and if enough 
of muscular exercise is taken, if a sufficient number 
of the muscles is made use of, and if the individual is 
as much out of doors as he ought to be, it will seldom 
happen, that, if not especially invalided, a higher 
temperature than this will not be felt to be unde- 
sirable by the party himself. Any one accustomed 
to take sufficient exercise in the open air, will instinc- 
tively object to a close, or imperfectly ventilated, or 
unduly heated room. It is usage alone that can 
reconcile the sensations to such an atmosphere ; it is 
usage alone that can so blunt the natural sensibilities 
of the system, as to render an impure atmosphere of 
any temperature otherwise than imcomfortable, and 
ungrateful to the feelings. There are few things 
more observable, than the stupifying effects of a hot 
room on the social and family circle, or than the 
difficulty of applying the mind to serious business 
in a heated atmosphere. 



110* TEMPERATURE OF ROOMS. 

Perhaps enough has been said as to the tempera- 
ture of rooms. It should be always borne in mind^ 
that the question of ventilation must ever go hand 
in hand with that of temperature, if the sanatory 
condition of the air of the apartments is to be con- 
sidered to be satisfactory. The higher the tem- 
perature, the more rapidly must the air be changed. 
As has been said, the risk of an insufficient degree of 
ventilation must be less, when there is an open fire- 
place in the apartment, with a sufficient and open 
flue, whether with or without a fire in the grate. If 
any required degree of artificial temperature is to be 
obtained by means of hot-air pipes, or hot-water 
pipes, or steam-pipes, or in any similar way, such 
assistance to the ventilation is not a£Porded ; and the 
risk of a high temperature, and consequently a rarefied 
air,— -of relaxation of the system, and deficient oxy- 
genation of the blood, — must be so much the greater. 
When there is an open fire-place, with or without a 
moderate fire in the grate, in an apartment that is of 
sufficient size for the number of its occupants, it must 
be seldom the case that any more active or unusual 
means of ventilation need be resorted to. Under 
other circumstances, special channels for the supply 
and egress of air may have to be provided, — ^particu- 
larly if the coldness of the season or the climate 
interferes with the keeping doors or windows ofiten 
or always opened. As to the means of ventilation, 
Dr. Reid^s work is one of the best guides, as to details 
as well as principles ; although it may be probably 
added, that, as frequently happens to a man of genius 



CLIMATE. Ill 

aDd enthusiasm^ the views seem to be carried farther 
in some instances^ and the practical detail is occa- 
sionally more minute^ and perhaps more extensire^ 
than appears to be needful for the healthiness^ or 
than might prove conducive to the comfort^ of our 
dwellings. 

The subject of climate and its effect on the health 
of man^ is one that branches too widely^ and embraces 
too many inquiries^ and too large a number of facts 
and circiunstances^ to be adequately noticed in this 
work, — or probably, even in the present advanced 
state of vital and general statistics, to be as yet ade- 
quately and definitively discussed. 

The climate of the different countries of the world, 
depends upon some more prominent or primary con- 
ditions, and upon a niunber of less prominent and 
secondary conditions; and some of the conditions, 
and of the latter class especially, are liable to be 
modified by many circumstances, which may influ- 
ence different years, or different seasons, or may 
cause a progressive alteration in the character of the 
district, and a corresponding change in its effects on 
the physical condition of its inhabitants. 

The more prominent conditions which affect the 
climate of a place, are, its distance from the equator, — 
its elevation above the level of the sea, — ^its insular 
or continental position, — ^its geological character, and 
the nature of its soil, — ^the direction of the prevail- 
ing winds, their character, and their force, — the vari- 
ations as to temperature, whether between that of 
the night and that of the day, or those of the different 



112 EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON HUMAN LIFE. 

months or seasons of the year^ — ^the amount and 
character of its rains^ — and the electrical states and 
changes of the atmosphere. The secondary con- 
ditions; many of which may depend intimately on 
some one or more of the foregoing^ are^ the character^ 
&c.j of the yegetation^ — ^the degree of shelter from 
the winds^ — ^the extent of the drainage^ — ^the charac- 
ter of the water used for domestic purposes^ — ^the 
degree to which the existing animal or insect life 
a£Pects the human population^ — and the degree to 
which extinct and decaying organisms affect the 
health of the people. 

The abstract question of temperature is one of the 
most important of the circumstances that modify 
man's adaptation to the globe he lives on. This 
seems^ howeyer, to be a more important matter^ in 
regard to the risk incurred by those bom in one lati- 
tude who migrate to another latitude^ than as to 
the health and chances of life of the natives of the 
different regions of the earth. For, although the 
expectation of life is unquestionably greater in Eng- 
land than it is in most European countries, and 
greater in Europe than in America, and in America 
than in Asia, and in Asia than in A&ica ; yet the 
natives of the different regions of the world attain 
an average duration of life, which goes far to justify 
a belief that fiill and due attention to all the known 
means of health and preventives to disease^ might 
almost serve to equaUse the chances of life through- 
out the world, to those acclimated by hereditary cir- 
cumstances, and usage from the infancy. But for a 



EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON HUMAN LIFE. 113 

man whose organs and tissues have been gradually 
&8hioned and accommodated to one set of physical 
circumstances^ by the conditions of his own existence, 
and those of the existence of successive preceding 
generations, — as for example to the maintenance of 
life at a mean temperature of 50^, to migrate to a 
country of which the mean temperature is 80^, must 
militate much against the probable expectation of 
life, and as largely against the chances of health. 
Under such circumstances, the disturbing influences 
must be constant in their operation, and of import- 
ance in their character, — ^the power of adaptation, 
variable and generally insufficient, — and the risk of 
disturbance from the extra duty demanded of differ- 
ent organs must be considerable j and, accordingly, 
there must arise a liability to suffer from morbid 
conditions, comparatively httle known to a native 
population acclimated to the temperature, — as well as 
a peculiar susceptibility to suffer from the indigenous 
ailments, common to the population of the country, 
and to suffer from them severely. The balance 
between the action of the different organs, by which 
the general expenditure of the system is regulated 
and secured, must be maintained, or health must 
suffer, and disease ensue. Tlie skin, lungs, kidneys, 
liver, &c., are so many great emunctories for carry- 
ing away the effete and redundant matters from the 
economy j and these organs act relatively more or 
less, according to the temperature of the atmosphere. 
In cold air, the system must consume more carbon, 
and require a larger supply of oxygen; and the 



114 .EFFECT OF ELEVATION ON CLIMATE. 

lungs and the kidneys have more duty to perform in 
the same proportion ; — ^in warm weather, the skin, the 
liver, and the mucous membrane, become the more 
active organs, and the greater means of carrying 
off the water; and by so much are these organs 
severally more liable to derangement of their func- 
tions. As, in our own latitude, the greatest risk of 
disease is incurred when the temperature changes 
firom heat to cold, or from cold to heat, and pulmo- 
nary or gastric affections become more or less general 
accordingly, so is health by so much damaged, the 
chances of life by so much lessened, and disease or its 
forerunners by so much increased, as man migrates 
to a climate that differs much in its average tempera- 
ture from that of his birth-place. 

The elevation of a district above the level of the 
sea, diminishes, in a definite ratio, its mean tem- 
perature, owing to the greater rarity of the air, and 
its correspondingly less capacity for caloric ; to which 
causes must be added, in many cases, the greater 
exposure to the influence of winds, and a greater 
Uability to electrical influences. It is a sufficiently 
near estimate for practical purposes, that the mean 
temperature of a district is lower by one degree of 
Fahrenheit's scale for every hundred yards of eleva- 
tion ; and, supposing this to be so, it serves to show, 
that, even at the equator, an elevation of some 15,000 
or 16,000 feet, is within the region of perpetual snow, 
and that the snow Une is in these higher latitudes, 
at less than the fourth part of this elevation. Other 
influences, however, besides that of latitude, affect the 



XFFECT OF ELEVATION ON CLIMATE. 115 

elevation at which the snow-hne oommences : such 
as the exposure of the mountain side to the south or 
to the norths which may make a difference of sereral 
hundred feet in the elevation of the snow-line^ when 
all other circumstances are apparently equal. Making 
all due allowance for such modifying circumstances^ 
however^ all the different climates of the worlds as 
regards their respective mean temperatures^ may be 
found within a couple of day's journey, — gradually 
ascending from the burning plains of the tropics, to 
the everlasting snow of the mountain summits. In 
some instances, the climate of whole districts, or 
e?en whole countries, is thus modified by their ele- 
vation ; and their mean temperature is found to be 
so much lower in proportion to their altitude. In 
noticing the principal climates and countries of the 
world, we find this to be singularly illustrated in 
the instances of the eastern and western sides 
of South America, — ^in the mountain lands of the 
interior of Jamaica, compared with the coast, — ^in 
the comparatively low mean temperature of the 
republic of Mexico, with reference to its latitude, — 
in the mountain ranges of Asia, where the Hima- 
layas and Keilgherries afford a European climate 
to the invalided and exhausted system of the Anglo- 
Indian. And not only is there the marked difference 
in the mean temperature, corresponding to the 
degree of elevation, but the equally marked differ- 
ence in the vegetable productions and vegetable 
capabilities of the district; and the Anglo-Indian 
surrounds his mountain retreat with the fruit-trees, 



116 EFFECT OF ELEVATION ON CLIMATE. 

and other garden-produce^ of his £ar away native 
land. If an imtravelled man might be allowed to 
envy the travelled any one of his experiences more 
than another^ it might well be that enjoyed during 
an ascent from the plains of the tropics^ with their 
burning temperature^ and lurid atmosphere^ and 
enervating land-winds^ where grow the spice-plants 
and sugar-cane^ — finding himself^ as he ascends^ 
leaving these^ and the indigo-plantations^ and the 
coffee-lands^ and the rice-fields^ the palms and giant 
ferns^ graduidly behind him, — ^and, in the course of 
a few miles, passing through the districts of the 
cotton-plant, the maize, and the orange, to those of 
the grasses and cereaUa, the olive and the vine, — 
thence to those of the oak, and other forest trees, — 
in their turn, to lose all traces of these, the hardy 
pines only hving in the colder and colder regions to 
which he ascends, — soon to leave even them behind, 
and the hardiest forms of vegetable life, and arrive at 
the regions of perpetual snow. These frozen districts 
exercise, in all latitudes, but more particularly vrithin 
the tropics, an important duty, in tempering the air 
which passes over them, and moderating the heats of 
the districts that those winds subsequently pass over. 
The winds which have blown over large tracts of 
land in the interior of the great continents, exposed 
to the direct and vertical rays of the sun, become more 
and more heated by the untempered influence of the 
solar heat, the solar rays influencing the air directly 
in their passage through the atmosphere, and indi- 
rectly in their radiation from the earth again, so far 



EFFECT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 117 

as to become at length injurious to animal and vege- 
table life^ — enervating the one^ and blighting the 
other^ to an extreme degree. And when neither 
tempered by vegetation^ nor moisture from seas or 
lakes^ the effects are increased to the last degree. 
Contrasting the wind that has blown over the great 
desert of Africa^ and its subsequent scorching effect 
on the whole south coast of Europe^ and on the 
islands in the Mediterranean^ and on Egypt, with 
the effect of the wind that has blown over the Hima- 
layas or the Andes, in moderating the temperature of 
the countries it subsequently traverses, affords a 
vivid illustration of the important influence of moun- 
tain ranges on the climates of the world. The 
effect of mountain ranges in collecting clouds, adding 
to the local amount of rain, and furnishing springs 
and river sources, to irrigate and fertilise the lower 
districts, independently of their acting as reservoirs 
of snow during the winter, and affording supplies of 
water to the streams during the summer months, 
ought not to be passed over in entire silence. 

The ocean exerts a great and important influence 
on the climates of the earth; and, of course, islands, 
the coasts of continents, and the whole of the smaller 
continents, and the peninsulas, are most subject to 
this influence. The effect of the ocean on the climate 
of the land, is not to increase, or even as it should 
seem, to diminish, the mean temperature of the 
country, — the mean temperature being determined 
n^er by the equatorial position, the character of the 
prevailing winds, and the elevation; but the effect 



118 EFFECT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 

of the ocean is to dimimsh the degree^ the frequency^ 
and the suddenness^ of alternations of the tempe- 
rature. The temperature of the sea in the different 
latitudes does not appear to differ in any important 
degree^ firom that of the coast which it washes ; and 
its influence must be chiefly^ so to temper and modify 
the temperature of the land^ as to diminish the heats of 
summer and the cold of winter. In the smaller islandjs 
subject to the influences of the ocean^ this effect is very 
remarkable and important^ — modifying the climate 
to a great degree^ from that which would be produced 
by the equatorial position and other influential cir- 
cumstauces. It is found that the island of Madeira^ 
for instance, the Azores, &c., in the Atlantic Ocean,— 
the islands in the Mediterranean Sea, — the Channel 
Islands, — ^the Isle of Wight, — and the Isle of Man,— 
all have climates that are much influenced and modi- 
fied by the ocean, as to extremes of temperature, as to 
the character of the different seasons of the year, as to 
the mean quantity of rain, and as to the character and 
frequency of the rains. Besides the great effect of 
the ocean on the climates of different countries, 
in equalising the temperature, and moderating the 
extremes of heat and cold, and the suddenness and 
the degree of the changes in the atmospheric tempe- 
rature — an effect so important in its results, and yet 
so simply the consequence of the way in which caloric 
is communicated from particle to particle of all 
liquids, by their becoming severally of greater or less 
specific gravity as they are colder or warmer, and 
rising or sinking to and from the surface accordingly; 



£PP£CT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 119 

the temperature of the surface and that of the depths 
being thns maintaiiied in due adjustment; and the air 
passing over the sea being deprived by so much of its 
caloric when it is warmer than the ocean^ and raised 
by 80 much in its temperature when it is colder; — 
besides this effect^ the ocean has another climatorial 
action on the air, — charging it with a degree of mois- 
ture proportioned to its temperature, and its conse- 
quent capacity of holding the aqueous vapours in 
solution. When air thus charged with vapour passes 
over colder districts, or when subjected to electrical 
influences, being no longer able to retain and suspend 
80 much water, the separated vapour falls to the 
earth in the form of rain, to fertilise the earth, cover 
it with vegetation, and equalise directly and indi- 
rectly its temperature. The precipitation of the 
vapour from the air may be brought about or pro- 
moted by a colder latitude, or by mountain ranges, 
serving at once as electrical conductors, and as 
condensers, from their lower temperature, of the 
atmospheric vapours ; and hence maritime districts, 
and insular and peninsular countries, are subjected to 
more rain, in proportion to their latitudes and other 
circumstances, than the interior of continents ; and 
when the interior of continents do not happen to 
present mountain elevations proportioned in altitude 
to their propinquity to the equator, they become, in 
the same proportion, remarkable for the rarity of 
their rains : in some remarkable instances, rendering 
the occurrence of rain as unfrequent as at intervals 
of years, and leaving the country during the long 



120 EFFECT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 

drought well nigh destitute of vegetation^ and, accord- 
ing to its geological character^ either naked rock or 
sandy desert. 

Such are, no doubt, the chief and most important 
effects of the ocean upon the climates of the earth. 
They are necessarily more remarkable in the insular 
and peninsular countries. The climates of all coun- 
tries near to the sea-coast must be more or less 
influenced in the same way, although by no means 
to the same extent ; one side only being exposed to 
the maritime influences, the other sides being affected 
by the continental conditions, the equatorial, and 
other circumstances j and the temperature, &c.^ 
being perhaps principally determined by them. 
Countries on the sea-coast, however, have, in some 
cases, their climate influenced, to a very important 
degree, by the maritime temperature, and the other 
influences of the ocean on the atmosphere; and 
more particularly, if the prevailing winds are firom 
the seaward ; and still more so, if the district happens 
to be sheltered from the land winds, either by high 
grounds or dense forests. 

In noticing the effect of the sea on the climate of 
the land that is more immediately adjacent, it is a 
secondary, but by no means an unimportant circmn- 
stance, as regards the sanatory conditions of the 
atmosphere, that the air becomes in some degree 
charged, while traversing the ocean, with saline, as 
well as merely aqueous matters ; and, thus holding 
iodine, and other important constituents of sea water, 
in solution, may be readily understood to exercise a 



EFFECT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 121 

considerable effect on the human system. As regards 
cases of fiinctional distm*bance^ and still more as 
regards many cases of organic disease^ this circum- 
stance may be of primary importance; modifying 
and determining the judgment of the medical man^ 
as to the selection of such a locality for the residence, 
temporary or otherwise^ of the inyalided^— or as to 
the avoidance of such an atmosphere altogether. The 
effect of the maritime atmosphere is necessarily more 
or less stimulating ; and perhaps particularly so^ to 
the lymphatic and glandular systems. And accord- 
ingly^ the air of the coast is foimd to be of great use 
in many cases of scrofulous character^ independently 
of the advantage probably derivable firom the temper- 
ing of the summer heat and the winter cold. On 
the other hand^ in many cases^ the stimulating effect 
of the saline air may be more than the system can 
endure with impunity, or without direct and manifest 
injury. This is often illustrated in cases of disease 
of the heart or its great vessels, in advanced cases of 
disease of the brain^ in cases of confirmed arthritic 
disease, and even in the latter stages of pulmonary 
and hepatic disease. Whereas, in the earlier stages 
of pulmonary affections, and in the minor and earlier 
degrees of hepatic derangement, the stimulating 
effects of the air of the sea-coast are not only well 
borne, but areobviously advantageous to the economy 
and power of the system; and may aid, in an 
important degree, in the restoration of health. In 
the cachexia, unhappily so common in the children 
of the large towns, breathing habitually an atmosphere 

VOL, II. G 



]22 SFFECT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 

80 vitiated by the density of the population and other 
causes^ the effect of the air of the coast is well known 
to be beneficial and restorative^ in an eminent degree. 
The amount of the stimulant action of the saline 
atmosphere is apt to be greater^ in proportion as the 
air that has been breathed habitually^ is more moist, 
dense, and relaxing. And accordingly, circumstances 
which might justify removal from an inland, upland, 
or moimtainous situation, to the sea-coast, — or from 
an open and pastoral, or even from a well-drained and 
rural district, — ^might not justify such removal from 
a low, damp, rural district, or from the inefficiently 
drained and badly ventilated districts of the towns. 

There is an observation of much practical value, that 
has been too Httle attended to, in the practical adapta- 
tion of the great hygienic fact of the stimulant air of the 
sea-coast. The influence of the saline impregnation 
of the air extends inland for several miles, — gradually 
becoming less and less considerable, until it ceases 
to obtain, in an evident degree, from ten to twenty 
miles inland; unless when a high wind blows from 
the sea-ward, when the saline matters may be shown 
to be present in the air, by means of chemical re- 
agents, to a greater distance inland than even twenty 
miles. The tempering and equalising effect of the 
sea on the temperature and cUmate of a country 
extends very much farther than this : so much so, 
as to modify the whole climate of Europe, and other 
equally broad peninsulas. What is now referred to, 
is, especially, the stimulant action of the sea air 
from its saline impregnation. It follows, that, with 



SPVBCT OF THE OCEAN ON CLIMATE. 123 

some caie and trouble^ the degree of Btunulant action 
that a case reqniies^ may sometimes be secured by a 
location^ that is nearer to or farther from the coast ; 
tiie distance inhmd being usually greater, when the 
preyaOing winds are strong and from the sea-ward ; 
and less, when the elevation above the level of the 
coast is greater, or when the sea breezes are more or 
less intercepted by the intervention of higher grounds, 
or of woods and plantations. 

The effect of the air of the sea-coast, and of insular 
sitoations generally, is much influenced by the nature 
of the soil, the character of the prevailing vegetation, 
the dryness or dampness of the atmosphere, the lati- 
tude of the place, &;c. The air of the coast near the 
embouchures of rivers, which overflow their banks 
during the rainy seasons, leaving extensive marshy 
lands to dry in the intervab between the rains, — espe- 
cially if the soil be alluvial, and the vegetation rank 
and abundant, and the temperature high, — ^must be 
much more destructive to health, than inland situa- 
tions, which are probably on a higher level, and 
watered with streams of a less considerable size, and 
in which there is consequently less risk of extensive 
inundations, and of miasmatous exhalations to a cor- 
respondingly large degree. 

The single circumstance of the necessary humidity 
of the air near the sea^ independently of its equalised 
temperature, and its saline impregnation, must in- 
fluence, to a very important extent, its effect on 
health and disease ; and more particularly in coim- 
tnes characterised by long periods of drought, — ^the 

o2 



124 EFFECT OF SUBFACE-STBATA ON CLIMATE. 

inland atmosphere of which is necessarily and singu- 
larly dry^ — the land during the long droughts being 
quite bare of all vegetation^ — and the soil being 
loosened^ firom lack of moisture^ into the condition, 
of a fine^ penetrating, and irritating dust. But^ even. 
in the districts of higher latitudes^ and more uncer- 
tain and watery skies^ the eflfect of the humidity of 
the air near the coast must be far firom inconsid^- 
able on some morbid conditions ; and in many cases 
may be of important character, — as when there is a 
decided deficiency of secretion in the bronchial tubes^ 
in cases of chronic pulmonary affection ; and might 
be selected for the temporary or long-continued resi- 
dence of the invalid, under such dreumstances, with 
much chance of benefit. 

The nature of the soil and the geological character 
of a district influence, in an important degree, its 
sanatory condition. Its drainage and vegetation, 
and the character of the air which passes over it, 
must be thus affected to a great extent; and the 
health of the population, and the effects of the air 
on disease, be largely influenced. Whether the sur- 
face of the district be formed principally or essentially 
of the primary rocks, or of mountain-hmestone, or 
of sandstone, or of clay, or of alluvial matters^ may be 
readily conceived to constitute influential circum- 
stances in modifying the condition of the air^ as to 
its dryness, and its freedom firom possible sources 
of impurity. But, besides these more evident and 
explicable differences, it is probable that the surface- 
stratum or the surface-soil of a.district may directly 



EFFECT OF VALLEYS ON CLIMATE. 125 

influence the character of the atmosphere^ to an extent 
fiivourable or otherwise to different constitutional 
conditions^ or different states of disease. Living in a 
district in which the mountain-limestone very exten- 
sively prevails^ it often happens to me to be assured 
hj invalids^ especially those who suffer from different 
fonns of rheumatism, that they experience a percep- 
tible degree of palliation of their sufferings, and at 
all events a perceptible improvement in their general 
health and feelings, when they arrive within the influ- 
ence of the limestone air; and they have repeatedly 
assured me, they could readily distinguish the air of 
such a district by the smell. 

' In connection with this subject, the very different 
physical conditions, and the very different effects on 
health and disease^ of the air of hiUs and that of 
valleys, may be fitly adverted to. The extraordinary 
influence of valleys on the health: an influence 
so much greater than could have been pre-con- 
ceived : is probably ascribable, in a great degree, to 
a deficiency of ventilation on the large scale^ and to 
the comparatively stagnant and unchanged atmo- 
sphere. The effects of this on the physical condition 
of a population are often so great, that other means of 
accounting for such consequences have firequently 
been advanced : the true explanation appearing to be, 
however, that (neither the peculiar character of the 
water made use of by the inhabitants, nor the nature 
of the soil, nor the employments, nor the clothings 
nor the dwellings, nor the habits of the people, help- 
ing to a satisfactory rationale of the effects^ inasmuch 
as such effects do not extend beyond the valleys. 



126 SFFECT OF WINDS ON CLIMATE. 

although such several circnmstances equally obtain 
in the adjoining localities) the stagnant atmosphere 
is the single cause of a degree of morbid degenera- 
tion, that seems to be proportioned to the degree in 
which the air is left in such a state of quiescence. The 
fearfiil accounts of cretinism, in all the appalling 
detaa of idiotcy, demoralisation, and extreme physical 
wretchedness, seem to confirm this view to the fullest 
extent. 

Besides this most influentially important condition 
of the air of valleys, — ^which may obtain to a greater 
or less degree, from the point at which it occasions 
cretinism in the worst type, to that which is not per- 
ceptibly detrimental to the health of the population, — 
the atmosphere of valleys is usually characterised by 
a somewhat higher temperature, and by a more uni- 
form temperature, than the air of plains of the same 
elevation, and in the same latitude. The air of 
valleys is usually more humid in its character than 
that of the plains. This may be usefully considered, 
in selecting a place of residence for special cases of 
disordered action. 

The effect of the prevailing winds that blow over a 
district (as to the direction from which they blow; 
the tract they may have passed over, more or less 
remotely, — such as snow-capped lulls, or arid plains, 
or a vast ocean, and the consequent temperature, 
humidity, &c., of the air) is very great, not only in 
raising or lowering the temperature of the atmosphere, 
but in producing or removing mists and clouds, in 
diminishing or increasing the amount of the radia- 
tion from the earth, in influencing the electrical 



EFFECT OF WINDS ON CLIMATE. 127 

condition of the air, and in cansingy or otherwise^ 
rains, dews, &c. All these circmnstances most be 
more or less important and inflnential, according to 
the latitude, the exposure, the elevation, and the 
inland or maritime situation; and the detail of the 
amoimt of such influence must vary accordingly. In 
this country, the remarkable effect of different winds, 
on some peculiarly sensitive constitutions and morbid 
states, — ^and more particularly, the difference of effect 
between the east and north winds, and the west and 
south winds, — ^are sufficiently well known. Many of 
oar pulmonary invalids are aware, from increased 
sense of irritation, of the wind having become easterly, 
although all the doors and windows may have been 
kept carefully closed, although the sufferer be in bed, 
and covered with bed-clothes, and the air of the 
rooms maintained at an imvarying temperature, with 
an accuracy duly ascertained by the thermometer. 
This is probably due to the greater dryness of the air 
that is caused by the east wind ; and its consequently 
greater irritation of the pulmonary tissues. In some 
cases, as in those of rheumatism, the effect often 
appears to be due to a change of wind, rather than 
to the wind blowing from any particukr quarter of 
the heavens ; and may be ascribed, with much proba- 
bility, to a sudden change in the electrical condition 
of the air having been thus brought about, to which 
the morbid condition of the system prevents it from 
being readily adapted. 

The variations of temperature between the day 
and the night, — and still more, the variations between 



128 EFFBCT OF 8EA80XS ON CLIMATE. 

the different seasons of the year^ — ^have a great and 
undoubted influence on the health of man. This 
influence is, however, probably more due to the 
changes of temperature, &c., and the immediate 
effect of these on the system, than to the settled 
heat of the one part of the year, or the settled cold 
of the other part. Within the tropics generally, the 
seasons, instead of being those of spring, summer^ 
autumn, and winter, are rather those of the rainy 
and dry seasons, which severally occur twice in the 
year. The periods at which the rains occur, as well 
as their degree and duration, vary very much in 
different localities. In some few situations, the total 
absence of rain is reported to extend over two or 
even three years. At a distance from the equator> 
the temperature is not only less high, but is more 
easily affected by secondary circumstances; and 
the difference between the temperature of summer 
and that of winter is very much greater, — ^and the 
extreme temperature as well as the mean tempera^ 
ture of the different localities present degrees of 
difference that are much more remarkable, than 
they are found to be in countries nearer to the equa- 
tor. These circumstances, however, serve to make 
man more dependent on his own exertions, — ^more 
active and energetic in body and mind, — ^with better 
exercised endowments, and a proportionably greater 
energy; the obligation to battle with circumstances, 
serving to add to the probabilities of his life, and to 
contribute to its healthiness. The more variable 
weather and less defined seasons of the higher lati- 



EFFECT OF SEASONS ON CLIMATE. 129 

tudes may^ moreover^ serve to diminish the amount 
of such endemic sources of disease^ as may be trace- 
able to the drying up of inundating waters in soils 
that are charged with the elements of decomposed 
organisms. But although^ as to this matter^ the 
result of the physical condition of the country may 
be in favour of the inhabitants of countries in the 
temperate regions of the earth, the immediate and 
direct effect of the frequent and great alternations 
of temperature that happen daily and hourly in the 
Mgher latitudes, the great difference between the tem- 
perature of the different seasons, the rapid changes in 
the condition of the air as to dryness and humidity, 
must be to test somewhat severely the vital powers of 
the human system, to destroy a larger number of the 
young and less strong, and to make life struggle 
more frequently, and at a greater risk, with the 
deranged conditions consequent on the disturbed 
balance of the different organic processes of the 
economy. It may well be doubted, if, — ^with all the 
admitted and great effects of civilisation, and culture, 
and duly exercised minds and bodies, so notable in 
the inhabitants of most countries that are placed in 
the higher latitudes of the earth, — and the rela- 
tively long life these efforts have enabled them to 
attain, — ^life would not be of greater duration in the 
intertropical countries than in these, and of more 
healthy character: in consequence of the steadier 
climate, the less varying seasons, and the more uniform 
condition of atmosphere as to temperature and as to 
humidity : if the sources of endemic disease could be 

63 



130 EFFECT OF SEASONS ON CLIMATE. 

remoyed in proportion to their greater importance, 
and more powerful effects^ under a vertical sun. 

The seasons of the year exercise a marked effect on 
the nature and character of the prevailing diseases in 
this country. Disorders of the respiratory organs are 
found to be most prevalent^ and diseased conditions 
of the lungs to become worse most rapidly^ in the 
spring; and cases of intestinal disorder or disease 
are found to be most prevalent^ and most severe in 
their character^ in the autumn. Cases of disordered 
action that are referable to disturbance of the func- 
tions of the skin^ are found to obtain most gene- 
rally in the summer; and those which originate 
in disturbance of the function of the kidneys, are 
found to be most prevalent in the winter. Diseases 
are attended with more decided pyrexia in hot sea- 
sons, and are most marked by cachectic character in 
cold seasons. These are, perhaps, the more important 
of the phenomena of disease which may be referred, 
either altogether or partially, to the temperature, &c., 
of the atmosphere, and which may be connected 
accordingly with the different seasons of the year ; and 
even in health, excitement is the special characteris- 
tic of the system in warm weather, and depression 
equally evidenced in a colder atmosphere. 

Frost — an atmospheric temperature below that at 
which water freezes — ^has an important effect on the 
economy of the system, whether in health or disease. 
It appears to diminish or destroy miasmata in a 
remarkable degree ; it affects greatly the hygrometri- 
cal and electrical conditions of the air ; and it lessens 



EFFECT OF TSGSTATION ON CLIMATE. ISl 

the tendency to low and typhoid kinds of morbid 
action^ — ^increasing the pyrexial character both of 
sporadic and epidemic disease. 

The character and the amount of the vegetation 
of a district greatly influence its sanatory condition. 
However carefully and fnlly drained ; bowever little 
aUuvial the soil ; however fuUy^ in fact^ all the secon- 
dary means of aiding its salubrity may be in opera- 
tion ; a district that is largely covered with vegetation 
must be so £eff prejudicial to healthy — ^for the double 
reason that the aerial currents are necessarily inter- 
fered with by it^ and that a large quantity of decay- 
ing matter must be thrown off, especially at certain 
seasons of the year^ and so far taint and damage the 
salubrity of the atmosphere. These deteriorating 
influences are much more energetic in their effects^ 
if aided by a heavy alluvial soil, with a substratum of 
day or other deficiently porous material,^— by deficient 
drainage, — and by seasons of much wet weather, suc- 
ceeded by drought. These are the very circumstances, 
in which the awful remittent fever of the African 
coast proves so destructive to himian life, — in which 
the endemic and epidemic diseases of India, as in 
tbe vicinity of extensive jungles, are most largely 
fatal. 

The degree to which a district is sheltered from 
certain winds may be beneficial or injurious to the 
health of the population, according to circumstances. 
A certain amount of protection &om the colder winds 
in the temperate climates, if not sufficient to render 
the atmosphere unduly stagnant, is generally useful 



132 EFFECT OF DBAINAGS ON CLIMATE. 

to healtli^ An^ on the other hand^ within the tro-' 
pics, places appear to be salnbrions, other things being 
equal, much in the proportion as the air is cooled regu-^ 
laxly or periodically by aerial currents. The effect 
of the sea-breeze on some districts, and that of the 
land-breeze on the same or on other districts, in adding 
to their salubrity, — as contrasted with the sanatory 
character of adjoining districts, which, from the vici- 
nity of high grounds or forests, do not enjoy the 
influences of such breezes, — afford important illustra- 
tions of this. Or, again, one valley, or even hiU-side, 
shelt^ed from the prevailing winds, is found to be 
the theatre of goitre in its worst form ; whilst a valley 
immediately adjoiniug to it, on the other side of the 
same lull, exposed to the influence of the winds, may 
be entirely free from this dreadful malady. In this 
country generally, a southern exposure, with due 
shelter &om the north and east, with a less degree of 
protection from the west winds, which, although so 
much more prevalent, are at the same time less severe 
and less trying to the powers of the system, — ^is what 
should be preferred. 

The drainage of a district affects very considerably 
the degree of its salubrity. This is particularly im- 
portant at certain seasons of the year, when the 
maximum of moisture has been perceptibly lessened 
by a subsequent period of drought; or when, from 
great heat, or great cold, or great or frequent changes 
of atmospheric temperature, the powers or the equi- 
librium of the system are much tasked or disturbed. 
The improved healthiness of some of the midland 



SUPPLIES OF WATER* 133 

counties of England^ since drainage has been attended 
to and practised^ — ^and the greater insalubrity of the 
Soman territory^ and particularly at certain times of 
the year, than appears to have obtained in ancient 
days^ when its drainage was more extensive and 
efficient^ — ^are striking illustrations of these facts. 

That much influence is exerted on the health of the 
inhabitants of a district^ by the character of the water 
with which it is suppHed for their domestic uses^ has 
been always a favourite theme of medical writers, 
and a subject of popular belief The degree of this 
influence has been, however, much exaggerated; and 
much has been referred to this, which is more justly 
referable to the stagnant atmosphere, or the prevailing 
winds, or the deficiency of the drainage, &c. It is pro- 
bable, that, unless in the case of the water being in a 
state of greater or less putridity, or of its containing a 
large amount of saline impregnation, or a perceptible 
impregnation of vegetable or animal matters, it has 
seldom much effect on the health of a population; 
and when individual systems have once become 
habituated to its use, the instances are rare in 
which it proves to be of any importance whether, 
the water reaches the surface by passing through 
sand, clay, limestone, or even shale : a small quan- 
tity of iron in water not appearing to have any bad 
effect on the healths of those using it. To the foetid 
water, which, until comparatively recent times, was 
furnished to our seamen, was the amount and the 
character of disease, that used to prevail on board 
the ships, to be partly ascribed; and the much 



134 SUPPLIES OF WATEB. 

greater healthiness of the Navy in the present day^ — 
a degree of average healthy presenting so low an 
amount of sickness^ and so low a mortality^ — may 
be ascribed^ in part^ to the substitution of iron tanks 
for the water^ instead of wooden casks; by which 
simple expedient^ the water is said to be satisfactorily 
preserved in a state of purity^ even during long 
voyages^ — ^instead of becoming disgusting to the eye, 
the nose^ and the palate, and necessarily depressing 
to the powers and detrimental to the health, of the 
consumers, within a few weeks of its being received 
on board the ships.* 

It may be reasonably doubted, then, whether 
cretinism, goitre, and the enlargement of the same 
gland which is often met with ia some parts of 
Derbyshire, and known as the Derbyshire throat : 
all but different degrees of the same complaint, — 
and proofs of a deranged condition of the system, and 
a localised cachexia, in different degrees ; although 
these conditions used to be referred so commonly 
to the internal use of water charged with par- 
ticukr impregnations, are ever justifiably refer- 
able to this. These proofs of morbid degeneration 
are rarely if ever met with in circumstances where 
the more important condition of an unduly stagnant 
atmosphere does not prevail. It may be doubted, 
whether the prevalence of calculous diseases in the 
more exposed parts of the eastern side of England 
and Scotland, especially the counties of Norfolk and 

* Statistical Report on the Health of the Navy, 1840. 



SUPPLIES OF WATER. 1S5 

Aberdeen, which used to be referred in greater or 
less degree to the character of the water made use of 
by the people, is not entirely independent of this 
drcomstance, and to be ascribed to peculiarities of 
diet : the very large use of wheaten flour in the form 
of dumplings in the one case, and the equally large 
use of oatmeal in the other case; connecting, as we 
may do justifiably, with this predisponent to saline 
and azotised' accumulations, the degree of inter- 
ference with the functions of the skin, and the 
degree of extraordinary and irregular duty devolved 
upon the kidneys, which must result from so much 
exposure to the direct and untempered and unshel- 
tered influence of the easterly winds, that have blown 
over the German Ocean, having been previously chilled 
by crossing the colder countries of the north of Europe. 
It is not, indeed, to be denied, that, in the 
instance of people removing from one locality to 
another, the internal use of water with a very dif- 
ferent character or amount of mineral impregnation 
may for a time influence the system very consider- 
ably ; and this may well be the case, in a remarkable 
degree, in the instance of the invalided. Living 
in a limestone district, much resorted to by inva- 
lided visitors, it used to happen to me very frequently 
to find that such sojourners were influenced, and 
their systems disturbed to an important degree, by 
the use of the calcareous water of the mountain lime- 
stone formation, — carefully distinguishing this, as it 
ia light to do, from the thermal mineral water of 
Buxton, containing other than simply calcareous 



136 SUPPLIES OF WATER. 

matters in solution. In later years^ Buxton has 
been more extensively and effectually supplied with 
a pure gritstone water, derived from an adjoining 
formation^ for domestic purposes. In the case of 
the resident population^ I am not aware that any 
modification of deranged health is traceable to the 
use of any of the very differently impregnated waters 
in this extensive district^ nor that any degree of 
immunity from any form of morbid action can be 
referred to such circumstance; and^ inasmuch as 
the different springs in the vicinity percolate sand- 
stone, Umestone, and shale, or the water made use 
of is derived directly from the rain, this may be 
admitted to be worthy of mention. 

In general, and more particularly in the towns, the 
importance attaches rather to the quantity of water for 
domestic uses with which a district is supplied, than to 
the character of its mineral impregnation. Sufficiently 
good water, for all the purposes of the economy of 
the system, is found in most of the towns of this 
country ; but an abundant supply of water, — so abun- 
dant as to answer all the sanatory purposes which 
such a supply may subserve, — ^is by no means so 
common. Yet this is a primary question, — ^bearing 
extensively on the pubhc health, and which should 
be early and fully attended to. Such a supply 
should be secured, — and could be easily secured, in 
any conceivable case, — as would serve not only to 
answer all domestic purposes, whether for internal, 
or culinary, or other household uses, but such a 
quantity as will serve to carry away, fully and 



EFFECT OF INSECT-LIFE <»N HEALTH. 137 

promptly^ all possible sources of imptirity out of the 
dwellings^ and either convey them to some neigh- 
bouring stream^ or so dispose of them as to place 
them beyond the chance of influencing the atmo- 
spheric condition of the town or its neighbourhood* 
This would include such a supply of water^ as would 
serve to cleanse the streets as well as the interiors 
of the houses^ wherever this might appear to be 
necessary; and by permitting the sewers to be filled 
or flushed with water at longer or shorter intervals 
of time, would suffice for the removal of any source 
of impurity that might be collected either at the 
comers of drains, or in their smaller branches, or 
when, from an unavoidably deficient degree of fall, 
it might prove to be impossible to keep them clear 
otherwise. 

The effect of existing animal or insect life on the 
health has been a more curious subject of inquiry of 
late years, from the revival of an ancient idea that 
some of the endemic and epidemic diseases — the 
epidemic cholera, for instance — ^may be propagated 
or spread by means of insects, and even conveyed 
from and to places far apart &om one another. The 
idea is not wanting in curious interest ; and it has 
been advanced firom time to time with plausible con- 
firmatory circumstances, and supported with consider- 
able ingenuity. But it is altogether an unproved 
and merely speculative question, from which no 
justifiable deductions can be drawn. The effect of 
insects in the intertropical countries, both during life 
by their numbers, their rapacity, or their venomous 



138 8UMMA&T OF CONDITIONS APPECTING CLIMATE. 

eharacter^ and after death by their effluyiai appears to 
be sometimes of importance. 

Such are some of the principal circumstances which 
affect the question of dimate^ and determine its salu- 
brity or otherwise. The deductions from them in 
individual instances must be governed and modified 
by the various circumstances of different localities^ 
as well as by the conditions of the system, as to health 
or disease, which may be im^der review. Sudi a 
practical acquaintance with the sanatory character 
of any locality can only be obtained by means of 
extensive data, the result of observations continued 
during several successive years, as to its mean tem- 
perature, — ^its daily maximum and minimum tempera- 
ture, — ^the variation in the temperature of the day 
and the night, — ^the quantity of rain which &Us 
during the year, and the times at which it falls, — ^in 
addition to all the other physical circumstances that 
have been noticed above, duly and fully ascertained. 
Furthermore, such a medical history of a district or 
country should include sufficiently extensive tabular 
digests of the prevailing diseases, and their individual 
fatality; such tables specifying, moreover, the total 
average mortality in reference to the amount of the 
population, — ^the observations being extended over 
many years. Ofsuch conclusively fuU and satiafSEu^iy 
accounts, there are as yet few from any parts of the 
world; and until these are sufficiently general to supply 
the materials for comparison and inference, the subject 
of climate must be incomplete in its practical detail. 

The ascertained principles show why, from its 



SUMMARY OF CONDITIONS APFECTINO CLIMATE. 139 

comparatiyely peninsular character^ bounded on one 
side by the Mediterranean, on the other by the 
Atlantic^ the winter climate of the greater part of 
Europe should be less severely cold, and the smnmer 
heats less excessive, than is found to be the case in 
such parts of the interiors of the large continents as 
are in the same latitude. The same great principles 
would go far to determine, without further local data, 
that one place would be warmer, or have a more 
equable temperature, or be subject to a less average 
&11 of rain, or be liable to less heavy periodical rains, 
or enjoy a drier soil; and many other similar and 
equally important questions might be answered, by 
merely surveying the general features and circum- 
stances of a country with the eye of a geologist and 
a physician, — even including the probable liabilities to 
endemic disease, and its general character. But the 
confirmation and extension of such observation, by 
statistical details of the prevailing diseases, their 
average mortality, &c., would be nevertheless of no 
small value and interest. How often are the phthisical 
iuTalids sent to districts, where phthisis is even more 
prevalent than it is in the places they have been sent 
away from, — ^with the probable result of accelerating 
instead of deferring the death, — and the certain 
result of exposing the poor invalid to much fatigue 
and inconvenience, without there being any chance 
of benefit accruing therefrom ! How often are 
&niLlies found to spend the autumnal months, by way 
of obtaining a change of air and of benefiting their 
healths, in places peculiarly remarkable for the 



140 SANATORY BEFOBTS ON CLIMATE. 

existence of a defective drainage^ or other sources 
of miasmatous impurity; the denizens being liable^ 
in a corresponding degree, to disorders of the 
stomach and bowek, which it is so important to 
avoid as much as possible at that period of the year, 
and from which persons that are nnaccostomed to a 
locality are so peculiarly liable to suffer! How 
often are scrofulous cases sent to districts where the 
disease is particuLirly rife, and the risk of aggrava- 
tion to the cases of the sojourners is proportionably 
great, and the chance of the change of air havmg 
any good effect is in tl^e same proportion small! 
Satisfactory details as to the prevailing diseases, and 
their rdative mortality in the different parts of Eng- 
land, may now be referred to in the valuable Reports 
of the BegiBtrar-General. Similar accounts, of much 
importance in authoritative interest, are given in the 
Reports on the health of the seamen of the British 
Navy, and of the soldiers employed at the different 
stations and dependencies of this country, in different 
latitudes, and on the health of the troops employed 
in the home-service. And although the deductions 
from these Reports might seem to be of somewhat 
less value, inasmuch as they are founded on the 
condition of men who are leading a life of peculiar 
occupation, habits, &c., and who are for the most 
part of a selected physical standard, and in the prime 
of life, yet the comparison of the results obtained 
from the military and naval records, with those 
derived from returns embracing the general popu- 
lation, may be fairly said to increase the value and 



THERAPEUTIC EFFECTS OF CLIMATE. 141 

importance of such records indiyidoally. But these 
accounts are too few to furnish data for conclusions 
respecting the sanatory character of more than a few 
places or countries in the world. 

In most cases, in the instance of the invalided, if 
a removal from their own district be needfiil, the 
question of the kind of air they should endeavour to 
obtain by the removal may be determined, without 
much difficulty, by giving due attention to the nature 
of the disease, the function of the affected organ in 
relation to those of the general system, the tempera* 
ment and habit of body of the individual, &c. ; and 
thus, the great consideration as to whether a drier or 
a moister air, a cooler or warmer air, a more quickly 
changed or more stagnant air, a thinner or denser 
air, an inland or a saline atmosphere, may be readily, 
or without much difficulty, determined ; and the diffi- 
culty of selection may be by so much narrowed and 
diminished, in an important degree. 

Usually, pastoral districts are, for obvious reasons, 
and in all cases, to be preferred to arable districts of 
country, for the temporary or the permanent residence 
of the invalided. 

As to England, if a locality the atmosphere of 
which is of mild but damp character is sought for, 
the best situations are to be found in Devonshire, 
and Torquay especially deserves to be mentioned ; the 
mildest peninsular climate seems to be that of Pen- 
zance ; the best maritime climates are foimd in the 
Isle of Wight, Jersey, Guernsey, and the Isle of Man, 
^respectively deserving a preference, in proportion 



142 CLIMATES FOR SUMMSIfc-RSSIBENCE. 

as greater wannth may be necessaiy^ or a moderately 
free exposure to cold and wind is not considered to 
be objectionable. The best monntain climates are to 
be fonnd in the more sheltered uplands of Wales^ and 
in the High Peak of Derbyshire; and these districts 
offer a climate that is often pecnliarly snitable to the 
summer residence of invalids. 

But^ in England^ in the summer months, there 
is no deficiency of choice as to invalid places of 
residence ; and ev^i some of the elevated districts of 
Scotland may offer advantages to some cases. In 
more delicate cases, where so stimulating and bracing 
an atmosphere, as the higher elevations or more 
northerly localities necessarily involve, would be 
objectionable even for the residence during summer, 
the hills of Malvern, or such less elevated but still 
comparatively high ground as is to be found in so 
many of the English counties, might be preferred 
In other cases, the air of the sea-coast might be 
most useful, — selecting the exposure of the coast 
according to the nature of the case ; firom the colder 
and drier north-west coast, stretching from the 
Mersey to the Solway, and including Blackpool and 
Fleetwood, and the many smaller marine watering 
places near Liverpool, — ^to the somewhat less dry 
north-east coast, extending from Berwick to the 
Humber, embracing Scarborough, &c. ; or from this 
to the warmer coasts of Suffolk and Essex, adding 
Margate thereto as having the same exposure; or 
from this to the still warmer south coast, which is 
conveniently divided into the south-eastern, from 



CLIMATES OF THE COAST OF ENGLAND. 143 

Dover to the Isle of Wight indusive^ — ^the southern^ 
from Weymouth to the Land^s End incliisiye, — and 
the south-western^ from beyond the peninsula of 
Comwall to Milford Haven, embracing all the sea- 
coast of the Bristol Channel, and the different places 
on the banks of the Severn. It may prove to be a 
considerable convenience, and not lead to any serious 
error, to assume that these divisions of the coast of 
England are so many landmarks of milder and milder 
coast climate for the residence of invalids; from the 
coasts of Lancashire and Cumberland, to those of 
Northnmberland, Durham, and Yorkshire, — from 
these, to the Suffolk and Essex coasts, — ^from these, 
to the coasts of Kent, Sussex, and Hampshire, — 
from these, to the coast of Dorset, and the south-coast 
of Devonshire, and the whole of the Cornish coast, — 
and from these, to the coast washed by the Bristol 
Channel and the Mouth of the Severn. The Welsh 
coast, occupying the remaining sea-wall of England, 
including Milford Haven, and Cardigan and Car- 
narvon Bays, occupies a place midway in situation and 
character between the Lancashire and the Cornish 
coasts. 

In the summer and autunmal months, perhaps 
none of these may be decidedly objectionable for the 
residence of the majority of invalids, to whom a sea- 
fide residence may be recommended; but in the 
^'^ter and spring months, the coasts of Comwall, 
*^evon, and Dorset, should be chiefly and perhaps 
cxdnsively selected, with the exception of Hastings, 
^i^d of some few places of less importance ; unless in 



144 INLAND CLIMATES OF ENGLAND* 

cases where a damp atmosphere, even of saline 
character, appears to be less suitable than a colder 
and drier air, in which cases some of the other parts 
of the coast may be justifiably preferred. In the 
later autumnal and early winter months, the coast of 
Sussex (Brighton) may be strongly recommended. 
The Isle of Wight affords several sheltered and suit- 
able localities for the winter residence of invalids. 
In the spring months, the sea-coast is for the most 
part wisely avoided, in these high latitudes ; and. the 
sheltered inland situations should be generally pre- 
ferred, even in cases where the air of the sea-coast 
seems to be most advisable at other times of the year. 
The most eligible of these situations are to be found 
in the inland parts of Devonshire ; and next to these, 
Clifton, Bath, Cheltenham, and perhaps even the 
vicinity of London, may be fitly classed. As regards 
the north of England, there is less choice and more 
difficulty, in finding desirable localities for the winter 
residence of the invalided. Some parts of Cheshire, 
and Matlock in Derbyshire, are the most valued of 
these ; and to these places may be added, generally, 
such situations as are at once the best sheltered and 
the most dry, from the circumstances of soil and 
elevation, and which are situated, as nearly as may 
be, midway between the eastern and western coasts. 
The whole of the south and south-west coast of 
England, however, even in cases where the climate 
proves to be sufficiently mild and temperate for the 
invalid's residence during the winter and spring 
months, is generally much too humid for many of 
them. 



CLIMATES OF THE SOUTH OF FRANCE. 145 

The same remark applies even to the long-praised 
and highly-fiBuned climate of the south of France. 
On the south-west of France^ the provinces of Gas- 
cony and Beam comprise the principal places resorted 
to by invalids; Pan being the chief of these. 
According to Sir James Clark^ whose work on cli- 
mate is so well known^^ Pan appears to be chiefly 
remarkable and valuable for the residence of invalids 
during the spring months^ on account of the mildness 
of the temperature ; being wanner than London^ or 
even than Penzance, and but little colder than Bome. 
It is likewise reported to have a dry soil ; and it is 
said that its northerly winds are less trying to inva- 
lids, than those winds are apt to be in this country 
during the spring months. It has the fault of 
unsteadiness of temperature ; while it has the great 
advantage of being near to the watering-places of the 
Higher Pyrenees, which present a delightful summer 
climate to the invalid. The south-east of France, — 
consisting of theprovincesof Languedocand Provence, 
including MontpeUer, Marseilles, and Hyeres, — ^to 
which, although situated in Piedmont, Nice may be 
added, — ^is warmer and drier than the south-western 
district; but is objectionable from its greater vicissi- 
tudes of temperature, and the frequency of harsh and 
cold winds. A system should be in a condition to bear 
a stimulating and bracing atmosphere, that is sent 
to pass the winter and spring in this part of France. 
These remarks are chiefly applicable to Montpelier 

* The Sanative Influence of Climate. By Sir James Clark, Bart. 
M.D., F.R.S., &c. 

VOL. II. H 



146 CLIMATES OF ITALY. 

and Marseilles. Hyeres is protected considerably 
from the piercing north winds^ by the range of hills at 
the base of which it is situated; and it appears to be 
by so much, and to a great degree, less objectionable 
on this account. As regards Nice, too, there is pro- 
tection from the north by steep and lofty mountains ; 
but the winds are said to be cold; and the air, 
although mild and somewhat soft, is rather exciting. 
It is too hot as a summer residence for most invalids. 

The climate of Italy affords much greater advan- 
tages to invalids, than that of the South of France. 
It is less dry, but proportionally more soft and less 
exciting. In cases where the excitability and morbid 
sensitiveness of the tissues are considerable, — so often 
primary indications in the case of the pulmonaiy 
invalid, — this may be the. best and strongest of all 
reconmiendations. Pisa» Bome, and Naples are the 
places in highest consideration, and chiefly resorted to 
by the invalids from this country. Pisa is in the highest 
estimation when the invalid requires shelter, and will 
not bear exertion; and Home seems to be preferable 
under other circumstances. Naples is considered to 
be more exciting than either Pisa or Rome : its air has 
more of a sea-coast character, and it is more subject 
to winds than Pisa. The whole of the south-west of 
Italy, from Oenoa to Sicily, is probably possessed of 
important and sufficiently different physical advan* 
tages, as winter or spring climates for invalids, to be 
worthy of a full and satisfactory statistical inquiry, as 
to temperature, winds, rain, prevailing diseases, &c. 

Of information as to the climate of the more 



IfEDITER&ANEAN CLIMATES. 147 

important localities in the Mediterranean^ the admi- 
rable medical topography of Dr. Hennen, and the 
very able Army Medical Reports^ leave little to be 
viajied for. The accounts include Gibraltar^ Malta, 
and the Ionian Islands; and show a climate that is, 
on the average of the whole year, warm and dry ; 
subject, however, to fogs and cold winds, and there- 
fore not so well suited for the winter or spring 
residence of invalids, as might have been expected. 
In Gibraltar we find that the temperature in summer 
reaches to 91^, the lowest temperature in winter 
being 50° ; and that the average number of days on 
which rain falls during the year is only 70, the 
number of days on which rain falls annually in 
London being stated at 178. Yet, owing to the 
easterly winds, which are damp, raw, and unpleasant, 
all the advantages of climate presented by Gibraltar 
are neutralised, so far as the interests and comforts 
of the invalided are concerned. The heat of Gibraltar 
would be too great in summer for invalid residence ; 
and the dense fogs of the autumn, the heavy rains of 
September and October, the prevalence of easterly 
winds during an average of 184 days in the year, all 
multiply conclusive objections to this ever being 
selected as a residence for the invalided. Among the 
resident population, the average mortality appears to 
differ very little from that of the United Kingdom. 

The climate of Malta is affected by the scanty 
vegetable covering of its soft rocky soil ; causing the 
atmosphere to be charged with an impalpable dust that 
must be injurious to the pulmonary invalid. Besides 

h2 



148 MEDITERRANEAN CLIMATES. 

this^ the climate is affected by tlie hot winds^ which 
come to it after having swept over the deserts of Africa^ 
and the sandy coast of Egypt and Syria ; and its tem- 
perature^ and particularly its summer temperature^ is 
proportionally high. In the summer^ indeed, the 
heat is little less than that of the tropics ; ranging 
&om a minimum of 69^° to a maximum of 86^ during 
the months of June, July, August, and September. It 
is subject to rains of tropical violence, from October 
to February; and the air is surcharged with moisture 
till March : when all the damp and wet of winter are 
largely atoned for to the healthy resident, by a suc- 
ceeding five months, in which the sky is virtually 
cloudless, and scarcely a drop of rain falls. The south- 
east wind is the most common and the most disagree- 
able in its effects ; and the absence of a regular 
land and sea breeze, — so useful and grateful in most 
tropical countries, by tempering the sultry heats, — 
must necessitate a great deduction from the sanatory, 
character of the Maltese climate. Long considered 
to be salubrious to its inhabitants, and those who 
sojourn there in a state of health, — and as it used to 
be thought, even advantageous to the phthisical 
invalid resorting to it, — Malta seems, on the high 
authority of the Army Reports, to have the average 
annual mortality of 1 in 39; the average yearly 
mortality of England having been only 1 in 47? 
during the same years. The salubrity of the climate 
of Malta is computed, on the whole, to be neither 
higher nor lower in its degree, than that of the 
Southern States of Europe generally, — of which the 



MEDITERRANEAN CLIMATES. 149 

mean annual mortality is stated to be^ from 1 in 35 
to 1 in 40 of the population. The troops are said to 
have suffered more from fever in Malta than in 
Gibraltar^ and twice as much as the troops at home ; 
and more than one-third of the deaths is referred to 
diseases of the lungs. The inhabitants appear to 
suffer as much from pulmonary disease^ as those 
of more northern latitudes; and the troops were 
attacked witli fatal disease of the lungs^ in even a 
somewhat larger proportion than has been reported 
to obtain in this country. The mortality among the 
native troops^ called the Malta Fencibles^ seems to 
have been less than half the mortality of the troops 
of the line — ^natives of Britain; and this circum- 
stance furnishes a strong caution against incon- 
siderately sending the invalided to climates that are 
very different to that of their native country, — on 
account of the greater mortality that must, under 
almost any conceivable circumstances, in this way be 
risked. 

The Ionian Islands, remarkable for the luxuriance 
and abundant growth of the Olive, and so suited to 
the cultivation of the small seedless variety of grape, 
famiUar as the so-called dried currant of commerce, 
—have a summer temperature that ranges from 77° 
to 84°, and a temperature in the winter months of 
from 49° to 58°. They are subject, from their moun- 
tainous character, to sudden atmospherical changes ; 
the extremes of heat and cold, drought and damp, 
tempest and calm, often succeeding one another in 
conrse of a few hours. The degree of heat and the 



150 MEDITERRANEAN CLIMATES. 

whole character of the atmosphere in these islands are 
remarkably influenced by the direction of the wind. 
Here^ the north and north-east winds are said to be 
cool ; in other parts of the Mediterranean^ they are 
descrAed as chiUing and piercingly harsh,— coming 
from snow-clad mountains upon the previously heated 
air, and suddenly bringing it down to a wintry 
character. But, however grateful the northerly 
winds axe in the Ionian Islands, the south wind is 
here, as elsewhere in the Mediterranean, charac- 
terised by the burning sands of Africa— often bring- 
ing with it mists and rain — ^and sometimes having 
the stifling and depressing character, known as the 
Sirocco wind, which withers vegetation, causes the 
beasts of the field to droop, and subjects man to a 
sense of exhaustion, that is to be compared in its 
degree to nothing but the efPect produced on the sensi- 
tive few in this country by extreme electrical changes: 
this is only relievable by a change of wind. As &r 
as the health of the British troops is a guide to tbe 
sanatory character of the Ionian Islands, the conclu- 
sions must be highly unfavourable. Compared with 
Malta, the deaths are given, in round numbers, as 
28 to 18, — ^and with Gibraltar, as 28 to 22. Among 
the natives, however, the average mortality is only 
stated as 1 in 39 : the same proportion as that of 
Malta, and indeed probably but little different from 
that of the South of Europe generally. One half of 
the mortality is stated to be from fever, which affords 
a convincing indication of how much might be done 
to diminish the average fatality of these islands. Of 



MEDITBBBANXAN CLIMATES. 151 

the remaining deaths^ nearly one half is referred to 
diseases of the lungs ; and of these^ almost two-thirds 
are set down as cases of consumption. 

Bearing the aboye facts in mind^ — and coupling 
with them the physical characters of the Me^terra- 
nean climate, — and, further than any good effect from 
change of air and change of scene, it appears that 
little advantage is ofiFeredby the climates of Southern 
Europe to any class of invalids, and least of all to 
pulmonary invalids. The mortality firom consump- 
tion among the troops was found to be generally 
greater than that iu England; and must be at least 
fully as high, making every allowance for possible 
sources of error. Curiously enough, indeed, the 
mortality firom phthisis appears to have been greater 
among the troops in the Mediterranean climates, 
than in North America; notwithstanding the fi*e- 
quent exposure of the soldier employed in the latter 
service to the air in the night, when the tempera- 
ture is below the zero of Fahrenheit's scale. But 
frequent and great alternations of temperature, such 
as obtain so generally throughout Southern Europe, 
>T-the influence of the Sirocco, — and the considerable 
heats of summer, — all tend to induce and keep 
up a state of system, that may well be believed to 
predispose to or increase pulmonary delicacy; and 
can hardly be supposed, unless under very unusual 
circumstances, to lessen the disposition to phthisis, 
or prolong the existence of those already labouring 
under the disease. 

Passing from the Mediterranean, and its so long 



152 CLIMATE OF K6TPT. 

nusandentood and over-estunated diinatoiial cha^ 
lacters, the dimate of Egypt, as reported by many 
inteDigent and competent observers^ demands some 
notice, on accoont of its extreme dryness. The 
great heats of the Egyptian sommer most be too 
much for the cases of most invalids. In the winter 
months, howerer, the thermometer is said to average 
70 degrees, and to be never seen below 40°; and at 
that time of the year, even the southerly winds are 
said to have a cooling influence ; and the northerly 
and westerly winds are at all times characterised 
by an agreeable fireshness to the feelings. In the 
months of December, January, and February, there 
can be little doubt that many an invalid would find 
advantage in the climate of Egypt; and in those 
cases in which a dry climate seems to be the great 
physical desideratum, — ^and such cases are suflElciently 
numerous,^ — by care in the selection of the locality, 
it is not improbable that a residence in Egypt, even 
throughout the year, might be eminently useful. 
The effect of the sultry and depressing south wind, 
with the lurid sky, on the one hand, — ^aud the alterna- 
tions of this with the cooling north and west winds ; 
the steamy vapours from the inundations of the Nile, 
affecting, as they must do, extensive districts of the 
country,and only prevented from producing amarshy 
surface and leading to miasmatous exhalations, by 
the extremely arid nature of the soil; the intense 
heat of the long summer, with its great effect on the 
cutaneous functions ; should be, severally, and col- 
lectively, and fiilly considered, with their probable 



CLIMATE OF EGYPT. 153 

influence on the constitution and the disease^ before 
the great step of removing to such a cUmate is 
ventured upon. The peculiar effect of the climate of 
Egypt upon the eyes, — ^whether from the dusty air, 
or the intense light of the sun, or the scorching 
winds, or the mere dryness of the atmosphere ; the 
liabihty of the natives to certain severe diseases of 
the skin and cellular tissue ; are important features 
in its medical history, — ^but perhaps of little import- 
ance to invalids resorting to it for temporary sojourn. 
The endemic diseases (chiefly dysentery) a]ppear to 
be exclusively owing to the uncleansed state of the 
towns, and the dirty habits of many of the people. 
The frequency of hepatitis among the resident 
population, — ^probably connected in a great degree 
with the high temperature of the country, — ^is likewise 
hardly of primary importance to the invalided 
sojourner. As to the Plague, — ^and perhaps the 
remark may apply to some of the other diseases that 
have been adverted to, — an energetic Executive has 
done much to remove what is nothing less than an 
opprobrium on the information, diligence, and com- 
mon sense, of any Government ; dependent as most 
epidemic and endemic diseases are on removable 
circumstances, that can be, and ought always to be, 
dealt with summarily. 

It is difBcult, in these days of advancing commercial 
relations and intercourse among the nations of the 
world, — and increasing means, rapidity, and safety of 
locomotion, both by land and by water, — ^to conceive 
what^climate or country of the world, however remote, 

h3 



L54 CLIMATES OF THE AMERICAS^ &C. 

and however hitherto considered to be inaccessiblei 
might not be interesting to the invalid^ for the advan- 
tages offered to his morbid conditions^ by its physical 
drcumstances^ and the character of its«climate. The 
Himalayas or the Nielgherries might eventually not 
seem to be too remote or too inaccessible for the 
removal and sojourn of the sufferer firom chronic 
disease ; and even some parts of the vast Empire of 
China may hereafter offer strong and sufficiently 
tempting advantages ; but ^ in the meantime, it may 
be enough to add to what has been said, that the 
great American continents present few climatorial 
advantages to the invalid, — ^whether the extreme 
coldness of the Canadian winter, — or the remarkable 
differences between the summer and winter tempera- 
ture throughout the greater part of the Americas,— 
or the influence of uncleared forest, or extensive 
prairie, or vast lakes, or great inland salt marshes, 
or whole districts charged with decomposing vegetable 
matters with their miasmatous exhalations, — or the 
influence of violent thunder storms, — ^be considered; 
connecting therewith the prevalence of fever, or of 
other forms of equally grave disease, in the different 
localities of the New World. Whether the heats of 
the Carolinas, the West Indies, and a large part of 
the South American continent be considered, together 
with the many sources they present of endemic dis- 
ease,-— or the above-cited broad facts be fairly brought 
under review, — ^it is difficult to conceive that the 
invalided, under any circumstances that commonly 
obtain, would find sufficient physical advantages in 



CLIMATE OF MADEIRA. 155 

such extreme climates^ to tempt them to wander so 
far, even in search of health. This is still more true 
in regard to the African continent, with its burning 
sun and arid soil; and these vast regions maybe 
fairly considered to be beyond my present purpose. 
I shall notice, in detail, only one more place, as 
important on account of the physical advantages 
which it offers for the sojourn of invalids. 

Situated in the Northern Atlantic, Madeira may be 
classed with many other similarly detached islands ; 
which are far removed from the influence of extensive 
continents, and enjoy a warm but tempered climate; 
the heats of summer being moderated, and the winter 
temperature being equalised, by the influences of the 
ocean : by its temperature, its currents, and its winds. 
Situated in latitude 32^ 30^ north, its climate is pro- 
portionably warmer than that of Europe ; while its 
insular position keeps the variations of temperature 
within 14 degrees : a range which is far less than 
obtains in the most favoured country or district of 
Europe ; permitting its summer temperature to be a 
few degrees cooler, and its winter temperature to be 
twelve degrees warmer, than that of any part of Italy 
or France. The rains, too, fall chiefly in the autumn ; 
and the average number of days on which rain falls, 
is stated to be only 73 ; whereas rain is said to fall, 
on the average of years, on no fewer than 117 days at 
Rome, on 146 days in the Isle of Wight, and on 178 
days in London. The mean annual temperature of 
Funchal, the capital of Madeira, is stated to be 65° ; 
that of Rome being 60° 70', and that of London being 



156 CLIMATE OF MADEIRA. 

50'' 39'. When it is added, that the air, although 
dry, is so nearly at the point of satnration, as to ren- 
der it as far as possible soothing in its effects on the 
air-passages, and so far well fitted for cases of pulmo- 
nary irritation, — ^that, in consequence of the regular 
sea-breezes, the air, even in the snmmer-tiine, is 
rarely oppressive, or even close or sultry, — ^that there 
is neither smoke nor dust to render the air impure, — 
that the thermometer, even at sunrise, is rarely found 
to be below 50°, — ^that the native peasantry, although 
hard worked and badly fed, are healthy and robust, 
exempted from intermittent and remittent fevers, 
continued fever being of rare occurrence, and tuber- 
cular consumption being a rare disease, in comparison 
with what obtains in more northern climates, — ^it is 
Uttle surprising that so many should be advised every 
year to risk the fatigues of the voyage by sea, leave 
all the home-comforts and home-blessings so far 
behind them, and consent to sojourn in a country 
where the roads are impassable for wheeled carriages, 
and exercise can only be taken out of doors on foot, 
or mounted on the small horses of the country. 

The subject of climate, even so far as the selection of 
a place of residence or sojourn for the invalided, is felt 
to be far from exhausted in the above observations; 
and the broad details of the medical history of the 
different countries of the world^ and their several 
influences on the health and life of mankind, are still 
less fully considered. The reader is referred, how- 
ever, with much confidence, to the work by Sir James 
Clark, already mentioned, — and more especially to 



CHANGE OP AIB. 157 

the admirable tables of the mean temperatures^ &c.^ of 
different places^ that are given in that work ; and Dr. 
Hennen^s work, and the Reports on the Health of 
the Army and Navy, supply ample and satisfactory 
information, as to the sanatory character of the South 
of Europe, North America, the West Indies, &c. 

The subject of climate appears to lead very natu- 
rally to that of change of air: one of the most 
important and most useful of remedial agents. 

A man can scarcely be in a state of such perfect 
health, as not to be benefited by change of air. 
Indeed, an occasional change of air may be said to 
be almost necessary to the perfect well-being of every 
man« The workman must leave his workshop, the 
student his library, and the lawyer his office, or, 
sooner or later, his health will pay the penalty ; and 
this, no matter how great his temperance in eating 
and drinking, — no matter how vigorously and regu- 
larly he uses his limbs, — ^no matter how open, and 
dry, and free from sources of impurity, may be the 
air of the place in which he is employed. 

The change of air may or may not be so great as to 
be virtually a change of climate, according to the cir- 
cumstances or the necessities of the case ; audit may 
or may not involve the removal of an individual from 
his usual occupations and pursuits for the time, — su1> 
stituting a comparative relaxation of mind and body, 
— or at least a change of direction and effort. In the 
slighter cases of impaired health, the sleeping in the 
suburbs of the town in which the life is chiefly spent, 
or even the spending a few hours of detached days in 



158 CHANGE OF AIR. 

some accessible rural district^ at a few miles distance 
from the dwellings may suffice to restore the healthy 
balance of the bodily functions^ and maintain the 
bodily machine in a fit state for its duties ; or in 
cases of somewhat more urgency, or of somewhat more 
aggravated character, a more decided change of air^ 
for even a few days, once or twice a year, may suffice 
to adjust or restore the due economy of the system. 

The degree of the change of air, or the character 
of the air selected for the purpose, may be by no 
means adapted, however, to the degree or the nature 
of the case, and may deserve and require a carefiil 
consideration. The degree of the change of air, — ^the 
difference of character between the air to which the 
system has been habituated, and that of the place 
selected for the temporary abode, — ^may be too great, 
or not great enough : it may be so great as to stimu- 
late unduly, or so great as to relax in an unwise 
degree, or not sufficiently great to exercise any 
beneficial effect whatever on the nature of the case, 
further than the change of scene, and the mental 
stimulus of such change, may necessarily involve. 
It may generally hold true, that the change should 
be to a purer or a more stimulating atmosphere in 
the slighter cases of indisposition, and to a more 
relaxing air in the more severe cases of illness ; but 
it would be foimd to be a rule that is subject to a 
very large number of exceptions. The man labour- 
ing under iudigestion, that is the effect of sedentary 
habits and repletion, would be probably injured by 
a removal to a warmer and moister air than that to 



CHANGE OF AIB. 159 

which he had been accustomed^ bat would be bene- 
fited by a change to an air colder and drier than hia 
own. The irritable sufferer from dyspepsia, the 
result of deficiency of proper nourishment^ or of 
powers too languid to convert his food into blood, 
would probably suffer an aggravation of his ailments 
by a removal to a colder and drier air, and be restored 
to health by a change to one warmer and more moist. 
In proportion to the weakness, the, irritability, the 
sensitiveness to every impression, ought the change 
to be to an air that is softer and warmer. In pro- 
portion to the strength of the body, the lethargic 
state of its powers, the dulled condition of its sensa- 
tions, ought the change to be to an air which is 
drier and more cold. There are states of highly 
irritable system, in which almost every kind of food 
is felt by the stomach, and gives it uneasiness ; or in 
which a little dust floating in a room produces a fit 
of coughing ; or in which breathing a colder air than 
usual produces the same effect, — the cough being dry 
and almost tinkling ; or in which the gentlest aperient 
medicine produces pain, and; perhaps, diarrhoea; or 
in which the most common domestic occurrence 
vexes and annoys. Any such state will probably 
derive advantage &om a mild, soft air; and would 
probably be injured by an air of a different kind. 
There is a state of system in which there are excessive 
languor and relaxation; in which the stomach, so 
fiir from feeling almost any kind of food, is hardly 
roused into action by spirits or condiments ; in which 
a strong cathartic medicine scarcely produces an 



160 CHANGE OF AIR. 

uneasy feeling; in which severe domestic trials 
hardlj produce a temporary impression; in which 
secretion may be free; in which^ if there is cough^ 
it is commonly loose and unirritating* Such a case 
would be probably injured by the relaxing effects of 
a soft warm air^ but derive benefit from an air at 
once dry and somewhat cold. 

The degree of the change of air that is required 
and indicated is of little less importance than the 
due selection of the kind of air best suited to the 
nature of the case. In general^ likewise^ more or 
less of a marked difference in the character of the 
air should be considered to be necessary; and the 
inhabitant of an inland district might advantageously, 
under most circumstances^ have some part of the coast 
selected for the change of air ; or the dweller in a low 
or flat country^ seek some upland^ or possibly moun- 
tain district; or the inhabitant of an alluvial, or 
a chalk, or a sandstone, or a mountain-limestone 
district, might more advantageously remove to a 
district of a different, formation. Nevertheless, this 
question might be properly made subservient to the 
more important question — ^whether the nature of the 
case indicates a removal to a more relaxing or a more 
stimulating atmosphere. 

Change of air, to be of service, should be well 
timed; and should, if possible, be obtained in an 
early period of a chronic and lingering disease ; and 
not be deferred longer than can be avoided, in 
convalescence from active or inflammatory affections. 

The more impure the air to which the person has 



CHANGE OF AIR. 161 

been accustomed^ the more cautious and deliberative 
should be the change of air and its degree^ but the 
more imperatively is such change of air called for. 
The younger the person^ the greater the benefit to 
be derived from a change of air; and the more 
necessary and advisable is such change usually found 
to be. It would be generally well, when a man 
becomes affected with a disturbed state of his 
digestive or biliary organs^ if such state should not 
speedily yield to a regulated diet, and exercise, and 
the usual medicaments, that days and weeks should 
not be consumed, and indeed wasted, in trying this 
thing or that thing, or trusting to the beneficence of 
nature, or to the strength of his constitution ; but 
that an early trial should be given of a jvdidous 
change of air. It would be generally well, when a 
man becomes affected with some degree of dyspnoea, 
cough, and other indications of an irritable state of 
the respiratory organs, if, as soon as the urgent 
symptoms had been relieved, — or, better stilly if they 
should not have as yet come on, — ^the effect of a 
wisely selected change of air were early and timely 
tried. How often, in cases of this kind, have delays 
been proved to have been not only dangerous, but 
fetal! There is not a fact in the whole range of 
pathology, that is more pregnant with sound matter 
for practical reflection than this : that at no time is 
a man more apt to contract structural disease, than 
immediately after the subsidence of active disorder, 
during the debilitated convalescence. A judicious 
change of air, as a means of accelerating the restora- 



162 SANATORY BFFECTS OF TBAVELLING. 

tion to healthy as a means of lessening this risk, is 
invalaable ; and where it can be accomplished^ ahonld 
be never neglected. 

The young, whether well or lU in the broad sense 
of the words^ are always advantaged by change of 
air. If brought up in a large town^ an occasional 
change to the air of the country is almost necessary 
to give them strength and sound health. Afiber 
illness, change of air is almost necessary to the young 
convalescent. It cannot be doubted, that many 
children fall into permanent and incurable disease, 
who might be restored to health if a judicious and 
timely change of air could be obtained for them. 

The change of air, which, in cases of comparative 
health, I would advise in strongest terms, is that 
embraced in constantly moving for the time firom 
place to place, — taking as much personal exerciBe 
during the journey as is found to be possible. I have 
often been struck with the fact, that an Englishman 
will readily make up his mind to set off to the Con- 
tinent; go among a people whose language he is 
perhaps quite ignorant of, — ^whose habits are quite 
foreign to his own, — ^whose houses, except in the 
larger cities, may be such as to disgust his insular 
love and sense of cleanliness, — ^whose style of living 
may be such as to make him almost loathe the sight 
of food,* — ^whose country may or may not admit of 

* If it be read with some little allowance for love of country, and 
ardor scribendi, the following furnishes an apt illustration of this part 
of the text : — ^^ Among the < miseries of human life ' might b6 ranked 
that of dining, or rather starving, at a German table d'hSte — and that. 



SANATOBT EFFECTS OF TBAYELLINO. 163 

but an indifferent comparison with his own; and he 
maj, at a considerable expense^ have transported 
bimself thither. And for what purpose? Perhaps, 
to set out on a pedestrian tour, with a stick and a 

too, in the midst of plenty 1 It k in such a place that the pandoz 
is explained — ^ inopem me copia fedt' Sir F. Head too haa remarked 
that * the dish that is not acid is sore to be oily.' If this were all, we 
should have small reason to complain. The misfortane is, that not 
only oils and adda are liberaUy distribiited by that infenial agent, the 
MaUre de Cudsine^ but every loathsome ingredient that the three 
kingdoms of nature can furnish is crammed into erery pot and sauce- 
pan in his subterranean dominions. Some philoflophera hare endea- 
▼oared to distingnish man from other animals, and elevate him on 
the scale of created beings, on account of his cookmg propensities. 
I think they entitle him to an additional seven years in PwrgfOory^ 
if there be such a place, as our Catholic brethren affirm there is I 
One thing is dear, however, that he is punished here below for the 
crimes which he commits against nature, by *■ torturing dishes from 
their native taste,' and mingling all unutterable things in that box of 
Pandora— his accursed culinary cauldron I 

^The succession is not less abhorrent to the English palate than the 
oonposition of continental dishes. It is generally believed that animal 
ud vegetable food is designed to be eaten together, otherwise nature 
would have furnished one side of the mouth with incisors and the 
other with grinders. In the ' continental system,' they take a very 
^lifferent view of things. When the vegetables (rather less than half- 
boikd, and swimming in oil) are on the table, there is no animal 
food— none, at least, that haa not undergone more transubstantiations 
than Yishnou, and more metamorphoses than are recorded by Ovid. 
When meat smokes on the board, the vegetables have disappeared I 
The animal that was browssing or bleating on the mountains the pre- 
ceding day, and slaughtered in the night, is burnt to a cinder, or 
boiled till Httle more than bones and nnews are left : — ^in either case 
it is some degrees harder and tougher than well tanned sole-leather. 
As for poor Chanticleer, his ablation from the roost, decapitation in 
the court-yard, a/wto da J^S in the kitchen, dissection in the salle ^ 
fumgery and sepulture in some dark recess of a Grerman stomach, 
occupy about three-quarters of an hour — ^the five acts of the tragedy 
being often enacted after the soup has gone its round of the table 
d?hoteV*-^From Dr. James Johnsori's aceowU of ^ The Batht of 



164 SANATORY EFFECTS OF TRAVELLING. 

bundle^ — an undertaking which he might have per- 
formed at home^ more cheaply^ as improvingly^ with 
many and evident greater advantages^ and probably 
with as much benefit to his health ; or he may have 
done this for the sake of bathing in thermal springs, 
which are probably not better suited to his case than 
those of Buxton or Bath^ — or in order to drink saline 
mineral waters that are possibly not equal to those 
of Cheltenham^ or chalybeate waters not better than 
those of Tunbridge Wells, or sulphuretted waters 
not comparable to those of Harrogate. It may be 
very well to say to the man of wealth and independ- 
ence, '^Medicine is really not calculated to eflfect your 
cure. Get together your travelling conveniences, 
your carriage^ and your servants, — and go to the 
Continent, and visit the ' Brunnens of Nassau/ or 
the Tyrol, or the South of France, or Rome, or 
Naples.'^ But this sort of advice, if given to the 
great mass of the people of Great Britain, even of 
the middle classes, is only like filling their hands 
with water, which, thirsty though they be, is never 
likely to reach their lips, — or, suspending viands 
before their eyes, which are destined for ever to elude 
their famishing and eager grasp. It may be said 
to such, with sufficient truth, that they have little 
cause to envy their wealthier brethren the unbounded 
freedom of far and wide migration; — that, to taste 
all the pleasures which the best and most health- 
giving of all kinds of travelling affords, they need 
not to leave their native land ; but, with some shil- 
lings or pounds, according to their means and their 



SANATORY EFFECTS OF TRAVELLING. 165 

expectations^ and a bundle^ containing a change or 
two of linen^ and an extra pair of shoes^ hnng over 
the shoulder by a sticky they may wander over the 
Highlands of Scotland^ over Cnmberland, or West* 
moreland^ or Wales^ or last^ but not leasts Derby- 
shire; and admiring the beauties of the woods and 
plains^ or the grandeur of unequalled or unsurpassed 
mountain scenery^ — ^warmed into a taste for the 
sabUme and the beautiful^ by seeing Nature in all her 
inimitable^ unartificial^ and untouched grandeur, and 
by seeing her decorated^ and made more useful, by 
the hand of man, — ^they may, after a ramble of weeks 
ormoijLths^ as may be, return home with the assured 
eonyiction, that what travelling and change of air 
and scene can do for man's health, they have done 
for theirs. 

It is this sort of travelling ; this total removal &om 
ordinary and every day habits ; this constant exer- 
cise ; this continual change of air ; which does most 
good; that, if the man is in moderate health, is 
calculated to give vigour to his system, freedom to 
lus limbs, and clearness to his mind ; that has, like 
magic, uprooted many a case of long continued dys- 
pepsia, and caused many a case of chronic disordered 
action, threatening to degenerate into something 
worse, to be no longer felt. 

Change of air may be too great ; but it cannot be 
too frequent, if the powers of the system are not 
materially impaired. 

In many, the majority of the cases of indigestion^ 



166 SANATORY EFFECTS OF TRAVELLING. 

the spirits are either very much depressed^ or the mind 
is in a state of highly morbid excitability. There are 
few diseaseis^ in which the remarkable sympathy which 
subsists between the body and the mind is so clearly 
seen as in dyspepsia. The consequence of this sym- 
pathy is^ that the patient looks at every thing in the 
darkest and blackest light; magnifies trifles into 
affairs of moment ; is tormented with a constant, 
cavillings wretched sensitiveness. It is necessary, 
then, not only that the body should be exercised, and 
its muscles actively used ; not only that the stomach 
should be as little distressed by work as possible ; 
not only that change of air, frequent change of air, 
should be enjoyed ; but it is necessary, moreover, 
that the mind should be taken away £rom its cares 
and troubles, from the customary sources of vexation ; 
and be amused with variety, without knowing how : 
an amusement that is well Aimished by the fresh 
scenes, the fresh faces, and the various and number- 
less interesting matters for observation, that a tract 
of country before unknown to him must ever present^ 
even to the commonest observer. 

Travelling, and especially pedestrian travelling, 
presents, among its many other points of excellence, 
this, in a remarkable degree. It acts directly on the 
mind as well as on the body. I am satisfied that if 
the measure were tried in cases of hypochondnadsm, 
and even in many a case of incipient insanity, nma- 
bers would be restored to their reason, their famiUes, 
and their friends. The effect of such travelling can 



SANATORY EFFECTS OF TBAYELLINO. 167 

hardly be sufficiently estimated. It would enable 
many an invalid^ at a cheap and easy rate^ to show 
"a, clean bill of health ;'' and there are few who 
would consider the prescription to be otherwise than 
palatable. 



CHAPTER V. 

On the Hygienic effects of Clothing. — Functions of the Skin. — Extent 
and Character of the Cutaneous Secretions. — Effects of the Cata- 
neous and Pulmonary Exhalations. — Sympathetic Dependence 
between the Skin, Mucous Membranes, &c. — Materials of Clothing. 
—Good and Bad Conductors of Heat. — Relative amount of Protec- 
tion to the System afforded by the Wear of Articles made of Flax, 
Cotton, Silk, and WooL — Electrical Phenomena of the Animal 
Economy. — Use of Silk, Flannel, Leather, Cotton, &c., worn next 
to the Surface of the Body. — Value of Flannel worn as an Under- 
garment, in different Climates and Circumstances. — Dr. Junes 
Johnson, on the Hygienic Effects of the Costumes of the Oriental 
Nations. — ^Importance of Adequate Clothing to the Feet. — Com- 
ments on some dangerous Customs in regard to Dress. — Strictores 
on the Use and Abuse of Stays. — Effect of the Bed and Bed- 
clothes on Health and Disease. — Radiation of Heat — Colour of 
Clothes, and its Effect. — A Suggestion for the Sick Room. 

The great extent of the surface of the body^ and 
the large amoiint of the secretion that is constantly 
proceeding firom it, either in the unperceived form of 
a vapour, or in the form of a fluid, renders the regular 
and adequate discharge of the functions of the skin 
not only important to health, but necessary even to 
the continuance of life. 

In men of average size, the extent of the surface of 
the body is computed to be no less than 2500 square 
inches ; and M. Seguin found, that, on an average; 
18 grains of fluid were discharged in the minute, by 



FUNCTIONS OF THE SKIN. 169 

the skin and the liings^ — of which^ the skin was com- 
puted to exhale 11^ and the lungs 7 grains. The 
minimum exhalation from both the cutaneous and 
pulmonary tissues^ amounted in these experiments to 
11 grains per minute; the maximum exhalation^ 
when the system was in a state of rest^ was found to 
be 32 grains per minute. According to these data^ 
the maximum of matter lost or expended in these 
ways in the course of 24 hours^ amounts to 5 pounds^ 
and the minimum to 1 pounds 11 ounces^ and 
4 drachms; or^ taking the average of 11 grains in 
the minute^ the whole quantity amounts to 29 ounces 
of fluid. To arrive at some of these results^ M. Seguin 
had himself securely fastened up in a bag^ made of 
a thin and impervious material, with an aperture in 
it, the edges of which were fastened to his lips with 
a mixture of turpentine and pitch ; by which con- 
trivance, the whole of the pulmonary exhalation was 
permitted to escape, while the whole of the cutane- 
ous secretion was retained in the bag. By causing 
himself to be weighed carefully, in an accurate 
balance, before the experiment, and again before 
leaving the bag, and again after he had got out of 
the bag, deducting the loss sustained before leaving 
the bag from the total loss, he was enabled to esti- 
mate the amount expended during the time, both in 
the pulmonary and in the cutaneous exhalations. 

There is a comparatively small amount of solid con- 
stituents lost to the system in these exhalations; not 
supposed to exceed 7 or 8 scruples in the 24s hours ; 

VOL. II. I 



170 CUTANEOUS AND FULMONABT EXHALATIONS. 

the lai^ lemamder being mere water^ together with 
carbonic add^ and perhaps some nitrogen. 

Under some drcmnstances^ there is sufficient 
reason to belieye that a much larger amount of 
exhalation may take place from the Inngs and the 
skin^ than even the experiments of M. Seguin would 
have led us to infer. Dr. Southwood Smith relates 
some observations that were made upon labourers at 
the Phoenix Gras Works, who were employed twice a 
day in drawing and charging the retorts, and in 
making up the fires, which usually occupies about 
an hour; the labour is performed in the open air, 
but inyolves the exposure to a considerable degree of 
heat. On a foggy and calm day at the end of No- 
yember, when the temperature of the external air 
was 39^, and the men continued at their work for an 
hour and a quarter, the greatest loss observed was 
2 pounds, 15 ounces; and the ayerage loss of eight 
men was 2 pounds, 1 ounce. On a bright dear day, 
in the middle of the same month, when the tempe- 
rature of the air was 60^, without much wind, the 
greatest loss was 4 pounds, 3 ounces; and the 
average loss was 3 pounds, 6 ounces. And on a 
very bright day in June, when the temperature of 
the air was again 60^, without much wind, the 
greatest loss (occurring in a man who had worked 
in a very hot place) was 5 pounds, 2 ounces; and 
the average during the hour that was lost by the 
men severally, was 2 pounds, 8 oimces. 

In truth, the age of the individual, the sex^ the 



EFFECTS OF THE EXHALATIONS. 171 

diyness or moisture of the air^ the temperature of 
the air^ the degree of the exertion that is being made^ 
the condition of the system^ as to health or aiknent^ 
as to weakness or strength^ will^ each and all^ con- 
siderably modify the amount of the exhalations from 
the body^ as well as modify their character. There 
is little doubt^ that^ under circumstances of extreme 
exertion^ as well as under those of many forms of 
bodily indisposition^ a considerable amount of animal 
matter^ as well as saline matter^ is carried out of the 
body in this way. The principal ingredient of the 
salts of the exhalations is chloride of sodium ; they 
have usually a slight acid reaction^ due probably to 
a mixture of acetic^ lactic^ and butyric acids^ in vari- 
able but very minute proportions, according to the 
health and strength of the system; there are gene- 
rally likewise traces of ammonia, and of an animal 
extractive matter. 

Of the extent of the secretions from the skin, no 
more need be said. The importance of its functions 
in this respect, is no less great. Of so great moment 
are they, that whatever unduly checks these secretions, 
—as cold, by suddenly or rapidly carrying off its 
heat, and impeding the circulation of the blood 
through the vessels which are ramified over it, — is 
almost certain to be followed by more or less indica- 
tions of morbid action. The amount of the cutaneous 
exhalations is increased by a light and dry atmo- 
sphere; and is lessened by a damp, vapoury, dense, 
and calm atmosphere. During and immediately after 
the meals, the exhalation is said to be at its minimum ; 

i2 



172 EFFECTS OF THE EXHALATIONS. 

and it is considered to attain its maximum during 
the actual period of digestion^ and especially when 
the chyle has reached the circulation^ and is hecoming 
converted into hlood, — and, likewise, it is probable, 
that the secretion goes on more rapidly during sleep, 
than when the body is not undergoing positive 
exertion when awake. The exhalation from the skin 
is evidently to some degree antagonised by that from 
the pulmonary tissue, and still more so by the secre- 
tion from the kidneys. An excessive secretion of 
urine is always attended with a lessening of the 
amount of cutaneous exhalation; and, conversely, 
the renal fdnctions are less energetic when the sldn 
exhales freely. If the relative and equipoised action 
of the several emunctories of the system is suddenly 
or greatly disturbed, there is always a risk that the 
diminished secretion of one tissue or organ, may not 
be atoned for in due degree by the increased secretion 
from one or other of the other emulging structures, 
and that diminished waste, and unexpended effete 
matters, may lead to functional derangement, and 
eventual disorder of the economy of the body. 
Besides this necessary consequence of the cutaneous 
exhalations serving in so £ar an emulgent effect, and 
being a source of waste and expenditure to the sys- 
tem, these exhalations unquestionably serve the 
further purpose of diminishing the temperature of 
the body, and in so far aid in equalising the animal 
heat, under the differing circumstances of weather, 
season, and climate. 
But this is not all. There is besides these purposes 



SYMPATHETIC ACTION OF THE SKIN^ ETC. 173 

and effects^ a sympathetic dependence between the 
seyeral organs and functions of the body^ that has 
to be recognised and aUowed for : a sympathy 
obTiously communicated through the medium of the 
nerves which supply them with their properties and 
their powers. This sympathy subsists perhaps in 
an especial degree^ between the skin and the mucous 
membrane. This is well illustrated by the chilled 
condition of the surface of the body^ amounting at 
times to that called ^' goose skin/^ which the di- 
gestion of a heavy dinner so frequently occasions^ — 
or which may be induced by the digestive process, 
whatever the quantity or the nature of the food that 
has been taken, when the system has been much 
weakened, whether fipom disease or over-fatigue. 
The converse of this is illustrated by the common 
occurrence of indigestion, when the surface of the 
body is chilled by exposure to a cold and wet atmo- 
sphere. The first of these cases might be partly 
explained, by the fact that so much more blood would 
have to be directed to the stomach, to enable it to 
digest so large a mass of food, or a meal that, however 
small, might prove to be disproportioned to the 
enfeebled condition of the system; but the other 
case involves an exclusive appeal to sympathetic action 
for its explanation. As further illustrations of this 
curious and important connection between different 
and remote organs and textures, it maybe mentioned 
that when, either from excessive heat or excessive 
cold, the powers of the skin are depressed, those of 
the stomach are usually depressed too. Few men 



174 CONDUCTORS OF HEAT. 

are happy enough to retain their appetites in a hot 
summer's day^ or in the cold and damp day of winter. 
On the other hand, if the cold or the heat is not 
sufficient in its degree, to overcome the powers of the 
system, but only serves to rouse it into an effort to 
resist such influence, the effect is to increase the 
energies of the skin; and the enei^es of the stomach 
are found to be, in an equal ratio, excited and 
increased. 

The inference from such fisu^ is obvious, that, to 

preserve the due balance of the circulation, — a balance 

which cannot be disturbed without some degree of 

consequent congestion, and without risk of setting 

up inflammation in some of the organs; to encourage 

the cutaneous exhalation, — a secretion which cannot 

be materially lessened in its degree without involving 

a corresponding degree of fulness of the blood-vessek, 

a fulness which is almost always fraught with danger; 

and to prevent the sympathetic disorders of other 

organs, which are so apt to follow a disturbance of 

the functions of the skin; it is necessary that the 

surface of the body should be protected by such an 

amount of clothings as shall be uniformly proportioned 

to the climate and the season. 

Substances part with their heat in two ways : the 
one by contact, the other by radiation. I have at 
present only to do with articles of clothing. So fur 
as these are concerned, both modes must be briefly 
considered. 

Some substances neither readily receive, nor readily 
part with heat ; others receive it quickly, and part 



MATERIALS OF CLOTHING. 175 

with it quickly. The former are called bad, the latter 
good conductors of heat ; the former are warm to the 
touch, the latter are cold ; the bad conductors afford 
the best protection against the cold, the good con- 
ductors afford the least protection against it; the 
bad conductors confine most completely the animal 
heat, the good conductors allow it the most readily 
to pass through them. The following, beginning with 
the best conductors, may be considered to be the 
order in which they ought to be classed : — 

1. Flax. 2. Cotton. 3. SUk. 4. Wool. 

Flax is a much better conductor than cotton ; cotton 
is a somewhat better, but not much better, conductor 
than silk ; silk is a much better conductor of heat 
than wool. It may prove to be at once more succinct 
and more useful, to name the raw materials of the 
several articles of clothing in this way, than to attempt 
an enumeration of the several fabrics individually. It 
is sufiSciently easy to estimate the comparative warmth 
and protection to be expected from any article of 
clothing, by knowing the material or materials of 
which it is manufactured. Thus, all woollens, as 
cloths, worsteds, stuffs, merinoes, &c., are warmer 
articles of wear, than silks, spun silks, &c.; and these, 
than calicoes, common prints, &c. ; and these, than 
linens, muslins, cambrics, &c. 

It is necessary to add to these four principal raw 
materials of manufacture, some few other articles, 
which are more or less directly used to protect the 
surface of the body from the cold. Thus, feathers 



176 ELECTRICITY OF THE SYSTEM. 

are bad conductors ; and^ k fortiori^ down is pre-emi- 
nently a bad conductor. The quilt lined with Eider 
down, is, from its extreme Ughtness and remarkably 
non-conducting property, a priceless comfort to the 
easily chilled surface of the invalid. Hair, when 
woven into a cloth, is rather a good conductor; but 
in the state of fur, is a very bad conductor. Wood, 
and more especially cork, is a very bad conductor. 
Leather and dressed skins are bad conductors, and 
might probably be classed as little less so than wool. 

The position that articles made of silk should 
occupy in such a comparative estimate of the degree 
of protection afforded to the surface of the body, 
would be necessarily affected a good deal by the 
degree of thickness or thinness of the manufactured 
fabric. The greater costliness of the raw material, 
makes this a consideration of more importance in the 
case of this, than in that of the other fabrics. Silk 
has, moreover, another physical characteristic, which 
adapts it pre-eminently to be an important article of 
clothing. It is singularly notable as a non-conductor 
of electricity. 

However little or unsatisfactory our knowledge 
of the operations of this remarkable agent in the 
animal economy, there is no doubt that electricity 
fulfils important and necessary purposes in the living 
system, and that a certain amount of positive or 
negative electricity is being constantly given off from 
the surface of the body, in greater or less degree, 
according to sex, temperament, weather, the nature 
of the clothing, &c. It has been said, that the skin 



XLECTRICITT OF THE SYSTEM. 177 

and most of the internal membranes are in opposite 
dectrical conditions ; and^ according to a theory of 
Dr. WoUaston, the existence of free add in the nnne 
and gastric juice^ marks the prevalence of positive 
electricity in the kidneys and the stomach ; whereas 
the existence of free alkali in the bile and the saliva, 
indicates an excess of negative electricity in the liver 
and the salivary glands. Whether this view be 
tenable or not, it seems that the living body is never 
in a state of perfect electrical equiUbrium, with the 
substances or bodies aronnd it, unless it be main- 
tained by free contact with them ; and it is stated, 
in illustration of this, that if two persons, both 
insnlated, join hands, sufficient electricity is deve- 
loped to influence the electrometer. " Some electric 
disturbance is manifested by almost every individual, 
if it be carefrdly sought for. In men, it is most 
frequently positive; and irritable men, of sanguine 
temperament, have more free electricity, than those 
of phlegmatic character; whilst the electricity of 
women is more frequently negative than that of men. 
Some individuals exhibit these phenomena much 
more frequently and powerfully than others. There 
are persons, for instance, who scarcely ever pull off 
articles of dress which have been worn next the skin, 
without sparks and a crackling noise being produced, 
especially in dry weather; this may, however, be 
partiy due to the friction of these materials on the 
surface and with each other, as it has been proved 
*o be greatly influenced by their nature. The most 
remarkable case of the generation of electricity in 

3i 



180 MATE&IAL F0& THE I7NDEB-6AAMENT. 

body with such articles of clothing, as will check, as 
far as may be, the escape of this extraordinary agent; 
and the greater the habitual depression and debihty 
of the economy, the less the degree of its vital energy, 
the more important does this consideration become. 

Silk, as a remarkable non-conductor of electricity, 
deserves to be made use of more generally than it is 
in this coimtry, as an article of under-clothing. For 
this purpose, it should be woven entirely of what is 
called bright or wrought silk, in contradistinction to 
what is called spun, or spurious silk ; and the under- 
garment is to be manufactured in a simikr way, and 
of a similar material, to stockings, — ^but woven with 
much thicker thread, into a very thick and heavy 
£Ekbric. Where the expense of this provision cannot 
be conveniently incurred, an under-garment of flan- 
nel, or of a correspondingly thick and close woollen 
web, should be always preferred. 

In a climate like ours, which is so variable, and 
usually so cold, the article of dress that is worn next 
the skin ought always to be a bad conductor of heat, 
at all events. In general, flannel, of an adjusted 
degree of thickness and flneness, answers this inten- 
tion sufliciently well, without proving to be too heat- 
ing, or irritating, or relaxing. In summer time, if 
the flannel which proved to be well borne in the colder 
seasons of the year, should be so far irritating and 
heating as to relax or fever the system, this may be 
remedied by substituting for it a thinner and finer 
quality of flannel ; or, in extreme cases of this kind, 
an under-garment of calico, of a proper degree of 



MATEBIikL FOR THE VNDBB-6AAMENT. 181 

thickness^ may be snbstitated for the flannel at that 
season of the year. 

Many prefer wearing leather as the under-garment^ 
because it does not irritate the skin so much as flan- 
nel. Leather is chiefly objectionable^ from its not 
affording^ however well dressed^ so ready a passage 
to the insensible perspiration^ as flannel or calico. I 
think that thin and very fine flannel may generally 
be well bome^ and must be always greatly preferable; 
or that this^ lined with calico^ or even calico alone, 
is generally much better than the use of leather for 
this purpose. linen ought not to be worn next to 
the skin^ unless by the very robust. 

But, strongly as the importance of hairing a bad 
conductor of heat next to the skin should be im- 
pressed on the mind, there is a point connected with 
it, which is almost as important. This inner garment, 
especially if made of flannel, ought not to be worn at 
night. It ought inyariably to be taken off at night, 
and as inyariably to be resumed in the morning. In 
bed it is unnecessary; it is worse than unnecessary, 
for it does harm : it then unduly stimulates the skin, 
and produces a preternatural waste of the secretions, 
and corresponding debility of system, — a correspond- 
ing liability to suffer from the depressing influence 
of cold, — a corresponding incapability of resisting its 
influence. But, farther, removing this garment 
during the night, relieves it from the scurf, some 
degree of dampness, and other impurities, which it 
must acquire during a day^s wear, and so renders it 
fresh, and more agreeable to the sensations of the 



182 YALUB OV VLANNBL NKXT THE SKIN. 

wearer. Not wearing it at ni^t^ renders it more 
effectual in protecting the snr&ce firom the cold by 
day,— on the prindple^ that a great coat is not of the 
same service to the wearer when out of doors, if he is 
in the habit of wearing it in the house. 

It would be easy to adduce strong evidence in 
behalf of the value and importance of wearing flan- 
nel next the skin. '' Sir John Pringle,'' says Dr. 
Hodgkin,* '' who accompanied our army into the 
North at the time of the rebeUion, relates that the 
health of the soldiers was greatly promoted by their 
wearing flannel waistcoats, with which they had 
been supplied on their march by some of the Society 
of Friends /^ and Sir George BaUingal, in his Lec- 
tures on Military Sui^ery, adduces the testimony 
of Sir James Macgrigor to the statement, that, in the 
Peninsula^ the best clothed regiments were gene- 
rally the most healthy ; adding, that, when in India^ 
he witnessed a remarkable proof of the usefulness of 
.flannel, in checking the progress of a most aggra- 
vated form of dysentery, in the second battalion of 
the Soyals. Captain Murray told Dr. Combe,t that 
^' he was so strongly impressed from former experience 
with a sense of the efficacy of the protection afforded 
by the constant use of flannel next the skin, that 
when, on his arrival in England, in December, 1823^ 
after two years^ service amid the icebergs on the 
coast of Labrador, the ship was ordered to sail imme- 
diately for the West Indies, he ordered the purser to 

* Lectures on the means of PromotiDg and Preserving Heahh. 
By T. Hodgkin, M.D. f Opus Citatum. 



VALUE OF FLANNEL NEXT THE SKIN. 188 

draw two extra flamiel shirts and pairs of drawers 
for each maa^ and instituted a regular daily inspec- 
tion to see that they were worn. These precautions 
were followed by the happiest results. He proceeded 
to his station with a crew of 150 men ; visited almost 
every island in the West Indies, and many of the ports 
in the Gtdph of Mexico; and, notwithstanding the 
sudden transition from extreme cHmates, returned to 
England without the loss of a single man, or having 
any sick on board on his arrival. It would be going 
too far to ascribe this excellent state of health solely 
to the use of flannel; but there can be little doubt 
that the latter was an important element in Captain 
Murray's success.^' 

There can be no doubt that flannel is by much 
the best article for being worn next the skin, when 
the body has to be exposed to such a temperature, 
or to such a severe degree of exercise, as increases 
the perspiration in a material degree. It retains a 
warm and dry atmosphere next to the body, while, 
firom its porous and fibrous character, it carries off 
the moisture to the external surface of the flannel. 
This is well seen when horses are stabled in a 
state of heat and perspiration, after a journey ; 
and covered with the usual clothing. Very soon, 
it will be found that the outside of the woollen 
clothing is quite wet, and often, studded with 
drops of moisture, whereas the skin of the horse 
and the inside of the clothing are perfectly dry. 
The common practice among the workmen in pot- 
teries, foundries, collieries, &c., of wearing thick 



184 INTEE-TEOPICAL COSTUMES. 

flannel shirts, tends much to preserve their health, 
under the circumstance of the profuse perspiration 
caused by the excessive labour they are called upon 
to undergo, or the extreme heat of their places of 
work, alternated as this must be with the much 
colder atmosphere out of doors, amounting it may 
be to a difference of temperature of no less than 
60 or 70 degrees. Dr. Eilgour says,* '^that the use 
of flannel was found to be beneficial in the pre- 
vention of cholera, by maintaining the equilibrium 
of the temperature and functions of the skin,'' 
and thereby preventing that derangement of the 
bowels which is so general a sequence of cold applied 
to the surface ; and Major Denham {vide Denham 
and Clapperton's Travels) says, — '^On the 23rd of 
April, the heat was insufferable ; for several hours in 
the middle of the day, the thermometer was as high 
as 113^. Covering myself up with all the blankets 
I could find, afforded me the greatest relief, — these 
defended me from the power of the sun, as weU as 
£rom the flies :'' evidently on the same principle that 
the ice in our ice-houses is surrounded with old 
carpets, or blankets, or other woollen or badly 
conducting materials 1 For the following valuable 
observations on this very important hygienic ques- 
tion, we are indebted to the late Dr. James John- 
son's excellent and standard work, on ^^ The Influence 
of Tropical Climates." " We observe both Hindoo 



* Lectores on Therapeutics and Hygiene. By Alexander Kilgour, 
M.D., &c. 



INTEB-TBOPICAL COSTUMES. 185 

and Mahomedan gaarding most cautiously against 
solar heat^ as well as cold. The turban and cummer^ 
bund meet our eyes at every step : — ^the former^ to 
defend the head from the direct rays of the sun ; the 
latter, apparently for the purpose of preserving the 
important viscera of the abdomen from the deleterious 
impressions of cold. The cummerbund is certainly 
a most valuable part of their dress ; and one that is 
highly deserving of imitation. Such are the essential 
articles of native dress ; the lights flowing robes of 
cotton^ silk, calico, &c., varying according to the 
tafite or circumstances of the wearer, and being more 
for ornament than use. A very good substitute for 
the turban is a large cotton handkerchief, folded up 
in the hat ; and where we are exposed to the direct 
influence of solar heat, it may, with much advantage, 
be kept moistened with water. In situations where 
atmospherical vicissitudes are sudden, a fine shawl 
round the waist forms an excellent cummerbvndy and 
should never be neglected, especially by those who 
have been some time in the country, or whose bowels 
are in any degree tender. When we enter the 
tropics, we must bid adieu to the luxury of linen — ^if 
what is both uncomfortable and unsafe in those 
climates, can be called a luxury. There are many 
substantial reasons for doing so. Cotton, from its 
slowness as a conductor of heat, is admirably adapted 
for the tropics. It must be recollected, that the 
temperature of the atmosphere, sub dio, in the hot 
season, exceeds that of the blood by many degrees ; 
and, even in the shade, it too often equals, or rises 



186 INTER-TEOFICAL COSTUMES. 

above^ tlie heat of the body's surface, which is always^ 
during healthy some degrees below 97^. Here^ then^ 
we have a covering which is cooler than linen ; inas- 
much as it conducts more slowly the excess of exter- 
nal heat to our bodies. But this is not the only 
advantage^ though a great one. When a vicissitude 
takes place^ and the atmospherical temperature sinks 
suddenly far below that of the body^ the cotton^ still 
faithful to its trusty abstracts more slowly the heat 
from our bodies, and thus preserves a more steady 
equilibrium there. To all these must be added the 
facility with which it absorbs the perspiration ; while 
linen would feel quite wet, and^ during the exposure 
to a breeze under such circumstances, would often 
occasion a shiver, and be followed by dangerous 
consequences. That woollen and cotton should be 
warmer than linen in low temperatures, wiU be rea- 
dily granted ; but that they should be coohr in high 
temperatures, will probably be much doubted. If 
the following easy experiment be tried, the result 
will decide the point in question. Let two beds be 
placed in the same room at Madras, we will say, when 
the thermometer stands at 90^ ; and let one be covered 
with a pair of blankets, the other with a pair of linen 
sheets, during the day. On removing both cover- 
ings in the evenings the bed on which were placed 
the blankets wiU be found cool and pleasant ; the 
other uncomfortably warm. The reason is obvious. 
The linen readily transmitted the heat of the atmo- 
sphere to all parts of the subjacent bed ; the woollen, 
on the contrary^ as a non-conductor, prevented the 



INTEE-TBOFICAL COSTUMES. 187 

bed firom acquiring the atmosplierical range of tem- 
perature, simply by obstructing the transmission of 
heat from without. This experiment not only proves 
the position, but furnishes ns with a grateful and 
salutary luxury, firee of trouble or expense. The 
musical ladies of India are not unacquainted with 
this secret, since they take care to keep their pianos 
well covered with blankets in the Jioi season, to defend 
them from the heat, and prevent their warping. 
From this view of the subject, flannel might be sup- 
posed superior to cotton; and, indeed, at certain 
seasons^ in particular places — ^for instance, Ceylon, 
Bombay, and Canton, where the mercury often takes 
a wider range, iu a very short space of time, the 
former is a safer covering than the latter, and is 
adopted by many experienced and seasoned Euro- 
peans. But, in general, flannel is inconvenient, 
for three reasons. First, it is too heavy ; an iusuper- 
able objection. Secondly, when the temperature of 
the atmosphere ranges pretty steadily a little below 
that of the skin, the flannel is much too slow a con- 
ductor of heat^om the body. Thirdly^ the spiculse 
of flannel prove too irritating, and increase the 
action of the perspiratory vessels on the surfiuse, 
when our great object is to moderate that process. 
From the second and third objections, indeed, even 
cotton or calico is not quite free, unless of a fine 
fabric, when its good qualities far counterbalance 
any inconvenience in the above respects. In some 
of the upper provinces of Bengal, where the summer 
is intensely hot, and the winter sharp, the dress of 



188 USE OF FUE AND FLEECY HOSTEET. 

the native shepherds^ who are exposed to all weather^ 
consists in a blanket^ gathered in at one end, which 
goes over the head, the rest hanging down on all 
sides like a cloak. This answers the triple purpose 
of a chattah in the smnmer, to keep out the heat — 
of a tent in the rainy season to throw off the wet — 
and of a coat in the winter, to defend the body from 
the piercing cold. Hence our ridicule of the Portu- 
guese and Spaniards, in various parts of the world, 
for wearing their long black cloaks in summer, ' to 
keep them cool* is founded on prejudice rather than 
considerate observation/' The plaid worn by the 
shepherds and peasantry of Scotland, one of the best 
and most useful of all outer-garments, is a curious 
illustration of the same sort of garment being made 
use of in these latitudes, as that adopted by the 
shepherds of Bengal. 

There is, in all cases, some risk, that the non- 
conducting character, and the amount, of the clothing 
that is worn, may be too great for the mere purposes 
of protection to the surface of the body, and the 
maintenance of the temperature and functions of the 
skin. This objection is strongly applicable to the 
use of fur worn next to the skin; and may be appUed 
to the local or general use of so much of a thick 
fleecy hosiery, as would keep the surface of the skin 
covered by it in a constantly damp and relaxed 
condition. 

But, of all parts of the body, there is not one, the 
clothing of which ought to be so carefully attended 
to, as the feet. The most dependent part of the 



8TBICTUBES ON THIN-SOLED SHOES. 189 

sjstem^ this is the part in which the circulation of 
the blood may be the most readily checked ; the part 
most exposed to cold and wet, or to direct contact 
with good conducting surfaces, it is the part of the 
system where such a check is most likely to take 
place. Coldness of the feet is a very common atten- 
dant on a disordered state of the stomach ; and yet 
disordered stomach is not more apt to produce cold- 
ness of the feet, than coldness of the feet is apt to 
produce disorder of the stomach; and this remark 
does not apply only to cases of indigestion, but to 
many other disorders to which man is liable. Yet 
do we see the feet of the young and the delicate, clad 
in thin-soled shoes, and as thin stockings, no matter 
whether it is summer or winter time; no matter 
whether the weather is dry or damp, or whether the 
temperature of the atmosphere is warm or cold. But 
this is not the whole of the evil. These same feet 
are frequently, at different times of the same day, 
differently covered as to the stoutness of the shoes and 
their soles, and very often likewise as to the thickness 
of the stockings. I have often foimd, on investi- 
gating into the origin of cases of disease, that it has 
been a common practice to go out of doors in the 
forenoon, the feet being protected with lamVs-wool 
stockings, and waxm and thickly-soled boots; and to 
sit in tlxe afternoon at home, only having the feet 
covered with silk stockings and thin satin shoes. I 
have so often found this to be the case, that it would 
hardly surprise me were the practice found to be 
almost universal among the females of the middle 



190 STBICTURES ON THIN-SOLED SHOES. 

and upper ranks of society. To this common^ and 
sufficiently inconsiderate practice^ I have traced many 
cases of incurable disease. To this alone may be 
ascribed many a case of fanctional disturbance ; this 
lays the foundation for many of those derange- 
ments^ by which the first inroad is made into the 
constitution^ the first step taken in undermining the 
healthy the first of that succession of changes brought 
about^ by which the youngs and the lovely^ and the 
healthy^ are converted into the wasted victims of 
consumption^ or become martyrs to other maladies as 
fatal^ although less common. I am sufficient of a Goth 
to wish to see thin-soled shoes altogether disused as 
articles of dress ; and I would have them replaced by 
shoes having a moderate thickness of sole^ — ^with a 
thin layer of cork or felt placed within the shoe^ over 
the sole, or next to the foot. Cork is a very bad 
conductor of heat, and is therefore to be preferred ; if 
it is not to be had, or is not liked, felt may be substi- 
tuted for it. The extreme lightness of the cork, — 
the remarkable thinness to which it may be cut, its 
usefulness as a non-conductor not being essentially 
impaired thereby, — ^and the inappreciable effect it has 
on the appearance of the shoe ; all seem to recommend 
its use for this purpose, in the strongest manner. I 
think that neither boots nor shoes should be used 
without this admirable provision against cold feet. 
There is sufficient objection to all shoes made of water- 
proof or impervious materials : they are apt to prove 
much too heating and relaxing ; interfering with the 
due escape of the cutaneous exhalations. Thin shoes 



INCONSIDEBATE CUSTOMS. 191 

ought only to be used for the purpose of dancing ; 
and then they ought only to be worn while dancing. 
The invalid or dyspeptic ought assuredly never to 
wear thin shoes at other times. As to the common 
practice of changing thin shoes for warm boots^ and 
vice versd^ it is a practice that is replete with danger^ 
and therefore rash and almost culpable. 

I will venture to touch, as briefly as may be, on 
the extreme imprudence, — not to give what may be 
the mere effect of thoughtlessness, a worse name, — 
of having the morning, the walking, and the even- 
ing dress made of such very different materials, 
and in so very different a degree protective against 
the cold. How perfectly unreasonable it is to cover 
the neck and shoulders and arms at one period of 
day, and to leave them uncovered at another; to 
wear a warm thick dress at breakfast, made to cover 
duly the neck and arms, and a cold thin dress at 
dinner, leaving so much of the person entirely un- 
covered, — ^and in this imperfect attire, to expose the 
person to the cold air of passages, halls, stair-cases, 
or perhaps to the totally unmodified and imwarmed 
air of the evening or the night I It need not be 
said, how conmion tins is, nor what a direct contra- 
vention it is of the organic laws. It should not be 
lost sight of, moreover, that such acts of imprudence 
may possibly, while the health continues in high and 
unimpaired vigour, be followed by no bad conse- 
quences ; yet that the slightest cause of disturbance 
or exhaustion, such as sitting up one single night to 
a later hour than usual, or a slight attack of indiges- 



192 DEFICIENT AND EXCESSIVE CLOTHING. 

tion, or over-fatigae, or contracting cold feet, or any 
other equally probable circumstance, may destroy 
the happy equilibrium, and enable the cold to check 
the circulation of the blood in the skin, and thus to 
throw the blood upon some vital organ, giving rise 
to immediate disorder, and perhaps to ultimate and 
not remote disease : — a man may get drunk every 
night, and, in a state of intoxication, mount his horse, 
and ride a distance of some miles to his home, and 
he may do this for months without any accident; 
but these escapes do not lessen the amount of the 
risk which he runs; he is stiU liable to suffer, and 
perhaps to be killed, by the stumbling or shying of 
lus horse, or by any other equally probable accident. 
The application is evident enough. 

There is another custom, or habit, or usage, in the 
dress of my fair countrywomen, which must be noticed. 
It is that of covering the head with a cap in the 
morning, and leaving it uncovered in the afltemoon 
or evening. It is an indefensible custom, and by 
no means &ee &om risk. 

It has often been urged, that so careful a protection 
of the surface of the body from the influence of cold, 
has a tendency to relax and enfeeble the system, to 
predispose it to suffer from accidental exposure to 
cold or wet, or to the other common causes of derange- 
ment or disease. There is no doubt that the system 
may be enfeebled, and disease indirectly induced, by 
too much dothing, and too little exposure to atmo- 
spherical influence ; but, on the other hand, although 
some lives might be spared to survive a system of 



DEFICIENT AND EXCESSIVE CLOTHING. 193 

exposure to the atmosplierical changes in these high 
latitudes^ the larger proportion of the Uves would 
be sacrificed ; and more particularly during infancy, 
and indeed, more or less, throughout the immature 
stages of life. The large mortality among the 
children of the poor, is to be referred to an undue 
exposure of their feebly acting and sensitive surfaces 
to the influence of the cold, as well as the other ways 
in which the laws and wants of the organisation are 
interfered with or unattended to. It by no means 
follows, moreover, from what has been said, that 
people's systems are to be overheated, or their 
surfaces relaxed, or iiieir systems enfeebled, by an 
excessive amount of clothing, — an amount dispro- 
portioned to the requirements of health and strength. 
The single instance in which people appear to be 
apt to clothe themselves in an undue degree in this 
country, is the surrounding the neck with thick 
kerchiefs or shawls in cold weather. Unless when 
much, or unusually, exposed to the influence of cold, 
the risk of local relaxation from this practice, and 
of an unadvisable degree of chill when such extra 
clothing is removed, deserve consideration; and may 
lead to greater evils than such extra clothing is 
calculated to obviate. The same remark applies to 
the use of various warm articles of dress, made of 
fur, &c., worn round the neck and shoulders. They 
are usually much too heating, and consequently 
relaxing; and are only justifiable under circum- 
stances of extreme and long continued exposure 
to cold^ or in the instances of very delicate and 

VOL. II. K 



194 STEICTUBES ON THE USE OP STATS. 

susceptible systems : muclx after-care being necessary 
in either case. 

But the custom^ of all other customs the one that 
is the most directly opposed to the dictates of nature^ 
— ^that is at once the most unreasonable and the most 
dangerous^ — is that of tight-lacing; I had ahnost 
said, that of wearing stays. Habit leads men to the 
most unnatural conclusions. Fashion and custom 
are the parents of absurdity. Much as we may laugh 
at the effects which these produce on other nations, — 
much as we may ridicule the compressed, crippled, 
and useless feet of the Chinese females, — ^they do not 
interfere directly with any important or indispensable 
vital organ by the practice. Much as we may view, 
with an amused feeling of superiority, the blackened 
teeth, the skin painted with many colours and 
grotesque devices, and the be-ringed nose and lips of 
the savage, yet these are only what they purport to 
be ; they are in their eyes ornamental; they do not 
interfere with the exercise of a single function ; they 
do not even tend to disorder the health, injure the 
constitution, and curtail the, at best, short span of 
human Hie. I believe it to be far different with 
the European custom of wearing stays. 

The natural respiration, when not interfered with 
by any such means, is chiefly accomplished by means 
of the diaphragm ; the rise and Ml of the abdomen 
is the effect produced by the respiratory process ; and, 
imless during or immediately after active exertion, 
the chest is very little raised during respiration, or the 
ribs expanded by it. It will be found that femalesi 



STRICTURES ON THE USE OF STAYS. 195 

enciicled with the ordinaiy encasement of stiS and 
little-yielding stays, are obliged to respire almost ex- 
clusively by the expansion of the chest, and the raising 
of the ribs. The effect of this great interference with 
the mode of performing so constant and important 
a function, may well be to diminish the probabiUty of 
its due discharge, and to risk the supervention of cor- 
responding functional, and eyentual organic disturb- 
ance, in the heart or the lungs, — and it may still more 
obviously and usually interfere with the due action of 
the stomach, the liver, and the bowels, by removing 
from them the agency of so much and such constant 
muscular movements, as the respiration by means 
of the abdominal muscles necessarily involves. In 
many instances, in addition to this very sufficient 
cause of functional disturbance, the busk, or central 
bone, or steel, of the stays, presses on the stomach ; 
and I have occasionally met with cases of gastric 
derangement that were evidently referable to this 
cause alone. The most important of the bad conse- 
quences of the use or abuse of stays to the well-being 
of the physique, remains to be mentioned. The 
muscles of the spinal column being compressed by 
the stays, and their mobiUty being diminished by 
them, and their use and exercise being so fSar lessened 
or prevented, and the support of the back beiag 
no longer dependent exclusively on the exercise of 
these muscles, the consequence is, that they become 
smaller, more flaccid, and weaker; and any cause of 
further debility that may affect them, is attended 
with the risk of consequent deformity,— of spinal 

k2 



196 EFTECTS OF TIGHT-LACING. 

irritation in the first instance^ and spinal cnrratnre 
in the end. 

These, however, may be said to be effects that are 
more or less risked in all cases, by what may be 
considered to be the ute of stays. Their abuse, — an 
abuse which female yanity, or maternal pride, is ever 
producing, — ^is followed by consequences that are still 
more immediately serious. The ribs, which form 
such elastic and yidding, yet such firm and pro- 
tective walls to the thorax, — connected behind to 
the spine, and before to their cartilages, — ^the carti- 
lages affording the means of attachment to the 
sternum, and increasing the elastic expansibility of 
the chest, — ^may be affected to almost any degree 
by outward pressure ; the elasticity with which the' 
walls of the chest have been endowed for wisest 
purposes, — ^to afford the fullest protection against 
injury from without to the heart and the lungs, 
while the risk of any undue pressure, or undue 
resistance to the full exercise of their functions, was 
intended to be, as far as possible, obviated by these 
means; these very qualities are, by tight-ladng, 
converted into pregnant sources of evil. The ribs 
and their cartilages yield to the pressure, the out* 
ward form of the chest becomes completely altered ; 
the deep and fiiU and ample natural volume of the 
chest becomes permanently cramped and contracted, 
notwithstanding a marked effort that is made by the 
system to atone for the diminished space below, by 
causing the upper parts of the chest to become 
unduly expanded; and the respiration and the 



SUGGESTIONS ABOUT STATS. 197 

heart's action are so far interfered with, and phthisis 
or disease of the heart is the probable and the 
frequent result. 

I am quite aware that all which could be written on 
this subject, might not be effectual in causing the 
use of stays to be discontinued : indeed habit may be 
said to have rendered them almost a necessary part of 
female dress. But, as a sort of forlorn hope/' I 
beg leave to offer the following suggestions : — Stays 
should not be worn, under any pretence or any cir- 
cumstances whatever, until as late an age as possible; 
and certainly not before twelve or thirteen years 
old. The older the individual, the less soft and 
the firmer are both the ribs and their cartilages, 
and the less liable to be bent in a material degree 
by a moderate amount of pressure. Stays should, 
moreover, always be worn with as few, and as 
thin, and as yielding bones as possible, and with as 
elastic and yielding a busk as may be ; and the stays 
should be always loosely laced. The larger evils 
which result from the use of stays will be avoided, if 
these suggestions are attended to ; and the feelings 
or prejudices of society be sufficiently studied : 
women will not be seen without stays. Stays are in 
fact useless : the spinal column wants no artificial or 
external support. The way to make it want support, 
is to support it ; and in this way to weaken the 
muscles. The only possible end which the use of 
stays can serve, is to confine and give rigidity to the 
figure: an effect which might be sufficiently produced, 
without ungraceful stiffaess, by a stout linen or cotton 



198 BED AND BED-CLOTHES. 

imder-garment^ made to fit accurately to the body. 
By this^ tlie figure might be sufficiently confined^ and 
any justifiable pressure afforded ; while the pressure 
would be equable, and would be at no point unyield- 
ing; while the muscles of the back would not be 
weakened by the provision of a useless support to 
the spine ; while the natural abdominal respiratioti 
would not be interfered with; while the stomach 
would not be unduly pressed upon ; while the ribs 
would not be deformed^ nor the cavity of the chest 
be contracted. 

I have made an appeal to reason and oommon 
sense ; but habit and fiaahion are too firmly seated on 
their tyrant thrones, to give me ground for mucli 
hope that the appeal will be successful. Even if the 
understandings have been convinced, the trite old 
satire of the Latin poet may still be applicable : — 

I see the right, and I approve it too ; 
Condemn the wrong, and yet the wrong pursue. 

It has been said in a former part of this chapter^ 
that, when in bed, the skin usually throws off much 
more of its secretions than it does at other times : 
and this is the case, other things being equal, in 
direct proportion to the quantity of the bed-clothes, 
and the degree to which the bed-clothes and the bed 
are bad conductors of heat. It is not too much 
to say, that many lives have been sacrificed to an 
inattention to, or an ignorance of, the great principle 
that, in this way, the bed and the bed-clothes exhaust 
materially the powers of the system. Everybody 



BED AND BSD«CLOTH£S. 199 

knows how essential are rest and quietude^ and a 
total avoidance of all excitement^ whether mental or 
bodily^ to many cases of disordered health. The 
consequence is^ that many are ordered^ nnder such 
drcmnstances^ to lie in bed altogether. By and by^ 
treatment and time remove the active or inflam- 
matory character of the ailment^ and a considerable 
degree of languor and exhaustion is experienced, or 
a high amount of irritability ; and these conditions 
are followed by much prostration of the vital energies. 
I have reason to know that a patient may sink from 
these causes^ and these causes only ; and it is much 
more frequently the case that the continuance of this 
greatly enfeebled condition of the system, a condition 
so notoriously and remarkably predisposing to the 
occurrence of organic disease, leads to the lapsing of 
the constitution into such a permanently incurable 
condition. It is a matter of constant observation, 
how very slowly patients progress in their conva- 
lescence, untU they have left their beds, and have 
managed to recline, for a longer or a shorter time 
every day, on the sofa. It repeatedly occurs, that 
the nights and days are alike sleepless, the bowels 
obstinately costive, all the secretions (unless those of 
the skin) scanty, and the feelings depressed, until 
the patient is got out of bed for an hour or two every 
day, and the vessels of the skin, and the system 
generally, are relieved from the exhausting effect of 
the bed and the bed-clothes. 

While it is needful for every one to keep his surface 
warm in bed, yet this may be carried too far ; or the 



200 BED AND BED'CLOTHES. 

necessity for more than a certain amoimt of such 
means may be materially diminislied. A free and 
sufficient use of exercise^ and particularly walking 
exercise ; a regular exposure to the open air; a daily 
change of air^ as far as may be practicable^ — ^walking 
as far away £rom home as strength^ and time^ and 
weather allow^ instead of confining the exercise to a 
circle near the house; and a regulated diet ; are the 
great means^ next to sufficiently frequent ablutions^ 
of keeping the vessels of the skin in a state of efficient 
activity, and preserving or restoring the natural tem- 
perature of the surface. And, this point having been 
gained, very few and light bed-clothes are aU that 
will be required ; the system, having been sufficiently 
exhausted of its vital energies by the day's work, 
will need no bed of down to luU or soothe it to repose ; 
and a hair mattress, a sheet, blanket, and counter- 
pane, will generally suffice to defend the body from 
the ruder approaches of the cold air, even during 
sleep, and in the coldest of our wintry nights. With- 
out such regular use of nature's opiates, the skin is 
easily chiQed, and the body must be buried in a soft 
bed, and covered with heaps of bed-clothes ; and then 
re-action comes on, and the skin becomes hot, the 
system feverish, the sleep disturbed, and the man 
rises comparatively unrefreshed, and perhaps unable 
to prosecute his studies or his business. The system 
is perhaps relieved for the time by medicine; until, 
too often so treated, the constitution becomes injured, 
or, it may be, eventually broken up. I would not be 
understood to advise, that the bed of feathers or of 



BED AND BSD'CLOTHES. 201 

down^ and the three or four blankets^ to which any 
one may have been accustomed^ should be abandoned 
at once, without preparation, whatever the age, or the 
habits, or the aUments, of the individual. The doing 
80 must be prepared for, by a regular diet, exercise 
in the open air, judicious clothing, &c. ; and then, 
gradually, blanket after blanket may be safely, and 
without discomfort, dispensed with; and, last of all, 
the hair mattress may be put on the feather«bed, 
instead of the bed on the mattress. 

But, however great may be the caution needful with 
regard to the debilitated adult, comparatively little 
of such caution will be found to be needful in the 
case of children, after the periods of infancy and 
earlier childhood shall have been passed. During 
the earlier periods of life, the young require much 
fostering means of protection and warmth; but this 
is very much less the case afterwards. I would, then, 
by good and active nursing, by daily exposure to the 
air and the light, by the liberal and daily application 
of tepid water (temperature 70 to 80 degrees) to the 
whole surface of the body, by keeping the stomach 
free from all trash, as sugar, &c., strive to regulate 
and give tone to the several fdnctions ; and it may 
be relied upon that no heating bed will such children 
require after the age of infancy, no multiplicity 
of bed-clothes wiU they need ; and a hair mattress 
and few bed-clothes will suf&ce to keep up the heat 
of their surface, without irritating or weakening 
the system. 

The two ways in which substances part with their 

K 3 



202 RADIATION OF HEAT. 

elevated temperature to the colder bodies around 
them^ have been mentioned ; and the more important 
of these ways^ that of the conduction of the heat from 
particle to particle of the colder atoms of the sur- 
rounding bodies^ has been sufficiently taken notice of. 
Substances part mth their heat to colder bodies^ not 
only by contact^ but in rays, proceeding from all 
points of their surface, in all directions. This is well 
known as radiated heat; and the bodies are said to 
part with their heat by radiation. Not only, however, 
do different substances part with their heat in uiis 
way, with different degrees of quickness; not only 
does the degree of quickness differ, as the heated 
substances are more or less thick, or as their surface 
is more or less rough; but they part with their heat 
by radiation with different degrees of quickness, 
according to the colour of the surfiice, according to 
the ray or rays of light which the surfece of the 
heated substance reflects. Little has been added to 
our knowledge of these £EU3ts, since the experiments 
and discoveries of the late Professor Leslie, made 
public in 1804 ; but the subject has been illustrated 
and confirmed by the experiments of Dr. Stark, of 
Edinburgh, published in the '^ Philosophical Trans- 
actions '^ for 1833. It may be enough to mention 
here, that white surfaces both radiate most slowly, 
and absorb radiant heat most slowly ; and that black 
surfaces, on the contrary, both radiate most quickly, 
and absorb radiant heat most quickly. In Dr. Stark's 
experiments, the bulb of a delicate thermometer was 
successively surrounded by equal weights of differently 



COLOUR OF THE CLOTHES. 20S 

coloured wool^ and placed in a glass tube^ and heated, 
by immersion in hot water^ to 180 degrees^ and then 
cooled to 60 degrees^ in cold water. The times of 
cooling were foimd to be^ £1 minntes with the black 
wool^ 26 minutes with the red wool^ and 27 minutes 
with the white wool. Similar results were obtained, 
when the bulb of the thermometer was surrounded 
with flour of diiSerent colours. Moreover^ differently 
coloured wools having been wound on the bulb of 
the thermometer, exposed in a glass tube to hot 
water, the mercury rose from 50 to 170 degrees in 
the following times : — ^when surrounded with black 
wool, in 4^, — ^when with dark green wool, in 5, — 
when with scarlet wool, in 5^, — ^and when with 
white wool; in 8 minutes. 

The practical deductions from these facts are by 
no means unimportant. In hot weather, and more 
particularly in the intertropical countries, it may be 
derirable to wear clothes which will absorb as few of 
the sun's rays as possible; and white garments are 
shown to be the best calculated to answer this inten- 
tion. Again, in cold weather, it is desirable to wear 
clothes which will part with as little as may be of 
the heat of the body by radiation ; and white articles 
of clothing are proved to be the best in this instance 
likewise. The professional man, clad in black, is, 
strange to say, the most unplulosophically dressed ; 
for in the summer, his clothes, by absorbing to a 
great extent the rays of the sun, render him much 
hotter ; and in the winter, his clothes, carrying off 
by radiation much of his bodily heat, render him 



204 TO KEEP LIQUIDS WABM, 

mucli colder^ than would clothes of any other coloor. 
The delicate and the invalid should^ then, generally 
prefer white, or light-coloured clothes, whether as 
summer or winter wear ; and as winter clothing, the 
light-coloured great-coat is very much warmer than 
one of a darker hue. In very cold countries, the far 
or hair of many animals, which are of a more or 
less dark colour in warmer regions, is often found 
to become quite white : one of the many wonderful 
instances of providential provision I 

It is sometimes of importance in the sick-room 
and the nursery, to keep liquids warm as long as 
possible; and the colour, surface, and material of 
the vessels containing them, exercise considerable 
influence on the rate of cooling. Thus, if polished 
metal radiates as only 1, the same metal tarnished 
wiU radiate as about ^i ; while an earthenware vessel 
will radiate still more quickly. All vessels in which 
fluids are wished to be kept some time warm, ought 
to be made of metal, and the surface of the metal 
should be kept perfectly bright ; or, what would be 
still better, as metals are good conductors of heat, 
and so part readily with their heat by contact, to 
have such vessels made of earthenware, and coated 
with highly polished metal. Earthenware being a 
bad conductor of heat, and the polished metal a bad 
radiator, liquids might be kept warm in such vessels, 
much longer than in vessels of any other kind. 



CHAPTER VI. 

On Bathing^ Ablution^ &c. — Uses of the Skin. — Action of the Cuti^ 
neons and Pulmonary Exhalations, in adapting tiie Hmnan 
System to different degrees of Atmospheric Temperature. — 
Anatomical Structure of the Skin. — Effect of External Tempe- 
rature on the Skin. — Effect of Immersion in Water of different 
Temperatures on the Skin^ and on the System generally. — 
Bathing. — Dr. Currie's Case. — Swimmings Frictions, and Sham- 
pooing. — ^Use of the Bath^ and its varieties in different countries. 
— Effects of an undue use of tiie Bath.^-»Best times for Bathing. 
— Salt- Water Bath. — Temperature^ Sec, of Sea- Water.— Sea- 
Water Bathing. — Hip-Bath. — Shower-Bath. — ^Aflfiision of Cold 
and Warm Water on the Body, locally and generally. — Sponging 
the SurfiMse of the Body. — Strictures on Hydropathy. — lodu- 
retted and Nitro-Muriatic Acid Baths. — Cold Water recom- 
mended for the Habitual Ablutions. — Analogy of the effects 
of Hot and Cold Water when applied to the Skin, and when 
taken into the Stomach ; and the inferences. — The Bathing and 
Ablution of Infants and Children. 

" I VERILY believe/' writes the " Guardian/' in 
No. 102 of his admirable and standard essays^ " a 
cold bath would be one of the most healthful exercises 
in the worlds were it made use of in the education of 
youth. It would make their bodies more than proof 
to the injuries of time and the weather. It would be 
something like what the poet tells us of AcMQes, 
whom his mother is said to have dipped, when he 
was a child^ in the river Styx. The story adds^ 
that this made him invulnerable all over^ excepting 
that part which his mother held in her hand during 



206 USES OF THE SKIN. 

this immersioiij and whicli by that means lost the 
benefit of these hardening waters/' The story 
famishes a truthful allegory^ whether intended as 
such by the ancient poet or not. 

I will venture to premise what has to be said on 
the physiological and hygienic effects of water applied 
to the surface of the body, as modified by local or 
general bathings by ablution^ and by sponging^ and 
as modified by the physical condition of the indiTidual, 
by some short account of the skin itself. 

The skin is to be regarded^ not only as a covering 
to the body^ — ^as a protection to the softer^ and more 
delicate^ and more sensitive structures placed beneath 
it ; but as being also intended to subserve many other 
offices of no less importance. One of the great uses 
of the skin has been already noticed — that of expelling 
a considerable portion of the residue of nutrition and 
digestion. 

But^ moreover^ from being eminently a bad con- 
ductor of heat^ the skin serves to maintain the 
elevated temperature of the body, by confining its 
heat^ — ^and to prevent external heat, or external 
cold, from necessarily and at once destroying life. 
Protected by this power of resisting the passage of 
heat, human life is capable of surviving an exposure 
to very severe degrees of cold, and has been found 
to endure, with comparatively little inconvenience, 
very considerable degrees of elevated temperature. 
It is related in the '^Memoirs of the French Academy 
of Science^' (l?^^)} that the young women, servants 
of a baker at Eochefoucault, were in the habit of 



ADAPTATION TO EXTBBNAL TEMFEBATUBE. 207 

going into the heated ovensj in order to prepare them 
for the reception of the batch of dough to be baked ; 
and that^ in some instances^ they endnred for twelve 
minutes^ and without any material degree of inconve- 
nience^ the temperature of £78 degrees of Fahrenheit. 
The extraordinary statement has been fully borne 
out by more recent experiments of undeniable 
authority. In the ''Philosophical Transactions for 
1775/' Sir Charles Blagden and other gentlemen 
found themselves able to remain^ for an almost inde- 
finite length of timCj and without much inconvenience^ 
in an apartm^it which was heated to a temperature 
above that of boQiug water ; and for several minutes 
in the apartment when the temperature was at the 
great elevation of 260 degrees. *If, in the case of the 
young women at Bochefoucault^ they touched the 
sides of the oven^-— or, in the experiments performed 
in this country^ the gentlemen touched their watch 
chains^ — or any other better conductor of heat than 
their articles of clothings or the air of the atmosphere^ 
they were immediately bumt^ as might have been 
expected at such an elevation of temperature. The 
rarefaction of the air^ the determination of the colder 
fluids from the interior of the body to the surface^ 
the increased exhalation from the pulmonary and 
cutaneous tissues^ and the non-conducting power of 
the bodily tissues^ have all been suggested as means 
of explaining^ or accounting for^ the results of these 
very extraordinary experiments. According to the 
experiments performed^ in the beginning of the pre- 
sent century, by Dr. Delaroche and Dr. Berger, in 



208 ADAPTATION TO EXTREME TEMPERATURES. 

which these gentlemen were exposed to the tempe- 
rature of more than 225 degrees^ and in which they 
subjected different animals to different degrees of 
heat^ it seems to have been proved^ that probably not 
more than half the proportion of oxygen of the air 
respired is consumed under such circumstances of 
exposure to a high temperature, as is expended by 
the respiratory process under ordinary circumstance's. 
The supposition that the determination of the cooler 
fluids from the interior of the body to the pulmonary 
and cutaneous tissues, would serve to adjust the 
bodily heat to such extraordinary circumstances, 
must fall to the ground, when it is remembered that 
the length of time passed in so greatly heated an 
atmosphere, would have sufficed to subject all the 
blood in the body to the influence of the heated air 
in contact with the skin and respiratory tubes, many 
times over. The experiments of Dr. Delaroche, and 
more recent views and experiments, seem to show 
that this wonderM power of adaptation in the living 
animal system to such extremes of temperature, is 
mainly due to the cooling influence of the exhalations 
from the lungs and the skin; the degree of such 
exhalation varying, almost in an infinite degree, to 
suit different circumstances. If the observations of 
Dr. Southwood Smith, referred to in the preceding 
chapter, be remembered, — that a man who was 
working ui a very hot place, was found to lose by 
exhalation no less than 5 pounds, 2 ounces, in the 
course of about an hour, — ^no difficulty will be felt in 
explaining, on this principle alone, a very great power 



ADAPTATION TO EXTREME TEMPEBATUBES. 209 

of adaptation on the part of the living system^ 
to great extremes of heat; while the temperature 
of the blood may not be allowed^ owing to the 
cooling influence of so much exhalation^ to become 
more than a few degrees^ and perhaps under no 
circumstances more than 12^ higher than its 
natural temperature. At the same time^ the non- 
conducting character of the tissues of the body may 
nbt be without some degree of influence^ in enabling 
the body to resist sudden and great changes of 
temperature^ before the increased secretion of the 
exhalants is able to exert its important effect in this 
respect* The belief in a large degree of influence 
in this matter being due to the non-conducting 
character of the skin itself^ is much supported by the 
impunity with which the human system has been 
exposed to very low degrees of atmospherical tempe- 
rature ; in which cases^ a much diminished degree 
of exhalation from the vessels of the surface would 
hardly suffice to explain the resistance of the system 
to the depressing aad stagnating influence of an 
extreme degree of cold. Either owing to the skin 
acting as so bad a conductor of heat^ or to diminished 
exhalation^ or to the combined effect of several con- 
curring causes, the human body has been exposed^ 
without inconvenience, or without ultimate injury, 
to a temperature of 40°, or even more, below the 
zero of Fahrenheit's scale. 

Supplied with a very large amount of nervous 
filaments, to endow it with sensation, the skin acts 
as the mind's great and watchful sentinel against 



210 THEBAPEUTIC IMTO&TANCE OF THE SKIN. 

danger^ and as the most ready and accurate informant 
on all points connected with external things; and 
the surface of the body becomes^ consequently^ a 
possible means of extreme physical sufferings and of 
material and direct injury to the sensorial func- 
tions; and, per contra^ the skin affords a ready 
means by which the nervous system may be influ- 
enced^ and either soothed^ or excited, according to 
drcuBiatances. Funnshed with a very large supply 
of bloodj to afford to its own substance the means of 
being continually renewed^ to supply its secreting 
organsj and to keep up the enei^ and healthi- 
ness of the nerves^ which are dependent on the due 
supply of bloody the skin has to be looked upon as 
an organ by influencing which, a very large quantity 
of blood may be suddenly thrown into the interior 
of the system^ with corresponding engoi^ement of 
the viscera, and perhaps an irreparable degree of 
injury ; or, as an organ, by determining or attracting 
the blood to which, the viscera and membranes of 
the interior may be proportionably relieved from 
undue pressure, or congestion, and perhaps enabled 
to resume the performance of the natural and neces- 
sary functions, which it is their business to dis- 
charge, and which such determination of blood to 
an internal organ, or such engorgement, might have 
interfered with or interrupted. 

The skin, strictly so called, is covered by a much 
thinner layer, called the cuticle ; a layer which may, 
without impropriety, be called inorganic, inasmuch 
as it is destitute of blood-vessels, nerves, and ab- 



STBUCTUBE OF THE SKIN. 211 

sorbents. It appears to be secreted firom the outer 
surface of the subjacent tissue^ in the form of a semi- 
fluid or viscid substance^ which speedily loses the 
superfluous moisture, and becomes sufficiently hard 
to protect the sentient tissue beneath it firom undue 
contact with external matter; while its thinness, 
and perfect flexibility, and adaptation to the surface, 
prevent it firom interfering disadvantageously with 
sensation, or with the other fimctions and offices of 
the true skin« By firiction, it becomes detached in the 
form of small scales ; and its degree of re-production 
evidently depends on the degree of attrition of the 
surface of the body, — ^and it becomes very thick and 
hard, almost of homy character, in the soles of the 
feet of such poor pedestrians as have no shoes to 
protect the feet firom the roads, and in the hands 
of many handicraftsmen. The cuticle is the thin 
membranous covering which is detached by blisters, 
bums, and other similar means of external injury or 
irritation. If the blister applied be of more severe 
character, or the surface of the individual be pecu- 
liarly sensitive to the influence of such an agent, 
a second membrane is often easily detached by 
means of a pair of forceps, or even of the fingers. 
It is sometimes advisable or necessary to effect the 
removal of this second tissue, — as when it is wished 
to promote a long-continued and purulent discharge 
from the vesicated surface. This second tissue is 
much thicker than that already spoken of; and is 
probably identical with a much more marked tissue, 
which is met with in the negro variety of the human 



212 STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN. 

race. In the negroj this second tissue, called the 
mucous tissue, is the seat of the black colour of the 
skin ; and in the different shades of colour or tint in 
the different varieties of the human &mily, it seems 
to be in this tissue that such colour resides. In 
minute structure, this, as its technical name, rete 
mucosum, impUes, seems to consist of a fine and 
intricate network, through the meshes of which the 
excretion of the cuticle or epidermis is accomplished. 
The colouring matter or pigment of the rete mu* 
cosum, is deposited on its inner surface. 

The corion, or true skin, consists of closely inter, 
laced, minute, and dense fibres, more firmly com- 
pacted on the outer than on the inner surface. Its 
inner surface is marked by depressions, termed 
areoke ; but its outer surface is quite smooth, and so 
much more vascular, that after a successful injection 
of its vessels, it appears to be covered with a uniform 
net-work of minute vessels, infinitely subdivided, for 
the most part containing only colourless blood- 
globules, unless under circumstances of irritation or 
disease. This net-work is penetrated by the papillae, 
which come into contact with the cuticle, and are 
the seat of the sense of touch. The papillse are 
highly vascular and nervous in their structure. 
When the surface is chilled, the corion shrinks, 
whether firom the diminished amount of blood con- 
tained in its vessels, or from a true contraction of 
its substance; whereas the papillae either continue 
imchanged, or shrink less in proportion, — giving rise 
to what has been called gooae skin* 



EFFECT OF TEMFEBATUBE ON THE SKIN. 213 

Warmtli first increases the action of tlie vessels of 
the skin^ and causes a more considerable efflux of 
the perspirable matter; the skin is sensibly red- 
dened; and^ if the heat is increased in degree, 
inflammation, blistering, contraction, wrinkling of 
the tissue^ and blackening, with disorganisation, may 
ensue. Cold at first stimulates the skin, and red- 
dens it, from the excited action, and greater ftdness 
of the capillary vessels. K continued, and the cold 
be sufficiently intense in its degree, the vessels con- 
tract, and the skin becomes pale, — and, if the cold 
is increased in its intensity, loss of feeling, and 
eventually death of the part, ensues. This account 
involves the supposition, that the surface of the body 
is surrounded with the air. 

If the body is surrounded with water, the effect is 
somewhat different. When the system is in a state of 
vigour, and the surface is unchilled, the effect of im- 
mersion in warm water is much the same as that from 
a moderate degree of heat applied in other ways, 
excepting that the greater pressure on the surface 
must be allowed for, as well as the effect of the damp 
atmosphere respired, produced by the steam from the 
warm water of the bath ; and the respiration is accord- 
ingly more laborious in its character, and in general 
the skin more actively pours out its secretions. It 
is indeed quite true that if the parts of the surface 
that are immersed in the water be subjected to 
friction, or if the trunk and limbs be moved about a 
good deal under the surface of the water, a corre-' 
sponding proportion of the water of the bath is 



214 IMMERSION IN COLD WATER. 

found to be absorbed; but such absorption neither 
interferes with nor militates against an increased 
amount of secretion firom the cutaneous exhalaots. 
If the body is immersed in cold water, under the 
same circumstances of general vigour of the system; 
and an active surface-circidation, the first effect is a 
rapid chilling, obviously dependent on the &ct that 
the water is so much better a conductor of heat 
than the air is. The degree of the chilling effect 
corresponds with the powers of the system, the 
previous heat of the body, the fulness or emptiness 
of the stomach, and the temperature of the water. 
In consequence of the effect produced by immersion 
in cold water on the temperature of the body, there 
is a great influence exerted on the circulation of 
the blood, and on the nervous system. The first 
effect of the cold water on the circulation ia that the 
passage of the blood through the superficial vessels 
is checked; its secretions are possibly arrested alto- 
ther, and in all cases ore largely diminished; and a 
correspondingly considerable proportion of the blood 
of the system is determined to the tissues and oigans 
in the interior of the body. This may be ascribed 
to an extreme spasmodic action of the vessels of the 
skin, and the resulting interruption of their primaiy 
and secondary functions. If the water is not extra- 
ordinarily cold, and the powers of the heart and 
arteries are in full vigour, these are roused by the 
sudden rush of blood into them, to an unusual 
degree of effort ; and the blood is driven back again 
to the vessels of the surface, and even in an unwonted 



IMMEBSION IN COLD WATER. 215 

degree of volume and rapidity ; the warmth of the 
8ur£ace is regained ; and re-action is said to have 
taken place. This restored equiUbrinm of the circu- 
lation wiU continue to obtain during a longer or 
shorter tune^ according to circumstances; and at 
lengthy if the immersion in the cold water is con- 
tdnuedj the energies of the circulating organs become 
no longer able to counteract the cooling effects of 
80 good a conductor of heat as the water; they are 
no longer able to dispose of the quantity of blood 
which the rapidly re&igerating effect of the water on 
tl^e sm&ce is continually throwing back upon them; 
they become more and more loaded with blood; 
their action becomes gradually more oppressed and 
less energetic ; the skin is once more chilled^ and its 
circulation is once again languid; and shivering^ loss 
of feelings stupor, and, the cause still continuing, 
death ensues. 

Besides this effect of immersion in cold water on 
the superficial and general circulation, there is an 
^doubted and simultaneous effect produced by it on 
the nervous system, the character of which is suffi- 
ciently understood by the word shock. This effect is 
depressing, and is of the same land as results from 
any severe or sudden sensations, although it may be 
greater or less in its degree. The influence of a 
shock to the nervous organism, from extensive iajury, 
or very violent impressions on the organic sensibi- 
lities, maybe so great as to destroy life, without 
affording time for the action of any lesion, or the 
distorbance of any function, to contribute in any 



214 IMMERSION IN COLD WATER. 

found to be absorbed; but such absorptioti neither 
interferes with nor militates against an increajsied 
amount of secretion from tiie cutaneous exhalaofs. 
If the body is immersed in cold water, under the 
same circumstances of general vigour of the system^ 
and an active surface-circulation, the first effect is a 
rapid chilling, obviously dependent on the fact that 
the water is so much better a conductor of heat 
than the air is. The degree of the chilling effect 
corresponds with the powers of the system, the 
previous heat of the body, the fulness or emptiness 
of the stomach, and the temperature of the water. 
In consequence of the effect produced by immersion 
in cold water on the temperature of the body, there 
is a great influence exerted on the circulation of 
the blood, and on the nervous system. The first 
effect of the cold water on the circulation is that the 
passage of the blood through the superficial vessels 
is checked; its secretions are possibly arrested alto- 
ther, and in all cases are largely dimioished; and a 
correspondingly considerable proportion of the blood 
of the system is determined to the tissues and organs 
in the interior of the body. This may be ascribed 
to an extreme spasmodic action of the vessels of the 
skin, and the resulting interruption of their primary 
and secondary frmctiona. If the water is not extra- 
ordinarily cold, and the powers of the heart and 
arteries are in full vigour, these are roused by the 
sudden rush of blood into them, to an unusual 
degree of effort ; and the blood is driven back again 
to the vessels of the surface, and even in an unwonted 



IHMEBSION IN COLD WATER. 215 

degree of voliune and rapidity ; the warmth of the 
sur&ce is regained ; and re-action is said to have 
taken place. This restored eqnilibiinm of the circu- 
lation will continue to obtain during a longer or 
shorter time^ according to circumstances; and at 
length, if the immersion in the cold water is con- 
tinued^ the energies of the circulating organs become 
no longer able to counteract the cooling effects of 
80 good a conductor of heat as the water; they are 
no longer able to dispose of the quantity of blood 
which the rapidly refrigerating effect of the water on 
ihe surface is oontiiiuaUy throwing back upon them; 
they become more and more loaded with blood; 
their action becomes gradually more oppressed and 
less energetic ; the skin is once more chilled^ and its 
circulation is once again languid; and shivering^ loss 
of feelings stupor^ and, the cause still continuing, 
death ensues. 

Besides this effect of immersion in cold water on 
the superficial and general circulation, there is an 
undoubted and simultaneous effect produced by it on 
the nervous system, the character of which is suffi- 
ciently understood by the word shock. This effect is 
depressing, and is of the same kind as results from 
any severe or sudden sensations, although it may be 
greater or less in its degree. The influence of a 
shock to the nervous organism, from extensive injury, 
or very violent impressions on the organic sensibi- 
lities, may be so great as to destroy life, without 
affording time for the action of any lesion, or the 
disturbauoe of any function, to contribute in any 



216 RE- ACTION AFTEE THE COLD BATH. 

degree to tlie fatal result. Although in the case of 
immersion in cold water^ the severity of the shock 
may be rarely sufficient to act singly in producing 
any serious or lasting impression on the system^ it 
may be admitted that it will contribute in an im- 
portant degree to the bad consequences of the 
derangement of the general circulation of the blood, 
and the general derangement of the system^ in cases 
where general debility^ or general congestion^ or a 
disordered condition of any of the great or vital 
organs^ serves to interfere with^ or prevent^ the 
prompt supervention of such a degree of re-action as 
may serve to restore the balance and equilibrium of 
the circulation^ to relieve the engorgement of the 
internal organs^ and to secure a vigorous action 
of the blood-vessels of the skin. 

Certain conditions are more or less necessary^ in 
order to render re-action prompt^ efficient^ and secure, 
in the case of immersion in cold water. 

1st. A due adaptation of the temperature of the 
water to the circumstances of the case. There are 
few persons who can bathe with perfect safety in 
water of a lower temperature than 60 degrees. The 
heat of the human body being generally about 
98 degrees^ an immersion in water of the tempe- 
rature of 80 degrees will usually feel at first some- 
what cold to the bather. The degree to which this 
sense of coldness is felt on immersion in water of 
a given temperature^ wiU depend very much on 
the temperature of the air. Water of the same 
heat will seem much warmer to the bather in winter 



BE- ACTION AFTEB THE COLD BATH. 217 

than in summer time. Provided a sufficiently prompt 
and an efficient degree of re-action is established^ and 
provided there is no organ or function in such a state 
as to be impaired by the influx of blood determined 
at the instant of immersion to the internal parts of 
the body, the colder the water of the bath, within 
certain bounds, the greater and more genial will be 
the degree of re-action. 

2nd. The colder the water of the bath, the shorter, 
other things being equal, should be the period of the 
immersion. It is seldom prudent to remain longer than 
ten minutes in a cold bath ; and this may prove to be 
much too long an immersion for an invalid, who might 
be justified in using the cold bath for a shorter period. 

3rd. The effect of the cold bath on the system 
Taries according to the degree of energy with which 
the heart and arteries are acting at the time of using 
it. There can hardly be a more dangerous step, than 
to make use of the cold bath when the body is 
&tigued, — whether from excessive muscular exertion, 
or from heat, or from long continued mental exer- 
tion, or from loss of sleep, or however else brought 
about. In this case, the re-action maybe imperfect, 
or only partial; and shiverings and great prostration 
of strength may be followed by local determination 
of blood, and febrile or inflammatory conditions. 
TUs may be well illustrated by the case of the late 
Dr. Currie, as recorded by himself in his admirable 
"Medical Reports.'^ ''On the first of September, 
1778, two students of medicine at Edinburgh set out 
on foot on a journey, a considerable part of which 

VOL. II, L 



218 DR. cubbie'b case. 

lay along one of the rivers of Scotland (the Tweed; 
— ^the journey having heen from Edinbui^h to Mof- 
fat). They started by snn-rise, and proceeded with 
alacrity in the cool of the morning. At the end of 
eight miles they breakfasted^ rested for an hoor^ and 
then relumed their journey. The day grew warm as 
it advanced, and after a march of eight miles more, 
they arrived, heated, but not fisitigued, on the banks 
of the river above-mentioned, about eleven in the 
forenoon. Urged by the fervour of the day, and 
tempted by the beauty of the stream, they stripped 
instantly, and threw themselves into the river. The 
utmost refreshment followed ; and when they retired 
to the neighbouring ion, this was succeeded by a dis- 
position to sleep, which they indulged. In the. after- 
noon they proceeded, and, travelling sixteen miles 
farther at a single stretch, arrived at the inn where 
they were to sleep, a little after sunset. The after- 
noon had been warm, and they perspired profosely ; 
but the evening was rather temperate and cool. Thqr 
had travelled for some miles slowly, and arrived at 
the end of their journey stiffened and wearied with 
their exercise. The refreshment which they had 
experienced in the morning from bathing induced, 
however, one of them to repeat the experiment, and 
he went perfectly cool into the same river, expecting 
to relax his limbs in the water, and afterwards to 
enjoy profound sleep. The consequences were very 
different. The Tweed, which was so refreshing in 
the morning, now felt extremely cold, and he left the 
water hastily. No genial glow succeeded, but a 



BE-ACTION AFTER THE COLD BATH. 219 

feverish chill remained for some time^ with smalls fire 
quent pulse, and flying pains over the body. Warm 
liquids and friction brought on, at length, consider- 
able heat, and towards morning perspiration and 
sleep followed. Next day, about noon, they proceeded 
on foot, but the traveller who had bathed was ex- 
tremely feeble; and though they had to perform a 
journey of a sragle stage only, as some part of it was 
difficult and mountainous, he was obliged to take the 
assistance of a carriage which overtook them on the 
road. It was several days before he recovered his 
usual vigour. This relation will not, I hope, be 
deemed of the less authority because it is given by 
the person who suffered by his imprudence.^' 

4tli. The effect of immersion in cold water varies 
according to the heat of the skin, and the vigour of 
the cutaneous circulation, at the time of bathing. 
The hotter the skin, and the greater the vigour of its 
circulation, the more safe is the use of the cold bath. 
This, however, supposes the heat and active condition 
of the vessels of the skin to be caused, not merely by 
the sun's rays, or any similar external irritant or 
excitant, but to be produced by an energetic action 
of the heart and arteries ; and the hotter the surface 
of the body under such circumstances, the more 
prompt and efficient the re-action. It is, therefore, not 
well to stand any long time after undressing, before 
plunging into the water. Such a practice chills the 
body very much more ; and in many cases, renders 
the use of the cold bath absolutely unsafe, when it 
would be otherwise profitable and advantageous. 

l2 



220 USE OF THE COLD BATH IN DISEASE. 

It was on this principle^ that the use of cold water 
to the sl^rface of the body generally, either by im- 
mersion, affusion, . or sponging, was so strongly 
recommended by Dr. Currie, in fevers and many 
other diseases, chiefly characterised by general excite- 
ment of the vascular system, and an undue heat of 
the skin. And the reason of this great agent having 
been used so comparatively seldom, or in so much 
modified a degree, in the treatment of such cases, is 
to be found in the generally complicated character 
which they present, being mixed up with undue deter- 
mination of blood to, if not a congestive or inflamma- 
tory condition of some of the great internal and vital 
organs; when the risk of increasing such determi- 
nation of blood, or aggravating such congestion or 
inflammation, by the action of cold water on the sur- 
face of the body, may well be feared to be greater, 
than the probable advantage derivable from lowering 
the febrile temperature, moderating the vascular 
excitement, and promoting the eventual efflux of the 
cutaneous secretions. Tet, when not contra-indicated 
by any considerable degree of organic congestion, or 
more marked vascular determination to some of th^ 
great organs, the external application of cold water, 
generally or locally, is one of the most energetic 
and trustworthy of remedial resources in the early 
stages of fever, and febrile complaints in general, 
and one that is apt to be too. little attended to. 

5th. The effect of immersion in cold water varies 
according to the fulness or emptiness of the stomach; 
accorjding to the period at which the digestion of the 



SWIMMING^ ETC* 221 

-diment may Have airived; and according to tlie 
healthiness and power of the digestive organs. It has 
been said before^ that the stomach during digestion^ 
and particularly during the first stages of digestion, is 
supplied with a very large quantity of blood. So large 
a quantity of blood being directed to the stomach at 
such times, the whole energies of the heart and arte- 
ries are not at immediate command^ to meet the 
effect of the cold bath; diverted by the demands 
of the stomach, and those of the skin and system 
generally, re-action is less prompt, and less perfect 
, in its degree ; and a risk is incurred of more or less 
serious disease. 

6th. The effect of immersion in cold water varies 
according to the state of the mind. Mental exhaus- 
tion and bodily languor are generally concomitants ; 
mental irritability and undue physical sensitiveness 
generally obtain at the same time ; mental torpidity 
and vascular sluggishness are generally attendants on 
one another; and they would equally contra-indicate 
the use of the cold bath, without a very careful con- 
sideration, and an anxious watchfulness. In general, 
under such circumstances, the use Of the tepid or 
warm bath, is to be preferred ; and often proves to be 
a very influential remedial measure. 

Too much can hardly be said of the value of mus- 
cular exercise, and friction of the skin, while the 
person is in the bath. Swimming calls into action 
almost every muscle of the body, and hence it is 
valuable as a kind of exercise ; and in the same pro- 
portion does it assist the action of the heart and 



222 WARM BATH, 

arteries, diminisli tlie risk of congestion, and deter- 
mine the blood to the vessels of the surface ; and by 
thus equalising the distribution of the blood, it pro- 
motes and maintains re-addon, and lessens the chance 
of an undue depression of the nervous energies. 
When swimming cannot be practised, or from cir- 
cumstances would not be justifiable, its place should 
be supplied, as &r as possible, by constant exercise of 
the muscles of the trunk and extremities, as long as 
the individual remains in the water. In some cases, 
general frictions of the sur&ce, and kneading the 
muscles well with the fingers, may be useful as, 
auxiliaries, or even as substitutes, for the more 
active exercises, while the person is in the bath. 

The action of the warm bath is essentially very 
different from that of the cold bath ; and their effects 
may be conveniently considered together, for the sake 
of comparison. The immediate effect of the warm 
bath (temperature 95° to 100^, is to promote the 
secretion from the skin, and probably from the lungs ; 
to determine the blood to the cutaneous and mucous 
tissues ; and according to the greater or less heat of 
the water, and the length of time during which the 
person remains in the bath, to diminish or excite the 
power and quickness of the circulation. The tepid 
bath, if the individual remains only a few minutes in 
the water, will be usually found to act as a stimulus 
to the nervous and vascular systems for some hours 
afterwards. The warm bath, on the other hand, if 
the individual remain half an hour or longer in the 
water, has decidedly a lowering and depressing effect 



WARM BATH. 223 

on the system generally, — ^relaoting the tissues, lessen- 
ing the force and firequency of the heart's action, and 
exhausting considerably the nervous energies. The 
immediate e£Pect of the cold bath, if adjusted as to its 
temperature to the power and condition of the system, 
and attended with immediate and fiill re-action, and 
not remained in too long, is decidedly that of a 
stimulant to the nervous and vascular systems ; and 
therefore to all the mental faculties and bodily func- 
tions. The stimulating effect lasts for many hours 
afterwards. The effect of the undue use of baths of 
any temperature,— -either remaining in the bath too 
long at a time, or bathing too often, so frequently 
as to be disproportioned to the strength of the 
system, or to the season, climate, &;c., — ^is always 
what might be expected from an agent which pro- 
motes the action of the emulgent organs generally, 
and stimulates only for a time, but in general to a 
considerable degree, the economy of the system : the 
undue use of the bath is always followed by much 
debility ; and accordingly this great means of health, 
^d great agent in the relief or cure of disease, 
should be had recourse to with discretion, and never 
practised without due care. Debilitating results are 
iiecessarily more likely to follow the undue use of 
the warm than of the cold bath; and perhaps more 
likely, the higher the temperature of the bath, sup- 
posing that a perfect degree of re-addon attends the 
^se of the bath at the lower degrees of temperature. 

The climate, and the season of the year, have 
much to do with the degree to which baths of any 
temperature may be used advantageously. In the 



224 USE OF THE BATH IN TURKEY. 

warmer climates^ and in summer time^ the regular 
use of the bath is much better borne^ and proves to 
be at once more necessary and advantageous^ than in 
colder countries^ or the winter season. Generally 
speakings it will perhaps be founds that the greater 
the difference between the temperature of the summer 
and the winter^ the more necessary and the better 
borne will the use of the bath usually be. Although^ 
however^ in the warmer climates and seasons gene- 
rally^ the use of the bath is more strongly indicated 
and better borne, — ^in extremely hot climates and 
seasons, the greatly increased action of the cutaneous 
exhalations must be duly allowed for, and the conse* 
quently relaxed condition of the general system, and 
^f the cutaneous and mucous tissues in particular, — 
together with the increased susceptibilities of these 
tissues to every influence that may derange their 
functions. And it seems that, under these circum- 
stances, the use of the bath, in the sense in which it 
is commonly regarded in this country, is much less 
practised habitually in the East than may be usually 
supposed. . In Turkey, it is said, the so-called bath is 
virtually an apartment that is warmed to any required 
degree of heat, by means of flues, which pass round 
and across the building, and the individual is said 
to go very seldom into warm water. The reputed 
bather walks into the heated apartment, where 
he is washed, dried, well rubbed, and anointed; 
remaining in the bath-apartment half an hour in 
winter, and a quarter of an hour in summer. At 
certain intervals of time, the use of a warm water 
bath is prescribed to both the men and women of 



USE OF THE BATH IN EGTPT, 225 

Turkey^ by the laws; but this is evidently rather 
a question of cleanliness than anything else. In 
Egypt^ too^ according to Mr. Lane*^ the bath seems 
to be only a vaponr bath. The bath-apartment 
is filled with steam arising from a tank or tanks of 
warm water. " The bather, having entered the 
hararah, soon perspires profusely, from the hnmid 
heat which is produced by the hot water of the tanks 
and fountain, and by the boiler. The operator of the 
bath, who is called ^ mukeyyisdtee,' immediately 
comes to him. If the bather be covered with more 
than one napkin, the mukeyyisatee takes them off, 
and gives him a wet mahzam ; or the former mahzam 
is retained and wetted. The bather sits on the 
marble seat of the faskeeyeh, or lies upon a napkin 
on one of the leewdns, or by the edge of one of the 
tanks, to submit to the first operation, which is that 
of cracking his joints. The operator cracks (pulls 
and produces a kind of cracking sound from) almost 
^vcry joint of his frame : he wrings the body, first 
one way, and then the other, to make several of the 
vertebrae crack : even the neck is made to crack 
twice, by wrenching the head round, each way, which 
produces a sensation rather alarming to an inexpe- 
rienced person (there must be a good deal of trick 
and little advantage in this) ; and each ear is generally 
twisted round until it cracks : the limbs are wrested 
with apparent violence ; but with such skill, that an 
untoward accident in this operation is never heard 

* ** An Account of the Manners and Customs of the Modem 
Egyptians." By Edward WiUiam Lane. 

l3 



226 USB OF THE BATH IN EGYPT. 

of. The main object of this process is to render the 
joints snpple. The mukejryis&tee also kneads the 
bather's flesh. After this, or previously, he rubs the 
soles of his feet with a kind of rasp, of baked clay. 
There are two kinds of rasps used for this purpose : 
one is very porous and rough ; and its rasping surface 
is scored with several lines : the other is of a fine 
close clay ; and the surface with which the rubbing 
is performed is rendered rough artificially : both are 
of a dark, blackish colour. Those which are used by 
ladies are generally encased (the lower, or rasping 
surface of course excepted) in thin, embossed silver. 
The rougher rasp is of indispensable utility to persons 
who do not wear stockings ; which is the case with 
most of the inhabitants of Egypt : the other is for 
the more delicate ; and is often used for rubbing the 
Umbs, to render the skin smooth. The next operation 
is that of rubbing the bather's flesh with a small, 
coarse, woollen bag. This done, the bather, if he 
please^ dips himself in one of the tanks. He is next 
taken to a hanafeeyeh. A napkin having been hung 
before the entrance to this, the mukeyyisdtee lathers 
the bather with 'leef ' (or fibres of the palm-tree) 
and soap and sweet water, which last is brought in a 
copper vessel, and warmed in one of the tanks; for 
the water of the hanafeeyeh is from a well, somewhat 
brackish, and consequently not fit for washing with 
8oap« The leef is employed in the same manner as 
sponge is by us : it is not of the kind produced by 
the palm-trees of Egypt which is of a brown colour: 
that used in the hamm&n is white, and is brought 



USE OF THE BATH IN INDIA. 227 

from Hej&z. The mukejryisdtee washes off the soap 
with water from the hanafeeyeh ; and, if required, 
shaves the bather's arm-pits : he then goes, leaving 
him to finish washing, &c. The latter then calls for 
a set of napkins, fonr in number, and having covered 
himself in the same manner as before described, 
returns to the beyt-owwal. In the beyt-owwal, a 
mattress is spread for the bather, covered with nap- 
kins, and having one or two cushions at one end. 
On this he reclines, sipping a cup or two of coffee, 
and smoking, while a l&wingee rubs the soles of his 
feet; and kneads his body and limbs. He generally 
remains half an hour, or an hour, smoking his shibuk : 
then dresses, and goes out. Many persons go to the 
bath twice a week: others, once a week, or less 
frequently. The women who can afford to do so, 
visit the hamm&m frequently ; but not so often as the 
men/' In the clever and racy "Letters of Lady 
Mary Wortley Montagu,'* likewise, we learn that 
" they (the Turkish ladies) generally take this diver- 
sion (the bath) once a week '" and from these cele- 
brated letters, it is evident that the immersion in 
warm water is very secondary to the remaining four 
or five hours, exposed in a state of nudity to a heated 
atmosphere, some of the bath-apartments being 
charged vnth steam, and others with warm air only. 
In India, the bather is said to be laid on a board, 
and warm water poured over him ; his body is rubbed, 
his joints made to crack, his muscles kneaded, and 
the whole means comprehended in the word sham^ 
pooing are practised ; and all this is followed by hard 



228 USE OF XHE BATH IN RUSSIA. 

rubbing with a haar-gloye, and frequently by the in^ 
unction of oil oyer the whole surface of the body. In 
Russia^ the bath-apaxtmentis filled with a dense steam^ 
by pouring water on heated stones ; and the tempera- 
ture of the apartment is said to be raised to 122^, 
or in some instances eren to 133^ of Fahrenheit; 
— the surface is then well percussed with a leafy 
branch, or some similar soft but firm material ; and 
then rubbed with soap ; and then the bather has tepid 
water poured over him ; — and, lastly, several buckets- 
full of cold water are dashed over him ; or otherwise 
he quits the vapour-bath to plimge into a river, or 
to roll himself in the snow. The surface of the body 
being so much heated and excited, and the heart's 
action in full vigour, the contrast of a cold temperature 
so immediately succeeding the heated vapour, is said 
to be much less ungrateful to the feelings than might 
have been expected, — ^the re-action being immediate, 
and to the fullest extent. These baths are said to be 
frequently had recourse to by the inhabitants of 
Hussia, and of some others of the colder European 
countries ; but it is probable that they are by no 
means, or in very few cases, made use of daily, or 
oftener than once or twice a week. In these days, 
when hydropathy, with its quackish excesses, — ^and 
the frequent inculcation of physiological facts and in* 
ferences on the minds of the people, — and the general 
estabhshment of admirable public baths and wash* 
houses in many of the larger towns, — ^may possibly 
lead to an excessive use of baths, and encourage an 
opinion that bathing can hardly be too frequently or 



RULES FOR BATHING. 229 

too much practised^ I liave thought it needfiol to 
show^, that neither the customs of different nations^ 
in the countries where the use of the bath has been 
notoriously the most practised, nor sound principles 
derived from an observation of the effects of bathing 
on the human system, serve to justify a daily practice 
of immersion in water, of any temperature whatever, 
in the generality of cases. 

As to the period of the day, on which a cold, tepid, 
or warm bath, may be most advantageously taken, 
there is no doubt that a bath of any kind should, 
in very few cases, be made use of after dinner. If 
taken within one, or two, or three hours, after the 
dinner, there is considerable risk that the bath will 
interfere with the processes of digestion ; and at the 
same time, that the digestive processes may interfere 
with the due maintenance of the superficial circular 
tion, temperature, &c., which is so important after 
the use of the bath ; — and if taken at a longer period 
after the dinner, there is a risk lest the system 
having become unduly fatigued by the labours of the 
day, or the need of sleep, on the one hand ; or lest 
the sleep following too soon after the bath, on the 
other hand; may interfere with the re-action, or 
render the sleep unrefreshing, or the system feverish. 
In most cases, the bath should be used either before 
breakfast, or about three hours after breakfast ; or at 
all events, there should be an hour between the bath 
and dinner time. In the case of the more delicate, 
bathing is found to be better borne about three 
hours after breakfast. 



280 YAPOUB BATH. 

The use of the vapour bath has been alluded to^ in 
the instance of the Russians and Egyptians ; and it 
is a valuable and excellent means of applying heat to 
the surface. It seems that a much higher temperature 
can be borne without discomfort in the vapour bath, 
than when the body is immersed in warm water. 
The temperature of a hot bath cannot be higher than 
about 113^^ without discomfort, and a risk of much 
subsequent irritation of the surface, and consequent 
feverishness and general derangement of the eco- 
nomy ; whereas it is said the inhabitants of Finland 
sometimes remain more than half an hour in a vapour 
bath, at a heat of 167^ of Fahrenheit. Dr.Eilgoursays, 
that '^ the weight lost by perspiration, in a vaponr 
bath, is much less than that lost in a hot water bath 
of much lower temperature. Berger found, on 
weighing himself, four minutes and a half after 
quitting a vapour bath, at 122° Fahrenheit, in which 
he had remained twelve minutes and a haU^ that he 
had lost ten ounces and one grain ; but Lemonnier 
found that, aft^ remaining about eight minutes in a 
water bath at 113° Fahrenheit, he had lost twenty 
ounces/^ The less degree of exhalation, and conse- 
quent exhaustion, produced by the vapour bath, may 
often be a sufficient reason for preferring its use to 
that of the warm water bath; and the greater tem- 
perature that is borne without inconvenience in the 
use of the vapour bath, appears to make it more 
usefiil in some cases, and particularly in some cuta- 
neous affections, than the warm water bath. 

The effect of the water bath may be considerably 



SALT-WATEB BATH. — SEA-BATHING. 231 

modified by the addition of salt^ &c., — or if only 
part of the surface be immersed in the water, — 
or if the water be poured over the body, as in the 
shower-bath. 

The effect prodnced by the addition of salt to the 
water of the bath, is very important and considerable* 
It assists and promotes re-action to a great extent ; 
and hence many weakly and invalided persons can 
bathe advantageously in sea-water, who cannot bathe 
with safety in fresh water. Hence, in cases of dys- 
pepsia and debility, it is usually advisable to add 
salt to the water of the bath : about half a stone 
of common salt to the ordinary sized bath, will be 
found to be usually an average quantity for this 
purpose. 

The remarkable uniformity of the temperature of 
the ocean, peculiarly fits it for use as a cold bath ;* 
independently of the great advantages offered by its 
s&line constitution, to the promptness and degree 
of the re-action ; conjoined as these are, moreover, 
with the advantage of breathing at the same time the 
peculiarly stimulating atmosphere of the sea-coast, 
which exercises so beneficial an effect on many dis- 
ordered conditions of the system. Warm baths of 
sea^water are often of much service, in cases that are 

* At a sufficient distance from the land, in the temperate latitudes, 
^e temperatore of the ocean is probably seldom below 45°, or above 
70« ; exhibiting extremes of temperatore only amounting to 25^ ; — 
the temperature of the land in the same latitudes often varying as 
oiQch as 100°, at different periods of the year. The mean tempera- 
^°i^ of the ocean within the tropics, is said to be about 80° : a tem- 
P^iatore which varies but litUe at different periods. 



232 HIP-BATH. 

marked by a greater degree of combined sensitiTeness 
and debility, than would justify bathing in the open 
sea. 

If only part of the body is immersed in the bath, the 
effect produced on the system is, of course, much less 
considerable. But such partial bathing is not found 
to be of much service under ordinary circumstances. 
The use of the hip-bath, which may be included under 
this head, is perhaps the most important and valuable 
form of partial or local bathing. In this case, the 
hips, lower part of the back, and the abdomen, are 
immersed in the water, which is of any required 
temperature, — the lower extremities and upper parts 
of the body being out of the water. In many cases 
of irritation, and of spasm, and of visceral obstruc- 
tion, even of inflammatory character, affecting the 
gastro-intestinal tissues, the liver, kidneys, bladder^ 
&c., the warm or tepid hip-bath has proved a useful 
auxiliary to the more active treatment, and one that 
may be had readily, and almost as soon as suggested, 
in the poorest person's house : a common washing tub 
answering every purpose required; and a sufficient 
supply of warm water being obtainable from the 
boiler of the common kitchen-range, or even from two 
or three kettles or pans fiill of boiling water. In many 
cases of local debility affecting the female system, the 
regular use of the cold water hip-bath, for a single 
instant^s inuuersion, or longer, according to circum- 
stances, every day, has proved to be of efficient service. 
The more or less regular use of the hip-bath, of a 
temperature that is determined by the individual dr- 



SHOWER-BATH. — AFFUSION. 23S 

cnmstances of the case^ deserves to be considered to 
be of general importance to females of all ages. The 
period of the day at which it should be used^ must be 
determined by circumstances. 

If the water is poured over the body^ either partially 
or generally^ the effect is very different from that of 
immersing the body in the water. 

The shower-bath seems to chill even more than a 
plunge-bath of the same temperature ; but in most 
eases, re-action takes place much more quickly from 
the use of the former than the latter. This may be 
often a sufficient reason for preferring the use of the 
shower-bath to that of a plunge-bath. The shower- 
bath affords a very convenient mode of bathing, — and 
one that is readily introduced into any house ; but, 
as a remedial agent, it is seldom to be compared in its 
effects with bathing by immersion. In many cases 
of head-affection, however, the shower-bath is deserv- 
edly preferred to the plunge-bath. The temperature 
of the shower-bath may range from the ordinary 
temperature of the water, to that of 65°, 75°, or 
^5°, or even warmer. The quantity of water used 
*t a time, usually ranges from four to ten gallons. 
Two, four, or six pounds of salt, may be dissolved in 
the water, if required. 

The affusion of water, of any required temperature, 
*iid in any desired quantity, over the whole of the 
body, or any part of it that may be indicated, consti- 
tutes a very powerful and important remedial agent. 
In many cases of undue determination of blood to the 
^ead, with or without vascular excitement, or marked 



284 AFFUSION. — DOUCHES. 

phlogistic symptoms, the cold affusion of a prescribed 
ntunber of gallons of water, allowed to Ml on the 
head, which may be held over the side of the bed, 
over a wide and large vessel to collect the water, — 
the effect being increased when necessary, by pour- 
ing the water from a greater height, — ^may be justi- 
fiably regarded as one of the most efficient means 
we possess of relieving such a condition. I may 
mention that I have by this means succeeded in pro- 
ducing an absolute state of syncope, in a case where 
phlebotomy, carried to an unusually large extent, had 
produced no perceptible influence whatever on the 
character of the circulation. In many cases of spinal 
debility, with or without curvature, the affusion of 
cold salt and water down the spine, — ^which is easily 
managed without occasioning any uncomfortable 
wetting of the room, by directing the patient to sit 
on a stool that is a little higher than a tub, over 
which the lower part of the back projects, so that 
the water poured down the back may run into 
the tub, — ^forms a remedial measure of inestimable 
value. In many cases of local injuries, and imper- 
fect use of a limb or joint, the consequence of dis- 
location, or fracture, or sprain, or severe bruise, the 
local affusion of cold water, or cold salt and water, 
has been proved to be of the greatest service. 
This is best managed by means of a double-action 
force-pump, constructed on the principle of the 
garden-engine ; to which a pipe and nozzle of any 
required diameter is attached. By an apparatus of 
this kind, a stream of water of any desired calibre, 



SPONGING. — ^FRICTION. 285 

and impelled with any required force^ may be directed 
against any part of the body. 

Sponging the surface of the body generally^ or the 
head^ or the back^ with cold or tepid water, is another 
and valuable means of influencing the system through 
the medium of the skin^ and of maintaining a healthy 
condition of the skin itself. The re-action from this 
should be prompt and of marked degree, or the 
practice is usually found to be unsuited to the habit 
of body, or the condition of the system. 

There are some people, undoubtedly, who are of 
too feeble a habit, to bear even the habitual use 
of cold or tepid water to the whole surface of the 
body, by means of the sponge; there are, more- 
over, persons in whom the oleaginous secretion of 
the skin, obviously intended to protect the surface 
in some degree from cold or other sources of irri- 
tation, is not produced in adequate proportion to 
sufPer its daily removal without some degree of disad- 
vantage. In such cases, dry friction may be usefiilly 
substituted for the sponging, either by means of a 
coarse cloth, or the flesh-brush, or the hair-gloves, 
according to the delicacy and sensitiveness of the 
skin ; and the inunction of a small quantity of oil after 
such friction, — ^a practice so conunonly followed after 
the use of the bath in many of the oriental coun- 
tries, — ^might be attended with much comfort and 
advantage. Friction, indeed, is, even alone, or with- 
out the use of water in anyway, an admirable means 
of giving vigour, activity, and tone to the vessels of 
the skin; and friction of the surface often proves to be 



236 AFFLIAXCES OF HTDROFATHY. 

a most efficient remedy in cases of lingering debility, 
or protracted convalescence^ or where, as in spinal 
cases, mnscular exercise is not to be obtained, or not 
to be obtained to an adequate degree. And as an 
adjunct to the use of the plunge-bath, the shower- 
bath, or sponging the surface with cold or tepid 
water, friction is invaluable ; every bather ought to 
resort to it invariably, as a means of accelerating the 
re-action, and increasing it in degree: the towels 
with which he dries his skin can hardly be too 
rough. 

Of some other ways in which water has been 
applied to the surface of the body with hygienic or 
remedial intentions, a few words may prove to be 
sufficient notice. The surrounding the body with a 
wet sheet, covering this immediately with blankets, 
or other efficient non-conductors of heat, by which 
means the whole becomes, by the confined heat of 
the body, converted into a vapour bath, — ^which is 
maintained in action for any required length of 
time, — and followed or not by immersion in a shallow 
vessel of cold or of tepid water, — the whole operation 
being repeated daily, or oftener, or more seldom, as 
may be directed, — appears to be a somewhat uncer- 
tain way of obtaining an efficient vapour bath, and 
a less efficient mode of procuring the results that are 
obtained in the Russian system of bathing, heretofore 
described, by following the use of the vapour bath by 
clashes of cold water over the body. I beg to repeat, 
that the much-vaunted wet-sheet and its appnrte- 
nances, of the hydropathists, — and all the parapher- 



lODURETTED BATHS. 237 

nalia of shallow tubs for the subsequent immersions, 
and other intricate contrivances, — are neither more 
nor less than a doubtfully efficient mode of obtaining 
a vapour bath, and an uncertain means of obtaining 
those results which the Russian mode of bathing 
obtains in so full a degree ; while the apparent sim- 
plicity of the means used, and the comfortable sen- 
sations produced by the use of the wet sheet, &c.,^ 
involves the great risk of the adoption of the plan in 
cases that are by no means adapted to the use of the 
vapour bath, or of cold or tepid immersion, — as well 
as the risk that must ever be incurred by the daily 
use of any bath whatever in lengthened courses, 
eyen in cases of health and unimpaired strength 
of system, — and, a fortiori, in cases of debility or 
disease. 

The addition of iodine, or the iodides of potash, 
&c., to the water used as baths, in many cases of 
disordered health, — ^as well as the addition of the 
mixture of nitric and muriatic acids to the baths 
ordered in other cases, — deserve to be mentioned as 
important remedial measures, which seem to be 
seldom thought of, and which may be affirmed to be 
means of no doubtful or secondary character. As 
to the strength of the ioduretted baths, too much 
care can hardly be exercised. M. Lugol found that 
a proportion of six drachms of hydriodate of potash 
and three drachms of iodine. to a bath containing 
240 quarts of water, often produced much redness of 
the skin, sometimes a considerable degree of irrita- 
tion, and occasionally so much cutaneous excitement, 



238 NITRO-MURIATIC ACID BATHS. 

as to be unbearable by the feelings of the bather. 
This is the more extraordinary^ as M. Lugol has 
administered intemaUy, stronger solutions of iodine 
and hydriodate of potash than the abore formula 
represents. It would be difficult to commence the 
trial of this great alterative agent^ in any case^ in the 
form of baths^ in too diluted a form, — ^gradually in- 
creasing the strength of the bath, according to 
circumstances, by the addition of more iodine and 
hydriodate of potash, in the proportion of one part 
of iodine to two parts of hydriodate of potash. It is 
necessary to be known that the trough used for the 
ioduretted baths should be made of wood. As to 
the strength of the nitro-muriatic acid bath, which 
undoubtedly acts on the system by virtue of the free 
chlorine disengaged, and which acts in so marked 
a degree on the hepatic functions as to merit the 
frequent consideration and suggestion of the profes- 
sion, a pediluviiun containing an ounce of the strong 
muriatic acid, and an ounce of the strong nitric acid 
of the shops, and four gallons of water, in which the 
feet and ankles may be immersed, and continued for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, the parietes of the abdo- 
men, the back, and the legs, being well sponged and 
rubbed therewith, will be usually sufficiently strong. 
If this should not prove to be efficacious, one ounce 
and a half of each of the acids may be added to the 
four gallons of water. In severer cases, where a 
general bath for the immersion of the whole body 
may be desirable, it would be well to make trial, in 
the first instance, of a stiQ weaker solution of the 



EFFECT OF WATER ON THE STOMACH. 239 

mixed adds than the first of these formulse : say, to 
a bath contaming sixty gaUons of water, seven ounces 
of each of the acids might be added at the first. Of 
course great care must be taken to mix the acids care* 
fully with the water, before the person enters the bath; 
and in these and all other medicated baths, the impor- 
tance of steady and vigorous friction of the surface of 
the body during the period of immersion, should be 
especially remembered, — ^in order to secure, as far as 
possible, the absorption of the medicinal agent into 
the system. 

Before concluding the subject of bathing and 
ablution, I should animadvert on the practice, in 
which many people unthinkingly indulge, of washing 
themselves, particularly during the winter months, 
in warm water. There are few habits which so much 
predispose the system to suffer from the effects of 
cold. I have traced many cases of frequent sore- 
throat to this practice alone ; and their recurrence 
has been prevented by simply washing the face and 
ueck with cold, instead of warm water. 

There is a sufficiently remarkable analogy between 
the effects of water on the system when taken into 
the stomach, and those produced by it when it is 
used as a bath ; and the mention of some points on 
which this analogy appears the most strongly, may 
prove to be useful. 

The use of the hot bath proves to be stimulating 
to the vessels of the skin in the first instance ; but 
the degree of cutaneous or general vascular excite- 
ment occasioned by it, is easily lowered by any 



240 EFF£CT OF WATEB OK THE STOMACH'. 

depressing influence^ — as cold^ or damp. The same 
is true with regard to hot water^ when used as a 
drink. It stimulates the stomach in a very decided 
manner ; but the stimulating effect soon passes off, 
and is followed by more or less of languor and 
exhaustion of the stomach's powers. The hot bath^ 
if used habitually^ weakens the powers of the skin — 
the tone of its vessels. So in the stomachy hot water^ 
when used habitually as a drink, materially and 
seriously impairs its energies. On the other hand, 
the use of the cold bath, or sponging the surface 
of the body with cold water, if not had recourse to 
unduly, gives strength to the vessels of the skin, and 
energy and equability to its functions. So in the 
stomach, the use of cold water as a drink, if not 
excessive, acts as an undoubted tonic: one that, if 
used at proper times, and with proper precautions, is 
a valuable remedy. The intemperate use of the cold 
bath, and the intemperate use of cold water internally, 
must be equally debilitating in its effects on the sys- 
tem, and equally an unwise source of expenditure to 
the economy. 

When the energies of the body have been ex- 
hausted, no matter how, it has been shown that the 
cold bath generally acts injuriously on the system ; 
depressing the vascular condition of the skin to an 
extent which the heart and arteries are not in a 
state of sufficiently vigorous action to counteract. 
So in the stomach, in a similar state of system, when 
the bodily powers are exhausted, copious draughts 
of cold water are often highly detrimental, and have 



EFFECT OF WATER ON THE STOMACH. 241 

even destroyed life ; for it should be recollected^ as 
an additional reason for information and caution on 
this subject^ that if a man plunges into cold water 
when in a state of fatigue^ and thus unduly chills 
the surface^ and depresses the powers of life^ heat 
may be at once applied to the skin^ frictions may 
be used to any extent^ — means of at least partially 
counteracting the bad effects^ are at hand and appli- 
cable ; but if the powers of the stomach are unduly 
depressed by the internal use of cold water, the 
energies of the viscus are not so easily restored; 
and although there is little doubt that few better 
means could be adopted under such circumstances, 
than the application of heat over the region of the 
stomach, and friction over the general surface of the 
body, the effect of such means must be less imme- 
diate in their operation, and less certain to be bene- 
ficial, than in the other case ; and the instance of 
Dr. Currie which has been cited in this Chapter, shows 
conclusively, that, even in the case of the unwise ap- 
plication of cold to the surface of the body, the effect 
of remedies may be by no means prompt or satis- 
factory. 

Even when the surface of the body is unduly 
heated, the use of the cold bath may not be contra- 
indicated, provided that the powers of the system are 
not weakened, and the heart and arteries are acting 
with full and proportional vigour. So, even although 
the body is heated, cold water may be drank without 
risk, if the bodily powers are in full and vigorous 
action. 

VOL. II. M 



242 ABLUTION OF CHILDREN. 

Lastly, as lias been said before, where tbe powers 
of the system are so far comparatiyely exhausted, 
that the cataneous drcolatioii would be injuriously 
interfered with by immersion in cold water, sponging 
with cold water may proye to be really beneficial in 
its effects. So in the stomach, when the system is in 
such an exhausted condition, that a copious draught 
of cold water might seriously depress, and perhaps 
sink, the powers of life, sipping cold water slowly,— 
taking it by degrees, and a little at a time, into the 
stomach, — is usually an excellent means of aiding the 
restoration of the tone and the powers. 

I have still to say a few words, as to the bathing 
and ablution of infants and children. It must be 
borne in mind, how delicate, and highly vascular and 
extremely susceptible to all impressions, the skin is ia 
infancy ; and not only so, but that the mean tempe- 
rature of infants was shown by the observations of 
Dr. Edwards, to be only between 94 and 95 degrees; 
whereas that of adults is 98 degrees. In more deli- 
cate infants, according to those observations^ the mean 
temperature may be inferred to be considerably lower, 
and possibly below 90 degrees. Connecting the cir- 
cumstances of thinness of texture, great vascularitj, 
high susceptibility, and an essentially feeble and easily 
depressed circulation, with the lower medium tempe- 
rature of the body in infancy, the importance of the 
use of tepid or even warm water for their baths and 
ablutions becomes very evident. The only exceptions 
to this rule, might be the instances of very strong 
and well developed infants, who are unavoidably 



ABlUTION OF CHILDREN. 243 

exposed to an extremely cold atmospheric tern* 
perature; but such exceptions should be admitted 
with caution. In general, so susceptible, and so 
feeble, is the circulation in infSEincj, that not only 
should the habitual use of warm water for the baths 
and ablutions be inculcated on the minds of mothers 
and nurses ; but even exposure to the colder weather 
of the winter and spring months, may be justifiably 
avoided in this country, provided that the house is 
large enough, and sufBiciently well ventilated, to 
secure to the baby a due change of air, and a suffi- 
ciently pure air, without the necessity of leaving the 
house. 

In the earlier years of childhood, the warm or tepid 
water should be gradually exchanged for cold water, 
at least for the purpose of the habitual ablutions. 
The unavoidable exposure of children to the cold air, 
and the desirableness of out-of-doors exercise for 
them; and their firequent alternations of active exer- 
cise, and correspondingly heated systems, with quiet, 
and corresponding risk of chill, which must have been 
noticed by all who have observed the games and 
sports of childhood ; point out very clearly the advan- 
tage of using cold water for the ablution of children, 
after the age of infancy. 



m2 



CHAPTER VII. 

On Mineral Waters. — Distinctive Character of Mineral Waters.— 
Therapeutic Importance of Mineral Waters, — Chemical Charac- 
ter of their Respective Mineral Impregnations. — Classification 
of Mineral Waters ; Saline, Sulphureous, Carbonated or Alka- 
line, and Chalybeate. — Thermal Mineral Waters. — Principal 
Mineral Waters of Great Britain and Continental Europe. — The 
* Mineral Waters of England considered in further detail, as to 
their Localities, the Chemical Nature of their Saline and Graseons 
Impregnation, and their Therapeutic Effects : Buxton, Matlock, 
Bakewell, Bath, Bristol, Cheltenham, Leamington, Tunbridge- 
Wells, Harrogate, &c. — Stimulating Effects of the several 
Mineral Waters. — Inferential Suggestions as to the Medicinal 
Treatment of Chronic Diseases. 

Mineral waters act remedially on many of the 
disordered conditions of the human body^ particularly 
on those which are of chronic character^ or in a chronic 
stage ; they assist efficiently^ in many cases^ the thera- 
peutic effects of climate and change of air, and the 
other means which have been considered in the pre- 
ceding Chapters ; and they often exercise a marked 
curative influence on morbid states of the system, 
which other means have failed to relieve, even when 
aided by the appliances of medicine. The mineral 
waters deservedly occupy an important position 
among the means of health, and are rightly con- 
sidered to be nothing less than the great dispensaries 
of nature. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF MINERAL WATERS. 245 

The nuneral waters in general appear to differ from 
the other forms of terrestrial water^ in the constant 
amount of their mineral impregnation, and its un- 
varying character. Even sea-water is said to differ 
much in different localities^ as to the amount of the 
solid matter held in solution. The water of the 
Mediterranean is reported to contain a larger amount 
of saline matter than that of the British Channel ; 
and this^ than the water of the German Ocean ; and 
this, than the water of the Baltic. Whether this 
opiniotL be eventually ascertained to have been well 
founded or not, in the instance of the waters of rivers, 
lakes, and springs, and even in that of rain-water, the 
greatest differences in their degree of purity are 
found to obtain, under different circumstances as to 
temperature, character of vegetation, the quantity of 
rain that may have fallen recently, &c. Moreover, 
the amount of mineral impregnation, or of alkaUne, 
calcareous, saline, chalybeate, or gaseous matters, con- 
tained in the common terrestrial waters, is sometimes 
greater than that which is contained in many mineral 
waters of established character for their medicinal 
effects ; but the variable amount of the mineral im-* 
pregnation in the common terrestrial waters, and 
frequently the very variable character of such impreg-* 
nation, forms an important distinction between these 
waters and the generality of the mineral waters strictly 
so called. In illustration of this, the thermal waters 
of Buxton were analysed in the year 1784, and again, 
with the aids of an advanced science, in 1820 ; and in 
both cases, the same amount of mineral impregnation. 



246 CHARACTERISTICS OP MINERAL WATERS. 

was found to characterise them : the same remark 
applying to the different analyses of the more impor- 
tant of the mineral waters that have been made at 
different periods^ when they have been conducted 
with sufficient care and skill to be of a trustworthy 
character. In the case of thermal waters more par- 
ticularly, — ^but the observation may be extended to 
many of the cold mineral waters, — even the quantity 
of the water poured out from the several springs at 
different periods of the year, under the different atmo- 
spherical circumstances of hot weather and cold, wet 
weather and drought, may not be found to vary in any 
degree; showing, very conclusively, that the waters 
to which this observation is applicable, are not in any 
degree dependent on the rains for their supply, but 
are altogether derived firom some other source; — 
whether that source be or be not a conduit leading 
directly from the ocean ; by which the water is con- 
veyed to the faulty or rupture in the stratification, 
through which the mineral water escapes finally to 
the surface. K this view be admitted to be the most 
feasible solution of this problem that has ever been 
advanced, there is no difficulty in understanding 
how the waters of the ocean might be deprived of all 
their saline constituents, by having to percolate ex- 
tensive beds of gravel, or other porous strata, which 
would have the effect of removing any amount of 
saline impregnation such water might contain. Any 
degree of mineral impregnation would be subse- 
quently given to such water by the strata through 
which it might thereafter have to pass, supposing such 



CHARACTSRISTICS OF MINERAL WATERS. 247 

strata to contain solnble materials ; and any degree 
of elevated temperature by which such mineral water 
might be characterised^ might, with sufficient proba- 
biUiy, be ascribed to the circumstance of its having 
passed through strata at a given depth below the 
surface of the earth. By ascertainiug the tempera- 
ture of the rocks at different depths below the surface, 
it has been inferred " that the earth becomes warmer 
by one degree for esyery forty-four feet of depth, 
stating it in round numbers ; and, consequently, at a 
depth of not more than a few thousands of feet, the 
temperature of the earth may be such as would raise 
water to the boiling heat of 212^ : enough has been 
ascertained to justify the conclusion that this would 
be the case at a depth of little more than 7000 feet — 
a depth that bears no greater proportion to the 
eartVs diameter, than a few inches bear to a mile. 
These views, as to the origin of the tepid mineral 
waters, and the source of their elevated temperature, 
are confirmed by the circumstance, that thermal 
springs are found in the greatest abundance in the 
ueighbourhood of active or recently active volcanoes, 
and that volcanoes are hardly ever found to exist 
without giving rise to springs of tepid water. And 
iu those situations where no traces of volcanic agency 
can be detected in the neighbourhood of tepid springs, 
these waters are always found to issue &om the pri- 
mary rocks, chiefly from granite, either directly, or 
^m beds of inconsiderable thickness, which evidently 
form a mere crust over rocks of the primary class.^' * 

* Biixton and its Waters. 



24S DIFIXJBION or MINE&AL WATEK8. 

From the eujiest ages, mmeral waters liave been 
resorted to by mankind^ as great and tmstworthy 
means of relieviiig or cnrii^ diseases; and^ in 
all agesy and mid&r all the different and vaiying 
drcomstanoes of mental darkness and enlighten- 
ment, of soperatition and its worse opposite, of 
Paganism, Mohammedanism, and Christianity, of the 
intertropical and the temperate regions of the earthy 
of the denizens of hills, plains, and Talleys, — ^mineral 
waters have been fonnd to hold a high place in public 
confidence. And it is a curions fact, that no conntry 
in the world appears to be destitute of mineral waters; 
and they have been subjected to investigation and 
study, as to their properties and effects, by chemists 
and medical men, in Portugal, Spain, France, Switzer- 
land, Germany, Italy, Greece, Great Britain, yarions 
districts of Asia, both continental and insular, the 
continent and islands of AGrica, and the continents 
and the islands of North and South America. 

The respective temperature of the different mineral 
waters is found to range firom the comparative cold 
of some 60"", to the actual boiling heat of 2W; and 
warm and cold mineral waters are respectively fonnd 
in almost every country. 

Besides the important division of mineral waters 
into those which are warm and those which are cold, 
they are further divided according to their predomi- 
nant principle, or most characteristic effect on the 
animal economy, into the saline, the chalybeate, the 
sulphureous, the calcareous, and the acidulous. 
TbiH division is, in most cases, sufficiently justifiable, 



ANALYSES OF MINERAL WATERS. 249 

and of practical advantage in determining their selec* 
tion for use in individual cases ; but a more rigorous 
analytical inquiry into the nature of their chemical 
constituents^ has thus far failed most signally in 
serving any purpose of practical good; and, on the 
other hand, has rather tended to raise some mineral 
waters to an undeserved degree of short-Uved fame, 
and to lower others to a degree that their curative 
value has not permitted to be lasting. It by no 
means follows, that, because chemistry enables us to 
determine that a given mineral water is of saline 
character, that the degree of its efScacy on the human 
body can be likewise predicated from the same pre- 
mises. The investigations of chemistry are still far 
too limited in their results, or too uncertain in their 
minuter details, to justify any such inference, inde- 
pendently of a patient observation of the effects of 
the different mineral waters on a large aggregate of 
healthy and disordered conditions. Nor need this 
be regarded as offering a singular exception to what 
obtains in other departments. Men are perhaps apt 
to forget that the science of chemistry is yet in its 
infancy ; an opinion which every year serves to con- 
firm more and more. A very few years ago it used 
to be said authoritatively, that sugar is the most 
nutritious of the articles of food ; that butter and fat 
are likewise pre-eminently nutritious ; whereas an 
advancing chemistry has determined that no result of 
organisation that does not contain nitrogen, can 
minister to the azotised tissues without the addition 
of azote, and that such ialiments are, therefore, under 

M 3 



250 ANALYSES OF MINERAL WATERS. 

all ordinary circumstances^ only capable of minister- 
ing to the respiratory wants of the living body. It 
nsed to be said^ that because lignin and starch have 
apparently nearly the same composition, and seem- 
ingly consist of the same elementary substances^ 
therefore saw-dnst might be substituted for starch in 
the manufacture of bread, or be made to minister to 
the nutrition of the animal economy. Further 
investigation has shown, that, were this opinion so 
fiu* true as to be indisputably tenable, the solubility 
of lignin is so much more difficult than the solubility 
of starch, that under no common circumstances, or 
to no adequate degree, could it be held capable of 
supplying the wants of the animal system. And to 
at least the same extent, must chemical conclusions^ 
and inferences from them, as to the effects of the 
different mineral waters, be received guardedly, and 
held subject to the confirmation of a due observation 
of their effects on the system ; or they may lead to 
much and most serious error. And this is not 
surprising, considering the question on its own 
merits alone. It is inferred justly, from a careful 
analysis, that a given mineral water contains a 
certain proportion of gaseous and of solid re-agents; 
and the elementary nature of such re-agents may be 
in a great measure determined, with undisputed 
accuracy. But no chemist can determine how these 
elementary substances are combined in the mineral 
water, nor predicate definitely, <hp beyond a certain 
point, from his researches, what are the effects of 
such mineral water on the animal system. He may, 



ANALYSES OF MINERAL WATERS. 251 

indeed^ determine^ from his researches into its com- 
position^ that the mineral water he has analysed will 
possibly exert pnrgative effects on the system ; bnt 
he cannot determine to what extent the said water 
will have this effect ; and it may prove to be much 
less or much more purgative than his analysis would 
have rendered probable. And^ even more than this^ 
a mineral water of undeniable power^ in its effects on 
the system, may afford to the laborious and pains* 
taking analyst no clue to the cause of its efficacy. 
The results of analysis in the case of the different 
mineral waters, may be fairly said to be of value, 
only in so far as they enable us to class them into 
the several heads of saline, sulphureous, chalybeate, 
&c.; and to be useless, and perhaps only likely to 
mislead, in any attempt to compare the iudividual 
mineral waters of the same class with one another, 
as to their respective effects on the human body. 

The European mineral waters are almost exclu- 
sively interesting to the people of Great Britain, 
from being sufficiently accessible to invalids. The 
mineral waters of Germany are more resorted to than 
those of any other foreign country, owing, as it seems, 
to the rivalry, or, perhaps, it may be the jealousy, 
of its different sovereignties and principalities, — ^and, 
it should be added, to the energy, perseverance, and 
patient civility of the people ; such preference not 
seeming to be justly referable to any intrinsic supe- 
riority possessed by the German mineral waters, either 
as to physical characters, <» medicinal effects, over 
the mineral waters of the other countries of the world. 



252 SALINE AND SULPHUKEOUS MINERAL WATERS. 

The saliiie mineral waters usually exercise a purga- 
tive effect on the animal economy. These mineral 
waters commonly owe their aperient properties to 
the sulphates of soda, or magnesia, or potash, and 
the chlorides of sodium or magnesium. In many cases, 
they contain a larger or amaUer, an important or 
unimportant, impregnation of iron. In many of the 
mineral waters of this dass, a minute proportion of 
iodine and of bromine has been detected, which may 
well be believed to influence their medicinal proper- 
ties. In this country, the principal mineral waters 
of this class are found at Cheltenham, Leamington, 
Harrogate, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Epsom, and Scar- 
borough; the principal mineral waters of this class on 
the continent, being those of Seidlitz and Seydchutz, 
in Sohemia. Piillna likewise possesses a saline water 
of considerable importance. The water of Marienbad 
has an important alkaline as well as aperient pro- 
perty. Many of the alkaline and thermal waters, as 
those of Yichi, Carlsbad, 'Wiesbaden, and Saden, 
contain a certain amount of sulphate or muriate of 
soda, which would lead to an inference that they may 
exercise aperient effects under some circumstances, 
and justify their classification under this head. 

Sulphureous mineral waters are likewise usually 
remarkable from their action as aperients. Their pro- 
perties are prominently due to the large impregnation 
of sulphuretted hydrogen with which they are severally 
charged, aided by the presence of saline aperients in 
greater or less amount, of which chloride of sodium 
is commonly by far the most important. The sul- 



CARBONATED HINEBAL WATERS. 253 

phureous springs of Harrogate are probably the most 
important in the worlds although labouring under the 
admitted disadvantage of being offered at the natural 
temperature, instead of belonging at the same time 
to the class of thermal waters, as do those of Bareges 
and Aix la Chapelle ; of which the former is said to 
issue from the earth at the temperature of 113°, and 
the latter at 144°. The sulphureous waters of 
Harrogate are said to contain an impregnation of 
from 3 to 21 cubic inches of sulphuretted hydrogen in 
the gallon, whereas those of Aix la Chapelle are said 
to contain 133 cubic inches of this gas in the gallon. 
On the other hand, the sulphureous waters of 
Harrogate contain a much larger proportion of 
saline matter than those of Aix la Chapelle. Moffat, 
Strathpeffer, and Rothsay, situated in Scotland, are 
likewise remarkable for possessing springs of sulphu- 
reous water ; which are said to be impregnated with 
sulphuretted hydrogen in much the same degree as 
the sulphureous springs of Harrogate; although 
their saline impregnation is much less considerable. 
The carbonated mineral waters are chiefly valuable 
from their action as antacids. To this group belong 
the mineral waters of Selters (Seltzer), . Pyrmont, 
Pougues, Mont d^ Or, and Vichi ; to which may be 
added, with more or less propriety, those of Spa, 
Carlsbad, &c. The Selters«waters are stated to con- 
tain 343*8 cubic inches of carbonic add in the gallon ; 
the several springs of Pyrmont, from 135 to 300 
cubic inches ; that of Pougues, 325*9 cubic inches ; 
those of Mont d^ Or, from 4'79 to 23*95 cubic inches ; 



£54 CARBONATED MINERAL WATERS. 

and those of Yichi^ 132*84 cable inclies of carbonic 
acid. The waters of Spa contain^ respediTely^ from 
201 to 336 cubic inches of carbonic acid in the 
gallon; and those of Carlsbad contain 124 cnbic 
inches of this gas. The waters of Spa belongs how- 
ever^ to the class of carbonated chalybeate, and those 
of Carlsbad to that of carbonated saline. In addition 
to the large proportion of carbonic acid whidi is 
obtained from this class of mineral waters, they are 
all essentially characterised by an important amomit 
of alkaline impregnation, upon which their medicinal 
action more particularly depends. Thus, in the 
gallon of these several mineral waters respectively, 
those of Selters contain 210 grains of the carbonates 
of soda, lime, and magnesia; those of Pyrmont, from 
70 to 100 grains of the carbonates of lime and mag- 
nesia; that of Pougues, 220 grains of the carbonates 
of soda, lime, and magnesia; those of Mont d' Or, 
from 60 to 67 grains of the same carbonates ; and 
those of Yichi, from 300 to 429 grains of these car- 
bonates. The waters of Spa, although chiefly dis- 
tinguished as highly carbonated chalybeates, contain 
from 2 to 15 grains of carbonated alkaline matter in 
the gallon. The waters of Carlsbad, in addition to 
the aperient saline effect to be expected from IS% 
grains of sulphate of soda, and whatever influence 
may be referred to 124- cubic inches of carbonic 
acid, afford by analysis 123 grains of the carbonates 
of soda, lime, and magnesia; and are of unquestion- 
ably more medicinal importance from their alkaline 
action on the system, than on account of their other 



CHALTBEATB MINSRAL WATBBS. 255 

^ects. There does not appear to be any mineral: 
water in Great Sritain, of sufficient pretension to 
deserve mention under this head. Even that of 
Ilkeston, in Derbyshire, does not seem to afford more 
than 8*55 grains of carbonate of soda in the gallon ; 
and the other carbonated waters, chiefly foimd in 
Derbyshire and the adjoining parts of Yorkshire, 
afford little but the earthy carbonates, and may be 
assumed to have little, if any, medicinal efficacy. 

The chalybeate mineral waters owe their medicinal 
virtue to the presence of oxyde of iron, commonly 
held in solution by carbonic add. In England, the 
waters of Tunbridge are the most important of this 
class; and more especially, if a pure chalybeate water 
is required. These waters contain 9*66 cubic inches 
of carbonic add in the gallon ; the entire soHd ma- 
terial obtained being only 9*068 grains, — 2*748 grains 
of this being protoxyde of iron. The waters of 
Cheltenham, Leamington, and Harrogate, contain 
a larger or smaller, but by no means unimportant, 

• 

impregnation of iron; in combination with saline 
matters, having purgative properties, which may or 
may not be indicated in different cases. In Scotland, 
the Moffat chalybeate, and the Vicar's Brig chaly- 
beate, seem to be important; although labouring 
mider the evident disadvantage of an aluminous 
mapregnation. Chalybeate waters, of suffident 
strength to possess important medicinal efficacy, are 
^^dently common in most coal and iron-stone 
districts. It is usually advisable, however, to ascertain 
whether the spring be free from any aluminous 



256 CHALYBEATE MINERAL WATERS. 

impregnation. A sufficiently strong and pure chaly- 
beate spring for medicinal purposes^ arises from the 
shale^ in a very narrow, slip between the limestone and 
gritstone formations^ on the edge of the former of 
which the town of Buxton is situated. In this case^ 
the iron is held in solution by carbonic acid. The 
importance of the chalybeate mineral waters as 
medicinal agents^ is probably not second to that of 
any of the varieties of mineral waters. The proved 
deficiency of iron in the animal system, in certain 
disordered states of the economy ; and the remedial 
effects that are consequent upon the medicinal use of 
iron under these circumstances, are well known, and 
matters of very frequent observation. Even in the 
most marked and aggravated instances of such morbid 
states, there is a frequent and even common expe- 
rience of difficulty and disadvantage in accomplishing 
the indication, owixig to the local or general derange- 
ment of the system that is occasioned by the prepara- 
tion of iron which is exhibited : a disadvantage and 
difficulty seldom experienced when iron is exhibited, 
in fitting states of system, in the form of the chaly- 
beate mineral waters; and especially^ if the iron 
contained in such waters is held in solution by car- 
bonic acid, and if the water is essentially free from 
any aluminous impregnation. The conditions of 
system in which a pure chalybeate water, or a chaly- 
beate water containing at the same time an impreg- 
nation of saline aperients, may be preferred, often 
require considerable discrimination and care. One 
of the saline springs of Harrogate is particularly 



THERMAL MINERAL WATERS. 257 

important^ from containing an efficient impregnation 
of carbonate of iron; and some of the springs of 
Cheltenham and Leamington contain an efficacious 
proportion of oxyde of iron ; and the great thermal 
waters of Bath may be inferred to have their medi- 
cinal effects modified^ and perhaps in some cases 
determined, by the proportion of oxyde of iron which 
they contain in combination with the calcareous and 
small proportion of saline matter, held in solution by 
carbonic add. 

Of the chalybeate mineral waters on the Continent 
of Europe, those of Spa are the most important. The 
several springs contain from 1 to 14 grains of the 
oxyde or carbonate of iron in the gallon^ in combina- 
tion with calcareous, and some small proportion of 
sahue and alkaline matters ; the whole being held in 
solution by the large amount of from 150 to 386 
cubic inches of carbonic add. The waters of Mont 
d' Or, Vichy, Carlsbad, Pyrmont, Eissingen, Selters, 
Marienbad, &c., may be supposed to owe some part 
of their medicinal influence to the proportion of iron 
which they severally contain, in combination with 
their more important alkaline, or saline impregnation. 

Premising that there is probably no country in the 
old or the new world, that does not possess mineral 
waters of an elevated temperature; such springs 
ranging in respective temperature from 58° to 312°; 
^d being generally remarkable from the circmn- 
stance of maintaining their degree of heat in all 
times and seasons, as well as from their being dis- 
charged in the same quantity at all periods^ without 



258 



THERMAL MINERAL WATERS. 



leferenoe to weather or season; thefoUowingis alist 
of some of the more important of the thermal waters 
of England and the continent of Europe^ with their 
respective temperatures : — 



Madoek . 


Deipeea. 
. 68 


Buxton • • • 


. . 82 


Bristol 


. 74 


Bftth . 


. . 117 


BtiregBB 

Aix 


. 113 
. . 113 


Pfeffera 


. 100 


OoMmuI, Spnidid . 

TeplHz 

Pisa . . . 


. . 165 

. 121 
. . 106 


Gastein 


. 122 

1 Mai 



T»pUtz . 
AixlaChapelle . 
Wiesbaden . 


Dcgmk 

. . 113 

. . 144 

. . 151 




. 122 


Sehlangenbad 
Baden-Baden 


. . 86 

. 154 


Wildbad 


. . 95 


Lneea 


. 129 


Givita Veochia 


. . 86 




. 104 



The medicinal vahie of the thermal mineral waters^ 
is nnqnestionabty influenced by the temperature at 
which they are offered; and it may be^ perhaps^ 
generally admitted^ that waters^ having the same 
apparent character and degree of mineral impreg- 
nation^ will have more efficacy^ if enjoying the 
additional character of belonging to the class of 
thermal waters. 

The mineral waters of Matlock (temperature 68^ 
contain a very small amount of mineral impreg- 
nation; this being chiefly calcareous^ in combination 
with carbonic acid^ &c. 

The thermal waters of Buxton (temperature 82^ 
are likewise principally calcareous^ and in a minute 
degree saline ; they contain likewise some free 
carbonic acid ; but their great chemical characteristic 
is^ that nearly three-fourths of the gaseous contents 



BAREeBS. — AIX. 259 

are found to be uncombined nitrogen. It is fair to 
infer that the remarkable effects of these waters^ 
may be referable^ in an important degree^ to the 
gaseous impregnation. 

The waters of Bath are offered at the elevated tem- 
perature of 109°, 114°, and 117°, respectively. They 
are characterised by a larger calcareous and saline 
impregnation than those of Buxton ; and by contain- 
ing, moreover, a small but efficient proportion of iron. 

The tepid water of Bristol (temperature 74°) is 
chiefly remarkable for its weakly calcareous and 
saline character. 

The thermal springs of the Continent may be 
usually referred to the class assigned by their 
predominating ingredients, the greater medicinal 
efficacy ascribed to their elevated temperature being 
kept in view; and the saline, alkaline, sulphureous, 
and chalybeate characters may be considered to be 
enhanced, but not otherwise modified, by the elevated 
temperature. Thus, the mineral waters of Bareges 
are principally sulphureous, although in some degree 
calcareous and saline likewise ; these medicinal pro- 
perties being enhanced by the elevated temperatures 
of the several springs, which are 88°, 100°, and 118°, 
i^pectively. The mineral waters of Aix are cal- 
careous and very slightly saline, but are chiefly 
important from their sulphureous impregnation ; the 
medicinal effect being increased by their elevated 
temperature, which, although diminished during the 
niins of the equinox, and during the melting of 
the snow, is usually 113°. The mineral waters of 



260 AIX LA CHAPBLLE. CARLSBAD. 

Aix la Chiyelle, enhanced as their mediciiial action 
may be by the temperatore of 144^ as they issue 
from the earth, and retaining the heat of 119° to 120° 
whoi collected in the leaenroirs. are chiefly valiiable 
from their lai^ impregnation of snlphiiretted hydro- 
gen, combined with an important amount of saline^ 
alkahne, and cakaieons ingredients. The mineral 
waters of Carlsbad, important as their elevated 
temperature should be admitted to be^ in adding to 
the effect of their mineral and gaseous impregnation^ 
must be classed as chiefly valuable from their 
alkaline characters. The springs of Carlsbad vary 
in their respective temperature, from 122° to 165^ 
As is the case in the thermal waters of Buxton^ 
and probably in ihoae of Bath, and many others^ 
Berzelius found free nitrogen in the Carlsbad waters, 
although in comparatively small proportion. The 
composition of the Carlsbad waters offers one of the 
great practical suggestions which has served so much. 
to advance the modem art of prescribing. This 
great alkaline agent does not owe its wonderful 
efficacy in certain morbid states to the presence of 
carbonate of soda or magnesia, or the different salts 
of lime, but to a combination of these alkaline 
re-agents; and on the same principle, in the modem 
practice of medicine, where alkaline effects are 
required for the relief of morbid action, it is found 
that more beneficial results may be obtained by a pre- 
scription containing the different alkaline re^agents, 
than by ordering any of the pure or the carbonated 
alkalies^ or alkaline earths, by themselves. It was a 



WIESBADEN. — BADEN^ ETC. 261 

much older discovery, but evidently founded on the 
'Same principle, that purgative medicines usually 
prove more efficient, and less drastic in their action, 
when compounded of several different purgative 
ingredients^ and the same principle is found to be 
capable of most usefol extension to the classes of 
diaphoretic and diuretic medicines, &c. 

The saline, calcareous, and slightly chalybeate 
properties of the mineral waters of Wiesbaden, are 
much enhanced in medicinal effect by the elevated 
temperatures at which they are severally offered; 
varying jfrom 117° to 151°; and the same remark 
applies to the similar waters of Baden, in Switzerland, 
(temperature probably little short of 212°), — and to 
those of Baden-Baden, (temperature 154°). 

Their severally elevated temperatures add to the 
alkaline effects of the mineral waters of Vichi, 113°, 
Ems, 122°, and Toplitz, 121°; and to the calcareous 
effects of the mineral waters of Schlangenbad, 86°, 
Lucca, 129°, &c. 

The mineral waters and watering-places of England 
deserve to be mentioned somewhat more particularly 
in this work. They may be divided into those which 
«re thermal and those which are cold ; the latter being 
^bdivided into saline, chalybeate, and sulphureous. 

The principal of the thermal waters of England 
are divisible into two groups; of which the one 
arises from fissures in the secondary limestone, 
or mountain limestone formation, constituting what 
is called the Peak of Derbyshire ; and the other from 
the oolite formation, which occurs on the borders of 



262 BUXTON. 

the counties of Gloucester and Somerset. The first 
of these groups includes Buxton^ BakeweU^ Stony* 
Middleton^ and Matlock ; the second includes Bath, 
and Clifton or Bristol. 

The Peak of Derbyshire^ which embraces the first 
of these groups^ consists principally of a mountain 
limestone formation. This formation is about 
fourteen miles broad from the sonth-west to the 
north-east^ and about twenty miles long. It is the 
southern extremity of a ridge or chain of hills^ that 
extends from Scotland to this part of Derbyshire. 
The whole of the Peak is considerably elevated above 
the level of the sea ; the highest mountain tops beiiig 
of an elevation of between two and three thousand 
feet ; Buxton being at an elevation of one thousand 
feet^ and Bakewell^ Stony-Middleton^ and Matlock^ 
being considerably lower. Through fissures in this 
formation^ the thermal waters of this district loake 
their way to the surface. 

Although Buxton is situated at so considerable an 
elevation^ it is well sheltered on all sides by hills and 
plantations; and the dryness of the atmosphere is 
secured not only by the elevation^ but by the remark- 
ably absorbent character of the mountain limestone^ 
The purity of the air^ and the degree to which it is 
free from miasmatous matters^ are proved by the 
circumstance that endemic or epidemic fever iB 
unknown in the town or its vicinity. 

Buxton is indebted for its principal buildings, 
plantations, walks, and other embellishments, to the 
taste and liberality of successive Dukes of Devonshire, 



MATLOCK. — BAKEWELL. 263 

to whose noble family Buxton has chiefly belonged 
for many centimes. 

The thennal waters are used both internally and 
as baths. Their temperature is invariably 82^ ; and 
the supply of water is unaffected by weather or 
season. They are found to be chiefly useful in cases 
of rheumatism and gout^ and in some dyspeptic and 
atonic conditions. The word rheumatism is consi* 
dered to include the various forms of neuralgia^ as tic 
doloureux^ sdatica^ &c. The baths are spacious^ and 
provided with the proper means of douching any part 
of the body. There are likewise warm-baths^ in 
which the mineral waters are heated to any higher 
degree of temperature that may be required. 

Matlock is much less important as to the efficacy 
of its mineral waters. These waters are only at the 
temperature of 68^; and they contain little of the 
gaseous impregnation, especially nitrogen, for which 
the waters of Buxton ace so remarkable. Matlock 
offers all the great advantages of the limestone 
atmosphere, together with a singularly well sheltered 
aud highly picturesque locality. Indeed the whole 
of the Peak of Derbyshire, and more particularly its 
valleys, of which Matlock is one of the most important, 
is remarkable for its scenic beauties and rocky 
grandeur. Matlock offers the invalid a mild, well- 
sheltered valley-residence, with an absorbent soil. 

BakeweU is even less noted than the preceding on 
account of the mineral waters. It is more celebrated 
for the excellence of the adjacent trout-streams, and 
^or the beauty of the adjoining district. 



264 STONY-MIDDLETON. — BATH. CLIFTON. 

Stony-Middleton is sitaated picturesquely in one 
of the Derbyshire valleys; but neither the town nor 
its waters offer any temptation to sojourners. 

The southern division of the thermal waters of 
England is likewise of much importance. 

The waters of Bath are offered at the temperature 
of 117^ ; rendering some degree of cooling necessaiT 
before they can be made use of. They are used as 
baths^ and taken internally. They are valuable in 
many cases of atonic dyspepsia^ and in debilitated 
conditions generally^ whether consequent upon gout 
or rheumatism^ or otherwise. They are of use in 
many of the ailments incident to advanced life. 
They have long been remarkable for their effects on 
the partial paralysis consequent on the introduction 
of lead and some other mineral poisons into the 
system ; and this justifies the inference of their use- 
fulness in other conditiotus of the nervous and motor 
systems^ of similar character. The baths^ pump-room, 
and other appurtenances of a watering-place; are 
offered at Bath in the best manner ; and the size of 
this important city^ the beauty and excellence of its 
crescents and squares^ the rich and highly cultivated 
character of the surrounding country, together with 
the dependent circumstance of its unequalled markets, 
are additional recommendations of no secondary 
importance. 

Bristol, or rather Clifton, the tepid waters emerging 
below the latter town, affords a valuable climate to the 
invalid ; and is even more important on this account 
than for the sake of its waters. The temperature 



0E0L06ICAL SUMMARY. 265 

of the mineral waters is 74^. The waters are 
slightly saline^ and chiefly calcareous ; with a gaseous 
impregnation^ consisting principally of carbonic add. 
They are conceived^ and probably with justice^ to aid 
the effect of the climate^ in diminishing the morbid 
sensitiveness of the pulmonary mucous membranes^ 
promoting the action of the kidneys^ and giving tone 
to the digestive organs^ in enfeebled conditions of 
system. 

From the great oolite formation^ extending across 
England, from the coast of Yorkshire to that of the 
comity of Dorset, — ^which is divided from the moun- 
tain limestone which allows the tepid waters of 
Derbyshire to pass through its fissures, by the null- 
stone grit, the coal formation, the magnesian lime- 
stone, and the red marl, — arise the thermal waters of 
Bath and Bristol ; and the saline waters of Chelten- 
ham probably arise from the lias, or lower beds of 
the oolite series. The saline waters of Leamington 
may possibly arise from the same bed of lias as that 
from which the saline waters of Cheltenham spring ; 
or both the Cheltenham and the Leamington mineral 
waters may emerge from the immediately subjacent 
bed of red marl, — a formation which covers the 
extensive flat called the Plain of Warwick. Tliis is 
not, however, a point of much interest, even in a 
geological view. The red marl, or new red sandstone 
formation, lies immediately beneath the lias, or lowest 
stratum of the oolite series ; and from the one or the 
other of these formations, it seems probable that most 
of the saline mineral waters of England take their rise. 

VOL. TI, N 



266 CHELTENHAM. 

Cheltenliamifl situated in abeautifiil and extensiTe 
valley^ about two miles £rom the base of the hills 
which bound the Tallej on the north-east. The 
soil is dry; absorbent enough to cany off excessive 
moisture. The valley is sufficiently extensiye to 
prerent any undue stagnation of the air ; and the 
hills protect it from the more chilling influences of 
the north and north-east winds. The houses are 
scattered in detached groups, by which the most free 
street ventilation is secured. This conduces much to 
the healthiness of Cheltenham, inasmuch as, in the 
words of Dr. M'Cabe^ '^ No narrow or winding lanes 
intercept the tree current of the air^ and no n^lected 
and unfrequented places serve as reservoirs for the 
collection and evolution of noxious effluvia^ which^ 
with other concurring causes, might generate the 
seeds of disease. Where every place is open and 
exposed to public view, cleanliness cannot be neg- 
lected ; and where perfect cleanliness is attended to, 
and exposure to a free and pure atmosphere is the 
necessary consequence of situation, diseases will 
seldom be met with."* 

Cheltenham offers every accommodation to its 
visitors, that good walks, sheltered promenades, good 
roads, commodious pump-rooms, good houses, and a 
pleasant climate, are understood to comprise. 

The Cheltenham mineral waters are essentially 
saline in the character of their impregnation; con- 
taining principally, sulphate of soda, and chloride 
of sodium, and the chlorides of lime and magnesium- 

* Observations on the Cheltenham Waters. By James M'Cabe, M.D- 



LCAMINOTON. 267 

These waters are useful in a large number of the 
cases of abdominal and hepatic congestion. The 
stimulating character of all mineral waters may make 
some preparatory attention^ and some degree of 
watchful care during the course^ necessary^ even in 
the most strongly marked of the cases to which these 
waters prove to be so largely beneficial. 

Leamington is situated at the distance of two 
Biiles tram Warwick. The attractive and varied and 
beautifal country by which it is surrounded, its mild 
inland cUmate, the excellence of its houses, streets, 
and roads, are among the strong advantages offered 
by Leamington to its visitors. 

The waters of Leamington resemble in all essential 
particulars the waters of Cheltenham ; and may be 
generally said to be applicable to the relief of the 
same morbid conditions. 

"Leamington/^ says Dr. Loudon, ''from being 
situated at a distance from the coast, and in the 
midst of a level country, is neither exposed to sudden 
gnats of wind, nor to the frequent rains which a 
mountainous neighbourhood so constantly attracts. 
Besides, being nearly at an equal distance from the 
east and west seas, as well as the channel, the tempe- 
rature is more mild and equal than that of the greater 
part of the inland watering-places in the country, and 
the climate more genial than that of towns in the 
same latitude, lying nearer to the Atlantic and Ger- 
man Oceans. The highly cultivated state of the soil 
around the town, entirely free from morasses, with the 
iiumerous scattered woods and rivulets, contributes, 

n2 



268 TUNBRIDOE. — HARROGATE. 

in no small degree^ to its being one of the most salu- 
brious spots in the inland counties/'* 

Tunbridge Wells, the most celebrated of the chaly- 
beate mineral waters of England, is situated in a 
somewhat barren part of the county of Kent. The 
mineral waters emerge from the lowest of the three 
beds of green sandstone, which lie immediately under 
the great chalk formation. The waters are clear, 
with a chalybeate odour, and strongly marked chaly- 
beate taste ; but the taste is not marked by either an 
acidulous or saline character, and is not considered 
to be unpalatable. The waters are at a little varying 
temperature of 50^. Their chalybeate impregnation 
is 2*748 grains of oxyde of iron in the gallon, held 
in solution by carbonic acid. Their action is essen- 
tially tonic and deobstment ; and they have been, no 
doubt, less used than they deserve to have been, 
in the various diseases dependent on debilitated 
conditions. 

Tunbridge offers to its visitors the advantages 
of a pure air, an inviting and somewhat picturesque 
country, and the usual walks, rides, and other 
accommodations that are looked for in watering- 
places. 

Harrogate is situated very near the middle of the 
great county of York. The formation is a bed of 
shale, which lies between the magnesian and the 
mountain limestone ; and may be said to represent 
the great coal formation, which in other parts 
occupies the same geological position. The several 

* On the Waters of Leamington Spa. By Charles London, M.D. 



HARBOGAT£. 269 

impregnations of the different mineral springs of this 
important watering-place^ may be due to the shale 
formation^ through which they issue to the surface ; 
or may be partly ascribed to a solution of the saline 
and sulphureous materials of a boggy soil which 
rests on the shale. It does not seem improbable^ 
that the waters may acquire from the bog-land, in 
which vegetable matters appear to be in a state 
of extreme decomposition, a considerable amount of 
sulphureous and saline impregnation, which may be 
modified by the subsequent percolation of the waters 
through the shale. Dr. Neale, who practised at Har- 
rogate about the end of the seventeenth century, 
appears to have been one of the first to collect the 
sulphureous and saline waters of this place; and, 
indeed, he says that he '^made a large bason to con- 
tain several hogsheads of water, and covered it with 
a large stone, to preserve it from the sun and rain 
water ; and for a week together we rammed its sides 
with clay, to prevent other springs from getting in ;'^ 
and he adds, that ^^the earth about these spas is 
black and bituminous, the surface whereof in hot 
weather is candied over with a yellow scurf, which is 
perfect brimstone.*^ Dr. Short says, writing in 1734, 
'^The soil out of which these springs rise, is, first, 
com mould, then a marl stone.'* 

The sulphureous waters of Harrogate are transpa- 
rent, having a strongly sulphureous and fetid smell, 
and a saline and most disagreeable taste. The tempe- 
rature probably varies, but is stated to be 54°. The 
importance of these waters, either used internally, of 



270 EFFECTS OF MINBBAL WATEBS. 

made use of as baths^ for which every accommoda- 
tion and convenience are afforded^ can hardly be 
over-estimated in many of the cases of hepatic 
derangement^ and of the more chronic cutaneous 
diseases. 

Harrogate likewise possesses pure chalybeate^ 
saline-chalybeate^ and pure saline mineral waters^ 
which are respectively valuable to many invalids, 
either preparatory to commencing the course of the 
sulphureous waters^ or auxiliary to the effects of those 
waters^ or made use of after such course has been 
completed. These several waters are necessarily 
found useful in many cases^ to which the sulphureous 
waters are not at all applicable. 

Harrogate affords to its visitors all the usual water- 
ing-place accommodations and conveniences; and 
every means are had recourse to, for securing the 
comfort of those who resort to it for the sake 
of its justly celebrated mineral waters. Its air is 
bracing. 

All mineral waters, including even those that are 
purely saline, are more or less stimulating ; and this 
is perhaps particularly the case, when the water is 
warmer than the natural temperature. It is there- 
fore obvious, that the use of these great agents should 
not be permitted in cases that are attended with febrile 
excitement, nor in systems characterised by plethora^ 
until, in the one case, the febrile action has been 
subdued, and in the other case the full habit of 
body has been reduced, by dietetic regulations and 
medicinal means. 



EXPECTANT THEBAPBITTICS. 271 

" We agree with Alibert," writes Dr. Qairdner^ 
" in regarding all thermal waters^ and most mineral 
springs generally, to be physiologically and therapeu- 
tically stimulant ; and that the degree of excitation 
is proportionate to their temperature. This may be 
stated to be the fundamental principle of thermolo- 
gical medicine; and is therefore of the utmost import- 
ance to be kept in view in determining the particular 
class of diseases, or the particular stage of any given 
disease, which they are likely to benefit. This stimulant 
power may be directed to very different organs. They 
may sometimes act by exciting the capillary circula- 
tion, the secretion of urine, the alvine excretions, the 
digestive functions, the locomotive organs, or, finally, 
the nervous system generally. In the early or acute 
period of a disease, they wiU seldom be beneficial, in 
most cases highly injurious, especifilly in that great 
class comprehended under the general title of Pyrexiae. 
But, when it has assumed the chronic or indolent 
character, signal benefit will frequently result from 
their judicious application.^'* 

The observation of the remarkable effects of the 
mineral waters on the various powers of disordered 
action that are of more chronic character, teaches 
and impresses the value of a comparatively expectant 
treatment of such cases, when the use of mineral 
waters may not be of sufficiently ready access. It 
need not be hoped, that, by any artificial means, the 
same large amount of curative results may be obtained, 
as would follow the judicious and well-timed use of 

* On Mineral and Thermal Springs. By Meredith Gairdner, M.D. 



272 ARTIFICIAL MINERAL WATERS. 

the appropriate mineral water in such morbid con- 
ditions ; bat a considerable amonnt of benefit may 
be generally obtained by imitating the methodus me- 
dendi adopted by nature. The large secondary means 
of cure, which generally obtain when the invalid makes 
use of a mineral water, may or may not be enjoyed 
in connection with the artificial treatment ; and no 
observing person could undervalue the effects on the 
body and the mind, of change of air and scene and 
society, of being removed from the ordinary pursuits 
of life, of being freed necessarily from some of the 
daily cares and anxieties of the ordinary avocations, 
of being taken out of the wearing and wearying 
routine of duties and engagements. These are, 
indeed, important elements in the advantages ofiered 
to all classes of invalids by watering-places in general; 
and often, beyond a doubt, contribute largely to the 
curative results obtained by resorting to them. In 
a large number of chronic cases, salines, chalybeates, 
alkalies, &c., may be given with a much greater 
chance of beneficial results, if prescribed in some 
degree after the model presented in the several mi- 
neral waters. The strongest of the saline waters of 
Cheltenham and Leamington only afford, upon ana- 
lysis, from 1000 to 1200 grains of salts in the gallon 
of water; the strongest sulphur water of Harrogate 
only shows 1016 grains in the gallon; the great 
alkaline saline water of Carlsbad only yields 333 
grains from the gallon ; and supposing an eighth, or 
a fourth part of a gallon of these waters, or somewhat 
more or somewhat less, to be taken daily, by so much 



AATIFICIAL MINERAL WATERS. 273 

smaller must be the dose of really medicinal mineral 
matter^ that is day by day made to bear upon the 
morbid state^ and found to fulfil curative indications. 
And yet it appears^&om the universal experience of the 
profession^ that, in the case of every one of the great 
mineral waters, when the mineral water is adapted to 
the nature of the complaint under treatment, the diffi- 
culty which is felt is that the water is apt to prove too 
active, or too stimulating, in its effects, and that these 
have to be modified by exhibiting the remedy in 
smaller doses, or by correcting such effects by medi- 
cinal means. When it is remembered that the 
unquestionably efficacious chalybeate waters of Tun- 
bridge Wells contain less than three grains of oxyde 
of iron in the gallon, and that even the strongest of 
the springs at Spa contains little more than six grains 
of oxyde of iron in the gallon, the fact of their 
efficacy, and of the careful way in which it is found 
necessary to exhibit them, become still more remark- 
able. Supported by these facts and the unavoidable 
deductions, it could hardly be doubted d priori^ that 
much might be done in the treatment of many chronic 
morbid states, by a persevering use of appropriate 
remedies in small doses, largely diluted. When 
I say small doses, I do not mean what are called 
infinitesimal doses, or any similar appeal to the 
irrational and absurd; but simply, doses much smaller 
than are usually exhibited, and from which it may 
be unlikely that any immediate effect should be 
produced, either on the bodily functions, or on 
the disease. The degree of dilution in which such 

n3 



274 ARTIFICIAL MINERAL WATERS. 

medicinal substances are offered, has, no doubt, like- 
wise much to do with the smallness of the dose firom 
which efficient results may be obtained. 

These views, which were earnestly advanced in the 
first edition of this work, have been confirmed most 
fully by an ampler experience. In the cases of such 
invalids as are suffering under chronic ailments^ 
either as to stage or as to character, in whom a 
course of saline, or chalybeate, or saline chalybeate, 
or alkaline medicinal action is indicated^ and who 
are prevented by pecuniary or other considerations 
from having recourse to the suitable mineral waters, 
with all their admitted superiority, and all their 
secondary advantages of change of air and scene 
and social influences^ the best results that can be 
gained by medicinal treatment may be usually ob- 
tained from minute doses of the corresponding drugs, 
given in a state of ample dilution. From a few 
grains to a drachm of the aperient salts may be 
given in a pint or more of tepid water, every morning 
before breakfast, in divided doses, using exercise 
between the doses ; — the salts being either sulphate 
of magnesia, or sulphate of soda, or a combination 
of equal parts of these salts, or a mixture of sol- 
phate of soda and chloride of sodium in any desired 
proportions, or a mixture of sulphate of soda and 
carbonate of soda, or of other alkaline and aperient 
salts. In the cases of other invalids, in whom a 
chalybeate action seems to be required, a very few 
grains of carbonate of soda may be dissolved in 
whatever quantity of warm water can be swallowed 



ARTIFICIAL MINERAL WATERS. 275 

in the course of some hours^ at stated intervals; 
and one drop^ or less^ or more, of the tincture of 
the sesqtdchloride of iron be added to this. In 
the cases in which the use of a saline chalybeate 
seems to be indicated, the combination of sulphate of 
soda, chloride of sodium, and carbonate of soda, with 
the same preparation of iron, is sufficiently convenient 
for all purposes. In the cases in which a course of 
largely diluted alkali seems to be required, the mixed 
carbonates of potash and soda are readily diluted to 
any extent. Any such artificial mineral waters should 
commonly be taken at a tepid heat, from 75° to 90°. 
This is an outline of a mode of treatment that 
deserves to be considered on its own merits, and to 
be fairly and fuUy carried out. I can speak to the 
general results with undoubting confidence. It must 
be always regarded, however, as in all respects infe- 
rior in curative pretensions, to the veritable concoc- 
tions of Nature herself. 

Before concluding these observations on mineral 
waters, it should be said, that any artificial addition 
to a mineral water, whether of aromatics, or of an 
extra proportion of iron, or of alkali, or of salines, or 
of more powerful medicaments, is hardly ever advis- 
able. The eflfects of the mineral water made use of 
are apt to be interfered with to an important degree 
by any such additions. The observation refers to 
the practice, when had recourse to openly and 
honestly. When resorted to secretly and fraudu- 
lently, with the view to increase the immediate effect 
of a mineral water, and so add to its reputation, the 



276 ARTIFICIAL MINERAL WATERS. 

practice cannot be reprobated too strongly. It is 
well known^ that^ in more than one instance, mineral 
waters of nndoubted efficacy have been lowered in 
public estimation by such imprincipled proceedings. 
Such cases offer no exception to the golden rule — 
that honesty is the best policy. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

On Sleep. — Theory^ Definitioiiy and Varieties, of Sleep. — CaaeB and 
Causes of Sleeplessness. — Perfect Sleep. — Imperfect Sleep : 
Dreaming, &c. — Effect of Mental and Bodily Exercise respeo- 
tiyely, of Habit, of Constitutional Power, of Health, of the 
Dietary^ &c., on the Amount of Sleep required^ — ^Inflnenoe npon 
the Sleep of Impressions on the Different External Senses, and 
of Disturbed Sensation of the several more important Organs of 
Secretion and Excretion, and of Digestion, Reiq>irBtion, &e.«- 
Some Remedies for Wakefulness. — Leyes Somni Immerentibns 
hand facile Concessi. 

Sleep may be fairly and emphatically said to be 
the great means of compensating for an undue waste 
of tissue^ and of maintaining or restoring the balance 
of the vital forces. In the words of Professor Liebig, 
^^Since^ in different individuals^ according to the 
amount of force consumed in producing voluntary 
mechanical effects^ unequal quantities of living tissue 
are wasted^ there must occur, in every individual^ 
unless the phenomena of motion are to cease en- 
tirely, a condition in which all voluntary motions 
are completely checked, in which, therefore, these 
occasion no waste. This condition is called aleqp" 
Every action of the living body involves expenditure 
or waste of the exercised tissue ; whether it be the 
nervous system, in furthering the operations of the 
intellect, or in conveying the mental behests to the 



278 THEORY OF SLEEP. 

organs of voluntary motion, or in communicating 
nervous power to the great processes of circulation^ 
respiration, and other great moving apparatus, that 
are beyond the influence of the will, but needfol to 
the continuance of life ; or whether it be the waste 
incurred in the use of the apparatus of voluntary or 
of involuntary motion ; or whether it be the expendi- 
ture involved in the production of the several secre- 
tions which have ulterior and important duties to 
fulfil in the economy of the system, or that occasioned 
in the elimination of the excretions, which are no 
longer needful to the purposes of the organism, and 
can be no longer retained without injury to its well- 
being. Ajb far as the intellectual and the higher 
animal life, distinguished from the organic or vege- 
tative life, such expenditure must in every one's 
existence be very unequal; the balance between the 
several faculties and functions must require to be 
restored at given intervals of time; and this is 
effected by an entire rest of those variably exercised 
tissues of the living animal; and such entire rest 
constitutes sleep. 

During sleep, the several senses are relieved from 
their duties ; the organs of voluntary moti(m are 
relaxed ; the mind and the body are alike free bom 
their vigilance and their labours; there is neither 
consciousness nor sensation; and the only signs of 
life are the continued performance of the organic 
frmctions. 

At stated intervals of time, then, the powers at the 
system become severally exhausted; the mind and 



VARYING NEED OT SLEEP. 279 

the muscles of voluntary motion become unable to 
continue the uninterrupted exercise of their func- 
tions ; the limbs become relaxed^ the spine becomes 
benty and the head falls forward; and the mind 
meanwhile ceases from its labours, the fsiculties of 
judgment and memory are gradually suspended, and, 
finally, imagination, the last to quit and the first to 
return to its post, leaves it ; and the external senses, 
first sight, then taste, then smell, then hearing, then 
touch, severally, and one by one, cease their exercise; 
and — ^this is sleep. 

'^ The shades descend, and midnight o'er the world 
Expands her sable wings ; great Nature droops 
Through all her works : how happy he whose toil 
Has o'er his languid pow'rless limbs diffiis'd 
A pleasing lassitude ; he not in vain 
Invokes the gentle deity of dreams : 
His pow'rs the most yoluptuoualy dissolve 
In soft repose ; on him the balmy dews 
Of sleep with double nutriment descend." 

Armstbomo. 

The necessity that exists for the temporary repose 
of such of the vital forces as are more or less under 
the control of the will, and liable to be unequally 
exercised, supplies a sufficient rationale of the uses 
of sleep. It illustrates the circumstance, that the 
young, in whom such vital forces are necessarily 
feeble, and in whom there is, moreover, a constant 
derivation and expenditure of such forces required 
for the completion of the growth, and for the deve- 
lopment of the tissues, reqiure more sleep than 
adults. It explams the fact, that, as old age advances. 



280 TABTINe NEED OF 8LEEF. 

the ezpenditnre of flie ^tal forces becoming less and 
less^ and the eqnilibrinm of such forces being less 
distnrbed, a smaller and smaller amount of sleep is 
needfbl to meet the reqnirements of the system. It 
exemplifies, and is in its torn illustrated hj, the very 
different requirements of different individuals^ in 
regard to the length of time needed for sleep; this 
being dependent on the d^ree to which the vital 
forces are made use of during the hours of wakeful- 
ness, on the degree to which these forces are made 
use of unequally^ on the original strength and power 
of the tissues by which these forces are manifested, 
and on their condition as to power at different times. 
Thus^ the man whose mind is occupied exhanstingly 
in the duties of his profession, will require more sleep 
in proportion to the amount of such expenditure; 
and the labourer, after his day of toil, will require 
more sleep in proportion to the severity of bis exer- 
tions. Thus, the man who uses equally both the 
vital forces connected with his intellectual manifesta- 
tions, and those concerned in the movements of his 
limbs, will require less sleep, than the man who 
exercises either of these varieties of vital force duly 
or unduly, while the equable expenditure of the vital 
forces in other ways is not secured. Again, those 
individuals in whom the vital tissues have been 
originaUy strong, can support a hu^er expenditure of 
vital forces without the need of sleep, than those 
whose tissues are of feebler organisation ; and in such 
persons, the equilibrium and waste of the vital forces 
are more quickly restored ; and the sle^ may be 



VARYING NEED OP SLEEP. 281 

taken without discomfort at longer intervals, and less 
sleep is found to be necessary. And again, according 
to the existing condition of the system as to strength 
or debility, is less or more sleep found to be neces- 
sary. Those who have become enfeebled, by the 
effects of disease or otherwise, require more sleep 
than is needful to them at other times. This opinion 
is not interfered with by the circumstance, that in 
existing morbid conditions, of febrile, inflamma- 
tory, or irritative character, the invalid often passes 
night after night, during days or even weeks, with 
little or no sleep. On the contrary, in these condi- 
tions, the vital forces are all in a state of unques- 
tionable excitement, and so far in a state to undergo 
much and long-continued exertions ; morbid although 
such state is in its character, and exhausting as must 
be the consequence of such exertions ; often, beyond 
a doubt, exhausting to a degree inconsistent with 
the restoration of health, or even with the continu- 
ance of life. The effects of such morbid stimulus on 
the vital forces, and on their temporary capability of 
endurance and exertion, are evidenced in other ways, 
than in the time during which these forces can con- 
tinue to act, without the repose or the equipoising 
effect of sleep. In cases of continued fever, many 
days, — and in one case, that fell under my own 
observation, no less than three weeks, — ^have elapsed, 
during which the patients have literally been unable 
to swallow the smallest quantity of nutriment ; and 
yet not only has life continued, but all the wearing 
and exhausting influence of disease has had to be 



282 YABTING NSEB Of BLEEP. 

contended with by the Tital forces. In the case 
referred to^ a perfect coma, fiom which the patient 
could not be aronaed, while it preclnded the possi- 
bility of mistake as to the fact of the entire abstin- 
ence from nutriment, at the same time determined 
that there should be as small an expenditure of tissue^ 
as could consist with the continuance of life ; and not 
only did the patient recorer his consciousness, but 
he was eventually restored to health. The stimulus 
offered by diseased action to the vital forces is not^ 
then, solely observable as to its effect of enabling the 
system to continue without sleep for considerable 
periods of time. As to this particular, however, the 
same thing is often observable, to a considerable 
degree, in cases of lunacy, and other morbid condi- 
tions affecting the sensorium. In an inferior degree^ 
the same thing is noticed in cases of high mental 
excitement, whether from joy or grief, or from 
anxiety of mind ; in which cases the great solace of 
sleep is often vainly sought for, night after night; 
and the system is supported by the mental irritant^ 
under such deprivation of its wonted means of 
restoration and equipoise, until the powers succumb 
to the eventual exhaustion of the vital forces ; or until 
the irritating influence becomes transferred to some 
one of the great organs, by the estabUshment of disease 
therein ; or until, relief being afforded to the mind 
itself, the tension becomes relieved, and although 
left much exhausted, the system, by time and rest^ 
gradually regains its tone and equilibrium. 

Such is sleep, and such are its uses. Perfect sleep 



P£BF£CT AND IMTEBYSCT SLEEP. 283 

mvolyes entire loss of consciousness^ entire repose of 
the sensorium, entire rest of the mental faculties ; 
circulation^ respiration^ nutrition^ and secretion alone 
involving movement and waste; the several other 
functions of the nervous system being in absolute 
repose^ regaining their equilibrium, and recovering 
their intensity of power. 

But there are various degrees of less perfect sleep, 
in which one or more of the external senses may still be 
the means of producing impressions on the sensorium ; 
in which the command over the muscles of voluntary 
motion may not be wholly suspended; in which even 
memory and imagination, uncontrolled by the judg- 
ment, and imperfectly tested by sensation or by the 
senses, may career wildly over the past, or create a 
present or a future out of its disarranged and diversified 
materials, overleap the possibilities of time and space, 
recall the dead to the stage of its creatings, cause 
years gone by to run their round again, filling and 
embellishing its unreal creations with a jumblement 
of the probable, the unlikely, and the impossible, and 
peopling them with whatever memory can recall, or 
fancy can create. 

Such are dreams, — the shades and phases, diflFerent 
gradations, of imperfect consciousness, — degrees of 
imperfect sleep. Their most curious feature is the 
degree to which, untrammelled by sensation, and 
unfettered by the judgment, the action of the mind, 
and especially as regards its imaginative powers, 
becomes vigorous and untiring. The rapid changes 
and quick succession of ideas, that may occur 



284 B&EAMING. 

during an imperfect and dreamy sleep, is well 
illustrated by Lord Brougham^ in ^^ A Discourse of 
Natural Theology/' " Let any one who is extremely 
overpowered with drowsiness — ^as after sitting up all 
nighty and sleeping none the next day — ^lie down, 
and begin to dictate: he will find himself falling 
asleep after uttering a few words^ and he will be 
awakened by the person who writes repeating the 
last word^ to show he has written the whole; not 
above five or six seconds «may elapse, and the sleeper 
will find it at first quite impossible to believe that he 
has not been asleep for hours, and wiU chide the 
amanuensis for having Mien asleep over his work- 
so great apparently will be the length of the dream 
which he has dreamt, extending through half a life^ 
time. This experiment is easily tried: again and 
iagain the sleeper will find his endless dream renewed; 
and he will always be able to teU in how short a time 
he must have performed it. For suppose eight or 
ten seconds required to write the four or five words 
dictated, sleep could hardly begin in less than four 
or five seconds after the effort of pronouncing the 
sentence ; so that, at the utmost, not more than four 
or five seconds can have been spent in sleep. But, 
indeed, the greater probability is, that not above a 
single second can have been so passed, for a writer 
will easily finish two words in a second ; and suppose 
he was to write four, and half the time is consumed 
in falling asleep, one second only is the duration ot 
the dream, which yet seems to last for years, so 
numerous are the images that compose it.'' 



DREAMING. 285 

Lord Brougham carries hi^ opinions on this sabject 
so far, as to say, '* There seems every reason to con- 
clude^ from these facts^ that we only dream during the 
instant of transition into and out of sleep. That 
instant is quite enough to account for the whole of 
what appears a night's dream." Pew persons would 
adopt so extreme an opinion on this subject, who had 
watched the sleep of people frequently, whether the 
sleepers were adults or children, invalids or persons 
in health. Whatever renders the sleep sufficiently 
imperfect to restore the imagination and memory to 
a certain degree of force, would give rise to dreaming ; 
and as such disturbing influences are more likely to 
operate, when some of the organs are suffering from 
functional derangement, so dreams are more likely to 
happen to the invalid than to the man in health ; as 
they are more likely to act when the equilibrium and 
intensity of the vital forces have been well nigh 
restored by a sufficient duration of sleep, so dreams 
are more likely to occur in the morning than in the 
earlier parts of the night. The disturbing influence 
may be a strong impression on some one of the 
organs of external sense ; and it is curious in this 
case to find the readiness with which this is mixed 
up with, and adapted to, the dream that has occurred : 
thus, a cold night, chiUing the extremities of the 
sleeper, or a storm of wind and rain shaking and 
beating against the bed-room windows,.or an oppres- 
sive and feverish state occasioned by an over-heated 
bed-room, or the loud barking of a dog, or even the 
lying in an uneasy or unusual position, may render 



£86 SLEEP-WALKING. 

the sleep imperfect^ and both occasion the dream and 
influence its character. A pile of dothes^ or the 
arrangement of a window-curtain, may impersonate 
to the dreamer's eye some absent friend, or assume 
the perfect semblance of some one long deceased, or 
be supposed to represent an unearthly yisitant, or 
a burglarious assassin. Sometimes, the voluntary 
muscles are in part or wholly restored to the com- 
mand of the wiU; and the curious phenomena of 
sleep-walking are the result ; with all the mar?ellous 
possibilities of a sleeper being able to write his next 
Sunday^s sermon, or next month's magazine article; 
to work out some complicated problem that had 
perhaps been puzzled over vainly when he was awake ; 
to perform on the familiar instrument of music, long 
f(n*gotten airs, or brilliant and difficult themes ; to 
find his way during the darkest nights, through 
intricacies, which, however necessarily weU known, 
would have conAised and puzzled his waking senses, 
if unaided by light. 

Such are some of the well authenticated accounts 
of the doings and capabilities of sleep-walkers ; and 
they have been adduced among the arguments in 
favour of a belief in the statements of Mesmer and 
his followers : that people under certain circum- 
stances of nervous excitement, may read with their 
eyes blind-folded, &c., &c.; the difference between 
the most surprising of the authenticated phenomena 
of sleep-walking and the accounts of the mesmerist, 
being, that the former are always consistent with the 
capabilities of an excited nervous system, whereas 



ASSUMPTIONS OF MESMERISM. 287 

the latter confessedly exceed them. Thus^ it is not 
inconsistent with onr reasonable belief^ to find that a 
aleeper^ with his eyes shut^ can rise from his bed^ 
perform his customary ablutions^ dress himself in his 
clothes^ leave his bed-room^ make his way through 
the accustomed and familiar passages of his house 
to his sitting-room^ place himself in his wonted chair^ 
and draw to him the habitually used writing materials^ 
and^ with his eyes still shut, take his pen in hand, 
dip it into the ink-bottle at almost stated intervals 
of time, and with one hand on the sheet of paper, the 
other at its wonted pen-guidance, write out the 
digested and arranged thoughts of the mind ; even 
although the eyes may be shut all the time, and 
although such successive feats, without the aid of 
vision, would be impossible to the person when awake, 
interfered with by the conscious difficulties, and not 
under the stimulus of the nervous excitement. This 
is a very different call upon our belief, from the 
statement that the interior of the human body, or 
the thoughts and feelings of a second person's mind, 
or occurrences that are happening in an adjoining 
house, or even at a distance of miles or leagues, may 
be cognizant by the £Eu;ulties of any one suffering 
from any degree of nervous excitement, whether 
produced artificially or otherwise. Cases of cerebral 
disease often equal or exceed any of the accredited 
cases of sleep-walking, in the surprising character of 
their phenomena, — recalling to the mind, events, 
facts, and the doings of individuals, which had long 
been forgotten; bringing back the tasks of the 



288 FBEDI8F0SIN6 CAUSES OF SLEEF. 

childhood, restormg a long disused familiarity with 
the Greek or Koman classics^ or enabling the patient 
to sing times that may have been once familiar, or 
may have been once heard, and the occasion foi^tten; 
or, on the other hand, taking away altogether some 
fiEuniliar intellectual acquirements, depriving the 
scholar of his languages, or the savant of his calcula- 
tions. This is a very different tax upon the credulity, 
fix>m the statement that any state of nervous system, 
however produced, could convey to an ignorant person 
an instantaneous and intimate acquaintance with 
the theory and practice of medicine; enabling the 
subject of the mesmeric ecstacy to diagnose and 
prescribe suitably for different diseases. So much for 
mesmerism ! • 

Exercise of the mind and exercise of the body, by 
so much as they involve a greater expenditure, or 
larger disturbance of the equiUbrium, of the vital 
forces, by so much require in an equal degree the 
influence of sleep. It would be a mistake to suppose, 
that if a man should sit on his chair all the day, or 
move only from room to room, his mind being en- 
gaged actively during the time, he would not require 
the same amount of sleep that would be needed if 
the vital forces had been expended to the same degree 
by muscular exertions, whether in walking all the 
day in the open air, or in working at some laborious 
occupation. Not but that, if such mental labours 
were undergone, and no bodily exercise taken, no 
change of air enjoyed, an irritable condition of the 
nervous system would come on, and sleep be either 



PREDISPOSING CAUSES OP SLEEP. 289 

banished^ or rendered imperfect. But if^ occasionally^ 
under circumstances of such inactivity of the volun- 
tary muscles^ the mind undergoes long and severe 
exercise^ the system is found to require as much 
sleep, if not more sleep, than if the muscular system, 
and not the mind, had been at work. And if such 
an amount of sleep is not enjoyed, it were well to 
pause, and endeavour to ensmre it, by sacrificing 
some of the next day's moments to the various means 
by which sleep may be promoted ; or, ere long, the 
mind will become less and less capable of profitable 
effort : the tired steed will answer to the whip and 
spur no longer. 

Habit influences in some degree the amount of 
sleep that is required. It should be said, however, 
that it is never well to withhold any of the revenue 
that is justly due to the drowsy god. A man may ac- 
custom himself to take so little sleep, as to be greatly 
the loser thereby in his waking moments. It may 
be commonly observed, that those persons who spend 
less time in sleep, than is usually found needful by 
others of the same age and strength and occupation, 
consume a much larger portion of their days than 
others do, in a kind of dreamy vacancy, a virtual 
inactivity of mind and body. The hours expended 
in sleep are not the only hours that might be justi- 
fiably deducted from the sum total of the life, as 
having been lost to it: numbers of moments are 
daily spent in an absolute inaction of mind and 
body ; and sleep cannot be robbed of its dues, without 
adding largely, and in greater proportion than the 

VOL. II. o 



£90 PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

time habitually stolen from the sleep, to that which 
is wasted in such waking reveries. In order that 
the mind may have the power of undergoing trying 
and exhausting labour, that it may continue in the 
full possession of its capabiUties, that it may continue 
to be undulled and unblunted by such wear and such 
use, an amount of sleep must be allowed, which is 
proportionate to the severity of such work, to the 
engrossing and expending nature of the mind's em- 
ployment. The nights may be robbed of the hours 
of sleep ; and the time so stolen may be devoted to 
toil of mind or of body j but the endurance by the 
system of the undue waste and imperfectly restored 
balance of the vital force, even if somewhat pro- 
tracted by the strength of the constitution, or if pro- 
longed somewhat by the energy of a determined will, 
or by the spur of a great necessity, or by the desired 
goal of a great ambition or darling hope, must be 
short-lived. The system cannot be robbed of its 
sleep without a corresponding disturbance and de- 
rangement of the frmctions ; the power and the equi- 
librium of the vital forces will become so far affected, 
as to involve disordered action; and thus indirectly 
by forming part of the common organism, and di- 
rectly by the diminished tension of the vital forces 
which supply the sensorium itself, the mind will 
become unable to continue its exertions. Many an 
ardent and hopeful aspirant for collegiate distinctions, 
many an anxious labourer for professional eminence, 
has thrown away his hopes in thus vainly struggling 
to cheat the system of this great requirement. 



PBEDISFOSING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 291 

I have said that the constitution of individuals 
modifies the amount of sleep which they require. 
The delicate-fibred^ the feeble^ and the nervous^ 
require more sleep than the muscular^ the powerful^ 
and the unailing. The debilitated offspring of the 
sedentary, the voluptuous, the scantily fed, or the 
aged, require more sleep than the vigorous child of 
the active, the temperate, the plainly but well fed, 
and the youthful. 

It has been observed, that the health of an indivi- 
dual greatly modifies the amount of sleep which he 
stands in need of. The more weakly, the more lan- 
guid, or the more irritable, the state of the system, 
the greater the amount of sleep that is commonly 
needed. The more lethargic, or the more strong 
the individual, the less of sleep that should be taken. 
The kind of disease that may be present, is often 
found to influence the amount of sleep which seems 
to be needful ; but generally, the diseases which in- 
terfere the most with the dues of the system as to 
sleep, are the most likely to lead to irreparable injury 
to the health. In some cases, disordered action 
interferes with the sleep to the extent of fearfully 
aggravating the wearing effects of the disease, and 
increasing the risk of a fatal issue to the case in a 
corresponding degree. The restoration of a su£&cient 
and perfect sleep, is often the first indication of the 
diminution of morbid action and the approach of 
convalescence. 

The kind of food that is made use of, modifies the 
amount of sleep which is required. Animal food renders 

o2 



292 PBEDISFOSINO CAUSES OF SLEEP* 

more sleep necessary than vegetable food ; and those 
persons who sleep much — ^too much in proportion 
to their constitutional powers, and to the amount of 
exercise of mind or body that is taken, and in whom 
this cannot be attributed to temporary influences or 
actual disease — ^may do well to think whether this 
may not be owing to the quantity of animal food 
which they consume ; and should there appear to 
be some reason for such an opinion, may wisely try 
the efifect of diminishing the proportion of animal 
food consumed by them. In extreme cases of this 
kind, they may be wisely directed to make use of an 
exclusively vegetable diet for a time. It is a no less 
useful observation, that many cases of defective sleep, 
particularly in the invalided, are more or less reUev- 
able by the use of a larger proportion of animal food : 
supposing such a higher dietary to be otherwise unob- 
jectionable. The unnecessary indulgence in the use of 
malt liquors, or of wine or spirits, is a common cause 
of an excessive amount of sleep. This is truly stealing 
from one's days, and recklessly throwing such time 
into the waters of an unrequiting oblivion. Excessive 
sleep, moreover, induces torpor and derangement of 
the bodily functions, and -debilitates the system in 
the same proportion. The effect of excessive sleep on 
the mental faculties is no less serious. It dulls the 
sensibilities, and weighs down, warps, and impairs 
the imagination, the judgment, and the memory. 

The time required for sleep, evidently varies much; 
seven or eight hours may perhaps be said to be the 
usual average ; — the young, and the feeble, and the 



FRJSDISPOSINO CAUSES OF SLEEP. 293 

ailing^ requiring more, and some strong and healthy 
adults requiring less. Usually, less sleep is required 
in summer than in winter, in this climate. In warm 
climates, or during very hot weather, the vital forces 
become so rapidly expended, and their equilibrium is 
80 soon disturbed to such a degree, that the system 
cannot continue its labours without discomfort and 
disadvantage, during the sixteen or seventeen hours ; 
and the same remark applies to invalids and very 
delicate and feeble individuals, in any climate. Under 
such circumstances, a midday sleep seems to be 
useful and necessary. 

The night time is evidently intended ss the proper 
period for sleep ; and the adage which tells us that 
" early to bed and early to rise ^' are conducive to 
health, is for the most part, if received with some 
qualifications, sound and good. In these higher 
latittides, to rise with the sun at the different times 
of the year, would interfere with the regularity of 
habit, by a moderate attention to which the health 
of mankind is known to be so much promoted, 
whether in regard to food, or exercise, or sleep, &c. 
Moreover, in the earlier hours of morning, at all 
times of the year, the air is apt to be charged with 
the dampness and probable impurity of the terrestrial 
exhalations, which must render exposure to the air 
at such time somewhat less wholesome. This observa- 
tion would, however, seldom apply to more than the 
first or second hour after sunrise. Generally speaking, 
the going to bed at such hours of the evening as will 
have left an adequate time for sleep before the hours 



294 EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

of six^ seven^ or eight o'clock in the mornings at the 
different seasons of the year^ is what is evidently^ in 
this country^ the most conducive to health. 

I may conclude this chapter by mentioning more 
particularly^ some of the more important causes of 
sleep and of wakefdlness. 

A moderate and adequate exercise of the faculties 
of the mind^ not only renders sleep more necessary^ 
but puts the system into that state in which sleep is 
most likely to occur^ and to be tranquil and refresh- 
ing in its character. An immoderate use of the 
mental faculties excites the nervous system in an 
undue degree^ superinduces irritability^ and either 
altogether prevents sleep^ or renders it uneasy^ partial, 
dreamy^ and rather exhausting than cordial in its 
effects. If the mind be not only exercised unduly^ 
but the depressing passions of grief or anxiety be 
likewise at work^ the effect is largely added to. — 

'< Sleep, gentle Sleep, 
Nature's soft nurse, how have I frighted thee, 
That thou no more wilt weigh my eye-lids down. 
And steep my senses in forgetfulness ! 
Why, rather. Sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs. 
Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee. 
And hnsh'd with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber ; 
Than in the perfum'd chambers of the great, 
Under the canopies of costly state. 
And lull'd with sounds of sweetest melody I 
thou dull god, why liest thou with the vile. 
In loathsome beds ; and leav'st the kingly couch, 
A watch-case, or a common 'larum bell ! 
Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast 
Seal up the ship-boy's eyes, and rock his brains 
In cradle of the rude imperious surge ; 
And in the visitation of the winds. 



EXCITING CAUBE8 OF SLEEP. 295 

Who take the ruffian billows by the top. 
Curling their moiiBtrous heads, and hanging them 
With deaf' ning clamours in the slippery clouds, 
That, with the horly, death itself awakes ! 
Gan'st thou, partial Sleep ! give thy repose 
To the wet sea-boy in an hour so rude ; 
And, in the calmest and most stillest night, 
With all appliances and means to boot, 
Deny it to a king 1 ** 

Shakspeare. — ffewry IV., Part 2, Act 3, Sc. 1. 

Tranquillity of mind is one of the best of sleeping 
draughts^ — ^the surest and most effectual plea that 
can be offered in the court of Somnus; whereas sleep 
is driven away by a memory over-busy in recalling 
the past^ especially if the picture be of dark and 
sombre character^ — or by a busy imagination^ deli- 
neating a gloomy future. 

Darkness favours sleep^ and light is unfavourable 
to it. Those sounds which are loud^ discordant^ and 
irregular^ are usually great preventives of sleep; 
while the sounds that are low, musical, and regular, 
almost always assist it. It is well known, that the 
hum of bees, the murmur of running waters, the 
swelling and falling tones of music, and even the 
unvarying tones of a drawling speaker or reader^ 
induce sleep; and the sleeper is often found to 
awaken when such sounds are discontinued. An 
ancient remedy suggested for sleeplessness, was to let 
water fall from some Uttle height, drop by drop, into 
a metal pan, the regular and monotonous tones of 
which might induce sleep. Provided that the sounds 
be at regular intervals, whether they be near or 
distant, loud or low, musical or harsh, seems, after 



296 EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

some little usage^ to have little effect of interfering 
with the sleep. The loud and dissonant but measured 
clanking of the heavy hammers of large forges worked 
by steam power^ are not found to interfere with the 
sleep of those accustomed to such neighbourhood. 
The uninterrupted sleep of those who occupy the 
houses in the great thoroughfares of busy and 
populous cities^ illustrates the same fact ; as does the 
sleep of the seaman in the storm-tossed ship^ notwith- 
standing the violent rocking of the vessel and the 
creaking of the cordage. Certain odours, as that of 
fireshly gathered flowers, — ^particularly such as have a 
faint fragrance, rather than a powerful smell,— have 
often been observed to induce sleep. The praises 
that have been so often lavished on the sleep-inviting 
merits of a bed of heather, may perhaps be referred 
to this head. The odours of the violet and the migno- 
nette appear to be of this kind. The narcotic virtue 
ascribed to a pillow filled with the petals of the poppy 
flower, is probably due to their faint odour, rather 
than to the infinitesimal doses of morphia, which they 
may be supposed to exhale along with their fragrance. 
Some people appear to be remarkably affected in this 
way by certain odours. The sense of touch — ^the 
last of the external senses that is found to yield to 
sleep, and the first to shake off its trammels, — influ- 
ences sleep in an important degree. Contact with 
hard, or rough, or cold substances, has sometimes 
the effect of inducing sleep, but more commonly 
either renders the sleep imperfect, or chases it away. 
As it is in the organic functions alone that signs 



EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 297 

of life are left^ when perfect sleep has locked up all 
the other functions of the nervous system^ so the 
principal preventiyes of sleep are derived from their 
derangements. Digestion in its different stages^ the 
circulation of the bloody the respiration^ the secreting 
and excreting organs and tissues^ if defectively carried 
on, may modify or prevent sleep. 

In the earlier stages of digestion, owing to the 
larger quantity of blood that is then directed to the 
stomach, and the larger amount of nervous power 
that has then to be supplied to that viscus, the powers 
of the mind become in a greater or less degree more 
sl^gish, and the will to exert either mind or body is 
more or less diminished. The degree to which this 
obtains varies much, according to the quantity and the 
kind of food that has been taken, and according to 
the tone and healthiness of the stomach and the 
general system. In the later stages of digestion, on 
the contrary, some degree of buoyancy, and an 
aptitude for any or every kind of work, intellectual 
or bodily, usually comes on; and this is followed by 
some degree of languor or restlessness, and this by an 
appetite for another meal. It might be supposed 
from these premises, that it would be well to sleep 
immediately after the meals, and so interfere as little 
as might be with the determination of the vital forces 
to the chymification of the food. Experience shows 
that such a proceeding would be wrong under ordi- 
nary circumstances. It is admitted, that sleeping 
during the first stage of digestion accelerates and 
facilitates the digestive process; and the digestive 

o3 



£98 EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

powers may be so weak^ that^ without sucli aid^ the 
stomach may not be able to digest eyen the lightest^ 
and simplest^ and smallest quantity of food. Under 
such drcnmstances^ or in minor degrees of such con- 
ditions^ the indulgence of sleep after the meals may 
be most justifiably prescribed; but unless in some 
such states of system^ the practice is found to hurry 
forward unduly the first stages of digestion, to cause 
the food to pass fisom the stomach into the bowels 
prematurely and crudely^ and to produce some degree 
of excitement and feverishness of the system when 
the person awakes^ and to involve a risk of eventual 
irritation and derangement of the bowels. In gene- 
ral^ even in dyspeptic cases^ and in feeble conditions 
of the system^ when not of very severe or extreme 
character^ simply sitting still for a longer or shorter 
time after the meals^ fulfils every needful iatention^ 
without risking eventual derangement of the intes- 
tinal functions. It may be added^ that the common 
practice among the studious^ of devoting those mo- 
ments of buoyancy and vigour which commonly 
follow the completion of the first stage of digestion 
to any sedentary occupation^ is anything but advisable 
for the dyspeptic. Those are emphatically the golden 
moments which should be devoted by dyspeptics to 
exercise of the body; promoting^ as muscular exer- 
cise is admitted to do, the action of the liver, the 
elimination of the chyle and its conveyance to the 
current of the circulation, and the propulsion of the 
egesta through the bowels. In the larger number 
of those who lead sedentary lives, but who may not 



EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 299 

be SO far out of health as to be justifiably reckoned 
88 dyspeptic, this particular time after a meal, once a 
day^ — ^aud the hour or so after breakfast might for 
many reasons be preferred^ — should be chosen as the 
best for the purpose of bodily exercise. In a much 
more advanced stage of the digestiye processes^ when 
the food has reached the large intestines^ it is very 
often troublesome to the dyspeptic invalid; and 
when this happens^ it proves a common cause of 
rendering the sleep disturbed or imperfect. How 
commonly does the dyspeptic awake about two or 
three o'clock in the mornings in a state of feverish 
restlessness^ with a parched tongue^ a dry skin^ a 
burning heat of the palms of his hands and the soles 
of his feet^ and perhaps an obscure sensation of 
undue sensibility^ or perhaps a more marked sense 
of uneasiness^ or even pain^ in the bowels ? This is 
usually the consequence of some error in the diet of 
the previous day; and perhaps in general, of some 
imperfectly digested article of food that has been 
eaten at supper : — 

*' Oppress not nature sinking down to rest, 
With feasts too late, too solid, or too fulL" 

Armstrong. 

It has indeed been said by various writers, that the 
general abandonment of the practice of eating a 
hearty meal of food at supper time, the heaviest meal 
having been taken at noon or soon afterwards, may 
affect the probabilities of sleep disadvantageously. 
It has been urged, that the interval of four or five 
hours between the heaviest meal of the day and the 



300 EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

time of going to bed^ offers by no means the most 
fitvourable period for going to rest^ or sleeping soundly 
and tranquilly ; that the early stage of digestion is 
passed over^ during which there is the natural ten* 
dency to repose ; and that when we dine at six p.m.^ 
and go to bed at ten or eleven o^clock^ we seek to 
sleep at a time when the system^ as respects the 
influence of the food upon it^ is taking up again a 
more active state^ and when active muscular exercise is 
expedient to forward healthily the latter stages of the 
digestive process. This would be a good argument^ 
were the time required for sleep limited to the three or 
four or five hours needful to the primary processes of 
digestion, and if it were not proved that sleep is apt 
to hurry these processes unduly, and to lead to their 
being imperfectly performed. As it is, the eater of 
suppers may be more likely to sleep during the early 
hours of the night, but is assuredly more likely to 
pass the remaining hours of bed-time in broken and 
imperfect sleep, or in a state of restless wakefulness. 
So far as the valuable result as to health and physical 
comfort, of taking the greater part of the required 
daily sustenance in the earlier part of the day, — ^mak- 
ing the breakfast and the dinner to be virtually almost 
the only meals, and taking the dinner as early as may 
be in the day, — enough has been said in the first 
chapter; and neither the man of sedentary habits, 
nor the invalided, should take more food thereafter 
than consists with satisfying the cravings of the 
stomach ; and the food taken thereafter under these 
circumstances, should be of the kind that is least 



EXCITING CAUSES OF SLEEP. 301 

likely to derange the economy^ by passing in a crude 
and imperfectly chymified state into the bowels. In 
cases where the sleepless condition appears to be 
more or less referable to an undue inanition j and in 
which^ accordingly^ the use of food some short time 
before the bed-time evidently promotes the probabi- 
Hty and the perfect character of the sleep^ the risk 
of subsequent intestinal derangement from the 
passage of crude aliment into the bowels should be 
kept in view^ and the kind of food made use of at 
supper be looked upon with some degree of jealousy. 
These^ however^ are usually cases of long continued 
disorder of the digestive organs^ referable to much 
unwise neglect of muscular exercise^ and often to the 
further disadvantage of the use of injudicious food^ 
selected to pamper the capricious and defective 
appetite; the system being unable to assimilate a 
sufficiency of such ingesta to supply the positive 
wants of the economy^ unless food is taken frequently 
during the hours when any degree of exertion has to 
be undergone. The radical treatment of such cases 
must involve a fuller attention to the means of 
hygiene; and an exact obedience to the organic laws 
may commonly render the need of a further supper 
than a little bread or biscuit to be no longer felt, 
even for the purpose of securing sleep. 

The cause of sleeplessness, or of an oppressing, 
overpowering, and enfeebling sleep, is frequently to 
be found in the state of the circulation. If the blood 
is driven with unwonted rapidity through the vessels 
of the brain, restlessness is very liable to ensue ; and 



302 XZCITINO CAUSES OF SLEEP. 

if such rapidity of vascular action is still further 
increased^ that restlessness usually passes into a pro- 
found^ lethargic sleep, which exhausts and still 
further deranges the balance of the vital forces, 
instead of proving to be refreshing and restorative. 
To render the sleep perfect, the blood must be equally 
circulated; neither this part nor that being furnished 
with more than its customary and natural proportion. 
So far as the effect of the great respiratory function 
upon the character of the sleep, the importance of a 
full oxygenation of the blood, to this and all the 
other processes and necessities of the system, has 
been previously noticed. The probable consequence 
of an imperfect aeration of the blood upon the sleep, 
is to render it imperfect and much disturbed in the 
first instance, and eventually lethargic. Cases of 
pulmonary disease, equally with those that are simply 
dependent on imperfect ventilation of the bed-room;, 
illustrate this. 

Disturbed function of any of the great secreting 
organs, almost always either prevents sleep, or 
renders it imperfect; producing irntation of the 
nervous system, and interferitfg with the absolute 
repose of the intellectual and the motor powers, and 
in some cases even of the external senses. Sut the 
less perfect the sleep, the less of nervous energy does 
it restore, and the less does it advantage the sleeper : — 

" A sleep without dreams, after a rough day 
Of toil, is what we covet most." — Btron. 

Such deranged condition of the great organs often 



SUlfMART. 308 

interferes mechanically with the due passt^ of the 
blood through their tissues^ and thus obstructing 
more or less the general circulation, may so far 
oppress the vascular condition of the nervous centres, 
as to render the sleep imperfect or lethargic. The 
mechanical influence of an overloaded state of the 
bowels, or a congestive condition of the liver, &c., 
may often sufficiently explain disturbed sleep. 

In the case of the invalided, sleep may often be 
induced, or tranquillised, or relieved from its lethargic 
character, by directing the surface of the body, locally 
or generally, to be sponged with cold, or tepid, or 
warm water ; by directing the feet and legs to be 
fomented with warm water; or by directing the 
application of cloths, wetted with cold or warm 
water, according to circumstances, to the forehead 
and temples. These often prove to be sufficiently 
energetic sedatives, and are simple and safe means 
of procuring sleep. 

To secure sleep, then, the mind must be tranquil, 
its powers moderately used, but not over-worked, and 
its several faculties kept in proper subjection to one 
another ; the muscles of voluntary motion must be 
duly exercised ; the stomach kept free from disturbing 
influences; the circulating and respiratory organs, 
and the several organs of secretion and excretion, 
must all perform their respective duties without 
appreciable inconvenience : — 

" Vivitur parvo bene, cui patemum 
Splendet in mens4 tenui saUnum, 
Nee leyes somnos timor aut cupido 

Sordidus aufert." — HoR. Carm., Lib. ii., 16. 



304 SUlflfABY. 

To promote sleep^ the bed-room should be well 
yentilated^ and rather cool than unduly warm ; the 
bed should be somewhat hard ; the head should be 
somewhat elevated ; the feet should be kept warm ; 
the bed-clothes should be sufficient to maintain the 
bodily heat, without unduly confining it; and the 
bed-room should be darkened, and the surrounding 
silence should be perfect. 

In the words of Dr. Gregory, — and they are a fit 
conclusion to the subject, and convey an important 
lesson to the gourmand, the intemperate, and the 
slothful, — "Light and perfect sleep is the reward 
and the solace of labour, virtue, and temperance, 
and it is not readily granted to the undeserving.^ 



39 



CHAPTER IX. 

On the Effect of Oocapatioiis upon Health. — Sanatory InflnencoB of 
Locality^ Ventilation, Drainage^ Tempennoe, &c. — Effect of 
Confinement, Sedentary Habits, Constrained Positions, Oyer- 
Exertion, Prolonged Labonr, Undue Use of the Voice, Undue 
Use of the Eyes, Damp Places of Work, Hot Places of Work, 
The Inhalation of Dust, Exposore to Weather, Loss of Sleep at 
Night, The Mineral Poisons, &c., on the Healths of Handi- 
craftsmen, Miners, Labourers, Seamen, &c. — Importance of 
Manly Sports, Public Pleasure-Grounds, &c., to the Health of 
the Sedentary and Operative Classes of the People. 

The influence of the employment or occupation on 
the health, and consequent probabilities of life, and 
on the nature of the diseases by which the duration 
of life proves to be eventually affected, is unquestion- 
ably very great ; although it may not be so great as 
appears to be commonly supposed. What is observed 
by M. Louis, in his so deservedly distinguished 
" Researches on Phthisis/^ in regard to the effect of 
trade and occupation in the development of that 
disease^ may be applied, with much truth, to the 
general question of the influence of occupation on 
disease and mortality. " The truth is, that it is 
necessary to take a multitude of circumstances into 
consideration, in the attempt to determine the influ* 
ence of professions in the development of the disease, 
-^-circumstances so important that, without them, 



306 SANATORY EFFECT OF OCCUPATIONS. 

the closest analysis of cases could not lead to other 
than erroneous conclusions. The artisan does not 
live only in a dry or moist^ cold or hot atmosphere; 
he does not breathe only inoffensive or deleterious 
vapours; he does not follow only a sedentary or 
active trade^ &c. ; his trade further requires a great 
outlay of strength^ and a vigorous constitution^ or 
those who pursue it are weakly, and constitutions of 
this stamp suffice for its duties ; again^ the wages of 
the artisan allow him, or do not allow him, to procure 
good food, and a healthful lodging, &c. %ocJ^ There 
can be no longer any doubt, that such several drcum- 
fltances as are involved in the condition of a heathfol 
lodging, a regular supply of good food, and habits of 
temperance, have much more to do with the probsr 
bilities of life in ahnost every occupation, however 
otherwise reputed unhealthy, than such occapation 
inseparably involves. The shoemaker, or the tailor, 
or the weaver, is infinitely more likely to suffer in 
health and life-expectancy, from the deficient ventila- 
tion of the workshop, and the defective drainage and 
sewerage and ventilation of his dwelling, than firom 
the sedentary nature of his employment, or the 
constrained position in which he is obliged to sit 
during so many hours of the day. The glass-blower^ 
whose occupation exposes him to such extreme alter- 
nations of temperature, and the remark appUes 
equally to many other trades and occupations, is 
more commonly found to suffer firom his own habits 
of intemperance, than from the consequences of such 
alternately heated and cool air, interfering with the 



CAUSES OF VARIABLE MORTALITY. 307 

balance of the circulation^ and the just condition of 
the several emulging tissues and organs. Habits of 
excess^ and the neglect of a strict attention to 
personal cleanliness^ have probably more to do with 
the unhealthy condition^ and the shortened lives^ of 
those who follow the different trades in which lead 
or mercury are extensively used^ than the poisonous 
influences of those metals would otherwise be enabled 
to exercise. 

Before the effect of occupation on human life can 
be rightly estimated, it is needfol, then, to deduct 
those differences between the value of life in the 
more largely acting social circumstances of locality, 
ventilation, drainage, temperance, &c. If the expecta- 
tion of life among artisans and their families, is less 
by one-third than that among the tradesmen and their 
families in the worst districts of the larger towns, 
and considerably less than half that of the families 
of the gentry; and if a somewhat less difference, but 
still a very large difference, as to the expectation of 
life, exists among the different classes of inhabitants 
of rural districts ; — ^the causes of such difference are 
found to be in operation from the earliest ages of the 
children, long before the specific occupation could 
have exerted any directly deleterious influence. 
Thus, we find the largest difference in the respective 
mortality of the three great classes of the population, 
to obtain under five years of age ; the differences in 
the respective mortality of the classes, becoming 
necessarily less and less as life advances, although 
continuing to be so considerable, that the expectation 



308 CAUSES or yakiaiils moktalitt. 



qT fife in a labourer's femify in tlie county of Wilts 
or of Ratland, is not nearly so great as that of the 
families of the gentry or professional persons in Man- 
chester, Leeds, or London. All this is greatly due 
to larger and better houses, abetter house-ventilation 
and street-ventilation, better drainage, more temper- 
ate habits, and a fuller exercise, and more equable 
exercise, of all the faculties of body and mind. ''An 
impression is often prevalent,'^ writes Mr. Chadwick, 
" that a heavy mortality is an unavoidable condition 
of all large towns, and of a town population in general. 
It has, however, been shown that groups of cottages 
on a high hill, exposed to the most salubrious breezes^ 
when deanliness is neglected, are often the nests of 
fever and disease, as intense as the most crowded 
districts.'' In the city of Geneva, although the 
population has doubled in the course of two centuries 
and a half, the expectation of life to every indiTidnal 
bom, is increased by more than five times; the 
probabilities of life to every individual bom having 
been, according to the public registers, about eight 
years and a half, towards the end of the sixteenth 
century, and about forty-five years between 1814 and 
1833. The rapidly diminished and diminishing 
mortality, and the greater healthiness as well as 
expectation of life, which obtain in all countries, 
and in every one of the towns and districts of this 
country, where drainage, ventilation, and cleanli- 
ness, have been in any efficient degree attended 
to, afford irresistible proof of the importance of 
carrying out these great means of increasing the life, 



EFFECT OF FACTORIES^ ETC. 809 

and happiness^ and usefulness of man^ to the ftiUest 
degree. 

The deteriorating influence of employments on the 
healthy may be referred to the confinement to the 
house^ to the insufficient ventilation^ to the sedentary 
habits^ to the constrained and unnatural character of 
the position in which the workman sits or stands^ to 
the degree of heated atmosphere in which he has to 
pass his working hours^ and to the poisonous influence 
of the metals^ &c.^ used in his occupation. 

The collecting large numbers of work-people into 
the same apartment^ or into the same buildings is 
necessarily disadvantageous to their healthy even if 
the drainage of the buildings and the ventilation of 
the rooms^ be attended to in the best manner: it 
need hardly be said^ even much more disadvantageous 
to their healthy if such means are not fully attended 
to. In workshops and workrooms^ in factories^ and 
in mines; among tailors and milliners^ among weavers^ 
spinners, &c., either in silk, cotton, or wool, among 
calico-printers, among lace-makers, or net-makers, 
among founders and smelters, among smiths, among 
glass-blowers, among potters and pipe-makers, among 
gilders, &c., &c., the evils of collecting people toge- 
ther, and confining them in a common building diu:- 
ing a large portion of every twenty-four hours, are 
great, and in some degree, irremediable. 

Generally speaking, the hotter the places of work 
have to be kept, for the special purpose of manufac- 
ture, or as a consequence of its processes, the greater 
the evil effects on the health, and the greater the 



310 EMPLOTMBNT OF CHILDBXN. 

care that should be bestowed on the ventilation of 
the places of work^ and the greater the attention 
necessary to the clothing and habits of life of the 
work-people. 

But, however great may be the care bestowed, 
so far as the results hitherto obtained &om it, the 
health of those who work together in the same build- 
ing in large numbers, is never on a par with that of 
those who work in detached dwellings. The weaver, 
or the stockinger, or the lace-maker, or the em- 
broiderer, — ^miserable as may be the weekly pittance 
they can earn, and poor and dose their dwellings, 
and undrained and filthy the surrounding lanes and 
courts, — ^if following their several occupations in their 
own houses, may very generally be distinguished 
from the fSEU^ory operatives, by their firmer frames 
and less worn countenances. When the degree of 
ventilation is made equal to the numbers of work- 
people collected together, and when the labour of 
young children is entirely forbidden by the legisla- 
ture, the evils of the factory system may be reduced 
to a less important position. I write of things as 
they still exist; notwithstanding all that master- 
manufacturers have endeavoured to effect for their 
work-people; and notwithstanding the occasional 
interposition of commissions of inquiry, and acts of 
parliament. 

The evils that attend the employment of children 
in the various manufactures, can only be removed by 
prohibiting the practice altogether. The years of 
growth, when so much of the vital force is needed 



EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN. 311 

to further the increasing size and development of all 
the organs and tissues^ will not bear the wear and 
tear of mechanical employment^ however little labo* 
rions may be its character^ if continued day by day 
during a sufficiently long time^ to be of importance 
to any manufacture^ without laying the train for 
future evils^ of no secondary degree^ to the healthi- 
ness of the life, and its probable duration. Even in 
the instances of children, foUowing such emplojrment 
by the side, and under the eye and control of their 
parents, their strength has been found and proved to 
be severely, and injuriously, and pitilessly expended ; 
and if such cases do not afford a sufficient guarantee 
against cruelty and wrong, it may be safely urged 
that there can be no possible circumstances in which 
the labour of children can be justifiably made use of. 
It need not be added, how wisely these precious years 
of the young life might be spent, in sowing the seeds 
of a religious and moral and intellectual education, 
in affording the surest safeguards against future de- 
pravity, the best preservatives against crime, and the 
only means of elevating the character, and lessening 
the dependence on sensual indulgence for the means 
of happiness. In the case of girls, these invaluable 
years, now worse than thrown away in factory-labour, 
or some routine manipulation, might be fiirther oc- 
cupied in teaching the future woman, wife, and 
mother, the great domestic arts ; making her fit to 
fulfil her needful duties as a poor man's wife and 
help-mate ; instructing her to eke out the little earn- 
ings in the best ways, — ^familiarising her with the 



312 EFFECT OF 8BDSNTA&T OCCUPATIONS. 

principles and practice of oottage-oookeryj and ail 
the duties of good housewifery. At or after the age 
of puberty, both boys and girls may be properly 
expected to earn their own living; and, when socially 
cared for by proper sanatory regulations^ however 
humble their lot, however small their earnings, how- 
ever hard their toil, however poor and meagre their 
food, however poor their dwellings, legislation will 
have done very much on their behalf, and they will be 
safely said to have placed before tibem more than a 
chance for happiness. 

The tailor, the shoemaker, the weaver, the semp- 
stress, the compositor, the engraver, and all the more 
sedentary occupations involve more or less injury to 
the health, firom the constrained position required 
for the employment. In the younger and more 
delicate, and on this account particularly in young 
females, the physical evils include deformity of the 
spine, and possibly of the chest; in the older and 
stronger, they are confined usually in the first 
instance to the various kinds, degrees, and conse- 
quences of indigestion. Eventually, in a veiy large 
proportion of those who become victimised to neglect 
of the organic laws, whether such neglect proceeds 
from wilful inattention, ignorance, or an imperious 
necessity, the disordered action becomes extended to 
the respiratory organs; and the fatal issue may be 
most usually referred, more or less directiy, to the 
supervention of phthisis. 

Confinement and sedentary occupation are the 
principal caxises of the diseases of artisans ; but 



EFFECT OF UNDUE EXERCISE. 313 

they are not the sole causes of such diseases. A cause 
which sometimes obtains^ but in an infinitely less 
degree of frequency^ and in a less degree than may 
have been commonly supposed^ is over-exertion ; the 
undue use of a part or the whole of the muscles of 
Yoluntary motion. For^ if over-exertion should 
include the undue wear and tear of the physique, by 
unwisely prolonged labours^ by a long and virtually 
unbroken day-by-day work, of twelve, fourteen, or 
sixteen hours, there can be no doubt that it has been 
proved to be a fertile cause of broken health and 
shortened life ; especially among the poor milliners, 
dress-makers, shirt-makers, &c., of London, and the 
larger towns of this country. Even in the much 
more limited and less important sense, however, of 
unduly violent muscular effort being required in the 
occupation, there is, no doubt, injury to the life- 
probability inciurred by those who work at some of 
the more laborious employments, such as smiths, 
ballasters, miners, &c. This may be referable to 
such strains as may induce hemiffi, or aneurisms,— 
or to the laborious efforts so £ar and so frequently 
interrupting the circulation, as to superinduce disease 
of the heart, — or to the immediate consequences of 
violent exertions in causing displacements of the 
vertebrae. 

The undue use of the voice, whether in singing or 
public speaking, and the undue exercise of the lungs 
in blowing wind-instruments, Sec., are said to be not 
unfrequently productive of disease. If the chest be 
constitutionally delicate, whether from congenital 

VOL. II. F 



314 £FFECT OF EXFOSUBE TO DAMP, HEAT, ETC. 

peculiarity or hereditary predisposition, or the varions 
physical drcmnstances which have acted on the 
system during the years of growth, such causes might 
well be sufficient to produce or confirm pulmonary 
disease; but, otherwise, it may be doubted how fiir 
the use of the lungs in freest vocal exercise, after the 
age of puberty, can be otherwise than invigorating 
to the pulmonary tissues, and so far preventive of 
pulmonary cachexia. 

The undue use of the eyes is a fertile source of 
evil to many classes of the children of labour. AD 
who have to fix their eyes on minute objects, as 
engravers, compositors, watch-makers, embroiderers, 
painters; all who have to work much by artificial 
light, as dressmakers — ^particularly if much employed 
in sewing black articles, — students, and literary men ; 
all who have to expose the eyes to the influence of 
strong light, as workers at forges and furnaces, — are 
found to be peculiarly subject to disorders of the 
eyes, and defective vision, with much risk of eventual 
amaurosis, or loss of sight from paralysis of the 
optic nerve. 

Those who work in damp places, as colliers, and 
miners generally, who usually, moreover, have to 
labour in a position that is nearly or absolutely hori- 
zontal, and perhaps with part of the body immersed 
in water during days or weeks at a time, are pecn- 
lilarly liable to suffer injury from their employments. 
Those who work in rooms which are either very much 
heated, or subject to great vicissitudes of temperature^ 
as glass-blowers, calico-printers, dyers, the operatives 



EFFECT OF INHALATION OF DUST, ETC. 815 

in certain factories^ &c.^ are correspondingly liable 
to Buffer from their employments; and more parti- 
cularly^ it is said, from disease of the liver. In the 
instance of bakers, there must be added to the delcr 
terious influence of the heated ovens, that of the 
fearful consequences of so much night-work as is 
commonly required, and, moreover, the bad effects 
of inhaling so much dust as arises from the flour. 

The mechanical effect of dust, when respired to a 
considerable extent, is seen in the liability of the 
grinders of cutlery, of stonemasons, &c., to pulmo- 
nary disease. Needle-makers, pin-makers, colliers, 
flax-dressers, and those who work in some of the 
branches of the cotton and worsted manufactures ; 
also glass-cutters, file-makers, whitesmiths, and the 
artisans in many other departments of manufacture, 
are likewise more or less liable to suffer from the 
inhalation of the dust produced by their occupations. 
Dr. Favel says, that maltsters are very liable to chronic 
bronchitis, and eventual phthisis. Dr. Hastings 
writes, that the preparers of yellow leather, in the 
city of Worcester, and those employed there in some 
parts of the china manufacture, are often the subjects 
of severe attacks of pulmonary disease ; the processes 
involving the inhalation of an atmosphere loaded 
with dust. ''Dyspnoea is generally the primary 
symptom, which is often neglected for many months. 
If the occupation, under these circumstances, be con- 
tinued, the disease is aggravated ; the patient is not 
unfrequently seized with haemoptysis, which is occa- 
sionally very profuse, and which is accompanied with 

p2 



316 GEINDEKS^ ASTHMA, ETC. 

a great increase of dyspnoea and severe cough.'' It 
is added, that such cases may die firom true tuber- 
cular phthisis, or from inflammation, thickening, and 
ulceration of the bronchiae and the air-cells. Grooms, 
and the men employed in breaking stones ou the 
public roads, are beUeved to suffer likewise more or 
less from this cause. The miserable class of grinders, 
in the yarious processes of the manufacture of cutlery, 
is the most fearful and notorious instance of the in- 
jurious effects that may follow the exposure of the 
pulmonary mucous tissue to such direct sources of 
mechanical irritation. According to the able account 
of this form of pulmonary disease, for which we are 
indebted to Sir Arnold Knight, friUy confirmed in all 
particulars as this account has since been by Dr* 
Calvert Holland, and the late Dr. Favel, the so-called 
''grinders' asthma" is a true tubercular cachexia^ 
necessarily modified in its progress and symptoms by 
the causes which produce it. The symptoms of the 
cases, and the post mortem examinations, show much 
irritative inflammation, superinducing bronchitis, 
peripneumonia, hepatization, and tubercular degene- 
ration ; the latter becoming, in maay cases, eventually 
extended to the kidneys, &c. The fatal result of 
this fearful occupation, appears to be more rapid 
in those branches of the business in which the grind* 
ing is performed on dry stones, less rapid when the 
operative has to use dry stones for some parts of his 
work, and wet stones for other parts, and still less 
rapid when wet stones are exclusively made use of. 
The dry grinding branch appears to destroy the life, 



grinders' asthma^ etc. 317 

at from 28 to 82 years of age ; tlie mixed dry and 
wet grinding^ at from 40 to 45 years of age^ and tlie 
wet grinding at from 45 to 50 years of age (Sir 
Arnold Knight). Among tlie fork-grinders, out of 
61 deaths^ 44 were under 35 years of age, and one 
individual only had attained the age of 48 : this is 
dry grinding. Among the scissor-grinders (mixed 
wet and dry grinding), of 102 deaths, 41 were under 
36 years of age ; in the four subsequent years (36 to 
40), more than a fourth of the whole mortality 
occurred. Among the razor-grinders (wet and dry 
grinding), more than half the deaths occurred under 
36 years ; and three- fourths of the remaining deaths 
occurred between the ages of 36 and 45. The pen- 
knife grinders, the table-knife grinders, the file 
grinders, the saw grinders, and the scythe grinders, 
present varjring rates of mortality, according to the 
probable degree of mechanical irritation of the pul-* 
monary tissues : in the instance of the scythe grinders, 
of 20 deaths, 12 were found to have occurred between 
46 and 60 years of age, and only 3 of the number 
had died under 41 years of age (Dr. Favel). It 
seems, that, in all these cases, the irritation is due to 
the inhalation of the minute particles detached in the 
grinding; and more injurious effects are attributed 
to the particles detached from the grinding stones, 
than to those from the steel; and, therefore, the 
ingenious apparatus invented by Mr. Abraham, con- 
sisting of a mask of magnetised iron, even if the 
reckless workmen would have taken the trouble to 
use it, would have been of comparatively little service, 



318 grinders' asthma^ etc. 

as it ooiild only have arrested the particles of iron ; 
and could only have been thus far useful, when a 
single grinding wheel was in use in an apartment, 
whereas several wheels, in use by as many men, are 
generally at work in the same room. A more useful, 
and much simpler contrivance, seems to be an open 
flue, on the side of the wheel opposite to that on 
which the workman is placed, through which a suffi- 
cient current of air is kept up, from within the build- 
ing to the outside, by means of a fan, kept in motion 
by means of a strap connected with the revolving 
wheel. It is said, that, although the construction of 
such flues does not cost, on the average, more than 
£2 each, and although their effect on the atmosphere 
admits of the easiest demonstration, their use is by 
no means general. Sir Arnold Elnight says, that 
" the men themselves will be at no trouble about their 
own health,^' and that he " almost believes they view 
any precaution to prolong life with jealousy, as a 
means for increasing the supply of labour and lowering 
wages.'' 

I have selected this great instance, on account of the 
convincing evidence it affords of mechanical injury 
which may be inflicted on the lungs by the habitual 
inhalation of dust : a proof which is strengthened by 
the circumstance, that when the grinding-wheels were 
worked by water-power, and the workmen were 
subject to long interruptions of their work in times 
of frost or drought, and when the grinding part of 
the edge-tool manufacture was followed in con- 
nection with the other departments of the trade, the 



masons' phthisis. 319 

grinding occupying only a certain portion of a man's 
time^ the grinders' asthma was not of sufficient 
importance in the amount of its effects to attract 
attention. In the instance of this occupation^ how- 
ever, as well as in that of most others that are specially 
characterised by a much shortened life, the fatality 
must be referred in part to the reckless intemperance 
of the artisans themselves. The habits and moral 
condition of these grinders, on the testimony of all 
the medical writers, are fearfiilly sensual and de- 
praved : drunkenness and low debauchery filling up 
the greater part of their unemployed time; and Dr. 
Holland says — and it is to be feared that the obser- 
vation might be extended to other trades and occu- 
pations — ^^ the more desperate the branch, the more 
ignorant, reckless, and dissipated are the workmen.'' 
In other occupations, the effect of inhaling various 
fine and irritating powders into the lungs, may not 
be so rapid in their effects ; but they are believed to 
be fearfully powerful in shortening the life, and 
determining to pulmonary disease. '^ I have reason 
to believe," writes Dr. Alison, " that there is hardly 
an instance of a mason, regularly employed in hewing 
stones in Edinburgh, living free from phthisical 
symptoms to the age of fifty." The earliness at 
which pulmonary symptoms are liable to occur^ or, 
perhaps, the degree of the Hability to such disease, 
among those who work at the different branches of 
the mason's art, varies very much ; being dependent 
upon the degree of exposure to the dust from the 
stone. Marble-polishers, and those who saw stone, 



320 EFFECT OJ EXPOSURE TO WEATHER^ ETC. 

and those who finish or work it for the finer purposes 
of bnildingy and those who quarry it^ although liable 
to suffer respectiyely in different degrees, are com- 
monly more subject to disease of the lungs, than thpse 
who work with unwrought or unfinished stone> or 
than those who are chiefly or exclusively engaged in 
building up stone which has been wrought by others. 

Exposure to the influence of damp or wet, affects, 
in an important degree, the healthiness or other- 
wise of any occupation. CoUiers, and miners gener^ 
ally, often suffer much from this cause, when due 
care is not taken to drain the mines efficiently. 
I have often met with cases in which these men have 
had to work in a bent and recumbent position, with 
part of the body constantly immersed in water, 
during successive months. The usufd consequence 
has been a severe rheumatic condition, sometimes 
leading to disease of the heart, or of the great vessels. 
Exposure to a damp air, which is at the same time 
heated, as in many of the processes of manufacture, 
is even more immediately and necessarily prejudicial 
to the health ; debilitating the system, increasing its 
susceptibility to atmospherical influences, giving rise 
to dyspepsia, and often leading to pulmonary disease. 

Exposure to the weather is less prejudicial to 
the health, than when the effects of a wet air are 
connected with confinement, and the imperfect ven- 
tilation of a mine or a building. Yet, coachmen, 
carters, boatmen, &c., suffer as to their chances 
of health, and probabilities of life, from the constant 
exposure to the air, in all weathers and seasons. 



EFFECT OP NIOHT-WOBK^ ETC. 321 

It is certain^ that many of the diseases from which 

these classes of the people suffer^ are referable^ 

however, to the intemperance of their habits, rather 

than to any other circumstance; and the much 

greater healthiness of agricultural labourers, who 

may be little less exposed to the weather, but 

who are necessarily and notoriously so much more 

temperate, may be admitted in proof of this. K 

exposure to the night air, and loss of sleep during the 

night-time, is the condition of the life, in addition to 

much exposure to weather, the evil e£Pect on the health 

is found to be largely increased. The average iUnesses 

and mortality of watchmen, night-porters, persons 

employed on the lines of railway, nurses of the sick, 

&;c., afford full evidence of this ; and the shortened 

lives of surgeons, whose practice is in the outlying 

rural districts, or otherwise involves a large amount 

of professional occupation in the night-time, supply 

the strongest testimony of the same kind. All who 

are called upon by the necessities of their vocation, 

to infiringe any of the great organic laws, should be 

so much the more careful to fulfil all and every other 

condition of health and longevity ; and the classes 

referred to, whose occupations necessitate exposure 

to atmospherical vicissitudes and influences in an 

extraordinary degree, and especially if the efiect of 

night-work be added thereto, should be by so much 

more temperate, and lead in every way more careful 

lives. 

The lives of seamen are much affected by the 
great exposure to weather, their occupation requires ; 

p3 



822 SFFBCT OF THE SSA-FA&INO LIFE. 

to which must be added, the effect of the night- 
watches to which they are alternately exposed. 
At the same time, the causes of injuiy to the heslth 
among seamen, are so many, and so important, that 
nndne weight may be readily assi^ed to any of 
them. The fireqnent and rapid changes of climate to 
which so many of them are exposed; the defident 
ventilation that probably prevails in nearly all ships, 
and which prevails to so great an extent in the hu^ 
number of vessels ; the habits of intemperance whieh 
are stiU prevalent among so many sailors; the dietaries 
of many ships, which, if not deficient in the quantity 
of food, are often of a very unsatisfactory quality, 
and often consist, during many successive weeks, of 
salted meat and biscuit, — ^which are not seldom, it is 
to be feared, in a very bad condition, from having 
been kept too long, or kept in a damp place, — bsA 
which, however good in quality, require to be mixed 
with frssh, and less azotised, and more aqueous food, 
for the maintenance and security of health ; such are 
some of the many causes, which aid in deteriorating 
the healthiness of the lives of seamen ; and, when 
the importance of such causes, severally and collec- 
tively, is considered, the wonder is that the lives of 
seafpring men should be even so far healthy as they 
are. The marine atmosphere, — ^the freedom of the air 
tax out at sea from any possible terrestrial emanations, 
— ^the comparative freedom of the mind from cares or 
anxieties, unless during rough weather, or in certain 
more intricate and difficult passages of the wide 
waters, — ^the steady and disciplined occupation,— 



EFFECT OF LEAD^ ETC. S2S 

and the commonly sufficient^ and only occasionally 
severe, muscular exertion — ^may, however, collectively 
considered, serve to account for the degree of 
healthiness enjoyed by mariners, notwithstanding 
the commonly deficient ventilation of the between 
decks, notwithstanding the great and sudden changes 
of temperature to which they are exposed, in pass- 
ing from the berth to the deck, or to the rigging, 
notwithstanding frequent changes of climate, &c., &c. 

The different occupations in which men are exposed 
to the effect of mineral or other agencies of dele- 
terious or poisonous character, remain to be noticed. 
Of these agents, lead and mercury are the most 
important. The painter, plumber, &c., suffer from 
the effects of lead. The earlier risk incurred from 
exposure to the effect of lead, is torpidity of bowels, 
debility of the muscular system generally, and 
eventual colic, with abdominal inaction; the less 
early risk is the increase of the muscular debility, or 
rather of the imperfect command over the muscles of 
organic life, — and, finally, of the command over those 
of voluntary movement, that is exercised by the 
nervous system, — and partial paralysis, great vital 
depression, and much functional derangement. These 
symptoms sometimes arise, and may prove to be dif- 
ficult of explanation, or remain unaccounted for, 
when the water made use of in the dietary contains 
lead in solution. 

In the instances of those who have to make use of 
the salts or oxydes of lead, or to inhale the fumes 
of lead, in the course of their employment, the 



324 EFFECT OF MEBCUBT^ ETC. 

remedies are to be found in a rigid degree of personal 
cleanliness^ — especially avoiding the taking of food 
with unwashed hands; in washing the hands^ &c. 
with a largely diluted mixture of sulphuric acid and 
water ; and in the use of such means of yentilation^ 
and such efficient flues^ as may obviate^ as far as 
possible^ the inhalation of its deleterious emana- 
tions. 

In the instance of the trades where risk is incurred 
from the inhalation^ or introduction through the skin^ 
of mercury^ or its fumes^ a more particular degree of 
cleanliness^ a more studious ventilation^ and a more 
scrupulous use of an efficient flueage^ are needfiil^ in 
proportion to the greater injury^ or the more imme- 
diate injury^ that is risked from this remarkable 
agent. Great debility of the nervous system^ partial 
paralysis^ broken healthy and shortened life^ are the 
fearful consequences of such introduction of mercury 
into the human system. 

The fumes of arsenic^ of iodine^ of chlorine^ of the 
mineral acids^ Sec., are sometimes the causes of injury 
to the health and life-expectancy of artisans^ and 
others. The degree of their influence may be always 
much reduced^ if not so much so as to render them 
virtually inoperative, by carrying away such fumes 
from the workshops, by means of appropriate and 
efficient flues. Druggists often suffer much in health, 
by the odour of narcotic drugs, or by the frequent 
handling of the mineral poisons. Ventilation and 
scrupulous cleanliness, might generally do much to 
lessen such risk. 



SANATORY EFFECT OF MANLY SPORTS^ ETC. 325 



Due attention to clothings — efficient ventilation^ — 
the carrying away dnst^ or poisonous fumes^ by means 
of fiues^ — and habitual temperance^ — are among the 
great means of diminishing the unhealthy character of 
different occupations. Scrupulous cleanliness of the 
persons and the clothing of the artisans^ are of more 
importance in such occupations than in others ; and 
to promote it^ all work-shops^ or work-rooms, should 
be proTided with convenient means of ablution, as to 
soap, water, and towelling. 

Such muscular exercise as involves the due use of 
all the muscles of the trunk and extremities, while it 
leads people into the open air, is a needful promoter of 
health in the cases of the sedentary ; but it is Uttle 
less important in the instances of such artisans as 
use the muscles unequally, even although it may be 
laboriously, in their occupations. Grounds for the 
more active sports and exercises should be scattered^ at 
convenient distances, in different parts of the larger 
towns; and those whose wealth depends upon the 
toils of the labouring classes, could confer few greater 
boons, than in affording means and encouragement 
to out-of-door sports ; separating them from the con- 
tiguity, influence, and temptations of gin-palaces or 
beer-shops. In cases where there may be convenient 
and sufficiently high walls, the old game of tennis 
might be wisely revived, — as in the yards of factories 
and other places of work ; in other cases, the game 
of nine-pins, or that of bowls, or that of throwing 
the quoits, might prove to be best adapted to the 
situation, In cases where sufficient space could be 



826 IMFOBTANCE OF PUBLIC TAKKS, ETC. 

obtained^ and in suitable seasons of the year^ cricket, 
or golf^ seem to be so far preferable, inasmucb as they 
afford more exercise of the lower extremities, and 
usually a greater degree of mental stimulus. 

There is no doubt of the great value of open 
si»ce8 for aU rach pinrposes, and for that of fornidniig 
walks and ornamental grounds, in different parts of 
the larger cities and towns. These may not only 
be valuable as great natural ventilators of the air in 
'^ close-built cities pent;'^ not only useful, as supplying 
an incentive to walking ; not only useful, as giving 
space and opportunity to the cricketers, or the 
golfers, or the players at bowls, or the throwers of 
the quoits; not only important, as affording the 
means of listening to music in the open air ; not only 
important, as giving the opportunity of passing the 
summer evenings in dancing, to gladden and inter- 
rupt the duUer routinism of the life's daily drudgery ; 
not only useful, in supplying the means of studying 
the different trees, shrubs, plants, and flowers; but 
useful, in diffusing an acquaintance with Nature, an 
appreciation of her beauties, a love of her simpler 
and purer pleasures, — ^in lessening the temptations 
offered by the lower sensual indulgences, by teaching 
the greater value and the superiority of such higher 
means of happiness. It is certain, that to give the 
artisan and his wife and children the means of enjoy- 
ing the open air, in the midst of plants and flowers, 
surrounded by the flEunilies of his equals and 
superiors in life, while some of his mates may be 
dancing, and others playing at manly sports, is to 



IMPORTANCE OF PUBLIC PARKS^ £TC. 3£7 

elevate his moral nature ; is to impart so much of an 
honest pride^ as to encourage self-denial in order to 
procure suitable clothings &c.^ for himself and those 
dependent upon him ; is to diminish selfishness^ — ^to 
foster the love for wife and children^ — ^to make him a 
better citizen and a wiser man ; as well as to promote 
his health and prolong his life^ to diminish the 
chances of widowhood and orphanage^ to lessen the 
amount of pauperism^ and improve the condition and 
prospects of the whole community. 



CHAPTER X. 

On Mental Culture. — Classiiication and Relative Development of the 
Mental Faculties. — Automatic, Motor, Sentient, and Mental 
Powers. — Propensities, Sentiments, and Intellectual Faculties. 
— flarly Self-culture of the Mind. — Precocity. — Physiological 
and Hygienic Effects of Mental Culture.— Relative Effect of 
tiiO Deficient, the Just, or the Excessive Use of the Pro- 
peUsitieB, Sentiments, and Intellectual Faculties, severally. — 
Conclusion. 

That human health and the duration of human 
life are greatly dependent on physical circumstances, 
may hardly reqiure additional proof or illustration. 
It is proved, that the inhabitants of the larger towns 
are shorter lived than those of agricultural districts ; 
that those who live in close, ill-ventilated districts, 
have a shorter duration of life than those who live in 
open situations, and well-ventilated houses; that 
those whose occupations are strictly sedentary, have 
shorter lives than those whose employments involve 
some degree of muscular exercise; that those who 
pass most of their time in the open air, live longer 
than those who are confined to a workroom or work- 
shop ; and that those who work exposed to the light 
of day, live longer than those who work in feebly 
lighted situations, or where artificial light is needed. 
It is a further step on the same path, to find it 



MENTAL CULTURE. 320 

proved by statistical facts and universal opinion^ that^ 
as a premature use of the bodily powers enfeebles the 
system^ leads to disease^ and diminishes the expecta- 
tion of life, so a premature use of the fiEumlties of 
the mind interferes with the development of the 
physique, and lessens the probabilities of health, and 
diminishes the chances of length of days ; to find^ 
that, as to use unduly any of the motor organs is to 
diminish the power and capability of the motor 
system generally, so to use the intellectual faculties 
unduly is to abstract unfairly from the sentiments 
and propensities, and indirectly to interfere with the 
general balance of the mental capabilities, and 
derange so far their character and power, — ^that the 
faculties, sentiments, and propensities, must be 
severally and duly exercised, if the nature and powers 
of the mind are to be developed and elaborated as far 
as possible ; to find, that, as health of body ministers 
to the degree of mental capability, to the soundness 
and character of the mind^s powers, so the develop-* 
ment of the mental powers by due exercise of the 
several endowments, promotes the healthiness of the 
physique, and increases the probable duration of 
the life. 

In the instance of all animfds, a longer or shorter 
time after the birth is needful, to mature the bodily 
powers, and enable them to endure their fullest 
amount of exertion. To call these powers into use 
prematurely, is always inexpedient, and often dan- 
gerous ; is commonly attended with an impaired condi- 
tion of the animal machine, which no subsequent 



SSO KABLT KDUCATIOir« 

care may gnffioe to restore^ which may greatly diTnininh 
the fatare powers of the animal, and may shorten the 
probable duration of its life in a material d^ree. 
These conditions are well known in the instance of 
horses. The horse, which is used early in life, hardly 
ever proves eventoally strong, or capable of regular 
labonr to the same d^ree, asit otherwise would have 
been ; nor even capable of the same amount of occa- 
sional exertion. Even if early and incurable lameness 
should not result, or if the firequent recurrence of 
lameness should not greatly lessen the value and 
usefulness of the animal, it will be usually found, that 
the horse which has been set to work prematurely, 
has neither the capability of carrying the weight, 
drawing the load, nor bearing the same duration of 
exertion at one time, nor does its time of usefulness 
prove so long, as would have been otherwise probable. 
So much is this the case, that it is seldom wise to use 
a horse regularly, or to put it to laborious work, till 
five or even six years old, which may be said to be 
one half of the average age of useful capability in 
this country, and probably fully a third of the ayerage 
time of useful capability of the horse in any country, 
or under any circumstances. This illustration is 
pertinent to the case of man. If a horse which 
attains its fiill maturity of growth at little more than 
three years of age, which has the use of its limbs 
almost as soon as it is foaled, and which by training 
can be brought to the racing ground at two years 
old or under, is found to suffer by having to undergo 
much or continued laboxur until two years or more 



EARLY EDUCATION. 331 

after the growth of the animal is completed^ how 
much farther may not the early exerdBe of the human 
physique^ in continuous exertion^ or sedentary occupa- 
tion, be productive of injury, when the period of 
helpless infancy continues so long, and of feeble 
childhood so much longer, when the growth of the 
body continues through so many years, and the foil 
maturity of the system is not arrived at before 
the twentieth or twenty-fifth year of life, according 
to circumstances. 

The human system, during the years of infancy 
and early childhood, is feeble and fragile to the last 
degree : the bones are all largely wanting in the due 
proportion of earthy material for strength and resist- 
ance ; the muscles are all flaccid ; the tissues are all 
engaged in the two-fold duty of protection and elimi- 
nation, not only so far as these are required to 
maintain the integrity of the constituent elements of 
the body, and secure the due discharge of the super- 
fluities of a perfect and completed machine, but, 
besides these, are occupied in affording protection 
to an imp^ect, a growing, a developing, and conse- 
quently highly vascular and mobile organism, and 
in removing the redundancies of so much more active 
an economy. The processes of circulation, respiration, 
and nutrition, are all engaged in the two-fold duties 
of maintaining the existing system, and ministering 
to its further growth and development; and the 
nervous powers, the condition and medium of all 
vital force, are, in the same proportion, occupied in 
ministering to the activity and due performance of 



832 DEVELOPMENT OF THE FACULTIES. 

these great vegetative functions. Yet these great 
vegetative offices of the nervous system : called 
vegetative^ because the functions of circulation, 
respiration, nutrition, and growth, are common to 
plants as well as animals ; even these functions, as 
every other manifestation of vital force, being directly 
ministered to by the nervous organism, and affording 
ground for inferential hypothesis that plants them- 
selves may not be without so much of a nervous organ«> 
isation: yet these functions of the nervous system 
have to be performed by the most imperfect, the least 
complete, and the last matured part of the nervous 
organism; and may well be supposed to embrace 
a large proportion of its earlier capabilities. The 
degree of its powers, and the balance of its functions, 
are so easily expended and disturbed in the earlier 
periods of life, that the infancy is largely consumed 
in sleep ; by which any derivation of vital force from 
the vegetative functions is obviated, and the due 
balance of its endowments is maintained. Slowly 
and gradually, the nervous organism becomes capable 
of more and more exercise, and the balance of its 
powers can be maintained during a longer and 
longer period ; and the sleep is interrupted by 
longer intervals ; and more and more of the higher 
endowments of the nervous system begin to be 
displayed. The motor powers, the organs of sense, 
the propensities, and the dawnings of the moral na- 
ture, and of the intellectual faculties, gradually but 
slowly, become apparent, acquire development, are 
more strongly manifested, and continue to become 



IMMATERIALITY OF MIND. 333 

stronger and more matured^ until the meridian of 
existence. 

The vital forces of the animal system^ however 
exercised and displayed^ involve and require the use 
of so much of the nervous organism as corresponds 
to such display. Although the whole of the nervous 
organism may be assumed to be very imperfectly 
developed^ and by so much less fitted for its general 
duties^ at the time of birth^ there is sufficient reason 
to believe^ that^ inasmuch as the organic nerves are 
necessarily more competent to their duties than the 
other parts of the nervous system, so the motor nerves 
may be developed the next to those in point of time, 
then the perceptive faculties, then the propensities, 
then the moral sense, and, finally, the reflecting and 
comparing faculties. It can hardly be necessary to 
add to this, that, although this may be the usual 
order of the successive commencing development of 
the different orders of nqrvous capability, their rela- 
tive niter-development varies considerably, under 
different circumstances. In fact, upon this showing, 
depends much of the principle, by which the results 
of moral and intellectual education may be explained. 

There is an important inference to be drawn from 
the mutual relation of the different kinds of vital 
force, and their common dependence on the nervous 
organism, in its different parts, for their respective 
manifestation. As regards the mind, indeed^ with 
all its mighty capacities, and instinctive hopes, — ^with 
all its grasp of time, and space, and size, — ^with all 
its creative powers, — with all its keen appreciation of 



SS4 UNDUV USB OF HIND. 

the wonders, the immensity, the grandeur, the beanly, 
and the harmonies of creation, — ^with all its sense of 
the good^ the beantifiil, and the tme, — ^with all its 
apprehension of the immaterial^ — with all its cogni- 
zance of a Creative, Omnipotent^ Omniscient, and 
Omnipresent Spirit; it surely need not be said, that 
this greats thinking, comprehending mind^ cannot be 
material in its essence, or but a quality of the matter 
it is connected with. But mind is manifested through 
the medium of matter, and is so far dependent on 
the integrity and character of such material medium. 
The common dependence of all the varieties of vital 
force on the nervous organism, illustrates the obser- 
vation, that the due use of such of the vital forces as 
are under the control of the individual in a greater 
or less degree, stimulates and strengthens all the 
vital forces, much in the same way that the due use 
of the muscles of the extremities strengthens the 
muscular system generally; whereas the undue use 
of any of the varieties of vital force, exhausts and 
debilitates, not only the kind of vital force so 
expended, but the vital forces generally of the system, 
as well those that minister to the higher endowments, 
as those which minister to the mere vegetative func- 
tions. Hence, the undue use of the mental faculties, 
may so far rob the organs of the vital force necessary 
to the normal performance of their functions, as to 
interfere with and impede such performance; and 
the studious man, or the anxious man, becomes a 
dyspeptic ; or the over-tasked child becomes enfee- 
bledy cachectic, and the subject of glandular disease. 



MENTAL TOBFOB OF INFANCY. 335 

rickets^ et id genus omne. Hence^ the due use of cer- 
tain of the varieties of vital force^ may stimulate the 
vital forces generally^ and promote the well-being 
and the healthiness of the whole economy ; and social 
intercourse^ intellectual excitement^ or a moral sti- 
mulus, may remove dyspepsia^ or rectify other states 
of organic indisposition; or the same result may 
follow from a long walk in the open air^ or from 
musicj or from dancings &c. ; or the digestion of 
easily assimilated aliment^ or the due use of the 
motor organs^ may re-act on the mental powers and 
manifestations^ and be followed by greater energy of 
the intellect, greater powers of judgment, or greater 
capabilities of memory or imagination. 

The infant is torpid during the greater part of the 
young existence; it sleeps, to restore and maintain 
the equilibrium of the vital force, to draw off as little 
as possible of such force from the great vegetative 
frinctions. By degrees, the instincts which first 
enabled it to swallow, taught it to desire and take 
food, to respire, &c., are aided by manifestations of 
the motor powers ; and the infant tosses its limbs, not 
merely from organic sympathy, but by reason of the 
will. By degrees, the infant begins to use its eyes, 
to become sensible to variations of light, to discern 
objects, to become sensible to the impressions com- 
municated through the sense of touch, to become 
cognizant of, and capable of appreciating different 
sounds. By degrees, the power of observing all 
around him, of noting the forms, colours, hardness 
or softness, temperature, &c., of surrounding objects, 



336 AUTOMATIC AND MOTOR POWEKS. 

becomes manifested; by degrees^ tbe appetites and 
the passions^ sufficiently distinctiTe in character &om 
the instincts of earlier existence^ enter on the scene ; 
by degrees^ the appreciation of right and wrong 
demonstrate the commencing development of the 
sentiments; and, eventually, memory, imagination, 
and judgment, severally afford indications of a further 
advance in the nervous organisation. 

The Hygienic lessons to be learned from these 
physiological statements are of much importance. 
The infant, for a term that may differ somewhat 
in duration, according to the degree of congenital 
strength and development, is virtually the mere 
creature of a vegetative existence, with the addi- 
tion of the needful instincts that lead it to desire 
food, that enable it to swallow, to respire, &c. The 
less that this condition is interfered with, and the 
less that the supervention of the next gradation in 
this curious series is hurried, — ^in the more delicate 
it might almost be said the more it can be retarded,. 
— ^the stronger the probability of future health and 
vigour. To expose an infant to the influence of 
strong Ught, to surround it with bright colours, or 
with articles that present a variety of strong lights 
and shades, — to stimulate the ear with noises, or 
almost any loud sounds, even if they be of musical 
character, — ^to arouse the motor system prematurely, 
by such excitement as allowing the infant to sit up, 
or tossing it up and down, or swinging it about — 
must be wrong in the earlier weeks, or it may be 
even in the earlier months, of life. In the rearing of 



SENTIENT POWERS. S37 

those who are especially feeble^ and delicate, and 
imperfectly developed at birth, the nursery should 
be much darkened, all noise should be strictly for- 
bidden, the conversation of the attendants should be 
in tones scarcely louder than whispers, and even the 
low singing of the lullaby may be for the time enter- 
dieted; while the raising of the infant from the 
horizontal position, which is certainly not necessary 
for the taking off or putting on its clothes, if they 
are properly made, — and which is not needful for 
the purpose of the ablutions, nor for the administra- 
tion of the natural aliment, nor for that of artificial 
food, should be strictly forbidden. 

As life passes on, as the iufSimt system becomes 
stronger, as the nervous organism becomes more and 
more developed, the same pains are to be taken to 
avoid the premature excitement of the opening facul- 
ties, — to keep back, rather than accelerate, the 
dawnings of the successive grades of automatic, 
organic, sentient, perceptive, and reflective faculties. 
It is not only because the physical and sentient 
organisation of the ear may be incomplete and mor- 
bidly irritable, that loud noises should be forbidden 
in the nurseries ; it is not only because the eye may 
be less tolerant of light, and its delicate tissue more 
easily irritated, injured, and inflamed, that a dark- 
ened nursery is to be advised ; it is not only because 
the bones are soft and gelatinous, the muscles flaccid 
and feeble, the tissues highly vascular, the joints 
deficient in firmness, and intolerant of pressure, 
that the vertebrse should not be permitted to rest 

VOL. II. Q 



338 PERCEPTION. MO&AL SENSE. 

upon one another^ nor the mnsdes of the back be 
called upon to idd in maintaimng the infant in a 
sitting position^ nor the use of the extremities to be 
encouraged ; but it is that there is the further and 
equally important risk encountered, of an interfer- 
ence with the development of the nervous organism, 
and of abstracting from the probabilities of a vigor- 
ous constitution of this most important part of the 
system. 

By degrees, the manifestation and development of 
motor power, of the sentient system, and of the per- 
ceptive faculties, are evidenced in the voluntary and 
imcontrollable movement of the extremities, and of 
the trunk of the body, — in the exploring and prying 
eye, — ^in the apt and attentive ear; and the nursing 
should gradually follow such progressive develop- 
ment, and the infant be more and more tossed up 
and down in the arms of the nurse, be allowed to look 
from object to object in a less and less obscured light, 
be solaced by nursery minstrelsy, and permitted to 
sit up during a little and little longer time on the 
nurse^s knee; but all these advances should follow 
the evident indications of nature^s requirements, 
and never precede, and perhaps seldom go hand in 
hand with them. 

By degrees, the gradually dawning faculties will 
show the sense of what is customary and what is 
unusual, will distinguish between the tones of appro- 
bation and those of disapproval; and the moiid 
culture of the little being begins from that moment. 
Then, the unwise indulgence, the needless harshness, 



EARLY MORAL CULTURE. 339 

the inconsistent kindness or severity^ may lay the 
foundation of good or evil in the fiiture life, may 
influence the temper, and confirm or modify the 
disposition. And soon thereafter, in the order of 
time, the strict adherence to truth, the regulated 
temper, the unselfish disposition, the steady and 
mild controul, the consistent method, the scrupulous 
order, and even an occasional just severity, of the 
mother or her substitute, may subserve the great 
ends of moral education to a degree that can never 
be estimated adequately. And soon thereafter ; still, 
in this, as in all other ways, following the natural 
indications and development of the physique ; the first 
impressions of religion may be made, without parade 
and without obtrusion ; and the mother's deep sense 
of piety, her reverential love of the great Giver of all 
good, her zealous endeavour to obey God's com- 
mandments, to fulfil His ordinances, to keep herself 
unspotted from the world, be imparted to her im- 
mortal child} — how mighty a responsibility the idea 
and the words imply ! — more by the influence of her 
living example, than her direct precepts. 

All this is antecedent to the education of the 
intellect; although thereafter they may advance 
together to the common advantage of sentiments and 
faculties. There is no lesson so valuable, so needful 
to the physical strength, to the bodily health, or even 
to the chances of intellectual power in the after life, 
as this — ^that intellectual education should be left, 
during the earlier years, to the natural efforts and 
investigations of the child himself, and should not be 

Q 2 



340 EARLY 8ELF-CVLTUM OF INTELLECT. 

aided by parents or teachers, or promoted by books 
and lessons, until long after the time when it is 
commonly thought to be necessary or advisable to 
commence the business of instruction. In very 
delicate children, I should be glad to see the age of 
twelve or even fourteen years passed, before this 
great means of expending the vital forces, and 
abstracting from the chances of ultimate health and 
strength, should be called into operation; in other 
children, the ages of six, eight, or ten years, may be 
the earliest periods at which children of correspond- 
ing strength of constitution, should begin to be, so 
called, educated. 

The amount of information, the degree of intel- 
lectual exercise, the value of the knowledge obtainable, 
and the fact that the child has everything to learn, 
are all undervalued ; or more importance would be 
assigned to the effect of the acquisitions, which may 
or must be made by a child, in every department of 
useful information, by the single aid of his own 
observation and intelligence; and less paramoimt 
rank and value would be assigned to the acquisition 
of the arts of reading and writing, of languages, &c. 
These are only auxiliary means to the primary exer- 
cise of observation and reflection, on the objects, 
circumstances, and events of the life, — to the intel- 
lectual result of receiving, digesting, and assimilating 
the ideas which may be derived from without, whether 
men, or events, or books, be the source from which 
they are directly imparted. The child who is passing 
his early years in the midst of an educated family. 



MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL DISCIPLINE. 341 

Hying in a civiHsed community, observing facts and 
events, listening to opinions and their data, and com- 
paring for himself, and directed, guided, and modified 
as to his own views, by the comparing faculties of 
those about him, is undergoing the best possible 
ordeal for future intellectual effort, even if no book 
be set before him until he arrive at ten or twelve years 
of age, and the meaning of the words " lesson '^ and 
"school'^ be practically unknown to him. Even if 
placed in a much less auspicious position for intel- 
lectual exercise and progress, — surrounded with the 
imperfectly educated, — the great pages of Nature 
being set before him with no able and ready interpreter 
at hand, to illustrate and explain their teachings, — 
the habit of self-culture and self-reliance is, neverthe- 
less, more likely to be attained, if other circumstances 
are not unfavourable to these great acquisitions, than 
if the mind is prematurely taken from the field of its 
own efforts, and made to become, at too early a period, 
the creature of scholastic discipline : a sort of living 
machine, by which pages are committed to memory, 
facts and opinons learned by rote, and words virtually 
allowed to take the place of the things and the ideas 
they only represent, and may represent inadequately. 
The discipline of the intellect in the acquisition of 
languages, in the great science of numbers, even in 
acquiring the mechanical art of writing, and the 
mechanical elements of drawing and music, is by no 
means to be undervalued; nor is the information 
that may at the same time be stored up in the mind, 
to be omitted from the account ; but, after all, the 



S42 MOKAL AND INTELLECTUAL DISCIPLINE. 

self-cnltore^ the self-relianoe^ the personal observa- 
tion^ inqniry, and deduction^ tell more, or at least as 
much, on the nltimate powers and capabilities of the 
mind, — and affect, at least as mnch, its eventoal 
relative position, and the character and degree of its 
powers over the minds of its fellow men. 

If, however, the mechanical routinism of the 
scholastic discipline is to be deferred, in all cases, 
until at least six years of age, the moral education 
and controul should be pursued so much the more 
anxiously, and maintained so much the more steadily. 
And no better use could be made of these earlier 
years; even if such higher moral cultivation were 
not thus rendered more needful. And, cultivating 
the higher sentiments, — educating and developing the 
conscientiousness, the benevolence, the integrity, the 
love of truth, the domestic affections, the self-denial, 
the dedsion, and, above all, the faith, — ^no parent need 
fear, that these years, during which his child may not 
know one letter from another, will be thrown away ; 
the soil is being weeded and watered; it is being 
warmed by the sunshine, and fertilised by the dews ; 
and the well-fallowed land shall yield no less a crop, 
and the crop shall be of no poorer a quality, than that 
reaped from his neighbour's land, which may have 
been so differently dealt with. 

In truth, what is it, after all, that constitutes the 
great difference between men's minds? Is it the 
scholastic discipline to which they have been sub- 
jected, or the mental culture they have expended on 
themselves? Is it the routine tasks, the garbled 



PEECOCITY. 343 

exercises^ the packed and crammed for themes^ the 
elaborated and lexiconed translations^ the be-ruled 
arithmetic^ that make a man usefnl in his generation^ 
and set him in the £ront-ranks of the battle of 
life^ armed and panoplied for a victorious conflict ? 
It is no such routinism^ no such filtering of other 
men^s ideas^ no such garbled uses of other men^s 
labours^ no such formidary prescriptions for the 
operations of the intellect ; it is from a man^s own 
observations^ from the digested operations of his own 
intelligence^ from his self-culture^ and self-discipline^ 
the man must conquer a position^ and work out his 
usefulness. 

Granting that physiology teaches a great lesson^ 
well worthy of being universally known^ and widely 
profited by^ when she tells us that the nervous 
organism suffers from a premature use of any of its 
endowments; and that the views that have been 
taken^ as to the successive developments of its several 
parts^ of the order of such developments, of the 
gradual use to be made of them successively^ are 
essentially correct, — ^the effect of neglect of these great 
organic requirements, or of a sedulous fulfilment of 
them, is readily illustrated. The nervous exhaustion, 
early death, or eventual mediocrity of intellect and 
character, of those who are marked by intellectual 
precocity, and many a case of cachectic degeneration, 
may be partly referred to premature efforts to educate 
the faculties, or to the disproportionate intellectual 
exertions required. It would be safe, and indicate a 
true wisdom, to class all cases of precocious intellect 



S44 PKBM ATUKK VSK OF MINB. 

as heingprimd facie evidence of undiie excitafaiBty of 
the bndn^ which shoidd be treated on exactly the 
same principle as the same condition of any other of 
the bodily o^ans. If the eye were thns affected, it 
would be less used, lest the excitability shonld lead 
to irritation, and this to disease; and the same obser* 
nation is essentially iqppHcable to the case of the 
brain, with the additional risk, that the diversion of so 
much nervous power to the purposes of the intellect, 
might so fiff diminish the amount of nervous power 
needful to the organic necessities of the system, as to 
lead to disorder and disease of other vital organs. 
And a lesson might be derived firom noticing the 
damaged health of many a boy and girl in their 
teens ; supposing them to have escaped firom all the 
perils of an earlier cachexia: tradng the aiHngs of 
a period, that should be marked by peculiar health, 
and peculiar physical capability, to the unwise diver- 
sion of nervous powers in the intellectual exertions, 
firom the no less important business of building up 
firm and strong systems^ fit to encounter the wear 
and tear of existence. Much of the dyspepsia^ the 
biliousness, the headaches., the palpitations^, the sen- 
sitiveness to cold, the shortness of breath, the inraqm- 
bility of sustained exertion, and the eventual hysteria, 
chlorosis, spinal curvature, and final disease of heart, 
lungs, or brain, that occurs between puberty and the 
age of forty years, may be directly referred to the 
premature and undue use of the fiiculties of the 
mind, without reference to the development and 
condition of the nervous oiganism, or to the powers 



PREMATURE USE OF MIND. 345 

and requirements of the system at large. It has 
been well noticed^ in illustration of the effects of an 
unwise or a premature exercise of the intellect^ that 
Tasso^ at the age of twenty-two, was the author of the 
greatest epic poem of modem times, but was always 
melancholy, or else devoured by passion, and died at 
the age of fifty-one ; that Pascal, who also enjoyed a 
premature celebrity as an author, was always hypo- 
chondriacal, ever imagining that he saw a gulf open 
at his side, and died at the age of thirty-nine j that 
Byron, who wrote so early, and so much, and so 
greatly as to originality and high desert, and in part 
so unhealthily and unwholesomely, was the victim of 
dyspepsia and hypochondriasis, and died, of diseased 
brain, in his thirty-seventh year ; that Pope, who no- 
toriously began to write poetry at twelve years old, and 
became famous at sixteen, was the victim of extreme 
feebleness, morbid sensitiveness to cold, dyspepsia, 
headache, and eventual dropsy, whose life is well 
characterised as having been one long disease, and that 
he died in his fifty-eighth year. And an early preco- 
city is no necessary condition of genius or intellectual 
eminence in the after-life ; for the youth of Sheridan 
was pronounced to be " duU,*^ and that of Goldsmith 
^' impromising.'^ In his boyhood. Sir Isaac Newton 
was '^ inattentive to study, and ranked very low in 
the school imtil the age of twelve /^ in his boyhood. 
Napoleon was in no way distinguished irom other 
boys; in his boyhood. Sir Walter Scott gave no 
indications of his future eminence ; in their boyhoods, 
neither Shakspeare, nor Gibbon, nor Davy, appear 

2q3 



346 EFFECT OF MIND ON HEALTH. 

to have exhibited eyen the common elements of future 
success. Such lists may be easily extended, by re- 
ference to the biographies of eminent men; audit 
will be founds that^ to restrain precocity instead of 
encouraging it, should be the continual endeaTOur ; 
that the more feeble, delicate, and cachectic the 
child^s constitution, the longer should the intellectual 
or scholastic education be deferred ; and that the mere 
circumstance of a slow and tardy development of the 
intellectual powers, affords no certain indication of 
the future capabilities of the mind. During the last 
year or two of the school-time, more is often gained, 
as to progress and capability, than during all the 
preceding years of life. 

There is no room for doubt, that the use of the 
faculties of mind, if neither premature nor excessive, 
neither antecedent to the due development of the 
system, nor in degree beyond its strength, necessarily 
promotes the health, vigour, and life-probability. The 
exercise of the mind is capable of producing the most 
useful effect on the whole system, of serving as a 
stimulus to all the organic processes, of benefiting 
the condition and powers of the motor system, of 
promoting nutrition, usefully increasing the expendi- 
ture, diminishing congestive and plethoric tendencies, 
and largely conducing to the general health. The 
due exercise of the mind may subserve as much the 
organic economy, as the use of the locomotive powers 
notoriously contributes, if not excessive in its degree, 
to the activity and equilibrium o'f the mental endow- 
ments. The character of a child^s svstem mav be 



EXCESSIVE USE OF THE PROPENSITIES. 347 

sluggish, the organs may be prone to become con- 
gested, the physical development may be slow, or 
even seem to be stationary, until the spur of intellec- 
tual occupation arouses the whole economy into a 
more active, and advancing, and healthy condition. 
That the expectation of life, and the healthiness of 
its character, are increased by due exercise of the 
mental faculties, is in some degree proved by the 
longer lives of the intellectual classes ; although this 
must be largely referable to other causes likewise ; 
among which the diminished dependence on sensual 
indulgence for the means of happiness, deserves an 
important position. The growth of general intelli- 
gence, the advancing appreciation of intellectual 
pleasures, the increasing cultivation of the taste, has 
not only diminished the general intemperance ; but, 
in this and in other ways, must have contributed to 
the doubling of the probable expectation of life in 
London, within the last century; and have aided in 
lowering the general mortality of this kingdom by 
not less than one-fourth, during the same period. 

The three great classes of endowments by which 
the mind of man is characterised, must not only be 
called into exercise according to their progressive 
development, but must continue to be made use of 
in due proportion and relation to one another, if the 
conditions of health and long life are to be truly 
fulfilled. 

If the sentiments and the intellectual faculties are 
inadequately cultivated and exercised, in the same 
proportion is the individual the slave and the victim 



3iS EXCSSSITE USE OF THE MENTAL FACULTIES. 

of his prapensities : sensual indulgence becomes the 
passion and object of extstence; the restraints of the 
moral natnre and the higher intelligence are so &r 
insufficient for the regulation and contronl of the 
appetites; and the man becomes a sot^ or a glutton^ 
or something worse. Living as it were for the grati- 
fication of the propensities, they become his only 
sonroe of happiness ; having no higher object for 
which to live, no just senser of the consequences, no 
restraining thought of the injury he must be doing 
to those around him, no abiding or controlling feeling 
of the wrong done to those dependent upon him, no 
realisation of his worse than useless life and cha- 
racter, he may be justly said to be living for himself 
alone, — ^rf indeed it be to live for himself, to sacrifice 
all the objects and privileges of his being, for the 
sake of revelling in species of enjoyment that the 
very bnites have in common with himself. And the 
miserable game is soon played out ; the health falls a 
victim to the excesses; all the physical powers are 
weakened; the functions become disordered; some 
of the vital structures become disorganised ; and, no 
longer able to find happiness or consolation in the 
indulgence of the favourite propensity, the man 
sinks, gradually sinks, disappointed and miserable,— 
and it may be dies unpitied, as he must die degraded, 
— ^having been worse than useless in the great hive 
of society. 

An excessive use of the moral or of the intellectual 
faculties, is no less certain to be followed by inju- 
rious consequences. In these instances, as in every 



RELATIVE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL POWERS. 349 

instance^ an excessive use of some of the faculties 
involves an insufficient use^ and indeed a deficient 
power, of the other faculties ; and is always followed 
by corresponding injury to the health and the happi* 
ness. It is plainly and pointedly enjoined, that man 
shall use every faculty and every function that has 
been given to him to a certain prescribed degree; 
that every deviation from this rule shall be visited 
with a distinct and marked warning; and that an 
adequate punishment shall follow a continued imper* 
feet use, or a continued excessive use, of any of the 
faculties : every important deviation &om the rule, 
involves its award of risk and of penalty. 

The neghgent use, or the imperfect use, of the 
intellectual faculties, renders man the prey of the 
propensities or the sentiments ; and the influence of 
the former of these is the more likely to prepon* 
derate. To raise the moral feelings to the height 
which they ought to occupy in the mind of man, 
and to keep the animal propensities sufficiently far 
beneath them, used but controlled, subjected fully 
to man's higher nature, the exercise of the pure 
faculties of the intellect is necessary and indispen- 
sable ; and the man who neglects such due use and 
exercise of the intellectual faculties is in much risk 
of becoming victimised to an undue development of 
the propensities or the sentiments, and of becoming 
a glutton, or a drunkard, or a debauchee, or a miser, 
or cruel, quarrelsome, or cowardly. Should circum- 
stances — the influence of religion, or example, or 
station — check and control such abuses of the 



350 RELATIVE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL POWERS. 

propensities ; the first of these alone can securely tie 
the man to the constant obserranoe of such decencies 
and proprieties of life^ and keep the propensities in 
adequate subjection^ in the absence of the controlling 
power of an exercised intelligence; and then only 
if the religious sense be deep^ pure, and abiding. 
Supposing that the individual has the highest degree 
of vigour of the moral sentiments that can exist, 
without the developing and guiding influence of a 
practised intelligence^ and there is much risk of 
enthusiasm and of bigotry; the man becoming, 
perhaps, a self-willed and obstinate devotee to any 
opinion or line of conduct he may have embraced, — 
a blind slave to either the wrong or the right, just 
as it may happen to be the side on which he has 
earliest enlisted himself; or he is, perhaps, a creature 
of the imagination, a day-dreamer, to the extent of 
shutting out the realities of life, and neglecting its 
duties; or he is, perhaps, thoughtlessly prodigal, 
giving without judgment, or spending without a care 
for the future. 

An excessive use, or rather abuse, of the intellec- 
tual faculties, is little less injurious to health and 
happiness. Such abuse of the intellectual £Eu;ulties 
diminishes the desire for the exercise of the pro- 
pensities, and in some important degree also for the 
exerdse of the sentiments ; or certain of the senti- 
ments or propensities may be exaggerated or dis- 
torted, by being viewed through the predominant 
Intellectual faculties, or by being acted upon and 
influenced by them; and bodily exercise may be 



HISTORICAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 351 

neglected ; or the food may be devoured indifferently 
and mechanically^ without reference to its kind or its 
quantity ; or the food may be taken most irregularly^ 
or at unwise intervals of time; or the amount of 
sleep that is taken may be much too small ; or the 
clothing made use of may be disproportioned to the 
chmate^ or the season^ — not to mention its possible 
unsuitableness to the station and circumstances of 
life ; or even the ordinary ablutions may be neglected ; 
and absence of mind^ slovenliness, &c., unfit the man 
for the relaxations and the benefits of social inter- 
course^ deprive the world of the personal services of 
so practised an intelligence, and the individual of all 
the reciprocated benefits of direct communion with 
other minds ; and the probable results of a neglected 
physique and an unrelaxed mind, are a sickly life and 
an early grave. 

It might be interesting and instructive, to observe 
the characters of the great and the powerful, whether 
for good or for evil, who have graced or dishonoured 
the world; to class them under these several heads ) 
to trace where they have erred, where they have 
wandered from the plain rules of nature; and to see 
how these wanderings affected them, and the faults 
that were thus engendered. If we look back upon 
the cloistered monk, shut out from the exercise of 
his better animal propensities, and from the objects 
on which men lavish their higher moral feelings, 
how often do we find him — from the undue exercise 
of the intellectual powers, from the exercise of certain 
of the animal propensities at the expense of the 



352 CONCLUSION. 

others, and from the exercise of some of the moral 
feelings only — characterised by bigotry^ fimaticism^ and 
intolerance^ instead of by humility, loving-kindness^ 
and charity. If we look back upon the mailed and 
hardy warriors of the middle ages^ how often do we 
find them — from an undue use of the propensities^ at 
the expense of the intellectual and moral powers — 
cruel, grasping, vindictive, and debauched ; restrained 
chiefly by the code of knightly honour, which had 
been produced by the partial exercise of some of the 
higher faculties of mind, triumphing over the vast 
load of appetites and passions that had threatened to 
annihilate them. In the history of ancient Greece, 
we see the people at the first obedient to the great 
demands of nature, and find them intellectual, moral, 
and brave; by degrees, from the moral feelings 
becoming preponderant, becoming zealots in the 
worship of their gods, and eager followers after 
everything that might sufiBiciently stimulate the 
abused moral sentiments ; and at length, from the 
propensities getting the mastery, becoming luxurious, 
debauched, depraved, and cowardly. History, bio- 
graphy, and indeed the experience of every man's 
life, afford amplest materials for illustrating and 
enforcing the same great truth. 

We are bound, then, to govern our appetites, to 
restrain our passions, to subjugate the animal to the 
intellectual nature, but to use duly and equally all 
the powers with which we have been gifted, not only 
by Divine command directly revealed to us, but by 
the same Command indirectly manifested in the 



CONCLUSION. 353 

adaptation of our physical system to the ways of 
temperance^ activity, and virtue. The man who so 
lives, is not only acting for his happiness in another 
state of being, but is securing for himself the greatest 
possible chance of health, length of days, and real 
happiness, in his present state of existence ; and the 
man who pursues the courses of intemperance, irre- 
gularity, and vice, is heaping coals of fire on his head 
in this world as well as in the next. An improper 
use of our powers, whether mental or bodily, is ever 
attended with a degree of retribution, even in this 
world, that is little dreamed of by the man who is 
ignorant of the mighty instrument of reward and of 
punishment, that the strict enforcement of the organic 
laws becomes in the hands of the Omnipotent. — 

Sapere aude : 
Incipe. Yirendi recte qui prorogat horam, 
Rusticus expectat dam defluat amnis ; at ille 
Labitor et labetur in omne volubilis sevum. 

Hob. Epist. Lib. 1. 2. 



INDEX. 



Adaptation of Man to Climate, i. 7 

Adaptation of Muscular Exercises to 
Mental Character, ii. 41 ; to Age, 
ii. 43 ; to Sex, ii. 45 ; to Habits, 
U. 46 ; to Strength, ii. 47 

Adaptation of Human System to Ex- 
ternal Temperature, ii. 206 

Adjustment of Dietetics to different 
drcumstanoes of Health and Dis- 
ease, i. 156 

Affusion of Water over the Body, 
ii233 

Agriculture, its Effect on the Atmo- 
sphere, i. 5 ; on Climate, i. 6; on 
I^fe-expectancy, i. 6 

Air, Atmospheric, Constituents of, 
ii.67 

Aix Waters, ii. 259 

Aix la Chapelle Waters, ii 253, 
ii. 260 

Albumen, i 58; Vegetable, i. 134 

Alcohol, L 252; its Effects on the 
System, i. 255 

Ale, i. 252, 267 

Alimentary Expenditure of the Sys- 
tem, i. 310 

Alimentary Principles, Unmixed, 
i. 225 

Aliments, Crystallisable, i. 224 

Aliments, Diluted and Undiluted, 
i. 129 

Aliments, Aqueous Dilution of, i. 142 

Aliments, Saccharine, Digestion of, 
L 158, 227 

Alliaceous Plants,!. 197 

Almond, i. 199 

America, Climates of, ii. 154 

Animal Diastase, L 159 



Animal Fibre, Required Proportion 
of, and Importance of, in Dietaries, 
i. 332 

Animal Heat, ii. 71 

Animal Principles, Digestion of, i. 98 

Antiscorbutic Effect of Recent Ve- 
getables, i. 195 

Apple, i. 199,204 

Apple-tea, i. 205 

Apricot, i. 199, 204 

Aqueous Character of Pot-herbs, 
i. 192 

Areca-nut, i. 275, 278 

Arms, Exercise of the, ii. 13 

Arrow-root, i. 217 

Artichoke, i. 185 

Artificial Mineral Waters, ii. 271 

Asses* Milk, I 123 

Assimilation, i. 29 

Asparagus, i. 185 

Adiby de la Zouch. ii. 252 

Asthma, Grinders', ii. 316 

Automatic Powers, ii. 336 

Azote, Table of Proportional, in dif- 
ferent Grains, i. 138 

Azotised Constituents of the System, 
i. 58 

Azotised Vegetable Substances, i. 1 35 

Bacon, i. 91 

Baden, ii, 261 

Baden Baden, il 261 

Baked Meats, i. 89 

Bakewell Waters, ii. 263 

Balance of the Nervous Powers, 

i. 43 
Balm, i. 235 
Bareges Waters, ii. 259 



356 



INDEX. 



Barbeny, i. 207 

Barle7.i.l76; Maltuigof.il77; Bar- 

ley« Pearl, I 180; Barley Water, 

i. 180 
Bath Waters, ii. 259, 264 
Bathing, Ablution, &c., ii, 206 
Beans, French, i. 185, 187 
Beans, Broad, 1.185, 191 
Beaumont, Experiments on Diges- 
tion by Dr., u 65 
Beef. i. 80 
Beer, L 252 
Bed and Bed-clothes, their Influence 

on Health and Disease, ii. 198 
Bed-room, Situation for tiie, iL 108 
Betel-nut, i. 275, 278 
BUberry, i. 207 
Biscuit, i 155 
Blackberry, i. 208 
Black-cock, L 96 
Blagden, Sir Charles, Experiments 

of, ii. 207 
BoUed Meats, i 87 
Boiled Mak, I 120 
Bounty, Reference to Mutiny of the, 

L298 
Brain, i. 93 
Brandy, i 252, 261 
Bread, i. 145; Coarse, 150; Toasted, 

149; Unfermented, 154 
Breakfast, i. 285 
Bristol Waters, ii. 259, 264 
Broiled Meat, i. 87 
Brose, Oatmeal, L 175 
Broth, i. 98 
Butter, L 109, 124 
Butter-milk, I 120 
Buxton Waters, ii. 255, 258, 261 

Cabbage, i. 185, 186, 190 

Caffeine, i. 237 

Cane-Sugar, i. 220 

Carbon, System's Expenditure of, 

L 62 
Carbonated Mineral Waters, ii 253 
Carlsbad Waters, ii. 253, 260 
Carnivorous Animals, Flesh of^ i. 98 
Carriage Exercise, ii. 29 
Carrot, i. 185, 191 
Carraway-seeds, i. 234 
Case of Mr. Wood. i. 304 
Casein, i. 58, 117; Vegetable, i. 134^ 

135 
Ctoliflower, I 185, 186 






Causes deranging Digestion, i. 44 

Causes of DiMsse, L 2 

Cayenne Pepper, L 233 

Celery, i 185,195, 196 

Chalybeate Mineral Waters, iL 255 

Champagne, i 252, 262 

Change of Air, ii. 157 

Cheese, i 109, 126, 128 

Cheltenham Waters, it 252, 255, 266 

Chemistry of the Human Body,L 57 

Chestnut, i. 199, 205 

Cherry, I 199, 204 

Cheyne, Dr., Dietary of, L 304 

ChUdhood, its Dietaries, L 110 

Children, Bathing of, iL 242; Em- 
ployment of, iL 309 

Citron, L 201 

Civilisation, its Sanatory Results, 
L17 

Claret, L 252, 263 

Clifton Waters, iL 259, 264 

Climate, i. 7 ; ii. Ill 

Qothing, Hygienic Effects of, iL 174 

Cloud-berry, i. 209 

Coarse BreiiMl, L 150 

Coast of England, Climates of,iL 141 

Coca-leaves, L 276 

Cockles, L 107 

Cocoa, L 236, 251 

Cocoa-nut, L 199, 206 

Cod, L 106 

Coffee, L 236, 246 

Cold Bath, On the Useof th^ ii. 220 

Cold Water, Effect of Inmiersion in, 
iL214 

Colour of Oothes, its Effect, iL 203 

Combustion, Effect of, on the Air, 
u. 103 

Comparative Digestibility of Ali- 
ments, i. 36 

Composition of Aliments no Guide to 
tiieir DigestibiUty, i. 77, 139 

Condiments, i. 231 

Constantia Wine, L 266 

Contagion, a Cause of Disease, i. 10 

Connection of Hygienic SubjeetB, 
L21 

Constituents of the System, i. 57 

Cooked Apples, i. 205 

Cooling of Liquids, as Influenced by 
Surface and Material of the Con- 
taining Vessel, ii. 203 

Cookery, its Effect on Digestibility of 
Aliments, L 127 



IND£X. 



357 



Comaro, Dietary of, i. 304 
CostumeB, Intertropical, Dr. James 

Johnson on, iL 184 
Crab, i. 106 
Cranberry, i. 207 
Cream, i. 109, 117 
Cream-cheese, i 109, 130 
Cress, i. 195, 196 
Crystallisable Aliments, i. 264 
Cucumber, L 195, 198 
Culinary Salt, i. 231 
Curd,i. 109,117 
Currant, i. 199, 203 
Currant, Dried, 1. 210 
Currie, Dr., Case of,.ii. 217 

Damp Places of Work, Effect of, 
ii. 314 

Damson, i. 204 

Dancing, as a Means of Muscular 
Exercise, ii. 25 

Delaroche, Dr., Experiments of, 
ii. 207 

Development of the Faculties, ii. 331 

Dextrine, i. 158 

Diagnosis of Hygienic Indications, 
i. 23 

Diastase, i. 158 ; Animal, i. 159, 
161 

Diet, Simplicity of, i. 290 

Dietaries : Comaro's, i. 304 ; Dr. 
Cheyne's, i. 304 ; Mr. Wood's, 
i. 304 ; Gaol, i. 299, 324 ; Chelsea 
Hospital, i. 323 ; Convicts', i. 323 ; 
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, 
i. 322 ; Glasgow Royal Infirmary, 
1. 321 ; Manchester Royal In- 
firmary, i. 320 ; Middlesex Hos- 
pital, i. 319 ; Northampton Royal 
Infirmary, i. 320 ; Regimental 
Hospitals, i. 311 ; Poor Law Com- 
mission, i. 312 ; British Navy, 
i. 300 ; Naval Hospitals, i. 302 ; 
Proposed for Charity Workhouses 
in Scotland, i. 325 ; Estimate of 
the different Public, i. 326 ; Modi- 
fication of, to suit different Cir- 
cumstances, i. 328 ; Importance 
of Liberal, I 340 

Dietetic Generalisations, i. 345 

Dietetics, i. 29 ; Importance of the 
Study of, i. 53, 354 ; of Childhood, 
i.llO 

Dietetic Uses of Water, i. 279 



Digestibility, Comparative, of Yege- 
tahle Principles, i. 168 

Digestion, i. 29 ; a Vital Function, 
L 35 ; Dependent on Nervous 
Power, i. 42 ; Experiments on, 
i. 64 ; infiuenced by Mental 
Causes, i. 46 ; Physiological De- 
pendencies on, i. 47 ; of Fecula, 
1. 158 

Digestive Ferment, L 31 

Diluted and UncUluted Aliments, 
i. 129, 142 

Dinner, i 288 

Discipline of the Faculties, ii. 341 

Disease, Causes of, i. 2 ; Periodicity 
of, i. 15 

Douches, ii 234 

Drainage, i. 5 ; ii. 132 

Dreaming, ii. 283 

Duck, i. 93 

Dumb-bells, ii. 14 

Dust, Inhalation of, its Effect on 
Health of Operatives, ii. 315 

Dumplings, Yeast, i. 161 ; Hard, 
i. 166 

Dyspepsia, L 48, 50 

Early Education, ii. 329 
Early Moral Culture, ii. 339 
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary Dietary, 

i. 322 
Effects of Alcohol on the System, 

i. 255, 271 
Egg, i. 131 
Egypt, Climate of, ii. 152 ; Use of 

Baths in, ii. 225 
Elderberry, I 208 
Electrical Phenomena of the Human 

Body, ii. 176 
Elevation, Effect of, on Climate, 

ii. 114 
Employment of Children, ii. 309 
Emulging Effects of Water, I 281 
Ems Waters, ii. 261 
Endemic Causes of Disease, i 3 
England, Coast Climates of, ii. 141 ; 

Inland Climates of, ii 144 
Epidemic Causes of Disease, i 9 
Epsom Waters, ii. 252 
Erysipelas, its Propagation, i 13 
Exanthemata, their Propagation, 

L 14 
Exercise, Muscular, ii. 1 ; Expen- 
diture occasioned by, ii. 1 ; E^ect 



358 



TNDEX. 



of, on Nutrition, u. 7 ; EflSsct of, 
on Sensation, ii. 1 1 ; of tiie Arms, 
li. 13 ; Especially neglected by 
Women, ii. 16 ; of Chilc&en, ii. 23 ; 
Adaptation of, to Age, ii. 43 ; to 
Habits, ii 46 ; to Sex, ii. 45 ; to 
Strength, ii. 47 ; to Mental Cha- 
raeter, ii. 41 ; to Morbid Condi- 
tions, ii. 52 ; Influence of Mind 
on, ii. 48 ; of Voice, ii. 34. 
Exhalations, Cutaneous and Pulmo- 
nary, ii. 168 
Expenditure of the System, i. 310 
Experiments on Digestion, i. 64 
Extract of Meat, i. 293, 335 
Eyes, Undue Use of the, ii 314 

Factories, Effect of, on Health, 
ii.309 

Fat, i. 98, 102 

Fecnla, Digestion of, i. 158 

Feet, Qotlung of, ii. 189 

Female Dress, Strictures on incon- 
siderate Customs as to, ii. 191 

Ferment, Digestive, i. 31 

Fennentation, Alcoholic, i 252 

Fermentation, Panary, i. 146 

Fermented Liquors, i. 252 

Fibrin, Animal, i 58, 98, 101 ; Yego- 
table, i 134, 135 

Figs, Dried, i 209 

FUbert, i 199, 206 

Fish, i 106 

Fhumel, ii 180 

Flesh, Importance of, in Dietaries, 
i. 332 

Flounder, i. 106 

Fowl, i. 93 

France, Climates of, n. 145 

Friction of the Skm, ii. 235 

Fruits, i. 199 ; Dried, i 209 ; Pre- 
served, i 21 1 ; Wild, i 207 

Fur, Fleecy Hosiery, &c., ii. 188 

Game, i. 96 

Gaols, Dietaries in, i. 299, 324 

Garden-mustard, i 195, 196 

Gastric Juice, i 34, 70 

Gelatin, i 98, 100 

Geological Formation ; Effect on 
Climate, ii 124 ; as to the Origin of 
English Mineral Springs, ii 265 

Gin, i. 261 

Glandular Parts of Animals, i 92 



Glasgow Royal Infirmary Dietary, 

i321 
Gliadine, i. 144 
Gluten, i 135, 144 
Goats' MUk, i. 123 
Goose, i 93 
Groosebory, i 199, 203 
Grain, i 136 
Grape, L 199, 200 ; Grape-Sugar, 

i 221 
Gravy, i 98 
Greengage, i. 204 
Greens, i 185, 186 
Grinders' Asthma, ii. 316 
Groats, i 171 
Grouse, i. 96 
Gruel, i 172 
Gum, i 212, 219 

Habits, Adaptation of Exercise to. 
u. 46 

Haddock, i 106 

Ham, cured and dried, i 90 

Hand-Swing, ii 13 

Hare, i 96 

Harrogate Waters, ii 252, 255, 268 

Hashed Meats, i 88 

Hazel-nut, i 199 

Heart, i 93 

Heat, Conductors of, ii. 174 ; Radia- 
tors of, ii. 201 

Heated Places of Work, ii. 314 

Heated Rooms, ii. 103 

Herbs, Seasoning, i 235 

Hereditary Pre&positions, ii. 18 

Herring, i 106 

Hindostanee Gube, ii. 15 

Hip-bath, ii 232 

Hock, i 252, 266 

HoUands, i 252, 261 

Home-made Wines, i 252, 267 

Honey, i 226 

Horse-radish, i 235 

Hospital Dietaries: Chelsea, i 323; 
Edinburgh, i 322 ; Glasgow, i 321 ; 
Manchester, i 320; Middlesex, 
i 319; Northampton, i 320; Naval, 
i 302; Regimental, i 311. 

Hygienic Indications, Diagnosis of, 
i23 

Iceland Md0s, i 219 
Ilkeston Waters, ii. 255 
Immateriality of Mind, ii 333 



INDEX. 



359 



Immersion in Cold Water, ii. 214 

India, Use of Baths in, ii. 227 

Infancy, Mental Torpor of, ii. 335 

Infants, Bathing of, ii. 242 

Infection, i. 10 

Inland Climates of England, ii. 144 

Introduction, i. 1 

Insect Life, Effect of, on Human 

Health, ii. 137 
Italy, Gimates of,ii 146 

Johnson, Dr. James, on Intertropical 
Costumes, ii. 184 

Kidney, i. 93 

Knowledge verstts Quackery, i. 26 

Labour, Excessive, Effect of, ii. 313 

Lamb, i. 83 

Lark, i 96 

Laws, Organic, i. I 

Lead, Effect of, on Health of Artisans, 

ii.322 
Leamington Waters, ii. 252, 255, 267 
Leek, i. 196, 197 
Lemon, i. 201 
Lemonade, i 205 
Lettuce, i. 195, 196 
Lias Formation, ii. 265 
Lime, Fruit, i. 201 
Lime-water and Milk, i. 120 
Linseed, i. 219 
Liquors, Fermented, i. 252. 
Liver, i. 93 
Lobster, i. 106 
Lucca Waters, ii, 261 

Maccaroni, i. 162 

Mackerel, i. 106 

Madeira, Qimate of, ii. 155 : Wine 

of, i. 252, 263 
Maize, i. 183 
Malmsey, i. 266 
Malt, i. 177 

Malt Liquors, i. 252, 267 
Manchester Royal Infirmary Dietary, 

i.320 
Marienbad Waters, ii. 252 
Marjoram, i 235 
Marl, Red, Formation, ii. 265 
Marmalade, i. 211 
Martin, Case of Alexis St., i. 66 
Masons' Phthisis, ii. 319 
Mastication, Importance of, i. 291 



Materials for the Under-garment, 

ii. 180 
Matlock Waters, ii. 258, 263 
Meals, Hours for, i. 283 
Meats, i 80 ; Extract of, i. 293, 335 
Mechanical Effects of Muscular Ac- 
tion, U. 5 
Mediterranean, Climates of Islands 

in, ii. 147 
Melon, L 199,206 
Mental Culture, ii. 328 
Mental Exercise, its Effect on 

Health, ii 346 
Mental Faculties, Excessive Use of, 

ii. 347 
Mental Torpor of Infancy, ii 335 
Mercury, Effect of, on Health of 

Artisans, ii. 323 
Mesmerism, Assumptions of, ii. 286 
Middlesex Hospital Dietary, i. 319 
Milk, i. 109, 115 ; and Lime-water, 

120 ; Asses', 123 ; Boiled, 120 ; 

Diet, 121 ; Goats', 123 ; Skimmed, 

120 
Mind, Influence of, on Digestion, 

i. 341; on Muscular Exercise, 

ii. 48 
Mineral Waters, ii. 245 
Mint,i. 235 
Moffat Waters, ii. 252 
Molecular Changes during Digestion, 

i. 32 
Mont d' Or Waters, ii. 253 
Moral Sense, Development of, ii. 338 
Morbific Tendencies of Dyspepsia, 

i, 50 
Moss, Iceland, i 219 
Motor Powers, Development of, 

ii. 336 
Mott, Mr., on Pauper Dietaries, 

i. 315 
Muscles, i. 107 
Muscular Exercise, ii. 1 
Mushroom, i. 185, 192 
Mustard, Garden, i. 195, 196 
Mutton, i. 80 

Narcotics, i. 275 
Nature's Dietetics, i. 55 
Naval Hospitals, Dietary of, i. 302 
Navy, Dietary of the, i. 300 
Nectarine, i, 199, 204 
Nervous Power, necessary to Diges- 
tion, i. 42 



360 



INDEX. 



New Bread, i. 148 

Nitrogen, System's Expenditure of| 
i. 61 

Nitro-Muriatic Acid Bath, ii 238 

Night-work, Effect of, on Health, 
ii. 321. 

Nutrition, Effect of Muscular Exer- 
cise on, ii. 7 

Nuts, i. 199, 205 

Oats, i. 170 

Oat-cake, i. 175 

Oatmeal, i. 167 ; Oatmeal Brose, 

i. 175 ; Oatmeal Porridge, i. 174 
Ocean, Effects of, on Climate, ii. 117 
Occupations, Effect of, on Health, 

ii. 305 
OU,OUve, 1212,230 
Onion, i. 195,197 
Oolite Formation, ii. 265 
Opium, L 275, 278 
Orange, i 199, 201 
Organic Laws, L I 
Oyster, i. 106 

* 

Panary Fermentation, i. 145 

Pancake, i. 165 

Pancreatic Secretion, i. 160 

Parsley, i. 235 

Parsnip i. 185,191 

Partridge, i. 96 

Pastry, i. 165 

Pea, i. 185, 191 

Peach, i. 199,204 

Peak of Derbyshire, ii. 261 

Pear, i. 199, 204 

Pearl Barley, i. 180 

Peas-meal, i. 184 

Pepper, i. 233 

Pepmn, i. 34 

Perceptive Powers, Development of, 

ii. 338 
Periodicity of Disease, i. 15 
Pheasant, i. 96 
Phthisis, Masons', ii. 319 
Pickles, i. 235 
Pies, i. 165 
Pigeon, i. 96 
Pine-apple, i. 199,203 
Plum, i. 199, 203 
Poor-Law Comnussion Dietaries, 

i. 312 
Pork, i. 85 
Porridge, Oatmeal, L 174 



Port, i. 252, 263 

Porter, i. 252, 267 

Potato, L 185, 187 

Pot-herbs, i. 185 ; their Aqueous 
Character, 192 ; their Antiscor- 
butic Effects, 195 

Pougues Waters, ii. 253 

Poultry, i. 93 

Prawns, i. 107 

Precocity, ii. 343 

Premature Use of Mind, iiw 344 

Preserved Fruits, I 211 

Propensities, Excessive Use of the, 
ii. 347 

Protein, L 60 

Provincial Hospitals, Dietaries of, 
I 320 

Ptarmigan, L 96 

Public Pleasure Grounds, Import- 
ance of, ii. 325 

Puddings, i 165 

PfiUna Waters, ii. 252 

Pyrmont Waters, ii. 253. 

Quackery, i. 26 

Quantity of Food Required, 1. 294 

Rabbit, i. 96 

Radish, i. 195 

Raisin, i 21t> 

Raspberry, i. 199, 262, 208 

Reaction after Cold^Bathing, il 216 

Reaction, Mutual, of Mind and Body, 

i. 341 
Regimental Hospital Dietary, L 31 1 
Report on Dietaries, bv Drs. Alison 

and Christison, Reference to, i. 

325 
Report on Dietaries, by Sir David 

Barry and Dr. Corrie, Reference 

to, i. 299 
Required Quantity of Food, L 294 
Respiration, ii. S9 
Respiiiitoiy Aliment, i. 113 
Rhubarb, Leaf-Stalks of, i. 212 
Rice, i. 182 

Riding, as a Meansof Exercise, ii. 32 
Roasted Meats, i. 87 
Rum, i. 252, 262 
Russia, Use of Baths in, IL 228 
Rye, i. 181 

Sage, i. 235 
Sago, I 217 



INDEX. 



361 



Sailing, as a Means of Exercise, 
ii. 33 

Salep, i. 218 

Saline Mineral Waters, ii. 252 

Saliva, its Effects on Digestion,!. 156 

Salmon, i. 106 

Salt, Culinary, i. 231 

Salted Meats, i. 90 

Salt- Water Bath, ii. 231 

Sanatory Neglect, Instances of, i, 25 

Sanatory Results of Civilisation, i. 17 

Sandstone, New Red, Formation, 
ii. 265 

Saner Kraut, i. 190 

Scarborough Waters, ii. 252 

Schlangenbad Waters, ii. 261 

Sea-Bathing, ii. 231 

Seafaring Life, Effect of, on Health, 
ii. 321 

Seakale, i. 185 

Seasoning Herbs, i. 235 

Seasons, Effect of, on Climate, ii. 127 

Sedentary Occupations, Effect of, 
ii. 312 

Seguin, M., Experiments of, ii. 168 

Seidlitz Waters, ii. 252 

Self-culture, ii. 340 

Seltzer Waters, ii. 253 

Sensation, Effect of Muscular Exer- 
cise on, ii. ] 1 

Sentient Powers, Development of, 
u. 337 

Sepulture, Intra-Mural, ii. 79 

Sex, Adaptation of Muscular Exer- 
cise to, ii. 45 

Seydchutz Waters, ii. 252 

Shallot, i. 195 

Sherry, i. 222, 262 

Shower-Bath, ii. 233 

Shrimp, i. 107 

Sunplicity of Diet, i. 290 

Skimmed Milk, i. 120 

Skin, Functions and Uses of the, 
a 168, 206 

Skipping-Rope, ii. 16 

Sleep, ii. 276 

Sleep- Walkmg, ii. 285 

Small Loaves, i. 149 

Smith, Dr., Southwood, Experiments 
of, ii. 170 

Snipe, i. 96 

Sole, i. 106 

Soup, i. 104, 329, 335 

Spa Waters, ii. 255 



Spices, i. 233 

Spinach, i. 185, 189 

Sponging the , Surface of the Body, 
ii. 235 

Sprat, i. 106 

Stays, Strictures on the Use of, 
ii. 194 

Starch, i. 212 

Stewed Meats, i. 88 

Stimulating Effects of Mineral 
Waters, ii. 270 

Stony-Middleton Waters, ii 264 

Strawberry, i. 199, 202, 208 

Strength, Adaptation of Muscular 
Exercise to, ii. 47 

Stuffing, i. 236 

Sugar, i. 212, 220 ; Cane Sugar, 
220 ; Grape Sugar, 222 ; Sugar 
of Milk, 118 ; Relative Digesti- 
bility of Sugar, 224, 229 

Sulphureous Mineral Waters, ii. 252 

Sweet Wmes, i. 252, 266 

Swimming, ii. 221 

Sympathy between the Skin and the 
Mucous Membranes, &c., ii. 172 

Table, Dr. Beaumont's, of Com- 
parative Digestibility, I 72 

Table, Dr. R. D. Thomson's, of Pro- 
portional Azote in the Different 
Grains, &c., i. 138 

Table of Proportional Water, Albu- 
men, and Gelatin, in Different 
Kmds of Flesh, Mr. Branded 
i. 141 

Table, by Drs. Alison and Christison, 
of Dry and Azotised Nutriment 
in Articles of Food, i. 331 

Tabular Estimate of Different Public 
Dietaries, i. 326 

Tapioca, i. 218 

Tea, i. 236, 240 

Temperature of Rooms, ii. 109 

Temperature, External, Adaptation 
of System to, ii. 206 

Tendencies of Dyspepsia, i. 50 < 

Theine, i. 237 

Theobromine, i. 237 

Thermal Mineral Waters, ii. 257 

Thyme, i. 235 

Toasted Bread, i. 149 

Tobacco, i. 275, 278 

Tongue, i. 93 

TSpHtz Waters, ii. 261 



R 



362 



INDEX. 



Training, Effects of Systematic, ii. 61 

Travelling, Sanatory Effects of, ii. 1 62 

Treacle, i 226 

Tripe, i. 93 

Trout, i. 106 

Tunbridge Waters, il 255, 268 

Turbot,i. 106 

Turkey, i. 93 

Turkey, Use of Baths in, ii 224 

Turnip, i. 185, 189 

Turtle, i 104 

Undergarment, Materials for the, 

ii. 180 
Undue use of Mind, i. 334 
Unfermented Bread, i. 154 
Unmixed Alimentary Principles, 

i. 225 

Valleys, Effect of, on Climate, ii. 125 

Vapour-Bath, ii. 230 

Varying Expenditure of System, 

i. 41 
Veal, L 83 

Vegetable Articles of Food, i. 134 
Vegetable Albumen,!. 134. 135 
Vegetable Casein, i. 134. 135 
Vegetable Fibrin, i. 134, 135 
Vegetable Principles, Comparative 

Digestibility of, i. 1 68 
Vegetable-BiuTow, i. 185 
Vegetation, Effects of, on Climate, 

11.131 
Venison, i. 96 



Ventilation, ii 67 
Vermicelli, I 162 
Vinegar, i. 230 

Voice, Exercise of, ii. 34 ; Undue 
Use of, 313 

Walking, ii. 27 

Wahiut, i. 199 

Warm Bath, ii 222 

Warming Pan, Strictures on the Use 

of, ii. 108 
Water, Dietetic Uses of, i 279 
Water, Effect of Character and 

Supply of, for Greneral Purposes^ 

iil33 
Waters, Mineral, ii. 245 
Water-Cress, L 195 
Weather, Effect of Exposure to, on 

Healtii, ii. 320 
Wheat, i 136 
Whey, i 109,118, 119 
Whiskey, i. 252, 262 
Whiting, i. 106 
Wiesbaden Waters, ii. 261 
WUd Fruits, i 207 
Winds, Effect of, on Climate, ii 126 
Wind Instruments, Strictures on the 

Use of. ii 39 
Wme, i 252 

Wine, Classification of, i. 260 
Wood, Mr., Case of, i. 304 
Woodcock, i 96 

Yeast Dumplings, i. 161 



LONDON : BRADBURY AND KVAN8, PRINTBRS, WHITBPRIARB. 



WORKS BY DR. ROBERTSON, OF BUXTON. 

♦ 

Bvo, cloth, pp. 372, price lOs. 6d., 

THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 

*' Dr. Robertson's work is the most complete monograph on thn subject of gout with 
-which we are acquainted. . . . W« think that he has not only succeeded in placing together, 
to the best advantage, the chemical facts illustrative of the pathology of gout, which have 
of late years been adduced, but also in giving a very complete and useful general history of 
the disease from his own observation. The work is evidently the result of considerable 
practical acquaintance with gout in its various forms." — Medical Gazette, 

"Keplete with information, brought down to the latest period, and of a very practical 
character. ... It is difficult to specify any one part of the volume as more deserving atten- 
tion than another, for all are ably done. . . . The scenes which he describes he has evidently 
often witnessed. Iji the chapter on treatment, his observations on the uses and abuses of 
different medicines, and Uieir appropriate mode of administration, are valuable, and should 
be studied with great attention." — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. 

** This work is evidently the production of a physician practically acquainted with the 
subject on which he writes, and the result of much experience and reflection. . . . The 
knowledge acquired during the last half century is not lost sight of, and the light which 
modem chemistry and modem researches generally have thrown on various questions in 
physiology and pathology, is clearly traceable in the pages of Dr. Robertson's work. . . . 
The ample means of observation wmch the author has evidently enjoyed and made use of, 
invest this portion of his subject (the history and treatment of gout) with an interest and 
authority which cannot fail to render it generally useful to those who are less favourably 
situated. . . . The observations on the eflliects of oolchicum on the fibrous tissues, on its use 
in gout, and on ^e general principles of treatment of the disease, and the remarks on the 
diagnosis of gout from rheumatism, and on the connection of the former disorder with 
cachectic and disordered states of the system, will well repay a careful perusal; and we 
cannot conclude this notice of Dr. Robertson's treatise without cordially recommending 
it as a sound and practical work, fitted for reference both as a work of information on the 
subject, and as a guide to practice." — Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal. 



Also, in Two Vohimea Post Svo, cloth pp. 355 cmd 353, price 128., 

A TREATISE ON DIET AND REGIMEN; 

Fourth Edition, Re-written and much Enlatyed. 

** The first edition of this work appeared so long back as 1835. The treatise was short, 
condensed, sensible, and perspicuous ; and centained a view of dietetics, in which, with 
close adherence to sdentmc prinoiplM, information on all topics relating to dietetic and 
hygienic management was conveyed in a popular and interesting form. Since ^at time 
the work has passed through three editions, in each of which the author has studied to 
introduce all those improvements which the gradual progress of science during the intervid, 
and his own experience in a situation where he has occasion to observe much of the effects 
of diet, have enabled him to do. 

" The present is in all respects a greatly improved form of the work. It is manifest that 
Dr. Robertson has been at no ordixiary pains in explaining the scientific principles of diet, 
according to the most recent and most approved chemical and physiological doctrines. 
• •••*• 

" In concludon, we have onlr to say, that, while the medical reader seeking information 
will peruse this volume with advantage, it must prove highly useful to the general reader 
and invalid, or d^vpeptic, in warning what to avoid and wnat to ohiooie."— Edinburgh 
Medical and SurgiceU Journal. 

** The treatise will form a valuable addition to our stock of knowledge on the subjects of 
which it tre&tB."— Lancet. 

" A sensible and useftil book It is written in a plain unaffected manner, 

and contains much valuable information."— ^riCuA and Foreign Medical Review. 

"' A good work."— Medico-^Chirurgical Review. 



(( 



DR. ROBERTSON'S WOB,KS.—€(mtinued. 



** Candid, yet Arm ; learned, yet clear : plain, without being dull ; and conrincing, with- 
out being dogmatical." — Manchester Times. 

** Few great«r benefits have been conferred on the ^abUc in reference to hj^enic subjects, 
for a number of years past, than we feel i)er8uaded will arise from the re-publication of this 
established work by Dr. Robertson, with the important additions now made to it. We are 
not much addicted to what is technically called ' studying our health ;' by which we simply 
mean that we are not greedy after spedous devices for extending our mortal term, or for 
erecting barriers in our constitution against the assaults of age and ordinary human infir- 
mity. Still we have read the whole of the three parts of Dr. Robertson's Treatise an Diet 
and R^men regularly through as they have been laid on our table, and, we feel, with 
maniiieBt advanti^ to ourselves. The great recommendation, in our eyes, to this work is, 
that there is no quackery in it— no over-doing vou with wisdom— no panaceas. Its lan- 
guage is that of a iriiraid sneaking to a friend, in plain, inteUigible, modest, but impressive 
lang^iage, on subjects of iQl but the highest importance to every one who feels that he is an 
intelligent, and acknowledges himself to be an accountable moral agent." — Nottingham 
Mercury. 

" This book, — ^which it would not be too much to call a supplementary volume to the 
Reports of the Sanatory Commissioners, and to characterise as being fiilly as necessary to 
be studied, ere the social condition of the people can be rightly imderstood, or efficientiy 
rectified,— ought to be read attentively by dl who would deal beneficially with the health of 
the country."— Predion Chronicle. 

" It would be found an admirable adjunct to the labours of the Executive, in promoting 
an improvement in the sanatory condition of the empire." — Sath Herald. 

" Wise and weighty. . . . Demands the attention of the * Powers that be ' . . . 
Dr. Robertson has proved that a wise man can make even a deeply abstruse scientafic subject 
perfectty readable."— Z^^-fty Reporter. 

" Dr. Robertson's Treatise on Diet and Regimen is unequalled m the language." — Sun. 

** This valuable work, by the physician to the Buxton Bath Chanty, is now in its fourth 
editi<m. .... Well worthy the attention of parents and guardians, as well for their own 
sakes, as for the health apd happiness of those entrusted to their care." — Morning Post. 

*< We must conclude ow brief notice of Dr. Robertson's work, and we do so by strongly 
recommendii^ it to the' reading public Its matter is valuable, and, in many respects, 
original. It is a work in which common sense, aided by experience, is applied to subjects 
of the greatest consequence to our well-being, and to subjects which are seldom treated 
except in a narrow and bigoted spirit. The author is an obeerver and thinker for himself, 
and we say for him — 

< Nullius addictus purare in verba magistri 
huic erit mihi magnus Apollo.' " — Constitutional Magazine. 



Also, 12mo, doth, price 2s. 6d., 

BUXTON AND ITS WATERS: 

AN ANALYTICAL ACCOUNT OF THEIR MEDICINAL PROPERTIES AND GENERAL 

EFFECTS. 

" An interesting and judicious performance."— JEdiMfrurpA Medical and Surgical 
Journal. 

" Will prove uaefiil to the general as weU as the professional reader." — MedieO'Chirur^ 
gical Review. 



AlsOf in a Cover, price 6d.^ 

A GUIDE TO THE USE OP THE BUXTON 

WATERS. 

Fourth Edition, revised. 

** To those who think to pay Buxton'*'a visit, or may propose to send patients there, we 
ean recommend this little pamphlet, as giving very useful information respecting the xupc 
and curative effects oflts tepid waters." — Lancet 

" We have deiP^ed much satisfaction from the perusal of this little pamphlet, which will 
be found a necessary companion to all who are inclined to pay a visit to the Buxton 
Springs." — Medical Gazette. • 



