Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



4^. 2'^»«5^ 




■ucL- — - ■ iin« 



, ':<* vy\ 



\<\*^. 



. V\ V 



\ 



MANAGEMENT OF INFANCY: 



EEMAEKS OS THE IKFLUEKCE 



DIET AND REGIMEN, 



Br CHARLES HOtiG, M.li.CS., I„A.C., &c. 



LONDON: 
JOHN CHURCHILL, PBINCES STREET, SOHO. 



TO 



JAMES L. BARDSLEY, M.D. F.L.S., . 

Consultwg Physician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary Dispensary, ^./ Author 
of " Hospital Pacts and Observations,** 4^. ^., 



ANB 



THOMAS TURNEB, ESQ., F.R.C.S., F.L.S., 4c., 

Surgeon to the Manchester Royal Ir^firmary, Professor of Anatomy to the Royal 

Institution and School of Medicine, 4v., 



<EjliB iBntk 

T8 

INSCRIBED, 

AS 

A TRIBUTE OF GRATITUDE AND FRIENDSHIP, 

BY THEIR FORMER PUPIL, 

THE AUTHOR. 



1 

9 



•^^vmammmmtmmmmmm^'^mmmsaammmmmfmmmmtmmmi^m&mum 



PREFACE. 



The health of the body, like that of the mind, demands 
every variety of moral and intelligent conservation. In 
either case, the true remedy is, that which not only cures 
but preserves from disease. If, on spiritual subjects, a 
man cannpt speak with the voice of one having authority, 
unless he be divinely inspired, so on medical topics, no 
one can attain permanent consideration without the 
guarantee of competent practical knowledge. Zeal for 
the utmost melioration of human ills is not a sufficient 
justification for stepping before the public with medical 
remedies ; when, however, to a consciousness of sincere 
motives, are added watchful observation over a period of 
twenty years, and a constant practical experience, per- 
haps unusual both in kind and in extent, especially in 
cutaneous diseases and scroftda, it may not be deemed 
arrogant to report the results of treatment, the benefits 
of which have been incontestibly proved. 



VI PREFACE. 

The Author may also add^ that^ not only his own con* 
victions and the advice of friends prompt such a course, 
but the suggestion has been so repeatedly urged by 
several medical gentlemen, that the most respectful diffi- 
dence needs no further impulse to encounter a critical 
examination of remedies for evils so widely spread, and 
so extremely detrimental to the human race. 

It is indeed impossible to conceive that measures which 
have been so successful in numerous cases should fail, 
if applied with fidelity and skill, by other hands. The 
medicaments and methods in the minutest detail useful 
for practice, are frankly exposed to professional scrutiny; 
thus, at all events, acquitting the author of the vulgar 
quackery of mystery or concealment These claims 
certainly appear more worthy of approbation than pi*- 
tensions to mere novelty or literary elegance, which 
would ill compensate for the absence of practical truths. 

That a constitutional disease of a direful character, 
and so widely diffused as to afflict more or less every 
family in the British IsleSy is still permitted with little 
or no mitigation to poison the blood and corrupt the 
tissues of the rising generation, involves a deep reproach 
against our energy, our skill, and our humanity. Though 
scrofulous disorders do not, of themselves, abbreviate life 
to any great extent, as some writers have affirmed, still 
they frequently embitter it with hopelessness or despair. 
Considerations of this kind may reasonably excuse a 



'■'^ammmmmmmmrnggmmaamBBK^sammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmsss 



PREFACE, VU 

writer for publishing, who can conscientiously afBrm that 
the remedies he has made known in the following treatise^ 
against a disease so formidable and so subtle as to have 
hitherto baffled the efforts of some of the most eminent 
and skilful in the profession^ have been in his hands 
remarkably successful. It will^ perhaps^ be thought the 
Author has attributed too much importance to diet and 
regimen. He has stated his opinion unhesitatingly, from 
a conviction that thousands of lives are lost through sheer 
neglect of their salutary influences. 

Every patient should be made aware that it is in his 
power to facilitate his recovery, especially in chronic 
diseases, much more by diet than by medicine; the 
necessity of medicine is at best a misfortune, its admi- 
nistration very frequently pernicious, and the results often 
doubtful. He, therefore, who teaches men how they 
may live without being compelled to resort to it, is cer- 
tainly a greater benefactor to his species than he who 
Meludes with promises of great cures being accomplished, 
by following pompous prescriptions and farragoes of 
medicine. 

The Author is aware that many inaccuracies will be 
found in this his first brochure/ his aim has been more 
at utility than classical embellishment The laws of 
nature, as far as they regard the health and happinesa of 
mankind, are not so occult but that those who will take 



VIU PREFACE. 

the trouble to study them, will attain a knowledge of 
their operation. 

The marks of Almighty wisdom are every where dis- 
played, — in His hands there are no err (da; there is no 
limit to His wisdom, for all the knowledge which we are 
capable of acquiring flows from Him as from its source ; 
His power is illimitable, for everything of which we know 
the existence, is the work of His hand. 

^^ Ask for what end the heavenly bodies shine, 
Earth for whose use ? Pride answers, 'Tis for mine : 
For me kind nature wakes her genial power, 
Suckles each herb and spreads out every flower ; 
Annual for me the grape, the rose, renew 
The juice nectarious and the balmy dew ; 
For me the mine a thousand treasures brings ; 
For me health gushes from a thousand springs ; 
Seas roll to waft me, suns to light me rise ; 
My footstool earth, my canopy the skies."* 

14, Finsbury Place, South, 
London, July, 1849. 

• Essay on Man, Ep. 1. v.' 131-140. 



<^li«VHV 



CONTENTS. 



Dedication . . . . . . iii 

PRBFAOE ....... 

Contents . . . . . . ix 

CHAPTER I. 

ZNTBODUCnON. 

Definition — Harmony between the stomach and food —Repair of 
waste — ^Animal and Tegetable diet — Aids of chemical science — 
Vital principle — ^Liebig on nutrition, &c. — Gregory on the com- 
position of the tissues, &c. — ^Ultimate effect of aliment — ^Autho- 
rities on vegetable diet — Specific rules for diet impossible — 
Dietetic laws preferable to pharmacy — ^Function of leaves of 
plants — ^Development of disease by improper food — Opinions of 
the ancients on diet — Disease never without cause — ^Extract of 
Medical Times — ^The three errors in diet — ^Measles, scarlet fever, 
teething, &c., importantly modified by diet — ^Example of the 
effects of over-feeding— Alterative power of food : its necessity 
in chronic disease — Cause of medical neglect — encouragement of 
quackery . . . . .1 

CHAPTER II. 

APPBOPBIATE FOOD FOB INFANTS. 

Existing prejudices — Great object of digestion; healthy chyle- 
Nature's provision for the first stage of life — ^Reasons for unstimu- 
lating food — What the food is ; how prepared and administered 
— Its preservative power against the usual diseases of infancy — 
Dr. Primros on animal diet for children— Dr. Conquest on diet 13 



CONTENTS. 
CHAPTEE III. 

8ANAT0BT CONDinOKS. 



rA«B 



Infimt deaths from bad air — Crowded towns — Opiates — Dr. Conquest 
on the necessity for pure air — ^Its temperature — Seasons — 
Draughts — ^Dr. A. Combe — ^Exercise needful to preserve as well 
as to restore health ; especially in cases of scrofula — ^Exercise the 
sole medicine for certain purposes — ^Why walking is beneficial — 
Sympathy between the skin and other vital organs— Dr. Under- 
wood on in&nt exercise — ^Dandling — ^Rubbing — ^Nursing — ^The 
first steps — Baby jumper — ^Hall£ on health — Clothing — Spartan 
rules — ^Dr. M. HaU — Deficiency and excess — Calico and flannel — 
Linen — Cold feet — Chamois leather — Season — Colour — Dr. 
A. Combe — Tight and long clothes — ^Tight lacing — ^Friction — 
Curative in many diseases — Why — Soap sometimes injurious — 
Salt or viuegar in the water — ^Dr. Dick on the discipline of the 
ancients — ^Mr. Turner — Sleep, according to age — ^Excess or 
deficiency — General Elliot — Mackay of Skerrey, and others — 
Condition and effects of sleep — Sir J. Sinclair on night sleep — 
Quantity and period of sleep— Bedroom and bed — Change of 
garments — ^Watchftilness . . . .23 

CHAPTEE IV. 

BATHING. 

Bathing efficacious in chronic diseases — ^History of bathing — ^When 
cold bathing is improper — Caution needful in aU cases — Curative 
power of cold water — ^Dr. Currie on tepid effusion — ^Warm and 
cold water in scarlet fever — Method of cold immersion — ^To 
whom it is suitable — ^Natural warm baths — ^Vapour bath — ^Whit- 
law's patent — ^Evils of impure skin and checked perspiration — 
Sympathy between the skin and internal organs — ^Eruptions on 
the £Eice, &c. — ^Delabere Blaine — Prejudice against the vapour 
bath — ^Effects of odours — ^Gaseous medicine . .41 

CHAPTER V. 

CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS. 

Herpes — Vesicular tetter — Phlyctenodes, labiaHs, nasalis and circi- 
natus ; symptoms, diagnosis, cause, treatment, and cases — 
Porigo scutulata, scald head, or ringworm; description, cause 
(according to E. Wilson), cure, and cases — Icthyosis; character, 
cases, and cure — Lepra vulgaris ; description, cause- uncertain, 
cases, and treatment — Psoriasis inveterata ; cases and treatment. 55 



CONTENTS. XI 



CHAPTER VI. 

STRUMA YULOABIS: SCBOFITLA, OB ^INO's BYIL. 



FAOK 



What it is — ^The parts usually affected — ^Nature of the scrofulous 
matter — ^History and development — Cause — ^Pathology — ^Treat- 
ment — ^Mr. Lawrence — Dr. Glover — Samuel Cooper, in Med. 
Die. — Celsus — ^Drs. MoUeson — Caiswell — ^Abercrombie — ^Andral 
— Laenneo — ^Meckel — ^Dupuytren — CruveHheier — Otto, &c. — ^The 
Lancet — Chemical analysis of tuberde — Simon — ^Dubois — ^Phillip 
on the blood — ^Analysis by French Authorities 

Histobt: remote — ^Edward the Confessor — Cure by touch — 
Cold and moist climates — Sex and age most liable — ^Fair and 
dark complexions — ^Scrofiila hereditary, not contagious — Cause 
debility, or debilitating diseases — Digestion — ^Improper food — 
Pigs affected by scrofula — ^Dr. Jas. Eayer on diet — ^Diseases of 
cattle — ^Bad air — ^Pathology — ^Boileau — ^Mayo — ^Effects of mer- 
cury — ^Affections of the eyes — Caries of the vertebrae — ^Biliary 
secretion. 

Tbeatmsnt : smiple medtcine— Oood food — ^Vapour bath — ^Polygala 
senega — ^Tormantil root, &c. — Iodine — Cod liver oil; Professor 
Bennett — ^Dr. Williams — ^Brown ointment — Cases . 72 

CHAPTER VIL 

HEPATIC OB LIVEB DI80BDEB8. 

liver, its size, function, general anatomy, vessels, nerves, ducts, &c. — 
Uses of the bile ; assists the lungs — Sir Everard Home's opinion 
— ^Bile secreted in hybemating animals — Colour, taste, and 
specific gravity of bile — Reasons for noticing liver diseases — 
Hot dimates— Oauses of liver complaints ; intemperate living, 
the passions, want of exercise, &c. — Symptoms of liver disease — 
Extract taraxicum ; mode of preparation ; American different 
from English — Its influence on the secretion — ^Properties — 
Cases — ^Dr. Pemberton, &c. . . . .106 



APPENDIX. 
Observations on the different articles of diet, &c. .116 



EBBATA. 

Page 47, the heading, *'. Vapour Bath," should precede sect. 64 truteadof 
sect. 72, page 50. 

64, first line of the prescription, for cencent read concent. 

93, sect. 158, line 2, for lymphathics read lymphatics. 

126, Appendix, line 3 from the bottom, for unassimulated read 
unassimilated. 



if 



MANAGEMENT OF INFANCY. 



CHAPTER I. 



INTBODUCTION. 



Definition — Harmony between the stomach and food— Bepair of waste — 
Animal and yegetable diet — Aids of chemical science — Yital principle 
— Liebig on nutrition, &c. — Gregory on the composition of the tissues, 
&c. — ^Ultimate effect of aliment — Authorities on vegetable diet — Spe- 
cific rules for diet impossible — ^Dietetic laws preferable to pharmacy — 
Function of leaves of plants — ^Development of disease by improper 
food — Opinions of the ancients on diet — ^Disease never witiiout cause — 
extract of Medical Times — The three errors in diet — Measles, scarlet 
fever, teething, &c., importanUy modified by diet — ^Example of the 
effects' of over-feeding — Alterative power of food : its necessity in 
chronic disease — Cause of medical neglect — encouragement of 
quackery. 

1. In commencing a work on Diet and Regimen, it may 
be profitable as well as interesting to the general reader, to 
enter into an examination of the digestive capacities of 
different animals, showing the relation which the cavity bears 
to the kind of food destined by providence to afford nourish- 
ment and support ; and as our object is not to write a purely 
scientific treatise, we shall offer a few general remarks on 
that subject, in the hope that they will be found to be useful 
and important in practice. 



2 iNTBODUcnoir* 

2. " An organised body, wbetiier of the ammal or yegetable 
kingdom, cannot sustain the functions of life without a eertain 
expenditure, or ecnisumption of the materials of whieh it 
consists ; it is eyident therefore, that every living being, in 
order to continue its existence, must possess the means of 
receiving and assimilating to itself foreign matter for the 
repair of its diurnal waste. It is upon this necessity that the 
want of food is founded ; its judicious administration must 
be directed upon principles, the knowledge of which can be 
alone derived from the sources of physiology and chemis- 
try." — Dr. Paris an Diet. 

3. It is well known that man is capable of existing either 
upon an exclusively animal or vegetable diet. The author i» 
acquainted with numerous instances where, for periods of 
forty years and upwards, animal food in any shape has never 
been eaten, and all the persons alluded to acknowledge them- 
selves to have been in excellent health. The Hindoos, 
Lombard peasants. West Indian negroes, and those of 
Senegal, live exclusively on vegetable diet ; whilst the 
Esquimaux confine themselves to the blubber of the seal: 
and Spallanzani has satisfactorily shown that animals may 
be brought to live on food of the most opposite kinds, 
provided the change is gradually accomplished ; for example, 
a pigeon on ilesh ; an eagle on bread, &c. 

4. Chemistry has contributed greatly to our scientific 
knowledge of the principles or elements of which our food is 
composed, but our information from this source is not to be 
exclusively relied upon until our knowledge of the vital 
principle, or what infiuences assimilation, &c., is better 
understood. 

5. The splendid achievements of liebig and others have 
placed the theory of digestion, zmtrition, &c., on a very 
different basi& to what it was before their time. Much that 
was previously- obscure is now rendered plain and demon- 
strable. The results of experiments have shown that, which 
by no previous process of reasoning could have come to our 
knowledge. Dr. Gregory, in his preface to Liebig on food,, 
states : '* I cannot omit to direct the attention of physiologists 
to the proof contained in the following pages of the truth of 



IKTKODirCTION. 3 

the principle, that every property, however apparently trifling 
or minute, possessed by any constituent of the organism, even 
by such as occur only in very small proportion, has its 
destined use and function. And, consequently, that every 
constant difference, whether of composition, of form, or of 
quality, in the different tissues and fluids, must likewise 
correspond to a difference of function, in which, as a general 
rule, it cannot be replaced, nor its absence compensated for, 
by any other substance, however analogous in most of its 
properties. A striking example of this truth will be found in 
the facts concerning the great preponderance of phosphate of 
potash and chloride of potassium in the juice of flesh; 
while in the blood and lymph which circulates through the 
muscles, it is phosphate of soda and chloride of sodium which 
prevail. Another will be found in the fact that the juice of 
flesh is always strongly acid, while the blood and lymph are 
decidedly alkaline; and a third is seen in the abundant 
supply of lactic acid in the juice of flesh, while it cannot be 
detected in the urine." Dr. Grregory thinks the true function 
of the phosphate of soda in the blood, is to absorb carbonic 
acid and give it out to the lungs. '* What an inconceivable 
delusion, what a confusion of ideas must exist, when a 
physician thinks that from the complex results of an analysis 
of the blood he can draw a conclusion as to the nature and 
cause of disease, and can found on this a method of treat- 
ment, when we have not yet advanced so far in physiology as 
to bring into relation with the digestive process one of the 
simplest chemical facts, namely, the absence of alkaline 
phosphates in the urine of herbivora! What physiologist 
has ever yet attempted to flx and define the notion of bad or 
spoiled food in its full signification, by means of a logical 
comparison with good and wholesome food? and yet the 
former are regarded as the proximate cause of diseased 
conditions."* 

6. We do not think it is of such weighty importance iit 
reference to the nourishment of the body, whether, the food 
is nitrogenous or not, seeing that the ultimate effect of all 
aliment is the same. There is but little difference between 

• Chemistry of Food, by Justua liebig, M.D., 1847, page 4. 
B 2 



K^ai^-^ 



4 INTEODirCTIOK. 

the flesh of carnivorous and herbivorous animals. Some^ 
most able remarks on this subject will be found in the very 
elaborate lectures of Dr. Garrod. (Lancet of 1848-9). It is 
in the experience of most persons, that the degree of feverish 
excitement is greater after a full meal of animal food than 
one of a purely vegetable character. Although we are told 
that animal food is more analogous in composition to the reci- 
pient, yet we assert that in practice there is more expenditure 
of vital power necessary for its digestion and assimilation. 

7. Philosophers, from Pythagoras to Dr. Franklin, have 
borne their testimony in favor of a vegetable diet. Itsr 
beneficial influences on the mental powers have been experi^ 
enced by most literary men ; and as Dr. Cullen justly ob- 
serves, vegetable aliment, never over-distending the vessels, 
or loading the system, never interrupts the stronger motions 
of the mind ; while the heat, fulness, and weight of animal 
food is an enemy to its vigorous efforts. 

8. We are of course speaking of general principles, be- 
cause no specific rules concerning diet can be given, inasmuch 
as that would involve the consideration of habit, constitution^ 
age, temperament, occupation, climate, season, civilization, 
&c., which must be attended to by the judicious physician 
before his rules of living are laid down and enforced. '^ He," 
says a German author, '' who asks what is the best diet, 
without qualifying the question by a reference to a particular 
case, is like a man who inquires what is the best wind, with^ 
out stating whither he intends to steer." 

9. It would be well, were a more rigid adherence given to 
dietetics than to the multiplied resources of pharmacy, par- 
ticularly in the treatment of chronic diseases ; for then there 
would be less risk of the empiric or the quack stepping in 
with his farago of nostrums, mulcting the pocket, and in- 
juring the constitutions of his deluded victims. Providence 
has ordained that plants shoidd contain in their composition, 
in a far more refined state, all the alimentary matter neces- 
sary for the sustentation of man. It is somewhat remarkable 
that the ascending sap in almost* all plants is nearly the 
same, namely, carbonic acid, held in solution in water ; azote 
and a small quantity of alkali constituting the only diflerence. 



INTBODUCTION. 5 

What a tihatige is produced by the leaves — ^the lungs of the 
plant ! How important the influence of light and atmo« 
spherical air ! Their aliment is precisely the same, but what 
a multitude of forms do they assume in the organisms of 
different plants ! The same soil on which we grow grain, 
beet root, potatoes, &c., yields tobacco and poppies. 

10. Whilst an absurd opprobrium is thrown upon thos6 
who insist upon nature's simples, the benefit of the practical 
experience of men who have devoted their time and attention 
to the subject will be withheld from the public and profes- 
sion. We shall show hereafter, that a departure from simple 
and unstimulating diet has entailed numerous diseases which 
had no existence before. Who that reflects for one moment 
can doubt, that far more important results are to be obtained 
through the aid of the materia alimentarta than through the 
materia medica, 

11. In the birth-place of our maternal ancestors, a village 
in East Lothian in Scotland, scrofula and diseases of the skin 
were wholly unknown until within the last forty years. The 
then venerable pastor was the sole medical referee of the 
place, containing some seven or eight hundred inhabitants, 
there not being at that period one qualified medical practi- 
tioner within six miles of it, though it now contains five or 
six. The cause of such a happy exemption we believe to 
have been owing to the nature and quality of the diet, con- 
sisting (at all events until the age of fourteen or fifteen) 
of oatmeal porridge, milk, potatoes, and various esculent 
plants, fruits, bread, &c. But since these primitive and 
temperate habits have been superseded by others of a more 
stimulating and demoralizing description, disease in all its 
forms and virulence has been as common as in other localities; 
and we believe the same remarks to be applicable to the 
majority of the Scottish villages at the present time. 

What a mighty moral revolution would take place, were 
the present population to return to the simple, healthy, and, 
we might add, virtuous habits of their ancestors ? What an 
amount of misery would be dissipated, were the^accursed 
dram-drinking to become a matter of history instead of 
universal practice? Temperance in all things is the basis 



6 INTBODUCTIOir. 

and stay of health and comfort, the parent and nurtnrer of 
the social and moral relations of life ; whilst squalid filth, 
animalized habits, crime, and disease, are the products of 
intemperance. 

1 2. The ancients beHeved that health formed the principal 
part or basis of human happiness ; and they were thus induced 
to investigate the causes of human suffering and the most 
simple means of relieving it. They Ibund that diet was the 
most potent remedy to prevent, remove, or nutigate most 
diseases, and that led them to the study of the vegetable 
kingdom as applicable for food and medicine ; and experience, 
aided by sagacious reasoning, induced them to select as diet, 
that which enabled them, with a few simples, to remove with 
ease many infirmities otherwise found to be invincible by 
human art. 

They believed disease to be an adventitious oecurrence, 
and not an inherent principle in our nature ; and when it 
arose in the system, they never thought of attributing it to 
derangement in the harmonious actions of the constituent 
parts of the body, but to some noxious substance which had 
been taken into the stomach. While these sensible views 
guided them in their treatment, we need not wonder that 
diseases were few in number, and the means of cure simple 
and successful. But since diet has been considered a matter 
of taste instead of principle, and disease an effect without a 
cause, disorders have increased almost beyond calculation ; so 
that their names have become a burthen to the memory. 

'* The diseases which affict the human race present, in their 
number, a fearful and appalling catalogue. Dr. CuUen 
enumerates no less than 1387 distinct species I and, since his 
day, how many have not been added to fill up the measure 
of the bitter woes of human life I Of these, a portion are 
caused by derangements of the structure of the different parts 
of the body, whereby the organs affected are unable to per- 
form their appointed functions ; of this nature are enlargements- 
of the heart and arteries, ulceration of the lungs, &c. &c. 
Other diseases have their origin in the inclemencies and 
vicissitudes of the atmosphere, and in the miasma arising 
from the earth, such as fevers and many inflammatory^ 



iin:BODircTiOK« 7 

diseases. A third kiod «re caused by irregularities in diet 
and every species of intemperance — irregularities in exercise, 
mental and bodily; and a fourth description are those con- 
tagious diseases which generally occur only once in a lifetime, 
such as, small-pox, measles, hooping-cough, and others. It 
must be obvious from this enomeration, that the notion pretty 
generally entertained, that every disease is an unnatural state 
brought about by the conduct of man Mmself, is extremely 
vague and unfounded. The heart becomes ossified ; or an 
artery gives way at a particular part, and ultimately bursts, 
in the young, the healthy, and the temperate, without the 
slightest apparent cause; mortal fevers occur from states of 
the atmosphere which man can never anticipate, and over 
which he has not the slightest con^ol ; and from many con- 
tagious diseases, he has i^ith^ the means of escaping nor of 
protecting himself. It is true, there remains the diseases 
arising from repletion, from irregularities of diet and exercise, 
and from every species of intemperance, all which may be 
truly said to be diseases of men's creating ; and out of the 
whole list of 13S7 diseases already mentioned, 612 are classed 
by Cullen as nervous — a train of maladies which are peculiar 
to luxurious and highly civilized communities. 

'' In the savage state, according to the statements of our 
most intelligent travelers, the list of diseases is very circum- 
scribed; but those that prevail are of a violent and acute 
nature, suddenly producing death. As might be supposed, 
the diseases are those which originate in vicissitudes of the 
climate, and in irregularities of diet, from alternate states of 
extreme fasting, ^nd of consequent repletion. Dr. Rush 
reports of the aboriginal natives of North America, 
that fevers, inflammations, and dysenteries make up the sum 
of their complaints ; and mentions, in particular, that, after 
much inquiry, he had not been able to find a single instance 
of madness, melancholy, or fatuity among them ; neither 
did he hear of a case of consumption. Mungo Park, in his 
travels in Africa, reports the same of the negroes. He says 
they are generally healthy, but not long-lived, and that fevers 
and fluxes are the most common and &tal diseases ; and 
Cook, La Perouse, and Bruce, declare that they never saw an 



8 INTEODUCTION. 

old man among tlie savages. Neither are savages so strong, 
nor will they undergo so much bodily fatigue, as the average 
of civilized Europeans." — Medical Times, March Srd, 1849. 

We have not the least doubt that the success attained in 
some instances by one of the most absurd and preposterous 
systems of the present day, is the result of diet and regimen. 
This ought to have some influence with such as have a 
nostrum for every disease — a specific for every symptom. 

13. The three great errors into which mankind fall in 
reference to diet, are, Mnd, quantity, and quality. That the 
majority of diseases to which children are subject arise &om 
inattention to diet, our experience, and that of other writers, 
enable us with confidence to affirm. We can distinctly assert, 
from personal observations, that measles, scarlet fever, and 
the difllerent stages of teething, are all mitigated by abstinence 
from stimulating food. The author strictly prohibits the use 
of animal food to his own children, neither of whom have 
scarcely had a day's illness, or occasion to take medicine once 
in six months. The common diseases of infancy have all been 
passed through with scarcely any medical aid being required; 
and we state it with a grateful heart, that healthier children 
cannot be seen. Their diet has consisted principally of milk 
and bread, farinaceous puddings, rice, sago, &c. with fruits. 

14. The following is one out of many examples that have 
come within our knowledge during the last two or three 
years. We were called into the country to visit a child, 
(eighteen months old) suffering from a frightful herpetic 
eruption, covering the greater portion of the body, some parts 
with running sores, and others covered with brownish scales, 
which, when removed by scratching, left a sore discharging a 
thin ichorous matter, affecting the parts wherever it came in 
contact, and always attended with the most intense irritation. 
The child was feverish, fretful, and constantly crying, and 
had not had a night's rest for months, although opiates had 
been administered. On making enquiry respecting the child's 
diet, we found that it took a pint of milk night and morning 
with bread soaked in it. Mutton broth, eggs, and beef tea in 
turns for dinner, besides bread and butter, jellies, jams, &c. 
We at once restricted the child to one fourth part of the milk 



INTBODUCTION. 9 

mixed with rather more than an equal quantity of water, for 
its supper, and it slept that night more than it had done from 
the commencement of its illness. In the morning we found 
the little patient less feverish and not so irritable. The same 
quantity of milk with bread was given for breakfast ; a rice, 
sago, tapioca pudding, or sometimes a bread or light batter, 
for dinner ; and for drink, barley water with a very little milk, 
changed occasionally for toast and water; we ordered the 
child to have four meals per day ; nothing during the inter*- 
vals. This treatment produced a very favourable change in a 
few days. We had much to contend with owing to the 
prejudices of the mother, who believed that as the child was 
weak and delicate, notwithstanding all its good living, it 
must, as a matter of course, become more so if it were to be 
restricted to that which appeared to her to be less nourishing, 
and greatly diminished in quantity. She, however, at length 
became convinced that it was neither the quantity nor quality, 
but what the child healthily digested and assimilated that its 
strength and recovery depended upon. 

15. Children under twelve months ought to be limited 
almost exclusively to biscuit powder well boiled in water, 
with a little sugar. This, with the mother's milk, will 
frequently be amply sufficient. We could point out dozens 
of children who are strpng, robust, of full muscular develop- 
ment, cheerful, and intelligent, who have been confined to this 
diet, (a little milk occasionally added to the biscuit powder) 
and this persevered in until- they attained upwards of two 
years of age. We can now look back upon twelve yefirs' 
experience, and where the above rules have been carried into 
effect, the happiest results have followed; that is, vigorous 
health and freedom from disease, amiability of disposition, at 
all times very agreeable to parents. 

16. Unwholesome food and irregularity of diet are the 
causes, or, at least, the principal inducements to numerous 
diseases, and aggravate the symptoms in others. The whole 
constitution of the body may be altered from an unhealthy to 
a healthy state ; the fluids may be attenuated or condensed, 
and rendered sweet, acrid, or acid. Nor are the effects of 
food less considerable on the solids ; these may be braced or 

b5 "^ 



10 INTEODUCTIOir. 

relaxed ; have their sensible motions diminished or increased; 
and a very little attention to the various actions produced on 
the fluids or solids, will be sufficient] to show how much the 
preservation of health depends upon a proper regulation 
of the diet. 

Every step in the cure of chronic disease is very much 
assisted by wholesome food ; indeed, a permanent cure is 
seldom obtained without attention to it. We have seen this 
frequently verified in children with scrofulous ulcers, where 
three or four weeks' successful treatment has been upset by 
one day's indulgence in bad butter and pastry. Butter, for 
instance, is one of the most obnoxious substances that can be 
used in scrofulous complaints. It appears to have a prejudi- 
cial influence on the secretions and digestion, retards the 
healing process, by rendering the discharge acrid. What is 
more common than for people to indulge in the most incom- 
patible substances at the same meal, inducing the most active 
fermentation, both acetous and putrefactive ? When there is 
an absence of healthy chyle, we must not look for healthy 
nourishment. But this is not the worst ; amongst such 
persons we may expect visceral inflammation and a general 
derangement of the whole system. 

'' If a change in the position and arrangement of the ali- 
mentary molecules of animal compounds can exert, out of the 
body, a decided influence in a number of organic substances, 
when brought in contact with them ; if these substances are 
thus decomposed, and new compounds formed of their ele- 
ments : and if we consider, that among these compounds, 
namely, such as are susceptible of fermentation, are included 
all those matters which constitute the food of man and of 
animals, it cannot be doubted that the same cause plays a 
most important part in the vital process, that it has a great 
share in the alterations which nutritious matters suffer when 
they are converted into fat, into blood, or into the oenstitu- 
ents of organized tissues. ...... We must further admit, 

that with every modification produced by a cause of disease 
in the process of transformation of an organ, of a gland, or 
of one of their constituents, the action of this organ on the 
blood conveyed to it, or on the nature of the resulting secre- 



INTBODirCTION. 1 1 

ti6n, must, in like manner, be changed ; that the effect of a 
number of remedies depends on the share which they take on 
the change of matter; and that such remedies exert an 
influence on the quality of the blood, or of the food, chiefly 
in this way, that they alter the direction and force of the 
action taking place in the organ, and which action they may 
accelerate, retard, or arrest." 

17. How beautifully the above remarks of Liebig are 
verified in the employment of what are called alteratives ; and 
in this we include special diet in the treatment of chronic 
diseases. If certain medicines influence the action of the 
different organs, such as the liver and kidneys^ thereby chang- 
ing the different secretions, the kind, quality, and quantity of 
the food is surely of as much importance. A sound healthy 
structure can never be reared &om unwholesome materials. 
The vis medicatrix nattira by some, the potential influence of 
medicine with others, are regarded as sufficient to overcome 
all that humanity is heir to. We do not shrink from frequent 
reiteration on this point. Our own observations lead us to 
the conclusion, that errors in diet and regimen form the most 
prolific source of disease ; thousands are cut off in infancy by 
diseases, natural and specific, requiring but little medical 
assistance, and we do not think, therefore, the subject can be 
too frequently discussed whilst new materials are constantly 
being brought to light. 

18. The exertions of medical men are not duly appre- 
ciated, however disinterested they may appear to be ; and 
until their efforts receive the support they are entitled to, 
profound physiological researches will be left to the investiga- 
tion of the few. There will be little inducement to per- 
severance, where there is a lack of respect for zealous and 
successful exertions. There are men always to be found who 
are opposed to the progress of knowledge, but their efforts 
are now too late, the night of ignorance is well nigh past, 
and the phantom of prejudice which has hitherto curtailed 
the growth of intellect, and impeded the circulation of know- 
ledge, flits and dwindles away before the light of science. 
While philosophy is extending her influence over new 
regions, and enlightening men who were before rude and 



12 IWTBODtrCTIOW. 

barbarous, surely there ought to be no hesitation in stating 
boldly that which has truth for its basis and utility for its 
end. The system of mystery and concealment which served 
only to shelter the ignorance of persons who once practised, 
is now disappearing ; at least their influence is but little fe]!t 
amongst the thinking public. Let the profession be more 
united ; let the petty jealousies which mar the social inter- 
course, interrupt the free communication of thought, and 
foster those prejudices destructive of their best interests, be 
abandoned ; let the generous hand of friendship be extended 
more cordially amongst themselves; and we venture to predict, 
that the obscene and disgusting advertisements which are a 
disgrace to the press in which they appear, and offensive to 
the eye of the reader, will soon cease to exist, and the char- 
latanry, which is, alas ! too successful with a certain class, 
will be treated with that universal contempt it so justly merits. 
We cannot help thinking that were the public better 
informed upon these subjects which are supposed to be 
exclusively professional, at all events if there were a more 
general and practical knowledge of them, the baneful effects 
of quackery would then meet with its proper antidote. Man 
is now more amenable to the authority of common sense. 
Whilst we advocate the advancement of knowledge in a 
popular form, we do not the less deprecate the effects of a 
little knowledge on medical subjects when it is attempted to 
be acted upon. We could point out the happy results of the 
publication of several small manuals by two or three phy- 
sicians of eminence, which had they been written and 
published some years back would have been received in a 
very different manner to that in which they are accepted 
now. 



13 



CHAPTER n. 



APPBOFKIATB FOOD FOB INFANTS. 



Existing prejudices — Great object of digestion; healthy chyle — ^Nature's 
provision for the first stage of Hfe — Reasons for unstimulating food — 
What the food is ; how prepared and administered — ^Its presenratiye 
power against the usual diseases of infancy — ^Dr. Primros on animal 
diet for children — ^Dr. Conquest on diet. 



19. It was a saying of Cato the censor, that *' 'twere use- 
less to preach to the belly, which has no ears." So long as 
gluttony prevails, and the stimulating sensualities of the table 
are not resented by the stomach, it were an idle task ; but 
when dyspepsia with all its concomitant and consecutive 
horrors has fully set in, the voice of reason and nature has 
some chance of being heard. All treatises therefore, how- 
ever humble, which have a tendency to enlighten mankind on 
this subject, will not be without use ; they must act as 
beacons to those who will take the trouble to consult them, 
and point out the rocks and quicksands on which they may be 
otherwise likely to founder. The great object of digestion is 
the formation of chyle ; consequently that food which sup- 
plies the greatest amount of that substance must be the most 
nutritious, and ceeteris paribus. Unquestionably most animals 
in infancy require a mild aiiimalised diet, but that must be 
furnished by the parent alone, if possible. When the masti- 
catory apparatus is fully developed, then a change should 
take place, and an approximation to the unstimulating food 



14 AFFS0P9IATE FOOD 

furnished by the mother ought to be resorted to. During the 
period of growth, the nutritive quality of the aliment is 
especially important. On this point there will be much 
diversity of opinion; some recommending a purely animalised, 
and others, an exclusively vegetable diet. The former, expe- 
rience has led us strictly to prohibit until the child shall be 
three or four years of age, unless circumstances demand a 
change. At every period, and in every state, the diet ought 
to be accommodated to the powers of the digestive organs. 
A change from a high to a reduced diet can rarely be borne in 
advanced life. That which is sanative to one whose digestion 
has been weakened by scanty and penurious living, cannot 
possibly be suitable to another who has suffered from a long 
course of repletion ; nor can that which is proper food for the 
active and laborious, be fitting for the studious and sedentary. 
The agriculturist, the huntsman, the manual labourer, con- 
tinue until late in life full of energy and ardour ; and good 
and generous living with them is desirable, if not absolutely 
necessary. The man surrounded by plenty or superfluity, 
and by all the delights of existence, and who does not make 
a proper use of them, falls, even in the midst of them, into 
passive being. 

After stating these few general remarks, we come now to 
treat the subject more specifically, and to endeavour to 
answer the question. What is the proper food for infants ? 

20. By infiwcy is meant that period of life which extends 
from birUi to the end of the second year. If we regard for a 
moment the tender structure of the stomach and bowels, the 
highly sensitive mucous membrane which lines or covers 
them, its soft texture, the absence of the plica or valvulae 
oonniventes, the use of which in the adult is supposed to be for 
delaying the food in its passage which is less digestible, to 
allow of the absorption of its nutritive ppperties ; we shall 
understand the imperative necessity of administering a bland 
and unstimulating aliment. When the mother has a plentiful 
supply of milk, and that of a healthy character, this ought to 
be ^e exclusive food of the infant, for at least the first six 
or seven months ; and when that is not the case, once or 
twice a-d|iy the child ought to have biscuit powder thoroughly 



wmm^^tm'mi^mmmmmmmmmmmmi 



FOB GHILDBEN. 10^ 

boiled in water, with or without a little sugar ; the latter does 
not always agree with children, it is apt to produce acidity. 
A very small quantity is not likely to do this. When flatu- 
lency exists, a little dill water ought to be given or added. 
When acidity is indicated, a few drops of the aromatic 
spirit of ammonia ; but the child ought by no means to be 
accustomed to these additions. When there are indications 
of uneasiness, and green slimy motions observed, medical aid 
should be obtained. 

21. When the infant ceases to receive any support from 
the mother, the biscuit powder four times a day should be the 
exclusive food, occasionally adding a little milk, varying the 
quantity according to circumstances, and strictly prohibiting 
anything during the intervals. The practice of giving infcmts 
cake, fruit, &c. during the intervals of their meals, is one of 
the great causes of too frequent acidity ; we may add to this, 
over-feeding. Rusks may be substituted for biscuits, or what 
are called tops and bottoms ; and the mode of preparing them 
is as follows : say for a child of eight months old, take four, 
and pour over them some boiling rain, or filtered water ; when 
well soaked the mess should be passed through a fine sieve, in 
order to secure an uniform pultaceous mess, to prevent the 
possibility of irritation to the bowels, from swallowing small 
hard pieces, which frequently happens when the food is care- 
lessly prepared. It should be boiled for three or four 
minutes, and we generally give the preference to biscuit 
powder, as it is less likely to run into the acetous fermenta- 
tion. In numerous instances this has been th& exclusive food 
until two years of age, and during the eighteen succeeding 
months the only addition has been milk, isinglass, or lime 
water. It is impossible to be too careful respecting the 
cleanliness of the saucepan the food is prepared in, or the 
boat or bottle out of which the in&nt takes its food. Neither, 
imder any circumstances, ought the food to be warmed up 
again more than once, and where it is practicable, it ought to 
be prepared a short while before the in&nt requires it. 
These apparently trifling remarks will be foimd to be of the 
utmost consequence to weakly children ; and the great im- 
portance of attending to them is, that that attention will for » 



16 APPBOPBIATE POOD 

certainty diminish the natural tendency there is to the pro- 
duction of acidity in the stomach. We have generally found 
one of the great causes of derangement of the stomach or 
bowels to arise from some prohibited addition in the shape of 
beef tea, eggs, &c., and when the rule is broken, the penalty 
soon becomes evident. Undoubtedly it is the mixture o^ the 
two that causes the mischief. We have met with cases of 
mesenteric disease, where a higher order of nutritive aliment 
has been requisite ; and here beef tea, entirely free from fat, 
has been of the most essential benefit, with the addition of 
small quantities of sago, tapioca, or arrowroot, taking care to 
enjoin a more prolonged abstinence. **Tea, whether prepared 
from beef or any other substance, is best made fqr infants, by 
cutting or chopping the meat exceedingly small, and by 
pouring over it water at a temperature of 70®, in which it 
should remain for half an hour, before the temperature is 
slowly and gradually raised. It should remain at a high 
temperature or boiling point but a very few minutes, as by 
the lower degrees of heat the virtues of the meat will be more 
perfectly extracted. This mode is preferable to pouring 
boiling water on the meat, or by boiling it, because in either 
case, the outer fibrous part becomes coagulated by the hot 
fluid, and acts as a barrier to the proper digestion of the 
meat in the water. As. a general rule, a pound of meat to 
a quart of water will be found to make tea of a sufficient 
strength for all ordinary occasions.'* — Dr. Conquest's letter to 
a mother, 

22. With regard to the mode qf giving the child its food, 
we have seen nurses place the infant flat on its back, and 
stuff the food down its throat until it is literally gorged; 
nature, however, soon shows she is the best judge respecting 
quantity, as generally the infant when it has had too much 
will reject part of it in less than ten minutes ; after it has 
been thus crammed, the child should be in a semi-erect 
posture in the nurse's lap, which is easily accomplished by 
placing one foot on a low stool. It should be remembered 
that it is irksome for a child to remain long in one position, 
hence the propriety of suspending the feeding for a minute or 
two, and dandling the child. Its tender muscles cannot bear 



«■ 



FOB CHILDBEK. 17 

long tension, and this remark equally applies to suckling, for 
the breast should be changed when practicable. 

23. The manner of feeding is of great importance to the 
health and comfort of the child. For the first five or six 
months, the food should be taken out of a bottle with a pre- 
pared teat made of very soft wash leather. The greatest care 
is required to keep this clean. It should be well washed 
immediately after being used, and put into a well corked 
bottle with a little spirit and water. The bottle that contains 
the food should also be thoroughly cleaned after the meals, 
and well dried before being used again ; in short, the greatest 
care should be taken with respect to all these particulars, for 
the purpose of preventing the formation of acid in the 
stomach. The reason for advising the teat, or artificial 
nipple, is that the infant is not so likely to engorge itself, 
in consequence of the exertion required in feeding through 
such means. Besides, this mode excites the salivary glands 
to pour out their secretions, which are so essential in aiding 
the digestion of the food ; the teat is prepared by cutting a 
piece of soft chamois leather the shape of the tip of the finger, 
and perforating it with small holes ; a small piece of sponge 
should be placed inside, and secured by a pieoe of thread to 
the bottle. We may here remark that the food should always 
be as nearly as possible of the temperature of the mother's 
milk. 

24. We have often prescribed a compound which has 
agreed remarkably well with children who have not had the 
advantage of a nurse, namely, the biscuit powder prepared as 
already directed, with the addition of ass or goat's milk, or 
barley water, the latter prepared as follows. Take a desert 
spoonful of pearl barley, wash it well with a little warm 
water, afterwards put it into a jug previously warmed, pour 
over it a pint of boiling water, cover it, and let it stand by 
the fire for two hours, then pour off the clear supematent 
fluid, which ought to be perfectly clear, and thus we obtain 
all the nutritive properties of the barley, instead of havings 
that thick disagreeable mess usually -denominated barley 
water. When a little lemon and sugar is added, it makes a 
delicious drink in fever. We have found the following 



18 APPBOPSIATB POOO 

pudding agree remarkably well with children fourteen or 
sixteen months old as a change, namely, half an egg well 
beat, then add a teaspoonful and a half of flour, this again to 
be thoroughly mixed, then add about four ounces of milk 
gradually, and boil it slowly for twenty minutes in a covered 
cup : when well made, it is nearly of the consistence of a 
thick custard. K at all lumpy, it should be rejected at 
once, 

25. In making ground rice, tapioca, sago, or bread 
puddings for children, very little egg should be employed, as 
they are then rendered more indigestible. Simple milk and 
water, sugar, and a little cinnamon or nutmeg, is much more 
likely to agree* Some children are very partial to a mealy 
potato, with the addition of a little gravy from roast beef or 
mutton, and this is greatly preferable to giving meat ; but no 
healthy child ought to take animal food until it has a 
mouthful of teeth to masticate it. " To feed a child with 
veal, chicken, or other animal food, before nature hath given 
it teeth enough to chew it, howsoever small it may be 
minced, is altogether unnatural, and prove nourishing only to 
such children as, from the great strength of their constitu- 
tions, need least of all the assistance of art" — Primros. 

*' Until children have four or six teeth, they can have little 
to do with articles of food requiring mastication, and unless 
meat and other solid articles are masticated, they cannot be 
thoroughly digested." — Dr, Conquest. 

Our own opinion is that such food ought to be deferred 
until they have double this number of teeth. The author's 
eldest child is four years « old, a healthier or sturdier little 
fellow is not to be met with, and he has not tasted animal 
£ood twenty times since he was bom. 

26. It is well known that the principal food of children in 
Scotland consists of oatmeal porridge, bread and milk, and 
continues to be so amongst the labouring classes. Modem 
tastes, however, have been introduced amongst the higher 
classes of society, by whom it is considered vulgar to live on 
such plain fares. Tea, coffee, &c., have supplanted that 
national food; but are the bills of mortality diminished by 



FOB OHILDBEN. 19 

the change ? Is there less disease now than fonnerly, cir- 
cumstances being equal ? A most unfounded prejudice exists 
amongst persons south of the Tweed, that oatmeal is heating, 
whereas it is really productive of no such evil, when properly 
prepared with half milk and half water. It is rendered more 
palatable, and certainly becomes more digestible, by the addi- 
tion of one third of barley meal. But can it be wondered at 
that oatmeal porridge should not agree with individuals here, 
when it is remembered that the meal, before it is used, is 
generally exposed to the atmosphere for weeks, and even 
months, and which exposure, it is well known, causes it to 
become sour and really then unfit to eat ? Were the con- 
sumption of oatmeal here greater, this perhaps would not be 
the case longer; it ought to be well covered up immediately 
it is obtained from the mill. We have witnessed its beneficial 
effects in many cases of obstinate constipation, both in infanta 
and adults, after the disease occasioning the inconvenience 
has been overcome by the aid of medicine. If oatmeal is 
kept some time before it is required, it ought always to be 
thoroughly warmed in the oven before it is used, which will 
free it from much of the acid it may contain. Oatmeal 
cakes, however, are heating and decidedly pernicious to weak 
stomachs, and persons subject to acidity. 

27. We are perfectly aware of and are prepared for the 
opposition which is likely to be made to our repeated 
objection to the use of animal food for children. Still we 
must continue earnestly to inculcate the principles laid down 
in the observations we have already made on this important 
point. We have given the most unremitting attention to the 
question. We have no theory to support — we disclaim all 
theory in the statements we have made; what we have 
stated has been the result of impartial -experience; and our, 
sole object is to contribute our humble meed of aid towards 
having healthy and happy, instead of diseased and suffering, 
members of society. '* If facts are the basis of sound reason- 
ing, and the source of improvements in science, they will be 
assiduously cultivated by every investigator of the laws of 
nature ; persuaded that, howsoever misapplied for a season^ 



20 APPBOFBIATE FOOD 

they must eventoally confirm his maxima or correct his 
mistakes."-— 2>r. Undertoood, 

28. Rich pastry, pie crust, meat cooked under pastry, and 
all kinds of fruit in puddings and pies, huttered toast, rich 
cakes, and sweetmeats of almost every description, more or 
less disturb the bowels, cloy the stomach, pall the appetite, 
and may produce sickness and fever, destroy the teeth, and 
taint the breath. ^' Pastry cooks are to children a great 
nuisance ; there is no method so common by which foolish 
parents, friends, and nursery maids, express their attachment, 
feigned or real, to children, as by stuffing them with the rich 
and vile dainties of a confectioner's or pastry cook*s shop. 
When it is recollected that these dainties are made to sell, and 
that lard, common fiit, salted and not very fresh butter, 
dripping and solid grease, as well as flour and eggs, enter into 
their composition, we cannot be surprised that the stomachs 
of these innocent creatures become cloyed and distended, and 
that they are made ill ; and then, because they are sick, and 
disposed to eat nothing else, nothing else is offered them. 
Medical men and all sensible people, who look on children 
without that mistaken and blind fondness which misguides 
their parents, know too well that this habit is a prolific source 
of disease, vitiates the appetite, and disinclines it for simple 
and wholesome food. While no harm can result from occa- 
sionally giving a child a plain bun, a fruit tart, a biscuit, or a 
piece of gingerbread, the abuse of the practice, and the 
rendering it a daily habit, cannot be too severely repro- 
bated." — Dr. Conquest. 

29. Respecting drinks, children seldom require anything 
beyond simple water ; toast water is perhaps the best, but is 
not always the most agreeable to the palate ; very hard water 
is injurious to some children. We recollect meeting with a 
very severe case of dropsy in a child, which was attributed, 
and we think justly, to the drinking of hard chalky water ; 
several children in the same locality were suffering more or 
less from obstruction in the kidneys. We have repeatedly 
known children as well as adults to become ill when first 
visiting Margate and other places on the coast, where the 
fresh water is very hard, but generally those ailments are 



FOB GHILDBEN« 21 

speedily removed by acidulating the water occasionally with 
a little lemon juice. Barley water as a drink for children is 
Tery wholesome, prepared as already directed. The practice 
of giving malt liquor and wines, except under medical advice, 
cannot be too severely condemned. We do not altogether 
approve of tea and coffee ^in early childhood ; weak chocolate 
is preferable ; but children when in health seldom become 
tired of their bread and milk. 

30. Many persons have a decided prejudice against fruits ; 
this is foolish, and arises from mistaken notions, as nothing 
contributes so much to correct costiveness, and to cool the 
body, as fruit judiciously selected. Boasted apples, figs, 
oranges, apricots, peaches, pears, strawberries, raspberries, 
grapes deprived of their skins, and seeds when perfectly 
ripe, and in moderation, are all wholesome : cherries, cur- 
rants, damsons, plums, walnuts, filberts and hazel nuts, ought 
all to be strictly forbidden to children. 

" It is a popular, but great error, to attribute complaints 
of the stomach and bowels, such as diarrhoea, dysentery, &c., 
to summer fruits and warm climates, since it is very certain 
that an exclusive animal regimen is heating ; and without 
vegetables, will surely induce the most fatal bilious disorders, 
in whose cure these very acidulous and laxative fruits must 
be resorted to. But those autumnal disorders caused by 
repelled perspiration, are aggravated by the use of fi:iiits, 
since these tend to augment the internal secretions ; more- 
over, fruits not mature, especially prunes, apricots, and 
grapes in that state, contain an abundance of the mucous 
sugary principle, mingled with the strong acid called melic, 
a very medicinal principle, as is exemplified in manna, 
tamarinds, cassia ; and these fruits resemble medicine and are 
apt to operate as such." — Dr, Dick on Diet. 

*' The good effects of ripe fruits in multifarious maladies 
cannot be mistaken. In gout as consumption, the mild 
acid fruits, such as grapes, strawberries, &c. are very useful. 
The first sign in many grave maladies of convalescence, is a 
craving after the more acid fruit. Opus cit. 

With regard to green and other vegetables, one word only 



22 AFPBOFBIATE POOD POB CHILDBEN. 

IB necessary. We cannot see the least possible objection to 
the flowery part of cauliflower and broccoli, well boiled, the 
points of asparagus, green peas, turnips mashed with milk, 
cabbage sprouts, and mealy potatoes, french beans, artichokes, 
&c. We shall speak more of peas under the treatment of 
scrofula. The next consideration naturally after diet, is the 
physical and moral management of in&ncy, comprehending 
the circumstances that contribute to health, and ward off or 
mitigate disease. 



23 



CHAPTER IIL 



BANATOBT CWNIHTIONB. 



Infant deaths from bad air--Growded towns — Opiates — ^I^. ConqiieBt on 
the necessity for pure air — ^Its temperature — Seasons — ^Draughts — ^Dr. 
A. Combe — ^Exercise needful to presenre as well as to restore health ; 
especially in cases of scrofula — ^Exercise the sole medicine for certain 
purposes — Why walking is beneficial — Sympathy between the skin and 
other yital organs — ^Dr. Underwood on infant exercise — ^Dandling — 
Bubbing — Nursing — ^The first steps — ^Baby jumper — ^Hall^. on health — 
Clothing. 

In this chapter we shall consider air, temperature, exercise, 
clothing, cleanliness, and sleep, as being the more prominent 
objects to be attended to, and which we think may yery 
properly be called the external means of presenring health. 

31. AiB. It is an appalling fact that one-third of the 
children bom in the large towns of England and Wales die 
before they attain the age of twelve months, and, in some dis- 
tricts, one half die before they reach their fifth year. The 
great proportion of these deaths, no doubt, are of children 
belonging to the poorer classes of society. Let us hope that 
our boards of health and sanatory commissioners will be suc- 
cessful in their efforts, so that the registrar general's reports 
may speedily present a more cheering aspect. The influence 
of air is so great, that the whole body may be dhanged by it ; 
and to such an extent, as to bring on premature death. 
Persons may indeed live many years in large cities, but they 
cannot fully enjoy health ; life is to them a tedious journey, 



24 8ANAT0BT CONDITIONS. 

the mind is enervated, and the body oppressed by languor, 
weakness, and depression of spirits. The large proportion of 
deaths in great towns, compared with the mortality in the 
country, must convince every person of the injurious effects 
of bad air ; at least, we regard unwholesome air as one of the 
essential causes of that difference. The importance of this 
subject was deeply impressed on the author's mind when a 
student in Manchester. Having at one time had the super- 
intendance of a densely populated district, under the direction 
of the Lying-in-Hospital, call ed little Ireland, from the 
majority of its inhabitants being natives of the Sister Isle, 
we have frequently attended women in labour, living in a 
room with five and six and even more inmates. Wholesome 
air was there out of the question. On many occasions, when 
the child was ushered into the world, there was not a rag to 
cover it. Such wretched poverty could not be otherwise than 
the parent of disease. Our astonishment at the time was, 
and still is, that vitality in so many instances overcame 
such formidable obstacles. We verily believe there is more 
of Godfrey's cordial, and other opiates, used in Manchester 
than any two cities of similar size in the kingdom. We 
were acquainted with a chemist and druggist, with whom it 
was usual to sell gallons on a Saturday night. It is a 
common practice for mothers to give large doses to their 
infants, in order to procure four or five hours' sleep while they 
are employed at the factory. When remonstrated with, the 
usual reply is, they cannot afford to have a person to look 
after the children. (We shall say nothing of the frightful bums 
of children from falling into the fire during the mother's 
absence). The importance of fresh air is so self-evident, that 
it would be a waste of time to enlarge on it further. Never- 
theless, we cannot avoid inserting the following few observa- 
tions, in the truth of every word of which we perfectly 
agree. 

" It is an unpopular attempt to attack prejudices estab- 
lished by time and habit, and secured by the corruptions of 
luxurious life. It is equally unpleasant to attempt the 
reformation of abuses, but with little prospect of success. 
Yet there is a secret pleasure in pleading the cause of 



SANATOBY CONDITIONS. 25 

humanity and helpless innocence. Until of late, in no 
country has the attention of medical men been so little 
directed to the state of infancy as this ; and much of the 
mortality among children must be accredited to those whose 
duty it is to disseminate instruction on this subject in a 
popular and intelligible manner. It is true, that a more 
correct feeling as to the propriety and necessity of dissemi- 
nating information concerning the management of children is 
becoming prevalent among medical men of the present day. 
But too many eminent men feel and profess an aversion to be 
consulted in cases of infantile disease, and would willingly 
decline being called upon to take their management. It thus 
unfortunately happens that the remedial treatment of the 
diseases of infancy is frequently left to nurses thoroughly 
imbued with the most dangerous prejudices, and to practi- 
tioners ill informed in this particular branch of the pro- 
fession/' — Dr, Conquest^ p. 116. 

32. The temperature of the air is a matter of very great 
importance, which ought to be thoroughly understood and 
seriously considered by all mothers. The warmth the infant 
enjoyed in its dependent existence was uniform, and when 
first ushered into the world as near an approximation to it as 
possible should be supplied. It has been tritely remarked 
that " warm nurseries supply cold graves." A medium tem- 
perature, therefore, will be the most judicious. The season 
of the year should always be taken into consideration ; be- 
cause if a high temperature in winter be kept up, draught 
must be occasioned ; for when a door is opened, the cold aii 
must rush in. A room heated to between 65° and 75° will be 
found to be the most suitable and agreeable to both parent 
and child. The warmth should be applied to the infant by 
clothing rather than by a heated room, the former being by 
far the most healthy ; and the mother*s bosom is the natural 
bed for infants until six weeks* old at least. " If the infant 
be rashly exposed to a cold atmosphere, the mass of blood 
previously circulating on the surface of the body is immedi - 
ately driven inwards by the contraction of the cutaneous 
vessels, and by over-stimulating the internal organs give rise 
to bowel complaints, inflammations, croup, convulsions, which 



26 SAITATOBT CONDITIOITS. 

sooner or later extinguish life. This shews the inexpressible 
folly of those who bathe infants in cold water, even in 
winter, and freely expose them to the open air, or to currents 
from open doors or windows, with a Tiew to harden or 
strengthen their constitution, as they suppose ; whereas, it 
is quite certain that no more effectual means could be 
resorted to in the earlier months of life, to undermine the 
general health, and entail future disease on the unhappy 
subjects of the experiment." — Dr. A, Cowhe. 

33. ExEBCisE is the next subject that claims our attention, 
and if it be one of the most essential means of preserving 
health, as it is, how much more important must it be in 
the cure of disease. It is an easy matter to induce patients 
to take medicine, but it requires the utmost persuasion to 
prevail on them to take exercise, even when they feel them- 
selves to be invariably benefited by it. The ill effects of the 
want of exercise are seen in the wan countenances of those 
who are confined to sedentary employment. In all diseases 
of debility, in derangement of the digestive organs, and in 
nervous complaints, exercise is the most beneficial as a cura- 
tive means. Children afflicted with scrofula, and adults pre- 
disposed to that disease, are exceedingly averse to active 
exertion ; but instead of indulging children in their desire of 
lounging about the whole day on the couch, parents should 
see them taken out at least three or four hours a day when 
the weather admits of it. It is lamentable to reflect with 
what pertinacity some parents will insist that an airing in a 
close carriage is all that is required. Is it surprising that 
children who are scarcely ever allowed to breathe the fresh 
air of heaven, in unrestrained playfulness and full exercise of 
the muscles and limbs, should be subject to colds, have 
fickle appetites, flabby muscles, and get soon tired ? If the 
child is perfectly clothed, and suffering from no organic dis- 
ease, it ought to be taken out in nearly all weathers. No 
medicine can impart firmness to the solids, and elasticity to 
the whole muscular and nervous system, equal to the natural 
results of pedestrian and scamping exercise in the open air. 

84. The great reason why walking exercise in the open 



8AKAT0BY CONDITIONS. 27 

air is so beneficial as a means of health, as well as an import- 
ant agent in the cure of most diseases, arises from its increas- 
ing all the secretions of the body, particularly those of the 
skin. The intimate sympathy between the cutaneous surface 
and other vital organs of the body, is manifest to every one 
capable of distinguishing between health and disease. If the 
secretions of the skin are disturbed or obstructed, that is, 
when the perspiration is to any extent checked, the lungs are 
oppressed and their free action impeded ; whereas, when the 
skin is in a healthy condition, and perspiration copious, the 
whole body is relieved by this great emunctory. The time, 
manner, and mode of exercise must in a great measure be 
left to the wisdom and discretion of the medical adviser. 
Exercise as a general rule and to any extent before breakfast, 
in debilitated constitutions, is altogether inadmissible, as it 
unfits for exercise during the remainder of the day. The 
great attention given in the present day to gymnastic exercise 
among children, as well as callisthenics, must be attended with 
the happiest results. ''Exercise is the grand means of health; 
the irrational species are capable of affording it to themselves 
almost as soon as bom ; and although infant children cannot, 
yet they are passive, and can be exercised. Nature and 
instinct point out the expediency of it, and the fond mother 
who follows only her own inclinations, naturally and insen- 
sibly adopts it, and is continually dandling and playing with 
her little innocent offspring, whenever it awakes ; and as it 
grows older, she gives it more exercise, as it can bear it, and 
according to the satisfaction the infant never fails to manifest 
on the occasion." — Dr, Underwood. 

35. The first kind of exercise it has been said consists of 
dandling, as it is termed, patting the back after feeding, and 
gently raising the child up and down in the arms, taking care 
at first not to toss it too high, infants being very early suscep- 
tible of fear, and ever liable to be thrown into fits by it. 
Another mode of exercise adapted to this tender age, and of 
the utmost advantage, is rubbing infants with the hand; this 
should be done all over at least twice a-day, when they are 
dressed and undressed, and especially along the course of the 
spine. Confining a cluld too long in the nurse's arms is very 
02 



28 8AKAT0BY C0KDITI0K8. 

pernicious ; nature has endowed infants, for wise purposes, 
with increased sensibility, no doubt with the view that they 
should be more or less in motion. Laying them occasionally 
on their back on the rug or a hair mattress, will frequently 
cause them to demonstrate their delight, by making good use 
of their little legs and arms : in short, almost anything is 
preferable to keeping them quiescent when awake. 

36. It is impossible to fix An age when children should be 
put on their feet. Allowing them to feel the ground whilst 
supported under the arm-pits is not objectionable, if done 
with proper caution ; it allows them to kick and exercise their 
legs, and is generally a source of great amusement. Dr. 
Underwood has stated that he would defy any one to bring 
forward an instance of a child getting crooked legs from being 
suffered to walk as soon as it has been disposed to make the 
attempt. Of all the nursery inventions of modem times, there 
is certainly none equal in point of value to what is called the 
Bal^ Jumper, affording at once a highly useful gymnastic 
apparatus, and allowing of the free motion of the limbs of 
the child ;; it is a source of great relief to the nurse and the 
mother, and is an admirable invention especially for the con- 
venience and use of the poor, and it is to be hoped that the 
price of this new and excellent invention will soon be so 
reduced as that the poor may be able to avail themselves of 
its advantages. It is an American discovery, manufactured 
by Messrs. Rogers and Co., 137, Strand, and is thus described 
by Dr. Conquest : — 

37. '^ Suspended from a hook affixed to the ceiling, or any 
other convenient place in an apartment, is a strong elastie 
spring, tastefully concealed by means of a covering of silk, or 
any other material which fancy may dictate for the purpose ; 
from this are dependant two silken ropes, to which a hoop is 
fastened by means of four others, which is intended to prevent 
the least compression of the chest, or restraint on the motions ; 
and a dress coat, inside of which is affixed a strong band 
serving as a seat, terminates the whole. The infant being 
properly secured within the dress, is left to itself; its slightest 
movement serves to. set the jumper in motion, and produce 
an agreeable gymnastic exercise, at once conducive to the 



8A.NAT0BY GONDTIIOKS. 



29 



health and amusement of the child. The cord above id 
adjusted so as to bring the child's toes in contact with the 
floor, when the slightest exertion will set it in motion. In 
cases of curvature of the spine and the various bodily mal- 
formations to which infants are peculiarly liable, this inven- 
tion is truly valuable.'' At the risk of being considered 
prolix, we shall conclude this division of the subject by an 
extract from Hallo's Treatise on Health, translated from the 
Encyclopedia Methodique, vol. 7, part i, art. Hygiene. 

38. " No creature, however, enjoys a greater degree of 
^trength and of firmness than the infant, whose powers of 
body are permitted to unfold themselves without restriction 
or constraint. All his muscles, exercised in balancing his 
body and in maintaining an equilibrium, early acquire the 
necessary bulk, and that habit of action by which they are 
strengthened; whilst in the infant constantly propped and 
kept in an inflexible sheath, the same muscles remaining in 
a state of preternatural inaction^ acquire neither the strength 
nor the volume which they ought to possess, and the in&nt 
bends and totters whenever he ceases to be thus supported. 
We have been of opinion, that these fatal precautions must 
have immediately involved their abettors in a successive train 
of errors ; and the clothes in which the new-bom infants were 
swathed have rendered them a species of immovable mum- 
mies from the moment of their birth, whose piercing and 
woful cries in vain protest against the injuries inflicted on 
nature. It was in vain, that when it became necessary to 
relieve them from these shackles for the purpose of removing 
their ordure, they testified by their joy and tranquillity, the 
horror with which this barbarous custom inspired them. 
Prejudice, equally insensible to the expression of their plea* 
sure as to that of their sufferings, hastened to abridge their 
happiness, by consigning them again immediately to these 
painful bonds. They stiffled their renewed cries by rocking 
their cradles ; and sleep induced, by the uniformity of motion, 
a silence rendered necessary by the inutility of complaint, 
imposed at last upon the mother under the &lse appearance 
of a deceitful calm. Physicians expostulated to no purpose 
against these abuses. It was necessary that they should be 



80 SAKATOBT COKDITIOKS. 

assailed by the authoritatiye voice of a man who could clothe 
the cold deductions of reason in uew language, whose energetic 
reproaches put stupidity itself to the blush, and who knew 
how to confound man by contrasting his conduct with the 
dictates of nature. Less anxious than physicians to inculcate, 
to demonstrate, and to convince, Rousseau knew how to 
command and inspire obedience. He was, moreover, ac- 
quainted with the method of restoring women to a just sense 
of that very affecting duty, which they had almost invariably 
entrusted to mercenary nurses, by demonstrating to them 
what real charms adorn the mother who opens her bosom to 
her infant, and who does not deprive him of that aliment 
which nature prepares for him. He thus restored our bodies 
to their liberty and mothers to their duty. Philosophy 
triumphed over vanity ; and, we may add, thus yielding to 
eloquence and reason, what was denied to science and 
Qommon sense." Although the above was written half a 
century ago, much of it applies to the habit of our own day. 

39. CxoTHiNG is the next subject of importance : on this 
point we daily see the most egregious errors fallen into under 
the impression that the child is to be made " hardy." This 
Spartan rule is one attended with great danger and is a fruit- 
ful source of disease. We perfectly agree with Dr. M. Hall, 
who states that there are more diseases of the chest and lungs 
arising from this cause than from almost anything else. We 
allude here to the insufficiency of clothing ; the earlier the age, 
the less the natural power to resist the influences of cold ; 
much evil on the other hand will arise from the quantity and 
adaptation of clothing. The reason of this will readily occur 
to those who have read eur observations on the action of the 
skin. The great object of clothing is to keep the body in a 
comfortable state of warmth, and we think the clothing best 
adapted for this purpose is the following. Swansdown calico, 
that is, thick twilled calico, having a downy nap on one side. 
Although a better conductor of heat, this very property, which 
is the one urged generally against it, is nevertheless one of 
the strongest reasons that can be produced in its favour; 
because while flannel, from its non-conducting property, must 
necessarily retain all the noxious vapours exhaled frx)m the 



8ANATOBY CONDITIONS. 31 

skin, it is reasonable to suppose that these morbid excretions 
being retained by the flannel, must be exceedingly unhealthy, 
as engendering disease and producing contagion. 

When flannel is worn next the skin, it keeps up a constant 
irritation and frequently gives rise to cutaneous aflections. 
The perspiration constantly kept up by flannel, especially 
when it is clean, is very debilitating. If any adult will try 
the experiment for a month or two, of putting on a clean 
flannel daily, he will be convinced before the expiration of 
that period of its debilitating powers. Children require a 
frequent renewal of clean clothes, and we have found from 
experience that the calico is preferable to flannel. We cannot 
help thinking that linen might be rendered more healthy and 
comfortable, could it be made into a fabric similar to the 
swansdown calico. Linen, from the closeness of its texture, and 
its power of conducting heat, always strikes cold when applied 
to the body ; it also absorbs the moisture less perfectly than 
the calico already spoken of. The feeling of comfort and 
cleanliness which the wearing of calico gives to the body, 
especially if it be frequently changed, is most gratifying and 
highly conducive to health ; one would think that among a 
people so fastidious as the English, that reason alone would 
be a sufficient inducement to give it the preference. We 
have met with patients suflering intensely from cold feet, and 
who have derived more permanent benefit from wearing thick 
cotton stockings and silk over them, than from lambs' wool. 
Wash-leather socks have also been found useful in many 
instances. 

40. Upon this subject we find in Sir John Sinclair's Code 
of Health, the .following statements : " A noble lord has 
recently communicated to me a simple mode by which he 
was cured of a severe rheumatic complaint ; he had suffered 
incessant pain in his hip-joints and shoulders, for almost 
thirteen months, particularly at night, and could not walk 
without the support of sticks or some person's arm. He 
cannot recollect how it happened, but it came on gradually. 
After trying innumerable other remedies without success, he 
was advised by a most respectable member of the medical 
profession to put on both drawers and an under waistcoat of 



^2 SANATORY CONBJTIOKS* 

dhamois leather, which in a very few days gave him so much 
lelief, that he could walk and even ride without pain, and in 
the course of three weeks he was perfectly cured." Clothing 
should always he adapted to the season of the year. It is a 
well known and scientific fact, although not always acted 
upon, that the darker the colour of the apparel the greater 
the amount of heat is absorbed. Hence the difference in the 
dress of oriental nations from that of the people in the 
northern latitudes. What can be more absurd and cruel than 
that a young child should be allowed to run about the streets 
or garden in white clothes, in our climate, on a cold winter^s 
day } Not only thus, but with their legs entirely uncovered 
and exposed. White, however, is the most appropriate dress 
for summer wear. . 

''Many parents from over-anxiety to avoid one form of 
evil, run blindfold into another scarcely less pernicious, and 
iiot only envelope infants in immoderate folds of warm cloth- 
^g, but keep them confined to very hot and close rooms. It 
would be well for them to recollect, however, that extremes 
are always hurtful, and that the constitution may be enfeebled 
and disease induced, by too much heat and clothing and too 
close an atmosphere, as effectually as by colds and currents 
of air. The skin thus opened and relaxed, perspires too 
Easily, and is readily affected by the slightest variations of 
temperature ; whence arise colds and other ailments, which 
it is their chief intention to guard against ; and the internal 
organs, being at the same time deprived of their fair propor- 
tions of blood, become enfeebled, and afford inadequate 
nourishment and support to the rest of the body." — Dr. A, 
'Combe, 

41. We cannot close this subject without saying a word 
with respect to the mode and manner of dressing infants and 
ftdults ; we have firequently seen nurses take the most reli- 
gious care that all the garments should be as firmly applied 
to the body as possible, and the ill effects of this must be 
t>bvious. The insensible perspiration is not allowed to pass 
t)ff, the muscles are deprived of their full play. The air in 
the lungs cannot be properly decarbonised, in consequence of 
the limited motion of the ribs and diaphragm ; nor can animal 



SANATORY COXDITIOKS. 33 

heat be properly generated, and hence a sense of chilliness is 
often complained of. The very absurd practice of having 
yery long clothes prevents of course that freedom of motion 
of the limbs which is not only conducive to health, but 
evidently so i^eeable an indulgence to the infant. This is 
truly an example of prejudice in &vour of an ancient cus- 
tom utterly indefensible. We hold, therefore, that loose 
clothing is not only warmer than tight, by allowing a sub' 
stratum of air which is a non-conductor of heat, thereby pre- 
venting warmth from passing off or the cold air penetrating 
from without. In youth the skin is of a less delicate texture, 
but still the seat of extensive exhalation ; being, however, 
more vigorous than in infancy, it is capable of greater resist- 
ance to external objects, and thus changes of temperature can 
be borne by youth with impunity, which in infancy or old age 
would prove highly injurious. "The activity and restless 
energy of youth keeps up a free and equal circulation even in 
the remotest parts of the body, and free circulation in its turn 
maintains an equality of temperature in them all. Cold 
bathing and lighter clothing may now be resorted to with a 
rational prospect of advantage." There is great difference 
in the power of generating heat in different individuals ; no 
general rule, therefore, can be made applicable to all; 
common sense would dictate the wearing of such quantity 
and kind of apparel as would be sufficient in each individual 
case to protect the body effectually from an abiding sensation 
of cold, however slight. It must never be forgotten, however, 
that clothing is not to be the sole means resorted to for 
obtaining warmth. 

42. The Creator has made exercise one of the most im- 
portant promoters of health ; if we neglect this, and seek it in 
clothing alone, we shall run the risk of exposing ourselves to 
debility, relaxation of the surface, and produce a general sus- 
ceptibility of injury from the slightest exposure to atmospheric 
changes. Every person will see this practically illustrated 
daily, both with respect to infants and adults, where the 
former are treated like exotics, and the latter become as 
tender plants, thereby creating hot-beds of disease. Since 
the quaint, laconic, but truly practical lessons of Abernethy, 
5 



I 
84 BAKATOBT C0KDITI0N8. I 



I 



and the masterly productions of Drs. A. Combe, Barlow, &c., 
on physical education, have become generally known, the , 

evils arising from tight lacing have somewhat diminished; i 

but this subject is of such vast public consequence, that we 
cannot avoid giving the following extract : — 

. 43. " Let those mothers, who are afraid to trust to nature i 

for strengthening and developing the limbs and spines of 
their daughters, attend to facts, and their fears will vanish. 
It is notorious that a majority of those girls who, in opposi- 
tion to the laws of nature, are encased in stays, and get insuffi- 
cient exercise, become deformed ; an occurrence which is, on 
the other hand, comparatively rare in boys, who are left, in 
conformity with the designs of nature, to acquire strength 
and symmetry from free and unrestricted muscular actions. 
In a seminary for young ladies, for example, containing forty 
pupils, it was discovered on examination by Dr. Forbes, that 
only two out of those who had been resident in it for two 
years had straight spines ; while out of an equal number of 
boys, imperfect as their exercise often is, it would be difficult 
to detect a couple whose spines were not straight. Here, 
then, is ample proof that stays, and absence of exercise, so 
fer from contributing to an elegant carrii^e, are directly 
opposed to its acquisition ; and that the absence of stays and 
indulgence in exercise, even when not carried beyond the 
wants of the system, so far from being hurtful to the 
spine, contribute powerfully to its strength and security. 
Yet such is the dominion of prejudice and habit, that, with 
these results meeting our observation in every quarter, we 
continue to make as great a distinction in the physical educa- 
tion of the two sexes in early life, as if they belonged to 
different orders of beings, and were constructed on such 
opposite principles, that what was to benefit the one, must 
necessarily hurt the other. It is true that there are cases of 
disease in which the use of stays may be beneficially resorted 
to; but so far from sanctioning their general employment, 
such cases are sufficient to prove that, like every other 
remedy, they ought to be used only under the direction of 
the medical attendant. — Dr» A, Coomhe^ opus cit. 157. 

44. The subject that naturally follows exercise is fbictiox. 



BAKATOBY CONDITIONS. dd 

We have already alluded to its importance in in£uits. With 
regard to its advantages to adults, a very lengthened chapter 
might be written ; but we shall content ourselves with merely 
a general reference to the subject. In affections of the head» 
chest, liver complaints, &c., we have seen its application 
attended with very great benefit ; when flannel is worn next 
the body, and when the person is in the habit of taking due 
Itnd daily exercise, an oily secretion attaches itself to the 
surface of the body, which, if not removed, obstructs the pores, 
and injures or deranges the internal organisation. Many 
of our patients have expressed their astonishment at the 
quantity of dry scurf which has come off after the use of the 
flesh brush or hair gloves. Where the shower bath is not 
always at hand, a wet towel is the best substitute ; the chest, 
abdomen, back, and shoulders should be well washed with 
soap and water, and followed by rapid friction. A gentleman 
told us a short time ago that he was in the habit of using a 
thick lather of common yellow soap, and allowing it to 
remain on the skin a few minutes, then rubbing it off with a 
thick coarse towel. And since adopting this practice, he had 
found his health and spirits greatly benefited; but this 
plan will not suit persons who have delicate skins. We 
generally advise salt and water, or vinegar and water, with % 
little eau de cologne ; it is of little consequence which, the 
result will be obtained by either. We are acquainted with 
numerous instances where the parties were constantly subject 
to colds, but since they have resorted to sponging and friction, 
they have never taken cold, although they have been exposed 
to all weathers. 

45. '' The ancients were favourable, in a high degree, to 
friction. The moderns have as much erred in neglecting this 
means of cure, as the ancients perhaps did in regarding it as 
a sole one, in cases which could not have been cured by this 

resource alone They carried their minute attentions 

to friction so far, as to distinguish between frictions made 
across the body and along its length ; the length of time they 
should be applied ; whether they should be dry or humid ; 
and at what seasons applied. The good effects which the 
ancients asserted, and with reason, to flow from frictions, are, 



36 tkAKATOBT CONBTTIONS. 

'that they relax the flesh, render the skin more transpirable, 
excite animal heat, diffuse more equally the elements of nutri-^ 
tion, augment the corpulence of the body in some instances, 
'or in others diminish it and increase its yigour. 

*'In the gymnastic discipline which exerted so great an 
influence on the habits and manners of the Greeks, friction 
was employed, in order to make the muscles and j(»nts more 
pliable in movement, and enable them to sustain that more- 
ment a greater length of time. Those persons also who, on 
account of the state of their health or great age, could not 
frequent the places of public exercise, or take exercise 
abroad, had those wants supplied by friction, an excellent 
substitute in our day for gymnastics, and in all circumstances 
for the usual exercises of the body." — Dr. Dick, 

46. Mr. Turner, the founder of Provincial Medical Schools, 
and Professor of Anatomy to the Royal Academy and School 
of Medicine and Surgery in Manchester, used, in his valuable 
lectures, to relate the case of an old gentleman subject to 
habitual constipation, to whom he recommended frictions to 
be applied to the bowels immediately after breakfast, com- 
mencing at the right side, and rubbing across in the direction 
of the colon, for about six or seven minutes: by perse- 
vering for a few weeks, he entirely overcame the sluggish 
action of the large intestines, by which the constipation was 
relieved, and also my friend Mr. Turner from his attendance 
upon a good patient : the old gentleman acknowledged that it 
was the cheapest and most agreeable medicine he had ever 
taken. Friction is useful sometimes in developing the exan- 
themata more rapidly, such as scarlatina, measles, &c., and it 
has a soothing influence on persons of an irritable and nervous 
temperament, producing almost invariably a strong disposi- 
tion to sleep, which must be an excellent substitute for seda- 
tives. On no consideration ought persons of sedentary 
habits to neglect this important remedial measure ; if they 
do, let not those who are too indolent to employ it, complain 
of the evils resulting from its neglect. 

47. Sleep is said to be the intermediate state between 
wakefulness and death; wakefulness being regarded as the 
active state of all the animal and intellectual functions ; and 



8AKAT0BY CONDITIONS. 87 

death as that of their total suspension. Sleep is yarionsly 
modified according to age; when man is about his grand 
climacteric, or a - few years beyond, he slumbers less than at 
any former period ; but yery young children, if in health, 
always pass the most of their time in sleep. At this early 
age, the texture of the brain being imperfect and pulpy, the 
organ cannot work for a long time continuously, but requires 
greater relaxation or sleep than at any after period. The 
celebrated German philosopher Kant well observes, ''Take 
from man hope and sleep, and you will make him the most 
wretched being on earth." Sleep is indispensable to restore 
the exhausted functions of the body, and the loss of a single 
night's rest will, in many instances, disturb the whole 
machinery of the animal economy. 

48. Sleep is intended to refresh the body, and to reinyigo- 
rate the mental faculties when exhausted. It is impossible to 
specify the quantity of rest required for this purpose ; too 
little sleep weakens the nervous system and occasions disease, 
while too much renders the mind dull and the body bloated 
and phlegmatic. We have many extraordinary instances 
recorded of men, who, never sleeping more than a few hours 
in the twenty-four, have lived to great ages in the enjoyment 
of health. The celebrated General Elliot was an example of 
this kind : he never slept more than four hours. In all other 
respects he was strikingly abstinent, his food consisting wholly 
of bread, water, and vegetables. Sir John Sinclair mentions 
in his Code of Health, a man named Mackay, of Skerray, 
who died at Strathnaver, in the year 1797, aged ninety-one ; 
who only slept upon an average four hours, and who had 
always been remarkably strong and robust. Frederick the 
Great, king of Prussia, and the illustrious John Hunter, 
slept no more than five hours out of the twenty-four. The 
sleep of those of an active mind is, in general, always much 
less than that of those of a listless and indolent nature. The 
celebrated French General Pichegru informed Sir Gilbert 
Blane, that during a whole year's campaign, he had not above 
one hour's sleep in the twenty-four ; and we might mention 
Napoleon Bonaparte, Wesley, Washington, and many others 



38 8AKAT0BT C0KBITI0K8. 

in our own day, men of great intellect, who indulge in very 
little sleep. 

49. Sleep promotes assimilation and growth. Lord Bacon 
thought that these important functions were principally 
accomplished during sleep. Whilst awake they cannot be so 
well performed, in consequence of the incessant motions of 
the body and the actions of the mind, which preveut the 
equal distribution of blood to all parts; during sleep all 
active powers subject to our wills are lulled to rest. In calm 
and comfortable repose, the pulse i^ slower, respiration 
deeper and more regular, animal or vital heat is diffused alike 
through every part, and the nutritive particles circulated by 
the blood can more easily attach themselves to the fibres of 
the body. — Vide Adair's Medical Cautions^ and Dartoin'e 
Zoanamia^ vol. i. 199. 

Growth is the necessary consequence of nourishment, and 
as has already been stated, progresses most favourably during 
sleep. It has been ascertained by experiment that young 
plants grow in the night time, which is generally their time 
of sleep, and there is every reason to believe that young 
animals follow the same rule. Hence the absolute necessity 
of prolonged infantile sleep. During sleep there is a general 
relaxation of the fibres, and the body becomes more plump, 
which proves the danger of tight bandages or ligatures being 
applied during sleep, and from this cause many adults dare 
not go to sleep with their shirt collars buttoned. 

50. Sleep promotes perspiration: in that state all thQ 
voluntary motions which are of an exhausting nature are at 
rest. The involuntary motions which serve to recruit our 
strength continue in full play, and much of both acrid and 
acid perspiration then passes off. The experiments of Sanc-^ 
torius have fully demonstrated, that twice as much insensible 
perspiration passes off during sleep as passes off during an 
equal period of time while awake. It has been stated that 
as much as forty or fifty ounces of concocted perspirable 
matter are expelled from the body in the space of seven 
hours, which would almost seem to be impossible. It is 
hardly necessary to enter into detail respecting the curative 
effect of sleep in illness, for that must be self-apparent to all ;, 



SAKATOBT CONDITIONS. 39 

and its influence in cases of fevers, diarrhoea, gout, delirium, 
mania, consumption, &c., cannot be oyer highly estimated. 

61. Night is the natural period for repose. Before the 
invention of artificial light, necefisity enforced the rule of 
going to bed with the setting of the sun, and rising when that 
luminary made his appearance again. This rule, if followed 
at present, would completely overturn the conventionalisms 
of society, besides it would sometimes oblige us to remain in 
bed fifteen or sixteen hours. The rule therefore could only 
be followed, if at all, in those climates where the days and 
nights are regularly, of equal or about equal, duration. " In 
order to prove the advantage of sleeping in the night, and 
reserving the day for labour and action, we need only com- 
pare the looks and the healthy state of the people in the 
country who follow that plan, with those of the inhabitants of 
large cities who keep awake till midnight and pass a propor- 
tionable part of next day in sleep, and who are always wan, 
pale, and often ailing. Many persons allege, that by going 
to bed at regular hours, they must exclude themselves from 
all fashionable society; but as Adair justly observes, they 
have the alternative either to be fashionable invalids, or out 
of fashion and in health." — Sir J, Sinclair, 

52. Nothing is of greater importance or advantage to 
mankind, if they would only be wise and convinced of the 
truth of it, than regularity of hours. If a regular and sufii- 
cient portion of time is taken for rest, it matters not whether 
ten, eleven, or twelve is the hour selected for retiring. From 
six to eight hours must be sufficient for all the purposes of 
the economy, that is, in healthy adults. Cases of debility, 
disease, and infantile life, form exceptions to this rule. To 
enter into all the circumstances that are conducive to sleep 
would occupy by far too much of our space. We shall there- 
fore merely mention a few of them. A large and lofty room, 
well ventilated, so that it may be thoroughly aired during the 
day. The bed is of no small importance in large rooms; 
where it is of full size, there is npt so much objection to 
curtains in the winter time, provided there is no covering at 
the top. The couch or French bed we consider the best, and 
a hair mattress is always to be preferred to a soft feather bed; 



40 BAKATOBY CONDITIONS. 

the clothing should be light, especially with young children* 
The custom of warming the bed cannot be too severely repro- 
bated, as it has a direct tendency to produce weakness and 
debility, and when heated, with charcoal, might prove dan-* 
gerous from its poisonous vapours ; and when it is artificially 
warmed, as soon as the artificial heat subsides, the person is 
very apt to feel chilled. The bed should not be placed too 
near an outer wall, where there is any chance of damp ; with 
children it ought to face the light, or rather when the child 
awakes it should have the light in front of it, always guarding* 
however, that the light is not admitted so powerfully as to 
affect or injure the* eyes. The same observation applies to 
putting the bed before the fij:c, if at the side ; in either case 
it might cause the child to squint. The same clothes should 
not be worn in the day time that have been slept in during 
the night; that is to say, the flannels. We have been informed 
by a patient that he was always subject to colds until ho 
became aware of the evil of wearing in the day time what he 
had slept in during the night. The reason of this is obvious, 
and we need not here do more than refer to our observationi 
on the skin and insensible perspiration. Night caps ought 
not to be worn except by old people, and even then they 
should be made only of thin cotton or linen. 

53. With respect to the circumstances that prevent sleep, 
we may enumerate improper diet, bad digestion, violent 
emotions of the mind, drinking tea or strong coffee late at 
night, intense application to whist, chess, and games of 
chance, study or other various exercise of the mind, noise, 
light, sleeping in a new apartment, having slept during 
the day, repelled perspiration, owing to being improperly 
covered with wet bed clothes, cramp, mental uneasiness, 
dreams, night-mare, and somnambulism. It is unnecessary 
to add to this long catalogue, but the curious on this matter 
may peruse Macnish's Anatomy of Sleep, De Quincy the 
English Opium Eater, Dr. Franklin, Dr. Darwin, Adair, and 
Dr. Mackenzie's History of Health, &c. 



41 



CHAPTER IV. 



BATHINCh. . 

Bathing efficacious in chronic diseases — ^History of bathing — ^When cold 
bathing is improper — Caution needful in all cases — Curative power of 
cold water — ^Dr. Currie on tepid effusion — ^Wann and cold water in 
scarlet fever — ^Method of cold immersion — ^Ta whom it is suitable — ■ 
Natural warm baths — ^Vapour bath — ^Whitiaw's patent — Evils of 
impure skin and checked perspiration — Sympathy between the- skin 
and internal organs — ^Eruptions on the face, &c. — ^Delabere Blaine — 
Prejudice against the vapour bath — Effects of odours — ^Gaseous 
medicine. 

54. We Terily believe there is nothing in ancient or 
modern discovery that contributes so much to the promotion 
of health and the cure of chronic diseases as the different 
modes of bathing. This subject has not received that atten- 
tion from medical men which its intrinsic value merits* 
Hence the matter has been left often to the option of the 
paUent or some ignorant adviser. We are not, however, in 
want of instances to show where almost every description of 
baths have proved injurious in consequence of the body not 
having been in a proper and fit state to be bathed, and where 
indeed baths of any kind have been inapplicable. Before 
alluding particularly to the di£Eerent kinds of baths now in 
use, we shall offer a few prefatory observations. The Romans^ 
in their days of sensuality, were accustomed to use the warm 
bath for the purpose of relieving themselves from the effects 
of their gluttony, and also after having been exposed to any 
unusual exercise or &itigue« After the tiiue of Pompey, they 



42 BATHING. 

appear to have carried the practice to an absurd and ridicu- 
lous excess, insomuch as that one of their emperors, Titus, is 
said to haye fallen a victim to it ; and at length Hadrian, by 
a public edict, imposed a restraint upon the immoderate use 
of bathing. The greatest imprudence a person can commit 
is to have a cold bath in the morning after having been guilty 
of any debauch or excess in eating and drinking the preceding 
evening. Alexander the Great is said to have lost his life 
from this cause. Persons subject to very cold hands and feet, 
and where in particular the feeble circulation arises from any 
affection of the heart, ought never to use the cold bath in any 
form, not even the shower bath, unless under medical advice. 
The certain indications of cold bathing not being suitable to 
a person, are feelings of weakness and debility, with a sensa- 
tion of cold and shivering, the fingers and nails becoming 
blue, and accompanied with headache and drowsiness. All 
these symptoms are augmented or diminished by the length 
of time the person remains in the water. Fresh water in all 
cases being more injurious than sea water, and the latter 
possessing stimulating properties, is always, when convenient, 
to be preferred. Most persons foi^et that by remaining in 
cold water a lengthened period, there is a great abstraction of 
heat from the body : we have seen this in numerous instances, 
and in those cases where sea bathing has been recommended, 
the reply has been that it always disagrees. 

55, When, however, the following directions have been 
observed, benefit instead of injury has followed ; namely, not 
to bathe before breakfast, but when possible, to do so two 
hours after, at all events never to do so upon an empty 
stomach. This ought to be an undeviating rule applicable 
to bathing ; therefore, the best time for the use either of the 
cold or warm bath is between breakfast and dinner, but never 
after a full meal. The next point to be attended to is, not to 
remain longer than five minutes in the cold, ten minutes in 
the warm, and twenty minutes in the vapour bath. When 
the cold shower bath is used, the feet ought always to be put 
into hot water, at least in the winter time, at a temperature 
between 80^ and 90^ ; in summer this is not of so much con- 
sequence. After taking the sea bath, the person should eat 



BATHINQ. 43 

a piece of hard biscuit, and drink a cup of coffee, or what is 
very common in many parts of the continent, a small glass of 
cognac, a practice we deem unnecessary, unless great exhaus- 
tion supervenes. When followed by brisk exercise, the cold 
bath will then produce its full and beneficial effect. With 
regard to the administration of the warm bath, the most 
ridiculous notions are entertained, and the most pernicious 
effects have followed, especially in infants, by the ignorance 
of the parties applying it. Every medical man ought to take 
care to put down in writing, the temperature at which it 
should be taken, and the length of time the patient should 
remain in it. We generally give the following instructions 
when prescribing a warm bath for a child : to have the room well 
warmed, if in winter, to have a clothes' horse or two, when 
convenient, covered or surrounded with blankets ; the tempe- 
rature of the bath should be at first about 90°, and gradually 
increased to 100°, the child should remain in it for about 
seven minutes ; we may then reasonably expect to secure all 
the advantages likely to follow the warm bath. We have 
seen many instances where, when the temperature has been 
below the above degrees, and the child been kept too long in 
the water, a shivering has succeeded, and the object of the 
bath, (viz. perspiration and the ultimate diminution of the 
pulse) has been entirely defeated. 

56. Adults will generally complain of being fatigued, if 
they remain in the bath beyond 15 minutes, and if the tem- 
perature is under 100°. We hold the judicious use of the 
warm bath during teething, after or before the exanthemata, 
convulsions, &c., to be one of the most important remedies 
known. We assert this confidently after a tolerably exten- 
sive experience during twenty years. That the immediate 
effect of cold water is a stimulus, few will deny, although the 
celebrated Dr. Brown thought quite the reverse ; this was in 
consequence of its being opposed to his ingenious theories 
respecting the vital or living principle (excitability). Dr. 
Darwin considers the application of cold as merely subtract- 
ing the stimulus of heat, and thus to be altogether negative. 

57. The stimulating action of cold, though short in dura- 
tion, is powerful. In the torpor of convulsions, when weaker 



44 fiATHIKG. 

Stimuli are unperceived, the effusion of cold water on the 
naked body will often excite the dormant sensibility, and in- 
troduce a new action throughout the nervous system. In the 
apoplectic state brought on by the fumes of charcoal, this 
remedy of aU others is the most efficacious : when dogs are 
suffocated in the yapour of the Grotto del Cani, it is well 
known that they are reyived by plunging them in the adjoin- 
ing lake. And in other animals, when the last motions of life 
are apparently over, the same application will sometimes, as 
I haye obseryed, renew the contraction of those fibres that 
seemed before fixed in death. It is a common remedy also 
in some cases of hysteria, as well as to rouse the system after 
severe hsemorrhage. Cold ablution was first practised in 
modem times in Breslau, in Silesia, in 1737. It was not^ 
however, until 1787 that the attention of the profession was 
pointedly directed to the subject. In the hands of Dr. 
Currie, the success of the remedy in fever was most remark- 
able. The very great diversity of opinion respecting the 
cause and phenomena of fever prevented the general use of 
ablution. Even in our own time there is a wholesome dread 
of its effects. Whilst the practical physician employs it with 
greatest possible benefit, the inexperienced will be disap- 
pointed in consequence of want of knowing the proper time 
of its exhibition. This remedy was not unknown to the 
ancients, although the account contained in the third book of 
Celsus is anything but encouraging. He says : '^ Quidam ex 
antiquioribus medicis. Cleophantus, in hoc genere morbo- 
rum (tertian intermittents) multo ante accessionem caput 
SDgri multi calida aqua perfundebat, deinde vinum dabat. 
Quod, quamvis pleraque ejus viri preecepta secutus est Asde- 
piades, recte tamen preeteriit, est enim anceps." This- of 
course is widely different to what was proposed by Dr. Currie, 
who thus speaks of tepid effusion. 

58. It was familiarly practised as a part of their daily 
regimen by the Greeks and Asiatics in the earlier period of 
their history. That the Greeks in later times, and after them 
the Romans, immersed themselves in the baths to which they 
were so much accustomed, is certain ; but in the heroic age 
of Greece, the affiision of tepid water seems to have been the 



BATHING. 45 

mode in which luxury was enjoyed. Abundant proofe of this 
are found in Homer, particularly in the Odyssey, that admi- 
rable record of ancient manners. Venus, after her public 
disgrace, is described as flying to the groves of Paphos, where 
she is laved by the Graces, and the improvement derived to 
her beauty is recorded in a strain of poetry worthy the sub- 
ject. (Odyssey, lib. viii, 1. 362 to 367.) Ulysses is represented 
as laved by attendant nymphs in the court of Alcinoiis, and 
in the island of Circe the whole process of heating the water, 
and pouring it over the naked heroes, is particularly described. 
(Lib. X, 1. 358.) On this occasion also, nymphs administered 
to him, who after the ablution anointed him all over with oil; 
a service well calculated in every respect to increase the 
pleasure and to diminish the risk of tepid affusion." 

59. We have for many years employed cold sponging 
with vinegar and water at the commencement of scarlet fever, 
and the warm bath invariably on the third or fourth day of 
disquamation, and we attribute to this practice the circum- 
stance of never having had a case of dropsy to follow that 
disease. In scarlatina, and also in the latter stages of 
measles, we have witnessed the happiest eflects produced by 
the warm bath. The physiological reason of this must be 
very evident after what we have already said respecting the 
action of the skin, &c. 

60. When cold affusion is employed, care should be taken 
that the feet and legs are warm ; indeed we question the pro- 
priety of its use unless this is the case. The probable powers 
of reaction must always be taken into account before this 
remedy is resorted to. 

61. Most authors who have written on cold water bathing 
recommend that the head should be plunged in first, a 
practice with which we entirely disagree. We should not 
regard the utility or safety of any practice merely because no 
evil follows in the majority of instances ; it is in the few 
where the caution and advice is likely to be of service. In a 
great many instances where we have been consulted respect- 
ing cold bathing, the parties have generally experienced 
headache, &c. No such effects have followed where the 
following advice has been attended to. Instead of plunging 



46 BATHIKO. 

into the water head foremost, the head and chest shotdd be 
washed and rubbed in the first instance, and then the whole 
body should be gently immersed. This has always produced 
the least excitement ; and when the person has only remained 
in the water for a few minutes, neither headache nor chilli- 
ness has ever been complained of. 

62. Persons subject or having a tendency to spitting of 
blood, should never use the cold bath, nor indeed persons with 
any affection whatever of the chest, or having the slightest 
liability to apoplexy, gout, rheumatism, &c. The use of the 
cold bath should, as a general law, be limited to the young 
and vigorous, and chiefly then as a pleasant source of sensa- 
tion. It ought never to be forgotten that no bathing what- 
ever should be resorted to with a full stomach. With the 
directions and limitations we have already given, the cold 
bath will be found to be an excellent auxiliary in promoting 
health, and refreshing the system generally. The cold shower 
bath is perhaps the least objectionable as a popular method of 
cold bathing. When used as a medicine, it ought at all times 
to be by the advice of a medical man. 

63. The principal natural warm baths in England are 
situated at Bath and Bristol in Somersetshire, and Buxton 
and Matlock in Derbyshire. The temperature of the bath 
springs ranges from 93® to 117*^, while that of the Buxton 
and Matlock waters scarcely exceed 82°; the latter are 
chiefly used in the cure of chronic rheumatism, while the 
reputation of the former rests upon the benefits which they 
are believed to confer on gouty and paralytic sufferers. Inde- 
pendently of all modifications of temperature, bathing is 
found to be advantageous from various impregnations of 
mineral substances abounding in mineral springs ; such as 
iron, sulphur, and lime. The baths of Harrowgate, for 
instance, are strongly impregnated with sulphurated hydrogen 
gas, and are of the greatest use in the cure of obstinate 
cutaneous diseases, as also of induration of the glands. The 
most celebrated natural hot baths in Europe are those of Aix 
la Chapelle, Baden, and Leige in Germany ; Treplitz in Bohe- 
mia ; Bagnieres, Bareges, and Dax in the south of France ; 
and those of England already mentioned. 



BATHING. 47 

64. Having thus referred in a cursory manner to these 
diflferent modes of bathing, we come now to the consideration 
of the properties, uses, and beneficial effects of the vapour 
bath. The one patented some years ago by Mr. Charles 
Whitlaw, is unquestionably the most perfect and useful that 
has yet been invented. It consists of water boiled with a 
furnace, and having a brass tube attached to the dome, which 
conveys the vapour into a cistern three and a half feet in 
length, two in breadth, and about fourteen inches in depth, 
and covered inside with tinned copper. This is covered with 
a lid, composed of a frame and copper plated with tin, which 
is perforated with small holes. In the inside of this is a 
round tin box, also perforated, and having a plate running 
tranversely across, which is attached to the tube coming from 
the boiler. A pole about six and a half feet long is placed at 
each corner, with a frame at the top, which is covered with 
thick calico curtains, and has a thermometer suspended to the 
frame, and which completes what is now called Whitlaw's 
patent medicated vapour bath. 

One of the gireatest .possible recommendations of Mr. 
Whitlaw's construction of his bath is, that the patient or 
individual who is taking it, is scarcely sensible of being sur- 
rounded by any perceptible vapour whatever. An agreeable 
feeling of being enveloped in " warm moisture^* is all the sen- 
sation that is produced ; and this affords an advantage to all 
persons who are in any degree afflicted with asthma^ or any 
oppression or disease of the chest or lungs, which stamps this 
form of the bath with an incalculable and invaluable supe- 
riority over all other forms of the vapour bath we have ever 
happened to meet with. The heat radiated from the furnace 
and boiler raises the temperature of the room, preventing 
any condensation of the vapour, whilst the intense heat 
radiated from the copper plates lining the cistern and its 
cover, renders the vapour more like heated air, so that it is 
easily respired and generally esteemed as a luxury. 

We may be charged with having a partiality, or perhaps 
attaching too much importance to this description of vapour 
bath, but that charge can only be brought against us by 
parties who, if not themselves insensibly swayed by prejudice, 



48 BATHING. 

have not had the extensive experience of it that we have had 
the advantage of. We believe we have seen and examined 
every form of the vapour bath that is to be met with. It 
would gratify us just as much to recommend one form of it 
as another ; our object being simply the general weal. Our 
inquiry has been, what form is most conducive to health ; and 
until we shall have demonstrative proof of the superiority of 
some other form, we shall feel bound alike in duty and 
in conscience to recommend, as the result of our long 
experience and observation, that which we now hold up 
to approval, namely, Mr. Whitlaw's form of vapour bath, as 
superior to all in every case in which the necessity for the 
vapour bath may be indicated, and the nature of which cases 
shall be noticed hereafter. Had the bath still' been for the 
exclusive benefit of one individual, we should not have taken 
the trouble to make its virtues known to the profession and 
the public ; but as all may participate, we cannot help think- 
ing we are doing good service by thus specially describing it 
and making it more extensively known. 

Experience justifies us in asserting that the vapour bath, 
under proper medical regulations, has relieved and cured dis- 
eases where all ordinary modes of treatment have' failed, 
though skilfully applied. When a judicious physician is 
called to a patient, he first ascertains the cause and nature of 
the disease under which his patient labours, and then pre- 
scribes the kind and quantity of the agent he thinks to 
remove or relieve the illness. This is precisely the principle 
that guides lus in prescribing the vapour bath, and its modus 
operandi will be seen in the following observations. 

65. The skin, in the ordinary state of the human frame, is 
constantly giving out a large quantity of waste materials, by 
what is called insensible perspiration. This process, so 
necessary to the preservation of health, is carried to an extent, 
and possesses a power and influence, that few persons have 
any just conception of. Sanctorius has the honour of 
having been the discoverer of this most important function. 
He was born in 1571, so that it must have been towards 
the close of the sixteenth century when he added this im- 
portant fact to physiology and medical literature. Lavoisier 



BATHING. 49 

' estimated, that about twenty ounces of matter passed off by 
insensible perspiration in the twenty-four hours. 

68. When we consider the nature of this exudation, and 
its irritating effects on the skin when confined there, either 
by injudicious clothing or want of cleanliness ; and when we 
know that its acrid and saline residual parts are again taken 
up by the absorbents, and carried back into the system ; it 
requires no ailment to shew that it must act on the consti- 
tution as a poison of greater or less severity, giving rise to 
fever, inflammation, and in some instances even death itself. 
Concentrated animal effluvia, whether arising from the lungs 
or skin, has been shown by Dr. A. Combe to be a poison of 
the most destructive nature. The fatal consequences which 
have followed the incautious use of water-proof cloaks and 
coats, and the heat and restlessness which are always expe- 
rienced where proper ventilation is not employed, furnish 
sufficient evidence to show how checked perspiration is so 
detrimental to health. During every twenty-four hours of 
the continuance of such a condition, we must either have 
twenty ounces of useless and hurtful matter accumulating in 
the body, or some of the other organs are pretematurally 
excited and overloaded — evils which must produce a great 
disturbance in the animal economy. This may be well illus- 
trated by the fact, that cold applied to the skin, or a sudden 
change of the weather, produces bowel complaints, influenza, 
catarrh, or inflammation of some internal organ. We are 
anxious to direct attention to the existence of various dis- 
eases arising from and connected with suppressed perspira- 
tion. 

69. The sympathy known to exist between the skin and the 
internal organs of the body, namely, the bowels, lungs, liver, 
kidneys, &c., is easily understood, from their common office 
of throwing off the waste matter which would otherwise 
daily accumulate. If the exhalation of the skin were stopped, 
the large quantity of matter with which it is charged, will, we 
have said, be thrown on some other organ. If the lungs are 
attacked, the breathing will become excited, and if there has 
been a previous predisposition, consumption will most likely 
supervene ; indeed we have known this to be the case in 



50 BATHIKO. 

several instances. Suppressed perspiration is enumerated as 
one of the chief causes of consumption. It is well known 
that many diseases may spring from the same exciting 
cause. 

70. Most of the obstinate eruptions which disfigure the &ce 
and other parts of the body, have their origin in a deranged 
state of the digestive organs, and can only be removed by 
directing attention to this cause; that is, by strengthening 
the stomach, improving the quality of the blood, equalizing 
its circulation, and restoring the action of the skin. Henee 
the absurdity of attempting this by external applications 
alone ; indeed they are worse than useless. 

71. Delabere Blaine, in speaking of the horse, observes : 
^' By a well known consent of parts, between the skin and 
alimentary canal in general, but between the first passages-and 
the stomach in particular, it follows ahnost in eyery instanioe, 
that when one of these becomes a£fected, the other takes on a 
sympathetic derangement also, and the condition is then 
morbid throughout. From close observation, and the accu- 
mulation of numerous facts, I am disposed to think, that so 
fearful is this sympathetic consent between these two distant 
parts or organs, that they change the order of attack as 
circumstances occur ; thus, when the skin is primarily 
affected, the stomach becomes secondarily so, and vice versa,** 



VAPOUR BATH. 

72. We feel perfectly assured that the prejudices of medical 
men, with regard to the use of the vapour bath, arise solely 
from ignorance of its effects. Any medical agent to be really 
and speedily useful, must be powerful ; and if so, it follows 
that its effects will either be happy or hurtful according as its 
powers are wielded. The late Dr. A. Combe, a gentleman 
distinguished in literature and science, thus happily expresses 
his views on the subject. He says : '' On the continent, the 
vapour and hot air baths are had recourse to, both as a means 
of health and in the cure of disease, to a vastly greater extent 
than they are in this country. Their use is attended by the 



BATHING. 51 

Tery best effects, particularly when the water bath is felt 
to be oppressive by its weight in chronic ailments ; and 
there can be no question that their action is chiefly on the 
skin, and through its medium on the nervous system. As a 
means of determining to the sur&ce, promoting cutaneous 
exhalation, and equalising the circulation, they are second to 
no remedy now in use; and, consequently, in a variety of 
affections, which the encouragement of these processes is 
calculated to relieve, they may be employed with every pros- 
pect of advantage. The prevalent fear of catching cold, 
which deters many from using the vapour bath, even more 
than &om warm bathing, is founded on a false analogy 
between its effects and those of profuse perspiration from 
exercise or illness. The latter weakens the body, and, by 
diminishing the power of reaction, renders it susceptible of 
injury from sudden changes of temperature. But the effect 
of the vapour bath, properly administered, is very different ; 
when not too warm, or too long continued, it increases 
instead of exhausting the strength, and, by exciting the vital 
action of the skin, gives rise to a power of reaction, which 
enables it to resist cold better than before. This I have 
heard many patients remark ; and the fact is well exempli- 
fied in Russia and the North of Europe, where, in the depth 
of winter, it is not uncommon for the natives to rush out of 
a vapour bath, and roll themselves in the snow, and be re- 
freshed by doing so ; whereas, were they to attempt such a 
practice after severe perspiration from exercise, they would 
inevitably suffer. It is the previous stimulus given to the 
skin by the vapour bath, which is the real safeguard against 
the coldness of the snow. Common experience affords 
another illustration of the same principle. If, in a cold 
winter's day, we chance to sit for some time in a room imper- 
fectly warmed, and feel in consequence a sensation of chilli- 
ness over the body, we are much more likely to catch cold 
on going out than if we had been sitting in a room com- 
fortably warm. In the latter case, the cutaneous circulation 
and nervous action go on vigorously, heat is freely generated, 
and the vital action of the skin is in full force. The change 
to a lower temperature, if accompanied with exercise to keep 
D 2 



52 BATHING. 

up this Titality, is then felt to be bracing and stimulating 
rather than disagreeable. But it is widely different when the 
surface is already chilled before going out. The vitality of 
the skin being diminished, reaction cannot follow additional 
exposure ; the circulation leaves the surface and becomes still 
more internal, and, if weakness exist in the throat or chest, 
cold is the almost certain result. Many suffer from ignorance 
of this principle. The vapoxir bath is thus calculated to be 
extensively useful, both as a preventitive and remedial agent. 
Many a cold, and many a rheumatic attack, arising from 
checked perspiration or long exposure to the weather, might 
be nipped in the bud by its timely use. In chronic affec- 
tions, not only of the skin itself, but of the internal organs 
with which the skin sympathises most closely, as the stomach 
and intestines, the judicious application of the vapour bath is 
productive of great relief. Even in chronic pulmonary com- 
plaints, it is, according to the continental physicians, not only 
safe, but very serviceable, particularly in those affections of 
the mucous membrane which resemble consumption in so 
many of their symptoms. Like all powerful remedies, how- 
ever, the vapour bath must be administered with careful 
regard to the condition and circumstances of the individual.*^ 
Such were the sentiments of one of the brightest ornaments 
of our profession, now cut off in the prime of his life by dis- 
ease of the lungs, from which he suffered for many years. 



MEDICATION. 

* 

73. As we shall hereafter advise medication in the vapour 
bath, it will not be out of place to conclude by a few observ- 
ations as to its practicability. We are aware that some have 
denied it in toto. To such, we offer the following statement. 
We beg it again to be understood that we have no theory of 
our own to advance by its substantiation or otherwise ; we are 
giving simply the result of our experience. We trust, there- 

* Principles of Phyuology, applied to the preservation of Health and to the im- 
provement of Physical and Mental Bducation. By A. Combe, MJ)., F.B.C.P. 
£din., See,, Second Edition. 



BATHIKG. 53 

fore, that what we have said will be read and investigated 
with that degree of candour which, in our opinion, the subject 
itself demands. We shall hold that person's knowledge of 
physiology as being low indeed who shall at once deny the 
possibility of the principles of plants or minerals being held 
in suspension through vapour or warm air, and inhaled by a 
patient. It would occupy too much of our space to allude to 
the splendid experiments of Magendie : few professional men 
are entirely ignorant of them. Every medical man knows 
that important effects are produced by vapour from mercury, 
sulphur, and other minerals ; and we know that a man will 
become intoxicated by merely inhaling the fumes of brandy. 

74. The practice of inhaling the fumes, effluvia, and vapour 
of different substances has long been extolled in the cure of 
many diseases; such as, the vapour of tar, in the cure of 
diseases of the lungs. We may also mention iodine, chlorine, 
and many narcotics, cinnabar, &c. in ulcerated throat ; and 
the vapour of hot vinegar in inflammatory affections of the . 
mucous membrane. If the utility of medication is denied, 
what becomes of the doctrine of infection, or the means 
recommended for destroying it? And if the air of a room 
can be deteriorated to such an extent, as to affect a healthy 
person subjected to its influence for a short time, and give 
rise to an identical and fatal disease, why should not a medi- 
cation have an equally salutary effect in counteracting, the 
principles of disease already established in the constitution ? 
Do not the fumes of turpentine give rise to a peculiar odour 
in certain secretions of the body ? and does not the smell of 
paint bring on colica pictonum and paralysis? These are 
facts with which every medical man is conversant. It is an 
easy matter to explain the way in which medication can act 
on the system. The patient inhaling the medicament in a 
gaseous state, it comes in immediate contact with the blood 
in its circulation through the lungs, thereby influencing the 
action of the heart ; in this way the pulse may be accelerated 
or diminished and the nervous system excited or depressed. 
In this way medicine, taken internally, exerts its influence on 
the system, by stimulating the nerves of the stomach and 
exciting the absorbents by which it is carried into the blood, 



54 BATHING. 

snd is again thrown off by Che excretions, carrying along 
with it impurities which produce disease, or obstruct the firee 
action of important organs. But substances introduced 
through the medium of the lungs exert a more powerful, 
speedy, and certain effect than those which have to undergo 
the process of digestion and assimilation, as is exemplified in 
breathing the fumes of alcohol or nitrous oxide gas, which 
instantly increase the force of the circulation, whilst those of 
hydro-carbon, or carbonic acid gas, diminish it. All these 
effects are produced by various agents operating through the 
medium of the nerves. And when we consider the effects of 
smells upon the nervous system, it will be easily understood 
why the bath should be a most powerful remedial agent in 
the cure of nervous diseases. The smell of the white lily, or 
that from the snuff of a candle, has been known to produce 
immediate fainting, while rosemary, lavender, &c. are power- 
ftdly stimulating. We have frequently seen the most striking 
and almost immediate results produced by suspending iodide 
at potasdum, in the vapour bath in scrofulous ulcers, and 
repeatedly we have been told by patients that they have 
perceived the taste of senega in the saliva at least twenty-four 
hours after the bath. Could such a circumstance take place, 
if medication werie useless? We trust enough has already 
been said to convince every candid person of the principle, 
t^e application of which will be considered and specified 
hereafter in treating of disease. 



65 



CHAPTER V. 



CUTANBOUB B&UPTI0N8. 



Herpes — ^Yesieular tetter — ^Phlyctenodes, labialiB, nasalu aad drcinatos; 
symptoms, diagnosis, cause, treatment, and cases — ^Porigo scutulata, 
scalded head, or ringworm; description, cause (according to E. 
Wilson), cure, and eases — ^Icthyosis; character, cases, and cure — ^Lepra 
vulgaris; description, cause uncertain, cases, and treatment — ^Psoriasis 
inyeterata ; cases and treatment. 

75, HEBPEfr-"y£SicuLAB Tetteb. The species we have 
most frequently met with in our practice are, pblyctenodes, 
labialis, nasalis, and circinatus. It is not necessary to enter 
into detail respecting these distinctions, as we consider them 
mere yarieties springing from the same source, and requiring 
pretty nearly the same treatment. This class of diseases is gene- 
rally preceded by constitutional disturbance, such as, general 
uneasiness, hot skin, thirst, and tongue more or less furred ; 
in fiict, the symptoms of common fever. The tingling of the 
sldn is sometimes most intense and almost unbearable, which 
is somewhat diminished by the appearance of the eruption ; 
this, however, is not the case always. In the first variety, the 
eruption comes out in irregular patches, assuming at first the 
Ibrm of small globular vesicles, containing a limpid, and at 
other times a brownish coloured, fluid ; in some instances, it 
has made its appearance first about the face and neck, in others 
about the chesty and in others about the legs, arms, and back. 
If the vesicles are not broken, the fluid becomes absorbed, 
leaving behind a brownish scab; when prematurely removed, 
there is frequently a discharge of thin, very ichorous matter, 
inflaming the parts it comes in contact with. In five or six 



56 CUTANEOTTS BBUFTIOKl. 

cases we have seen lately, the children (vaiying from seven 
months to two years of age) were Uterally covered with thin 
incrustations, arising from constant scratching ; thus causing 
blood to flow pretty freely wherever the little patient's hands 
could reach. Heat always appears to augment the irritation. 
If the child is brought near the fire, it will begin to scratch 
almost directly, and the complaint is always worse at night. 

76. Diagnosis. This disease has been mistaken for lepra, 
eczema, &c. ; its distinctive characters are generally well 
defined, and if the history of the case can be got at, we can- 
not well see how it can be confounded with the diseases men- 
tioned ; the prominent globular form of the vesicles, varying 
from the size of a millet seed to that of a small pea, and 
developed on an inflamed patch of skin; these vesicles always 
contain at first a colourless fluid, which afterwards becomes 
opaque,, sometimes brownish, these terminating in brownish 
coloured thin scabs. 

77. Cause. The exciting cause is generally cold or ex- 
posure to wet ; in children, we attribute this disease in most 
instances to eirors in diet, that is, over-feeding and improper, 
fopd. 

78. Tbeatment. Having first cleared out the alimentary, 
canal by a dose of castor oil, or if the secretions appear to be 
deranged, we generally prescribe from — 

Two to three grains of hydr, c. creta ; 

Three or four grains of pulv. rhei; 

Three grains of pulv. cinnam, co. ; 
and if the bowels are costive, a few grains of jalap or scam- 
mory are added. Afterwards the child is put into a bran bath, ^ 
from 95^ to 100° Fahrenheit, for five or six minutes, every 
alternate night ; this we have generally found to be a source 
of great relief to the little sufferer. When the child is tho-^ 
roughly dried, we direct the affected parts to be pencilled 
with a cameFs hair brush, with the following lotion: — 

Ung. hydr. niircUia, one ounce ; 
01. coc. palmate two ounces ; 
Liq. ccUcts, three ounces; 
which is prepared as follows: rub the nitrate of mercury 
ointment with a little of the cocoa-nut oil, tibenby degrees 



CUTAKEOUS EBUFTI0N8. 57* 

add- the lime water and oil alternately; it forms a liquid about' 
the consistence of cream, but of darker colour. To one ounce ^ 
of this lotion we add from twenty to thirty minums of hydro- 
cyanic acid (Scheele's strength). The lotion is generally 
directed to be applied night and morning. This lotion is 
occasionally substituted for the following: — 
MisL amygdal<B, six ounces ; 
Acidi hydrocyanici fScheeWtJ^ one drachm, 
if the vesicles are not broken. The affected parts should be 
occasionally dusted with powdered starch (free from Prussian 
blue), or what is usually called violet powder. If the child is 
at the breast, we direct the nurse to take two tablespoonsful' 
of the following mixture three times a-day, viz. : — 

Ext, sarsoi, three drachms; 

Liq. potasstB^ two drachms; 

Syr, aurantiiy half an oimoe; 

t^, anisiy one drachm; 

Aqua^ eight ounces; 
Misce, ft. mistura. 
In very obstinate cases, and where there is good ground for 
suspecting a scrofulous diathesis, four ounces of the decoction 
of senega is substituted for four of water. A teadpoOnful 
night and morning should be given to the little patient. 

79. We have met with five very obstinate cases within the' 
last two years, one in a child of twenty-eight months, another 
of two years, one of seven, &c. The vapour bath, in three other 
cases, was prescribed instead of the bran bath, and one minum 
of the liqua potassffi arsenitis was added to each dose of the 
medicine. We have generally found the concentrated decoc- 
tion of sarsaparilla more palatable than the extract, but as it 
is an expensive medicine, care should be taken to obtain it as 
pure as possible. We have not met with a single unsuccessful 
case where the treatment just alluded to was employed. The 
diet consisted exclusively of milk, bread, biscuit powder, or 
farinaceous pudding ; with barley-water or toast- water when 
thirst existed. 

80. When the scalp is affected with herpes circinatus, the 
lotion is directed to be applied night and morning; care must 
be taken that a soft brush is used, and the head should neither 

D 5 



58 otTTAirsoTrs bbttptioks. 



be nibbed or waehed until the disease is really subdued, uiiles» 
iSiere is a great accumulation of scab ; then a poultice is pre* 
ferable. We have generally obseryed the disease to be most 
obstinate in those cases where much friction has been em- 
ployed. We were caUed to yisit a child in Berkshire, on the 
1st October, 1847, about twenty months old. The child was 
pretty nearly covered ; the fiice, legs, and arms, were much 
inflamed, and bled freely, in consequence of the little patient 
constantly scratching itself. The disease appeared to be in the 
di£Ebrent stages, as, in some parts, there was the pellucid 
vesicles, and other parts were covered with the usual thin 
incrustations. The disease made its appearance when the 
child was a month old, and had gradually increased till the 
present time ; it certainly presented a most pitiable aspect ; 
no part of the body could be said to be free from the com- 
plaint. The bran bath was prescribed every alternate night, 
at a temperature of 98° to 100°, and the child ordered to be 
kept in about seven or eight minutes. As the alvine secretions 
were disordered, a powder, composed of two grains of mer- 
cury, with chalk, five of jalap, and two of compound cinnamon 
powder, was directed to be given twice or three times a- week. 
The lotion (vide page 56) to be applied night and morning 
with a earners hair brush, and a dessert spoonful of the fol- 
lowing mixture three times a-day:-— 
R. 

Caneentrated deeocthm ^ tarsapariUa, one ounce; 

Liq. poftusa, two drachms; 

Decoction of senega^ three ounces ; 

Honey ^ three drachms ; 

Water, four ounces ; 
Misce. 
The diet consisted exclusively of a teacupful of biscuit powder 
boiled in water, four times a-day. In three months the erup- 
tion entirely disappeared ; the little patient gained flesh, and 
seemed to be in excellent health. The following spring there 
was a slight return of the eruption, which, however, was 
checked by the remedies previously prescribed. The child had 
been under medical treatment since the period the disease 
broke out, but, according to the mother's statement, without 



tlVTAlTEOVfl XBUPTIOHt. M 

mitigating ihe crymptoias. This we are inclined to believe 
was owing to the ehiUL's lieing allowed to eat and drink what 
it pleased; at least, thero was no restraint upon its diet. 

81. We have heen iaduoed to be somewhat more particular 
in our observatioBS wt the treatment of this complaint, know- 
ing that it has baffled the best exertions of some of our 
nedioal friends in both town and country. 

82. Ponnioo SGUTirLA.TA, Soaxded Head, or Ringworm 
of the Sca^. Out of some five hundred cases, we hare only 
met with six or seyen that occunred at or beyond the age of 
puberty. It is sometimes one of the most obstinate and 
troublesome complaints to cure that is to be met with. There 
are few diseases of the skin that have had more local applica- 
tions suggested for their removal than ringworm. It usually 
commences with numerous small light yellowish coloured 
pustules, which break and form thin incrustations; these 
present all manner of forms on the scalp, which when neg- 
lected are apt to conglomerate, and, as we have witnessed in 
many instances, form a complete skull cap, in some parts half 
an inch thick. When this is removed by poultice, the skin 
appears red, smooth and shining, and on dose inspection, is 
studded all over with small papulflB, which in a few days 
become filled with pus. Under the name of ficivus or ringworm, 
Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S., in his lectures reported in the second 
volume of the Lancet for 1842-d, p. 886-7, declares ''the 
cause of true favus to be a special contagion, consisting of the 
cells or germs of the mycodermis, conveyed either by the 
winds or by actual contact to the hair follicles of a sound 
person.'' We believe it is generally allowed to have its 
origin in contagion, and occurs mostly with children from the 
age of two to ten or twelve^jrears of age. Children of sickly 
weak habit of body are most liable to be affected with it. 
When it occurs in children having a scrofulous diathesis, it is 
exceedingly difficult to cure. In this, as in the preceding 
diseases of the skin, much is owing to errors in diet, improper 
ventilation, unhealthy moist localities. When it happens in 
large schools, the only effectual way of getting rid of it is by 
dispersing the children. In all the works that treat of this 
disagreeable complaint, a very great variety of remedies are 



60 CT7TAVXOV8 SBT7FTIOK8. 

prescribed. The most scientific diTision of treatment in our 
opinion will be found in the lectures already alluded to. 

83. Our object, however, is to describe what has proved so 
successful in our hands. When the disease presents itself in 
irregular patches, we advise the hair to be cut as short as pos- 
sible, and well washed with brown soap and water, taking 
care to avoid friction, and afterwards to apply the lotion (vide 
page 56) with a feather or brush three times a-day. li the 
incrustation is thick and does not yield in a few days, a 
poultice of linseed meal should be applied, and repeated two 
or three times a*day until the scab is removed. We have 
sometimes used the following ointment alternately with the 
lotion. Take of— 

Olive oil^ or cocoa-nut oil, four ounces ; 

White wax, two and half ounces ; 

Spermacetiy half an ounce ; 
melt slowly, and when cool, to one ounce of this ointment rub 
carefully hydr, ehloridi, half a drachm. A little of this oint- 
ment is. to be rubbed on the afifected parts, or spread on a 
piece of lint, and laid on the head. The bowels should be 
carefully attended to, as well as strict attention given to diet. 
Milk and forinaceous food being the most suitable, butter 
should be strictly prohibited : in the majority of cases, but 
little medicine is required. When there is glandular swell- 
ings, which sometimes is the case, then the decoction of senega, 
sarsaparilla, and liq. potasses is prescribed, and an occasional 
warm water or vapour bath. We have met with the disease 
in its most obstinate form in constitutions greatly debilitated by 
improper food, bad air, &c. In such cases we have prescribed 
the different preparations of iron with success. We recollect 
perfectly wdl being consulted about a boy who then resided 
at Fulham, and who had been afflicted with ringworm for 
years. His parents had obtained an exhibition to Christ's 
Hospital, but he was refused admission. When we were con- 
sulted, three weeks was all the time allowed ; that is, if not 
cured by that time, he became ineligible from age. The dis- 
ease, much to the surprise of Mr. Stone, was perfectly 
removed in a fortnight, and the boy, we believe, is still in 
the school. The boy took a vapour bath every alternate 



otrtANxotrs sbvptioks. 61" 

di^^ and the lotion was directed to be applied thi«» times: 
a-day. 

84. On looking over our ease book, we find an instance 
recorded of a poor child named £. Cray, residing at Camber- 
well ; we attended the case at the request of the Key. Dr. 
Fletcher. She was five years of age, and had had the disease 
from her birth. It is thus described. The whole of the head 
is one mass of scab, and discharges freely an exceedingly foetid 
irritating matter, excoriating the skin it comes in contact 
with ; the body is more or less covered with a florid papular 
eruption, attended with intolerable itching. The poor child 
is much emaciated, and appears to be suffering from great 
debility. It was really disgusting to behold the poor sufferer, 
aggravated as the disease was by dirt and scanty diet. She 
was perfectly cured by the vapour bath, poultices, citron 
lotion, ointment with calomel ; the child was nearly twelve 
months under treatment. 

85. We have sent the lotion (vide page 56) and ointment 
into different parts of the country, and they have been 
employed in hundreds of cases amongst the poor, and no 
unsuccessful case has come to our knowledge. 

86. We cannot quit this subject without again pressing the 
necessity of strict attention to diet. The most objectional 
articles are butter, salt meat, pastry, pork, pickles, meat 
cooked in pastry, &c. The diet should consist principally of 
milk, bread, fuinaceous puddings, and fruit, with fi^sh animal 
food, if required, once a-day. In cases where there is biliary 
derangement, we advise the extract taraxicum with or with- 
out saline aperients as circumstances require. 

87. IcTHYOsis, or. fish skin disease, is characterised by a 
thickened, rough, hard, and in some instances almost homy- 
state of the integuments, with a tendency to scaliness. The 
legs and arms are generally most affected. '' The epidermis 
which is thus produced is more brittle than in its normal state, 
and splits, in the direction of the frurows of the skin, into poly- 
gonal scales of various size. Sometimes the disease retains thia 
scaly form, and the scales are thrown off from time to time. 
At other times the successive addition of fresh epidermis ta 
the biuses of the scales protrudes them to an extent warranting 



92 QVTAKIOIIB BBITFXiaXfl* 

the epithet of spinee father tiian scaks."— £. WSiom^ oputf 
eit. 

68. We allude to this disease more especially be<^ii«e of its 
resistance to the ordioarj modes of treatment, of which m 
striking instance occurred in the daughter of a noble earl, 
who had been tiie subject of icthyosis for years. Bvery 
description of baths had been employed at home and in Ger- 
many, and an endless ^variety of remedies resorted to by the' 
most skilful practitioners, without success. A cure was mt 
last effected by the decoction of rumaz aquations and Bran- 
dish's liquor potass®. A mild unstimulating diet was enjoioed,.' 
The menyanthes trifoliata in decoction has proved very bene- 
ficial in this obstinate complaint, as well as in some other 
scaly diseases. We have generally found the cure to be more 
qpeedily effected when the vapour bath has been occasionally 
used in conjunction with the dock root and liquor potass®. 
The roughness of the skin we have found to yield readily to 
tiie ointment with calomel. 

89. Lepsa. Vulgaris. Until within the last fe^ years 
there has been a good deal of confusion of ideas respecting 
the true nature of lepra ; every eruptive disease was popularly 
denominated scurvy. The true characteristics of lepra are 
now well defined, and are as follows : *^ Circular patches of 
smooth laminated scales, smrounded. by a reddish and pro- 
minent circle. The patches are of different si^s, and 
depressed in the centre/' Erasmus Wilson describes lepra 
to be a chronic infiammalion of the dermis, which is distin- 
guished by the eruption of raised and circular spots, covered 
by a thin and semi-transparent crust of altered epidermis. 
The eruption almost invariably makes its appearance at first 
about the kAees and elbows, and gradually coalesces, forming 
irregular patches, and thus loses its distinctive character. 
At first *' small reddish elevations resembling papulae, on the 
summit of which a thin epidermic scale speedily forms. The 
papulas enlarges and increases at its circumference until it 
attadns the diameter of a shilling, and often that of a crown- 
piece." The scales gradually increase in thickness, which 
often £bi11 off and are replaced by others less perfect. " So 
soon as the eruption has passed its papular stage, the patch 



OVTAKISOVS BBTTPTIOXf. 68' 

becomes depressed in the centre, while the margin is raised, 
and by degrees the central part returns to its natural state^ 
while the margin, like a narrow band, continues to extend 
upon the neighbouring sound skin. At this period, there it a 
remarkable contrast in colour between the healing area and 
the circumferential band ; the former is of a yellow colour, 
the stain often continuing after the cure of the disease, while 
the band is of a dull red hue. The central depression and 
prominent border, with the circular form, are pathognomonic 
characters of lepra." — E, Wilson, 

90. The scales of lepra haye a beautiful silyery metallic 
lustre, laminated and imbricated in structure, from the thick- 
ness of a shilling to that of a quarter of an inch. It is a 
general impression that lepra ia greatly on the increase, an 
opinion we are much inclined to believe is founded on fSact. 
At all events, we have seen more cases lately than for some 
years previously. This is much to be deprecated, seeing there 
is nothing as yet known with certainty as to the true cause of 
the disease. That the complaint is hereditary in many 
instances we can state from experience, but that it is pro- 
duced from causes independent of the hereditary tendency is 
also true. We remember a well-marked case that occurred 
in a lady who was previously in excellent health, and who 
had a most severe attack in a few days after eating roasted 
pork. Another instance happened to a medical friend, a 
naval surgeon, who was at the bombardment of St Jean 
d'Acre, and was one of the medical officers sent ashore to 
assist the wounded after the blowing up of the fort. Many of 
the wounded Egyptians had the leprosy, and our friend 
caught a most severe attack while in the discharge of his 
duty ; a clear case of infection. He described them as the 
filthiest persons he ever witnessed. On his return to England, 
he consulted the chief medical officer at Haslar hospital, from 
whom he obtained but partial relief. We prescribed the 
vapour bath twice a-week, sarsaparilla, iodide of potassium, 
and liquor potass® arsenitis, which completely cured him in 
six weeks. 

91. Case it is that of a gentleman who held an important 
government situation connected with the management of 



64 CTOAKBOVB EBTTPTIOVS. 

prisons, and who lately died suddenly from a return of an old ' 
heart affection. For a period of nearly thirty years he was 
never free from the disease, sometimes covered from head to 
foot, at other times only partially affected. He had employed 
every description of baths, ointments, &c. by the advice of • 
some of the first practitioners of the day, but never derived^ 
more than temporary relief. Such was the enormous quantity 
of scales that came off his body daily, that he was obliged to 
have a sheet under him whilst dressing, otherwise the carpet 
would be covered. He suffered very little from irritation, 
and was generally in excellent health. He first consulted us 
on the 13th October, 1838. It would extend this notice to 
an unreasonable length to enter into anything like a minute 
detail; we shall content ourselves with a general outline. 
He commenced with the following mixture: — 

Deeoct, sarsapartHa cencent, two ounoes ; 

In/, cMtyttaj nine and a half ounces; 

Idq. potassa, two drachms ; 

Liq. potassa arBeniHsj twenty-four minums; . 
Misce ft. mistura; 
two tablespoonsful three times a-day. The liq. arsenicalis was 
gradually increased to thirty-six minums. This mixture he 
took until the 7th of March, a period of nearly five months. 
Occasionally, for a week or ten days, the medicine was 
omitted, in consequence of the constitution becoming affected 
by it. In the intervals he took a pill composed of pil. hydr. 
two grains; ext. colocynth, three grains, at bed time, and a 
Seidlitz powder in the morning. His diet consisted of milk 
and bread night and morning, fr«sh meat at dinner, and a few 
glasses of wine. A vapour bath was prescribed occasionally, 
merely to clear the skin. We may remark here, that the 
vapour bath in this disease invariably does more harm than 
good if prescribed when there is much irritation or inflam- 
mation of the dermis. It should only be used when the skin 
is of a pale colour, free from all irritation, or at all events with 
a trifling amount of it, and especially when the thick lami- 
nated scales are easily removed. It is at this period only that 
the vapour or sulphur bath should be prescribed in lepra. 



CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS. 65 

We advised our patient to bathe the parts most affected with 
thin warm oatmeal gruel, and afterwards to anoint them with 
the white ointment. (Vide page 60). The above treatment 
removed every vestige of the disease. Two or three spots 
appeared in June, 1839, which he attributed to his having 
lived rather freely. The medicine was resumed until the 25th 
of. August.. 

92. In 1842 he had a few spots on the thigh, about the siase 
of a sixpence; These were speedily removed. In 1845 he took 
the medicine for about six weeks, with the same result. He 
alvrays attributed these slight returns to dose confinement, 
&c; We recollect perfectly well his animated and intelligent 
look, the first time he described his feelings at beii^ freed 
fix>m a disease he had been afflicted with for so many years. 
He said, '' It was impossible for any person to conceive the- 
pleasure he felt on getting out of bed in the morning to find 
his flesh like that of any other person in health." Our ex- 
perience entirely agrees with that of Mr. Himt, of Heme 
Bay, who has published several interesting cases in the Lancet 
of. 1846, namely, that more benefit is derived fix>m a pro-- 
longed continuance of the liq. potass» ars^tis in small 
doses, than when; the system is afiSected by it rapidly. Whea 
the medicine is pushed too far, it seems to increase the irrita- 
tion and inflammation of the skin, and causes it to crack and 
corrugate after the scales have come off. 

93.. Case hi. This was a case of very great aggravation, 
but not of that chronic nature as the one just related. It waa 
that of a man of full habit of body, about forty-eight years 
of. age, and by trade a master baker, an ocoupation not very 
compatible, with such a loathsome disease. We shall give a 
description of his case in his own words : '* About the month 
of Jime last (1835), I experienced a most irritating eruption 
on both my legs, which induced me to take some purgative 
medicine, and I must confess, the first eruption was removed 
in part, but I soon found a pimple appear on my right arm, . 
attended, with great itching ; then a similar one on my left, 
afterwards on both knees, then gradually my legs and thighs. . 
Bumps also.appeared on my head, spots on my chest and shoul- 
ders; indeed, from head to foot, I was completely oovered, 



66 oirrANEOTrs isbuptiovs. 

with blotches, and these contmned to increase in sice, until 
some became as large as the top of a teacup, covered over 
with a whitish scaly crust ; which, when I rubbed or picked, 
would come off in pieces as large as a sixpence. The bed- 
clothes, when shook, would yield a shower of particles of 
crusty scales, like those of a fish. My hands were so affected 
that I was obliged to keep them continually mollified with 
ointment of various kinds, and I experienced great difficulty 
in using them at all. This, sir, was the state I was in, and 
a deplorable one it was ; for not only was the disease spread 
over all my body, but the increasing obstinacy of it to yield 
in any way so affected my mind, that I had not the energy or 
spirit to follow my employment, and everything seemed 
gloomy to my mind. I applied to several medical gentlemen, 
and by their advice took a great qmntity of sulphin:, and 
used it externally with lard ; but, in spite of all remedies, the 
disease gained groimd, until I appeared loathsome to myself 
aad others." 

He consulted us on the 12th December, 1835, and was 
ordered to take a vapour bath twice a>week, and rub the oint- 
ment with calomel over his body at bed-time. Deeoction of 
senega was prescribed with extract taraxici and sulph. nu^- 
nesia for some time, and afterwards the decoction of ufanus 
fulva, or slippery ehn bark, with the iodide of potassium. 
The above treatment was persevered in until March. The 
result we shall give in his own words : ** Through the bless- 
ing of God, my skin is now smooth, the eruption is gone, and 
scarcely can a vestige be foimd of the largest and most formi- 
dable places, which were but a short time ago disgusting to 
the sight. I must also observe, that during the time I was 
taking the vapour bath, my general health was benefitted. I 
now feel stronger, and am able to meet the labours of the 
day with ease and ability." Some time afterwards t^re was 
a tendency to a return, which was cut short by the same 
remedies he took at first. 

94. CusE ly. Mrs. R., Shackle well, aged thirty-four years, 
consulted us in August, 1837. ^le then presented the fol- 
lowing aj^>earance. The arms, legs, forehead, and other parts 
of the body are literally encased with a thick scaly emptios 



CTTTANEOTTS EBTTPTIOKS. 67 

of a lightish brown colour. At the onset of the disease, 
small circular spots, considerably eleyated, appeared about the 
elbow, knees, &c., which gradually coalesced so as to form a 
uniform mass. The intense irritation she experiences pre- 
Tcnts her walking; her general health also appears much 
impaired. The same mode of treatment was adopted in this 
case as in the previous, with a similar result. 

95. Case t. Mrs. L., Coleman Street, aged forty- two years, 
a washerwoman. This case was well marked at first, but after- 
wards assumed the form of lepra psoriasis inveterata. The 
whole of the body was covered with the eruption, and she 
suffered most severely in the hands and i&ce from deep 
fissures, or chaps, which were excessively irritable, and de- 
prived the poor creature of the means of subsistence. The 
heat and irritation were speedily subdued by the application 
of waisn oatmeal gruel, and the ointment with calomel. In 
less than three months, she was enabled to resimie her employ- 
ment, free from the eruption, and in excellent health. 

06. Case ti. M. C, aged about nine years. This was a 
particularly well-marked case of lepra vulgaris. The eruption 
was confined principally to the arms and legs ; a few spots 
only appeared in other parts of the body. The vapour bath 
was prescribed twice a week, and the extract of sarsaparilla, 
liq. potassee, liq. arsenicalis, and infusion of chiryita; the 
ointment with calomel was applied night and morning. In 
two months she was completely cured. There is no doubt 
the cure is, in general, effected more speedily by the use of 
arsenical solution than by that of any other remedy that has 
hitherto been suggested. We have met with but one case of 
lepra psoriasis wherein it has failed. We may likewise men- 
tion, that this patient had employed sulphur in every form, 
mercury in different combinations, iodine, liq. potasssB, tar, 
and bleeding and cantharides, as recommended by Dr. Elliot- 
son ; in fact, every remedy likely to affect the skin had been 
employed over a period of twelve years, by the advice of some 
of the first in the profession, without permanent benefit. 
When, however, the disease returns, it assumes each time a 
less aggravated character; we were twice successful in 
removing the disease altogether. We have selected the fore- 



68 CtnDAKEOtrS EBtrPTIOKS. 

going out of some one hundred and fifty cases, to illustrate 
our mode of treatment The cases were all well marked in 
their characters. We have only met with one case of lepra 
nigricans, which was successfully treated with the same 
remedies as case No. 2 ; it occurred in a female of about 
thirty -six years of age, and was confined to the face. 

97. Psoriasis Inyetesata. M. A., aged about fifty years. 
At the time she consulted us (1843), there were large irregu- 
lar patches of the eruption about the knees and arms, which 
were attended with great heat and irritation. The palms of 
the hands, and a portion of the soles and heels of both feet, were 
covered with a hard, thick, homy substance, intersected with 
deep fissures, which prevented her almost from using her 
hands, and if extended, suddenly, the fissures would bleed 
profusely. When the thick incrustation peeled ofP*, the skin was 
exceedingly tender. Her health was affected by her prolonged 
sufferings, want of rest, &c. The heat and irritation were 
always worse when warm in bed, especially in cold weather. 
Her hands and feet were ordered to be poulticed with linseed 
meal and a portion of the extract of henbane to each poultice. 
When the incrustation was removed, the hands were fomented 
two or three times a-day with oatmeal gruel, or bran water, 
and she used occasionally the following lotion : — 

MUt amygdaUy seven and a half ounces ; 

Acidi hydrocy. two drachms ; 

iS^. vin, recttf.^ three drachms ; 
Misce ft. lotio. 
Cotton gloves to be worn constantly. When the crusts ceased 
to form, the hands were covered with thin scales, which were 
removed with the calomel ointment. She took extract sarsa- 
parilla, liq. potasssB, potassa iodidi, and towards the last, 
the infusion of chiryita, with liq. potassa arsenitis 'and liq. 
potasssB. After this treatment had been followed for about 
two months, a vapour bath, twice a-week, was prescribed for 
a few weeks, which completed the cure. 

98. Case xi. , aged fifty years ; catamenia ceased 

about three years ago. The appearance and symptoms in 
this case were precisely similar to the one just recorded, but 
was of longer duration. For several winters she was unable 



CUTAlTEOtrs SBTrPIlOKS. 69 

to open ber hands without causing them to bleed, especially 
at the fissures. The skin for many years was dry and rough ; 
she was particularly subject to cold hands and feet, and also 
was frequently attacked with congestion of the liver. The 
motions usually were dark and offensive. For about a fort- 
night she was ordered to take— 

PU, rhei CO. three grains ; 
Pil. hydr. two grains, 
every night, and the following draught every morning :— 
ExL taraxiciy half a drachm ; 
Magnes. su^h. one drachm ; 

TincL rhei, and tincture zingihy of each half a drachm; 
Misce. 
This removed the pain and fuhiess of the right side, and 
restored the evacuations to a healthy character. The vapour 
bath was then ordered every alternate day, with the following 
mixture :— 

Decoction of mrsapariHa concent, two ounces; 
Liq. pottissee, three drachms ; 
Potdssa iodidi, two scruples; 
Inf. chiryita, ten ounces; 
Misce; 
two tablespoonsful three times a-day. The hands to be poul- 
ticed, and afterwards rubbed with the calomel ointment. In a 
couple of months very little of the roughness remained. The 
patient became tired of her medicine, so that in the winter 
following she had a return, but not so severe as she had been 
accustomed to have. We have no doubt she will be perfectly 
cured this spring. 

99. Case hi. T. P., by trade a carpenter, aged 48 years. 
The disease first occurred about ten years ago; it made its 
appearance then on the knees and elbows, and gradually spread 
so as to cover his body generally. The legs and arms especially, 
when touched, felt as hard as a board. The veins in both legs 
were varicose, and his sufferings from heat and irritation very 
great. When he consulted us in September, 1848, he could 
scarcely walk, and had not had a night's rest for three 
months. Some years back, he consulted a quack at the west 



70 CUTAKEOUS SBtrPIIOKS. 

end of London, who made some pretensions to a knowledge of 
skin diseases, but derived no benefit ; and by the advice of 
another, who keeps baths in the city, he took sulphur baths, 
which materially increased his sufferings. He attended the 
Institution for skin diseases in Bridge-street, Blackfriars, for a 
period of three months, where he derived partial relief. The 
decoction of senega and the menyanthes trifoHata, liq. 
potasssQ, liq. arsenicalis, was taken internally, and the 
calomel ointment, spread on lint, was applied to the legs, 
which were afterwards bandaged. Both feet were literally 
encased with a homy substance, which was removed by 
repeated poulticing, and the use of bran baths. In a few 
weeks, a vapour bath was prescribed three times a-week. 
The above treatment was followed steadily for five months. 
The eruption has entirely disappeared ; he can now walk 
six or eight miles a-day without inconvenience, and has 
resumed his occupation. We have in several instances 
bandaged the legs with emp. plumbi, spread on lint, which 
has invariably given great relief; we presume arising from 
the air being prevented acting on the diseased dermis. 

100. Case IT. S. B., aged 68. The whole surface of both 
legs was covered with amorphous scales ; the arms were but 
slightly covered with the eruption; over the whole body there 
was a tendency to the disease. When the patient imdressed, 
there was usually a great quantity of floury scales always 
shook out of his flannel waistcoat, &c. The irritation was 
principally confined to the legs; the health was, and had been, 
particularly good. A gentle aperient was prescribed, and the 
legs enveloped with the calomel ointment spread on lint. The 
vapour bath was ordered every alternate day, which, in about 
two months, effected a complete cure. There was no return of 
the disease, nor the slightest irritation. The patient lived to 
the age of 76. 

101. Case t. M. E., aged 54, consulted us in 1838. In 
this case the disease was principally confined to both legs, the 
scales were thicker, and came off in lai^er quantities than in 
the preceding case. This gentleman had been afOicted for 
years with the eruption, but generally enjoyed good health. 
He was ordered a vapour bath three times a-week, and the 



GTTTANEOXrS EB0PTIOK8. 71 

calomel ointment rubbed on tbe legs night and morning ; 
afterwards they were bandaged with the emplastrum plumbi 
spread on thick soft calico. He also took the concentrated 
decoction of sarsaparilla, Uq. potassaa, potassa iodidi, and liq. 
arsenicalis. In three months he was cured, and has had no 
return of the disease up to the present period. He continues 
to wear an elastic bandage, as there was a tendency to a vari- 
cose state of the veins. 



72 



CHAPTER VL 



nnxtUA, yvLOABiB : scuomrLA, os kino s btil# 

Wliat it is — ^The parts usually affected — ^Nature of the scroMoxis matter — 
History and derelopment — Cause — ^Pathology — Treatment — ^Mr. Law- 
rence — Dr. Gloyer — Samuel Cooper, in Med. Die. — Celsos — ^Drs. 
MoUeson — Carswell— Abercrombie — ^Andral — Laenneo — ^Meckel — Bn- 
puytren — Cmyeillieier — Otto, &c. — ^The Lancet — Chemical analysis of 
tubercle — Simon — ^Dubois — ^Phillip on the blood — Analysis by French 
Authorities. 

History: remote — Edward the Confessor — Cure by touch — Cold and 
moist climates — Sex and age most liable — ^Fair and dark complexions — 
Scrofula hereditary, not contagions — Cause debility, or debilitating 
diseases — ^Digestion — ^Improper food — Pigs affected by scrofula — ^Dr. 
Jas. Eayer on diet — ^Diseases of cattle — ^Bad air — Pathology — ^Boileaa 
— ^Mayo — ^Effects of mercury — ^Affections of the eyes — Caries of the 
yertebrsB — ^Biliary secretion. 

Tbeatment : simple medicine — Good food — ^Vapour bath — ^Polygala senega 
— ^Tormantil root, &c. — Iodine — Cod liyer oil; Professor Bennett — 
Dr. WiUiams — ^Brown ointment — Cases. 

102. We shall commence this most important subject by 
describing first, what it is; second, the parts most commonly 
affected by it, and the nature and peculiar character of 
scrofulous matter ; third, its history and locality, the sex and 
age most attacked by it, and its hereditary tendency ; fourth, 
cause ; fifth, pathology ; sixth, treatment. 

103. 1. Struma is generally defined to be swellings of the 
conglobate glands, indolent, suppurating slowly and imper- 
fectly, healing with difficulty, and occurring mostly in young 
persons having a thick upper lip and a florid complexion. 



SCBOFTTLA, OS KINO's ETIL. 73 

104. " We use the term scrofula in two senses ; either to 
designate that assemblage of characters which marks a pecu- 
liarity of constitution, which is generally original or connate; 
that is, existing at the time of birth — ^from which such peculiar 
character of the disease is derived. In this sense, scrofula is 
used as synonymous with scrofulous constitution ; and hence 
we speak of scrofula existing in a family. The external marks 
of scrofula are generally considered to be a thin state of the 
external integuments, so that the cutaneous vessels are dis- 
tinctly seen ramifying through them. In some individuals 
the skin is so thin, that the course and ramifications of the 
vessels, and the colour of the blood* they contain, are almost 
as distinguishable as if the parts were dissected. A thickness 
of the upper lip, a tumid state of the septum of the nose, a 
looseness and flexibility of muscular fibre, these are circum- 
stances that are observed in scrofulous individuals. One set 
of scrofulous subjects present a pale bloated countenance, a 
flaccid loose state of the flesh in the muscular parts of the 
body ; there is a languid circulation, so that the extremities 
of the body are cold ; indeed, there is a general torpor in all 
the organs and functions of the frame, whether bodily or 
mental. In the other set, there is an excess or unnatural 
colour in the face, and in the neck particularly^ circulation 
rapid and excited, usually accelerated by external influence ; 
there is a rapidity in the performance of the functions, 
whether bodily or mental ; such children often appear to have 
a development of the intellectual faculties greater than might 
be expected at their time of life, and all external influences 
act more powerfully on individuals of this description.*' — 
Lawrence on Sero/ula, 

105. '' Scrofula is (speaking of the actual diseased pro- 
cess, not the diathesis) a peculiar modification, whereby the 
usual, or, as they may be termed, the normal products of 
this process are not evolved ; but, instead of them, other 
materials, incapable of passing into the regular cell forms, 
and which constitute the substance described under the name 
of scrofulous or tuberculous matter. The peculiarity of this 
formation, and the continuance of the scrofulous diathesis, are 
the causes of the characters assumed by the various after pro- 



74 SCBOFTTLA, OB KINO*8 ETIL. 

cesses which result from the existence of tubercle/' — Dr. 
Glover on Scrofula, p. 186-7. 

106. The late Samuel Cooper, Esq. defines scrofula to be, '' a 
disease, one of the chief or most palpable symptoms of which 
is a chronic swelling of the absorbent glands, in various parts 
of the body, which glands generally tend very slowly to im- 
perfect suppuration We do not define the disorder 

to be a morbid state of the lymphatic glandular system. The 
first appearances frequently consist of spots on different parts 
of the body, and of eruptions and ulcerations behind the ears. 
The system of absorbent glands, it is true, seldom or never 
fails to become affected in the progress of disease ; but there 
is reason to believe that scrofula frequently appears, for the 
first time, in parts which are not of a glandular nature. — Vide 
Dictionary, 

107. '' Struma quoque est tumor, in quo subter concreta 
queedam ex pure et sanguine quasi glandulsB oriuntur ; quee vel 
praecipue fatigare medicos solent ; quoniam et febres movent, 
nee unquam facile maturescunt; et sive fero, sive medica-. 
mentis curantur, plerumque iterum juxta cicatrices ipsas 
resurgunt ; multoque post medicamenta seepius : quibus id 
quoque accedit, quod longo spatio detinent. Nascuntur 
maxime in cervice; sed etiam in alis, et inguinibus, et in 
lateribus. In mammis quoque feminarum se reperisse, Meges 
aucter est."* 

108. Scrofula, or the evil, is denoted by a peculiarly delicate 
glossy complexion, a tenderness and sponginess of the upper^ 
lip, kernels of the neck, foulnesses of the skin, and particu- 
larly by a tumid belly. It indicates relaxation of the solids, 
and depravity of the fluids ; and is often called into actioir 
by too high as well as too low living. It pervades, in various 
gradations, this island very generally. — {Montrose N, B. temp: 
1795. Dr, MoUison.) 

109. *'An affection which declares itself on one or more partcr 
of the integmnents by the hypertrophy, induration and 
prominence of the lymphatic glands, by the formation of 
•pots, scales, tubercles and pustules, followed by tdcerations, 

• Celsntt book t* ehap. 8S» Met. 7. 



8CB0FULA, OB KINO'S EYIL. 75 

incrastations, hypertrophies, cellular vegetations of the skin, 
&G. These tumours or swellings, the result of a morbid 
change, as yet but little understood, have their special seat in 
the glands, as the parotid, submaxillary, sublingual, cervical, 
&c." — Baron Alibert. 

110. The parts most affected by the disease, are the glan- 
dular system in general, as already mentioned in the above 
definitions : the lungs^ spleen, breasts in the female, perito- 
neum, brain, eyes, bones, and joints. The secreting glands are 
rarely affected by scrofula, at least the liver and kidneys. It 
is still a disputed point with pathologists whether phthisis 
and scrofula are the same disease. We are inclined to be- 
lieve they are identical ; that is, tuberculous matter in each 
are alike. This opinion is supported by Carswell, Abercrom- 
bie, Andral, Laenec, Meckel, Dupuytren, Cruveilheier, Otto, 
&c. Tuberculous matter is described by Dr. Carswell, as a 
pale yellow, or yellowish gray, opaque unorganized substance, 
the form, consistence, and composition of which vary with 
the nature of the part in which it is formed, and the period 
at which it is. examined. This is the essential product in 
scrofula and phthisis. 

111. Andral thus defines it : " Production d'un blanc jaun- 
atre de forme le plus ordinairement ronde, dur a son origine, 
mais d6ja k friable se ramolisant ensuite, et se transformant 
alors en une mati^re non homog^ne constitute par des grumaux 
blanchatrcs et friables qui sont comme suspendus au milieu 
d*un liquide sero-purulent." — And, Path, tom. i, page 409. 

112. The white flaky substance in psoas abscess is pecu- 
liarly characteristic of tuberculous matter. When suppuration 
occurs in scrofulous inflammation, the matter does not so 
readily and quickly make its way to the surface. 

11 3. ''You do not find a collection of matter opening on its 
arrival at the surface, as in cases of phlegmonous inflamma- 
tion ; but you find the skin becomes extensively detached, and 
when the matter reaches the surface, an opening takes place 
through a small part of the integument. Now the matter 
which is discharged from such an opening is different to that 
produced by healthy inflammation ; it is rather a mucous, or 
flerous, than a purulent fluid ; at all events, it is a thin kind 



76 8CB0FULA, OB KIMO's £TII». 

of pus, and very commonly flaky and cnrdy substances are 
mixed with the thin matter." — Lawrence'i Lectures on Sur- 
gery, 1830. 

114. Tubercle means simply swelling, being derived from 
tuber, and consists of an adventitious substanee, which is 
generally of firm consistence and white colour, disseminated 
throughout the parts afBscted ; these small masses are increased ; 
the contiguous ones join ; they coalesce and then assume a 
greyish colour; they afterwards become loosened and softened 
in texture. 

By scrofulous or tubercular matter should be understood, a 
peculiar morbid formation, the product of a particular modi- 
fication of the inflammatory process. The results of the 
chemical analysis of tubercle, and its after products, of scrofu- 
lous bones, &c., although they may not as yet warrant very 
decisive conclusions, yet furnish some useful information, 
which will be found to bear upon the pathological proposition 
advanced concerning the essential nature of scrofulous and 
tubercular aflections. — Dr, Glover, op. cit, pp. 23, 86. 

115. Scrofulous matter is found in nearly all parts of the 
body ; namely, the medullary substance of the brain, in the 
air cells of the lungs, the biliary ducts, the kidneys, testicles, 
and the lymphatic glands. Bailie, Sir A. Cooper, and Andral 
found it in the thoracic duet. Dr. Carswell has shown it in the 
blood. We cannot, therefore, infer it is the product of the 
tissue in which it is deposited, as it i« difficult to conceive 
that every tissue is capable of generating the same morbid 
matter. In all the parts we have already enumerated, scrofu- 
lous matter retained all its essential characters. Does it then 
form in the fluids, by the reaction of the organic elements 
while in solution, and is it deposited wherever these elements 
move slowly, stagnate, or are exhaled — ^in the vessels or in 
the parenchyma of organs — in serous surfaces or in mucous 
membranes? It seems probable that in a scrofulous individual 
there is idioscyncrasy of function, form, and structure. It 
may consequently be admitted, that all the tissues are modi- 
fied and may undergo the scrofulous transformation. But it 
is necessary to admit that blood or lymph first becomes tissue. 



T^^r^ 



SCROFULA, OB XING*S BYIL. 77 

and then tubercle, when, in many instanceB, the transforma- 
tion is immediate. — Vtde Review of Dr. CarsweU's Path. 
Anat. in Lancet, vol. 1, 1833-4. 

1 16. Andral gives the analysis of softened tubercles as fol- 
lows, in 100 parts. 

Animal matter . . 98.15 Others contained animal matter 3 

Muriate of soda, pboophate f 

of lime, carbonate of> 1.85 Salts . . . . -. 96 

lime, onde of iron . y 

Thenard gives precisely the same. In his ultimate analysis 
of tubercle freed from fat, salts, &c. there is but little differ- 
ence in what was found in the liver, lungs, brain, and 
abdomen. Tubercle taken from a scrofulous mass in the 
abdomen, he gives the following formula : 

c. H. N. o. 

46 38 6 12 

117. ''In scrofulous affections the blood is deficient in 
Bolid constituents, especially in fibrin and in corpuscles. The 
primary causes are probably due to a deficient formation of 
chyle, and to the influence of a moist, unhealthy atmosphere." 

118. Dubois says: ''The blood coagulates slowly, the clot 
is small, soft, and diffluent ; the serum is thin and often of a 
red colour. When examined under the microscope, some of 
the corpuscles appeared devoid of colour at the edge only, 
some entirely colourless; their size was not materially 
changed, but they appeared flattened, spherical, or cylindrical, 
hence we also infer that there is a deficiency in the quantity 
of salts in the blood of scrofulous persons." h 

119. Mr. Phillips says: "I have examined th0 blood in 
i»ixty-6even instances of scrofula, and although I have almost 
always observed a considerable deviation from the condition 
of healthy blood, the changes have not presented sufficient 
uniformity to induce me to regard any particular conditi<m as 
specially eharacteristio of scrofula. The changes are such as 
seemed to belong to a tolerably extensive group of jaffections, 
all, it is true, being connected with disordered nutrition and 
debiUty." 

120. " In almost every case, the coagulum was relatively 
«maU, the serous menstruum large ; the dot was usually very 

■ 3 



T8 SCBOFULA, OE KINO's ETIL. 

soft, almost diffluent, in a few instances tolerably firm ; in 
almost all cases the proportion of globules was considerably 
under the healthy standard. The fibrin had not usually under- 
gone much change : in a few cases it exceeded ; in many 
more it was below the healthy standard ; in some instances 
it was nearly double/' 

121. ''The analysis of Andral, Gavarret, Becquerel, and 
Rodier have shown that there is a diminution of blood globules 
as well as a slight diminution of albumen in phthisis. On 
the whole, therefore, it may be stated, as the result of these 
analyses, that in scrofula we have an increase in the solids of 

• the serum, and a diminution of blood globules, which is very 
nearly the alteration that has long been suspected to exist. 
As far as the analysis go, the fats are not deficient in the 
blood, and however opposed this may be to certain hypothe- 
tical notions with regard to the supposed modus operandi of 
cod liver oil, it is altogether in harmony with the results of 
the analysis of tubercle which we have made." — Dr, Glover^ 
op. cit. p. 115. 

3. Antiquity, climate, sex, age, akd its hebedi- 

TABT tendency. 

122. Scrofula appears to have existed at a very early period 
of our history, but little however was really known of its true 
character until the seventeenth century. It was denominated 
the king's evil in the time of Edward the Confessor, who is 
supposed to have been the first that attempted to cure it by 
the royal touch. From a register kept in the royal chapel, 
we find that Charles the Second touched 02,107 persons in a 
certain number of years. Celsus speaks of a person who was 
said to have been freed fi'om struma by eating a snake. 
^* Quorandum rusticorum experimente cognitum, quern struma 
male habet, eum, si anguem edit liberari.*' Climate has 
great influence in developing scrofula. ''People from the 
East and West Indies who come over to this country not 
tmfrequently fall a prey to scrofulous disease." 

123. Many children born in the East and West Indies are 
sent to this country to be educated, and therefore we have an 
opportunity of seeing the effect of climate on their constitu- 
tions; and I can assure you, that it frequently requires the 



SCB07ULA, OB KINO*8 ETIL. 79 

greatest possible care to save them from the danger of scrufulous 
disease of the joints and absorbents glands." — Sir A, Cooper. 

124. Cold and moistm*e, therefore, are the most powerful 
and direct exciting causes of scrofula. Great Britain, the 
northern parts of Germany, and France, are countries in which 
scrofulous diseases are very prevalent; vicissitudes of tem- 
perature are most common in the colder regions of the globe. 
Professor Beer, of Vienna, states that, in cases of ophthalmia 
occurring in children there, nine out of ten are strumous. 

125. Dr. Gregory, of Edinburgh, thought that there was not 
a single family there exempt from it. It is said to be most 
common in the counties of Suffolk and Lancashire. Mr. 
White states that struma prevails more extensively in tempe- 
rate latitudes than in very hot or very cold climates. We 
know, however, that it is very common at present in some of 
our West India islands. In this country, the disease is always 
worse during the winter months. The general impression is, 
that females are more subject to scrofula than moles, and 
infancy is the period most assailed by it : — " Cette maladie 
est commun^ment le partage de la premiere enfance. II est 
rere qu'elle se d^veloppe chez les adultes. Je Tai pourtant 
observ^e chez septuag^naires ; mais presque toujours ce sont, 
les effects de la dentition qui la font ^clare, et ceux de la 
puberty, qui la font evanouir." — Alihert Nosol, No. 1. 

126. Out of 132 cases of scrofula that have come under our 
observation, and that of our late partner, 116 were females; 
of 28 the age and sex were not inserted in our note book. 

In 67 the age ranged from infancy to 9 years. 

29 from nine to twelve. 

30 from twelve to twenty. 
21 from twenty to thirty. 

7 from thirty to forty-nine. 

154 

We believe the statistical accounts, in general, are in favour 
of the disease prevailing more among females than males. 

127. Dr. P. H. Green's tables, however, are opposed to 
this. Out of 402 cases 313 were boys, and their ages ranged 
from one to fifteen. 



80 SOBOFUJLA, OB KIHO's BTIL. 

128. Scrofula in this country prevails most amongst per- 
sons of light hair and eyes. In France, Germany, and 
Italy, the majority of cases are persons with dark hair 
and complexion. Mr. Phillips states he has examined 9000 
scrofulous children, of whom 32 per cent, had light hair and 
^es. 

129. That health will beget health, and disease be the 
product of disease, may be regarded as a general law ; hence 
we see children afiOicted with constitutional diseases for which 
they are indebted alone to their parents. There are some 
authors who deny the hereditary tendency of disease alto- 
gether, an opinion which is unsupported by the great 
authorities of the present day; this, howeyer, is not the 
place to discuss the question. We know that there are 
numerous instances where, by strict attention to diet and 
regimen, healthy children have been reared, where scrofula 
was evidently existing in the parents, so that a generation 
has escaped entirely, at least the disease never developed 
itself. When progenitors, by effeminate, free, or debaudied 
habits of life, or otherwise, have broken down their con- 
stitutions, abbreviated their own lives, and imparted to 
their posterity the germs of destructive diseases, it amounts 
to a moral responsibility in the latter constantly to watch, 
study, and guard against the further transmission of heredi- 
tary affections ; to beware of adding to those evils by similar 
practices, or by marrying into diseased liEunilies. We would 
impress upon such the beautiful maxim of Sir John Mason, 
who declares that, ''after a wide and acute survey of this 
checkered scene, seriousness is the greatest wisdom, tempe- 
rance the best physic, and a good conscience the best estate.'* 
Sir A. Cooper, speaking on this subject, says : '' Does a child 
resemble its fiither or mother ? and do we not see parents, 
predisposed to scrofulous disease, having children of scrofu- 
lous constitutions, complexion, &c. as I have desoribed to you, 
manifesting the signs of scrofulous affections at some period 
of their life ? And is this the consequenoe of a particular 
state of constitution transmitted to them by their parents ? 
Let two scrofulous persons marry, and see the consequenee ; 
a great proportion of the children will be bom with a scnxfu^ 



BCBOFULA, OB KIKO*8 EVIL. 81 

lous disposition; with that debility of constitution which 
gives rise to the production of the disease." 

130. It is useless to multiply authorities, or say more on 
this question. Scrofula is not a contagious complaint ; it 
cannot therefore be reproduced by contact, inoculation, or by 
injecting scrofulous matter into the veins, or by applying it to 
wounds. The most important question is, what is the exciting 
cause of scrofula? We reply, whatever tends to increase 
debility, such as fevers of a specific character, namely, 
measles, scarlet fever and small pox, cold moist air, the 
absence of the direct solar rays, and close confinement in an 
unhealthy atmosphere. We need not go far to see this 
verified in all large cities, particularly in the densely popu- 
lated districts chiefly inhabited by the poor, where the 
children of the half-starved present that peculiar blanched 
appearance, which is witnessed also in the vegetable king- 
dom, whenever plants are deprived of their due share of light 
and warmth. 

131. The wholesale destruction of life that happened a few 
weeks back in Drouct's establishment for pauper children, is 
not likely to be soon forgotten. Mr. Wakley deserves golden 
laurels for his unwearied exertions in bringing to light and 
public scorn the horrible system adopted at Tooting. 

132. *' According to the order of nature, children are dis- 
tributed in twos, threes, or fours, constituting families amongst 
grown-up people. That they, need the moral assistance of 
parents, after the first stage of their physical existence is 
passed, is certain, and the presumption from that is that the 
physical well-being of children and parents is also contingent 
on their remaining for a considerable time together. It is 
palpable enough that the growing human frame assimilates 
the matter on which it is nourished veiy differently, or assi- 
milates very different matter from the decaying human frame, 
or from the frame that is mature, and is not yet marked by 
sensible decay. It may from that be inferred that the pre- 
sence of one with the other is necessary to the welfare of all. 
Children in schools are not generally so robust as those who 
live in families. Bacon's aphorism, that we can only conquer 
nature by obeying her laws, is probably as true of parents 



82 scKofuuL, OB king's etil. 

and children as of other parts of creation, and consequently 
we can only improve both by allowing them to be together. 
At least, the example of Tooting, and the example of almost 
every workhouse, and of every foundling hospital, in all which 
the mortality has been great, seems to indicate that it is 
injurious to the health and strength, and fatal to the lives, of 
infants and children to congregate them in masses, by them- 
selves, or with one or two masters or mistresses, directly 
contrary to the practice of nature, who distributes them 
amongst the mature and aged members of society.'' — Econo- 
mist, Jan. 20th, 1849. 

133. Next in importance is digestion. All substances 
obnoxious to the acetous fermentation are important agents in 
aggravating, if not in producing, this disease. We are not 
surprised that the disease prevails so extensively in Lanca-* 
shire, where the poor feed so much upon sheep, calves, and 
pigs' livers, and fat pork, which are, for the most part, masses 
of disease. We know that pigs are frequently affected with 
scrofula. A few weeks back we removed a large scrofulous 
tumour &om a young pig, which contained the usual flaky 
curdy matter. It is stated by several authors, that farinace- 
ous food determines to tabes mesenterica and scrofula. Dr. 
James Eager, who had extensive experience in the Parisian 
Hospitals, was of opinion, that an exclusive farinaceous diet 
is an essential cause in producing scrofula. He also states, 
that herbivorous animals are frequently attacked by this dis- 
ease, whereas carnivorous are in general exempt, and that 
butchers are, in general, free from it. He neglects, however, 
to state the kind of food the herbivora will feed upon. No 
person has any right to cavil at a statement which is the 
result of experience and observation ; it is quite a different 
matter to draw conclusions from the same. 

134. We do not deny that scrofula prevails amongst the 
children of the poor who cannot afford to purchase animal 
food ; but do these children have always a sufficiency of fari- 
naceous food ? And are those who live upon a more luxuri- 
ous diet exempt from the disease ? We reply to both these 
questions in the negative. We hold, therefore, the statement 
IB not of much value, when so many facts are opposed to it. 



8CS0FXTLA, OB KINO*S EYIIi. 83 

We do not object to the use of sound animal food ; but while 
disease prevails to such a fearful extent, as it does at present 
amongst cattle, both at home and abroad, it behoves every 
person to be on their guard, since, as we have already said, 
disease will, in general, be the product of disease. Whatever, 
therefore, deranges the digestive organs, interferes with or 
prevents the production of healthy chyle, will be a source of 
disease. When there is a predisposition to scrofula, that will 
be manifested. 

135. But of "all the causes that have the most extensive 
influence on the poor as well as rich, none is more important 
or destructive in its effects than foul air ; which, being defi- 
cient of the due proportion of oxygen necessary for the 
proper arterialization of the blood, is thereby depriving it of 
that stimulus which is absolutely necessary to the healthy 
function of the whole economy. How important is this con- 
sideration in all large manufacturing towns, where, in many 
instances, eight hundred and a thousand persons are confined 
in heated, ill-ventilated atmospheres. It should not be for- 
gotten by those who have the charge of nurseries, dormitoiies, 
and schools, that breathing a tainted, impure atmosphere, 
unfit for respiration, is most inimical to health. 

136. Neglect of personal cleanliness, improper clothing, 
indolence, and a want of proper exercise, may all be enume- 
rated as exciting causes, and satisfactorily accounts for the 
disease prevailing in particular districts. 

137. Pathology. It will not be necessary to say much 
on this subject, having already given a full description of the 
external characteristics, and having also alluded to the matter 
discharged from ulcers and. that found in cavities, as well aa 
some general remarks on the blood. We have already men- 
tioned that the disease is to be found in nearly the whole 
glandular system. When matter is found in the external 
glands, such as the cervical axillary and inguinal, it has at 
first a firm curdy consistence, and as the process advances,' 
some portion becomes fluid ; until ultimately the suppurative 
cavity contains a matter partly curdy, puriform, and serous. 
When this matter is removed by ulceration of the parietes 
of the cavity containing it, an irregular shaped cavity remains 



84 SCROFULA., OB KINO*S EYIL. 

in the substance of the gland ; whilst the swelling of the part 
diminishes, the sides of this cavity become covered with a 
curdy yellow incrustation, more or less firm, and from its 
surface a puriform matter is secreted. This incrustation 
prevents the formation of granulations, and is the cause of 
'scrofulous cavities not healing ; while it is by the separation 
of this crust, in consequence of laying open these abscesses, 
that granulations form, and heal up the cavity. The incrus- 
tation covering the internal surface of the scrofulous abscess, 
when of very long standing, acquires a surface which resem- 
bles a mucous membrane, from which the puriform fluid is 
secreted." — Bailie's Works, hy Wardrop, vol. i, p. 23. 

138. Scrofulous ulcers will sometimes remain open for 
years, and when they do heal up, they in general leave behind 
them an unsightly puckering of the skin and scars of con- 
siderable extent. " The ulcer is generally of small extent and 
shallow, with a pink or whitish secreting surface ; the skin is 
red, soft, and undermined, with an opening large enough to 
diBplay part only of the subjacent ulcerated surface; com- 
monly succeeding subcutaneous scrofulous abscess round 
lymphatic glands." — Mayors Pathology, p. 264. 

139. In three or four cases of mesenteric disease, we found 
on examination the glands almost in a state of ossification, so 
hard as to turn the edge of the scalpel, and varying in size 
from a pea to a good sized walnut. 

140. " I had once an opportunity of seeing two or three 
scrofulous tumours, growing within the cavity of the pericar- 
dium, one of which was nearly as large as a walnut"; they 
consisted of a white soft matter, somewhat resembling curd, 
or new cheese." — Bailie's Morbid Anatomy. 

141. While a dresser at the Manchester Infirmary, we had 
an opportunity of examining at least fifty joints after amputa- 
tion, namely, knee, ankle, elbow, &c. — all presenting the 
usual characters of scrofulous disease ; in most cases, the 
cartilages were more or less ulcerated and destroyed ; in all, 
the bones were in a state of inflammation, some having the 
cancellated structure destroyed many inches above the epiphe- 
ses. When scrofulous inflammation attacks the joints, it is 
generally very slow in its progress, and not always attended 



8CBOF17LA, 0& KINQ^S EYIL. 35 

with severe pain until the disease has considerably advanced. 
Small abscesses usually form in the neighbourhood of the 
joint, leaving sinuses through which the probe reaches and 
penetrates the softened cancellous structure of the bone. 

142. Strumous caries, bears in numerous instances, a close 
resemblance to syphilitic caries. • We feel persuaded that 
inany cases of scrofulous disease of the joints are much aggra- 
vated by the injudicious use of mercury. 

143. The effects of mercury were known as early as the 
beginning of the thirteenth century. Theodorick, who was 
ft friar, and afterwards Bishop of Cervia, and died between 
the years 1270 and 1280, appears to have been well acquainted 
with the baneful results produced by it. Dr. Francis Glisson, 
an English physician in 1650, was amongst the first who 
accurately described disease of the bones. 

Listen, Orfila, Magendie, &c., have described its (mercury) 
destructive powers, when improperly administered. 

144. A young lady consulted Mr. Mayo, who was suffering 
from inflammation of the periosteum of the tibia, in oval 
patches resembling nodes. Matter had slowly formed, and 
the bone had been exposed in a caries state ; small exfolia- 
tions had taken place, and the wounds had healed. Three 
swellings had formed in succession ; the general appearance 
gave evidence of the strumous diathesis. 

145. In virulent cases, the eyes are particularly the seat of 
scrofulous disease, giving rise to ulceration of the tarsi, and 
inflammation of the tunica adnata, and terminating not 
unfrequently in opacity of the lens. We have seen two cases 
of caries of the vertebrsD involved by extensive lumbar 
abscess ; in both, portions of bone came away whilst under 
treatment. 

146. The theory of the origin of scrofula which has 
recently come into much favour on the continent, especially 
with those favourable to the use of cod liver oil, makes the 
pathology of the disease turn upon a different secretion of 
bile ; the chylous digestion is supposed to be defective from 
the absence of the fatty principle of bile. In support of this 
fJEict, we have the frequent occurrence of fatty liver in persons 
who die of scrofulous disease. Andral finds a fatty liver in 



86 tcBOFiruL, OB xiiro's zn£. 

one-ihird of the autopsies of phthisical patients. Loiiis also 
found a fattj state of the organ in the same proportion in 
phthisical cases. Le Pelletier ohserres that, in the autopsy 
of scrofulous persons, he almost iuTariablj found the bile 
more pale and less consistent, and less charged with resin and 
colouring matter, than in the ordinary state. The fiict was 
also observed by Borden ; and we have also made the same 
obserrations, but were withheld from drawing an inference ; 
for in the state of marasmus, which exists in subjects as those 
referred to, where erery secretion is in a deranged state, what 
conclusions do such fsu^ts enable us to form? Clearly they 
afford no evidence as to the state of the biliary secretions in 
tuberculosis, or with regard to the share which a deranged 
state of the bile may have in producing this disease. More- 
over, the fatty state of the liver is not constant in tubercu- 
losis ; nor does, as Rayer remarks, a &tty state of the liver 
always produce this disease in animals, while in man this &ct 
is notorious. Nevertheless, although we cannot recognise a 
merely deficient secretion of fatty principle of the bile as the 
cause of scrofula, it is not very improbable that these states 
of the liver and bile are closely connected with the pathology 
of the disease.— Z>r. Glover, page 120. 

147. Having thus, in as brief a manner as possible, given 
an outline of the pathology of scrofula, our next consideration 
is perhaps the most important, namely, the best method of 
treatment. We feel confident we shall be able to lay before 
our professional brethren suggestions well worthy of their 
serious consideration, inasmuch as the plan when fully carried 
out has been eminently successful in a very great number of 
instances. 



TBEiiTHEKT. 

148. We are inclined to believe that were the simple 
principles of Hippocrates and Galen carried out to their fiill 
extent, we should be more successful in our treatment of, at 
all events, chronic disease. Our artificial habits and modes 
of life entail upon us diseases of such an aggravated character 
that it requires something of a more heroic nature to cure 



SOSOFULiL, OB KIKG'S BTIL. 87 

tban that puisued by the ancients. But the doctrine of 
aimples is not sufficiently occult for the schools of the present 
day. The splendid genius of Galen led him to the adoption 
of principles founded on ooniinon sense. His cures were 
considered at the time almost miraculous. Knowing the 
immense importance of salubrious air, he fixed his residence 
on the banks of the Tiber, where patients, especially the con- 
sumptire, came from all parts of Europe. The soil in the 
neighbourhood was peculiarly adapted for the growth of the 
finest vegetables, and the pasture lands covered with the 
agrostis, lotus, polygonum, and melyssophylum, fed large 
herds of goats for supplying the patients with milk. That, 
together with the various farinaceous grains and finiits, and 
simple preparations of plants, constituted his plan of treat- 
ment. The skilful combination of the latter, founded on the 
doctrine of Hippocrates, were in imiversal request, and were 
known as the Galenical medicines. The splendour of his 
talents so completely dazzled bis successors that, for a period 
of 1600 years, his medical principles and opinions held uni* 
versal sway. We are quite prepared to admit that much of 
his success arose firom pursuing a method which at the 
present day is styled emperical, but it ought to be borne in 
mind that to this much of our knowledge of the operation of 
medicine is attributed. 

149. But what, it may be asked, has this to do with the 
treatment of scrofula ? Simply this, that the disease is never 
permanently cured without good and wholesome food, and 
that of an unstimulating character. We are, therefore, par- 
ticularly anxious to inforce a rigid attention to diet. Sir A. 
Cooper says, the principles on which the treatment of scrofula 
should be founded, are three. Ist, To make better blood ; 
2nd, To strengthen the solids ; 3rd, To give vigorous action 
to the circulation. No arrangement could be more philoso- 
phical or practically correct. How is the first, which appears 
to us the most important, to be accomplished ? We reply, 
by a rigid adherence to diet and regimen. With respect to 
the first, we would say avoid salt provisions, such as beef, 
pork or ham; abstain from rich soups, gravies, the fiit of 
ducks, geese and meat generally ; from melted butter, and all 



88 SCHOFULA, OS KINO's IlTIL. 

descriptions of pastry and made dishes ; fronfi meat cooked ia 
pie crust, fruits cooked in pies and puddings, and ever}'thing 
of an acid nature, such as pickles, white and red currants. 
In the majority of cases that have came under our observa- 
tion, there has been a great tendency to acidity of tho 
stomach, so that it is of importance to avoid everything of an 
indigestible nature, or which is likely to disagree with the 
stomach. 

150. We advise good milk and bread for breakfast, and 
occasionally a fresh egg. It will be found advisable in some 
cases, where the digestion is weak, to begin with milk and 
water, as the former is apt to lie heavy on the stomach. 
Chocolate and coffee made by filter and not boiled ; but even 
these will be found to disagree in some cases. We have ad- 
vised oatmeal porridge made with half milk and water, which 
may be taken with much benefit where there ^as been obsti- 
nate constipation of the bowels ; brown bread also, as being 
more nourishing than the white, and more easy of digestion. 
Animal food, such as beef, mutton, game, &c., should, at the 
utmost, be eaten only once a-day. Wine and malt liquor in 
most instances should be resorted to with caution. As it is 
absurd to take what the stomach cannot convert into healthy 
chyle, water is the natural diluent and solvent of the food, 
and constituting as it does the chief paii; of the fluids of the 
body, the purest and softest filtered rain or river water 
should be chosen. Water that contains putrescent animal 
or vegetable matter, hard pump or well water, should be care- 
fully avoided. The vegetables we recommend are green peas, 
French and Windsor beans, cabbage, cauliflower, brocoli, 
Scotch kale, turnip, beet root, sea kale, asparagus, artichoke, 
vegetable marrow, carrot, parsnip, leeks and onions ; boiled 
rice is a very good substitute for green vegetables to roast 
meat. Peas, in consequence of containing so much nourish- 
ment, are more difficult of digestion ; they ought to be eaten, 
therefore, in small quantities at first. A young lady, about 
twenty-two years of age, who had suffered a sad reverse of 
fortune, consulted a relative of the author's, in consequence 
of being fearfully afflicted with scrofula, that is, glandular 
swellings and ulcerations. The vapour bath and decoctum 



1. . c. «^ 



SC&OFULiL, 0& KIKa's STIL. 89 

senega were prescribed for a short time, and strict abstinence 
from animal food was enjoined. For nine months her diet 
consisted exclusively of oatmeal porridge and milk for break- 
fast ; grey peas boiled to a jelly, with a little pepper and salt 
and bread for dinner; rye, coffee and bread for supper, which 
was the means of restoring her to perfect health. 

151. We feel confident had Sir. A. Cooper and other 
writers witnessed the beneficial effects of a farinaceous diet 
in scrofulous cases, they would not have so strongly depre- 
cated its use* We need not do more here than refer the 
reader to the article on exercise ; it is indispensable to health, 
and therefore important as a remedial means; the same 
observation is applicable to pure air. Except at the stage of 
convalescence, we do not think that permanent benefit is to 
be gained by a change to the sea-side ; indeed, we have seen 
many cases where positive injury has been the result. *' In 
the latter part of the spring and autumn, the sea coast is most 
desirable ; but in cold weather it is not. The bleakness of 
the air of the sea-shore is unfigivourable to the constitution of 
children tainted with scrofulous complaints.'' — Sir A. Cooper. 

152. When the task of making better blood has been 
accomplished, we have gained the most important point. In 
most scrofulous constitutions, the circulation is generally 
feeble, the capillary circulation is defective, hence the debility 
constantly complained of. We shall here enumerate the 
remedies which we have found to be the most efficacious in 
the treatment of this fell disease, and shall give the formula 
which can hereafter be referred to. 

153. The vapour bath is certainly a most important auxil- 
iary in the treatment of scrofula ; but as we have already 
fully alluded to its effects, it will not be necessary here to do 
more than simply enumerate it with the other remedies ; next 
in importance, is the folygala senega. In our hands, it has 
been more successful than any other remedy. The root ought 
to be of a yellowish brown colour, about the thickness of a 
goose quill, with a corrugated transversely cracked cuticle ; 
the medicinal properties reside entirely in the bark; the 
woody portion is white, and almost inert. When the root is 
chewed, it produces a peculiar tingling sensation in the mouth 

p3 



90 SCROFULA., OB KING*S ETIL. 

and fances ; it is exceedingly hot and pungent, the powder 
is a very powerful sternutatuary. With the American Indians 
it is held in universal esteem. It is imported from Virginia, 
but the best is gi'own in South Carolina ; the small fibrous 
parts should be rejected. One ounce ought to be slowly 
boiled in a quart of water for three or four hours. The usual 
dose for adults is from one to two fluid ounces three times a- 
day. We have tried it in all forms for many years, but we 
prefer the decoction to any other. It appears to have an 
almost direct influence on the glandular system, determining 
to the skin, and exciting the peristaltic action of the bowels ; 
it is a powerful expectorant, and possesses diuretic properties. 
It is one of the most efficient remedies for promoting the 
secretion of milk we have ever seen administered. We have 
succeeded in many instances in restoring and promoting the 
secretion of milk in three days, by giving a dose every four 
hours, where there was not the least appearance of milk. In 
chronic catarrh and the last stage of fever, we have witnessed 
very great benefit from its use. When the bowels are relaxed, 
half an ounce of the root with half an ounce of tormantile 
root should be used in making the decoction. When the 
tongue is foul and the digestion is at fault, it is very apt to 
excite nausea; but this generally subsides in a few days. 
In cases where a bitter tonic is required, we have generally 
used the infusion of chiryita gentiana and the absinthium ; 
the former when there is headache, combined with Brandishes 
alkaline solution when acidity is present. 

154. Amongst the other remedies, the foremost is iodine 
and iodide of potassium, iron, sarsaparilla, &c. 

Iodine was first introduced to the notice of the profession 
by Dr. Coindet, as a remedy in scrofulous affections. Dr. 
Manson was the first, however, to experiment with it on a 
large scale. Since then, Orfila, Magendic, Bardsley, Lugal, 
Bramley, and, more recently. Dr. Buchanan and Dr. Cogswell, 
have contributed to our knowledge of the effects of this 
important remedy. Its effects should be carefully watched, 
when prescribed in large doses, for a lengthened time, as it is 
apt to produce great debility and derangement of the diges- 
tive organs. The carbonate, citrate, sulphate and iodide of 



SCBOFTTLA, OB KING'S ETIL. 91 

iron, all contribute materially to the cure of scrofula. The 
last remedy which has come into popular notice is the cod . 
liver oil. The profession are much indebted to Dr. Williams, 
late professor of medicine in the London University, and Pro- 
fessor Bennett, of Edinburgh, for the clear and striking 
manner in which they have made known the properties and 
action of the cod liver oil. 

155. Dr. Williams says : " In all instances I have pre- 
scribed oil as free from taste and smell as could be procured ; 
and so little difficulty has been experienced in its administra- 
tion, that the proportion of cases in which it has decidedly 
disagreed, has not amounted to four per cent.'' Dr. Williams 
recommends the following method for obtaining it. *' The 
livers should be used as soon as possible after the death of the 
fish, every hour deteriorating the quality of the oil. The 
pale, plump livers should be preferred ; those which are 
flabby and dark in colour should be rejected as unhealthy. 
The livers after being quickly pounded into a pulp, should be 
mixed with water (or exposed in a vessel, without water, to 
the heat of boiling water or of steam), of the temperature of 
about 120°, then filtered ; and after standing long enough, 
the oil is to be decanted from the filtered liquor, cooled to 
the temperature of 50°, and again filtered. The whole pro- 
cess is to be accomplished with as little delay as possible, and 
in closed vessels, to prevent the air from giving to the oil the 
slightest degree of rancidity. For the same reason, the 
vessels in which the oil is preserved should be full, well 
corked, and kept in a cool place." The mode of administer- 
ing this oil is in doses of a teaspoonful, gradually increased 
(if the stomach bear it) to a tablespoonful, floating on some 
pleasant-flavoured liquid, such as diluted orange wine, or the 
infus. aurantii comp., with a little tinct. and syr. aurantii. 
The vehicle should be suited to the taste and stomach of the 
patient, and the time at which it is found to agree best with 
the stomach, is from an hour to two hours after the first three 
meals of the day. 

156. With respect to its mode of operation, Dr. Williams, 
in his *^ Principles of Medicine," observes : '' There is much 
reason to believe that the oil itself proves serviceable in 



93 ac&oruLA, OB kikg's etiiv. 

supplying the fiit molecules which appear to be essential to 
healthy nutrition, as forming the nucleoli of the primary cells 
or rudiments of tissues. The important part which fat thus 
performs in the process of nutrition was first pointed out by 
Ascherson, of Berlin ; and that fat forms the central mole* 
cules of the elementary granules and cytoblasts of textures is 
generally admitted, although few agree with Ascherson in his 
opinion, that it forms the cells by its power of coagulating 
albumen around it. It seems to have been the opinion of 
Dr. Ascherson, and of Dr. Hughes Bennett, who cites it, that 
in scrofulous diseases there is a want of this fet, and that the 
albumen derived from the food in digestion, is liable to be 
precipitated in an unorganizable condition (as tubercle, &c.) 
for the lack of it. But it is now well ascertained that scrofu- 
lous and tuberculous deposits, so Hsu: from being deficient in 
fatty particles, contain them in greater quantity than exists 
in the blood, or in its plasma, in a healthy state. The 
explanation which I have given of the chief salutary action of 
the cod liver oil, is not that it supplies fat where it is want- 
ing, but that it supplies fiit of a better kind, more fluid, more 
divisible, less prone to change, and more capable of being 
absorbed into, and of pervading, the structure of the body ; 
^us affording a fine 'molecular base' in the chyle, and 
therein, a material for a better plasma ; and being conveyed 
into the blood, distributed through capillaries and around 
deposits (in such quantity as to soften and disaolve the crys- 
talline and irregularly concreted &t scattered through them), 
it renders them more amenable to the processes of reparation 
and absorption. Hence its beneficial operation is more 
marked in those stages of tuberculous disease in which the 
deposits abound in fat — that is, at the period of induration 
•and softening, although, fix)m the extent of mischief already 
done, both to the part and to the system, the benefit may not 
be so lasting as in the early stage of the disease." 

157. Professor Bennett, of Edinburgh, speaks confidently 
of its effects; he says: ''The healthy performance of this 
•function (digestion) consists in the maintenance of the equi- 
librium between the digestive process in the stomach and 
.that of the small intestines, or, in other words, so long as the 



SCBOFULA, OB KING's EYIL. 93 

stomach pours out only so much acidulous and albuminous 
fluid as is necessary to neutralize the bile and pancreatic 
juice, the digestion remains undisturbed. In scrofula, this 
equilibrium is destroyed, there is a diminished activity in the 
small intestines, and the whole digestion is almost exclusively 
performed by the stomach. The predominance of the last in 
the digestive process at length becomes so great, that the 
contents of the whole intestinal canal are found to be acid, 
and the albuminous fluid runs into hard masses, which lose 
their property of becoming organised." 

158. This, then, is the material which is received into the 
lymphathics, instead of the normal emulsion formerly alluded 
to, and on joining the blood, necessai-ily tends to deteriorate 
that fluid. At length the blood itself contains albumen in 
excess, on account of its non-mixture with the other element, 
oil, which enables it to become adapted to the organism ; and 
after a time it is effused into the cellular tissue of the external 
or internal membranes, or into the parenchyma of the organs^ 
constituting the different kinds of tuberculous disease. Very 
often also, a mechanical stagnation of the abnormal lymph 
takes place in the lymphatic vessels, causing obstructions and 
swelling in the lymphatic glands.* 

159. Our own experience has not been sufficiently extensive 
as to warrant us giving a decided opinion with regard to the 
curative properties of cod liver oil, having only prescribed it 
in two cases of scrofula, and one of phthisis, in all of which the 
most marked results have followed. It appears to us to act 
as a nutritive agent, and improves the quality of the blood. 
The effects have been strikingly illustrated in the case of 
scrofula, where there had been such a fearful discharge of 
matter. The reasoning of Dr. Williams respecting its mode 
of action appears to us to be very conclusive. 

160. We shall have occasion hereafter to refer to the foU 
lowing ointment, which, for the sake of distinction, we shall 
call brown ointment. It is made of 

Yellow wax, two pounds ; 

Oltve oil, one pound and a half ; 

* Dti Bennett on Cod Liver Oil, pp. 57 and 58, 



94 SOSOPTTLA, OB KING'S ETIX.. 

Yellow renn, four ounces ; 

Pitch J four ounces ; 

Honey J half a pound ; 

CastUe soap, one ounce ; 
melted oyer a low fire, and stirred oonstantlj when removed, 
until nearly cool; then four ounces of Canadian balsam is 
to be added. This forms a most excellent detersiye and dis* 
cutient ointment for the cleansing and healing of scrofulous 
ulcers. We have frequently succeeded in dispersing glandu- 
lar swellings in children by keeping it constantly applied. 

We shall now proceed to give a few cases illustrative of 
our mode of treatment. 



OLANDULAB SWBZLINGS. 

161. Casb I. S. H., female, aged 13, fair hair and com- 
plexion; has several large swellings in different parts of the 
neck, which made their appearance several years ago ; com. 
plains of great debility and indisposition to bodily exertion ; 
in other respects, is in tolerable health. Was ordered to take 
a vapour bath twice a week, and two tablespoonfuls of the 
decoction of senega three times a-day. The glandular swell- 
ings to be well fomented with a saturated solution of rock 
salt, as hot as can be borne, and afterwards to apply a plaster 
of the brown ointment. (Vide page 93.) Was ordered a 
strictly &rinaceous diet, with fresh animal food once a-day ; 
gentle exercise daily ; two tablespoonfuls of the infusion of 
absinthium, to be taken in the forenoon occasionally. In 
three months the swellings disappeared entirely, and her 
constitution became healthy and vigorous. 

162. Case ii. Mrs. G., aged about 32 years, fair hair 
and complexion, a native of Essex; has several large swellings 
in the neck, under the arm, and one of the breasts; several of 
the swellings broke and discharged the usual curdy matter. 
The same mode of treatment as in Case i, was ordered, which 
was followed for a month, and the decoction of senega alone 
for about six weeks, which restored her to perfect health. 
She has had no return for now a period of t^i years. 

163. Case hi. P. S., male, aged 17 years; has the 



SOSOflTLA, OB KIKO'S EYIIn 95 

usual scrofulous diathesis, Mr hair and oomplexion. About 
two years ago seyeral indurated painful swellings made their 
appearance in different parts of the neck, chest, and sides, 
which ultimately broke and discharged freely a very unhealthy 
matter, the stemtun protruded, and with the tips of the ribs, 
appeared diseased. The ulcers, seyen or eight in number, 
presented the usual strumous aspect, and discharged a thin 
ichorous matter, mixed with flakes. He complained of great 
weakness, loss of appetite; the body is groatly emaciated. 
A great variety of treatment had been employed without 
benefit. In this case iodine appeared to have been decidedly 
injurious ; he probably took it in too large doses. He also 
had the advantage of resorting to the sea-side frequently, and 
had taken cold sea baths ; nothing succeeded in producing 
permanent benefit. The vapour bath was ordered twice a- 
week, and two tablespoonfuls night and morning of the 
decoction of senega, and the same quantity of infusion of 
absinthium, with occasionally ten grains of carbonate of soda 
added to each dose ; the ulcers were dressed with the brown 
ointment already referred to. The above treatment was 
steadily pursued for six months with some trivial alterations, 
which restored him to robust health. 

164. Case iv. John Howlings, aged 48; had been in 
the guards nine years, but was discharged in consequence of 
his having scrofulous disease of the foot. When he consulted 
us thero were several ulcers on the leg, from three to five 
inches in leng^. The disease made its appearance in the 
foot two or three years ago. At an early stage, he was placed 

under the care of Mr. P of Bethnal green, who attended 

him six months ; the disease extended and his general health 
beg^ to decline. He was afterwards under the care of Mr. 
N— • of Mile End, who considered one limb so utterly use- 
less as to recommend its removal, '' to give the constitution a 
chance of rallying;" which was objected to on the part of 
the patient and his Mends. Under the influence of the 
vapour bath, decoction of senega and bitter infusions, he was 
restored to health within four months. The ulcers were 
dressed with the brown ointment and buidaged from the toes 
upwards. 



96 BCBOFULA, OB KING's EYII.. 

165. Case y. C. M., aged 14, female ; scrofulous disease 
of the instep and ankle. The following letter was received 
from her mistress 18th of Jime, 1841. ^' Sir, I wish to con- 
sult you about a female servant of mine, not quite fourteen 
years of age. Her stomach appeared enlarged before her 
thirteenth year, but got better ; a change of life appeared the 
last winter; she has during the last two months had a 
swelled instep. At first I did not suspect scrofula, but it is 
now decided to be so ; the part looks very red and discharges. 
At this time I put on the plaster advised by Mr. Scott of 
Bromley. Her complexion is clear and rosy, she is rather 
inclined to be plump ; has a good appetite ; is not tall of her 
age ; somewhat childish looking. She can take no exercise, 
and as her body is heated, I have given her some aperient. 
The two ulcers in a short time coalesced and became of a 
considerable size, (the lady gave a drawing showing the 
disease to have extended inwards, involving the internal 
maleolus,) and discharges copiously a very unhealthy and 
o£Pensive matter." She was ordered the decoction of senega 
with sulphate of magnesia; the ulcer to be poulticed with 
yeast poultices twice daily, and washed each time before 
applying the poultice with a weak solution of chloride of 
lime. In a few weeks the poultices were changed to a dress- 
ing of the brown ointment night and morning. For six 
weeks she took two tablespoonfuls of an infusion of absin- 
thium forenoon and afternoon, and the foot directed to be 
bandaged in order to give it support. On the 5th of October, 
her misti'ess writes : " I am happy to inform you the young 
girl is quite well." In May, 1842, there was a slight redness 
and uneasiness on the instep, which disappeared after taking 
the decoction of senega a few weeks. 

166. Case ti. The following case is one of great interest, 
owing to the peculiar circumstances connected with it, and 
which we shall relate. Captain Wallace of the brig Sapho of 
Greenock, on his return from his second voyage from the 
West Indies, was drowned at the mouth of the Mersey, in the 
great storm which raged at the beginning of 1839. Capt. W. 
exhibited a degree of coolness seldom equalled. When he 
saw there was no chance of saving the vessel, he directed the 



r 



8CB0FULA, OB KINQ*S EYII.. 97 

crew to do the best they could for themselves, and afterwards 
retired to his cabin and wrote a letter (which his brother 
assured us was written in his usual style), requesting whoever 
might find his body to communicate with his friends, and, if 
necessary, to bury him before their arrival at Liverpool ; 
money would be found in his pocket-book to clear all 
expenses. When his body was found his watch was still 
going. Not one of the crew was saved. Capt. W. consulted 
us in December, 1836. At that time his right foot was one 
mass of honeycomb-looking ulcers, and discharged copiously 
a very fcBtid matter ; portions of the tendons were exposed, 
and pieces of bone had come away frequently. The disease 
had made its appearance some years previously, and gradually 
increased to its present state. The best advice in Glasgow 
and Edinburgh had been resorted to without permanent 
benefit, and his advisers in both places recommended amputa- 
tion as the only means of saving his life. We ordered a 
vapour bath three times a week, the decoction of senega 
internally, the foot to be poulticed and washed with chloride 
of lime for a short time, and then the following ointment was 
applied twice a day, viz.— 

Iodine J one scruple ; 

Iodide of potassium^ one drachm ; 

Ceratum cetacci^ two ounces ; 
which was gradually increased to double its strength. Under 
this mode of treatment, extensive sloughing took place, and 
the wound gradually healed ; and, before leaving London, he 
was able to walk without either crutch or stick. Occasionally 
some bitter infusion, with carbonate of soda, or liq. potassa, 
was prescribed. In three months he returned to Greenock. 
On the 18th of June, 1837, he writes as follows : '' I am 
glad to inform you I am just about to proceed to sea again in 
command of my vessel on a voyage to the West Indies. 
Although my foot is not entirely healed, yet it has stood the 
fatigue and exertion that I have had to undergo for the last 
month far better than I ever expected ; the small spot that is 
open is not larger than a pea ; it oozes out a little thin matter 
during the day when I walk much, but I have no other in- 
convenience from it.'' He had no return of the disease, as 



98 SCBOFULA, OB KINO'S EVIL. 

appears by a letter written from Demarara before learing that 
place; he states he is in excellent health, and the foot is 
quite well. 

167. Case yii. M. W., aged 40 years, female; had been 
afflicted with enlargement of the cervical glands, with name* 
rous ulcerations in different parts of the body. This lady 
had been cured by a relative of the author's, and remained so 
for many years. When she consulted us, she was perfectly 
free in every part where the disease had made its appearance, 
excepting the back of one hand, which for years had defied 
every mode of treatment. At this period she was in extellent 
health, and we succeeded in curing her entirely by the aid of 
an occasional vapour bath, decoction of senega, sulphate of 
magnesia, and the following ointment :•— 

Iodine, one drachm ; 

Iodide of potaseium, one drachm ; 

White cerate, two ounces ; 
gradually increased. The first effect was considerable in- 
flammation, which destroyed a thin skin that had covered the 
back of the hand and where a large ulcer had existed ; by 
degrees healthy granulations sprung up, and the hand gradu- 
ally healed ; for some years she used to experience pain when 
the cold weather set in. She was ordered to apply the 
emplast plumbi spread on thick lint, which gradually strength- 
ened the hand, and effectually protected it from cold ; the 
hand has continued in a perfectly healthy state for several 
years. 

168. Case yiii. S. L., aged 30, female, fair hair and 
complexion ; the whole neck and throat extending from the 
angle of the lower jaw to a line parallel with each clavicle is 
one mass of ulceration, having numerous fistulous communi- 
cations, and presenting in some places the appearance of a 
honey-comb. She says, the disease began five years ago; 
that is, the cervical and submaxillary glands began to swell, 
and gradually broke and ran into each other, and discharged 
freely a thin matter mixed with flakes. Some of the ulcers 
are very deep, with thick ragged edges ; there is also ulcera- 
tion of the soft palate, the under lip is very much thickened, 
a great portion inflamed, and looks as if it would speedily 



8CB0FULA, OB KINO's XYIIi. 99 

become ulcerated. She was first under medical treatment at 
Exeter, and was afterwards attended by Mr. Ferguson at 
King's College Hospital nearly six months, but as little or no 
alteration for the better took place, she left. She has always 
had good health, only one of her sisters had scrofula, the 
remainder of the fiimily appear to be perfectly free ; she is a 
natiye of Crediton, in Devonshire. Ever since the glands 
began to swell, she has been taking medicine either by the 
advice of regular physicians or surg.eons, or by quacks, by the 
latter of which she has been mulcted of every sixpence she 
could save from her wages. She consulted us in November 12th, 
1847. She was ordered to take the decoction of senega, extract 
of sarsaparilla and liq. potassss ; to poultice the neck at night, 
and apply the brown ointment during the day. In about a 
week or ten days afterwards, she took a vapour bath twice a- 
week. It would swell out the case to an unreasonable length 
to give daily or weekly details of the progress. Healthy 
granulations gradually sprang up, the appparently dead por- 
tions were either removed by the scissors or argent nitratis, 
and the discharge became healthy, and the places healed 
within four months. For five or six months there was not 
the slightest indication of any return. Contrary to the direc- 
tions given, she left off the medicine as soon as the ulcets 
healed. About September last, the under lip broke out ; she 
allowed the ulceration to go so far as to penetrate the mucous 
membrane, and this has again been healed up by the same 
treatment without the vapour bath. She is an exceedingly 
careless person respecting her diet. Had strict attention been 
paid to diet, and the medicine been continued for at least six 
weeks, there is every reason to believe she would have had 
no return. 

169. Case ix. This is decidedly one of the most formid- 
able cases of scrofula we have ever met with, considering all 
ihe circumstances connected with its history; that is, the 
number of abscesses, the enormous amount of the discharge, 
and occurring in a young lady with an originally weak con- 
stitution. The cause was attributed to her impoverished 
diet while in France, and probably her confinement, and want 
of proper exercise. She is now about 26 years of age, florid, 



100 SCBOPULA, OB KIKO*S EYIL. 

almost transparent complexion, and remarkably thin. The 
history and progress we shall give nearly in her own words:— 
''In May, 1844, I first observed a glandular swelling on 
the left side of my throat, which was opened on the 9tb of 
September. In April, 1845, when I first consulted you, I 
had four more swellings (these were abscesses not glandular 
swellings) on the left side of my throat, one of which you 
opened (about half a cupful of curdy matter was removed) 
that day, and another afterwards. In July, a large abscess 
came on my right hip (a lumber abscess) ; this discharged a 
very large amount of matter ; there was also a smaller one on 
my left side ; the former broke in August, and I went to the 
sea-side (Norfolk) on the 24th of September. When you 
came to see me in November, the abscess in the side was 
opened, the discharge from this differed in appearance from 
any I had had before, being in pieces resembling a common 
candle-wick. I returned to Camden Town on the 17th of 
December, when, after a very severe attack of measles, the 
abscess on my hip (lumber) again broke out. (The eruption 
did not go through the proper stages ; on the second or third 
day the pustules became of a blueish colour, and the patient 
had precisely the appearance as if attacked with purpura 
hcemorrhagica.) This was the end of January, 1846; the 
discharge from this could not be less than two ounces daily. 
The abscess on my back began to increase, and on the 23rd of 
March you opened it. This abscess extended from the crest 
of the ilium on the left side upwards, to the edge of the 
scapula, thus occupying a portion of the back four inches in 
breadth, and ten or twelve inches in length ; about a pint 
and a half of pure pus was removed the first day, and a pint 
the following, and about half a pint in a day or two 
afterwards, firm pressure having been made as the abscess 
was emptied. There could not have been less than two 
quarts of matter discharged from the time it was opened 
until it finally healed up, which took place about three weeks 
from the commencement. The next abscess that formed was 
on my right knee, which was in April, but although it was 
ver}' painful, it did not come forward. On the 30th of May, 
I left London for the sea-side, where I continued in the same 



SCBOFULA, OS KING's EYIL. 101 

state until September. From that period I gained strength. 
On the 14th of February, 1847, another abscess appeared on 
the left side of my throat, and broke in the beginning of May. 
The second week of June the old abscess on my hip (lumber 
abscess) opened again, and I recollect telling you it discharged 
as much as a pint of matter in three days ; but this did not 
continue more than a week ; at the same time the swelling on 
my knee broke, and the discharge from this was like the one 
on my side (candle wicks), in thick pieces. I afterwards 
gained strength. At the end of January, 1848, 1 had another 
small abscess on my throat, and one of the same size on my 
right hip (about two inches below the trochanter major) ; the 
old place dose by it again discharged, but with these I had 
not the same degree of languor and sickness as formerly. I 
had also, at this time, a small abscess on my back, just above 
the old place. The next was below my right knee, which you 
lanced the 28th of May, and considered I lost a full half-pint 
of matter ; since which, I have had two on the thigh of the 
same leg. So that, in all, I have had sixteen places, six of 
which were opened." 

It would form a chapter of itself to go through the details 
of treatment Our patient hardly ever properly rallied after 
her severe attack of measles. When she first consulted us, 
the vapour bath, senega, sarsaparilla, quinine, and bitter 
tonics were prescribed. She afterwards took several different 
preparations of iron, iodine, the mineral acids, &c. sea 
bathing and shower baths. At present, she is taking the cod 
liver oil and iodide of iron, with every prospect of ultimate 
recovery. We have recorded this case to show that the con- 
stitution will, by careful watching, bear up against a fearful 
drain, which would otherwise have destroyed life. 

July, 1849. This patient has called to report herself quite 
welL 



SCBOFULOTTS AFFECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. 

170. Case i. H. E., Everard place. Commercial road, aged 
28 years, &ir hair and complexion; eight years ago was 
attacked suddenly with pain in his knee, apparently caused by 
o3 



102 SCBOFXTLA, OB KIKG's EYIL. 

cold, which left him, but returned from time to time. For six 
years, however, he was enabled to follow his occupation, that of 
warehouseman in St. ICatherine*s Docks ; but at the end of 
that time his suf^rings became so severe as to prevent his 
walking, and he applied for admission to the London Hospital. 
He was treated there, and at other hospitals in London, by the 
usual means of counter-irritation and mercurial bandages, 
for upwards of eighteen months, from which he obtained only 
temporary relief, and was at last advised to have his leg 
removed, as the only means of preserving his life. When he 
first consulted us, the knee was much swollen and red, and 
extremely painful when touched ; it was always kept in a 
flexed position, every movement causing great pain. The 
leg both above and below the joint was wasted and shrivelled. 
The vapour bath was prescribed twice a-week, with a dose of 
the decoction of senega twice a-day, an occasional aperient, 
and for a short time infusion of absinthium and dilute sul- 
phuric acid. After he had taken ten baths, the inflammation 
was greatly subdued, and he gradually gained strength. In 
five or six months he .was enabled to resume his employment, 
and has had no return, now some seven years ago. 

171. Case ii. Robert Lawson, 10, Green Street, Bethnal 
Green, aged 46 years, fair hair and very clear complexion, was 
attacked with inflammation of the elbow joint, about the 
year 1S32, supposed to have been brought on by great exer- 
tion in rowing ; was as that time employed as a labourer in 
the London Docks. The disease gradually became worse, and 
when we first saw it in 1836, there were three large scrofu- 
lous ulcers, which had discharged freely the usual scrofulous 
matter. Small pieces of bone had come away at intei*vals, 
and his general health became much affected by the continual 
pain and discharge. He had frequently night perspirations, 
and being a poor man, suffered from want of nourishment. 
He had been under treatment eighteen months previously, 
and received the advice of four hospital surgeons and four 
private practitioners, but no amendment took place. The 
medical oflicers of Guy^s and St. Thomas's advised amputa- 
tion, but the patient would not submit. The treatment con- 
sisted of the vapoiu* bath, decoction of senega, bitter tonics, 



8CK0FTJLA, OB XING's ETIL. lOS 

iodine internally and externally, and the brown ointment 
already alluded to. He was under treatment, with occasional 
intervals of a month or six weeks, for two years, when he 
was able to resume his employment as a labourer at the 
London or St. Katherine*s docks. We saw the patient three 
or four years afterwards, and he informed us he had had no 
return of the disease. Certainly^ very great pains were taken, 
and no expense was spared, with a view to save this poor 
man's arm. The success, of course, is attributable solely to 
the steady perseverance for so long a period in the treatment, 
in which there was nothing novel, except the vapour bath 
and senega. 



SCKOFULOTTS DISEASE OF THE ANCLE JOINT AND FOOT. 

172. Case hi. Henry Jennings, aged 5 years, resided 
at Poppin's Court, Fleet Street. When brought to us in 
May, 1838, his foot presented the following appearance : The 
ancle and dorsum of the foot are very much swollen and 
inflamed, and much pain is given at the least attempt at 
motion. There are several ulcers, varying in size from a 
sixpence to half-a-crown, deep and puckered at the edges, 
and discharge a thin matter mixed with flakes ; several pieces 
of bone have come away ; has not been able to put his foot 
to the ground for months. He also suffers pain in the 
knee, which is slightly swollen. The child complains of great 
debility, and has a general anemic aspect ; has no appetite, 
and perspires at night ; the vapour bath was prescribed 
twice a- week, the foot to be fomented and poulticed at night, 
and the brown ointment applied during the day, decoction 
of senega, and occasionally bitter tonics. For three months 
little or no apparent progress was made, but after that period 
he gradually gained strength ; the pain entirely left the foot 
and knee, and in seven months he was restored to perfect 
health. Immediately afterwards he was admitted into the 
London Orphan Asylum, where he still continues, and has 
had no return of the disease. 

173. Case jv. M. B., Bromley, Kent, aged 42 years, 
consulted us in July 1838. She then complained of very 
acute pain in the left hip joint, which entirely incapacitated 



104 SOBOFXTLJL, OB KIKG's EYIL. 

her from walking, and preyented her taming herself in bed ; 
the joint is considerably swollen, and the leg shortened and 
wasted; she could not bear the slightest pressure without 
producing most intense pain ; she is of full habit of bodj, 
subject to constipation of the bowels and nervous headache. 
She attributes the disease to cold; it began two years ago, since 
which, she has been repeatedly cupped, leeched, perpetual 
blisters, &c., which, according to her statement, gave her not 
the slightest relief. She took the vapour bath twice a- week. 
The decoction of senega, extract taraxicum and sulphate of 
magnesia, night and morning, and had the following plaster 
applied to the hip : — 

Emp, sapon^ half an ounce ; 

JEmp. plumbiy half an ounce ; 

Extract of belladona, two drachms ; 
melted and spread on leather. The above treatment was 
pursued for eight months ; two years afterwards she wrote to 
say she was perfectly well, and had not had the slightest 
symptom. 

174. Case y. S. C, resides at Winchester court, aged 
ten years ; was brought to us on ' 1846, with disease 
of the hip joint. The child appears to be in delicate health,-*^ 
has every indication of a scrofulous constitution. She first 
complained of pain about sixteen months back ; her mother 
observed she limped when walking across the room ; the hip 
began to swell and was so painful as to prevent her putting 
her foot to the ground ; this continued for a period of three or 
four months when she consulted Mr. Ck)ulson, who pre- 
scribed steel : she, however, derived but little benefit. When 
we saw her first, she experienced considerable pain on press- 
ing the joint and attempting rotation, &c. On looking at the 
hip from behind, it appeared half as big again as the other, 
and the limb from two inches to two and a half shorter. The 
pain frequently occasioned sleepless nights. Her mother 
states that the child was plump, and apparently in good 
health, previous to this affection of the joint. There appears 
to be an imhealthy moisture on the skin, especially the hands, 
which has a peculiar acid smell. There is a slight enlarge- 
ment of tilie cervical glands, and she is subject to sore throat. 
She was ordered to take the vapour bath twice a-week ; and, 



8GB0FTTLA, OB KING's ETIL. 105 

as there was some derangement of the secretions, she was 
ordered a mild aperient of rhubarb, magnesia, and mercury 
with chalk; after which she took the decoction of senega with 
the liq. potasses. Very gentle friction over the diseased joint 
with soap liniment and tincture of belladona. The swelling 
gradually subsided, and the head of the joint resumed its 
natural position. The belladona plaster prescribed in the 
previous cases was applied, and a calico bandage, so as to give 
general support. The child gradually recovered in three 
months. In seven months after, a large bursa mucosa made its 
appearance immediately above the patela, which was dis* 
persed by a few blisters, and afterwards painting the part 
with the compound tincture of iodine. This child has had a 
severe attack of scarlet fever, and some time after she re- 
covered, was seized with a violent attack of intermittent 
fever, which was attributed to the bad system of drainage in 
the court where she resides. There has been no return of the 
disease of the joint. 

We have selected the cases just related of scrofulous affec- 
tions out of numerous others recorded in our case book, in 
consequence of their being particularly well marked of their 
kind, in order to demonstrate the success of the mode of 
treatment we have hitherto employed. We have reason to 
believe that the remedies we have suggested are new to many 
of our professional brethren ; and should they be induced ta 
make a fair trial of them, we have no doubt they wiU meQ^ 
with equal success^ 



106 



'' CHAPTER VII. 

HEPATIC OB LITEJl DIBOBDEBS. 

lirer, its nze, function, general anatomy, vessels, nerves, dncts, &e.»- 
Uses of the bile ; assists the lungs— Sir Eyerard Home's opinions- 
Bile secreted in hybemating animals — Colour, taste, and specific 
gravity of bile — ^Reasons for noticing liver diseases — ^Hot climates — 
Causes of liver complaints ; intemperate living, the passions, want of 
. exercise, &c. — Symptoms of liver disease — ^Extract taraxicum ; mode 
of preparation; American different from "Rnglinh — Its influence on 
the secretion — Properties — Cases — Dr. Pemberton, &o« 

175. The liver is one of the largest and most important 
organs in the body, essentially and intimately connected with 
the process of digestion ; it is also a depurator of the blood, 
pemoving from it principles inimical to health. Its proper 
function is the secretion of bile, and if we look at its intricate 
crrcnlation and structure, we need not be surprised at its 
being the frequent seat of many diseases, besides being 
supplied like other parts of the body, with arteries and veins ; 
it has a large quantity of venous blood constantly poured 
into it by the vena portae, which is formed by the junction of 
the veins frx)m, and receives into it the residual blood from 
all the chylo-poietic viscera, and ramifies in its substance; 
consequently it has two sets of vessels going into it, and has 
two sets also issuing from it ; one, the vessels forming the 
hepatic vein ; the other, the biliary ducts, uniting together to 
form the hepatic duct. In addition to all this, absorbents 
are distributed freely both to the sur&ce and substance of the 



LITEB DISOBDEBS. 107 

liver, and nerves from the hepatic plexos go to eveiy part 
of it. 

176. The liver is dense and heavy, weighing about four 
pounds, and measures from twelve to thirteen inches in its 
transverse diameter ; and, when in a state of health, is of a 
red colour, or brownish red, with very frequently a slight 
purple tinge along its sharp margin. When torn or divided, 
the surface exposed is of a granular structure ; as if composed 
of minute granules or lobules. In some points of the divided 
surface, its colour is of a yellowish tinge, caused by the 
exudation of bile through the ducts ; in other parts it is of 
a dark red, owing to the presence of blood in the hepatic and 
portal veins. 

177. The uses of the bile in the animal economy are veiy 
varied; it is a powerful stimulant, excites the flow of the 
intestinal fluids, and may be called nature's aperient. In 
consequence of its absence in jaundiced people, and in 
animals whose common duct has been tied (ductus commimis 
choledochus), the foDcal matter is imusually dry. Bile is sup- 
posed to stimulate the muscular fibres of the intestines ; it is 
said to contain an abundance of azotised principles ; it there- 
fore contributes to animalise those articles of food which 
have no azote in their composition. It possesses considerable 
antbeptic properties, and thus preserves the food frx)m putre- 
factive fermentation during its course through the intestines ; 
hence the disagreeable breath of persons in whom it is 
deficient or vitiated. It is affirmed by some physiologists 
that the bile liquefies and renders soluble the fatty part of the 
food. Lastly, it is a most important excretion. The liver 
assists the lungs in decarbonizing the blood ; this is manifest 
from the quantity of resin and fiitty matter contained in the 
bile. 

178. In animals that chiefly feed upon vegetable food, 
which contains a larger amount of carbon and hydrogen than 
animal food, there is a greater abundance of resin in the bile. 
Sir Everard Home considered one of the offices of the bile to 
be that of converting mucus, or the refuse matter of chyle as 
it passes along the colon, into fitt, which is absorbed into the 
system. It is a singalar recorded &ct that, during the 



108 LITEB DISOBDEBS. 

hybemation of certain animals of the class mammalia, when 
respiration is suspended, and no food is taken, the secretion 
of bile goes on. . Bile is of a yellowish green colour (in the 
herbivora it is green ; in the carnivora yellow predominates), 
and has a peculiar disagreeable odour ; it has a sweetish taste 
at first, but leaves afterwards a nauseous impression in the 
mouth. The specific gravity is said to vary from 1025 to 
1030. 

179. Having thus taken a cursory glance at the anatomy 
of the liver, its function, the uses, &c., of the bile, we shall 
proceed to notice a few of the diseases which have most fre- 
quently come under our notice. We have been induced to 
do so from a conviction that the very great success that has 
followed our mode of treatment, ought to be generally known. 
We wish, also, to bring more prominently into notice, a 
remedy which shall be hereafter mentioned. 

180. In a climate like this, so very variable at certain 
Seasons of the year, the liver is very apt to become disordered. 
We have already alluded to this in regarding the function of 
skin. In diseases of the lungs, the liver has to perform a 
very important part ; in hot climates, where respiration is 
less perfectly performed, there is frequently an inordinate 
secretion of bile. This, of course, speedily produces inac- 
tivity. We have frequently seen very great relief afforded 
in disease of the lungs, by paying special attention to the 
liver. 

CAUSES OF HEPATIC DISOBDEBS. 

181. We have already noticed the peculiar structure of the 
liver as being likely to render it obnoxious to disease; its 
size renders it liable to external injuries from blows, falls, &c. ; 
it is prone to congestion from an increase of the heart's 
movements ; in injuries of the head, especially concussion, 
there is more or less derangement takes place, the intempe- 
rate use of vinous, fermented or alcoholic fluids, food of a rich 
nutritious quality, rich sauces, condiments, stews, soups, &c. 
There is also mischief arising from long protracted heat, as 
in hot climates ; confined heat, as in factories, &c. ; great 
mental emotions, especially anger, fear, anxiety, sorrow, &c. ; 



IiITEB DISOEDEES. 109 

want of exercise, especially when combined with free or 
generous living ; violent, long continued, or repeated courses 
of mercury ; sudden changes of temperature (here again we 
see the importance of attending to the function of the skin) ; 
these we hold to be the chief causes of liver complaints. We 
shall now proceed to notice the more prominent symptoms. 



SYMPTOMS. 

182. The general symptoms attendant upon disorders of 
the liver, particularly congestion, are, a fulness of the right 
side, with a deep-seated dull aching pain, increased on 
pressure, which occasionally darts through to the back ; pain 
at the back of the neck, and the posterior superior part of 
the shoulder ; pain in the region of the stomach and gall 
bladder ; pain in the loins, a shooting in the breast ; also 
dull aching pain at the back and upper part of the head. 
There is difficulty of breathing and a sense of oppression 
about the epigastrum ; loss of appetite, nausea, a dryness in 
the throat; and occasionally a sensation of stricture in the 
larynx; furred tongue; prostration of strength; cramp in 
one or both legs ; the patient lies better on the right than 
the left side; there is often pain in one or both eye balls, 
especially at the back and superior portion in front; the 
conjunctives is suffused and tinged with yellow ; the urine is 
scanty, dark coloured, and contains at times a small quantity 
of bile, and often becomes cloudy on standing, and leaves a 
pinkish deposit. The pulse varies considerably ; sometimes 
it is full and quick ; at other times soft, feeble, and oppressed. 
The bowels, in general, are costive in the early stage, but in 
the latter stage, diarrhcBa and dysentery often supervene. The 
skin is mostly dry, attended by a sort of stinging or pricking 
sensation ; and where suppuration occurs, we have a moist 
skin, and often profuse sweats. The palms of the hands and 
soles of the feet are dry, and accompanied with a burning 
heat, and are often very hard. 

183. Before proceeding with the cases, it will be proper 
here to allude particularly to one of the remedies we are in 
the liabit of prescribing, viz. the extract of taraxicum ; that 

H 



110 XITEB DISOBDEBS. 

which we have hitherto used is obtained from the eyaporation 
of the expressed juice obtained from the recent plant, and is 
prepared by the Shakers of New Lebanon^ a peculiar class of 
people who devote their time principally to the cultivation 
and gathering of medicinal plants, and the preparing of 
extracts from the same ; and those who have witnessed the 
specimens of their skill and ingenuity, and we may add, the 
great care paid to the collection of the plants at the period of 
the elaboration of their juices, as well as to the manner of 
drying, are not surprised that they possess superior powers to 
the same plants cultivated in this country. The extract of 
taraxicum prepared by these people contains, at least, double 
the quantity of the acid principle, than in any we have been 
able to obtain in England, and as we have found it to be 
much more powerful in its operation, we thought it right tq 
take special notice of it. 

184. The above remarks have been corroborated by several 
medical friends. We have been in the habit of importing it 
direct for the last fourteen years. We believe Messrs. Butler 
of Covent Garden are likely to have it, as they import many 
plants prepared by the Shakers. Extract of taraxicum 
appears to possess tonic, aperient, deobstruent, and diuretic 
properties. In order to produce its full e£Pect, it should be 
given in much larger doses than it is prescribed at present. 
We have in some cases prescribed from three to five scruples 
twice or three times a-day. It certainly appears to us to 
have a direct influence on the liver, and in several instances 
we have succeeded when the ordinary remedies have failed. 
This is a very important consideration, as there are cases to 
be met with where mercury in every form disagrees with the 
stomach. In some cases, when prescribed with salines, &c. 
it has produced two and three dark tary-like motions per day 
for six weeks. We were led to imagine that the evacuations 
were darkened by the medicine ; we found this opinion to be 
incorrect, as the stools became of a perfectly natural colour 
whilst under the influence of the medicine. We have been 
repeatedly told by patients that, while taking this medicine, 
they could feel '* as if something was searching every comer 
of the liver." 



LITEB D1S0BDBB8. Ill 

185. Casb I. S. aged about 53 ; has resided during 

the greater portion of her life in an agueish district in Essex ; 
consulted us in 1837, and complained of the following 
symptoms : — A constant dull aching pain over the region of 
the Uyer, which is increased on pressure ; there is consider- 
able enlargement of the liver, and feels hard when pressed ; 
pain at the upper and back part of the head, nausea and 
occasional vomiting in the morning ; there is great pain 
across the loins in the region of the kidneys ; the urine is 
scanty, high coloured, with a large deposit of uric acid ; the 
tongue is dry, and coated with a brown fur ; passes restless 
nights ; complains of much debility and depression of spirits. 
She was ordered to apply a mustard poultice, composed of 
two tablespoonfuls of mustard and one of linseed meal or 
flour, with a sufficient quantity of milk- warm water, and to 
be laid in the folds of a fine muslin handkerchief; the 
poultice to be applied to the side for half an hour or forty 
minutes, every alternate night. The diet to consist of milk 
and bread, night and morning, occasionally substituting 
chocolate, £mnaceous puddings, with one chop, or fish for 
dinner ; to drink soda water, with a glass of sherry or a dash 
of pale brandy, which latter was continued for a short time ; 
she then drank barley water alone. The following medicines 
were prescribed, viz. a pill, composed of compound extract of 
colocynth, aloes, jalap, rhubarb and oil of cloves ; also the 
mixture as follows : 

Extract of taraxicum, four drachms ; 

Warm water j seven ounces and a half; 

Sulphate of magnesia, six drachms ; 

Tincture of rhubarb^ two drachms ; 

Tincture of ginger^ two drachms and a half; 
mix and take two tablespoonfuls night and morning ; one of 
the pills to be taken with the evening draught. As the skin 
was hot and dry in a few days, a vapour bath was ordered 
twice a^week. The pain and fulness of the side gradually 
diminished, the skin lost its yellow tinge, the appetite and 
strength were in a short time restored, as well as the different 
secretions, and in about six weeks the cure was completed. 
This patient has been subject to periodical attacks of the 



112 XITBB DI8OBDEB0. 

tame character, bnt which inyariably yield to the same 
remedies. Haying resided at the sea-side the last two jears, 
she has been less troubled with the liver. About six months 
back, she had a serere attack, and took, bj medical advice, 
a considerable quantity of calomel, without relief; the original 
medicine and pill was prescribed, with the vapour bath, 
which removed every symptom in three weeks. We could 
give some sixty or seventy cases precisely similar to the one 
just related ; but, as they were treated in the same manner, it 
would be a waste of time and space to give more. 

186. Case ii. , aged 64 ; spent the early part 

of his life in India, and finished his military career in the 
Peninsula as a cavalry officer (Ueut.-col.); is of slender 
make, but capable of undergoing great £sitigue until lately, 
and has been accustomed to live generously; has had 
repeatedly bilious attacks, both in India and this country. 
When he consulted us about eighteen months ago, he com- 
plained of a deep-seated pain about the region of the gall 
bladder, increased on pressure ; there is slight enlargement ; 
is incapable of taking a very deep inspiration without 
increasing the pain ; there is also pain between the shoulder 
blades, skin tinged with yellow, and eyes su£Pused and tunicce 
conjunctiva} as yellow as gold ; the appetite is very indiffer- 
ent, tongue slightly coated, pulse feeble and beats about 62 
in the minute; bowels tolerably regular; the skin dry, 
accompanied with a prickly heat ; the urine is rather scanty 
and high coloured, and deposits a pinkish sediment. For 
some time back, has complained of a peculiar giddiness when 
he gets up in the morning, and feels as if he would fiedl 
forward unless he takes hold of some support. For some 
months has felt a disagreeable sensation in his right knee, 
which is swollen a little ; occasionally there is a good deal of 
pain ; and when walking, he is sometimes compelled to stop, 
and seems as if he had lost the entire control over it ; in a 
few minutes the knee recovers itself, and he again proceeds 
without any difficulty. This has once or twice been attended 
with some danger whilst crossing a thoroughfare. The veins 
in both legs are slightly varicose ; the knee was bandaged 
with a plaster composed of 



LITEB DISOBDBBS. 113 

EmplasiruM saponisy 

Emplastrum plumbic of each six drachms ; 

Exir€Uit Bellctdana, two drachms ; 
to be spread on wash leather, and cut in pieces two inches 
broad, and the knee carefolly bandaged. An elastic stocking 
was ordered for the ankle and leg. His diet was to consist of 
milk and bread, night and morning, with occasionally a 
decoction of cocoa nibs. This forms an excellent unstimu- 
lating beverage ; when boiled sufficiently, say three or four 
hours, it should be put away in some cool place, in a short time 
a fatty substance will collect on the surface, which ought to be 
remoyed. Game or poultry with fish for dinner, and a few 
glasses of claret. A vapour bath to be taken about every 
fifth day, and the following mixture : 

Extract of tarcusicum^ five drachms ; 

Sulphate of mafffiesia^ six drachms ; 

Tincture of rhubarb, two drachms ; 

Tincture of ginger, three drachms ; 

Distilled water, seven ounces and a half ; 
mix, take two tablespoonfuls night and morning. The 
mixture and vapour bath was continued for a month, at the 
expiration of which he was perfectly well. For a period of 
six or seven months he remained in excellent health, merely 
taking an aperient pill occasionally. Has had no return of 
the giddiness or dimness of vision. 

187. Case iir. A child, -about six years of age, was 
brought to us a few months ago, in a completely jaundiced 
condition ; the tunicBB conjunctivflB and skin were of a deep 
yellow colour. The child had for some time back complained 
of languor, she appeared to be dull and heavy, inactive, no 
appetite ; she complains of a sense of uneasiness in the right 
side, especially at the margin of the liver ; there is heat and 
pricking of the skin ; a bitter taste in the mouth ; the urine 
is high coloured, and tinges the linen yellow ; bowels 
obstinately costive, and motions of a clay colour; pulse 
quick; sometimes there was nausea in the morning, and 
occasionally vomiting. Treatment: — A mustard poultice to 
be applied to the right side every alternate night ; the bowels 
h2 



114 LITEB BISOSDEBS. 

to be well opened by a simple aperient ; afterwards- to take 
the following mixture : 

Extract tarcuBumm^ four drachms ; 

Tincture of rhubarb^ three drachms ; 

Tincture of gentian co, two drachms ; 

DistiUed water ^ six ounces ; 
a tablespoonful to be taken three times a-daj. A powder, 
composed of jalap, rhubarb and ginger was given occasionally 
at bed time. In less than three weeks the child was in 
perfect health : the diet consisted of milk and bread, with 
farinaceous pudding ; no animal food. We have treated 
numerous cases of jaundice among adtdts successfully, by the 
same remedy. We selected the child, as it was the first also 
of a class, treated upon the same principle. We trust our 
professional Mends will give the tarazioum a fair trial, 
especially in chronic inflammation of the liver. We have 
not seen Dr. Pemberton*s work, but we understand the 
medicine was very successful in his hands in chronic inflam* 
mation and scirrhus of the liver. It ought not to be given 
in less doses than two scruples at a time, which may be 
increased to a drachm and a half. We would advise from 
ten grains to a scruple of the bitartrate of potassa to be 
added to each dose of the extract in ordinary use. 



MEDICATION. 

188. Having already demonstrated the capability of the 
body being affected by medicated vapour (vide page 72), we 
need not therefore say more on that point here, but simply 
observe, that the lungs are more readily impressed or affected 
by medicinal agents in this form than the skin. We are told 
by some physiologists of the present day, that the latter cannot 
imbibe or absorb, unless the epidermis is removed by blister 
or otherwise. We, however, think the experiments of 
Majendie quite conclusive on this subject.* The perme- 
ability of the skin is a fact of the highest importance, not 
only in the practice of medicine, but in the investigation of 

* Lecture V. reported in Lancet, toL i, 1834. 



LITXB DI80SDBB8. 115 

certain questions intimately connected with the welfare and 
happiness of society. We need scarcely add, that the subject 
is one of very peculiar interest at the present moment. It 
was our intention, in the first instance, to have entered fully 
into this subject, and to have given the result of our expe- 
rience ; on reconsidering the matter, we think it more 
desirable to reserve the subject for a separate pamphlet. 

189. We can fully testify that medicine employed through 
the agency of the vapour already described is capable of 
acting directly on the glands, mucous membrane, skin, and 
other secreting organs. In scrofula, bronchitis, lepra, 
icthyosis, herpes, we generally advise polygala senega, aris- 
tolochia, armoracia, hyssopus officinalis, &c. To allay 
nervous irritability, neuralgia, &c., valerian, rosemary, 
lavender, and a variety of sedative and aromatic plants may 
be used with benefit. To promote the healing of scrofulous 
ulcers, we have witnessed the most marked results follow the 
exhibition of iodide of potassium, in the form of vapour ; two 
scruples to a drachm is what we have generally employed. 
In affections of the lungs, catarrh, &c., Canadian balsam, and 
the different species of pines, and eupatorium, will be found to 
have a very beneficial influence. Many of the narcotic plants 
may be administered in the vapour bath, and their respective 
effects produced in a few minutes. It is hardly necessary to 
allude to the influence of sulphur, mercury, &c., in the form 
of vapour. 



APPENDIX. 



The subject of diet in reference to health and disease is still a 
controversial point ; and after reading a great many works recently 
published, we hold that the question is one that admits of further 
discussion. We have been led to these reflections from the start- 
ling accounts published by the Vegetarians, a large and increasing 
class of the community that abstain entirely from animal food. 
The doctrine of assimilation has led many to believe that sub- 
stances, however heterogeneous in their nature, can be by the 
powers of the gastric juice converted into healthy chyle : it is 
simply a question with such advisers of quantity, time, &c. — 
moderation is their polar star. We believe the doctrine to be 
most destructive and fallacious. Is it possible or reasonable to 
expect to rear a vigorous and healthy constitution from noxious 
and unhealthy aliment? As well might we expect workmen to 
build a substantial mansion from decayed and rotten materials ! 

We shall proceed to offer a few observations on the different 
kinds of ordinary food and drink. 

FBUIT8. 

Nothing can be more absurd than the notions formed by some 
persons respecting fruit: because all fruits possess an acid prin- 
ciple, they conclude that they must have qualities in common one 
with another ; but surely no man of common sense will assert, that 
citric acid and prussic acid differ only in degree and not in quality. 
Acids are as various in their properties and effects as the fruits in 
which they are found ; and to suppose that they are all useful in 
quenching thirst, and cooling in their quality, simply because they 
are acid, is about tA rational a conclusion as that which the 
celebrated Chaptel arrived at when he concluded cabbage and 
elder to be one and the same thing, because chemical analysis gave 
the same result 

Acidity in the stomach being one of the most prominent symp- 
toms of derangement of th^ digestive organs, invalids should 
abstain from fruits generally. Much has been said of the danger 
of eating unripe fruits, and this opinion is certainly well founded ; 



APPENDIX. 117 

the hard texture of unripe fruits is dissolved with difficulty, they 
remain therefore long in the stomach, unmixed with other fluids, 
and consequently acquire a greater degree of acidity, and produce 
all the disorders that may arise from it in too great an abundance. 
There are, indeed, stomachs whose gastric juice may obviate all 
this; but in many cases it wiU fail, and therefore the taking of 
unripe fruits into the stomach is always hazardous, and may be 
exceedingly hurtful. 

Stone Druita — cherries, plums, peaches, and apricots. Few of 
these fruits come to perfection in this country ; and we are inclined 
to believe that the bad effects attributed to them arise more from 
this cause than the unwholesome nature of the fruit. In this 
country they are commonly and justly supposed to enter more 
readily into a noxious fermentation, and to produce those con- 
sequences of morbid acidity, colic, diarrhoea, &c. The apricot is 
the least objectionable. Stone fruits frequently give rise to fever ; 
this they do from their indigestible nature ; and from the effects 
they are too frequently seen to produce, we may conclude that 
unless they are eaten in moderation, and at a proper season, they 
are by no means salutary. 

Apples and Pears, — ^The firmness of their texture renders them 
of slow dissolution, and it is no uncommon thing to have them 
brought up again by eructation, in the same masses they had been 
swallowed, and that even after two days. Apples should not be 
eaten after fish, and they are sure to disagree with those whose 
digestion is not perfectly good. Many fruits, otherwise unsafe, are 
improved by baking ; particularly the apple and pear, which may 
be cooked in a variety of ways. The pastry should be av(uded, as 
it absorbs all the noxious gases arising from whatever fruits are 
baked : and the same observations hold good in respect to meat 
pies; should the meat be unsound, the pie-crust is converted 
almost into a poison ; much of its bad effects are justly attributed 
to the butter made use of; but still more should be ascribed to the 
cause we have now mentioned. 

Orange and Lemon, — These firuits differ from each other in the 
quantity of acid and sugar, but their essential properties are alike. 
Oranges, in moderation, are cooling and wholesome; with some 
stomachs they certainly disagree; but even in acidity of the 
stomach and dyspepsia, we have seen good effects from their use. 
Lemons contain a very grateful acid, and is considered almost a 
specific in sea scurvy. It is an excellent corrector of the acrimony 
necessarily engendered by the use of salt provisions ; and being a 
pure acid, it is a good substitute for vinegar, and less objectionable* 



118 APPENDIX. 

It must be observed, that wherever acids can be hurtful, even 
these, in undue quantity, are as readily noxious as any other. 

Strawberries, lUupherries, and Blackberries or Brandfle-berries, — 
are, unquestionably, the finest fruits we axe blest with in this 
country, and may be reckoned the safest of summer fruits ; their 
tender substance is easily dissolved, and persons of delicate consti- 
tutions will seldom find that they disagree with them. Linnasus 
found great relief from the use of strawberries in gout, and con- 
sidered them almost a specific in that disease* 

Currants, Qoos^>erries and Orc^s — are strictly forbidden. We 
do not mean to assert that these fruits are decidedly unwholesome, 
or that to a strong stomach they would be injurious : but we are 
considering them in regard to their effects on invalids; and no 
physician, with any knowledge of the stomach, will deny that ill 
consequences do frequently arise from their use — ^as heartrbum, 
flatulency, &c. 

Cfranbeny. — ^This fruit, even when ripe, contains a good deal of 
acidity. The American species contains more saccharine matter, 
and is more delicate as well as nutritious than the English. The 
American Indians make great use of it; by drying the berries 
well, and mixing them with meal of Indian com, they form a 
pleasant and nutritious article of diet, well known by the name 
of whortle-berry bread. The fruit is easily digested, and is safer 
in its preserved than in its recent state. 

Plums, Damsons, ^c, — are unwholesome, even when ripe ; they 
frequently produce colic, looseness, cholera, or dysenteric symp- 
toms. Fruits of this description produce extensive and serious 
mischief to the health of children ; gastritis, intestinal irritation, 
&c., are common effects from eating them; they weaken the 
powers of digestion, sour and relax the stomach, by which means 
it becomes a fit nest for insects. 

Children are always sickly during the fruit season, and the 
deaths greater in proportion at that time : it is a mistaken notion, 
that the addition of sugar in any way qualifies the excess of acid ; 
on the contrary, it renders it much more violent in its effects. 

Dried Grapes, Raisins, Currants, and Prunes — are fruits pos- 
sessing a laxative property, and are therefore useful as medicine, 
but decidedly injurious as food ; their hard texture and excess of 
acidity, render them injurious; and all the bad effects of green 
fruits are to be apprehended from their use. 

Good fruit, in moderation, may be taken at any time, and under 
any circumstances, with a salutary effect; but when unripe and 



APPENDIX. 119 

unwholesome fruit is eaten in any quantity ; when it is forced into 
a stomach ahready loaded with a plentiful dinner of soup, meat, 
pudding, and all the items of a luxurious table, there is nothing 
wonderful in the subsequent intestine war. 

NuU — ^are little used in this country as articles of diet ; but the 
people inhabiting the southern parts of Europe, derive their chief 
sustenance from nuts, especially the chesnut. This fruit contains a 
good deal of nutritiye matter ; and when made into bread is an 
agreeable substitute, and probably little inferior in point of 
nourishment, to the bread made from wheat flour. 

Almonds and TPolhu^— contain each of them a lai'ge proportion 
of mild oil, and are exceedingly nutritious, perhaps more so than 
any other vegetable aliment; at the same time we must observe, that 
they are of difficult digestion, lie long in the stomach, and produce 
much uneasiness there : we are inclined to think that the fibrous 
pan of the nut generally passes off in an undigested state. — These 
remarks equally apply to the fiSbert and haz^Bl nut. 

The last nut we shall mention is the cocoa or chocolate^ which 
abounds with nutritive matter, and is in very general use as a 
beverage ; with some stomachs it disagrees ; but when it is made 
weak and well triturated, this inconvenience may be in a great 
measure obviated. — Chocolate is a wholesome drink, and much to 
be preferred to tea. 

All the nuts we have mentioned contain a considerable quantity 
of oil, which is much of the same nature in the different kinds we 
have spoken of. These oils enter largely into the composition of 
medicines, but are little used in diet. 

Oil of olives is more employed in food than all the rest, being 
used as an article to blend with our regimen. Oils are indis- 
pensably necessary to the support of the animal system, and are 
suited to suj^y the human body, either as it grows, requiring 
nourishment, or as upon occasion of waste, requiring repair; 
so that among every people known, whether civilized or barbarous, 
oil is used separately as an article of diet. Oils are taken into the 
stomach in one shape or other, in almost everything we eat, and 
must necessarily form a considerable part of our composition ; we 
should therefore be very careful in choosing it free from rancidity. 
The olive oil is unquestionably the best suited for the purposes of 
diet 

FABINACEOUS SEEDS, ETC., 

Are, in general, nutritious; and, as such, they make the most 
considerable part of the aliment of men, over almost the whole 
earth. 



120 APPENDIX. 

Barley — is a very sweet and natritious grain, and is more readily 
sabjected to vinous fermentation than any other grain; and, 
therefore, it is the grain from which generally our beers and ales 
are prepared. But there is another preparation from barley, much 
more important to the sick man than thescy and that is good 
barley-water. However humble it may appear, it is one of the 
most valuable remedies with which the medical man is conversant; 
and, strange to say, few patients to whom it is ordered know 
how to prepare this valuable article; we shall give here two 
receipts — Take two ounces of pearl-barley, wash it clean with cold 
water, put it into half a pint of boiling water, and let it boil for 
five minutes ; pour off this water and add to it two quarts of boil- 
ing water, boil it to two pints, and strain it. 

The above is simply barley-water: to a quart of this is frequently 
added two ounces of figs, sliced ; two ounces of raisins, stoned ; 
half an ounce of liquorice-root, sliced; and a pint of water. 
Boil until it is reduced to a quart, and strain. Another mode 
will be found in page 17. 

These drinks are intended to assuage thirst in ardent fevers, and 
inflammatory disorders ; for which, plenty of mild diluting liquor 
is one of the principal remedies ; and if not suggested by the 
medical attendant, is frequently demanded by honest instinct in 
terms too plain to be misunderstood. The stomach sympathizes 
with every fibre of the human frame, and no part of it can be 
distressed without, in some degree, offending that organ ; therefore, 
it is of the utmost importance to soothe it, by rendering everything 
we offer to it as agreeable as the nature of the case will admit of. 
The barley-water prepared according to the second receipt, will be 
received with pleasure by the most delicate stomach. Barley may 
be cooked in a variety of ways, and is one of the mildest and most 
nourishing articles of diet. 

Oats. — The nourishing quality of oats, both with respect to man 
and brutes, is in this country well known. With respect to oat- 
meal, the people of England seem to have fallen into an egregious 
error respecting its qualities ; from its producing in some a sensa- 
tion of heart-burn, or heat at stomach, they have condemned it as 
heating ; and from a mistake with regard to the nature of diseases, 
have supposed it to give rise to cutaneous affections — not mora 
frequent in Scotland, than in other countries ; and which indeec(. 
arise from no particular aliment, but always from a contagion^ 
communicated from one person to another. Besides, the most) 
eminent French physicians speak of oatmeal as cooling, and con- 
sequently prescribe it in fevers ; and the inhabitants of the East 



APPENDIX. 121 

and West Indies prefer it to arrow-root, when labouring under 
inflammatory disorders. Oatmeal, in its sound state, is entirely 
without bitterness ; but that which is generally sold in London 
being exposed to the impure air of the city, is dangerous to use. 
Though oats be the food of horses in England, yet the poor people in 
Scotland live principally upon it; and in no country in Europe do 
we find a more healthy and vigorous race of men ; and not only so, 
but their intellectual powers have excelled in, and improved every 
department of human science ; and the robust peasantry of Scot- 
land have formed the phalanx of the British army in every battle- 
field. Oatmeal porridge is the best food for children ; and, as an 
old author has justly observed, ** It is the king of spoon-meats, 
and the queen of soups, and gratifies nature beyond all others." 
As gruel forms a useful and mild diluent drink in a great variety 
of diseases, to secure the excellence of this valuable article, we 
will give a receipt for preparing it : — Take a tablespoonful of oat- 
meal, mix well in three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; have ready 
in a stew-pan a pint of boiling water, pour this by degrees to the 
oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into the stew-pan, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil for five minutes, stirring it all the time to 
prevent the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the stew-pan : 
skim and strain it through a hair sieve. 

Wheat, — ^This is a farinaceous grain, from which the principal 
vegetable aliment of the inhabitants of Europe is derived. There 
is no objection to the use of bread, save and except in the 
nefarious practices of the miller and baker. Bread mixed with a 
certain portion of bran is always to be preferred to that which is 
made of the pure flour, as the latter is apt to produce constipation, 
whilst the former promotes the peristaltic motion of the intestines, 
and obviates the necessity of aperient medicine. 

^t/e — is a grain inferior in many respects to wheat, but suffi- 
ciently nutritive and wholesome, as its daily use among the nations 
of the Northern countries of the Continent abundantly proves. It 
is little employed as an aliment with us, and its cultivation is 
hardly deserving of encouragement, as it is so liable to be diseased 
by the depredations of an insect. " A black morbid excrescence, 
curbed like the spur of a fowl, is frequently observed on the spikes 
of rye ; this is called the ergot of rye ; and when powdered and 
mixed with rye flour, and taken into the stomach, its effects are 
dreadful: unquenchable thirst, intoxication, extreme languor, 
succeeded with violent convulsions, livid eruptions, and cutaneous 
ulcerations, take place from its poisonous effects." 

lUce — ^is much used in eastern countriesi and answers the same 
z 



122 ATrEJXVnL 

ptirposes as bread with us ; and from the testimony of all Asid^ 
and the Southern parts of America, we conskler riee more nourish- 
ing than any other grain : it furnishes the purest and most whole-' 
some article of diet ; nor is it disposed to sour or ferment in the 
stomach. Many persons are afraid to use it from a mistaken notion 
that it is astringent ; but this opinion is groundless, as it possesse» 
DO such quality ; and if ever it has been found useful in diarrheea, 
it must, as Spielmann properly judges, be owing entirely to it» 
demulcent properties : hence rice-water, called eonjee in India, is 
of great service in looseness of the bowels, its mild mucilage pro-* 
teeting the intestines from acrid fluids. As a proof of the nutri- 
tious quality of rice, we will just mention that the Afghans, a 
people inhabiting the borders of the Bed Sea, live entirely on rice 
and milk ; and these men are capable of carrying loads four or five 
times heavier than any of the common porters in London, who live 
principally on beer, animal food, and bread* 

The last, but probably, the most important grain we shall men- 
tion, is the maize, or Indian corn. As no other of this family of 
phints can be cultivated through so great a geographical range, so 
it is the most vahiable of them all. The nutritive qualities exceed 
those of wheat ; and experience has fully proved that negroes on 
the plantations cannot be so well supported upon a given quantity 
of wheaten as of Indian bread. The meal of all the varieties ha» 
a marked sweetness. One species, called sweet corn, is well 
adapted to make puddings without the addition of sugar. A» 
Indian com meal may be purchased in London, we are surprised 
that it is not in more general use. 

Pea» and Bean» — form a wholesome and nutritious article d 
food; when young, they are light and easily digested. The 
quantity of nourishment yielded by them in their ripe state i» 
almost incredible, one pound by weight being equal to three pounda 
of animal food. Labourers, who live much on this kind of food, 
are stronger and less subject to diseases than the same class who 
feed on animal food and wheaten bread. We have found legumi- 
nous plants a valuable diet in facilitating the cure of disease ; they 
contain an amazing quantity of oil, which imparts strength to the 
solids and richness to the impoverished fluids of the body. Persona 
labouring under diseases arising from excess of acidity in the 
system, should live freely on leguminous food ; and children in 
particular, who are afflicted with scrofula, or other diseases arising 
from a scrofulous constitution, as rickets, &c. For delicate persons 
it is better to give them in their green state ; and when boiled and 
eaten with mint, their flatulent effects are in a great measure 



APPENDIX. 123 

eounteraeted. The quantity taken at first should be small, and 
gradually increased. Though peas contain a considerable amount 
of fixed air, and for this reason medical men condemn their use, 
yet we are persuaded from experience that they are better calcu- 
lated to remove flatulency and acidity in the stomach, than any 
other species of food. 

Sago — ^is a pure, mild, mucilaginous substance, highly nutritious. 
The Japanese set great value upon it ; and in some parts of India 
the inhabitants use it as their chief food. It is neither acescent 
nor flatulent; and persons afflicted with indigestion will find it sit 
light on their stomachs. 

Tapioca — is another nutritious article, of the same nature as the 
above; and for weak persons it is justly esteemed an excellent diet. 

Arrow-root — contains in a small bulk a considerable proportion 
of nourishment Boiled in water or milk it forms a fine jelly, well 
adapted for invalids and children. 

VEGETABLES. 

Oreen Peas, French and Windsor Beans — are among the best 
vegetables we have in this country* The French and Windsor 
beans have, of late years, come into very general use, and may be 
considered a valuable addition to our aliment Persona who eannot 
.eat green peas, in consequence of the weakness of their stomachs, 
will find these an excellent substitute, being less flatulent than the 
other legumina. 

Cabbage — is an excellent vegetable ; but in order to render them 
agreeable and digestible, cabbages should be boiled in two waters ; 
that is, when they are half done, to take them out and put them 
directly into another saucepan of boiling water ; by which means 
the offensive oil is removed, which gives to cabbage-M-ater the disa- 
greeable smell. The sour crout is prepared from the cabbage, 
which forms so useful an article to sailors on long voyages, as a 
preventive of sea-scurvy« 

GauUfhwer — ^is a delicious article of food, and more nutritious 
than any other species of cabbage. 

It is not necessary to say anything in recommendation of Broeolo 
and Seoteh'kale, a« they are both in common use, and are wholesome 
and agreeable articles of diet 

JS^inach — contains very little nourishment; but as it is a vege- 
tttfble of easy digestion, and possesses medicinal properties of a 
laxative, diuretic and cooling nature, we would therefore recom- 
fnend ks use generally. 

Ttamip — is a well known esculent root, furnishing a considerable 



124 APPENDIX. 

portion of nutriment, as is erinced by cattle feeding upon tumii^ 
becoming healthy and fat. Turnips should be well boiled, and the 
water pressed out of them. They are also a gentle laxative and 
diuretic. 

Beet-root — contains more saccharine matter than any other 
esculent root, consequently, it must be more nourishing ; it is easily 
digested, and does not produce flatulency. In the winter season 
this root is in its highest state of perfection, and forms an agreeable 
substitute for other vegetables. It is also considered an anti-scor- 
butic. Beet-roots should be well boiled, and the skin taken off 
afterwards ; for if deprived of their skin before boiling, nearly the 
whole of the saccharine matter is extracted by the water. 

Agparagu* — is possessed of considerable acrimony ; but when 
eaten in its intermediate state, between root and plant, this quality 
is little perceptible. As an article of food it is quickly dissolved 
in the stomach, and when sufficiently boiled is not disposed to pro- 
duce flatulence or create acidity. It is somewhat sweet to the 
taste, but more remarkably mucilaginous, from both which qualities 
it is manifestly nutritive. Its medicinal property is evinced in its 
diuretic effect ; and, in diseases peculiar to the kidneys, we have 
witnessed its beneficial effects in many instances. 

Jerusalem Artichoke — ^is a root now in common use, but from 
experience and observation we cannot recommend it for food, 
except to the strong and healthy ; it is watery and flatulent, and 
requires too much pepper and salt, as condiments, to be admissible 
for a weak stomach. 

Artichoke — is very injurious when eaten with butter, as is the 
common practice ; otherwise it is a delicate vegetable, and remark- 
ably nutritious. 

Carrot and Parsnip — are both excellent vegetables ; the former 
contains a good deal of saccharine matter, and is, in consequence, 
nourishing, and slightly laxative. In some stomachs it is not 
so easily digested, on account of the fibrous matter which it con- 
tains; but when young and well boiled, no vegetable is more 
agreeable or easier of digestion. The latter contains more 
nourishment ; but from its greater sweetness, it is not so pleasant 
to most persons. Old parsnips should never be eaten, as they 
turn acrid by keeping; and dreadful effects have been justly 
attributed to their use. They should also be cultivated in a dry 
soil ; for when grown in a marshy situation, they possess a delete- 
rious acrimony, which, in some instances, has produced insanity. 

Leekf Onion, and Garlic — ^are all species of one genus. In their 
natural state, they are too acrid to be made use of as food ; but by 



APPENDIX. 12^ 

tivtltivatiDn and climate, they are rendered harmless to the human 
body. By boiling, their acrimony is dissipated, and a remarkably 
mild substance remains, which possesses a good deal of nourish- 
ment ; and, notwithstanding they disagree altogether with some 
stomachs, yet their stimulant matter is useful as a condiment in 
promoting digestion, and in a medical iK)int of view they are 
valuable expectorants and diuretics. In its recent state, the onion 
is most acrid ; in a boiled state, the leek retains its aerimony most 
tenaciously. 

Celery — is a vegetable so destructive to the nervous system^ that 
under no circumstances should we feel justified in permitting its 
use ; although its deleterious properties are destroyed to a great 
extent by blancking it in salt and wat«r, still celery ought to be tho 
most suspected and most shunned of all our salads. 

The raw vegetables recommended as salads, are the fbliowing: — 
radishes, water-cress, American-cress, mustard and garden cress, 
endive, nasturtium, scurvy-grass, lettuce, and corn-salad. Many 
of these plants belong to the same genus, possessing, in common, 
« degree of pungency and aorinM»ny, which differs materially from 
the acrimony of the ranunculL The former, taken into the 
stomach along with the food, promotes its digestipn, and acts bene- 
ficially both on the skin and kidneys ; while the latter, even in the 
smallest quantity, is so corrosive;, as to produce gastric iiiflamma<- 
Cion. 

Cuoumber — ^is eaten to u great extent in large cities by all 
classes^ and as they are used only in their green state, they have 
ao nourishment, and frequently give rise to cholera, diarrhoea, &e. 
Hence persons with weak stomachs should -avoid them altogether. 

Melons — ^possess the 4same qualities .as the encumber; but being 
of a more tender texture, they are on this account less hurtful; 
but with those stomachs that have not their digestive powders in 
good order^ they are sure to disagree. 

Pempieng — are used only when boiled, by which means thei|r 
texture is much loosened; and when well ripened, the^ become 
mealy and farinaceous, and therefore, more uourishing; but as we 
generally prepare them, they are at best a weak, insipid food. 

Pgtatof^ — contain a great quantity of nutritive matter, which 
when extracted from the poisonous part of the root by maceration, 
is fit for aU the purposes of life, and equal, if not superior, to the 
b^st arrow-root of the West Indies, Although the potato forms a 
great proportion of the food of the people of this kingdom, and is 
found to be sufficient for the sustenance of the body by the most 
laborious portion of the community, still we must bear in mind, 
I 3 



126 AFF£NDnL 

that those things which may be eaten with impunity by labourers, 
are not to be considered as a criterion for the sick or the weak; 
and on this ground alone, we disapprove of the use of potatoes by 
persons whose digestive organs are not in a healthy state. 

When the bowels are in a deranged stAte, the potato should be 
avoided, whether solid or boiled down into potato soup. It is also 
very apt to occasion looseness of the bowels in children, or to 
increase it when present. 

Mashing potatoes makes them more indigestible, as they are 
thus less intimately mixed with the saliva in mastication. 

There are many other kinds of vegetables; but as they are not 
in common use, we do not think it necessary to enter into their 
several qualities. 

ANIMAL FOOD, ETC. 

Beef— is the most nutritive of all kinds of animal food, and is 
easily digested ; as a proof of its superior nourishing qualities, we 
may just mention the fact of prize-fighters, whilst in training, 
living chiefly upon it, and if changed for mutton, a sensible dimi- 
nution of bulk and strength takes place in a short time. The ox 
is not so liable to disease as sheep, and is therefore always to be 
preferred as food. 

Veal — is very indigestible; persons labouring under stomach 
complaints should never eat it. We have seen many severe 
attacks of indigestion brought on by it ; and therefore weakly 
persons should wholly abstain from it, as a part of diet. 

Mttttan — is very wholesome, and easier of digestion than beef; 
but in consequence of the pestilential diseases affecting the sheep, 
care should be taken in selecting that which is free from disease. 

Lamb — ^is liable to the same objection as veal; it is indigestible, 
much more so than sound mutton. 

The Goat — is seldom eaten, in consequence of the denseness 
and insolubility of its flesh ; but the milk of this animal is highly 
nutritious. By dieting the goat, we may obtain the purest milk ; 
which we have found to be a valuable remedy in many and 
various diseases : in gastritis or stomach complaints, in consump- 
tion, in scrofula, &c. 

Park — is a very gross, unwholesome food, and to be avoided in 
every shape by persons afflicted with cutaneous diseases, scrofula, 
wounds, ulcers, indigestion, cough, or consumption. It gives rise 
to an impure state of the fluids, from its rank oil being carried into 
the system unassimulated* 

Veniwm — is very wholesome, perhaps more so than any other 
kind of animal food, being less liable to disease, equally nutritious. 



APPENDIX. 127 

and easier of digestion ; it should always be preferred for the weak 
and sickly. 

The Kate — is sufficiently wholesome and nutritious; but the 
mode of dressing it with various stimulating condiments renders 
it haisardous both to the diseased and convalescent. 

The jRaMfit — when young is tender, and affords an aliment very 
readily digested, and is considerably nourishing. 

The domesticated animal is subject to various diseases, especially 
of the lungs, liver, and skin. 

PouUry — ^is the least stimulating of animal food; on this account 
it may be eaten (and is certainly the only unexceptionable aliment 
of the kind) in fevers and inflammatory disorders. 

The Pheasant, Partridge, Sfc, — when young are easy of digestion, 
and are not found to disagree even with the most delicate stomachs. 

Moor Fowls — ^although differing in species, have a common 
quality; they are all tender, and considerably nourishing, very 
wholesome and agreeable to most persons. When kept too long 
they are injurious to the system, especially if there be any tendency 
to disease in the constitution. 

The Goose — when fed on wholesome vegetable aliment, will not 
be found to disagree with any person ; but when the animal is fed 
on rank offals of every description, it is not to be wondered at if 
few stomachs are capable of digesting it 

The same observations apply to the dttck* 

The Woodcock and Snipe — are both wholesome and easy of 
digestion ; the legs are more soluble and tender than the wings and 
breasts. 

Pigeons — should be eaten only when young ; as they grow old, 
their textures become hard and indigestible. 

The Fggs of the fowls and birds now mentioned, may all be 
employed as food. Eggs contain a large proportion of nutritious 
matter; and a smaller quantity of such food will satisfy the 
stomach than of any other kind of aliment ; as they are less stimu- 
lant than any other kind of animal substance, they are well 
calculated for consumptive and delicate persons, and such as are 
recovering from long illness. 

If boiled hard, they sit heavy on the stomach ; but when pro- 
perly cooked, as for instance, boiled for two minutes and a half, or 
very lighty poached, very few things equal them in point of facility 
of digestion. 

Mshes, — ^Although various opinions are entertained as to the 
nutritious qualities and wholesomeness of fish, yet experience 
enables us to decide on their fitness for food. They have been 
used as aliment at all times, and in every part of the habitable 



128 APPENDIX. 

globe ; and, indeed, in some parts of the earth, there are (yeople 
who live entirely upon them. It is certain, that in our own country 
some millions make fish the chief part of their diet; and with them 
it appears perfectly sufficient for all the purposes of the human 
economy. We fully agree with Cullen in his opinion as to the 
nutriment afforded by fish; and from the observations we have 
made in various sea-port towns and villages inhabited almost 
wholly by fishers, we are inclined to believe, that those people live 
to a more advanced age, and are as vigorous and healthy as the 
inhabitants of inland towns. It will, therefore, be very doubtful, 
if fish afford much less nourishment than meat does ; and we are 
persuaded, if any, the difference is very inconsiderable. 

The fishes which may be eaten, are the salmon, sole, turbot, 
cod, whiting, haddock, fiounder, herring, and mackerel. As fish 
gives less excitement during digestion than meat, it is therefore, a 
useful article of diet to persons recovering from acute diseases; 
and we are certain, that the cause of its disagreeing with many 
stomachs, is to be attributed to the butter used as sauce. The 
flakiness of the fish, and its opaque appearance after being cooked, 
are proofs of its being good ; but when it is blueish, and has a 
degree of transparency after being sufficiently boiled, it shows it 
to be of an inferior quality, and should not be eaten. 

Fruit and milk should never be taken at the same meal with fish. 

The aliment derived from insects is very trifiing ; we shall, there- 
fore, only mention the lobster, crab, prawn, and shrimp. 

The lobster and crab differ little from each other in their quali* 
ties; they are both considerably nourishing, but certainly more 
indigestible than most part of fishes. 

Oysters — ^have long enjoyed the general good opinion of man- 
kind ; with some peculiar stomachs they certainly disagree ; but to 
persons labouring under consumption, scrofula, indigestion, and 
some inflammatory diseases, they are decidedly beneficial as an 
article of diet 

MILK, ETC. 

This article should, properly, have been treated of in another 
part of this work. It is not our intention to enter into a compa? 
rison between the different kinds of milk, as we have neiUier time 
nor room for such a purpose. We shall, therefore, confine our 
Qbservations to cows' milk, being more generally used than that of 
any other animal. 

As cows' milk is an article of so much importance in diet, it 
claims the highest consideration. It is well known, that the milk 
may be improved or deteriorated by the food of the animal ; and 
if the greater part of our pasture l^nds be overrun with noxious 



APPENOnL 12d 

weeds, and if it be a matter of feet, that the animals are com- 
pelled to eat these weeds from necessity, we would ask any think- 
ing man, how it is possible for the milk to be wholesome, if the 
food of the animal is made up of rank grass and poisonous weeds P 

As milk holds a just medium between a vegetable and animal 
diet, it is directed with great benefit to all persons labouring under 
pulmonary diseases, as it affords sufficient nourishment to the body 
without a tendency to increase the inflammatory diathesis, so much 
dreaded in this disease. As a general article of diet, it may be 
used by the sick and convalescent, either simply or diluted with 
water ; and in a variety of diseases it will be found to agree with 
the stomach better than any other kind of food. Milk and water 
was used and praised even by Hippocrates, who employed it with 
great advantage ; particularly as a safe means of restoring those 
who were reduced to extreme weakness by long illness. At one 
time, a milk diet was introduced throughout all Europe, for the 
cure of some diseases, and especially of the gout and rheumatism^ 
by the experience of a gouty physician at Paris ; and we have 
also the authority of Linn»us, who was subject to repeated attacks 
of gout, and who, by an abstemious diet, and living principally on 
strawberries and milk, was speedily relieved. 

Butter — is an article in very general use throughout the whole 
of Europe, and considered as a wholesome and nutritious sub-* 
stance; so much so, that few persons will admit that it can be 
injurious to health, eaten in any quantity, or that its quality, how- 
ever deteriorated, can give rise to severe disease. But experience 
has led us to form a very different estimate of its effects on the 
animal economy ; and we are happy to find that our opinions are 
corroborated by the testimony of a very able physician. In a 
dictionary of medicine by Dr. Macauley, of Edinburgh, (hi the use 
of butter, he observes, that " when used as a sauce, ot baked into 
paste, it is in this way that it is too often used to excess ; and 
though it does not produce effects that are immediately apparent^ 
it lays the foundation of stomach complaints of the greatest 
obstinacy. Its use is also apt to give rise to diseases of the skin 
very difficult to cure. Persons labouring under stomach com- 
plaints should not use much butter, especially when heated, as in 
buttered toast, muffins, &c. ; and those subject to inflammatory 
and gouty affections, should be sparing of the use of butter in all 
its forms. It is a bad part of the management of children to 
pamper their palates by frequently indulging them with butter, as 
it is apt to give rise to a gross and unhealthy habit of body^ 
characterized by the frequent appearance of boils and other sores, 
discharges from behind the ears, &c., or eruptions on the headi 



190 APPENDIX. 

and other parte of the skin. Its inordinate use also oecasiom to^ 
^reat fulness of the system; and in the numerous nervous and 
inflammatory diseases of ehildren, it is the high-fed and {)lump 
children that are most frequently the severest sufferers.^ 

Cheese — is a substance so indigestible, that it is only fit for 
persons who are subjected to hard labour* 

ON DEINS& 

Simple wateTf that is, such as nature affords, without the 
addition of other substances, is the proper drink of man, inasmuch 
as it is the only liquid which instinct induces the whole brute 
creation to partake of. How much water enters into the fluids 
and solids of the body, is well known ; and when we consider the 
immense quantity of water thrown off by the skin, and from the 
lungs in a still greater proportion, we shall not be surprised at the 
wise provision of nature in giving the appetite of thirst. Water is 
the only elementary substance which enters unchanged into the 
composition of the fluids ; and although there be no difference in 
the appearance of water, yet every one is sensible how much it 
varies in taste. Nature seldom affords water perfectly simple (rain 
excepted), or without its being mjore or less impregnated with 
some other matters ; and upon this account, a distinction has been 
made of the natural waters as being, from different impregnations, 
more or less proper for the use of man. Water will dissolve or 
hold in suspension a part of the matter through which it passes, 
whether earthy or mineral ; and, consequently, when it is impreg- 
nated with dissolved minerals, or contaminated with putrescent 
animal or vegetable substances, it proves very destructive to health, 
and gives rise to malignant distempers, fevers, &c. Bain is the 
great source of supply to the vegetable kingdom, and is the purest 
kind of water. Spring-water often contains some saline matter, 
which renders it injurious to the stomach ; and where soft water 
pannot be obtained^ it ought to be boiled, and strained before 
drinking. Persons suffering from indigestion, feel hard water to 
be exceedingly oppressive to the stomach ,* and some of the inferior 
animals, as horses, dislike it much, and have their bowels injured 
by it. Biver- water is generally pretty good, except, as in the case 
of the Thames, it be loaded with all the mud and excrements of an 
immense city. 

We would recommend every family in London to procure one of 
]R,obin's Filtering Machines, as they are to be had at a small 
(Expense; and the little trouble necessary to keep it clean, is 
nothing in comparison with its great utility as a preserver of 
|iealth« 



APPENDIX. 131 

Water is by far the safest and most salutary beverage fa which 
man can possibly indulge, being the best solvent and diluent of our 
solid food, and that which best supports the tone of the stomach 
without exhausting its vigour ,* and which, in reality, furnishes not 
only the most simple, but also the most suitable supply to the 
secreting vessels, and towards maintaining the general humidity or 
elasticity of the body. Hence it arises, that those who use pure 
water only as their general drink, are the most free from diseases, 
and retain the vigour of life, and its difiTerent functions^ to a more 
advanced age ; and, as the celebrated Hoffman says, ** Pure water 
is the fittest drink for persons of all ages and temperaments ; and 
of all the productions of nature or art, comes the nearest to that 
universal remedy, so much sought after by mankind, but never 
hitherto discovered." 

FERMENTED LIQrOB8« 

TFiVie— we shall consider chiefly in a medicinal point of view ; 
for to a man in perfect health it may be ccmsidered as unne^ 
cessary, or, at least, a superfluous luxury. As a medicine, wine is 
one of the most valuable ever imparted by Providence to man : it» 
general effect is to strengthen the digestive organs, to quicken the 
circulation, to exhilarate the spirits, and to sharpen the mental 
faculties. But at the same time it must be inculcated, that these 
strengthening and exhilarating effects are of the most insidious 
nature; that when carried beyond moderation, they pervert the 
faculties, degrade the rational nature, create a morbid craving for 
a repetition of the indulgence, and lay the foundation for a long 
train of suffering and disease. 

In many diseases of debility, and in the state of convalescence, 
wine supplies a restorative for which no substitute can be found ; 
but in all inflammatory diseases, its use is inadmissible ; and when 
acidity of the stomach is complained of, wine will generally be 
found to aggravate this troublesome symptom. 

Ales and Porter — contain a considerable quantity of nutritive 
matter; and could we obtain these articles unadulterated, they 
would be found to be conducive to a high degree of health when 
taken in moderation ; they are much to be preferred to the perni- 
cious custom of drinking so much ardent spirits ; and this beverage 
is in many respects better than wine, as it is less disposed to 
ascescency. 

8FIBIT8. 

Brandy, Rum, Oin, Whiskey, ^c, — All ardent spirits are 
destructive of the energies of both body and mind. When taken 
even in moderation, a powerful preternatural action is produced 



132 APPENDIX. 

throughout the whole system ; the pulse is rendered full and quick, 
the mind is exhilarated, and the muscular strength increased for a 
time ; hut the lassitude, languor, and other symptoms of debility, 
which speedily follow the reaction, prove how hurtful the repeated 
effect must be; and those who indulge in dram-drinking, aie of 
all men the most to be pitied. A greater curse cannot be inflicted 
on a nation, than the easy purchase of spirituous liquors. This 
monster of iniquity is not confined to large towns alone; the 
surrounding villages are wallowing in the same moral turpitude, 
poverty, political discord and oppression. 

The bad effects of ardent spirits on the constitution of those 
who indulge iu them, are no less apparent; the long train of 
stomach complaints, of which dram-drinkers are the subjects, 
ought to be a warning to the young and inexperienced. The 
deceitful exhilaration of a few hours is a poor compensation for 
the suffering from indigestion, flatulence, and the gnawing pains 
which tempt a recurrence to the fatal dose. This pernicious habit 
gives rise also to various affections of the liver, particularly that 
hardened state of it, which often ends in dropsy, and other symp- 
toms of a broken-down constitution. The use of spirits predis- 
poses likewise to inflammatory attacks of various organs; to 
erysipelas, and disorders of the head, ending in apoplexy and 
palsy. 

As a medicine, ardent spirits, like wine, are of great importance. 
To use the language of Solomon, " Strong drink should be given 
unto those that are ready to perish, and wine unto those that are 
of heavy heart." Thus far are ardent spirits recommended by the 
wisest of men. But the habitual wine-drinker has the Promethean 
vulture for ever gnawing at his liver ; and the miserable train of 
diseases contracted by it, such as gout, and other inflammatory 
diseases, are transmitted to their unfortunate children. What an 
awful legacy, gout, scrofula, indigestion, &c. ; and what is still 
more terrible, insanity, and imbecility of both body and mind ! 

To Aiany of the foregoing observations the author is indebted to 
a friend, by whose permission they are inserted. 



OOLOHISTBS: B. 8. AND B. T. OLUBB, rXUfTBBS, 
•XBATFOBD ST. XABT. 



WORKS 



July^ 1849. 



ON 



MEDICINE AND SCIENCE 

PUBLI8HBO BY 

jrOHKT (DHIDfiaCHILILo 



DR. QOLDINQ BIRD, F.R.8. 

THE DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGICAL INDICATIONS 

AND TREATMENT OF URINARY DEPOSITS. With En- 
gravings on Wood. Second Edition. Post 8vo. clotl^ 8*. 6<i. 

BY THB SAME AUTHOR. 

ELEMENTS OF NATUBAL PHILOSOPHY ; being an 

Experimental Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences. 
Illustrated with several Hundred Woodcuts. Third Edition. Fcap. 
Bvo. cloth, 12«. M, 



<^^ri*^»*^«<^*tfNi^ 



MR. BEA8LEY. 

THE POCKET FOBMULAET AND SYNOPSIS OF 

THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPOEIAS ; com- 
prising Standard and Improved Formulae for the Preparations and 
Compounds employed in Medical Practice. Fourth Edition, corrected 
and enlarged. 18mo. cloth, 6«. 



<»»»i> ■o»^*»rf^^<»#i» 



MR. BOWMAN. 

AN INTEODUCTION TO PBACTICAL CHEMISTEY. 

With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6c^. 



DR. BUDD, F.R.8. 

ON DISEASES OF THE LIVEE; illustrated with 

Coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Bvo. cloth, 1 4s. 



^^^^■O^'**^******^^^ 



SIR 0AME8 OLARK, BART, M.D. 

ON THE SANATIVE INFLUENCE OF CLIMATE. 

With an Account of the best Places of Resort for Invalids in England, 
the South of Europe, &c. Fourth Edition, revised. Post 8vo. 10s. 6<2. 



0#»»»'*>»»#W» *l»#i^ 



DR. CARPENTER, P.R.8. 

A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY ; specially designed for 

the Use of Students. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. 
Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6<i. 



-SI 



VlVSiBPm^'^^i ^^v^-^v^wp 



ME. GHUECHILL'S FUBLICATIOHS. 



DR. CARPENTER, F.R.8. 

PBINCIPLES OF GENEBAL AND COMPABATIVE 

PHYSIOLOGY; intended as an Introduction to the Study of 
Human Physiology, and aa a Guide to the Philosophical Pursuit of 
Natural History. Illustrated with numerous Figures on Copper and 
Wood. Second Edition. 8yo. cloth, 18«. 

BY THB 8AMB AUTHOa. 

PBINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. With 

numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. One 
thick 8yo. vol. 2ls. 

SIR A8TLEY COOPER. BART., F.R.8. 

A TBEATISE ON DISLOCATIONS AND FBAC- 

TURES OF THE JOINTS. Edited by BRANSBY B. COOPER, 
F.R.S. Bva cloth, 20». 

BY THB RAMB AUTHOR. 

0BSEBVATI0N8 ON THE STBUCTUBE AND 

DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. Illustrated with Twenty-four 
highly-finished coloured Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to. cloth. 

Reduced from 31. 3s. to 11. lOs, 

DR. CONOLLY. 

THE CONSTBUCTION AND GOVEBNMENT OF 

LUNATIC ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE IN- 
SANE. With Plans. Post Bvo. cloth, 6«. 

MR. COOLEY. 

COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPCEIAS. 

THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PBACTICAL BECEIPTS, 

AND COLLATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, 
MANUFACTURES, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDI- 
CINE, PHARMACY, AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY; designed 
as a Compendious Book of Reference for the Manu&cturer, Tradesman, 
Amateur, and Heads of Families. Second Edition, in one thick Tolume 
of 800 pages. 8vo. cloth, lis. 

MR. DALRYMPLE. 

PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE ; illustrated with 

highly-finished coloured Plates. Fasciculi I., II., III. Imperial 4to. 
20«. each. 




MR. FBRQUSSON, F.R.8.E. 

A SYSTEM OF PKACTICAL SUEGEBY; with nu- 

merous Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8yo. cloth, 1 28. 6d . 



^m^^^'0>^if^i0^<m0>0 



MR. FOWNE8, PH.D., F.R.8. 

A MANUAL OF CHEMISTEY; with numerous lUus. 

trations on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8yo. cloth, 12s. 6^^. 

BT THE SAME AUTHOR. 

CHEMISTBY, as Exemplifying the Wisdom and Benevo- 
lence of God. Second Edition. Fcap. 8yo. cloth, 4s. Sd. 



^«»rf*#^^»»».<>»^^^>» 



WITH A PREFACE BY PaOFBSSOB LIEBIO. 
C. REMIQIUS FRESEN1U8. 

ELEMENTAEY INSTEUCTION IN CHEMICAL 

ANALYSIS, as practised in the LABORATORY of GIESSIN. 
Edited by LLOYD BULLOCK. 
Qualitative; Second Edition. Byo. cloth, 9s. 
Quantitative; 8yo. cloth, 14s. 

" I can confidently recommend this work, from my own ^rsonal experience, to 
all who are desirous of obtaining instruction in analysis, for its simplicity and use- 
fulness, and the facility with which it may be comprehended." — Baron Liebig, 



^»^»^»^<»»o»^>#'»» 



Q. J. QUTHRIE, F.R.S. 

THE ANATOMY OF THE BLADDEE AND OF THE 

URETHRA, and the Treatment of the Obstractions to which these 
Passages are liable. Third Edition. 8yo. cloth, &8. 

MR. GRIFFITHS. 

CHEMISTEY OF THE FOUE SEASONS-Spring, 

Summer, Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with Engrayings on Wood. 
Post 8yo. cloth, 10s. 6<i. 



0»>i^>»<^<>#><^<»^0^ 



DR. QUY. 

HOOPEE'S PHYSICIAN'S VADE-MECUM: OE, 

MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF 
PHYSIC. New Edition, considerably enlarged, and re-written. 
Fcap. 8yo. cloth, 10s. 



^^i^i»#^»*^^y»^^^» 



DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. 

PEACTICAL 0B8EBVATI0NS AND SUGaESTIONS 

IN MEDICINE. Post 8yo. cloth, 8s. 64. 

DITTO. S^ewnH S^erire. 8s. 6rf. 



'Vi^.-jwi! 



^^^^^f^^fwmmym^M u. i 




DR. HENNEN, F.R.8. 

PEINCIPLES OF MILITABT SUEGEET; comprising 

Observations on the Arrangement, Police, and Practice of Hospitals; 
and on the History, Treatment, and Anomalies of Variola and Syphilis. 
Illustrated with Cases and Dissections. Third Edition, with Life of 
the Author, by his Son, Dr. JOHN HENNEN. 8vo. boards, 16». 



<>»«»<«^*» <»o»*i» 



MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.8. 

OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUBGEEY. lUns- 

trated with 102 Engravings, plain and coloured. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 

128. 6d, 

" We are confident that the reader will find, on perusal, that the execution of 
the work sustains in every point the already high reputation of the author. The 
book is evidently the result of much labour and research, and has been written 
witii the greatest care and attention." — Britiah and Foreign Medical Review. 



^•^>^mmm0<0mfm0fm0i0 



MR. LAWRENCE, P.R.8. 

A TEEATISE ON KUPTUEES. The Fifth Edition. 

considerably enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 16«. 



^i9i^'^<^i0t0>0<^>0»m0»0m 



MR. UI8TON, P.R.8. 

PEACTICAL OE OPEEATIVE SUEGEEY; with 

numerous Engravings on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. 



A 



DR. HUNTER LANE, F.L.8. 

COMPENDIUM OF MATEEIA MEDICA AND 

PHARMACY ; adapted to the London Pharmacopoeia, embodying all 
the New French, American, and Indian Medicines; and also com- 
prising a Summary of Practical Toxicology. One neat pocket volume, 

cloth, 58. 




^»-^»i^»^#»^#i^»^»# 



DR. LEE, P.R.8. 

CLINICAL MIDWIFEEY; comprising the Histories of 

several Hundred Cases of Difficult Labour: . with Commentaries. 
Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5«. 

* The following Reports comprise the most important practical details of all the 
cases of difBcult parturition which have come under my observation during the 
last twenty years, and of which I have preserved written histories. They have 
now been collected and arranged for publication, in the hope that they may be 
found to illustrate, confirm, or correct the rules laid down by systematic writers, 
for the treatment of difficult labours, and suppW that course of clinical instruction 
in midwifery, the want of which has been so often experienced by practitioners at 
the commencement of their career.*' — From Pre/ace. 



a 



MR. LANGSTON PARKER. 

THE MODERN TEEATMENT OF SYPHIUTIC 

DISEASES, both Primary and Secondary; comprehending the Im- 
proved Methods of Practice adopted in this Country and on the 
Continent, with numerous Formulae for the Preparation and Admi- 
nistration of the new Remedies ; to which is added an Account of a 
Safe and Successful Mode of Treating Chronic, Constitutional, and 
Protracted Syphilis, by the Mercurial Vapour Bath. Second EiUtion, 
considerably enlarged. Post 8yo. cloth, Ss, 6d, 



^»^»#i»»i»»i^»^*»i*>» 



MR. MACLISE. 

SURGICAL ANATOMY ; a Series of Dissections demon- 
strative of the relative Anatqmy of the Principal Regions of the Human 
Body. Fasciculi I. to IV., 5«. each. 



#i»'#>^*»'*<r<>»<^o» 



DR. MILLINQEN. 



ON THE TEEATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF 

THE INSANE : with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic 
Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 49. 6d. 



DR. PROUT, F.R.8. 

ON THE NATUEE AND TEEATMENT OF STO- 

MACH AND RENAL DISEASES; being an Inquiry into the 
Connexion of Diabetes, Calculus, and other Affections of the Kidney 
and Bladder with Indigestion. Fifth Edition. With Seven Engravings. 
8vo. cloth, 20s, 

BY THB SAMB AUTHOR. 

CHEMISTET, METEOEOLOGY, AND THE FUNC- 
TION OF DIGESTION, considered with reference to NATURAL 
THEOLOGY. Being a Third Edition, with much new matter, of 
the ** Bridgewater Treatise." 8vo. cloth, IBs. 



#>»^r-#^'*»^*»»*^<N» 



ft- 



DR. RAMSBCTHAM. 

THE PEINCIPLES AND PEACTICE OF OBSTE- 

TRIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY, IN REFERENCE TO 
THE PROCESS OF PARTURITION. Illustrated with One 
Hundred and Ten Plates on Steel and Wood; forming one thick 
handsome volume. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22«. 

'* The work of Dr. Ranubotham may be described as a complete system of the 

J principles and practice of midwifery. The illustrations are nmnerous, well se- 
ected, and engnived with great accuracy. We regard this work, between accurate 
descriptions and useful illustrations, as by far the most able work that has appeared 
for a long time." — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Jourtitl. 



mm 



mm 



■T^ 



e 



WSL CHHECmLL'S FUTBOCAHOHS. 



DR. RANKING. 



THE HALF-TEABLY ABSTBACT OF THE MEDICAL 

SCIENCES ; being a Practical and Analytical Digest of the Contents 
of the Principal British and Continental Medical Works published in 
the preceding Half -Year ; together with a Critical Report of the Pro- 
gress of Me^cine and the Collateral Sciences during the same period. 

Volumes I. to IX., 6«. 6d, each. 

" The aifdng which the joumalB and other medical works unde^o, and the judi- 
dons selection from their pages of points of practical interest, and of discoveries of 
importance in the collateral sciences, form an important part of the duty of the 
editor ; and, after a careful examination of Dr. Ranidng's volumes, we are bound to 
state that the duty has been most ably performed." — Provincial Medical Journal, 



ii^^^»i^^^^* 



DR. ROYLE, FJRS. 

A MANUAL OF MATEEIA MEDICA AND THEEA- 

PEUTICS, including the Preparations of the Pharmacopoeias of Lon- 
don, Edinburgh, and Dublin, with many new Medicines. With nume- 
rous Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 6d, 

" Dr. Royle's Manual, while it has the convenience of being in a portable form, 
contains as much matter as would fill two other volumes in lurge type. The sub- 
ject is well treated, the matter practical and well arranged, and we do not hesitate 
to recommend it as a most usenil volume to the student and practitioner." — Medi- 
cal Oazette, 



^^*t»^>^^>»#>»*>»i^>» 



MR. SNELL, M.R.C.8. 

A PEACTICAL GUIDE TO OPEBATIONS ON THE 

TEETH. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, Ss. 



^>#^^*^^»x^»l<» « <^»^» 



MR. SHAW, M.R.O.8. 

THE MEDICAL EEMEMBBANCEE ; OB, BOOK 

OF EMERGENCIES : in which are concisely pointed out the Imme- 
diate Remedies to be adopted in the First Moments of Danger from 
Poisoning, Drowning, Apoplexy, Bums, and other Accidents; with the 
Tests for the Principal Poisons, and other useful Information. Third 
Edition. 32mo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 



J. STEPHENSON, M.D., Sc J. M. CHURCHILL, F.L.S. 

MEDICAL BOTANY; OR, ILLU8TBATI0NS AND 

DESCRIPTIONS OF THE MEDICINAL PLANTS OF THE 
PHARMACOPCEIAS; comprising a popular and scientific Account 
of Poisonous Vegetables indigenous to Great Britain. New Edition, 
edited by GILBERT BURNETT, F.L.S., Professor of Botany in 
King^s College. In three handsome royal 8vo. volumes, illustrated by 
Two Hundred Engravings, beautifully drawn and coloured from nature, 
cloth lettered. B«dne«d from iBO. Os. to iB4. 



'& 



MEo GH1[JE(CHII.L'S FUBOCATHOHS. 



DR. STEQQALL. 
FOR MEDICAL AND SURGICAL EXAMINATION. 

A MANUAL FOR THE USe'' OF STUDENTS PREPABING 

FOR MEDICAL EXAMINATION; to which is now added, THE 
ELEMENTS OF BOTANY. Tenth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 8«. 6rf. 

A MANUAL FOR THE COLUIGE OF SURGEONS j 12mo. 

cloth, 128. 6d, III. 

GREGORY'S CONSPECTUS MEDICINJ: THEORETICS. 

The First Part, containing the Original Text, with an Ordo Ver- 
borum and Literal Translation. 12mo. cloth, I0s» 

THE mST FOUR BOOKS OJ CELSUS. Containing the 

Text, Ordo Verborum, and Translation. l2mo. cloth, 85. 

%* The aboye two works comprise the entire Latin Classics required for 

Examination at Apothecaries* Hall. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF MATERIA MEDICA AOT) THERAPEUTICS. 

12mo. cloth, 78. yj, 

FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPAR- 
ING FOR EXAMINATION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL 



SOCIETY. ISmo. cloth, Ss. 6d. 



#^<<^^^<<^^^<^<^ 



DR. ALFRED TAYLOR, P.R.S. 

A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JUEISPBUDENCE. 

Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 6d. 

" Not only the fullest and most satisfactory hook we have ever consulted on the 
subject, but it is also one of the most masterly works we have ever perused.*' — 
Medical Oazette. 

BY THB SAME AUTHOR. 

ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPRU- 
DENCE AND MEDICINE. Fcap. 8yo. cloth, \28.6d. 



^»<N#X>»»<»>»»»i*WNJN» 



BY A PRACTISING PHYSICIAN. 

THE PEESCBIBEB'S PHAEMACOPCEIA ; containing 

all the Medicines in the London Pharmacopoeia, arranged in Classes 
according to their Action, with their Composition and Doses. Third 
Edition. 32mo. cloth, 2s. 6d. 

** Never was half-a-crown better apent than in the purchase of this * ^etamrut 
Medicaminum.* This little work, with our visiting-book and stethoscope, are our 
daily companions in the carriage*" — Dr. Johnson* » Review. 



^HF-»^ 



V 




UNDEEWOOD'S TREATISE ON DISEASES OF 

CHILDREN ; with Directions for the Management of Infants from 
the BirtL Tenth Edition, revised, with additions by HENRY 
DAVIES, M.D. 8yo. cloth, 15». 

'* The work may most jtutly be reoommended as a safe and usefiil ^de to all 
practitioners wishing to understand the peculiarities of the disorders incident to 
in&ncy and cluldhood, and the best method of treating those disorders." — Edin- 
burgh Medical and Surgical Journal^ 1840. 



^I0>^>0i^l^^t0'^t0'^l0^m 



DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. 

PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE ; comprehending General 

Pathology and Therapeutics. Second Edition. Demy 8yo. cloth, 149. 

" This second edition is greatly enlarged, contains much new matter, and brings 
down our knowledge to the latest moment. There is no subject in the entire field 
of practical medicine which passes unnoticed, — the reader cannot fail to be struck 
wiui the great extent and variety of the information placed before him. He cannot 
fail, either, to derive pleasure from observing the deamess and decision with which 
doubtAil speculations and ill-founded theories are discussed. Above all, he will 
derive satisfaction from feeling that much and most valuable knowledge is to be 
acquired from the study of ' Dr. l^^Uiams's Principles of Medicine.' " — Lancet. 



^»^»i»p^»rf^#>»^>» 



MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. 

THE ANATOMISES VADE-MECUM; A SYSTEM 

OF HUMAN ANATOMY. With numerous lUustrations on Wood. 
Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 6d, 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

DISEASES OF THE SKIN ; a Practical and Theoretical 
Treatise on the DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT 
of CUTANEOUS DISEASES, arranged according to a Natural 
System of Classification, and preceded by an Outline of the Anatomy 
and Physiology of the Skin. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12«. 

Thb Same Work; illustrated with Eight finely-executed Engravings 
on Steel, accurately coloured, 8vo. cloth, 28«. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

HEALTHY SKIN ; a Treatise on the Management of the 
Skin and Hair in relation to Health. Third Edition. Fcap. 8yo. 2s, M. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



PORTRAnS OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Folio. 

Fasciculi I. to V., 20«. each. 

London I Printed bjr W. Blanchaiid and Soi«a, 02 Millbank Street, Weitniinster. 



mm^^^ 



