
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



UC-HRLP 




liii 



cO 

go 
oo 




ti^iHii 



■ } 



■ J '1^ 1 J" '^l^*' 



THE 



LAID BY THE " ALDERMAN." 

FOUNDXD OK THS CULINARY PBIHCIPLX8 ADTOCATSD BT 

A. SOYER, 
UDB, 8ATABIN, AND OTHER GBLBBRATBD PBOVB880RS. 



Wiit^ JfontUtn t'^oict Cnti 6$ lUnn^ ffltatiofon. 




LONDON : 
H HUBST, 27, KING WILUAM STREET, 

CHABIKG CBOSS. 
1849. 

^- • ■ r. i. 



J /' 



ik 



MYERS 8e CO., PRINTERS, 
IG HART STKEET, COVSNT OARDEK, 






IO)IEI02(SA^It(DH. 



TO THE CORPORATION OF LONDON. 

Enlightened Epicubes, 

It is with a satisfaction of the liveliest kind 
that I approach you with my Knife and Fork^ feeling 
assured that you will greet with warmth any work bear- 
ing upon a subject of such deep national import as that 
of gastronomy. I am proud to testify thus publicly to 
your talents as epicures, and your appetites as citizens. 
You are no ordinary men — ^you are men of enlarged 
stomachs and discerning palates. If you were one and 
\ all born with silver spoons in your worshipful mouths, 
\ let me assure the world that there was something in the 
spoons, for you are incapable of putting an empty spoon 
between your lips. It would be presumptuous in me to 
endeavour to set before the world your gastronomic 
irtues and acquirements ; such a theme demands an 
' :)ler pen than mine. I shall therefore be silent on the 
abject of your several talents as epicures, and content 
myself with a few words of counsel on the subject of 
gastronomj as a science. Art and literature have had 



m.e'S7?'i 



( 

DEDICATION. 



their day, and must now succumb to the growing and 
absorbing demand for a gastronomic era. Men without 
appetite, with stomachs no larger than a Ripstone pippin, 
may rail against gastronomy, may sneer at epicures, but 
let me assure them it is in vain that they raise their pu- 
ling voices and wield their powerless pens in opposition 
to the progress of gastronomic science. In the age to 
come, let me tell them, a gentleman will not be known 
by the fashion of his dress, but by the capacity of his 
stomach ; but they are sensible of this dawning enlighten- 
ment, and shrink from it by reason of their own gastro- 
nomic incapacity. Meanwhile they pretend to hold 
epicureanism as a vice, against which wisdom should lift 
a loud and imperative remonstrance. Miserable device I 
As well might the sickliest infant attempt to stay the 
torrents of Niagara, or with ignorant hardihood oppose 
the progress of a special engine I No, gentlemen, in 
spite of this miserable and spiteful invective, you will 
live to watch the resistless progress of a science in which 
you have already, and indeed for years past, taken 
such enthusiastic interest. Your fame, as epicures, ex- 
tends from pole to pole ; and so universal and instinctive 
is the knowledge of your love of turtle, that, if report 
speak truly, the fishermen have only to shout your names 
on the sea beach to attract an army of turtles all ready 
to turn themselves on their backs, without assistance 



I>EDICATION. 



and to die, singing after their own fashion, 
aurselves) are jolly good fellows!" I am 
te for the truth of this story, be it observed, 
from the universality of your popularity, I 
is to dispute its authenticity. Abroad, you 
The Turtle's best Friend! " In Paris, epi- 
m your name with the greatest respect, and 
3 declare that you must be the jolliest 
under the sun. A few people without 
iresume at intervals to talk largely and 
t the Abuses of the City, but I am proud 
3U pay little heed to their croaking, and 
li a pertinacity which I cannot too earnestly 
to allow the Sanitary Act to extend to the 
u are quite right ; the City is in your hands, 
ave a right to do as you please with it. True, 
in the purlieus of your realm may affect the 
the lower classes, but what has this to do with 
mg as all nuisances are removed from the neigh- 
iof the Mansion House, Guildhall, and your re- 
places of business : besides, if people object to 
, (which in my opinion exists only in the imagi> 
)f the genius of the sewers), let them remove — 
tt travel beyond Temple Bar. 
le November part of my Knife and Fork you will 
vera hints on the improvement of your annual 



i 



DEDICATION. 



banquet, which I should advise you to pledge all future 
Lord Mayors to before you gave them your support. I 
attach so much importauce to your advocacy of gastro* 
nomy, I am so anxious that each succeeding year may 
bring forth the fruits of the good living of the preceding 
year, that I have determined to devote what space of life 
may remain to me to the advancement of the epicure in 
the social scale, and to the dissemination of sound gas- 
tronomic principles. In such a task, I am confident that 
[ may reckon upon your firm and enlightened support : 
md in conclusion, I must be allowed to express a hope 
that the most worshipful Corporation of London may in- 
crease in rotundity, and endeavour, with all the influence 
they may possess, to uphold as one of the surest and 
iiost enlightened safeguards of the British Constitution, 
ind in fact of all constitutions — ^namely — ^the provision 
9f plenty of victuals, and the diffusion of the knowledge 
low to cook tbeni in a manner worthy of the age in which 
Ne live to eat. 

lam. 
With every sentiment of profound admiration, 
Your obedient servant. 

The Aldbbman. 
P.S. — I hear that you are about to present Soyer with 
I magnificent testimonial : is this true ? 




THE ALD£RMAM S 



NTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS 



CHAPTER I. 

ON THE student's GENERAL CONDUCT. 

3AT posterity may be perfectly satisfied upon a most 
rtant point, I at once declare that I \va8 bom at 
3ln, of honest, and, I need scarcely add, poor pa- 
. I was removed to London at an early age, and 
ihrown upon my own resources before I had com- 
1 my nineteenth year ; and in revenge for this early 
nhood, I threw myself upon the resources of my 
s. A man who writes about himself, must either 



n 
l- 
is 
t- 

sh 

Qg 
e; 

be 
ch 
lo- 
rds 

to 
not 
uc- 
3 in 

for 
tielt 
pie. 
^irls 
3nce 



B 3 



6 



be egotistical or allow his narrative to be barren of in- 
terest ; and as it is mj purpose to please and edify my 
fellow-creatures, I shall put my stock of modesty in my 
waistcoat pocket — (a watch-fob would hold it) — and 
proceed with the interesting history of my experiences. 

My name is— not Norval ; and I am one of an old 
family. In my youth I was prodigiously handsome, and 
could talk more flowery nonsense to women, in a given 
time, than most young men. Compliments trickled from 
my tongue like oil, and I was therefore a desirable orna- 
ment in my friends' drawing-rooms. If the world be de- 
sirous of knowing the nature of my profession, I will 
tell them at once that it was — ^to flatter. I studied the 
characters of my friends, and kept memoranda of their 
weaknesses. I vowed that ugly children were wonderfully 
handsome. I discovered some palateable flavour in the 
most disgusting soup, and humoured the hobbies of family 
men generally. I did not devote much time to bachelors* 
inasmuch as I soon discovered that their friendship was 
unprofitable ; I rather confined the exercise of my talents 
to the gentlemen who kept up establishments. 

My friends in Lincoln, on my leaving, favoured me 
with a letter of introduction to the Sudds* family ; and on 
the day after my arrival in London, I made use of the 
epistle. The Sudds* were not an aristocratic set : they 
were just genteel. They were people who offered you 
malt liquor when yon paid them a matutinal visit, and 
who uncorked a bottle of wine in the parlour after din- 
ner. They never used a dessert service, but flung the 
rind of the after-dinner oranges into the fire. The Sudds* 
had an idea that a glass of champagne raised the imbiber 



TUB ALDERMAN 8 HINTS. 



thereof to the level of fashionable society, and that an j 
Dody who had penetrated within the fairy regions of the 
Opera must be removed far above the merely genteel 
circles of society. These notions upon the subject of 
aristocratic position contributed to raise me in their esti- 
mation, inasmuch as I talked with affected disdain of 
champagne, and voted the Opera a bore. When I men- 
tioned my passing acquaintance with Sir Rasper llump- 
ton, they at once set me down as a somebody, and talked 
about me to their Mends as ** a distinguished traveller.'* 
I did not undeceive them, poor people I Their pride in 
receiving a person whom they considered to be "a distin- 
guished individual,** contributed to their enjoyment, as 
it did to the recipient of their hospitality. My acquaint- 
ance with Sir Rasper cannot be called intimate, inasmuch 
as we had merely interchanged such civilities as passing 
and repassing condiments at an agricultural dinner-table ; 
but, as T have already said, what was the object to be 
gained in robbing the Sudds* of the importance which 
they conceived that they had derived from their ac- 
quaintance with me. 

The parent Sudds* had contributed four girls towards 
the population of their native land— donations which, to 
the disgust of the Sudds*, an ungrateful country had not 
so much as acknowledged. At the time of my introduc- 
tion to the family, the eldest of these productions was in 
her seventeenth year. She was not, I regret to state, for 
her sake, at all to my taste. She was too homely — smelt 
too strongly of bread and butter — ^was so deucedly simple. 
However, of course she took to me wonderfully (all girls 
do), and the mother regarded her daughter*s preference 



8 



JANUABT 



with infinite delight. Little did the old bird know of 
my real opinion upon the subject of matrimony ; and as 
I do not intend to inflict my opinion upon my fellow- 
creatures, they will share the blissful ignorance of the 
lady in question on this point ; but this much I will avow 
— I hated monopoly as a principle, and consequently 
objected to monopolize myself. 

The Sudds* gave me frequent and pressing invitations 
to dinner, of which I seldom failed to avail myself. In 
return for this hospitality (which I found extremely con- 
venient at the time, inasmuch as I had been sent to Lon- 
don with £50, and strict injunctions to ** rough it'*), and 
in the hope of invites to come, I talked to old Sudds 
upon state affairs, of which I knew little and he less; 
and we were consequently very tenacious of our respective 
opinions, though I always seemed to give way while I 
held fast ; and we d — d the Ministry regularly after din- 
ner, when the ladies had retired into the back parlour. 
Sudds called himself an architect ; but really, for archi- 
tect I must write house agent, inasmuch as his office 
windows were crowded with narrow slips of paper, ad- 
vertising conmiodious and commanding mansions and 
houses in town and country ; but I never saw a build- 
ing after his design — ^if I except a wash-house, the roof 
of which was just visible from his back parlour wiu- 
dow. 

Sudds, in his way, was an enthusiastic politician, and, 
like all politicians in private life, wholly averse to the 
measures contemplated by the Government in office. 
His professed opinions were Radical ; but he abused the 
Liberal party as vehemently as he denounced the Oppo- 



THE ALDERMAN S HINTS. 



9 



sition; in fact, it sufficed that a man was in power to fall 
under the severe disapprobation of Sudds. The secret 
of this disappointm ent was Sudds's sourness. The little 
conceited fellow really and truly believed that he — John 
Sudds, of Nobby Row, Brixton — was, of all men, the best 
fitted to fill the position of Prime Minister in this en- 
lightened and magnificent country. I have heard fifty 
men of ordinary calibre open an argument with — " If I 
were at the head of affairs ! " or, " Give me six month's 
office, and I would undertake to raise the country to an 
unparalleled state of prosperity I " Alas I for the self- 
sufficiency of man ! I found that it was absolutely ne- 
cessary to my continuance in Sudds's favour, that I 
should humour his egotistical visions. What must not a 
friendless epicure endure ! Mrs. Sudds considered her 
lord and master in the light of a victim of a world-wide 
conspiracy. " Every thing and every body are against 
John," would she say, when he had failed in his endea- 
vours to let a town mansion. ** John isn't appreciated — 
John might have been a great man." I was fond of Mrs. 
Sudds's light crusts, and prudently coincided with 
her in the belief that her husband might have been a 
great man. The Suddian dinners were scarcely worth 
this wholesale deceit, it is true ; but at the time of which 
I write, I had few tables open to me, and was glad to use 
ihe Sudds' till a better field for the display of my talents 
should present itself. The sticky caresses of a ' sweet- 
meat-su'jking child were among the miseries I endured 
in the Suddian establishment. This little monster was 
called Cissy. The little wretch would sometimes plant 
its bandy legs upon my kerseymeres, pull my macassared 



10 



JANUARY. 



locks, or pinch my nose ; its delighted mother vowing 
the while that she was sure the little dear was getting 
troublesome — I re-assuring her, for the fiftieth time, that 
nothing pleased me so much as romping with children. 
When I call to mind all I endured at the hands of the 
Sudds*, I must say I consider that I fully earned my meals 
at their plebeian table. The love of the eldest Miss 
Sudds; the complaints of Mrs. Sudds; the politics of 
Mr. Sudds ; and the mawlings of Cissy Sudds I — ugh 1 
I would not endure this Suddian treatment again for an 
entr6 to all the palaces in Europe. 

The man who aims to be a first-rate epicure, and to 
enjoy his talents, must submit to many most unpleasant 
ordeals. Perhaps the first will be to conquer the be- 
trayal of a violent dislike for any dish on the table. This 
is no easy task, let me assure the student. To swallow 
a disgusting mouthful with a smile is an accomplishment 
indispensable to the adequate fulfilment of the vocation 
of an epicure. Dr. Johnson betrayed his ignorance of 
the epicure's vocation, when, dining at the royal table, he 
cast back a hot mouthful into his plate, saying, ** A fool 
would have swallowed it.'* With due deference to the 
wisdom of the Doctor, I am of opinion that, on the con- 
trary, a wise man would have swallowed it, inasmuch as 
I believe this mastery over the palate to be one of the 
fundamental principles upon which a permanent po- 
pularity must be based. Here I must be permitted to 
observe (or it may escape me presently) that the student 
should preface a flat contradiction thus, " With all due 

; deference to you, Mr. ^ I must beg to differ fix)m 

I you tit /oto.'* There is a great art in contradicting with- 






THE ALDEBMAN's HINTS. 11 



out giving offence — ^an art with which the epicure (to be 
worthy of the name) should be conversant. 

I haye alluded to the suppression of any evidence of 
dislike at dinner. I will now state a case in point. 

One day the Sudds* invited me to Sunday dinner, at 
two o*clock, assuring me, by way of inducement, that I 
should take them as I found them ; and that they ex- 
pected a few friends to drop in in the evening. I treated 
them to a snow-white waistcoat, a clean handkerchief 
cleaned gloves, and knocked at the street door precisely 
as a neighbouring clock struck two. I entered and found 
the &mily assembled in the back parlour, all as clean 
and white as new sixpences. I hate the Sunday appear- 
ance of respectable British families, they do look so un- 
comfortably clean, as though they had been washed and 
ironed. Children especially are to be pitied — ^poor crea- 
tures ! they scarcely know how to support the dignity of 
cleanliness, and are evidently longing for congenial dirt ; 
they look upon soap as their natural enemy, and have an 
hereditary aversion for the Saturday tub. 

The junior Sudds* were well-washed specimens of 
growing humanity. The layers of barley sugar had been 
removed from Miss Cissy's cheeks, and her face was con- 
sequently less like court plaister than usual. The elder 
Miss Sudds eyed my waistcoat with undisguised as- 
tonishment, and evidently wondered whether I was a dis- 
tinguished nobleman in disguise. Old Sudds presently 
intimated with a chuckle, that he had been a splendid 
salad-maker from his cradle, and that the fourth cousin 
of Duke Doublenp (whom he had met at a friend's) once 
vowed that his (Mr. Sudds's) salads were perfection. Pre- 



12 JANUARY. 



sently Mrs. Sudds*8 head appeared between the folding 
doors, and the ladjr asked if she might speak with her 
lord and master, a liberty which the good natured Sudds 
endured. 

" Now for the salad," he said aside to me, and he 
disappeared into the front parlour. I was thus left in 
the back room to amuse the daughters, a task in which 
I made myself exceedingly proficient, if I may put forth 
the smiles and blushes of the elder girl as a criterion of 
my success. At intervals, smothered demands for cay- 
enne proceeded from the next room, and I distinctly 
heard the egg called " d — d soft," and the host spared no 
oaths when he discovered that there was no anchovy 
sauce in the house; and these vehement ejaculations 
were remarked upon by Mrs. Sudds, who begged her 
peppery partner to remember that I was in the back 
room— delicate woman ! It was in vain that the Miss 
Sudds endeavoured to drown these connubial bickerings 
— nothing could render the thorough bass of Mr. Sudds^s 
lungs inaudible, and when they had given up the at- 
tempt, they looked wistftiUy at one another, and the 
mute eloquence of their eyes said, " What wiU he think ? '* 
I know what he did think, and that was, that family men 
who throw their soul into a salad, should humour their 
vanity before the arrival of their guests. However, I 
managed to control the voracity of my appetite ; and 
even contrived to pay Mrs. Sudds a compliment, as I 
handed her into the front parlour ft'om the back ditto. 
And now the covers were removed, and Mr. Sudds's 
knife was firmly embedded in the joint ; the ladies were 
served : Miss Sudds vowed that it was unromantic, but 



TH£ ALDEBMAM S HINTS. 



13 



that she could not resist papa*s salad ; whereupon the 
fond paternal parent smiled benignly upon his child, and 
I filled that young lady's plate with the mixture. She 
introduced a portion of the green meat into her mouth, 
and stopped short, with a wondrously confused expression 
upon her face, looking first at her mother (who made 
Tiolent gestures, beckoning the girl to proceed with her 
meal), then at her sister, and finally the poor girl de- 
manded a glass of water; I obeyed her demand with 
my usual alacrity, and she then resumed her dinner, 
but I noticed that she never again ventured to touch 
the salad. Presently I tasted Mr. Sudds*s preparation, 
when, to my horror, I discovered that he had mixed his 
salad with lamp instead of salad oil. Twenty years have 
elapsed since the occurrence of this incident, and to 
this day I have not conquered the intense nausea which 
that mouthfhl produced. I never remember the time 
without a qualm ; but I flatter myself that I managed to 
conceal my disgust with perfect success, and even fal- 
tered some syllables in prabe of the old gentleman's 
detestable compound. It was a study for an artist, to 
watch the features of mine host as he partook of his 
salad. One taste of it sufficed ; he declared thereupon 
he had no appetite. But when the servant entered the 
room, I noticed that old Sudds hurled a look of the 
bitterest indignation at his domestic, portentous of an 
approaching storm. She met his gaze with a timid 
glance, deposited a spring tart upon the table, and left 
us to our own reflections and to rhubarb. 



I 14 JANUAST. 



ON BEEF. 

" Yes, be the glorious revel mine^ 
When humonr sparkles firom the "wine." 

Anacbeon. 

January is, to the epicure, perhaps, the most im- 
portant month in the calendar. It is the first month of 
the new year — the time of universal festivity — a brief 
period given up to the pleasures of the table. It is, 
therefore, a p^od devoted to social intercourse — to the 
exercise of those sympathies which bind society and 
refine it. The beginning of the new year is an epoch 
when family enmities and jealousies are forgotten — when 
the hands of friends long estranged are once more grasped 
with fervour — when the social world publishes a general 
amnesty. And to what cause must this general kindli- 
ness — ^this human thaw — ^be attributed ? dmply to the 
festivities of which it is the occasion. To the cakes and 
wine — ^to the prize-beef and mince pies — ^to the boasted 
plum-pudding and congenial turicey I Anatomists may 
laugh, if they will, but I here deliberately declare it to 
be my fhrm conviction, that the seat of the human soul 
is the stomach. 

Have we not daily proof of this assertion — at the Lon- 
don Tavern ? 

"The Society for the Charitable Education of the 



ON BEEF. 15 



Children of the Bich/* have but the smallest balance at 
their bankers; and they feel it is useless to i^peal 
to a British public through the columns of a Newspaper. 
John BuU will not unbutton his pockets before dinner ; 
and, as he reads his paper over his matutinal roll, an 
advertisement therein, appealing *' to the Benevolent,** 
will go for nothing. I have lived long enough in the 
world to know that Charity should not be painted with 
an empty stomach. As I have said, the Conmiittee of 
the above Society, feeling that it would be more than 
fruitless to appeal to the charity of John Bull, heiort 
dinner, resolve to have a feast at the London Tavern. 
They accordingly advertise " a Festival, in aid of the 
Funds of this excellent Charity, His Royal Highness 
of Cambridge in the Chair.'* And, forthwith, Joshua 
Stiles, who has a good name on Change, but who is not 
remarkable for his charitable disposition— and hundreds 
of the stamp of Joshua Stiles — take tickets, that they 
may swallow turtle in the presence of the blood Royal 
of England. But Stiles and Co. have no intention of 
being mulcted of one halfpenny in support of the 
charity : no, no ; they will dine,' and conscientiously pay 
their guinea for the feed — and they will, moreover, do 
justice to the London Tavern cook — but not one groat 
will they waste on the Society. What *8 the Society to 
them ? they support their own children. Well, in this 
state of mind, the company partake of the fare placed 
before them; and, presently, the Chairman rises to 
propose a health, which he is sure he need only briefly 
introduce — nay, which he need but mention, to ensure 
it that respect and that reception which the Citizens 



16 JANUABT. 



always accorded to the Sovereign of these realms. 
Whereupon, Messrs. Stiles and Co. grow very loyal, and 
very enthusiastic ; each man receiving the general com- 
pliment, as a recognition of his own individual loyalty. 
Messrs. Stiles and Co. are flattered. Presently, the 
Secretary of the Society distributes little printed forms 
about the tables. Messrs. Stiles and Co. feel that they 
must subscribe. The Chairman rises to propose success 
and prosperity to the ** Society for the Charitable Edu- 
cation of the Children of the Rich.** * He is certain 
that the advantages of such an admirable institution 
need no comment on his part. He is perfectly well 
aware that he is addressing men, whom England is 
proud to own — ^viz., her merchant princes; he is also 
well aware, that for liberality towards Institutions — 
such as the Society for the Charitable Education of 
the Children of the Rich — ^no men stand so high in the 
estimation of the philanthropists of England ! * Loud 
Cheers f Messrs. Stiles and Co. having taken sundry 
glasses of port, sherry, and champagne, grow warm in 
the cause of the Society, and send in their subscriptions, 
each man outdoing his neighbour in the amount of his 
contribution — and what for ? Simply that the Secretary 
may declare Buggins*s munificence to the assembled 
company, amid the dingling of glasses, and the rattling 
of knives on the London Tavern mahogany. 

We certainly are a wonderfully charitable people I 
WlSle I am on the subject of public dinners, I may 
be allowed to add a word or two of caution to their 
promoters. It should always be borne in mind that the 
amount of the subscriptions is invariably influenced by 



ON BEEF. 



17 



the goodness of the dinner. I have dined at these 
charitable dinners for years, and know it for a fact, 
that Institutions have lost many £20 notes by the tough- 
ness of a chicken, or the absence of stuffing. On one 
occasion, I had resolved to contribute the sum of XIO 
to the funds of " the Society for the Diffusion of Every- 
thing Everywhere," — (by-the-bye, a most excellent and 
comprehensive institution) — ^when the equanimity of my 
temper was ruffled by the toughness of a sirloin of beef 
— this in January too ! — and I resolutely made up my 
mind not to contribute to an Institution, the promoters 
of which shewed such callousness to the higher sensi- 
bilities of human nature, by allowing a man*8 epicurean 
nature to be so trifled with. 

The recollection of this mishap, calls my mind to the 
consideration of the meat which is to be had in perfec- 
tion in the month of January ; and, believe me, reader, 
it is with a deep sense of the importance of my subject, 
that I proceed to lay before you a short chapter 



On Bbev. 

The French may rival us in the production of veal, they 
may proudly point to their calves, and defy us to shew 
anything like them — they may tell us that their Pontoise, 
Rouen, Caen, and Montargis veals, fed on cream and 
biscuits, are superior to any in the world, and they shall 
not be contradicted; but, then they must be equally 
liberal with us. I consent to leave their calves alone, on 
one condition, viz., that they admit the vast superiority 



18 



JANUARY. 



of our beef. Some of their Norman beef is very decent 
meat, but it is not to be compared for a moment with 
our Norfolk fed Highland ox, or our Herefordshire beef. 
I am a fair judge in the matter, inasmuch as I have 
tasted all the meats in question, and I here conscienti- 
ously declare, that I never tasted beef in France, at all 
comparable with that to be found any day at a good 
butcher's shop in London. The French don't understand 
beef— that is to say, beef plainly cooked. For instance, if 
you travel over every acre of the French territory in search 
of it, you will fail in discovering a steak equal to those 
to be had any day at the Cock or Job's. This is the 
month for beef! A fine, thick, juicy steak, is certainly 
the most grateful nourishment an epicure can take on a 
cold, raw day in January. Steaks should be eaten di- 
rectly they are off the fire, and this is the reason why 
Job's house in the city is such a popular establishment. 
The fat of the steak should still be hissing and boiling 
when it is placed before you ; add to the steak two fine 
potatoes, like balls of flour, and a pint of first rate, 
generous port, and the epicure may make a capital busi- 
ness dinner. I should always recommend epicures who 
are engaged in business, and cannot afford proper time 
to do full justice to an elaborate dinner, to choose the 
simplest dishes, but to insist at the same time upon the 
employment of a first-rate plain cook. Eating forms 
so important and so delightful a part of man's life, that 
he is justified in paying minute and strict attention to 
the progress of gastronomy. Therefore, when the epi- 
cure finds a rump of beef marked down in a bill of fare, 
he should make inquiries as to the time it has been kept 






19 



hanging (from three weeks to a month is the proper time), 
and on no account venture to partake of it if it have not 
been kept the right time. The epicure owes this strict- 
ness to his fellow epicures, since it will teach landlords 
to pay regard to the proper management of their kitchens, 
and so advance the science of gastronomy. 

It is useless to descant upon the English sirloin; a dish 
so widely and justly admired, is the first study of every 
cook ; but I cannot close my chapter on beef, without 
recommending the gastronomic student to try a first- 
rate brisket of beef for breakfast ; it is capital, especially 
when served up as Soyer recommends, k la Garrick. 
Hung beef, if well cured, is a good dish on the breakfast 
table ; Westphalia beef also may be ventured upon if 
procured at a good house. 

Some epicures — and I must confess that I am of the 
number'—tbink well of Dutch beef, which single epi- 
cures must have an opportunity of tasting. They can 
direct their landlady to follow this receipt : 

Dutch Beef. — Procure the lean part of a round of 
bee^ hang it till it is tender, and then rub it well with 
coarse brown sugar ; place it in a pan, where rub it every 
hour six several times. After which proceed to mix a 
quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and an ounce of pounded 
juniper berries, with a pound of common salt, which rub 
into the beef, allowing it to remain in the pan. Turn it 
daily for sixteen days, and baste it with the brine, afler 
which put it in a cheese press during twenty-four hours. 
Then hang it up to be smoked ; finally, boil it in a cloth, 
allow it to stand aflerwards for a day or two, quite dry, 
and then eat it in thin slices. 



20 



JANUABT. 



This receipt may possibly frighten the gastronomic 
student ; but here let me impress upoo him, as a duty 
which he owes to society at large, the necesdty of insist- 
ing upon proper attention being paid to culinary matters, 
before he takes lodgings. At first his landlady will ven- 
ture to remark that Dutch beef is very troublesome to 
make ; out let him at once rebuke the callousness to his 
comforts in the words of a celebrated man, who, when 
his servant informed him, before his guests, that there 
was no more soup, assumed an air of ineffable disdain, 
saying " No more soup I Let there he more soup /'* 

It now remains for me to day a few more words on 
the more scientific methods of cooking this most ex- 
cellent and invigorating viand. Though beef is the most 
popular of all meats in England, M. Soyer has found 
that it admits of less methods of preparation than 
any other viand; inasmuch as only the fillet can be 
used for made-dishes with advantage. But, though 
the entries of beef are few, they are great favorites 
with all the celebrated epicures, and the student would 
do well to make himself thoroughly acquainted with 
them. I presume that the veriest novice has en- 
joyed a fillet of beef, with tomata sauce (and a most 
delicate dish it is by the way), with sauce piquante (not 
so good as the tomata) ; well, I now recommend him to 
try fillets k la Italienne, and k la HoUandaise, and k la 
Portuguaise, and k V Ostende, he will find them well 
worth his attention. Soyer gives ample recipes for fillets 
k la Reform, k la Grotha, and k la Nemours, and they are 
indeed worthy of the epicure's patronage, but I fear that 
the student will have some trouble in persuading the 



21 



hosts of our West End Restaurants to prepare these new 
delicacies; but time and the progress of civilization will ac- 
complish these desirable ends. Meantime, I will content 
myself with enumerating the chief delicacies into which 
science has turned the prime beef of England ; and 
trusting in the energy of the gastronomic students of the 
present day (a plump and happy band, with the true spirit 
of enjoyment in them) to insist upon having these delica- 
cies (and if the host plead ignorant, refer him to Soyer*s 
Regenerator) in their bills of fare. 

Tongue, k la Jardiniere, k la Ecarlate, k la sauce pi- 
quante. 

Ox Tail — Aux navets au brun, k la Jardiniere, aux 
corin chons, en currie, k la Siciliene, k la Marseillaise. 
Palates — ^laRavigote, k la Vivandi^re, au gratin, en 
Papillotes. 




22 



JAMUABT. 



. OH MUSKROOMS. 

To preserve mushrooms they should be boiled in 
very salt-water with pepper. Prc^erly done, they will 
keep six months; they are always preserved in this 
manner at Vienna. Mushrooms served up with cream 
form a dish by no means beneath the notice of the 
e^ncure ; some people esteem them fried or toasted, and 
served up on dry toast ; in the spring, I should not 
object to such a trifle now and then. Mushrooms, how- 
ever, are best disguised in dishes; as a flavour to a 
fricas^e, or a ragout, they are certainly pleasant. Let 
cooks, however, be extremely particular in their exam- 
ination of mushrooms ; for I think all epicures will agree 
with me, in condemning toadstools as somewhat un- 
pleasant and dangerous eating. 




ADULTERATION OF KIBCHENWA88ER. 23 



ADULTSaATZOH OF KZRCHENWASSSA. 

Aboxft sixty years ago, a fragrant and delightfiil 
brandy was first distilled from a small tart c)ierry, called 
merises, a fruit peculiar in the Black Forest. The 
merise is a scarce tree, producing but the sffaallest 
quantity of firuit, and will flourish but xrndet the wfMrmest 
sun : in fact the merise is a fruit particularly scarce 
and small. Well, the brandy distilled from the merise was 
called Kirchenwasser ; and speedily became so esteemed 
among epicures, that it was found needful to fabricate 
some fraudulent imitation of it ; hence the comparative 
cheapness of a mixture now received everywhere as 
Kirchenwasser, a concoction in no way comparable with 
the distilled merises, of which it is abase imitation. It 
is absolutely impossible (from the scarcity of merises) to 
produce, in an honest way, one tenth of the quantity of 
the stuff sold as Earchenwasser. The delicacy of the 
plant makes it so sensitive to the least cold, that a chilly 
night wiU utterly destroy its blossoms ; in fact, it does not 
produce a good crop of fruit more than once in ten years : 
add to this unfruitfulness the fact that ten pints of merises 
will produce scarcely one pint of Earchenwasser, and 
the extent of the imposture will be evident. The cheat 
has been so successful that it has almost ruined the 



24 JANUARY. 

honest distiller of the Black Forest ; since he finds it 
impossible to sell real Kirchenwasser at the same mode- 
rate rate as fraudulent merchants are able to vend the 
counterfeit, poisoned brandy. It therefore behoves the 
epicure to regulate his palate with the greatest care, when 
he is about to test the genuineness of this brandy ; for it 
is a brandy and not a liqueur, in its pure state : it may be 
made a liqueur — but at the expense of its purity. I 
would earnestly warn all men against the adulterate 
counterfeit, as it is most injurious in its effects, whereas 
Kirchenwasser brandy is a wholesome and agreeable 
tonic ; but then this is extremely dear, whereas the im- 
posture is cheap. 




BEELECTIONS ON TRUFFLES. 25 



REFLECTZOHS OH TRUFFLES. 

** La tniffe est le diamant de la cuisine." 

Brxllat-Sayabin. 

Paintebs and poets may combine to do homage to 
hill and dale, vegetation, and atmospheric phenomena, 
they may talk about modulating landscapes and thunder- 
clapping clouds, and put on canvass all the colours of 
the rainbow in the most brilliant contrast ; but they 
will fail, with all their genius and ingenuity, in exciting 
that intense gratitude which epicures, without excep- 
tion, feel for the memory of the discoverer of truffles. 
Incomparable truffles! Who could look up to dwell 
upon the most gorgeous scenery, if he knew he were 
standing upon truffles ? When I am in the country, this 
thought so takes possession of me, that I walk along, 
groping in the earth, growing more excited as I near 
every willow, black poplar, or oak, absorbed in a feverish 
dream about truffles ! I once heard an epicurean friend 
of mine, as he scratched an old hog in a &rm-yard in 
a most affectionate manner, say to the grunting recipient 
of these attentions, /^ Ha ! you dirty lucky wretch ; a 
delightful time you must have of it, always hunting up 
truffles.** And then turning aside, and most pathetically 
sighing, my poor friend added, "Ah! why was not I 
bom a hog P " 

Naturalists are at a loss how to class truffles ; how- 



26 JAirUABY* 

ever, we shall not enter upon their natural history, 
suffice it that people are not at a loss to eat them— 
when they can get them. Truffles are found in 
sandy soils, generally on sloping ground, under the 
shadow of oak, willow, aspen, or hlack poplar trees. 
Le Perigord, in the south of France, produces the 
most delicious truffles in the world. They are plen- 
tiful in Italy ; a few are found also in Germany. Truffles 
are hunted up from the ground hy pigs trained for the 
purpose ; let us therefore render thanks to these hrutes ; 
(and an old epicure, in the intensity of his affection for 
these grunting hunters of Perigord, proposed to erect 
baths in the neighbourhood for them, to be supported, 
after the fashion of our Baths and| Washhouses for the 
Labouring Classes, by voluntary contributions ; a tribute 
of respect that did infinite credit to the old gourmand's 
nature ; ) let us henceforward, remembering the gastro- 
nomic services of pigs, duck the pate for evermore to 
the pigsty. 

There are three distinct sorts of truffles : the white 
truffle, the red, and the black. The white is the least 
esteemed ; the red is the rarest ; the black is incontes- 
tibly t?ie truffle for me, and, I apprehend, for all epi- 
cures. Truffles should not be disturbed tOl they have 
arrived at full maturity ; they should then be removed, 
with plenty of indigenous earth about them ; the epicure 
therefore, will not reflise (for he buys them by weight) 
to pay for the earth that is about them, as it preserves 
their aroma. Truffles will not keep long, in perfection. 
They should only be eaten when they are in season. 
Dried and preserved truffles are, in my opinion, insipid 



BEELECTIONS ON TBUFFLB8. 



27 



and worthless. A turkey, however, stuffed with truffles, 
will keep good and perfectly fresh for a month or six 
weeks. Truffles should never be cooked for a long space 
of time, or they lose their aroma. An epicure of some 
experience describes a game pie with truffles, as a celes- 
tial dish : foie gras with truffles, is more to my taste. 
But, after all, I think a fine &t turkey, full of fine black 
truffles, better than all the santes with truffles in exis- 
tence. 

In January, truffles are to be had in their perfection. 



FEBRUARY. 



THE ALDERMAN S 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER n 

ON COLD-MEAT DATS. 

I AM a man who can make a dinner off a mutton chop, 
but I flatter myself that I am able to appreciate an 
elaborate meal. Soyer*8 genius is not thrown away upon 
me, neither do I despise the plain cookery of the Cock or 
Mitre. My fortunes and misfortunes have carried me to 
the highest as well as to the meanest tables; I have 
been the guest of Duke Barleyburrow (and an empty, 
Tulgar, sporting character he is), and I have taken my 
chop with a journeyman carpenter. I have sipped Tokay, 
and drank threepenny ale from the pewter. This ex- 
perience, extending over a wide range of human nature, 
has done me some service, while it has robbed me of the 
romance and generous kindliness of my youth. What 
would I not give to be again the firm believer in the 
steadfast virtue of mankind—once more to lean with 
generous trust upon my fellow -creatures! « Cut it may 
not be. The book in which I have read mankind has 



THE ALDEBMAI9*S HINTS. 29 

not been a thin duodecimo volume, but a bulky quarto. 
I have studied well, and have learned at last but a sus- 
picious misanthropy. Blame me not, world, but pity me. 
I escaped the net which Miss Sudds had set for me, only 
to fkll into a more cruel trap. I was but one-and- 
twenty when I married. My married life was one 
long, weary torment to me. Though my wife loved me 
tenderly, her affection was not that noble devotion with 
which some women fling their lives, their souls, at the 
feet of their idol, and still bless him, when he turns from 
them in after years, for his old but transient love. Hers 
was that common, every-day love, that contents itself 
with stereotyped epithets of endearment, and amounts, 
in fact, to a preference in your favour over the people 
about you. This calm and common passion is a blessing 
to those who feel it. They do not know the hourly pangs 
that wring the heart of the being who has, in a &tal 
hour, concentrated his world in one fhdl form — ^in one 
ordinary heart. They cannot understand how such a , 
love refines the grosser jealousies of the common world 
— till he remembers with a pang that other hearts have 
throbbed against his idoPs bosom in her childhood. I 
have endured this jealousy — ^my wife could not understand 
my grief How should she P As well might I have 
tried to explain a problem from Euclid to an unlettered 
milkmaid. As I shall not have occasion to mention her 
again, I will at once add, that, when she had borne me a 
son and daughter, she died. I turn from the recollection 
of my misery to resume my lighter narrative. I trust 
that this wandering may be excused in an old man, who 
writes while Time stands by with his shroud. 



80 



FBBRUABT. 



My frequent visits to the Sudds' soon taught me to 
make a calculation which has since often proved of infi- 
nite service to me. The calculation was this — Given, a 
leg of mutton among ^ve — ^to find how long it will last 
and on what day there will be a fresh joint. To arrive 
at a satisfactory answer to this query demanded some 
experience; I therefore dined one Sunday with the Sudds*, 
and called on the morrow at their dinner time, to inspect 
the remains of their yesterday's repast. I found that, 
as Mr. Sudds dined in town, an ordinary joint cooked on 
Sunday, made its appearance on the Monday, cold, and 
that enough remained to make a hash on Tuesday, 
which, with a pudding as a ^*make up," provided a 
wholesome meal for the family. On the Wednesdays, then, 
I resolved at first to make my week-day visits ; but I soon 
found that Mrs. Sudds, with a prudence that did her 
honor, and made me very savage, had set those days 
apart as steak, chop, or cutlet days, because a joint, if 
had on Thursday, would, with a pudding on the third 
day, last very well through the week. I finally fixed 
upon Thursday, and never &iled in finding a good plain 
dinner on that day. Some sponges do not object to eat 
of the cold wreck of a ikmily joint, with a salad; but I 
have an hereditary aversion for cold meat. My father, 
during his apprenticeship to a city warehouseman, dined 
on the family cold-meat for four consecutive years, and 
was not able to touch a cold viand ever afterwards. He 
once, in latei life, ate the wing of a cold fowl, when he 
was in liquor, but it would not stay on his stomach. 
This aversion was the only bequest my father ever made 
me, and to humour it, I have studied cold-meat 



THE ALDERMAN S HINTS. 



31 



days with a nervous attention. The epicure has 
generally a very variable appetite, and possesses the 
valuable accomplishment of being able to adapt his palate 
to the means he may have of gratifying it : but there are 
some men, who, like myself^ have one or two unconquer- 
able aversions, and to them I trust that my experiences, 
as regards cold-meat, will not be foimd altogether with- 
out use. 

In my opinion, cold-meat is the curse of domestic life 
in England. On the Continent, where the palate is 
more studied, a fricassee is a blessing within the reach 
of the poorest class, and, consequently, cold-meat is 
almost unknown. Here, by way of variety, the pickings 
from a bone are thrust, without art, and with ignorance, 
into boiling water, and the result is an English hash. 
Ugh ! The English build decent ships, and make good 
sailors — but confound their cooks ! 

Many points have to be considered ere a just estimate 
of the consumption of meat in a family can be arrived 
at. Firstly, it is necessary to study thoroughly their 
respective appetites ; this may be accomplished by pay- 
ing attention to the number of times each member is 
scrveJ. Hot-joint days will do for this study, if the 
student take care to make allowance for the extra 
quantity which people always declare they can eat of 
cold-meat. It may, however, be generally taken as a 
rule, that where half the hot-joint is demolished at a 
sitting, the cold-meat will entirely dissappear on the 
morrow ; therefore, in a family where this takes place, 
alternate days are advisable for visiting. Moreover, 
some families are addicted to large joints, some to small ; 



32 



FEBROABY. 



this point should not be lost sight of, and should be 
borne in mind for the student's calculation. Families in 
flourishing circumstances disdain cold-meat ; and some, 
with a generosity truly Christian, set apart the leavings 
of their dinner for their servants' meal on the morrow. 
By the way, the appetite of the maid-of-all work should 
not be lost sight of, inasmuch as hers are not generally 
inactive teeth. Much, however, depends upon the vigi- 
lance of the epicure himself It is impossible to lay 
down rules for each of the thousand -and -one manoeuvres 
with which the student must be perfectly well acquainted, 
ere he can hope to practise his art with any eclat I can 
only give the broad principles upon which he must base 
his practice : it must remain with him to cope with the 
many difficulties that will beset his early career. 
Sponging is a subtle art — so subtle, that few out of its 
many thousand votaries have attained to any great emi- 
nence in it. I speak here of the high art, not of the 
grovelling trade to which many have degraded the 
sponging system. I have p>ointed out the means of 
avoiding cold-meat days for the benefit of young begin- 
ners only; inasmuch as I trust and hope (for the benefit 
of human nature) that there are few men of eminence 
in the art who would condescend to grace a table where 
there was only a cold shoulder prepared for them. In 
ray next chapter I have treated of "Taking People as 
they are." 



INFLUENCE OF CHOPS. 



33 




ON TBB BOCIA& AND MSRCANTZXiS ZNFZiV- 
BNCS OF CHOPS. 



What great events from little causes spring ! How 
many important events have been brought about by the 
simple, but irresistible agency of a mutton chop. If a 
man want to strike a good bargain for hiipself, he asks 
his victim to take a chop with him : if a man wish to 
ask you a great fiivour, he opens the matter by request- 
ing you to eat your chop with him. It is reported that 
Sir Charles Wood, when he negociated the loan for the 
Irish, proposed to take a chop with the money-lenders 
to talk over the business. 

When we behold a muddy flock of sheep blocking up 
the avenues to business, we thoughtlessly exclaim, *' What 



u 



34 > FBBBUABT. 

a nuisance !" but a little reflection — a pinch of philoso- 
phy — ^would turn our indignation to profound and proper 
gratitude. Instead of exclaiming against these harassed 
flocks, we should then remember, with respect, that 
these inoffensive creatures contained within their bespat- 
tered fleece, choice morsels, by the influence of which, 
the greatest events might be brought about. Pick the 
fattest from yonder flock, take the beast rib by rib, and 
count up his social influence. Here are the first two 
chops hissing from Job's gridiron — ^they are destined for 
yonder men — ^most influential fellows on Change. 
Well, on the proper digestion of those two chops, hangs 
the fate of the firm of Simpson, Tompkins, and Co. : the 
firm is in a critical state, and depends upon the willing- 
ness of these two chop-consumers to grant a loan, and 
they are discussing the matter over their dinner. Here 
are two more chops— capital, hot, juicy morsels tool 
broiled for Alderman Downwitham*s luncheon : now, on 
the delicacy and tenderness of these, depends the fate of 
John Smith, who is to appear before Downwitham in the 
course of an hour, on a charge of illegally pawning 
slopwork. Poor John Smith! — ^may the chops lie 
lightly on the worthy magistrate's stomach I Another 
pair of hissing, smoking chops! — these are for Mr. 
Hawes, who is '^ knocking off^ a colonial constitution — 
on their digestive state depen(f the liberties of the Cape 
Colonists ; if they disagree with the colonial stomach, 
woe to the wretched inhabitants of the Cape ! 

And in this way, the philosopher might frame an esti- 
timate of the social influence which, without knowing it, 
the Southdown ewe carries in its skin. 




THE EPICURE S TIME TABLE. 



35 



THE epicure's TIME TABLE. 





Winter. 


SUHMER. 


Days. 


DATS. 


Pheasants should be kept 


10 


4 


Partridges „ 


8 


2 


Chickens „ 


4 


2 


Grouse „ 


14 


6 


Woodcock „ 


10 


4 


Venison „ 


8 


4 


Turkeys „ 


8 


4 


Hares „ 


6 


3 


Pigeons „ 


4 


2 


Capons „ 


6 


3 


Fowls „ 


6 


3 


Beef and Pork „ 


8 


4 


Veal 


4 


2 


Mutton „ 


3 


2 


T^amb „ 


4 


2 



The above table applies only to temperate climates. 




36 FEBRUARY. 



A&BB&MUUrS OUV8. 



I am about to admit the student, and indeed, the 
world into my confidence, to lay bare the inner man, and 
with a truth that mu8t be admired, to throw myself upon 
the indulgence of an epicurean and Bacchanalian public. 
I am not a teetotaler. Are you reader ? if so you had 
better pass on to the next chapter, for you would be 
disgusted with the formidable list of spirituous liquids, 

** that cheer and do inebriate/' 

which I intend, with a recklessness you could not coun- 
tenance, to lay before the delighted public. I and Father 
Matthew are not on terms of intimacy. I cannot bring 
myself to believe that Kirchenwasser, Maraschino, Cog- 
nac, Anisette, Constantia, St. Peray, Hock, Burgundy, 
Amontillado, Beaune, Sauteme, old Port, Milk Punch, 
&c. &c. were given us to be emptied into the Thames, or 
at least till we have manufactured a sufficient quantity 
of these delightful things to give a very decided flavour 
to the river. I have, in fitct, agreed, at the earnest solici- 
tation of a total abstinence friend (whose friendship I 
value in spite of his pledge) to assist him in the agitation 
he is about to raise, with the view of compelling the 
legislature to past an enactment to compel Englishmen 
to empty their wine cellars into the Thames, directly he 



THE ALDEBMAN^S CUPS. 37 

can prove to me that there is a sufficient quantity of 
spirit in the Kingdom to convert the river into a co- 
pious stream of grog, and not till then; meantime I 
intend to mix for myself in such proportions as I may 
consider requisite for the inner man, and for the occa- 
sional expansion of the human heart. In the^hope that 
many will join me in my temperate libations^ I shall take 
this opportunity of giving them ' some hints on a few 
choice and delightfill cups. 



Cup I. — A Loving Cup. 
' (^Decidedly good on a cold day,) 

This is a simple, but withal a delightful and invigor- 
ating cup. Prepare it thus : Put two or three slices of 
very brown toast at the bottom of the bowl, grate over 
them some nutmeg, then pour in a quart of ale, and per- 
haps two-thirds of a bottle of good sherry (mild ale is 
preferable), sweeten, and immediately before drinking 
add a bottle of soda-water. Give this as a parting cup to 
your friends : you will not find many ladies refuse what 
they call "just a sip" of it. 

Cup II. — Shbub» 

Shrub is either very good or detestable. It must be 
made excellently well, or it it nauseous to the refined 
palate. It is never indifferently good ; it is excellent or 



: 

38 FEBRUART. 

execrable. Rum Shrub should be made thus : — Mix with 
a pint of the very best Jamaica rum, sugar according to 
palate, and about two -thirds of a pint of Seville orange 
juice, which mix with iced water. Brandy Shrub is 
made very differently. In a quart of Cognac steep the 
peel of one lemon and mix the juice of two, and let it 
stand for an entire day, then add rather more than half a 
pound of sugar, a pint and a half of good sherry, and 
then let it stand a day longer — add a little nutmeg, and 
strain it before using it. When all the ingredients be of 
first-rate —this is a cup fit for an Anacreon. 

Cup in. — Milk Puhoh. ^ 

I am ii)debted to an Irish friend for my first Cup of 
Milk Punch. I leave my readers to imagine with what 
gratitude I bowed to this introduction. I was in ecstasy I 
I would forgive anything in a man who can throw his soul 
into a cup of milk punch. I believe we are indebted to 
Ireland (and it }9 perhaps the only debt we owe her, 
save one — ^faur government), for the enjoyment of this ex- 
quisite beverage. My friend gave me the following 
receipt for it : — 

Fill a bottle as full as possible of lemon-peel, and 
then add as much brandy as it will admit ; let this 
(corked) stand in the sun two or three days, then mix 
with the brandy (having poured it out) two pounds of 
sugar, two quarts of water, foiu* of brandy, two of boiling 
milk, boiled with spice, and about a pint of lemon juice. 
When this is cold, strain it till quite clear and bottle it 



THB AIiDEBllill*8 GUPl». 39 

instantly : you will not be able to keep it long if anybody 
in the hoose has once tasted it. 

Cup IV.— Punch. 

I object to arrack : I prefer punch made with an equal 
mixture of brandy and rum, sugar, the proper proportion 
oflemon juice, a glass of port wine, and a little rum shrub ; 
this mixed with boiling water, forms, to my mind, a mix- 
ture that may tempt many strong men to forswear the 
doctrines of the apostle of temperance. 



These are my ordinary cups — that is to say, when I 
dQ take anything, one of the foregoing is generally the 
beyerage. I would not, however, wish the indulgent 
reader to close this chapter with the impression that I am 
a reckless drunkard ; inasmuch as. he would thereby in- 
fallibly class me with a horde of despicable fellows. No ; 
I take my moderate cups like most men of a sanguine 
temperament, and it is my happiness to believe that nei- 
ther my healtll nor my heart are injured by the practice. 
I have an old-fashioned leaning towards men who can 
get socially excited over their cups. A designing man 
never gets drunk. 



MARCH^ 




THE ALDSBBiAMt 



HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER III. 

ON TAKING PEOPLE AS THBT ABB. 

In the early years of an epicure's life, he has to ex- 
perience many sore trials — ^trials which require the 
most courageous palate to overcome them. It is no easy 
task to hattle against an adverse &te. Every man cannot 
smile upon a cold shoulder, or swallow a detestable hash 
without an expression of disgust. It requires a certain 
degree of moral courage to endure what domestic circles 
call ^^ a make-shift.** Therefore, I shall be at some pains 
to warn the student against *^ taking people as they are.** 
I say briefly, do no such thing. If your company be worth 



THE ALDERMAN 8 HINTS. 



41 i 



having, (and the company of an ordinary epicure i^ never 
tedious) — it is worth a decent entertainment, I am fully 
aware that it requires naofdinary tact to avoid, syste- 
matically, invitations to take people as they are ; but I 
am convinced^ on the other hand, that experience and 
study wUl enable a man to avoid these social nuisances, 
without giviiig ofienoe to anybody* Study and observa- 
tion win accomplish miracles, depend upon it. I give 
these hintd to the rising generation^ because I am 
thoroughly certain that the next generation will be one 
of epicures. The present tendency of the age goes to 
prove this. , Bo not the Ministers already acknowledge 
the importance of gastronomy, by holding an annual 
whitebait dinner ? Does not the Speaker of the House 
of Commons, with a sagacity not often to be found in a 
Grovemment official, give his annual dinner at the begin - 
ing of the season ? Does not Her Most Gracious Ma- 
jesty pay graceful tribute to gastronomy, by celebrating 
all imaginary anniversaries with splendid festivals ? Do 
not the Corporation of London .usher in their new Lord 
Mayors with prodigious feasts ? And abroad, do we not 
hear of the Spanish Isabella's wonderful love of eating ? 
Yes, it cannot be denied, the gastronomic age is dawning 
upon us ; we are on the eve of a glorious future-^that 
will worship Savarin devoutly. Therefore it behoves the 
youth of the present age to pay strict attention to the 
elements of gastronomy — to cultivate as &r as they are 
able what has been too long trifled with, or altogether 
neglected, viz., the palate. I say this emphatically, and 
as a most necessary preliminary to a sound course of 
education — avoid taking people as they are. 

^ 3 



42 



MARCH. 



Intimate friends are the barbarians who will desire you 
80 to take them. They will tell you that they do not 
look upon you as a stranger — ^that you will have what- 
ever there may be in the house^n short, that they 
regard you as one of the family, and wUl treat you ac- 
cordingly ; that is to say, pay you less attention than any 
other visitor — make bold to put a knuckle bone before 
you, and give you the weaker cups of tea. They've 
known you too long to make any ceremony before you, 
therefore your host composes himself to sleep after din- 
ner, and your hostess has the baby up (bless it I) and 
allows it to make various snatches at your hair, nose, 
watch, seals, &c. Intimate friendship is a delightful 
thing certainly I Now the purpose of this paper is to 
urge upon the student the necessity of setting his face 
against these familiarities. Let him always refuse general 
invitations ; and accept only those when an hour and 
day are exactly specified. By strictly adhering to this 
rule, he may avoid taking people as they are ; for a host 
cannot, with any decency, give a friend an invitation for 
a future day, without preparing some sort of entertain- 
ment for him. I think this may be safely taken as a 
general rule. If a man ask you to ^ drop in** to din- 
ner, refuse ; for you are certain to fare badly — except 
you are acquainted with a professed and acknowleged 
epicure — ^for to such noble individuala these precau- 
tions in no way apply. I always mistrust people who 
ask me "to drop in" to dinner : the very term— dropping 
— ^implies, in my opinion, a carelessness of gastronomic 
refinements. 

In days long gone by, but to which I cannot, even now. 



J 



THB ALDEBMAN^S HINTS. 43 

turn without a shudder ; I used to take the Sudds* as they 
were — that is to say, in the most uucomfortable and un- 
inviting condition : but I have long since, thank fortune, 
abandoned the habit, as a dire necessity now no longer 
existing. I am, at the present moment, one of a happy 
dique of epicures, and hope to be able to exist without 
again resorting to my old deplorable shifts. 

I might relate divers anecdotes illustrative of my pre- 
sent theme, but I must forbear. The limits to which I 
must confine my observations wUl not admit of these 
digressions. I address my precautions, be it well ob- 
served, to those sage young men who have resolutely re- 
solved to make themselves accomplished epicures. I 
hate those superficial coxcombs, who, as L. £. L. well 
says, "with mouths never meant but for mutton and 
mashed potatoes, dilate learnedly on the merits of sal- 
mis or sant6s.** Such fellows deserve the contempt of 
all thinking men, inasmuch as their ignorance tends to 
bring into contempt that most noble art with which they 
feign intimacy. I shall live, I trust, to behold the intro- 
duction of gastronomy into our Universities. I hope to 
hail the time when it will be necessary for every gentle- 
man to be versed in the theory of cooking ; and I con- 
ceive that I am in a measure hastening the advent of this 
happy era, by bringing before the notice of the public ; 
my present work, which M. Soyer has done me the 
honour to peruse, and upon the tenor of which he has 
complimented me. 



44 



A eSOa&APBZOAA 0ATIICBI8X FOR OASTRO- 
IffOBKXC STUDSNTS. 

So deeply do I feel that a gastronomic age is dawning 
upon us, that the rising generation will need a profound 
epicurean education, that I cannot forbear printing, for 
the use of married ^epicures, the following Catechism, to 
he studied by the junior branches of their family. 

Tutor. — Point out to me the town in England celebra- 
ted for its bloaters. 

Pupil. — Yarmouth. 

Tutor. — Shew me the city, in Europe, renowned for its 
sausages. 

PupU. —Bologna. 

Tutor.-— What town is celebrated for its chocolate P 

Pupil. — ^Florence. 

Tutor. — Shew me, on the map, the district which is 
famous, and deservedly so, for producing the finest 
truffles. 

Pupil. — Le Perigord, in France. 

Tutor. — What town, in the same country has won an 
enviable reputation for its Pat^s de foie gras ? « 

Pupil.-' Strasbourg, 

Tutor. — Where would you go to get maccaroni in 
perfection P 

Pupa.— To Naples. 



y 



A GEOOBAPHIGAL CATECHISM. 45 

Tutor. — ^Where has the gastronomic art heen carried 
nearest to perfection ? 

PupU. — ^In France. 

Tutor. — Name the martyr whose memory epicures 
should honour. 

PMpiZ.— Vatel, the cook of the Great Cond^, who, 
when he found that the fish destined to a banquet his 
master gave to Louis XIV. was missing, refused to sur- 
vive the dishonour, and died by his own hand. 



TO KEEP FISH AUVE. 

Those worthy individuals who take delight in Isaac 
Walton*8 art ; and who, moreover, are in the habit of 
sending the result of their sport to their epicurean ac- 
quaintance, must learn an indispensable piece of infor- 
mation, viz., how to keep fish fresh. This may be done 
by soaking the soft part of bread in brandy, and inserting 
it in the gill of the fish while it is yet alive, and after- 
wards sprinkling it over gently with brandy. Thus pre- 
pared, and carefully packed in straw, the fish will keep 
alive ten or twelve days, as may be proved by putting it in 
firesh water at the end of that time, when, after a few 
hours* immersion, it will recover from its protracted 
drunkenness. 



r 

; 46 MARCH. 



A CtJP OF COFF£E. 

Thb first European importation of coffee c&me firom 
Arabia^ and, let distant planters talk as they please, to 
my mind, Arabian coftbe is fkr preferable to that grown 
in other countries. Savarin, treating of the history of 
coffee, notices a legend that gives the discovery of the 
plant to a shepherd, who, having noticed that whenever 
his flock had partaken of it they got very frisky and 
troublesome, thereupon himself tested its quality, and 
found it so much to his taste that he spread abroad a 
report of its wonderful properties and delightful flavour. 
The Turks never grind their coffee, but pound it with a 
wooden pestle in a wooden mortar, and after a time these 
pestles become very valuable, as the cofibe penetrates 
the wood. Savarin asserts from positive exp^ence that 
ground coffee is not comparable with that prepared after 
the Turitish fashion. He devoted much attention to the 
various methods of making coffee, and finally came to the 
conclusion (and I oertunly agree with him) that cofiee 
prepared k la Dubelloy is perfection. Coffee k la Du* 
belloy is made by pouring boiling water upon the coffee^ 
allowing it to pass through a perforated bottom. This 
coffee should then be boiled, and again passed through 
the percolator; the result will be a most fragrant eup of 
coffee. Savarin, noticing the medicinal qualities of coffee, 
tells a story of his having been kept awake forty consecu* 



L 



A CUP OF GOITSE. 47 



tive hours from having in the evening imbibed two large , 
cup-fulls of very strong Mocha. The epicure should 
never take more than a small cup of caf<§ noir after 
dinner. 

CafS k la Vanille is by no means a despicable prepa- 
ration. Some epicures, and perhaps more particularly 
French epicures, insist upon it that coffee k la Vanille is 
the most perfect method of preparing this delightful 
berry. Caf<^ k la Vanille is made in this simple way : — 

Take a handful of oats, and boil them in a saucepan 
full of water for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, 
then take out the grain, and boil a second handful of 
oats in the same water for another ten minutes, after 
which strain the decoction, and put the water by for use. 
Coffee boiled in this decoction is delightfuL It retains 
all its aroma, and has, moreover, a flavour imparted to it 
by the decoction, that invigorates and cheers, and is 
altogether harmless to the stomach. 




APRIL. 




THE ikLDEBMAn S 

HINTS TO GASTKONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 



ON THE TREATMENT OF HOSTESSES. 

For a woman's sotil is by nature a beautiful fresco-painting, 
painted on rooms, tables, clothes, silver waiters, and upon the 
whole domestic establishment. — Richter*s Flower^ Fruity and 
Thorn Pieces, 

I approach this part of my subject with '^becoming 
diffidence. I am sensible of very many'deficiencies : I 
feel that I am not the man to do justice to so poetical a 
theme. Yet I must e*en do my best — ^must cast aside my 



THE AIJ)EBMAN*S HINTS. 49 

scruples — take a goute of some delicious noyeau which I 
keep by me for my own private enjoyment — and proceed 
to instruct epicurean youth on the treatment of Hostesses. 
A young man cannot attain to any eminence as an 
epicure, till he has got rid of that bashMness and 
trepidation which are the curses of youth I therefore 
earnestly beseech all juveniles to shake off, as early as 
possible, those barricades which inexperience has piled up 
between them and fortune. Let them ever strive to get 
rid of bashfulness with their pinafores : let them say 
good bye to trepidation, when they disown the tyranny of 
their suburban schoolmaster. I must insist upon con- 
fidence as an indispensable element in the epicure's na- 
ture : I never saw a bashful gourmand. The opportuni- 
ties lost by a bashful man are beyond calculation. A 
bashful man never won an heiress, or became a popular 
diner out ! However, I need not dwell upon the disad- 
vantages of bashfulness, inasmuch as I do not think that 
disadvantage is spreading among the rising generation : 
I cannot believe that the young men of the present day 
are more bashful and retiring than were the youths of my 
early time; on the contrary, I am perhaps inclined to hold 
that the youths I notice about me, are not wanting in 
sufficient confidence, and a certain forwardness, which It 
of the old school, am apt to look upon as precocious. 
Without more ado, then, I will proceed to inform the 
student on the importance of paying marked and graceful 
civilities to hostesses. I knew a man who gained a sure 
footing in a dinner- giving family by telling his wife, on his 
return from his first visit, that the hostess (a middle- 
aged lady and a grandmother) was about three-and- 



50 APRIL. 

twenty years of age ; taking care that this opinion should 
float back to the flattered lady. This is a very fair sam- 
ple of the diplomacy with which it behores the student 
to be acquainted. Let him not, however, prematurely 
plume himsdf on his Adroitness in this science, or he may 
find to his cost tiiat he has played a blind game with 
edged tools. In no matter let him be more careful than 
in the paying of compliments. A compliment should be 
implied, never thrust under the nose of the individual 
complimented. To tell a woman that she is pretty, is 
equivalent to telling a man that he is honest. So difficult 
is it to pay a compliment gracefully, that I should warn 
beginners to refrain from the practice till they have, 
by continual contact with society, made themselves 
thorough masters of the art. Meantime they may feel 
their way by venturing to commend certain qualities of 
their friends in their absence — ^this is always a safe ven- 
ture. 

The student should listen with profound attention to 
whatever hostesses may please to acquaint him with in 
the matter of their domestic economy. He will, in all 
probability, have to endure tedious narratives of the ill- 
doings of servants, and their ingratitude to their mistress ; 
he must appear interested in long stories of little Mai- 
colm*s prodigious precocity, or laugh heartily when he is 
told that young PoUy once asked her grandmother if she 
could swim ; he must beg that the baby be introduced 
after dinner, and rapturously commend the hostesses last 
anti-Macassar; he must, in short, flatter without a 
parade of flattery, and listen with heroic patience to the 
most senseless twaddle. This may be done in a quiet and 



THB ALDEBMAN*S HINTS. 51 

unobtrusive way— in fact, it must be done so to prove 
of service to the epicure. For, let it be taken as an in- 
disputable &ct, women, for the most part, despise pro- 
fessed flatterers. Tell a woman now-a-days that she is 
an angel, and she will laugh at you : pay deference to 
her opinion, laugh at her jokelets, and commend the 
lightness of her crust, and she will put you down in the 
list of " agreeable gentlemen.** 

I have gleaned these rules from actual experience, be 
it observed. I am not retailing advice second-hand, 
but casting it lavishly from an original source. I have, 
it is reasonable in me to own, had my rebuffs : I have once 
or twice been snubbed by hostesses ; I have, in each case, 
been able to trace the said snubbings, or the said rebuffs, 
to a very sufficient cause. For instance, I for ever lost 
the good graces of Mrs. Sudds by coinciding with her 
husband on one occasion — ^in condemning a turkey as 
extremely tough. Women must be humoured in weak- 
nesses, which they share in common with men. Sudds, 
who regarded women as little better than fair images, with 
but the smallest allowance of brains, said on this occa- 
sion (after the ladies had retired), that he could not under- 
stand how a woman could feel so hurt about the tough- 
ness of the turkey ; whereupon I ventured to remind 
him that men were just as weak. *' Observe,** said I, 
^^ that a woman*s ambition is in her household, therefore, 
any remark that in any way reflects upon her talent as a 
housekeeper, wounds her deeply; on the other hand, 
man*s ambition — ^yours, for instance, is in your political 
knowledge, any reflections upon which would equally 
irritate you I** Sudds did not relish this argument. My 



52 APRIL. 



experience in the treatment of hostesses has, in short, 
convinced me that assiduous, but not obtrusive attention 
joined to an easy, yet not a careless manner, will secure 
the epicure the favour of married ladies generally. 



THE ALDERMAN TO HIS MISTRESS. 

Can you doubt the love I bear you ? 
Will you wrong a faithful heart P 
rd leave my dinner to be near you : 
. rd give up truffles — not to part. 
Ah ! if you could know the anguish 
That has thrilled me through and through, 
When Fve dreamt Td lost for ever. 
Twenty dinner cards and you. 

'Tis in vain I seek to smother 
Thoughts that turn to you all day ; 
Except when foie gras calls another 
Sentiment — as sweet — ^in play. 
No, I cannot live without you : 
You gone ; what were creams to me ? 
Come then, fair, no coy disdaining. 
Share my soups and wines with me ! 



ON MUTTON. 



53 



ON MUTTON. 

It cannot be concealed, I always feel a strange emo- 
tion when the subject of mutton is raised in company. 
When the haunch is on the tapis, I always feel sheepish. 
My emotion may be the result of an overweening affection 
— ^it may be ascribed to tender reminiscences of Southdown 
— this I am not prepared to deny, still less am I able to 
justify the weakness that comes upon me at the sound of 
those magic syllables — Mutton ! Incomparable, and (with 
caper-sauce) fascinating mutton ! He is unworthy of 
the name of epicure who can calmly contemplate a well- 
hung haunch, or to whose perverted imagination the 
saddle does not give a spur. I shall, I trust, be forgiven 
for fingering thus fondly on a subject so near and dear to 
my hea — stomach. But I must make an effort to cast 
aside the blissful reminiscences that float so thickly be- 
fore my bewildered brain ; and, with a prodigious effort, 
must assume sufficient calmness, to touch upon the sub- 
ject of mutton in a rational and practical manner. 

There are four kinds of mutton in repute at the 
epicure's table ; namely, the Welsh, Dartmoor, Scotch, 
and, not least in esteem, the Southdown. The South- 
down is largest of these four breeds, and, to my mind, 
the best. It is not often that you And first-rate mutton 
in London. The graziers do not keep their sheep long 
enough. Mutton should be from five to six years old ; 






54 



whereas, the mutton generally consumed in England is 
scarcely three years old. Young mutton is flabby. The 
flesh of a young leg will separate when the first incision 
is made by the carver. This may always be taken as a 
proof of the youth, and consequently, the inferiority and 
unwholesomeness of the mutton. The flesh of a good 
leg would rather close over the incision. Let host- 
esses and hosts attend to this, as the appearance of bad 
mutton is an indelible disgrace to an epicure's table. 

The haunch may be cooked so as to have the flavour 
of roebuck venison, by cutting all the outer skin from the 
meat, and having flrst rubbed it with olive oil, by soaking 
in a vessel containing a pint of vinegar, some thyme, a 
few bay leaves, four cloves of garlic, some whole white 
pepper, a little all-spice, a teaspoonful of bay salt, and a 
little parsley. Cover the upper part of the joint with 
slices of onion ; turn the joint every morning, still keep- 
ing the onions on the uppermost part. Repeat this for 
four days, and then roast it as venison. The result, take 
my word for it, will be a most delightful dish. Epicures 
very generally despise the loin of mutton; and ooithis 
head I must beg to offer them a word of advice. The 
loin per «e, is not, I confess, as generally cooked, a very 
attractive part of the sheep ; but, those persons who 
have not tasted it stuffed, with veal stuffing, should not 
give a hasty condemnation of the loin. 

Mutton, as the epicure knows, is eaten in perfection from 
the saddle or haunch, plainly but most attentively cooked. 
Soyer*6 saddleback of mutton is a dish worthy the atten- 
tion and deliberate consideration of every epicure. Then 
there is a Satanic method of cooking a leg of mutton ; and 



ON MDTTON. 55 

judging from this specimen of culinary skill in regions to 
which I need not more particularly allude, save to note, 
for the benefit of the community, that no ices or cold 
dishes are to be found there, I say, judging from ^'aleg 
of mutton basted with devil's tears," Satanic gastronomy 
cannot be altogether despicable. 

I will simply recommend to the attention of the student 
the following sheepish delicacies : 

Saddle of mutton, ^-la-Bretonne. 

Shoulder of mutton, Savoyard's method, ^-la- Polonaise, 
Provenjjale fashion. 

Mutton cutlets, sant^s. Ragout of mutton, curried. 




MAY. 



THB ALDEBMAN*8 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 

CHAPTER V. 

ON BIBTHDATS AND BISTHDAT PRESENTS. 

Students are for the most part men of limited income • 
that is to say, their various diversions leave them little 
cash to spare for presents. They should, therefore, by a 
little care and foresight, so arrange matters, that they 
may distribute their limited favours to the best advantage. 
There are a great many considerations to be taken into 
account in the matter of presents; and perhaps the 
most important point to be considered is — to whom 
presents may be given with the greatest contingent ad- 
vantage to the giver. Now, without a • doubt, the most 
profitable investment may be made in children's toys ; 
inasmuch, as by taking notice of, and petting children, 
the student will surely gain the favour of their maternal 
parent — if not of the stem paternal progenitor. I never 
found this method fail. I conceive that it is founded on 
a true view of human nature, and human weakness. It 
takes hold of people through their strongest affections— 
it enlists on your side the most potent feeling of which 



THE ALD£BMAN*S HINTS. 57 

the hnmaD heart is capable — ^it is therefore a sound and 
refining system. It is refining, or rather elevating, be- 
cause it brings out in the strongest light the universality 
and strength of those bonds of love which are the surest 
stronghold of society ; for they are the strongest induce- 
ments to morality. The epicure, therefore, who gains 
the goodwill of a host and hostess, by petting their 
children, makes his way by fair means ; since his policy 
is calculated to develop the parental love. I say then 
to the student — ^pet children— your trouble wiU seldom 
be thrown away. How delightful it is, when our con- 
science seconds our inclination ; when we feel that we 
are gaining our own ends by doing service to others. It 
is not often that this agreeable harmony exists between 
the senses and the mind ; on the contrary, a deadly con- 
€ict is generally going on between the two. Now the 
physical man has the victory : now the moral man comes in 
for his share of power, when the physical has a thumping 
headache on the morrow morning. Oh I the resolutions 
men make before they get up in the morning. As they 
swallow the medicinal soda-water, they swear that they 
have committed an excess for the last time ; henceforth 
they will be staid, sober citizens, and don the nightcap 
regularly at 11 o'clock, p.m. ;— K>aths, like women's vows, 
traced on sand : the sea that washes all traces away-^ 
brandy-and-water. 

The attentions which I should particularly recommend 
the student to pay to children, are, making judicious 
presents, taking the little wretches on his knee after 
dinner, regardless of the poet, who said, ^* a fine family 
is a fine thing, provided it doesn't come in after dinner ; " 



- 




MAT. 



and taking the diminutive nuisances out for a walk. The 
latter proceeding, I admit, requires a boldness which few 
young men possess ; but I trust that I may be able, by 
insisting upon its importance, to induce the student to 
make the venture. Sunday is, perhaps, the safest day 
for this attention; fewer people are about, and the 
student is less likely to meet an acquaintance while 
undergoing this severe penalty to be endured in the cause 
of gastronomy. I can speak with particular authority 
on this head, since it has been my misibrtune, in the 
days of my youth and poverty, to parade the juvenile 
Sudds' about the Regent's Park for hours together. Oh I 
the tedium of those hours ! But I must break off: the 
reader must be indulgent towards me, if I cannot suffi- 
ciently command myself to speak calmly of my bygone 
miseries. I am but a man. I have, however, this 
gratifying consolation to cheer me on in my riper years, 
that I endured my gastronomic apprenticeship with a 
firmness for which I was at the time commended by an 
illustrious epicure, who, to his honour be it said, as a 
dying request, called for ^' one of turtle.'* 




ON MACKEREL. 



All epicures agree in commending the silvery mackerel 
to the attention of their pupils. Mackerel, like women, 
are loved all the world over. This delightful fish is, in 
truth, one of the chief blessings of the spring ; a delight 
to which all epicures look forward with earnestness and 
delight. It is a fish that has withstood that greatest of 
all tests— cheapness : though the indignant cotton-spinner 
carries two home on a twig for the Saturday night's supper, 
the lordling in his castle does not despise mackerel i la 
maitre d*hotel ; that is to say, a mackerel cut in half 
down the back, and broiled, and then covered with 
melted butter and herbs. I must confess that I like 
soused mackerel, and mackerel boiled after the old 
English fashion ; though I am not one of those cynics 



: 60 



; who despise mackerel k Tespagnole, k la flamande, k la 
Perigord, en fricandeau, aux ecrevisses, en papillotes, or 
even in soup : so fond am I of the fish, that I think I 
could eat it under any circumstances. Here is a capital 
cheap method of preparing a mackerel or two for supper : 
hroil the mackerel, unsplit, on a clean fire. Simmer in 
half- a- pint of vinegar and water, in equal parts, two 
onions, a bay-leaf, and a parsley root. When the onions 
are melted, strain the liquor, season it according to 
taste, and set it to boil, taking care, when it boils, to add 
a spoonful of ketchup, with a lump of butter rolled in 
flower, and before you take it up, add, perhaps, a spoon- 
ful of capers. Serve this sauce with the boiled mackerel, 
and it makes a very digestible and agreeable trifle for 
supper. I eat a plain boiled mackerel, sometimes, for 
breakfast. 

I often devoutly thank Fate that I was bom where 
mackerel are cheap, and I hail the advent of steam with 
particular delight, for it has enabled fishermen to convey 
this exquisite fish to the London market in a perfect 
state of freshness. A stale mackerel is a detestable 
thing. 




CONCEKTBATSD ESSENCE. 61 



aXTSAOBBZVA&T COWCBNTBATBD 
BS8BVCBI 

A KMowusBOB of gastroDomy is necessary to all men, 
since it is a means at the service of the human family, 
for the increase of their mundane enjoyment. To those 
iucky individuals who are independent of the world, 
that is to say, haye an ample income with nothing to do 
for it, gastronomy is an indispensable study ; since they 
cannot give parties with credit to themselves and satis- 
fiiction to their iHends without having an intimate ac- 
quaintance with the refinement, of the kitchen. 

One day the Prince de Soubise (like the Comte de 
Bkihamely immortalized by a sauce) had appointed to 
l^ve a dinner, and on the same evening a supper to cer- 
tain of his friends. On the morning of the appointed 
day, the maitre d*hotel presented his master vdth a list 
of the viands that would be required for the repast. 
The first item was — ^fifty hams I Seeing this, the Prince 
turned to his servant and said — ^ What, Bertrand I Fifty 
hams I It strikes me that you are rather extravagant ; 
, are you going to feast the whole regiment P ** 

" No," answered the maitre d'hotel ; " no. Prince, only 



62 



one of those bams will appear at table ; the rest are neces- 
sary for my sauces, trimmings, &c." 

" Bertrand I " said the Prince, indignantly; " You are 
cheating me." 

" Your Highness ! " exclaimed the maitre d'hotel, 
scarcely able to suppress bis indignation. " Your high- 
ness is not acquainted with the mysteries of the kitchen. 
Give the order, and I would reduce those fifty hams till 
their concentrated essence might be contained in an 
egg-cup." 

The Prince bowed in silence to the genius of the 
kitchen This story is told by Savarin. 




JUNE. 




DUCKS AND OBXEN PSAS. 



THE AliBEBHANS 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER VI. 

HOW TO KEEP AN £PICURE*8 POCELBT-BOOK 

I DWELL at some length on the rudiments of a gastro- 
nomic education, because I am anxious to make my 
Knife and Fork welcome to all. I do not shrink from 
the criticisms of professed and profound epicures, neither 
do I disregard the claims of beginners. I have a thorough 
faith in that profound adage which tells us that " every- 
thing must have a beginning,** and, therefore, I should 
be sorry to pass students by without a word or two of 
advice to them. My mind too constantly reverts to my 



64 



\^ 



painful gastronomic apprenticeship — ^to my Suddian days 
— ^to allow me to indulge my pride in self-congratulatory 
contemplations on the subject of my present proud posi- 
tion. So much in vindication of the elementary nature of 
my preceding chapters. 

The theme of which I have now to treat . is, " The 
£picure*B Pocket-Book.** 1 address my present obser- 
vations to advanced students — to those happy individuals 
who are beginning to reap the reward of their early 
trials, and who have many good houses open to them. It 
forms part of the epicure*s vocation so to ingratiate him- 
self with his hosts and hostesses, that they may give 
him cordial general invitations. Greneral invitations, as 
I have inferred in my chapter On Taking People as they 
are, should not be used by the epicure except when given 
by a professed gastronome; and when the fortunate epi- 
cure has secured a good round of these acceptable 
general invitations, it behoves him to note with exacti- 
tude the dinner-hours of his respective friends. I myself 
at first, found this classification a somewhat complex 
matter, but a little perseverance, and a sense of the 
importance of the end in view, enabled me to baflle all 
obstacles, and I finally succeeded in forming a complete 
and simple indexof my friends* dinner-hours. Let me 
add, here, that I found this classification of great service, 
inasmuch as I can refer to it in a moment, i^ during my 
unintentional rambles, I think of paying a suburban call. 
For the benefit of the reader I append a page extracted 
at random firom my pocket-book. I have put fictitious 
names in the place of the genuine ones, but this is the ; 
only alteration I have made. 



THE ALDEBMAN 8 HINTS. 



65 



Ths Three 0*Clocks. 

Bottom, Heming's Row. Dine generally at three, but 
not very certain. 

Sallust, Notting Hill. Punctual. Good dinner ; first- 
rate port. 

Crusty, Kentish Town. Punctual. Saturday, Crusty 
dines out, and does not leave the key of the cellar. 

Tontine, St. John's Wood. Generally punctual. Has 
first-rate game sent to him during the season. 

Burrow, Clapham. Punctual. Grood dinner, but 
children dine at table — ugh I 

Parkins, Blackheath. Punctual Plain dinner, but 
deucedly well cooked. Pretty daughter. 

Sampson, Richmond. Good for Sundays only. Fare, 
there and back, two shillings. Too much money to 
spend on the chance of finding Sampson at home. 

N.B. — Avoid his champagne and sherry. 



This extract may possibly enable the reader to form 
an idea of my method. I also keep notes of bachelors* 
parties, city luncheon-givers, people who are eligible for 
a late breakfast, in short, for all whose doors are open to 
me, for the satisfaction of whatever appetite I may from 
time to time wish to satisfy. I make out my lists ac- 
cording to time. I begin with the "eleven o'clocks" 
(these are the breakfast givers), and so go on through 
the twenty-four hours. I never stir out without my 
pocket-book, so that I am seldom at a loss, in what 
quarter soever of the town I may find myself, to procure 



66 JUNE 



decent refreshment in the neighbourhood. No epicure 
can exist happily and peacefully without a guide such as 
I suggest, inasmuch as the highly refined state of his 
palate and stomach cannot be trifled with. The epicure 
who cannot satisfy the refined longings of his stomach 
is indeed a man to be pitied ; it therefore behoves the 
student and the professor to provide themselves with the 
invaluable guide I have the honour of suggesting, for, by 
so doing, they will save themselves many days of wretch- 
edness and disgust. Let them particularly note the 
points wherein their friends* entertainments are weak ; 
let them scrupulously make a memorandum of the 
houses where sherry is bad and where claret is good — 
where game is indifferently served, and where sauce 
piquante is made in perfection — ^for these points are of 
the utmost importance to them, since their evening may 
be spoilt by a rash venture upon a poor dish. I have a 
fiiend at Hampstead who keeps a capital and refined table 
— whose dindon aux truffles I would back against any in 
the kingdom — ^but who never, to my knowledge, had a 
decent potato served up in his house in the whole course 
of his Hfe. These are discrepancies to be studied care- 
fully, and to be set down accurately in the epicure's 
pocket-book. 







THE CHEB8B. 



67 



A CHAPTER WHICH MAT BE CONTIDBNTLT CALLED 

THE CBSESEa 

Db. Dafft tells me that I might as well swallow a 
charge of shot per diem as take my diurnal quantum of 
cheese ; for he maintains that Cheshire or Stilton is ahout 
as digestible and as beneficial to the stomach as lead. 
This may or may not be the case ; I do not put Daffy 
(who is reported, by the way, to be a Welshman) before 
the gastronomic public as an oracle of wisdom, certainly 
not. I simply wish to impress the reader with my fond- 
ness for cheese, by letting him into the secret of my dis- 
regard and defiance of the doctor's opinion on its harmful 
effects. I am ready to risk my life in the cause of cheese 
•7-to defy the horrors of indigestion on behalf of Stilton. 
Some persons maintain, with what degree of plausibility 
I am not ready to determine, that cheese acts as an aid 
to digestion; but the large consumption of cheese in ; 
country parts, where labourers often live almost entirely 
..yet in a perfect state of robust health— on bread and 
cheese, is undoubtedly a weighty argument in support of 
this opinion. However, be its medicinal properties 
harmful or healthful in their action upon the human frame, 
I have come to the resoluticMi of adhering to my ancient 



68 



custom of taking my after-dinner Stilton ; and so, if Daffy 
be right, I shall at least have the consolation vouchsafed 
to that fabled pheasant which exclaimed in a right merry 
humour, as it was expiring, that, at least, it died game ! 
First of all on my list of cheeses, comes the green, but 
not therefore the congenial Stilton. Melton Mowbray 
claims the honour of producing these splendid cheeses, 
with their delightful green mould — and a green Member 
of Parliament — ^who is not the cheese. Fraudulent imi- 
tations of Stilton are by no means uncommon in the 
London market; but they may be detected by their 
lightness, want of firmness, and the colour of the mould, 
which should be of a very hhie green. The excellence of this 
cheese is not alone owing to the richness of the milk from 
which it is miade, but from the thyme and marjoram, and 
fragrant herbs with which it is flavoured. No epicure 
was ever known to spoil a good Stilton, by the introduc- 
tion of wine, &c. Keep a Stilton in a cool dry place, and 
have it wrapped in a thick cloth. 

Single and double Gloucester cheeses are consumed in 
immense quantities throughout the country. Some of 
these cheeses, however, are coloured with roucon, a drug 
most injurious to the stomach. This drug is used to 
colour the cheese, therefore that cheese which has least 
colour, is the purest and most wholesome Gloucester. 
In my opinion, sage cheese is the best cheese produced 
in Gloucestershire. 

Cheshire cheese is esteemed next to Stilton by epicures; 

indeed some prefer a fine Cheshire to any cheese in the 

i world; for my own part, I must confess to a predilection in 

\ favour of Stilton. The gigantic Chedder cheese also claims 

1 



THB CHEESE. 69 



, ^^/^/^/^/^/v^^^•l^^^k^i'^^^^^A^A^/^^•*^^fciA^i^^^iA^^Ai^^b^^/^i^^ 



attention. I like it much, and trust it will soon be found 
on the tables of every English epicure. 

For luncheon what is more delicious than a Neufchatel ? 
but after dinner, it is not good. It is too delicate for the 
palled palate. Cream cheese is also good for luncheon 
or supper —not for dinner. I pity those epicures who 
have not partaken of the French cream cheese, swimming 
in cream, and sprinkled over with white sugar. To get 
a dish of this, iced, on a summer day, is well worth a trip 
across the Channel. 





THE ALDERMAN S 



HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER VII. 



ON TOOTHPICKS. 

I CANNOT refrain from offering a few remarks on the 
engrossing subject of Toothpicks. So poetical a theme 
calls for higher powers, perhaps, than I may modestly 
lay claim to ; however, a matter so weighty cannot be 
passed by in a work like the present, therefore must I 
endeavour, holding up a toothpick before the delighted 
reader, to flirt through the chapter with it. 

It is but a third-rate goose-quill that I hold before 



THE ALDERMAN S HINTS. 



71 



your mind's eye, reader, yet is it so exquisitely modelled, 
and of such a delightful texture, that no man who has the 
least perception of the beautifUl can regard it for a mo- 
ment without experiencing the liveliest emotion. Gamer 
up for closet meditation and enjoyment, the thousand 
exquisite associations which cling around this pointed 
quill: it wants but a touch of the penknife, and the 
guidance of a genius to create a second Hamlet, or to 
paint to a delighted world another Oomus ! Pondering 
on this intently, shall we decide how much of the profuse 
literature of this age we owe to geese ! 

Here is Savarin's toothpick ! Here is Ude's ! Here is 
Soyer's! They are all three of the costliest metal, pre- 
sented to their respective owners as grateful mementos 
of the delightful services these professors conferred 
upon the human race. Are they not graceful instruments ? 
Do they not recall to the mind that blissful state when 
the plenitude of the stomach and the coolness of the 
claret, give to mortal map the most delightful and luxuri- 
ant associations P The serenity of soul with which the 
toothpick is inseparably associated, must ever lend a cer- 
tain charm to the pointed goose-quill. 

He must certainly be a passionless individual who can 
recur, without emotion, to that blissful period of man's 
earthly career — ^afler dinner. Who does not feel that he 
is a better man after a good and ample meal ? Who 
that has a full stomach lacks benevolence ? Search the 
world through, and you will not find an epicure with a 
bad heart ; such a character would be an inexplicable 
anomaly, since eating, without contradiction, softens and 
refines the souL This is why attorneys dine late : after 



72 



an ample and scientific dinner, I much doubt whether ; 
even one of the bum-tribe of Levi could summon the \ 
necessary harshness to serve a writ. Therefore does 
there cling an ineffable charm about the after-dinner 
toothpick. As a bar of music may recall some dulcet 
moments long since passed away, so may the toothpick 
bring back to the epicure the delightful remembrance of 
feasts of an ancient date. Looking then at the toothpick, 
in a poetical light, I need scarcely, I trust, apologize for 
this flirtation with it. 

Student, use it secretly and tenderly : it should not 
be trifled with. 




AUGUST. 



THE ALDEBMUI 8 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 

CHAPTER Vra. 

ON THE HOBBIES OF HOSTS AND HOSTESSES. 

These are very few people who are without their 
hobbies, aDd those who are without hobbies are not 
worth knowing, inasmuch as their minds must be very 
suggestive of a blank sheet of Bath. Now though the 
presence of a hobby marks a thoughtM mind at least, 
it is nevertheless very often a terrible nuisance to those 
persons upon whom it is inflicted. I once knew a man 
who had a most absurd hobby — that of collecting night- 
caps— uid <hi the subject of these mysterious appendages 
to the human toilette, he would discourse frequently for 
the space of three hours. And then he would insist 
upon shewing me his collection ; ezdatiating, as he drew 
the caps one by one from an immense wardrobe, on their 
several beauties and defects. He had a Greek nightcap, 
a Turkish nightcap, a Russian nightcap, and a great 
variety from Paris, whither he had travelled for the ex- 



74 



AUGUST. 



press purpose of making a collection of them. On all 
subjects but nightcaps this Individual was sane enough. 
He was well informed, could paint more than passably, 
and had contributed a few papers of no contemptible 
order to the literature of his country'; but on the subject 
of nightcaps he was a madman. I one day received the 
following letter from him :— 

Mt dbab AiiDBBMAir, — Come and dine with me on 

Thursday — I have some splendid Southdown. B ^t 

and G s will be here. I trust you will not disap- 
point me, as I expect to receive a splendid specimen of 
Eamschatka manufacture to add to my collection, and 
you know I value your opinion on the engrossing subject 
of nightcaps. Yours, 

Thinking of the Southdown, and resolved to brave the 
infliction of my fHend*s hobby, I proceeded to his house 
at the appointed time, where I was entertained for the 
space of three hours and a half on the subject of this 
huge nightcap ; its warmth, durability, and the probable 
length of the wearer's slumbers. The only thing that 
would often have consoled me under these inflictions 
was the loan of a specimen of my Mend's collection. 
However, I flatter myself that I behaved with becoming 
and prudent composure and cheerfulness under the cir- 
cumstances ; for my friend was an epicure of no mean 
order. He had the best Southdown, and the finest 
pheasants of any host I ever dined with. His claret too, 
was unexceptionable. Student, when you are placed un- 



THB ALDBBMAN's HINTS. 75 



der similar circumstances, think of my sufferings and bear 
up against your misfortune. Bear the weight of a hobby 
like a man — ^provided the host who inflicts it be an epi- 
cure worth your patronage. In no case, however, allow 
yourself to be betrayed into an expression of impatience, 
since the art of listening is absolutely indispensable to 
the happiness and success of the young epicure. 





AN EPZCURE'S oyster* 

Is it not strange that people persevere in customs 
dictated in the first instance hy ignorance, and main- 
tained by popular prejudice. For instance, in the matter 
of opening oysters, what a gross, and to the epicure, 
what a fatal blunder the fishmonger commits, in separa- 
ting the fish firom the under-shell. If he would take 
the trouble to inform himself on the tmatomy of the 
oyster, he would find that it does not lose its life on 
being opened, but directly it is separated firom the under- 
shelL He may prove this to his satisfaction, by touching 
the beard of the fish after he has opened it, and he will 
find that it contracts, shrinks from the touch of steel ; 
let him, therefore, for the future, cease to torture the 
epicure by sending him in dead oysters : they should 
come to table fixed to the under-shell, and so preserve 
all theur delicious qualities to the delight of the gour- 
mand. 



SEPTEMBER. 




THS ALD£BMAN*8 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER IX. 

ON SUNDAYS IN FAMILIES. 

I AM almost inclined to recommend students to avoid 
Smiday visits. It is a difficult matter to arrive at people*s 
ideas on Sunday behaviour; it is painful to shock people 
in their religious opinions, and therefore Sundays at 
home, are always to my mind the most comfortable and 
satisfactory. The various shades of opinion on Sunday 
conduct are absolntely bewildering, and unless you are 
intimately acquainted with your host and his family, it is 



H 3 



78 SBPTBMBEB. 



impossible for you to arrive at a decent knowledge of his 
Sunday observances without having shocked him more 
than once ; or on the other hand, you may annoy him 
with notions that he may look upon as childish and weak 
prejudices. Weigh these possibilities and probalnlities 
fully : you cannot be too cautious in your Sunday visit- 
ings. Some families object to the introduction of papers 
into their households on Sundays : others insist upon dining 
at a quarter to two, that their servants may not miss 
afternoon service ; and a few hold that it is improper to 
laugh ; on the other hand, persons of a cheerful cast of 
mind cad see no harm in a quiet song, while a few very 
serious families set their feces against the Sunday activity 
of their cook, and therefore, set a cold dinner before you. 
These conflicting opinions will at first confound and per- 
plex the student ; and he will inevitably be guilty of 
many errors, and insepfiinate in the minds of his friends 
a suspicion on the score of his religiOD, and so, perhi^iM, 
lay the foundation of future and irredeemable unpopu- 
larity, if he neglect to study with* a nervous anxiety, 
and a determined mind, tiie opiniona of all persons with 
whom he is brought in contact. Therefore, before 
taking advantage of an invitation to a Sunday dinner, the 
student should have osade himself thoroughly conversant 
with the peculiar teneU of his host ; and, I take it, I 
need scsorcely add, that he must endeavour to conform 
strictly to his ho6t*B observanoes. 

I lost the good opinion of Mrs. Smddt in the most in- 
nocent way — I whistled myself out of the family I Yes, 
one bar of *« Wapping Old Sturs,*" vai a shake at the 
end by way of ornament, performed on a Sunday mom- 



v^^v^^^^^^^v^^^•^l^<i#%/^^s/v%^v^v^^»^^^^^^^^^v^^»^^^»^^^^>^»^^*^ 



THE ALDE&MAN^S HINTS. 79 

ing, sealed mj doom in the bosom of Mrs. Sudds: 
henceforth I was an exile from the hearth of the suburban 
architect — ^banished for eirer from the presence of the 
three Miss Sudds*s and their indignant mamma. Mrs. 
Sudds was heard to declare that a man who could lightly 
whistle " Wapping Old Stairs," and to crown the de- 
pravity, give a concluding shake, could not be safely 
trusted in a decent British household. No, Sudds might 
continue to be the companion of such a person if he 
chose (for he was bad enough for anything), but she was 
determ ined that neither herself nor her three daughters 
should be again insulted by the presence of such a man. 

Sudds, (good-tempered, sleek old fool) ventured, at 
first, to remonstrate with his ^dfe on the harshness and 
intolerance of her decree ; but with a pertinacity truly 
feminine, and a fund (^argument altogether overwhelm- 
ing, Mrs. Sudds held her |p*ou^d, and insisted upon my 
expulsion. However, a few weeks before this disgrace 
fell upon me, Mrs. Suddi had overheard me persuade 
her good maa to be one of a jolly bachdbi^ party ; and 
I hove a strong impression tha,t this fact had to do with 
ike severity of her senteaoe. 

I am now extremely oareftd wheB I dine out on Siuh- 
days. Mrs. Sudds gave me a wholespipe lesson. I have 
fince, I dare be sworn, been guilty of a Sunday whistle : 
but then I have always taken care that the wickedness 
should take place on my own Kiddenainster. 



OCTOBER. 




A I.OV1KO CUP. 



THE ALDERMAN S 



HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER X. 

ON THB TBBATICENT OF TOUNO LAOIB8. 

This is a most difficult subject. How to treat young 
ladies! If you are a married man your course is clear 
enough: they regard you with perfect indifference : allow 
you to take your seat at their father's table without 
troubling themselves to criticise either your demeanour 
or your dress. To them you are a dummy — a monk— a 
monopolized individual : you are safe in their indifference, 
except when you officiously offer your arm to them, and 
so stand in ihe way of a younger and single man. A 
married man therefore, derives at least one advantage 
from his double state — ^the advantage of being regarded 



THB ALDBBMAK's HINTS. 81 



by the book-muslin and bsre sboolders that crowd me- 
tropolitan drawingHPooms-^witb indifference, or, may be, 
contempt. Let a manried man presume to pester a young 
lady to dance with fahn i^Hce in one evening, and he 
woidd be 8<»rry to overhear her comments on him at the 
morrow*8 breakfast. A. Benedict must submit to be 
snubbed by virgins. The truth must go forth ; in tiie 
estimation of young ladies, a &mily man is a ball-room 
nuisance. Leaving ^en all married men to meet virgin 
contempt with their best philosophy, to bear all the weight 
of the blame if the bachelors remain long over their wine 
(for young ladies invariably declare thai the married men 
detain the bachelors), let me turn to the unfettered men of 
England — ^to those epicures not yet tetbered to conjugal 
skirts, and who, moreover, ^th a moderation worthy of 
all honour, are content to have for a home, at some ^20 
per annum, one of those West-^end palaces called clubs, 
from the contemplation of which the virgin minds of 
England shrink with instinctive horror. The unmarried 
epicure, if his wishes are boxmded with the moderation 
to which we have referred, has a stormy path to tra- 
verse. Live and die a bachelcHr! Ha! ha! shout a 
hundred silvery voices in dmsion. It is no easy maitter 
let me tell you, my single friend. Did you hear the 
mocking music of that plotting hundred f Well, they 
have each netted a mesh in the net that is to catch you. 
And haw wiU they lure yau to the enare f Why with 
baited smiles and dimples ; and pearly rows of teeth ; 
and scented breath ; and fiury forms ; and mountains of 
muslin ; and yards of rin^ts ; and rarest perfumes ; 
and crimson bliishes ; and whiiqiered vows ; and pouting 



82 OCTOBBB. 



pulpy lips. And these are snares, believe me, that count 
their thousands of victims, your humble servant among 
the number. Once deQr beauty and you must re- 
main on guard against her 'for ever. Tou will know 
no cessation of hostilities — she will pursue you to the 
grave: therefore, it., is indispensable for the single 
epicure to enter upon life with a stout and a tough 
heart ; to him the dulcet accents of the virgin must 
ever recall the marriage bell : he must touch her hand as 
he would touch a red hot cinder. He must be a block of 
icC) defying thaw — ^keeping at the same time in coolest 
places : yet must he for the satisfaction of his stomach, 
so act that he may not give offence to his host's daugh- 
ters. He may not behave coldly towards them ; and to 
treat them with marked attention would endanger his 
own peace of mind : the safest course, therefore, for him 
to pursue, is to talk seriously with their father on the 
subject of marriages — to say incidentally that his host*s 
daughters will make charming wives — that, in fact, they 
deserve to marry into the very best fimiilies in the king- 
dom ; and then, ^t must be dexterously done) let him 
advise their father to watch them narrowly, and to seek 
to ally them to titled husbands. By acting in this way 
he will secure the good-will of the fiither, and, if the 
matter come to the ears of the daughters, flatter their 
pride, and make them turn their thoughts to coronets. 
He will, of course, have prefiiced his discourse by declaring 
that he is not a manying man — ^that, in fiict, his habits are 
those of a confirmed bachelor — ^besides, he is too humble 
and limited in his means to provide what he considers 
a suitable home for a ^>ecimen of Nature's masterpieces. 



ON GAMB. 83 



ON GAMS. 

On the first of October pheksant shooting begins ; this 
day is therefore set apart by all true epicures as one of 
rejoicing. The parliamentary business of the season is 
over ; the long vacation allows the special pleader to 
snatch up his gun and stalk forward to fire upon (we 
will not take a bet on the accuracy of his aim) the 
plumpest of the covey ; and those gentlemen who may 
have been bom with silver spoons in their mouths are 
relieved of the tedium of doing nothing. I cannot ma- 
nage a gun ; but I can enjoy a pheasant : I cannot bring 
down a bird at fifty paces ; but I can appreciate a cold 
grouse for break&st. Aifd I should be glad to know 
who is the most sensible of the two, the fellow who en- 
joys the slaughter, or the epicure who enjoys the bird ? 
The excitement of the pursuit cannot, in my humble 
opinion, be so intense as the delight of meeting the bird 
with bread sauce ! Game is the greatest delicacy known 
to the gastronomic world. Science may vie wiUi phea- 
sants, partridges, and plovers, venison, and hares, in 
tickling the knowing palate, but in vain does mortal man ; 



84 OCTOBEB. 

Strive to surpass in delicacy what simple Nature with 
prodigal hand supplies in rich variety for the stomach of 
man. Let us, however, give due meed of praise to the 
gastronomic professor ; let us humhly acknowledge that 
game in ignorant hands is detestable, and that it needs 
the science of a master to serve it' up with any degree of 
credit. 

Let me here point the student's attention to Soyer*s 
scissors, invented for the jointing of game ; for, by in- 
sisting upon their introduction to all epicures' tables, he 
will save himself and his friends the misery of witnessing 
the awkwardness of some novice exercised on a deli- 
ciously prepared bird. M. Soyer has also invented an 
^eellent instrument for the jointing of turkeys, geese, 
and other large birds, which may be procured at Bra- 
mah's in Piccadilly. 

Grouse are about the earliest and the most savoury 
game : Soyer does not recommend them till about the 
middle of August; and about the same time he recom- 
mends black cocks and grey hens. What a deUghtful 
gastronomic ihonth is August I Partridges are in — that 
is *to say in an eatable state — ^from about the 10th of 
Sq)tember to the end of January. As regards winter 
game, wild ducks, widgeons, teal, larks, ployers, wood- 
cocks, and snipes, Soyer recommends them from the 
beginning of November to the latter part of March. I 
shall not enter upon the various methods of cooking 
these gastronomic delicacies ; they must be in the hands 
of a competent professor or they are detestable ; I there- 
fore reconmiend the cunning student to partake of game 
only at the tables of acknowledged epicures. 



NOVEMBER. 




- 



THE ALDERMAN S 

HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER XL 

ON TIT-BITS. 

A most poetical theme I Tit-bits ! The most exquisite 
morsel of the most exquisite dish I Happy the man who 
has the taste to enjoy, and the science to pick out, the 
tit- bits of every dainty — ^who does know which is the 
best part, and moreover, has the assurance to take it ! 
Such a man has within his grasp happiness of no common 
order : he may defy the world's vain allurements, while 
he has the discernment to choose, and the audacity and 



86 



NOYBMBBB. 



skill to appropriate to bb own enjoyment the tit-bits of 
his friends* tables. This state of bliss is, however, sel- 
dom or ever vouchsafed to the young epicure — ^it is the 
reward of experience and persevering study only. There 
is no royal road to gastronomic learning: he who is 
ambitious of attaining to excellence in tiiis delightful 
pursuit must be prepared to suffer his proper appren- 
ticeship; if he covet the reward, he must not shirk 
the trial that may encumber his path. I am sensible— 
fully sensible of the sore disappointments and mortifica- 
tions that too often darken the epicure's early days ; but 
I, who have travelled the road, and endured my fuU 
share of the mishaps and mortifications, and have reaped, 
in &ct, the delightful harvest of my early ardour, may 
be allowed to counsel the gastronomic student on his 
conduct under the discouragements which will probably 
mark his early career. 

As tit-bits are very seldom within the reach of the 
young (inasmuch as the gastronomic elders take pre- 
cedence of their juniors in the service of the table), I 
should advise them to spend their youthful days in 
studying narrowly, and noting scrupulously, the doings of 
their seniors. For instance, let students observe the dex- 
terity with which a practised epicure will carve a turkey, 
reserving for himself— cunningly concealed under the 
bird— a delightful tit-bit, kept warm and juicy in the 
gravy; let them note also how judiciously he distri- 
butes the several parts, giving the esteemed morsels 
(always excepting his own) to confirmed epicures, while 
he carelessly passes the drumsticks to the junior portion 
of the diners. By making these observations silently and 



THE ALDBBMAH 8 HINTS. 



87 



discreetly, the student will be enabled, in a comparatively 
short space of time, to master the intricacies of the 
I theory; but let him take especial heed, lest he yenture, 
in an evil moment, to comment upon his obserrations 
before company ; let it not &11 to his unhappy lot to be 
the jeering stock of his fellow epicures, by making an 
untimely allusion to the secretion of a dainty morsel; 
let him rather, with profound reiq;>ect for the secretion 
of the tit-bits, calmly and patiently await that happy 
period in man*s existence, when his age and his expe- 
rience haye enabled him to take that pomtion at his 
finends* tables which wiU giye him fair scope for the ex- 
ercise of his talents in the secret abstraction of the 
choicest morsels before him. And in looking forward to 
this blissful period in his existence, let him not be 
troubled by scruples which a few words will shew to be 
utterly without foundation ; I mean scruples with regard 
to the propriety of taking to himself in a covert manner 
the best delicacies of the table. He must not imagine 
that he is acting a mean and undignified part : on the 
contrary, he may assure himself that he is displaying 
the inrofundity of his gastronomic acquirements, by means 
which custom has sanctioned, and which epicures tacitly 
acknowledge throughout the world. I would, however, 
caution the student against making rash ventures in these 
delicate manoeuvres ; for he must never lose sight of this 
fact — ^that though epicures will feign ignorance of his 
feat, any gross or palpable blundering in the matter will 
draw down upon him the everlasting ridicule of the 
company — ^in these strange times '* that weep with laugh- 
ing not with weeping.** 



88 NOVSMBBB« 



LORD mayor's DAV. 

Toe Aldbbbcam to his Bbothbb Aij>bbmbn. 

Bbothbb Ali>bbmbn,**I have often objected, as ao 
epicure, to the bill of fare provided for our annual 
banquet on the ninth of November. I ol^ect to it as 
being too sub8tantial-«-more worthy of a society of 
butchers than of a corporation &med for its devotion to 
the kitchen. Now, what I have to pn^se is, that for 
the future, the Lord Mayor elect be required to shew 
the bill of &re of his inauguration banquet before he is 
allowed to canvass for the dignity of the Mayoralty. 
Let it be henceforth a rule with us to pay strict and 
conscientious regard to the elegancies of our banquet, 
that we may be enabled to take pride in asking to our 
board all the celebrated foreigners who may visit our 
shores ; let our truf9ies be from the Perigord, our Stilton 
direct from Melton Mowbray. Let not our gastronomic 
affections be exclusively given to turtle ; let us cast off 
the chains that have for so many years bound us to the 
soup tureen, and consent, with one accord, to divide our 
affections equally, and with honour to ourselves. Let us 
study Soger's Regisneraior ; let us heroically try mutton 
basted with devil*s tears, and on our knees do homage to 
foie grcts. Let us resolutely determine to tear ourselves 



■ --»--- n* ! ) 



LORD MATOB*8 BAT. 89 

from turtle ; let us shew to the world that the Aldermen 
of London can dine without sickening their guests with 
the sight of one thousand two hundred and thirty-five 
pints of ''real turtle;** let us give evidence of our 
gastrononuc progress to an admiring country. If we 
must have forty-six capons on our board, let them be 
dressed in twenty different ways ; if eighty roast turkeys 
be indispensable, let the delightful bulbs of le Perigord 
be plentifully provided ; in short, let a man of genius — 
a Soyer — ^be called to our gastronomic cotmcils, and let 
this year, 1849, be worthily celebrated-— let that &mous 
epicure's axiom — " quality not quantity'* — be ever present 
in our minds ; let us in short do our utmost to maintain 
the high reputation which an indulgent country has 
magnanimously vouchsafed to us. Let our feasts be in 
truth '' feasts of reason ** — let the science of gastronomy 
yield its choicest gifts to our guests ; eschewing forty- 
six roast capons, let us solemnly proceed to masticate 
capons scientifically served: let us, in short, be stirring; 
or we shall one day infidlibly sink for ever in the esti- 
mation of our countrymen and of the world. Let our 
maxim be written in our banquetting hall — ^in letters 
of gold— 

QuAUTT NOT Quantity. 



i3 



DECEMBER. 




-^ ; 



tHfi A1I>£HMAN 8 



HINTS TO GASTRONOMIC STUDENTS. 



CHAPTER XIL 



THE AliDEBMAR 8 CHBI8TMA8. 

A8 aD epicure, I have my objections to Christmas ikre; 
as an Englishman, I love this good old time of feasting 
and friendship. Wage merciless war against yom* foe if 
you will, during the three hundred and sixty-four days 
of the year, but give the poor devil a day's peace on this 
annual holly-day.* Bums, and blood-suckers in wig and 

* A miserable pun, which the printer persists in making. 
— Thb Aldebman. 



THB ALDSBMAN 8 HDITS. 



91 



gowni turn from your yocation on this one day, and re- 
fresh yourselves with a hearty taste of enjoyment; fasten 
your claws in your victim to-morrow if you insist upon it, 
but let him only feel the velvet of your feline paws to-day. 
Guardians of the poor, for this day wear a smile ; give a 
ray of sunshine —just one fidnt, flickering ray-^for a few 
brief hours to your hapless charge ; remember £>r a brief 
twelve hours that you are our servants, and not their 
boncbnasten. Lay by your needles; rest your weary 
hearts; throw aside with giant strength the weight of 
the past twelve months ; strive not to read the mystic 
and foreboding future, ye pinched needlewomen; but 
turn to your humble and penurious friends — ^let your 
hearts, with huge endeavour, beat lightly for this one 
day: all England is making the mighty struggle to be 
^ad — be not you behindhand. Need I counsel you, 
mijestic brotherhood of the stomach, on your Christmas 
conduct ? No I I &el a close affinity with you, and am 
satisfied that on such a day your talents will shine with 
transcendent lustre. But to my bachelor students I may 
be permitted to say a word on Christmas day. In their 
youthfiil enthusiasm for tfadrjgastronopiio pursuits, they 
may be apt to be carried awi^ by a &lse notion of what 
is due to themselves aad to their brotherhood on this 
lugh festival. It may occur to them that they should be 
prepared to suffer martyrdom on this day in the great 
cause of gastronomy— that they should set aside relations 
and friends, and calmly weigh the relative merits of the 
entertainments to which they may be invited. Against 
so serious an error let me solemnly guard them. Be it 
my province to assure them, on the part of their epicu- 



92 DBCBMBBB. 



rean brotherhood, that on Christmas day*— and on this 
day only — ^they must set aside their gastronomic pre- 
possessions, and consent for a brief period of fonr-and- 
twenty hours to turn to their kin, without thoiight of 
the fkre provided for them. On Christmas day the 
stomach humbly bows to the heart. Let them enshrine 
this truth in the tablet of their brain, and act upon it 
scrupulously and honestly. On Christmas day the gas- 
tronomic nature comes out with unusual lustre, for on 
this day the heart sways the palate, and the coarsest 
&re, savoured with kindliness, is swallowed with rare 
zest. I can honestly assert that this is so with me ; that 
on Christmas day my heart warms to my friends more 
than to their wine ; that on thb day I can drink the 
vilest counterfeit of the grape, so it be softened and 
sugared with the Mendship and open hands and &ces of 
those who sit at my hoUy-decked board. If Selfishness 
must stalk abroad all the year round, let the hideous 
creature shrink into some hiding-place on Christmas 
day! We have ample time for cheating and maiming 
one another : let us then continue to set apart this day 
to universal friendship; let olive-branches, instead of 
bloody flags, wave firom our church steeples ; let us all 
daim one common brotherhood; let us all, in short, 
gather together in groups and make ourselves mirthful 
over the Kx^t and Fork — and look forward with eager- 
ness to that of 1850, for I promise you one next year, 
and I trust a more polished one. 



THE CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 



93 



THE CKRZSTliSAS PUDDING. 

The housewife b sadly inexperienced who cannot 
make a decent Christmas pudding : and the man is sorely 
to be pitied whose wife cannot properly direct the man- 
agement of this delightful compound. A plum-pudding 
is a joy for ever. Other puddings are very well occa- 
sionally, but a plum-pudding is always a welcome dish to 
the epicure. It is, certainly, taken in a truly scientific 
light, the masterpiece of the British kitchen. We have 
no other dish that can be compared with it for a mo- 
ment ; it stands alone — ^incomparable. I am not going 
to insult the wives of England by offering them a recipe 
for plum-pudding; I simply wish to add my testimony 
to that of a grateful world in &vour of this estimable 
pudding. Let me, however, in conclusion, warn my 
younger readers against the wrong done to gastronomic 
science by the presumptuous mortal who dares to swallow 
plum-pudding without fully, earnestly, and reverentially 
doing justice to its singular exquisiteness. No true epi- 
cure ever laughed over a plate of plum -pudding. Wish- 
ing all my readers the palate to appreciate, and the 
stomachs to digest this culinary masterpiece, I respect- 
fully wish them adieu. 



94 GASTRONOMIC RAMBLES ABOUT LONDON. 



OA8TB.01I0MZC RAMBT.ES ABOUT LONDON. 

Mt rambles aboat London have not, let me assure the 
young and inexperienced epicure, been made in vain. I have 
visited every nook and cranny of this vast metropolis, and 
brought to ught many of its obscure wonders. Nor has my 
attention been altogether confined to the gastronomic beauties 
of our capital, certainly not. I have xnade a point of ex- 
ploring the colossal marts of the Moses and H^ams of this 
wonderful city; I have peered into the ngantic establish- 
ments of NuMBEB One (the celebrated Number One); /of 
Loader of Finsbury, Rippon and Burton, and of Messrs. 
Fortnum and Mason, and I have made ddjiehtful joumies in 
the Fannus Corium of Messrs. Hall, of W&i^ngum Street; 
but till now I have refrained from making my experience 
public. It has, however, been suggested to me, that a work 
like the present would be incomplete if it did not include a 
guide to the notable gastrononuc establishments with which 
London abounds. 

First on m^ list comes Soyer with his sauce— 4iis piquant 
sauce for ladies, and his finely flavoured, frdl (if we may be 
allowed the expression) sauce for men ! Nor are these sauces 
the only ofierings this celebrated follower of Ude and Savarin 
has to make to an epicurean public: who has not borne de- 
lighted testimony to his Nectar? Have you, fellow epicure, ever 
mingled a little sherry with Soyer's nectar? if so, you have 
tasted the most delightful beverage ever presented, on a sum- 
mer's day, to a thirSing mortal. Well, these ofierings may be 
had in Rupert Street, Haymarket, at M. Soyer and Go.*s esta- 
blishment; then, a short walk from Rupert Street, led me, one 
bright day, to Morel's, where I secured some splendid Cnnfoa 
from Amsterdam, and some very fine Maraschino of Zara; 
and where the student may, let me assure him, always get 
liquors in perfection. Bein^ in the neighbourhood I saun- 
tered to the offices of the Cadiz Wine Company, in St. Jameses 
Street, where I sipped some very excellent sherry, which, 
as the managing director informed me, was marked at 
a very moderate figure. I was in a fit of gastronomic 



GA8TK0N0MIG BAMBLE8 ABOUT LONDON. 95 

enthusiasm on the day m question; and was detennined 
to test the excellencies of the various wines offered for 
sale hy London dealers; hut before leaving St James's 
Street, I took caie (as I was about to visit my country 
cottage for a week or so^ to order a few dozen of Bass s 
exceUent India Pale Ale, of Messrs. Berry and Go. I 
then directed my steps towards the premises of Messrs. 
Hedges and Butler, in Begent Street. Here I was delighted 
with a few choice samples of some exquisite wine. Among 
others, let me recommend their Chateau Margeaux, Lafitte, 
Beaune, Johannisberger, and Assmanhausenf~>(a fine red 
Hock). In Piccadilly (as we are in the neighbourhood) 
let not the epicure neglect to pay a visit to Messrs. Gillat and 
Son, who have some splendid old Cognac Brandy; or, if he 
happen to stroll so far west, let him test the quality of the 
Manala^ kept by J. Jones, of Knightsbridge. 

Epicures who have appetites for breakfast, or whose palate 
demands at this hour a savoury, yet not a rich dish, should 
try Townes' Boiled Ox Tongues, which may be bought at 
Townes* Establishment, Shaftesbury Terrace, Pimlico: I can 
cordially recommend thenu 

In B^nt Street, the epicure may well pause to take into 
consideration the advantages of Lipscombe's Patent Filter; 
it is certainly the most effectual I have yet seen. Let the 
student pass on with me into Vere Street, Oxford Street, and 
note particularly the emporium where Lea and Perring's cele- 
brated Worcestershire Sauce is made, and where the exquisite 
essence of coffee, and the dandelion coffee, are sold in great 
quantities. Or, iif he be that way inclined^specially if he 
be of the City of London, he wul go straightway to Bemers 
Street — ^to the house of Messrs. Bannie and Co., to secure a 
jar of their Essence of Turtle. 

I cannot accompany the student further ; I am old, and 
cannot trudge onward with the briskness of youth ; so I 
must e'en nA. of an indulgent public to allow me to chronicle 
in due order, a few of the establishments whose scientific en- 
deavours in promoting gastronomy, and adding to the re- 
finements of the table, entitle them to the respectM attention 
of the epicure. For the year 1850 I promise a complete and 
well-digested tour. 



Messrs. Slack's Pnrified Nickel Silver. (Excellent for the 
epicurean economist.) 

M'Gnffie's Funch Sauce. (A passable sauce.) 

Edwards' Ginger Wine— Holbom HilL (Excellent sto- 
machic.) 

Mansell & Go's Tea»— Bucklersburj. (Excellent and cheap.) 

Sassafras Ghocolate — 12, Southampton Street, Strand. 
(Good.) 

Taylor's Meat Lozenges— Barclay and Sons, Farringdon 
Street. (Excellent for travellers at night.) 

Table Covers— L. & M. Worms, Whitechapel Road. (The 
epicure's table-cloth should be faultless ; I recommend ^ose 
of Messrs. Worms.) 

D'Ojleys of Wdlington Street, Strand, are sufficiently 
known for their d'oyleys. , 

Decimal Palm Candles — Messrs. Palmer and Co., Sutton 
Street, Clerkenwell. (Light a dinner table capitiUly.) I also 
recommend the Camphine Lamps of Messrs. Young and Co., 
Queen Street, Cheapside, which never smoke, if treated with 
ordinary care, whim is more than can be said of aU Cam- 
phine Lamps. 

Brett's Liqueur Gmger Brandy, is excellent on a winter's 
morning. 

The Black Teaof Messrs. Phillips and Ca, King William 
Street, City, is a very finely flavoured leaf. 

Epicures should recommend their cooks to get Paul de 
Yere*s Patent Concentrated Vegetable and Spice Essences, 
sold by Bowed of Tavistock Street, Covent Garden : they 
are excellently preserved. 

Caveza Shcnrries, from Xerez de la Frontera— Lewis, 
Brother8,Eing William Street, City. (This is a veiy fine, 
pure Sherry.) 

Gunpowder Tea— Pope's Warehouse, Pavement, Finsbaxy. 

Harvey's Fish Sauce— E. Lazeaby and Son, Edward Street, 
Portman Square. 

Dinner Services of Stone China — Messrs. Brown, St. Mar- 
tin's Lane, Charing Cross. (A celebrated matching house.) 

Dinner Services— G. Sander, High Holbom. 

Smoky Chimnies — (a most important point in the epicure's 
kitchen).— Green and Bentle/s Syphon Chinmey Pot, Upper 
George Street, Edgeware Boad. 



r 



L 



RETURN TO the circulation desk of any 
University of California Library 

or to the 

NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 
BIdg. 400, Richmond Field Station 
University of California 
Richmond, CA 94804-4698 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

• 2-month loans may be renewed by calling 
(510)642-6753 

• 1-year loans may be recharged by bringing 
books to NRLF 

• Renewals and recharges may be made 
4 days prior to due date 

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 

NOV 1 5 2003 



APR 8 2004 



nnon MsU AJTkO 



