Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 






imiwl 



JT 



yd, J. ' $0btfd/y7 




THE 



USEFUL ARTS 



EMP 



THE PROD 




CLOTHING. 



THE SECOND EDITION. 



LONDON: 
JOHN W. PARKER, WEST STRAND. 

MDCCCLI. 






HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 
CLAPP FUND 



v *^ tOHBOK J 

flAYILL AHD XOTTASDS, PJHXTZBS, 
C&MnKM 0XHBT. 



* 



INTRODUCTION. 



..- .•:.: i 



A slight inquiry into the nature of the employments of 
oar fellow-men will suffice to show thai a vary large pro* 
portion of them is devoted to the production of Clothing. 
"Observe the accommodation of the most common arti- 
ficer or day-labourer, in a civilised and thriving country, 
and you will perceive, that the number of people, of whose 
industry a part, though but a small part, has been employed 
in procuring him this accommodation, exceeds all compu- 
tation. The woollen coat, for example, which covers the 
day-labourer, coarse and rough as it may appear, is the 
produce of the joint labour of a great multitude of work- 
men. The shepherd, the sorter of the wool, the wool- 
comber or carder, the dyer, the spinner, the weaver, the 
fuller, the dresser, with many others, must all join their 
different arts, in order to complete even this homely pro- 
duction. How many merchants and carriers, besides, must 
have been employed, in transporting the materials from 
some of those workmen to others, who often live in a very 
distant part of the country! How much commerce and 
navigation in particular, how many ship-builders, sailors, 
Bail-makers, rope-makers, must have been employed, in 
order to bring together the different drugs made use of by 
the dyer, which often come from the remotest corners of 
the world ! What a variety of labour, too, is necessary in 
order to produce the tools of the meanest of those workmen! 
To say nothing of such complicated machines, as the ship 
of the sailor, the mill of the fuller, or even the loom of the 
weaver, let us consider only what a variety of labour is 



IV INTEODUCTION. 

requisite in order to form that very simple machine, the 
shears, with which the shepherd clips the wool. The 
miner, the builder of the furnace lor smelting the ore, the 
feller of the timber, the burner of the charcoal to be made 
use of in the smelting-house, the brick-maker, the brick- 
layer, the workmen who attend the furnace, the mill- 
wright, the forger, the smith, must, all of them, join their 
different arts in order to produce them. Were we to 
•examine, in the same manner, all the different parts of his 
dress and household furniture, the coarse linen shirt which 
he wears next his skin, the shoes which cover his feet, the 
bed which he lies on, and all the different parts which 
compose it, the kitchen-grate at which he prepares his 
victuals, the coals which he makes use of for that purpose, 
dug from the bowels of the earth, and brought to him, 
perhaps, by a long sea and a long land carriage, all the 
other utensils of his kitchen, all the furniture of his table, 
the knives and forks, the earthen or pewter plates upon 
which he serves up and divides his victuals, the different 
hands employed in preparing his bread and his beer, the 
glass window which lets in the heat and the light, and 
keeps out the wind and the rain, with all the knowledge 
and art requisite for preparing that beautiful and happy 
invention, without which these northern parts of the world 
could scarce have afforded a very comfortable habitation, to- 
gether with the tools of all the different workmen employed 
in producing these different conveniences: — if we examine, 
I say, all these things, and consider what a variety of labour 
is employed about each of them, we shall be sensible, that, 
without the assistance and co-operation of many thousands, 
the very meanest person in a civilized country could not 
be provided, even according to what we very falsely imagine 
the easy and simple manner in which he is commonly 
accommodated. Compared, indeed, with the more extrava- 
gant luxury of the great, his accommodation must, no 



INTRODUCTION. V 

doubt, appear extremely simple and easy; and yet it may 
be true, perhaps, that the accommodation of a European 
prince does not always so much exceed that of an indus- 
trious and frugal peasant, as the accommodation of the 
latter exceeds that of many an African king, the absolute 
master of the lives and liberties of ten thousand naked 
savages."* 

The object of the present treatise is to illustrate in detail 
a portion of the above text, by tracing the natural history, 
production, preparation, modes of manufacture and statis- 
tics, of the principal substances employed in the production 
of Clothing. 



* Dr. Adam Smith. Inquiry into the Nature and Catuet of the Wealth 
of Nation*. 



CONTENTS. 



Chaptxb L— Oh thb Materials uwn> fob Clothing. 

IaTROBocnow— Ob clothing generally considered, page 9— Use of 
woven doth, skins and fort, leather, 10-- Historical notice of the ootton 
mannfactore, 11— MuaHn and roetian, IS— Early ose of linen— 11m 
linen msimfarinre, 18— Early nee of woollen garment* Historical 
notice, 14— The woolsack, 16-— Ancient commerce in, and nee of silk, 16 
— Introduction of the silk-worm into Europe, 17— Qradnal progresi of 
the silk manufacture, 18 — Its introduction into England, 19 — Other 
material* used in clothing, 20. 

Chaptbb IL— Cotton. 

Natural history of cotton, 21 — Varieties of the ootton tree, 22— The 
mode of cultivation, 28 — Gathering and preparing for exportation, 28— 
The cotton-gin, 24— Whipping and bowing, 28, 24 — Method of packing, 
26 — The cotton trade at Liverpool and Manchester, 26— First processes 
in the manufacture ; cleaning and picking ; batting and blowing, 27 — 
Carding, 28 — Drawing and roving, 30 — Arkwright's improvements, 80 
— Spinning, 81 — Early methods, 82— Weaving 84 — Hand-loom and 
power-loom, 34, 35 — Varieties of weaving, 88 — The Jacquard machine, 
89 — Bobbin net and lace, 89— Bleaching of ootton, 40— The old method 
and the new method contrasted, 41 — Starching, 42— Calendering, 48—* 
Dyeing ootton, 44 — The process for dyeing Turkey-red and indigo blue, 
45, 46 — Calico printing, 47— Press printing and cylinder printing, 48— 
Mordants and dischargers, 49— Examples of calico printing, 49— Ban- 
dana handkerchief^ 51— Statistics of the ootton trade, 66. 

Chapter m.— Wool, 

Nature and production — Varieties of wool, 56 — Merino sheep, mode of 
treatment, 57 — Worsted manufacture, 58— Wool-combing, 58, 59— 
Weaving, 60 — Manufacture of broad-cloth— Wool carding, 61 — Blub- 
bing, 62 — Warping, 68 — Scouring, fulling or milling, 64 — Teazling, 65— 
Cropping and shearing, 67 — Pressing, 68 — Bleaching, 69 — Dyeing, 70 
— Processes for blue or black, 71 — Statistics of the woollen manufac- 
ture, 72. 

Chaptsb IT.— -Liken. 

flax and hemp, 78— Natural history of flax, and its mode of cultivation, 
74 — Water-retting and dew-retting, 74 — Braking 76 — Heckling, 77— 
Sorting and roving, 78 — Spinning and weaving, 81 — Bleaching, 82 — 
Dyeing, 88- ■Statistics of the linen manufacture, 88. 

Chapteb V. — Silk. 

Natural history and cultivation of the mulberry tree, 84 — Substitutes 
for mulberry leaves as food for silk-worms, 86 — Natural history of the 
silk-worm, 87 — Modes of rearing— Preparation of the eggs, 88 — Treat- 
ment of the worm, 89— Quantity of food consumed in its different 



Via CONTENTS. 

stages,91 — Diseases of the silk-worm,92 — Remarkable disease called mus- 
cardine, 93 — Changes of the silk -worm — The cocoon, 95 — The imago, 
or perfect insect, 96 — Comparative weights of the insects at different 
period?, 98 — Preparation of the silk — Gathering and sorting cocoons, 
99 — Varieties of cocoons, 100 — Quantity of silk produced from, 101 — 
Reeling, 102 — Methods adopted in China, Italy, and France, 105— 
Throwing, 107 — Sir Thomas Lombe's machines and manufactory, 111 
— Weaving, details of, 118 — Figure weaving, 113 — M. Jacquard and 
his loom, 114 — Power weaving, 115 — Rev. Mr. Cartwright's inventions* 
1 16— Varieties of woven silks — Velvet, 1 17 — Details of the manufacture, 
119 — Brocade, 120 — History and details of the manufacture, 121 — 
Damask, 123— Gauze, bombazine, poplin, sarsenet, satin, &c., 124 — 
Crape, 125— Bleaching of silk, 125 — Dyeing 126 — Substitutes for silk — 
Silk from spiders, 127— Silk from shell-flsh, 131— Statistics of silk, 135. 

Chapter VI.— Hosiery. 

Stockings, 186 — Historical notice of the art of knitting, 137 — Historical 
notice of the stocking-loom — Various claimants of the invention, 139 — 
William Lee, 140 — Attempts to introduce and improve the stocking- 
frame, 142 — Statistics of stockings, 143 — Historical notice of gloves, 
143— Challenging by the glove, 145 — Glove-money, 146 — Materials and 
manufacture, 147 — Statistics of gloves, 148. 

Chapter VII. — Hats. 

The felting property of wool, 149— Philosophy of felting, 150— Micro- 
scopic examination of wool, 152 — Beaver-hat making, 154 — Various 
stages of the process, 155 — Felting by machinery, 159 — Silk-hat manu- 
facture, 159— Straw-hats, 160 — Plaiting, 161— The Italian method, 162 
—Statistics of the straw-hat manufacture, 163 — Ornamental straw-work 
— Improved methods of splitting, opening, flattening, and polishing the 
straw, 164 — Dyeing the straw, 165 — Tools required for ornamental 
straw-work, 166 — Examples of the art, 167 — Miscellaneous remarks on 
coverings for the head, 169 — The hats of our ancestors, 170. 

Chapter VIII.-- Garments of Leather. 

Coverings for the foot— Walking, 172— The philosophy of tanning— 
Substances yielding tannin, 173 — The gall insect, 174 — Varieties of 
skins, 175— Tanning butts, 175— Tanning crop hides, 176— Tanning 
calves' and seals' skins, 177— Currying, 178— Lambs' skins, 178— Tawing, 
179 — Morocco leather, 180 — Boot and shoe making, 180 — Shoes made 
by Brunei's machinery, 183— Statistics of leather, 186 — Curious ex- 
amples of coverings for the feet, 187. 

Chapter IX. — Miscellaneous Processes. 

Fur clothing, 189— The fur trade, 190— Waterproof clothing, 191 — 
Mackintosh's process, 193— Gilt-button making, 193 — Shoe-buckles, 195 
—Historical notices, 196— Prosperity and decline of the manufacture, 
197. 



The 



Useful Arts employed in the Production 



of Clothing. 



Chapteb I. 

ON THE MATEEIALS USED FOE CLOTHING. 

Natuee has granted to every animal except man a covering 
sufficient to protect him from the inclemency of the weather. 
The lion of the tropics, and the shaggy bear of the polar 
regions, are equally fitted to contend, the one against the 
heat, and the other against the cold, which characterize 
those strikingly different portions of the surface of the 
globe : the lion does not sink under the burning sun of 
Africa ; nor does the white bear require any coat but that 
which nature has given him to resist the piercing frosts of 
Greenland. But man — feeble even in his strength— must 
provide artificially a covering to protect him from chilling 
cold; and although the natives of some hot countries live 
from infancy to old age almost entirely without clothing, 
the low state of mind among them seems to show that man, 
in order to maintain his supremacy among created beings, 
must labour, by the " sweat of his brow," to procure cover- 
ings in some respect analogous to those with which other 
animals are provided by nature. The Almighty has strewn 
the beautiful face of the earth with gjifts profitable and 
pleasant to man; but it appears to be wisely ordained, that 
man shall not enjoy them without bringing into active ex- 
ercise his powers both of mind and body. Thus it is with 
regard to clothing, as well as to many other of the neces- 
saries of life: the raw materials are presented to us in 
abundance; but we must bestow labour on them before 
they are fit for our use. 

In every country removed from absolute rudeness and 
barbarism, we find that the larger portion of the ma- 
terials composing the apparel of mankind consists of 
woven cloth, a fabric made of fibrous threads, which ad- 
here to one another by being interlaced. This charac- 
ter, it will be perceived, applies to all the various 
cloths manufactured from cotton, wool, flax, hemp, and 

C. B 



10 CLOTHING. 

silk, however different may be the sources of these 
materials : cotton consists of fibres taken from the seed- 
pod of the cotton plant ; — flax and hemp, of a fibrous bark 
or rind of two well-known plants; — wool, of the soft 
covering which nature affords to the sheep and a few 
other animals ; — and silk, of a beautifully minute thread 
which is furnished by the silkworm ; yet, various as are 
these sources, the fibrous or hairy material thus yielded, 
is, in each case, capable of being spun into a tenacious 
yarn or thread, and this yarn of being woven into a con- 
tinuous cloth or tissue, from which garments can be made. 

Almost the only other substance from which the larger 
garments have been made, is the skins of animals, more 
or less prepared after having been removed. The close 
texture of the skin enables it to resist moisture to a great 
extent; while the hair or fur, with which it is in most 
cases covered, enables it to resist cold. We are in the 
habit of saying that furs constitute warm garments, as if 
the fur itself were warm ; but what really occurs is this, 
that the fur prevents the natural warmth of the body from 
escaping, when the atmosphere is cold : — we do not put 
on garments to " keep out the cold," but to keep in the 
warmth, since the blood flowing through the system is 
nearly or quite as warm in mid-winter as in mid-summer. 

The Indian warriors in the American prairies, as well as 
Other nations slenderly acquainted with the arts of civilized 
life, kill the bison, or the ox, or whatever animal their 
country affords, — eat the flesh, if it be such as will gratify 
their palate, — and convert the skins into garments. It 
generally happens in such cases, that those animals which 
furnish the most nourishing food are not those which 
possess the warmest or most beautiful furs ; but nature is 
seldom so chary of her gifts as to limit the supply of 
animals too narrowly to admit of some species being caught 
for the purposes of food, and others for the sake of their furs. 

The skins, among such nations as those to which we have 
referred, are seldom otherwise prepared than by drying; 
for the process of tanning, by which the membranous 
portion, after being deprived of the fur, is converted into 
leather, is one requiring much of that intelligence and 
many of those resources which can only be met with in 
civilized life. There is scarcely any intermediate step 
between the use of the unprepared skins of animals, and 
that of a woven fabric formed of threads. Consequently, 
we find, that at a very early period in the history of the 
human race, mention is made of woven cloths, formed of 
some fibrous material, sometimes one of those before-men- 



COTTON. 11 

tioned, at other times of gold or silver thread. It may be 
interesting to take a rapid glance at the use of woven or 
textile fabrics for clothing, in past ages. It is a subject not 
a little connected with the advance 01 nations in civilization. 

The manufacture of cotton owes its birth to India, where 
it has existed for thousands of years; for, to say nothing 
of traditionary report, Herodotus, who wrote twenty-three 
centuries ago, distinctly mentions the cotton fabrics of 
India, saying that a species of plant in that country bears a 
fruit full of wool, superior to that of the sheep, with which 
the natives make cloth for their garments: this "wool- 
bearing plant" is the cotton-tree. Arrian and Strabo like- 
wise mention the cotton fabrics of India; and so little have 
the manners and arts of the Hindoos changed, that a de- 
scription of the cotton manufacture at Baroche, a town in 
the north-west part of India, which was written in the 
second century of our sera, almost exactly agrees with the 
present practice. The manufacture at Baroche is said by 
Forbes to be very considerable, employing thousands of 
men, women, and children, in the production of fabrics 
from the finest muslin to the coarsest sail-cloth. The cot- 
ton weavers and spinners generally reside in the suburbs ; 
and the weavers' houses are mostly near the shade of 
tamarind and mangoe trees, under which, at sunrise, they 
fix their looms. 

Neither the Jews, the Egyptians, the Greeks, nor the 
Romans, appear to have known much of the cotton manu- 
facture. Dr. Ure remarks, " If we consider how near to 
Syria and Egypt are the regions where the cotton shrub 
was indigenous, we may feel surprised that it should have 
remained so long unknown, or neglected by nations to whom 
it would have furnished a far cheaper and more comfortable 
article of dress than the flax plant. Indeed, the insulation 
of the cotton manufacture in India, for so many centuries 
after a considerable intercourse with the East had been 
established by the conquests of the Greeks and the Eomans, 
is one of the most singular phenomena in the history of 
man, and shows how little inquisitive these highly cele- 
brated people were concerning the arts conducive to per- 
sonal comfort." 

It seems probable that the followers of Mahomet were 
the first to bring the cultivation and preparation of cotton 
into western countries, after they had conquered the im- 
mense range of country from India to Barbary ; but nothing 
certain appears to be known till about the thirteenth cen- 
tury, when Marco Polo, the traveller, found that, near the 
town of Mosul in Persia, the cotton plant was cultivated 

B 2 



12 CLOTHING. 

in abundance, and woven fabrics were made from it. From 
Mosul is derived the name of muslin, which we apply to a 
fine description of cotton fabric. 

When the Mahometans conquered Spain, they intro- 
duced the cotton manufacture into that country, where it 
flourished considerably in the thirteenth, fourteenth, and 
fifteenth centuries. Our wor&fltistian is derived from the 
name fustaneros, signifying sitbstantial f which the Spaniards 
applied to a stout Jand of cotton goods. 

In the same manner as the Moors brought the manu- 
facture of cotton into Spain, so did they likewise cause it 
to be gradually cultivated and woven in various parts of 
Africa and Asia. It is not among the least remarkable 
instances of the mystery in which the early history of 
America is involved, that when Mexico was first discovered, 
the natives were found to be clothed in garments of beau- 
tiful cotton cloth, finely- woven, and of diversified colours, 
A few days after Cortes arrived in Mexico, he despatched 
to the Emperor Charles V., in July, 1519, among other 
rich presents, a variety of cotton mantles, some white, 
others chequered with white and black, or red, green, yel- 
low, and blue; on the outside rough, like a shaggy cloth, 
and on the inside without either colour or nap. A number 
of under-waistcoats, handkerchiefs, counterpanes, tapes- 
tries, and carp ets, all made of cotton, were likewise sent to 
Europe. Whether the Mexicans derived the manufacture 
from India, or whether it was the result of their own in- 
ventive ingenuity, it is now impossible to determine. 

Italy, Holland, the Netherlands, England, France, and 
other European countries, successively introduced the cot- 
ton manufacture among them, and from thence commenced 
that continuous chain of improvement (particularly in Eng- 
land) which has brought the cotton manufacture to such 
a wondrous importance. The Hargreaves, the Arkwrights,. 
and the Cromptons we can only mention with honour and 
respect, but we cannot attempt to detail the nature of their 
labours. Suffice it to say, that there is now scarcely a 
district in any civilized part of the globe where cotton 
cloth is not known. 

It may here be remarked, that the introduction of cotton 
into England did not take place at so early a period as some 
documents would seem to indicate. Thus Leland, in his 
Itinerary, spoke of Bolton, three centuries ago, in the fol- 
lowing terms :— " Bolton-upon-Moore market standeth most 
by cottons : divers villages in the ruoores about Bolton do 
make cottons" Other writers speak similarly ; but it has 
lately been shown with tolerable certainty, that cotton was 



LINEN — WOOL. 13 

not then known in England ; that the fabrics alluded to 
were made of woollen; and that " cottons" implied a close- 
fitting garment, or at least a woven fabric fitted for making 
into such garments. The word, as applied to a close-fitting 
garment, without reference to the material whereof it is 
made, has been traced through an extensive range of lan- 
guages. 

The manufacture of linen may be referred to a higher 
antiquity than that of cotton. Cruden has collected more 
than twenty allusions to it from the Holy Scriptures, some 
of them relating to periods of very high antiquity. A few 
may be quotedhere. For instance, Deut. xxii. 11, " Thou 
ahalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, as of woollen and 
linen together." Lev. xix. 19, " Neither shall a garment 
mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee." Lev. xvi. 
23, " And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the con- 
gregation, and shall put off the linen garments." 1 Sam. 
ii. 18, " Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child, 
girded with a linen ephod." 1 Kings, x. 28, " Solomon 
had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn." 

The swaddling bands so profusely wrapped round the 
mummies of Egypt are generally made of linen. Linen 
was, in fact, the clothing material of that industrious 
nation ; it was held in such high esteem as to be used as a 
raiment by royalty, and diligently imitated by the neigh- 
bouring nations. The Jews, Greeks, and Jiomans pro- 
bably derived their knowledge of the linen manufacture 
originally from the Egyptians. Alexander Severus was 
the first Roman emperor who wore linen ; but the use of 
it did not become common until long after his time. 

From Rome or its dependent provinces the linen manu- 
facture extended to various parts of Europe ; but it appears 
to have been in the British Isles that it has made most pro* 
.gress. It is supposed to have been carried on uninterrupt- 
edly since the time when the Romans conquered Britain ; 
and has ever since formed an important part of British 
manufacture, particularly in Ireland and Scotland. Irish 
linens have hitherto maintained a certain degree of pre- 
ponderance over others ; but within the last few years the 
linen manufacture at Dundee in Scotland has advanced 
with strides as rapid as those which have distinguished the 
cotton manufacture at Manchester ; while in and around 
Barnsley in Yorkshire, consequent, perhaps, on the vicinity 
of the very large flax-mills at Leeds, a considerable linen 
trade has sprung up. 

The use of woollen garments is of high antiquity. They 
are frequently mentioned in the Bible ; and wnen we con- 



14 CLOTHING. 

eider how universally sheep have been bred for their flesh, 
it is natural to expect that the employment of the wool as 
a, material for clothing would follow. At a very early 
period domestic sheep were extensively spread over West- 
ern Asia. Pliny informs us, that Nicias of Megara dis- 
covered the art of fulling cloth ; the property which wool 
possesses of being felted was however known in the East 
at a much earlier period, and probably gave rise to the first 
manufacture of woollen goods. The process of felting will 
be described hereafter ; but it may be stated here, that it 
is a property by which the filaments of wool, when moist- 
ened and pressed, curl and twist among each other so as 
to form a tough fabric. When this property was once dis- 
covered, the knowledge of the art was soon widely spread. 
The tents of many of the Arabs and Tartars are, at the 
present day, made of felt from the wool of sheep, mingled 
with the hair of goats, camels, and other quadrupeds, and 
may be considered as a memento of the original art of 
cloth-making. 

The weaving of wool into cloth seems to have been known 
as long back as fifteen hundred years before the Christian 
SBra. We possess little information respecting the woollen 
manufactures of the Greeks and Romans, as distinct from 
the simple spinning and weaving which formed parts of 
female domestic employment. That the Romans nad car- 
ried the manufacture of fine woollen cloth to a high degree 
of perfection, is an opinion supported by many circum? 
stances, particularly by the great attention paid to the 
cultivation of fine-wooled sheep, and by the high prices at 
which the wool and the sheep were sold. Wool was the 
material of nearly all the garments worn by the Romans; 
and as the climate was warm, they endeavoured to spin 
and weave the wool into as fine and light a fabric as possible, 

When Rome was overrun by barbarians, the woollen as 
well as other manufactures were thrown into confusion ; 
but the comfort of warm and decent clothing was too im- 
portant to allow such an art to fall into oblivion ; and we 
consequently find that that country which we now call 
Holland and Belgium, became the seat of this important 
manufacture. A recent writer observes, "The woollen 
manufacture began to revive, and became the separate oc- 
cupation of one class of the community, about the middle 
of the tenth century, in the Low Countries, where it re- 
mained the glory of the people, and the source of their 
opulence, through more than four hundred years. The 
wool which it consumed for the first few years was the 
produce of their own pastures, which had but lately been 



WOOL, 15 

reclaimed from the forest; but as the manufacture extended 
itself, the demands became larger, and were supplied from. 
a greater distance. The wealth which it distributed was 
soon visible, and people crowded into the country, engaged 
in its commerce, and pushed their speculations with in* 
creasing vigour through one hundred and fifty years, when 
an inundation of the sea threatened to involve the art, the 
artist, and the country, in one general destruction. The 
dispersion of the people who fled from the calamity which 
appeared to overwhelm their hopes, instead of destroying 
the infant manufacture, gave it additional vigour, and was 
the means of establishing a connexion between the Nether- 
lands and foreign countries, which proved of the highest 
importance to commerce. It contributed to a much more 
speedy recovery of the arts connected with the woollen 
manufacture, from the ruin which seemed to threaten them, 
and gave a striking instance of their partiality for the seats 
where they have once flourished, under the patronage of a 
government liberal enough to encourage, and sufficiently 
powerful to protect them, even in situations attended with 
natural disadvantages." 

The woollen manufacture flourished about the same time 
in Spain with marked success, insomuch that when the 
Christian princes expelled the Moors from that country, 
there were found in Seville, in 1248, no less than 16,000 
looms for weaving. Spain gradually shook off the yoke of 
the Mahometans, who had possessed that country for 
several centuries; but the intemperate manner in which 
the Moors were driven from the country, inflicted a last* 
ing injury on the commerce and manufactures of Spain, 
from which it has never yet recovered. 

Italy and France afterwards took up the manufacture; 
and in the latter country it soon attained a high degree 
of importance. England, as has been said, was familiar 
with some sort of woollen manufacture in the time of the 
^Romans. A long interval then occurs in our knowledge of 
the state of that branch of industry; but it appears that 
the introduction of foreign weavers, and most probably a 
consequent improvement in the modes of working, took 
place in the reign of William the Conqueror, when a number 
of Flemings were driven out of their own country by an 
encroachment of the sea, and took refuge in England. From 
that time the woollen manufacture has continued to im- 
prove in England, and has increased to such an extent, 
that till the comparatively recent and unparalleled exten- 
sion of the cotton manufacture, that of wool was deemed 
the staple or principal exercise of English manufacturmg 



16 CLOTHING. 

ingenuity. It is from this circumstance that the custom 
arose of seating the Speaker of the House of Lords (the 
Lord Chancellor) on a woolsack, as a kind of legislative 
acknowledgment of the importance which is and ought to 
be attached to the productive industry of a country. 

Russia, Sweden, ^Norway, and other northern countries 
have only recently entered on this branch of manufacture; 
consequently the extent to which it has arrived is not such 
as to call for particular notice; especially, as we here con- 
fine our attention chiefly to a brief notice of the early 
employment of woven fabrics among different nations. 

Lastly, a few words may be said respecting Silk. This 
beautiful material was evidently much prized by the Jews 
and other nations alluded to in the Holy Scriptures, as such 

Sassages as the following testify: — "Pharaoh arraved 
oseph in silk;" " Her clothing is silk and purple;" " And 
I covered thee with silk;" " Thy raiment was of silk and 
broidered work;" "No man buyeth her merchandise of 
Bilk." 

■ It has been observed, as a wonderful fact, " that the thick 
velvet and the stiff brocade, the thin gauze, and the delicate 
blonde, should all be formed from the product of the 
labours of a little worm;" and it is not unreasonable that 
we should wish to know something of the first application 
of silk to the purposes of clothing. This however, cannot 
with much success be done. The Chinese state that the art 
was known among them nearly three thousand years before 
the Christian sera; and whether we give credence to this 
statement or not, it seems at least probable that they were 
the first people who manufactured silk. 

It appears that the rearing of the silk-worm was wholly 
confined to the Chinese till the time of the Emperor 
Justinian, although the manufacture of the silk into fabrics 
was carried on in Persia, Tyre, the Archipelago, and other 
countries. Silk was but little known in Europe till the 
thne of Augustus, for only a small quantity reached Home, 
and that was by a circuitous and expensive land and water- 
carriage. It was first worn bv the females of rank, and 
gradually came to be used by tnose of lower station; those 
who could not afford the costly luxury of pure silk, pur- 
chased a fabric in which silk formed one part, and some 
coarser material the remainder. The Chinese silks were 
conveyed by the Persian caravans across the whole width 
of Asia, from China to Syria, and thence to Home. During 
the time of Aurelian the best Chinese silk sold for its weight 
in gold. 
From Some the desire for silken dresses extended to 



SILK* 17 

Byzantium (now Constantinople), and the Persians derived 
extraordinary profits by being the agents between the pro- 
ducers and consumers. This led the Emperor Justinian to 
suppose that he might draw a considerable revenue by im- 
posing: a tax on the imported silk: and he did so with such 
rshort-skhtedeagernL as to entirely frustrate his own 
plans; he laid an enormous tax, and ordered that the mer- 
chants should not sell above a certain price. This senseless 
interference with private traffic ruined the merchants, de- 
prived the Constantinopolitans almost entirely of silk, and 
prevented the royal treasury from gaining anything by the 
tax. 

The emperor's severity, however, had the effect of intro- 
ducing the cultivation of the silk-worm into Europe. The 
circumstances are thus detailed by a recent writer:— 

" The commerce of the Romans was in this state, as 
regarded the article of silk, when they obtained relief in a 
very extraordinary and unexpected manner. Two Persian 
monks, having been employed as missionaries in some of 
the Christian churches, which, according to Cosmas, were 
already established in different parts of India, had pene- 
trated into the country of the oeres, or China. There, 
amidst their pious occupations, they viewed with a curious 
eye the common dress of the Chinese, the manufactures of 
silk, and the myriads of silk-worms, whose education, either 
on trees or in houses, had once been considered the labour 
of queens. They soon discovered that it was impracticable 
to transplant the short-lived insect, but that in the eggs a 
numerous progeny might be preserved, and multiplied m a 
distant climate. They observed with interest the labours 
of the little creatures, and strove to make themselves ac- 
quainted with all the manual arts employed in working up 
its productions into so great a variety of fabrics. On their 
return to the West, instead of communicating their know- 
ledge thus acquired to their own countrymen, they pro- 
ceeded on to Constantinople. The prospect of gain, or, as 
some have asserted, an indignant zeal, excited by seeing 
a lucrative branch of commerce engrossed by unbelieving 
nations (i.e. the Persians, &c.,) prompted them to impart 
to the emperor the secret, hitherto so well preserved by 
the Chinese, that silk was produced by a species of worm, 
and to acquaint him with their belief, that the eggs of these 
might be successfully transported, and the insects propa- 
gated in his dominions. Theylikewise explained to Justinian 
the modes of preparing ana manufacturing the tender fila- 
ment, mysteries hitherto altogether unknown, or but im- 
perfectly understood in Europe. By the promise of a great 



18 CLOTHWG. 

reward, the monks were induced to return to China, and 
there, with much difficulty, eluding the vigilant jealousy of 
the Chinese, they succeeded in obtaining a quantity of silk- 
worms' eggs. These they concealed in a hollow cane; and 
at length, in the year 552, conveyed in safety to Constan- 
tinople. The eggs were hatched in the proper season by 
the warmth of manure, and the worms were fed with the 
leaves of the wild mulberry-tree. These worms, in due 
time, spun their silk, and propagated under the careful 
tendance of the monks; who also instructed the Romans in 
the whole process of manufacturing their production. The 
insects thus produced were the progenitors of all the gene- 
rations of silk-worms which have since been reared in 
Europe and the western parts of Asia — of the countless 
myriads whose constant and successive labours are engaged 
in supplying a great and still increasing demand. A caneful 
of the eggs of an Oriental insect thus became the means of 
establishing a manufacture which fashion and luxury had 
already rendered important, and of saving vast sums 
annually to European nations, which, in this respect, had 
been so long dependent on, and obliged to submit to, the 
exactions of their Oriental neighbours."* 

Thus did the silk- worm become domiciled in Europe ; and 
the history of the last thirteen hundred years has shown 
the attempts of various nations to cultivate the silk-worm, 
or, at least, to manufacture the silk after the worm has pro- 
duced it. For six hundred years after the reign of Justinian, 
the silk cultivation spread but little from the Constantino- 
politan Empire: the other countries of Europe were, gene- 
rally speaking, in too rude or disturbed a state to profit 
much by such undertakings. When, however, about the 
twelfth century, the Italian states had risen to some im- 
portance, the silk manufacture extended its range. Soger 
the First, King of Sicily, invaded the territories of the 
Empire, carried off the wealth of Athens, Thebes, Corinth, 
and other towns, and led into captivity a considerable num- 
ber of silk-weavers, whom he settled at Palermo, obliging 
them to impart to his subjects the knowledge of their art. 
The act was a despotic one; but the effect was, that in 
twenty years the silks of Sicily attained a decided excel* 
lence, being of diversified patterns and colours, some fanci- 
fully interwoven with gold, and others richly adorned with 
figures. By degrees the rearing of the worms and the manu- 
facture of the silk became known over the whole of Italy 



* Cabinet Cyclopcedia, " Silk Manufacture, 



«» 



SILK. 19 

and Spain. Bologna, Modena, Florence, Venice, and other 
towns, found that commercial and financial advantages re- 
sulted from the encouragement of this branch of industry: 
indeed, in the last-mentioned city, the nobles did not dis- 
dain to embark in it, considering that the manufactures of 
silk, of glass, and of drugs, were not beneath the dignity of 
grandees : the fact probably was, that a little pride was 
sacrificed to much profit. 

The manufacture was introduced into France during the 
reign of Francis I., and soon rose to importance. Lyons, 
the chief city in the south of France, has always been the 
principal seat, of the silk-trade in that Country. 

Silk was woven in England in the fourteenth century; 
but to an extent quite unworthy of notice. Henry tne 
Eighth thought it a great point to be able to obtain a pair 
of silk stockings from Spain to wear on gala days, instead 
of the usual cloth hose; and Queen Elizabeth was not a little 
proud at receiving a pair of silk stockings from her silk- 
woman, Mrs. Montague, and was so much delighted with 
them, that she never afterwards condescended to wear 
stockings made of cloth. 

From the reign of Elizabeth the use of silk extended in 
England, as did likewise the means and machinery for 
manufacturing it. Down to the year 1718, however, the 
English weavers had to depend upon Italian workmen for 
a supply of the spun silk on which they were to work; but 
in that year, Mr. Lombe, of Derby, went to Italy, and, in 
the disguise of a common workman, succeeded in taking 
accurate drawings of the silk machinery there in use. On 
his return to England, he erected an extensive silk-mill on 
the river Derwent, at Derby, and obtained a patent for the 
sole and exclusive property in the products of it for fifteen 
years. His mill contained 26,586 wheels, and 97,746 move- 
ments, which worked 73,726 yards of silk thread with every 
revolution of the water-wheel by which the machinery was 
moved ; and as this revolved three times in each minute, 
the enormous quantity of 318,504,960 yards of silk thread 
could be produced daily. The building wherein this 
machinery was erected was of great extent, being five 
stories in height, and occupying one-eighth of a mile in 
length; it was situated on a small island in the Derwent ; 
and there it remains to the present day, an interesting 
memorial in the history of the silk-trade. So long a time 
was consumed in the erection of the machinery, that the 
remainder of the term granted was insufficient to remune- 
rate the inventor for his labours. He therefore applied to 
parliament for an extension of his patent. This was not 



20 CLOTHING. 

granted; but in lieu of it parliament purchased the patent 
of his invention for 14,0001. for the benefit of the public ; 
the conditions being, that competent persons should be 
allowed to execute an exact model of the machinery, to be 
deposited in such place as his majesty should appoint, in 
order to diffuse and perpetuate the manufacture. 

The encouragement thus given to the silk manufacture 
in England greatly accelerated its progress; and from that 
time may be traced a continuous train of important im- 
provements in the different branches of the manufacture ; 
so that at present there are but few countries in Europe 
in which the silk manufacture is not to some extent carried 
on ; although the rearing of the silk-worm has not been 
attended with so much success in the northern as in the 
southern countries of Europe. 

Other materials employed in dress are of much less im- 
portance. Among these, leather, perhaps, holds the highest 
rank. Furs, dressed in various way9,felted wool for nats, 
feathers (used, not for warmth, but for decoration), and a 
small quantity of metal for buttons, buckles, and other 
minor articles, are the principal materials employed, besides 
those already noticed. 

The reader will, therefore, be prepared to expect that a 
popular account of those arts the great object of which is 
the production of clothing, should treat chiefly of those 
relating to woven materials. We shall, therefore, proceed 
to the consideration of the cotton, woollen, linen, and 
silk manufactures, tracing the raw material through the 
various states and processes to which it is subjected until 
it is ready for our use as an article of dress. After haying 
completed this department of our subject, a short notice 
will do given of such other materials for clothing as seem, 
from their importance, to demand it. 



ii minium 1 1 1 1 1 1 




■in 



22 COTTON. 

green, and resemble in shape those of the sycamore. The 
Sower is of a pale yellow, with a purple centre, resembling 
in its form tnat of the Hybiscus, or of the holyoak, and 
produces a three-celled, capsular fruit, which is supported 
by 'the three involucral leaves of the flower. When ripe, 
the pod becomes brown and hard, and finally bursts open, 
disclosing in each cell a mass of white, soft, fibrous matter, 
enveloping a number of seeds, about as large as those of 
our common lupin. . The pod attains the size of a large 
walnut before it opens ; and the fibrous material which it 
thus discloses, is cotton. 

The other principal species are shrubby, biennial, or 
perennial plants. 1st. The Gossypium Indicum, a shrub 
growing ten or twelve feet high, a native of the same hot 
countries as the former. It is biennial or perennial, accord- 
ing to the climate, and when cultivated in colder countries, 
becomes only an annual; but it is a distinct species from 
the G. herbaceum above mentioned, differing in the form 
both of its leaf and fruit. 2nd. The G. hirsutum, a shrub 
indigenous in Central America. 3rd. The G. religiosim, a 
native of Africa and America, as well as of India: tne flower 
changes from white to red. 4th. The G. arboretum, as its 
name imports, attains a larger size, being from twelve to 
twenty feet high : it is a native of all the intertropical 
countries ; but as its produce is not equal in quality to that 
of the foregoing species, it is but little cultivated. There 
is a tree called the silk-cotton tree, which belongs to a sub- 
order called Bombacea. This tree is one of the largest and 
finest in the world: its botanical name is Bombax ceiba; 
but it is familiarly known as the umbrella-tree, from its 
spreading head. It produces a large pod, containing a brown, 
extremely soft, silky cotton, which unfortunately does not 
admit of being spun, as the common cotton is, and is 
therefore only used for stuffing cushions, &c. 

There are other species of the cotton-tree ; but as the 
G. herbaceum is the most valuable source of cotton, we will 
confine our attention to it. All its varieties require a dry, 
sandy soil, and will grow where the ground is too. poor to 
produce any other crop. It is impatient of much wet, and 
the harvest is often destroyed by a rainy season: neverthe- 
less, the plant usually flourishes best near the sea-side. 
The finest, and that most esteemed in commerce, is the 
production of the low sandy islands and plains near the 
coasts of South Carolina and Georgia : hence this cotton is 
called sea-island; and it is said to owe its superiority to the 
action of the salt spray on the plant, and to the use of salt 
mud from the marshes as manure during its growth. 



PREPARATIONS FOB EXPORTATION. 23 

"For cultivating the cotton tree, the fields are ploughed 
into ridges, about five feet apart. The seed is sown in 
drills along the tops of the ridges; and when they come up, 
the plants are thinned out, so as to leave the healthiest and 
strongest at sufficient distances apart. Repeated hoeings 
and weedings take place, the earth 'being drawn up round 
the stems of the plants, not only to supply the roots with 
nourishment, but also to support the plant against the 
violent winds and rains of a tropical climate. The plants 
are also liable to the ravages of a caterpillar, which will 
often totally destroy the crop. If the cotton escape these 
dangers, and the season be favourable, the produce is ready 
for gathering in five or six months. On an average, four 
acres yield about five hundred- weight of clean cotton, sepa- 
rated from the seeds. 

In harvesting the cotton, it is in some countries the 
practice to gather the whole pod; but as the husk is brittle, 
the fragments become mixed up with the fibre, and greatly 
increase the difficulty of cleanmg the cotton, which is one 
of the most troublesome processes in the manufacture. 
Accordingly, in those districts where more care is paid to 
the cultivation, the cotton and seeds are drawn out of the 
pod, the husk being left behind; this is, of course, not done 
till the pod has opened naturally; and since they do not 
all open at the same time, the harvest lasts several weeks. 
The cotton is gathered in the morning, to avoid the action 
of the sun on the fibre, by which it would be discoloured ; 
and none is gathered in wet weather; since the moisture 
would produce mouldiness. 

The cotton, as it is plucked from the pod, is put into a 
bag, suspended from the gatherer's neck ; and from thence 
into a large basket. On the following morning it is spread 
out on wooden platforms to dry; ana the time required for 
drying varies according as the cotton has been gathered in 
fine or damp weather; but as winds or exposure to the sun 
injure the fibre, the cotton is left no longer than is necessary 
to prevent its heating and fermenting when packed. 

Preparations for Exportation. 

When the cotton is dry, it is whipped, that is, it is suffered 
to drop through a hopper, or funnel, into a cylinder made 
of reeds, battens, or wire, supported in a sloping direction; 
and an axis carrying short arms nearly touching the 
cylinder, is made to rotate within the cylinder, either by a 
handle, or by machinery. The cotton, as it passes down 









)t 


;* 


.f 


:■» 


£* 


» 


;Ji 


w 


IM 


£!■ 


i* 1 '. 


'■ I 


\\ 




; 


fe 


IP' 




"IP 






V 




'■■; 




1 






w 






:■ 


MS 
-- 






: ' 


& 


:]) 


K 


R 


a5 


Is 




s- 






,] 


',< 




:§ 


H 


y 






P 


:s 


II 


u 




: 




1 






:<j 


ta 


fcs 


f-3 


1 












& 




-- 




N9J 


e2 


Si 




























i:: 


[i 




i-ilS 






ac 




1 




l 




(■!} 




[li 






^ 


M 


?J 


S! 




?! 


' 








;S 


sa 


cs 


^ 














■:~. 






































:: 


■ 








! : ?) 


K 




ssi 


&«J 


;" 














|| 





|| 


1 


•■1 



26 COTTON. 

bottom of the hopper into a trough beneath. The fibres 
carried through b y the saw are separated again from it by 
the brushes on the second cylinder, and, being swept off 
by these, drop into a box at the bottom of the gin. 

The cotton, when cleaned by any one of these processes, 
is next to be packed for exportation. In order to econo- 
mise ship-room, it is reduced in bulk by being subjected to 
an enormous pressure. Several square frames are piled 
up so as to form a deep chest, the separate parts being kept 
in their places by iron bolts at the corners. This chest is 
erected on the board of a powerful hydrostatic press; and 
there are grooves cut in the board, in which ropes are pre* 
viously laid, to tie up the cotton when pressed into a bale. 
The top board of the press enters into the top of the case 
after this has been filled with cotton, hard rammed down* 
The press, by its enormous power, reduces the bulk of the 
cotton; and as the lower board in succession passes up- 
wards through each case, that case is removed, tall the bale 
is reduced to its smallest limit. The rope is then tied 
round the bale, and it is put into a bag. 

The bulk of the cotton is so reduced by this pressure, 
that a weight of from five to six hundred-weight occupies 
only about twelve cubic feet The average gross weight 
of a bag of cotton from the United States is about three 
hundred and forty pounds, of which the bag weighs seven. 

Cleaning and Spinning. 

Having thus conducted the reader through the various 
processes by which the cotton is transferred from a vege* 
table product to a woolly material compressed tightly in a 
bag, we will proceed to detail the processes through which 
it passes after its arrival in England. 

Liverpool and Manchester are the two great towns which 
owe their distinction and their wealth mainly to the cotton 
manufacture — Liverpool, as the port where nearly all the 
cotton is landed, and Manchester as the town where it is 
either manufactured into cloth, or where the manufacturers 
have established their common market. There are of course 
other ports and other manufacturing towns concerned in 
this important branch of national industry; but it will be 
sufficient to name Liverpool and Manchester as the two 
principal. There are probably no two towns in England 
more dependent on each other than these. The Sfan- 
ehester manufacturer depends on the Liverpool merchant 
for the requisite supply of cotton to enable him to com- 



j 



CTiEANING AM) CARDING. 27 

mence his labours; and looks likewise to the same party as 
the medium through whom the manufactured cloth will find 
its way to foreign markets. On the other hand, the Liver- 
pool merchant looks to Manchester as the customer who 
will purchase the raw cotton which has been imported, and 
who will subsequently employ him as the agent to ship the 
xnanufactured goods to foreign parts. 

This peculiar connexion between these two great towns 
led to the establishment of a water-communication between 
them, by way of the river Mersey, during the last century, 
and also by way of the Bridgewater Canal; and within the 
last ten years, to a land-communication, of infinitely 
greater importance, by means of the Liverpool and Man- 
chester Bauway. 

We will suppose, then, that a bale of cotton is landed at 
Liverpool, and forwarded by the railway to Manchester, 
where it passes into the manufacturer's hands. If the 
cotton had not been compressed to the extent which we 
hare described, the fibres would be sufficiently open for the 
future proceedings of the manufacturer; but they have 
become clotted and entangled by the pressure; and the 
cotton is also much contaminated witn seeds, dirt, Ac* 
These defects are removed by the processes of cleaning 
and picking. Formerly the cotton wool was spread out 
on a wire-work table, and beaten with sticks, by which 
the fibres were loosened from one another, while at the 
same time, small stones, twigs, dust, and other impurities 
fell through the meshes of tine table* But this mode was 
necessarily a slow one, and, like most other parts of the 
cotton manufacture, has been superseded by machinery. 
An engine called a willow is now used for this purpose. It 
is a hollow wire-work machine, into which the cotton wool 
is placed, and which, by a rapid rotation, brings the wool 
into contact with spikes contained within it; the effect of 
which is, that the knots of cotton are disentangled, and 
solid impurities discharged through the meshes of the 
machine. 

The cotton is now in a state to undergo the processes of 
batting and blowing. The object of these is still farther to 
loosen the filaments of cotton, to arrange them in some- 
thing like a regular manner, and to blow away the loose 
dust and small filaments. Tie willowed cotton is spread, 
in a thin layer, on an elastic apron, and is then beaten with 
great rapidity, by bars moved by machinery. The cotton 
thus becomes reduced to the form of fleecy layers called 

C2 



28 COTTON. 

But the fibres have not yet acquired that regularity which 
the operations of the spinner require: they have to undergo 
the process of carding. Let any one consider the common 
operation of combing the hair, and he will have an idea of 
the principle on which carding is performed. Iron wires 
are fixed into a frame, and arranged with great regularity, 
at distances of about one-twentieth of an inch asunder. 
The frame, which is of leather, is wrapped round the sur- 
face of a large cylinder, which has then an appearance that 
may be termed that of a circular brush. JNow suppose 
there are two such cylinders, covered on their surfaces with 
this bristly arrangement of iron wires, and revolving nearly 
in contact with each other, and in opposite directions; if a 
thin lap or layer of cotton be introduced between the two 
cylinders, and they be set into rotation, what will result? 
The teeth of one cylinder will tend to tear in one direction, 
and those of the other in a contrary direction: the conse- 
quence of which is, that any knots still remaining in the 
cotton are disentangled, ana the fibres are forced to assume 
a perfectly parallel direction, between the teeth of the 
carding cylinder. Not only are the fibres thus symme- 
trically arranged, but the neece or lap of cotton becomes 
greatly reduced in thickness, so' as to form a sort of ribbon 
of parallel untwisted fibres. In some modern engines, a lap 
or layer, weighing about five pounds, and measuring thirty- 
two feet in length, is made to pass through all the parts 
of a complicated carding-machine in about fifteen minutes, 
and comes out in the form of a smooth ribbon 540 feet in 
length. 

The following figures represent two cards to be used by 
hand: bc and a are the cards, to which bent teeth are 
attached; and d and e are the handles. When cotton is 
laid on the lower card, and the upper one is moved in the 
direction of the arrow, it will, by the action of the machine 
in which the wires all incline in one direction, be combed 
out and disentangled; but, in the machine in which the 
wires of the two combs are bent in opposite directions, it 
will be all swept off from the lower comb. 

The cards, as the wires are called, were originally fixed 
to fiat surfaces; but successive improvements have led to 
the adoption of cylindrical machines of a most elaborate 
construction, in which the cotton is drawn in between two 
cylinders — partially disentangled by them, transferred to 
another cylinder, and farther disentangled, successively 
passed between two or three more cylinders, flattened, 
thinned, smoothed, and finally thrown off as a ribbon of 



80 COTTOJC. 

happens that a fibre gets doubled or bent in the middle 
round one of the wires. To unbend this doubling, to make 
still more complete the parallelizing process, and to con- 
dense the ribbon into a more solid form, are the objects of 
drawing. The ribbon, or sliver, as it is called, is drawn 
successively between two or three pairs of rollers, of which 
one revolves faster than the other; the effect of which is, 
that the ribbon is dragged or elongated by the roller which, 
revolves fastest. A great many ribbons are laid one on 
another, and drawn through the rollers at the same time, 
by which it is found that the fibres are more completely 
straightened than if one ribbon were only acted on at a time* 

The cotton comes from the drawing machine in the form 
of nearly cylindrical rolls; and it has next to go through 
the process of roving. This consists in winding it round 
pieces of wood called, bobbins, and at the same time giving 
it a slight degree of twist. Sir Bichard Arkwright first 
effected thjs process by letting the rolls of cotton fall into 
a cylindrical can, which was rotating on a vertical axis : by 
this motion the cotton arranged itself round the side of the 
can, and became slightly twisted at the same time; after 
which it was carefully wound by hand round wooden 
bobbins. But by successive stages of improvement, the 
whole of these effects are brought about in a more perfect 
manner by means of a complicated machine called the 
bobbin-ana-fly frame. There is another machine employed 
for this purpose, called the tube-roving machine, in which a 
similar effect is brought about by very different means. 
^ The various processes now detailedhave ended in wind- 
ing the cotton, or, as it is now called, the roving, round 
sticks called bobbins; and we proceed to describe the way in 
which the bobbins, with their loads, are used. The pre- 
ceding processes are called eollectively the preparation' of 
the cotton: the next belongs to the spinning the cotton 
into thread. 

The rovihgs are stretched and made finer and thinner by 
means of a machine called a stretching-frame, and then 
come out as a very soft kind of roving, which must be 
handled with great delicacy. The principle on which the 
stretching is effected may he seen from the annexed cut. 
If these four rollers revolve on their axes, and the cotton be 
drawn between them, it will merely be flattened, provided 
the rollers revolve with equal velocity; but if c and d revolve 
faster than a and b, the cotton roving will be drawn out 
and greatly elongated. It was this principle that led to 
such beautiful results in Arkwright's invention. 



II 



■ 
mm 



. I. t ' 









t 
J! 



ill 

m 



;. 
_ i 

1 1 1 

it 
ill 

ill 



ill 



34 COTTON. 

■ 

thread : it is handed over, in the form of yarn, to the 
weaver, who proceeds to transform that which is now a 
bundle of thread-like fibres, into an extended piece of cloth 
from which garments may be made. 

Weaving. 

We now proceed to that part of the manufacture which 
consists in weaving. This is merely an interlacing of 
threads, crossing one another, so that those which proceed 
in one direction, nelp to fsx. those in the other, and vice versa. 
In a long piece of woven cloth, the long threads are col- 
lectively called the warp, and the cross-threads the weft or 
woof; the outer thread on each long edge is the selvage, 
where the weft-thread returns in its direction. Dr. Ure 
has observed, " The art of weaving is more ancient than 
that of spinning, for the first cloth was, no doubt, akin to 
what we call matting— a texture formed by the interlace- 
ment of woody fibres, and of grasses of various kinds, as is 
still executed by several of the South Sea Islanders. At 
the period of Captain Cook's voyages, most of them were 
strangers even to that rude art, for they made their cloth 
by cementing or sticking shreds together, rather than by 
any kind of decussation (network)." 

Most kinds of calico, and other preparations from cotton, 
receives stiffening quality by means of size or starch. This 
is imparted to the thread which forms the warp, before 
the process of weaving is commenced. The warp-yarn is 
first wound off from the bobbins on which it is left by the 
spinning-machine, and transferred to other bobbins of a 
larger size, from which it is again transferred to cylindrical 
rollers of a given length and shape ; and from these it is 
by a third transference, wound on a large beam called the 
roller or the warp-beam, where it lies in parallel and 
extremely equal layers. The machinery by which the yarn, 
is transferred to this beam also effects the sizing or dressing 

5 recess, and is called the power-loom dressi ng-m achine. 
'he sizing is effected in an ingenious manner. While the 
threads are travelling from the rollers to the warp-beam, 
by the moving force of machinery, they pass between two 
rollers, the lower one of which is immersed in melted size, 
starch, paste, or whatever the stiffening substance may be. 
The threads, passing over the wetted surface of the roller, 
imbibe the paste from it, while the upper roller presses 
firmly on them, and squeezes out the superabundant liquid. 
In order that this may be done equally to every thread, 



HAND-LOOM WEAVING. 3$ 

they are all spread out in one parallel layer, at equal dia» 
tances from one another, each thread being separated from 
its neighbour by a pin or projection. 

By one of those wonderful combinations of machinery 
which the ingenuity of our workmen so frequently presents, 
the same machine which wets the threads with paste, also 
dries them. The threads, after haying been wetted, pass 
orer a heated surface, which, aided by a powerful current 
of wind, artificially excited, completely dries the threads. 
The last operation of the machine is to wind the threads, 
sized and (fried, round the warp-beam, which is done with 
the most undeviating regularity. 

This which we have described is the improved mode of 
transferring the warp to the warp-beam. There are many 
other modes which were used in the infancy of the manu« 
faoture, and as they are still used to a partial extent in the 
cotton manufacture, and to a still greater in that of silk, we 
shall describe the most common method when treating 
of the latter material. 

The process of wearing was for centuries performed by 
the hem of a machine of moderate complexity, called a 
loom, which assisted the weaver in keeping the threads of 
the warp in a proper position, while he made the cross- 
threads or weft. But the last thirty years have witnessed 
the progressive exertion of mechanicians to produce a 
machine which shall not only keep the warp in a proper 
position, but shall also form the weft. This has been ef- 
fected, and the power-loom of the present day presents a 
striking instance of automatic or self-acting machinery. 
We cannot here convey an adequate idea of this machine; 
but, by describing the action of the common hand-loom, 
which preceded the use of the power-loom, the nature of 
theprocess of weaving will be better understood. 

The hand weaver does not receive his warp wound round 
, a warp-beam, as effected by the dressing-machine: that is 
for the use of the power-loom. The common weaver 
receives his warp in a large bundle or roll, and from thence 
he has to transfer it to his warp-beam, or loom-beam. The 
threads have to be wound on the beam in a perfectly regular 
and equidistant manner ; he therefore passes each thread ' 
between two teeth of a sort of comb, and fastens one end 
of the thread to his beam. By winding the beam he covers 
its surface wifh the threads, arranged equidistantly. The 
other ends of the threads are fastened to another oeam at 
some feet distance, and by being well stretched out, there 
is formed a kind of sheet of parallel threads, almost re- 
sembling a cloth, were it not that there are yet no cross- 



36 COTTON. 

threads. To insert these cross-threads is now the wearer's 
business : every thread in passing from one beam to the 
other, goes through an eye or loop in a string which is 
fixed in an upright position. There is a separate string and 
loop to each thread ; and all the threads are fixed to two 
frames, the first, third, fifth, &c., in order, to one frame, 
and the second, fourth, sixth, &c, to another. These 
frames, and the strings attached to them, are called heddles, 
and each heddle is drawn up and down by means of a treadle 
moved by the foot of the weaver; so that when one is 
drawn up and the other down, the adjacent threads of the 
warp are drawn in opposite directions, by which there is 
an opening left called the shed, into which the cross-threads 
or weft can be introduced. The use of all this contrivance 
may be illustrated by a very homely but sufficient com- 
parison: — If we notice the manner in which stockings are 
usually darned, we see that a row of threads is arranged 
in the first place, in one direction: this forms the warp. 
The seamstress then works in the weft; but in order to do 
this, her needle has to be carried in a serpentine or crooked 
direction, over one thread, and under the next adjoining. 
But if, by any contrivance, she could manage to elevate 
the alternate threads of the warp and depress the others, 
she could pass the needle through in a straight line, without 
having to make the crooked motion of which we speak. 
Now it is to produce a precisely similar effect that the 
heddles and treadles of the weaver are employed. 

An opening haying been made by which the weft can be 
worked in, the weaver proceeds to do so. The weft is coiled 
round a little reel or roller called a pirn, and this pirn is 
fixed in an instrument called a shuttle, which has a smooth 
curved bottom, and which may be regarded as a sort of a 
boat for conveying the pirn across the threads of the warp. 
The following figure represents the shuttle, with the pirn 




carrying the yarn orweft. The weaver introduces the shuttle 
between the threads of his warp, and pushes it from one 
side or edge to the other. In its progress, the weft yarn 
unwinds from the pirn, and leaves one thread of weft cross- 
ing all the threads of the warp. This being done, there is 
a vibrating beam or frame employed to drive up this weft 



WEAVING. 37 

thread to its proper place, and into a square and regular 
direction. The thread is then made to double or torn 
round the outer thread or selvage of the warp, and is 
thrown by the weaver back again in the opposite direction, 
across the warp, by which a second weft thread is inserted ; 
and this second thread is driven up close to the former by 
the beam or frame called the batten. Thus the weaver 
proceeds, thread after thread, throwing the shuttle from 
right to left with his right hand, — catching it with his left 
hand, and throwing it back again towards the right,— 
driving up each thread of weft before he inserts another, 
and lifting up the heddles alternately, so that one set of 
threads of the warp shall be uppermost at one moment, 
and the other at the following moment. The relative 
positions of the warp threads must obviously be changed 
after each use of the heddles, in order to produce that 
interlacing of threads which constitutes cloth. 

As the weaver proceeds, laying thread after thread of 
the weft, he winds up the woven cloth on the beam nearest 
to him, and unwinds more warp from the remote beam. 

Such a process as we have here described will produce a 
uniform texture, such as common calico, &c. But if any 
.figure, pattern, or device whatever is required, a more 
complicated arrangement is necessary. If a series of 
stripes, running from end to end of the piece of cloth, be 
required, the warp must be made to consist of alternate 
coloured threads, and the weft be woven in between them 
in the common way. If stripes are to be carried the cross 
way of the cloth, the warp must be of one uniform colour, 
but the weft consisting of different colours, each colour 
having a different shuttle to itself. But if any complica- 
tion of colours is required, or if any device such as we see 
in damasks and similar fabrics is wanted, a great increase 
of difficulty ensues; warp and weft of different colours, or 
of different thicknesses or sizes are required. An increased 
number of heddles are necessary, so as to open the threads 
of the warp in various ways for the reception of the weft, 
and a great number of shuttles are also necessary. By the 
combination of differently coloured warp-threads, differ- 
ently coloured weft-threads, and a number of different 
heddles, almost any required pjattern may be produced by 
the loom. 

There is a peculiar kind of weaving called tweel or twill, 
and another called gauze, which are independent of the 
particular kind of yarn used by the weaver: they have a 
peculiarity depending on the way in which the threads in- 
terlace. If we examine a piece of common calico, we see 



WEAVING. 39 

When the patterns of damasks, spotted muslins, &c, 
become too elaborate for the poorer of the common loom, 
a machine called the draw-loom is employed in their 
manufacture j and, within the last few years, a very 
beautiful machine, called the Jacquard machine, has been 
introduced for a similar purpose: but these machines, like 
the power-loom, are too elaborate to admit of detailed 
description here. 

We have confined our notice of wearing principally to 
those parts which relate to plain fabrics such as calico, But, 
by various changes in the mode of combining the weft with 
the warp, together with various thicknesses and strength 
of yarn, a vast variety of fabrics are woven from cotton, 
such as cambric, muslin, damask, diaper, cotton- velvet, 
velveteen, corduroy, fustian, cantoon, moleskin, &c. All 
these furnish us with notable examples of what can be done 
when the fibres of cotton have once been made, through 
the labour of the spinner, to assume the form of thread or 
yarn. The difference between the fabrics just named is so 
great that we can scarcely believe them to be made from 
the same material, until we reflect on the almost illimitable 
power which the loom has of altering the mode in which 
the threads are made to interlace. We may observe, that 
in many of these cotton fabrics, the threads are, after 
having been woven, worked up into a sort of nap, and the 
fibres cut, by which a hairy texture is produced. It is by 
a process somewhat similar to this that the beautifully soft 
surface of velvet — whatever may be the material — is pro- 
duced. If we examine the back of a piece of velvet, we 
see the usual threads as produced by weaving; but the 
front surface, or face, has that delicate softness which is so 
remarkable as to have given birth to a well-understood 
word, "velvety," in our language, and which is produced 
by a working up and cutting of the fibres of the material. 

A remarkable and extensive employment of cotton thread 
has for some years been in the manufacture of bobbin-net, 
and a variety of fabrics more or less resembling lace. These 
used to be made on a small scale by the cottagers of most 
parts of England, and were called pillow lace, from the 
modes in which they were made. But machinery is now 
employed for this purpose, to an enormous extent. We 
are aware how tiresome are repeated descriptions of in- 
tricate machinery; and shall therefore content ourselves 
with saying that bobbin-net and other kinds of lace-like 
fabrics are made by a species of weaving suited to the 
peculiar manner in which the threads interlace among one 
another.. 



40 



Bleaching. 

Cotton, flax, wool, and silk, have all, in their natural 
states, a certain shade of colour. These tints remain with 
them more or less during the processes of weaving; so that 
if it he desired to produce them in a perfectly white form, 
it is necessary to subject them to some bleaching process! 
Bleaching, it must he home in mind, is not imparting a 
colour to cloth, but removing all colour from it. 

The Egyptians and other ancient nations appear to have 
known certain modes of bleaching linen cloth; but their 
processes, as well as those of later ages, are very well known 
to us. Until about a century ago, bleaching was hardly 
known in England, either in theory or in practice. The 
brown linens made in Great Britain were sent to Holland 
to be bleached. This process consumed the long period, 
namely, from March to October of each year. The prin- 
cipal Dutch bleaching-grounds were in the neighbourhood 
of Haarlem; and the great success of their bleaching was 
ascribed to the superior efficacy of the water, which was 
filtered sea-water. The process consisted in steeping the 
linen for about a week in a potash ley poured over it Dott- 
ing hot. The cloth was then taken out of the ley, washed, 
and put into wooden vessels containing butter-milk, in 
which it lay under pressure for five or six days; after this 
it was spread upon the grass, and kept wet for several 
months, exposed to the sunshine of summer. 

In 1749, an Irishman introduced a somewhat similar 
mode of bleaching into England, and after many difficulties, 
succeeded in effecting it tolerably well, but with lamentable 
slowness. From this time a succession of improvements 
took place. Dr. F. Home showed that that part of the 
effect which milk produced in six or eight weeks, might be 
produced by weak sulphuric acid in twenty-four hours. 
This enabled the manufacturer to receive his bleached 
goods in a much shorter time than before, and therefore to 
trade with less capital. 

The next important, and in fact we may say the impor- 
tant improvement in the art of bleaching, resulted from the 
discovery of chlorine. This gas was first separated from 
muriatic acid by Scheele and Berthollet about the year 
1780; and one of the first properties discovered in the new 
gas was an extraordinary power of destroying vegetable 
colour. This fact was soon taken up by Saussure, James 
"Watt, Professor Copland, Mr. Henry, and other practical 
men, and a speedy revolution took place in the art of bleach-. 



BLEACHIMG. 41 

ing. There were, however, sundry objection* made to the 
use of chlorine, on account of the offensive smell which it 
exhales. But it wad discovered that the gas might be 
united with lime, whereby much of the odour was removed, 
without depriving the gas of its bleaching property. As a 
proof of the wonderful advance made in tnis art, Vx. Ure 
states, that an eminent bleacher in Lancashire once 
received 1400 pieces of gray muslin on a Tuesday which, 
on the Thursday immediately following, were returned 
bleached to the manufacturers, at the distance of sixteen 
miles, and they were packed up and sent off on that very day 
to a foreign market: thus effecting in two days, what 
formerly occupied six months! We will now describe the. 
present mode of bleaching cotton fabrics. 

When the woven cotton passes to the bleacher, he has 
the pieces sewn up end to end into a longer piece 500 yards 
in length, and stamps the owner's name on one end of each 
piece, which is done in a kind of ink formed of coal-tar* 
The cloth is then drawn rapidly over a hot iron, by which 
the hairy filaments of cotton are singed off without burn- 
ing the cloth itself. The pieces of cloth are next folded up 
into an irregular bundle, and thrown into a large cistern of 
cold water, where they become completely soaked* When 
quite wetted, the cloth is put into a revolving hollow 
cylinder, by which it undergoes a process of washing : this 
prepares it for the reception of the bleaching materials. 

A solution of lime is then prepared, by slaking quick- 
lime, and mixing it into a kind of cream with water : this 
cream is laid between the folds of a long piece of the cloth, 
and the whole is placed in a boiler, and boiled rapidly for 
several hours. This removes the paste which the cotton 
had received before being woven, and also the greasy spots 
which are likely to occur in the cloth* 

The cloth is now prepared to receive the bleaching* 
powder* This is a chloride of lime, and is made on a great 
scale in manufactories devoted to that express purpose. 
To produce it, a quantity of slaked lime is spread out on a 
stone floor, and the apartment closed in perfectly air-tight* 
A leaden pipe leads from it to a large leaden vessel, con- 
taining common table salt, black oxide of manganese, and 
dilute sulphuric acid* A chemical action takes place among 
these ingredients, especially when aided by heat; and the 
chlorine gas (one ingredient in common salt), becoming 
liberated, ascends through the leaden pipe, and unites 
chemically with the lime spread out on the floor. This, 
then, is the bleaching-potcder ; and in order to apply it ta 

C. D 



43 • COTTON. 

the cloth, 24Ibe. are dissolved in 60 gallons of water, or, if 
the quantity of cloth to be bleached be 700lbs., 3881bs. 
of bleaching powder are dissolved in 971 gallons of water. 
In this cold solution the cloth is steeped for about six 
hoars; and on taking it out and washing it with water, it 
is found to be partially bleached. 

The bleaching is farther extended by steeping the cloth 
lor a few hours in water containing a little sulphuric acid : 
this removes the oxide of iron which the cloth is apt to 
contain, and also the small portion of lime which is liable 
to adhere to it. The doth is again washed in cold water, 
and then boiled for a still longer time in a solution of 
caustic soda. The cloth is again washed in clean water, 
and again steeped for five or six hours in a solution of 
bleaching-powder, weaker than the first. Lastly, another 
steeping for four hours in water slightly impregnated with 
sulphuric acid, presents the cotton cloth in a purely white 
state. It will thus be seen that the cloth, even under the 
improved process, undergoes rather a complicated treat- 
ment; but if it be of inferior or cheaper quality, some of 
the above processes are omitted. 

But the labours of the bleacher are not yet ended; there 
«re m&ny finishing processes still to be done. When the last 
bleaching is ended, the cloth is carefully washed, to remove 
-all traces of the acid, Ac. It is then squeezed, to force out 
as much as possible of the water remaining in the cloth: 
this squeezing being effected by passing the cloth between 
two rollers working closely on each other. The cloth is 
now damp and much crumpled; and the next process is to 
^mll out each piece to its full breadth : this is done by 
women. But the edges of the piece still continue folded in. 
To make them straight, a workman strikes the bundle 
against a smooth beating stock, first one edge and then the 
other. By this process the pieces are spread out to their 
foil breadth, and all the folds and wrinkles removed. 

The cloth is then mangled while wet c this is done by 
passing it between rollers, by which it is made tolerably 
smooth and even, and ready for starching or stiffening. 
Tne starch employed for this purpose is made from flour 
with the addition of a small quantity of some earthy sub* 
stance. It is mixed into a thick paste, and poured into a 
box or vat. The cloth is made to dip into this vat, and 
thus imbibe a portion of starch, and immediately afterwards 
to pass between two rollers, which expel the superfluous 
starch, and work the remainder well into the pores of the 
<eloth, by which it becomes thickened. It has been observed, 



BLEACHING* 43 

" This method of thickening was undoubtedly intended at 
first as a fraudulent method of making the purchaser 
believe that the cloth was much stouter and thicker than 
it really was. But it has been so long practised, and is 
now so universally known, that all purchasers must be 
aware of it, and of course not in any danger of being 
deceived. But it certainly serves the purpose of making 
the goods appear much more beautiful, and of a stouter 
fabric to the eye ; and as long as they continue unwashed, 
they are really stronger than they would be without this 
artificial dressing. So far it is beneficial; and as it does not 
enhance the price, the purchasers have no reason to com- 
plain of imposition," 

The starched cloth is hung up in a heated room to dry; 
and is then ready for calendering, or imparting a smootn- 
aess and gloss to it For this purpose it is damped by 
being slightly Bprinkled with water by an ingenious 
machine, and is then forced between two rollers, which 
press it very heavily. Different appearances, varying from 
that of a sort silky lustre to that of wiry texture, are given 
to it by varying the degree of pressure. The cloth is now 
finished, and is folded into a pile, with pasteboard and iron 
plates between the folds, and subjected to a heavy pressure, 
in a Bramah press. When removed from this press, the 
cloth is refolded, and consigned to the respective owners. 
. Thus we see that the process of bleaching a piece of 
40otton involves more than twenty distinct processes ; and 
yet the charge for the whole is less than one halfpenny per 
yard! Such is the effect of combined improvements in 
mechanical and chemical processes ; improvements which 
five to the large bleach- works of Lancashire an interest 
felt both by the man of science and the intelligent observer 
who looks only to learn. 



1)3 



44 



Dyeing. 

In giving a brief account of the process of dyeing cotton*, 
we may remark (and most persons are probably more or less 
aware of the fact), that cottons are never seen with such 
brilliant colours as sometimes adorn silk or woollen fabrics. 
On this subject a modern writer observes, " With respect 
to the aptitude of being dyed, and the brilliancy of the 
colours thus communicated, there is found to be very great 
difference in different tissues. Animal substances are much 
more easily dyed than vegetable substances. Of animal 
substances, silk receives colour more readily, and the 
shades given are brighter and more beautiful than those 
which can be imbibed by any other tissue. Woollen cloth 
is also very fit for being dyed, and receives very brilliant 
colours with avidity, though in this respect it is inferior to 
silk. Cotton and linen are much more difficult to dye, and 
cannot be made to imbibe such brilliant colours as silk or 
woollen. Thus the rich scarlet given to cloth by the com- 
bined action of cochineal and the oxide of tin, has never 
been communicated to cotton cloth or linen. The Turkey- 
red dye, which is by far the finest and most permanent red 
that naa ever been communicated to cotton cloth, is a 
crimson, or rather a crimson with a shade of brown: it has 
not the least approach to a scarlet. Upon what this differ- 
ence between animal and vegetable bodies in the capacity 
of receiving colours depends, we do not know. Both woollen 
and silk contain a notable quantity of nitrogen among their 
constituents, while this principle is altogether wanting in 
cotton and linen. How far the property of easy dyeing 
depends upon the presence of nitrogen, it is impossible to 
say; but it is the only chemical difference in their constitu- 
tion that can in the present state of our knowledge be 
pointed out." 

When cottons are to receive the Turkey-red dye, it is 
preferred to have them unbleached, as the natural colour 
of the material is found to facilitate the reception of the 
dye; but we believe that in other instances it is customary 
to have the fabric previously bleached. The woven material 
is first boiled for two hours in sour water, or in an alkaline 
ley, or in some other liquor found to answer the required 
purpose, and then rinsed in clear water. It is afterwards 
steeped for some time in water containing a small quantity 
of sulphuric acid, again rinsed in clear water, and dried. 
By these processes, the small quantity of iron and of 
earthy matter contained in the cotton is removed. 



DYEING* 45 

The next process is that of aluming. Four ounces of alum 
to every pound of cloth are dissolved in water, and then 
mixed with a larger quantity of cold water; and a small 
quantity of soda or tartar is sometimes added. The threads 
are impregnated by working a portion of this solution into 
them, and the whole of the remaining liquor is then thrown 
upon the cloth, and left for twenty-four hours. The cloth 
being removed to a stream of water, a portion of the alum is 
washed out, but the greater part remains in the cloth, and 
acts as a mordant or agent, by which the cloth is enabled 
to retain the dye. 

Another process, preparatory to dyeing, is that of galling. 
Powdered galls are ooiled for two hours in water, the pro* 
portions of the ingredients being regulated by the strength 
of the galls, the effect to be produced, and the quantity of 
doth. The solution of galls, being reduced to a moderate 
temperature, is poured upon the cloth, and left for twenty* 
four hours, if the dye is to be black; but for other colours, 
from twelve to eighteen hours are sufficient. The cloth is 
then wrung out and dried. 

These processes are intended to prepare the cotton for 
the reception of the dye. The dyeing itself is a routine of 
operations depending m great measure on the colour which 
is to be imparted to the cloth; some colours being more 
easily worked into a solution than others, and some being 
made, more easily than others, to combine with the cloth. 
It is impossible, therefore, in oar brief space, to detail the 
modes of imparting all the various oolours to cotton cloth. 
We will take blue as an example, which will serve to convey 
a general idea of all. 

One process recommended for dyeing cotton blue, is the 
following: — From six to eight pounds of indigo, reduced to 
powder, are boiled in a ley drawn off from a quantity of 
time, equal in weight to the indigo, and a quantity of pot- 
ash double its weight. During the boiling, which is to be 
continued until the indigo is completely penetrated with, 
the ley, the solution must be constantly stirred, to prevent 
the indigo from being injured by adhering to the oottom 
of the vessel. During this process, another quantity of 
quick-lime, equal in weight to the indigo, is to be slated. 
Twenty quarts of warm water are added, in which is to be 
dissolved a quantity of sulphate of iron, equal to twice the 
weight of the lime. The solution being completed, it is 
poured into a vat capable of containing one hundred and 
twenty gallons, half filled with water. To this the solution 
of indUgo is added, with that part of the ley which was not 
employed in the boiling. The vat must now be filled up 



46 COTTON. 

to within two or three inches of the top. It must be raked 
twice or thrice a day till it is completely prepared, which 
is generally the case in forty-eight hours, and sometimes 
sooner. 

Thus is prepared what is called a blue vat, that is, a 
vessel faQ of a mixed liquid capable of imparting a blue 
dye. There are numerous other modes of preparing a blue 
Tat, but we need not detail them. It is usual to dip the 
cloth first into a faintly coloured vat, and afterwards in one 
of deeper tint, and so on until the required tint is obtained. 
Eire or six minutes is a sufficient time for the doth to 
remain in each vat or bath, as it will absorb, in that time, 
all the colouring matter which it is capable of receiving . 

In order that the colours thus employed may adhere 
firmly to the cloth, it is generally necessary that a mordant 
should be employed. Mordant is a name given to any 
substance which will combine with the fibres of cotton or 
other material, and will also combine with the colouring 
substance; so that the mordant being? first applied, the 
fibres become closely united to it, and the colouring matter 
being 1 next applied, becomes, in its turn, closely united 
to the mordant, and all three adhere closely together. 
This is the principal feature in the theory of aveing. 
Alum, tin, lead, copper, and galls, are fhe principal sub* 
stance? employed as mordants; and when any one of them 
is required^ it is applied to the cloth previous to the dye, by 
such processes as we hare described as aluming sndgalHnp* 

The most difficult process in dyeing cotton, is to impart 
the beautiful rich red called Tbrkey-ntd. We will merely 
enumerate the successive processes, without attempting to 
enter into details. 1st. The cloth is steeped for twenty-four 
hours in a hot solution of potash, to remove impurities, Ac. 
2nd. It is boiled for some time in a ley of carbonate of soda*. 
3rd. It is passed through a trough containing a milky* 
coloured liquid, which has a soapy quality. 4th. It is 
dried either on the grass in the open air, or by a store* 
The alternate dipping in the soapy liquor, and drying, are 
repeated three times. 5th. It is steeped in a weak solu- 
tion of pearlash, and then hung out ana dried. 6th. It ie 
steeped in another soapy liquid, formed of different sub* 
stances from that last alluded to: this is done three 
different times, and the cloth is dried after each steeping.. 
7th. It is again steeped in a ley of potash and soda, drained, 
washed; and dried. 8th. It is now galled, in a manner 
similar to that before detailed. 9th. The process of almminp 
now succeed*. 10th. Another drying and washiiag prepare* 
it for, 11th. Dyeing: madder and bullock's blood are two> 



CALICO PRINTING. *f 47 

of the ingredients forming the dye into which the cloth k 
dipped. 12th. Madder contains a brown as well as a red 
colouring matter: the brown is now removed by boiling the 
cloth for several hours in a solution of soda, soap, and 
pearlash. 13th. The tint of red is brightened by boiling 
the oloth under pressure at a very high temperature, in 
water containing soap and protochloride of tin. 14th. The 
cloth is now finished by spreading it out on the grass, and 
exposing it for a few days to the sun. 

So complicated are the processes here detailed, that some 
eminent firms confine themselves almost exclusively to 
dyeing cotton fabrics of a Turkey-red colour, and hare 
many acres of fine grassy turf on which the dyeing or 
grassing is effected. This process, we may here remark, 
is something more than a mere drying; it is a kind of 
oxidation, the oxygen of the atmosphere exerting a peculiar 
effect on the chemical ingredients previously employed. • 

As we shall have to allude again to some of these pro- 
cesses and colouring materials, when we come to speak of 
dyeing other woven fabrics, it will not be necessary to 
extend the subject in this place. 

Calico Printing. 

Calico printing has been defined as " the art of com- 
municating different colours to particular parts of the 
surface of cotton or linen cloth, while the rest of the cloth 
retains its white colour; or the whole of the cloth may be 
dyed one colour, as red or blue, except particular parts, to 
which some other colours, as yellow, orange, green, &c, 
are given." 

The principal processes are singeing, bleaching, calender* 
ing, printing, stowing, dyeing, and brightening. The first 
three of these have been briefly described under the head 
of " Bleaching;" we therefore pass on to notice the art of 
calico printing. This is effected by bhchrprvnting, by 
press-printing, or by cylinder-printing. In the first, the 
figure intended to be imparted to the cloth is cut out upon 
a block of sycamore measuring about twelve inches by 
seven, the parts which are to make the impression bemjg. 
left, prominent, and the rest of the block cut away, as is 
the case in wood-engravings, or in blocks for paper-hang* 
ings. When the figure is too complicated, and the lines 
are too fine to admit of being cut in wood, the device in 
made by means of small pieees of copper, which are very 
ingeniously driven into the block, and the intervals filled 



48 COTTOK. 

up with felt. The preparation of these blocks is an art * 
which commands high wages. 

The press-printing is a more recent process, and one of 
great beauty. Supposing the device to be ive colours, 
there are five plates prepared, each measuring about thirty 
inches by five. They are cast in a kind of stereotype- 
metal, and each has in relief the device which is to be 
printed in one colour. All these plates are fixed side by 
side on a well-seasoned block of wood, so that all may be 
made to imprint the cloth at one time. At one end of the 
printing-machine is a series of five troughs, containing five 
different colours; and a boy dips into these troughs a kind 
of brush so formed as to take up a portion of colour from 
each. By an ingenious arrangement, five patches of colour 
are laid on in a wet coating on a flat cushion; and the block, 
with the face downwards, is made to descend upon thus ♦ 
cushion, so that each stereotype plate takes up a coating of 
one particular colour, without interfering with the adjoining 
colours. The block next descends upon the cloth, which is 
laid out smooth upon ft sort of table, and imprints five 
colours upon it in five distinct and parallel plates, the length 
of each patch of colour being across the cloth. The cloth 
is then shifted onwards about five or six inches, so that 
when all the circle of proceedings shall have been again 
gone through, each second patch of colour will be a little 
in advance of the. preceding patch of the same colour. At 
"the third adjustment, a farther advance will have been 
made; and when the fourth and fifth impression have been, 
made, a shifting having taken place before each, it is easy 
*to see that some parts of the cloth have received the whole 
of their five colours, all adjusted to their proper places. 
The adjustment of the device on each plate, ana the shift- 
ing effected by the machine, require very delicate and 
accurate arrangements. 

Cylinder-printing is performed by means of a copper 
cylinder several feet long, upon which the different figures 
to be given to the cloth are engraved; and by its circular 
motion, the whole of these figures are impressed upon the 
oloth as it is moved under the cylinder. Another mode of 
cylinder-printing is to have the intended figures engraven 
Upon a flat copper plate about a yard square. Upon this 
plate the colour to be applied is spread. It is then drawn 
through a machine in such a manner that an elastic steel 
plate, called a doctor, takes off all the colour except that 
which fills the engraving. It is then pressed against the 
white cloth, on which it thus leaves the impression of 
the engraving. 



CALICO PRINTING. 49 

We have said that both printing and dyeing form por- 
tions of the same routine of operations. The way in which 
their combined action determines the ultimate colours of 
the cloth, is one of these four : viz. 1st. The printing pro- 
cess is applied to fixing mordants on the cloth, which is 
afterwards dyed in the common way, those parts only re- 
taining the colour which have imbibed the mordant, while 
the otner parts of the cloth may be washed white : 2nd. 
The printing is applied to cloth already dyed, in order to 
remove the colour from certain portions of it which are 
either intended to remain white, or to receive some other 
colour : 3rd. The printing is applied to cloth before it is 
dyed blue, in order to prevent the indigo from being fixed 
on those parts to which it is applied, that they may remain 
white, or be afterwards made io receive other colours: 
4th. The printing is applied to communicate mordants and 
colouring-matter at once to the cloth* 

The nature of mordants has been already explained : 
they are substances which enable the fibres of cotton, &c, 
to retain colouring-matter applied to them. The principal 
.mordants employed by the calico printer are alum, oxide 
of tin, oxide of iron, and acetate of iron. There are also 
other substances called dischargers, resisLwastes, and dyes* 
The combination of colours on a piece of cloth is effected 
by two or more of the four processes of printing, dyeing, 
resisting, and discharging; and as we cannot detail all the 
various ways in which these are combined, we will select 
two or three examples. 

Suppose a blue cotton with white spots be required. A . 
device of spots is engraved on a plate, or cut m a block, 
and printed on the cloth by one of the methods already 
described. The ink or colour employed is a resist-paste, 
of which there are several kinds, consisting of various salts, 
gums, and earths. When the printing is dry, the cloth is 
dipped into a vat of blue dye, containing indigo, sulphate 
ot iron, and one or two other ingredients. The fibres retain 
the indigo without the aid of a mordant; and after exposure 
to the air, a clear blue dye is imbedded in the cloth. But 
the spots which had been printed resist the retention of 
the indigo, through the chemical action of the resist-paste ; 
so that a subsequent washing removes both the indigo and 
the resist-paste from those parts, and leaves them in the 
. form of white spots. 

The above is an instance in which no mordant was re- 
quired to fix the colour on the cloth ; but let us now select 
An instance in which the dye, however well effected, would 



60 COTTON. 

afterwards wash out, unless a mordant were previously 
employed. Suppose a red cotton with white spots be re- 
quired. The dye-stuff usually employed for this colour 
is the vegetable substance called madder; and this requires, 
for its retention by the cloth, that the latter should be pre- 
viously steeped in a mordant formed by a solution of alum. 
The spotted pattern is then printed, by means of a block, 
a plate, or a cylinder, on the mordant, with an ink farmed 
afgum and citric acid. This acid combines with the alum 
in such a way as to loosen its hold upon the fibres. The 
printed cloth is then put into a Tat containing madder 
and cold water, to which heat is gradually applied. The 
cloth is kept in constant motion till it has gained the 
requisite depth of shade, when it is taken out and 
washed. By a subsequent boiling in water containing 
either bran or soap, the alum, citric acid, and madder are 
all removed from the spots which had been printed, while 
the remaining parts are left of a clear red. By rinsing the 
cloth in a weak warm solution of bleaching-powder, the 
white spots are still more bleached. 

^ Another mode of obtaining a red ground with white de- 
vices is as follows : — The cloth is dyed in the usual manner 
of a Turkey-red colour. The device is then printed on it 
with an ink or discharging liquid made of tartaric acid 
thickened with gum. The cloth is then passed through 
an aqueous solution of bleaching-powder. A chemical 
action ensues between the tartaric acid and the bleaching- 
powder, by which the chlorine is liberated, and imme- 
diately discharges all the red from the printed spots, thus 
leaving them white. The spots receive a fine yellow colour 
by a slight change in the process. The tartaric acid is 
nixed with oxide of lead before it is need in the printing; 
and the cloth, after being printed and passed through the 
bleaching liquid, is again passed through water impregnated 
with bichromate of potash : this imparts a beautiful yellow 
to the spots. 

In the instances here introduced, we have supposed the 
ground of the cotton to be dyed, and the white to consist 
of mere spots. But in the greater number of instances, 
the ground is either white or coloured, and a device con- 
sisting of different colours is printed on it. This is effected 
by a very interesting process. Although the substance 
called madder produces a rich red dye when used with a 
certain mordant, it will produce a purple with a second, a 
black with a third, a lilac with a fourth, and other tints 
varying from pink to deep red, .or from lilac to black, ao- 



BAHDAHAS. 51 

cording to the mordant employed. Suppose, therefore, a 
piece of cotton is to have a white ground, with a pattern 
of three colours, red, lilac, and purple. There are three 
sets of printing-blocks prepared, one for each colour ; and 
each block is inked with a particular mordant, and stamped 
on the cloth. The cloth is then dyed with the madder ; 
and a subsequent washing removes all the dye from the 
ground, and converts the three mordants into red, lilac, 
and purple dyes, which adhere firmly to the cloth. This 

5 recess may be varied in a variety of ways, and with other 
ye-stuffs besides madder. 
One of the most beautiful applications of the combined 

Swer of machinery and chemistry which the present age 
s exhibited, is the preparation of Bandana handkerchief*. 

The term Bandana is of Indian origin, and is applied to 
pocket handkerchiefs of a peculiar land, both of silk and 
of cotton, made in India ; they were much sought after 
throughout Europe— probably from the circumstance that 
nothing equal to them could oe produced in Europe. The 
ground of the handkerchiefs was usually of red, blue, or 
purple ; and the pattern almost always consisted of spots* 
either white or yellow. The colour of the handkercnie& 
was uncommonly permanent and enduring* 

The demand for these handkerchiefs bemg very general, 
British manufacturers were induced to try how far they 
could produce successful imitations of them in cotton, 
which might be sold at a very low price. The first attempts 
were very imperfect, being founded on the common m£le 
of printing calicoes which has just been explained. 

There are many reasons why this mode is wholly inade- 
quate to the production of a good dye ; and even with the 
aid of many improvements that have since taken place, 
both in dyeing and in calico printing, a good imitation of 
Bandana handkerchiefs could not possibly be produced 
by such means. The colours, particularly the red, were 
found to be far from durable as thus produced. 

The introduction of chlorine into the manufactures, led 
the way to a different mode of attaining the desired end, — 
a mode as beautiful in a scientific point of view, as it is 
economical when considered commercially. The parties 
who contributed more or less to those improvements which 
led to tiie production of beautiful imitation Bandanas, were 
many ; but the firm of Monteith and Co., at Glasgow, are 
most eminently connected with the subject We shall 
now, therefore, describe the machinery and the processes 
by which these manufacturers produce handkerchiefs, of 



62 COTTON. 

which the colours are as glowing and durable, and the 
white spots as pure and finely outlined, as any of the pro* 
ductions of the East. 

The first operation is to dye the piece of cotton of the 
required colour, and in the best manner. 

Now the great principle by which the Bandanas are pro* 
duced from the piece of red or blue cotton, is by removing 
the colour from certain round or square spots disposed in 
a pattern over the surface of the cotton. This can be 
done by the peculiar action of chlorine. If a solution of 
chloride of lime were to be dropped on the dyed cotton, 
the colour would be removed from that spot. The question 
is, therefore, how can the chlorine be so applied as to re* 
move the colour from a regular series of spots, all symmer 
trical in shape and well ordered P This is effected by 
shielding the surface of the cloth with a piece of sheet 
lead, through which are cut a series of holes into which 
the chlorine solution can flow. These plates are prepared 
by laying a very smooth piece of sheet lead on a thicker 
piece of the same metal : a piece of drawing-paper is laid 
on the lead ; the desired pattern is drawn on the paper ; 
and a man cuts out both paper and lead by making per- 
pendicular cuts quite through both of them into the lower 
sheet of lead. Perforations are made through the lower 
piece of lead, corresponding to those in the thin one, so 
that if a piece of dyed cloth were placed between them and 
powerfully pressed, and a chlorine solution were poured 
on the upper plate, it would pass into the holes in the 
upper plate, — through the cloth, — and out by the holes in 
the lower plate. 

Now the object to be attained here is, to prevent the 
cloth, whether of one or more thicknesses, from being 
touched by the solution in any part except where the de- 
signed spots are to be. This can only be attained by intense 
pressure ; for we know how soon a liquid will spread side- 
ways among the fibres of a piece of cloth. There are many 
ways of producing this pressure ; but the one that is found 
most available for the purpose is that of the hydrostatic 
press. 

At Monteith's factory, the hydrostatic arrangement is 
contained in one room, called the machinery-room, and the 
presses, with the handkerchiefs, &c, are in another ; and 
there is a communication between the two. Fourteen 
thicknesses of cloth are operated on at once ; and there 
are sixteen different presses arranged in a row, occupying 
a space one hundred feet in length, so that two hundred 



< 




54 . OOTTON. 

that of a pocket handkerchief. Fourteen pieces of cloth 
are laid quite flat and parallel, one on another, and rolled 
on a beam at the back of the press. From this beam suf- 
ficient cloth is drawn out to coyer the lower plate and 
receive the chlorine liquor, and after haying thus been 
operated on, it is drawn between the rollers seen a little 
above and in front of the lower plate b, and from thence 
falls into a cistern of water d, at the lower part of the press. 
Supposing a layer of handkerchiefs to be placed on the 
lower plate b, that plate has to be lifted up, in order to 
meet tne upper plate. This is effected by opening a com- 
munication between the 8-inch cylinder of the hydrostatic 
press and a cylinder, c, beneath the lower plate. As the 
8-inch cylinder is loaded with a weight of five tons, the 
cylinder c is driven up by the same power. But when it 
is driven up so far that the handkerchiefs lying on it meet 
the upper plate, then an enormous pressure is brought into 
action, to press the handkerchiefs tightly together. This 
pressure is produced by shutting off tne communication 
with the 8-inch cylinder, and opening that with the 1-inch 
cylinder. The 1-inch cylinder is also loaded with a weight 
of five tons, and as the cylinder c is about eight inches in 
diameter, it can be proved, according to the laws of hydro- 
static pressure, that the lower plate becomes pressed against 
the upper one with a force of 5 tons X 8 s = 320 tons 
= 716,800 lbs. By this intense pressure the handker- 
chiefs are held so tightly together, that any fluid passing 
down to them througn. tne perforations in the upper plate, 
cannot spread laterally. 

All is now ready for the admission of the aqueous chlo- 
rine. This is prepared in an adjoining room, and admitted 
to a small leaden cistern, a, at the side of each press, which 
is provided with graduated tubes, by which the quantity 
admitted at one time can be regulated according to the 
number of spots in the pattern of the handkerchief, The 
liquid is allowed to flow through a pipe into the upper part 
of the press (which is fixed) : it then flows through the per- 
forations in the plate B, through the fourteen thicknesses 
of handkerchiefs, removing from them the Turkey-red or 
other dye in its passage, and after passing through -the 
perforations in s, finally leaves the press by pipes arranged 
for that purpose. The liquor is allowed to remain a few 
minutes to act on the cloth; after which it is drawn off, 
and clean water is allowed to pads through in a similar 
manner, to wash away the chlorine, otherwise, on relaxing 
the pressure, the outline of the figure discharged would 
become ragged. 



STATISTICS. 55 

So admirable are the arrangements, that four men are 
sufficient to manage the whole sixteen presses, and keep 
them all working at once. They first go from press to 
press, admitting the water from the 8-inch cylinder, by 
which the lower plate is raised ; the layer of handkerchiefs 
in each press is arranged in its proper place ; the powerful 
pressure is then put in operation to them all ; the chlorine 
liquor is admitted ; the cleansing water is admitted ; the 
presses are again opened; the layer of handkerchiefs is 
drawn between the rollers, and another layer brought be- 
tween the plates ; and so on, taking all the presses in suc- 
cession. JNo time is lost by this method, since a few 
minutes are required for the chlorine to act on the hand- 
kerchiefs in each press. When fourteen pieces are entirely 
finished, they are carried away to the washing and bleach- 
ing departments, where the lustre of both the white and 
the colours is considerably heightened. By the excellent 
arrangement of the sixteen presses, 1600 pieces, consisting 
of 12 yards each, equal to 19,200 yards, are converted into 
Bandanas in the space of ten hours, by the assistance of 
four workmen. 

. The reader will then understand that it is by such a 
mode as this that those red or blue handkerchiefs with 
white spots are produced, in which the threads of the ma- 
terial are so thoroughly acted on, that both sides of cloth 
present almost precisely analogous appearances. The cloth 
u first dyed aU over; and the colour is then driven out 
from those parts which are to form the spots of the 
pattern. 



In the middle of the last century, the cotton manufac- 
ture occupied a comparatively humble position in this 
country: while at the present day, the exportation of manu- 
factured cotton exceeds that of all our other manufactures 
jnrt together. The annual value of exported cotton amounts 
to about eighteen millions sterling; while the quantity re- 
tained for home consumption is valued at nearly as much. 
There are about fourteen hundred thousand persons de- 
pendant on the various branches of the manufacture ; and 
the quantity of raw material imported, chiefly from the 
United States, is three hundred millions of pounds yearly! 



56 

Chaptee HI, 

Wool, 

Nature and Production. 

The manufacture of wool into a useful form may now 
engage our attention. This valuable production is trans- 
formed into broad cloths, kerseymeres, baizes, flannels, 
worsted, stuffs, merinoes, carpets, and a number of other 
well-known fabrics. Before the great advancement of our 
cotton-manufacture, that of wool was regarded as the dis- 
tinguishing characteristic of British industry; but it has 
now been forced to yield to its powerful rival. Still it has 
sharedin the prosperity which machinery has given to our 
manufactures generally, and it is, in every respect, an im- 
portant branch of art. As an instance of the extreme 
rapidity with which steam-power machinery enables the 
various processes of a spinning and weaving factory to pro- 
ceed, it has been stated, that the late Sir John Throg- 
morton once sat down to dinner dressed in a coat which on 
the same morning had been wool on the back of a sheep. 
The animals were sheared, the wool washed, carded, spun, 
and woven ; the cloth was scoured, fulled, sheared, dyed, 
and dressed ; and then, by the tailor's aid, made into a 
coat, between sun-rising and the hour of seven, when the 
party sat down to dinner with the chairman dressed in the 
product of this active day. 

The fabrics prepared from wool are distinguished into 
two great classes — those which partake of the quality of 
worsted, and those which obtain the name of cloth; the 
former are made from long wool, and the latter from short. 
The sheep is the principal animal from which the wool is 
obtained ; but the goat, and a few other animals, furnish 
a small supply in other countries. The long wool of a 
sheep, called combing-wool, is as much as eight or ten 
inches in length ; and these long filaments are combed out 
unbroken, and spun into worsted ; but the short or clothing- 
wool is not more than three or four inches long, and even 
these are cut and broken still shorter, before they are made 
into cloth. A few words may be desirable on the growth 
and shearing of the wool on the sheep. 

Sheep are fed for one of two purposes, either for the 
flesh or for the fleece. As the modes of treatment and 
rearing are different in the two cases, any particular 



MERINO SHEEP. 57 

country oar district devote* its attention, to tiuufc one object 
which, from its circumstances or position, is likely to prove 
most profitable. Those sheep which are reared principally 
for their fleece become covered annually with a thick coat- 
ing of wool : this wool is out off once a year, and sold to 
the wool-dealer, from whom it passes to the woollen, manu- 
facturer, to be made into cloth, and other articles. 

The Merino breed of sheep, originally from Spain, is 
found to produce wool possessing more valuable qualities 
than any other : we will, therefore, shortly describe the 
mode of rearing the animals in the sheep districts of Spain. 
The fine-woolled sheep live almost wholly in the open air. 
During the summer months they are driven, in flocks of 
as many as ten thousand, to the mountainous regions of 
Castile and Arragon, which are covered with plants health- 
ful to the sheep. The sheep are driven to these pastures 
in the beginning of summer, and are at first allowed to 
lick as much salt as they please, and a more moderate 
quantity afterwards. After having remained in the moun- 
tains all the summer, they are driven to the southern plains 
of La Mancha, Andalusia, and especially Estremadura. 
The journey begins at the end oi September, and fre- 
quently lasts as much as forty days, the distance travelled 
sometimes amounting to seven hundred miles. The shep- 
herd conducts them to the pasture which they occupied 
the previous winter, and where most of the lambs were 
born. Here folds are constructed for the sheep, and huts 
made of branches for the shepherds. Shortly after their 
arrival in the winter pasture, the birth of the lambs takes 
place. The lambs born latest are put into the richest pas- 
tures, to acquire strength for their journey to the moun- 
tains in spring. This journey takes place in April, and the 
same routine of summer pasturage takes place as before. 
The shearing generally takes place in May, and is done 
tinder cover. Before shearing, the sheep are put into a 
building consisting of two apartments, from 400 to 800 
paces long and 100 wide. As many of the sheep as are to 
be sheared the next day, are taken in the evening into a 
narrow, long, low hut, called the sweating-house, when the 
sheep, being much crowded, perspire freely: the wool thus 
becomes softer, and more easily cut. The wool is sorted 
and washed before being sent away. A ram yields about 
eight pounds of wool, and a ewe only about five, but the 
latter is of a finer quality. 

The sheep reared for their fleeces in other countries are 
tended in various ways according to the pasturage which 
they can obtain; for the pasturage greatly influences the 

0. E 



58 vool. 

quality of the wool. The process of shearing is, in Eng- 
land, a rural holiday, or rather, from the importance with 
which the operation is regarded, it finishes with a holiday. 
We need not say much respecting the act of shearing a 
sheep. The animal is caught generally by an hinder leg, 
and thrown on its back, and the wool is cut off by means 
of large shears, the shearer being careful not to wound the 
animal. 

The qualities of wool are extremely variable; and it is 
the office of the dealer to separate the various qualities, so 
as to suit various markets. We will therefore suppose that 
the long and the short wool have been separated and sold 
to the various manufacturers; and will now proceed to 
speak of the mode of working up the long wool, known as 
the 

Worsted Manufacture. 

The long wool is first washed in soap and water, to 
remove a portion of the grease naturally adherent to it; 
and is afterwards spread out on a heated floor to dry. The 
wool is then removed to a machine called the plucker, by 
which the fibres are cleansed and straightened. Still far- 
ther to separate and straighten the fibres, the wool passes 
into the hands of the wool-comber, who proceeds as follows: 
—The workman has two combs with pointed. steel teeth, 
one of which he fixes in a post, with the teeth upwards, and 
the other he holds in his hand. The wool is separated into 
handfuls of about four ounces each, and sprinkled with 
oil. The teeth of the combs are heated, and the workman, 
taking a portion of wool in his hand, throws it over the 
points of the comb and draws it through them; and so on 
repeatedly, a portion of wool remaining each time in the 
comb. The comb, with the wool adhering to it, is now 
removed from the post, and laid on a stove to be farther 
heated; meanwhile the second comb is mounted on the 
post, and supplied with wool in a similar manner. The 
three following figures represent the apparatus here 
alluded to: a is the comb; b is the post to which it is 
fixed, the handle of the comb being attached to two pro- 
jecting wires at the post ; c is the stove, with the fire-place 
at a; the teeth of. the comb being inserted between two 
iron plates c d. 

Wnen both combs are heated, the comber holds one of 
them with his left hand, over his knee, and with the other 
comb, held in his right, he combs the wool upon the first, by 
introducing the points of the teeth of one comb into the 






iiiiii 



S 



1 I 



Si U 



I! I 



GO 



WOOL. 




twisted. These roving* are then spun into worsted thread 
or yam, by a spinning 1 machine, the same in principle as 
that employed m cotton, but differing somewhat in details. 
The yarn thus produced has various degrees of twist given 
to it: that for worsted stockings is not much twisted, but 
that for the warp of bombazines, Ac., is more hard and 
twisted. The condition of the yarn as to softness, depends 
also on the length of the fibres of wool from which it was 
made; some being more fitted for the preparation of yarn 
for hosiery; while others yield the firmer yarns required 
for waistcoat-pieces, carpets, bombazines, crapes, poplins, 
and other firm fabrics woven from worsted. 

When the yarn has been spun, it passes to the weaver, 
for whom it is more particularly adapted. Each weaver 
employs a form of loom fitted for the Kind of fabric which 
he produces;—the carpet-weaver one kind, the shalloon- 
weaver another, and so on. It is to the loom that we must 
look as the principal source of the peculiarities which we 
observe in woven materials. It is true that the yarn for 
the carpet- weaver, for instance, is thicker and coarser than 
that used by the cotton-weaver; but it is to the peculiarity 
of the loom employed by the former that the interlace- 
ment of the threads of a carpet is due. Still the utter im- 
possibility of showing the points of distinction between 
looms of various kinds, without an intricacy and minute- 
ness of detail, wholly unsuited to this little volume, must 
make us content with savins; that long wool, spun into 
worsted varn, is the material from which carpets and the 
other fabrics are woven by looms especially adapted for 
their respective purposes. 




! Vj jjjl em ip 



iiiEiinHiiini 



62 wool. 

The carding-machine now employed for this purpose i& 
somewhat complicated, but its principal parts are repre- 
sented in the preceding figure. The wool is placed upon 
an endless cloth or apron, i, from whence it passes between 
two feeding rollers, k, k; is then combed by a system of 
rollers, gpedcbi, revolving round a central cylinder; 
H. The surfaces of all these rollers are covered with cards 
or teeth, by which the wool is drawn out and smoothed, 
and ultimately falls into a cylindrical box, l. 

The effect of carding is to separate the woolly filaments, 
and render the whole Hght, equable, and homogeneous : it 
also frequently breaks and doubles them, a circumstance 
which, while it would be highly injurious in the prepara- 
tion of cotton, is an advantage to the subsequent processes 
to which wool is subjected. The broken fibres, by the 
peculiar action of the cardins-machine, get crossed over 
each other in every imaginable direction. It is found that 
the carding thus effected is not only much more expedi- 
tious than that performed by hand, as in the old method, 
but that the fibres become arranged in a manner better 
calculated to yield the nap in the after processes. 

The wool then passes into the hands of the slubber. This 
workman, by means of a machine called by the odd name 
of a slubbing billy, reduces the thickness of the cardings by 
drawing them out in length, and joins them into a con- 
tinuous spongy cord, giving them at the same time a slight 
twist, to maintain their cohesion or uniformity. This 
spongy cord is called a slubbing or a roving, and is in fact, 
a kind of soft, thick, fragile thread. The machine by which 
this is effected occasioned much sensation a few years ago. 
The reader may recollect that a committee of the House 
of Commons was appointed to inquire into alleged abuses 
in the factory system, and among the charges brought 
before them was one, that children employed m the wool- 
len manufacture were for the smallest neglect frequently 
beaten cruelly with billy rollers. On inquiry, it was found 
that each slubbing billy is attended by a man and four boys 
— the slubber ana the pieceners. The boys bring the bands 
of wool from the cardmg^maehine, and lay them on the 
slubbing billy, slightly fastening the end of one piece to 
that of another. The man is engaged turning a wheel, and 
managing some other machinery, by which the wool is. 
drawn out into rovings ; and the duties are so arranged, 
that the four boys provide exactly as much work as the 
man can perform. All would, therefore, go on well, if the 
workman kept steadily to his work ; but as he is engaged 
by the piece, and can leave the machine when he likes, an evil 



MANUFACTURE OF BROAD CLOTH. ($3 

arises, which is thus stated by Dr. Ure : — " If he is disposed 
to leave his business for the pot-house at arbitrary intervals, 
as many handicraft tradesmen are too apt to do, for half 
an hour, an hour, or more, a great accumulation of cardings 
from the power-driven carding engine will ensue in his ab- 
sence. The children pile these on the floor in heaps called 
steaks, of which they will sometimes have six or seven, con- 
taining from twenty dozen to forty dozen cardings in. each 
stock. On the Blubber's return from his voluntary absence, 
lie usually sets to work much more violently than common, 
to clear his drinking score, and to make up for lost time, 
as he is paid by the piece, or by the great, as it is termed. 
On such occasions the children are tasked to severe exer- 
tion, and are often capriciously punished by this inde- 
pendent workman, for unavoidable faults of his creation; 
for the children have not only to continue piling up the 
cardings incessantly thrown off by the carding-engine, but 
also to piecen their Blubbing ends with double rapidity." 
At such times, or whenever the children did not satisfy him 
in the course of his work, he was not slow to. beat them 
with a roller forming part of the machine, called the billy 
roller. It was fully shown, that the cruelty, which had 
often been charged upon the manufacturers, was really due 
to the intemperate and coarse-minded workmen who had 
charge of the slubbing billies. Since that period, an im- 
proved machine has been invented, which bids fair to dis- 
pense with the use of the one just named ; but the publi- 
city given to the subject by the Factory Commission has 
done the most to remedy the evil. 

The slubbing s or rovings of wool are now transferred to 
the spinner, who spins them into yarn in a manner similar 
to that adopted by the cotton spinner. The yarn which is 
to form warp, is twisted hard and firm, while that destined 
for woof or weft is softer and more elastic. 

The warp-yarn is conveyed to the warping-frame, where 
the different threads which are to form the warp are ar- 
ranged in a parallel and uniform manner. The weaver 
next works in the weft between and among the threads of 
the warp, by means of his shuttle, after the manner of the 
cotton weaver. There is a remarkable difference between 
cotton and woollen cloth in this respect : — cottons remain- 
ing about the same width when they are quite finished as 
when they leave the loom of the weaver; but woollen cloth* 
by the peculiar processes which it undergoes after weaving, 
shrinks to nearly one-half, of its woven width ; in order, 
therefore, to produce superfine. broad-cloth six quarters 



64 wool* 

wide, it is customary to weave it to the Marmora width of 
twelve quarters. 

There being always a good deal of oil wed in the process 
Of carding the wool, this oil still remains throughout the 
processes of roving, spinning, and weaving; font as it is ne- 
cessary now to remove it, the woven cloth undergoes the 
process of tcouring. A large quantity of cloth is put into 
a wooden trough, with water and a little soap, and under- 
goes a process not very dissimilar in effect to the common 
operation of a laundress. But instead of human hands and 
arms, two large wooden mallets are used. These mallets 
are fixed to movable handles, and are made to inflict heavy 
and oft-repeated blows upon the mass of cloth, " by an 
action extremely like kicking with the toes," as it has been 
Observed. The cloth is made to turn and roll over and 
over, so that every part in its turn comes under the action 
of the mallets. After it has been well worked in this man- 
ner with the soap and water, it is a second time scoured 
with pure water only. 

The doth is now hung up to dry, by being stretched 
across a vertical frame, to which it is attached by tenter- 
hooks, which catch hold of the edges of the cloth. Most 
persons are aware that the narrow strips of cloth called Utt 
are cut off from broad cloth after it comes into the tailor's 
hands* This list forms a strong edging to the cloth, through 
which die hooks are passed which fasten it to the frame ; 
the warp being of additional strength at those parts, in 
Older that they may bear the strain. 

When the cloth is quite dry it is removed from the frame, 
and then 300* thrpugn the operation of bvrlmg* It is ex- 
amined minutely in every part, to see that no imperfection* 
exist: knots and uneven threads are removed, and if the 
scouring has occasioned any little rents or holes they are) 
carefully sewn up. The ensuing process conceals all these 
repaired injuries. 

Human hair, and almost every fibrous substance of ani- 
mal origin, has a tendency to curt and twist; this tendency 
in wool is the source of the remarkable effect produced on 
the cloth in the next process, which is that of fidUng, or 
mtiUmg. We have said that in carding the wool, it is broken 
into snorter lengths, and that the fibres cross and intermix 
With one another in every imaginable direction, by which 
of course many of the ends are to be found at every part 
of n piece of cloth. Now the process oijMUmg is to work 
up these fibres in a bristly form on the surface of the clotn 
by powerful beating, malong them start out, as it were, an 



MANUFACTURE OF BROAD CLOTH. 65 

well as closely wedging up the pores between the threads 
of the doth. This so much thickens the cloth that, as 
before observed, the width becomes reduced to little more 
than one half. But directly the fibres become loosened 
and disturbed by the beating, their ends begin to mat and 
cling together, lorming so dense a hairy or fibrous cover- 
ing, that the threads of the cloth can ultimately be scarcely 
seen. 

According to Dr. Ure, in order to Ml or mill a piece of 
cloth sixty-two yards long, six pounds of soap are dissolved 
in a little water, and a handful of the solution is spread 
upon every yard of surface. The piece is then placed in a 
trough, and worked for three hours, /being frequently turned 
to expose fresh surfaces to the blows of two powerful 
mallets, which fall flat on the folded surface. Hie fibres of 
the wool are thus compacted together, sliding more easily 
among each other in consequence of the lubrication of the 
soap, all the whole becomes matted into one mass. After 
three hours' milling, the cloth is taken out of the trough* 
soaped as before, and then subjected to the mallets for 
another three hours. This process is repeated four times 
in the course of twelve hours, and is succeeded by a rinsing 
operation, a stream of clean water being admitted into the 
trough to wash out the soap. The piece of cloth is now 
found to be reduced in dimensions, nom sixty-two yards 
long by one hundred inches wide, to forty yards long by 
sixty inches wide. The number of hours which the process 
of milling continues depend a good deal on the quality of 
the cloth. 

During the process of fulling, the heavy mallets, called 
jfee&t, strike the cloth with a rapidity of thirty or fart* 
strokes per minute; and it is this incessant beating which 
finally imparts to the fabric, a texture intermediate between 
common woven materials and the felt of which hats are 
made. Another effect of the fulling proc ess is, that a cut 
edge does not require hemming; whereas cotton, linen, or 
silk fabrics are loose enough to allow the warp and weft 
threads near the edpe to become loosened and unravelled. 

When the fulling is quite completed, the doth is stretched 
out in an open place to dry; and is then ready for the 
process of feasting. The object of this is, to raise up the 
loose fibres of the woollen yarn into a nop upon the surface 
of the cloth. This is done by a kind of scratchingmotion, 
either with the prickly flower-head of the teazle (IHpsaetu 
Jbllonum), or with brushes made of wires. 

The teazles were formerly used by two men; but they 
hare lately been fixed to a machine called the gig-mill. In 



66 * wool. 

the former method a number of teazles were put into a 
small frame, having crossed handles eight or ten inches long. 
Being filled with the thistle-heads or teazles, it formed a 
tool somewhat resembling the horse cwrry-comb used by 
grooms. The teazle-frame was seized by two men, who, 
holding it by the handle, scrubbed the face of the cloth, 
which was either hung in a vertical position from two 
horizontal rails fixed to the ceiling of the workshop, or 
placed over an inclined bench or horse. The first time of 
scrubbing the cloth, it was wetted with water, and worked 
three times over in the direction of the warp: a second 

r ration similarly worked up the fibres in the direction of 
weft. 

In order to expedite this process, the teazles were after- 
wards fixed to a gig-mill. This consists of a cylinder 
bristled over with teazles, and turning rapidly round while 
the cloth is drawn over it in various directions. When 
the elastic points or hooks of the teazles get filled with 
flocks of wool, they are taken out of the cylinder and 
cleaned by children with a small comb— or, in large 
factories, By a replying bruah-cylinder. 

The plants which yield the teazles employed in the above 
process are cultivated in the counties of Wilts, Essex, 
Gloucester, and Somerset. There are several heads to each 
plant, and these, when they sprout out about July or 
August, are cut off and exposed to dry. This is done in 
the open air if the weather permit; but if otherwise, the 
small farmers, or cottagers, dry them in barns or other con- 
venient places. They are then packed up in bundles of ten 
thousand each, and sent to market, where they produce 
from 4Z. to 20£. per pack, according to the relation between 
supply and demand; but the usual price varies from 52. to 
82. The variations of soil and of weather produce so much 
uncertainty in the supply of teazles, that its cultivation is 
one of the most precarious in agriculture. 

The number of teazles required in dressing a piece of 
cloth is very great; when the cloth is of fine quality as 
many as 1500 or 2000 are often necessary; and these are 
not merely used but spoiled by the operation, so that a 
continual supply is needed. This circumstance has induced 
ingenious men to endeavour to devise a mode of employ- 
ing metal wires, formed into a kind of scrubbing brush, for 
this purpose. Many patents have been taken out for new 
inventions, having this object in view, and some of them are 
now in action; but we believe that the teazle is still the 
principal means employed. 
. If the reader has borne in mind the successive processes 



MANUFACTURE OF BROAD CLOTH. 67 

which have been detailed, lie will be prepared to understand 
that the cloth presents a woolly kind of surface, on account 
of the disturbance of fibres caused by the teazling. To 
level down this woolly surface, and to produce that 
beautifully equal and soft texture which we recognise 
fine broad cloth, is the office of the cropper or shearer, who 
takes off a portion of the woolly surface by means of a 
peculiar kind of shears. When this is done by hand, the 
cloth is laid down in folds upon a plank or low bench, and 
the end is drawn across a taole or bench, which is covered 
with cloth, and stuffed with horse-hair like a cushion. The 
cloth is stretched out flat upon the surface of the table, and 
retained in its place by hooks and weights. Two workmen 
are employed to shear. Each has a pair of shears made 
in a peculiar manner, with large fiat blades, which cut the 
surface of the cloth by a motion not altogether unlike that 
of shaving. One man begins at one edge, and the other at 
the middle of the width of the cloth, working crosswise, or 
in the direction of the weft. When they have gone over 
the whole width of the cloth by repeated cuts, they draw 
the piece of cloth forwards across the table, and commence 
shearing a new portion. 

Such was the mode of shearingadopted almost universally 
until the beginning of the present century, when machines 
were introduced for performing the same operation with 
greater certainty and expedition. But in this, as in almost 
every similar instance, the introduction of machinery was 
viewed with jealousy by the workmen accustomed to the 
old routine, and serious riots took place, especially in 
Wiltshire and Somersetshire. A Committee of the House 
of Commons was appointed to investigate the matter, and 
they showed their approval of the introduction of machinery 
by presenting a report, in which.it was stated, "That 
decisive evidence had been adduced before them, by mer- 
chants and manufacturers of the greatest credit and re- 
spectability, to prove that these machines, when carefully 
employed, finish the cloth in the most perfect manner; and 
these manufacturers residing in parts of the country where 
the gig-mill is not used, frequently sent their cloths to a 
distance to be dressed by it; that similar alarms had been 
created among workmen at the introduction of other 
machines, now admitted to be most beneficial to the trade 
and to every body engaged in it; for, besides the occupa- 
tion created by attendance on such machines, a greatly 
increased demand for labour had resulted from the 
extended sale of goods, in consequence of their greater 
cheapness and superior quality." . 



68 WOOL; 

Since the period above referred to numerous machines 
hare been brought into use, for effecting the operation of 
■hearing cloth; and hand-shearing is almost out of use. 
There u in every case a broad, sharp, and fine-cutting 
instrument, the mode of action of which is in general mid- 
way between shaving and planing. The machine now 
generally employed contains a spiral cutter working against 
a straight smooth edge; the cloth being drawn between 
the two. 

After the cloth has been sheared, its surface is brushed 
to remove the loose cuttings. This operation is now com* 
monly performed by a machine furnished with two hori- 
sontal drums or cylinders, covered with brushes. The 
piece of cloth is conducted over a system of rollers, to 
extend it and draw it slowly forward: it is conducted over 
one of the brushing cylinders, and under the other; and 
as they are kept in rapid motion by the machine, they 
brush over both sides of the cloth at the same time, and 
lay all the fibres one way. 

This brushing is succeeded by the process of pressings 
it is this which imparts the smooth, even, and glossy 
appearance to the cloth. The piece of cloth is folded 
backwards and forwards at every yard, so as to form a 
solid pack or heap; and between every two folds sheets of 
glazed paper are placed, so that no part of the surfaces of 
the cloth can come in contact; also at every twenty yards* 
three hot iron plates are inserted between the folds, the 
plates being laid side by side, so that they occupy the whole 
surface of the folds; and thin iron plateB, which are not 
heated, are also put above and below the hot plates, to 
moderate the heat. When the pack of doth is properly 
folded, it is placed in a screw press or a hydraulic press, and 
powerfully pressed. The cloth remains in the press until 
the plates are quite cold ; it is then taken out and refolded, 
so that the creases of the former folds will come opposite 
to the surfaces of the paper, in order to be pressed with 
other hot plates. 

The nature of this process is this: — Hie heat tends to 
soften the fibres of the wool; and the pressure against the 
glazed paper, whilst they are so softened, lays all the fibres 
Sat and smooth, so that the cloth has a very glossy appear- 
ance, and a smooth, satin-like texture. But this high- 
finish to the cloth is not free from objection; for a shower 
of rain will remove it, or produce a spotted and disfigured 
appearance. For this reason, in pressing superfine cloth, 
the plates are very slightly warmed, and thus the cloth 
receives but little gloss. 



BLEAOHTNG. 69 

For coarse cloth, the gloss is sometimes communicated 
by means of a hot iron. For this purpose the cloth is 
Bpread out upon a large flat table, and extended by hooks. 
An iron box, containing a red-hot heater, is suspended by 
ropes from the ceiling, so that it can be hoisted oyer to the 
middle of the table, and then two men work it backwards 
and forwards oyer the whole surface of the cloth, by means 
of two long poles or handles. 

When the cloth is quite finished, it is packed up in 
bales of twenty or twenty-five pieces. Each bale is first 
inclosed in paper and then in canvas, and lastly compactly 
pressed. 

Bleaching. 

It is not often that white woollen cloths are required ; 
but when they, or any other articles manufactured from 
wool, are to be bleached, the process is generally performed 
on the unspun wool, and it is effected in the following 
manner. 

There is always a considerable amount of oil and greasy 
matter naturally belonging to the wool; and the principal 
object is to remove this. Five parts of soft water are 
mixed with one of an ammoniacal compound, and boiled 
for a short time. When this has cooled to about 56°, the 
wool is thrown in, in the proportion of twenty pounds to 
four or &ve pailfuls of liquor. After steeping for a short 
time, the wool is continually stirred about in the mixture 
for about fifteen or twenty minutes. It is then taken out 
and drained in a basket; and afterwards completely rinsed 
by exposing it in baskets to a continued stream of clear 
water, a workman constantly stirring it with a pole, till 
the water passes off perfectly clear. The wool is then re- 
moved, and a fresh quantity put into the basket, which is 
to be treated in the same manner. The steeping and rinsing 
are repeated till the wool has attained as great a degree of 
whiteness as it is capable of receiving from this operation. 

This is the usual operation for coarse wool ; but for 
those varieties which are destined for fine cloths, a dif- 
ferent one is pursued. The wool is divided into parcels 
containing about six and a-half pounds, and each parcel is 
washed in a lather of two pounds and a-half of green soap 
in a sufficient quantity of boiling water. There is a kind 
Of clayey earth called jhller'* earth, which has the property 
of combining with and removing grease, &e., much in the 
same manner as soap ; and it is largely employed by the 
wool-scourers, or fullers, instead of soap. 

Hie wool, when thus treated, is smooth, soft, elastic, 



70 wool. 

open, and whitish; but us the whiteness is not sufficiently 
pure for many purposes, a farther process, called sulphur- 
ing, is adopted, after the cloth has oeen woven. The cloth 
is hung up on poles in a close apartment, and a quantity of 
sulphur, placed in very flat and broad dishes, is ignited, 
ana allowed to burn away gradually in the chamber, every 
aperture by which the vapour coula escape being carefully 
closed. Tlie sulphurous acid vapour generated by the 
combination of the sulphur with the oxygen of the air of 
the chamber penetrates the cloth, destroys the colouring 
matter, and thus completes the bleaching. Everything is 
allowed to remain untouched for a period varying from 
six to twenty-four hours, when the cloth is removed from 
the chamber. We are not aware whether chlorine has 
been yet employed for .bleaching woollen goods. 

Dyeing. . 

The purpose and effect of scouring the woven cloth, as 
recently described, is to remove the oil which has been 
previously applied to the wool to facilitate the spinning 
and weaving, since the cloth would not take the dye until 
the oil were removed. The soap, fuller's earth, &c, together 
with the rubbing and beating action iust described, have 
the desired effect of removing the oil and preparing the 
cloth for the dyer. We may here observe, that tne process 
of dyeing is performed at different stages of the woollen 
manufacture, according to the purposes to which the wool 
is to be applied. If it is to be made into cloth of mixed 
colours, tte dye is imparted to the fleece : if it is to be 
used for tapestry and other similar purposes, the dye is 
given to the spun yarn or thread; but in the common 
manufacture of blue or black cloth, both modes are adopted 
— "wool-dyeing" before the yarn is spun, or "piece-dye- 
ing" after the cloth is woven, out before it is fulled. Each 
of these methods has some advantage peculiar to itself. . 

The woollen cloth made and used in England is so much, 
more frequently dyed blue or black than any other colour, 
that a snort account of the modes of effecting this will 
serve to convey a general idea of woollen dyeing. 

The principal materials for dyeing cloth blue are indigo 
and wood, both of which are deriveafrom plants, the former 
growing in India and the latter in England and other 
countries. The dyeing is conducted in a large vat. About 
four hundred pounds' weight of woad is broken up and put 
into the vat. Thirty pounds of weld (a plant yielding a 



DYEItfG. 71 

yellow infusion) are boiled in a copper for three hours in a 
sufficient quantity of water to fill the vat. To this decoc- 
tion are added twenty rounds of madder (also a vegetable 
product), and a quantity of bran. The boiling is then 
continued for half an hour longer; after the liquid has 
partially cooled, the weld is taken out, and the whole re- 
maining contents of the boiler poured into the vat. The 
mixture is then raked for a considerable time, in order to 
incorporate it well together. After a certain time, a por- 
tion of quick-lime, and the requisite quantity of indigo, are 
added, me latter being regulated by the intensity of the 
blue shade required; from ten to thirty pounds are employed 
to the proportions above mentioned. After standing several 
days, and undergoing several rakings, it is again heated, 
and is ready for the reception of the cloth. 

Two hours before the dyeing, the vat is raked ; and to 
prevent the cloth from coining in contact with the sedi- 
ment, which would produce inequalities in the colour, a 
net-work false bottom is introduced. The cloth is then 
completely wetted with pure water a little heated, and being 
wrung out, is dipped into the vat, where it is moved about 
for a longer or a shorter time, according to the depth of 
'shade required. During this operation, it is taken out 
occasionally to be exposed to the air, the action of which is 
necessary to change the greenish colour of the bath into 
blue, dloth dyed blue in this manner must be carefully 
washed to carry off the particles of colouring-matter ; and 
when the shade of blue is deep, it ought even to be cleansed 
by fulling with soap; since this operation does not alter 
the colour. 

To produce the tint of blue called Saxon-blue, the cloth 
is first prepared with alum and tartar; and the indigo is 
dissolved in sulphuric acid, previous to its introduction into 
the vat. 

To dye cloth a good black it is usually first dyed deep 
blue. It is then boiled for two hours in a vat containing 
nut-galls and water, the proportion, being five pounds of 
galls to every hundred pounds of cloth. It is, in the next 
place, steeped for two hours in a solution of logwood and 
sulphate of iron, in the proportions of thirty pounds of the 
former to five of the latter. The cloth is not boiled in this 
solution, but merely steeped. After the dyeing, the cloth 
is well rinsed in a river or running stream, until the water 
comes off clear and colourless. A cheaper black is produced 
by first dyeing the cloth brown, by means of an infusion 
of green walnut-peels; and afterwards black by the usual 
means. 



72 iroou 

Such is a brief outline of the mode* of dyeing blue or 
black ; and the difference between these modes and those 
used for other colours is not so much in the nature of the 
processes as in the colouring substances employed. For 
instance, to dye cloth scarlet, the colouring-matter of the 
cochineal insect is employed ; for crimson, cochineal mixed 
with alum, the alkalies, or some of the earthy salts ; for 
yellow dyes, weld, fustic, catechu, anatto, quercitron, and 
many other bodies; for brown, walnut-peel, sumach, birch 
bark, sandal wood, Ac. It will also readily be understood, 
that by mixing any two or three of the other substances 
together, almost every imaginable variety of tint or shade 
may be produced. Black and blue are, however, by far 
the predominating colours in English woollen cloth. 

These, then, are the most important of the details con- 
nected with the cloth manufacture. We may remark, that 
attempts have more than once been made to produce 
woollen cloth without any spinning or weaving whatever: by 
making the fibres of wool adhere together by a process in 
some respects analogous to fulling, caHed felting; a process 
which will be better understood when we come to speak of 
felting wool for hats. Hitherto these attempts have not 
succeeded ; but we think it by no means improbable that 
such a process will ultimately be adopted. 

The value of woollen goods manufactured in England is 
supposed to amount to about twenty millions sterling 
annually, of which about six millions are exported. Besides 
the wool derived from our own sheep, about forty million 
pounds of foreign wool is imported, and the manufacture 
is supposed to support about three hundred thousand 
persons. 



I 



:!S lib 



til if 



lis a 



_l tig II i 

fe L 



i 



n 



i - 



' 3 
1 1 



11 



II 



J M' 

II 



sit 



IP 



74 LINEN. 

Flax is the bark or fibrous covering of the stem of a 
plant whose botanical name is Linum, — a word considered 
by some to be derived from the Greek verb to hold, the 
fibres of this plant being so remarkable for their tenacity: 
hence it has always been greatly esteemed for the manu- 
facture of cloth, &c. The flax plant is an annual, requiring 
to be sown with the seeds of the last year's produce, from 
the middle of March to the middle of April. It succeeds 
best in a free open loamy soil; it is certain to produce a 
good crop on new ground; and will generally thrive on any 
soil which is proper for barley or oats. It remains on the 
ground till the end of July or the beginning of August, 
when it ripens, and is fit to be gathered. It is not cut, but 
is pulled up by the root. 

Kussia is celebrated for its hemp. The mode of sorting 
and drying hemp in that country is as follows: — A circular 
hut is built near the plantation, and a plot of ground is 
cleared in front of it, where the sorting can be carried on; 
while at the side is a rack with several horizontal bars or 
shelves. The hemp, after being gathered, is laid on the 
rack to dry, — afterwards spread out upon the ground to 
be sorted, — and finally stored up in the hut. This is all 
that we need say respecting hemp; we therefore proceed 
in our notice of flax. 

As the fibrous portion, which is situated between the 
interior wood and exterior bark of each stalk, is that which 
is to be afterwards used, means must be afterwards taken 
to separate it from the other parts. This is effected either 
steeping the plant in water, or by exposing it on the grass 
to the action of the dew. The one is called water-rotting 
or retting, and the other dew-retting. The process of 
Totting away the woody from the fibrous portions has been 
employed from time immemorial in many countries; but it 
is found to be very detrimental to the health, not only of 
the inhabitants, but also the cattle, in the districts where 
it is carried on. It becomes the source of many pestilential 
diseases, among which, perhaps, the malaria, so prevalent 
in the vicinity of Borne and Naples, may be numbered; 
besides which, since flax and hemp ripen about the month 
of August, and require to be submitted to this process as 
soon as they are taken from the ground, the farmer's 
attention to them becomes necessary at a time when it can 
least be spared. 

According to Mr. Millington, the water-retting of the 
flax is most commonly performed in artificial ponds or 
canals excavated by the sides of rivers, and generally about 
forty feet long, six feet wide, and four deep; a sufficient 





I 



• i ■! 

id J a 

1 l I 



I | 
I I I 



r- g 

53 

8 K 



NEl 



u 



76 LINEN. 

nicety and hazard to the cultivator. In Belgium the flax 
is steeped in a running stream instead of a stagnant pool; 
and the whole process is more carefully attended to than 
in any other country. 

When the steeping in the water is supposed to hare 
been carried to a sufficient extent, the bundles of flax, 
which have by this time become very tender and difficult 
to handle, are taken out on boards or trays, and removed 
to the nearest short grass or heath, where they are 
regularly disposed in rows to lose their moisture, and in 
which situation they receive an additional preparation from 
the evening dews and occasional showers completing the 
decomposition, and at the same time washing away the 
slime and mucilage with which they are mixed. This last 
exposure is called grossing, and continues, according to 
the state of the atmosphere, for four or five weeks, or until 
the flax is as dry as it can be sot, of a clean, good colour, 
and all the wooiy matter which remains is perfectly brittle. 
The fibre will still retain most of its original tenacity, if 
the operation has been carefully and skilrally conducted. 

It is sometimes the plan to spread out the flax in thin 
layers on the grass as soon as it is pulled, without pre- 
viously steeping it in water. The disengagement of the 
fibre from the surrounding materials is effected by the air 
and dew, but in a longer time than when the flax is pre- 
viously steeped. This process is termed dew-retting. 

Braking and Heckling. 

When the flax has remained on the grass till the fibres) 
can be easily broken away from the woody portion, it is 
taken up, a dry day being chosen for the purpose; and 
being bound in sheaves, is carried to the place where it i* 
to be broken or scutched. Before this operation of breaking 
or braking is performed, it is necessary that the flax should 
be exposed to the heat of the sun, by placing it against a 
wall or paling, in a sloping direction, or to the gentle heat 
of a fire, by putting it over hurdles, or by introducing it 
into an oven heated by the refuse flax. The heat should be 
Tery moderate, and regulated in an equal manner. And in 
every case the flax should only be Buffered to remain just 
long enough to dispel any dampness that it may hare 
acquired. 

The process of braking the flax now ensues : this consists) 
in breaking and separating the core from the fibrous flax, 
and is performed Tby means of instruments more or less 



FBEPABATION OP THE FLAX. 77 

simple. A caramon flax-brake is composed of three wooden 
bars fastened longitudinally on a horizontal bench, and of 
a lever, to the under side of which are fixed similar, bat 
rather smaller bars, which fit in between the interstices of 
the former. The flax being held in the left hand across 
the under bars of the brake, the upper bars are then with 
the right hand quickly and repeatedly forced down upon 
the flax, which is shifted and turned about with the left 
hand, in order that it may be fully and completely broken 
in its whole length. An improvement was afterwards 
made, by which the machine was put in action by tne foot, 
and thus the effect was produced in a more complete 
manner. Subsequently, instruments of a more complicated 
kind have been invented; but these we need not particu- 
larly describe, as the effect which they are designed to 
produce is merely to break away the fibrous flax from the 
other portions which are not required, and to separate it. 

The flax is now ready for the process of hackling ox 
heckling, which bears some resemblance to wool-combing. 
The heckle is a strong comb composed of a number of rows 
of iron or steel pins, several inches long, fixed upright in 
a square block of wood as a base, across the pointed sum- 
mits of which the lock of flax is thrown, and drawn through 
the teeth either by hand or mechanical power. As con- 
siderable force as well as art are requisite to heckle well 
without injuring the flax, the block must be made fast to 
a bench, in front of the workman, when the operation is a 
manual one. Coarser and wider-toothed heckles are used 
first, and then others progressively closer-toothed, as the 
fibres become finer by separation. The effect of this heck- 
ling is to divide, clean, and straighten the fibres of flax. 

Into this, as into most other similar manufactures, ma- 
chinery has been introduced. The heckling points are now 
generally attached to the circumference or a cylinder, and 
the flax being made to pass through them, it thus becomes 
heckled. In ordinary flax-milfe the fibres are first roughly 
heckled by hand, in the way just described, and then ear- 
ned to a machine, where they are heckled in a more com- 
plete manner. Boys, called mctekine^mndera, and occasion- 
ally girls, tend these machines, fixing the portions of flax 
in the proper places, removing them from coarser to finer 
heckles, and finally removing them to make room for 
others. In this part of the work there is frequently a spe- 
cies of injustice somewhat similar to that practised by the 
*h*bber in the woollen manufacture, to which we before 
alluded. Dr. Ure thus speaks of it: — " The locks of flax 
are screwed into the holder by a boy ealled the screwer, 



ft 



78 LINEN. 

generally younger than his companion the machine-minder p 
and his labour appeared, to a most intelligent factory com- 
missioner, to be, beyond comparison, the most fatiguing 
that he had seen children subjected to, independently of 
the noxious atmosphere, loaded as it is with particles of 
flax incessantly detached and scattered by the whirling of 
the machines. The screwer seems not to have, with the 
common-heckling machine, an instant's cessation from 
labour ; bunch after bunch is thrown down before him, to 
fix and unfix, — actions performed by him with incredible 
rapidity. If he does not do his work properly, he mars the 
work of the machine-minder, — generally a bigger boy, and 
is apt to suffer the usual punishment inflicted by the 
stronger work-people on the weaker, who happen to ob- 
struct their labour and their gain, — annoyance or oppres- 
sion in some shape or other. If the difference of age or 
strength were the same between the machine-minder and 
the screwer ', as between the slubber and piecener in wool- 
spinning, there is little doubt that the ill-treatment, which 
is in our factories now almost exclusively the reproach of 
the slubber, would find its parallel in a flax-mill." Recent 
improvements in the hecklmg-machines, and! the supervi- 
sion of the factory inspectors, have done much to remove 
seme of the evils here alluded to. 

Sorting and Eoving. 

The operation of heckling divides the flax into line and 
tow; the former being the long, clean, straightened fibres; 
and the latter the short, dirty, fibrous matter combed off 
from among the flaxen locks. The heckled flax, or line, 
passes into the hands of the line-sorters, whose business it 
is to sort it, according to its fibre, into different degrees of 
fineness. It is now at the same stage as long wool when 
delivered by the combers or combing-machine. Girls or 
women, called line-spreaders, are then employed to unite 
the locks of line into one sliver or band, exactly like the 
breakers in the worsted factory. 

The flax is now in a condition to go through the opera- 
tion of roving, that is, being drawn out, or elongated into 
a slender and tolerably regular pipe or tube, preparatory to 
the operation of spinning. By referring to page 30 the 
reader will see the object and the nature of the process of 
roving cotton; and the effect of the similar operation upon 
flax so nearly resembles it, that a separate description is 
not necessary. We may merely observe, that machines 



PREPARATION OF THE FLAX. 79 

for effecting this process have been gradually improved 
upon by repeated patented inventions. 

A tolerable idea of the connexion between the various 
parts of the flax preparation, after the braking, and before 
the spinning, may be formed from a description which Air. 
Barlow has given of the operations in an extensive flax 
manufactory in Yorkshire, The building consists of Ave 
floors, and the operators, of which there are more than 
twelve hundred, are principally girls from ten to twenty 
years of age. The propelling powers are two seventy- 
horse steam-engines, one on each side of the building. 
Each of these drives a series of vertical shafts acting on 
one shaft which passes through all the floors ; and on each 
floor there are bevelled wheels on this main shaft, which 
drive various others, lying in a horizontal direction, some 
of them extending in length to one hundred and thirty 
feet. From these, and cylinders, upon them supplied with 
proper straps, all the machinery on each floor is driven, 
every strap naving pulleys for putting the machinery in or 
out of motion. 

The flax is delivered at the mill, from the grower, after 
it has gone through the process of braking. In this state 
it is conveyed from the wagons, by a lifting apparatus like 
that of a flour-mill, to the upper floor of the building, 
where it is opened, and where the process of spinning, or 
rather the preparation for spinning, is commenced. 

The flax, in the state in which it is received, is from 
twenty-six to thirty-six inches in length, and the first step 
is to divide a quantity of it into three lengths : the part 
nearest to the root being coarse and strong, the middle part 
fine and strong, and the upper part still finer but not so 
strong. Thus each length being divided into three, and 
all the parts from the bottom, middle, and top, being col- 
lected into separate heaps, three distinct qualities of thread 
are to be formed. 

The separation of these first lengths into three is effected 
by a very ingenious machine, consisting of a number of 
vertical wheels, and a centre wheel furnished with teeth. 
' The length of flax is held transversely against these wheels, 
and is passed between two, one on each side, while the 
centre wheel tears it across by separating but not cutting 
the fibres. This cuts off the bottom part of the length of 
flax: the remaining part is then submitted to the same pro- 
cess, and the middle part is cut from the top, each sort 
being collected in one heap, so as to effect a separation of 
the three qualities. Each division varies in length from 
about nine to twelve inches. 



80 LIKEN. 

In the next stage these lengths are fixed in a sort of vice 
at one end, and spread out to a breadth of six or eigkfc 
inches. Several of these are fixed on a sort of revolving 
cylinder, at distances of about a foot from each other, 
their unsupported ends falling on a series of combs or heck- 
ling points. As the combs revolve in one direction and the 
flax m an opposite, the lengths of flax become combed out 
very smooth and straight; they are then, dextrously re- 
moved by an attendant, generally a girl, and placed with 
the other sides downwards, and exposed to the action of a 
similar set of combs. Then again they are removed to a 
cylinder containing finer heckle-teeth, and so on until, for 
the finest qualities, the flax has passed through ten or a 
dozen heckfing-maohines. 

These several operations being performed, the next step 
it to place these pieces of flax, end to end, on what is called 
a feeding-cloth, and by the hand slightly to combine their 
ends. The first end is then passed between two rollers 
furnished with teeth, which carry the whole forward, while 
the extreme end passes between two iron rollers, the latter 
moving with considerably greater velocity than the former, 
hi some eases in the proportion of thirty to one ; the effect 
of which is, that the flax is lengthened thirty times, and 
proportionally reduced in thickness* In passing from the 
roller, the flax receives no twist, but comes out fiat and of . 
about the breadth of narrow tape, and is caught in a cylin- 
drical can placed below to receive it. When a certain 
length has been received sufficient to fill the can, the maw 
©hiaery rings a bell; an attendant breaks the flax, removes 
the can, and places another. The flax in the full can is 
then taken to another machine, where it is again lengthened, 
and so on, to different decrees according to its intended 
fineness. After it is properly reduced in the fiat state here 
described, it receives in the last stage a very slight twist, 
so as to reduce it to a round, thick, soft kind of thread, 
oatled a nwing. It is then ready for spinning. 



81 



Spinning and Weaving. 

One marked point of difference between the spinning of 
cotton and that of flax is, that the latter must be wet during 
the process, in order to produce a close and smooth yarn. 
It is necessary to pass the rovings through a trough of 
water placed at the back of the spindles ; in consequence 
of which a dewy spray is constantly thrown off in the front 
of the frame from the yarn, as it is rapidly twirled in the 
process of spinning. And as another spuming frame is 
placed at no great distance, the spinner is exposed to this 
small rain both in front and in rear; whereby he mar, 
without certain precaution, have his clothes thoroughly 
soaked through in a few hours, especially if stationed be- 
tween two frames placed very near together. Dr. Tire 
observes, M This may be considered the inherent evil in 
flax-spinning : the spray thrown off by the wet yarn, as it 
whirls about with the flyer of the spindles. A working 
dress, indeed, is generally worn by the spinners ; but un- 
less it be made of stuff impermeable to water, like Macin- 
tosh's cloth, it will soon become uncomfortable, and cause 
injury to health, by keeping«the body continually in a bath. 
In some mills, water-proof cloth and leather aprons have 
actually been introduced ; which are the only practicable 
remedy, fbr the free space which must be left round the 
spindles for the spinner to see them play, is incompatible 
with any kind of guard or parapluie.* 

Within a short period it has become customary in some 
factories to wet the flax with hot water instead of cold, as 
it is found that a much finer, smoother, and more uniform 
thread can be spun thereby: the flax formerly spun to 
twelve pounds the bundle, is by this method spun to six. 
But the spray* of hot water is still more uncomfortable to 
the workman than that of cold. A contrivance has there- 
fore been partially adopted, by which the troughs can be 
covered up, by which the increased heat and dampness of 
the room is somewhat obviated. But the spray from the 
whirling rovings of flax still continues, ana no method 
has yet been devised by which this annoyance can be re- 
moved. 

These remarks on flax-spinning are all which will be 
necessary to say on the subject; tor the actual process of 
spinning is almost precisely similar to that of cotton ; the 
same remark also applies to weaving. When the flax for 
linen has been spun into yarn, and the cotton for calico has 



82 LINEN. 

also been spun into yarn, the modes of weaving those yarns 
respectively into linen and calico are almost identical, and' 
do not call for a repetition of our description. 

Supposing then that a piece of linen has been woven from 
flax yarn, we will next make a few remarks on 

Bleaching. 

Little need be said on this point, for reasons just stated. 
It has been found that the colouring-matter of flax is not 
chemically combined with the fibrous threads constituting 
the bark of the stalk ; but that a chemical combination 
takes place while the plant is steeped in water. This being 
the case, it seems doubly desirable that some mode ot 
separating the fibres from the wood should be adopted, 
which would not require that the flax should be so long 
steeped in water. An attempt has been made to effect 
this, and at the same time to save the necessity of bleach- 
ing the linen hereafter to be woven ; but we believe that 
such attempts have not hitherto been successful. 

The process of bleaching linen is nearly the same as that 
employed for cotton ; but it is more difficult to effect the 
former than the latter ; hence the boiling with an alkaline 
ley, and the steeping in the solution of chloride of lime, 
must be repeated three or four times. In general, the 
linen is exposed upon the grass to the sun for some weeks, 
though this part of the process is not essential. The loss 
of weight which linen sustains during bleaching amounts to 
about one-third part of the whole weight of goods, whereas 
cotton scarcely sustains a loss of one-tenth part. 

It was formerly very much the practice to bleach flax in 
the state of yarn, by the slow process called grass -bleaching, 
before chlorine was discovered. The first operation, called 
steeping, consisted in immersing the brown yarn in hot 
water, or in allowing it to macerate in cold water, or in 
alkaline ley. The next operation was that of bucking or 
boiling in an alkaline ley ; after which the yarn was ex- 
posed on the grass, for two or three weeks, which latter 
operation was called crofting. These alternate operations 
of bucking, washing, and crofting, were generally repeated 
four or five times, each time lessening the strength of the 
alkaline solution in which the bucking was performed. 
The next process was that of scouring, which consisted in 
soaking the yarn in sour milk, which was usually employed, 
for the first time, immediately after the fourth or fifth 
bucking. In this liquor, which was technically called the 



DYEING. 83 

first sour, the goods lay for three weeks, or until such 
time as the scrim began to crack and subside, when they 
were usually taken out and submitted to a repetition of 
the processes already described. These tedious operations 
were afterwards much shortened by substituting sulphuric 
acid 'for the sour milk; but chlorine has now effected a 
revolution in almost fc every department of the bleaching 
trade. 

Dyeing. 

Woven fabrics made of flax are, generally speaking, 
much less frequently dyed than those formed of cotton, 
wool, or silk. But when such a process does take place, 
it is conducted in precisely the same manner as in the 
dyeing of cottons. 

In concluding this notice of linen we may state that 
the quantity of flax for linen, and hemp for sails, cording, 
&c, imported every year into England, is estimated at 
1,500,000 cwt. Of the linen manufactured (and which is 
supposed to be worth about seven millions sterling an- 
nually), about two millions are exported. The number of 
persons engaged in the linen manufacture is supposed to 
be about two hundred thousand. 



34 



Chaffee V. 



SILK. 



If Cotton be ike most generally useful of woven fabric 
Silk is unquestionably the most beautiful. The fineness 
of the thread or yarn which the weaver employs, the splen- 
did colours which it is capable of receiving, and the deli- 
cate gloss wluch 'distinguishes woven silt goods, have been 
universally admired. But there are yet other qualities to 
recommend it. Silk is a very strong material* considering 
the thinness of the fibres ; it resists fire better than cotton 
fabrics will do ; and it is beautifully soft to the touch. 

There is, perhaps, nothing more wonderful in the whole 
range of the useful arts, than the production and manufac- 
ture of silk. That a worm two or three inches long should 
spin from its body a minute glutinous filament ; — that it 
should form a ball, or " cocoon," with that filament ; — that 
man should take the cocoon, unwind the filament from it, 
spin it, and convert it into cloth: all this forms a subject 
so attractive, that we must venture to enter into it some- 
what more fully than we have done into the three precede 
ing subjects. In treating of cotton, or wool, or flax, the 
details which precede the labours performed in our factories 
are not very extensive, because neither the plants which 
yield two of these, nor the animal which yields the other, 
are difficult to rear. This, however, is not the case with 
silk ; the details which precede the importation of the raw 
material into England are more important than those which 
succeed it. The rearing of the silk- worm will therefore be 
well deserving of our attention. 



Cultivation of the Mulberry-tree. 

As the produce of the silk-worm depends almost entirely 
on the food consumed by the animal, and as the mulberry 
leaf is the kind best adapted to its habits, it will be proper 
to say a few words respecting the cultivation of the trees, 
before describing the rearing of the worms. 

The mulberry-tree is called Moras by botanists, and 
comprises seven species, of which five are employed for the 
nourishment of silk-worms. The white variety, or Morns 



CULTIVATION OF THE MULBERRY-TREE. 85 

alba, however, is the one which the animal prefers, and 
which is most extensively cultivated for this purpose. 
Moist lands in valleys and near rivers are favourable to a 
rapid growth, of the trees, but not to the development of 
nutritious qualities in the leaf; while dry soils give few 
leaves to the trees, but these are of an excellent quality. 

The mulberry-tree is raised by cuttings, layers, or seed. 
The following directions apply to the mode of cultivation in 
Prance: — Take the ripe mulberries when they are fall of 
juice and seed. Next take a rough horse-hair line or rope, 
and, with a good handful of ripe mulberries, rub the hand 
along the line, bruising and mashing the berries as much as 
possible, so that the pulp and seed of the berries 'may 
adhere in great abundance to the rope or hair line. Next, 
dig a trench in the ground, such as is frequently used for 
crops of various kinds in kitchen gardens; and after having 
cut the rope or hair line into lengths, place it full of the 
mashed berries into the trench: the trench is then filled 
up with earth, and afterwards frequently watered. The 
fieeds will grow and soon shoot out suckers, which will 
bear young leaves fit for the silk-worm to feed on. In 
iMsmod* of raring, the tm* or shrubs do not attam a 
greater height than a raspberry, currant, or gooseberry 
bush. 

One writer states: — " The most easy and expeditious 
way of raising mulberry-trees is from cuttings. Although 
as great a number cannot so readily be raised in the 
manner as from seed, there is a greater advantage in point 
of strength as well as in the rapidity of their growth* This 
metiod of propagation is muot more successful in moist 
and temperate dimes than in such as are exposed to the 
arid heat of the lower latitudes. Cuttings will put forth 
shoots of about five or six inches in length during the first 
summer, and will, at the same time, be providing them- 
selves with roots. If they have put forth shoots, and 
preserve their leaves until the autumn, the plants will 

generally succeed: any which have failed to do so, must 
e replaced by other cuttings. In the course of the ensuing 
spring and summer, if carefully watered, the shoots will 
frequently Attain the length of eighteen inches. In the 
autumn following, the beds must be thinned, and the 
redundant saplings planted out." 

The Chinese allow their mulberry-trees to attain a 
moderate height; but they so prune them that the leaves 
may be gathered in the easiest manner. They are, with 
this view, cut in a hollow form, without any intersecting 



86 SILK. 

branches in the middle ; so that a person going round the 
tree may gather all the outside leaves, and afterwards, by 
standing withinside, and merely turning round to the 
different parts, may pluck the leaves growing within. The 
trees are not allowed to grow to any great height; so that 
each tree forms a sort of round edge, and thus the leaves 
may be reached without climbing on the branches. 

The leaves maybe gathered as soon as they appear; but 
it is injurious to the tree to pluck them before the fifth 
year. As there is a good deal of sap in the trees, they 
will produce two crops of leaves in one season, and thus 
furnish food for two broods of silk-worms. A well-culti- 
vated mulberry-tree will yield about thirty pounds' weight 
of good leaves, or if large, much more than this; and the 
rearers of silk-worms in the south of France purchase the 
leaves at market, — an office requiring some sagacity; for it 
is found that of the saccharine, the resinous, the fibrous, the 
watery, and the colouring constituents of the leaf, the saccha- 
rine only is the part which sustains the insect, and causes it 
to increase in size; and as the leaves vary in the proportion, 
of these constituents, it is necessary to be able to judge 
those which are best fitted for the purpose. The young 
leaves are fittest for young worms, and the old leaves for 
old worms. 

It has been stated by more than one naturalist, that no 
insect whatever, except the silk-worm, feeds on the mul- 
berry-leaf; a statement which, if true, is not a little curious. 

The reader will now understand that mulberry-trees are 
carefully cultivated, in order that their leaves may be used 
as food for silk- worms; and he may now naturally inquire, 
" Is there no other vegetable production fitted for this 
purpose P" A similar question has often been asked, and 
many investigations have been entered into on the subject. 
The Keverend Mr. Swayne fed some silk- worms on white 
mulberry-leaves, others on those of the black mulberry 
(the fruit of which is common in England), and others on 
lettuce-leaves, for the purpose of comparing the effects 
produced. The worms who had been fed on lettuce were 
of a pale colour, and grew rapidly; but the result seemed 
-fco show, that, although lettuce-leaves may yield nourish- 
ment to the insect, they contribute little towards the secre- 
tion of that peculiar matter from which the silk is produced. 
Subsequent investigations by an ingenious lady, Miss 
Rhodes, showed that lettuce-leaves, under certain precau- 
tions, were more advantageous than had hitherto been 
supposed. But for some reason or other, the rearing of 



BEARING OF THE SILK-WORM. 87 

silk-worms has never prospered in England to much extent; 
and we do not believe that lettuce-leaves are employed by 
foreign countries. 

Another lady employed the leaves of the blackberry, the 
elm, the primrose, the cowslip, and some other plants, at a 
season of the year too early for the mulberry-leaveB; and 
the worms ate of them with avidity. But a singular proof 
was afforded of the natural instinct of the insect; for when 
the young mulberry-leaves appeared, and the worms had 
once tasted of them, they would not again touch their 
previous food. 

A French lady has recently found that the leaves of the 
scornozera (viper-grass) will answer tolerably well as a 
substitute for mulberry-leaves. But every attempt hitherto 
made to supersede the use of the mulberry-leaf has failed 
of complete success. Wlrv this should be the case, — why 
this particular plant should be the favourite food of these re- 
markable insects, — is a question which cannot be answered 
until we possess a larger amount of knowledge both of 
animal anS of vegetable physiology. 

Bearing of Silk-Worms. 

The silk- worm undergoes four different changes. In the 
first instance, an egg is hatched by the warmth of the 
spring, and a caterpillar emerges; this, as it. enlarges, 
progressively casts its skin three or four times, according 
to the variety of the insect. This caterpillar attains 
maturity in about twenty-five or thirty-days, when it 
ceases to eat for the remainder of its (caterpillar) life, 
seeming to be no otherwise employed than in discharging 
a peculiar substance, from its body, and spinning a cocoon 
or egg-shaped nest round itself as a defence from enemies 
and external impression. Within this dwelling the cater- 
pellar changes to a chrysalis or nymph, in which it remains 
in a torpid state for fifteen or twenty days. Suddenly it 
bursts through its cocoon or nest, and comes forth to the 
light of day an insect provided with wings, antennae, and 
feet. In this butterfly state the insect exists for about 
two months. 

Such is the natural career of the silk-worm; and as the 
cocoon is the production which man afterwards appropriates 
to his own use, attention is directed to the best means of 
obtaining from each worm the greatest amount, and the 
best quality of cocoon. 

We must trace the life of this singular little being step 



88 SILK. 

by step in order to understand the subsequent formation 
of the silk. The rearer of silk-worms places white cloths 
or sheets of paper for the reception of the eggs produced by 
the female butterfly. These eggs, which average about 
three hundred in number from each insect, adhere to die 
cloth or paper by means of a kind of gum with which they 
are covered. They are of a yellowish colour, and about as 
large as grains of mustard-seed. 

The living beings within these eggs are hatched by 
means of heat, as in other oviparous animals. But here 
an important circumstance claims the attention of the 
rearer : the - mulberry-tree shoots forth its leaves only at 
certain seasons of the year, according to the climate; and 
if the eggs were hatched at a period when the mulberry- 
leaves were not to be procured, the worms would not thrive 
for want of their proper food. Means are therefore taken 
to prevent the eggs from hatching until the proper season 
arrives. Sometimes the eggs are imported into one country 
from another; and in order to prevent them from hatching 
in the interim, they are carefully dried, and placed in glass 
phials, which are then closely sealed to exclude air and 
moisture. The phials are immersed in earthen pots filled 
with cold water, which is renewed as often as it becomes 
warm. The Chinese, in order to preserve the eggs, suspend 
the sheets of paper containing them to a beam of the 
xearing-room, the windows of which are opened to admit 
air. in a few days the papers are taken down and rolled 
up loosely with the eggs withinside, in which form they 
are hung again during the remainder of the summer, and 
through the autumn. Towards the end of the year they are 
immersed' in cold water containing a small quantity of salt. 
In this state the eggs are left during two days; and on 
being taken from the saline solution, are first nung up to 
dry, and are then rolled up rather more tightly than 
before, each sheet of paper being afterwards inclosed in a 
separate earthen vessel. 

Supposing the eggs to have been properly preserved 
until the mulberry-tree has produced its leaves, prepara- 
tions are made for the hatching. Numerous plans have 
been adopted for this purpose. In some districts the 
peasants fold the eggs up in small paper packets, and keep 
them in their bosoms until the warmth prepares the eggs 
for their approaching change: in other places the warmth 
of the sun is employed; but the plan now more generally 
adopted is to place the eggs in rooms artificially heated. 
According to the method recommended by Count Dandolo, 
an Italian nobleman who bestowed considerable attention 



BEARING OF THE SILK-WORM. .89 

on the rearing of silk-worms, the following is the routine :— » 
The cloths on which the eggs have been deposited by the 
worm, and to which 'tEey a6^ere,'area^tatedfornve or 
six minutes in a Yesseleontaining water, ''in order to lessen 
the adhesion- between them and the cloth. Having then 
suffered the water to drain from them during two or three 
minutes, the cloths are stretched out on tables, and the 
eggs gently scraped from them, by an instrument whose 
edge is not sufficiently sharp to. injure the shells, nor. sol 
blunt as to crush them. The eggs are placed in water and; 
washed; to remove a farther portion of* the gum; and the-; 
water being drained from them, they are washed and gently, 
rubbeii in sound light wine. They are then laid on some 
absorbing. substance to jstrain and dry, in an atmosphere 
of about fifty degrees. 

• The eggs. are, when quite dried, placed in a room heated 
by stoves to -about the temperature of 64°. Two days 
afterwards the temperature is raised to 66°; and on each 
following day the heat is increased one or two degrees, so 
that on the tenth day it has attained the height of 82°, 
which point is not exceeded. The eggs now assume a 
whitish colour, which is a sign that they are about to be 
hatched; and by the application of a microscope, the worm 
maybe ■ seen within the shell. Sheets of white paper are 
: now pierced with holes and placed on the eggs: the worms 
break their. shells, crawl up through the holes, and station 
.themselves on the upper surface of the paper. 

This minute worm or caterpillar immediately shows an 
appetite for food, and will travel a short distance in search 
of it, if a supply is not made for it by the rearers; but the 
habits of the insect are so little of a migratory nature, that, 
if furnished with proper food, it will not wander above 
three feet from the spot of its birth during the whole of its 
brief career. The rearer, therefore, for the purpose of 
collecting the insects in the rearing-house, where they can 
be properly fed, and their sijk taken care of, places small 
twigs of mulberry on the paper. The newly hatched worms 
immediately crawl upon these leaves, and begin to eat with 
avidity ; meanwhile the sheets of paper, with the worms and 
the r mulberry-twigs, are placed in boxes, or well-lined 
baskets, and carefully secluded from cold air until removed 
to the rearing-house. This house must be dry and warm, 
and free from insects, smoke, and .unpleasant odours, 
which are likely to injure the health of the delicate .little 
worms. 

The worms are placed upon shelves in the room, and fed 
with mulberry-leaves cut up into very minute portions, 

0. G 




ilium 



CHANGES OF THE SILK-WORM. 91 

The cut on the opposite page is copied from a Chinese 
drawing, and represents females feedmg the worms. They 
are fed several times a day, the quantity given to them 
being such that the worms from one ounce of eggs eat 
about six pounds of leaves in the first eight days of their 
existence. By the end of these eight days, their good living 
has so nourished them that they have attained the length 
of a quarter of an inch, and their weight has so much 
increased, that although 54,000 of them were required to 
make an ounce when they quitted their eggs, 3,800 will now 
weigh that quantity. A change of a remarkable kind now 
ensues : the insect is literally too big for its skin ; it has 
grown so fast that the skin will no longer stretch or grow 
proportionally; it appears to become ill, and refuses all 
ioocL This continues three days, during whieh the animal 
is making exertions to burst through, and shake off the 
skin, which now almost stifles it. A kind of humour is sent 
out by the insect, which lubricates the surface of the body 
beneath the skin ; and at last, by rubbing the head and 
body on the surface of a leaf, it succeeds m breaking the 
skin in a few places, and then vigorously disengages every 
part of its body from its old covering — not only the body, 
but the feet, the jaws, and even the teeth, are found to shed 
the skin which before covered them. 

The animal seems now to feel as if it had a new lease of 
existence, and commences feedmgjagain with much vigour, 
which continues for five days; during this period the worms 
originally produced from an ounce of 'eggs consume about 
eighteen pounds of leaves, and grow to the length of half 
an inch; while their weight is so much increased that only 
six hundred of them will now go to am ounce. A second 
period of sickness now occurs : the insect's outer covering 
seems too confined, it ceases to eat, and in three days 
undergoes a second moulting, in exactly the same way as 
before. It again resumes its feasting on the mulbezry- 
leaves, and their increased size enables the same number 
of worms to eat sixty pounds of leaves, in the next five days. 
This increases their length to nearly an inch, and their 
weight to such a degree that 144 will weigh an ounce. A 
third sickness of three days follows this, after which a skin 
is again shed, and the insect again seeks eagerly for food, . 
which his increased bulk enables him to eat in such quantity* r 
that one hundred and eighty pounds are devoured by the- 
same number of worms as before spoken of, in five days. . 
This leads to a fourth illness, and, after an abstinence from 
food for three days, to a fourth rejection of skin, when the 
insect presents itself of the comparatively large size of an 




p 


P 


•• 


U 


M 


ri 


h&' 








H 






Sons 


ri 


;• 


:: 




t]j 


ri 




tlor ■ 






E>3 


fes 






ss 


fit in 


c: 


M 


63 


ta 


:'fi 




P 


Solo 1 






j>; 






:g 




-the 


S3 


M 




M" 


h 




£1 


&In 


re 






:i 




:5 


rrms 


ih 


tia 


;«j 






li-j 


:i 


tilYO 






K 


la 


y 


5* 


[i 


jLere 



•^*SVW^«ki 



DISEASES OF THE SILK-WORM. 93 

are some few who, although they may not have all the 
requisites for rearing worms in perfection, yet have care 
sufficient, to preserve them from very severe disease. 

" I have found, oh entering the rooms in which these in- 
sects were reared, that they were damp, ill-lighted by lamps 
fed with rancid oil; the air corrupt and stagnant to a 
degree that impeded respiration; disagreeable effluvia dis- 
guised with aromatics; the wickers too close together, 
covered with fermenting litter, upon which the silk-worms 
were pining. The air was never renewed except by the 
breaches which time had worn in the doors and windows; 
and what made this more sad and deplorable, was the 
knowledge that the persons who attended to those insects, 
however healthy they might have been when they entered 
upon the employment, lost their health, their voices became 
hollow, their hues pallid, and they had the appearance of 
valetudinarians, .as if issuing from the very tomb, or re- 
covering from some dreadful illness." 

In addition to the general weak and sickly state of the 
worms consequent on absence of fresh air, and the natural 
light of day, two active diseases may be noticed: the one 
is called the jaundice, in consequence of the yellow colour 
it produces on its victims; and the other muscardine, be- 
cause the body of the dead worm resembles certain sugar- 
51ums manufactured in Provence, and called muscardine*. 
'his disease is produced by the formation of a minute cryp- 
togamous plant in the interior of the body of the living 
animal. This vegetable substance grows so rapidly, that 
, in a few days it kills the worm, bursts through its skin, 
covers the whole body with vegetation, ripens its seeds, 
' which, falling upon otner worms, soon produce a fearful 
mortality. The two lower figures in the foregoing cut 
represent the animal struck with muscardine. 

The cut in the next page gives a highly magnified repre- 
sentation of this vegetable parasite. The roots at and 
about a grow from the fatty substance of the worm, and 
spread in all directions; these roots send out numberless 
. branches, such as b, some of which are furnished with little 
buds, as at c, while others have lobes, as at d. 

So fatal and extensive in its effects is this disease, that 
•on two or three occasions the Boyal Academy of Sciences of 
Paris have officially directed naturalists appointed by -that 
learned body to inquire into, the circumstances of this 
malady, and to suggest, if possible, a remedv. The last 
inquiries have been very successful, not only m determin- 
ing the origin and nature of the disease, but also in sug- 
gesting remedies. It would exceed the limits of our present 



THE SILK-WORM. 95 

confined space in which to work. Such a place being 
found, and the insect haying ceased to eat, its future labours 
are thus described: — " In twenty-four hours from the time 
of its abstaining from food, the material for forming its 
silk will be digested in its reservoirs; its green colour 
will disappear; and its body will have acquired a degree of 
glossiness, and will have become somewhat transparent 
towards the neck. Before the worm is quite prepared to 
spin, its body will have acquired greater firmness, and be 
somewhat lessened in size. The substance of which the 
silk is composed is secreted in the form of a fine yellow 
transparent gum, in two separate vessels of slender dimen- 
sions, which are wound as it were, on two spindles in the 
stomach: if unfolded, these vessels would be about tea 
inches long. The worm begins its labour by spinning 
thin and irregular threads, which are intended to support 
its future dwelling. During the first day, the insect forms 
upon these a loose structure of an oval shape, which is 
called floss-silk, and within which covering, in the three 
following days, it forms the firm and consistent yellow ball 
called the cocoon; the labourer, of course, always remain- 
ing on the inside of the sphere which it is forming. The 
silky material, which, when drawn out, appears to be one 
thread, is composed of two fibres, extracted through two 
orifices near the jaws ; and these fibres are brought together 
by means of two hooks, placed within the silk-worm's 
mouth for that purpose. The worm in spinning rests on 
its lower extremity throughout the operation, and employs 
its mouth and front legs m the task of directing and fasten- 
ing the thread. The filament is not spun in regular con- 
centric circles round the interior surface of the ball, but in 
spots, going backwards and forwards with a sort of wavy 
motion. This apparently irregular manner of proceeding 
is plainly perceptible when the silk is wound off the ball, 
which does not make more than one or two entire revolu- 
tions while ten or twelve yards of silk are being transferred 
to the reel." * 

While the worms are forming their cocoons, it is of great 
importance to attend to the temperature of the room. If 
the air be cold, they will desist from work : while the cocoon 
is sufficiently thin, the insect may, under such circum- 
stances, be discerned either quite inactive, or moving very 
slowly. If the temperature be again raised, they will 
resume their labours with renewed activity, and will again 



* Cabinet Cyclopedia, "Silk Manufacture, 



»» 



f 96 SILK. 

desist if the temperature be again lowered. But if the 
coldness of the air be too long continued, the insect will 
change from its caterpillar form without finishing the 
cocoon. 

; -The change here spoken of is a remarkable one. After 
the%orm*has been busily engaged' in weaving its cocoon 
during **three« or 'four -days, it ceases its -'labours, and the 
c6cobn'pre8ent#*itself*as 'a yellow ball, about the shape .and 
nearly of - the "size of a pigeon's egg. The next operation 
of thV-insecfr is* to coat • the • internal: surface of the cocoon 
witn r a kindfof ? gum similar to that of which the silk is 
made: ' this seems 'tb^be intended by the insect as a varnish 
to'pfotect it from' the rain, for the filaments .of the cocoon 
are not water-proof in their natural state, although they are 
cdvered*with a> glutinous coating which makes it partially 
*b. r ; The J" water-proofing," however,- which the insect 
"applies to the interior of the cocoon is so complete that, 
Although the cocoons are, when about to be reeled, thrown 
into *hot water to facilitate the- winding of the silk from 
them; the water seldom penetrates to the cavity within 
-until the silk is nearly all wound off. 
< -The career of the insect within the cocoon is different 
when it follows its natural instinct from that which it is 
forced to undergo by its rearer. The natural progress is 
this: — The large quantity of silken material which the in- 
sect emits from its body necessarily reduces its bulk to a 
/peat extent: it becomes wrinkled, and the rings of its 
'body approach nearer to each other and appear more 
-decidedly marked. ' It now remains quiet and torpid within 
dts 'dwelling for some tlays, in the form of a chrysalis, with 
a smooth brown skin, shaped somewhat like a kidney bean, 
and' 7 rather less than an inch in length. Its; existence in 
.this form 1 continues i from twelve to thirty.days, according 
to the climate. At the end of this long period of torpor,' a 
•total change has come over the insect: it moistens the gum 
which lines its cocoon by ejecting a peculiar liquor from it$ 
mouth; and then, by pushing and working its nead against 
the silken fibres, manages to break an opening between 
them, and effects its escape into air and light in the form 
•of an elegant little moth or butterfly. Tnis' little being 
flutters about; and enjoys a transient winged existence for 
two or three days, and then ceases to exist. 

Such is the natural course of the insect; but it is found 
that if the moth is allowed to break through the cocoon,. it 
destroys the continuity of the filament of silk, and thereby 
depreciates its value. The insect is therefore killed shortly 
after the cocoon is completed. For this purpose the cocoons 



11 



II 



98 



SILK. 



are exposed to the sun for four or five days, or placed in a 
heated oven, or exposed to the steam of boiling water. In 
anyone of these cases, the insect becomes suffocated. 

We hare said that the Chinese prepare frames or mats 
on which the worms may spin their cocoons. The cut on 
the preceding page represents some persons sifting and 
cleaning the cocoons on the mats, to clear them from 
leaves, dust, &c., previous to removing them from the 
frames. 

We may here present, in a tabular form, a few facts 
concerning the natural growth of the insect. We have 
stated that there are five periods in the history of the 
worm, from the time it is hatched, till it begins to spin the 
cocoon. These periods are separated by four seasons of 
sickness, during which the insect does not eat; but during 
the intervening periods, which last from five to seven days 
each, according; to the climate, it eats vigorously. Count 
Dandok) watched the progress of the worms from five 
ounces of eggs, and found the quantity of food consumed 
by them as follows :— » 



m Period. 

lb. os. 
1st day — l 7 

sad 3 7 

3rd ......... S 

4th 6 o 

5th 5 • 

Oth... 2 14 



20 0* 



tod Period. 

lb. oz. 
1st day — 5 14 
3nd....... «.U 

3rd 15 14 

4th IS 

5th 7 

8tb 1 



Qui TI.mTi il 

ski Jrertoo. 

lb. oz. 

1st day — 14 

2nd.... 80 

3rd 40 

4th.. 60 

5th.. «.•.... 50 

Oth SO 

7th 3 



316 



65 



4th Period. 

lb. oz. 

1st day — 50 

2nd 85 

3rd 130 

4th 130 

3th 160 

6th 70 • 

7th 5 



630 



Oth Period, 

lb. oz. 
1st day - 130 



tod 


...180 





3rd 


...240 





4th 


...310 





5th 


...ado 





6th 







7th 


...550 





owl * • • »*•••* VdV 



















*lvl» timMoUW 







3830 





1st Period 


* 30 














....316 





t%& «..»•..»... .UWP 






4731 



^ We here see the extraordinary fact that five ounces of 
little living beings just emerged from their eggs, consumed 



* In Italy, pounds and ounces vary greatly, not only in different states, 
but in the same state j in the present case there are 28 ounces to the pound. 



PREPARATION OF THE SILK. 99 

nearly 5000 pounds' weight of leaves in thirty-seven days, 
the produce of which was four hundred pounds of cocoons 
of silk. 

The variation in weight may be estimated from the fol- 
lowing table:— 

GRAINS. 

100 silk-worms weigh, in the egg, about 1 

100 silk-worms weigh, after the first change, about 15 

100 silk- worms weigh, after the second change, about 94 

100 silk-worms weigh, after the third change, about 400 

100 silk- worms weigh, after the fourth change, about 1600 

100 silk- worms weigh, after the fifth change, about. 8500 

100 silk-worms weigh, in the chrysalis form, about 3g00 

100 silk-worms weigh, in the moth form, about 1200 

100 dead moths weigh about 3A0 

In the silk districts of France it is calculated that for 
every million pounds' weight of raw silk produced, two 
hundred and fifty million pounds of leaves are consumed, 
and that five million trees, of the average age of thirty 
years, are stripped to furnish them. 



Gathering and Sorting Cocoons. 

We must now take leave of these wonderful little insects, 
and watch the progressive steps by which man converts the 
cocoons into articles of clothing. 

After the worms have been spinning for seven or eight 
days, the cocoons are gathered; they are gently removed 
from the spot to which the insect had attacked them, and 
handed over to a person who sorts them. The sorting 
is an object of much care. A few of the cocoons are pre- 
served for continuing the race of the insects : those 
chosen for this purpose are sound, compact, and of a fine 
thread; they are about one-sixtieth of the whole number 
of cocoons procured, and are preserved by stringing them 
together on a thread, care being taken not to pass the 
needle too deep into the silk. These strings are then hung 
up in festoons, and so remain until the chrysalis has be- 
come a moth and breaks through the cocoon. 

Those cocoons which are to be used for their silk are 
sorted according to their quality. The white and the 
yellow are put into separate baskets, the former receiving 
most kinds of dye better, but the latter yielding the 
greatest weight of silk. The soiled, imperfect, or double 



100 SILK. * 

•cocoons, are separated from the others: a double cocoon is 
•occasioned by two worms having commenced their labours 
too close to each other, by which their nests become com- 
bined, and consequently entangled and injured.' ♦ 

The chrysalides are then stffled in their cocoons. We 
have said that this is effected in various ways by means of 
heat. Sometimes the cocoons are placed in Ions shallow 
baskets, which are nearly filled, and covered, inrst with 
paper and then with a cloth wrapper; when, by an' hour's 
exposure to a' moderate heat in the oven, the vitality of the 
insect is destroyed. In other places a large wooden vessel 
is provided,' into which- boiling water is poured to the depth 
of two feet. .Within this vessel is a wicker hurdle, entirely 
covering the water, * and supported a little way above its 
surface. The bottom of the hurdle is covered with coarse 
porous cloth/ on which the cocoons are placed; the vessel 
< is then closed, and the heat of the steam gradually de- 
. strovs the insects. ' There {can^be no doubt that steam 
might be employed in a more efficacious manner than this. 

When the chrysalides are destroyed, the cocoons are 
dried and placed on shelves, and carefully watched to see 
that they do not become mouldy: the shelves are also 
so placed that rats cannot get to them; for these animals 
are exceedingly fond of the insects, and will eat through the 
cocoons to get at them. 

The cocoons preserved for their "silk have been divided 

- into nine different qualities, which are thus enumerated in 
the Cabinet Cyclopcedia ;■!— < 

1st. Good cocoons are those which have been brought to 
perfection; these are by no means the largest, but are com- 
pact and free from spots. 

2nd. Pointed cocoons have one extremity rising in a 
point : these, after affording a little silk in reeling, break or 

- tear at the point where the thread is weak, and they cannot 

• be wound farther, as their fracture would occur as often as 
*the thread reached the weak point. 

3rd. Cocalons are rather larger than regular cocoons, but 

• do not contain more silk, their texture being less compact. 

; These are separated from the other kinds, because in wind- 
ing, they must be immersed in colder water, to avoid any 
furzing or entangling in the operation. 

4th. ; Dupions or double cocoons. The threads of these 
are so intertwined, that frequent fractures occur in reeling; 
and sometimes they cannot be wound at all. In any parcel 
of cocoons the proportion of these will usually amount to 
one per cent. 



102 SILK. 

yards in length: it is the produce of twelve pounds of 
cocoons : these cocoons are formed by two thousand eight 
hundred silk- worms; and these worms have consumed a 
hundred and fifty-two pounds of mulberry-leaves. When- 
ever, therefore, any one of our fair countrywomen has six- 
teen yards of silken attire upon her person, sne may reflect on 
the rather astounding fact, that nearly three thousand little 
insect-workmen laboured to produce it, and that an amount 
of food more than equal to the average weight of the human 
body was consumed in so doing. 

While the chrysalides are yet in their cocoons, out of 
one thousand ounces of cocoons, the insects weigh eighty- 
five, leaving fifteen as the weight of the silk forming the 
cocoon. 

Reeling. 

The cocoons pass into the hands of persons who wind 
off the silk from them in one continuous thread. This 
may either be done on the spot, or the cocoons may be- 
come an article of commerce, and pass from hand to hand. 
The process of reeling is, however, much the same in prin- 
ciple everywhere, although it may differ somewhat in detail. 

The first thing to be done is to remove the floss-&Hk 
which forms the outer coating of the cocoon: this is effected 
by opening the floss at one end, and protruding the hard 
compact ball from within it. 

The familiar domestic employment of winding a ball of 
cotton upon a wooden reel, will convey some idea of the 
reeling of silk. Each quality of % cocoon must be reeled 
separately, as different modes of proceeding are required 
for them. In Piedmont, the best cocoons are reeled as 
follows :— -A number of them are put into a trough about 
half a yard wide, and six inches deep; this trough is filled 
with water, which is heated by a fire beneath. The heat 
of the water moistens the gum which agglutinates the 
fibres of silk, and separates them, but without washing 
all the gum from the filament. Soft water is preferable 
for this purpose, as that which is denominated hard usually 
contains some earthy salts, which retard the moistening of 
the gum on the cocoons. 

When the cocoons are sufficiently moistened that the 
filaments will separate easily, the female who attends the 
machine, and who is called the reeler, sits down at the side, 
and gently presses the cocoons with a brush made of fine 
twigs or heath. The loose threads of the cocoons are thus 



PBEPAHATION OF THE SILK. SEELING. 103 

made to adhere to the brush, and are drawn out by its 
means. The reeler then, after having disengaged them 
and drawn their ends through her fingers to clear them 
from any loose flossy silk, passes four or more of them 
through an eye or small hole in a metal bar. Two of these 
compound threads are then twisted twenty or thirty times 
round each other, in order that the filaments may better 
unite by these mutual crossings, and likewise that the 
whole may assume a cylindrical form. This doubly-com- 
pound thread is then extended to the reel, which is a re- 
volring-frame, round which the silk is to be wound. A 
boy or girl then turns a handle which sets this reel in 
rotation, and one 1 end of the thread or filament being 
attached to it, it gradually, by its motion, winds off the 
whole of the silk from the cocoons. Fine as the reeled 
silk is when it comes into the hands of our manufacturers, 
it is eight or more times as thick as that which the cocoon 
yields, for the contents of eight or more cocoons are united 
or twisted into one. In the process of reeling, as often aa 
a thread of any single cocoon breaks, or comes to an end, 
its place is supplied by another ; so that the same number 
is continually kept up, and a thread of the same substance 
may be continued to any length. The single filaments 
which are thus from time to time added, are not joined by 
tying, but are simply laid on the comnound thread, to 
which they will adhere by means of their gum ; and the 
ends, being extremely fine, do not occasion any perceptible 
unevenness in the spot whereon they are laid. 

If the threads lay one over another in a confused heap 
on the reel, they would be likely to adhere. To prevent 
this, they are made, by an ingenious adaptation of ma- 
chinery, to traverse slowly the whole length of the reel 
from end to end, so that one layer of threads makes a 
great number of revolutions in the air before another 
layer covers it, by which the gum is sufficiently dried to 
prevent the adhesion of the threads. 

This process iB continued until a quantity of silk is wound 
on the reel sufficient to form what is called a skein. The 
reel is then removed from the frame, set aside to dry, and 
stripped of its silk by slipping it off at one end of the reel. 
Each skein is then tied round in one or two places, to keep 
it in shape, folded into a hank, and is thus prepared for 
market. The filament of silk forming the skeins consists 
of a number, varying from one to one hundred, of the 
filaments of the cocoon ; but the greatest number thus 
combined by the reeler is generally about thirty, as it 



Ill 



11 



!•■■■«*■ — tt — ^r 



PREPARATION OF TBB SILK. REELING. 105 

•J 



Tequires much care to cause so many to units; and form an 
even thread. 

In the foregoing cut some Chinese female* are repre- 
sented winding silk from the cocoons. The reeler has left 
her reel for the purpose, apparently, of blowing the fire 
under a kind of boiler which contains the cocoons. 

A considerable degree of attention and of intelligence is 
required by the reeler. When the threads from two or 
more cocoons are to be joined, attention must be paid to 
the yarious parts of the cocoon, for the thread near the 
outside is double the thickness of that on the inside : she 
must therefore unite an additional quantity when their 
ends are thin. She must also be careful not to drag up 
and incorporate with the thread any of the husk of the 
dead insect: she must throw more cocoons in the hot water 
as fast as the old ones are unwound, and must be careful 
that the temperature is neither excessive nor defective : if 
the heat is deficient, the ends will not be well joined, the 
Bilk will be harsh, and the adhesion of the fibres of which 
it is composed will be so slight, that the thread breaks by 
the application of the smallest force, and the least moisture 
will separate its filaments; while, if the water is too hot, 
the threads prove what is techinally called dead, and are 
without firmness. 

When all the good silk is wound off the cocoons, the 
remainder, which forms a portion of the interior, together 
with the /ZoM-silk and other waste, are laid aside, to be 
afterwards carded and spun, a process which is not neceff- 
flary with good silk. 

A woman and a girl, with a reel capable of working two 
skeins at once, can reel a pound of fine silk in a day. They 
begin with two skeins, which, when completed, are set in 
the shade to dry, without being removed from the reel; 
these two skeins will occupy the morning's labour; In the 
afternoon, another reel is fixed on the frame, and two more 
skeins reeled in a similar way, which are afterwards set 
aside to dry, and are then removed from the reel and tied 
up in skeins and hanks. A skein usually contains about 
jour hundred yards, and is sold by weight, the unit of 
weight being & denier, which is somewhat less* than a grain. 
The quality of silk is usually denoted by the number of 
cocoons employed to produce the thickness of a single 
thread, — such as eight-cocoon, twenty-cocoon, Ac. 

The writer whom we have before quoted, remarks: "In- 
formation obtained from an accurate and very intelligent 
observer, leads to the conclusion that the establishments 
for reeling silk in France, are much inferior in their ar~ 

C. H 



106 SILK. 

rangements to those of Italy. The principal cause assigned 
for this inferiority, is the want of some general regulations, 
which in some measure would control the mode of con- 
ducting the process. It is said that the Piedmontese silk 
owes the reputation it has so long enjoyed, and which it 
continues to sustain, to regulations imposed by the govern- 
ment at an early period after the introduction of silk culti- 
vation into that country, and which are still very strictly 
enforced. The tendency of these regulations is not only 
to obtain good silk, but to procure also regularity in size, 
and uniformity in the working of the machines employed 
for reeling. The proprietor of a silk filature (reeling es- 
tablishment) in Piedmont, before he commences the busi- 
ness of reeling, is obliged to announce to a local board of 
commissioners the number of boilers he intends to use, 
and the thickness and weight of silk which he means to 
produce in the season. A smaller quantity than five hun- 
dred pounds' weight of silk is not allowed to be reeled in a 
single filature. The various establishments are visited 
during the season of reeling, by the members of the com- 
mission ; and should anjjerson be found operating on a 
greater or lesser number of cocoons than he has previously 
reported, or otherwise in any way infringing tie regula- 
tions, a fine is imposed. Nothing of this kind exists in 
Prance; and in consequence there is found an infinite 
variety in the size of the reel and the tMckness of the silk. 
Some wind off their cocoons with cold water, some with, 
hot, and others again use steam for softening the tenacity 
of the cocoons. Most cultivators of silk in France reel the 
cocoons they have produced, even though these should not 
weigh more than twenty pounds. In many places the 
reelers are paid according to the silk wound, and without 
reference to its quality ; a system which naturally tends 
to carelessness and improper haste, as well as to the pro- 
duction of only the coarser qualities of the material." 

In this instance it seems as if Government interference 
led to the production of an improved material. But it 
would be better-if such an effect could be brought about 
by private competition, for a never-failing chain of evils 
attends this kind of interference of the legislature with 
manufacturing industry. A gpod quality of reeled silk is 
produced in Piedmont ; but m such a way that the rich 
cultivator has a monopoly, and the poor one is embarrassed, 
because he cannot work up so large a quantity as the Go- 
vernment has declared shall be a minimum in each estab- 
lishment. 



107 



Throwing. 

We now arrive at that process in the silk manufacture 
which is called throwing, and which hears the same rela- 
tion to silk- weaving as spinning bears to cotton- weaving : 
it is, in short> preparing the warp and weft to be used by 
the silk- weaver. 

The cocoons from which the motliB have been suffered 
to make their escape, and which are called royal cocoons, 
together with the defective cocoons, which cannot be reeled, 
and therefore' do not come into the hands of the thrower, 
are spun by a distaff and spindle. They are first boiled in 
water from half an hour to an hour. llie two sorts which 
still contain the chrysalis are then beaten, to disengage 
them from the insect, which is thus reduced to powder. 
The cocoons so prepared are placed on a distaff, and spun 
according to the ancient mode of performing that opera- 
tion. Sometimes the silk is carded before it is spun, by 
which its appearance is improved, and its price enhanced. 
The coarse floss-silk and refuse arc also carded and spun. 

But the larger proportion of silk produced from the 
cocoons is neither carded nor spun, but is reeled and then 
transferred to the throwster. 

The silk is first twisted loosely into what are called 
singles; and the singles are twisted to form tram for the 
weft, or organzine for the warp, the latter being far stronger 
and more carefully prepared than the former. In fact, 
singles, tram, and organzine, form three different stages of 
complexity ; and one connected description of the mode of 
preparing organzine from the hanks of raw silk, will include 
singles and tram as two of its stages. We shall detail the 
various processes as they were formerly effected by simple 
machinery, as these can be more easily understood than by 
the complex machines of modern times. 

* The first operation is, to wind the raw silk from the 
skeins, upon what are called bobbins, in the winding-ma- 
chines. To effect this each skein of raw silk is opened 
and stretched round the circumference of a revolving-frame, 
which is made of such a size as just to receive the skein* 
There is, above this revolving-frame, a bobbin, which ex- 
actly resembles, only on a larger scale, the reels on which 
sewing-cotton is wound. Through the intervention of some 
ingenious machinery, the frame and the bobbin are both 
set into rotation, and the silk is wound off from one to the 
other. This continues until the skein is all wound off, or 

H2 



108 SUJL 

until the bobbin is full, when a new skein, or a new bobbin, 
as the case may be, is put in the place of the former one. 
The bobbins have a motion to and fro, besides a rotatory 
one, by which the silk is wound in regular layers from one 
end of the bobbin to the other. Each winding-frame trans- 
fers several skeins at once to an equal number of bobbins ; 
and a proper use of the moving power might work several 
frames at once. The constant attention of children upon the 
winding-machine is necessary, in order to join the ends of 
any threads which may be broken in winding, and to re- 
place the skeins and bobbins when necessary. 
. The silk being thus wound on the bobbins, is sorted into 
different finenesses and qualities, in order that such kinds 
mav be afterwards twisted or spun together as will produce 
a silken thread of the desired thickness. 

The next operation m that of twisting or spinning each 
individual thread in a mill, by which it acquires that form 
called singles. This is effected in a manner very nearly the 
same as that employed in spinning cotton. The long fila- 
ment, of silk is unwound from the bobbins on to a long 
roller ; but in its passage from one to another it is twisted. 
The bobbins are nxed upright in a frame, and the roller is 
fiied horizontally above them ; and this very circumstance 
alone is sufficient to twist the filament in passing from one 
to another. If we fix a reel of thread upright on a table, 
«nd wind the thread from it upon a horizontal roller or 
^stick, or if the reel were horizontal, and the stick vertical, 
we should find that the thread receives a slight additional 
"twist by that contrariety of motion. The same kind of 
operation performed on a delicate filament which is not 
twisted at all, and aided by certain mechanism to regulate 
the motion of the bobbins and rollers, enables the silk- 
throwster to give any amount of twist to his singles that 
may be necessary. 

These singles are the elements from which tram and 
organzine are now to be made : the singles for the latter 
are more firmly twisted than for the former ; and the com- 
bination of singles to form them has this difference in the 
two cases— rthat to form tram, the singles are twisted to- 

f ether in the same direction as each individual single has 
een twisted, as in twine; while organzine resembles rope, 
where the combined strands are twisted in an opposite 
direction to that given to the separate threads. This dif- 
ference is effected by reversing the direction of the motion 
of the wheels &c. in the spinning or throwing-machine. 

The next operation, then, is to bring together upon fresh 
bobbins two or more threads already twisted in the form 



PREPARATION OF THE SILK. THROWING. 109 

of singles. For this purpose two or more bobbins are 
placed side by side in front of a machine, and the threads 
from all of them are made to pass through a wire eye, and 
from thence to a larger ^xobbin, receiving a slight degree-off 
twist in their progress, just sufficient to make them keep 
toge&er. The operation is very similar to that before 
described, by which the skein of raw silk is wound upon a 
bobbing but in the present case two or more threads are 
combined into one. 

To twist or spin these combined threads into a firm, 
thicker thread, is the object of the nert operation, which 
is performed in the same manner as lihe former spinning 
but in a direction which as changed according as the s2k m 
to form tram or organzine. The silk is now transferred te 
a large revolving-frame, from which it can be easily slipped 
off in the form of a skein. 

The silk has now assumed that form m which it is fit for 
the weaver. But it contains a substance which must be 
removed — namely, the gum with which the insect oovevft 
it; and although it has assisted to combine the filaments, 
that assistance is now no longer wanted, since the silk has 
been twisted by a machine, and the gum renders the siHt 
harsh to the touch, and unfit to receive a dye. The silk 
is therefore boiled for about four hours hi a plentiful pro- 
portion of water, into which a quantity of soap, equal to 
about one-third of the weight of the -sific, has been placed; 
tins assists in dissolving the gum, and in rendering the silk 
sdft and glossy. It is then well washed in clear water, to 
get rid of the soap; and on being dried, it is found to havfc 
acquired a peculiar glossiness and softness, and to have 
increased in bulk, but decreased in weight. 

Such is an outline of the processes by which ^e iSbtments 
of fl&k are brought into a condition fit for the weaver'* 
pvjpose. It &«aid that, notwithstanding the extent and 
the«Kcellenee ef English machinery, the Italians are able 
to «iake bettor organame silk than tie English. The 
reason of this has beemwn^poeed to be, that the former keep, 
for the purpose of oEgananimg, the best raw silk from then? 
ceoeons, and sell the inferior quality to other throwsters* 
and <s3se ttibat tfhe jjaarney to England injures the raw 
silk winch ear lihroWtew import. Within a few years, 
hmrwst, 49* <fwtify of {fogfafti orgwaaane itas £M*a% 
improved. 

fit as sot weeenwry to desorftfc <&e wkhnis piece* <tft 
machinery which have been invented to perform these 
processes more completely; for their object is, generally 
speaking, merely to cause the work to be done quicker * 



PREPABATION OP THE SILK. WEAVING. Ill 

We will, however, say a few words respecting Sir Thomas 
Lombe's machine. In a former chapter it was stated that 
he borrowed (or as some would say stole) his idea from the 
Italian throwsters, and that government afterwards gave 
him a sum of money for his services. The Piedmontese 
were so exasperated at the injury done to their trade, by 
the introduction of silk-throwing into England, that they 
sent over an artful woman, who is said to have caused the 
death of Lombe, by managing, in the disguise of a friend, 
to administer poison to him. But be this as it may, the 
establishment which he founded at Derby was certainly an 
extensive one. The building contained five stories — or we 
may say contains, for it is still in operation: in the three 
upper ones were the Italian winding-engines, which were 
placed in a regular manner across the apartments, and 
furnished with many thousand reels and spindles, and 
engines for working tnem. In the two lower rooms were 
the spinning and twist-mills, all having a circular form. 
The spinning-mills were eight in number, and gave motion 
to upwards of twenty-five thousand bobbins. The whole 
of this elaborate machine, though distributed through so 
many apartments, was put in motion by a single water- 
wheel, twenty-three feet in diameter, situated on the west 
side of the building. All the operations, from winding the 
raw silk, to organzining or preparing it for the weavers, 
were performed here. The old water-wheel has been re- 
moved within a few years," and other changes have been 
made. 

Weaving. 

If the reader has attended to the process of cotton- 
weaving, as described in a previous chapter, he will have 
no difficulty in understanding how a piece of silk goods is 
woven; the processes are, in fact, almost exactly alike: the 
warp is stretched out in the loom, and the weft is worked 
in among it, by nearly the same operations in both. But 
the fineness .of silk renders additional care necessary in 
many cases: — a piece of silk twenty inches in width will 
frequently have eight thousand threads to form the warp: 
and to arrange these with regularity requires no small 
care. 

Still, however, as the mode of transferring the silk from 
the bobbins to the loom differs somewhat from that adopted, 
with cotton, we will shortly explain it. The bobbins 
{fig. 1) on which the silk is wound are taken by the warper, 



PREPARATION OF THE SILK. WEAVING. 113 

* 

and arranged as in fig. (2). The threads from the bottom 
row of bobbins pass oyer the lower bar, and those from the 
upper oyer the upper bar. These threads are then tied 
together, passed between the "two pullers on the left of the 
engraving, to the warping^niU, on which the silk has to 
be wound, and there placed on the pin, as at n (fig. 3). 
The warper now passes her fingers between the threads of 
the warp, taking, alternately, a thread from the upper and 
lower row of bobbings, as seen in fig. (4), and slides her 
hand along until she reaches the pin oyer which the ends 
of the warp, which are tied together, are placed. lifting 
it then off the first pin, she replaces it in the manner seen 
in fig. (6); another pin, s, preserving the .threads in their 
place. Before the warp is removed from the mill, the 
threads are secured in their alternating situation by tying 
them together where they cross each other, as at p. 

The silk is then wound on a large frame, as seen at 
page 110, which represents a SpitalfieldV warper at work. 
The frame is made to revolve, oy which the silk becomes 
wound round it in one continuous spiral. The silk is then 
removed from the frame, and conveyed to the loom. There 
it is wound equally round the warp-beam, and two long 
sticks, a a (fig. 6), are introduced between its alternate 
threads, to supply the place of the two pins on the warp- 
mg-mill. It is then stretched out and connected with the 
keddles, and the process of weaving commences, nearly the 
same as in the cotton manufacture. 

Bibbons are generally woven by a loom called the Dutch 
Engine loom, in which several sets of warps are arranged 
side by side, so that many widths of ribbon can be woven 
at once. An intelligent workman can weave about a yard 
of each length of ribbon in an hour; and this is the 
principal employment of the weavers at Coventry, whose 
looms amount to 10,000. Some ribbons are seen to have 
a little Vandyke or scalloped fringed edging on each edge. 
These are produced in a smgular manner. The outer 
threads of the warp are made of horse-hair instead of silk; 
and when the ribbon is woven, these horse-hairs are drawn 
out, and leave a sort of fringed series of loops, which form 
what is called & pearl edge. 

Figure-weaving is as elaborate in the silk manufacture 
as is that of cotton. All weaving in which & pattern is to 
be wrought, or in which threads of different colours are 
introduced, may be called figure-weaving. In this opera- 
tion there must be as many shuttles as there are differently - 
coloured weft-threads; and the difficulty then is, so to 
elevate some threads of the warp, and to depress others, by 



114 SILK. 

means of the heddles to which they are attached, as to 
introduce the weft or cross-thread in the proper positions 
for forming the figure or pattern. A great number of heddles 
is required for this purpose, and a weaver on the old 
system would be much embarrassed to know which heddles 
to depress at the proper moment; for the smallest mistake 
in this respect would at once spoil the pattern. 

This difficulty was fully felt by the early weavers, and 
attention was paid to the construction of the loom, for the 
purpose of devising improved methods of proceeding. This 
led to the construction of the draw-loom, by which the 
weaver could produce any desired pattern, with nearly the 
same amount of personal care and trouble as in plain- 
weaving. The chief improvement effected in this loom 
was to enable the weaver to draw down the heddles and 
loom-threads with increased precision, so as to be sure of 
introducing the weft at the proper place. This machine 
received many improvements in the course of time; but it 
was destined to be supplanted by one still more complete 
and useful. 

M. Jacquard, a straw-hat manufacturer in France, had 
an opportunity, after the peace of Amiens, to get a sight 
of some English newspapers. In these he read an ad- 
vertisement or paragraph, purporting that the Society of 
Arts would give a reward to any person who could weave 
a net by machinery. He had not previously turned his 
mind to the subject of machinery; but being roused by 
this announcement, he set his faculties to work, and pro- 
duced a machine capable of weaving a net. The disturbed 
state of France prevented him from drawing any profitable 
results from Ins labours, so he soon discontinued his 
machine, and made a present of it to a friend. This machine 
ultimately became known to some persons in authority; 
and Jacquard was one day sent for by the prefect of the 
department, who said to him, " You have directed your 
attention to the making of net by machinery P" — Jacquard 
had almost ceased to think about his machine, but he 
answered in the affirmative. On being desired to make 
another machine similar to the former, he requested three 
weeks' time for so doing. At the expiration of the period, 
he produced his machine, and requested the prefect to press 
his foot on a particular part of it : he dia so, whereby a 
mesh was immediately added to the net, — thus exemplify- 
ing the powers of the machine. 

The machine thus made was sent to Paris* where it soon 
came to the knowledge of Bonaparte, who ordered Jacquard 
to be sent for immediately, and to be strictly guarded,- 



PREPARATION OF THE SILK. WEAVING. 115 

proceeding which would somewhat astonish an English 
inventor. On being brought into the presence of Bona- 
parte and Carnot, the former is said to have addressed him 
thus: — "Are you the man who pretends to do what God 
Almighty cannot do, to tie a knot in a stretched string P" 
Jacquara was then shown a loom which had cost 20,000 
francs, and which had been employed for making fabrics for 
Bonaparte's own use ; and he undertook to make a loom 
which should do the same work better and quicker. He 
did so, and the result was the famous Jacquard-loom, 
which has now superseded almost every other for figured- 
silks. He returned to his native town, and was rewarded 
with a pension of 1000 crowns. But he experienced a 
similar lot to that which most inventors are subjected to, viz., 
the opposition of persons who worked by means of the old 
looms. Even some of the chief directors of the silk-trade 
at Lyons broke up his loom in the public place, sold the 
iron and wood for old materials, and denounced him as an 
object of universal hatred and ignominy; in short, he 
was three times exposed to imminent danger of assassi- 
nation. 

But clamour of this kind usually dies away when the ad- 
vantages of the new method come to be perceived. Not 
only is the Jacquard-loom used universally in France, but, 
in the course of a very few years afternts first introduc- 
tion into England, it entirely superseded every other 
method of figured-silk weaving, and has gTeatly contributed 
to the beauty of such productions at the present day. 

The mechanical parts of which the Jacquard-loom consists 
are very numerous, and even a lengthy description, illus- 
trated with cuts, would be insufficient to give a perfect 
idea of its action; and as it has not been part of our plan to 
give minute descriptions of machinery, it is not necessary 
to apologize for passing over the Jacquard-loom with the 
general details here given. 

We have not yet spoken of power-weaving, that is, 
weaving in which the noddies are drawn down, and the 
shuttle thrown by means of machinery. Such machines 
have, however, been employed in weaving silk, as well as 
other fabrics, although not to so great an extent as for 
cotton. The first introduction of power weaving was due 
to the Rev. Mr. Cartwright, a clergyman, who was not only 
unconnected with manufactures, but had never even seen 
the operation of weaving in his life. A letter which he 
wrote to the Chamber or Commerce of Glasgow, gives so 
modest and interesting an account of the invention, that 
we will quote it. 



116 SILK. 

" Happening to be at Matlock in the summer of 1784, 1 
fell in company with some gentlemen of Manchester, when 
the conversation turned on Arkwright's spinning ma- 
chinery. One of the company observed, that as soon, as 
Arkwright's patent expired, so many mills would he erected, 
and so much cotton span, that hands never could be found 
to weave it. To this observation I replied, that Arkwright 
must then set his wits to work to invent a wecmvn^^mlL 
This brought on a conversation on the subject, in which the 
Manchester gentlemen unanimously agreed that the thing 
was impracticable ; and, in defence of their opinion, they 
adduced arguments which I was certainly incompetent to 
answer, or even to comprehend, being totally ignorant of 
the subject, having never at that time seen a person weave, 
I controverted, however, the impracticability of the thing, 
by remarking that there had lately been exhibited in 
liondon an automaton figure which played at chess. * Now 
you will not assert, gentlemen/ said I, * that it is more 
difficult to construct a machine that shall weave, than one 
which shall make all the variety of moves which are re- 
quired in that complicated game.' 

*•' Some little time afterwards, a particular circumstance 
recalling this conversation to my mind, it struck me that, 
as in plain- weaving, according to the conception I than 
had of the business, there could be only three movements 
which were to follow each other in succession, there would 
be little difficulty in producing and repeating them. Full 
of these ideas, I immediately employed a carpenter and a 
smith to carry them into effect. As soon as the machine 
was finished, I got a weaver to put in the warp, which was 
of such materials as sail-cloth is usually made of: to my 
great delight, a piece of cloth, such as it was, was the 
produce. As I had never before turned my thoughts to 
anything mechanical, either in theory or practice, nor had 
ever seen a loom at work, or knew anything of its con- 
struction, you will readily suppose that my first loom must 
have been a most rude piece of machinery. The warp 
wasjplaced perpendicularly; the reed fell witn a force of at 
least half a hundred-weight; and the springs which threw 
the shuttle were strong enough to have thrown a eongreve* 
rocket; in short, it required the strength of two powerful 
men to work the machine at a slow rate, and only for a 
short time. Conceiving, in my great simplicity, that I had 
accomplished all that was required, I then secured what 1 
thought a most valuable property by a patent, 4th of 
April, 1785. This being done, I then condescended to see 
how other people wove; and you will guess my astonish- 



VARIETIES OP WOVEN SILK. 117 

ment when I compared their easy modes of operation with 
mine. Availing myself, however, of what I then saw, I 
made a loom, in its general nrincinles nearly as they are 
now made ; hub it was not iafli the year 1787^ that I comv 
pleted my invention, when I took oat my last weaving 
patent, August 1st in that, yean." 

This* was the (mmn&L of all the po wer -looms for plain- 
weaving thai haste-Been since employed! At first it was 
supposed; that the delicate nature or silk would not admit 
of itfcfceing woven by & self-acting machine; but subsequent 
improvemeiiifr have rendered the power-loom as applicable 
to silk as to other plain fabrics. 

The cut on the next page represents a Chinese iemalfe 
weaver at work. That remarkable and stationary people 
still adopt tfcs same modesof weaving as they did centuries} 
andpeaaiaps thousands of years, ago. 

Tkria&ea of Woven S3ka 

We will now take a rapid view of ther principal point* 
of distinction among various woven fnbodboB of silk* 

Velvet is one of the most beautiMpxidnetions of th* 
silkrloom. It has been known in J&sope for several 
centuries; but the seossts of its nianu&cture were foot 
a long tune confined to some of the chief cities of Baly, 
from which country the French learned the art, and sua* 
ceeded in improving it. The revocation of the Edict of 
Nantes brought numerous French refugees to, "Rtigjm^, 
about the year 1685, vriho settled in Spitalfields, and 
practised the art of weaving velvet. 

in the weaving of velvet, in addition to the warp and 
woof, as already desestbedin plain-weaving, there is a soft 
shflgt or pile, produced by inserting short pieces of silsV 
thread, doubled, under the woof, and these stand up in so. 
large a* number, and so compactly, as is conceal the inter> 
lacangs of the warp and woof which* are seen in plain- 
weaving, This silk* pile impacts to- velyet its peculiar 
soilness to the toucn, as well as beauty to the eye; but 
the production of these results depends in great measure 
upon the uniform evenness of the pile. ' To insure this 
latter, quality, it is necessary to have all the threads of the 
pile of equal, length, which requires some skill, and mueft 
patient attention on tshe part of the weaver. 

In weaving velvet, the loom is first prepared as in the 
ordinary process of plain-weaving: another set of threads 




\ 



mil 



VELVET. 1 19 

is then prepared to go in the direction of the threads of 
the warp, which set is kept distinct from the warp by being 
stretched diagonally as shown in the figure, which repre- 
sents the structure of velvet, and the plan adopted to 




Section, exhibiting the structure of Velvet. 

combine the threads of the woof with the pile. At a a 9 are 

the threads of the warp, and the dots placed in the loops 

show the section of the woof-threads: at b are the threads 

intended for the pile, and these threads meet those of the 

warp in the angle c. The weaver places in this angle a 

brass wire of the same length as the breadth of the piece 

of woven stuff, so that all the pile-threads are above the 

wire, and those of the warp below it. By the action of 

the treadles the alternate threads of the warp are raised, 

the shuttle is thrown, and passes over the pile-threads, 

and the alternate threads of the warp, which are depressed; 

the batten is then made to strike up against the woof, the 

interlacing of the warp and woof is effected, and a loop of 

the pile-tnread is formed over the wire as at d d. It is 

necessary to pass the shuttle thrice between each insertion 

of the wire: the thread for the first woof is coarser than 

that employed for the other two, and the action of the 

batten forces the wire into its proper position. The upper 

part of this wire has a groove running along it: by means, 

therefore, of a sharp-edged tool, called a trevat, passed 

along the groove, the loops d d are divided, the wire is 

liberated, the pile is formed as at e e, and thus the process 

of weaving velvet is completed. 

The weaver, however, finds it necessary to employ two 
wires, one of which remains in the texture, while the other 
is cut out: the reason for this is, that the pile-threads may 
not be liberated and the whole process deranged; but as 
one wire is secured by the threads of the woof, the pile- 
threads are prevented from being set at liberty while the 
loops are being cut. As soon as the wire is liberated from 
the first loop d, it is again inserted in the angle c; and 
when it has" been secured as before, the wire forming the 
•second loop d in the figure, but now the first loop, is cut 
out, and so on alternately. At one time the richest velvets 



120 aiuc. 

were formed of thirty-eight loops to the inch, but this 
beautiful substance, velvet, has been so much in demand, 
and persons are willing to pay such high prices for the 
richest productions, that now as many as nfcy-nVe loops 
are woven into an inch of velvet. This circumstance will 
enable the reader to form some idea of the extremely 
tedious process of velvet- weaving. The wire requires to be 
inserted and cut out again fifty-five times in the space of 
an inch, that is, a strip of velvet one inch broad, and whose 
length is equal to that of the breadth of the piece. And 
when we consider that the threads of the woof are of dif- 
ferent degrees of fineness, rendering two shuttles necessary, 
which must be exchanged at frequent but unequal intervals, 
we can form an estimate of the incessant care and vigilance 
necessary on the part of the weaver in conducting these 
vanoua operations. Muck caution and dexterity!^, ate 
required in cutting the loops : for, however simple the opera*- 
tion of passing a Knife along a straight edge may appear, 
jet this part of the process can only be acquired by long 
practice; for the smallest deviation from the straight line 
would injure the appearance of the velvet. The wearer 
Dong thus occupied in bo many distinct operations in rapid 
succession, finds his work to increase very slowly, and he 
has been very industrious if, at the end of a long day's 
work, he has woven a yard of plain velvet. 

It will be seen from the above statement that the rich- 
ness of velvet depends upon the number of threads forming 
the pile: the degrees of richness are accordingly indicated 
in this way, and the manufacturer speaks of velvet of two, 
four, or six threads, according to the number of pile- 
threads inserted. The striped velvet, with which waistcoats 
are sometimes made, is produced by leaving uncut a 
number of the pile-loops. 

The peculiarly rich effect of velvet results from the 
absorption of the light which falls upon its surface, and 
hence, too, arises the sombre effect when much of this 
substance meets the eye. 

Brocade. In the early part of the last century a favourite 
but costly stuff for dresses was formed of gold, silver, 
and silken threads, enriched with flowered ornaments of 
the same materials: this was called brocade. At the 
present day, however, all stuffs, grograms, satins, taffetas, 
and lustrings are called brocades, if they are adorned with 
flowers or other figures. 

In the preparation of gold brocade many ingenious de- 
vices have been resorted to for diminishing the costliness 



BROCADE. 12L 

of the article, by employing as small a quantity as possible 
of the precious metals. In the preparation of the threads 
for the brocade, a flattened silver-gilt wire or riband was 
spun on silk which had been previously dyed as near as 
possible of a gold colour ; and the chief merit in preparing 
gold threads was so to regulate the convolutions of the 
metallic covering of the silk, that its edges should be in 
close contact, and form a continuous casing without any 
overlapping or interstices. 

In all manufactures a great demand for an article is a 
sufficient stimulus to ingenious persons to contrive the 
very best possible methods for its production ; and accord- 
ingly, we nnd that at the time when gold brocade was much 
in request, the manufacture of the thread (upon which 
branch the value of the brocade greatly depended) was in 
a state of excellence; and some manufacturers were so 
jealous of their skill as to keep their processes strictly 
secret. Among others, there existed at Milan a large 
manufactory, where, by a secret process, flattened wire, 
gilt on one side only, was made. Nuremburg, the great 
toy-shop of Europe, furnished an inferior description of 
thread, made by spinning gilt-copper wire, on flaxen or 
hempen threads. The economical Chinese employed slips 
of gilt-paper twisted upon silk: — sometimes they even 
twisted the paper without any internal support, into long 
spiral rolls ana introduced it into their dresses. Bat as 
these golden tissues were by no means permanent when 
worn about the person, the Chinese confined their use 
chiefly to the tapestries and internal decorations of their 
houses. 

About the thirteenth century a very flourishing manu- 
facture of brocades existed at Lucca ; but in the year 1310 
the artisans being oppressed by the government, fled to 
Venice, where they were encouraged to resume their trade, 
and for a long period they continued to carry it on with 
considerable success. 

The Venetians invented a new form of brocade which 
they named damasquitte. Although it contained no more 
than half the quantity of gold and silver usually employed 
in making brocade, yet its appearance was far more costly 
and beautiful. The flattened wires were not placed so 
closely together on the silk threads, and the number of 
these threads in weaving was diminished. But the great 
secret of the economy seems to consist in passing the 
manufactured stuffs in a peculiar manner between rollers 
with great pressure, so as partially to crush the wire 

C. I 



122 SILK- 

threads ; by this means the ornamental pattern appeared 
like one entire brilliant surface of gold or silver. 

This process was long kept a secret; but about the 
middle of the last century the spirit of commercial rivalry 
prompted the French Gfovernment to attempt a similar 
manufacture. In this attempt they were assisted by M. 
Vaucanson, so celebrated for his automatic achievements, 
who erected machinery at Lyons, and presented an account 
of his proceedings to the French Academy in the year 
1757. 

The rollers employed by M. Vaucanson were, the upper 
one of wood, and the lower one of copper, the latter being 
made hollow, for the insertion of iron heaters. In the- 
early attempts it was found that the united force of ten. 
men was. scarcely sufficient so to work the rollers as to 
extend the plating of the wire-threads; and the great 
amount of force so deranged the machinery in which the 
rollers were placed, that the effects of pressure on the 
cloth were always varying. Among many other incon- 
veniences, the wooden rollers were constantly splitting or 
warping, in consequence of the mode of forcing the rollers 
together. M. Vaucanson, therefore, contrived a method 
whereby the pressure should always adjust itself to any 
inequalities in the staff, or in the bearings of the machine. 
The axis of the copper roller he made to turn between anti- 
friction rollers, while the wooden roller was forced upwards 
by levers at the ends. Each lever had its sfeortarm supported 
on the frame of the machine, and the long arm was drawn 
up by an iron rod communicating with the short arm of a 
horizontal lever, to which at its long arm was hung a 
weight ; and these levers were so proportioned that thirty 
pounds only would produce a pressure between the rollers 
equal to 17,000 or 18,000 pounds. This force was found 
sufficient, and it was so effectual that the efforts of four 
men in turning the rollers answered the purpose better 
than ten men in the former case. 

The copper roller was heated by the insertion of four 
red-hot iron bars. After two or three pieces of cloth had 
been rolled, a fresh wooden roller was employed, since the 
neat, if long continued, was sure to split it. The heated 
wooden roller was wrapped, as soon as it was removed, in 
cloths, and placed in an atmosphere from which it might 
acquire moisture. The heat and pressure thus employed 
to extend the gilding were found greatly to improve the 
brilliancy of white and yellow silks, but to impair that of 
crimson, green, and other colours. 



BROCAD0. DAMASK. 123 

It will be seen, from the above statement, that brocade 
was a very costly article of dress; not only from the 
amount of precious metal employed, and the tedious and 
expensive mode of manufacturer but also from its evanes- 
cent nature. A brocade dress was very liable to become 
tarnished ; when such was the case, the mode of washing 
was also costly. A soft brush, dipped in warm spirits or 
wine, is said to have been the only method of restoring 
tarnished brocade. Brocade powders were in vogue at the 
time this sumptuous dress was in fashion, but they were 
ineffectual, because, from the extreme thinness of the metal, 
it was easily scratched or worn away by the friction even 
of the most impalpable powder. 

Brocade continued to*be used in ornamenting drawing, 
room furniture, long after it had ceased to adorn the per- 
sons of beaux and belles. In 1798 some brocade chair- 
bottoms, for Carlton House, were produced at Spitalfields, 
and are said to be still in existence. There is no doubt 
that should the vane of that weathercock, Fashion, again 
point out gold and silver brocade as a desirable article of 
attire, our modern manufactures would soon equal, if not 
surpass, the costliest productions of former days. To those 
who are anxious for such a result let us recommend the 
remarks of the Spectator, which, though written a hundred 
and thirty years ago, are still applicable, because they 
refer to one of the weaknesses of human nature. 

" A furbelow of precious stones, a hat buttoned with a 
diamond, a brocade waistcoat or gown, are standing topics 
of conversation. In short, they only consider the drapery 
of the species, and never cast away a thought on those 
ornaments of the mind, that make persons illustrious in 
themselves and useful to others. When persons are thus 
perpetually dawfling one another's imaginations, and filling 
their heads with nothing but colours, it is no wonder that 
they are more attentive to the superficial parts of life than 
the solid and substantial blessings of it." 

Damask is a term generally applied, not so much to the 
weaving of threads of different colours, as to the formation 
of a pattern by a peculiar mode of weaving threads of the 
same colour. Table-cloths present a beautiful instance of 
this in linen; and the furniture employed frequently for 
beds, windows, sofas, and chairs, illustrates the same pecu- 
liarity in silk. Such fabrics are not much used at the pre- 
sent day for ladies' dresses. 

Gawse is a material in which the smallest quantity of 
silk is employed for a given size of woven fabric. This ia 



124 SILK. 

effected by having very perceptible interstices between the 
threads ; and as these interstices would much weaken the 
gauze if woven in the U3ual way, the threads are, by a pecu- 
liar arrangement of the loom, made to cross and loop over 
each other, something like the threads of a net. This 
entwining of the threads may easily be seen on looking at 
a piece of gauze. 

Bombazine is a mixture of silk and worsted: the former 
in the warp, and the latter in the weft. Originally these 
were made only black, and used for mourning; but at the 
present day they are woven of a grayish colour, and after- 
wards dyed to any other that may be desired. The 
manufacture has been almost wholly removed from Spital- 
fields to Norwich. 

Poplin and lustre are the names for two other kinds of 
goods in which silk and worsted are combined ; but the 
proportion of silk is larger than in bombazine. Norwich 
shawls have within a few years risen to great celebrity: 
they are composed of silk mixed either with cotton or 
witt worsted. 

Persian, sarsenet, Ghros-de-Naples, ducape, &c, are the 
names of many varieties of silk goods which do not differ 
in the mode of manufacture, but in the quality or quan- 
tity of the material used in them. Persian is a very infe- 
rior and flimsy kind of silk used for the commonest pur- 
poses where strength is not required. Sarsenet is some- 
what stouter, and used for better purposes. Gros-de- 
Naples is much superior to both of them, oeing made with 
better silk, and a greater number of threads being woven 
in a given space. Ducape is also a stout silk, but of softer 
texture than Gros-de-Naples. 

Levantine, is a stout twilled silk. Gros-des-Indes is a 
silk of which the weft is composed alternately of different 
colours, so that the material appears striped in the direc- 
tion of the width. 

Satin is a twilled silk, which owes its peculiar lustre to 
the number of threads of warp which are passed over by 
the weft, before it passes under one of them: sometimes 
the thread passes over as many as eight warp-threads be- 
fore it interlaces, and thereby presents a glossy surface to 
the eye. When it comes out of the loom, satin frequently 
presents a slight degree of roughness or flossiness, on 
account of the comparative infrequency of the inter lacings 
of the weft with the warp. To remove this, the satin is 

§assed between heated rollers, by which the face is smoothed 
own, and the surface receives that beautiful lustre whicli 
belongs so peculiarly to satin. 



BLEACHING. 125 

Crape is a peculiar, transparent, and wrinkled kind of 
silk goods. It is woven with very thin threads, in a slight 
and somewhat open manner; and is then stiffened with 
gum in such a manner as partially to untwist the fibres of 
the threads forming the warp and weft, giving them an 
irregularity of appearance which distinguishes crape. The 
separation of the fibres in this manner is attended with the 
effect of removing everything like gloss from the surface : 
a sombreness is thus produced, which is perhaps the chief 
reason why crape is so much used for mourning. 

There are numerous other silken fabrics; but they all 
belong to one or other of the kinds here described, so we 
will not enter into further description of them. 

Bleaching. 

The silk, on which all the preceding processes have been 
performed, is, in its natural state, of a golden yellow 
colour, arising from the gum with which the insect lubri- 
cates it. In order that the silk should appear white, or 
that it should be able to receive certain dyes, it is neces- 
sary to bleach it, which is generally done before it is 
woven. 

The general mode of bleaching is stated by Dr. Ure to 
be as follows : — A quantity of water is put into a boiler 
over a fire, and for every hundred pounds of silk, thirty 
pounds of very fine soap are dissolved. The solution is 
generally boiled ; but before the silk is put into it, the heat 
must be lowered to about ninety degrees, and it must be 
kept at this temperature during the process. The silks are 
to be hung in the liquor in rods or frames, and left till tho 
gum is sufficiently removed; care being taken to alter 
their position, occasionally, so that every part may be 
exposed to the action of the bath. When" perfectly un- 
gummed, they are flexible, and of a dull wnite hue ; in 
this state they are to be wrung, in order to clear them of 
the soapy water ; they are then shaken, and put into coarse 
linen bags, in parcels of from twenty to thirty pounds 
each. These bags are now to be steeped in a fresh bath, 
which is prepared in a manner and proportion very similar 
to the former, except that the quantity of soap may be 
somewhat diminished. The silk is next boiled for two or 
three hours, care being taken to keep the bags from adher- 
ing to the bottom of the boiler, by frequently stirring them 
with a stick. 

For silk that is to be dyed, the first steeping is unneces- 



126 SILK. 

sary, and the present boiling only is employed, a greater 
quantity of soap being used in proportion to the fineness 
of the colour to be dyed. After boiling, the silk is wrung 
as before, and then washed thoroughly in a stream of 
water; they are then examined, and if it appears that they 
are not sufficiently scoured, they are again put into the 
bath. 

The white silk usually sold has a bluish shade. This is 
imparted by dissolving a pound and a half of fine soap in 
about ninety gallons of water, in which a small quantity of 
litmus or indigo has been dissolved. The bath is heated 
to about ninety degrees, and the silk is passed through it 
over rods or reels till it has acquired the requisite shade* 
Being taken out, it is wrung and dried. 

For gauze, blonde, and other silken fabrics which are 
Tequired to have a certain degree of stiffness, the bleaching 
is effected without removing all the gum from the silk. 

» 

Dyeing. 

The process of dyeing silk is so much like that of dyeing 
cotton, that we need not add much to what has been 
already said on the subject of dyeing. We will, however, 
give one instance, — namely, that of dyeing silk crimson by 
means of cochineal. 

The first process is aluming. Forty or fifty pounds of 
alum, previously dissolved in warm water, are mixed in a 
vat with forty or fifty buckets of water ; and to prevent 
the crystallization of the alum, the solution is carefully 
stirred. The silk, being washed to separate any remains 
of soap from the bleaching, is immersed in this alum 
liquor, and at the end of eight or nine hours it is wrung 
out and washed in a stream of water. These proportions 
of course apply to a large quantity of silk. 

The alumed silk is then put into a dye or bath thus 
prepared. A boiler is two-thirds filled with water, to 
which is added, when it boils, about an ounce of powdered 
white galls for every pound of silk. When it has boiled 
for a few moments, from two to three ounces of cochineal 
for every pound of silk are put in, and afterwards one 
ounce of tartar to every pound of cochineal. When the 
tartar is dissolved, one ounce of solution of tin is added 
for every ounce of tartar. When these ingredients are 
mixed together, the boiler is filled up with cold water, sa 
as to have about ten quarts to every pound of silk, in 



SUBSTITUTES FOB SILK. 127 

this the silk is now immersed, and turned about till it 
assumes a uniform colour. The fire is then increased, and 
the bath is kept boiling for two hours, the silk being 
turned occasionally. The fire is afterwards put out, and 
the silk again put into the bath, where it is allowed to re- 
main for a few hours longer. It is then taken out, washed 
in a stream, wrung, and dried. 

By processes more or less resembling this, any other 
colour is imparted to silk. 

Substitutes for Silk. 

The extensive use which is made of silk goods, and the 
value they have acquired in all civilized countries, have led 
to various experiments amongst ingenious persons, for the 
purpose of ascertaining whether a substance or substances 
might not be obtained from other sources,' which should 
answer the same purpose as that to which the production 
of the silk-worm is at present so widely applied. Two of 
these attempts we may here notice. 

Silkfirom, Spiders. At the beginning of the last century 
a method was discovered in France of obtaining silk from. 
the nests of some species of spiders. It is well known that 
besides the ordinary web of spiders, there is a small silky 
bag spun by particular species for the protection of their 
eggs. These bags may often be found in the corners of 
wmdows, under tne eaves of houses, in cellars and vaults, 
in hollow trees, and in similar protected situations, where 
neither wind nor rain can reach them. They are much 
stronger and more durable in their texture than the webs 
formed to entrap the spider's prey; and in shape they 
resemble the silk-worm's cocoon when it is prepared for the 
{listafF. When first formed, these spiders' bags are of a 
grey colour, but by exposure to the air and dust they soon 
acquire a blackish hue. 

It was from the bags thus formed by spiders around 
their eggs that silk was procured, at the tune above stated, 
by a M. Bon, whose dissertation on the mode of obtaining 
and preparing the silk is extremely interesting. 

The method of classing spiders is usually according to 
their different colours, whether black, brown, yellow, Ac., 
or sometimes by the number and arrangement of their 
eyes, some spiders possessing as many as ten of these 
organs,—- others eight, — and others again six. M. Bon 
notices only two kinds as silk-producing spiders, and dis- 



128 SILK. 

languishes them from each other, as having either long or 
short legs, the latter producing the finest quality of raw 
silk. 

The spider is provided with fine papilla?, or small nip- 
ples, placed in the hinder part of its body, which are like 
so many wire-drawing irons, to form and mould a glutinous 
liquor, with which the insect is provided, and which, on 
being drawn out through these papillae, and exposed to the 
air, immediately dries, and forms silk. . Each of these 
papillae consists of a number of smaller ones, so minute as 
not to be discernible, and only made evident by the effects 
produced. Several distinct threads issue from each, the 
number of which, on account of their extreme fineness, 
cannot be counted with any accuracy. The principal 
papillae are five in number; but these being made up of 
innumerable smaller ones, and each of these smaller ones 
emitting a beautifully fine thread, the total number of 
threads uniting to form the filament used by the spider is 
astonishingly great. By this beautiful arrangement the 
threads can be applied in a greater or less number, accord- 
ing to the strength required in the spider's work ; and 
when all these threads unite and form one, as they do at 
the distance of about the tenth of an inch from the body of 
the insect, the tenacity of the principal thread is increased, 
and its strength is greater than if it were not thus com- 
posed of many individual filaments. 

A quantity of the spiders' bags were first collected by 
31. Bon, and then treated in the following manner. Twelve 
or thirteen ounces of the bags were beaten with the hand 
or by a stick, until they be entirely freed from dust. They 
were next washed in warm water, which was continually 
changed, until it no longer became clouded or discoloured 
by the bags under process. After this they were steeped 
in a large quantity of water, wherein soap, saltpetre, and 
gum-arabic had been dissolved. The whole was then set 
to boil over a gentle fire, during three hours, after which, 
the bags were rinsed in clear warm water, to discharge the 
soap. They were then set out to dry, during several days, 
and the carding operation was then performed, with cards 
differing from the usual sort only in being much finer. 
<Thus was a peculiar ash-coloured silk obtained, which was 
Bpun without difficulty, which took readily all kinds of 
dyes, and might have been wrought into any kind of silken 
fabric. M. Bon had stockings and gloves made from it, 
some, of which he presented to the Royal Academy of 
.Paris, and others to the Royal Society of London. 



SUBSTITUTES FOB SILK. 129 

, The silk was affirmed by M. Bon to be stronger and 
finer than the common sort, and, according to his state- 
ment, spiders were much more productive than silk- 
worms, and there were besides the following advantages 
relating to them; spiders hatch spontaneously, without 
■any care, in the months of August and September, the old 
spiders dying soon after they have laid their eggs: the 
young ones live for ten or twelve months without food, 
and continue in their bags without growing, until the hot 
weather, by putting their viscid juices in motion, induces 
them to come forth, spin, and run about in search of food. 
The only obstacle, therefore, to establishing a consider- 
able manufacture from these spider-bags, that is, the diffi- 
culty of obtaining them in sufficient abundance, was 
attempted to be obviated by breeding young spiders in 
convenient apartments on a large scale. M. Bon commis- 
sioned a number of persons to collect and bring to him 
all the short-legged spiders they could possibly obtain. 
These, as he received them, he inclosed in paper coffins, or 
in pots covered with papers, which papers, as well as the 
coffins, were pricked over their surface with pinholes, to 
admit air to the prisoners. The spiders were duly fed with 
nies, and after some time it was found on inspection that 
the greater part of them had formed their nests. It was 
contended that these nests afforded much more silk in pro- 
portion to their weight than those of the silk-worm, in 
proof of which it was asserted, that thirteen ounces yielded 
nearly four ounces of pure silk, two ounces of which were 
sufficient to make a pair of stockings ; whereas, stockings 
made of common silk weighed seven or eight ounces. It 
had been objected by some persons that the spider was 
venomous, and that this evil quality extended to the silk 
obtained from it. M. Bon, in answer to this prejudice, 
affirmed that he had several times been bitten by spiders, 
when no injury had followed ; and that the silk, so far from 
being pernicious, had been found useful in stanching and 
healing wounds, its natural gluten acting as a kind of 
balsam. Willing to extract every possible good from his 
favourite pursuit, he subjected the spider-silk to chemical 
analysis, and obtained from it a volatile salt, preparing 
which in the same manner used for the once celebrated 
Guttce Anglic ance, he produced drops, which, as he be- 
lieved, possessed yet greater efficacy: he called this pre- 
paration Montpellier drops, and prescribed its use in all 
lethargic diseases. 
: M. Bon's establishment for. the rearing of spiders, at 



130 SILK. 

length engrossed a considerable share of public attention, 
and the subject being considered worthy of serious inves- 
tigation, M. Beaumurwas deputed by the Boy al Academy 
of Paris to inquire into the merits of this new silken mate- 
rial. From the patient examinations of this eminent na- 
turalist, it appeared that there were many serious objec- 
tions to this plan; and such as were likely to prove quite 
insurmountable. In the first place, the natural fierceness 
of spiders renders them unfit to be bred together. On dis- 
tributing four or five thousand of these insects into cells at 
•companies of from fifty to one or two hundred, it was found 
that the larger spiders quickly killed and ate the smaller, 
so that in a short space of time, the cells were depopulated, 
scarcely more than one or two being found in each cell. In 
the next place, the silk of the spider is inferior to that of the 
silk- worm both in lustre and strength; and produces less ma- 
terial available for the purposes of the manufacture. The 
filament of the spider's-bag can only support a weight of 
thirty-six grains, while that of the silk-worm will sustain a 
weight of one hundred and fifty grains. Thus four or fire 
threads of the spider must be brought together to equal one 
thread of the silk- worm, and as it is impossible that these 
should be applied so accurately over each other as not to 
leave little vacant spaces between them, the light is not 
equally reflected, and the lustre of the material is conse- 
quently inferior to that in which a solid thread is used. A 
third great disadvantage of the spider's silk is, that it cannot 
be wound off the ball Like that of the silk-worm, but must 
necessarily be carded. By this latter process, its evenness, 
which contributes so materially to its lustre, is destroyed. 
That the silk articles produced from this material are really 
deficient in that glossy appearance which constitutes the 
principal beauty of silk, is tally confirmed by the testimony 
of M. le Hire, who, when the stockings of M. Bon were 
presented to the Boy al Academy, immediately noticed their 
want of lustre. The last objection we shall notice against 
the raising of spiders, was one containing a calculation con- 
sidered to be an exaggerated one, and it has been regretted 
that M. Reaumur should have taken extreme cases, if not 
actually improbable ones, to confute a system so little 
likely to advance itself as that of M. Bon. The advantages 
of the culture of silk from silk- worms when compared with 
its production from spiders, must be too apparent to every 
reflecting person to render it necessary to dwell long on 
them, or in any way to exaggerate them. M. Reaumur's 
comparison is to this effect. The largest cocoons weigh 



silk from: shell-fish. 131 

four, and the smaller three grains each; spider-bags do not 
weigh above one grain each; and, after being cleared of 
their dust, have lost two-thirds of this weight; therefore 
the work of twelve spiders only equals that of one silk- 
worm; and a pound of spider silk would require for its pro- 
duction 27,648 insects. But as the bags are wholly the 
work of the females, who spin them as a deposit for their 
eggs, it follows that 55,296 spiders must be reared to yield 
one pound of silk: yet this will only be obtained from the 
best spiders; those large ones, ordinarily seen in gardens, 
Ac., yielding not more than a twelfth part of the siJk of the 
others. The work of 280 of these would therefore not yield 
more silk than the produce of one industrious Bilk-worm, 
and 663,552 of them would only furnish one pound of silk I 

Silk from shell-fish. It is well known that the common 
edible mussel has the power of affixing itself to rocks, or 
to the shells of other mussels, with great firmness; and it 
has been ascertained that if the animal be accidentally 
torn from its hold, it has the power of replacing the threads 
of viscous matter, by which it thus attaches itself to dif- 
ferent objects. The threads issue from the part of the 
shell where it naturally opens, and though each in itself 
is too delicate to possess much strength, yet the almost 
infinite number which are put forth, acting as so many 
small cables, keep the fish steady in its position, amidst au 
idie power of the waves. 

It is not to the mussel, however, that we refer as a silk- 
producing animal, but to a fish belonging to the same 
order, and in many respects resembling it. This is the 
jpinna, a much larger fish than the mussel, its shell being 
sometimes found two feet long. The shell is bivalve, 
fragile, and furnished with a beard; the valves hinge with- 
out a tooth. The pinna like the mussel attaches itself to 
rocks; it is also round with the sharp end of its shell 
embedded in mud or sand, while the rest of the shell is left 
free to open in the water. Like the mussel, it has the 
power of spinning a viscid matter from its body; but the 
threads of the pinna are of great delicacy and beauty, being 
scarcely inferior to the single filament of the silk- worm. 
Both the pinna and the mussel are furnished with an organ, 
which is sometimes called a " tongue," sometimes a " foot," 
from its performing the offices of both those members. 
The latter of these offices is denied to it by some naturalists, 
who affirm that the pinna always remains in the same place; 
but though its powers of locomotion are very limited, yet 
it appears that an occasional change of situation is effected 



132 SILK. 

by means of the organ we have alluded to. The extremity 
of the foot (as we may then call it) is fixed to some solid 
body, and being contracted in its length, the whole fish is 
necessarily drawn towards the spot where it has fixed 
itself; and by a repetition of these movements the animal 
arrives at its destination. The principal use of this organ, 
however, appears to be that of forming the byssus, which 
is the name given to the collection of threads by which the 
animal attaches itself at various points to some fixed spot. 
The formation of these threads is exceedingly curious and 
remarkable. They are not spun, like those of the spider 
and of the silk- worm, by being drawn out of the body, but 
they are cast in a mould, where they remain until they 
have acquired a certain degree of hardness and consistency. 
This mould is contained in the tongue of the animal, and 
forms a deep longitudinal furrow extending from the root 
to the circumference, having its sides so constructed as to 
fold over it, thereby making it into a canal. On the out- 
side, this canal appears like a crack, being almost covered 
by the flesh on either side, but internally it is wider, and 
surrounded with circular fibres. The tongue is furnished 
with glands for the secretion of the peculiar liquor which 
forms the byssus, and from these it is poured into the canal, 
where it dries into a solid thread. When it has acquired 
sufficient tenacity the animal protrudes its foot, and applies 
and fixes the end of the thread to the surface of some object 
in its vicinity; the whole length of the canal is tnen 
suddenly opened, and the thread, which is fixed by one end 
to the tendon at the base of the foot, and by the other to 
the solid surface in question, is disengaged from its mould. 
The canal is now ready to receive another portion of the 
viscid secretion (which secretion exists in great abundance 
in this animal as well as in mussels), and the process is 
gone through as before. Thread after thread is thus 
formed, and applied in different directions round the shell; 
and it has been observed that the animal puts each thread 
in succession to the test, by swinging itself round and 
stretching it. 

Thus, as Reaumur has observed, the workmanship of the 
land and sea animals, in forming the same production, is 
very different. Spiders, caterpillars, &c, form threads of 
any required length, by making the viscous liquor of which 
the filament is formed pass through fine perforations in 
the organ appointed for spinning. But the pinna and 
mussel form their threads in a mould situated within the 
organ, and which determines the length of each filament. 



SILK FROM SHELL-FISH. 133 

The work of the land animals therefore may be likened to 
that of the wire-drawer, while the labours of the sea 
animals may be compared to those of the founder who casts 
metals in a mould. 

It was at first supposed that the pinna, as well as the 
mussel, had the power of transferring the threads thus 
formed from one spot to another; but subsequent observa- 
tion has proved that wherever the animal takes up its 
position, there it must remain, unless by any accident the 
threads become severed, when it immediately begins to 
form others, and every fibre employed in fixing itself in a 
fresh situation is newly formed at the time it is required. 
The old threads appear quite useless, and have by way of 
experiment, been cut away from the body as close as was 
considered safe to the animal, when they were replaced by 
others, in as short a space of time as that employed by 
others not so mutilated. We learn from Poli, that the 
byssus in silk-producing fish is of the same structure as 
hair, and that at the extremity it is furnished with little 
cups, or suckers, by which it adheres firmly. In the pinna, 
the liquid matter is produced slowly, not more than four 
or five threads being formed in the course of a day and 
night. It is so exceedingly glutinous in its nature, that it 
will take a firm hold on the smoothest bodies. When the 
animal is disturbed in its operations, the threads are more 
hastily formed, and in consequence possess less strength 
than those which are produced at the ordinary rate. 

The pinna is found on the coasts of Italy and Provence, 
and in the Indian Ocean. The largest and most remark- 
able species inhabits the Mediterranean Sea. It is exposed 
to the attacks of many enemies, especially of the cuttle- 
fish, which is its deadly foe. It is said (and the alleged 
fact has been celebrated in poetry) that the pinna is warned 
of approaching enemies by a faithful ally, which is ever at 
hand to afford its important services. This ally is a small 
animal of the crab kind,- which takes refuge in the shell of 
the pinna, and compensates by its quickness of sight for 
the deficiency which the pinna, in common with the rest 
of its species, experiences in that respect. There is so 
much that appears fabulous in this reputed friendship of 
the pinna and the crab, that we willingly omit the several 
details, and proceed to notice the method to procure the 
byssus, and the uses to which that substance has been 
applied. 

Although the fineness and beauty of this remarkable 
production is almost equal to that of the silk- worm's thread, 



134 SILK* 

and has procured for the animal that forms it the common 
name of " the silk-worm of the sea," yet, when attached in 
filaments of almost innumerable extent to the rocks below 
the surface of the sea, it requires considerable force to dis- 
engage the tuft of threads. At Toulon an instrument 
called a cramp is employed by the fisherman for this 

Eurpose. This is an iron fork, with prongs eight feet in 
»ngth, and six inches apart; the prongs are placed at right 
angles with the handle, the length of which is regulated 
by the depth of the water, and varies from fifteen to thirty 
feet. The pinnae are seized, separated from the rock, and 
brought to the surface by means of this instrument. 

It is uncertain whether the- term " byssus," as used by 
the ancients, is always applicable to this particular sub* 
stance. Aristotle speaks or byssus as being made from the 
beard of the pinna, and it is certain that this kind of silk 
was employed in the manufacture of certain fabrics in yery 
ancient times. But it is also said that, by the name of 
byssus, the ancients meant mdiscriminately any material 
that was spun, the quality of which was nner and more 
valuable than woollen threads. Sometimes the produce of 
the pinna is distinctly "mentioned as being wrought into 
articles of dress; thus Frocopius speaks of a robe composed 
of byssus of the pinna, as having been presented by the 
Soman emperor to the satraps of Armenia. This substance 
is evidently referred to by a writer of the year 1782, who 
says : — " The ancients had a manufacture of silk, and which 
about forty years ago was revived at Tarento and Begio in 
the kingdom of Naples. It consists of a strong brown silk, 
belonging to the same sort of shell, of which they make 
caps, gloves, stockings, waistcoats, Ac., warmer than the 
woollen stuffs, and brighter than common silk. I have 
seen such kind of shells myself; I think it was of the pecten 
kind, but cannot be sure. 

On the shores where the larger kind of pinnae abound, 
the manufacture above alluded to is still carried on* At 
Palermo the silk is wrought into various articles of dress of 
a beautiful description. The stockings manufactured from 
this material are so fine, that a pair of them can be easily 
enclosed in a snuff-box of the ordinary sue, and yet their 
warmth is such, that they are said to be more useful in 
gouty and rheumatic cases, than appropriate for common 
wear. This material will probably remain a rarity, except 
in the countries where it is produced, for it cannot be 
obtained in sufficient abundance to render it a commodity 
for exportation. la England it merely forms a cunooa 



SUBSTITUTES FOB SILK. 135 

addition to some of our cabinets, while its existence as an 
article of manufacture is unknown. 

When we consider that the silk- worm feeds on mulberry 
leaves, the spider on flies, and the pinna on fishes, it is a 
subject for admiration that, out of such dissimilar materials, 
the natural operations of the animal can produce filaments 
so nearly resembling one another. 



The quantity of raw silk imported into England, chiefly 
from Piedmont, is supposed to amount in value to four 
millions sterling annuaflv; and the exported manufactured 
silk goods to seven honored thousand pounds annually. 



136 



Chaptee VI. 



HOSIERY. 

It will no doubt readily appear to the reader, that a more 
satisfactory idea of the nature of clothing generally, will be 
obtained by considering the materials of which they are 
formed, than by treating separately of each article of dress. 
We have therefore described separately the four important 
materials, cotton, wool, linen, and silk, rather than the 
numerous articles of male and female attire which are 
made from them. The art of the tailor or the milliner can 
give almost any form to the woven productions; but those 
productions retain throughout the distinctive characters 
which originally belonged to them. 

There are, however, a few instances in which the forma- 
tion of some particular article of dress, of whatever mate- 
rial it may be made, is the work of a particular class of 
persons, and calls for peculiar machines, and peculiar kinds 
of ability in the workman. For example, the term hosiery 
generally implies coverings for the hands and feet; although 
the word " hose" itself is but another name for stockings. 
The reason why stockings and gloves are usually classed 
together, probably is, that they have been, to a great 
extent, produced by the same kind of stitch, or loop; and 
also that the hosier, who originally dealt in the more im- 
portant article — stockings, came in time to sell gloves 
likewise. 

Stockings. 

Stockings, as articles of dress, cannot boast of so great anti- 
quity as coverings for many other parts of the body; but 
whenever they were introduced, it is natural to suppose 
that they were made from the same kinds of woven fabrics 
as many other garments. But both stockings and gloves, 
in order to fit the form with that closeness which is neces- 
sary for convenience and neatness, should have a degree 
of elasticity which is not commonly possessed by woven 
materials. It is to this circumstance that we must refer 
the well-known practice of knitting, by which a fabric is 

I>roduced possessing great elasticity; for the meshes or 
oops may be extendedin any one direction, and contracted 
in another, to suit the form which the fabric is intended 
to cover. 



STOCKINGS. 13 

When the art of knitting stockings was first practised* 
is not clearly known; but Professor Beckmann attributes 
it to the sixteenth century. Before that period, it appears 
that stockings were made of woven cloth, sewn up by a 
tailor, in the same way as other articles of clothing are 
made at the present day. Holinshed, who wrote about 
1587, having to speak of Dr. Sands, afterwards Archbishop 
of York, gives some curious information respecting the 
stockings then in use: — " Dr. Sands, at his going to bed 
in Hurleston's house, he had a paire of hose newlie made, 
that were too long for him. .For while he was in the 
Tower, a tailor was admitted to make him a pair of hose. 
One came in to him whose name was Benjamin, dwelling in 
Birohin Lane; he might not speak to him, or come to him 
to take measure of Him, but onelie to look upon his leg; 
he made the hose, and they were two inches too long. 
These hose he prayed the good wife of the house to send to 
some tailor to cut his hose two inches shorter. The wife 
required the boy of the house to carrie them to the next 
tailor, which was Benjamin that made them. The boy 
required him to cut tne hose. He said, I am not the 
maister's tailor. Saith the boy, Because ye are our next 
neighbour, and our maister's tailor dwelleth far off, I come 
to you. Benjamin took the hose, and looked upon them ; 
he took his handlework in hand, and said, These are not 
thy maister's hose, but Dr. Sands', them I made in the 
Tower." 

It appears that knitted stockings came into use about the 
reigns of Henry the Eighth and Elizabeth. Howell, in his 
Institution* of General History, 1680, says, — " Silk is now 
grown nigh as common as wool, and become the oloathing 
of those in the kitchen as well as the court; we wear it not 
only on our backs, but of late years on our legs and feet, 
ana tread on that which formerly was of the same value 
with gold itself. Yet that magnificent and expensive 
prince, Henry VIII., wore ordinarily cloth hose, except 
there came from Spain, by great chance, a pair of silk 
stockins. King Edward, his son, was presented with' a 
pair of long Spanish silk stockins by Thomas Gresham, 
his merchant, and the present was taken much notice of. 
Queen Elizabeth, in the third year of her reign, was pre- 
sented by Mrs. Montagu, her silk woman, with a pair of 
black knit silk stockins, and thenceforth she never wore 
cloth any more." 

There are many notices in old works to show that knitted 
stockings were about that period a great rarity. Stowe 
tells us, that the first stockings of knitted woollen yarn 

C. K 



138. HOSIERY. 

seen in England, were worn by the Earl of Pembroke, in 
1564; — a London apprentice naving accidentally seen a 
similar pair of stockings in the shop of an Italian merchant, 
and which had been procured from Mantua, immediately 
went home and knitted a pair, which came into the possession 
of the earl. It appears probable that stockings of knitted 
silk were known m England earlier than those of knitted 
wool. But the words " hose" and " knit" are often used 
without expressing whether the material was silkorworsted. 
Thus Holinshed, speaking of a grand entertainment given 
by Henry the Eighth, says — " The Xing and some of the 
gentlemen had the upper part of their hosen, which was of 
blue and crimson, powdered with castels and sheafes of 
arrows of fine ducket gold, and the nether parts of scarlet, 
powdered with timbrels," &c. 

There has been preserved an authentic and curious house- 
hold book, kept during the life of Sir Thomas L'Estrange, 
by his lady, Anne, daughter of the Lord Yaux. This 
family lived at Hunstanton, in Norfolk, during the reign 
of Henry the Eighth; and among other entries in the 
book, are the following:— 

" 1533. 35 Hen. 8. 7 Sept. Peyd for 4 peyr of knitt hose viiU. 
11538. 80 Hen. 8. 3 Oct. „ 2 peyr of knitt hose Is." 

The first of these were for Sir Thomas himself; the second, 
for his children. 

Holinshed further tells us, that " the bark of the alder 
is not unprofitable to die black withall, and therefore much 
used by our countrie wives in colouring their knit hosen." 
And again, when Queen Elizabeth visited Norwich, in 
1579, she saw some of the inhabitants thus employed: — 
" Upon the stage there stood at the one end eight small 
women children, spinning worsted yarn, and at the other 
as manie knitting of worsted yarn hose." 

It has been thought that the knitting of stockings was 
practised in Germany earlier than in England. An account 
has been handed down of a duchess of Pomerania, who 
died in 1417, and who, when she could no longer sew or 
embroider, used to amuse herself with knitting, repeating 
to her daughter meanwhile the following rhymes: — 

" Nicht beten, gem spatzleren gehn, 
Oft im Fenster und vorm Spiegel stehn, 
Fid geredet, and wenig gethan, 
Mein kind, da ist nichts Fettes an." 

(Never to pray, to be fond of walking, to stand often at 
the window and before the looking-glass, to talk much and 
to do little, — is not, my child, the way to be rich.) 



STOCKINGS. 139 

But this early use of knitting in Germany Has been, 
doubted, some thinking that it was not known till the 
following century. 

It is, however, sufficient for our purpose to know that 
knitting has continued in use for three centuries as a mode 
of making hosiery. At the present day it is but little 
practised, except in the most secluded districts, or as a 
matter of amusement; for, small as is the pecuniary value 
of female labour, generally speaking, there are many employ- 
ments for the female peasantry much more advantageous 
than that of knitting stockings, since machine-made hose 
have become so universal. 

It is scarcely necessary for us to say what knitting is. 
Most persons nave some idea of the process, and those who 
have not can scarcely sain it from a written description. 
Suffice* it to say, that by means of yarn, and two, three, 
or four long needles called knitting-needles, the knitter 
contrives to make a series of loops or meshes out of one 
continuous thread, which loops become linked among one 
another like chain-work. A fabric is thus formed which 
differs very considerably from those which have been 
woven, but which possesses considerable strength, and a far 
greater degree of elasticity than woven fabrics e enerally. 

Still knitting is a slow process; a considerable time is 
consumed in making one pair of stockings by such means; 
and it is not surprising that attempts should have been 
made to bring machinery to aid the fingers. This has 
been done by the invention of what is called the stocking- 
frame, a beautiful specimen of mechanism, the history of 
which involves something more of romance than is common 
in these matters. 

One writer relates the origin of the stocking-loom to have 
been this: — A student of Oxford was so imprudent as to 
marry at an early period, without money and without 
income. His young wife, however, was able to procure the 
necessaries of life by knitting. But as their increasing: 
family was likely soon to render this insufficient, thl 
husband invented a machine by which knitting could be 
performed in a more speedy and profitable manner. Having 
thus completed a stocking-loom, he became by its means a 
man of considerable wealth. 

Savary, a French writer, gives the honour to a country- 
man of his. He says, that when the Frenchman invented 
the stocking-loom, he found that he was not able to obtain 
the exclusive privilege of using it in his own country, and 
therefore took it to England. The utility of the machine 
being soon discovered, it was forbidden, under pain of 

K 2 



140 HOSIBBY. 

death, to cany the loom, or a model of it, out of the king- 
dom. But another Frenchman having seen the loom, it» 
form made so deep an impresBion on his memory, that, on 
his return, he copied it exactly; and from this loom all the* 
others used in France and Holland were constructed. 

Another story, equally calculated to give the honour of the 
discovery to a Frenchman, was related by an apothecary, at 
the HoteLDieu, at Paris. This person declared that the 
inventor was a journeyman locksmith of Lower Normandy, 
who gave a pair of silk stockings, his own workmanship, 
to Colbert, m order that they might be presented to 
Louis XIV.; but, as the marchands bonnetiers, who dealt 
in articles knit according to the old manner, caused several 
loops of these stockings to be cut by some of the servants 
at court, whom they had bribed for that purpose, they did 
not meet with approbation. The inventor was so grieved 
by this disappointment, that he sold the loom to an English- 
man, and died an old man in the Hotel-Dieu, where the 
apothecary became acquainted with him* 

But all these stories are nowproved to be erroneous, the 
real inventor having been one WilliamLee. About the year 
1656, a number of stocking-knitters of Nottingham pre- 
sented a petition to Oliver Cromwell, to constitute them & 
guild or corporate body, on account of the importance 
which the invention of a stocking-machine had given to* 
their trade. The petitioners say that their trade " i» 
properly styled frame-worh knitting, because it is direct 
and absolute knit-work in the stitches thereof, nothing 
different therein from the common way of knitting (not 
much more anciently for publick use practised in this nation 
than this), but only in the numbers of needles at an instant 
working in this, more than in the other by a hundred to one, 
set in an engine or frame composed of above two thousand 
pieces of smith's, joiner's, and turner's work, after so> 
artificial and exact a manner, that, by the judgment of all 
beholders, it far excels in the ingenuity, curiosity, and 
subtilty of the invention and contexture, all other frames 
or instruments of manufacture in use in any known part of 
the world." 

The petitioners proceed to state, that the stocking-frame 
was invented about fifty years previously by William Lee. 
The particulars of this invention we will give in the words 
of Deering, who wrote a History of Nottingham, about a 
century ago. " The inventor of the stocking-frame was 
one Mr. William Lee, M.A., of St. John's College, Cam- 
bridge, born at Woodborough, a village in Nottingham- 
shire, about seven miles from the town of Nottingham.. 



STOCKINGS. 141 

He was heir to a pretty freehold estate: of whom the tra- 
ditional story says: T*hat he was deeply in love with a 
young townswoman of his, whom he courted for a wife ; 
but she, whenever he went to visit her, seemed always 
more mindful of her knitting than the addresses of her 
admirer. This slight created such an aversion in Mr. Lee 
against knitting by hand, that he contrived to contrive a 
machine that should turn out work enough to render the 
common knitting a gainless employment. Accordingly he 
aet about it, ana having an excellent mechanical head, he 
brought his design to bear, in the year 1589. After he had 
worked awhile, he taught his brother and several relations 
to work under him. Having for some years practised this 
his new art at Calverton, a village about five miles from 
Nottingham, either himself or his brother James worked 
before Queen Elizabeth, in order to show an experiment of 
this kind of workmanship, offering at the same time this 
discovery to his countrymen, who, instead of accepting the 
offer, despised him, and discouraged his invention. Being 
.thus discountenanced by his native country, and soon after 
invited over to France, with promise or great rewards, 
privileges, and honours, by King Henry IV., he embraced 
the seeming fair opportunity, and went himself, with nine 
workmen, his servants, and as many frames, to the city of 
Roan (EouenP) in Normandy, where they wrought with so 
.great applause from the French, that in all likelihood the 
trade was to have been settled in that country for ever, had 
not the sudden murder of that monarch disappointed 
Mr. Lee of his expected grant of privilege, and the succeed- 
ing intestine troubles of that kingdom, delayed his renewed 
suit, and at last frustrated all his hopes; at which, seized 
with grief, he ended his life at Paris. After his death, seven 
of his workmen (being left to shift for themselves) re- 
turned with their frames to England, two only remaining 
•behind." 

It is now believed that the foregoing account is, in its 
substantial details, correct. In the Stocking- Weavers' 
Hall at London, is an old painting, in which Lee is repre- 
sented pointing out his loom to a female knitter who is 
standing near him, and below it is inscribed the date of the 
invention, 1589. 

The seven men who returned from France, together 
with an apprentice named Aston, whom he had left behind 
in England, now established the stocking-trade at Notting- 
ham, and by degrees so extended it, that it has ever since 
been considered the staple manufacture of that town. 

A few years after this re-establishment of the manufac- 



142 HOSIERY. 

-tore in England, the Venetian Ambassador, Antonio Correr, 
persuaded an apprentice, Henry Mead, by the promise of 
five hundred pounds, to go with a loom to Venice for a 
stated time, and to teach the use of it to some persons ap- 
pointed for the purpose. Mead met with a favourable 
reception in the city, and his workmanship was much 
admired ; but the loom becoming deranged, and no person at 
Venice being able to repair it, when the time of his agree- 
ment was expired, he returned to England. The Vene- 
tians had not resolution enough to continue the attempt ; 
and sent the damaged loom, together with some bad imi- 
tations of it, to London, where they were sold for a mere 
trifle. 

An attempt to introduce the loom into Holland failed in 
a somewhat similar manner. Abraham Jones, who under- 
stood stocking- wearing and the construction of the loom, 
though never regularly taught, went with some assistants 
to Amsterdam, where he worked on his own account two 
or three years, till he and his people were carried off by a 
contagious disease. As no one could now use the looms, 
they were sent to London, and sold for a low price. 

It was a remarkable exception to the general train of 
events connected with the invention of machinery, that for 
one hundred and seventy years scarcely any change or 
improvement was made in the stocking-frame : this speaks 
strongly in favour of the excellence of Lee's invention, 
About the year 1759, Mr. Jedediah Strutt, of Derby, made 
an improvement in the machine, by which it was rendered 
capable of producing ribbed stockings. Soon after this, a 
train of improvements and additions enabled manufacturers 
to produce fabrics in imitation of pillow-lace ; point-net, 
pin-net, warp-net, and bobbin-net, were the successive 
Tesults of these improvements. But that form of the ma- 
chine which is employed for the manufacture of stockings 
does not, at the present day, differ very greatly from the 
one invented by Lee two hundred and fifty years ago. 

To understand the action of this intricate machine, even 
with the aid of wood-cuts, is extremely difficult : we shall 
therefore not attempt a minute description of it. The 
reader is aware that stockings are made from silk, cotton, 
and worsted. The yarn to form the stocking is not 
arranged in the warp-and-weft manner, but, by the aid of 
a number of fine needles arranged in a row, it is caught up 
into loops, and the loops are linked among one another in 
such a manner as to form an extended fabric. 

Worsted stockings are chiefly made in Leicestershire ; 
ailk in Derby and Nottingham ; and cotton at Derby, Not- 



CLOVES. 143 

tingham, Hinkley, and Tewkesbury. There are about 
33,000 stocking-frames in England, which produce an- 
nually 3,400,000 dozen pairs of cotton stociings, about 
1,000,000 dozen of worsted, and 90,000 dozen of silk ; for 
all of which about 8,000,000 pounds' weight of raw mate- 
rial is required. The change in the value of the material 
is thus estimated, — that in the raw state they are worth 
about six hundred thousand pounds, and when manufac- 
tured into stockings, about two millions sterling. 

Gloves. 

When we draw upon our hands these comfortable and 
useful articles, we are apt to think them an invention of 
modern luxury or convenience, and need' to be reminded 
that they were much in use in very early times. We may, 
therefore, briefly consider this subject with reference both 
to the ancient and to the modern condition of the world. 

In the book of Ruth (ch. iv., ver. 7,) the custom is noticed 
of a man taking off his shoe, and giving it to his neighbour, 
as a pledge for redeeming or changing any thing. The 
events of the book of Ruth belong to the year 1245 b. c, 
and the word in this text usually translated shoe by the 
Chaldee paraphrast, is in this place rendered glove. Alike 
supposition is offered with regard to the passage at Psalm 
cviii. 9, where the royal prophet declares he will cast his 
shoe over Edom. The expression occurs likewise at Psalm 
lx. 8, and both these religious hymns were composed about 
the year 1040 b. c. Casaubon is of opinion that gloves 
were worn by the Chaldeans, from the word used m the 
book of Ruth being explained in the Talmud Lexicon by 
the clothing of the hand, 

Xenophon tells us that the ancient Persians used gloves : 
when describing their manners, he cites this as a proof of 
their effeminacy. Homer describes Laertes, the father of 
Ulysses, as working in his garden with gloves on his hands, 
to secure them from the thorns. Now Homer lived about 
900, and Xenophon about 400 years b. c. 

Varro, who lived in the time of Cicero, tells us of their 
longstanding use among the Romans. He wrote a book 
on Rural Business, wherein he tells us that olives gathered 
with the naked hand are preferable to those gathered with 
gloves. Athenseus speaks of a celebrated glutton, who 
always came to table with gloves on his hands, that he 
might be able to handle and eat the meat while hot, and 
devour more than the rest of the company. 



144 H08ISRY. 

Thus far it would seem that glove* were not so much an 
ordinary covering, as a protection used for specific pnr- 
poses : the use of them among the ancients was therefore 
not so common as among the moderns. In a hot climate 
the wearing of gloves implies a considerable degree of 
effeminacy, so that the early use of gloves can be more 
clearly traced among northern nations. When the primi- 
tive simplicity of Borne had passed away, the philosophers 
were found to rail at the prevailing use of gloves. Pliny 
the younger informs us, in his account of his uncle's jour- 
ney to Vesuvius, that his secretary sat by him, ready to 
write down anything remarkable that occurred ; and that 
he had gloves on bis hands, that the coldness of the weather 
might not impede his business. 

It is curious to find that Musonius, a philosopher who 
lived at the close of the first century of Christianity, among 
other invectives against the corruption of the age, says :— 
" It is shameful that persons in perfect health should clothe 
their hands and feet with soft and hairy coverings." 

The use of these articles kept on progressing, until, at 
the beginning of the ninth century after Christ, the Church 
began to lay down regulations for this part of dress. At 
the Council of Aix it was ordained that the monks should 
wear gloves made of sheep-skin. Serius tells us, a Romish 
legend respecting St. Gudula, the patroness of Brussels, 
that, as she was praying in a church, without her shoes, 
the priest compassionately put his gloves under her feet ; 
but she threw them away, and they miraculously hung in 
the air for the space of an hour, — whether in compliment 
to the saint or the priest does not appear. 

Gloves have been used on several great and solemn occa- 
sions, as in the ceremony of investitures, in bestowing lands, 
or in conferring dignities. Giving possession by delivering 
a glove has prevailed in several parts of Christendom in 
later ages. Bishops have been instituted to their sees by 
means of the glove ; and they were thought so necessary 
a part of the episcopal habit, that when some abbots of 
France presumed to wear gloves, the Council of Poitiers 
interposed, and forbade them, as peculiar to the bishop 
alone. 

The custom of blessing gloves at the coronation of the 
kings of France is a remnant of the Eastern practice of 
investiture by a glove. The influence of this notion is 
exhibited in the case of the unfortunate Conradin, who was 
deprived of his erown and life by Charles of Anjou. When 
he had mounted the scaffold, the injured prince lamented 
his hard fate, asserted his right to the crown, and, as a 



GLOVES. 145 

token of investiture, threw his glove among the crowd, en- 
treating that it might be conveyed to some of his relations, 
'who would avenge his death. It was taken up by a knight, 
and carried to Peter, king of Arragon, who, in virtue of 
this glove, was afterwards crowned at Palermo, in Sicily. 

To deprive a person of his gloves was a mark of divest- 
ing or depriving him of his office. When the Governor of 
Carlisle, in the reign of Edward the Second, was im- 
peached of holding a correspondence with the Scots, and 
was condemned to die as a traitor, his spurfe were cut off 
with a hatchet, and his gloves and shoes were taken off. 

Informer ages, the throwing down of a glove constituted 
a challenge, which he accepted who took it up. Such sort 
of single combat was meant as a trial of innocence, and was 
likewise often practised for deciding rights and property. 
This custom was continued down to the reign of Queen 
Elizabeth. A. dispute concerning some lands m the county 
of Kent was appointed to be settled by duel in Tothill- 
fields, in the year 1571. The plaintiffs had appeared in 
court, and demanded single combat. One of them threw 
down his glove, which the other party immediately taking 
up, carried off on the point of his sword, and the day of 
£ghting was appointed: but this affair was adjusted by the 
judicious interference of the queen. 

In Germany, on receiving an affront, to send a glove to 
the offending party is a challenge to a duel; and this method 
of daring a person to fight, has been in use even in this 
country, where local circumstances made feuds and ani- 
mosities common; as the following narration will show. 

Bernard Gilpin was a faithful ecclesiastic of the sixteenth 
century, whose spiritual work was carried on among the 
northern borderers. On a certain Sunday going to preach 
in those parts wherein deadly feuds prevailed, he observed 
•a glove hanging up on high m the church. He demanded 
of the sexton what it meant, and why it hung there. The 
sexton answered that it was a glove which one of the 
parishioners had hung up there as a challenge to his enemy; 
signifying thereby, that he was ready to enter into combat 
hand to hand, with him, or any one else, who should dare 
to take the glove down. Mr. Gilpin requested the sexton 
to take it down. " Not I, sir," replied he, " I dare do no 
such thing." Then Mr. Gilpin, calling for a long staff, 
took down the glove himself, and put it in his bosom. By 
and by, when the people came to church, arid Mr. Gilpin in 
due time went up into the pulpit, he in his sermon reproved 
the barbarous custom of challenges, and especially the 
custom which they had of making challenges by thenang- 



146 HOSIERY. 

ing up of >a glove. " I hear/' said he, " that there is one 
amongst you, who even in this sacred place, hath hanged 
up a glove to this purpose, and threateneth to enter into 
combat with whosoever shall take it down. Behold, I have 
taken it down myself/' Then, plucking out the glove, he 
showed it openly, and, inveighing against such practices in 
any man that professed himself a Christian, endeavoured 
to persuade them to the practice of mutual love and 
charity. 

At the coronation of George IV., in 1821, the ceremony 
was performed, probably for the last time, of challenging 
by a glove any one to dispute the right of the sovereign to 
the crown. His majesty's champion entered Westminster 
Hall completely armed and mounted, and threw down his 
glove. 

Gloves were also particularly used for carrying the hawk, 
which princes and other great men, formerly took much 
pleasure in doing; so that some of them have chosen to be 
represented in this attitude. . 

Judges were formerly forbidden to wear gloves on the 
bench; but both they and the rest of the court receive 
gloves from the sheriffs, whenever the session or assize 
concludes without any one receiving sentence of death: this 
is a custom of great antiquity. 

It appears likewise to nave been a custom not to enter 
the stables of princes, or other great men, without pulling 
off the gloves, under the penalty of forfeiting them, or of 
redeeming them by a fee to the servants. This custom is 
likewise observed in some places at the death of the stag; 
in which case, if the gloves are not taken off, they are 
redeemed by money given to the keepers and huntsmen. 
The King of France always pulled off one of his gloves on 
this occasion ; but the reason for this custom seems to be 
lost. 

Gloves are usually presented at weddings and funerals. 
By the term glove-money is meant money given to servants 
to buy gloves ; this was done because they were more ex- 
pensive formerly than they are now. Gloves were also a 
customary new-year's gift. When Sir Thomas More, as 
lord chancellor, decreed in favour of Mrs. Croaker against 
Lord Arundel, she, on the following new-year's day, in 
token of her gratitude, presented him with a pair of 
gloves containing forty angels. "It would be against 
good manners," said the chancellor, " to forsake a gentle- 
woman's new-year's gift, and I accept the gloves ; their 
lining you will be pleased otherwise to bestow." 

A person in company, who first sees the new moon, and 



GLOVES. 147 

thereupon salutes his fair companion, has a claim upon her 
for a pair of new gloves. This custom is peculiar to some 
of the northern parts of England. 

It appears that gloves diet not form part of the female 
dress until after the Eeformation. In the time of Queen 
Anne they were richly worked and embroidered. 

Some of the oldest gloves extant exist in the Benny 
family. At the sale of the Earl of Arran's goods, April 6, 
1759, the gloves given by Henry VIII. to Sir Anthony 
Denny were sold for 387. 17*.; those given by James I. to 
his son Edward Denny, for 227. 4?.; the mittens given by 
Queen Elizabeth to Sir Edward Denny's lady, 257. 4*.; 
all which were bought for Sir Thomas Denny of Ireland, 
who was descended in a direct line from the great Sir 
Anthony Denny, one of the executors of the will of 
Henry VlII. 

Gloves are made principally of leather, silk, cotton, and 
worsted. When leather is employed, the skins are not 
tanned, as for boots and shoes, but undergo a lighter dress- 
ing. The difference between these modes of preparing 
leather will be alluded to more particularly hereafter. 

When the material of which gloves are made is prepared, 
it is cut to the proper form, and then sewn up either by 
hand or machinery; the former is more generally the case, 
as the latter mode is not cheaper, but tends to greater 
regularity in the stitches. Cotton gloves are an invention 
of comparatively recent date, and are rapidly displacing 
leather gloves in the market. Still, however, leather gloves, 
particularly kid, will always remain in favour; and the 
legislative enactments respecting them will show the change 
which has taken place in our ideas of freedom of commerce. 
The importation of leather gloves and mitts was, until 1825, 
prohibited under the severest penalties. This prohibition 
had the effect, by preventing all competition ana emulation 
with foreigners, of checking improvement, and of rendering 
British gloves at Once inferior in quality and high in price. 
In that year the prohibition was removed, and foreign 
gloves were admitted on payment of a duty of four shillings 
per dozen pairs. This duty was certainly high; but it did 
not prevent the English glovers from raising a great out- 
cry respecting the ruin of their trade, which was now said 
to be certain. But the effect which had been foreseen by 
the legislature speedily showed itself. The English manu- 
facturers, in order to cope with their foreign competitors in 
the market, set about improving the manufacture in every 
possible way. The consequence was, according to Mr. 
McCulloch, that though from one to two hundred thousand 



148 HOSIERY. 

dozen pairs of foreign leather gloves hare been imported 
of late years, yet the English leather gloves have not 
decreased in quantity, while English cotton gloves have 
prodigiously increased. The effect of all this is, that 
persons, who used to consider gloves a luxury, can now 
afford to purchase them, on account of the reduction in 
price. A similarly happy result generally attends the 
breaking down of restrictions to commerce between dif- 
ferent nations. 

Glove-making is carried on chiefly in and around the city 
of Worcester. There are a great many manufacturing 
firms in that city, who purchase prepared leather, chiefly 
from Bermondsey, and cause it to be cut up into pieces of 
the proper size and shape for gloves. Hie female cottagers, 
And the wives and daughters of labouring men, residing 
within eight or ten miles of Worcester on every side, come 
for, these pieces, take them to their humble abodes, sew 
them up into gloves, and convey them back to the ware- 
houses at Worcester, where they receive payment. Some- 
times the manufacturer sends an agent to meet the glove- 
makers nearer to their own homes. 

The leather gloves made in England amount to about 
half a million dozen pairs every year ; but the amount of 
cotton gloves has not been exactly determined. 



149 



Chaptee VII. 



HATS. 

The Felting Property of Wool 

Fbom the hands and feet, we shall transfer our atten- 
tion to the head. The very great similarity between the 
shape, colour, and materials, of the hats worn by nearly all 
classes in England, renders this kind of head covering 
more easy of general description than other and more 
diversified articles of dress. 

A beaver or silk hat is in many respects remarkable. The 
sombre head-covering which a black hat constitutes, and 
the total absence of every kind of ornament from it, fur- 
nishes a striking contrast to the head-coverings of most 
nations. But it is in the peculiar formation of the material 
whence hats are made that they are chiefly remarkable: 
this formation is cslled felting, or felted wool. 

Respecting the origin of felt, little is known. It is said 
that a monk, having used some carded wool instead of 
socks, found that the fibres, by long friction between the 
foot and the shoe, had become matted together so as to 
produce a firm texture something like cloth, and from this 
hint arose the manufacture. But abetter explanation may 
perhaps be given. It 'has been judiciously observed, that 
tiie Asiatic shepherds who sewed together the skins of 
ji.TnTWfl.1g to make themselves garments, could scarcely have 
avoided detecting the felting property of furry, hairy, or 
woolly fibres. The probable steps have been thus con- 
jectured: —The tendency of matting, or felting, or entwin- 
ing on certain parts of the living animals would be first 
taken notice of; and when these portions were separated 
from the fleece, curiosity or accident would discover that 
this process might be extended to a greater or less degree 
by beating, or by pressure, and that the wool would form 
a soft, and pliable, and warm substance, evidently fitted for 
human clothing; and far more comfortable, and more easily 
applicable to the wants of the individual and of society, 
than the skins that had been previously used. The felting 
property of wool would thus De developed; and that rude 
species of manufacture, by means of which the fleece used 
to be converted into cloth, would thus be invented and 
gradually unproved. 



150 HATS. 

The reader will remember that in page 64 we described 
the process by which woollen cloth, after being woven has 
its fibres worked or bristled up, and then entangled among 
one another so as to form what we call the nap of cloth : 
the process is called falling or milling, and bears a 
similarity, in some respects, to felting. Felt may be called 
a cloth made without weaving. As the entangling property 
of woolly fibres is the groundwork of a felted material, we 
must here speak somewhat more fully concerning it. 

If we hold a human hair firmly by the root, and draw it 
gently between the finger and thumb, it passes through 
smoothly, and with hardly any sensible resistance or in- 
terruption; whereas, if we reverse the motion by holding 
the hah? by the point, and draw it from point to root, a 
very sensible tremulous resistance will be experienced, 
accompanied by a creaking kind of sound. Again, if we 

Elace a hair loose between the finger and thumb, and then, 
y alternately bending and extending them, give them a 
backward and forward movement, the hair will be put in 
motion; and this motion will always be from root to point, 
whether the root be in one or the other position with 
respect to the rubbing surfaces. A fibre of wool, likewise, 
in similar circumstances, always moves in one direction. 
Every schoolboy knows, that an ear of barley, if put within 
the sleeve at the wrist, soon travels up to the armpit; and 
that he can only rub a single awn of barley in one direc- 
tion between his finger and thumb, viz., from root to point. 
The awn of barley is visibly jagged at the edgje like a saw, 
the teeth pointing obliquely upwards, and this particular 
conformation is manifestly the reason why it is capable of 
motion in one direction but not in the other. These facts 
led to the discovery of the cause of felting. 

Those who have opportunities of examining a lock of 
wool, observe that it presents a much more crisped and 
spirally curled form than hair. This can be seen by hold- 
ing a small lock of wool up to the light, when every fibre 
wul be seen twisted into a ringlet or cork-screw form, 
especiallywhen taken from the fleece of a short- woolled 
sheep. Thegoat, the Devonshire breed of cattle, some 
varieties of Highland cattle, the yah of Tartary , and the ox 
of Hudson's Bay, all present, in certain parts of their coat, 
a hairy or woolly fibre which possesses this curly form. 
Different kinds of sheep afford wool having a different 
degree of curvature or flexure in the curls; audit has been 
long known that the fibres which curl most are best calcu- 
lated for the felting process. The curl materially con- 
tributes to that disposition in the fibres which enables them 



FELTING PBOPEETY OP WOOL. 151 

to attach and entwine themselves together: it multiplies 
the opportunities for this interlacing, and increases the 
difficulty of unravelling the felt. Still, however, it has 
long been known, that although this curling assists very 
effectually in producing the elect of felting, it is not the 
principal agent concerned: it merely affords the fairest 
opportunity for the exertion of a property due to some 
other source. 

Some writers on Natural Philosophy formerly thought 
that felting was due to a kind of attraction of cohesion 
between the fibres ; that, as two very clean surfaces of lead 
will cohere strongly when pressed together, by virtue of 
the attraction of cohesion, so do the fibres of felt by an 
analogous power. Dr. Young says: — " The reason of the 
contraction of cloth in felting is probably this, that all the 
fibres are bent by the operation of the falling-hammers, 
but not equally, and those that have been the most bent 
are prevented oy their adhesion to the neighbouring fibres, 
from returning to their original length." There is this 
defect in Dr. Young's explanation, that whether it be 
correct or not in reference to the " foiling" of cloth, where 
the fibres are beaten for hours by heavy hammers, it does 
not apply to hat-making where the fibres are rubbed and 
not beaten. 

When the idea was afterwards started that the friction 
of hairs, ears of barley, &c, might solve the difficulty, 
many fanciful theories were built up. Mr. Bakewell 
imagined that the roughness or tremulous motion " might 
be caused by minute vibrations, more easily excited in one 
direction than another, owing to the peculiar arrangement 
of the particles, or of the small filaments which compose 
the substances of wool or hair." This opinion, however, 
is altogether untenable. 

Monge, the celebrated French philosopher, was the first 
who satisfactorily explained the process of felting; but a 
letter written previously by Mr. Jrlint to Mr. Youatt, gave 
some very happy conjectures in the matter:— 

" Respecting the application of the microscope to the 
examination of the fibre, I am decidedly of opinion that a 
careful and minute examination of wools differing in their 
felting properties would issue in the detection of some 
specific difference of structure. This property is altogether 
inexplicable, at least in my mind, except in the supposition 
that the extreme surface of the fibre is irregularly 
feathered, and that, by compression, these feathered edges 
become entangled and locked together. These feathers 
must also point in one direction, viz., from the root to the 




"A 



I " I: 



■'■ : 



iii 



Mill 






►not 



^ £•**» 



IWttt 



1 



1 






1 

;■=.: 

! 









I 1 I S i 
i I I 8 I 



: | 



,5 



i 
s 

sg 



B^ ps 



II 



154 HATS. 

plies to all of these J, renders the explanation of the process 
of felting comparatively easy. When wool or for is wrapt 
in a damp clotn, and pressed and rubbed in every direction, 
the action brings the filaments closely in contact, and mul- 
tiplies their touching points. The agitation gives to each 
hair a progressive motion towards the root : bat the roots 
are disposed in different directions ; and the lamella) of one 
hair will fix themselves on those of another hair which 
happens to be directed in a contrary way. The hairs thus 
become linked or twisted together, and the mass assumes 
a compact form. 

Beaver-Hat making. 

This, then, being the principle on which filaments of 
wool tend to mat or felt together, we will proceed to show 
how tiiis tendency is taken advantage of in the manufac- 
ture ©fa beaver-hat. We will select, as an example, the 
common mode of making a good beaver-hat, of which the 
body or foundation is felted wool, and the nap or covering 
is the fur of the beaver, mixed with a little of that of the 
hare, or of some other animals. 

The wool, generally of the sheep or lamb, is shorn from 
the living animal ; but the fur is taken from the skins, by 
first drawing' out by the roots, by means of a blunt knife* 
the long and coarse hairs, which are rejected, and after- 
wards shaving off, with a very sharp knife, the down op 
finer hair for use. 

The wool (which varies in kind and quality according to 
circumstances) is washed, scoured, dried, and carded, before 
it comes into the hands of the hat-maker. His first em* 
ployment is to bow the wool, an operation by which all the 
filaments are separated from one another, and rendered as 
light and downy as possible. The wool is generally mixed, 
lor the foundation of hats, with a coarse inferior kind of 
fur, and these are Bowed separately. The fur being thrown 
down in a heap, the workman employs a bow (made some* 
what like a violin bow, but with only one string) above six 
feet in length, and in order to render it more manageable 
it is suspended by a strong cord. This bow being brought 
over the heap of fur, the workman gives a strong vibration 
to the string by striking it with his thumb or with a knobbed 
stick, the effect of which is to put in motion and completely- 
separate from each other all the hairs that it touches : this 
is continued till all the lumps and clots are broken down 
so as to leave the hairs separated and lying as lightly over 



BEAVEE-HAT MAKING. 155 

one another as possible. A light wicker frame, like a com- 
mon fire-guard, is then employed to sweep the hair a little 
on one side, in order to make way for the wool, which is 
bowed in the same manner as the far, bat with a larger 
bow and a stronger string. The for and wool are then laid 
one on the other, pressed with the wicker frame, and again 
bowed till a complete and equal mixture of the two materials 
has been brought about, ana an equal distribution has been 
made over the space that they occupy. 

The wool and fur then undergo the process of hardening \ 
The heap is brought to a tolerably even surface, and is 
covered with a piece of oil-cloth. "Pressure, at first very 

gentle, and increasing by degrees, is made on the oil-cloth 
y the hand of the workman, till, in a short time, the fibres 
hive become intermixed, forming a layer which will just 
bear careful handling. The oil-cloth being removed, a 
piece of damp brown paper, shaped like an equilateral 
triangle, is put on the layer, the edges being folded over so 
as to cover and enclose the paper, except at one edge. In 
this state it is folded up in a damp cloth, and worked by 
hand, pressing and bending it, rolling and unrolling it, so 
as to give every fibre an opportunity of mtertwining more 
or less with those in its neighbourhood, and thus of form- 
ing a thin though imperfect and loose felt. The paper 
being now taken out, tne felt may be opened into a sort of 
conical cap, for the paper has prevented the opposite sur- 
faces of it from felting together. This process is called 
basoning. 

Sometimes the conical cap is prepared in two pieces, as 
follows, The wool is suffered to come only a small dis- 




tance over the paper, leaving a paper surface a surrounded 
with a woolly border 3. Another triangular piece of wool 
is then prepared, and on it the first-made portion is laid, 
paper downwards! so as to unite by its edges with the tn- 

L 2 



] 56 HATS. 

angular piece beneath. The two are then made thoroughly 
to unite together, and the paper is drawn out from between 
them. 

The conical cap is now ready for planking. A boiler, 
called the " kettle," is placed in the middle of the room, 
with seven or eight inclined faces, or planks branching out 
from it; each of which affords room for one workman. 
The boiler contains a liquid composed of several substances, 
such as water, sulphuric acid, wine-lees, and beer-grounds, 
combined in different proportions. The liquid is just below 
the boiling-point when used. A workman takes one of the 
felted bodies, as they are now called, lays it on one of the 
nlanks, and sprinkles it with the hot liquid ; he then rolls 
it and unrolls it, pressing it with a piece of leather tied to 
his hand ; during the whole of which operation it shrinks 
and becomes proportionally thicker and more compact. It 
is next dipped for a few seconds into the boiling liquor, 
and is then rolled and worked on the plank as before, the 
result of which is, a still farther contraction and thickening 
of its substance. Lastly, the scalding is repeated, and the felt 
is worked and squeezed by means of a rolling-pin, called a 
walk-pin, till it ceases to contract any farther. Thus the 
act of felting, which was begun by the basoning, is finished 
by the planking ; and consists of rolling and pressing, first 
very gently and at the common temperature, then with a 
greater force, assisted by the action of warm acid liquor, 
and finally with the greatest force that the workman can 
apply, and at a scalding temperature. The effect of the 
acid is probably to facilitate the solution or removal of any 
oil or mucus which may be squeezed out from the hairs, 
which, if allowed to remain among them during then- 
working, would impede their tendency to dry. The felted 
substance is now laid aside to dry. 

The next process is to put in the stiffening, which is a 
saturated solution of shell-lac in alcohoC mixed with some 
other substances. This is applied by means of a brush to 
the inner surface of the felt, and sometimes to the outer 
likewise ; after which it is again dried in a stove ; by this 
process the felt is impregnated with a resinous substance 
capable of giving the required stiffness to it, and also of 
rendering it to a considerable degree impenetrable by rain 
or cold water. In the act of drying, some of the lac is 
generally brought to the surface, making it rough ; this is 
removed by dipping the felt in a hot solution of alkali, 
which loosens tne crust of lac, and allows it to be scraped 
off. The felt is then a third time heated in a stove, and 
when nearly dry is singed by holding it over a blaze* of 



BEAVER-HAT MAKING. 157 

shavings, in order to remove the hairs which stand out 
from the surface of the felt. 

The next process is one of considerable nicely, viz., the 
putting on of the nap, or roughing, as it is called, which 
constitutes the external surface of the finished hat. To 
form the nap, from half to three quarters of an ounce of 
beaver fur, together with a small quantity of some cheaper 
fur, and a little fine cotton, are carefully bowed, and then 
by means of the oil-skin, are made into a very tender imper- 
fect felt of the shape of the body intended to receive it, 
but about three inches longer : a strip three inches wide, 
therefore, being torn off from the bottom of it, the remainder 
is just sufficient to cover the body, while the strip is re- 
served for the under part of the brim of the hat. The nap 
being thus prepared, the body is softened by dipping it 
in the boiler, and is then covered with the nap, the strip 
being applied on the lower part of the inside. It is then 
taken to the plank, and the nap is fixed to the body, by 
first patting it down with a wet brush, then rolling it in a 
hair-cloth, dipping it in the hot liquor, and working it about 
as in the process of felting. 

The manner in which the beaver adheres to the felt is 
very curious. When first laid on, the beaver hairs form a 
horizontal layer, the individual hairs lying in all directions. 
As soon as the rolling and pressing begins, each hair is put 
in motion from root to noint, and enters the substance of 
the felt body. These hairs have considerable stiffness and 
elasticity, and proceed, therefore, in a pretty straight course 
through the felt, with the substance of which they form a 
union ; but by a sufficiently long continuance of rolling 
and pressing, they would actually pass through the felt 
and be seen on the inside instead of the outside. When 
the process has been continued just long enough, the hairs 
will nave penetrated by their root sufficiently far to secure 
them from being drawn out in brushing the hat. 

The reader must bear in mind, that throughout these 
processes the hat-body has no other shape than that of a 
•cone, pointed at one end. The period has now arrived 
when it is to receive the form of a hat, by a process which 
is perhaps the most remarkable in the whole manufacture, 
jand which is called blocking. The workman turns up the 
edge or rim of the cone to the depth of about an inch and 
a half, and then returns the point of the cone back again 
through the axis of the cap, so as produce another inner 
fold of the same breadth. A thira fold is produced by 
returning the point of the cone again, and so on, till the 
.whole resembles a fiat circular piece, having a number of 



SI^K HATS. 159 

moisture and heated irons, the frilled brim is shrunk until 
reduced quite level, the nap gently raised all over by a 
fine wire brush, and brushed and ironed smooth in a uni- 
form direction. The hat is then strengthened by inserting 
a lining in it ; and it is finished off by bending the brim 
into the required form, trimming, &c. 

Attempts have been made, and probably will fully suc- 
ceed hereafter, to prepare the felt for hats by machinery, 
instead of working and moulding it by hand. Many patents 
have been taken out, having, tms o&ject in view; and the 
general mode of accomplishing it is by coiling loose fila- 
ments of wool into the form of conical caps, and causing 
them to cross each other in the winding on, for the pur- 
pose of taking hold of each other, so as to produce a matted 
texture when exposed to heat and friction. The machine 
for effecting this is generally attached to a carding engine, 
by means of which the slivers, or porous ribbons of wool, 
are taken off the carding engine, and wound in different 
directions, for the purpose of becoming matted together 
upon blocks of various figures, suited to the size of the 
intended hat. A conical roller presses down the woolly 
filaments, as they are wound round the block, by whion 
they are made partially to felt among one another. The 
cap is then removed from the block, folded in a wet cloth, 
and placed on a steam-heated plate, where it is rolled by a 
machine, for the purpose of becoming condensed. It is 
now to be felted, either in the usual way by hand, or in a 
falling-mill, from which it is taken out occasionally and 
passed between rollers, to render the felt more perfect. 



. Silk Hats. 

We have thus given a succinct detail of the processes 
connected with the manufacture of a beaver hat. But 
partly on account of the rise in the price of beaver fur, and 
partly from the general desire for cheapness which has so 
much shown itself of late, many substitutes have been 
invented of late years. It will be desirable to state the 
distinctions which, the maker observes between different 
kinds of hats. 

Hats are called either felted or covered, and there are 
different kinds of each. Of felted hats, wool hats are made 
entirely of coarse native wool and hair stiffened with glue, 
and are of a very inferior kind : plates have a nap or pUe 
rather finer than the body of which they are made, and 



160 HATS. 

are sometimes waterproof stiffened : short naps are dis- 
tinguished from plates by additional kinds of fur, such as 
hare's back, seal, neutria, mushquash, &c., and are all 
waterproof stiffened : mottled bodies are made chiefly of 
fine Spanish wool and inferior rabbit down : stuff bodies 
consist of the best hair, Saxony and red wools, mixed with 
Cashmere, hair, and silk : stuff hats are napped, that is, 
covered with a pile of mixed seal, neutria, hare-back, in- 
ferior beaver, and musquash : beaver hats are nappecf with 
beaver only, the inferior qualities with the fur taken from 
the back of the animal, and the superior with that from the 
belly and cheeks. 

Covered hats consist of a foundation or body made of 
cambric, woollen cloth, stuff, or plaits of willow, straw, or 
leghorn, covered with silk, or sometimes with Angola 
cotton. 

Covered hats are manufactured in the following manner. 
A foundation or body is made of willow, or some one of 
the substances before mentioned, and on this is fixed a silk 
bag or covering, which exactly encloses it in every part, 
and constitutes the silken surface with which we are so 
familiar. This silk bag is formed of flush, or a kind of 
Telvety silk fabric with a long nap or pile. This is manu- 
factured for the purpose, and is stitched up into the proper 
-size before it is laid over the foundation. Meat and moisture 
with different liquids, are used in the act of causing the 
silk covering to adhere to the foundation. The source of 
this difference between the modes of making beaver and 
silk hats is, that silk does not possess the peculiar property 
of felting. 

Straw Hata 

Here we have another instance of the tendency which has 
"been shown to the production of garments by an interlac- 
ing of strips or fibres. The stalks or straw of grain, by 
T)eing interwoven among each other, form broad strips or 
Ijands, and these bands, either by farther interlacing, or 
"by stitching, form that extensive class of head-coverings 
which we know as straw hats or bonnets. 

Italy was probably the birthplace of straw hats ; but 
^England has for a long period produced large numbers of 
these light and very convenient head-coverings. The 
straw-plait district, as it is familiarly called, comprises the 
counties of Bedford, Hertford,, and !tiuckingham, being the 
■most favourable, for the production of the wheat straw, 



STRAW HATS. 161 

which is the material chiefly used in England. The manu- 
facture is also followed at some places in Essex and Suf- 
folk. During the late war, the importation of straw hats 
from Leghorn having in a great measure ceased, an extra* 
ordinary degree of encouragement was given to our do- 
mestic manufacture, and a proportional degree of comfort 
was derived by the agricultural labourers in these counties, 
by the wives and children of whom it was chiefly fol« 
lowed. 

• The English mode of plaiting the straw under the sys- 
tem which was followed until recent improvements were 
introduced, is as follows : — The plaiters select the whitest 
and most regular straws, and cut them into equal lengths ; 
the straws are then whitened, by inclosing a number of 
bundles in a large box, leaving a considerable space in the 
middle, into which a cup filled with sulphur is placed, and 
this being kindled, the dox is shut close, and covered up 
with a wet blanket, to keep in the vapour of the burning 
sulphur, which insinuates itself through all the bundles of 
straw contained in the box, and renders them white, and 
of a more delicate colour. After this preparation, the 
straws are split lengthwise into several segments, by means 
of a wire fitted to the interior cavity, and haying four, six, 
or eight sharp edges projecting radially from it; the straws 
will easily split in the proper directions when the wire is 
thrust through them. For the convenience of holding this 
wire, one end is bent at right angles into a sort of a handle. 
The slips of straw are now softened in water, and plaited 
together by children, with great rapidity and exactness. 
The mode of plaiting can scarcely be described, but most 
persons have a sufficiently clear idea of the process. The 
most simple plait is that of three straws ; but this is only 
for very coarse articles, the slips of the straws being very 
broad. Sometimes whole straws are employed, being first 
pinched flat by softening them and drawing them between 
the fingers. After the plait, whatever kind it may be, is 
finished, it is passed several times between a pair of small 
wooden rollers, to render it flat and solid. Of these plaits 
or ribbons the hat is formed, by winding them in a spiral 
direction, round a proper shaped wooden mould or block, 
with a little overlap, and sewing them together ; and when 
it is thus finished, the whole is passed over with a hot iron, 
to smooth down the seams ; and the block is then taken 
to pieces, to withdraw it from the hat. 

Such was the usual system of making straw hats in 
England; but the exclusion of foreign hats during the war, 
led to many improvements in splitting, finishing, and 



162 HATS. 

bleaching the straws ; indeed so far was this successful, 
that some of the women employed upon the straw-plaiting 
earned a guinea a week at it. But when the cessation of 
the war permitted the importation of foreign hats, their 
superiority in fineness, colour, and durability, speedily 
regained for them a preference over our home manufac- 
ture. The most active exertions were therefore made, to 
improve as much as possible the English manufacture: not 
only were improved modes of manuracturing native straws 
of various kinds adopted, but Leghorn straws were im- 
ported, and the Italian mode of plaiting introduced. 

The Italian process, according to Mr. Mc Culloch, is the 
following. The description of straw used, which is culti- 
vated solely for the purpose of the manufacture, and not 
for the gram, is the Triticum turgidum, a variety of bearded 
wheat, which seems to differ in no respect from the spring 
wheat which is grown in the Yale of Evesham, and other 
parts of England. After undergoing a certain preparatory 
process, the upper parts of the stems (being first sorted as 
to colour and thickness) are formed into a plait of generally 
thirteen straws, which is afterwards knitted together at the 
edges into a circular shape, called &Jlat. The fineness of 
the flats is determined by the number of rows of plaits 
which compose them (counting from the bottom of the 
crown to the edge of the brim), and their relative fineness 
ranges from about No. 20 to No. 60; being the rows con- 
tained in the breadth of the brim, which is about eight 
inches. They are afterwards assorted into first, second, 
and third qualities, which are determined by the colour 
and texture. These qualities are much influenced by the 
season of the year in which the straw is plaited. Spring 
is the most favourable, not only for plaiting, but for bleach- 
ing and finishing. The dust and perspiration in summer, 
and the benumbed fingers of the workwomen in winter, 
when they are compelled to keep within their smoky huts, 
plaiting tne cold and wet straw, are equally injurious to 
the colour of the hats, which no bleaching can quite re- 
move. The flats, when finished, are made up in cases of 
ten or twenty dozen, and are ready for exportation. 

Mr. Mc Culloch makes the following remarks on the 
English straw-hat manufacture. " There is, perhaps, no 
manufacture more deserving of encouragement and sym- 
pathy than that of straw plait, as it is quite independent 
of machinery, and is a domestic and healthful employment, 
affording subsistence to great numbers of families of agri- 
cultural labourers, who without this resource would be 
reduced to parish relief. By an estimate of an intelligent 



STRAW HATS. 165 

individual, intimately acquainted with the manufacture, it 
is considered that every twenty yards of plait consumes a 
pound of straw in the state in which it is bought of the 
farmer; that, at an average, every plaiter makes fifteen 
yards per day ; that in the counties of Hertford, Bedford, 
and Bucks, there are, at an average, 10,000 score yards 
brought to market every day, to make which 13,000 per- 
sons (women and children) must be employed. In Essex 
and Suffolk, it is estimated that 2000 scores are the daily 
produce, to make which about 3000 persons are employed; 
and about 4000 persons more must be employed to convert 
these quantities into bonnets. Including other places where 
the manufacture is carried on in England, there are, perhaps, 
in all, about 30,000 persons engaged in it. The earnings 
of the women and children vary from 3d, to 8*. 6d. per 
score yards, or from 1*. Sd. to 10*. per week. There are 
seven descriptions of plait in general use, viz.: — whole 
Dunstable (the first introduced), plaited with seven entire 
straws : split straw, introduced about thirty years since : 
patent Dunstable, or double seven, formed of fourteen split 
straws, every two wetted and laid together, invented about 
twenty-five years since : Devonshire, formed of seven split 
straws, invented about sixteen years since: Luton plait 
(an imitation of whole Dunstable), formed of double-seven, 
and coarser than patent. Dunstable, invented about ten 
years ago: Bedford leghorn, formed of twenty-two or 
double eleven straws, and plaited similarly to the Tuscan ; 
and Italian, formed of eleven split straws. But there are 
other varieties in fancy straw plait, not generally in de- 
mand for the home trade, but chiefly required for exporta- 
tion ; such as the backbone, of seven straws ; the lustre, 
of seventeen straws ; the wave, of twenty-two straws ; and 
the diamond, of twenty-three straws. There were other 
plaits called rustic, of four coarse split straws, and pearl, 
of four small entire straws; but these are now superseded. 
The principal markets are Luton, Dunstable, and St. Al- 
bans, where the plait is usually brought every morning by 
the plaiters, and bought by the dealers." 




if 


U 


M 


r; 


U 


:: 
:s 


rs 

n 


B 


S 


fi 


is 


;, 


IS 


IS 




11 


e: 


a 


id 


F5 


H 


r: 


33 



33 3yby 

" ntting 

pliers, 

Sfe UP 

Lnded 



ORNAMENTAL STBAW-WORK. 165 

flat surface, which forms, with the projecting ledge 5, a 
narrow crack, so that by pushing the straw along the blade 
it is split open, and gradually flattened so as to enter this 
crack, where it is further flattened sufficient to enable the 
rollers to grasp it, which they do readily when motion is 
imparted to them by turning the handle o. After passing 
through the rollers the straw falls down on the other side 
in an opened and flattened state. By means of this in- 
genious little machine ten thousand straws can be pre- 
pared in one day, whereas by the old method not more 
than one hundred could be got ready. 

In ornamental straw- work, the straw is dyed of various 
colours. A few simple directions for dyeing the straws in 
some of the principal colours may be given here. 

Blue is obtained from a solution of indigo in sulphuric 
acid. It is better to purchase a small portion of this solu- 
tion than to attempt to prepare it. A large pipkin 
containing water is to be set on the Are, and when the 
water boils, the indigo solution is to be added a little at a 
time until the desired shade or colour is produced. The 
vessel is to be removed from the Are, and the straws im- 
mersed; when the colour has struck they are to be taken 
out, washed in cold water, and dried. For higher shades 
of blue, hot water is to be added to the last preparation, 
and the whole boiled. The straws are to be immersed 
while the solution is boiling. In this way, by various 
additions of water, a variety of shades of blue may be 
obtained. 

Yellow is produced by a decoction of turmeric diluted to 
the desired shade, in wnich the straw is boiled until it has 
taken the colour. From these dyed straws a large variety 
of greens may be obtained by plunging them into the boil- 
ing-hot indigo solutions of various depths of shade, as 
employed for the production of blue straws. 

Med. — For the production of various shades of red, the 
whitest straws must be selected. The dye is produced by 
boiling hanks of coarse scarlet wool in a weak solution of 
alum water. The wool soon parts with its colour to the 
water, and when the desired tint is attained, the whole 
solution is poured upon the straws contained in a flat 
earthen vessel, and allowed to remain till cold. When the 
straws are removed they must not be washed, but allowed 
to dry spontaneously. Bed is also obtained by employing 
cochineal, salt of tin, and tartar. 

By diluting more or less the solution used for the red 
dye various shades of red, such as flesh-colour, rose- 
colour, &c.,maybe obtained; but the straw must be boiled 



166 



HATS. 



with the solution. By employing the light blue straw in 
the last-named solution, violet is obtained. 

A black dye is procured from nut-galls, sulphate of iron, 
and Brazil-wood. 

I* The processes of dyeing being complete, the straws must 
be sorted, not only for distinct colours, but for shades of 
the same colour, because it generally happens that a 
number of straws dyed in the same solution do not all take 
the same shade. The rough edges must then be cut 
smooth, for which purpose they ought to be placed upon a 
hard even board, and so covered with a thin flat iron ruler 
that the ragged portion only may project: this is cut off 
by means of a lancet-shaped knife, of which the form 
recommended is shown in the figure. 




It is recommended to paste the under surface of the 
straws thus prepared to large sheets of thin paper: each 
sheet to contain one distinct colour or tint, and when the 
pasting is completed, to subject the whole to a strong 
pressure in a press, taking care to interpose between, each 
sheet of straws a few folds of blotting-paper and a stout 
board of the size of the sheet. After remaining in the 
press for about twenty-four hours, the sheets may be re- 
moved, and preserved for use in a large volume or 
portfolio. 

a The tools required for this kind of work are few and 
simple: 1. A ruler of iron or brass, very smooth, and the 
edge quite true. 2. A lancet-shaped cutter such as we 




have already described; and also a pointed cutting knife, 
fixed in a somewhat massive wooden handle: the cutting 
point for trimming up fine and delicate work, and the 
handle for pressing, polishing, and flattening the work* 
3. Two pairs of compasses with openings fixed at about one- 
tenth and three-tenths of an inch. These are formed of a 
handle of wood, ▲, with a groove on each side of the lower 
part adapted to the reception of a needle: by passing 



ill 






•: 



I I 1 E 

u m @ %t 



i 



l 



i 



111 



1 



I ill 



172 



Chaptee YIIL 



OAB1BENTS OF LEATHEE. 

We have now taken leave of that most important class of 
clothing materials which consists of fibres either woven or 
felted into an extended fabric, or cloth. There is not a 
single part of the human body but what has been covered 
with one or other of such fabrics, in accordance with some 
of the ever-varying fashions which govern costume. 

There is, however, one part of the body whieh is exposed 
to more severe pressure and " wear and tear" than any 
other, and which requires for its covering and protection a 
garment of considerable strength — we mean the sole of the 
Jbot. The thickest woollen, silk, cotton, or linen texture 
would be worn through if exposed to the nimble activity 
or persevering toil of the feet for a single day. If these 
fabrics then, will not suffice, what are we to use instead P — 
iron, wood, leatherP Iron and wood, hard and firm as 
they may be, are not calculated to yield to the flexure of 
the foot in walking; and it is consequently found that to 
walk in wooden shoes is a most fatiguing operation; for 
when the foot is incased in such an unyielding material 
the muscles of the leg cannot bring into play its beautiful 
elasticity, which not only greatly diminished fatigue in 
-walking, but by affording gentle exercise to all the other 
parts of the body, contributes to health and cheerfulness. 
A dancer's leg is fleshy and roundly formed, principally 
on account of the incessant action to which the foot is sub- 
jected in bending: a ploughman's or a wagoner's leg is 
generally small, not because he has but little walking, for 
the contrary is the fact, but because his unyielding shoes 
Tender it impossible for his foot to bend into those forms 
which so much assist the act of walking ; and this inactivity 
of the foot leads to a similar inactivity in many of the 
muscles Of the leg which act upon the foot. 

Now it happens, fortunately for us, that leather is a sub- 
:stance, possessing more toughness and durability than 
woven fabrics, and more flexibility than wood or iron: 
there is perhaps scarcely any other substance in nature 
that possesses so much flexibility with so much toughness. 
"We do not despair of seeing the day when steel or iron, 
by the aid of springs or hinges Bomewhat similar to those 



LEATHER. 173 

recently employed for ladies' dogs, may be formed into 
boots and shoes, — more wonderful things than that have 
been effected by our manufacturers within the last few 
years. Bat, until such a time arrives, we must all agree 
that there is "nothing like leather." 

The question, " What is leather?" becomes, therefore, 
not an unimportant one* We will endeavour to show what 
leather is, and how it is prepared; and may afterwards 
briefly treat of the mode of making it into boots and shoes. 

Leather consists of the skins of animals, deprived of 
their putrefactive quality, and rendered tougher and 
stronger, by the action of a certain chemical substance. 
When the hair, the thin skin, the fleshy or fatty portions, 
and other extraneous matters, are scraped from a hide, the 
remainder consists of a substance called gelatine, which 
is partially soluble in water: the particular chemical 
substance to which we have alluded, and which is called 
tannin, is also soluble in water; and this tannin, if left for 
a length of time in contact with the gelatine, will convert 
it into leather,— or rather, the union of the two together 
forms leather. 

Tannin is a vegetable principle, and has been found 
most abundantly in the barks of various trees, Aleppo 
galls, and caoutchouc, &c. Sir Humphry Davy undertook 
a long course of experimental inquiry to determine which 
body contained the largest quantity of that valuable mate- 
rial. Tanners in England had for a long time employed oak- 
bark for tanning, without any very distinct idea of its action. 
Foreign tanners had been using galls, and several other 
substances; and when oak-bark became very dear in Eng- 
land, it was thought necessary that an investigation should 
be made, to discover whether some common property or 
principle was resident in all these bodies. This was done, 
and it was found that all of them contained a 'peculiar 
substance, which, from its valuable property of tanning 
leather, obtained the name of tannin. Sir H. Davy 
afterwards found, that, for the purposes of the tanner,. 
8Jlbs. of oak-bark are equal to 2| of galls., 3 of sumach, 
7^ of willow-bark, 11 of chestnut-bark, and 18 of elm- 
bark. 

To obtain oak-bark for the tanner's use, it is ground to 
a coarse powder between cast-iron cylinders, and in that 
state is put into the tan-pit. An infusion of the bark in* 
water is also employed. 

Galls, which contain a large portion of tannin, are the 
result of a kind of disease to which oak-trees are subject, 
in consequence of the attacks of a peculiar insect which. 



TANNING. 175 

verted into dry cakes, which so much resemble earth that 
they used to be called terra Japonica. These cakes are 
easily soluble, and are particularly rich in tannin. 

Such, then, are the substances containing the tannin 
which will convert animal hides into insoluble and im- 
putrescent leather. Oak-bark is, for many reasons, the 
tanning substance usually employed in England. 

The process of tanning is one of the slowest in the whole 
circle of our manufactures. Many months are consumed in 
thoroughly impregnating the hides with the tannin by the 
usual method: and it is not surprising that repeated 
attempts should have been made to improve and accelerate 
the process. We believe, however, that none of them have 
ftdly succeeded, probably from a want of knowledge of 
some of the circumstances connected with the chemical 
formation of leather. We may reasonably expect that some 
Of the new methods will be ultimately successful ; but, as 
most tanners still follow the old routine, we will confine 
ourselves to a brief description of one of the long-established 
methods; for most tanners make slight changes in some 
part or other of the process. The reader will therefore 
take the following as a general account of the whole. 

We may here state, that the skins of the larger animals, 
such as the ox, &c, which are devoted to purposes of 
strength, are called hides; while the thinner ones, such aa 
those of the calf and sheep, are called shins. Hides are 
also divided into different qualities or thicknesses, by the 
names of butts or bucks, and crop-hides, the former being 
the thickest kind of leather ever produced. 



Tanning Butts. 

The stout bull and ox hides, called butts, are tanned in 
the following manner. After the horns, &c, have been 
removed, the raw hides are laid in a heap for two or three 
days, and are then suspended on poles in a close room called 
a smoke-house, which is heated somewhat above the common 
temperature by a smothering fire : this occasions incipient 
putrefaction, which loosens the epidermis, or thin skin of 
the hide, and renders the hair and other extraneous matter 
easy of separation from the true skin. This separation is 
then effected by extending the hide on a wooden horse or 
beam of a convex form, and scraping it with a large two- 
handled knife, called B,fleshing-knife 9 which is bent to suit 
the convexity of the beam. 



176 GARMENTS O* LEATHER. 

The hides are then immersed in a pit containing water 
■lightly impregnated with sulphuric acid. This operation, 
which is called rmisinp, by distending the pores and swell- 
ing the fibres, prepares the hide for the reception of the 
iannm, and renders it more susceptible of chemical action. 

When the hides are sufficiently raised^ihty are removed 
into a pit, in which they are laid out smooth* with, a 
stratum of coarsely-pounded oak-bark between every two 
hides. The pit is then filled with a tanning liquid, or ooze, 
as it is called, which is prepared from oak-bark and water; 
and the hides remain a month or six weeks without being 
moved. At the expiration of this time the tanning principle 
being exhausted, tne ooze and spent bark are taken out of 
the pit, and the hides again put in, stratified with fresh 
bark, and covered with fresh ooze, as before. Here they 
remain about three months, when the same process is re> 
peated^ the bark and ooze being removed two or three 
times in the interval When the hides are sufficiently 
tanned, they are taken out of the pit, hung up in a shed 
to dry gradually, and, being compressed with a steel 
instrument, and oeaten smooth, to render them firm and 
dense, the operation is complete; and having been num- 
bered, weighed, and stamped by the Excise officer, in order 
to fix the duty payable on them, they are ready for sale as> 
butts or bucks. These form the soles for shoes of the greatest 
stoutness. 

Tanning Crop-Hides.. 

The thickness of hide employed for the soles of shoes in 
general] is not required to be so great as that just alluded 
to: a thinner sort, therefore, called crop-hides, are used for 
this purpose; and the mode by which they are tanned 
differs in some degree from the details just given. 

After the horns are removed, the hides are imme rsed in 
pits containing a mixture of lime and water, where theyr 
remain three or four days, being occasionally moved up 
and down, so that each part may be uniformly exposed to- 
the action of the lime-water. They are then removed from 
the lime-pit, and after the hair and other extraneous 
matters have been scraped off in the manner before de- 
scribed, the hides are washed in water, to free them from 
the adhering lime, &c. They are now immersed in a weak 
ooze, and by degrees are removed into other pits contain- 
ing solutions gradually increasing in strength; during 
which time they are taken out, refolded, and put in again 
once every day, in order that all parts of the hide may be 



TANKING. 177 

■ 

acted on equally and uniformly by the tanning principle. 
This is continued for a month or six weeks ; after which 
they are put into other pits with stronger ooze and a 
small portion of ground Bark; whence, as the tannin be- 
comes exhausted, they are removed to others in regular 
succession, with fresh ooze and fresh bark, for two or 
three months. 

At the end of this period the hides are put into larger 
vats, called layers, in which they are laid with an ooze of 
greater strength, with a layer of ground bark between 
them. Here they remain about six weeks, at the expira- 
tion of which time they are taken up, and then relaid with 
stronger ooze and fresh bark for two months. This pro- 
cess is repeated, with little variation, one, two, or three 
times, according to the discretion of the tanner, till the 
hides are thoroughly tanned; after which they are taken 
out of the pits, suspended on poles to dry, and, being com- 
pressed and smoothed, nearly in the same manner as butts, 
assume the form which is called crop-hides. 

Tanning Calves' and Seals' Skins. 

The upper leathers of boots and shoes are generally 
made of such material as calves' or seals' skins, occupying 
a medium place between ox and lambs' skins in point of 
thickness, &c. The calves' skins are laid in lime-pits for 
ten or fifteen days; they are then scraped and washed in 
water, after which they are immersed m an alkaline infu- 
sion. Here they remain for a week or ten days, according 
to the state of the atmosphere and other circumstances, 
during which time they are frequently taken in and out, 
and scraped on both sides upon a convex wooden beam. 
This scraping, with the action of the alkali, [helps to dis- 
charge all the lime, oil, and saponareous matter; renders 
the skin soft and pliant, and fits it to imbibe the tanning 
principle. They are now removed into pits containing a 
weak solution of bark, where they are treated nearly the 
same as crop-hides, but without having bark stratified be- 
tween them; the time for remaining in the pit is from two 
to four months, according to their nature and substance. 
The skins are then dried, and sold to the currier. 



178 



Currying. 

This process commences by softening the hides or skins 
as they come from the tan-pit, in water: they are then 
placed on a polished beam with the flesh side outwards, 
and pared with a broad sharp knife, till all the inequalities 
are removed, and it is reduced to the required thinness. 
They are then again rubbed and washed with a polished 
stone, and, while still wet, are smeared with cumer's oil 
(generally fish oil, or a mixture of this with tallow), which, 
renders mem much more impervious to moisture, and fit 
to protect the feet against the inclemency of the weather. 
They are afterwards hung up to dry, by which the 
moisture is evaporated, but the oil, which cannot be dissi- 
pated by mere exposure, gradually takes the place of the 
moisture, and penetrates deeply into the pores of the leather. 
It is then dried either in the sun or in a stoved room. 

Blackening the leather is also done by the currier. He 
rubg the leatler, on the grain side, with a liquid prepared 
from iron, and on the flesh side, with a mixture of lamp- 
black and oil. 

Lambs' Skins. 

The processes employed in tanning the thicker kinds of 
hide or skin do not apply to the thinner kinds. The 
modes of preparing these vary greatly, according to circum- 
stances : some are not, properly speaking, tanned at all, 
while others are but partially tanned. 

Lambs 1 skins are prepared by first soaking them in water 
to remove any loose dirt, &c, and then placing them upon 
a beam composed of a half cylinder of wood covered with 
strong leather, and scraping them on the flesh side with a 
blunt semi-circular knife. They are then hung up in con- 
siderable numbers in a small close room heated by flues, 
where they remain to putrefy. After a time a thick slime 
works up to the surface of the skin, by which the wool is 
so loosened as to come readily off with a slight pull. Each 
skin is then returned to the oeam, the wool taken off and 
preserved, and all the slime worked off with a knife. The 
skin is then put into a pit filled with lime-water, and kept 
there from two to six weeks, the time depending upon the 
nature of the skin: this has the effect of checking the fur- 
ther putrefaction, and produces a very remarkable harden- 



MOROCCO LEATHER. 179 

ing and thickening of its substance. The skin is again 
well worked upon the beam, and much of its substance 

Sared down, and all inequalities smoothed with the knife, 
'he skin is then again softened by being thrown into a vat 
of bran and water, and kept there for some weeks in a 
state of gentle fermentation, being occasionally returned 
t6 the beam. All the thickening produced by the lime is 
thus removed, and the skin is now as highly purified as 
possible, and becomes a thin extensible white membrane, 
called in this state the pelt. 

Kid and goat skins are prepared nearly in the same 
manner. 

The skins are now ready for the process of tawing (which 
is sometimes, but not always performed), and which is 
effected as follows: — The skins are put into a solution of 
alum and salt, to which, in some cases, flour and white of 
egg are added. The skins and the solution are agitated 
together in a rotatory machine for a few minutes, till the 
skins have absorbed a sufficient quantity; a process which 
again gives them a certain degree of thickness and tough- 
ness. The skins are then taken out and washed in water, 
and then again put into a vat of bran and water, and 
allowed to ferment for a time, till much of the alum and 
salt is got out, and the unusual thickness produced by it is 
for the most part reduced. They are then taken to a lofty 
room with a stove in the middle, and stretched on hooks, 
and kept there till fully dry, when they become tough and 
flexible; but to give them a glossy finish, and to take off 
the harshness to the touch which still remains, they are 
again soaked in water to extract more of the salt, and put 
into a large pail containing the yolks of eggs, beaten up with 
water. After this, the leather being dried, is made pliable 
and glossy by staking, that is, drawing it forcibly to and 
fro on the edge of an iron plate fixed upright in a bench, 
until by this means the harsh and rough skin acquires the 
weD-known and beautiful texture of kid. 

Tawing is the operation which makes the chief difference 
between the smooth and glossy leather, and the same thin 
leather with the downy or unglossy surface which we re- 
cognise in wash-leather. 

Morocco Leather. 

This beautiful material was originally manufactured, as 
its name imports, in Morocco; but it is now made in Eng- 
land, by the following process : 



180 GARMENTS OF LEATHER. 

The goat-skins (or sheep-dons for "imitation" morocco} 
are cleansed in lime-water, as before described, and the 
thickening which they receive is afterwards reduced by 
soaking them in a particular liquid, bj which the y are 
brought to the state of a fine white pelt. If this pelt is to 
be dyed red, it is sewed up very tightly in the form of a 
sack, with the grain-side outwards, the dye being required 
only on this side, and is immersed in a cochineal bath, of a 
warmth just equal to that which the hand will bear, and is 
worked about until it is uniformly dyed, a process that 
demands much skill and experience. The sack is then put 
into a large vat, containing sumach infused in warm water, 
and kept for some hours until sufficiently tanned. The 
skins intended to be black are merely sumached, without 
any previous dyeing. 

After some further preparation, the colour of the fine red 
skins being finished with a weak bath of saffron, the skins, 
when dried, are grained and polished in the following man- 
ner. They are stretched very tight upon a smooth inclined 
board, and rubbed over with a little oil, to render them 
supple. Those intended for black leather, are previously 
rubbed over with a solution of iron, by means of a stiff 
brush, which uniting with the gallic acid of the sumach, 
instantly strikes a deep and uniform black. 

They are then rubbed by hand with a ball of glass cat 
into a polygonal or many-sided figure, which polishes 
them and makes them very firm and compact. Lastly, the 
graining, or ribbed surface, by which this kind of leather 
rSguidied, « g»» b? rubbing the lather very 
strongly with a ball of box-wood, round the centre of 
which a number of small equidistant parallel grooves are 
cut, forming an equal number of narrow ridges, the Mo 
tion of which gives the leather the desired inequality of 
surface. 

Boot and Shoe making. 

Where the greater part of such a remarkably curved 
surface as the foot is to be covered, it is obvious that one 
piece of leather cannot be made to assume the required 
form: it must therefore be effected by having two or more 
pieces of definite sizes and shapes, and fastening them to- 
gether by some secure and efficient mode. It is also evi- 
dent that the sides and front of the foot do not require a 
covering of such thickness and strength as the sole of the 
foot. 



BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. 181 

Here then begins the tact and judgment of the shoe- 
maker. He has to select such kinds of leather as will suit 
the different parts of the foot, and has to. cat them into 
the necessary forms. The way in which the requisite 
shape of the pieces of leather is to be determined is, by 
having a model more or less resembling the foot for which 
Hie shoe is to be made, and to fit the leather to the surface 
of this model; by which it can be seen what are the neces- 
sary forms and dimensions of the pieces of leather. By a 
few trials on a common ^hoe-last (as the model is called), 
it is easy to see what must be the forms of three pieces of 
leather which will cover the front, Bides, and back, of the 
last, so as to form what is called the tipper leather. 

Bat the manufacturer has no need to do this for every 
separate shoe. By long practice, and by the aid of a few 
standard measures, he knows precisely the form and 
dimensions of the various parts of a shoe or boot, and cuts 
them out accordingly. Leather of a medium thickness is 
• cut out to form the quarters and vampB (which together 
constitute the upper leather) : a thicker quality of leather 
is then cut out to the shape of the sole; an additional piece 
or two for the heel; and thinner leather for the inside of 
the shoe. 

Let us then suppose that all the pieces are cut out to 
their proper forms, and that they are handed to the work- 
man to be put together. The first operation is to stitch 
together the three pieceB of leather which form the upper 
leather. The pieces of leather are held firmly between a 
long kind of wooden vice called darns, and stitched or 
sewn together: so that three seams serve to give the out- 
line of the upper leather. In the shoe districts of Lanca- 
shire, this work is usually done by females. 

If the shoe is to be fined, that operation is now done. 
The thin leather fori this purpose, having been previously 
cut to the required form, is sewn or stitched to the thicker 
leather already put together. After the seams have been 
rubbed down and smoothed, the upper, as it is now called, 
passes from the hands of the shoe-closer, who has been en- 
gaged on it thus far, into those of the shoe-man, who fixes 
the upper to the sole. It has been stated by a practical 
writer, Mr. Devlin, that a Northamptonshire shoe-closer 
frequently receives no more than a halfpenny for closing a 
pair of shoes, the price varying, at different times and 
under different circumstances, from that miserable pittance 
to eleven-pence. 

The shoe-man begins his office of uniting the upper with 
the sole by fixing the inner sole temporarily on the last. 



182 GARMENTS OF LEATHER. 

The leather is first wetted and softened, by which it can 
be worked and hammered so as to fall into the peculiar 
form of the sole of the last. The upper leather is then put 
on the last, and gradually drawn down so as to fit properly 
on the upper part of tne last. The upper and the inner 
sole are now sewn or stitched together at the edges, as 
well as a small strip of leather called the welt, which is a 
strengthening piece between the inner and under soles. 
After this is done, the proper or true sole is fitted on, 
and hammered into its proper form, and then stitched to 
the welt. 

The shoe is then to be provided with a heel. If the 
heel be not high, it is merely a piece of leather stitched 
down upon the sole; but if tne heel be high, there is an 
intermediate piece of leather called a lift, and even two 
such lifts are sometimes used. The main parts of the 
shoe are now put together, and the edge, &c, being 
trimmed, blacked, and otherwise improved in appearance, 
the shoe is finished. — This portion of the work to a pair of 
shoes is said to cost from 6|d. to 5s. per pair. 

"When we here use the word shoe, we allude to a common 
man's shoe. Women's shoes require a somewhat different 
and more delicate kind of workmanship, especially those 
made of costly materials; but into such details we need 
not enter here. We will merely remark, that double-soled 
shoes are those which have welts; and that those called 
single-soled, as well as those thin men's shoes called pumps, 
have no welts. 

The manufacture of a pair of boots requires stronger 
workmanship than that of a pair of shoes, and is generally 
the production of a better workman. The upper leather 
consists of two pieces, which are joined together by two 
seams up the sides. The cutting-out of these two pieces 
requires considerable care, so that their forms may adapt 
themselves to the shape of the foot. The workman first 
pastes and sews the linings to the two halves of the boot, 
to give them that degree of stiffness which is necessary. 
The seams are then stitched, or closed as it is termed, 
inside out, so that the stitches may not be seen when the 
boot is finished. 

After some farther processes, the leg of the boot passes 
from the hands of the boot-closer to the boot-maker, whose 
business it is to fix the leg of the boot to the sole, and then 
to affix the heel. This is done by sewing and stitching, 
much in the same way as in the preparation of a shoe, but 
additional strength is required, to correspond with the 
greater stoutness and dimensions of the leather. 



SHOES MADE BY MACHINERY. 183 

The varieties of boot, such as the Wellington, Blucher, 
Hessian, &c, require different degrees of skill in the work- 
men, and different processes in some parts; but the consi- 
deration of. these forms no part of our subject. Boots and 
shoes made of cloth, jean, and other woven materials, and 
shoes made with cork soles instead of leather, are among 
the varieties of the manufacture ; but these call for no 
particular description here. 

Shoes made by Machinery. 

During the long wars which desolated Europe for so 
many years, and which terminated in 1815, a vast number 
of shoes were required for the British infantry; and the 
ingenious engineer, Mr. Brunei, devised a system of ma- 
chines by which these could be made without any sewing 
or stitching to connect the upper with the under leather. 
He established a manufactory at Battersea, chiefly with a 
view of supplying the army, and his machines were so 
complete, tnat the invalid soldiers at Chelsea who were 
unfit for any other employment, were capable of superin- 
tending them, and the various processes of shoe-making. 

We may, however, previously remark, that an American, 
Mr. Randolph, had invented a mode of fixing the under to 
the upper-leather by rivets instead of sewings but this was 
all done by hand. A last was employed, made of wood, 
with a steel sole or bottom. The upper-leather having 
been sewn in the usual manner, and the thin inner sole, 
together with the true sole, cut to the proper size, the 
riveting was thus effected :— The inner sole was put upon 
the iron sole of the last, then the upper leathers were fitted 
round the sides of the last, and the edges turned down 
over the inner sole. The outer or true sole was then ap- 
plied over the turning-down, and fastened in a temporary 
manner upon the last. Then, to unite the two soles to the 
upper leather, holes were pierced all round the edges of 
the sole, and small nails driven in, which were of sufficient 
length to penetrate through the sole and the turning-in of 
the upper leathers, and also through the inner sole, so as 
to reach the metal face of the last, and being forcibly driven, 
their points were turned by the steel, so as to clench with- 
inside. Thus these rivets served the place of stitching. 

Now Mr. Brunei's invention was a similar application of 
rivets, but with the notable addition of doing nearly the 
whole by machinery: thus affording an example of the 
varied talents of a man who could construct the greatest 
works in civil engineering, or descend, as some would erro- 
neously term it, to make a pair of shoes. 



184 GARMENTS OF LEATHEB. 

The various parts which constitute the shoe as made by 
this machine are as follows: — The upper leather, consisting 
of three pieces, the vamp, forming the covering for the 
front of the foot, and the two quarters, which surround the 
heel ; — the timer or wpper sole, on which the foot rests ;— 
the lower or true sole, which treads on the ground ; — the 
welt, a narrow slip of leather between the two soles ;— the 
heel, fixed to the true sole ; short nails, of a length to pene- 
trate only through the lower or true sole ; — tacking nails, 
long enough to go through both sole and welt ; — and long 
nans, which penetrate through lower sole, welt, upper 
leather, and inner sole, and fix all together. 

These several parts are shaped ana fixed with great in- 
genuity. In the first place the leather is cut out. Sharp 
stamps are formed, of shapes suited to the vamps, quarters, 
welts, soles, and heels. The hide or skin of leather is laid 
down flat on a table, and the proper stamp being laid upon 
it, a blow with a heavy mallet, or a pressure by the arm of 
a lever, cuts out the leather to the proper shape. The three 
pieces forming the upper leather are then stitched together 
by hand, it not having yet been found practicable to fasten 
such thin leather by means of rivets. 

The welts of all shoes diminish in thickness from the outer 
to the inner edge : they form in fact, merely a substance 
to fasten the sole to, in order to increase.its thickness near 
the edge of the shoe. In the machine-made shoes, the 
welts are made to diminish in thickness by a cutting-ma- 
chine, by which two welts are made of one strip of leather. 
The leather is first cut into strips about an inch in width ; 
and these strips are guided between two rollers to a cutting 
edge of steel, which, by being obliquely placed, cuts two 
bevelled straps out of the rectangular one. In the ordinary 
way of making welts, the shoemaker shaves them away 
near one edge with a knife. 

The soles are hardened by being passed between rollers 
(instead of by the ordinary process of hammering), and are 
then inlaid with the small nails, over all that broad part of 
the sole which is subjected to the greatest wear. These 
nails are not for the purpose of fixing the shoe together, 
but merely to strengthen the natural quality of the leather. 
All the holes for these nails are punched by a machine. 
The awl is fixed to the end of a lever : the sole is placed 
down fiat upon a table, and by placing the foot on a treadle, 
the awl is made to descend and pierce the leather with the 
utmost precision and regularity, in as many places as may 
be required, 

The next process is, perhaps, the most beautiful of all. 



SHOES MADE BY MACHINERY. 185 

The nails are actually made, — inserted in the holes, — and 
driven in, without the hand of the attendant being any 
otherwise engaged than in holding the strip of iron from 
■which the nails are cut. There is a pair of shears moved 
by a treadle for the man's foot : he inserts a strip of sheet- 
iron between the shears, and a short nail is instantly cutoff 
hy the descent of the treadle. This nail drops, point down- 
wards, into a little cell, which diminishes to a minute tube 
exactly over one of the soles placed beneath it. The point 
of the nail thus falls into the hole of the leather, and a blunt 
punch or driver immediately descends and drives it in. 
One single pressure on the treadle performs the double 
office of driving in one nail, and cutting another from the 
strip of sheet-iron. When all the nails are thus partially 
driven in, the sole is removed from the machine, and a few 
blows with a hammer drive them wholly in. 

The sole is now, by another machine, punched with 
another series of holes to receive the tacking-nails, or those 
which fasten the sole to the welt. The nails are then driven 
into these holes by a process similar to the one just de- 
scribed, so that their points are left protruding through 
one surface of the sole. On these points the welt is laid, 
being bent round to the shape of the sole by the help of a 
guide or mould; and the welt is then firmly hammered 
down upon these points, and thus united to the sole. The 
edge or outline "of the sole and the welt are then cut and 
shaped similarly and made smooth by a revolving-machine. 
The sole, with the welt attached, is then subjected to 
another punching, by which holes are made completely 
round the outer edge, and the long nulls are inserted in 
these holes, by a machine similar to that before described. 
These nails are for the purpose of fixing the whole shoe 
together. The inner sole is first laid on the bottom of the 
last, and secured there. The upper leather is next formed 
and secured round the sides of the last, so as to fit it in 
every part, with an edge projecting three quarters of an 
inch ail round : this edge is to form the tuming-in, between 
the two soles. This projecting edge being turned over, is 
pasted down upon the bottom of the inner sole (which is 
uppermost). On this, the under sole is laid, with the points 
of the nails projecting from it; and these points being 
guided to their proper places, are hammered firmly down 
into the inner sole and turning-in, so as to make all unite 
firmly together. The points of the nails, after passing 
through four thicknesses of leather, come in contact with 
the steel face of the last, and are there clamped or bent 
C. ff 



186 GABMEKTS OF LIATHEB. 

sideways by the pressure. These are afterwards rendered 
quite smooth by a subsequent hammering. 

The shoe is now roughly made, and is finished off by a 
few subsequent processes. The sole is rasped with a coarse 
file, to level all the nail heads, and to render the leather 
smooth. It is then carried to a grindstone, where it is 
polished and finished up in every part, the sole blacked and 
polished by the wheel with a composition of bee's-wax and 
ivory-black, which renders it glossy. The upper leathers 
are then brushed with a circular brush, ana the shoe is 
finished with the exception of binding or lining, which, if 
required, are done by hand. 

Such is an outline of the curious routine by which ma- 
chine-made shoes are produced. Wherever fashion requires 
a certain elegance of form and finish, it is probable that 
the manufacture by hand will never be superseded ,- but it 
is not unlikely that strong common shoes may at some 
future time be generally made by some such a combination 
of machinery as that above described. 



The various trades concerned in the manufacture of 
leather form an important part of our national industry. 
It is supposed that 200,000 cwt. of hides are imported 
into England yearly ;— that fifty million pounds of leather 
are tanned in England in the same period; that the value 
of the shoes and boots made in tne same time is seven 
millions sterling, and of all other articles of leather, five 
millions. 



The following forms of coverings for the feet may serve 
to amuse the reader. 



■9 






* 



111 



ill 



Piiliiiil 



mini 



111 



■iSI.W 



189 



Chapteb IX. 



MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

In reviewing the details of the preceding chapters, the 
reader will see that we have gone oyer the most important 
portion of our ground. Cotton, linen, wool, fur, silk, and 
leather, in the various forms which they may be made to 
assume, constitute almost every article, every shape, every 
quality, and every colour, of our clothing. 

It forms no part of our purpose to describe the modes in 
which woven fabrics are made up into garments; those 
modes are as various as the forms of the garments we wear ; 
while the labours of the tailor, the dressmaker, and the 
milliner, are sufficiently familiar to all, so far as regards 
the use of the scissors and the needle ; and matters of taste 
and fashion could be but ill treated in our little volume. 
We therefore prefer to devote the remainder of our space 
to subjects with which the general reader may not, per- 
haps, be familiar. 

jFurs were slightly alluded to in the chapter relating to 
hat-making; but a few additional remarks may be desirable. 
The attempts which have been made to render our clothing 
water-proof, demand a passing glance from us: and the 
metal-button is (subject to the fluctuations of fashion) an 
elegant appendage or fastening, not unworthy of a few 
words of description. Shoe-buckles may also be noticed as 
a striking example of the instability of any branch of 
manufacture which depends for its support merely upon 
custom or fashion. 

Fura. 

Beaver fur for making hats is brought from North 
America : Jitch, or the fur of the fltchet or pole-cat, is* 
principally imported from Germany: it is soft and warm, but 
its unpleasant smell depresses its value. Martin and mink 
(a diminutive species of otter) are principally imported from 
the United States and Canada: the fur of the musquash or 
musk-rat (a diminutive species of beaver) is imported in vast 
quantities from our possessions in North America; which 
also supplies us with considerable quantities of otter skins. 
Neutria skins are principally brought from Buenos Ay res- 



190 MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

the more valuable furs, such as ermine, sable, &c, are 
derived principally from Russia. 

It was stated, in the introduction to this volume, that 
fur, or the skins of animals, formed the material from 
which dresses were made, before the use of woven fabrics 
became prevalent. Furs are now principally employed on 
account of the great beauty of their appearance ; while 
most of them possess a degree of warmth which does not 
belong to woven fibres. Canada and Eussia are the two 
countries where the principal portion of the animals which 
produce these furs are still to be found, so that the trade 
ior furs forms no inconsiderable part of the commerce be- 
tween England and those countries; and such is the 
eagerness with which the animals are hunted and killed 
for their skins, that we may look for a gradual diminution 
of the supply. 

When the French became acquainted with Canada, two 
or three centuries ago, they purchased of the native 
Indians, for a mere trifle, large quantities of beautiful 
skins. . By degrees the stock became exhausted near the 
settlements, and the French induced the Indians to take 
long journeys into the interior, for the purpose of capturing 
beavers, otters, &c. The hunters, when the hunting season 
was over, used to come down the river Ottawa into the St. 
Lawrence, and so to Montreal, which was then the chief 
settlement in Canada. Here the skins were bartered for 
trinkets, knives, hatchets, kettles, blankets, cloth, arms, 
ammunition, and — unhappily for humanity — ardent spirits. 

A change then occurred in the mode of managing the 
traffic. Companies of Europeans, called wood-rangers, 
would take boat at Montreal, and go up to the hunting- 
grounds of the Indians, with their boats laden with suck 
articles as the Indians preferred to take in barter for skins. 
When the barter was concluded, the wood-rangers would 
return to Montreal with their boats laden with slrins, often 
after an absence of several months. 

The English then took up the trade, not in Canada, but 
in the vast region known as British North America. A 
company was formed in 1670, with the exclusive right of 
trading for furs with the Indians of these countries. 
Another company, called the North- West Company, was 
-established for a similar object in 1783; but as there arose 
instances of jealous interference between the agents of the 
two companies, they combined their interests, and have 
remained ever since an active but united company. They 
employ a large number of agents, clerks, and servants, who 
are scattered over the North American territory: and these 



WATERPROOF CLOTHING. 191 

individuals undergo great hardships in their long and 
perilous journeys to the hunting countries. Sometimes 
they travel to no less a distance than four thousand miles 
from the European settlements on the St. Lawrence. 

The furs, after being procured from the Indian hunters 
by barter, are brought to England. An annual sale takes 
place in London in the month of March, and at this 
sale not only English but foreign merchants attend, the 
latter coming principally from Germany. The furs for 
English use are sold to the English dealers ; while those 
for the foreign market are taken to the great mercantile 
fair at Leipsic, from whence they are distributed to every 
part of continental Europe. The number of skins of far- 
bearing animals imported into England amount to the 
very large quantity of two millions and a half annually ; 
of which about three hundred thousand are re-exported. 
It must be borne in mind that a considerable portion of 
the skins thus imported are used for the purpose of making 
hats, particularly beaver and neutria rurs. Every year 
neutria fur becomes more and more employed for hats, on 
Account of the rapid diminution of the supply of beavers. 

Those portions of the furs of animals which are not em- 
ployed for hats, are prepared on the skins, in order to be 
fashioned into tippets, muffs, boas, cloaks, and the various 
forms which every succeeding winter presents to our view. 
Were these skins thick, the animal substance of which they 
are formed would require a great deal of preparation to re- 
move the decomposing quality. But their thinness renders 
a comparatively slight process of dressing sufficient for the 
purpose. 

One of the most unfavourable circumstances connected 
with the use of fur, is its liability to the attacks of a peculiar 
species of moth. The eggs of these insects are frequently 
laid near the roots of the hair; and it is then difficult to 
save the fur from destruction. 



Waterproof Clothing. 

Although the great object of clothing is to shield the 
body from vicissitudes of temperature, it must be admitted 
that to keep out rain is also a very desirable object. This 
has, until a comparatively recent period, been no easy 
matter, without imparting to garments a rigidity which 
would greatly incommode the wearer. 

One resource, which has been very frequently resorted 
to, is to line the garment with oiled silk, such as is used for 



192 MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

hat and umbrella covers : that is, silk that has been dressed 
with a varnish of drying linseed-oil, which prevents the 
admission of water. This effectually guards the wearer of 
such a garment from becoming wet; but its effect is far 
from perfect, for the outside cloth is still exposed to rain, 
and can imbibe moisture, which will evaporate, and cause 
great part of that coldness which renders wet clothes so 
prejudicial. 

Numerous attempts have been made within the last fifty 
years to prepare a varnish which, when applied to the 
surface of cloth, would enable it altogether to repel water. 
Mr. Angel, in 1781, proposed a varnish to be made of the 
following ingredients: — 1 gallon of linseed-oil, lib. of bees- 
wax, 61bs. of glue, £lb. of verdigris, £lb. of litharge, and 
2 quarts of water; the whole to be placed in an iron kettle, 
melted, and applied to the cloth. It does not appear, how- 
ever, that this varnish met with much success. 

Caoutchouc, or Indian rubber, early engaged the atten- 
tion of manufacturers ; but great difficulty was encountered 
in liquefying it; or, if liquefied, of restoring it again to the 
solid form. At length, substances were found that would 
effectually dissolve it; and the following patent, taken out 
in 1797, will show the manner in which it was proposed to 
use caoutchouc as a water-proofing material. " The article 
to be operated upon must first be cleansed from all grease 
or dirt by washing it with an alkaline solution, and then 
stretched in a frame. The water-proof compound is formed 
by dissolving caoutchouc or Indian rubber in spirit of tur- 
pentine (the smell of which is taken off by adding oil of 
wormwood and spirit of wine in equal quantities); this 
forms a sort of varnish which is capable of being spread or 
washed over the surface of the leather or cloth, always 
applying it on the wrong side of the article, or that side 
which is not to be seen. The varnish is laid on by means 
of a large piece of Indian rubber, instead of a brush or 
sponge. To conceal the varnish, and make a good internal 
surface to the cloth, it must be sifted over with some sub- 
stance, such as silk or wool, cut very fine, in the same 
manner as flock paper is made; and being left to dry, in 
a few days the flock, by its adhesion to the varnish, forms 
a very good lining, at the same time that it conceals the 
varnish." These waterproof cloths, which the patentee 
called " hvdrolaines," were, however, but little used. 

But the most important attempt at producing a water- 
proof varnish, and one that has met with complete success, 
followed the discovery that coal-oil (one of the products 
-of gas-making) was an excellent solvent for caoutchouc, and 



^"•*^^*"^w»i^^^*yw»p ■ ' i '■»-»wnr»wW"**""*"f , «P"^i^l«<P»»*"*! 



7 



GILT-BUTTON MAKING. 193 

at the same time, could be purchased at an extremely low 
price. Mr. Mackintosh, a manufacturer near Glasgow, 
took out a patent in 1824, " for rendering fabrics of hemp, 
flax, cotton, wool, silk, and various other substances imper- 
vious to water." This is effected by the employment of 
a thick elastic varnish of caoutchouc and coal-oil. The 
proportion of the coal-oil required to dissolve a given 
quantity of the caoutchouc will vary according to the 
qualities of both; but the average quantity required is 
about a quarter of a nint of oil to a pound of caoutchouc. 
To facilitate the solution, the caoutchouc is to be cut into 
thin shreds, and the heat of a steam-bath employed; when 
the solution is completed, it is strained from the sedi- 
ment. 

To apply the varnish thus prepared, the cloth is stretched 
upon frames, and brushed over with it, and the varnished 
surfaces of two pieces of cloth, while in an adhesive yet 
/tolerably hard state, are placed one upon the other, and 
passed between rollers subjected to pressure. A flexible 
and thoroughly waterproof material is thus obtained, 
applicable to a variety of useful purposes, without the 
exposure of the inconvenient and unpleasant varnished 
surface so common in other waterproof coverings. 

The extent to which this valuable material for outer 
garments is now employed is very great, and is on the 
increase. The quantity of caoutchouc imported was very 
limited before its employment in this manner. In 1830 
the quantity was about 50,000 lbs., — in 1833 it was 
180,000; and since that time it has increased enormously. 



Gilt-Button Making. 

The processes connected with the making of a gilt button 
are very ingenious, and deserve a brief notice. 

A plain gilt button is formed of copper with a little alloy 
of zinc. The metal is rolled in a mill to the requisite 
thickness, and cut out into blanks the size of the intended 
button, by means of a stamp or punch worked by a fly- 
press. The shank is then formed, by twisting a piece of 
brass wire into a spiral form, and cutting off one turn of 
the spiral for each shank: or else, a piece of wire is intro- 
duced into a small engine, which cuts' it off to the proper 
length, and bends it into a hoop-form over a pin. 

The shank thus formed is applied in its proper place on 
the back of the button, and a little solder and resin applied 



194 MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

to it. It is then placed on a sheet of iron, and introduced 
into a very hot store, where it remains till the solder has 
melted and the shank has united with the blank. Of 
eewne a l«ge number of buttons are operated on at one 
tune. 

After the edges have been smoothed in a lathe, the 
buttons are put into an earthen vessel foil of small holes, 
and dipped into dilute nitric acid, to cleanse them from 
dirt and rust. They are then fixed in a kind of lathe, and 
burnished with a hard black stone, procured from Derby- 
shire, by which small pores, Sue., are filled up. 

The buttons are then to be gilt. They are first put into 
a solution of mercury in nitric acid, and stirred about tall 
a thin coating of the metal adheres to the button. They 
are then transferred to a vessel full of holes, where they 
are shaken till the superabundant mercury is removed 
from their surfaces. Some mercury is next put into an 
iron ladle, and a very minute quantity of gjold added, and 
heated until the gold, is perfectly dissolved in the mercury. 
The amalgam is then strained through a piece of chamois 
(or shamoy) leather. What remains in the leather is about 
as thick as butter, and it is put into an earthen vessel, with 
the addition of a little nitric acid. Into this solution the 
buttons are thrown, and kept there till a thin stratum of 
the amalgam attaches to the whole surface. 

The gold continues to be combined with the mercury 
during the foregoing process ; and the next thing is to dis- 
sipate the mercury by means of heat. The buttons are 
put into a pan over the fire, and shaken about till all the 
mercury becomes driven off in the form of vapour. This, 
however, does not occur without repeated changes in the 
position of the buttons ; they are first stirred about in the 
pan, then removed from the fire, and again stirred in a 
sort of bag, then transferred a second time to the bag, and 
bo on three or four times. This plan, which is*now super- 
seded by a better, was attended with great disadvantages, 
which have been thus detailed. 

"By these means the principal part of the mercury 
ascended the chimney, and was deposited on the top of 
the houses and about the adjacent neighbourhood, and 
.great quantities were inhaled and absorbed by the opera- 
tor, keeping him nearly in a state of salivation, till disease 
obliged nim to desist. Every one who has formerly visited 
our button manufactories at Birmingham, and elsewhere, 
can bear testimony to the emaciated state of the parties, 
mostly women, employed in this unhealthy process. Con- 
siderable quantities of mercury, thus volatilized, are found 



SHOE-BTJCKLES. 195 

united and collected in small pools in the spouts and gut- 
ters on the top of buildings. Thus many tons of mercury 
have been dissipated about the town ancl neighbourhood, 
to the great injury of the inhabitants. The poor sweep 
who has ascended the chimney has been salivated, and the 
manufacturer has sustained considerable loss." These evils 
have been to a great extent removed by an improved form 
of furnace, in which nearly the whole of the volatilized 
mercury is recovered for future use. 

After the mercury is driven off by heat, the button pre- 
sents a golden surface, which, after being laid aside for 
some time to 'dry, is finally burnished and brought to the 
beautiful state with which we are familiar. Notwith- 
tanding the solidity of the appearance of the gold, it is 
so inconceivably thin, that one pennyweight of gold (one- 
twentieth part of an ounce) will gild seven hundred buttons. 



Shoe-Buckles. 

Although shoe-buckles can scarcely be said to form an 
existing branch of manufacture, yet the trade in them was, 
till very recent times, highly flourishing. Its history is in 
many respects curious, and deserves a place among our 
miscellaneous notices. 

The buckle was preceded, and has been superseded, by 
other forms of shoe-fastening. " Perhaps the shoe, in one 
form or other," says Mr. Hutton, of Birmingham, "is 
nearly as ancient as the foot. It originally appeared 
under the name of • sandal;' this was no other than a sole 
without an upper leather. That fashion has since been 
inverted, and we now, sometimes, see an upper leather 
nearly without a sole. But, whatever was the cut of the 
shoe, it always demanded a fastening." Under the house 
of Plantagenet, the shoe shot forward horizontally from 
the foot to an enormous length, so as to require the ex- 
tremity to be fastened to the knee, sometimes with a silver 
chain, at other times with a silk lace, and even with a 
piece of common packthread. This enormous beak to the 
shoe became the subject of legislative enactment ; for we 
find that, in 1465, an order of council was issued, prohi- 
biting the wearing of shoes whose beaks projected more 
than two inches in front of the foot, on pain of a fine to 
the king, and even of excommunication. 

When this fashion changed, the rose shoe-toe sprang 
up, in compliment to the houses of Lancaster and Tudor. 



196 MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

. This rose in its turn gave way to shoe-laces and strings, 
which were often made of silk, tagged and fringed with 
silver. At length, in the reign of William and Mary, the 
shoe-buckle made its appearance; or, as Mr. Etutton 
quaintly expresses it, " the Revolution was remarkable for 
tne introduction of William, of liberty, and the minute 
buckle." This mode of fastening the shoo became very 
generally adopted, in foreign countries as well as our own ; 
and the town of Birmingham became celebrated for the 
large number as well as the excellence of the buckles made 
there. 

Seventy years ago, the kind of buckle most in demand 
was made of Pinchbeck— an alloy of copper and brass, so 
called from the name of the person who so employed it. 
Another variety was the plaited buckle : this was cast in 
pinchbeck, with the pattern on its surface, and a silver 
coating was laid on by means of a flux of turpentine and 
resin ; and the surface was finally chased or stamped. A 
third and more valuable quality was the "close-plated" 
buckle. A form of buckle extensively made for foreign 
sale, was produced from a compound metal known among 
the workmen as Tutannia, and cast in moulds. It is said 
that in Germany, this article was manufactured in the 
open streets, so that a passenger might choose his pat- 
tern, see the process of making, and march off equipped 
with shoe-buckles, in the course of five or ten minutes. 
Each form of buckle had at that time some fanciful name, 
by which it was known in the trade ; such as, "Bull's eye," 
the " Marquis of Granby," the "Whim-wham," "Job's 
fancy," the " Crow's foot," and others. 

About the year 1778, an impulse was given to the 
buckle-trade at Birmingham, Walsall, and Wolverhamp- 
ton, by the invention of plating upon tin or composition 
foundations. The buckles were cast singly by hand, in 
tin or copper moulds, the silver being first pressed into 
the mould, and the composition then poured over it. The 
intimate union of the metals was aided by the use of cor- 
rosive sublimate. Different metals were employed, such 
as copper, steel, spelter, and others, to give hardness to 
the tin. This plan gave birth to the many elegant de- 
vices in the shoe-buckle, as the union of the silver with 
the metal beneath was so complete as to admit of a varied 
range of patterns and arrangement of ornaments ; parti- 
cularly that of inlaying yellow chased ornaments on the 
surface of the silver. 

A peculiar arrangement of the chape, a part of the buckle 
which fastened the shoe, enabled the manufacturer to give 



SHOE-BUCKLES. 197 

almost any size to the buckle, and to adopt a variety of 
shapes, such as round, octagonal, oval, oblong, <fcc. The 
competition among the makers now became very active ; 
and a consequence resulted which too frequently dete- 
riorates the credit of those employed : the materials and 
mode of workmanship became worse in quality, in order 
that the selling price might be low. It is said, that for 
many years the consumption of buckles in the metropolis 
was so enormous, that half the luggage of the coaches 
going from Birmingham to London was supposed to con- 
sist of buckles. 

Soon after this period, a further change took place in the 
mode of manufacture, by making the shell or foundation 
of one metal, placing a layer of tin on that, and plating the 
exterior surface with silver. Another kind was the silvered 
buckle, in which the exterior layer of silver was excessively 
thin. The buckle being cast in some cheap metal, fine 
silver was dissolved in aqua-fortis, and precipitated in a 
powder; a few chemical ingredients were added, and the 
whole brought into a liquid state, and spread over the 
buckle with a brush. Tne buckle was then placed on a 
gentle fire till the ingredients were fused, and after a few 
other processes, the. buckle acquired a silvery whiteness. 
This silvery surface would bear burnishing, and had a good 
appearance; but it was soon rubbed off by wear. So 
large was the demand for buckles coated with silver, that 
one Birmingham maker produced for one foreign house 
four thousand pounds' worth in the space of six months. 

Mr. Luckcock, of Birmingham, who wrote on this sub- 
ject, says that many a princely fortune was acquired during 
the efforts and fluctuations in the buckle-trade, and not a 
few as profusely squandered. No anticipation was contem- 
plated of any falling-off in the demand. But the time was 
approaching when the buckle was to be superseded by 
another form of shoe-tie. " About the year 1790, the foe 
commenced an insidious attack; and however insignificant 
the agent might at first appear, the shoe-string was destined 
to accomplish the mighty revolution. For a long time the 
advances were inconsiderable, and hope was sanguine that 
the whim would be but of short continuance. Every 
manufacturer gradually felt the ground falling from be- 
neath his feet, but still supposed that his competitors were 
doing better than himself ; till confidence itself at length 
gave way to the general panic, and, if one may so express 
it, ' those were best off at last who got out first.'" The 
manufacturers, as generally happens in such cases, thought 
themselves aggrieved; but by whom was not an easy 



198 MISCELLANEOUS PROCESSES. 

question to answer. They first tried ridicule, in a way 
which, it must be confessed, was sufficiently weak and 
foolish: viz., to parade an ass through the streets of Bir- 
mingham, with shoe-bows attached to his fetlocks. A more 
rational course adopted, was to send a deputation of master 
manufacturers up to London, to wait on the Prince of 
Wales (afterwards George the Fourth) at Carlton House, 
and solicit the aid of his countenance and support. The 
prince received the deputation courteously, and promised 
to do all which his personal influence could effect, to dis- 
courage the use of the shoe-tie. But all to no effect; taste, 
fashion, opinion, call it what we will, had taken such a 
decided turn, that from that time (1791) the use of the 
shoe-buckle declined every year more and more. 

Mr. Luckcock, who haa himself been in the buckle-trade, 
estimated the number of persons engaged therein, in and 
about Birmingham, at upwards of four thousand, when the 
manufacture was in the zenith of its prosperity; and he 
made the following calculations to show the importance of 
this trade. Suppose the weekly earnings of these persons, 
young and old, to have averaged ten shillings each,— 

This would produce jffSOOO 

Materials, say 2000 

Profit of manufacturer, retailer, &c sooo 

6000 
Weeks in the year 52 

^313,000 

And supposing the buckles to sell, on the average, at 
2a. 6d. per pair, (this may now-a-days seem a high average; 
but a guinea or upwards was not an unusual price for 
gentlemen's buckles at the period of which we are speak- 
ing,) this would show 2,496,000 pairs as the quantity 
annually made. Taking the population of Great Britain 
at that time to be twelve millions, and Buppose half of 
them to wear buckles, this would allow each wearer a new 
pair every three years, and about half a million of pairs for 
exportation, which is deemed no improbable supposition. 
On this calculation, every workman would make 625 pairs 
during the year, about two pairs per day, excluding Sun- 
days. These calculations are of course only approxima- 
tive; but they furnish curious evidence of the fluctuations 
to which manufactures are liable; and they are valuable 
as showing how necessary education and provident habits 
are to the workman, since he can never tell how soon a 



SHOE-BUCKLES. 199 

change may occur which will compel him to turn his talents 
into some new department of labour. 

"We will conclude by quoting a remark from Mr. Luck- 
cock, who wrote in 1824 : — " Of all the mutations and 
revolutions which this town has experienced within the 
last fifty years, none appear to be so remarkable or extra* 
ordinary as those connected with its ancient and appa- 
rently invaluable shoe-buckle trade. To those of the inna- 
bitants who remember its vast extent and importance, it 
seems almost to mock at recollection ; and as to the present 
generation, if the fact was not authenticated while some 
few of the surviving witnesses remain, it must soon have 
appeared incredible, that at one period there were not 
fewer than four thousand persons employed in the town 
and neighbourhood in this article, at that time so much 
admired, though now neglected and almost unknown. The 
universality of the demand seemed to bid defiance to the 
future caprice of fashion; and our daily bread appeared 
quite as likely to fail in its supply, as mat orders should 
totally cease for this elegant ana imagined necessary orna- 
ment." 



LONDON : 

SAVILL AND EDWARDS, PRINTERS," 

CHANDOS STREET. 



445, West Strand, London, W.C., 1860. 

Educational Books &, Books adapted 
for Rewards and Presents, 

PUBLISHED BY 

JOHN W. PAEKEE AND SON. 



Writing. 



I. 

Booh and Materials prepared wider the direction of 
the Committee of Council on Education. 

Singing. 

Wilhem's Method, adapted to 
English Use, by John Hullah. 

Hullah's. Mi anual. — Parts L 

& II., 2s. 6d. each j complete, bound 
in cloth, 5s. 

Exercises and Figures con- 
tained in The Manual. Books I. 
All. 8d.each. 

Large Sheets, containing the 

Figures in Fart I. of The Manual* 
Nos. 1 to 8 in a Parcel. 6s. 

Large Sheets, containing the 

Exercises in Part I. of The Manual. 
Nos. 9 to 40, in Four Parcels of 
Eight Nos. each. 6s. per Parcel. 

Large Sheets, containing the 

' Figures in Part II. of The Manual. 
Nos. 41 to 52, in a Parcel. 9s. 

Materials for Singing Classes. 

Standard Tuning-Fork, accurately 

adjusted. 2s. 
Stands for Hullah's Large Sheets. 

7s. 6d. 
Portfolio for Hullah^s Large Sheets. 

25s. 
Music Copy-Book, for Manuscript 

Music. Is. 
Music Paper, same size as Hullah's 

Large Sheets. Twelve Staves on a 

Sheet, in Parcels of Six Sheets, 3s 

Eight Staves on a Sheet, 3s. 



Manual of Writing, on the 

Method of Mulhauser. 2s. 6d. » 

Writing Models, — 

First or Elementary Set. 2s. 6d. 
Second Set, Medium, or Half Text 

Hand. Is. 
Third Set, Fine, or Small Hand. Is. 
Fourth Set, Fine, or Small Hand. Is. 

Arithmetic. 

Exercises in Arithmetic, after 

the Method of Pestalozzi. Is. 6d. 

Tables of Squares, Unity, and 

Fractions, on Four large Double 
Sheets, mounted on canvas and 
rollers, and varnished. 21s. 

Materials for Writing and 
Arithmetic Classes. 

Writing Books, 2s. per dozen; 

16s. per 100. No. I., ruled with cross 
and diagonal lines ; No. II., the same 
ruling, alternated with leaves of 
cross-lines only. No. III., for Half 



Text. 



Drawing. 



Manual of Model-Drawing; 

with a Popular View of Perspective. 
By Butlek. "Williams. With En- 
gravings of the Models, and Wood- 
cuts. 15s. 

Instructions in Drawing. 

Abridged from the* Manual. 3s. 



2 



EDUCATIONAL BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



II. 

The Work* distinguished by a Star are published under the direction of 

the Committee of General Literature and Education, appointed 

by the Society lor Promoting Christian Knowledge. 

Spettinq and Grammar. I Pretty Lessons for Good 

r * Children; with some Easy Lessons 



♦Bible Word Book; or, the 

Rudiments of English Grammar 
taught by the Words of the Old and 
Mew Testaments. Is. 

♦English Grammar. By the 

Bey. Dr. Russell. Is. 6d. 

Elementary Beading. 
♦Little Heading Book. With 

Cuts. id. 

First Poetical Beading Book. 

With Notes. By "Walt** uaclbod. 
9d. cloth. 

Second Reading Book. By 

W.Macumd. .8d. 

♦The INSTRUCTOR; or 

JPr ay yv sjA jc Leennt in General 
Knowledge. With Qu es tions for 
BTamtnstion on every Chapter. 
Seven Volumes, 2s. each, or 42 Parts, 
Fonrpence each. 

Volume I. 

♦Tales, Conversations, and 

Easy Lessons from History. 
Volume IL 

♦Houses, Furaiture, Pood, and 

-Clothing. 

Volume HI. 

♦The Universe; Animal, Vege- 
table, and Mineral Kingdoms ; and 
Human Form. 

Volume IV. 

♦Book of the Calendar, the 

Months, and the Seasons. 
Volume V. 

♦Descriptive Geography, with 

Popular Statistics. 

Volume VI. 

♦Elements of Ancient History. 

Volume VLL 

♦Elements of Modern History. 

The Volumes may be had separately. 



in Latin. By 8a*a Couudob. 2s. 

Scripture History for Children. 

2a. 6d. 

Arithmetic and Algebra. 
♦Instructions for Teaching 

Arithmetic to Little Children. By 
the Lord Buaor of St. Asaph, w. 

Exercises in Arithmetic. ls.6d. 

♦Arithmetic taught by Ques- 
tions, is. ed. 

Improved Arithmetical Tables, 

with Boles for Mental Calculation. 
6d. 

♦First Book in Algebra, for 

Young Beginners. Is. §d. 

Elements of Algebra. By 

T. G. Hall. Professor of Mathe- 
matics, King's College, London. 6s. 

Class Boohs. 
♦Class Beading Book. By 

Gsosqb Ludlow, Master In Christ's 
Hospital School. 2s. Sd. 

Easy Lessons on Reasoning. 

ls.6d. 

♦Easy Lessons on Money 

Matters. Is. 

Introductory Lessons on 

Morals. ls.6d. 

Introductory Lessons on Mind. 

2s. 

Introductory Lessons on the 

British Constitution. 6d. 

Abbott's Reader ; Familiar 

Pieces in Prose and Verse, calcu- 
lated to produce a Moral Influence 
en Young Persons. Ss. 

Practical Introduction to Eng- 
lish Composition. By the Bey. J. 
Bdwaxm, M.A. 2s. 



JOHN W. PABXEU AND SON, WEST STRAND. 



3 



♦Readings in Poetry; Selec- 
tions from the best English and 
American Poets, Notices of the 
Writers, and Notes. Ss. 6d. 

♦Readings in English Prose 

Literature ; Specimens of the best 
English Writers, with Biographical 
Sketches and Essays on the Progress 
of English literature. 3s. 6d. 

♦Readings in Biography; a 

Selection of the Lives of the most' 
Eminent Men of all Nations. 3s. 6d. 

Headings from Shakspeare, 

illustrative of his Characters. Edited 
by the Author of Aids to Develop- 

MMti 46. DO. 

Selections from the Poetry of 

Dryden, including his Plays and 
Translations. 4s. 6d. 

Select Poems of Prior and 

Swift. Ss. 

Hooker's Laws of Ecclesiastical 

Polity. The First Book. ls.6d. 

Bacon's Essays ; with a Table 

of the Colours of Good and EvlL 
Revised from the early copies, with 
the References and Notes. By Rev. 
T. Maskby, M.A. ls.6d. 

Bacon's Advancement of Learn- 
ing. Revised from the first copies, 
with References to works quoted, 
And a few Notes. By the Rev. T. 
Maekby, M.A. 2s., cloth. 

Outlines of Mythology. By a 

Scholar of Trinity College, Dublin. 
'With an Account of the Character 
and Origin of the Pagan Religions, 
extracted, by permission, from the 
Writings of the Archbishop of 
Dublin. Is. 

History. 

♦Outlines of the History of 

England. Is. 

Outlines of the History of Ire- 
land. Is. 

Outlines of the History of 

France. Is. 3d. 

♦Outlines of Roman History. 

lOd. 

♦Outlines of Grecian History. 

Is. 



♦Outlines of Sacred History. 

Ss.6d. 

Bible Narrative chronologically 

arranged. Cheaper Edition. With 
Maps. 6s. 

♦Elements of Ancient History, 

With Questions. 2s. 

♦Elements of Modern History. 

With Questions. 2s. 

Thau two worktjbrm the Sixth and 
Seventh Volume* qfTn\ Instbocto*. 

♦School History of England, 

abridged from Gleig's Family His- 
tory ; with Chronology, List of Con- 
temporary Sovereigns, and Ques- 
tions. 6s. 

Analysis of English and of 

French History. By Dawson W, 
Tubnee, M.A., Head Master of the 
Royal Institution School, Liverpool. 
2s. 

Analysis of Roman History, 

By D. W. Tronin, M.A. 2s. 

Analysis of Grecian History, 

By I). W. Tint he*, M.A. 2s. 

The Student's Manual of An- 
cient History; containing the Po- 
litical History, Geographical Posi- 
tion, and Social State of the 
Principal Nations of Antiquity. By 
Dr. Cooke Taylor. Cheaper Edi- 
tion. 6s. 

The Student's Manual of 

Modern History ; the Rise and Pro- 
gress of the principal European 
Nations, Political History, and 
Changes In their 8ocial Condition; 
with a History of the Colonies 
founded by Europeans, and General 
Progress of Civilisation, by Dr. 
Tatlob. With Supplementary Chap- 
ter. By C. Basbam, D.D. Cheaper 
Edition. 6s. 

Hellas: the Home, the His- 
tory, the Literature, and the Arts 
of the Ancient Greeks. Translated 
from the German of Jacobs, by 
John Oxshtokd. 4s. 6d. 

♦Family History of England. 

By the Eev. G. R. Gutio, M.A. 
Cheaper Edition. Three Volumes. 
10s. 6d. 



EDUCATIONAL BOOKS PUBLISHED BT 



The Civil History of the Jews, 

from Joshua to Hadrian. By the 
Rev. O. Cockayne, ALA., of King's 
College, London. With Maps. 
4s. 6d. 

Military History of Great 

Britain. By the Rev. G. B. Gleig, 
M.A. 3s. 6d. 

Church History. 

Outlines of Ecclesiastical His- 
tory before the Reformation. By 
the Rev. W. H. Hoare, M.A., late 
Fellow of St. John's College, Cam- 
bridge. 2s. 6d. 

*History of the Christian 

Church, from the Ascension of 
Jesus Christ to the Conversion of 
Constantino. By the late Professor 
Bcbton. 5s. 

Outlines of the History of the 

British Church. Cheaper Edition. 
Is. 

History of the Chureh of Eng- 
land. By Thomas Vowleu Short, 
D.D., Lord Bishop of St, Asaph. 
Cheaper Edition. 10s. 6d. 

History of the English Refor- 
mation. By F. C. Massingbebd, 
M.A. 6s. 

Biography. 

♦Biographical Sketches, se- 
lected from the Saturday Magazine. 
l?.4d. 

♦Readings in Biography. 

Cheaper Edition. 3s. 6d. 

*Lives of Eminent Christians. 

By Archdeacon Hone. Four Vo- 
lumes, with Portraits: 18s. 

•Lives of English Sacred Poets. 

By Rev. Robert Abu Willmott. 
Two Volumes. 9s. 

Bishop Jeremy Taylor; his 

Predecessors, Contemporaries, and 
Successors. By Rev. R.'A. Will- 
uott. 5s. 

Life of James Davis, a Village 

Schoolmaster. By Sir Thomas 
Phillips. 2s. 6d. 



Geography and Haps. 

♦Outlines of Geography. Wiih 

Maps. Twenty-ninth Edition, en- 
larged, and thoroughly revised. 
lOd. 

♦Descriptive Geography, w^th 

Popular Statistics. Forming the 
Fifth Volume of The Instructor. 2s. 

Outlines of Physical Geo- 
graphy. By Miss R. M. Zobnltk. 
With Maps. lGd. 

Recreations in Physical Geo* 

gvaphy. By the same Author. With 
Plates. 6s. 

The Earth and Man ; or, Phy- 
sical Geography in its Relation to 
the History of Mankind. By Goto*. 
Slightly abridged. With Correc- 
tions and Notes, and Copious Index. 
Cheap Edition. 2s. 

This edition has been re- 
arranged and considerably altered, 
with a view to adapt it as a Text- 
Book of Physical Geography 
for Schoolmasters and Pupil- 
Teachers. 

Manual of Ancient Geography. 

By W. L. Bbvaw, M.A., Vicar of 
Hay. 2s. 6d. 

Hand-Book of Bible Geo- 
graphy; a brief alphabetical descrip- 
tion of the ancient and modern con- 
dition of the chief places mentioned 
in the Bible. 2s. 

Bible Maps for Schools; with 

brief descriptions. Small folio. Ss. 

Bible Maps ; an Historical and 

Descriptive Atlas of Scripture Geo- 
graphy. By William Hughes. With 
Copious Index. Bound in clotty 
the Maps coloured. 5s. 

Outline Scripture-Maps : Pales- 
tine, the Journeys of the Israelites^ 
the Travels of St. Paul, and Jeru- 
salem. By the Rev. J. R. Majob* 
M.A. With the Key, 3s. 



JOHN W. PARKER AND SON, WEST STEAND. 



An Atlas of Physical and His- 
torical Geography; engraved by 
J. W. Lowbt, under the direction 
of Professor Anstbd and Rev. C. G. 
Nicolay, F.E.G.S. fis. 

Plan of Jerusalem from the 

Ordnance Surrey. With a Memoir 
by G. Williams, B.D. 9s. Mounted 
on Rollers, 18s. 

Astronomy. 

♦Outlines of Astronomy. By 

Professor Hall, of King's College. 
lOd. 

Recreations in Astronomy. By 

Rev. Lewis Tomlinson, M. A. 4s. 6a. 

Lectures on Astronomy. By 

H. Moseley, M.A., F.R.S., one of 
Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools. 
3s. 6d. 

Natural Philosophy. 

Natural Philosophy for Be- 
ginners. With 143 Woodcuts. 2s. 

♦Readings in Science; being 

familiar Explanations of Appear- 
ances and Principles in Natural 
Philosophy. 3s. 6d. 

Mechanics. 

*Basy Lessons in Mechanics; 

with Familiar Illustrations of the 
Practical Application of Mechanical 
Principles. 3s. 

Mechanics of Engineering. By 

the Rev. Dr. Whewell. Octavo. 9s. 

Mechanical Euclid, containing 

the Elements of Mechanics and Hy- 
drostatics. By Dr. Whewell. Fifth 
Edition. 5s. 

Geology and Mineralogy- 
Outlines of Geology. By Miss 

R. M. Zoenlin. lOd. 

Recreations in Geology; with 

a Discourse on the Nature and Ad- 
vantages of the Science. By the 
same. Many Woodcuts. 4s. 6d. 



•Minerals and Metals; their 

Natural History and Uses in the 
Arts; with Accounts of Mines 
and Mining. With many Woodcuts. 
2s. 6d. ': 

Chemistry. 

Outlines of Chemistry. lOd. 
Recreations in Chemistry. 5s. 
The Chemistry of the Pour 

Ancient Elements, Fire, Air, Earth, 
and Water. 4s. 6d. 

First Lines in Chemistry. By 

Dr. Albert J. Bebnays, F.CiS. 
With 179 Illustrations. 7s. 

Natural History- 
The House I Live in; or* 

Popular Illustrations of the Struc- 
ture and Functions of the Human 
Body. With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 

♦Elements of Botany. With 

Woodcuts. Is. 

♦Sister Mary's Tales in Na- 
tural History. With Woodcuts. 
ls.6d. 

♦Insects and their Habitations. 

With Woodeuts. Is. 

♦Book of Animals. 
♦Book of Birds. 
♦Book of Eishes. 
♦Book of Reptiles. 
♦Book of Shells. 

♦Book of Trees. With Wood- 
cuts. 2s. 

♦Domesticated Animals con- 
sidered with reference to Civiliza- 
tion and ' the Arts. By Maet 
Roberts. With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 

♦Wild Animals ; their Nature, 

Habits, and Instincts: and the 
Regions they inhabit. By the same* 
Cheaper Edition. 2s. 6d. 

♦Familiar History of Birds ; 

their Nature, Habits, and Instincts. 
By the late Bishop Stanley. With 
118 Woodcuts. 3a. 0d. 



All with 

many 

Woodcuts. 

ls.6d.< 

each. 



6 



EDUCATIONAL BOOKS PTJBUJSHEB BY 



The World of Waters; or, 

Becreations in Hydrology. By the 
Author of Becteatumt %n Geology, 
Pk—ical G ft mp hy, 4«» Cheeper 
Edition. 4s.6U 

Voyages and Travels* 

•Three Weeks in Palestine and 

Lebanon. WKhWoodeuta. Cheeper 
Edition. 2s. 

Humboldt's Travels and Dis- 
coveries in America. With Wood* 
cuts. 2s. 6d. 

Captain Cook's Voyages, with 

Account* of Plteeirn'a Island, and 
the Mutiny of the Bounty. With 



Christopher Columbus ; his 

Life, Voyages, and Discovery of 
the Hew World. With Woodcuts. 

Mungo Park; his Life and 

Travels : with an Account of his 
Death, and of later Discoveries. 
"With Woodcuts. 2s. «. 

Bible Coins- 
Metallic Facsimiles of the 

Coins mentioned in Holy 8cripture. 
2s. 6d. 

Useful Arts- 
Useful Arts employed in the 

Production of Food. With nume- 
rous Woodcuts. 2s. Sd. 

Useful Arts employed in the 

Production of Clothing. With 
numerous Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 

Useful Arts employed in the 

Construction of Dwelling Houses. 
With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 

Geometry- 

First Book of Geometry, Plane 

and Solid, Is. 6d. 

figures of Euclid ; with Ques- 
tions and Geometrical Exercises. 
By Rev. J.Edwa&im. 2a. 



Elements of Descriptive Geo- 

metry, far Students in Engineering. 
With 80 Illustrations. By Professor 
Haia. 6s. Sd. 

Eueiid't Elements. Edited bp 2?. 
Potto, MJL* Trin. Coll., Cambridge* 

Euclid's Elements of Geometry 

(TheUnivenity Edition),with Nov}*, 
and an Introdncton and Appendix. 
Octavo. 10a. 

Euclid's Elements, the First 

Six Books (the School Edition, tk* 
Fifth, much enlarged), with Notes* 
Questions, Exercises, and Hints lor 
the Solution of the Problems, fcc. 
12mo. 4s. 6d. 

Brief Hints for the Solution of 

the Problems, &a, in the Fkrwt and 
Second Editions of the School Euclid. 
Is. 

Euclid's Elements; a Supple- 
ment to the School Edition, con- 
taining the Portions read at Cam- 
bridge, of the Eleventh and Twelfth 
Books, with Notes, a Selection of 
Problems and Theorems, and Hints 
for the Solutions. Is, 

Euclid's Elements; the First 

Three Books, reprinted from the 
School Edition, with the Notes, 
Questions, Exercises, and Hints. 3s. 

Euclid's Elements; the First 

Two Books, with the Notes, Ques- 
tions, and Exercises. la.6d. 

Euclid's Elements; the First 

Book, with the Notes, Questions, 
and Exercises. Is* 

Euclid's Elements ; the Defini- 
tions, Postulates, and Enunciation*) 
of the Propositions of the First Six, 
and of the Eleventh and Twelfth 
Books. M. 

Solutions of Geometrical Pro- 
blems proposed at St. John's College, 
Cambridge, consisting chiefly of 
Examples in Plane Co-ordinate 
Geometry. By T. Gaskxh, ALA. 
Octavo. 12s. 



******* 



H^* 1. 



-«■ i < i m ,^ r m 



■apw>» 



JOHN W. PARKER AND SON, WEST STRAND. 



Beligious Instruction. 

The Four Gospels in One Nar- 
rative ; arranged by Two Friends. 
. ■ Foolscap Octavo. 4s. 6d.. 

Introductory Lessons on Chris- 
tian Evidences. «d. 

Questions dedacible from the 

. Lessons on Christian Evidences. 
By Dr. Jo*t, D J>. M. 

Introductory Lessons on the 

History of Religious Worship. 2s. 
cloth, 

Questions deducihle from the 

Lessons on the History of Religious 
Worship, 6d. 

The Light and the Life; or, 

tile History of Him whose Name we 
boar. Is. 

Short Account of the First 

Preaching of the Gospel by the 
Apostles. 2s. 6d. 

Introductory Lessons on the 

Study of the Apostle Paul's Epistles. 

Proverbs and Precepts for 

Copy-lines. 6d. 

First Sundays at Church. By 

the Rer. J. E. RinnuL 2s. 6d. 

The Churchman's Guide to the 

Use of the English Liturgy, with 
Questions for a Bible Glass. By the 
same Author. 3s. 6d. 

Introductory Manual to the 

Reading and Study of the Holy 

Scriptures; forming a Class of 

Scriptural Brevities. 4s. ; in wrap- 
per, 3s. 

Bible Biography. 4s. 

Bible Narrative chronologically 

arranged, continued by an account 
of the Jewish Nation, and forming 
a Consecutive History from the 
Creation to the Termination of the 
; Jewish Polity. By Miss B. M. 
Zq&sun. With Maps. 5s. 

Scripture Female Characters. 

By the Viscountess Hood. 3s. 6d. 



The Catechist's Manual; or, 

Suggestions for Lecturing on 8t. 
Mark's Gospel. By Samttxx. Hums, 
D.D., late Bishop of Norwich. 4s. 6d. 

The Three Temples of the One 

God. By the same Author. 3a* 

Exposition of the Parables. By 

the Rev. Johv G. Lonsbalb, M.A., 
Secretary of the National Society. 
2*.6d. 

Paley*s Evidences epitomized, 

with the View of Exhibiting his 
Argument in a small compass. By 
J. W. Sjmih, B.C.L. With Ques- 
tions. 3s. 

What is Christianity? By T. 

Vowlxu Skokt, D.D., Lord Bishop 
of St. Asaph. ls.6d. 

Thoughts for the Holy Week. 

By the Author of ^myifcrtert. 2s. 

The ThreeTreacherousDealers: 

an Illustration of the Church Cate- 
chism addressed to Young Candi- 
dates for Conllrmation. By J, W. 
DoNAUMOH, DJ>. 2s. ad. 

Bible Studies, conducted on 

the Principle of a Development in 
Divine Teaching. By J. H. Trr- 
coms, M.A. 8s. 6d. 

t 

Books for the Young. 
Ethel Lea, a Story. By Anna 

King. Is. 6d. 

The Little Brackenburners. A 
Tale. ByLAnr Caxacott. ls»6d. 

The Deaf and Dumb Boy; a 

Tale, with some Account of the 
Mode of Educating the Deaf and 
Dumb. Is. 6d. 

Annette Mowbray; or, Con- 
versations with Mamma. 3s. 

♦Persian Stories; illustrative 

of Manners and Customs. Is. 

♦Persian Fables for Young and 
Old. is. 

Reverses, or Memoirs of the 

Fairfax Family. Cheaper Edition. 
3s. 



8 



EDUCATIONAL BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



Second Part of Rasselas, Prince 

of Abyssinia. Is. 6d. 

Conversations of a Father with 

his Children. 3s. 6d. 

Popular Poems for Young Per- 
sons. 2s. 6d. 

Tales and Stories from History. 

By Agnes Strickland. 5s. 

The Life and Adventures of 

Peter Wilkina, a Cornish Man. 
Carefully revised. 3s. 

New Friends. By the Author 

of Julian and hisFlayfcUows. 2s. 6d. 

Books for Rewards and 
Presents. 

Aegesden Vicarage; or, Bridget 

Storey's First Charge. A Tale for 
the Young. Two volumes. 9s. 

The Old Coalpit ; or, the Ad- 

ventures of Richard Boothby in 
Search of his Own Way. By E. J. 
Mat, Author of Louis' School Days. 

The Christmas Tree and other 

Tales. Translated from the Ger- 
man by Frances Kbmble. 4s. 6d. 

Soripture Female Characters. 

By the Viscountess Hood. 3s. 6d. 

Hanworth. 7s. 6d. 

The Merchant and the Friar. 

By Sir Francis Palgravb. 3s. 

* The Crusaders ; Scenes, 

Events, and Characters, from the 
Times of the Crusades. By T. 
Keiohtley. 7s. 

The Early Christians; their 

Manners and Customs, Trials, and 
Sufferings. By the Rev. W. Prid- 
dsn, M.A. Cheaper Edition. 2s. 6d. 

The Lord and the Vassal ; Ex- 
position of the Feudal System in the 
Middle Ages. 2s. 

The Heir of Redclyffe. One 

Volume. 6s. 

Heartsease. By the same Au- 
thor. 6s. 

Dynevor Terrace. By the same 

Author. 68. 



Thomson's Poetical Works. 

With Notes and Memoir, by Robert 
Bell. Two Volumes. 5s. 

Cowper's Poetical Works. 

With Notes and Memoir, by Robert 
Bell. Three Volumes. 7s. 6d. 

History of Napoleon's Invasion 

of Russia. 2s. 6d. 

The Cloister Life of the Em- 
peror Charles the Fifth. By Wil- 
liam Stirling, M.P. 8s. 

Amusements in Chess; the His- 
tory, Antiquities, and Curiosities of 
the Game; Easy Lessons in Chess, 
a Selection of Games, and Chess 
Problems. . By C. Tohlinbox. 4b. 6d. 

History of Shipwrecks of the 

Royal Navy. By W. O. S. Gillt. 
With a Preface by Rev. Dr. Gilly. 
Cheap Edition 5s. 

English Life, Social and Do- 
mestic, in the Middle of the Nine- 
teenth Century. 4s. 6d. 

Gallus; or, Roman Scenes of 

the Time of Augustus ; with Notes 
and Excursuses illustrative of the 
Manners and Customs of the An- 
cient Romans. From the German 
of Becker. With Illustrations. 12s. 

Charicles ; a Tale, illustrative 

of Private Life among the Ancient 
Greeks; with Notes and Excm-i—m. 
From the German of Becker. Se- 
cond Edition, enlarged. 10s. 6d. 

Maiden Sisters. By the Author 

of Dorothy. 5s. 

By the same Author. 

Uncle Ralph. 4s. 6<L 
Still Waters. Two Vols. 9s. 
Dorothy. SecondEdition. 4s.6d. 
De Cressy. 4s. 6d. 

The English Language* 

English Synonyms. Edited by 

Richard Whatelt, D.D., Arch- 
bishop of Dublin. 3s. 

Exercises on a Selection of 

English Synonyms. Edited by 
Archbishop Whatelt. By C. H. 
Gunk. Is. 6d. 



JOHN W. PABKEB AND SON, WEST STRAND. 



9 



English, Past and Present. By 

R. Chenevix Tbench, D.D., Dean 
of Westminster. 4s. 

A Select Glossary of Words 

formerly used, in senses different 
from the present. By the same 
Author. 4s. 

On the Study of Words. By 

the same Author. Ninth Edition, 
considerably enlarged. 4s. 

On Education. 

Rational Education, and the 

Means of Improving it. By the 
t Lord Bishop of St. Asaph. Is. 

Hints to Teachers of the Chil- 
dren of the Poor. By the Rev. B. 
G. Johns. Is. 6d. 

♦Hints for the Formation and 

Management of Sunday Schools. By 
Archdeacon Wigram. Is. 

*Advice to Teachers of Sun- 
day Schools. By the Bishop of 
Fredericton. 3d. 

*A Pocket Manual for the 

Sunday School Teacher. Is. 

The Mother Tongue ; or, Me- 
thodical Instruction in the Mother- 
Tongue. Translated from the 
French of Pere Guard. Edited 
by Viscount Ebrington. 5s. 

Governess Life; its Trials, 

Duties, and Encouragements. By 
the Author of Mother* and Gover- 
nesses. 2s. 

Mothers and Governesses. By 

the Author of Aids to Development. 
3s. 

On the Education and Treat- 
ment of Children; being Mrs. 
Child's Mother's Book, adapted to 
the Use of English Parents and 
Teachers. 2s. 6d. 

Thoughts of a Parent on Edu- 
cation. By the late Mrs. Trench. 
With a Preface and Notes. Is. 6d. 



School Economy; a Practical 

Book on the best Modes of Esta- 
blishing Schools. By Jelinger 
Stmons. 2s. 

The Young Lady's Eriend; a 

Manual or Practical Advice and 
Instruction to Young Women on 
entering upon the duties of life after 
quitting School. 2s. 6d. 

Why should we Learn ? Short 

Lectures addressed to Schools. By 
Emily Shirreff, Author of Intel' 
lectual Education, &c. 2s. 

French. 

Le Tellier's French Grammar, 

practically adapted for English 
Teaching. By J. F. Wattez, one 
of the French Masters, King's Col- 
lege, London. 4a. 

Ventouillac's Rudiments of the 

French Language. Edited by the 
same. 3s. 6d. 

French Poetry ; with Notes by 

the same. 2s. 

English Phraseology ; a Series. 

of Practical Exercises to be trans- 
lated into French, and intended as 
the Sequel to the Colloquial French 
Exercises on the most familiar 
Idioms of the French Language,' by 
the same Author. By F. J. Wattez, 
French Master in King's College 
School, 5s. 

Colloquial Exercises on the 

most Familiar Idioms of the French 
Language. By the same Author. 
28. 6d. 

Practical Exercises on French 

Phraseology; with a Lexicon of 
Idiomatic Verbs. By Professor 
Brasseur, of King's College. 3s. 6d. 

French Classics; abridged in 

an entirely new form. - By Marin 
de la Vote. 

Telemaque. 2s. 6d. 
Voyages de Cyrus. 2s. 
Belisaire. Is. Gd. 
Pierre le Grand. 2s. 
Charles XII. 2s. 
Gil Bias. 4s. 



10 



EDUCATIONAL BOOKS PUBLISHED BT 



Italian* 

Readings in Italian Prose Lite- 
rature ; with Biographical Sketches. 
By G. A, Bsut, Professor of Italian 
in Queen's College, London. 7s. 

German. 

By Peofessob. Bkrnays, of King's 
College, London* 

German Word Book. A Com- 
parative Vocabulary, displaying the 
close affinity between the German 
and English Languages; with the 
Alphabets, Rules, and Examples for 
correct Pronunciation. 3s. 

German Phrase-Book. A Guide 

to the formation of Sentences for 
Conversation and Composition. 3s. 

German Conversation Book. A 

Selection from German Prose Dra- 
matists, with a Free Translation 
and Notes. 3s. 

German Grammar. Cheaper 

Edition. 3s. 6d. 

German Exercises. Cheaper 

Edition. 3s. 6d. 

German Examples. 3s. 

German Reader, with Trans- 
lations and Notes. 5a. 

German Historical Anthology. 

fis. 

•J* These Volumes are pecu- 
liarly adapted for Sblp- Tuition, 
where a competent master cannot 
be procured. They form a regular 
system, of which the Grammar is 
the centre, and are intended to 
teach the writing and speaking, as 
well as the reading of the language, 
in lessons of an easy gradation. 

German Classics, with 

Notes, by Professor 

Bernays- 

Schiller's Maid of Orleans. 2s. 

Schiller's William Tell. 2s. 

Schiller's Mary Stuart. 2s. 



Latin- 
First Latin VocabtOary and 

Accidence. By J. S.Badu>, Trinity 
College, Dublin. Is. 6d. 

Complete Latin Grammar for 

Learners. By Dr. Dokalssok, 
3s. 6d. 

Latin© Grammatical Rudi- 

menta. Abridged from Dr. Donald- 
son's Latin Grammar, with addi- 
tional elucidations for beginners. 
Is. 6d. 

Exercises adapted to Br. 

Donaldson's Latin Grammar. 2s. 6d. 

Longer Exercises in Latm 

Prose Composition; chiefly tvansv 
toted from the writings of modern 
Latinlsts. By Dr. Donaldson. 6s. td. 

Manual of Latin Prose Com- 
position. By the Rev. H. Mus- 

OEATB "WlLtlNS, M.A., FcllftW Of 

Merton College, Oxford. Second 
Edition, carefully revised and en- 
larged. 5s. 

A Key, 2s. 6cL, for the Use of 

Tutors. 

Latin Grammar for Ladies. By 

Professor Browne, of King's Col- 
lege, London. Is. 6d. 

Latin Exercises for the Junior 

Classes of King's College School. By 
Dr. Majob, Head Master. 2s. 3d. . 

Latin Exercises for Middle 

Forms in Schools. By Her. J. 
Edwards. 4s. 

Latin Selections. By T. 8. 

Caub, Master in King's College 
School. Sixth Edition, with 
pendiz. 3s. 6d. 



Appendix separately. 6d. 
Roles and Exercises in the Use 

of the Latin Subjunctive Mode. By 
the Rev. J. Ckockxk, M.A. 4s. 

Progressive Exercises in Latin 

Elegiacs and Heroics. By the same. 
3s. 

The Catiline, and the Jugurtha, 

of Sallust; with Anthonys Metes. 
Edited by the same. 2s. Gd. each. 



JOHN W. PARKER AND SON, WEST STRAND. 



11 



Select Orations of Cicero, with 

English Notes* 2s. Gd. 

Select Epistles of Cicero and 

Pliny. With English Notes. By 
the Rev. J. Edwards. 2a. to. 

JEneid of Virgil, with the Eng- 



Classical Texts, 

from the betf editions, <md care- 
fully revited. 

iEsCHYLI ECXENISES. 18. 

^JSSS^ir^ Edlte * By f^cH™p«,«TH. .vu.c, D .. 1.. 

I. to IV. 



Greek. 

First Greek Reader from the 

German of Jacobs; with English 
Notes, by the Rev. J. Edwards, 
M.A. 4s. 

Exeerpta ex Herodoto; with 

English Notes, by Dr. Major. 4s. 64. 

Exeerpta ex Xenophontis Cy- 

ropsBoia; with a Vocabulary, and 
Notes, by the same. 5s. 64. 

Xenophon's Anabasis of Cyrus. 

X. and II. With English Notes and 
Biographical Sketch, by Dr. Hicks, 
Head Master of Hawkeshead School. 
3b. 6d. 

Homer's Iliad, I. to III. ; with 

the Notes and Homeric Glossary of 
Author. Edited by Dr. Major. 

4b. W. 



Cjbsab db Bello Gallico. 
ls.6d. 

Cicero db Axicitxa it db Senbctute. 
Is. 

ClCKKO DB OFFIC1IB. 2s. 

Cicero fro Plaxcio. Is. 

ClCBBO PRO MlLONB. Is. . 

Cicero pbo Mcbjbna. Is. 
CicERoms Oratio Phduffica Se- 

CUNDA. Is. 
DEMOSTHENES IX LefTINBM. Is. 
DEMOSTHENES* ORATIONS AGAINST 

Afhqmjb and Ombto*. Is. 6d. 
EcmzriDB Baccba. It. 
Excxrfta ex Arriano. 2s. €4. 
Ezckxpta «r Luciano. 2s. 64. 
Excbbpta bx Taciti Ann ambus. 



Greek Verses of Shrewsbury 

School } with Account of the Iambic 
Metre, and Exercises in Greek 
Tragic Senarii. Edited by Dr. 
Kjsknsby, Head Master. 8s, 

Exeerpta ex Arriano. Selec- 
tions from Arrlano'B • Anabasis.* 
By Dr. Donaldson. 2s. 64. 

Select Private Orations of De- 
mosthenes; with English Notes. By 
C. T. Penrose, M.A., late Head 
Master of Sherborne School. 4s. 

Elementary Exercises in Greek 

Prose Composition. By H. Mus* 
grays Wilkins, M.A., Fellow of 
Merton College, Oxford. 4s. 6d. 

Manual of Greek Prose Com- 
position. By H. Musqravb Wil- 
kins, M. A. Crown Octavo. 7s. 6d. 

Key, for Tutors and Students. 

2s. 6d. 



2s»6d. 

HORATII AXS POSTICA. 64. 

Hobatii Carmina. is. 64. 

Horatii Satibjb. Is. 

Oyibd Fasti* Is. 64. 

platonis msnexenus. is. 

Platonis Pbjbdo. 2s. 

Platonis Phjbdbus. Is. 6d. 

Pladti Milbs Gloriosus. Is. 

Pladtt Tbinuvokus. Is. 

Plutarch's Lives or Solon, Peri- 
cles, and Philokbmen. 2s. 

Sopboclis GEdipus Tybannus, with 
English Notes. 2s. 64. 

Sophoclm Philogtbtbb, with English 
Notes. 2s. 

Taciti Agricola. Is. 

Taciti Gbbxabia. Is. 

Tebentii Adblphi. Is. 

Tbbsntii Andria. Is. 

Vnoan Geoboica. Is. 6d. 



12 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY JOHN W. PARKER AND SON. 



Family Prayer Books. 
Sacra Domestica; a Course of 

Family Prayers. Octavo, cloth, 
gilt edges. 3s. Printed in large 
type, with provision for Manuscript 
additions. 

Book of Private Prayer, for 

Members of the United Church of 
England and Ireland. By the Rev. 
John A. Bolster, M.A.. Preben- 
dary of Cork, and Chaplain to the 
Lord Bishop. 2s. 

Articles of the Church. 
Examination Questions and 

Answers, from Burnet on the 
Thirty-nine Articles. Is. 6d. 

The Articles of the Church of 

England, in English and Latin; 
with a Short Historical Notice, 
Scripture Proofs, and the Latin of 
the Original XLII. Articles. Edited 
by W. F. Wilkinson, M.A., Vicar 
of St. Werburgh's, Derby. Is. 6d. 

Exposition of the Thirty-Nine 

Articles. By E. Harold Browne, 
M.A. Norrisian Professor of Di- 
vinity in the University, Cam- 
bridge. One Vol. with Copious 
Index, Octavo, 16s. 

Examination Questions on 

Professor Browne's Exposition of 
the Articles. By J. Goble, M.A. 
3s. 6d. 

Church Literature. 
The Churchman's Theological 

Dictionary. By Robert Eden, 
M.A. Demy 12mo. 6s. 



Paley's Evidences of Chris- 
tianity; with Annotations by 
Richard Whatbly, D.D., Arch- 
bishop of Dublin. Octavo, 9s. 

Paley's Moral Philosophy ; 

with Annotations by the Arch- 
bishop of Dublin. 7s. 

Bacon's Essays; with Anno- 
tations by the Archbishop of 
Dublin. 10s. 6d. _. 

9 



Vocal Music, 

By John Hullah. 

Infant School Songs. 6d. 
School Songs for Two or Three 

Voices. Two Books. 6d. each. 

Exercises for the Cultivation 

of the Voice. 1. Arranged for So- 
prano or Tenor Voices. 2s. 6d. 
II. For Contralto or Bass Voices. 
2s. 6d. 

Rudiments of Musical Gram- 
mar. Ss. 

Grammar of Musical Harmony. 

3s. 

Exercises on the Grammar of 

Musical Harmony. Is. 

Tunes for Psalms and Hymns. 

2s. 

Chants, chiefly by English 

Masters of the Seventeenth said 
Eighteenth Centuries, with the 
Gregorian Tones, harmonized by 
Thomas Morlet. fid. 

Sea Songs, for the Use of the 

Boys of the Royal Hospital Schools, 
Greenwich. Published by com- 
mand of the Lords Commissioners 
of the Admiralty. 2s. 6d. 

God Save the Queen, arranged 

for Three, Four, and Five Voices. 
On a Card. Id. 

A Short Treatise on the Stave, 

to serve as an Introduction to the 
Practice of Reading or Playing from 
Score. 2s. 

Tunes for Psalms and Hymns. 

2s. 



Psalms and Hymns for Public 

Worship. Collected by H.H. Wtatt, 
M. A., Incumbent of TrinityChapel, 
- Brighton. Is. cloth. 



" * * •:. * 




IllUllllllflfJ! 






i> ■ 






*• v* 









V .. 



. * . •» 



"*•»- 









"»-H 



» • *v 






» * 




