■^'^^ 1 4 >P ii i W P)l >' I i innia m i inw 



;/mi ^ iu " , 



Ra/iQ, 'Book 
Cotie.cJxon 




^Ynen)^n of. Sterne J^wrar^ 
HJnii^ersitif of cAlahama in Jjirmin^ham 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Lyrasis IVIembers and Sloan Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/ladiesindispensaOOange 



LADIES' 

INDISPENSABLE ASSISTANT. 

BEING A COMPAHIOK FOB THE 

SISTER, MOTHER, AND WIFE- 

•WTTAINING MORE INTORMATION FOR THE PRICE THAN ANY OTHER WVi: h 
UPON THE SUBJECT. 

HERE ARE THE VERY BEST DIRECTIONS FOR THE 
BEHAVIOR AND ETIQUETTE OF 

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, 
LADIES' TOILETTE TABLE, 

DIRECTIONS FOR MANAGING CANARY BIRDS ; 

ALSO, 

SAFE DIRECTIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN : 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR 

LADIES UNDER VARIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES; 

A GREAT VARIETY OF VALUABLE RECIPES, FORMING A COM 
PLETE SYSTEM OF 

FAMILY MEDICINE, 

THTS ENABLING EACH PERSON TO BECOME HIS OR HER OWM PHTSZCLUI '. 

70 which is adsbd one of the bb^t systems 09 

^1^ ^"RSI W^ 



EVER published; 

UANT OF THESE RECIPES ARE ENTIRELY NEW AND SHOULD BE IN THK FOMSfr 
SION OF EVERY PERSON IN THE LAND. 



17311 



NEW-YORK: 
PUBLISHED AT 128 NASSAU-STREET. 

1851, 



Botered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, 

BY E. HITTCHINSON, 

In the eierls's Office of the District Court for the Southern Distriet 

of New- York. 



CONTENTS. 



JbM 

# • 

iiikiatic Chokn 
▲athms, Cure of 

h. 

Jiilions Cholie . 

MliouB Complaint* . 

ffite of Poisondu* Cr^tures 

Ceding at the Lungs 
*< '* Stomach 

<' from the Nose 

Bloodj Urine . 

Boils 

Bowel Complaints in Chil- 
dren . 

Burn or Scald . 

Bums . 

6. 

Gancer . 

Callus . 

Catarrh . . . 
Certain Cure for « Cold 
Ghicken-Poek . 
Chilblain 
Cholera, Morbus 
Consumption, No> 1. 
Consumption, No. 3. 
Consumptive Cough 
Continued Ferer 
IgonTulsion Fits 
Corns . . , 
CoatiTsness iipi Children 
Uottgha and Colds dow 





e^ 


PlHP* 


Cough 


. M 


. 34 


Cough, simpU RemedjP 


. M 


8 


Cough, Recipe for . 


. 38 


28 


Courses, Painful 


. 38 


19 


Cow-Pox 


. 97 




Cramp in the Stomach 


. 35 




Croup, No. 1. . 


11 




Croup, No. 3. 


. 43 


42 
41 


Cutting Teeth 


• # 


s 38 


D. 




40 






53 


Deafness 


. ^ 


15 


Delirium Tremens^ . 


. Si 


39 


Diabetes^ . 


. 47 


34 


Diarrhisa . 


. 14 




Distress after Eating 


. » 


48 


Dropsy . . . 


• # 


Z2 


Dropsy of the Head . 


. $ 


56 


Drowning, recovery ftoin 


. 31 




Dysentery 


. 14 




Dyspepsia . 


'. it 


. 47 


E. 




35 


*" 




. 35 


Earache, No. 1. 


. 35 


29 


Earache, No. 3. 


. 49 


19 


Elecampane for a Cough 


. 3b 


37 


Epileptic Fits . 


. 50 


15 


Erysipelas 


. 48 


13 


Eyes, Inflammation of 


. 80 


52 


Byes, Sore an'' ' ■ \ 


. 4i 


52 

IR 


Eyes, W«»%(*=f!^ . 


. ii 


49 


F. 




37 






8 


Falling of thlH Ba^tlp 'm 




8 


Children . r 


, M 



CONTENTS. 



Felon ... 
Felon in the Eye 
Felon on the Hand . 
Female Obstructions 
Fever and Ague 
Fever Sore 
Fits or CSonrulsions 

Children . . 
Flaxseed Tea . 
Fluor Albas . 
Food for Children . 
Food for Infants brought 

up by hand 



Frost Bite 



6. 



GHeets . .' . 

Good Remedy for Fits 

Gout 

Gravel or Stone, No. 1 

Orarel or Stone, No. 2 

H. 



51 
33 
43 
14 
33 
33 

8 
30 
43 

7 



56 



53 
54 
43 
44 
49 



Headache, Sick 


. 33 


Hiccough 


. 34 


Hoarseness 


. 53 


Humors, No. 1 


. 41 


Humors, No. 2 


. 53 


Hysterics 


. 56 



Inflammatory Ferer . .16 

ItBh . . , .36 

J. 

Jaondice . . . .37 

Jmnts, Stiffened . . 54 

K. 

Keeping Children clean . 7 
King's Eril ... 54 



Lame Feet . - .56 

Liver Complaint, No. 1 . 44 

« « No. 2 . 48 

" " No. 3 .55 

Locked Jaw . . ,57 

M. 

Measles . . . .IS 

Medicine for Children . 7 

Menstrual Discharges . 36 

Mortification . . .45 

Mumps . . . . 3S 

N. 

Nervous Affections . . 99 

Nipples Sore . . .51 

Numb Palsy . . .3* 

Old and inveterate Sores . 49 

Old Sores to cure . . 59 



Pains . . . .34 
Painter's Cholic . .49 
Palpitation of the Heart . - 46 
Pectoral Syrup for Coughs 36 
Piles . . . .48 
Piles, bleeding . .50 
Pimples .... 55 
Poisons, taking, Tartar 

emetic . 
Poisons, 



53 
53 
53 
53 



Polypus 



Saltpetre . 
Laudanum 
Lunar Caustic 
Corros. Sublimate 53 
. 42 

R. 



Raising Blood . . 
Rattlesnake Bites . 
Rattles in Children . 
Recipe for Rheumatism . 
Remedy for dropsy in tho 
head 



99 
3S 

18 



■ 


CONT] 


3 NTS. 








Page 




P«(!B 


Rheumatism . . 


13 


Urinary Obstructions 




34 


Rheumatic Plaster . 


28 






,. .- ' 


Rickets, symptoms of 


9 


V. 






Rickets, Remedy for . 


9 








Ring Worm 


47 


Varioloid 




36 


Rupture . , . 


43 


Volatile Liniment 




31 


S. 




Volniting prevented . 
Warts, No. 1 . 


•• 


52 
29 


Salt Rheum . . 


40 


Warts, No. 2 . 




51 


Scarlet Fever . 


20 


Weak Eyes 




56 


Scrofula, Symptoms of 


10 


Weak Limbs . 




34 


Scrofula . ^ 


40 


Weak Stomach 




46 


Scurvy 


33 


Wen 




46 


Sleep, to procure it . 


. 54 


White mixture for a Coush. 




Smallpox, Distinct form 


23 


No. 1 . 


C3 t 


31 


Smallpox, Confluent form 


. 24 


No. 2 . 




30 


Sore Throat, common 


50 


Whites . 




55 


Sore Throat, putrid . 


. 18 


White Swelling 




39 


Sore Legs 
Sore Lips 


38 
50 


Whooping Cough, No. 
Whooping Cough, No 


1 '. 

2 . 


13 

46 


Spine Complaints 


55 


Windy Stomach 




53 


Sprains 


.. 35 


Worms . 




45 


St. Anthony's Fire . 


41 








Stomach Sickness 


. 39 












Strained Stomach 


45 








St. Vitus' dance 


43 


Medical Properties of Plants. 


Sweat 


. 53 








Swellings, to reduce them 


30 


A. 






Swellings, No. 2 


. 35 


•• 

Aloes s. 




59 


T. 




Arrow Head 


^ 


59 






Avens or Chocolate Root . 


59 


Tape Worm 


52 








Teething and Diarrhoea in 


B. 






Children 


8 








Tic Doloreux . 


22 


Black Alder Bark . 




60 


Toothache, No. 1 


. 48 


Blackberry Root 




60 


" No. 3 ^ . 


. 45 


Black Snake Root . 




60 


" No. 3 . 


. 56 


Blood Root 




60 


Treatment of Chil3ren 


7 


Blue Flag Root 




60 


Typhus Fever . 


, 17 


Butter or Oil iVut . 




61 


U. 




Butter Cup or Crow's 


foot 


61 


Olcer 


. 50 


C. 






Ulcer, Inward . 


. 51 


Camomile 


, 


61 


Universal Cure all . 


. 57 


Canada Snake Root 




69 


Urinary Discharges, toofre 


9 44 


Caraway . 


. 


81 



COMTXMTS. 







Psge 






f^ 


em9U . 




61 




L. 




Catnip 




62 








Gheekerbenry 




61 


Lady's Slipp 


er 


. .it 


Cemfrey . 




68 


Liquorice 


. 


. «• 


Currants . 




63 


Liverwort 


, 


. m 




D. 




Lobelia 


• 


. «T 


Dandelion 


• • • 


63 




M. 




Dragon's Claw or Fever- 










root 


• • 


63 


Mosses 




. «f 


Dwarf Elderberries . 


63 


Motherwort 


^ ^ 


. 69 




E. 




Mouse Ear 


. _ 


. 69 






Mullen 


, 


. 69 


Elder blows, 1 


}ark and her- 




Mustard (garden) 


. 79 


ries 


, , , 


63 








Klecampane 


. 


63 




P. 






F. 




Plantain . 




. 78 


Feirsr-root 


• • * 


64 


Pennyroyal 
Poplar Bark 


, 


. 70 


Fir Balsam 


• • • 


64 


(root) . 


. 71 


FoxgloTS 


G. 


64 


Prickly Ash 


Q. 


. 79 


CUriic 
Gentian . 


. 


65 
65 


Quassia . 


^ 


. T9 


Ginger 


• 


64 








Golden Thread 


65 




R. 




Gum Arabic 


. 


65 










H. 


• 


Red Cedar 


» • 


• ^ 


Henilock bark 




66 




S. 




Hoarhound 




66 


Sassafras 


. 


. 71 


Hops 




66 


Smart-weed 


, 


. 71 


Horse Radish 




66 


Spikenard 


, 


. 7J 


Hyssop 


t 


66 


Sumach . 




. 71 


Iceland Moss 
Indi-Ai) Hemp 


I. 

J. 


66 
66 

«7 


Thorn-apple 

MEDICAL 


T. 


. 79 


Juniper bush 


PREPARATIONS. 




K 




Elixir 




. 79 


Kno4 Crass 


. 


. 67 


Vegetable Powder . 


. 79 



MARRIED LADIES* 
ilneblSPZSNSABLZS COMPA19IOH 

AMD 

FAMILY PHYSICIM. 



TREATMENT OF CHILDREN. 



It is of the greatest importance that mothers should 
■aderstand the management of their offspring. The 
MWly-born child should be kept warm and not exposed 
to sudden changes of temperature or currents of air. It 
i^HDuld not be handled but kept as quiet as possible. 

Food. ^ 

It should receive its food at regular hours, three or 
ioiir times a day, and it should not be permitted to take 
so much as to cause vomiting. The stomach of a new- 
born infant is very small, not larger than a common-sized 
thimble, so that there is great danger of giving it toe 
Much food. 

Keep the Child clean. 

Wash it every morning in warm water, and never, m 
Mine have done, plunge it in cold water. 

Medicine. 

Never give medicine to a very young child. Many 
JMve thus lost darling children. It will, if not murderei 
%e permanently injured. It cries often on account of 
tight clothes or the pricking of pins. If medicine mutt 
Ibe given at all, give it to the nurse. 



• FAMILY PHYSICIAir. 

Air. 

Let children have pure air, but keep the room warm. 

If the moiher is much diseased, rather than run mucli 
risk, bring the child up by hand. 

Food for Infants brought up by Hand. 

Take two parts of good cow's milk to one part of 
water, and sweeten it a little with loaf sugar. Warm it 
so as to be of the temperature of milk just taken from 
the eow. 

Teething and Diarrhoea. 

When the teeth begin to appear, an irritation is pro- 
duced, and a diarrhoea often sets in to carry it off, in 
order to keep it from the brain. Let it run while the dis- 
charges have the natural color ; when the color of the 
discharges changes, lance the gums of the child if there 
is much heat about them. If the head becomes unusu- 
ally warm, keep cloths around it wet with moderately 
cold water. If still the diarrhoea continues, a little 
arrow-root gruel will generally check it ; sometimes it 
will be necessary to add a tea-spoonful of powderwl 
chalk to a cupful of the gruel. 

. Costiveness. 
Administer a little barley-water and it will remore rt. 

Coughs and Colds. 

To prevent these, let children wear flannel under- 
garments. Sometimes it may be necessary to induce 
redness on the chest by a mustard plaster placed between 
two cloths. 

Fits or Convulsions. 

Put them mto warm baths. Do not have the watei 



FAMILY PHTSICIA:N. -^ 

Kk) hot as their skin is tender. Take them out after a 
Uule time and put strong mustard-plasters on the soles 
of their feet, and ice-water on the head. If the fit has 
been caused by something eaten, give an emetic of five 
grains of Ipecac, if the child is under the age of two years 
and a half, and eight grains if over that age. Vomiting 
will throw all of the medicine up so that the child will 
not be injured. If the fit arises from other causes, half 
a table-spoonful of Epsom-salts, dissolved in a fourth of 
a glass of water for a child two years of age. 

Dropsy of the Head. 

Symptoms of the disease in a child. — He rolls his 
head often from side to side ; has pain ; a stupid look j- 
perhaps sickness at the stomach and vomiting ; sloxy 
pulse; and frequent convulsions. When children arq 
thirteen years of age, they are rarely attacked with it. 
It is often induced by falls or blows, and it is almost im- 
possible to cure it. 

Remedy for Dropsy of the Head. — Take considerable 
blood from the temples by leeches, give powerful cathar-r 
tics, shave the head and apply to it ice in bladders, apply 
mustard to the feet and inside of the thighs, and make 
the diet light, mostly of barley. This is about all that 
can be done. 

Rickets. 

Symptoms. — Breast-bone protruded, large head, very 
prominent forehead ; large, puffed-up belly ; joints large ; 
system weak and movement slow. Finally a slow fever, 
cough, and troubled breathing ensue, and death often 
closes the scene. 

Remedy for Rickets. — Rectify the general health, give 
simple, nourishing* diet. In case of poor appetite, give 
five grains of Ipecac, as an emetic. If costive give a 
little Rhubarb. Wear flannel and be in the open air, and 
apply warm fomentations to the belly. After each meal 
half a drop of Lugol's solution of Iodine may be given 
three times a day. 



K) rAMILT FHTSICIAR. 

Scrofula. 

Symptoms. —'A. smooth fine skin, almost transparent 
Vir hair, rosy cheeks, joints large, upper lip prominent, 
and eyes often very bright. Little round or egg-shapee 
tumors under the skin appear on the sides of the neck, ic 
winter and spring. The tumors sometimes continue 
through life without any apparent alteration ; but finally 
they become larger, of a purple or livid color, fprni 
matter and break, not at one point, but into many littlt 
holes from which a thickish watery discharge oozes, 
m which is mixed little substances resembling milk 
curds. Open sores remain for some time afterwards, 
eating their way in various directions : sometimes 
. after continuing in this way for years, all dry up and 
disappear. In other cases, blindness results, and deaf* 
liiess ensues : the joints also enlarge, and produce whit* 
swelling. 

Remedy for Scrofula. 

The great object m the treatment is to improve th* 
general health ; for this purpose, the means recommend 
ed in rickets may be advantageously used ; but the 
main reliance in every case must be placed in the prepa* 
rations of Iodine, particularly Lugol's solution. Treat 
scrofulous sores like other sores. 

Rickets.— By another Physician. 

Easily known by the large head and protruded breast 
bone, the forehead stares out prominently ; the ribs are 
flattened ; the belly is very large and puffed out : the 
muscles soft : the joints very large in proportion to what 
they should be : the whole system is very Weak, and 
every movement is made slowly and with difficulty. 

As the disease progresses the belly becomes harder 
and the bowels very loose ; a slow fever succeeds with 
cough and trouble in breathing, until death finally comes 
to the relief of the sufferer. 

It generally attacks children between the ages of nifi« 



VAMILT TMJnClJM. tt 

«K>Qlhs and two years. The object of the treatn^m 
ifl to build up the general health. Look well to Ult 
child's diet, let it be simple and nourishing : if the appii 
tite is poor an emetic of 5 grains of Ipecac, will he usic- 
fa\ ; if the bowels are too much bound, gentle doses i^ 
rhubarb is the best medicine to open them, as it strength- 
ens at the same time. As the bones and the spine of 
&e back are often distorted, means must be used to give 
support wherever needed. The child should wear flan- 
nel, and be much out in the open air. Warm fomen- 
lations applied to the belly will often be attended with 
considerable beneht. I have given in this disease Lu- 
gol's solution of Iodine, half a drop three times a day, . 
with marked success : it must be given immediately 
after each meal. ;l^ 

Croup. 

This disease mostly attacks infants. 6ome days pre* 
vious the child appears drowsy, inactive and fretful, the 
eyes are watery and heavy ; there is a cough exactly 
resembling the barking of a young dog. As the disease 
advances, the cough agitates the little sufferer more and 
more, the face is flushed and swelled, the eyes protrude, 
and a general tremor takes place, and there is a kind of 
convulsive endeavor to renew the respiration at the close 
of each fit ; the head is often thrown back, in the agony 
of attempting to escape suffocation ; the breathing be- 
comes more and more hissing. The cough is generally 
dry, and if any thing is spit up, it looks like matter, or 
else consists oi films, as of pieces of membrane ; wh6» 
vomiting is induced the same kind of matter comes up, 
showing that the child has been swallowing it instead 
of spitting it out. There are cases in which a fatal 
termination has taken place in 24 hours, but more gene- 
rally it runs on for four or five days. 

Leeches should immediately be applied to the upper 
part of the breast-bone near the neck : it is often diffi- 
eult to stop the bleeding when applied to the neck itself, 
M there is nothing to make pressure on ; then give a 



IS FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Strong ipecac, emetic, mixed, if possible, with a grain o» 
two of powdered squill. A hot bath is very useful, b|- 
inducing nausea quickly. A large dose of purgativfe 
medicine, as Epsom salts, may now be administered. 
Ipecac, in doses of one or two grains, or hot boneset 
tea should be given, to keep up a strong perspiration. 
A large blister is sometimes useful, put on the upper 
part of the chesty and dressed with some irritating oint- 
ment, as savine, to keep up a discharge. Mustard 
draughts may be applied to the feet. 

As the patient gets better, there will follow a great 
deal of expectoration ; to promote this as much as pos- 
sible is advisable : inhaling steam, if done with cautidn^'^ 
will be found useful ; the nauseating medicines, as the 
ipecac, and squill, should be continued, and the moutb 
if possible, gargled with an infusion of chamomile flow- 
ers or Mayweed. 

Whooping Cough. 

Known by a convulsive, choking cough, with whoop- 
ing, returning by fits, which are usually terminated 1*^ 
vomiting: it is contagious. Perhaps one of the most 
effectual means of cure is removing the child to another 
part of the town or country. 

In common cases little more is required than giving a 
drink, such as flax-see^J tea, to allay the cough, and 
keeping the bowels open. If the disease, however, does 
not abate, but increases in intensity, an ipecac, emetic 
should be given, and followed by small doses of syrup o^ 
squill, with a few drops of paregoric in each d'' ■ 
This will promote perspiration and afford relief. 

A strong mustard plaster to the chest has of' .«$e- 

ful effect ; as has the cold bath where thert j local 

disease : flannel should be worn all the wh .e. Nur- 
ses sometimes frighten the child to cure it, but it is a 
bad plan. 

For the Cure of Asthma. 
■' Take the root of skunk cabbage, and boil it until very 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 18 

Strong, then strain off the liquor; to which add, one la-, 
fele-spoonful of garlic juice to one pint of the liquor, and 
wmmer them together. Dose, one table-spoonful, three 
times a day ; or, 

Take two ounces of spikenard root, two ounces of 
«\veet flag root, two ounces of elecampane root, and two 
ounces of chalk ; beat them fine, adding one pound of. 
honey, and mix all well together. Dose, one tea-spoon- 
ful threg times a day ; or. 

Take two ounces of nitre, one ounce of sulphur, one , 
ounce of cream of tartar, half an ounce of magnesia, 
four ounces of ball liquorice ; put them all into one of ■ 
water, and mix well together. Dose, one table-spoon- 
ful morning, noon and night ; or, 

Take a table-spoonful of English or while mustard 
. seed, in molasses or water, morning and evening. 

Rheumatism 

Take one drachm of gum guaiacum, rosin one drachm, 
and one drachm of soap, half a drachm of oil of juniper, ■■' 
— make into about tiiirty pills, and take one of them night 
and morning ; or, 

Take an ounce of gum guaiacum, half an ounce of 
gum myrrh, and two drachms of nitre ; put into one 
quart of best gin ; take one table-spoonful in cold water 
morning, noon, and night ; or. 

Take an ounce of saltpetre, one gill of vinegar, one 
gill of new rum; simmer together; wash the affected 
parts while it is hot ; or. 

Take ten drops of oil of sassafras on sugar ; at the 
same time wash the parts with salt arid vinegar, hot as 
you can bear it; or, 

Take of blue flag root, prickly ash bark, sweet flag 
root, blood root, each four ounces ; powder and steep in - 
br^dy. Dose, from one table-spoonful to a wine-glass, 
three times a day. 

Consumption. 
Dissolve chloride of lime in soft water, add a littlt 



14 rAMILT PHVSICIi.If. 

tbiegar, and snuff it up the nose three or four tinEiet « 
^y ; or, 

Take one pound of hops to two quarts of water ; r«» 
duce by boiling to one quart ; add of molasses and gi» 
each one gill; take one table-spoonful morning, nooD» 
and night. And at ten o'clock, A- M., and four o'clock,, 
P. M., a pill may be taken, made as follows : extract of 
eicuta, one ounce ; oxide of zinc, half an ounce ; if this 
does not afford relief, nothing will ; or, • 

Take every morning, half a pint of new milk and the 
juice of hoarhound, mixed ; or. 

Take sumach leaves, make into a tea, and drink 
freely ; or. 

Of the tincture of gum guaiacum, take a table-spoon- 
ful at night ; and two or three spoonfuls during the day. 

Female Obstructions. 

Take one table-spoonful tincture of guaiacum in half 
a cup of milk, at the full of the moon ; or, 

Take a strong tea made of Seneca snakeroot, a» 
much as the stomach will bear ; or. 

Take of borax, saffron, myrrh, each ten grains ; salt 
of amber, four grains ; this may be taken at one dose. 

Diarrhoea. 

Take of opium, gum guaiacum, camphor, eacn one 
part ; gum kino and ipecac, each half a part ; mix into 
common sized pills. Dose, from one to four per day ; or^ 

Take prepared chalk two drachms, loaf sugar one 
4rachm, add one ounce of gum Arabic, eight ounces of 
water, oil of lavender one drachm, laudanum thirty 
drops. Shake it well when you use it. Dose, one ta- 
ble-spoonful every hour ; oftener if necessary. 

Dysentery, 

Take of cherry-rum and brandy, each half a pint, 
half a pound of loaf sugar, two ounces of essence of pep- 
permint Dose, one spoonful two or three times a day ; or. 



FAMI1.Y PHTSICIAlf. .\% 

Make a strong tincture of Rhubarb and of opium, and 
ft strong solution of white vitriol ; mix together equal 
parts. Dose, twenty drops ; in one hour, ten drops ; 
and then five — this is a dose for children ; or, 

Take of laudanum, tincture of camphor, tincture of 
guaiacumt tincture gum kino, each one drachm. Dose, 
te«-8poonful three times a day. 

Cholera Morbvs, 

Take of carbonate of potash, rhubarb, each half a 
drachm ; of essence of peppermint, and sugar, each one 
■poonful ; add a tea-cup of boiling water ; of this, take 
two table-spoonfuls every time you vomit ; or. 

Make a tea of burdock root and muUen leaves, with 
elder berries ; drink freely : or, 

Take a tumbler of sour cider, put into it a large tea- 
spoonful of hard wood-ashes ; let it settle, and take one 
teble-spoonful every half hour till relieved, and then 
every hour till well. 

Bleeding from the Nose. 

The idea of this. proceeding from the ruptured blood- 
▼essel is ridiculous ; it is a means taken by nature of 
thoroughly depleting a part so as to cure disease. It 
was no doubt in consequence of observing these sangui- 
neous depletions of nature, that the idea originated of 
doiog it artificially, and \hence the introduction of blood- 
letting in all its various forms of abstraction. 

If bleeding from the noge proceeds to an alarming ex- 
tent, it can generally be stopped by plugging up the 
nostrils with cotton, wet in cold alum water. Some- 
times all local means prove ineffectual, nature must have 
blood escape, and the only method of preventing a flow 
from. the nostrils will be by making one from the arm. 

The water-cure method of getting rid of coughs and 
colds is to wrap the body up in a wet sheet, until per- 
spiration is induced, drinking all the time plenty of cold 
Wftter. 



IB FAMILY PHYSICIAK. 

Inflammatory Fever. 

This fever comes on by a sense of weakness a»d 
inactivity, succeeded by dizziness, shiverings, arid 
pains extending over the whole body, particularly the 
chest and back; these symptoms are shortly followed 
by redness of the face and eyes, great restlessness, in- 
tense heat, unquenchable thirst, oppressed breathing and 
nausea. The skin is dry and parched ; the tongue of a 
scarlet color at the sides, furred with white in the cen- 
tre ; the urine red and scanty ; bowels costive : there is 
a quickness and hardness in the pulse which is not af- 
fected by pressure. If allowed to proceed, these- 
symptoms become rapidly more intense, stupor and de-' 
lirium succeed, with violent raving. At the end of four- 
teen days it terminates in a crisis, either by sweating, 
looseness of bowels, bleeding from the nose, or a deposit 
in the urine, which produces a copious sediment : the' 
pulse softens gradually toward the fourteenth day. ' 

The danger is generally proportioned to the violence' 
of the delirium ; if there is picking at the bed-clothes 
starting of the tendons, involuntary passages by stool 
and urine, it will certainly terminate fatally. 

Bleeding from the arm, with the patient in an upright 
position, to fainting, will often cut short the disease at 
once. The bowels should be w&W purged with salts and ' 
senna, or jalap and cream of tartar, (ten grains of jalap and" 
thirty of cream of tartar to the dose). Perspiration should ■ 
be induced by giving three grains of James' powder 
and two of nitre, every two hours until it is freely esta-^ 
Wished — then giving it at longer intervals. The patient 
naust be put in a cool room, where it is rather dark and ' 

fverfectly quiet. The diet should mainly consist of bar-' 
ey-water, with a very little nitre dissolved in it to* 
Quench the thirst ; for this latter purpose, also, pieces ol' 
ice may be taken in the mouth and allowed to melt. 
The clothing should be of the lightest kind. It is pro- 
per to repeat the bleeding the second day, if there is no' 
remission of symptoms. 

Sometimes a particular organ, as the brain or lungs, 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. IT 

becomes affected : in such cases, besides the general 
treatment, use the sanrie means as if inflammaliun of such 
organ were alone the matter. 

4 Typhus Fever, 

Thi« first comes on with great weakness, low spirits, 
excessive weariness and general soreness, with pains in 
the head, back, ar)d exlreniiiies, succeeded by shivennos ; . 
ihe eyes appear fnll, heavy, yellowish, and ofi.en a liiile 
inflamed: the arteries at the temple throb violei)tly; the 
tongue is dry and parched, breathing laborious, inierrnpt- 
ed with deep sighing; the breath is hot and offensive, 
urine pale, bowels costive; the pulse quick, small, hard 
a,nd unequal. Sometimes a great heat, load, and pain is 
felt at the pit of the stomach, followed by profuse 
bilious vomiting. As the disease advances, the pulse 
becomes more frequent, the fever higher, breathing diffi- 
cult, with anxiety, sighing and moaning; the thirst in- 
creases^ the inside of the month becomes covered with 
» sticky brownish or black fur — speaking becomes diffi- 
cult, and then not understood ; and muttering and deli- 
rium ensue. Finally, as it proceeds, all the symptoms 
become worse ; there is bleeding from the gums and 
Tarious parts of the body ; livid spots appear on the sur- 
face, and hiccup ushers in death. In warm climates, 
this fever seldom continues above a week ; but in colder 
ones it lasts three or four. 

An emetic of twenty grains of Ipecac, and one of tar- 
tar emetic, may be at once administered : let the bowels 
■then be emptied by a large dose of castor oil : then give 
ismall doses of Ipecac, ffnd Squills to promote perspira- 
tion. In cases where the ^kln keeps hot and dry, 
sponge it, from head to fool with cold water in which a 
little vinegar is mixed ; but where the patient is very 
low, and the skin cold, the tepid bath will better assist , 
the sweating. A very lij»ht vegetable diet should be 
pursued, except where ihere is positive sinking, and then 
it must be more nutritious, vi'ine is allowed in such cases, 
given according to urgency : wine whey is also useful, 



18 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Virginia Snakeroot or Camomile infusions are given 
to strengthen ll)e system : also a few drops of oil of vil- 
riol in every pitcher of water that is drunk. Ripe fruits^ 
such as have a sour taste, are highly recommended. 
Keeping the bowels open by gentle medicines or injec- 
tions, and beiny careful that extreme cleanliness and 
ventilation is attended to, will complete ilie cure. If 
spots appear in the mouth, gargles of goldthread and ho- 
ney, with a little alum, are useful to remove them. 

If there is much mental anxiety or tremors mustard 
plasters should be applied to the feet, or these bathed as 
high as the knees in mustard and hot water ; and a tea- 
spoonful of ether or ten grains of Dover's powder taken 
to induce rest. 

I have heard of typhus fever in which all hope was 
gone, and yet the patients recovered by yeast given by 
the wine-glassful every three hours. 

Continued Fever, 

Is so called, when it begins in the same manner as th© 
inflammatory fever, but ends in typhus, seeming to be a 
blending of both. As it assumes the appearance of one 
or the other, it must be treated accordingly. 

Yelloio Fever and Ship Fever are names for varie- 
ties of Typhus. 

Recipe for Rheumatism. 

Take 4 ounces Castile soap; 2 ounces Camphor; 
half an ounce Oil Rosemary ; 3 pints Alcohol. 

Soak the soap three days in the Alcohol and then add 
ihe other ingredients. 

Recipe for Putrid Sore Throat. 

Mix one gill of strong apple vinegar, one table-spoon- 
ful of common salt, one table-spoonful of drained honey 
and a half pod of red pepper together, boil them to a 
proper consistency, then pour it into half pint of strong 
sage lea, take a tea-spoonful occasionally and it will 
be fcund an infallible cure. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. I^ 

Chicken-pock. 

Known by a moderate fever, ushering in an eruption of 
pimples, bearing some resemblance to the smallpox, 
they quickly form pustules, containing a watery matter, 
and after three or four days from their first appearance 
fall off in little scales. 

The bowels should be kept ope» by castor oil, and 
boneset tea administered to keep up the perspiration. If 
the stomach is foul at the commencement of the disease 
an emetic of ipecac, should be given. The diet low, as 
a matter of course. 

Measles. 

This disease comes on with the ordinary symptoms of 
fever in grown persons, but in children, beside these, 
with soreness in the throat. Its characteristic symptoms 
are heaviness about the eyes, inflammation, and gushing 
of sharp tears ; the eyes extremely acute, and unable to 
bear the light without pain ; with all this is a discharge of 
watery humor from the. nostrils that produces sneezing. 
The fever and other symptoms increase rapidly : a fre- 
quent and short dry cough comes on, with stuffing, great 
oppression, and oftentimes a disposition to vomit ; vio- 
lent pains in the lungs, and sometimes a looseness. At 
other times, there is great sweating, a foul and dry tongue, 
and great thirst. The eruption comes on generally the 
fourth day; three days afterwards the redness diminish- 
es, the spots dry up, the old skin peels off and is 
replaced by a new one. By the tenth or eleventh day no 
traces of redness are to be found, and the skin looks quite 
natural. As cough, headache and fever continue during 
the eruption, the patient, at the end of it, is worse off 
than before, and these symptoms continue, often become 
aggravated, and lay the foundation for a host of other 
evils. 

The bowels should be kept open during the progress 
©f the disease ; castor oil is excellent for this purpose ; 
where the disease sets in with great violence, moderate 



20* paMily PHrsiciAW. 

bleeding is highly serviceable, and will prevent mncls 
after trouble. Two grains of James' powder, and half a 
grain of Ipecac, mixed in a powder, may be given every 
two hours, to promote sweating. When there is much 
wheezing, give an emetic occasionally. The cough may' 
be relieved by flaxseed tea or any similar soothing drink. 
The diet should be light. Throughout the whole course 
of this disease, look occasionally to the lungs and bowels, 
if either become affected, remedies may be found undei 
their proper heads, as also if symptoms of typhus appear. 

If, by dny means, the eruption has been imprudently 
checked, and the usual distress follows, put the patient 
at once into a warm bath ; give hot calnep or hoarhound 
lea, and if much sinking occurs, a little ether or brarjdy j 
fhese means will generally suffice to hurry it on. 

Avoid exposure of all kinds, for some time after re- 
covery ; wear warm clothing, and be attentive to the dial 
and state of the bowels. 

Scarlet Fever. 

This begins with languor, inactivity, confused ideas, 
and chills and shivering, alternating with fits of heat* 
There is much ihirst; a dry skin, anxiely, nausea, and 
vomiting About the third day, a scarlet efflorescence 
appears on the skin, the fever at most times still continu-* 
ing; in three or four days this departs ; a general sweat 
breaks out, the fever subsides, the outer skm falls off ir? 
small jscales, and the patient becomes well. Sometimes 
a dropsical swelling will replace the reddening, and cover 
ihe whole body, lasting, however, but a short lime. 

When it comes on in a more violent manner, the above 
symptoms, at the commencement, run still lugher : 
there Is vomiting of bilious matter, soreness of throaty 
and inflammation, succeeded by ulcenjiion of the tonsils^ 
the breathing is frecjuent and laborious, and the pulse 
small and depressed. The reddening on the third day 
only aggravates the existing symptoms, and often bring* 
out worse ones; in its progress, a universal redness* 
without pustules, pervades the face, body and limbs,, caus- 



.• FAMILY PHYSJCIAN. 2J 

/ 

ing those parts to swell. Tiie eyes and i.ostrils are also 
reddened ; in propoiiion as the eyes have an inHamed 
appearance, so does ihe ler 'ency lo delirium increase. 
From the first, the inside of I'te throat is very nuich in- 
flaiwed ; grayish sloughs soon appear, giving the tiiroat a 
speckled appearance, and making- ihe breath smell very 
bad. The patient is often cut ofT in a few days : if re- 
covery ensues at all, it will be slow; dropsy is apt to 
follow, as well as enormous swellings around the gland^ 
of the tieck, which foim niatier very slowly and com- 
pletely exhrtust whatever little strength the patient may 
have left. 

The worst form of the disease puts on at its com« 
Hienceuient symptoms the same in kind as the others, 
ibut more intense ; the pulse is small and indistinct, and 
irregular; lie tongue, teeth and lips covered with a 
brown or black crust ; the eyes of a dull red ; dark red 
flusin'ng of the clieeks ; deafness, delirium or insensible 
sleep ; the breatJi smelfs extremely bad; the respiration 
is ratiling and performed with ditficulty, in some measure 
arising from thick phlegm clogguig the parts behind the 
jnouih ; svi'allowing is painful and difficult ; the neck is 
swelled and of a livid color, and the head is drawn back. 
Ulcerations may be observed on the tonsils covered with 
dark sloughs ; the tongue has the skin removed from it by 
the sliyhiesl touch, and is painfully tender. An acrid dis- 
cbarge flows from the nostrils, raising blisters and chap» 
about the nose and lips : at first this discharf^e is thin, 
but afterwards thick and yellowish. The rash is gener- 
ally very faint except in a few patches, and it soon 
changes to a dark or livid red color ; it appears late ; is 
uncertain in the period of it, staying and often mixed 
wiih livid spots; sometimes goes away the first three 
hours after forming and does not return for three days. 
In an advanced stage, bleedings take place from various 
parts of the body. 

When this disease is going off, the fiery redness 
abates gradually ; a brownish color succeeds, the swell- 
ings go down and health is gradually restored. Where it is 
to prove fatal, the fever runs high from the start ; the skin 



%9 FAMIIlY PHYSICIAN. « 

is hot and dry, the pulse frequent and snfiall ; great th'frst 
prevails ; the reddening appears on the second day, or 
sooner, and on the third or fourth is interspersed with 
Hvid spots ; a high degree of dehri.um arises ; bleedingsf 
take place from various parts, a«id the patient is cut off 
the sixth or eighth day. In some instances a purging 
arises which takes the patient off at once. Som3 again 
get over all this, become dropsical, fall into a decline 
and are carried off in a few weeks. 

In the first or simple form of the disease we have 
mentioned, nothing is required beyond keeping the bow- 
els open ; inducing a perspiration ; making the diet light 
and removing the patient to a cool, quiet room. Cold 
water in all diseases where there is thu'st, may be used 
moderately, except, of course, in cases where its mere 
bulk would cause trouble, as in inflammation of the 
stomach and bowels, and then the thirst may be removed 
by sponging the mouth and throat and allowing ice to 
melt in it. In all cases the patient should be removed 
to a cool, quiet room, if possible. Where the skin is 
very hot and dry, sponging its surface with cold water 
will give immediate relief. 

Where the throat is affected and the fever runs high- 
er we must be guided by the symptoms as to whether 
they point to an inflammatory or typhoid character, and 
treat- accordingly. In general, an emetic of 20 grains 
ipecac, and one of tartar emetic, will prove serviceable 
by clearing the stomach, reducing the fever, and reliev- 
ing the throat. A large dose of castor oil should suc- 
ceed this ; but it should be kept in mind that where the 
fever is high and the throat much affected, an occasional 
emetic, such as mentioned, is extremely useful. Ipecac, 
and squill may be given in small doses to promote 
sweating, (ipecac. 2 grains ; squill, half a grain.) Bone- 
set and catnep teas are also useful for this. When 
the skin continues permanently hot and there is much 
fever, immediate relief can be afforded by sponging the 
body from head to feet with cold wa^er, uniil the patient 
feels better : this method is inexpressibly grateful and 
refreshing. Where the inflammation in the throat runs 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. * 3$ 

high leeches should be applied to the outside freely, fol- 
lowed by blistering behind the neck and ears : the mouth 
and throat should be freely gargled ; balm or any mild 
herb tea is good for this purpose, wiih saltpetre dissolved 
in it. I have found great benefit in the use of a gargle 
made by putting a few drops of aquafortis or nitric acid 
into a pitcher of water, or enough to make it taste very 
slightly sour, and often and freely rinsing the throat and 
mouth with it. 

When the disorder puts on a typhus character and 
there is much sinking, a more generous diet is allowed • 
wine is sometimes given in alarming cases, with strength- 
ening medicines, as infusion of columbo, (one ounce to 
the pmt of hot water, allowed to stand two hours, strained, 
and a table-spoonful taken for a dose.) Alarming symp- 
toms often spring up which require immediate alleviation. 
Vomiting should be relieved by soda water, or an efferves- 
cing draught made by adding-a tea-spoonful of salaeratus 
to a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, in half a glass of water, 
and drink while foaming. A strong mustard plaster, or 
blister, to the stomach, is also Useful if there is much 
tenderness on pressure. Looseness should be stopped 
by half grain doses of opium and ipecac, given every 
two hours. Dropsy and all other local diseases treated 
as directed under their separate heads. 

After the scarlet fever had gone off, I have seen the 
glands on the throat swell to an alarming size, so that 
the neck could not be distinguished ; the respiration 
wheezing, and suffocation threatened every instant ; 
the skin hot, and fever. I have applied a number of 
leeches at once to the outside of the throat; or where 
these were not convenient, given a strong emetic and 
immediate relief has generally been obtained. After 
the immediate danger is over, the formation of matter 
hould be assisted by poultices. 

Smallpox. 

D t. '2;g Form. — When this disease has arisen natural- 
lyi I' 3 1. .uption is commonly preceded by redness in the 



24 ' FAMILY FHYSICIAK. 

eyes, soreness in the throat, pains in the hea^l, back and 
loins, weariness and fainlness, fits of heat and chdhness, 
thirst, nansea, sometimes vomiting and a qnick ptilse 
Sometimes these symptoms are extremely violent, at 
others quite mild ; very young children often have 
convulsions. 

On the fourth morning from the seizure, the eruption 
shows itself in little red spols on the face, neck, and 
breast, and these continue to increase in number and 
size for three- days longer, at which lime they are to be 
observed dispersed over various parts of the l)ody ; il 
the pustules are not very numerous, they will be mucb 
abated or entirely cease. The determination to the skin 
often brings out little spols of the nature of erysipelas, 
but these usually disappear as soon as matter begins to 
form in the piistules, which is generally the fifth or sixth 
day, at which period a minute bladder containing a watery 
matter, may be seen on the top of each pimple. If the 
pustules are perfectly distinct from eacii other, they will 
be filled by the nintli day with thick yellow matter; bu5 
sf they run into each other, it will take a longer lime U 
effect this filling. 

When ihe pustules are very thick on the face, it is 
apt to become swelled, and the eyelids closed, before 
which the voice is hoarse, swallowing is difficult, and 'a 
considerable quantity of thick spittle is discharged. On 
the eleventh day, the swelling goes down t(* settle on 
ibe hands and feet, and the pustules break, and ihe mat- 
ter runs out ; the pustules become dry and fall in cruets, 
leaving the skin for some days after of a brownish red. 
.color. Where the pustules are large, and late in falling 
off, they are apt to leave pits behind tliem, but where 
they are small, few in number and form matter quickly, 
no marks are left, or much disturbance occasioned in 
the system. 

L'unjlae.nt Form. — In that form of the disease where 
the pustules run into each other, the fever that precedes 
them is much more violent, and there is often drowsiness 
or delirium. In infants, violent convulsions occur, which 
often prove fatal before the eruption. The pustules 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 'W» 

©bme out on the third day, freqiienlly preceded or ac- 
companied with a rosy flush, hke ilie meiisles ; the f«¥6r 
does not go oli', and aliiioiigh it diminislies a little, yet 
increases on the fifth or sixth day, and continues thnrtjgh 
the rest of the disease. There is a considerable #ow df 
Fpiltle in adults, and in children a looseness of boweJs. 
The little bladders on the- top of the pustules are per- 
ceived sooner than in the other form of the disease, but 
instead of rising up, they are usually flattening, atid ikie 
matter in the pimples, instead of becoming yellow, is of 
a brown color. When the swelling of ihe face ce^es, 
and th«t of the hands and O-et begins, the pimples pxmt 
out a liquor that forms into black or brown crusis, which 
upon falling off, leave pits that mark for life, and by the 
running in of the pimples together, often scar and dis- 
figure the face ; someiimes when the disease is exceed- 
ingly violent, livid spots are seen among the pust«!ca, 
and discharges of blood take place by urine, stool, and 
from various parts of the body. The fever becomes 
more violent when the pustules are filled with brown 
rflatter ; it is called secondary fever, and is tlie most 
dangerous stage of the disease. 

It has been noticed as -a remarkable fact, that sufKill- 
pox is apt to appear before or after the prevalence of 
measles ; and that this hist disease will seize a patient 
affected with smallpox, and run through its course, al- 
lowing the smallpox then to continue its progress. Be- 
tween the eighth and eleventh day, is the time for this 
disease to prove fatal, but it is now and then protracted 
to the sixteenth drfy. 

, The treatment varies according to the kind of disease. 
In the distinct form, where the constitution is goixl, and 
habit stout, a little blood iiasbeftn taken. If the stomach 
is not tender, an JpecKC. emetic is advisable, and then 
clearing the bowels with a strong dose of Castor Oil; 
sweating remedies should then be used, as boneset or 
catnep tea, or Ipecac, in small doses. The patient 
should be freely exposed to ihe cold air, and wlmre there 
is great heat and redness of skin, the body sponged with 
either warm or cold water, the most preferable to the 
2 



TBO FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

patient's feeJings being chosen. The diet should be 
light. When the eruption appears, there is httle occa- 
sion for further treatment. 

In the confluent form, an emetic may be given, the 
bowels opened, and of course kept open by gentle means, 
and sweating induced. If the head is affected, soak the 
feet in warm water, in which mustard is mixed, and ap- 
* ply mustard plasters to the soles of the feet and thighs. 
\Vhere the skin is pale and cold, and the pulse weak, 
the tepid bath is useful in hastening ihe eruption ; when 
at a more advanced period the pustules flallen, and alarm- 
ing symptoms follow, eiher, wine, or laudanum may be 
given. When the disease takes on a debilitating appear- 
ance or typhoid character, use the remedies recommen- 
ded in typhus fever, for strengthening the system. Di- 
arrhoea during the secondary fever, should be moderated 
by a powder composed of 

Dover's pow'der, 6 grains. 
•Powdered chalk, 6 grains, 

And repeated, if the bowels continue as loose as be 
fore. In violent and continued vomiting, give 

Powdered opium, 3-4 of a grain. 
" Camphor, 1 1-2 grains. 

In the form of a powder, repeating, if necessary. The 
eyes may be kept from injury, by placing against them 
pieces of lineii wet in cold water ;• it is very effectual 
and agreeable. By the list accounts it is said tha't 
blistering the pustules, and thus breaking them, and scat- 
tering their contents, will prevent the pitting. 

Varioloid, or Modified Smallpox. 

This disease occurs in consequence of exposure to 
smallpox contagion of a constitution previously acted 
upon by the cow'pox. Persons may take the smallpox 
twice, and such cases I h^ve seen personally, but they 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. Sf 

can never take it if properly vaccinated — the only dis- 
ease with which ihey can then be affected is the va- 
rioloid. 

The varioloid, in the majority of cases, is preceded 
by a slight fever, though instances occur in which it is as 
violent as in severe smallpox : the eruption then appears 
in successive clusters, coming out in no certain period, 
in different cases of disease, but varying from the fever, 
80 that the patient often gets up when the pustules 
come out. A red flush or rash, resembling measles, 
not unfrequently comes out before the pimples ; these 
much resemble the milder cases of chicken-pock, and 
many times the small, firm red, raised spots are changed 
to lillle watery bladders, in the course of the first or 
second day ; many limes, however,- they dry off at once. 
Sometimes the lillle bladders become filled with a fluid 
resembling matter, and are a lillle flattened in the centre, 
but change by the third or fourth day into thin dark 
scabs, which separate, and drop off by the sevenih day. 
The vesicles rarely or never pit^he skin, though warty 
substances have remained after them. 

This disease, of course, requires only a light diet, 
free access of air, and open bowels, to get well of itself; 
if any other symptoms arise, directions for the treatment 
may be found under the head of smallpox, 

Cowpox — Vaccination. 

A clearly defined circular space, not very large, with 
appearances of lines running from the centre to the edges, 
and full of punctures — will mark the genuine cowpox 
sore. The seventh day is the best time for taking out 
the matter: slightly cut the edge of the pustule and 
press it gently out, then rolling the quills in'it and allow- 
ing the lymph to dry on them. 

In order to vaccinate, cut a piece of one of the quills 
to a sharp point, and having first pushed the lancet or 
blade of a penknife a lillle way under the skin, insert 
the quill in the incision, and .allow it to remain thefie 
some five or ten minutes, that will be sufficient. 



Si PAHILT PHYSICIAN. 

If inflan^mation of the arm follows, treat it on the 
ordinary plan. 

Tpothftche. 

Equal proportions of Cajeput Oil and Olive Oil, 
dropped on colion and placed in llie cavity of the looih, 
or even round the tooth, generally gives relief. 

Recipe fur a Cough. _ 

Take equal quantities of Hoarhound and Liquorice 
Root, make a strong decoction, and to three-fourths of 
a pint of this liquor, add the following ingredients : — - 

A drachm and a half of dried Squills, half drachm of 
pure Opium ; half drachm of Benzoin ; half drachm (rf" 
Camphor ; half drachm of Oil of Aniseed, and two oun- 
ces of Honey, simmer it in an earthen vessel, until 
reduced to a half pint, and when strained and cold, add 
half a pint of good Old Rum. Take a tea-spoonful any 
time the cough is troublesome. , 

Rheumatic Plaster. 

Haifa pound of Rosin, and half a pound of Sulphur, 
melt them by a slow fire, then add one ounce of Cayenne 
and half an ounce of Camphor-gum ; stir well till it is 
mixed, and temper it with Neais' fool oil. 

Asiatic Cholera. 

Take Spirits of Camphor, 3 drachms ; Spirits of Tur- 
pentine^ 3 drachms ; Laudanum, 3 drachms ; Oil of 
Peppermint, 50 drops ; mix all together and shake 
it well before using it. Dose, one tea-spoonful in some 
bi-andy and sugar. This may be taken every half hour 
for four or, five times in succession, till the patient is 
Jrelieved ; but besides this, rubbing with camphor spirits, 
ind flax-seed tea for drink, must be used, and dry heat 
in the room dnd around th6 body to get him ia a per> 



T?AMILY PHYSiCIAW. 2©* 

8|^FBtitm ; by commencing in this manner, and then call- 
mg in a doctor as soon as possible, every one will bo 
safe lh;Tt iiKiy be attacked. The writer has been an 
eye witness to many cases affected in this way. He 
says the cases coirimence by sudden cramps, with a 
cold sensation. Others with a severe dysentery and 
vomitings Others wiih severe ^ripitig or colics. The 
above is a certain cure in all these cases 
. Haifa pint best Fiencli Brandy ; 12 drops Oil Pep- 
permint ; 24 drops Laudanum ; a table-spoonful every 
ten minuter till recovered. 

Or, equal parts of Laudanum and Spirits Camphor. 

Or, equal parts of Laudanum, Spirits Camphor, afid 
strong essence of Peppermint. 

To Cure Rattle- Snake Bites. 

Chew and swallow, or drink, dissolved in wat?r 
alum, the size of a hickory nut. 

Put thorough wort leaves pounded on and keep wet 
ting thetn with water. If the person is very sick, black 
or purple, let hun drink a little of the juice. Renew 
the application after 2 hours. 

Warts. 

These troublesome and often painful excrescences, 
covering the hands sometimes to the number of a hun- 
dred or two, may be destroyed by a sitnple, s-ife and 
certain application. Dissolve ns much common washing 
soda as the water will Like up, then wash the hands or 
warts with this for a minute or two, and allow them to 
dry without being wiped. This repeated for two or 
three days, will gradually destroy the most irritable 
wart. " . 

Certain Cure for a Cold. 

Take three cents' worth of liquorice, three of rock 
candy, three of gum-arabic, and put them into a quart of 



WS^- FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

water ; simmer them till thoroughly dissolved, then add 
three cents' worth of paregoric, and a like quantity of 
antimonial wine. 

Pectoral Syrup for Coughs. 

Gum-arabic, two ounces ; Syrup of Tolu, 1 ounce ; 
Paregoric, 2 drachms ; Wine of Ipecac, half an ounce. 

The White Mixture No. 2 for the Same. 

Five ounces of Lac Ammoniac ; Syrup of Tolu, one 
ounce ; Wine of Ipecac, half an ounce ; Paregoric^ 
half an ounce. 

Cough Elecampane. 

Make a syrup by slicing the fresh root, covering them 
with sugar, and baking them for an hour or two. 

To take down Swelling. 

While beans merely stewed soft, and put in thin mus- 
lin bags. A poultice of the roots of Yellow Water 
Lily is very powerful in drawing tumors to a head. 

For Inflamed Eyes. 

Stir the whites of two eggs briskly with a lump of 
AJum till ihey coagulate, placed on the closed lid at night, 

Flax-Seed Tea. 

For severe colds, attended with feverish symptoms, 
the following is an excellent remedy : Hot flax-seed tea, 
with lemon-juice and sugar, and fifteen drops of Wine 
of Ipecac, taken when getting into a warm bed. A 
few spoonfuls should be taken whenever there is an 
inclination to cough. Some add two or three spoonfuls 
of White Mixture or one tea-spoonful of Paregoric, t« 
a tumbler full. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 9|S^' 

White Mixture No. 1, For a Cough. 

Gum Ammoniac, one-fourth of an ounce rubbed in 
water, two ounces ; add Paregoric, half an ounce ; An- 
timonial Wine, half an ounce ; Syr, Bals. Tolu, one 
ounce. Dose, a table-spoonful once, twice, or thrice a 
day, as occasion may require. Sweeten with loaf-sugar. 

Volatile Liniment. 

Two-thirds sweet-oil, and one-third hartshorn, shaken 
well a»d corked very tight. Rubbed on stiff necks, 
tkeumatic limbs, and to prevent sore-throat. 

ft Delirium Tremens. 

When the fever is violent, and there is considerable 
determination to the head, it is well to lower the general 
tone of the system, by giving nauseating doses of ipec- 
ac, as 2 grains every hour, or a tea-spoonful of anti- 
monial wine every hour and a half, until sickness at the 
stomach is felt. Then give from a half to a whole tea- 
spoonful of laudanum, and induce sleep. 

R ecovery from Drowning. 

There have been many extraordinary recoveries where 
the body has lain for hours under water ; but in general 
there is not much hope after an immersion of ten minutes. 

After the body is taken out of the water, use it as 
gently as possible ; let no violence of any kind, such as 
rolling on a barrel, be permitted : of course, incline the 
head at first, that the water may run off; place the body 
in a warm bed and cover with a warm blanket ; hot 
bricks, or bottles of water should be placed to the feet 
and hands ; and while one or two persons are rubbing 
assiduously the body with the palms of the hands, let 
another try to fill the lungs with air: to do this, close- 
the nostrils of the subject, and fitting your mouth to his, 
blow steadily and forcibly until the chest is full of air • 



Mt FAMIIiY PHYSlClAK. 

then press the bowels upwards, that it may be ejected, 
this should be repealed a rminber of limes until some 
signs of hfe are sliovvn. An injeclion, in which there is 
spirits of inrpeiiline, may be thrown up. Geiille siimu 
iaols may be given on recovery. 

Mumps. 

Tliis is a swelling, on the sides of the cheek and 
under the jaw, of ihe glands that produce saliva; it 
s^ipetijnes renders swallowing and breathing diflicult; 
itj^oes off on the fourth day. ^ 

Flannel should be kept over the part, the diet light, 
and the bowels regular, with doses of castor oil; when 
other orgruis are attacked, the treatment must be for in 
flammation of those organs. 

Tic Doloreux. 

This dreadful disease is treated by strengthening the 
general system, and the use of tonic medicines, as qui- 
nine and salacine. 

Mesmerism, or Fascination, is the only cure that pro- 
mises much relief; to those who wish information on 
the subject, I must refer Fascination, or the Philosophy 
of Charuiuig, by J. B. Newman, published by Fowler & 
Wells, of this city. 

Burn or Scald. 

Spread a plaster of Turner's cerate, and apply it to 
the wound twice a day ; or, 

Burn ihe inside sole of an old shoe to ashes and 
sprinkle tiie ashes on the affected parts. 

Fever and Ague. 

Take of cloves and cream of tartar, each half an ouncto, 
and o!>e ounce of peruvian bark, mix in a little tea, 
in«).liixses or honev, and take it on the well days in such, 
quantities as the stomach will bear. 



PAMILT PHYSICIAN. SS 

Felon in the Eye. 

Take of lime water and sal. ammoniac equal parts, 
add a very little verdigris, enough te color it slightly, 
and use it as a vtrash ; or, 

Rub on the eye, with a soft hair pencil, the gall of 
an eel. 

Scurvy. 

Take three ounces of nitre, and dissolve it in one 
quart of good vinegar. Dose, one table-spoonful, if the 
stomach will bear it, if not take less. 

Fever Sore. 

Take of hoarhound, low balm, sarsaparilla, loaf sugar, 
aloes, honey, gum camphor, spikenard, spirits of turpen- 
tine, each one ounce. Dose, one table-spoonful, three 
mornings, missing three ; and for a wash, make a strong 
tea of sumach, washing the affected parts frequently, 
and keeping the bandage well wet ; or. 

Take two and a half drachms of blue vitric -.^ 
dtachms of alum, six drachms of loaf sugar, and put 
them into a pint of good vinegar, adding three table- 
spoonfuls of honey. This is an excellent wash for fever 
sores, and scrofulous humors. 

Rattles in Children. 

Administer a small tea-spoonful of powdered bloodroot 
sn molasses ; and if this does not afford speedy relief^ 
repeat the dose in half an hour. 

Sick Headache. 

Take a tea-spoonful of powdered charcoal in molasses 
every morning, and wash it down with a little tea ; or, 

Drink half a glass of raw rum or gin, and drink freely 
9i mayweed tea. 



lIMi FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

* Ague. 

Make a poultice of ginger and flour, and apply it warm 
to the face. 

Falling of the Bowels, in Children. 

Apply the oil of hen's eggs to the parts — put them in 
their proper place — then roast an egg, and lay it on ae 
hot as can be borne. 

Weak Limbs. 

Take the shavings of leather, and cumfrey root equal 
pftrts, steep them in proof brandy, and use it as a wash 

Pains. 

Steep marigold in good cider-vinegar, and frequently 
wash the affected parts ; this will afford speedy relief; or 

Take half a pound of tar, and half a pound of tobacco, 
and boil them down separately to a thick substance,^ 
then simmer them together ; spread a plaster, and apply 
it to the affected parts, and it will afford immediate relief. 

Urinary Obstructions 

Steep pumpkin seeds in gin, and drink about thre« 
glasses a day ; or. 

Administer half a drachm of uva ursi, every morning, 
and a dose of paregoric every evening. 

Hiccough. 

Take five drops of the oil of amber in mint tfea, every 
ten minutes, until they cease. 

Boils. 

Make a poultice of ginger and flour, and lay it on the 
Ml ; this will soon draw it to a head. 



VAMILY PHTtlCIAN. 

Ear-ache. 



Roast a piece of lean mutton, squeeze out the juice 
and drop it into the ear as hot as it can be borne ; ot. 

Roast an onion, and put it into the ear, as hot at il 
can be borne. 

Catarrh. 

Take the bark of sassafras root, dry and pound it, 
•«« it as a snuff, taking two or three pinches a day. 

Sprains. 

Take of spirits of turpentine, proof brandy, neats-foot 
oil, urine, and beefs gall, each one glass, adding one 
tea-spoonful of fine salt ; mix, and simmer them together, 
and rub it on the affected parts as hot as can be borne ; or, 

Take one quqce of ginger, the whites of two eggs, 
nnd one tea-spoonful of fine salt ; make these into a 
poultice and lay it on the parts affected. 

Reduce a Swelling. 

Take of rum half a pint, warm it,Hhen add half an 
«unce of tine, of camphor, half an ounce of laudanum, 
and put them into a bottle ; and by frequently rubbing 
the parts affected with this mixture, hot as can be born« 
it will soon reduce the worst kind of swellings. 

Cramp in the Stomach. 

Take ten drops of lavender on sugar, and repeat Ih* 
dkjse every ten minutes, until relieved. 

* Callus. 

Take of brandy, pig's-foot oil, beefs gall, and spirite 
«f turpentine, each one gill ; simmer all together, and 
reb on the parts, as hot as can be borne, about thiee 
bmes a day. 



36 FAMILY FHYSt^IAW. 

Menstrual Discharges. (See Fern. Obstruct.) 

In order to check the too free discharge, take of bumi 
alum, three drachms, dragon's blood one drachm j and, 
make into pills. Dose, four or five, night and morning j 
or, 

Make a tea of snake weed, or yarrow, and drink free» 
ly; or, 

In order to help the discharge, tak« one tea-spoonftrl 
of the tincture of gum guaiacum in a tumbler of new 
milk on going to bed, two or three nights before the full 
of the moon ; and at the same time, make a strong tea 
of snakeroot, and drink in the course of the day as much 
as the stomach will bear. This may be depended upon 
as an infallible remedy. 

Itch. 

In one pmt of gin, steep ot black cherry-tree bark, 
prickly ash, and yellow dock root, each one ounce, add- 
ing half a pint of water ; and drink two glasses a day. 
Rub on the hams or anus, mercurial yellow ointment. 

Palpitation of the Heart, 

This disease consists in a vehement and irregular 
motion of liie heart, and is induced by organic affections^ 
a morbid enlargement of the heart itself, or of the large 
vessels, a diminution of the cavities of its ventricles from 
inflammation or oiher causes^ polypi, ossification of the 
aorta or other vessels, plethora, debility or mobility of 
the system, malconformaiion of the thorax, and many of 
ihe causes inducing syncope. 

During the attacks the motion of the heart is perform- 
ed with greater rapidity, and generally with mora force 
ihan usual, which is not only to be felt with the hand,, 
hut may often be perceived by the eye, and in a few in- 
stances even be heard } there is frequently a purplish 
hue of the lips and cheeks, and a great variety of anxiou» 
and painful sensations. 



FAMILY PHYSICUN. 



37 



!n some instances the complaint has terminated in 
d«ath, but in many others it is merely symptomatic of 
hysteria and other nervous disorders. 

In the treatment of this disease, it should be our study, 
jf possible, to find out the exciting cause, and to remove 
this. If it arises from plethora, bleeding with purgatives 
should be adopted; if from debility, bitters with chaly- 
beales and cold bathing, &c. will be proper ; when symp- 
tomatic of any nervous d^isorder, aether, castor, musk, and 
other antispasmodics, conjoined with tonics, will be 

al^visable. - ■ cc 

*WAs the disease, however, arises from anorganic attec- 
tion of the heart itself in many instances, or of the aorta, 
or other large vessels connected with it, all that may be 
in our power in such cases will be to caution the patienl 
against exposing herself or himself to such circumstan 
ces as may increase the action of the sanguiferous sys 
tem, particularly fits of passion, sudden surprises, violent 
exercise, or great exertions of the body. 

Chilblains. 

Wash the parts in strong alum water, applied as hot 
M can be borne. 
f * 

Corns. 

Spread a plaster made of gum ammoniac, and lay il 

over Uie com : or, , • -.i. •» 

Boil tobacco down to an extract, then mix with it a 
quantity of white-pine pitch ; and apply it to the corn, 
renewing it once a week until the corn disappears. - 

Jaundice. 

Take whites of two hen's egg5, beat them up vvell in 
a gill of water ; take this, a little every mormng ; i will 
*oon do good ; i\ also creates an appetite, and strengthen. 
Uie stomach ; or, 



19 FAMILY FHYSICIIK. 

Take the yolk of a hen's egg, a tea-spoonful of lemon 
juice, a tea-spoonful of sugar ; mix ; take this three mor- 
nings, and then miss three ; repeat it, if necssary ; or 

Take of black cherry-tree bark, two ounces ; blood 
root and goldthread, each half an ounce; put into a pint 
of brandy. Dose, from a tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful, 
morning and night. 

Strengthening Plaster. 

Take of tar and hemlock gum, equal parts ; stir in*»' 
tea-spoonful of sulphur : it is fit for use, * W 

Bite of Poisonous Creatures- 
Snake. — Apply juice of onions mixed with fine salt; 

or apply Spanish flies, until a blister is raised. 

Mad dog. — Take two table-spoonfuls of fresh chloride 

of lime ; mix with water ; wash the wound often. 

Bites or Stings. — Make a strong tincture of lobelia, 

and apply it often ; this is an infallible, cure 

' Sore legs. * 

Apply to the sore a batch of common tow, and keep il 
wet with new milk ; or, 

Take wormwood, smart-weed, blue vervine ; boil in 
weak lye ; apply with a soft brush or feather. 

Monthly Course — Painful. 

Take a teaspoonful of flax-seed three times a day. 

Raising Blood. 

Make a tea of white oak bark, and drink freely during 
the day ; or, 

Take half a pound of yellow dock root, boil in new 
milk, say one quart ; drink one gill three times a day ; 
and take one pill of while pine pitch every day, to heal 
Uie wound or leak. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN i •• 

Deafness. 

Take ants' eggs and onion juice ; mix, and drop 

into the ear : or, . , j r 

Drop into the ear, at night, six or eight drops ot warm 

chamber lye. 

Stomach Sickness. 

Drink three or four times a day, of the steep made 
from the bark of white poplar roots. 

Bloody Urine. 

Dissolve one ounce of gum Arabic in one gill of wa- 
ter; in a glass of this, drop in ten drops of vitriol oil; 
lake of it two or three times a day. 

Numb Palsy. 

Take of ether, four ounces ; oil of lavender, half an 
ounce ; rub this mixture on ; give one tea-spoonful when 
you commence the application, night and morning. 

Nervous Affections.— Sick Headache. 

Make a tea of mullen seed and drink freely ; or. 
Take powdered charcoal (one tea-spoonful) m molas- 
ges, every day ; wash it down with a little tea. This is 
good for sick headache ; or, • , • , ir u 

Take three or four drops of nitric acid, in halt a tumb- 
ler of cold water. 

White Swelling. 

Draw a bUster on the inside of llie leg, below the 
knee; keep it running with ointment made of hen 
manure— by simmering it in hog's lard wilh onions ; 
rub the knee with the following kind of ointment; bits 
of peppermint, oil of sassafras, checkerberry, jumper. 



40 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

one drachm each ; simmer in half a pint of neat's fooi 
oil ; rub on the knee three times a day. 

Bleeding at the Lungs. 

Take three or four drops of oil of golden rod. 

Scrofu la — Humor. 

Administer one drachm of Peruvian bark ; half in the 
morning and half at night ; also, give the patient twenty 
drops of the oil of tar, at eleven o'clock, A. M. and four 
o'clock, P. M. 

Take of powdered egg-shells one tea-spoonful, (or 
oyster-shells,) mixed with Peruvian bark, one eighth part, 
two or three times a day. 

Salt Rheum. 

Make a strong tea of elm root bark ; drink the ie%, 
freely ; and wash the affected part in the same ; or, 

Take one ounce of blue flag root, steep it in half a 
pint of gin ; take a tea-spoonful three times a day moan- 
ing, noon, and night ; and wash with the same ; or, 

Take one ounce of oil of tar, one drachm of oil of 
checker berry ; mix. Take from five to twenty drops, 
morning and night, as the stomach will bear. 

Cutting Teeth. 

Make a necklace of the bean called Job's tears, and 
let the child wear it around its neck. 

Dropsy. 

Take of cream of tartar, borax, ginger, gum myrrh^ 
each one ounce ; put into one pint of best gin ; lake 
one table-spoonful three times a day ; or. 

Take one drachm powdered broom-seed, put into one 
and a half glass of wine ; take it early in the morning, 
&8ting, one or two days or, 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 4| 

Take blue flag root, half a pound ; elecampane root, 
half a pound ; boil in two gallons of water, down to one 
qpart ; add one pint of molasses and half a pint of gin. 
Take a wine-glassful three limes a day ; or, 

Take as much as the stomach will bear, (say about a 
wine-glass,) of the inner bark of common elder in strong 
wine, morning, noon, and night. 

Bilious Complaints. 

Take dandelion (root and branch) and poplar tree root, 
each half a pou'nd ; steep out all the strength ; simmer it 
down thick ; add molasses, and take one tea-spoonful 
four times a day ; or, ' 

Take a quarter of a pound of black cherry-tree baik, 
one ounce of bloodroot ; steep in a pint and a hali" <jf 
brandy three days ; then add one gill of water and one 
gill of molasses i let it steep three days, and it is fit lor 
use. Dose, from a table-spoonful to half a wine-gl^sS' 
ful two or three times a day ; if it should brace the 
stomach too much, take less , if not, take a little more. 

• 

Humors. 

Take saffron and Seneca snakeroot, equal parts ; m^ce 
a strong tea ; drink half a pint per day, and tliis will 
drire out all humors from the system. 

St. Anthony^s Fire. 

Dissolve two ounces of saltpetre in one pint of water; 
take from one tea spoonful to a table-spoonful night and 
morning; wash in the same ; or, 

Take one glass of rum, and one glf^ss spirits of turpen- 
tine ; mix, and wash ; and when the inflammation is 
gone, rub the parts with mutton tallow. 

Dyspepsia. 

Take bark of white poplar root, boil it thick, add a 
Kltle spirit ; lay it on the stomach ; or. 



4t FAMILT PHYSICIAN. 

Take wintergreen and black cherry-tree bark, and 
jellow dock ; put into two quarts of water ; boil down to 
three pints ; take two or three glasses a day. 

Bilious Cholic 

Mix two table-spoonfuls of Indian meal in half a pint 
of cold water ; drink it at two draughts ; or, 

Take W. I. runj, molasses, hog's fat, wine, each on« 
gill ; mix all together, and take it at discretion. 

Gout 

Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in three ounces of 
alcohol ; add one gill of boiling water ; rub it on as hot 
as can be borne ; or, 

• Take oil of lavender, half an ounce; Sul. ether, four 
ounces ; alcohol, two ounces. Rub on the affected parts ; 
jovL will soon find relief. 

Sore and Weak Eyes. 

Eye water : take white vitriol, one ounce ; bray salt, 
one ounce ; pour on a quart of boiling lime water; let it 
settle, and it is fit for use ; or if too strong, weaken with 
lime water. 

Use the Harlem oil, according to directions ; or, 
Take white vitriol, one ounce ; sugar of lead, one 
ounce ; gunpowder, two ounces ; put into one quart ot 
lime water ; let it settle twenty-four hours, and it is then 
fit for use. 

Polypus. 

Take two ounces of bloodroot, two drachms of cin- 
namon, two ounces of coak root, one drachm of borax, 
ten grains of sublimate ; mix together, and take four or five 
pinches, as a snuff, per day ; when it grows small, snuff 
up a little beet juice ; this will oftentimes blow it out ; or, 

Take of bloodroot one part ; shunk cabbage, half a 
part; lobelia, one part; Corr. sublimate, five grams 



* famiat physician. 43i^ 

•nakeroot, two parts ; slippery elm, three parts ; commoB 
inuff, one part ; take a pinch four times a day. 

Felon on the Hand. 

Take of blue flag-root and hellebore equal parts ; boil 
in milk and water ; soak the hand in this, as hot as you 
can bear it, say twenty minutes ; then bind the roots on 
your fingers one hour, and a cure will be the result. 

Rupture. 

Rub on angle-worm ointment, morning and evening ; 
make a plaster of the yolk of three eggs, mixed with a 
gill of brandy ; simmer together, and use it as a plaster ; 
at the same time drink freely of white oak bark tea, 
and keep up your rupture with a good truss. 

Croup. No. 2. 

Apply a plaster of yellow snuff to the throat ; take a 
little physic ; soak your feet in hot water, and apply 
onion poultice to your feet ; or, 

Take ten grains of white vitriol, ten drops of oil of 
vitriol, one ounce lime water ; mix ; take from five to twen- 
ty drops every hour ; lay a plaster of yellow snuff on the 
throat ; and when you think the bladder is almost full, 
give a vomit of bloodroot and lobelia, equal parts ; this 
will cause the bladder to break, and the child will be cured. 

Fluor Albus. 

Put one ounce of borax into a pint of wine ; take half 
a wine-glass three times a day ; and drink a tea made of 
hackmetack bark. 

St. Vitus's Dance. 

Purge with fleur d'luce ; then take camphor and blood- 
root, and steep them in spirit ; take a tea-spoonfuI three 



44 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. • 

times a day ; then take a tea made of sage^ rue, penny- 
royal ; drink freely ; or, 

Pour cold water, from the height of four or fiTc feel 
on the patient's head, three or four times a day ; at the 
same time, take of eiher one ounce ; oil of lavender one 
drachm ; mix and rub on the wrists and back of the neck 
a tea-spoonful night and morning. 

Urinary Discharges {too free.) 

Take two ounces of Peruvian bark ; steep it in one 
quart of wine Iwenly-fcur hours ; add two drachms of 
alum. Dose, from a spoonful to a wine-glassful two or 
three times a day. 

I 

Liver Complaint. 

Drop into a quart of cold water, aquafortis enough to 
make it a pleasant sour, and drink (through a quill, on 
account of the teeth) freely, through the day ; or. 

Take of tincture of guaiacum and oil of tar, each one 
ounce, mixed. Dose, from five to twenty drops 

Rub on the side, oil of lavender one drachm, ether two 
ounces, oil of sassafras one drachm. 

Gravel, or Stone. 

Take of lobelia, violets, camomile cleavers, smart- 
weed, each one ounce ; boil in two quarts of water down to 
one quart ; add one quart of common lye, one quart of 
Holland gin. Dose, drink half a pint per day, and at 
night take half a wine-glassful, and the same quantity of 
onion juice, when going to bed ; drink nettle tea for a 
common drink ; or. 

Use Harlem oil, according to the directions ; or, 
Take spirits of turpentine, sweet spirits of nitre, oil of 
juniper, balsam of sulphur, each half an ounce ; mix ; 
and take fifteen drops in a strong tea made from the bark 
of the high blackberry bush. Drink a tea made from 
horsemint, freely, as a common drink ; or, 



FAMILY PHYSICIAK. 4S^ 

l^ke castile soap, eight ounces; quick lime, one 

•unce ; oil of tartar, one drachm; mix into five-grain 

piHs, and take three or four per day ; or, 

Make of bean leaves a strong tea, and drink freely; or, 
Take of uvi nrsa any quantity ; powder it fine. Dose, 

from half a drachm to a whole drachm, morning, noon 

and night. 

Mortification. 

Make a strong decoction of white oak bark ; thicken 
with powdered charcoal and Indian meal ; and apply it 
to the parts affected. Try it every two hours ; or. 

Make a strong tea from Indigo weed ; bathe the part 
affected till well. 

Worms. 

Take one ounce of powdered snake-head (herb), one 
drachm of aloes, and one drachm of prickly ash barJc ; 
powder these, and to half a tea-spoonful of this powder 
add a tea-spoonful of boiling water, and a tea-spoonful of 
molasses, and take this as a dose, night or morning, more 
or less, as the symptoms require ; or. 

Take tobacco leaves, pound them up with honey, and 
lay them on the belly ofthe child, or grown person, at the 
same time administering a dose of some good physic ; 
or. 

Take garden parsley; make into a tea; and let the 
patient drink freely of it ; or, 

Take the scales that fall around the blacksmith's anvil, 
powder them fine, and put thsm in some sweetened rum 
Shake them when you take them, and give a tea-spoon- 
ful three times a day. 

Toothache. 

Make an extract from white poplar bark ; mix with it a 
little rum; put into your tooth, and you will soon find 
relief; or, 



4f FAMILY PHTSICIAK 

■ Take the bark of white poplar roots, boil it aown !• 
the thickness of tar ; take a tea-spoonful of this extract, 
put into a glass of spirit, shake it well, and apply to the 
tooth." 

Wen. 

Take clean linen rags ; burn them on a pewter plate , 
wipe off the oil on lint, and lay the jint on the wen ; it 
will soon drop out of itself ; or. 

Take equal parts of alum and salt; simmer them to> 
gether, and wash the parts three or four times a day. 

Whooping Cough. 

Take of sweet oil, garlic, onions, each a gill ; simmer 
together half an hour ; then add a glass of honey^ a tea> 
spoonful of paregoric, and a tea-spoonful of tincture ol 
camphor. Dose, one tea-spoonful three or four times ft 
day; or. 

Take of elecampane, four ounces ; honey, half a 
pound ; set it in a warm p.ace until it forms a syrup. 
Dose, one tea-spoonful three times a day. 

Palpitation of the Heart. 

Take of the root of Indian hefnp, dry and powder it, 
and for a dose take an even tea-spoonful, three times a 
day ; or, 

Take of oil of lavender half an ounce ; ether, four 
ounces ; tincture of bloodroot and of valerian, each one 
ounce. Dose, one tea-spoonful three times per day ; and 
rub some of it on near the heart, at the same time ; or. 

Make a strong tea of motherwort herb and drink it 
freely ; or lake a tea-spoonful of the powdered leaves, ia 
a little tea or molasses, night and morning. 

Weak Stomach. 

Take of gum mastic, and spermaceti, each two oue 
oes ; melt them together over » slow fire ; then stk ir 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 47 

"brown sugar, say two pounds ; make into small balls, 
size of a walnut, and take three per day on an empty 8to> 
mach ; or, 

Take garden wormwood, tansy, balm of Gilead buds, 
buds of pitch pine, each half an ounce ; steep in one 
quart of spirits. Dose, from a table-spoonful to half a 
wine-glassful, morning and evening. 

Cancer. 

Boil down the inner bark of white and red oak, to the 
consistency of molasses ; apply as a plaster, shifting it 
once a week ; or. 

Burn red oak bark to ashes ; sprinkle it on the sore, 
till it is eaten out, and then apply a plaster of tar ; or, 

Take garget berries, and leaves of stramonium ; sim- 
nier them together, in equal parts of neat's foot oil and 
the tops of cicula or hemlock ; mix well together, and 
^ply it to the parts affected ; at the same time make a 
tea of wintergreen (root and branch) ; put about a hand- 
ful into two quarts of water ; add two ounces of sulphur 
of brimstone, and drink of this tea freely during the day. 

Ringworms 

Boil three figs of tobacco in one pint of urine, add one 
gill of vinegar, and one gill of lye ; and rub this wash 
on frequently ; or, 

Take carbold and pulverize it fine, mix it with gin, 
•nd apply it with a feather. 

Diabetes. 

Take of loaf sugar, rosin and alum, equal parts ; and 
take as much as the point of a penknife will contain 
three times a day ; or. 

Steep one olince of ginger in one pint of good wine, 
rad drink two or three glasses a day ; or, 

Dissolve in one quart of proof brandy, one ounce of 
spruce gum, and half an ounce of ginger. Dose, from 



I» 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 



•ne table spoonful to half a wine-glassful, three times a 
day. 

Piles. 

Take one ounce of garget root, and one ounce of bur- 
dock root, put them into a pint of boiling water, and let it 
steep awhile ; when cool, add a little gin to prevent its 
souring, bottle it tight, and take from two to four table 
spoonfuls daily ; or, 

Simmer sunflower seeds in cream, and make it into 
ah ointment ; and rub this ointment on the inside and 
outside, and for an injection use strong Castile soap- 
suds ; or, 

Take equal parts of the pitch of white pine and fir- 
balsam, make this into pills, and take foui: or five per 
day ; or, ' 

Take the Harlem Oil, according to the directions ; 
or, 

If external, rub on linseed oil ; or, if internal, take a 
tea-spoonful of the same, three times a day ; or. 

Take of sulphur one ounce, hog's fat four ounces, 
strong tobacco-juice half a pint, and simmer them to- 
grether into an ointment ; and apply it. 

Liver Complaint. 

Make a strong tea or syrup of burdock, wormwood* 
and dandelion, and drink freely. 

Erysipelas. 

Dissolve five ounces of salt in one pint of good bran- 
dy, and take two table-spoonfuls, three times a day. 

Bowel Complaints in Children. 

Take of prepared chalk one ounce, tinct. of kino one 
ounce, Epsom salts one ounce, and water one pint ; mix 
•21 well together, and shake well before using. Dose, 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 49 

lor a child one year of age, one table-spoonful morn- 
ing, noon and night, and increase the, dose as the symp- 
toms may require. ; 

Gravel. {See Stone.) 

Make a strong tea of the herb called heart's ease, and 
drink freely ; or. 

Make of Jacob's ladder a strong tea, and drink fpeely. 

Painter^ Cholic. 

Make of tartaric acid a syrup similar to that of lemon 
syrup ; add a sufficient quantity of water, and drink two 
or three glasses a day. 

Earache. 

Take a table-spoonful of fine salt, and tie it up in a 
little bag, heat it quite hot, and lay it on the ear, shifting 
it several times ; and it will afford speedy relief. 

Old and Inveterate Sores. 

Take one ounce of copperas, two ounces of while 
vitriol, two ounces of rock-salt, two ounces of linseed oil, 
and eight ounces of molasses ; boil them all together 
over a slow fire, and then add a pint of urine, and when 
cool, add half an ounce of ihe^oil of vitriol, four ounces of 
the spirits of turpentine, and two ounces of the oil of 
tar; mix all well together, and the salve is fit for use. 

Convulsion Fits 

May be cured by taking twenty drops of digitalis, ten 
at night and ten in the morning ; and at the same time 
pour, in a small stream, about one quart of cold water 
from the height of two or three feet upon the fore part 
of the patient's head, and rub the back part of the neck, 
with the following mixture : lake of the oil of lavender two 
drachms, ether two ounces, alcohol one ounce ; and when 



FAMILY PHVSIClA^f. 



ihe fit is 0!i, dash cold water in the patient's face -as 
quick as possible, thus checking the spasms, and afford- 
ing speedy relief. 

Cough. 

Take of paregoric half an ounce, syrup of squills one 
ounce, antimonial wine two drachms, water six ounces. 
Dose, one tea-spoonful every ten minutes, and doubling 
the dose if judged necessary. 

Common Sore Throat. 

Mix a glass of calcined, magnesia with honey,' attd 
take one tea-spoonful every hour. 

Epileptic Fits. 

Take of the root of comfrey, sassafras, burdock, ele- 
campane and horse-radish, and of hoarhound, and rasp- 
berry leaves, equal parts ; make these into a strong tea, 
and to an adult administer one gill, to a child a propor- 
tionably less quantity per day. 

Sore Lips 

Wash the lips with a strong tea made from the bark 
of white oak. 

Bleeding Piles. 

Make a strong tea of yarrow, and drink freely ; or, 
Take a piece of garget-root about the size of a hen's 
egg, put it into a pint of boiling water, and let it steep a 
few hours, when cool, take from one to three table- 
spoonfuls, as the stomach will best bear daily, before 
eating. 

Ulcer 
Boil the leaves of the walnut tree in soft water, and 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 







frequently wash the sore with it, keeping a cloth wet 
with the wash on the parts all the time. 

Felon. 

Take of blue flag-root and while hellebore equal parts, 
and boil them in milk and water; hold the finger in this 
as hot as can be borne about fifteen minutes, then lay the 

Jiot roots on the felon about one hour, and it will sooc 

;iisappear. 

Distress after Eating. 

Take of soda two parts, and of rhubarb one^part, mix 
ihem well together, and take an even tea-spoonful, fifteen 
jjninuies after eating, in water. 

Warts. No. 2. 

Make a strong solution of corrosive sublimate, and 
rub it on the warts two or three times a day. 

Imvard Ulcers. 

Take of the bark of sassafras-root two ounces, blood- 
.root one ounce, colts-foot two ounces, gum-myrrh on€ 
ounce, winter-bark one ounce, and aloes one ounce ; 
sleep them together in two quarts of rum, let them steep 
awhile, and when cool, drink one glass every morning 
before eating. 

Sore Nipples. 

Spread a plaster of fir balsam, and apply it to the 
breast after the child has nursed. 

Phthisic. 

Take four ounces of hen's fat, and with it simmer a 
Ultle of the root of skunk-cabbage. Dose, one tea 
gpoonful, three times a day. 



Si FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Vomiting Prevented. 

Pour boiling water on a piece of camphor, and take 
one dessert-spoonful every ten minutes, until the vomiting 
ceases. 

Consumption. 

Take one table spoonful of tar, and the yolks of three 
hen's eggs, beat them well together, and then add half a 
pint of wine, and shake all well together. Dose, one 
table-spoonful morning, noon and night. 

^ Consumptive Cough, ivith Distress. 

Take of the extract of cicuta one ounce, and oxide of 
zinc half an ounce ; make them into a common sized 
pill, and take one night and morning. 

Thpe Wor7n. 

Boil the stem of pomegranate very strong, and when 
cool, drink freely of the tea ; or, 

Take of spirits of turpentine and rum, each half a 
wine glass, and sweeten with molasses ; take a little of 
this every hour, and afterwards lake a smart dose of 
physic. 

Taking Poisons. 

1. When a person has through mistake taken Oil of 
Vitriol, administer large doses of magnesia, or soap and 
water. 

2. Tartar Emetic. Let the patient drink a tea made 
from Peruvian bark, very strong. 

3. Saltpetre. Give ihe patient one- tea-spoonful of 
mustard seed in water, and after vomiting, give him a lit- 
lle laudanum. 

4. Laudanum. Give a tea-spoonful of mn.slnrd seed, 
and increase the quantity, until it operates, and keep the 
patient moving. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 53 

5. Lunar Caustic. Administer a tea-spoonful of 
common salt, at different limes, until it operates. 

6. Corrosive Sublimate. Take the white of efjo-s in 
water, until vomiting is produced, and appl}' slices of 
onions to -all parts of the body. 

7. And in any other case of the kind, administer a 
lable-spooniiil of powdered charcoal, and in fifteen miu- 
■<*tes afterwards give a dose of physic. 

Bleeding at the Stomach. f 

Take a table-spoonful of camomile tea every ten min- 
tes until the bleeding stops. 

Hoarseness. 

Make a strong tea of horse-radish and yellow dock 
roots, sweeten wiih honey, and drink freely. 

Windy Stomach. 

Ciiew safTron leaves, and swallow the spittle. 

Gleets. 

Make of turpentine a four-grain pill, and lake three 
a day. 

Sweat. 

Take of nitre half a drachm, snake's head (herb) 
otie ounce, ipecac, half an ounce, saffron one ounce, 
<jamphor one ounce, snake-root one ounce, seneca-root 
one ounce, bark of sassafras-root one ounce, opium half 
an ounce ; put the above into three quarts of Holland 
gin, and take a table-spoonful in catnip tea every te?i 
mimites, until it produces a free sweat. 

Humors. • 

For any kind of humors — take of checkerberry and 



1^ FAMILY PITYSICIAN. 

the essence of tar, each one ounce, mix them well togeili- 
cr, and give to an adult from five to fifteen drops, and to 
I a child from three to ten drops, morning and evening; 
and at the same time, let the patient drink freely of jnniperr 
lea ; and if he chooses, he may take the drops in a little of 
this tea. 

Good Remedy for Fits. 

Take of the tinct. of foxglove, ten drops at each time 
twice a day, and increase one drop at each time as long 
as the stomach will bear it, or it causes a nauseous 
feeling. 

Strained Stomach. 

Take of white-pine pitch and of sulphur, each a quarl- 
OT of a pound, and of honey three ounces ; simmer them 
well together, make into pills, a»d take four of these pills 
in the course of the day. 

Stiffened Joints. 

Take of the bark of white oak and sv^'eet apple-trees, 
equal parts ; boil them down to a thick substance, and 
then add the same quantity of goose-grease or oil, sim- 
Bier all together, and then rub it on the parts warm. 

To procure Sleep. 

Wash the head in a decoction of dill seed, and smeB 
of it frequently. 

King's Evil. 

Take of antimony and salt, equal parts, melt them i* 
a crucible one hour, let it cool, and then break the cru 
cible and rub this composition with corrosive sublimate 
equal parts, until it be well mixed, then make into pills, 
and take from two to four a day ; and take a portion oi 
•ome good physic weekly. 



• 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. mm 

Simple Remedy for Cough. 

Take of paregoric half an ounce, syrup of squills one 
ojince, antimonial wine two drachms, water four ounces. 
Dose, one lea-spoonful every fifteen minutes, until re- 
Keved. 

Whites in Women. 

Make a strong syrup of yarrow, and take from one 
table-spoonful to two thirds of a wine-glassful, thre« 
times a day. 

Weeping Eyes,. 

Wash them in camomile tea, night and morning. 

Spine Complaints. 

Mix beef-gall with vinegar, and bathe the back with 
this wash night and morning. 

Liver Complaint. 

Make a strong tea of snake's-head (herb), and drink 
freely. 

Cure for Old Sores. 

Take oi copperas one ounce, while vitriol twp ounces, 
salt two ounces, linseed oil two ounces, tnolasses eight 
ounces, and urine one pint ; mix them well together, and 
then boil the mixture over a slow iire fifieci minutes; 
when cool, add one ounce of the oil of viiriol, and four 
ounces of. the spirits of turperiiine ; and ap[)ly it to 'Jie 
sore with a soft brush. 

Pimples. 

Take a tea-spoonful of the tinci. nf g'ini gu li irum, autl 
one tea-spoonful of vinegar ; mix, n\v\ ripply it to the 
aflfected parts. 



56 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Cure for Toothache- 

Mix alum and salt together; or powdered alum and 
spirits of ether; and apply it on a small wad to the 
affected tooth. 

Lame Feet. 

Take one pint of urine, one table-spoonful of fine sail, 
and one fig of tobacco; simmer strong, and apply it as 
a wash, as hot as can be borne every night ; and when 
about to commence bathing the feel take one lea-spoon- 
ful of the tinct. of guaiacnm ; and in using the wash, if 
it should cause nausea, lake one more tea-spoonful of 
the tincture, and cease bathing. 

Frost Bite. 

Dissolve half a pound of alum in one gallon of hot 
water, or less quantities in proportion ; and apply with 
hot cloths laid on the parts, keeping them Wit with the 
wash. 

Bu7'ns. 

Take of fir-balsam one ounce, sweet oil two ounces; 
mix, and apply with a feather, and then wet a cloth with 
it and lay it on the sore, keeping the cloth wet all the 
time. 

Sore, or Weak Eyes. 

Take of white vitriol ten drops, mix in lime water, and 
take from five to twenty drops, as the stomach will bear. 

Hysterics. 

Take the leaves of motherwort and ihoroughwort, ani 
the bark of poplar root equal parts, mix them in molasses. 
and take four of ihem when the first symptoms of the 
disorder are felt, and they will eflTecually check it. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Locked'] aw. 

Il the wound be occasioned by running a nail or sonne- 
ihing of the kind into the foot or hand, let the parts be 
well soaked in weak lye, and keep thenri bound up until 
the sore is quite healed ; or, 

When there is any appearance of the disease, lei the 
patient take one table-spoonful of elixir, (See page 
72 ) in a wine-glassful of hot water. If this dose 
does not allay the symptoms, give the patient a thorough 
lobelia emetic. If the jaws become locked before the 
emetic is given, let the patient take half a table-spoonful 
of the tincture of lobelia seeds, and fill the spoon up 
with the elixir ; and if the jaws are closed light, put the 
above on one side of the mouth, and let it run down by 
the sides of the teeth and cheek ; it will soon find way 
to the roots of the tongue, will relax the muscles, and 
the mouth will open without any force; and in fifteen 
minutes repeat the dose, giving, in half an hour after- 
wards, one tea-spoonful of vegetable powders, (bee 
page 72,) in a tea-cupful of pennyroyal tea, this cau- 
ses the patient to vomit, and to be relieved. If the 
spasms should continue, let this treatment be repeated. 

\ Universal Cure-all. 

I have thus named this valuable composition, at the 
suggestion of an eminent physician at the South, who, as 
his* letter to me states, has throuuh its instrumentality, m 
very many cases, performed some very remarkable cures. 
In his letter to me he says, " You state in your letter, 
that you paid thirty doUars'for this reoipe~but my opm- 
ion is, that on account of its great efiicacy in the cure of 
some of the worst cf complaints and diseases that the 
human flesh is heir too, it is a duty you owe to your lel- 
low-creatures to make it a public thing. I am at a loss 
where to begin, iis order to inform you of the many cases 
of positive and permanent cures that have come under 
my own oliservatioa in its use; I will at this time men- 
tion but two instances ; the first being that of a lady, 
3* 



Stf^ FAMILY PHYSICIAN 

thai had lost the entire use of her limbs, and wlio had 
not bfeen able to either feed herself, or to walk a step 
for upwards of one year, was restored to perfect health 
attd strength in about six weeks, by frequently -rubbing 
different parts of her body with this composition ; ihes 
quantity I prescribed during that time was about forty- 
eight ounces. The other case, was that of a young 
man, who had lost the use of hTs limbs by a shock of 
the palsy, (as it was thought,) and who, after suffering 
for four years, was cured in a few weeks, by its use; 
the quantity I used in both of these cases weekly, was 
about six or eight ounces," 

I have proved it to be a permanent cure in very many 
difficult cases ; viz., in case of a young man, who had 
lost the use of his hand, and who by continuing its use 
for three days, was'completely cured. A woman who 
had suffered much from weakness and debility after 
child-birth, was restored to perfect health and strength, 
by frequently rubbing her body with this composition 
in a few days. 

Rubbing this composition on, and in the vicinity of 
the parts affected, will be found to be very efficacioua 
in the liver complaint, consumption, broken breasts, sore 
or weak eyes, burns, (rubbing it around, but not on the 
sore, or the eye,) bilious or cramp cholic, stoppages in 
the bowels (mixed with goose-oil, and then giving a little 
physic) chilblains, and by taking one or two tea-spoon- 
fuls in a little sweetened tea, it will cure pains in the 
side, and stomach, and in short, it will be found effi- 
cacious in almost every kind of disease. The recipe is 
as follows: Take of the oil of lavender half an ounce, 
sulph. ether three ounces, alcohol one ounce, and lau- 
danum two drachms; mix all well together, and it is fit 
for use. 



MEDICAL PROPERTIES OF PLANTS. 



Aloes. 

Il is cathartic, operating slowly, but cerlainly at>d^ 
has a particular affinity for the large intestines. 

It slightly stimulates the stomach and is an cxce.lent 
remedy in habitual cosiiveness, attended with torpor of 
the digestive organs, administered in minute doses. Il 
is generally given in doses from five to fifteen grains. 
The best way, however, of administering it is in pills',' 
combined with other articles 

Avens, or Chocolate Root. 

An eminent physician obseiTes, " thai il is an excel- 
lent remedy in all cases of the first stages of consumption, 
and in debility." It is preferable to Peruvian bark in the 
cure of intermittents, dysentery, chronic diarrhce;), wind, 
cholic, affections of the stomach, asthmatic ymptoms, 
and in cases of debility, whiles, flooding, .«jre throat. 

it is good for fevers. After the proper evacuations, W 
may be given till the fever is broken up. The doses 
are daily, a pint of weak decor' lun, or about sixty grains 
of the powder, divided ir/.o three equal parts, and mixed 
with hone)^ It is good for the cure of salt rheum, and 
scald head ; make a strong tea of the root, and drink free^ 
ly ; and wash the humor frequently every day. 

Arrow Head. 

Made into a strong decoction, it is good as a drink, aiid 
as a wash, in case of being bit by a mad dog. 



60 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Black Snakeroot. 

It is an astringent, promotes urinary evacuations, and 
general healthy action, aids menstrual discharges, is effi- 
cacious in removing pains, sickness of the stomach, and- 
heartburn in pregnancy. Administer it in tea ; take 
two ounces of the root, add a pint of boiling water, keep 
it in a warm place, and drink occasionally two or three 
swallows at a time, through the day. It may be used in 
connection with slippery elm before child-birth, as it gen- 
erally assists nature in such cases. It is excellent in 
bowel complaints, especially in children. 

Blood Root. 

It is excellent in coughs and croup. It is an emetic, 
' — J "OT-cotic; produces perspiration, and menstrual dis- 
cimig^,, ; is good in influenza, hooping cough, and phthis- 
ic. It is good in bilious complaints, combined with Black 
cherry-tree bark, also in cases of scarlet fever and in ca- 
tarrh. 

Blackberry Root. 

This root mixed with gold-thread, and boiled down 
strong ; is a sure remedy for canker in the mouth, throat 
or stomach ; wash the mouth with it, and take inwardly 
a table-spoonful daily. It will give great relief in cases 
of gravel and dysentery, if taken often during the day. 

Black Alder Bark. 

A syrup made from it is good for indigestion and it is 
good for jaundice. The tags of it, are good (as a wash) 
for all kinds of spontaneous swellings. The bark pow- 
dered is good for worms. Dose, half a teaspoonful in 
molasses. 

Blue Flag Root. 

This root has effected wonderful cures in aggravated 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 61 

rheumatic complaints. Give, after eating, a tea-spoonful, 
three times a day, of a decoction of the root made into a 
tincture (by putting one oz. of the dried root into half a 
pint of gin); decrease the quantity if slight pains in the 
head or breast are produced. It is excellent in remov- 
ing humor from the system — much more so than the out- 
rageous mercury, and much more safe. For a cathartic 
take half a lea-spoonful of the powder in molasses. 

Butter, or Oil Nut. 

Extract from the bark makes a mild cathartic, like rhu- 
barb. It is good in costiveness and dysentery. Dose 
from fifteen to thirty grains. 

Butter-cup, or Crow's foot. 

It is good for drawing blisters, for corns on the feet, 
and made into a tea, it is excellent in cases of asthma. 

Camomile. 

Used as a tea, it is good for relieving the stomach ii» 
cases of vomiting, and steeped strong, it stops bleeding 
in the stomach. 

Carau^ay. 

When steeped in water it js very good for children, 
to remove wind from the bowels. 

Checkerberry. 

h is good for salt-rheum simmered with neat's foot 
oil and rubbing it on the parts affected. 

Carrots. 

Boiled in milk and water and applied as a poultice lo 
old sores, it is excellent. Biithe ihe sore well wiih the 
liquor before applying the poultice ; it draws out all in- 
flammation. 



iP FAMILY PHYSiClAN. 

Canada Snake Root, 

It is aromatic, stimulant and tonic ; very good fpr 
catarrh and pain in the slomah, coughs, colds, and pul- 
monary complaints. 

Red Cedar. 

The oil, combined with oil of spearmint, is good for 
gravel, disease of the kidneys, scalding of the urine. 
Combined with sarsaparilla, yellow dock, and burdock, 
and made into a syrup, adding to a pint of this syrup 
one ounce of gum guaiacum, it is very good in all vene- 
real complaints. Dose from a table-spoonful to a wine- 
glass, as you can best bear. The berries simmered in 
neat's foot oil are good ointment for rheumatism, lame 
back, &c. 

Comfrey. 

It is a mucilage, well adapted to allay irritation ; gooa 
in dysentery, diarrhoea, consumptive complaints, and 
toughs 

Catnip. 

Steeped and sweetened with loaf sugar, it is good for 
sore throats ; mixed with fresh butter and sugar, good 
for fresh wounds, swelled bowels in children, by bathing ; 
it is also useful in fevers, producing perspiration without 
ificreasing the heat of the body. 

Dandelion 

The root and branch of this plant should be steeped 
in soft water a sufficient length of time to extract all its 
virtues ; then strain the liquor and simmer until it be- 
comes quite thick ; and then, for all bilious complaints, 
from one to three glasses a day may be taken with de- 
cidedly beneficial effects. It can also be made into pills 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. m^ 

It is a good medicine for complaints of the liver, diopsy, 
Slc, 

Currants. ' 

A tea made of the leaves of this bush is good in 
dropsical complaints ; and taken as a common drink, it 
promotes a free passage for the discharge of the urine ; 
it is also good for the stone or gravel. 

DragovLS Claw, or Fever Root. 

It is useful in fevers, as it keeps up a moisture of the 
slcin, without producing excitement. To one lea-spoon- 
ful of the root, add half a pint of boiling water, and drink 
freely when it is blood-warm. 

Dwarf Elder Berries. 

They are excellent in rheumatic and dropsical com- 
plaints, also in cases of swollen limbs. The berries 
must be steeped in spirits, and taken in small doses just 
before eating. 

Elecampane. 

It is used in cases of suppression of the menses, dis- 
eases of the chest, and general debility arising from 
weakness in the digestive organs ; it is also useful in 
dropsy. Of the decoclion, one or two fluid" ounces may 
be taken at a time. It is sometimes used in coughs, and 
pulmonarv affections, 

' Elder Blows, Bark and Berries. 

The 'flowers are good for ilie scurvy, taken in a strong 
tea ; for bowel complaints in children ihey are excellent. 
They are laxative, and purify the blood ; are also good 
for the gout, steeped in vinegar and salt, a table-spoonful 
naixed with the vinegar, rubbed on as hot as the patient 
can bear it- For erysipelas it is good steeped in vinegar 



Vm FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

and rum ; also for St. Anthony's fire ; add a spoonful of 
fine salt to a pirn of the steep; take a spoonful, and at 
the same lime bathe the parts. 

FoxglQve. 

It produces a free discharge »f nrifie, is good in drop- 
sy of the chest, reduces iiiflamn)ation by lessening the 
action of the heart, reduces frequency of the pulse; is 
good in consumptive com{ilai!ils, especially iiiflammalion 
of the lungs. It is a poison, and too large a dose will 
produce spasms, vertigo and death. A dose of the pow- 
der is one grain, to be taken two or three times a day, 
and gradually increased unlil it affects the head, stomach, 
pulse or kidneys. It is said to be of use in case of con- 
vulsion fits ; and made into an ointment, it helps scrofula 
sores. 

Fir Balsam. 

It is good for sore nipples, fluor albus, fresh wounds 
and weakness of the stomach. Dose, twenty or thirty 
drops taken on loaf sugar, molasses, or anything most 
convenient. 

Fever Root. 

It is good in the typhus fever as well as others ; keep- 
ing the skin moist without producing excitement. To a 
tea-spoonful of the powdered root, add half a pint of boil- 
ing water,- and drink freely. 

Ginger. 

It is good in cholic, pain in the stomach, dyspepsia; 
promotes perspiration, warms the whole system. It is, 
prepared with gentian root, an excellent stomach powder 
Dose, one ounce of gentian root and one drachm of gin 
5er, mixed together, and take a spoonful in molasses ev 
sry morning. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 65 

Golden Thread, 

it is a tonic, promoting digestion, and is good for dys- 
pepsia and sore mouth. Combined with camomile, it 
is good for sore lips, chapped hands, and chilblains on 
the feet ; mixed with black cherry-tree bark it is good for 
jaundice. 

Garlic. 

Draughts made of garlics, and applied to the feet at 
night, are good to remove feverish symptoms and equal- 
ize the circulations. It is very good in all inflammatory 
diseases ; also for discussing indolent tumors, coughs, 
colds, asthma. 

Gentian. 

It is a valuable tonic, excites the appetite, invigorates 
the system, and increases moderately the temperature of 
the body. It is good for debility of the digestive organs, 
gout, hysteria, scrofula and dyspepsia. Dose, from ten 
to forty grains. 

Gum Arabic, 

It is nutritive, and soothing to irritated parts ; good to 
prevent bleeding in dysentery, hoarseness, whooping 
cough, and suppression of urine. Take a handful of 
English barley, gum Arabic, a piece about the size of a 
walnut, with a little slippery-elm ; pour upon it a pint of 
boiling water, steep it and sweeten with loaf sugar. 
This is excellent where the patient has not much appe- 
tite and cannot bear solid food. 

Horse Radish. 

It promotes appetite, and invigorates the ^digestive 
powers. It is useful in hoarseness, when made into a 
syrup. 



t$ rAMILT PHTSICIAM. 

Hyssop. 

It is very useful in producing expectoration, or di» 
charge of mucus from the lungs, fur catarrh, especially 
in old people, and as a gargle in tore throats. Make a 
tea, and drink at discretion. - 

Hops. 

Hops are tonic, good in dysentery, nervous tremors, 
weakness and tremors of inebriates. A pillow made of 
hops wet with rum, is good to produi-e sleep, and allay 
nervous irritation, good in after-pains of women and val- 
oable in fermentations. 

Hoarhound. 

It strengthens the lungs ; a cold tea of it is good t«i 
prevent children from coughing, and loosens phlegm in 
the stomach. Mixed with colt's foot, it is fine for lung 
complaints. 

Hemlock (Bark), 

It is a powerful astringent. It is good for a bath in 
cases of falling of the body, falling of the womb, weak 
joints, &c. When the balh is used^ about one third of 
brandy ought to be added. The gum, mixed with Bur- 
gundy pitch, makes an excellent plaster. 

Iceland Moss. 

It is good for a cough. It is bracing and nourishing. 

Indian Hemp. 

It is one of the best remedies for the palpitation ol the 
heart that is to be found, and it is a powerful nervine, 
very good in old standing nervous complaints of women. 

Take an even tea-spoonful of the powdered root, in 
molasses, three or four times a day, for a few weeks. 



rAMILY PHYSICIAN. CT 

It is a fine substitute for opium without its effects^ or 
Mitdency to costiveness and inaction. 

Juniper Bush. 

Its berries are a very excellent counter-poison, and 
also a great resister of pestilence. They are efficacious 
in the cure of wounds occasioned by the bite or sting of 
any beast or serpent of a poisonous nature. They are 
Tcry good in cases of urinary suppressions, and strangu- 
ry. A lye made from the ashes and used as a drink, 
will cure the dropsy. They expel wind, strengthen the 
stomach and eyesight, repress fluxes, good for piles, 
palsy, and falling sickness. Ealing eight or ten of the 
berries every morning fasting, is good for a bad cough, 
•hortness of breath, and consumptive complaints 

Knot Grass, 

The juice of this herb or grass is excellent to stop 
bleeding at the nose or stomach-^being of a very cooling 
nature. Made into powder and taken in wine it is a 
remedy in case of being bitten by any venomous creature. 
It is also good to expel worms. It is also said to be a 
sovereign remedy in all cases of inflammation, gangrene, 
canker, ulcer, broken joints and ruptures, and dy- 
sentery. 

Lobelia. 

It must be dried, pulverized, put into bottles, and very 
tightly corked— otherwise, its strength will soon eva- 
porate. This herb, if properly administered, will invaria- 
able break up diseases of very long standing. By its 
powerful action upon the great sympathetic nerve, it 
allays irritation and inflammation ; it is peculiary adapted 
to the following cases, viz. cholera, hydrophobia, bite of 
rabid animals, lockjaw, asthma, fits, spasmodic affec- 
tions, whooping cough, tightness in the chest, difficulty in 
breathing, bilious complaints, and consumption. 



66 FAMILY tHirsiciA]?r. 

Lobelia will penetrate and equalize the system, remove 
all obstruction, cleanse the stomach and bowels, purify 
the blood, remove disease from the lungs and the livei, 
in a manner far superior to what calomel ever could^ 
or ever will do. Dose, one tea-spoonful at a time — ■ 
sometimes it requires two or three, depending upon the 
constitution of the patient, and the nature of the disease. 

When taken as an emetic, mix it with an equal quan- 
tity of blood-root. This is fine in case of bilious cholic. 
When made into a pill, dampen it with balsam capivi, 
adding a small quantity of Castile soap. Take three 
pills for a dose, and if the patient does not obtain speedy 
relief, repeat the dose in about six minutes. By applying 
the powdered herb to an aching tooth, it will soon afford 
relief. A tincture made from lobelia, is an excellent 
remedy in case of being stung by a bee or wasp, and is 
good in all kinds of poisonous affections, venereal com- 
plaints, St. Anthony's fire, &c. 



Liquorice, 

It is good for a cough. Take a large tea spoonful of 
linseed oil, one ounce of stick liquorice, four ounces of 
best raisins, put the ingredients into two quarts of soft 
water, boil this down to one quart, then add a quarter of 
a pound of brown sugar, and one table-spoonful of lemon 
juice. Drink half a pint of this on going to bed, and 
take a swallow or two when your cough is troublesome 
day and night." 



Lady's Slipper. 

The root of this plant has a tendency to lessen the 
animal energy, and to allay nervous affections, and is 
anti-spasmodic. It may be used in all cases instead of 
valerian ; and is also in most cases far preferable to opi- 
um, as it is destitute of any narcotic effect. It promotes 
sleep, and allays the headache. Dose, one tea-spoon- 
ful in w^irm water, adding a little sugar. 



FAMILY PHYSICIAN. .69 

... v. 'J- V' 

Liverwort. 

The root is excellent in all diseases of the liver, inflam- 
mation, yellow jaundice, chronic coughs ; and will check 
the spread of ring-wornns and running sores. Made into 
beer and drank freely, it will reduce llie heat of the liver 
and kidneys. It is both cleansing and cooling. 

Motherwort. 

It is excellent in all nervous and hypochondriacal af- 
fections, dizziness in the head, &c. A strong tea, made 
of it and drank freely, will raise the spirits and impart 
new life and vigor to the whole system. 

Mosses. 

The ground moss, bruised and boiled in water, wiH 
ease all inflammation and pain caused by lieat. Tree 
naoss is also of a cooling, mollifying, digesting 
nature. The powder of this moss, taken in a drink, is 
good for the dropsy, and strengthens the sinews; and, 
with oil of roses, will cure the headache. Slone moss is 
good in the cure of the phthisic and asthma, by making 
into a tea and drinking freely. 

Mullen. 

Steep the leaves in vinegar, and it is good for a lame 
side, and internal bruises. The centre leaves, steeped 
in milk and sweetened with sugar, are excellent for dy- 
sentery, especially '\n children. With strawberry-leaves 
and cleavers, steeped, it is good in cases of kidney com- 
plaints and obstructions of the urine. 

Mouse Ear. 

This herb is one of the best things known for the dy- 
sentery. Boil a handful of the leaves in milk and watar^ 
tweeten '\% with loaf sugar, and drink it freely. 



^ FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Mustard (Garden). 

It promotes digestion, creates appetite, removes pain 
from the stomach and bowels. The white mustard is 
good for dyspepsia ; it may be taken whole, a tea-spoon- 
ful being the usual dose. It is good applied to the feet 
as draughts ; it is also often used in cases where blister- 
ing is said to be needed. A tea-spoonful of the seed is 
good for the choHc ; a tea-spoonful of the seed bruised, 
acts as an emetic ; a tea-spoonful of the seed powdered, 
and taken in warm water, will expel poison from the sto- 
mach very promptly. 

Prickly Ash. 

The bark and berries are very stimulating, tonic, and 
invigorating. It is good for chronic rheumatism, for the 
toothache, scrofulous humors, and ulcerated sore legs. 

Pennyroyal. 

It is gently stimulant, and will produce universal per- 
spiration if taken in large quantities hot. It is consider- 
ed one of the best medicines in sudden suppression of 
the menses, prepared in the following manner ; take an 
even tea-spoonful of black pepper powdered fine, put it 
into a tumbler of this tea, and drink when going to bed, 
after soaking the feet in weak lye ; this remedy is al* 
most infallible. 

Plantain. 

If poisoned by dogwood, boil plantain strong, and 
wash in the tea ; if poisoned by ivy, do the same ; and 
if you have an old sore do the same. 

Quassia. 
It is a well known tonic as well as bitter^ an^ 



VAMILY PUTSICIAK. ^| 

n universally employed in medicine. It is a large, 
lofty tree, and strongly resembles our common ash; 
the leaves are of a bright red color, and every part of 
the tree is very bitter. 

Poplar Bark {Root). 

It is a sovereign remedy for the toothache : take the 
bark of the root, boil it in water down to an extract, mix 
with a little spirit, and put it into your tooth, and it per- 
forms a speedy cure in nine cases out of ten. A plaster, 
made in like manner, will cure the rheumatism, or any 
other pain. 

Sassafras. 

The bark cures the chronic rheumatism, is good for 
inward ulcers, sores, dropsy. With a tincture of the 
Dark of the root, wash the sore, and if it smarts badly, 
wash round it until you can bear to have it applied to 
the sore. It is good for cuts, or green wounds ; dress the 
wound and keep it wet with this tincture, and in abaut 
ten days you will find it entirely or very nearly healed. 

Sumach. 

The bark of the root, and berries, are good for canker 

in the mouth or throat. Make it into a strong tea, ani 

wash the throat and mouth with it. A strong lea made 

, with both bark and root sweetened with honey, will cure 

a cough, and has been known to cure a consumption. 

Smart Weed. 

This herb or plant is one of the most powerful sudori- 
fics, or swelling-remedies that I ever used. It is an ex- 
cellent help in breaking up a fever. It can be made into 
a tea and drank freely at any time. 



f^ FAMILY PHYSICIAN, 

Spikenard. 

This is said to be a valuable remedy in cases o all 
kinds of sores and ulcers ; and is very good in coughs 
and colds. 

Thorn Apple. 

It is used for cancerous sores, rheumatism, and spas- 
modic asthma, it makes an excellent ointment for the 
piles, or burns. By using the root, in smoking it with 
a pipe, it helps to breathe ieasy, and has cured many cases 
of asthma, after every other remedy had failed. 



MEDICAL PREPARATIONS. 

Elixir. 

This elixir is made by adding one pound of best gum 
myrrh, and three ounces of African cayenne, to one gal- 
Ion of alcohol, or fourth proof brandy. It may be taken 
from a tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful at a time, in wa- 
ter sweetened with molasses or sugar. It is efficacious 
in very many diseases used either internally or external- 
ly ; especially in colds, coughs, consumption, pains in the 
bowels or stomach, rheumatism, inflammations, head- 
ache, toothache, cramp, cold feet, &c. 

Vegetable Powder. 

Take one pound of baberry bark, eight ounces ot gin- 
ger, three ounces of cayenne, and four ounces of hem- 
lock bark ; mix, and for a do«e, take one tea spoonful. 



LADIES' 



COOKING ASSISTANT 



OOHTAIMIMO A IBLSOT NUMBER OP 



IMPORTANT FAMILY RECIPES, 



MANY 9F WHICH HAY£ NEVER BKEN BEFORE THE PUBLIC. 




BT AN EXPERIENCED HOITSEinilB. 



N E W - Y O R K: 
PUBLISHED AT 128 NASSAU-STREET 

18 5 1. 



AngeU 4" Bng.»l Printers, I Spruee-H. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year ll^O, 

BY E. HUTCHINSON, 

Ib tlie Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern Distrid 

of New- York. 



CONTENTa 



Caius, Bread, Yeast, ^c. 

A 

Apple Snow, ... 31 

B 

Baker's Ginger Bread, - 19 

Best Cup Cake, . • 18 

Best Sponge Cake, - - 31 

Breakfast Butter Cakes - 16 
Brown, or Dyspepsia Bread, 32 

BuckAvheat Cakes, - - 16 

Butter Cakes for Tea, - 16 

C 

Cake without Eggs, • 28 

Common Ginger Bread, - 18 

Common Plum Cake, - 15 

CJomposition Cake - - 15 

Cream Cup Cake, - - 36 

Cream Cake, No. 1, . Ifi 

Cream Cake, No. S, • 19 

Cup Cake, No. 1, - - 17 

CupCake, No. 2, - - 28 

D 

Dyspepsia Cake, - - 17 

G 

Ginger Bread, - - - 18 

Ginger Nuts, No. 1, • 29 

Ginger Nuts, No, 2, • - 29 

Ginger Cookies, - - 29 

Ginger Snaps, No. 1, - 29 

Ginger Snaps, No. 2, -30 

^od Family Cake, • • 29 

H 

Hard Wafers, - - - 17 

Hoe Cake, - • . . 30 

I 

Icing for Cakes, - - 18 

Indian Cakes, • - 17 

Indian Corn Cakes, - - 31 

Indian Griddle Cakes, - 15 

jelly Cake, - - - 29 

Jumbles, No. 1, ... 30 

Jumbles, No. 2, - - . 30 

lumbles, No. 3, - . 30 

1. 

I^mon Cake, - . . 28 

Light Cake to bebaked in Cups, 15 



Loaf Cake, 



M 



Measure Cake, No. 1, 
Measure Cake, No. 2, 

N 
New- York Cup Cake, 



17 

18 
28 



Plain Indian Cakes, • It 

Plain Jumbles, • • 30 

Plum Cake, . . > 38 

Pound Cake, ... IS 

R 

Rich Jumbles, . • 90 

Rolls, 17 

Rye and Indian Bread, • SB 

S 

Seed Cakes, • • • 19 

Sugar Ginger Bread, - - © 

Symballs, ... 19 

T 

Tea Cakes, No, 1, . - 1ft 

Tea Cakes, No. 2, • r 17 

Tea Cakes, No. 3, - . ^ 

Y 

Yeast — to make it good, - 20 

do —Milk, ... 20 
do of Cream Tartar and Salse- 

ratus, - - • 31 

Pies, Preserves, Jellies, Sauce, <^(t. 

A 

Apple Sauce, • • • 19 

Arrow, Root Custard, • It 

B 

Barberries— to Preserve, - 99 

Biack Currant Jelly, • SI 

Blanc-Mange, - - • 17 

C 

Calf s-foot Jelly, • « 2l 

Conserve Roses, • - 90 

Currant Jelly, - • « fll 

D 

Damsons — to Preserve, - 90 

P 

Family Mince Pie, * • 99 

P 

Peach Jam, • • •■ 30 

Pumpkin Pie, • / • 8ft 

R 

Raspberry Jam, • • 9ft 

Rice Jelly, - - • 18 



Squash Pie, 
Strawberry Jam, 

Tomato Catsup, 
Tomato Sauce, 



8 



Sft 
99 

16 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Puddings. 

A 
Arrow Root Pudding, - 

B 
Boiled Indian Pudding, 
Bird's Nest Pudding, 

C 
Christmas PluBft Pudding, - 

D 
Damson Pudding, 

Indian Fruit Pudding, 

O 
Orange Pudding, 

P 
Plum Pudding, 

R 
Rice Pudding, baked or boiled, 
Rich Apple Puddingy 

S 
Sago Pudding - - - 
Sauce for Pudding, 

T 
Tapioca Pudding, 

Meats, Fish, Crravies, if-c. 

B 
Boiled Beef, - - - 

Boiled Ham, - - - 
Boiled Salmon, 
Bread Sauce, - - . 
Broiled Cod, ... 
Broiled Ham, 
Broiled Salmon, 
Broiled Salmon Dried, 

C 
Cabbage Soup, 
Caper Sauce, 

Chicken — good vraj to Prepare, 
Chicken Pot Pie, 
Chicken Salad, 
Chicken Soup, No, 1, 
Chicken Soup, No. 3, . 
Chowder — how to make. 
Codfish, salt, Stewed, 
Codfish, Salt, 

Cod, or other Fish, to Pry, . 
Codfish Cakes, 

Cold Boiled Cod — to make a dish, 45 
Cold Slaw, . , 

D 
Dried Codfish, 
Dried Cod — a small dish. 
Dried Salmon, 

E 

Ccs 





Fish — Remarks on, 


IS 


33 


Fried Cod, 


45 




Fresh Mackerel Soused 


46 


18 


Fried Sausages, : 


25 


20 


Fried Shad, 

H 


. . 46 


39 


Haddock, 

L 
Lobster Soup, 


. r 45 


33 


40 




M 




35 


Mackerel, Salt, 


. 46 




Melted Butter, 


36 


19 


Minced Meat, 


. 24 




Mock Turtle Soup, 


42 


39 


Mutton Broth, ^ 


. . 39 


34 
34 


Mutton— to boil Leg of, 

O 
Oyster Mouth Soup, • 


. 26 


. 40 




Oysters — to Fry, 


. 23 


34 


Oyster Sauce, 


37 


20 


P 






Parsley & Butter, 


36 


34 


Pig— to Roast, 


35 




Pork Steak, 


26 




R 






Roast Pork, 


24 


23 


S 




25 


Sandwiches, 


. 38 


44 


Sausage Meat, : 


25 


37 


Salmon, 


. 44 


45 


Salmon— to Broil, 


21 


25 


Savoy Soup, 


40 


44 


Shad— to Broil, 


22 


44 


Shad, . . ,1^. 


/ 46 




Shell Fish, 


21 


40 


Spare Rib, 


24 


37 


Stewed Lobsters, 


23 


22 


Stewed Oysters, 


. 23 


24 


Stock for Gravy Soup o 


r Soup, 42 


39 


T 




41 


Turtle Soup, 


41 


42 


W 




23 


White Sauce for boiled 


Fowl, 87 


45 
45 






Vegetables, «f» 


?• 


22 


Cabbage, 


27 


46 


Coffee— how to Make, 


38 


45 


G 




22 


Green Peas, 

M 


27 


45 


Mashed Potatoes, 


97 


46 







44 


Onions, 


27 




Potatoes, 26— To Boil, 2 


^— Roast 37 


37 


Turnips, . ^ 


97 



ADDITIONAL CONTENTS. 



Beef Balls 

Beef, Cold Tt-nderloin 
Beef, pold Steaks to warm 
Beef, Minced 
Beefsteaks broiled . 
Blacking, to make fine po 

ish 
Britannia, for cleaning of 
Cakr, Rich small 
Chicken Pie 
Curries 

Curry Powder . 
Dough Nuts . . 
Dyspepsia Bread 



Page 


Pag« 


. 7 


Green Corn Cake 


1» 


. 8 


Lemon Pie 


13 


n 9 


Molasses Dough Cake 


12 


. 9 


Muffins .... 


12 


8 


Mutton Chops . 


9 


_. 


Mutton, to stew shoulder of 


y 


14 


Red Ants, to keep out 


14 


14 


Rice Waffles . 


13 


7 


Sausages .... 


10 


. 11 


Savoy Cakes . 


13 


. 11 


Summer Drink 


14 


•. 12 


Sweet Bread, Liver and 




. 7 


Heart .... 


10 


. 14 


Tripe .... 


10 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 



Page , . , . /°S« 

48 Broth, very nourishing of 

Veal .... 47 



48 



Broth, Calves' Foot 

Broth, ChicKen 

Broth, of Beef, Mutton and Jelly Arrowroot 

Veal . . ' . • *''' •'^'^y Tapioca 
Broth, quickm^de . . 47 1 Tea, Beet 



48 
48 
48 



THE LADY'S WORK-BOX. 



Page. 

Bead V7oiU, 13'' 

Berlin Stitch ^35 

Cross Stitch, ''^4 

Czar Stitch 135 

Fire Sidp Caps 136 

Gothic Chairs, 13n 

Irish Stitch 135 

Josephine Stitch, 134 

Materials for working, T33 

Pavilion Sfif'^b, 134 

Perforated Card, 135 

P»ug Bordtriiig 135 



Sofa Pillows '36 

Sf'ttees, 136 

Slinp^-rs.. • 136 

R!r'r.ijTht Cross Stitch, .. A34 

Tent Siitch, 134 

To dress a frame for cross 

Stiich ; 133 

To dress a frame for cUih 

work. • 1 33 

WiMg-ht Cushions, .... 136 

Windsor stitch 134 

W ire Baskets, 5 36 



ADDITIONAL CONTENTS 



ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. 

I'AGE. 

Behavior in the Street, - - _ . 123 

Behavior at Dinner, - - - . - 124 

Conversation, - - - - - - 126 

Dress, ..--,. 121 

Gfeneral Rules of Behavior, - • - - 126 

How to commence your Addresses, . - - 137 

Introductions. - - - - - 124 

Love Letters - - - - - 128 

Preliminaries for Marriage, - - - _ 137 

Popping the Question, .... 128 

The Person, - - - - i - 121 

Visiting, - - - - - - 133 



LADIES' TOILETTE TABLE, 



- 


PAGE 


Dress, - . - . 


13] 


Evening Dresses, - - - - - 


- 131 


Flounces, r - - - 


131 


High-necked Dresse*, - . . - 


- 131 


Lotion for Promoting tlie Growth of the Hair, and Preventing 


it from Turning Grey, - - 


130 


Style of Bonnet; 


- 131 


Short Cloak, '- - - - . 


131 


To prevent Loosoning of the Hair, 


- 130 


To care Ringworm, . . , ,. 


130 



CANARY BIRDS. 

PAOE. 

General Directions, - - - . - 132 

How to Distinguisli the Male fr^ra tlie Female, ' - 133 

Letter Writer, - • -' - • •,132. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Rich Small Cake 

Three eggs ; three table-spoonfuls of bultsr , ditto of 
•ugar ; three cups of flour ; one tea-spoonful of essence 
of lemon, and half a nutmeg ; work these together, roB 
it thin, cut it in small cakes and bake. 

Doughnuts. 

Take one pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of but^ 
ter; three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, rolled 
fine ; one nutmeg, grated ; one tea-spoonful of ground 
cinnamon ; one table-spoonful of brewer's yeast ; make 
it into a dough with warm milk ; sprinkle flour over it, 
and cover it with a cloth ; set it in a warm place to rise, 
for one hour or more. When lights roll it out to half an 
inch thickness ; cut it in squares or diamonds. Have a 
Mnall iron kettle half filled with lard ; let it be boiling 
hot. Drop in a bit of the dough to try it ; if it is a fine 
color, drop in two or three of the cakes at once ; keep 
the kettle in motion all the time the cakes are in, else 
the lard will burn ; when the cakes are a fine color, take 
them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a sieve I9 
drain. ^ 

Beef Balls. ' 

Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean ; 
oiince an onion, with some parsley ; add grated bread 
crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and 
letnon-peel ; mix all together, and moisten it with an egg 



8 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

beaten ; i:oll it into bulls ; flour and fry them in boiling 
fresh dripping. Servo them with fried bread crumbs, or 
with a thickened brown gravy. 

BeeJ Steaks broiled. 

The inside of the sirloin is the best steak — but all are 
cooked in the same manner. Cut them about half an 
inch thick — do not beat ihem • it breaks the cells in 
which the gravy of the meat is contained and renders it 
drier and more tasteless. 

Have the gridiron hot and the bars rubbed with suet 
— ^ihe fire clear and brisk ; sprinkle a little salt over the 
fire, lay on the steaks, and turn them often. Keep a dish 
close to the fire, into which you must drain the gravy 
from the top of the steak as you lift it to turn. The grid- 
iron should be set in a slanting direction on the coals, to 
prevent the fat from dropping into the fire and making a 
smoke. But should a smoke occur, take off the gridiron 
a moment, till it is over. With a good fire of coals, steaks, 
will be thoroughly done in fifteen minutes. These are 
much healthier for delicate stomachs than rare done 
steaks. 

When done lay them in a hot plate, put a small slice 
of good butter on each piece- — sprinkle a little salt, pour 
the gravy from the dish by the fire, and serve them hot 
as possible Pickles and finely scraped horse-radish are 
served with them. 

I have now given the most important recipes for cook-r 
ing beef. — The re-cooking requires skill and judgment 
which experience only can give. When well done it 
makes excellent dishes, and is economical in housekeep- 
ing. The following are good recipes. 

Beef, cold Tenderloin. 

Cut off entire the inside of a large sirloin of beet, brown 
il all over in a stewpan, and then add a quart of water, 
two tablcTspoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, salt, and a 
large onion finely minced ; cover the pan closely, and lot 



VALUABLE REtlPES. 9 

\l Stew till the beef be very tender. Garnish with 
pickles. 

Beef J cold Steaks to xjuai'tn 

Lay them in a stewpan, with one large onion cut in 
quarters, six berries of alspice, the same of black pep- 
per, cover the steaks with boiling water, let them stew 
gently one hour, thicken the liquor with fiour and butter 
rubbed together on a plate ; if a pint of gravy, about one 
ounce of flour, and the like weight of butter, will do; 
put it into the siewpan, shake it well over the fire for five 
minutes, and it is ready ; lay the steaks and onions on a 
dish and pour the gravy through a sieve over them. 

Beef Minced, 

Mince your beef very small ; put it -into a saucepan 
with a little gravy and a little of the fat of fowl or any 
other fat, season according to your taste, then let it sim- 
mer over a gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. 

Boiled beef, when thoroughly done, is excellent to eat 
cold, as a relish at breakfast. The slices should be cut 
even and very thin. 

To stew a slioulder of Mutton. 

Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton, sprinkle overit 
pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with lapc, and 
put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, pour over it a' 
well seasoned gravy made witli the bones, cover the pan 
closely, and let it slew till tender ; before serving take 
off the tape, thicken the gravy. It will take about three 
hours to stew the shoulders. 

Mutton Chops. 

Cut the chops off a loin or the best enJ z^ a neck of 
mutton ; pare off the fat, dip them in a beaten egg and 
strew over them grated bread, seasor.ed with salt and fine 



10 VALUABLE REGIPES. 

ly minced parsley — then fry ihem in a little butter, and 
make a gravy, or brojl them over coals and butter them, 
n a hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley. 

Sweet Bread, Liver, and Heart. 

A very good way to cook the sweet bread is to fry 
three or four slices of pork till brown, then lake them up 
and put in the sweet bread, and fry it over a moderate 
fire. When you have taken up the sweet bread, mix a 
couple of tea-spoonfuls of flour with a little water, and 
stir it into the fat — let it boil, then turn it over the sweet 
bread. Another way is to parboil them, and let them 
get cold, then, cut them in pieces about an inch thick, dip 
them in the. yolk of an egg, and fine bread crumbs, 
sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage on them, before dipping 
them in the egg, fry them a light brown. Make a gra- 
vy after you *have taken them up, by stirring a little 
flo-ur and water mixed smooth into the fat, add spice? 
and wine if you like. The liver and heart are good 
cooked in the same manner, or broiled. 

Tripe, 

After being scoured, should be soaked in sail and wa- 
ter seven or eight days, changing the water every other 
day, then boil it till tender, which will take eight or ten 
hours. It is then fit for broiling, frying, or pickling. It 
is pickled in the same manner as souse. 

Sausages. 

Chop fresh pork very fine, the lean and fat together, 
(there should be rather more of the lean than the fat,) 
season it highly with salt, pepper, sage, and Other sweet 
herbs, if you like them — a little salipeire tends to pre- 
serve them. To tell wheiher they are seasoned enough, 
do up a little ifito a cake, and fry it. If not seasoned 
enough, add more seasoning, and fill your skins, which 
should be previously cleaned thoroughly. A little flour 



VALUABLE RECIPES. II 

mixed in with the meat, tends to prevent the fat from 
rotnning out when cooked. Sausage-meat is good, doiie 
up in small cakes and fried. In summer, when fresh 
pork cannot be procured, very good sausage-cakes may 
be made of raw beef, chopped fine with salt pork, and 
seasoned with pepper and sage. When sausages are 
fried, they should not be pricked, and they will cook ni 
cer, to have a little fat put with them. They should be 
cooked slowly. If you do not like them very fat, take 
them out of the pan when nearly done, and finish cook- 
ing them on a gridiron. Bologna sausages are made of 
equal weight each, of ham, veal, and pork, chopped very 
iSne, seasoned high, and boiled in casings, till tender, then 
dried. 

Curries. 

Chickens, pigeons, mutton chops, lobsters and veal, 
all make good curries. If the curry dish is to be made 
of fowls, they should be jointed. Boil the meat till ten- 
der, in just sufficienl water to cover it, and add a little 
salt. Just before the meal is boiled enough to take up, 
fry three or four ylices of pork till bro>\n — take them up, 
and put in the chickens. Let them brown, then add 
part of the liquor in which they were boiled, one or two 
lea spoonfuls of curry powder", and the fried pork. Mix 
a tea spoonful of curry powder with a tea cup of boiled 
rice, or a lilte flour and water mixed—liirn it on to ihc 
curry, and let it stew a few minutes. . 

Chicken Pie. 

Joint the chickens, which should be young and tender 
—boil thei 1 in just sufficient water to" cover them. 
^Vfien nearly lender, take them out of the liquor, and lay 
them in a deep pudding dish, lined with pie crust. To 
each layer of chicken, put three or four slices of pork — 
add a little of ihe liquor in which they were boiled, and 
a couple of ounces of butter, cut into small pieces — 
sprinkle a little flour over the whole, cover it with nice 



IK • VALUABLE RECIPE». 

pie crust, and ornament ibe top with some of your pa** 
try. Bake it in a quick oven one hour. 

Curry Powder. 

Mix an ounce of ginger, one of mustard, one of pepper, 
three of coriander seed, the s^ame quantity ot turmeric, a 
quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper, half an ounce of 
cardamums, and the same of cummin seed and cinnamon. 
Pound the whole fine, sift and keep it in a bottle corked 
tight. 

Green Corn Cake. 

Mix a pint of grated green corn with three table-spoon- 
fuls of milk, a tea-cup of flour, half a tea-cup of melted 
butter, one egg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a t-ea^ 
spoonful of pepper. Drop this mixture into hot buttei 
by the spoonful, let the cakes fry eight or ten minutes. 
These cakes are nice served up with meat for dinner 

Muffins. 

Mix a quart of wheat flour smoothly with a pint and » 
half of hike-warm milk, half a tea-cup of yeast, a couple 
of beaten eggs, a heaping tea-spoonful of salt, and a cou- 
ple of table-spoonfuls of luke-warm melted butter. Set 
the batter in a warm place to rise. When light, buttei 
your mufiin cups, turn in the mixture and bake the muf 
fins till a light brown. 

Molasses Dough Cake. 

Melt half a tea-cup of butter, mix it with a tea-cup of 
molasses, the juice and chopped rind of a fresh lemon, a 
lea-spoonful of cinnamon — work the whole with the 
hand into three tea-cups of raised dongli, together with 
a couple of beaten egg?. Work it with the hand for ten 
or twelve minutes, then put it into buttered pans. Let 
it remain ten or fifteen minvUes bef'^re baking it. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. IS 

Rice Waffles. 

Take a lea-cup and a half of boiled rice — warm it with 
a pint of milk, mix it smooih, then lake it from the fire, 
stir in a pint of cold milk, an J a lea-spoonful of salt. 
Beat four eggs, and stir them in, together with sufficient 
flour to make it a thick batter. 

Savoy Cakes, 

Beat eight eggs to a froth — the whites and yolks should 
be beaten separately, then mixed logelher, and a pound 
-of powdered white sugar stirred in gradually. Beat the 
whole well together, for eight or ten minutes, then add 
ihe grated rind of a fresh lemon, and half the juice, a 
couple of table-spoonfiils of coriander seed. Drop thig 
mixture by ihe large spoonful on two buttered baking 
plates, several inches apart, sift white sugar over ihem, 
and bake them immediately in a quick, but not a fu- 
riously hot oren. 

Lemon Pie, ' 

For one pie, take a couple of good sized fresh lemons, 
squeeze out the juice, and mix it with half a pint of mo- 
lasses, or sufficient sugar to make the juice sweet. 
Chop the peel fine, line deep pie plates with your pastry, 
then sprinkle on a layer of your chopped lemon peel, 
turn in part of the mixed sugar or molasses and juice, 
then cover the whole with pie crust, rolled very thin — 
put in another layer of peel, sweetened juice, and crust, 
and so, till all the lemon is used. Cover the whole 
with a thick crust, and bake the pie about half an hour. 



14 valuable recipes 

Miscellaneous 



To make fine polish Blacking. 

Take of ivory black and molasses each twelve oun- 
ces, spermaceti oil four ounces, white wine vinegar foui 
pints, mix all together. 

Summer Drink. 

Three pound of sugar, 5 gills of molasses, 2 ounces 
of tartaric acid, 3 pints of water. 

For cleaning Britannia. 

Rub the article all over with a piece of woolen cloth, 
moistened with sweet oil, then apply a little pounded 
rotten-stone, or polishing paste, with the finger, till 
the polish is produced, after which wash it well with 
soap and hot water, and when dry, wipe off smartly with 
soft wash leather and a little fine whiting. 

To keep out Red Ants. 

Place in the closet, or wherever they appear, a small 
quantity of green sage. 

Dyspepsia Bread. 

Three quarts of unbolted wheat meal ; 1 quart of soft 
warm water ; a gill of fresh yeast, a gill of molasses, 1 
tea-spoonful of saieratus. This will make 2 loaves, and 
should remain in the oven at least 2 hours. It will need 
from 8 to 12 hours to rise. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. \$ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

A Light Cake^ to be Baked in Cups. 
Take a pint bowl full and a half of sugar, one and a 
!»alf cups of butter rubbed in two pint bowls of flour, two 
cups of sour cream, a tea-spoonful of salaeratus, table-spoon- 
ful of rose water, four eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg; 

Chmposition Cake. 
Take four cups of flour, four of sugar, two cups of butter, 
five eggs^ half pint of cream, tea-spoonful of salaeratus, spice 
to suit your taste. Beat all well together, and bake in a 
butter tin or in cups. 



Indian Griddle Cakes. 
Take one pint of Indian meal and one cup of flour, a 
little salt and ginger, a table-spoonful of molasses, a tea- 
spoonful of salseratus,sour miik enough to make a stiff batr 
ter. Bake them on a griddle like buckwheat cakes. 



Common Plum, Cake. 
Mix five cups of butter with ten cups of flour, five cups of 
sugar, add six cups stoned raisins, a little cinnamon and 
mace finely powdered, half a cup of good yeast put inta a^ 
pint of new milk, warm and mix the dough, let it stand 
till it is light 



Pound Cake. 
One pound dried sifted flour, the same of loaf sugar, and 
the whites of twelve eggs and the yolks of seven. Beat 
the butter to a cream, add the sugar by degrees, then the 
eggs and flour ; beat it all well together for an hour, mixing 
a table-spoonfulof rose-water, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, 
two cups of cream, and a tea-spoonful of sakeratus. To be 
baked in a quick oven. 

Tea Cakes. 
A quart of flour, one pint of sour cream, tea-spoonftil sal- 
aratus, two cups of molasses, a little cinnamon and salt, 
mak& a stiff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. 



16 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Breakfast Butter Cakes. 
One quart of sour milk, one tea-spoonful salaeratus. a little 
salt, one and a half cups A boiled riee, two table-spoonsful 
molasses or half cup A sugar, a little ginger, and floui • 
enough to make a stiff batter. 



Buck- Wheat Cakes. 
Take one quart of buck-wheat meal, half a cup of new 
yeast, a tea-spoonful of salaeratus, a little salt and sufficient 
new milk or cold water to make a thick batter. Put it in a 
warm place to rise. When it has risen sufficiently, bake it 
on a griddle or in a spider. The giiddle must be well but- 
tered, and the cakes are better to be small and thin. 



Plain Indian Cakes. 
Take a quart of sifted Indian meal, spiinkle a little salt 
over it, mix it with scalding water, stirring it well ; bake 
on a tin in a stove oven. Indian Cake is made with butter- 
milk, or sour milk, with a little cream or butter rubbed 
alo the meal, and a tea-spoonful of salaeratus. 



Butter Cakes for Tea. 
Beat two eg-gs. put them in half pint of milk, and a tea- 
cup of cream, with half a tea-spoonful of salaeratus dissolved 
in the cream, a little salt, cinnamon and a little rose-water 
if you like, stir in sifted flour till the batter is smooth and 
thick. Bake them on a griddle or in a pan. Butter the 
pan well, drop the batter in small round cakes and quite 
thin. They must be turned and nicely browned. Lay 
them on a plate, in a pile, with a little butter between each 
layer. 

Cream, Cakes. 
In the country where cream is plenty, this is a favorite 
cake at the tea-table. One quart of flour, one pint of cream, 
a little sour cream, one tea-spoonful of salaeratus dissolved 
in the sour cream. If the flour is not made sufficiently 
wet with the above quantity of cream, addmoi'e sweet cream. 



Tomato iSauce. 
Feel and slice twelve tomatoes, picking out the seeds — add 
ibree powdered crackers, pepper and salt to ypm* tkste ; 
stew twenty min 'jtes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 17 

Rolls. 
Rub into a pound of flour half a tea-cup full of buttery 
add half a tea-cup of sweet yeast, a little salt, and suffi- 
cient warm milk to make a stiff dough, cover and put it 
where it will be kept warm, and it will rise in two hours. 
Then make into rolls or round cakes. They will bake in 
a quick oven in fifteen minutes. 



#' Clip Cake. 
Take one cup of butter,Hwo cups of sugar, three cups of 
flour, and four eggs. Tea-spoonful of salaeratus, nutmeg 
and rose-water. 



Tea Cake. 
To four cups of flour add three cups of sugar, three eggs, 
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, and one spoonful of dis- 
solved pearlash. 



Dyspepsia Cake. 
Take five cups of flour, two of sugar, two cups of milk, 
a little salt, and one tea-spoonful of salaeratus. 



Indian Cake. 

fake three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, one 
a tea-cup of molasses, a little salt, one tea-spoonful of 
salaeratus, and mix them with cold water. 

Hard ' Wafers. 
Take half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, three 
eggs, one table-spoonful of cinnamon, two table-spoonsful of 
rose water, and flour enough to make it a thick dough. 



Blanc-Mange. 
Take half an ounce of Iceland moss, and one quart of new 
mUk. Simmer them together until they become a jelly. 
A^dd half a tea-cup of rose water, let them scald half an 
hour and strain. 



Loaf Cake. 
Two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of 
butter, three eggs, one gill of milk, half a tea-cup sweM 
emptyings, cinnamon and rose water. 



18' VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Comnioti Giiiger- Bread. 
T^ke a quart bowlful of flour, and rub m a tea-cup of sweet 
butter, two cups of sugar, three of molasses, tea-cup of 
cream, tea-spoonful salaeratus, ginger to your taste. Make it 
stifT batter, bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger- Bread, 
Four cups of flour, three eggs, one cup of butter, two of 
sugar, one cf cream, ginger, nutmeg, salaeratus. 



Arrow-root Custards. 
Four eggs, one dessert spoonful of arrow-root, one pint 
of milk sweetened, and spiced to the taste. 



Rice Jelley. 
Boil one-fdurth pound of rice flour with half a pound 
of loaf sugar in one quart of water, until the whole becomes 
one glutinous mass. Then strain off the jelly and let it 
stand to cool. 



Measiire Cake. 
One cup of cream, one of sugar, two and a naif of flour, 
two eggs, a tea-spoonful of salaeratus, nutmeg. 

v^ Boiled Indian Pudding. 
One quart of sour milk, a tea-spoonful of sSilseratus, half 
a cup of molasses, a tea-cupful of chopped suet, meal 
enough to make it stiff. 



Best Cup Cake. 
Fiv^ cups of flour, three of sugar, one of milk, three 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of salaeratus, raisins, one cup of but- 
ter, nutmeg, rose-water. 



Icing for Cake. 
Four pounds of loaf sugar, the whites of nineteen eggSj 
•ne table spoonful of starch, half ounce gum-arabic, tablo 
spoonful rose-water 



TAtltABLlE RECIPES. 



ir 



Seed Cakes. - a 

F\)ur cups' of flour, one arid a half of creani or liiiEL , 
half of butter, threfe eggs, half a cup of seeds, two ciips or 
sugar, a tea-spodnful of salseratus, and rose-water. 

Sugar Ginger-Bread. 
Take two pounds of floiir, one of butter and one of sugar, 
five eg^s well beaten, two ounces of powdered' ginger, arid 
a lea-spobnfiil of salseratus, with nutmeg and rose- wateri 

Apple-Sauce. 
Three pecks of apples, one peck of quinces, one quart" of' 
water, three quarts of molasses — put the molasses in first, 
then a layer of each ; boil it eight hours over a slow fire 
without stirring. " 

Balier^ Ginger-Bread. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, one ciip of riiolksfdi' 

one-fourth of batter, one ounce of salaeratus and one cA 

ginger. 

Symballs. 
Four cups of flour, a cup and a half of siigar^ half a dup 
of butter, three eggs, a cup of sour cream, a tea-spoonfm 
of salseratus, a^httle nutmeg, ginger, salt, and a tea-spoon- 
ful of rose-water. 



Tea Cake. 
One quart of soiir rnilk, half a tea-cUp of rri biassed, a tfea- 
spoonful of salaeratus ; bieatinto the milk two eggs, a little 
ginger, a little salt, and nutmeg ; stir in flour till it becomet' 
a, thick batter | then tiiin it into a well greased panj and 
bake twenty minutes. 



Cream Cake. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, half a pint of cream, four eggs, one pound of cur- 
rants, a tea-spoonful of salseratus, a table-spoonful of rdi^' 
water, or a glass of brandy : spice to your taste. 



^ Orcmge Puddirig^. 

^Poiir oi'ahges, eight ounces of butter, eight ouiices of (^ 
jar, and eight eggs. 



20- VALUABLE RECIPES. 

JBird's-nest Pudding. 

Put into three pints of boiling milk six cracKcrs pounded 

fine and one pint of raisins : when cool add four eggs well 

beaten, a little sugar, and five good sized apples pared, with 

the core carefully removed. To be eaten with warm saiice. 



Pudding Sauce. 
One pint of sugar, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a piece oi 
butter the size of an egg boiled fifteen minutes : add a 
table-spoonful of rose-water and a little nutmeg : boil with 
the sugar, in nearly a pint of water, a large table-spoonful 
of flour. 

Conserve Roses. 
Bruise the leaves of red roses in a mortar ; to every pound 
add a pound of sugar : mix the sugar well with the roses 
in alternate layers : pack it light in an earthen vessel, and 
cover it from the air. 



To Preserve Barberries. 
To one pound of the berries add one pound of sugar, a 
pint and a half of molasses ; and simmer them together 
half an hour or more, until they become soft. 



To Make Good Yeast. 
Take as many hops as you can hold in your hand twice , 
put them into three pints of cold water ; put them over the 
fire, and let them boil twenty minutes : then strain the 
water into an earthen or stone jar, and stir in while the 
water is scalding hot flour enough to make a stiff batter : 
let it stand till about milk-warm ; then add a tea-cupful of 
old yeast to make it rise, and a tea-spt)onful of salaeratus 
dissolved in the old yeast ; stir it well and put the jar in a 
warm place to rise. Some add Indian meal enough (after 
it has risen well) to make it into cakes and dry it on a board 
in the sun. This is very convenient, especially in hot 
weather, — a small cake soaked in a little warm water is 
enough to make a large pan of dough rise. 

Milk Yeast. 
One pint of new milk, one tea-spoonful of fine salt, and 
a large spoonful of flour ; stir these well together, set the 
mixture by the fire, and keep it just lukewarm — it will be 



■"ALUABLE RECIPES. 21 

Ci. for use in an hour. Twice the quantity of common 
yeast is necessary : it will not keep long. Bread made of 
this yeast dries very soon ; but in summer it is sometimes 
convenient to make this kind when yeast is needed sud- 
denly. 

Yeast should not be kept in a tin vessel. If you find the 
(id 3'^east sour, and have not time to prepare new, put in 
Ralaeratus, a tea-spoonful to a pint of yeast, when ready to 
i:;<e it. If it foams up lively, it will raise the bread ; if it 
does not, never use it. 



Shell Fish. 
Oysters and clams generally agree well Avith those who 
like them ; but lobsters should be eaten cautiously, as they 
are very hard to digest. 



Calfs-Foot Jelly. 
Boil four feet, nicely cleaned, in a gallon of water, till 
reduced to one quart ; strain it, and when cool take off the 
top. In taking out the jelly avoid the settlings. Add a 
half-pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and, if you 
please, the whites of four eggs to make it clear : boil all 
together a few minutes, and strain it through a cloth. 

Cini'mit Jelly. 
Place a jar of currants in a kettle of boiling water till 
die currants become wilted ; then squeeze them through a 
cloth. Add a pint of sugar to a pint of juice ; boil it slowly 
lill it becomes ropy. It should be frequently stirred and 
skimmed while simmering. 



Black Currant Jelly. 
Make in the same way. Good for a sore throat. 



To Broil Sahnon. 
Cut in slices an inch or an inch and a half thick, dry it 
rn a clean cloth, sprinkle over it a litile salt, put your grid- 
iron over good live coals, rub the bars with a little lard, lay 
the salmon on with the skin next to the gridiron, and when 
(lone on one side, lay a dish over the salmon, turn the grid- 
Ton over, rub the bars again with lard ; then slip the salmon 
iVoni the dish on to the gridiron. In that way you will not 
iiroak up the fish by turning it. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

A very good Way to Prepare a Chicken. 
Wash, and cut the chicken into joints ; scald, and tak« 
off the skin ; put the pieces in a stew-pan, with very little 
parsely, thyme, salt and pepper ; add a quart of water, and 
a piece of butter the size of an eg-g ; stew it an hour and 
a half; take up the chicken, and if there is no gravy, add 
another piece of butter, very little water, and sprii^e in a 
Cable-spoonful of flour, and let it boil ten minutes. 



Cold Slaw. 
Take off seven or eight outside leaves of a cabbage, and 
cut off as much of the stump as can be got off ; then cut 
the small head in two, wash it well, and cut it up very 
fine ; put it in a dish with a pint of good vinegar and a little 
salt 

Tomato Sauce. 
Peel and slice twelve tomatoes, picking put the iseeds ; 
add three pounded ciackers, and pepper and salt to your 
taste : stew twenty minutes. 

To F)^y Cod, or other Fish. 
It is much more difficult to fry fish than meat. Lard or 
dripping is better thah butter, because the latter burns so 
easily. The fat fried from salt pork is the best of all : the 
fire must be clear and hot, but not furious ; the fat hot 
when the fish is put in : and there should be sufficient to 
cover the fish. Skinl the fat before laying in the fish. Cut 
tlie cod in splices, half or three-quarters of an inch thick ; 
rub them with Indian jneal to prevent breaking. Fry it 
thoroughly. Trout and perch are fried in the same man- 
ner, only do not rub Indian meal on them. Dip in the 
white of an egg and bread crumbs, or dust with flour. 



To Broil Shad. 
This is a very fine, delicious fish. Clean, wash, and 
spht the shad, let it dry a few minutes, put it on the grid- 
iron with the llesh.y part up, and put it over good hvely 
coals to cook ten minutes, then turn it in the same way 
that you do salmon. When it is done, take it up, sprinkle 
on a little salt and pepper, and lay on two or three pieces 
of butter to moisten il. 



VALUABLE RECIPES, i 2S 

To Make a Chowder. 
Cut three or four slices of fat pork ; fry them ar very little ; 
lay them in the bottom of a stew-kettle. Cut a fresh cod 
into thin slices ; place two slices of fish on the pork ; then 
put in a layer of split crackers ; pare and wash eight pota- 
toes, and cut them into thin slices ; put on a layer of the 
sliced potatoes, then alternately the other materials, till the 
kettle is full ; season with pepper and a little salt. Mix one 
table-spoonful of flour with a tea-cupful of cold water, and 
pour in after the chowder begins to" stew. Put in a quart 
of water, cover the stew-kettle very tight, and let it stew 
three hours. 

To Fry Oysters. 
Make a batter, as for pancakes ; put one or two oysters 
into a spoonful of the batter, and fry them to alight browOi 
Fry them in hot fat, the same as pancakes. 



Sfeioed Oysters. 
Three quarts are enough for a small family dinner. Put 
them into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter the size of an 
egg ; stew them well ten minutes : toast three or four slices 
of bread, cut them, lay them in the bottom of a dish, and 
pour the oysters over them. 

Stewed Lobsters. 
A middling sized lobster is best ; pick all the meat from 
the shells as whole as possible ; put it in a stew-pan with a 
piece of butter the size of a large egg, a little pepper, salt, 
and a tea-cupful of weak vinegar : stew about twenty rain* 
utes. It should be eaten when ver})" hot. 



Boiled Beef. 
To have it very tender, it should boil slowly, and the pot 
be well skimmed. The meat sliould be well covered with 
water, so that the skim may be removed easily. When 
beef is very salt, it should boil three-quarters of an hour : 
then take it up, throw a.way the water it has boiled in, fill 
up the pot with fresh v>'ater, replace the beef, and let it boil 
gently three hoars. The rojind is the best piece to boil — 
then the H-hoiie. Observe to take off all the scum as it 
rises. 



VALUABLE RECIPES 

Minced Meat. 
Take cold boiled beef, removing all bones and gi'istle, 
with a good proportion of cold boiled potatoes ; chop them 
middling fine ; fry three slices of salt pork in a spider ; when 
the, pork is brown, take it up, and put in the minced meat 
and potatoes. Let it cook twentj' minutes. Take it up in 
a covered dish, Avith the slices of pork placed on the top of 
the dish. 

Roast Pork. 

Take a leg of pork ; one weighing eight pounds will re- 
quire full three hours and a half to roast. Wash it clean, 
and dry it with a cloth. Make a stuMng of crackers pow- 
dered fine, wnth half a pint of thick cream, two eggs, a ht- 
tle salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, and summer savory ; cook 
about ten minutes. Put this under the skin of the knuckle, 
and in deep incisions made in the thick part of the leg. 

Do not put it too near the fire ; it must be floured, and 
moistened often with the drippings until it is done ; then 
skim the fat from the gravy, add a little flour, and boil it 
well a few minutes. Apple-sauce or currant jelly is proper 
to accompany roasted pork ; also potatoes, mashed squash, 
turnips and pickles. 

Spare Rib. 
If large and thick it will require two or three hours to 
roast. A very thin one may roast in an hour. Lay the 
thick end to the fire ; when you put it down, put into the 
vessel a pint of water and a table-spoonful of salt. It 
should be floured, and basted often with the drippings. 
The shoulder, loin and chine are roasted in the same way. 
A shoulder is the most economical to buy, and is excellenJ 
boiled. Pork is always salted before it is boiled. 



Chicken Pot Pie. 
Wash and cut the chicken into joints; take out the 
breast bone ; boil them about twenty minutes ; take them 
Hp, wash out your kettle ; fry two or three slices of fat salt 
pork, and put in the bottom of the kettle ; then put in the 
chicken, with about three pints of water, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg ; sprinkle in a tea-spoonful of pepper, 
and cover over the top with a hght crust. It will require 
an hour to cook. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 25 

Broiled Ham. 
Ham should be cut in thin slices, and broiled quick on a 
gridiron, set over good live coals. If the hani is too sail, 
soak it in hot water before broihng : if it is necessary to do 
this, dry it well with a cloth before putting it on the grid- 
iron. Fry wh€t eggs you want in a part good sweet lard, 
and a part butter ; put an egg on each slice of ham. 

Boiled Ham. 
A ham, if dry, should be soaked twelve hours in warm 
water. Then put it on in cold water, and let it simmer, 
and boil five or six hours. It is best when quite cold.— 
Boiled ham is very good to broil. 



Fried Sausages. 
Sausages are best when quite fresh. Fry two or three 
slices of fat pork ; then put the sausages into Uie hot fat, 
pricking them several times with a fork. Fry them over a 
slow fire till they are a nice brown. 



Sausage Meat. 
Chop two pounds of lean beef, with one of fat pork, very 
fine ; mix with this three tea-spoonsful of salt, five of pow- 
dered sage, five of sweet marjoram, three of black pepper. 
To make this into small cakes, and fry in the same manner 
as sausages, is very good for breakfast 



To Roast a Pig. 
A pig about three weeks old is the best. It should be 
killed in the morning, if it is to be eaten for dinner. Make 
a stuffing with about six powdered crackers, orie table-spoon- 
ful of sage, two of sweet marjoram, half a pint of cream, 
two eggs, and a little salt and pepper. Mix these well to- 
gether, and let it stew about fifteen minutes. Wash the 
pig in cold water ; cut off the petti-toes, leaving the skin 
long to wrap around the ends of the legs ; then -fill the 
belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. The liver and heart 
should be boiled with five or six pepper corns, and chopped 
fine for the gravy. When the pig js put down. to roast, put 
in a pint of water, and a table-spoonful of salt : when it 
begins to roast, flour it well, and baste it with the drippings 
and continue to do so until it is done. It requires const 
«are A small pig will roast in three hours. 



29 VAl.UABLE RECIPES. 

Pork k^teak. 

Cut them off a neck or loin ; broil them over good live 

coals, turning them frequently : they broil in ten minutes. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper when put in the dish, and 

add a small piece of sweet butter to every piece of steak. 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton. 

Cut ofl the shank bone, and trim the knuckle : if it 

weigh nine pounds it will require three hours to cook it. — 

Parsley and butter, or capen-sauce should be served with 

it — onion-sauce, turnips, spinage and potatoes are all good. 

Potatoes. 
Potatoes should be kept in the cellar, covered, and care- 
fully sprouted as soon as the spring opens. The middling 
sized potatoes are the best ; the white, mealy kind are bet- 
ter than tfee colored. 



To Boil Potatoes 
In the best manner, is a great perfection in cooking. The 
following way is a good one. Take potatoes as equal in 
size as possible ; wash, but do not pare or cut them ; put 
them into a pot, the largest potatoes at the bottom ; cover 
thein wnth cold water, about an inch over ; too much water 
injures them very much ; throw in a spoonful of salt, and 
let them boil about five minutes ; then take off the pot, 
and set it w^here it will simmer slowly for thirty minutes ; 
then try the potatoes with a fork ; if it pass easily through 
they are done ; if not, let them simmer until they are ; 
then pour off the water, place the pot where the potatoes 
will keep hot, but not burn, and let them stand uncovered 
till the moisture shall have evapwated. They will then 
be mealy and in perfection. 



Another Way, 
Pare, wash, and throw them into a pan of cold water: 
then put them on to boil in a clean pot with cold water 
sufficient to cover them, and sprinkle over a little salt ; then 
let them boil slowly, uncovered, till you can pass a foik 
through them ; pour off the watei, and put them where 
Uiey will keep hot till wanted. When done in this way 
Uiey will be very mealy and dry. Potatoes, either boiled 
or roasted, should never he covered to keep them hot, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 2T 

Another Way to Roast Potatoes. 
Ohoose all of a size, wash clean, and rinse ; put thera 
on a tin, and bake them in a stove or Dutch oven. It takes 
nearly two hours : send them to the table w:ith the skins on. 
Tliey are excellent with cold meat, and are wholesome for 
diildren, mashed withu little salt and gravy, or cream. 

Mashed Potatoes, 
When old, potatoes are best boiled and mashed, with a 
little butter, salt and cream, or milk ; they may be also 
sliced, and fried raw, in hot salt pork fat, or after they are 
boiled. Both these dishes are relished. But a plain boiled 
or roasted potato, when well cooked, is the best and most 
wholesome : and although not a substitute for bread, is one 
of the most useful vegetable productions. 

Turnips 
Should be pared, put into water with a little salt, and boiled 
till tender ; then squeeze them thoroughly from the water, 
mash them smooth, and add a piece of butter and a littk 
pepper and salt. 

Cabbage 
Requires to be well washed before it is cooked ; boil it in a 
large quantity of water, with a little salt, till it is soft and 
tender ; skim the water carefully when it first boils. If the 
head is large, cut it ; but a small head is best. 

Onions^ 
Peel and put thera into boihng milk and water, — (water 
alone will do, but it is not so good.) When tender, take 
them up, and salt them, and turn a little melted butter 
'Over them. 



Green Peas 
Should be young and fresh shelled ; wash them clean ; put 
them into a bag, and that into plenty of boiling water, with 
a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar ; boil 
ihem till tender. Green peas are a most delicious vegetable 
when cooked enough — half done, they are hard and very 
'inwholesome. It takes from half an hour to an hour to 
boil them. Never let them stand in the water after they 
are done. Season them with a little butter and salt. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Lemon Cake. 
Take one tea-cup of butter, and three of powdered loaf 
sugar ; rub them to a cream ; stir into them the yolks of 
five eggs well beaten ; dissolve a tea-spoonful of salaeratus- 
in a tea-cup of milk, and add the milk ; adu^<Jie juice and 
grated peel of one lemon, and the whites of the five eggs \ 
arid sift in, as light as possible, four tea-cups of flour. Bake 
in two long tins about half an hour. It is much improved 
by icing. 

New- York Cup Cake. 
Take four eggs, four tumblers of sifteij^ flour^ three tum- 
blers of powdered white sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of rich milk, one glass of white wine, a gj-ated nut- 
meg, a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a jmall tea- 
spoonful of salseratus. Warm the milk and put in the but- 
ter, keeping it by the fire till the butter is melted ; stir into 
the milk the eggs beaten very light, in turn with the flour ; 
and the spice and wine ; and, lastly, the sal^ratus dissolved 
in a little vinegar : stir all very hard ; butter small tin pans, 
half fill them, and bake in a moderate oven of equal heat 
tJirousfhout. 



Cup Cake. 
Rub to a cream three cups of sugar, with one and a half 
of butter ; stir in three well beaten eggs, three cups of sifted 
flour, and rose-water, or essence of lemon to the taste. — 
Dissolve a tea-spoonful of salaeratus in a cup of milk, strain 
it into the cake, and add three more cups of sifted flour ; 
bake immediately in cups or pans. 



Measure Cake. 
Rub to a cream two cups of sugar and one of butter ; 
stir in four well beaten eggs, fi grated nutmeg, and three 
^ups of flour ; stir it till just before baking. Bake in cups 
or in pans. 



Cake without Eggs. 



Take one cup of butter, three of sugar, one pint of sour 
milk or cream, a pint and a half or two pints of flour, jn© 
pound of raisins, a spoonful of salosratus, and spice to your 
taste. Mix the ingredients properly prepared, and bake 
about an hour. 



VALUABLE RECIPES 29 

Good Family Cake. 
Take two pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, half 
of white sugar, one pint of milk, three eggs, one gill of 
yeast, half a spoonful of mace, or other spice, to your taste. 
Mix well, half your flour with the yeast and milk, and let 
it stand till perfectly hght. Add the butter, eggs, sugar, 
and spice together, and stir in the remainder of your flour ; 
then gently pour this to the first mixture ; let all stand till 
perfectly light ; then bake it in pans. 

Jelly Cake. 
Take six ounces of butter and eight of sugar, and rub 
them. to a cream ; stir into it eight well beaten eggs and a 
pound of sifted flour : add the grated rind and juice of a 
fresh lemon, and turn the mixture on scolloped tin plates 
that have been well buttered. The cakes should not be 
more than a quarter of an inch thick on the plates. Bake 
them immediately, in a quick oven, till of a light brown. — 
Pile them on a plate, with a layer of jelly or marmalade 
^n the top of each. 

Ginger Nuts. No. 1. 
Take one quart of molasses ; mix with it one pound and 
three-quarters of sugar, one and a quarter of butter" seven 
of flour, four ounces of ginger, a nutmeg, and a little cin- 
namon. 



Ginger Nuts. No. 2. 
Melt three quarters of a pound of butter with a pint of 
molasses and half a pound of sugar. When cold, mix with 
it three pounds of flour, half an ounce of ginger, and a lit- 
tle rose-water. 



Ginger Cookies. 
Taka one tea-cup of sugar, one of molasses, one &^g, one 
t^oonful of salseratus, one of ginger, and one of vinegar; 
and mix them with seven tea-cups of flour. 

Ginger Snaps. No. 1. 
Take one pint of molasses, one tea-cup of butter, one 
spoonful of ginger, and one tea-spoonful of salseratus ; and 
boil all the ingredients thoroughly ; when nearly cold, add 
IS much flour as can be rolled into the mixture. 



30 VALUABLE RECIFES. 

Ginger Snaps. No. 2. 
Mix four ounces of lard and four of butter, melted, with 
four ounces of brown sugar, a pint of molasses, two spoons- 
ful of ginger, and a quart of flour ; strain in two tea-spoons- 
ful of salaeratus dissolved in a win§-glass of milk, adding 
sufficient flour for rolling out thin. Cut into small cakes, 
and bake in a slow oven. 



Jmnbles. No. 1. 
Rub to a cream a pound of sugar, and half a pound of 
butter ; add eight well beaten eggs, essence of lemon or 
rose-water to the taste, and flour to make the jumbles stiflf 
enough for rolling out. Roll out, in powdered sugar, about 
half an inch wide and four inches long, and form them into 
rings by joining the ends. Lay them on flat buttered tins, 
and bake m a quick oven. 

Jumbles. No. 2. 
Rub to a cream one pound of butter and one pound of 
sugar ; mix with it two pounds of flour, three eggs, one 
tea-spoonful ot salaeratus, and eight spoonsful of milk. . 

Jumbles. No. 3. 
Add together one pound of nice sugar, two of flour, and 
spice to the taste ; pass them through a sieve ; then add 
four well beaten eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of 
melted butter : knead well and bake. 



Rich Jmnbles. 
Rub to a cream a pound of butter and a pound of sugar ; 
mix with it a pound and a half of flour, four eggs, and very 
little brandy. Roll the cakes in powdered sugar, and bake 

Plain Jumbles. 
Rub eight ounces of butter and twelve of sugar to a 
cream ; mix with it a pound of flour, adding a little rose- 
water. 

Hoe Cakes. 
Scald a quart of Indian meal with just sufficient water* 
to make a thick batter ; stir in two spoonsful of butter, and 
•two tea-spoonsful of salt. Turn it into a buttered cake pan 
Wke about half an hour. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 31 

Iiidia?i Corn Cakes. 
Mix a quart of Indian meal with a handful of wheat flour, 
stir in a quart of warmed milk, a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
two spoonsful of yeast ; stir alternately into the milk, the 
meal and three well beaten eggs ; when light, bake as buck- 
wheat cakes, on a griddle ; send them to the table hot. — 
Should the batter sour, stir in a little salseratus dissolved in 
luke-warm water, letting it set half an hour before baking. 



Best iSponge Cake, 
Take one coffee-cupful of sugar, and four eggs ; beat 
thezu to a cream ; add a piece of salaeratus as large as a 
pea dissolved in a tea-spoonful of milk ; also a little nutmeg 
and essence of lemon ; stir in carefully a coffee-cup of flour. 
Bake in a quick oven. 



Apple Snow. 
Put twelve good tart apples in cold water, and set them 
over a slow fire ; when soft, drain off the water, strip the 
skins off the apples, core them, and lay them in a deep 
dish. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth ; pui 
half a pound of powdered white sugar to the apples, beat 
them to a stiff froth, and add the beaten eggs. Beat the 
whole to a stiff snow, then turn it into a dessert dish, and 
ornament it with ni) rtle or box. 



Yeast of Cream, of Tartar and Salaeratus. 
Heat your oven ; mix two tea-spoonsful of :;ream of tar- 
tar with one quart of flour ; then dissolve one tea-spoonful 
of salasratus in warm water, and mix it with the flour, add- 
ing water enough to make a soft dough. As soon as thor- 
oughly kneaded, place it in your oven until sufficiently 
baked, and the bread will be tender and of the nicest kind. 
Biscuit may be made in the same way by adding a little 
shorteninsf. 



Spruce Beer. 
Allow an ounce of hops and a spoonful of ginger to a 
gallon of water. When well boiled, strain it, and put in a 
pint of molasses and half an ounce or less of the essence 
of spiuce : when cool, add a tea-cup of yeast, put it into a 
Clean tight cask, and let it ferment for a day or two : th-en 
L-ottle it for use. 



32" 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Brown or Dyspepsia Bread. 

This bread is now best known as " Graham Bread," — 
not that Doctor Graham invented or discovered the manner 
of its preparation, but that he has been unwearied and suc- 
cessful in recommending it to tlie pubhc. It is an excellent 
article of diet for the dyspeptic and the costive ; and for 
most persons of sedentary habits it would be beneficial. 1 1 
agrees well with children ; and, in short, I think it should 
he used in every family, though not tc the exclusion of fine 
bread. The most difficult point in manufacturing this bread 
is to obtain good pure meal. It is said that much of the 
bread commonly sold as dyspepsia is made of the bran or 
middlings, from which the fine flour ha% been separated ; and 
that saw-dust is sometimes mixed with the meal. To be 
certain that it is good, send good clean wheat to the mill, 
have it ground rather coarsely, and keep the meal in a dry 
cool place. Before using it, sift it through a common hair- 
sieve ; this will separate the very coarse and harsh particles. 

Take six quarts of this wheat meal, one tea-cupful of 
good yeast, and half a tea-cup of molasses ; mix these with 
a pint of milk-warm water and a tea-spoonful of pearlash 
or salajratus. Make a hole in the flour, and stir this mix- 
ture in the middle of the meal till it is like batter. Then 
proceed as with fine flour bread. Make the dough when 
sufficiently hght into four loaves, which will weigh two 
pounds per loaf when baked. It requires a hotter oven 
than fine flour bread, and must bake about an hour and a 
half. 



Rye and Indian Bread. 

This is a sweet and nourishing diet, and generally accep- 
table, to children. 

It is economical, and when wheat is scarce, is a pretty 
good substitute for dyspepsia bread. 

There are many different proportions of mixing it ; some 
put cne-lhird Indian meal with two of rye ; others like 
one-third rye and two of Indian ; others prefer it half and 
half 

If you use the largest proportion of rye meal, make your 
dough stiff, so that it will mould into loaves ; when it ia 
two-thirds Indian, it should be softer and baked in deep 
•arthen or tin pans after the following rules : 

Take /oz<r quarts of sifted Indian meal ; put it iD^o a 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 33^ 

glazed earthen pan, spririlde over it a table-spoonful of fine 
salt ; pour over it about two quarts of boiling" water, stir 
and work it till every part of the meal is thoroughly wet ; 
Indian absorbs a greater quantity of water. When it is 
about milk warm, work in two quarts of rye meal, half a 
pint of hvely yeast, mixed with a pint of warm water ; add 
more warm water if needed. Work the mixture well with 
your hands ; it should be stiff, but not as firm as flour 
dough. Have ready a large, deep, well buttered pan ; put 
m the dough, and smooth the top by putting your hand in 
warm water, and then patting down the loaf. Set this to 
rise in a warm place in the winter ; in the summer it should 
not be put by the fire. When it begins to crack on the 
top, which will usually be in about an hour or an hour 
and a half, put it into a well-heated oven', and bake it three 
or four hours. It is better to let it stand in the oven all 
night, unless the weather is warm. Indian meal requires 
to be well cooked. The loaf will weigh between seven 
and eight pounds. Pan bread keeps best' in large loaves. 

Many use milk in mixing bread : in the country, where 
milk is plentiful, it is a good practice, as bread is certainly 
richer wet with sweet milk than with water ; but it will 
not keep so long in warm weather. 

Baking can very well be done in a stove ; during the 
winter this is an economical way of cooking — l)ut the stove' 
must be carefully watched, or there is daager of scorching 
the bread. 



Arrow-root Pudding: 
From a quart of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and 
mix it with two large spoonsful of arrow-root. Boil the re- 
mainder of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrow-root ;— 
add, when nearly cold, four well beaten eggs, with two 
ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and the same of fresh but- 
ter broken into small bits ; season, with grated nutmeg. — 
Mix it well together, and bake it in a buttered dish fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

Damson P^idding. 
l^fake a batter with three well beaten eggs, a pint of milk 
atfld of flour and brown sugar four table-spoonsful each ; — 
Stone a pint of damsons, and mix them with the batter ; 
boil it in a buttered basin for an hour and a half. 



34 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

iSa§^o Pudding. 
Boil five table-spoonsful of sago, well picked and washed 
in a quart of milk till quite soft, with a stick of cinnamon. 
Then stir in one tea-cup of butter and two of powdered 
loaf sugar. When it is cold add six eggs well beaten, and 
a little grated nutmeg. Mix all well together, and bake it 
in a buttered dish about three-quarters of an hour. Brown 
sugar, if dried, will answer very well to sweeten it. 



Tapioca Pudding 
Wash four large table-spoonsful of tapioca, and soak it 
for an hour in a little warm water ; strain it through a sieve, 
and mix it with the well beaten yolks of four, and the 
whites of two egg^^ a quart of good milk, half a tea-spoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg, and sweeten it with sugar. Bake it 
in a dish, with or without puff paste round the edges, one 
hour. 



Rice Pudding, Baked or Boiled. 

Wash in cold water and pick very clean six ounces of 

rice ; boil it in one quart of milk, with a bit of cinnamon, 

very gently, till it is quite tender ; it will take about an 

hour ; be careful, to stir it often. Take it from the fire, 

Eick out the cinnamon, and stir in a tea-cupful of sugar, 
alf a cup of butter, three eggs well beaten, a little pow- 
dered nutmeg — stir it till it is quite smooth. You can line 
a pie-dish with puff paste, or bake it in a buttered dish, 
which is better ; three-quarters of an hour will bake it. 

If you wish it more like custard, add one more egg and 
half a pint of milk. 

If you boil it you can add whatever fruit you like ; three 
ounces of currants, or raisins, or apples minced fine ; , it will 
take an hour to boil it. ' 

Serve with wine sauce or butter and sugar. 



Rich Apple Pudding. 
Peel and core six very large apples, stew them in six la 
ble-spoonsful of water, with the rind of a lemon ; when soft, 
beat them to a pulp, add six ounces of good brown sugar, 
six well beaten eggs, ia pint of rich cream, and a tea-spoon- 
ful of lemon juice ; line a dish with a pufT paste, and when 
baked, stick all over the top thin chips of candied citrcn and 
lemon-peel. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. SB 

Indian Fruit Pudding. 
Take a pint of hot milk, and stir in sifted Indian meal 
till the batter is stiff ; add a tea-spoonful of salt and a little 
cnolasses ; then stir in a pint of whortleberries, or chopped 
>weet apple. Tie it in a cloth that has been wet, and leave 
oom for it to swell, or put it in a pudding-pan, and tie a 
iloth over —boil three hours. The water must boil when 
Lt is put in. You can use cranberries, and use sweet sauce. 



/Squash Pie, 
Pare, take out the seeds, and stew the squash till very 
soft and dry. Strain or rub it through a sieve or colander. 
Mix this with good milk till it is as thick as batter ; sweet- 
en it with sugar. Allow five eggs to a quart of milk, beat 
the eggs well, add them to the squash, and season with 
rose-water, cinnamon, nutmeg, or whatever spices you like. 
Line a pie-plate with crust, fill and bake about an hour. 



Pumpkin Pie. 

Stew the pumpkin dry, and make it like squash pie, only 
season rather higher. In the country, where this real yan- 
kee pie is prepared in perfection, ginger is almost always 
used with other spices. There, to-o, part cream instead of 
milk is mixed with the pumpkin, which gives it a richer 
flavor. 

Roll the paste rather thicker than for fruit pies, as there 
is but one crust. If the pie is large and deep, it will require 
to bake an hour in a brisk oven. 



Family Mince Pies. 

Boil three pounds of lean beef till tender, and when cold 
chop it fine. Chop three pounds of clear beef suet, and 
mix the meat, sprinkling in a table-spoonful of salt. 

Pare, core and chop fine six pounds of good apples ; stone 
four pounds of raisins, and chop them ; wash and dry two 
pounds of currants ; and mix them all well with the meat. 
Season with a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a powdered 
imtmeg, a little mace, and a few cloves, pounded, and one 
pound of brown sugar ; add a quait of Madeira wine and 
half a pound of citron cut into small bits. This mixture 
put down in a stone jar and closely covered will keep sev- 
eral weeki>. It makes a rich pie for Thanksgiving and 
ChrLstraas. 



3^ VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Raspberry Jam. 
Weigh equal proportions of pounded loaf (or lump) sugar 
and raspberries ; put the fruit in a preserving pan, and with 
a silver spoon or flat wooden stick bruise and mash it well. 
Let it boil up ; then add the sugar, stirring it well with the 
fruit ; when it boils skim it, and then boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Strawberry Jam. 
Made in the same manner as raspberry jam. 



l. Peach Jam,. 

Gather the peaches when quite ripe, peel and stone them, 
put them into a preserving pan, and make them over the 
fire till hot ; rub them through a sieve, and add to a pound 
of pulp the same weight of pounded loaf sugar, and half an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; let it boil 
ten or twelve minutes ; stir and skim it well. 



To Preserve Dam,sons. 
To every pound of damsons allow three-quarters of a 
pound of powdered sugar; put into jars or well-glazed 
earthen pots, alternately a layer of damsons and one of su- 
gar ; tie strong paper or cloth over the pots, and set them 
in the oven after the bread is drawn ; and let them stand 
till the oven is cold. The next day, strain off the syrup and 
boil it till thick ; when it is cold, put the damsons into small 
jars or glasses, pour over the syrup which should cover 
them, and tie a wet bladder or strong cloth over them. 

Melted Butter. , 

Always use sweet butter ; if in the least injured, it spoils 
the gravy. To make it of the best quality, cut two ounces 
of butter into little bits, put these in a clean stew-pan, with 
a large tea-spoonful of flour and a table-spoonful of milk. 

When thoroughly melted and mixed, add six table-spoons- 
ful of water, hold itover the fire, and shake it round eveiy 
minute (all the time one way) till it just begins to simmer ; 
then let it stand quietly and boil up. It should be of th« 
Uaickness of good cieam. 

Parsely and Butter 
Is made by adding parsely that has been boiled a few mia 
ute« and chonoed fine to the melted butter. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 97 

Egg Sauce. 
Is made by putting two or three hard boiled eggs, minted 
€ne, into melted butter. The butter need not be as thick 
when eggs are to be added. 



White Sauce for Boiled Fowl. 
Melt in a tea-cupful of milk a large table-spoonful of 
butter kneaded in a little flour ; beat up the yolk of an egg 
with a tea-spoonful of cream, stir it into the butter, tmil' 
put it over the fire, stirring it constantly : chopped parsley 
may be added. 

Caper Sauce 
Is made by adding one or two spoonsful of capers to melted 
butter. 



, Oyster Sauce. 
Beard and scald the oysters, strain the liquor, and thicken 
it with a little flour and butter, squeeze in a httle lemon- 
juice, and add three table-spoonsful of cream. Heat it 
well, but do not let it boil. 

Bread Sauce. 
Boil half a pint of milk, and put into it a tea-cupful of 
bread crumbs a httle powdered, a small chopped onion which 
has been boiled in three waters, ^nd let it simmer twenty 
minutes ; then add a piece of butter as large as a walnut : 
boil up and serve. 

Tomato Sauce. 
Peel and slice twelve tomatoes, and pick out the seeds ; 
add three pounded crackers, and pepper and salt to your 
taste : stew twenty minutes. 



Tomato Catsup. 
Take two quarts skinned tomatoes, two table-spoonsful 
of salt, the same of black pepper, and one of allspice ; four 
pods of red pepper, two table-spoonsful of ground mustard; 
mix and rub these thoroughly together, and stew them 
slowly, in a pint of vinegar, for three hours ; then strain 
the liquor through a sieve, and simmer it down to one quart 
of catsup Put this in bottles and -MDrk it tight. 



38 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



Plum Cake. 

Make a cake of two cups of butter; two cups of molasses; 
two eggs ; one cup of milk or buttermilk ; one teaspoonful 
of salaeratus, or volatile salts (which is better) ; a gill of bran- 
dy ; one teaspoonful of essence of lemon ; and flour to make 
it a stifT batter. 

Beat it well ; then add one pound of raisins stoned and 
chopped ; one pound of currants, well washed and dried by 
the fire ; and one or two quarters of citron. Bake in a quick 
oven. This is a fine rich cake easily made, and not expen- 
sive. 

Cream Cup Cake. 

Four cups of flour ; two cups of sugar ; three cups of cream ; 
and four eggs. Beat it well, and in square tin pans. When 
cold, cut it in squares. Bake in a quick oven. 



Sandwiches. 

These are made of different articles, but always in the 
same manner. 

Cold biscuit sliced thin, and buttered, and a very thin 
slice of boiled ham, tongue, or beef, between each two slices 
of biscuit, is best. 

Home-made bread cuts better for sandwiches than baker's 
bread. The meat in sandwiches is generally spread with 
mustard ; the most delectable are those made with boiled 
smoked tongue. 

To*Make Coffee. 
Take a table-spoonful of fresh-browned and ground cof- 
fee for each person (or a pint of water) ; break white of 
eggs into it enough to moisten it ; stir it well together ; 
then put it in the coffee-kettle and pour boiling water into 
it ; then cover it close, and set it where it will simmer, but 
not boil, for an hour ; it will then be clear, and have the 
color of brandy. Coffee may be made in this way the day 
before it is wanted. Pour it off clear, and when wanted, 
heat it in a coffee-pot. A little isinglass clarified, and use»l 
in the place of (tgg, is equally good, if not an improvement. 
Loaf sugar and boiled milk to be served with it, allowing 
each person to suit th^ir own taste. The yolks of eggs 
beaten and stirred into the boiling milk enrich it. Some 
persons like the flavor of vanilla in coffee ; if so. boil a 
vanilla bean in liie milk. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 39 

Chicken Salad. 
Mince the white meat of a chicken fine, or pull it in bits. 
Chop the white parts of celery ; prepare a sg.lad dressing 
thus : Rub the yolks of hard boiled eggs smooth with a 
spoon ; put to each yolk one tea-spoonful of made mustard, 
lialf as much salt, a table-spoonful of oil, and a wine-glass 
of strong vinegar ; put the celery in a glass salad bowl ; 
lay the chicken on that ; then poiir it over the dressing. — 
Lettuce cut small in the place of celery may be used ; cut 
the whites of the eggs in rings to garnish the salad. , ^ 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, stone and chop 
one pound of raisins ; wash, pick clean from grit, and dry, 
a pound of currants ; soak half of a sixpenny loaf of bread 
in a pint of milk ; when it has taken up all the milk, add 
to it the raisins, currants, chopped suet, and two eggs 
beaten, a table-spoonful of sugar, one wine-glass of brandy, 
one nutmeg grated, and any other spice that may be liked. 
Boil four hours. For sauce, beat a quarter of a pound of 
butter to a cream, then stir into it half a pound of powdere4 
loaf sugar. Or, melt butter and sugar, and if liked, add 

more brandy. 

Plum, Pudding. 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of raisins stoned 
and chopped, and some currants washed, picked and dried ; 
use milk enough to stir easily with a spoon ; add half a 
pound of suet chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, and four 
well beaten eggs ; tie it in a floured cloth, and boil four 
hours. The water must boil when it is put in, and con- 
tinue boiling until it is done. 



Mutton Broth. 
Take a neck of mutton, cut it in pieces, reserving a good 
«ized piece to serve in the tureen ; put it into cold water 
enough to cover it, and cover the pot close ; set it on coals 
until the water is lukewarm, then pour it off, and skim it 
well ; then put it again to the meat with the addition of 
five pints of water, a tea-spoonful of rice or pearl-barley, 
and an onion cut up ; set it on a slow fire, and when you 
Wave taken all the scum off, put in two or three quartered 
turnips. Let it simmer very slowly for two hours, then 
strain it through a sieve into the tureen ; add pepper and 
$alt to taste. 



46 VALUABLE RECIPEB. 

Lobster Soup. 
After having boiled the lobster, take it from the shell, 
lioll two or three crackers, and put it to the meat, which 
may be cut small ; melt some butter m a stew-pan, two 
quarts of boiling uiilk or water, and salt and pepper to 
taste : let it boil for half an hour ; put some crackers ia a 
tureen ; pour over the soup, and serve. 



Oyster Mouth Soup. 

Make a rich mutton brotlL and pour it on the oysters ; 
add a good bit of butter rolled in flour, and let it simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes, then pour it over some whole 

crackers and serve. ■ 

Savoy Soup. 

Cut into quarters and boil in clear water, one or two 
heads of savoy cabbage ; when tender drain the water off, 
and press all the water from them ; then put them to as 
much beef-broth as will cover them ; put it into a closely 
covered stew-pan over a moderate fire for two hours ; then 
set on the fire a large frying-pan with a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter ; shake some flour from a dredging-box into 
it, and let it brown ; stir all the time ; peel and cut up two 
onions, and stir them well about ; as soon as they are 
nicely colored, add it to the soup ; soak some rolls or crack- 
ers in a quart of boiling milk or water, and add it to the 
SQup. Mutton or veal broth may be used. 

Cabbage Soup. 
Boil corned beef in a pot of water until half done, then 
add two sm.all heads of cabbage, cut in quarters, and well 
washed (examine carefully, as insects are sometimes con- 
cealed between the leaves) ; when it is done tender, take 
out the largest pieces and drain them in a colander, and 
set it over a pot of hot water to keep it hot ; if the meat is 
tender, take that up also, and add to the soup a cup of 
pearl-barley or rice, a dozen or more potatoes peeled and 
cut in half ; two or three turnips and some sliced or grated 
carrots — if liked, an onion or two may also be added ; let it 
bo-il until the vegetables are all done ; put the meat on a 
large dish, and the cabbage and other vegetables on snjall 
dishes, for side dishes. This makes a good family dinner. 
Serve the soup in a tureen, hot ; thicken with a table-s|X)on- 
fiil of flour made in thin paste with water. 



VALUABI,K RECIPES. 41 

Ttirtle Soup. 
Cut the head of the turtle off the day before you dress it, 
and place the body so as to drain it well from blood ; the 
next day cut it up in the following manner : Divide the 
hack, belly, fins, and head' from the intestines and lean 
parts ; take care to cut the gall clean out without breaking ; 
scald in boiling Avater the first named parts, so as to take 
off the skin and shell ; cut them in pieces small enough to 
stew, and throw them into cold water ; boil the back and 
belly in water long enough to extract the bones ; put the 
meat on a dish, then make a good stock of a leg of veal, 
lean ham and the flesh of the inside of the turtle ; draw it 
down to a color, then fill it up with beef stock, and the 
iiquor and bones of the boiled turtle. Season with stalks 
of marjoram, and boil some onions, a bunch of parsley, 
cloveSj and whole pepper. Let it boil slowly for four hours, 
then strain it to the pieces of back, ^ns, belly, and head of 
the turtle ; take the bones from the fins, and cut the rest 
in neat square pieces with as little waste as possible,^;— 
Thicken the stock with butter rolled in flour, and boil it", to 
cleanse it from grease and scum ; then strain it through a 
cioth — ^then boil your herbs that have been washed and 
pickled, in a bottle of Madeira wine with a little sugar.— 
The herbs to be used are marjoram, thyme, basil, and par- 
sley ; then put together smip, herbs, meat, and some force- 
meat, and egg-balls. Boil it for a short time, and put it 
away in clean pans until the following day, as the rawriess 
will go off, and the flavor be improved by so doing. In 
cutting up the turtle the fat should be taken great care of, 
it should be separated, cut in neat pieces, and stewed ten- 
der in a little of the ^up, and put int>® the tureen at last. 



Chicken S&up. 
An old fowl makes good soup. €ut it up — ^first take off 
the wings, legs, and neck, then divide it down the side^ 
and cut the back and breast each in two pieces ; cut hau 
a pound of pork in thin slices, and put it with the cut up 
fowl into four or five pints of water ; set it over a gentle 
fire, skim it clear, taking care not to keep it open longer 
than is necessary ; add a cup of rice or pearl-barley, cay- 
enne and black pepper to taste, a leek shced, and pot^toea 
out in half— if liked, a grated or sliced carrot, and a turnip 
«ut small may be added. 



42 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Another Chicken Soup. 
Take two or three pounds of veal or vegetables and one 
small chicken cut up ; boil these in two quarts of water ^ 
cut up four onions or a leek ; grate two carrots and add 
them to the soup ; salt and pepper to taste — skim it clear. 
Other vegetables may be substituted or added as may be 
preferred ; thicken tlie soup with a little batter of flour and 
water, with an ^gg beaten in. 



Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy. 
Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, and a pound of lean 
beef; put these with the knuckle bone into two quarts of 
water ; cover it close and let it stew till very tender. When 
made in this way, it may be used for soups or gravies. 



Mock Turtle Soup. 
Take one pound and a half of lean veal, or tripe (which 
is best), cut it into small slices, and fry of a delicate brown. 
Cut the meat from three cow-heels in tolerably large pieces, 
then put it with the fried , 1 or tripe into a pint and a 
balf of weak gravy, with three cmichovies, a little salt, some 
cayenne pepper, three blades of mace, nine cloves, the green 
parts of three leeks, three sprigs of lemon thyme, some par- 
sley and lemon peel ; chop these last very fine before add- 
ing them ; let the whole stew gently for three hours — then 
squeeze the juice of three lemons to it ; add three glasses 
of Madeira wine, and let it stew for one hour more, — then 
skim off the fat and serve. 



Remarks on Fish. 

There is a general rule in choosing most sorts of fish ; if 
the gills are red, the eyes full, and the whole fish firm and 
stiff, they are fresh and good ; if on the contrary the gills ar« 
pale, the eyes sunk, and the flesh flabby, they are stale. 

Great care must be taken that fish are properly cleaned 
before being dressed, that is, they must be entirely free from 
scales, and every particle of the insides scraped from them ; 
ihey must not be crushed beyond what is necessary for 
cleansing them, as that diminishes the flavor. 

When cleansed, if the fish is to be boiled, put some sail 
and vinegar into the water to make them firm ; care must 
lue taken to boil the fish well, but not to let it break. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Fresh cod, haddock, whiting, and shad, are better for be- 
iag salted the night before cooking them. 

There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh 
water fish, which may be got rid of, by soaking it after it 
lias been thoroughly cleaned in stiong salt arid water — 
aftei which dry it in a napkin, and dress it. Put the fish 
in cold water, and boil it gently, otherwise the skin will 
break before the fish is cooked. 

If fish is not taken from the water as soon as done, it wiD 
be woolly — to ascertain if it is done, draw up the fish drainer 
on which it is laid, and if the flesh parts from the bones it 
is done ; if so, set it crosswise of the kettle, and throw a 
thickly folded cloth or napkin over, to keep it hot. 

To fry small fish, they may be done plain, or dipped in 
flour, or first dipped in the beaten yolks of eggs and then in 
grated bread crumbs, and fried in lard or beef drippings, or 
you may use equal parts of lard and butter ; butter alone 
takes out the sweetness, and gives a bad color — the fat 
must be boiling hot before putting in the fish. 

Fried parsley, grated horse-radish, or slices of lemon, are 
used as garnish. 

To fry, or broil fish properly : after it is well cleansed, it 
should be laid on a folded napkin, and all the water dried 
out — when perfectly dry, dip it in wheat flour, or beaten 
eggs, and then into bread crumbs — if wet over and sprink- 
led twice with bread crumbs before frying or broiling, it will 
took better for it. 

Have a thick bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard or 
beef-dripping boiling hot, lay the fish into it, and let it fry 
quickly till it is done of a rich yellow brown ; when one 
side is done turn the other. If wanted particularly nice, a 
sheet of cap paper must be laid to receive the fish, or if it 
is boiled let a buttered paper be folded about it; have a 
clean gridiron rubbed over with suet, and a clear bright 
fire of coals ; to prevent its tasting smoky, it may be don« 
without the paper; a fluted gridiron is best for any broiling. 

For broiled fish have butter on a hot dish with pepper 
and salt to taste, the same as for a steak. 

All salt fish requires soaking before cooking, according to 
ibe time it has been in salt — that which is hard and dry 
requires two nights soaking, changing the water three or 
(bur times; when not hard or very salt, twenty-four houM 
will be sufficient. 



^ VALUABLE RECIFES> 

Salmon. 

When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are ol 
a bright red, the scales clear, and the fish is stiff. Whew 
just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which 
by keeping, melts down, and the fish becomes richer. 

Salmon requires to be well boiled, as it is very unwhole- 
gome when under-done ; boil with horse-radish in the water, 
anchovy, lobster, or plain drawn butter-sauce ; garnish 
^ith horse-radish, an4 sliced lemon. 



Boiled Salmon. 
Run a packthread through the tail, centre of the body, 
and head of fish, to bring it in the form of a letter S — then 
put it into a kettle with spring water, and plenty of salt. 
Cut three or four slanting gashes on each side of the fish, 
before making it in a form, otherwise skin will break and 
disfigure the fish : serve with lobgter-sauce. 



Broiled Salmon. 
Cut some slices (about an inch thick) ; season with pep- 
per and salt ; wrap each slice in half a sheet of well buttered 
white paper ; twist the ends of the paper and broil them 
over a fire of bright coals for ten minutes : serve in the 
butter with drav/n butter or anchovy sauce. 



Dried Salmon. 

Cut the fish down, the back, take out the inside and roe;' 
scale it, and rub the whole with common salt, an(f hang it 
|o drain far twenty-four hours. Pound three or four ounces 
of saltpetre, two ounces of coarse salty and two ounces of 
brown sugar ; mix these well, and rub into the salmon^ 
and lay it on a large dish for two days ; then rub it well 
with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will 
l)e fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Stretch it oper> 
yrith two sticks, and hang it m a wood chimney, or in a 

dry place ^ 

Broiled Salmon, 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and onlyjusS 
W'armed through. Egg sauce and mashed potatoes are 
Itsually served with it •, or it may be boiled — or lay it iu 
^ak in pure water for an hour or two before boihng ; rub 
*.he gridiron over with a bit of suet ; lay on the salmon ; 
a^iake a little peppc" over, and serve. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 45 

Broiled Cod. 

Split a small cod from head to tail ; cut the sides in 
pieces of about three inches width ; dip them in flour, and 
broil ; have some butter, pepper and salt, on a hot dish ; 
lay the fish on this and serve. 

Or take the steaks, broil them in the same way, or with 
buttered paper folded around them, 

Fi'ied.Cod. 
.Take steaks of about an inch thickness, dredge them 
with flour, and fry them in hot fat ; or if a small one, cut 
it the same as for boiling, and flour it, or first dip it in the 
beaten yolks of eggs, and then in bread crumbs. 



Salt Codfish. 
Put the dish in soak over night ; tie it m a cloth, and 
boil in clear water ; serve with plain boiled potatoes and 
drawn butter or e,gg sauce. 



Dried Codfish. 
This should always be laid in soak with plenty of water, 
it least one night before cooking ; after which scrape it 
well, and put it in plenty of cold water ; let it boil gently ; 
skim it ; when done, serve with egg sauce over, or cut hard 
boiled eggs in slices, lay them over the fish, and serve with 
drawn butter in a boat. 



Stewed Salt Cod. 
Scald some cod, scrape it white, then pick it in pieces, 
and put it in a stew-pan with some butter rolled in flour ; 
milk enough to moisten it, and pepper to taste, and let it 
stew slowly for some minutes, then serve hot. 



To Make a Dish of Cold Boiled Cod. 
T-ake some boiled fish, chop it fine, pour some drawn but- 
ter or egg sauce over, add pepper to taste ; warm it tho- 
roughly, stirring it to prevent its burning; make a rpU, or 
any other form of it ; put little spots of pepper over, and if 
fou please, brown the outside before a fire. 



Haddocks. 
These are chosen by the same rules, and dressed in til6 
ime manner as cod. 



46 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

A Little Dish of Dried Cod. 
Pick some dried cod in flakes, pour boiling water over, 
scald it once, then throw the water off; put some hot 
milk or water over, to which add a bit of butter ; pepper to 
taste, and serve. 



Codfish Cakes. 
First boil the fish, then take the white part, chop it fine 
with a chopping-knife, add mashed potatoes, an equal quan- 
tity, and form them in cakes, with a raw egg or two, and a 
little flour ; dredge the outside with flour, and fry in hot 
lard or drippings ; garnish with fried parsley. 



Sfiad. 
These are chosen by the same mles as other fish ; they 
may be baked, fried or broiled. 



Fried Shad. 
Scale the fisli, cut off the head, and then cut down the 
back, and take out the entrails ; keep the roes to be dressed 
with the fish, then cut it in two, and cut each side in pieces, 
about thvee inches wide ; flour them, and fry in hot lard, 
in whjch put salt to taste. When the inside (which must 
always be first cooked in any fish) is done a fine brown, 
turn the other. The soft roe is much liked by some ; fry 
it in the same manner ; as also the eggs from the female 
shad ; these last must be well done. 



Salt Mackerel. 
Lay thern in soak in plent)^ of clear water before using 
them at least twelve hours, and fry, or broil them — or put 
them in a frying-pan. Cover with boiling water, and give 
them fifteen minutes cooking, then pour oflf the water ; 
pepper to taste, and serve. 



Presh Mackerel Soused. 

After having thoroughly cleaned them, boil them in salt 

and water until tender ; then take them out, lay them in a 

deep dish ; take of the water in which they were boiled, hall 

as much as will cover them ; add to it as much more viue- 

far, some whole pepper, cloves, and a blade or two of mace 
'our it over hot ; in two days it will be fit to eat. 



■"i-m 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK 



A quick made Broth. — Take a bone or two of a neck 
or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the 
fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three 
quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten 
and cut in thin bits ; put in a bit of thyme and parsley, and 
if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, 
skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be too 
weak, else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the 
whole process. 

A very nourishing Veal Broth. — Put the knuckle of a 
leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old 
fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton, extremely well 
soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper- 
corns, an onion, a large bit of bread, and three quarts of 
water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in 
the slowest manner after it has boiled up and been skim- 
med ; or bake it ; strain and take off the fat ; salt as 
wanted. It will require four hours. 

Broth of Beef, Mutton and Veal. — Put two pounds of 
lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag 
of mutton, three ounces of pearl barley, sweet herbs and 
ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan, with seven 
quarts of water; to simmer to three or four quarts, and 
clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approv- 
ed, or the white part of leeks. Soup and broth, made 
of different meats, are more supporting, as well as better 
flavored. To remove the fat, take it off when cold, as 
clean as possible; and if there be still any remaining, lay 
a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in 
the basin, and it will take up every particle. 



48 FAMILY PHYSICIAN. 

Calves' Faet Broth. — Boil two feet in three quarts 0/ 
water to half; strain and set it by ; when to be used, 
take off the fat, put a large teacupful of the jelly into a 
saucepan with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar- 
and nutmeg, and heat it till it be ready to boil, then take 
a little of it and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, 
and adding a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, stir It al- 
together, but don't let it boil • grate a bit of fresh lemon 
peel into it. 

Chicken Broth. — Put the body and legs of ilie fowl^ 
after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was 
boiled in,' with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and 
ten white peppercorns. Simmer till the broth be* of a 
pleasant flavor : if not Water enough, add a little. Beat 
a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds With a teaspoan- 
ful of Water fine, boil it in the broth ; strain ; and when 
cool, remove the fat. 

Beef Tea. — Cut a pourid of fleshy beef in thin slices j 
simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it 
has once boiled and been skimmed ; season, if approved, 
with a small portion of salt. • 

Arrow-Root Jelly — If genuine, is very nourishing, es- 
pecially for weak bowels. Put into a saucepan half a 
pint of water, a glass of sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, 
grated nutmeg and fine sugar ; boil once up, then mix i\ 
by degrees into a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, previous- 
ly rubbed smooth with two spoonsful of cold water ; 
then return the whole into the saucepan ; stir and boil it 
three minutes. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Choose the largest sort, pour cold 
water on to wash it two or three times, then soak it in 
fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same 
until it becomes quite clear ; then add lemon-juice, wine 
and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. n 
thickens very iniich. 



BTIftUETTE FOR IIDIES AND GENTLBMBM. 



A few plain directions, fashioned not after an imaginary model, 
bat upon the world as it is. 

The Pers&A. 

Cleanliness, absolute purity of person, is the first requisite iii the 
appearance of a gentleman or lady. Not only should the face dlid 
hands be kept clean, but the whole* skin should be subjected to fre- 
quent ablutions. Better wear course clothes with a clean skin, 
than silk stockings drawn ovei' dirty feet. Let the whole skin be 
kept pure and sweet, the teeth and nails and hair, clean ; and the 
last tw9 of medium length, and naturally cut. Nothing deforms a 
man more than bad Iiair-cutting, and unnatural deformity in wearing 
it. Abstain from all eccentricities. Take a medium between na- 
ture and fashion, which is perhaps the best rule in regard to dreSh 
ajid appearance that can be given. 

Dress. 

The importance of dress can scarcely be overrated, but by cdiii- 
parison. It is with the world the outward sign of both character 
and condition. 

A well bred man may be ever so teduced in his wardrobe — his 
clothes may be coarse and thread-tare, but he seldom wears a 
coarse, and never a dirty shirt. " 

The boots should always be clean, and invariably well blacked 
andpoUshed. 

Make a point of buying a good hat. One proper fur-hat wotth 
four or five dollars, when a year old, looks more respectable, thain 
a silk one bought yesterday. 

Be as particular as you like about tlie cut of your pantaloons. 
Buy strong cloth that will not be tearing at every turn, and if yoa 
Consult economy and taste at the same time, let them be either 
black or very dark grey, when they will answer upon all occa- 
sions. - 

The vest allows of some fancy, but beware of being too fanclfuL 
A black satin is proper for any person or any occasion. NothiHij 
is more elegant than pure white. Some colors may be vvorfl for 



HB ETTQUEXTB FOR LADIES AND CENTLEMEN, 

variety, but beware of every thing glaring, in materiais or trim* 
mings. 

If you have but one coat, it will be a black dress-coat, as there 
are occasions where no other will answer. Frock-coats are worn 
in the morning, riaing or walking, but never at evening visits, at" 
weddings, or parties. Overcoats are worn for comfort ; they need 
not be fine, and should not be fanciful. Most gentlemen wear a 
simple, plain, black silk cravat, neatly tied in a bow-knot before. 
Parties require wliite or light kid-gloves. Black, or very dark ones, 
of kid, silk, or linen, are worn upon all other occasions, except in 
driving, when buff leather-gloves are preferable. 

The best dressed men wear 'the least jewelry. Of all things avoid 
showy chains, large rings, and gewgaw pins and broaches, All 
these things should be left to negroes, Indians, and South Sea 
islanders. 

Tlie most proper pocket-handkerchiefs are of white linen. If fig- 
ured, or embroidered, they should be very delicately done. 

Gloves are worn in the street, at churcii, and places of amuse- 
ment. It is not enough to carry them — they are to be worn. 

Ladies are allowed to consult fimcy, variety, and ornament, 
more than men, yet nearly the sai^ie rules apply. It is tjie mark 
of a lady to be always well shod. If your feet are small, don't 
spoil them by pinching — if large,' squeezing them makes them 
worse. 

As you regard health, comfort, and beauty, do not lace too tight- 
ly. A waist too small for the natural proportion of the figure, i» 
the worst possible deformity, and produces many others. No wo- 
man who laces tight can have good shoulders, a straight spine, 
good lungs, sweet breath, or is fit to be a wife and mother. 

The most elegant dresses are black or white. Common modes- 
ty will prevent indecent exposure of the shoulders and bosom. A 
vulgar girl wears bright and glaring colors, fantastically made ; a 
large, flaring, red, yellow, or sky-blue hat, covered with a rainbow 
of ribbons, and all the rings and trinkets she can load upon her. 
Of course, a modest well-bred young lady chooses the reverse of 
all this. In any assemblage, the most plainly dressed woman is 
sure to be the most lady-like and attractive. Neatness is better 
than richness, and plainness better than display. Single ladies 
dress less in fashionable society than married ones, and all more 
plainly and substantially for walking or travelling, than on other 
ocoasions. 

in my opinion, nothing beyond a simple, natural flower, ever adds 
to the beauty of a lady's head-dress. 

It is a general rule, applicable to both sexes, that persons arc 
the best dressed, when you cannot remember how they wer» 
dressed. Avoid every thing out of the way uncommon or gro- 
tesque. 



ETIQITETTE FOR LADIES Ain> GENTLEMBir. Ut 

Behavior in the Street. 

When you meet a gentleman witli whom you are acquainted, 
you bow, raising your hat slightly, with your left hand, which leaves 
your hand at liberty to shaiie hands if you stop. If the gentleman 
IS ungloved, you must take off yours, not otherwise. 

Meeting a lady, the rule is that she should make the first salute, 
or at least, indicate by her manner, that she recognises you. Your 
bow must be lower, and your hat carried further from your head; 
but you never offer to shake hands ; that is her privilege. 

The right, being the post of honor, is given to superiors and la- 
dies, except in the street, when they take the wall, as farthest 
from danger from passing carriages^ in walking with or meeting 
them. 

In walking with a lady you are not bound to recognise gentle- 
men with whom she is not acquainted, nor have they in such a cas^ 
any right to salute, much less to speak to you. 

Should her shoe become unlaced, or her dress in any manner dis- 
ordered, fail not to apprise her of it respectfully, and offer your as- 
sistance. A gentleman may hook a dress, or lace a shoe, with per- 
fect propriety, and should be able to do so gracefully. 

Whether with a iady or gentleman, a street talk should be a short 
one; and in either case, when you have passed the customary com- 
pliments, if you wish to continue the conversation you must say, 
"Permit me to accjmpany you." 

Don't sing, hum, whistle, or talk to yourself in walking. Endea- 
vor, besides being well-dressed, to have a calm, good natural coun- 
tenance. A scowl always begets wrinkles. It is best not to 
smoke at all in public, but none but a ruffian will inflict upon soci. 
ety the odor of a bad cigar, or that of any kind, on ladies. 

Ladies are not allowed upon ordinary occasions to take the arm 
of any one but a relative, or an accepted lover, in the street, and in 
the day time ; in the evening — in the fields, or in a crowd, wher- 
ever she may need protection, she should not refuse it. She should 
pass her hand over the gentleman's arm, merely, but should not 
walk at arm's length apart, as country girls sometimes do. In 
walking with a gentleman, the step of the lady must be lengthen- 
ed, and his shortened, to prevent the hobbling appearance of not 
keeping step. Of com-se, the conversation of a stranger, beyond 
asking a necessary question, must be considered as a gross insult, 
and repelled with proper spirit. 

Visiting. 

Of course, you ring or knock, and await the opening of the dooi. 
When this is done, you ask for the mistress of the house, not the 
roaster. 



• 



m ETIQTTEXTE FOR LADIES AMD GENTLEUEir. 

Should she not be at home of engaged, you leave your card, 
where cards are used, or your compliments. Where there are sev- 
eral ladies in the family, you may ask for the ladies. Where peo- 
ple dine early, calls are not made until some time after dinner— ia 
cities they are made from eleven till three. 

You leave over-coat, cane, umbrella, &c., and if the call is of any 
length, your hat in the entry. A graceful bow, a pleasant smile-, 
an easy way of paying the customary compliments, and suiting 
them to each person, no lesson can teach. In the presence of la- 
dies, you are only silent when listening to them. You never yawn, 
nor lounge on your seat, nor interrupt nor contradict, but by in- 
sinuation — you never tell unpleasant news, nor make ill-timed ob- 
servations. Study to please, by a respectful demeanor, and an easy 
gaiety. It is well to know how to enter a room, but it is much 
better to know when and how to leave it. If you have made a 
good impression, a long story may wear it off — if a bad one, being 
tedious only makes it vvorse. Don't stand hammering and fum- 
bling, and saying, " Well, I guess I must be going." When you 
are ready, go at once. It is very easy to say, " Miss Susan, your 
company is so agreeable, that I am staying longer than I intended, 
but I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you again soon ; I vdsh 
you a good morning;" and, bowing, smiling, shaking hands, if the 
hand be proffered, you leave the room, if possible without turning 
your back ; you bow again at the front door, and if any eyes ar« 
following you, you still turn and.raise your hat in the street. 

Introductions. 

The rule is. never to introduce one person to another without 
knowing that it is agreeable to both. Ladies are always to be con- 
sulted beforehand. Gentlemen are introducied to ladies, not ladies 
to gentlemen. 

A common form is, " Mr. Jones, Mr. Smith — Mr. Smith, Mr. 
Jones." Messrs. Jones and Smith bow, shake hands, express their 
happiness at being made acquainted with each other. 

When more ceremony is required, the introducer says, "Mi8| 
Smith, permit me to introduce Mr. Jones to your acquaintance* 
Or, " allow me to present." 

Coffee-house, steamboat, and stage-coach acquaintances last only 
for the time being. You are not obliged to know them afterwardSi 

however familiar for the time. 

* • 

Behavior at Dinner. 

There is no situation in which one's breeding is more observed, 
than at the dinner-table ; our work would therefore be incomplete 
virithout the proper directions as to its etiquette. 



ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES AND GENTtEJ^Bf, 12fl 

If there are ladies, gentlemen oiFer their arms, and conduct thera 
to the dining-room, according to their age or the degree of respect 
to be shown theni. * « 

The lady of the house sits at the head of the table, and the gen- 
tleman opposite at the foot. The place of honor for gentlemen is 
on ejich side of the mistress of the house — for ladies on each sidfe 
of the master. The company should be so arranged that each la- 
dy will have some gentleman at her side to assist her. Of course, 
it is every gentleman's duty, first of all to see that ladies near him 
are attended -to. 

VViien napkins are provided, they are at once carefully unfolded, 
and laid on the knees. Observe if grace is to be said, and keep a 
proper decorum. If soup is served, Uike a peace of bread in the 
left hand, and the spoon in the right, and sip noiselessly from the 
iide of the spoon. Do not take two plates of the same kind of 
soup, and never tip up the plate. 

When regular courses are served, the next dish is fish. If silver 
or wide-pronged forks are used, eat with the fork in the right hand 
■ — the knife is unnecessary. 

Next come fhe roast and boiled meats. If possible the knife 
should never be put in the mouth at all, and if at all, let the edge 
be turned outward. Any thing taken into the mouth not fit to be 
swallowed, should be quietly removed with the fingers of the left 
hand, to that side of the plate. The teeth should be picked as lit- 
tle as possible, and never with fork or fingers. Carefully abstain 
from every act or observation that may cause disgust, such as spit- 
ting, blowing the nose, gulping, rinsing the mouth, &,c. 

When the ladies leave the table, which they do together, at the 
signal of the mistress of the house, the gentlemen rise and conduct 
them to the door of the apartment, and then return to the table. 
This is in formal parties. 

If at dinner you are requested to help any one to sauce, do not 
pour it over the meat or vegetables, but on one side. If you 
should have to carve and help a joint, do not load a person's plat^ 
— it is vulgar : also in serving soup, one ladleful to each plate is 
sufficient. 

Eat PEAS with a dessert spoon; and curry alsd* Tarts and pud- 
dings are to be eaten with a spoon. 

As a genei'al rule, in helping any one at table, never use a knife 
where you can use a spoon. 

Making a noise in chewing, or breathing hard in eating, are both 
unseemly ha,bits, and ought to be avoided. 

Never pare an apple or a pear for a lady, unless she desire you, 
and then be careful to u^e your fork to hold it; you may some- 
times offer to divide a very large pear with or for a person. 

At Eoine tables, large colored glasses, partly filled with water, 
with a bit of lemon, are brought when the cloth is removed. Yon 
dip a corner of your napkin in the water, and wipe your mouth, then 
dnse your fingers and wipe them on your napkin. 



la^ ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES ANB GENTLEMEK. 

The best gOTeral rule for a person unacquainted with the asages 
of society, is to be cautious, pay attention, and do as he sees others 
do, who ought to know what is proper. Most of our blunders an 
the result of haste and want of observation. 



Conversation. 

\ 

The object of conversation is to entertain and amuse. To be 
agreeable, you must learn to be a good listener. A man who 
monopolises a conversation is a bore, no matter how great his 
knowledge. 

Never get into a dispute. State your opinions, but do notargn* 
them. Do not contradict, and, above all, never offend by correct- 
ing mistakes or inaccuracies of fact or expression. 

Never lose temper — never notice a slight — never seem concious 
of an aifront, unless it is of a gross character. 

You are not required to defend your friends in company, unless 
the conversation is addressed to you ; but you may correct a state- 
ment of fact, if you know it to be wrong. 

Never talk at people, by hints, slurs, inuendoes, and such mean 
devices. If you have anything to say, out with it. Nothina^ 
charms more than candor, when united with good breeding. 

Do not call people by their names, in speaking to them. In 
speaking of your own children, never "Master" and " Miss" them 
— in speaking to other people of theirs, never neglect to do so. 

It is very vulgar to talk in a loud tone, and indulge in hoarse 
laughs. Be very careful in speaking of subjects upon which you 
are not acquainted. Much is to be learned by confessing your 
ignorance — nothing can be by pretending to knowledge which you 
do not possess. 

Never tell long stories. Avoid all common slang phrases, and 
pet words. 

Of all things, don't attempt to be too fine. Use good honest 
Hnglish — .and common words for common things. 

• General Rules of Behavior. 

Having dressed yourself, pay no further attention to your 
clothes. Few things look worse than a continual fussing with 
your attire. 

Never scratch your head, pick your teeth, clean your nails, or 
worse than all, pick your nose in company; all these things an* 
disgusting, Spit as little as possible, and never upon the floor. 

Do not lounge on sofas, nor tip back your chair, nor elevata 
your feet. 

If you are going into the company of ladies, beware of onion*, 
epirits. and tobacco. 



STIQXTETTE FOR LADIES AND GEHTI.EME9. 117 

If you can sing or play, do so at once when requested, withoai 
requiring to be pressed. On the other hand, let your performance 
be brief, or, if never so good, it will be tiresome. When a lady 
sits down to the piano forte, some gentleman should attend her^ 
•rrange the music stool, and turn over the leaves. 

Meeting friends in a public promenade, you salute them the first 
time in passing, and not every time you meet. 

Never tattle — nor repeat in one society any scandal or personal 
matter you hear in another. Give your own opinion of people if 
you please, but never repeat that of others. 

Meeting an acquaintance among strangers — in the street, or a 
coffee-house, never address him by name. It is vulgar and an- 
noving. 

Preliminaries for Marriage. 

» 

According to the uages of society, it is the custom of the man 
to propose marriage, and for the fe,male to refuse or accept th« 
offer as she may think fit. There ought to be a perfect freedom 
of the will in both parties. 

When a young man admires a lady, and thinks her society ne-. 
e^ssary to his happiness, it is proper, before committing himself, or 
inducing the object of his admiration to do sO, to apply to her par- 
ents or guardians for permission to address her. 

Young men frequently amuse themselves by playing with the 
feelings of young, ladies. They visit them often, walk with them, 
pay them divers attentions, and after giving them an idea that they 
are attached to them, either leave them, or what is worsej" never 
come to an explanation of their sentiments. This is to act a truly 
dastardly and infamous character. 

How to commence your Addresses. 

A gentleman having met a lady at social parties, accompanied hei 
to and from church, may desire to become more intimately acquaint- 
ed. In short, you wish to commence formal addresses. This is a 
Ciise for palpitations, but forget not thnt " faint heart never won 
fair lady." What will you do ? Why, taking some good opportu- 
nity, you will say, 

" Miss Wilson, since I became acquahited with you, I have been 
every day rilore pleased with your society, and I hope you will al- 
low me to enjoy more of it — if you are not otherwise engaged, will 
you permit me to visit you to-morrow evening?" 

The lady will blush, no doubt — she may tremble a little, but if 
your proposition is acceptable to her, she may say : 

" I am grateful for your good opinion, and shall be happy to Me 
wu." 



til ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES litTD GENTLEMEK. 

Or if her frands have not been consulted, as they usually are 
)re matters proceed so lar, she may say : 
I am sensible of your Kindness, sir; but I cannot consent to a 
iite interview, without consulting my family." 
•[• she may refuse altojjether, and in such a case, should do so 
i every regard to the feelings of the gentleman, and if engaged, 
uld say frankly : 

I shall be happy to see you at all times as a friend, but I am 
not at liberty to grant a private interview." 

As, in all these affJiirs, the lady is the respondent, there is little 
necessity for any directions in regard to her conduct, as a "Yes," 
ever so softly whispered, is a sufficient affirmative, and as her 
kindness of heart will induce her to soften as much as possiJ)le 
her "No." 

To tell a lady who has granted the preliminary favors, that you 
love her better than life, and to ask her to name the happy day, are 
matters of nerve, rather than form, and require no teaching. 

Love Letters. 

For a love letter, good paper is indispensable. When it can be 
procured, that of a costly quality, gold-edged, perfumed, or orna- 
mented in the French style, may be properly used. The letter 
■hould be carefully enveloped, and nicely sealed with a fancy wa- 
fer — not a common one of course, where any other can be had ; 
or what is better, plain or fancy sealing wax. As all persons are 
more or less governed by first impressions and externals, the whole 
aflFair should be as neat and elegant as possible. 

t Popping the Question. 

There is one maxim of universal application — never lose an op- 
portunity. What can a woman think of a lover who neglects one T 
Ladies cannot make direct advances, but they use infinite tact in 
giving men occasions to make them. In every case, it is fair to 
presume that when a woman gives a man an opportunity, she ex- 
pects him to improve it. 

In the country, the lover is taking a romantic walk by moon- 
light, with the lady of his love — talks of the beauties of the 
scenery, the harmony of nature,,and exclaims, 

•* Ah ! Julia, how happy would existence prove, if I always had 
sach a companion !" 

She sighs, and leans more fondly on the arm that tremblingly 
supports her. 

" My dearest Julia, be mine forever !" i 

This is a settler, and the answer, ever so inaudable, " makes '.<r 
undoes him quite." 



ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. 129 

•• Take pity on a forlo n bachelor," says another, in a manner 
which may be either jest or earnest, " marry me at arue and put 
me out of my misery." 

" With all my heart, whenever you are ready," replies the laugh- 
ing fair. A joke carried thus far is easily made earnest. 

A point is often carried by taking a thing for granted. A gen- 
tleman who has been paying attentions to a lady, says, 
^ Well, Mary, when is the happy day 1" 
' What day, pray V she asks, with a conscious blush. 
'• Why, every body knows that we are going to get married, 
and it might as well be one time as another ; so, when shall it 
be?" 
Cornered in this fashion, there is no retreat. 
" Jane, I love you ! Will you marry me ?"" would be somewhat 
abrupt, and a simple, frankly given " Yes !" would be shoi't and 
sweet for an answer. » 

"Ellen, one word from you would make me tlie happiest man in 
the universe ?" 

" I should be cruel not to speak it then, unless it is a very hard 
one." 

"It is a word of three letters, and answers the question, Will 
you have me V 

The lady, of course, says Yes, unless she happens to prefer a 
word of only two letters, and answers No. 

And so this interesting and terrible process in practice, simple as 
it is in theory, is varied in a hundred ways, according to circum- 
stances and the various dispositions. 

One timid gentleman asks, " Have you any objection to change 
your name V and follows this up with another which clenches its 
significance, " How would mine suit you V 
' Another asks, " Will you tell me what I most wish to know V 
" Yes, if I can." 

" The happy day when we shall be married V 
Another says, " My Eliza, we must do what all the world evi- 
dently expects we shall." 

" All the world is very impertinent." 

" I know it — but it can't be helped. When shall I tell the par- 
son to be ready ?" 



LADIES' TOlLETTfi TABLE. 



To prevent Loosening of the Hair. 

Immerse the nead in cold water, morning and night, dry tlie hair 
thoroughly, and then brush the scalp, until a warm glow is pro- 
duced. In ladies with long hair this plan is objectionable ; and a 
better one is to brush the scalp until redness and a warm glow are 
produced, then apply to the roots of the hair one or two of the 
following lotions. 

Lotion for Promoting the Cfrowih of the Hair, and Preventing it 
from Turning Grey. 

No. 1. 

Vinegar of cantharides, half-an-oun«» 
Eau de Cologne, one oimce 
Rose-water, one ounce. 

No. 2. 

Eau de Cologne, two ounces. 

Tincture of cantharides, half-an-ounc«. ^ k 

Oil of nutmegs, half-a-drachm. 

Oil of lavender, ten drops. 

Ikliz. 

To cure Ringworm. 

The head should be washed with a profusion of soap, and th« 
bair carefully combed, to remove all loosened hairs and every par- 
taele of crust. Then bathe the head with ringworm lotion. 

Ringworm Lotion. 

Sublimate of mercury, five grains. 

Spirits of wine, two ounces. 

Tincture of musk, one drachm. * 

Rose-water, six ounces. ^ 

Mix well 



LADIES* TOILETTE TABLE. 131 

Style of Bonnet. 

A person of delicate pale complexion should wear a hat with 
pink lining. A person of dark complexion should have white lin- 
ing, with rose trimming. A person with very red or yellow com- 
plexion should not wear high colors. 

Dress. 

Have reference to the complexion. Tight sleeves without trim- 
ming are becoming to full forms, of medium height, or below it. 
A tSl person appears graceful with drapery. A short form should 
not wear much drapery, and not a full skirt. 

Flounces. 

Flounces appear well upon tall persons, but never upon dinunu- 
ibre ones; 

High-neck Dresses. 

High-neck dresses are generally becoming, but not upon a very 
high-shouldered person. If the shoulders are only moderately 
high, the neck may be covered, and a narrow piece of lace, instead 
of a collar, put around the throat. 

Evening Dresses. 

Evening dresses of transparent materials, look well when made 
high in the neck. Make the dress loose over the chest, and tight 
over the shoulder blades. Long sashes fastened in front are pre-, 
ferable to belts, unless there is much trimming upon the dress. — 
Narrow lace at the wrist is becoming, and gives a finish to the 
dress. An extremely small and waspish-looking waist can never 
be considered handsome. It is exceedingly hurtful to those who 
attain it by tight-lacing, and doubly ungraceful, since it prevent* 
all graceful movements. 

Sliorl Cloaks. 

ffliort cloaks are ^ry becoming to short and clumsily built per 
WMW, but to a tall figure the reverse. 



CANARY BIRDS. 



General Directions. 

Keep the cage waslied and clean if you wish the birds to be 
healthy. Fresh lettuce, cabbage and plantain may be given tiiem 
in July and August, two or three times a day. The seeds of 
plantain and lettuce are good to be given as food. Keep clean wa- 
ter in pans in the cage for them to wash and bathe in. A piece of 
cuttle-fish bone or sand ought to be in the cage, to keep them in 
a healthy condition. A little sponge cake may be given occasion- 
ally. Crackers, sweet apples, and worms are good. Never give 
salt. 

How to distinguisli the Male from the Female. 

The male may be distinguished from the female by a streak of 
bright yellow over the eyes and under the throat; his head is wider 
and longer, and lias richer colors, and larger feet. He also begjns 
to warble first, which is often at a month old. 



LETTER WRITER. 



1 A letter of introduction, note of invitation, or reply, should 
always be enclosed in an envelope. 

2. A letter of introduction should always enclose the card and 
address of the person introduced. 

3. Notes of invitation should always be sent in the name of tho 
iady of the house. • 

4. Invitations should be answered within two days. 
6. Notes of invitation should not be sealed. 

6. Figured and colored paper is out of style ; pure white paper, 
with gilt edges, is more strictly in good taste. 



#^ 



THE LADY'S WORK-BOX. 



PREPARATION OF FRAMES. 

To Dress a Frame for Cross Siiich. 

The canvass must be hemmed neatly around : then count your 
threads, and place the centre one exactly in the middle of the frame. 
The canvass must be drawn as tight as the screws or pegs will per- 
mit, and if too long, it should be wrapped around the poles with tissue 
paper, to keep it from dust, and the friction of the arms, as that is 
essential to the beauty of the work. It must in all cases be rolled 
under, or it will occasion much trouble in the working. When 
laced quite even in the frame, secure, by fine twine passed over the 
stretchers and through the canvass, very closely; both sides must be 
tightened gradually, or it will draw to one side, and the work will 
be spoiled. 

To Dress a Frame for Cloth Work. 

Stretch your cloth in the frame as tight as possible, the right 
dide uppermost. 

The canvass on which you intend to work must be of a size to 
correspond with the pattern, and must be placed exactly in the cen- 
tre of the cloth to which it is to be secured, as smooth as possible. 
When the work is finisJied, the canvass must be cut, and the threads 
drawn out, first one way and then the other. It is necessary to be 
especially careful, in working, not to split the threads, as that would 
prevent them drawing, and would spoil the appearance of the work. 
In all eases, it is advisable to place the cloth so as that the nap may 
go downward. In working bouquets of flowers, this rule is indis- 
pensable. The patterns for cloth work should be light and open. 
It looks well for sofas, arm chairs, &c., but is by no means so dur- 
able as work done with wool entirely on canvass. 

Materials for Worhing, 
Canvass (.uojuae; eighteen threads to the inch. ' Work in cross 



194 THE lady's work-box. 

Btich with double wool. This is proper for a foot-stool, sofa- 
pillow, &c. 

Canvass (very coarse) ten threads to the inch. Work in cross 
stitch, over one thread, with single wool. If used for grounding, 
work in two threads. This will accelerate the work, and look 
equally well. 



STIVOHES. 

1. Tent Stitch. 

This is accomplished over one thread the cross way, and should 
be done in a frame. In grounding, perform the work the-bias way 
of the canvass, and work from left to right. 

2. Cross StUch. 

Let the wool be put across two threads, and the needle down 
two, working the cross way, and finishing as the work progresses. 

3. Straight Cross Stitch 

This stitch is the same as Cross Stitch, but is worked the straight 
way of the canvass; and although on coarse canvass, has a very 
pleasing and finished appearance. 

4. Windsor StiicJu 

Pass the wool over six. threads straight, and six threads down, 
which will present a square when the section row is completed. 

6. Pavilion Stitch. 

Four threads having been taken straight down, bring the needle 
down one thread ; after that take two threads, then four, as before, 
and finish the row. Commence the second row with a stitch in two 
threads, then take four and so proceed. Gold beads tastefully in- 
troduced have a very pretty effect. 

6. Josephine Stitch. 

This is a very pretty stitch for bags with gold or silver braid, 
and is executed in stripes from the bottom to the top. Take six 
threads straight, and proceed to the end of the row ; after which 



THB Lip^fl WOBX-BOX. IM 

take three lengths of braid, and work one of them in Cross Stiteh, 
diamond fashion. 

7. Berlin Stitch. 

Work this stitch m a scollop, taking six threads straight down. 
Much of the beauty of it depends upon the contrast of color (hav- 
ing an eye to harmony) in the threads. The effect should be as- 
certained before beginning the work. , 

8. Czar Stitch. 

We have heard this called Economic Stitch. It is worked over 
ftom six or eight threads in depth, and two in' width, crossed from, 
light to left. Gold thread should be interposed between each row. 

9. Irish Stitch. 



Four, six, or eight threads are to be taken straight, two threads 
being left between. The second row is to be begun four threads 
up, between the two threads left on the former row; take care that 
the stitches meet the first row. This is a valuable stitch, easily 
worked into a variety of pretty forms. 

Perforated Card. 

The needles must not be too large, or the holes will be liable to 
get broken. The smaller ones must be worked in silk ; the larger 
patterns may be done either in silk or wool. Sometimes the flow- 
ers are worked in Chenille, and the leaves in silk ; this gives to card 
cases, &c., a beautiful and highly ornamental appearance. 

Bead Work. 

Use the canvass called bolting ; and work two threads each way 
on the slant, with china silk, taking especial care that the beads are 
all turned the ^me way, that the whole may appear uniform. — _ 
Work the pattern with thick beads and ground with transparent 
ones. You must, in this kind of work, have as few shades as 
possible. 

Rtig Bordering. 

When we descend into the arena of domestic utility, it is vastly 
surprising in how many ways the Art of Needlework adapts itsell 
to comfort and to ornament. We may presume carpets to be toe 
unwieldy for the management of fair fingers ; but rugs come with 




136 THE LADT's work-box. 

ia the compass of the fair Artist's skill and taste. Many of the 
borderings completed by English ladies are quite equal to the la.- 
bored productions of the Gobelins : and are, of course, at all times 
superior to those which emanate from the loom. 

_ Gothic Chairs. 

For dark-framed chairs cnoose light patterns ; tent stitch being 
grounded in cross stitch, as may be seen in the private apartments 
at Windsor Castle. Sometimes a sort of cushion is inserted in the 
back, and the whole is done in cloth or satin, aud the canvass with- 
dravra. Flower embroidery, gem patterns, and braiding, aj-e all 
made use of in this description of work. 

Settees. 

These should be executed in cloth, thirty-three inches long aud 
twenty-six wide. 

Sofa Pillows. 

Work the squares of canvass vdth flowers in preference to any 
otiier pattern, and finish with damask, trimming with silk cord, 
taasels, &.c. * 

There are few subjects on which more taste may be exercised 
than on these. A certain fulness approacliing to largeness is desir- 
able yi the design, otherwise the pillow will be lost in iiie more 
masslTe attributes of the sofa itself. 

Weight Cushions. 

These may be obtained ready-made, and afterwards covered vriik 
say variegated pattern of needlework. They are very usef»l. 

Wire Baskets. 

These aheald be of silver wire, and worked in silk. 

Slippers. 

An worked in embroidery, on canvass, satin, or soft kid. 

Fir 0- Side Caps. 

These are worked in gems, or flowers, or velvet. Embroidery 
Mtd gold braid are also adopted. There are several pieces joi»ed 
together to fit the head, and at ihe top is a handsome tassel. 






UDDl 01740 



UAB - Mervyn H. Steme Ubrarv^ 



S339 10 401 203 4 

Ladies' indispensable assistant . o(jioi740 

BC 81L21851 






■atf* 



: ^^ 



*^>. 



s*^ 







^ 



,«^ 



^li 






/*^j 






^#^2 



^.C^^ 






'W 



♦^^i4-r 



r^' 



•-!**: 



i^^^'*.s 



ict:"^^ 



''^^ ^1 



^ 



.'^.'€« 



.*• 



